
At the accustomed time, the autohypnotics in Miss Abby Martin's body
forced her to the threshold of consciousness and cleared her brain of
the fog of sleep. Slowly, she opened her eyes to the morning brightness
of her bedroom and stared at the vacant skylight and the blue expanse
of sky beyond it, not quite comprehending where she was. The cloudfoam
cushions of her bed gave credence to the floating sensation she had had
during her dream, and for a few seconds she lacked orientation.

Then her eyes wandered about the room, to the closed door of the
raybath stall, the retracted dressing table, the chronometer label that
told her it was March 14, 2123 at thirty seconds past 0700 hours. The
subtle intonation of her favorite music, Czerdon's "Maze of Crystal"
murmured softly from the walls.

Awareness came then, and she lay back on the bed and tried to follow
the intricate crystal melodies. But a frown ridged her brow, and she
wondered at the strange dream instead. She had found it pleasant
enough, for she rather enjoyed the languid floating sensation, the
feeling of being self-sufficient, a world unto herself. Yet the very
fact of the dream's existence in a world where such things were
manufactured disturbed her, for she had taken no dreampills the night
before, nor at any of the other times the dream had come. The incident
made her almost wish that witchdoctor psychiatrics had not been
outlawed twenty years ago, so she might get some inkling of the dream's
meaning; but psychiatrists had been pulled forcibly from the web of
society when mental derangements were put under the jurisdiction of the
Somaticists.

Overhead, a rocket thundered, shaking the house with a gentle hand,
and Abby turned her attention to the sound, momentarily forgetting
the dream. Through the one-way skylight, she saw a speck of light
accelerate beyond vision. She shook her head impatiently.

Rush, rush, rush--that was all people seemed to think about these days.
Go to the Moon, go to Mars, go to Venus. In time they might go to the
outer planets and perhaps even try to reach the stars. As though they
didn't have enough trouble right here on Earth! All they did, it
seemed, was hunt down poor beasts from the various planets and bring
them back to Earth to put in cages and tanks on display, ostensibly to
"learn more of the planets by studying their inhabitants." To Abby, it
seemed cruel and unnecessary.

Like that poor amoeba creature from Venus, she thought, remembering
the day last week when she and her niece Linda had visited the zoo
to see this latest acquisition. It was a creature captured from the
giant oceans of the second planet, a giant amoeba encased in a large
transparent tank of murky fluid for paying visitors to see. The
creature was supposed to be primitively telepathic, but it seemed
harmless enough. Abby found herself sympathizing with it, and it
seemed to her at the time that the creature felt this sympathy and
was grateful for it. For a brief moment she even had fancied that the
Venusian's mind had reached out to her, probing with gentle fingers of
thought.

She shook her head at that. Here in the calm clear light of day
diffused through the one-way skylight, the anthropomorphic notion was
ridiculous; and she mentally chided herself for contemplating such
things.

"I must be getting old," she told herself aloud.

In the next thought, she reminded herself that thirty-nine years was
not old at all, and in the thought that followed, scolded herself for
bothering to defend a statement so obviously rhetorical.

The chronometer ticked silently to 0701, and sighing, Abby rose from
the bed and slipped from the translucent one-piece pajamas to stand
nude in the center of the bedroom. At a sudden thought she glanced
quickly about the room, for she had the strange uncomfortable feeling
that someone was watching her. It was impossible, of course, but she
felt ill-at-ease just the same, and a blush of embarrassment stole over
her at the thought. The feeling of shameful nakedness persisted even in
the raybath stall, and it was a relief to dress and hurry downstairs,
routing the unaccountable ideas from her mind.

As usual, Gretchen had busily cleaned the house during the night,
silently raying germs and dirt out of existence, and had a warm
steaming breakfast-for-two ready by the time Abby had descended the
escalator to the dining room.

"Good morning, Gretchen," Abby said.

"Good morning, Ma'm," Gretchen's mechanical voice agreed tonelessly.
The robot-maid continued monotonously, "The day will be clear and
sunny, with a high of 79 degrees Fahrenheit by 1300 hours--"

"That will be all, Gretchen," Abby interrupted sternly, not interested
in facts of temperature and humidity given so mercilessly.

"Yes, Ma'm," Gretchen said obligingly. She turned and went to her
closet until she would be needed again.

Abby watched her disappear around a corner and frowned. Sometimes, she
thought, the mechanical age could be too mechanical. A simple good
morning--

"Good morning, Aunt Abby," Linda said, bounding into sight.

"Good morning, Linda," Abby replied, smiling at the girl's energy. It
reminded her of when she was seventeen. "Don't rush your breakfast,
dear, you've plenty of time to get to school."

"Yes, Aunt Abby," Linda said, rushing her breakfast. "We're going on a
field trip today," she volunteered between gulps of milk. "To the zoo
to see the amoebaman from Venus."

Abby smiled. "Amoeba_man_?" she questioned. "Couldn't it just as easily
be an amoeba_woman_?"

"Amoebas don't have sex differences," Linda said matter-of-factly. "We
just call it an amoebaman as a sort of classification because it seems
intelligent."

She finished her meal and dashed across the room. "See you later, Aunt
Abby." The door whirred open and shut.
