
That afternoon, Abby sat at the broad one-way windows and watched the
cars and aircabs zooming overhead like frightened hornets. Suddenly,
she wondered where Dr. Gower was these days. Generally he televised her
once in a while or dropped in to chat occasionally, and it pleased her
that he did. He was her only male companion these days.

That's the way with men, she thought bitterly, nodding to herself, as
you grow old, they lose interest in you. Love cannot be founded on a
physical basis.

The thought of physical intimacy disturbed her, and she thrust it
aside. One thing was certain, above all else: she was determined to
protect Linda to the best of her ability, even as she had protected
herself.

"Thank goodness for Linda," she thought. "If it weren't for her...."

She let the thought hang uncontemplated, for she _did_ have Linda; and
she had no wish to dwell upon the memory of her brother's accidental
death in an aircab crash which had brought Linda into her custody.

She returned her attention to the world outside her window and found
nothing there to interest her. Restlessly, she played with the
button-controls on the chair's underarm, causing the walls to spring
into the simulated life of a three-dimensional telecast. A program
called "Old-Time Commercial" was in progress. Abby, like most people,
enjoyed this one, laughing at the exaggerated claims and the tuneless
melodies which had been foisted upon her ancestors during the years
before commercials had been outlawed, and she was disappointed to see
it fade for channel identification. It was followed by a program of
the latest fashions, some of which were much too brazen for Abby to
contemplate without squirming, so she changed stations again with a
flick of her forefinger beneath the armrest.

"... direct from the oceans of Venus," a man's voice announced
enthusiastically, and Abby found herself staring at the amoeba-like
creature she had seen a week earlier at the zoo.

"... believed to be directly related to our own Earth amoeba," the man
continued, "except, of course, this one is far from microscopic, being
larger than a man. For communication purposes, these Venusian creatures
seem to use a form of telepathy...."

Abby mused upon what Linda had said concerning the amoeba's sex, or
rather lack of it. She knew that the creatures reproduced by dividing
themselves, but she wondered if reproduction came instinctively or by
determination. Either way, the method was to be admired, she felt. It
was a pity humans were so complicated. An image stirred deep within
her, a fragment of some forgotten memory, but Abby did not notice it.

The creature from Venus moved restlessly across the three dimensional
screen, extending itself. It seemed to be regarding her with an intense
sort of curiosity, as though it were reaching out, enveloping her....

Sunlight spilling through the window, spread a warm languorous pool
about her, and she felt pleasantly drowsy. She closed her eyes. After
awhile, her head tilted, and the rushing world faded as though it had
never been.

She floated, placidly content. She seemed, suddenly, to possess a
million eyes that probed about in all directions at once. Her body
stretched, elongating itself, and moved forward through a translucent
fluid to an invisible wall, beyond which stood shadowy figures. She
focused her mind upon these figures, and they became clear.

There was a little boy gazing at her in awe, his nose pressed against
the glass in fascination, not certain if he should be frightened or
not. Mentally, she smiled to herself and directed her thoughts to the
boy, telling him not to be afraid. There were several children there,
and Abby turned her attention to another.

It was Linda! Linda staring with wide, curious eyes. And next to her a
man. Dr. Gower. Her heart leaped--

And she awoke with the warm sunlight streaming in upon her, her heart
pounding unaccountably. She looked around. She was still in her front
room before the windows. The television was going, presenting the
newscast that followed the zoo program.

It was just a dream, but it had seemed so real that it still disturbed
her minutes after she was fully awake. For awhile, she was not even
certain that the dream had not been real and that this now was not
really a dream, that reality and dreaming had not somehow suddenly
changed places.
