
Abby was still sitting at the window when Linda came home from school.
She watched as Linda and the boy came down the moving sidewalk and
stepped off on the island before the house. They stood talking for a
moment, then Linda rushed up the walk. The door whirred open and shut,
and Linda instead of looking for Abby as was her habit, went straight
to the escalator.

Abby called, "Linda!"

The girl paused. "I--I'll be back down."

"I'd like to see you right now, please," Abby's tone, though not
hostile, was unrefusable.

Linda appeared hesitantly in the doorway, hands behind her.

Abby smiled pleasantly. "Who was that boy, dear? I don't think I know
him."

"Jimmy Stone," Linda said, excitement creeping into her voice. "He
lives over in Sector Five, and he's in my history class at school."

Abby recognized the symptoms and frowned mentally at the diagnosis.
"He's probably a very nice young man, but--"

"He is, he's very nice," Linda agreed quickly. "He's going to be an
astronautical engineer. Look what he made me in plastics class."

She drew her hands from behind her and held a scarlet rose cupped in
them. It looked soft, as smooth as though it had been just plucked, as
though it held a fragrance that was not artificial.

"It's very nice," Abby admitted, but she wondered how in this age of
intense specialization a future astronautical engineer had managed
to enroll in a plastics class to waste his time making pseudo-roses.
Despite her wish to the contrary, she found herself briefly admiring
the youngster, then told herself it was a case of puppy love that had
inspired the frivolity. "But don't you think you're a little young to
be thinking about boys?"

"No," Linda said defensively, pouting. "I like Jimmy and he likes me. I
don't see why we shouldn't see each other."

"You're in the same class," Abby pointed out; "that should be enough.
After all, you're only seventeen."

"Yes," Linda flared in annoyance, and rushed on in a sudden torrent,
"then I'll be eighteen and then nineteen and then twenty and then
thirty. If I wait long enough maybe I'll let life pass me by, like--"
She paused, eyes wide and regretful at what she was about to say.

Abby smiled gently, but a cold chill gripped her. "Like me?" she said.
"You're afraid of being an old maid like me, is that it?"

She hated to use the expression "old maid," but she knew that was what
many people called her. She minded the name more than she admitted even
to herself, for the words held an unpleasantness, a loneliness she
didn't feel--very often anyway. But then she had Linda for company.

Linda's features softened. "I'm sorry, Aunt Abby," she said quietly.

"That's all right, child, I understand how you feel," Abby said. "Now,
you go along up and take a shower and get yourself ready for supper,
and maybe we'll talk about it later."

Linda nodded soberly and turned away.

Abby sat in the silence of the room, listening to the soft whisper of
the escalator. It hurt her to think that Linda wasn't going to show her
the plastic rose at first. You had to be firm in these matters, though,
to prevent worse trouble. If care weren't taken, Linda might rush off
and be married before she was ready. This was a difficult time for the
poor thing, that was certain, but she'd get over it. The little things
in a child's life always seemed more important than they really were;
that's why there were older people to guide them.

Her own mother had been very strict, and Abby saw no reason to regret
it. If it hadn't been for that, she might have married the first boy
she'd met. She tried to recall him, but somehow she couldn't, and only
a vague image came to mind. It disturbed her to have that blank spot in
her memory, but Somatic drugs had consistently failed to fill it in.

Linda came in a few minutes later, freshly scrubbed but not convinced.

"All ready, dear?" Abby said pleasantly.

She got up and put a consoling arm about the young girl. Together they
went into the dining room, where Gretchen had silently placed the
appropriate food a few minutes before.
