
They ate in silence, with only the sounds of eating and an occasional
whir from the robot-maid as she appeared and disappeared with dishes.
Linda was moody, thoughtful.

"How was the field trip, dear?" Abby wondered.

"All right," Linda answered. "The Venusian amoeba is very much like our
own, the man said. It even reproduces itself by division."

"Isn't that nice," Abby said, just a bit hesitantly, uncertain that
reproduction by any means should be discussed. However, if they taught
it in school--

"I feel sorry for it," Linda said.

Abby stared at her.

"Having no one to love," Linda went on, a faraway look on her face, "no
one to love it. If it has any feelings, it must be very lonely."

Abby made an irritable stab at a piece of synthetic potato on
her plate. "Nonsense," she snapped. "You're talking like a silly
schoolgirl."

On second thought, she decided that Linda _was_ a silly schoolgirl and
would naturally talk like one; she was still a little girl, dependent
for protection upon her Aunt Abby. That thought gave her some measure
of comfort.

"I feel like an amoeba sometimes," Linda said, poking restlessly at a
piece of meat on her plate.

"Sometimes I wish you were, dear," Abby said, feeling strangely annoyed
by the statement. "Now, eat your steak before it gets cold."

"Don't you ever get lonely, Aunt Abby," Linda asked. "Suppose Dr. Gower
went away, wouldn't you be lonely."

"Dr. Gower is not going away," Abby pointed out.

"He might," Linda insisted. "You haven't seen him for three days now.
He might be gone already."

Despite herself, Abby felt sudden panic. "He's probably busy. Doctors
are busy these days."

"He could have called."

"Linda, eat your supper," Abby said sternly, "and stop this nonsense.
Besides, what difference would it make. One person doesn't make the
world begin or end. Dr. Gower and I are good friends, but we must
adjust to these things. If he is gone away, he's gone, and that's all
there is to it!"

She tried to make her voice sound calm, but there was a sinking feeling
in her stomach, and a small questioning voice in the back of her mind
kept asking did he? did he? did he? Furiously, she thrust the thought
aside.

"I saw him at the zoo today," Linda said.

"You did?" Abby said, relieved, and then she thought of her dream of
the zoo and of Linda standing there and Dr. Gower beside the girl.
Could she be psychic? No, there was a simpler explanation. "I saw you
both there," she went on, smiling, "on television this afternoon."

Linda frowned. "But Dr. Gower didn't arrive until the program was over,
Aunt Abby."

"I saw you," Abby insisted.

"But I'm certain of it."

"You must be mistaken, dear," Abby said in a tone of finality. And that
settled that.

The doorbuzzer sounded, and Gretchen whirred to answer it. Abby pressed
a button beneath the table, and the image of Dr. Gower appeared on a
small screen set invisibly in the opposite wall. She could feel her
blood accelerate at the sight of him, but she wondered why he looked
disturbed.

She rose. "I'm going in to see Dr. Gower, dear," she told Linda. "Now,
don't rush your food."

Linda nodded abstractedly. She wasn't in a rushing mood.

"Abby, how are you?" Dr. Gower said warmly, at her approach.

"Very well, thank you, Tom," Abby said. "I thought I might have to get
sick to see you."

"I was busy," he explained. "The colonization of space brings up a
great many new medical problems. How's Linda?"

"Fine. I'm afraid, she's beginning to have a slight case of puppy love;
I'm sure it can be discouraged in time, though."

Dr. Gower hesitated. Then he said, "Linda's a normal young girl, Abby.
You can't stifle her natural desires forever."

"I not only can, but I will." To cushion the harshness of the
statement, she added, "At least until she's mature enough to decide
these things for herself. She's still a child."

"A great many women get married at eighteen," Dr. Gower pointed out.
"Physically, it's a good age for marriage, and a psychology going
against the physical grain isn't going to help."

"There are such things in life, Dr. Gower," Abby said a bit coldly, "as
moral considerations. We're not animals, you know."

"It might help sometimes," Dr. Gower mused, "if there were a little
more animal in us and a little less so-called human."

Abby found her enthusiasm for seeing Dr. Gower ebbing, being replaced
by what she considered a justified annoyance. Dr. Gower knew her
feeling about Linda. Something seemed to have changed his tactics. She
did not like the change.

"If you don't mind," she said, "I'd like to bring up Linda in my own
way. The courts made me legal guardian of Linda until she's twenty-one,
and I intend to protect her until then to the best of my ability."

"By that time, you'll have her so confused about the world she'll be
defenseless against it. I never said anything before, Abby--"

"And now is a poor time to start!" Abby's voice was like ice. "I'm
sorry, Dr. Gower, but if you persist in talking this way, I'll have
to ask you to leave. Linda is in my charge, and I won't stand for
interference, even from you."

The doctor's shoulders slumped dejectedly. "Do you know why you were
chosen guardian, Abby," he said slowly.

"Of course. I was the nearest relative. Why bring that up?"

Dr. Gower shook his head. "Nothing," he said, after awhile. "Nothing at
all. I came around to say goodbye, Abby."

Abby wavered, the ice in her melting. "Goodbye?"

"I'm leaving for Venus," he said, "the day after tomorrow. They need
doctors up there, and I can probably do more good there than here.
Besides, I'd like to investigate these amoeba creatures; I suspect they
have more intelligence than we give them credit for."

"I--I'll be sorry to see you leave, Tom."

"I came to ask you to go with me. You know how I feel about you, Abby;
I thought I'd try just once more."

"I couldn't leave Linda," Abby said.

"The standard excuse," he reminded her, his voice more weary than
bitter. "What Linda has needed all these years was a father, Abby.
You're giving her a warped viewpoint."

"The Somaticists don't think so," Abby flung at him.

He crimsoned. "Somatics aren't the answer. Our era has become so
mechanical that people have come to think that pressing a button is
going to cure the evils of the world. Pills and pushbuttons are fine
in their place, Abby, but they're not the answer, not the complete one
anyway. At one time, they thought psychiatry was the answer; they were
wrong there, too. The answer's probably a combination of the two."

"I'm not looking for the answer to anything," Abby said wearily. "I
just want to be let alone."

Dr. Gower nodded and turned to go.

"Have a nice trip," Abby said, trying to sound cheerful, "I'm sorry we
had to argue like this." The thought of his leaving brought a sinking
sensation which she tried to thrust off and couldn't. But there was
Linda to think of; the girl couldn't go to Venus.

At the door, Dr. Gower hesitated. "I don't know if I should tell you
this; it might help, and it might not." He paused again uncertainly and
then went on in a decisive tone. "Linda's your own child, Abby."

She looked at him, puzzled. "Of course. The courts--"

Dr. Gower shook his head impatiently. "I don't mean that. I mean Linda
was actually born to you."

The words sank in, but Abby found them meaningless. Two and two did not
make five no matter how many times you added them. There was a tense
silence, but she didn't know what to say to fill it.

"That's what happened in your blank spot, Abby," Dr. Gower went on.
"You ran away from home when you were twenty-one, because your mother
was too strict, because she acted just like you're acting with Linda.
Before she could find you again, someone else had. You were pregnant."

Abby's brow furrowed. "You mean--" the thought completed itself, and
a look of horror replaced the frown. "That's a horrible thing to say,
even in a lie."

"I wish I were lying," Dr. Gower said earnestly. "You didn't remember
anything that had happened, and were still dazed for nearly a year
afterward. Your subconscious used amnesia as an escape mechanism, and
you forgot the incident, repressed it without realizing it. An escape
is sometimes possible only in the mind, where Somaticists are often
helpless. I didn't say anything before, but now I'm afraid Linda may be
made to suffer if I don't."

Abby stared at him in shocked silence. She said, after awhile. "It's
not true, it can't be."

Dr. Gower shrugged. "I'm sorry, Abby, it is. It's not Linda you're
worried about, it's yourself; you're afraid to face reality."

"Get out," Abby said slowly, hating him for that. Her voice rose the
least bit. "I won't listen to these lies."

"I thought it might help. Say goodbye to Linda for me." The door closed
behind him with a click.

Abby stared at the closed door, a small portion of her was calm, the
rest chaotic. The calm portion wondered why she should be so disturbed
by something so obviously impossible. All these years she'd been wrong
about Dr. Gower, trusting him as a friend. For what he said was untrue,
of course. It had to be. And yet why couldn't she remember things? It
was only eighteen years ago and important things had happened in that
year, but somehow her memory bypassed their happening. It was like
reading a book with several pages blank; you knew from later pages
what had happened, but the actual experience of the events was lost.
Could it be--the thought came despite her--could it be that she'd had
amnesia, that Dr. Gower had really told her the truth, that someone had
actually--

"No. He was lying," she told the room.

"He never lied before," Linda said quietly from the doorway.

"You--heard?"

Linda nodded.

Abby tried to smile. "I'm afraid, dear, that Dr. Gower is like all
men. When he couldn't have what he wanted--" her face clouded at the
thought--"he tried to shock me, to hurt me, to make me ashamed...."

"Would it make you ashamed to have me for a daughter?"

Abby's heart beat quickly. "Of course not, Linda. But the
circumstances--"

"I see," Linda said slowly. "They have a name for children like me;
that's what you're ashamed of. Or maybe, as Dr. Gower said, you're
afraid for yourself!"

"But it's not true, Linda, don't you see?" Abby insisted.

She put her arm on the girl's shoulder. Linda shook it off; tears
welling in her eyes.

"You don't even want to know," the girl accused. "You don't even care."
And she turned and ran from the room.

The escalator whispered, and Abby stood in the center of the room
looking at the empty doorway. She stood on the brink of a great
precipice, balancing precariously, and for a brief moment she found
herself believing what Dr. Gower had said. He was a fine man, and good,
and he would not lie to her. Things her brother had said came to mind,
once-harmless statements that seemed to take on new significance, as
though he'd said them to prepare her for this moment. And suddenly,
very suddenly, the world was tottering; dazedly, she made her way to a
chair and sat limply in it.

Dr. Gower was gone now, and she would never see him again. She knew
that, and she knew that despite the things she'd said, that it did
matter that he was going. But then she had Linda to think of. Or was
it really Linda that concerned her? She could take the girl along,
certainly; that would even clear up the problem of Jimmy Stone. Was it
really the marriage she feared, a fear based upon some secret mental
block in her mind? The doubt returned then, and she wasn't sure. She
wasn't sure of anything anymore. Abby had to think. She had to quiet
her nerves and the frantic jumbled thoughts that had begun to race
through her mind.

She felt dizzy and held a hand to one of the walls to steady herself
as she walked to her bedroom. From the dressing table drawer she took
a bottle of dreampills. The label was fuzzy to her eyes, but the word
_Danger_ stood out in bold letters. Abby swallowed three of the pills,
which was two more than the safe dosage, and lay across the bed, eyes
closed. The door to the room closed automatically.

"It's not true," she told herself again, a desperate urgency to her
voice. "I've got to get away from these thoughts. Got to get away.
Got--to--escape."

She felt drowsy, but the thought of what Dr. Gower had said persisted.
It couldn't be true. It couldn't. And yet it might be; it was the
possibility that disturbed her. That blank spot. Eighteen years ago.
Eighteen years...
