
She drifted into a restless sleep. Mentally, she traveled across the
familiar plains of her past to that strange dark canyon she couldn't
recall. Her mind hovered frightened above the depths, failing to
see through its darkness; then she passed to the other side, to her
childhood, to when she was a young girl and her mother was alive.

The scene burst upon her with vivid clarity, and she found herself
reliving it. It was there, all of it. The home life, protecting and yet
restraining. Her dissatisfaction. The secret determination. The running
away in the dead of night. It was all there, just as Dr. Gower had said.

"But it's a dream," she murmured, "just a dream."

Yet it seemed a reality. She could feel the cool night press upon her
as she made her way slowly through the strange-familiar darkness and
descended into the depths of the canyon. The feeling of having been
here before was with her, and it brought terror with it. She walked on,
looking to either side, listening fearfully. And then she stopped, her
blood becoming ice.

There was a man before her. She could see only his eyes, but they were
cruel eyes, savage and lustful.

Knowledge came then, bursting over her in a raging tide. She screamed
and ran, her footsteps echoing frantically as she hurried through the
darkness, looking for an opening for a protecting light. But no opening
appeared, no light came. She ran until she was exhausted, and then she
sank to the ground panting trying to still her spasms of breath. There
was a small sound, as of the scraping of a shoe and she looked into the
eyes again.

She screamed again and again and again not knowing where screams ended
and echoes began. She put her hands over her ears and screamed into the
darkness. She could feel hands reaching out for her and she shrank away
from them.

Her mind was a playground for terror. She had to escape. She had to.

(But sometimes the only escape is in the mind!)

The hands reached out. She was suddenly falling, down, down, down.
Calmness came, and a grateful thought appeared: she had escaped.
Nothing else mattered; only that....

She stopped falling. The mist grew thick, thicker; it became dense;
it became liquid. She could not feel the beating of her heart, but
her mind was calm and it looked about with a detachment that was
intellectual.

She was floating again, floating silently through a world of murky
fluid. The liquid was pressing with a force so gentle it almost did not
exist. It enveloped her like a protecting shield.

She drifted. There seemed to be no direction but outward. Her thoughts
went out and they returned with impressions. This was her world and she
was the center of it. There were no problems here, no encroachments
on existence or security. It was like a return to the womb. Womb? she
thought. She turned the word over in her mind and found the concept
alien. She regarded it intellectually, at leisure.

Time passed silently, without incident, without measurement. It had no
meaning, no referent.

Curious after awhile, she went forward, her mind impinging upon shadowy
figures behind the transparent barrier. She focussed her attention upon
them, and the image cleared.

There was a man there, and a woman, and a girl. She could hear them as
they spoke.

"I don't know why you wanted to come here, Abby," the man was saying.
"You'll see enough of these creatures on Venus."

"This one is special," the woman said slowly, tasting the words like
some unfamiliar food. "It's what made me change my mind about--things.
It must be very lonely."

"Bosh," the man scoffed gently. "Intelligent or not, an amoeba doesn't
have feelings of loneliness."

"Doesn't it?" the woman wondered. "Perhaps not at first. But being able
to probe the minds of humans and sympathize with them yet not contact
them can...."

"We'll be late for the rocket, Mother," the girl said. "Jimmy promised
he'd be down to see me off and let me know if he can go to the Venus
Academy next year."

"All right, Linda, we're going now."

At the door, the woman turned for a last look; her thoughts were
thoughts of sorrow, of pity, of--regret, perhaps.

"You'll learn much of the world this way," the thoughts came, "and
you'll have time to readjust. Knowledge will pyramid gently, and with
it will come wisdom. After awhile, escape won't be necessary. You'll
want to return then and be a part of your world. Meanwhile, I must help
my own people; this is the best way for both of us to escape."

The woman linked arms with the man and the girl then, and the three of
them went out.

Silence returned, bringing with it a troubled wonderment. Then the
murky fluid flowed past all vision, and the world returned, safe and
familiar. The thoughts returned briefly, as echoes, but they were
unfamiliar this time and meaningless.

But it was not always so, and it would not always be, for contemplation
bred curiosity, and curiosity bred knowledge, and knowledge bred
desire, and desire the ways and means of accomplishment.

Meanwhile, there was quiet, stillness, a peace she had never known. The
fluid flowed about her in a silence that held no sound, no movement. It
was womb-like, protective.

It seemed natural that she should be here.

For the moment, she was content.



