
Two types of recruits are accepted by the UN Inspector Corps:
those with a fanatic loyalty to the ideals of peace and world
order, and those who are loyal to nothing but themselves. Read
was the second type.

A tall, lanky Negro he had spent his school days in one of the
drab suburbs that ring every prosperous American city. It was the
home of factory workers, clerks, semiskilled technicians, all who
do the drudge work of civilization and know they will never do
more. The adults spent their days with television, alcohol and
drugs; the young spent their days with gangs, sex, television and
alcohol. What else was there? Those who could have told him
neither studied nor taught at his schools. What he saw on the
concrete fields between the tall apartment houses marked the
limits of life's possibilities.

He had belonged to a gang called The Golden Spacemen. "Nobody
fools with me," he bragged. "When Harry Read's out, there's a
tiger running loose." No one knew how many times he nearly ran
from other clubs, how carefully he picked the safest spot on the
battle line.

"A man ought to be a man," he once told a girl. "He ought to do a
man's work. Did you ever notice how our fathers look, how they
sleep so much? I don't want to be like that. I want to be
something proud."

He joined the UN Inspector Corps at eighteen, in 1978. The
international cops wore green berets, high buttonless boots, bush
jackets. They were very special men.

For the first time in his life, his father said something about
his ambitions.

"Don't you like America, Harry? Do you _want_ to be without a
country? This is the best country in the world. All my life I've
made a good living. Haven't you had everything you ever wanted?
I've been a king compared to people overseas. Why, you stay here
and go to trade school and in two years you'll be living just
like me."

"I don't want that," Read said.

"What do you mean, you don't want that?"

"You could join the American Army," his mother said. "That's as
good as a trade school. If you have to be a soldier."

"I want to be a UN man. I've already enlisted. I'm in! What do
you care what I do?"

The UN Inspector Corps had been founded to enforce the Nuclear
Disarmament Treaty of 1966. Through the years it had acquired
other jobs. UN men no longer went unarmed. Trained to use small
arms and gas weapons, they guarded certain borders, bodyguarded
diplomats and UN officials, even put down riots that threatened
international peace. As the UN evolved into a strong world
government, the UN Inspector Corps steadily acquired new powers.

Read went through six months training on Madagascar.

Twice he nearly got expelled for picking fights with smaller men.
Rather than resign, he accepted punishment which assigned him to
weeks of dull, filthy extra labor. He hated the restrictions and
the iron fence of regulations. He hated boredom, loneliness and
isolation.

And yet he responded with enthusiasm. They had given him a job. A
job many people considered important.

He took his turn guarding the still disputed borders of Korea. He
served on the rescue teams that patrol the busy Polar routes. He
mounted guard at the 1980 World's Fair in Rangoon.

"I liked Rangoon," he even told a friend. "I even liked Korea.
But I think I liked the Pole job best. You sit around playing
cards and shooting the bull and then there's a plane crash or
something and you go out and win a medal. That's great for me.
I'm lazy and I like excitement."
