
One power implied in the UN Charter no Secretary General or
Inspector General had ever tried to use. The power to arrest any
head of state whose country violated international law. Could the
World Court try and imprison a politician who had conspired to
attack another nation?

For years Africa had been called "The South America of the Old
World." Revolution followed revolution. Colonies became
democracies. Democracies became dictatorships or dissolved in
civil war. Men planted bases on the moon and in four years,
1978-82, ringed the world with matter transmitters; but the black
population of Africa still struggled toward political equality.

Umluana took control of Belderkan in 1979. The tiny, former Dutch
colony, had been a tottering democracy for ten years. The very
day he took control the new dictator and his African party began
to build up the Belderkan Army. For years he had preached a new
Africa, united, free of white masters, the home of a vigorous and
perfect Negro society. His critics called him a hypocritical
racist, an opportunist using the desires of the African people to
build himself an empire.

He began a propaganda war against neighboring South Africa,
promising the liberation of that strife-torn land. Most Negro
leaders, having just won representation in the South African
Parliament, told him to liberate his own country. They believed
they could use their first small voice in the government to win
true freedom for their people.

But the radio assault and the arms buildup continued. Early in
1982, South Africa claimed the Belderkan Army exceeded the size
agreed to in the Disarmament Treaty. The European countries and
some African nations joined in the accusation. China called the
uproar a vicious slur on a new African nation. The United States
and Russia, trying not to get entangled, asked for more
investigation by the UN.

But the evidence was clear. Umluana was defying world law. If he
got away with it, some larger and more dangerous nation might
follow his precedent. And the arms race would begin again.

The Inspector General decided. They would enter Belderkan, arrest
Umluana and try him by due process before the World Court. If the
plan succeeded, mankind would be a long step farther from nuclear
war.

Read didn't know much about the complicated political reasons for
the arrest. He liked the Corp and he liked being in the Corp. He
went where they sent him and did what they told him to do.
