
The car skimmed above the tree-tops. The driver and his two
passengers scanned the sky.

A plane would have been a faster way to get out of the country.
But then they would have spent hours flying over Africa, with
Belderkan fighters in hot pursuit, other nations joining the
chase and the world uproar gaining volume. By transmitter, if all
went well, they could have Umluana in Geneva in an hour.

They were racing toward Miaka, a branch transmitter station. From
Miaka they would transmit to the Belderkan Preserve, a famous
tourist attraction whose station could transmit to any point on
the globe. Even now a dozen inspectors were taking over the Game
Preserve station and manning its controls.

They had made no plans to take over Miaka. They planned to get
there before it could be defended.

"There's no military base near Miaka," Rashid said. "We might get
there before the Belderkans."

"Here comes our escort," Read said.

A big car rose from the jungle. This one had a recoilless rifle
mounted on the roof. The driver and the gunner waved and fell in
behind them.

"One thing," Read said, "I don't think they'll shoot at us while
_he's_ in the car."

"Don't be certain, corporal. All these strong-arm movements are
alike. I'll bet Umluana's lieutenants are hoping he'll become a
dead legend. Then they can become live conquerors."

Sergeant Rashid came from Cairo. He had degrees in science and
history from Cambridge but only the Corp gave him work that
satisfied his conscience. He hated war. It was that simple.

Read looked back. He saw three spots of sunlight about two
hundred feet up and a good mile behind.

"Here they come, Sarge."

Rashid turned his head. He waved frantically. The two men in the
other car waved back.

"Shall I duck under the trees?" the driver asked.

"Not yet. Not until we have to."

Read fingered the machine gun he had picked up when he got in the
car. He had never been shot at. Twice he had faced an unarmed
mob, but a few shots had sent them running.

Birds flew screaming from their nests. Monkeys screeched and
threw things at the noisy, speeding cars. A little cloud of birds
surrounded each vehicle.

The escort car made a sharp turn and charged their pursuers. The
big rifle fired twice. Read saw the Belderkan cars scatter.
Suddenly machine-gun bullets cracked and whined beside him.

"Evade," Rashid said. "Don't go down."

Without losing any forward speed, the driver took them straight
up. Read's stomach bounced.

A shell exploded above them. The car rocked. He raised his eyes
and saw a long crack in the roof.

"Hit the floor," Rashid said.

They knelt on the cramped floor. Rashid put on his gas mask and
Read copied him. Umluana breathed like a furnace, still
unconscious from the injection Rashid had given him.

_I can't do anything_, Read thought. _They're too far away to
shoot back. All we can do is run._

The sky was clear and blue. The jungle was a noisy bazaar of
color. In the distance guns crashed. He listened to shells
whistle by and the whipcrack of machine-gun bullets. The car
roller-coastered up and down. Every time a shell passed, he
crawled in waves down his own back.

Another explosion, this time very loud.

Rashid raised his eyes above the seat and looked out the rear
window. "Two left. Keep down, Read."

"Can't we go down?" Read said.

"They'll get to Miaka before us."

He shut his eyes when he heard another loud explosion.

Sergeant Rashid looked out the window again. He swore bitterly in
English and Egyptian. Read raised his head. The two cars behind
them weren't fighting each other. A long way back the tree-tops
burned.

"How much farther?" Rashid said. The masks muffled their voices.

"There it is now. Shall I take us right in?"

"I think you'd better."
