
He heard a shout in rapid French. He turned to his right. Men in
red loincloths ran zigzagging toward the station. They carried
light automatic rifles. Half of them wore gas masks.

"Shoot the masks," he yelled. "Aim for the masks."

The machine gun kicked and chattered on his shoulder. He picked a
target and squeezed off a burst. Tensely, he hunted for another
mask. Three grenades arced through the air and yellow gas spread
across the battlefield. The attackers ran through it. A few yards
beyond the gas, some of them turned and ran for their own lines.
In a moment only half a dozen masked men still advanced. The
inspectors fired a long, noisy volley. When they stopped only
four attackers remained on their feet. And they were running for
cover.

The attackers had come straight up a road that led from the Game
Preserve to the station. They had not expected any resistance.
The UN men had already taken over the station, chased out the
passengers and technicians and taken up defense positions; they
had met the Belderkans with a dozen grenades and sent them
scurrying for cover. The fight so far had been vicious but
disorganized. But the Belderkans had a few hundred men and knew
they had wrecked the transmitter controls.

The first direct attack had been repulsed. They could attack many
more times and continue to spray the building with bullets. They
could also try to go around the hill and attack the station from
above; if they did, the inspectors had a good view of the hill
and should see them going up.

The inspectors had taken up good defensive positions. In spite of
their losses, they still had enough firepower to cover the area
surrounding the station.

Read surveyed his sector of fire. About two hundred yards to his
left, he saw the top of a small ditch. Using the ditch for cover,
the Belderkans could sneak to the top of the hill.

Gas grenades are only three inches long. They hold cubic yards of
gas under high pressure. Read unclipped a telescoping rod from
his vest pocket. He opened it and a pair of sights flipped up. A
thin track ran down one side.

He had about a dozen grenades left, three self-propelling. He
slid an SP grenade into the rod's track and estimated windage and
range. Sighting carefully, not breathing, muscles relaxed, the
rod rock steady, he fired and lobbed the little grenade into the
ditch. He dropped another grenade beside it.

The heavy gas would lie there for hours.

Sergeant Rashid ran crouched from man to man. He did what he
could to shield the wounded.

"Well, corporal, how are you?"

"Not too bad, sergeant. See that ditch out there? I put a little
gas in it."

"Good work. How's your ammunition?"

"A dozen grenades. Half a barrel of shells."

"The copter will be here in half an hour. We'll put Umluana on,
then try to save ourselves. Once he's gone, I think we ought to
surrender."

"How do you think they'll treat us?"

"That we'll have to see."

An occasional bullet cracked and whined through the misty room.
Near him a man gasped frantically for air. On the sunny field a
wounded man screamed for help.

"There's a garage downstairs," Rashid said. "In case the copter
doesn't get here on time, I've got a man filling wine bottles
with gasoline."

"We'll stop them, Sarge. Don't worry."
