
Rashid ran off. Read stared across the green land and listened to
the pound of his heart. What were the Belderkans planning? A mass
frontal attack? To sneak in over the top of the hill?

He didn't think, anymore than a rabbit thinks when it lies hiding
from the fox or a panther thinks when it crouches on a branch
above the trail. His skin tightened and relaxed on his body.

"Listen," said a German.

Far down the hill he heard the deep-throated rumble of a big
motor.

"Armor," the German said.

The earth shook. The tank rounded the bend. Read watched the
squat, angular monster until its stubby gun pointed at the
station. It stopped less than two hundred yards away.

A loud-speaker blared.

ATTENTION UN SOLDIERS.
ATTENTION UN SOLDIERS.
YOU MAY THINK US SAVAGES
BUT WE HAVE MODERN WEAPONS.
WE HAVE ATOMIC WARHEADS,
ALL GASES, ROCKETS
AND FLAME THROWERS. IF
YOU DO NOT SURRENDER
OUR PREMIER, WE WILL DESTROY YOU.

"They know we don't have any big weapons," Read said. "They know
we have only gas grenades and small arms."

He looked nervously from side to side. They couldn't bring the
copter in with that thing squatting out there.

A few feet away, sprawled behind a barricade of tables, lay a man
in advanced shock. His deadly white skin shone like ivory. They
wouldn't even look like that. One nuclear shell from that gun and
they'd be vaporized. Or perhaps the tank had sonic projectors;
then the skin would peel off their bones. Or they might be
burned, or cut up by shrapnel, or gassed with some new mist their
masks couldn't filter.

Read shut his eyes. All around him he heard heavy breathing,
mumbled comments, curses. Clothes rustled as men moved restlessly.

But already the voice of Sergeant Rashid resounded in the murky
room.

"We've got to knock that thing out before the copter comes.
Otherwise, he can't land. I have six Molotov cocktails here. Who
wants to go hunting with me?"

For two years Read had served under Sergeant Rashid. To him, the
sergeant was everything a UN inspector should be. Rashid's
devotion to peace had no limits.

Read's psych tests said pride alone drove him on. That was good
enough for the UN; they only rejected men whose loyalties might
conflict with their duties. But an assault on the tank required
something more than a hunger for self-respect.

Read had seen the inspector who covered their getaway. He had
watched their escort charge three-to-one odds. He had seen
another inspector stay behind at Miaka Station. And here, in this
building, lay battered men and dead men.

All UN inspectors. All part of his life.

And he was part of their life. Their blood, their sacrifice, and
pain, had become a part of him.

"I'll take a cocktail, Sarge."

"Is that Read?"

"Who else did you expect?"

"Nobody. Anybody else?"

"I'll go," the Frenchman said. "Three should be enough. Give us a
good smoke screen."
