
As for the stars, which lay spread out to the infinity beyond the
inch-thick vitrin of the ship's veranda window, the trouble with them
was that they were always the same. Maugham records that when he first
saw the Taj Mahal, he felt an ineffable surprise and joy; but on the
following day, it was only a beautiful building. He had seen it before.

Samson had been in space for something over half his lifetime.
Accordingly, when the communicator bell rang, it shattered no
meditations on the relations of Man to Nature; on the contrary, Samson,
uncoiling himself and walking through the doorway into the lounge,
carried with him the firm mental image of a ham sandwich, with relish
and mustard.

"Let's hear it," he said.

Obediently, the communicator uncorked a quiet male voice: "Harlow
calling the Samsons. Acknowledge if you're awake, will you? Over."

Midge appeared at the opposite end of the room, brushing a strand
of black hair back from her forehead. "We read you, Harlow," said
Samson. "Go ahead. Over." The light-tube which encircled the ceiling,
having turned pink at Harlow's "Over," glowed spectrum-white again at
Samson's, indicating that the communicator was ready to receive.

"Something?" said Midge, coming forward.

Samson waved his hand at her, palm down, in a gesture that meant "Shut
up and listen." Simultaneously, Harlow's voice began again: "I'll give
you the story, anyhow; you can pick it up from the cube later if you're
not reading me now. Kids, this Kenilworth thing is a lot bigger than
it looked two days ago. It may be even bigger than I think it is now,
in which case we'll all have to start digging hidey-holes. It's all
yours--I haven't got anybody else within two weeks' run of the place.
So listen."

There was a pause and a click, which Samson identified as the sound of
Harlow's teeth gripping his ever-present pipe. Then, "Here's the call
I got from Jackson, the Kenilworth deputy. That was three days ago.
I don't think there's anything in it that I missed, but I'll let you
decide that. It came in at three-oh-five hours G.T."

A younger voice said excitedly, "Jackson, Kenilworth IV, calling
Harlow, Slice 103 H.Q. Urgent. Harlow, hold onto your hair. _The
Kassids are back._ Over to you."

Harlow's recorded voice, sounding sleepy, answered: "Better hold onto
yours. Who are the Kassids, and what if they're back? I didn't even
know they were gone. Over."

"Who are the Kassids! Just the big medicine men of Slices 42, 43, 102
and 103, is all! See your manual, page 9581 _et seq._ They landed on
KenilFour ten days ago; I just got the message. It seems the local boys
told them about me as soon as they got past the language difficulty,
and they're anxious to meet me. I'm going over there now--call you back
in about six hours. Over."

"Give them a big, juicy kiss for me," said Harlow. "Clearing."

His voice began again immediately: "You can look up the Kassids in
the manual; I had to. They're a legend, a group of legends, fifteen
thousand years old. At that point, my opinion was either that a gang of
backwoods Messiahs were passing themselves off as 'Kassids' in hopes of
gain and glory, or else that some of Jackson's charges were playing a
big fat joke on him. So I rolled over and went back to sleep. The only
thing is, Jackson never called back.

"I waited twenty-four hours and then alerted you. It still didn't look
big. Jackson might have crash-landed somewhere and broken his leg. Or
he might have got hold of some local antiquities and forgotten to eat,
sleep, breathe or say his prayers. Nothing else happened until several
hours ago. Then this came in, from an experimental organics outfit on
Loblich VII."
