
The Samsons listened to a high, exasperated voice complaining that a
maniac named Jackson had landed at the station, 'preached a kind of a
sermon,' and taken off again with seventeen of the group's twenty-two
members. The group was now hopelessly undermanned; eight years' work
would be ruined unless H.Q. sent them trained replacements sooner than
immediately.

Harlow demanded more information. What had Jackson's 'sermon' consisted
of, exactly?

"He talked about Love," said the organics man irritably. "And
Peace--and a Message for the Universe. Stuff like that. If you ask me,
the man's insane. And if you want to know why three-quarters of this
outfit dumped their work and walked out with him, don't ask me. When do
we get those replacements?"

There was another pause, punctuated by the click of pipestem against
teeth. "Now that," said Harlow, "began to seem a little smelly. If
you'll look at the tank, you'll see that Loblich is the nearest human
settlement to Kenilworth, and it's a long jump--Jackson must have
blasted at maximum to get there in two and a half days. But from
Loblich to any of three well-settled systems is just a hop.

"So I got the signal pattern of Jackson's ship out of the files and
had a warning broadcast to all the patrol centers in 103 and adjoining
Slices. I also started a call going out to Jackson at twenty-minute
intervals. He didn't answer it. That was all, until fifteen minutes ago.

"Jackson turned up in a landing orbit around Xavier III. The local
patrol put a beam on him and warned him not to land. But instead of
shunting into a parking orbit and waiting for instructions, as he was
told, Jackson headed for open space under full drive.

"The patrol burned him out of the sky. There was nothing left to pick
up."

This time the pause was longer. "If he had landed," Harlow's tired
voice said finally, "and if he'd got anything like the same percentage
of response in a larger group, this thing would already be too big to
stop. I tell myself that." The Samsons could hear his teeth grating
against the pipestem. "All right, that's all I can give you," he said
after a moment. "Land on KenilFour, get in touch with these Kassids,
talk to them and find out what this is all about and how they do it.
I've got two cruisers and a battleship on the way from the naval
station in Kleinmuller, and if it turns out that they'll do any
good, they'll be there in fifteen days. But we've got to have more
information. And just incidentally, don't let them sell you whatever
they sold Jackson. If you do, I can't offer you any guarantee you won't
end up the way he did." There was a thump, and then a gargling noise
that meant Harlow was sucking on an empty pipe. "Take every precaution
you can think of," he finished. "Keep in continuous touch after you
land. Over."

"Check, Papa," said Samson. "Clearing."

Samson, who was tall, beefy and blond, looked at Midge, dark and
apparently fragile, who was curled into a very small ball among the
cushions on the other side of the room. "Did you know Jackson?" he
asked.

She nodded soberly. "A very good boy," she said.

"M-hm. You got that manual?"

"Here." She put the cube into the reader set into the table in front
of her, and began scanning for page 9581. Samson walked over and sat
beside her.

There was a good deal about the Kassids, also known as the Akassa, the
Ksits, the Karsis, the Krassit, the Karss and the Krathis. All the
older races in this section of the galaxy had legends about them. It
was not particularly surprising that Harlow had had to look them up;
they were just one item among the tangled mass of folk-legend and myth
that had been gleaned from a thousand inhabited worlds.
