
Nobody, said the manual, knew whether the Kassids had been a historic
culture or a widespread myth. They were magicians, or demigods, or, as
Jackson had put it, big medicine men; they were purer and nobler than
anybody else, they knew more about everything, they could change their
shapes at will, et cetera. The fact that more than five hundred planets
had the same or similar legends proved nothing, because all the races
in question, dull as they were, had had limited interstellar travel
millenia before the arrival of Man. Most of the legends agreed that the
Kassids had gone away, amid weeping and wailing from the lesser tribes,
some fifteen thousand years ago.

But now they were back--and something they had done to Jackson had made
him leave his post, and caused seventeen other people to leave theirs,
and had got them all killed.

"I won't say I like it much," Midge said. "How are you fixed for ideas?"

"Information first," said Samson didactically; "ideas after." He added,
not to Midge, "Take a message."

The light-tube glowed pink.

"Charles Samson to Head Librarian, Lubyanka Central Archives. Urgent.
Request all available material on the Kassids, K-A-S-S-I-D-S. Don't
digest it--put it straight through on facsimile. Over to you."

He clipped a fresh cube into the receiver in the center of the room.
After twenty minutes, a female voice said, "Information coming through.
Over." The recording light glowed; Samson turned on the reader and
glanced at the page of type that appeared on the screen. "I read you.
Thanks. Clearing."

"Coffee, chef," said Midge resignedly. "And two ham sandwiches." She
came over and sat beside Samson. "Hold that page till I finish it."

Samson was a man with an open mind, a faculty which served him well in
dealing with the weird and wild inhabitants of many planets in Slice
103, but which, it occurred to him, was not just the thing wanted for
the task in hand. He kept his misgivings to himself, however, and aided
by numerous steaming pots of coffee served up by the ship's autochef,
bored his way determinedly through the twenty tubes of surmise,
conjecture and hearsay provided by Lubyanka Archives. Midge, who had
a female-superiority complex, sat and took it alongside him, cube for
cube.
