
When they had finished, as Midge took the trouble to remind him, they
had learned next to nothing that wasn't in the Slice 103 manual. "A
total loss, wasn't it?" she demanded.

"Sure. Just a precaution; there _might_ have been something in there
that the manual skipped. If it doesn't rain one Sunday, do you give up
wearing waterproofs?"

Midge's expression indicated that the question deserved no answer.
"You've had your information--_now_ have you got any ideas?"

"Well," said Samson reflectively, "Harlow seems to think there's some
kind of compulsion involved, maybe hypnotic. I don't see how we can
exclude the possibility, even though that kind of contact between alien
minds is supposed to be impossible. But I've got a hunch that's not it.
I think maybe they simply talked to Jackson--they _convinced_ him--and
he did the same to the seventeen that followed him."

"In my own fumbling way," said Midge, "I got that far three hours ago.
Because if it was compulsion of any kind, why did it only work on
seventeen out of twenty-two? I even made a stab at answering another
little technical question--why didn't Jackson use the communicator?"

"That's easy enough," said Samson. "If you got a call from somebody
you didn't know, and he started spouting pseudo-religious propaganda
at you, would you listen quietly until he was finished, or would you
cut him off and complain to the Privacy Commission? And if he'd called
anybody who knew him--you or Harlow, for example--we would have smelled
something. Jackson might have found himself cut off before he ever left
Kenilworth, if he'd tried that. He couldn't take the chance."

"But if you don't mind," Midge said coolly, "what I meant by my
question was, have you got any ideas about what we're going to do?"

"Sure. I'll go in there doped to the eyebrows. I'll use--"

"Wait," said Midge. "Please. You said, 'I'll go in?'"

"That's right. I go in; you stay in the ship and watch. You also
listen, but through a whisper mike--you'll hear everything I say but
not what the other fellow says. In other words, I go over the cliff,
you hold my legs. Catch on?"

Midge said nothing.

"As I was saying, I'll use antihypnotics, and you might as well give me
a good dose of countersuggestion, too, but those are just playing it
safe. What I'm counting on to do the stunt is arnophrene."

"Arnophrene!" Midge stared at him.

"Sure. In heavy dosage, the stuff inhibits your ability to add two and
two. You can follow an argument, in pieces, and even make reasonably
intelligent replies, but you can't hang onto it long enough to put it
all together. In other words, if they convince me of anything, it'll
be on the order of 'Your nose is on the front of your face'... I'll be
sick as a dog afterwards, of course, and I may not remember much of
what they feed me. But you can hold my head, and drag the information
out of me under hypno if you have to. Remember to be careful what you
ask for, in that case--we want to know who these people are and what
they're up to, not what they think about the Great Spirit."

Midge kept looking at him somberly. "I don't like it," she said.

"I don't like it either. Neither will Harlow, if he has to get me
burned down for trying to save souls ... although, come to think of
it, I can think of ways to play it smarter than Jackson did. Make a
phony report, duck out somewhere along the line between here and
H.Q., and then find me a nice uninhabited planet to hide on for a
while. Pirate another ship later, maybe; wear a false beard." He
sighed. "But, come to think of it again, I guess all that has occurred
to Harlow, too."

He looked at Midge. "What'll you do if I should get sold before you can
yank me out of there?"

Her eyes were steadier than her husband's. "Follow you down and buy
myself a tambourine," she said. "What did you think?"
