
Midge's small hands were painfully tight on the edge of the control
panel. On the screen before her, reproduced with excellent fidelity in
spite of the transmitter's peanut size, appeared whatever Samson was
seeing: at the moment, the interior of a bronze-green room and two of
the roly-poly, stumpy-legged tentacled autochthons of Kenilworth IV.
She could see Samson's hands, whenever he happened to raise them; she
could not see his face.

On a smaller screen to the left was a view from a pickup in the
ship's hull--a grassy plain, seen from above, with a huge, black,
lozenge-shaped spaceship and a cluster of the little KenilFour air-cars.

Samson's voice remarked, "They say the Kassid is coming now."

Midge wanted to say something encouraging and affectionate, but her
voice stuck in her throat.

After a moment, a doorway dilated at the end of the pictured room and
something hopped in. For the benefit of the listening Harlow at H.Q.,
Midge began to describe it. "About a meter and a half tall--must be an
oxygen breather, I can't see any mask--it's a uniped. Moves partly by
hopping, partly by contracting its foot. Rather thick trunk and four
limbs besides the foot, two at the very top, two where the trunk joins
the leg. A lot of flabby fingers, can't tell how many. Three eyes in a
horizontal line, vertical mouth under them. No clothes. Whole thing a
dull tan color, with dark pa--"

[Illustration: A doorway dilated and something hopped in.]

She broke off, as Samson began to speak. He was evidently replying to
the Kassid's speech of welcome. "I'm very happy to be here. My people
have heard great things of you from your pupil, David Jackson."

Another long pause, during which Midge said, "Dark patches, apparently
at random--no pattern. I would guess the thing to be recently evolved
from an undersea stage, tail altered to a foot. Don't know whether
there are any exterior organs on the other side--there, it turned
around for a minute. No organs. Now the KenilFours are leaving...."

Samson said, "That's why I came."

Another pause, and then, "Yes, thank you." Something that ran on a
great many thin, twinkling legs brought in a low stool and ran out
again. The interview went on, a meaningless sequence of short questions
and comments by Samson, each followed by a long silence. "Yes, of
course, that's true." ... "I see" ... "How clear that is now" ... "But
in the case of war" ... After a while, Samson's speech began to grow a
little thick. He stumbled over occasional words, but always recovered.

After a long time, Samson said, "The word will be spread. My government
will want to know about your needs and your history, so that we can
receive you properly. Will you show me through your ship, and tell
me something about yourselves?" The view turned toward the doorway,
approached it and went through into a long corridor.

Midge closed the sending circuit between herself and Samson. "Charlie,
are you all right?" she whispered. If he was acting, she told herself
miserably, it was a magnificent performance. Under the fuzziness of his
speech was something else ... an awe, a quiet joy.

"All right, Midge," said Samson's voice quietly, naturally. "Don't
worry."

A long succession of rooms: control chamber, power plant, a garden with
plants unlike any that Midge had seen before, star charts, transparent
tanks full of murky fluid ... Samson's hand, and a narrow strip of
something being put into it. Patterns of dots on the strip. Samson's
voice: "What does it mean?" Then more corridors, more rooms. Finally
Samson's voice again, weak and hollow. "Feeling rocky, Midge. Coming
out."
