
He took a deep breath. "Let me tell you what else I found out, and
maybe something will occur to you. I said before that the idea is
complicated. That's why ethics go up with intelligence, maybe. And
that's why the races we've met, that remember the Kassids, aren't
Kassids themselves. They're not bright enough. That explains something
that's had us wondering for the last six centuries--why there isn't a
single race in our part of the galaxy that rates higher than a fairly
bright twelve-year-old on our scale. There isn't any correlation
between sexual reproduction and intelligence, as my wife and some
others would have you believe. It's simply that the others grasped
the idea--became Kassids. Eventually the Kassids had done all the
proselytizing they could. That was roughly fifteen thousand years ago.
Either they missed us altogether, or we weren't much better than an
ape's cousin at that stage; otherwise they made a clean sweep of the
galaxy. Do you know what happened then? Do you know where they went?"
He paused for breath again. "They went to the nearer Magellanic Cloud,
and that's where they've been all this time. Some of the forms I saw
are from there. The same thing happened--eventually they absorbed all
the intelligence there was. So they came back, hoping some had grown in
this galaxy--and they found us." He sighed. "Over."

Harlow's voice came back. "Sounds stinking. Anything else?"

"One more thing," Samson told him. "This slip of plastic they handed
me as a souvenir. They gave me a verbal translation, and I remember
it word for word. It's a dictionary entry: '_Man, noun. A pentagonal,
dipolar, monoplane dominant of intelligence 96_'--that's on their scale
with the average Kassid race at 100--'_native of District so-and-so_.'
The significance of it, from their point of view, is the '96.' It's
the first time they've been able to make an entry over 75 in the last
twelve or fourteen hundred years."

He frowned. "When I first got back and Midge neutralized the drugs, I
thought of it, and it seemed to me there might be an answer there. A
definition describes the observer as well as the thing observed. That
seemed like a brilliant thought to me at the time, but I can't see any
help in it now." He blinked unhappily. "All it seems to say is that
they've got a superficial and oversimplified system of classification,
meaning that physical structure isn't important to them--which we know
already ... my guess would be, incidentally, that the one who talked to
me was picked because the Kassids thought I'd feel at home with it. It
had five extremities, although none of them was a head; it had a top
and bottom and it faced in one direction. Ergo, it looked just like a
man. Over."

Midge said thoughtfully, "It's funny. If they were so geometrical
about it, why didn't they say bisexual?"

Samson chortled. "You _would_--" he began, and stopped abruptly, with
a stricken expression. "Wait a minute," he said. "Cancel the over.
Everybody shut up, even you, Harlow. The Midget has said something."

Midge seemed to be trying to look indignant, pleased in spite of
herself.

"Harlow, Midge," said Samson slowly after a time, "there's one other
thing about life in this universe that's been puzzling us for the
last six centuries. We know now that it has nothing to do with the
intelligence level, but we still don't know why everybody else but us
reproduces by simple division, budding, spores or conjugation--and in
consequence, lives a damn sight longer than we do, almost long enough
to make up for their low native intelligence. But just suppose that
Earth really is a freak planet--suppose that even the Kassids have
never run into a bisexual organism before. I didn't mention it to them,
and I'm willing to bet Jackson didn't either. You know how tough it
is to explain to a xeno--it generally takes ten days to convince them
you're not kidding. And, Harlow--suppose that I go down there again,
and take Midge along...."
