
When they re-entered the ship, Harlow's voice was saying, "Are you
there, Charles and Midge? Speak up, dammit. Over."

The Samsons looked at each other, glassy-eyed. "With you in a minute,
Harlow," Samson croaked, and lurched after Midge into the sick bay.
Both of them were full of arnophrene--Samson's second dose within two
hours, and an extra-heavy one for Midge.

They staggered into the living chamber again, some time later, and
collapsed on opposite sides of the couch.

"Never again," said Midge faintly.

Samson wet his lips. "It worked, Papa. They swallowed it. I gave Midge
enough of the stuff to make her about twice as disconnected as usual. I
walked in with a long face and told them that the change had started
in my absence. They wanted to know what change. I pointed to Midge, and
we stripped for them. They may not be interested in shapes, but there
was enough difference there to make them take notice. They called a
conference, and probed and poked and x-rayed us. I told them the story
of the caterpillar and the butterfly. Or the nymph and the waterbug,
I should say. You're the ugliest and dumbest member of this family,
Midge."

Midge made an inarticulate sound.

"I told them we're a two-stage organism," Samson said. "One stage
builds all the tall buildings, writes all the novels, does all the
high-class thinking. The other stage reproduces. I said we have a
forty-thousand-year cycle, half to each, but the first stage always
tries to retard the metamorphosis, because the second stage is so
stupid that it ruins our civilization every time, and we have to start
from scratch. I said I was awfully sorry, but the change had come
earlier than we expected this time, and there was nothing we could do
about it ... they're going off to the great nebula in Andromeda. Maybe
they'll find sixteen quintillion brainy races there, and they'll never
come back. The other way, at least we've got twenty thousand years to
think up another gag."

He sighed. "All right, Papa. Over."

Fourteen slow minutes went by. Samson and his wife looked at each other
and said nothing.

The Kassids had tried converting Midge, to see if she were as moronic
as described. Midge had reacted properly, being so befuddled that she
could hardly work her way through a sentence; but she had heard a faint
echo of the Word.

Harlow said, "I don't know what to say to you, kids. You'll be
remembered for this, both of you. A long time. History's been a dull
subject for the last few centuries, but this will liven it up. I don't
think anybody will hesitate to call it a major victory. Over."

Samson smiled, bitterly and sadly.

"That depends," he said, "on how you define 'victory'."