
NIGHTFIRE


"In my father's house I was the second son. My brother was honored and
trusted in all things. He was a prudent man and profitable to the
household. All that he counselled was done, all that he wished he had.
My place was a narrow one. There was neither honor nor joy in it, for
it was filled with daily tasks and rebukes. No one cared for me. My
mother sometimes wept when I was rebuked. Perhaps she was disappointed
in me. But she had no power to make things better. I felt that I was a
beast of burden, fed only in order that I might be useful; and the dull
life irked me like an ill-fitting harness. There was nothing in it.

"I went to my father and claimed my share of the inheritance. He was
rich. He gave it to me. It did not impoverish him and it made me free.
I said to him 'Corban,' and shook the dust of Bethsaida from my feet.

"I went out to look for mirth and love and joy and all that is pleasant
to the eyes and sweet to the taste. If a god made me, thought I, he
made me to live, and the pride of life was strong in my heart and in my
flesh. My vow was offered to that well-known god. I served him in
Jerusalem, in Alexandria, in Rome, for his altars are everywhere and
men worship him openly or in secret.

"My money and youth made me welcome to his followers, and I spent them
both freely as if they could never come to an end. I clothed myself in
purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. The wine of
Cyprus and the dishes of Egypt and Syria were on my table. My dwelling
was crowded with merry guests. They came for what I gave them. Their
faces were hungry and their soft touch was like the clinging of
leeches. To them I was nothing but money and youth; no longer a beast
of burden-a beast of pleasure. There was nothing in it.

"From the richest fare my heart went away empty, and after the wildest
banquet my soul fell drunk and solitary into sleep.

"Then I thought, Power is better than pleasure. If a man will feast and
revel let him do it with the great. They will favor him, and raise him
up for the service that he renders them. He will obtain place and
authority in the world and gain many friends. So I joined myself to
Herod."

When the sad shepherd spoke this name his listeners drew back front him
as if it were a defilement to hear it. They spat upon the ground and
cursed the Idumean who called himself their king.

"A slave!" Jotham cried, "a bloody tyrant and a slave from Edom! A fox,
a vile beast who devours his own children! God burn him in Gehenna."

The old Zadok picked up a stone and threw it into the darkness, saying
slowly, "I cast this stone on the grave of the Idumean, the blasphemer,
the defiler of the Temple! God send us soon the Deliverer, the Promised
One, the true King of Israel!" Ammiel made no sign, but went on with
his story.

"Herod used me well,-for his own purpose. He welcomed me to his palace
and his table, and gave me a place among his favorites. He was so much
my friend that he borrowed my money. There were many of the nobles of
Jerusalem with him, Sadducees, and proselytes from Rome and Asia, and
women from everywhere. The law of Israel was observed in the open
court, when the people were watching. But in the secret feasts there
was no law but the will of Herod, and many deities were served but no
god was worshipped. There the captains and the princes of Rome
consorted with the high-priest and his sons by night; and there was
much coming and going by hidden ways. Everybody was a borrower or a
lender, a buyer or a seller of favors. It was a house of diligent
madness. There was nothing in it.

"In the midst of this whirling life a great need of love came upon me
and I wished to hold some one in my inmost heart.

"At a certain place in the city, within closed doors, I saw a young
slave-girl dancing. She was about fifteen years old, thin and supple;
she danced like a reed in the wind; but her eyes were weary as death,
and her white body was marked with bruises. She stumbled, and the men
laughed at her. She fell, and her mistress beat her, crying out that
she would fain be rid of such a heavy-footed slave. I paid the price
and took her to my dwelling.

"Her name was Tamar. She was a daughter of Lebanon. I robed her in silk
and broidered linen. I nourished her with tender care so that beauty
came upon her like the blossoming of an almond tree; she was a garden
enclosed, breathing spices. Her eyes were like doves behind her veil,
her lips were a thread of scarlet, her neck was a tower of ivory, and
her breasts were as two fawns which feed among the lilies. She was
whiter than milk, and more rosy than the flower of the peach, and her
dancing was like the flight of a bird among the branches. So I loved
her.

"She lay in my bosom as a clear stone that one has bought and polished
and set in fine gold at the end of a golden chain. Never was she glad
at my coming or sorry at my going. Never did she give me anything
except what I took from her. There was nothing in it.

"Now whether Herod knew of the jewel that I kept in my dwelling I
cannot tell. It was sure that he had his spies in all the city, and
himself walked the streets by night in a disguise. On a certain day he
sent for me, and had me into his secret chamber, professing great love
toward me and more confidence than in any man that lived. So I must go
to Rome for him, bearing a sealed letter and a private message to
Caesar. All my goods would be left safely in the hands of the king, my
friend, who would reward me double. There was a certain place of high
authority at Jerusalem which Caesar would gladly bestow on a Jew who
had done him a service. This mission would commend me to him. It was a
great occasion, suited to my powers. Thus Herod fed me with fair
promises, and I ran his errand. There was nothing in it.

"I stood before Caesar and gave him the letter. He read it and laughed,
saying that a prince with an incurable hunger is a servant of value to
an emperor. Then he asked me if there was nothing sent with the letter.
I answered that there was no gift, but a message for his private ear.
He drew me aside and I told him that Herod begged earnestly that his
dear son, Antipater, might be sent back in haste from Rome to
Palestine, for the king had great need of him.

"At this Caesar laughed again. 'To bury him, I suppose,' said he, 'with
his brothers, Alexander and Aristobulus! Truly, it is better to be
Herod's swine than his son. Tell the old fox he may catch his own
prey.' With this he turned from me and I withdrew unrewarded, to make
my way back, as best I could with an empty purse, to Palestine. I had
seen the Lord of the World. There was nothing in it.

"Selling my rings and bracelets I got passage in a trading ship for
Joppa. There I heard that the king was not in Jerusalem, at his Palace
of the Upper City, but had gone with his friends to make merry for a
month on the Mountain of the Little Paradise. On that hill-top over
against us, where the lights are flaring to-night, in the banquet-hall
where couches are spread for a hundred guests, I found Herod."

The listening shepherds spat upon the ground again, and Jotham
muttered, "May the worms that devour his flesh never die!" But Zadok
whispered, "We wait for the Lord's salvation to come out of Zion." And
the sad shepherd, looking with fixed eyes at the firelit mountain far
away, continued his story:

"The king lay on his ivory couch, and the sweat of his disease was
heavy upon him, for he was old, and his flesh was corrupted. But his
hair and his beard were dyed and perfumed and there was a wreath of
roses on his head. The hall was full of nobles and great men, the sons
of the high-priest were there, and the servants poured their wine in
cups of gold. There was a sound of soft music; and all the men were
watching a girl who danced in the middle of the hall; and the eyes of
Herod were fiery, like the eyes of a fox.

"The dancer was Tamar. She glistened like the snow on Lebanon, and the
redness of her was ruddier than a pomegranate, and her dancing was like
the coiling of white serpents. When the dance was ended her attendants
threw a veil of gauze over her and she lay among her cushions, half
covered with flowers, at the feet of the king.

"Through the sound of clapping hands and shouting, two slaves led me
behind the couch of Herod. His eyes narrowed as they fell upon me. I
told him the message of Caesar, making it soft, as if it were a word
that suffered him to catch his prey. He stroked his beard softly and
his look fell on Tamar. 'I have caught it,' he murmured; 'by all the
gods, I have always caught it. And my dear son, Antipater, is coming
home of his own will. I have lured him, he is mine.'

"Then a look of madness crossed his face and he sprang up, with
frothing lips, and struck at me. 'What is this,' he cried, 'a spy, a
servant of my false son, a traitor in my banquet-hall! Who are you?' I
knelt before him, protesting that he must know me; that I was his
friend, his messenger; that I had left all my goods in his hands; that
the girl who had danced for him was mine. At this his face changed
again and he fell back on his couch, shaken with horrible laughter.
'Yours!' he cried, 'when was she yours? What is yours? I know you now,
poor madman. You are Ammiel, a crazy shepherd from Galilee, who
troubled us some time since. Take him away, slaves. He has twenty sheep
and twenty goats among my flocks at the foot of the mountain. See to it
that he gets them, and drive him away.'

"I fought against the slaves with my bare hands, but they held me. I
called to Tamar, begging her to have pity on me, to speak for me, to
come with me. She looked up with her eyes like doves behind her veil,
but there was no knowledge of me in them. She laughed lazily, as if it
were a poor comedy, and flung a broken rose-branch in my face. Then the
silver cord was loosened within me, and my heart went out, and I
struggled no more. There was nothing in it.

"Afterward I found myself on the road with this flock. I led them past
Hebron into the south country, and so by the Vale of Eshcol, and over
many hills beyond the Pools of Solomon, until my feet brought me to
your fire. Here I rest on the way to nowhere."

He sat silent, and the four shepherds looked at him with amazement.

"It is a bitter tale," said Shama, "and you are a great sinner."

"I should be a fool not to know that," answered the sad shepherd, "but
the knowledge does me no good."

"You must repent," said Nathan, the youngest shepherd, in a friendly
voice.

"How can a man repent," answered the sad shepherd, "unless he has hope?
But I am sorry for everything, and most of all for living."

"Would you not live to kill the fox Herod?" cried Jotham fiercely.

"Why should I let him out of the trap," answered the sad shepherd. "Is
he not dying more slowly than I could kill him?"

"You must have faith in God," said Zadok earnestly and gravely.

"He is too far away."

"Then you must have love for your neighbor."

"He is too near. My confidence in man was like a pool by the wayside.
It was shallow, but there was water in it, and sometimes a star shone
there. Now the feet of many beasts have trampled through it, and the
jackals have drunken of it, and there is no more water. It is dry and
the mire is caked at the bottom."

"Is there nothing good in the world?"

"There is pleasure, but I am sick of it. There is power, but I hate it.
There is wisdom, but I mistrust it. Life is a game and every player is
for his own hand. Mine is played. I have nothing to win or lose."

"You are young, you have many years to live."

"I am old, yet the days before me are too many."

"But you travel the road, you go forward. Do you hope for nothing?"

"I hope for nothing," said the sad shepherd. "Yet if one thing should
come to me it might be the beginning of hope. If I saw in man or woman
a deed of kindness without a selfish reason, and a proof of love gladly
given for its own sake only, then might I turn my face toward that
light. Till that comes, how can I have faith in God whom I have never
seen? I have seen the world which he has made, and it brings me no
faith. There is nothing in it."

"Ammiel-ben-Jochanan," said the old man sternly, "you are a son of
Israel, and we have had compassion on you, according to the law. But
you are an apostate, an unbeliever, and we can have no more fellowship
with you, lest a curse come upon us. The company of the desperate
brings misfortune. Go your way and depart from us, for our way is not
yours."

So the sad shepherd thanked them for their entertainment, and took the
little kid again in his arms, and went into the night, calling his
flock. But the youngest shepherd Nathan followed him a few steps and
said:

"There is a broken fold at the foot of the hill. It is old and small,
but you may find a shelter there for your flock where the wind will not
shake you. Go your way with God, brother, and see better days."

Then Ammiel went a little way down the hill and sheltered his flock in
a corner of the crumbling walls. He lay among the sheep and the goats
with his face upon his folded arms, and whether the time passed slowly
or swiftly he did not know, for he slept.

He waked as Nathan came running and stumbling among the scattered
stones.

"We have seen a vision," he cried, "a wonderful vision of angels. Did
you not hear them? They sang loudly of the Hope of Israel. We are going
to Bethlehem to see this thing which is come to pass. Come you and keep
watch over our sheep while we are gone."

"Of angels I have seen and heard nothing," said Ammiel, "but I will
guard your flocks with mine, since I am in debt to you for bread and
fire."

So he brought the kid in his arms, and the weary flock straggling after
him, to the south wall of the great fold again, and sat there by the
embers at the foot of the tower, while the others were away. The moon
rested like a ball on the edge of the western hills and rolled behind
them. The stars faded in the east and the fires went out on the
Mountain of the Little Paradise. Over the hills of Moab a gray flood of
dawn rose slowly, and arrows of red shot far up before the sunrise.

The shepherds returned full of joy and told what they had seen.

"It was even as the angels said unto us," said Shama, "and it must be
true. The King of Israel has come. The faithful shall be blessed."

"Herod shall fall," cried Jotham, lifting his clenched fist toward the
dark peaked mountain. "Burn, black Idumean, in the bottomless pit,
where the fire is not quenched."

Zadok spoke more quietly. "We found the new-born child of whom the
angels told us wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. The
ways of God are wonderful. His salvation comes out of darkness, and we
trust in the promised deliverance. But you, Ammiel-ben-Jochanan, except
you believe, you shall not see it. Yet since you have kept our flocks
faithfully, and because of the joy that has come to us, I give you this
piece of silver to help you on your way."

But Nathan came close to the sad shepherd and touched him on the
shoulder with a friendly hand, "Go you also to Bethlehem," he said in a
low voice, "for it is good to see what we have seen, and we will keep
your flock until you return."

"I will go," said Ammiel, looking into his face, "for I think you wish
me well. But whether I shall see what you have seen, or whether I shall
ever return, I know not. Farewell."



