
Captain Jan Barnaby and Lieutenant Kim Teajun of the Extraterrestrial
Service stood before the Board of Inquiry at Denver, D. F. The
President of the Board, a Chief Commander's star-on-silver gleaming at
his right collar point, opened the proceedings:

"The military rocket _Vulcan_, EXTS light cruiser, is accused by
the Martian authorities of causing the death of one Klaggchallak, a
priest. They further claim that the death of Klaggchallak was caused
by criminal negligence on the part of the pilot and co-pilot of the
rocket, Captain Jan Barnaby and Lieutenant Kim Teajun, respectively.
Such neglect being within the definition of murder in the Martian legal
code, the Judging Authority of Mars demands that we deliver these two
men to them for trial and eventual punishment."

The Commander stroked his grey hair thoughtfully as he looked up
from his report to the two unhappy officers before him. "At ease,
gentlemen." Barnaby and Teajun slumped. "While I'm inclined to agree
with you two that Klaggchallak's frying was his own fool fault, I must
say that you picked a damned poor time to become the instruments of his
immolation. We had hoped to establish an extra-territoriality agreement
with Mars, but the death of old Klaggchallak puts that out of the
question. To further Martian tranquility, you men will have to return
to Mars and face the Judging Authority there. If my feelings were all
that is at stake, gentlemen, I'd tell the Marties to go trippingly to
hell, and keep you here on Earth. But to do this would mean we'd be
forced to abandon our bases and mines and surveys on all Mars. We'd be
giving our European competitors a clear field." The Commander folded
the report neatly, once and again. "Captain Barnaby and Lieutenant Kim,
you'll be on the next Mars-ward ship. We can't help you if you're
convicted by our fuzzy friends. You'll have to stay there and take
whatever punishment they demand."

Kim was remembering a scene he and Barnaby had witnessed at Klamugra,
the seat of the Martian Judging Authority. A Martian, convicted of
murder, was being executed atop a high metal platform. A large portion
of the city's population was gathered before the platform, watching the
edifying spectacle of a fellow-Martian dying with horrifying slowness
as the chocks of a vise pressed into his skull. They were bearcats for
gladiatorial amusement.

"Do you gentlemen have any questions?"

Lieutenant Kim glanced at Captain Barnaby, then spoke. "Yes, sir. I'd
like to know how long we're going to let the Marties push us around
this way. Thirteen Martian priests are on our payroll, just because
they demand it. We've got to stay five kilometers away from their
cities, or pay a five-hundred credit fine. We can't spit without
special permission from the Grand Council of Mars. We don't think like
they do; why should we submit to being judged by their million-year-old
laws? In all respect, sir, why does our Service act so weak?"

The Commander made a pyramid of thumbs and forefingers, and considered
it. "Lieutenant Kim, I've been asking myself that question for the last
ten years. We've had to pay tribute to gain the Marties' permission to
stay on their god-forsaken planet. That tribute represents half the
operating expense of the Martian Department of the Service, credits
that should be spent on new ships and more men. We've behaved like a
bunch of patsies ever since von Munger and Ley landed on Mars.

"Still, we're all soldiers, and we must follow regulations. We mustn't
disturb the indigenous population on Mars; that's Regulation 'A-1.'
If our policies grow distasteful to the Marties, they may call in the
Europeans to take our place. We wouldn't like that. It's bad form to
admit it, gentlemen, but I'm ashamed to give you this order. You're
to jet off for Mars tomorrow morning; and on arrival at Klamugra,
to deliver yourselves over to the Martian Judging Authority." The
Commander rapped his gavel and stood; the two officers before the Board
snapped to attention. "Board of Inquiry dismissed."
