
In a moment the jeep spun up the hill and ground to a halt. There
was a pause as the men inside the jeep fitted their helmets on their
shoulders, checked their air-pumps, and drew on their gauntlets. Then
the plastic bubble lifted back, a sergeant jumped out from under the
steering wheel and saluted, and a Colonel, EXTS Intelligence, walked
up to Captain Barnaby and Lieutenant Kim. "Gentlemen," he said, "I'm
Colonel Lee Montgomery, Commanding Officer, Third Sector. It is my
unpleasant duty to turn you over to the Chief Technician of the Martian
Judging Authority, who is Rhinklav'n, here."

At these words a tall Martian unfolded himself from the back seat
of the jeep. He climbed out and bowed before Captain Barnaby. "I am
Rhinklav'n, Captain." The thick fur nose-flaps, looking like ear-muffs
pulled across his muzzle, muffled Rhinklav'n's high-pitched voice so
that it gave the effect of coming from the bottom of a rain barrel.
"You are to accompany me to Klamugra to be judged by the Machine, of
which I am the Honored First Technician."

Barnaby and Kim bowed slightly to acknowledge Rhinklav'n, then crawled
into the back seat of the jeep, next to Colonel Montgomery.

Rhinklav'n and the sergeant sat up front. The sergeant pushed a button
on the instrument panel, and the plastic top of the jeep dropped down
to cover them. As the engine started, the jeep's air-pump drew in air
until the atmosphere was thick enough for human lungs. The Martian
squirmed uncomfortably in the heavy air while his human companions
threw off their helmets. Lieutenant Kim gratefully drew a deep breath
of air, and regretted it immediately. What with the million-year water
shortage the Martians had lost even the word for bath. Besides, the
most popular article of Martian cuisine is a bulb strikingly similar
to the terrestrial garlic plant. Captain Barnaby turned to Kim. "Mars
has a distinguished atmosphere, hasn't it?" He spoke in English, rather
than in the Esperanto lingua-franca of space.

"Indeed it has," Kim agreed. "What was old fuzz-face up there talking
about when he spoke of 'the Machine,' Colonel?"

"The law of Mars is the most rigidly systematized in the solar system,"
Colonel Montgomery replied. "Several millions of years ago, a bright
Martie got the idea that it was unwise to trust mortal judges with
a problem so important as the sentencing of criminals. So he called
in a lot of mechanics--ancient Mars had some pretty fair engineers,
though they never discovered electricity--and had them build a
judging-machine. Since the climate is right and the machine was built
of a stainless steel, it's still here and still being used. It's an
enormous thing; spreads over half-an-acre in a big amphitheatre in the
center of town. It's an analogue computer, rather clumsy by terrestrial
standards, but nevertheless well-built. You know the principles of
analogue calculators. Instead of working with coded, position-valued
impulses, like the electronic astrogator on our rockets, the mechanical
machines solve problems by making use of the physical analogies between
cogs and gears and differentials."

"Do you mean that we're going to be punished or set free by a bunch of
clockwork, colonel?" Kim asked.

"In a way, yes. The Machine is a most impersonal judge. That fact won't
help you, though. Martian legal code is strict about killing, there
being some thirty-odd degrees of murder, ranging in seriousness from a
'simple homicide to secure a mate,' the punishment for which is death
by dehydration, most often; to 'killing to secure for oneself material
benefits,' for which there exist more subtle forms of death by torture."

"Like getting a small-head-size in a vise?" Captain Barnaby grunted.

"That's the usual punishment for murder in the seventeenth degree,
where the crime is usually 'killing for spiritual advancement.' You
see, each crime is given special study by the Machine. A great many
factors are fed in, collated with certain constants within the Machine,
processed through several dozen stages, and finally combined into a
single number, which represents the punishment called for. By the way,"
the colonel studied the back of Rhinklav'n's head, "no consideration
of the truthfulness of the 'defendant' is entered into the Machine. It
is presumed that should a man say that he did not commit a crime, he
didn't; if he did, he'd admit it. Martians have a peculiar character
defect that prevents them from lying."

"A defect from which we humans are fortunately free," Kim grinned.

"That's no out," Colonel Montgomery countered. "They have witnesses who
saw Klaggchallak fry. Besides, we prefer to have the mass of Marties
ignorant of the average earthling's penchant for prevarication. It
saves the Service a lot of money not to have to prove anything it tells
our hairy hosts out here."
