
The jeep hit the first of the series of low terraces which set the
city of Klamugra up from the surrounding desert plains, and the little
car bounced high off the sand. Colonel Montgomery looked startled, as
though he'd just remembered something. "You know, in my ethnological
fervor I didn't realize what you two men are in for. Cosmos! I'm
practically delivering you up as human sacrifices!"

"We came to that conclusion five days ago, colonel," Lieutenant Kim
dryly observed.

"I can see what the Fleet Commander meant when he said that he was
giving me 'a most unpleasant assignment.' Hell, I don't think the
Machine is able to give a judgment of 'not guilty'." Colonel Montgomery
gazed toward the city they were approaching. "We've got to turn you
in. We can't risk a blowup with the Martian Grand Council. There are
rumors that ..." the colonel glanced again with suspicion at the back
of Rhinklav'n's hairy neck, as though suspecting that the Martian might
be able to puzzle out the meaning of their conversation, though it was
in English. "There are rumors that the -artiansMay have an agent among
the -ussiansRay. We can't risk having the borsch-eaters more popular
out here than the Western Powers." The jeep bounded up the last of the
terraces and through an opening in the city wall. The adobe buildings
raced past, and with a final bound the jeep came to the edge of the
huge, circular bowl which held the Machine.

"There's your judge," Colonel Montgomery said, speaking in Esperanto
again. "I haven't much hope to offer you. For one thing, you're the
first humans ever to be judged by the Machine."

The men picked up their helmets and air-pumps and adjusted them on
their shoulders. Rhinklav'n drew his furry nostril-flaps down into
place against the sudden change in pressure. The plastic top of the
jeep flew back on its springs and the men climbed out, stretching their
cramped muscles. The radiophones in the helmets buzzed, and the colonel
gave Captain Barnaby a last word. "I want to impress you with the fact
that the Service cannot protect you, from this moment onward. If you
escape being killed it must be on your own merits. And don't start
shooting Marties--won't do you a bit of good. There's a lot at stake
for Earth here. Good luck, men!" Colonel Montgomery saluted, and he and
his sergeant jumped back in the jeep, slammed the top down, and whirled
away.

Rhinklav'n turned to the two EXTS officers. "Gentlemen, I've assigned
you quarters here, near the Machine. Will you follow me?" Kim and
Barnaby followed the Martian a short distance from the edge of the
amphitheater to a lone adobe building, one story high and about ten
meters square. "Here are your quarters, where you'll stay tonight. Your
judging is set for tomorrow morning."

Captain Barnaby glanced into the building and was surprised to see
that it closed with an airlock, had terrestrial canned foods on
neat shelves, and had regular Service cots in place of the rough
_mal_-leather mats that the Martians slept on. "It was good of you to
go to all this trouble just for myself and Lieutenant Kim, Rhinklav'n,"
the Captain said.

The Martian paused at the door. "It's not just for you, Captain. Five
other terrestrials have committed crimes of various proportions within
the last few weeks. They will also be tried here, after your case is
disposed of." Rhinklav'n left, considerately closing the airlock door
and starting the pump on his way out.

Lieutenant Kim took a can of "B" ration beans down from the shelf and
thoughtfully began to open it with his Service knife. "Captain," he
said, "this sort of thing could drive our Service from Mars. If the
Marties consider it their right to judge every Earthling who runs a
jeep into a farmer's _mal_ or lands half a meter too near one of their
cities, we won't have a man on the planet in a couple of years."

"Kim, we're precedents."

"What do you mean, Yankee?"

"If the Marties succeed in convicting us of murder in some unheard-of
degree by using that overgrown Erector Set of theirs, we'll be only
the first two of a long string of EXTServicemen to be executed under
Mars law. We can't let them do it." Captain Barnaby paused a moment
to pour himself out a plateful of beans. "Kim, what was that process
you used to rely on back in EXTS Academy in Denver? The one that gave
you the right answers after you found that your first solutions to our
astrogation problems were a few hundred thousand kilometers off?"

Kim stopped chewing for a moment in surprise. "You mean that you got
through the Academy without using the 'finagle factor'? No wonder you
made captain so soon. It's simple: I'd look up the right answer in the
Service charts, find by what factor my solution was off, and introduce
that factor into my next calculation, making it inconspicuous under a
lot of mathematical camouflage. Don't bawl me out about it, Barny; I
just couldn't see letting my extracurricular activities suffer for my
schoolwork."

"Yes, you did a lot of your studying at the Denver Dive. No matter,
little man. Eat hearty and get some sleep." Barnaby stirred his beans
thoughtfully. "We've got a big day ahead of us tomorrow."
