
Early the next morning a subordinate technician of the Machine hammered
on the airlock. The two terrestrials pulled on their heavy jackets, fur
boots, and gauntlets, started the little air-pumps on their shoulders,
and opened the lock. "The honored First Technician of the Machine
invites your presence at your trial, which is to begin very soon," the
Martian said, speaking halting Esperanto. Kim and Barnaby followed him
to the edge of the Machine bowl. There had been several changes made
during the night. An elevated platform had been set up, identical to
the one used in the bloody execution they'd witnessed. About twenty
Martians were clustered around the Machine, some of them making
last-minute adjustments in the mechanism; others, evidently sightseers,
gazing curiously at the two principals in the trial.

Rhinklav'n was waiting, his nose-flaps drawn over his nostrils to keep
the cold morning air from cutting into his lungs. "I am pleased that
you come," he said. "The Machine is fully assembled for your problem."
He pointed down toward the Machine, a vast cluster of separate stages
connected by rods. "On the far right, in that small building, is the
power source of the Machine, a mercury-turbine engine. We can't spare
the water to make steam, you know. The first stage contains the Martian
actuarial tables, the second has the actuarial system for determining
the probable life-spans of you two Earthlings. That's without taking
into consideration the probability that you two will be executed as a
result of the judgement of the Machine."

Lieutenant Kim nodded. "Most ingenious. But I'm afraid that there's a
factor that you've omitted."

"We've made no factual error, Lieutenant," Rhinklav'n insisted. "The
value of the sage Klaggchallak is represented there--" he pointed to
the fourth stage, "and your social value to the people of Mars is here
represented." Rhinklav'n waved one mitten-like hand toward the fifth
stage. "If you'll examine that stage, you'll observe that your value is
negative: the shaft representing it revolves in a direction opposite to
that of the others. Yes, you'll surely be executed."

Captain Barnaby nodded, as though the reiteration of the probability
of his early demise troubled him less than the philosophical question
he'd stumbled across. "Still, as my subordinate officer has said,
there's a factor which you seem to have omitted. In the terminology of
terrestrial psychometering, this quantity is called--what did you say
it was, Lieutenant Kim?"

"The 'finagle factor,' sir."

"Really?" Rhinklav'n asked, the light of scientific inquiry in his
eyes. "I thought I'd taken all the variables of Earthling physiology
and psychology into consideration when I set up the plans for the
trial. What are the mathematics of this 'finagle factor'?"
