
Captain Barnaby put one foot up on a connecting shaft, as though he
were in the Denver Dive, discussing the relative merits of two video
dancers. "As you've doubtless noticed in your extensive study of the
Terrestrial mind, Sir Honored First Technician of the Machine, we of
Earth place almost equal value on a man's intelligence and on his
financial standing as criteria of his worth."

"Yes," Rhinklav'n mused, "I noticed your preoccupation with both
intelligence (a minor mental quality, by the way; far inferior to
spiritual insight or time-sense) and with the individual's possession
of Western Credits."

"As I said," Captain Barnaby continued, "there exists a precise
formula, developed by the...."

"By the Noyoudont Dentifrice Laboratories," Kim supplied.

"Yes; their laboratories developed the mathematics of the finagle
factor. Briefly, it is this: the square root of the product of
Intelligence Quotient over one hundred times the number of credits the
individual has outstanding. Or, written algebraically:" Barnaby knelt
down and traced in the sand with his gloved index finger:

[sqrt](IQ/100 x money in the bank)

"Quite a simple equation, easily represented on the Machine,"
Rhinklav'n observed. He called a subordinate technician to his side and
spoke to him in the clicking polysyllables of the Martian language.
Turning again to Captain Barnaby, he asked, "And what are the values of
'IQ' and 'Money in the Bank' for you and Lieutenant Kim?"

"Our combined IQs total about 243. How many credits do you own,
Lieutenant Kim?"

"Hell, sir; I've got more debts than credits."

"Figure up your debts then, Lieutenant."

Kim raised his right gauntlet, drew a pad of paper and a pencil from a
pocket at the back of his hand, and scribbled rapidly. "If we get out
of this, Captain, I'll owe about 1046 credits. Subtracting pay due for
the last semi-annual period, I owe 437 credits."

"And I have debts totaling 600 credits," Captain Barnaby said
thoughtfully. He turned to Rhinklav'n. "The debts of myself and
Lieutenant Kim, Sir Honored First Technician of the Machine, total 1037
Western Credits. Being debt, that's a negative number, of course."

"Of course, Captain," Rhinklav'n agreed. "The Machine can handle any
sort of number, even a negative number. You noticed that your social
value to Mars was easily represented as a minus-number." Rhinklav'n
talked rapidly to his assistant and handed him the values of the
finagle factor, rewritten in Martian ideographs. He faced Captain
Barnaby again. "It will take us about an hour to enter this new factor
into the Machine," he said. "You'll not mind waiting?"

"No, not at all," Barnaby murmured. He and Kim leaned against the
inside wall of the amphitheater, watching the Martian technicians hurry
about; they removed gears and replaced them with gears of another
ratio; they connected a stage consisting of eccentric cams strung on
shafts; and they installed a mass of machinery at the sixth stage,
where the operation of extracting square root was to take place. Kim,
comparing the heavy gears and levers of the Machine with the compact
tubes of his electronic astrogator, remarked, "It's like using a trip
hammer to crack a walnut."
