
After a few minutes of watching, Kim and Barnaby became conscious of an
intruder within their helmets, a most unpleasant odor. They glanced up
to the edge of the bowl. The Martian sightseers were sitting up there,
dangling their legs above the Machine and utilizing the pause in the
proceedings to eat their picnic lunches. They were busily unwrapping
bundles of food from the _mal_-skin pouches hanging by their sides and
eating as they watched the technicians work over the Machine.

One of the tourists, judging from his height a young male, threw a
small parcel toward Kim. The lieutenant picked it up and unwrapped it.
The stench of Martian garlic became unbearable as Kim stared at the
unidentifiable tidbit of meat the Martian had thrown him; the air-pump
on his shoulder drew the redolence into his helmet in such quantities
that Kim's eyes burned. He gestured to show that, while his every
instinct demanded that he eat the delicious morsel, he couldn't take
his helmet off to do so. With an elaborate pantomiming of sorrow, Kim
pitched the gift back up to the Martian boy.

A few adjustments later the technicians filed up from the Machine pit.
Rhinklav'n walked over to the two EXTS officers. "If you gentlemen will
accompany me, we'll begin the trial at once."

Kim and Barnaby walked together up the steps that led from the Machine,
then turned and looked down at the dozens of stages of complex
machinery, into which memory and intelligence of a sort had been built.
Rhinklav'n pointed toward the fifth and sixth stages. "It is there
that the combined finagle factors of you men will be calculated. The
fifth stage is quite simple; it will perform the necessary division and
multiplication. The sixth stage will extract the square root of the
product derived by the fifth. The next six stages of machinery contain
the variables of terrestrial behavior, which I and my colleagues
calculated from Earth texts. The other stages on the field, fifty-three
of them, will collate the results of the calculations of the first
twelve stages with our legal code and determine punishment. The final
product will appear at the sixty-seventh stage, represented as the
speed of rotation of a single shaft. The revolutions-per-time-interval
are decoded by a simple formula to determine the punishment to be
levied upon you. Doubtless, it will be some unpleasant form of death."

Kim muttered that he wished that Martians had a bit more tact.

Rhinklav'n waved a hairy arm toward his assistant who had remained
below in the Machine pit; and that Martian ran to the power house
to start the mercury-turbine engine that ran the Machine. With a
whistling that set the thin atmosphere trembling for miles around, the
turbine began to turn.

The sightseers on the edge of the amphitheater wrapped up the scraps of
their lunches, replaced them in their _mal_-skin picnic hampers, and
stood up to watch the Machine. Kim and Barnaby paced up and down along
the edge of the bowl, looking down upon the mechanical cerebration
being performed by the huge Machine. With a smooth transfer of power
from one stage to the next, the first problem--the probable duration
of Klaggchallak's life when it had been interrupted by the jets of the
_Vulcan_--was solved, and the mechanism of the second stage began to
revolve.

"They're seeing how long we can be expected to live, now," Captain
Barnaby commented.

That problem fled through a mass of gears and cams; and the partial
solution, the sum of the two earthling's life expectancies divided by
that of the priest Klaggchallak, ran across a shaft to the third stage,
which would determine the old priest's value to the society of Mars.
On into the fourth stage the problem flowed, to combine all previous
factors with the earthlings' social value to Mars, a negative number.

In a few moments the problem had progressed to the fifth stage of the
Machine, where the first steps of the 'finagle factor' were solved. The
product, a negative number as could be seen by the reversed rotation of
the main shaft, bowed into the sixth stage, which was to extract square
root.
