
The turbine howled protest as it was forced to overcome the inertia of
the sixth stage; but a governor at the input stage held the shaft-speed
constant. The seventh stage, all ready for the problem when it should
appear from the sixth, held all the computations of the first four
stages in its smoothly-turning entrails. The initial portion of the
sixth stage began to move slowly.

There was a sudden, grating noise as the feed-in gear of the fifth
stage came in contact with a solution gear of the sixth which refused
to move. The whine of the mercury-turbine engine was shaking the ground
beneath the two officers' feet now.

As the Martian technicians and picnickers looked on in amazement,
the shaft between the fifth stage and the sixth began to twist like
a stick of moist putty. The sixth stage strained and shuddered, then
followed the twisting shaft over, tearing its moorings from the ground
and smashing upside-down. The seventh stage entered into the chaos,
ripping out anchors of steel-in-concrete and slamming onto its side.
In a moment all the machines in the bowl were muttering and straining
against the earth. Rhinklav'n ran to the stairway that led down into
the pit. In the adobe powerhouse the mercury engine was whirling at
twenty times its optimum rate, tearing the atmosphere with the sound of
its screaming power. There was the rattle of shrapnel exploding within
the walls of the powerhouse as the turbine threw off the restrainment
of its governor. The whole field within the bowl was a mass of
twitching clockwork, shaken by the final stormings of the suicidal
turbine. Bars of shining steel twisted and snapped, gear teeth flew
singing through the thin air. The final chain of stages tore itself
loose from anchoring and crashed to its side. There was a final roar of
defiance from the turbine, and the powerhouse walls dissolved before
an out-rushing blast of superheated mercury. Kim and Barnaby threw
themselves to the ground as the din increased for a moment, and the
Martian sightseers sought refuge behind nearby buildings. Suddenly, the
Machine was silent, except for the tinkle of scraps of metal falling to
the cement.

[Illustration: _Bars of shining steel twisted and snapped, gear teeth
flew singing through the thin air...._]

"Looks as though we were too much for judge, jury, and D.A.," Kim
murmured into his radiophone. Barnaby nodded, then cautiously climbed
to his feet.

Rhinklav'n climbed back up the stairway to the brink of the
amphitheater-become-junkyard. He shoved his way through the questioning
crowd of Martian sightseers without a word. "Looks like he's going to
cry," Lieutenant Kim commented into his radiophone. True, Rhinklav'n's
nose-flaps were hanging limply down below his chin, a sure sign of
great emotion in a Martian.

Rhinklav'n faced Captain Barnaby wordlessly for a moment. "You may
leave now," he said at last. The Martian turned his back on the captain
to look down again on the wreck that had been his beloved Machine.
