
The two EXTS officers wandered about Klamugra, the cynosure of all
Martian eyes, though no one tried to stop them or ask them questions.
Lieutenant Kim finally spotted a radio tower jutting up above the
red adobe buildings. Hurrying in the direction of the tower, Kim and
Barnaby found the Klamugra headquarters of the Extraterrestrial Service.

Colonel Montgomery jumped to his feet as they came in, a look of bald
disbelief on his face. "Man, I'm glad to see you two! I was about to
storm out like a knight in shiny armor and save you from the Marties."
He waved his hand toward the helmet and rifle lying on his typewriter
table--"If I'd gotten there too late, I'd have ruptured interplanetary
friendship for sure!"--and indicated a decanter on his desk. "Have
some: that's Edinbourgh scotch, not Los Angeles moon-dew. Tell me why
I happen to be talking to you now instead of making up a couple of
packages for your next-of-kin."

"We wrecked their damn Machine," Kim said happily, dropping his helmet
and gauntlets to the floor and measuring out several fingers of the
colonel's scotch into his ration can.

"To be a bit more accurate," Captain Barnaby corrected, "we drove the
Machine insane." He poured himself a stiff shot of scotch and downed it
with appreciation.

"Our personalities are so complex that the Machine blew up all over
the landscape when it tried to understand them," Kim said. He dragged
a chair out from behind the typewriter table and sat down, carefully
balancing the ration can.

"It's rather as though we should set our electronic astrogator to work
on a problem with three variables in five dimensions, rather than in
four," Captain Barnaby explained. "As you told us, the Machine was a
mechanical-analogus calculator. It can multiply, divide, add, square
and cube, and extract roots. It performs these operations by coding
numbers into mechanical relationships."

"Just a big adding machine," Kim commented irreverently.

"And our 'finagle factor' was too much for a mechanical system."
Captain Barnaby briefly explained to the colonel how he and Kim had
induced Rhinklav'n to add their invented factor to the Machine's setup.
"You see, the finagle factor resolved itself into the square root of a
negative number. An electronic calculator, like our astrogator, could
extract the root of a minus-number: 'imaginary' numbers of this sort
are implicit in its circuit. The Martian Machine out there couldn't do
this though. Since there is no mechanical analogue for an imaginary
number, the Machine tried to extract the square root of our finagle
factor in the same manner in which it would attempt to extract the root
of a real number."

Kim drained, his ration can neatly and remarked, "The Machine couldn't
do what it had to. All the power of the turbine was thrown into the
root extracting system, which wouldn't revolve. So the Machine went
nuts, pardon me, sir, and blew its top. Wrecked the power source and
all sixty-seven stages. With the square root of minus one, we busted
up a Machine half a million years old."

"What now?" Colonel Montgomery asked, rhetorically.

Captain Barnaby studied the bottom of his ration can a moment. "Well,
sir, Rhinklav'n was more puzzled, than angered. He wanted to judge
humans not out of malice, but from a genuine scientific curiosity. He
wanted to see how the Machine would act with an alien problem. His
Machine is too badly broken-up ever to repair. He'll have to find
another method of judging criminals, first of all. Martian society is
founded on strict law."

"Just a moment." The colonel got up from his desk and went down the
hall to a door marked "Judge Advocate General's Department, EXTS." He
returned with a heavy book, bound between khaki-board covers. "We'll
give this book to Rhinklav'n, and you gentlemen may return to the
Denver Joint."

"Dive, sir," Kim corrected.

"Yes, Lieutenant." Colonel Montgomery handed the big book to Captain
Barnaby. "Take this to Rhinklav'n before you leave, Captain."

Barnaby turned to the title page and read in Esperanto, "Blackstone.
_On the Study of Law._"