
They released him from the hospital three days later; after half a year
in the hushed white world, the city outside seemed wildly clamorous and
riotously colorful, like a town at the height of carnival. He had never
felt so well in his life; he was eager to put the strong springs of
his muscles back into play. Bernstein had made the usual speech about
rest, but a week after his discharge Andy and Paula were at the courts
in tennis clothes.

Andy had always been a dedicated player, but his stiff-armed forehand
and poor net game had always prevented him from being anything more
than a passable amateur. Now he was a demon on the court, no ball
escaping his swift-moving racket. He astounded himself with the
accuracy of his crashing serves, his incredible play at the net.

Paula, a junior champion during her college years, couldn't begin to
cope with him; laughingly, she gave up and watched him battle the club
professional. He took the first set 6-0, 6-0, 6-0, and Andy knew that
something more magical than medicinal had happened to him.

They talked it over, excited as schoolchildren, all the way home. Andy,
who had taken a job in a stock-brokerage house after college, and who
had been bored silly with the whole business until the accident, began
wondering if he could make a career on the tennis court.

To make sure his superb playing wasn't a fluke, they returned to the
club the next day. This time, Andy found a former Davis Cup challenger
to compete with. At the end of the afternoon, his heart pounding to
the beat of victory, he knew it was true.

That night, with Paula in his lap, he stroked her long auburn hair and
said: "No, Paula, it's all wrong. I'd like to keep it up, maybe enter
the Nationals, but that's no life for me. It's only a game, after all."

"Only a game?" she said mockingly. "That's a fine thing for the next
top-seeded man to say."

"No, I'm serious. Oh, I don't mean I intend to stay in Wall Street;
that's not my ambition either. As a matter of fact, I was thinking of
painting again."

"Painting? You haven't painted since your freshman year. You think you
can make a living at it?"

"I was always pretty good, you know that. I'd like to try doing some
commercial illustration; that's for the bread and potatoes. Then, when
we don't have to worry about creditors, I'd like to do some things on
my own."

"Don't pull a Gauguin on me, friend." She kissed his cheek lightly.
"Don't desert your wife and family for some Tahitian idyll...."

"What family?"

She pulled away from him and got up to stir the ashes in the fireplace.
When she returned, her face was glowing with the heat of the fire and
warmth of her news.

Andrew Hills, Junior, was born in September. Two years later, little
Denise took over the hand-me-down cradle. By that time, Andy Hills was
signing his name to the magazine covers of America's top-circulation
weeklies, and they were happy to feature it. His added fame as
America's top-ranked amateur tennis champion made the signature all the
more desirable.
