
When Andrew Junior was three, Andrew Senior made his most important
advance in the field of art--not on the cover of the _Saturday Evening
Post_, but in the halls of the Modern Museum of Art. His first exhibit
evoked such a torrent of superlatives that the _New York Times_ found
the reaction newsworthy enough for a box on the front page. There was
a celebration in the Hills household that night, attended by their
closest friends: copies of slick magazines were ceremoniously burned
and the ashes placed in a dime-store urn that Paula had bought for the
occasion.

A month later, they were signing the documents that entitled them to a
sprawling hilltop house in Westchester, with a north-light glassed-in
studio the size of their former apartment.

He was thirty-five when the urge struck him to rectify a sordid
political situation in their town. His fame as an artist and
tennis-champion (even at thirty-five, he was top-seeded in the
Nationals) gave him an easy entree into the political melee. At first,
the idea of vote-seeking appalled him; but he couldn't retreat once the
movement started. He won easily and was elected to the town council.
The office was a minor one, but he was enough of a celebrity to attract
country-wide attention. During the following year, he began to receive
visits from important men in party circles; in the next state election,
his name was on the ballot. By the time he was forty, Andrew Hills was
a U.S. Senator.

That spring, he and Paula spent a month in Acapulco, in an enchanting
home they had erected in the cool shadows of the steep mountains that
faced the bay. It was there that Andy talked about his future.

"I know what the party's planning," he told his wife, "but I know
they're wrong. I'm not Presidential timber, Paula."

But the decision wasn't necessary; by summer, the Asiatic Alliance had
tired of the incessant talks with the peacemakers and had launched
their attack on the Alaskan frontier. Andy was commissioned at once as
a major.

His gallantry in action, his brilliant recapture of Shaktolik, White
Mountain, and eventual triumphant march into Nome guaranteed him a
place in the High Command of the Allied Armies.

By the end of the first year of fighting, there were two silver stars
on his shoulder and he was given the most critical assignment of
all--to represent the Allies in the negotiations that were taking place
in Fox Island in the Aleutians. Later, he denied that he was solely
responsible for the successful culmination of the peace talks, but
the American populace thought him hero enough to sweep him into the
White House the following year in a landslide victory unparalleled in
political history.

He was fifty by the time he left Washington, but his greatest triumphs
were yet to come. In his second term, his interest in the World
Organization had given him a major role in world politics. As First
Secretary of the World Council, his ability to effect a working
compromise between the ideological factions was directly responsible
for the establishment of the World Government.

When he was sixty-four, Andrew Hills was elected World President, and
he held the office until his voluntary retirement at seventy-five.
Still active and vigorous, still capable of a commanding tennis game,
of a painting that set art circles gasping, he and Paula moved
permanently into the house in Acapulco.

He was ninety-six when the fatigue of living overtook him. Andrew
Junior, with his four grandchildren, and Denise, with her charming
twins, paid him one last visit before he took to his bed.
