
And then sweet-natured, honey-haired little Lottie did a violent
thing. Still staring over my shoulder at the pie tin, she screamed
wide-open and ran out of the house. A second later, I heard her start
the car out the driveway at 30 miles an hour in reverse. She burned
rubber out in front and was gone.

I hadn't moved an inch. Because when she screamed, I looked back at
the jelly to see why, and the stuff had oozed over the edge and was
flowing slowly toward me.

I know a little about Korzybski and how he wanted everybody to make
what he called a cortico-thalamic pause whenever they get scared as
hell. So I was making this cortico-thalamic pause, which is really
counting to ten before you do anything, while Lottie was leaving the
house. When I got through with my pause, I jumped backward over my
kitchen chair so hard that I must have knocked my head on the tile
sink-board.

When I came to, it was after midnight. The kitchen light was still on.
Lottie was still gone. I knew it. If she was here, she'd have had me
in bed. No matter how much of my employer's product I have sampled,
never has Lottie let me sleep it off on the kitchen floor. Her 110
pounds is a match for my 200 in more ways than one, and she takes good
care of her man.

Then I realized that this was not a stag beer-bust. There was
something about a pot of soap-jelly.

It was still there. A long slug of the half-transparent stuff had
strung down off the edge of the table and still hung there like a
nasty-looking icicle.

The knob on the back of my head throbbed so much that at first I
couldn't figure what was wrong with the air. Then my aching dry throat
told me what the matter was. The air was dry like the summer we spent
at a dude ranch in Arizona. It made my nostrils crimp, and my tongue
felt like a mouthful of wrinkled pepperoni.

When I got to my feet and looked at the top of the kitchen table, I
almost panicked again. But this time the pause worked and I got better
results.

Alive or dead, the gunk was the most powerful desiccant I'd ever heard
of. It had drunk up the water in the carrot pot, sucked the surface
moisture from my finger and then spent the past few hours feeding on
the humidity in the air.

It was thirsty. Like alcohol has affinity for water, this stuff was
the same way, only more so. In fact, it even reached out toward
anything that had water in it--like me.

That's why it had oozed over the pan the way it did.
