
What's so frightening about that, I asked myself. Plants grow toward
water.

[Illustration]

But plants are alive!

That's what Lottie had said--before she screamed.

"So you're thirsty?" I asked it out loud. "Okay, we'll give you a
_real_ drink!"

I got a bucket from the service porch and took the pancake turner to
scrape the gooey nightmare into it. I even caught the drip off the
edge, and it seemed quietly grateful to sink back to the parent glob
in the pail, which by now amounted to about a quart.

I set the pail in the laundry tray and turned on the faucet hard. In
about a second and a half, I almost sprained my wrist turning it off.
Not only did the jelly drink up the water without dissolving, but it
started creeping up the stream in a column about three inches in
diameter, with the water pouring down its middle.

When I got the water shut off, the unholy jelly-spout slopped back
disappointedly.

And now the bucket was over half full of the stuff.

I dropped in an ice-cube as an experiment. It didn't even splash. The
surface pulled away, letting the cube make a pretty good dent in it,
but then only gradually did the displaced goo creep back around it as
if to sample it cautiously.

I couldn't stand the dry air any more, so I threw open the doors and
windows and let the cool, damp night air come in. The ice-cube had
disappeared without even a surface puddle. Now, as the humidity came
back, I thought I noticed a restless shimmering in the jelly.

The phone rang. It was Lottie's mother wanting to know why Lottie had
come over there in hysterics, and where had I been since seven
o'clock. I don't remember what I answered, but it served the purpose.
Lottie hasn't returned and they haven't called up any more.

When I returned to the bucket, it seemed that the stuff was deeper
yet, but I couldn't tell because I hadn't marked the level. I got
Lottie's fever thermometer out of the medicine chest and took the
jelly's temperature. It read 58 degrees F. The wall thermometer read
58 degrees, too. Room temperature, with the windows open. What kind of
"life" could this be that had no temperature of its own?

But then what kind of a fancy-pants metabolism could you expect out of
an organism that fed on nothing but Lake Michigan water, right out of
the reservoir?
