
I got a pencil and notebook out of Lottie's neat little desk and
started making notes.

I wondered about the density of the stuff. Ice floated in it and the
bucket seemed heavy. I broke the thermometer and tapped a drop of
mercury onto the restless surface. The droplet sank slowly to the
bottom with no apparent effect either way.

Heavier than water. Lighter than mercury.

I took a beer out of the refrigerator and swallowed it. The last drops
I sprinkled into the pail. The drippings sizzled across the surface
until only a fine dust was left. A tiny ripple flipped this dust over
to the edge of the pail as if clearing the thirsty decks for action.
But this drew my eyes to the rim of the liquid. There was no meniscus,
either up or down.

Remembering back, I figured this meant there was no surface tension,
which reminded me that part of this mixture was made of detergent.

But had I created a new form of life? Like Lottie said, was it really
alive? Certainly it could reproduce itself. It had brains enough to
know the direction of more water, like when it took off after me on
the table.

Not long ago, there was this important physicist who wrote about how
life probably got started away back when the Earth was just forming.
He argued that special creation was more or less a lot of hogwash, and
that what actually took place was that as the Earth cooled, all the
hot chemicals mixing around sort of stumbled onto a combination or two
that took on the first characteristics of life.

In other words, this guy left off where Mr. Darwin began his theory of
evolution.

Now me, I don't know. Lottie makes me go to church with the kids every
Sunday and I like it. If this chemical theory about life getting
started is right--well, then, a lot of people got the wrong idea about
things, I always figured.

But how would I or this physicist explain this quivering mess of
protoplasm I got on my hands by accident this particular Friday night?

I experimented some more. I got out the kids' junior encyclopedia and
looked up some things I'd forgot, and some I had never learned in the
first place.
