She began her life as a match along with several hundred million near
relatives of the great family of pitch-pine, in the factory of the
Emerald Match Company, of Scranton, New Jersey.

She had not realized her inferiority until she was shut up tightly in
the close quarters of what was to be for a long time her home. Fate
placed her in that particular kind of box which was labeled as a
“Product of Finland, Average Contents Sixty Sticks.” There was also
other printed information on the  box-label, couched in some
Scandinavian language for anyone who might be able to read it.

Life in a family, even one averaging sixty members, is a decidedly
different matter from being one item in a phalanx, a horde, of hundreds
of millions, all exactly alike. Just here was where the thin match’s
troubles began. She was different. In her ease it was not a mere slip
of the machine. It was natural depravity. She had grown a trifle too
close to the bark in the original tree. Along one of her slim sides
there was a brown streak, which set her off from the others like a
touch of the tar brush. Then, she was thin--altogether too thin for a
respectable match. Exact conformity to type is expected among matches.
Her inconsiderable cubic area was rather less than half what it should
have been, and besides all this, her head had a decided, an
unmistakable, hitch to one side.

Her box, along with fourteen gross of precisely similar boxes, was
shipped to a Nashville jobber, and she learned next to nothing of this
world’s experiences until her box, with twenty-three others, was placed
one sunny morning in a cent-in-the-slot machine on a cigar counter in
Chattanooga.

Here she got her first intimation that she was different. It was very
close quarters--would be, of course, until the box found a purchaser
and her box-mates began to go out one by one to fulfill their destiny.
She began to receive cool jostles, cold shoulders, from the other
matches, her particular near neighbors. Here, too, she had some
experience of coal smoke; rather premature, but inevitable in
Chattanooga.

One memorable day there came the familiar snick of an inserted cent and
the rasp of the lever, and her box dropped out and went into the pocket
of a young man who had bought it to light cigarettes. There was wild
excitement and no little speculation among the matches. They were like
troops on the very verge of an action. The young man gave them plenty
of action. He used the first thirteen matches very quickly, which made
a good deal more room in the box, and then there was a long undisturbed
period while the box remained in the pocket of an old vest which hung
on a hook in the closet of the young man’s boarding-house bedroom. One
day, the young man having moved away and carelessly left the old vest
behind him, the box was taken out by the boarding-house keeper’s
husband, a mild-mannered gentleman who smoked a pipe outdoors, and he
used nine more of the matches.

Between the unconscious selection of the normal matches by the owners
of the box and the jostling which the thin match had received from the
others, she found herself tucked away into a narrow corner where the
thin wood of the box-bottom was edged by the still thinner paper pasted
outside.

One day a companion of the boarding-house woman’s husband asked him for
a light, and, forgetting to return the box, this man became its new
owner. He used only one match, though, and then left the box on top of
one of his front gate-posts, where he had been talking to a neighbor,
and little Sallie Eaton saw it there and picked it off on her way home
from school. Sallie tucked it away in the pocket of her apron, where
her mother found it when the apron was going to the wash, and Lance
Eaton, Sallie’s brother, found it on the sewing machine where his
mother had laid it, and annexed it for himself.