
It was more than four months before the crushed and battered old box,
so worn and greasy now that the printing on the cover could hardly have
been read by even the most learned Scandinavian, was brought to light
again in Pete’s cabin on the upper reaches of the Nasquapee.

It was a desperate day of still cold. The thermometer had sunk and sunk
for the past several weeks. It was too cold now for any more snow to
fall, but Pete was snowed in.

That sound behind him was the scratching of a lynx’s claws, a lynx
which had dug down through the snow to the lean-to, braced in with
river-bottom rocks--great, flat rocks, outside the hut--the lean-to
where Pete kept his spare provisions against this commonest of
sub-Arctic setbacks: being snowed in. Pete had plenty of provisions,
both inside the hut and out there in the handy lean-to, covered in. The
lynx had besieged him now for two days and nights.

He had plenty of food, and he might have shot the lynx at any time. But
he dared not shoot the lynx. He dared not shoot the lynx because he had
one cartridge left, and one only. The great ravenous animal, with the
deadly hunger-courage of the far North, had utterly put aside all his
natural fear of Man. Pete could thrust his rifle against the satiny
black fur which showed through the chinks of the hut and blow it to
pieces at any time.

But he dared not. He dared not because he had no matches. By a stroke
of the wildest ill-fortune he had destroyed a full box, the last box in
his store, by omitting to close it before striking one on its side. He
had struck it toward the end where the heads were, and they had flared
up and burned off to cinders in precisely two seconds. He was relying
on that cartridge, that last cartridge, to light the fire. He would
have to light it soon. There had not been a live ember since early
yesterday morning when the snow that had accumulated above his stone
chimney, far above at the outlet, had come pouring down and doused his
fire.

He could not kill the lynx and light the fire too. He must choose. And
now, crouched on the floor before the cold embers, his back to the
lynx, which scratched and scratched, the man, bundled like a great ball
in his parka and seal leggings and with his heavy furs about his
chilled body, was dully trying to decide what to do.

It was death either way, it seemed. He could only choose between the
bloody, riving death at the lynx’s claws, or the slower but perhaps no
less deadly alternative of being frozen stiff.

Suddenly, he thought of that old coat! There might--there just _might_
be, in one of the pockets, a stray match. He had worn it, he
remembered, on the train trip and for the first day on board the ship,
and had carried matches in the side pockets. First pounding his hands
together to start up some little circulation, he dug, with his great
fur gloves still on his hands, under his bunk against the end wall. Out
came the old coat at last. He hadn’t worn it for months now. Laying it
out roughly before him on the edge of the bunk, and again slapping his
gloved hands together, he hastily pulled off the right glove with his
teeth. Then he thrust into the pockets, first the right one, then the
left. What was this? He clawed out the crumbling remains of the old
box. Matches? He shook the box close to his ear. Matches!
God!--matches!

He spilled them on the bunk in his agitation and relief, which shook
him from head to foot with a violent trembling. He wept uncontrollably
and started to pick them up carefully. There were three, all good,
sound matches.

He slapped his hands together again, pulled off his other glove, and
rubbed his hands briskly up and down on the heavy fur of his parka.
Then he took his rifle, and laid it, ready loaded, beside him on the
bunk.

The scratching of the lynx seemed to him louder and bolder; more
imminent and menacing. The great beast, it would seem, could not
dislodge the heavy, flat stones with which the cache was overlaid.
There was not room enough for that--too little purchase to be obtained.
He looked around. The lynx had abandoned its old purpose, and was
coming through into the hut. It was working on the wood now. That was
what had made the change in the sound of the scratching. Already a
huge, wicked paw appeared, a paw armed with chisels! The lynx snuffled.
If not pemmican, then Man!
