
"Scan the remainder of the world, Steiner," said Stark, "and the rest
of us will get some sleep. If you find no other spot then we will go
down on that one the next time it is in position under us, in about
twelve hours."

"You don't want to visit any of the other areas first? Somewhere away
from the thoughtful creature?"

"No. The rest of the world may be dangerous. There must be a reason
that thought is in one spot only. If we find no others then we will go
down boldly and visit this."

So they all, except Steiner, went off to their bunks then: Stark, the
Captain; Gregory Gilbert, the executive officer; Wolfgang Langweilig,
the engineer; Casper Craig, super-cargo, tycoon and 51% owner of the
Little Probe, and F. R. Briton, S.J., a Jesuit priest who was linguist
and checker champion of the craft.

Dawn did not come to the moon-town. The Little Probe hovered stationary
in the light and the moon-town came up under the dawn. Then the Probe
went down to visit whatever was there.

"There's no town," said Steiner. "Not a building. Yet we're on the
track of the minds. There's nothing but a meadow and some boscage, a
sort of fountain or pool, and four streams coming out of it."

"Keep on towards the minds," said Stark. "They're our target."

"Not a building, not two sticks or stones placed together. That looks
like an Earth-type sheep there. And that looks like an Earth-lion,
I'm almost afraid to say. And those two ... why, they could well be
Earth-people. But with a difference. Where is that bright light coming
from?"

"I don't know, but they're right in the middle of it. Land here. We'll
go to meet them at once. Timidity has never been an efficacious tool
with us."

Well, they were people. And one could only wish that all people were
like them. There was a man and a woman, and they were clothed either
in very bright garments or in no garments at all, but only in a very
bright light.

"Talk to them, Father Briton," said Stark. "You are the linguist."

"Howdy," said the priest.

He may or may not have been understood, but the two of them smiled at
him, so he went on.

"Father Briton from Philadelphia," he said, "on detached service. And
you, my good man, what is your handle, your monicker, your tag?"

"Ha-Adamah," said the man.

"And your daughter, or niece?"

It may be that the shining man frowned momentarily at this; but the
woman smiled, proving that she was human.

"The woman is named Hawwah," said the man. "The sheep is named sheep,
the lion is named lion, the horse is named horse and the hoolock is
named hoolock."

"I understand. It is possible that this could go on and on. How is it
that you use the English tongue?"

"I have only one tongue; but it is given to us to be understood by all;
by the eagle, by the squirrel, by the ass, by the English."

"We happen to be bloody Yankees, but we use a borrowed tongue. You
wouldn't have a drink on you for a tubful of thirsty travellers, would
you?"

"The fountain."

"Ah--I see."
