
But the crew all drank of the fountain to be sociable. It was water,
but water that excelled, cool and with all its original bubbles like
the first water ever made.

"What do you make of them?" asked Stark.

"Human," said Steiner. "It may even be that they are a little more than
human. I don't understand that light that surrounds them. And they seem
to be clothed, as it were, in dignity."

"And very little else," said Father Briton, "though that light trick
does serve a purpose. But I'm not sure they'd pass in Philadelphia."

"Talk to them again," said Stark. "You're the linguist."

"That isn't necessary here, Captain. Talk to them yourself."

"Are there any other people here?" Stark asked the man.

"The two of us. Man and woman."

"But are there any others?"

"How would there be any others? What other kind of people could there
be than man and woman?"

"But is there more than one man or woman?"

"How could there be more than one of anything?"

The captain was a little puzzled by this, but he went on doggedly:
"Ha-Adamah, what do you think that we are? Are we not people?"

"You are not anything till I name you. But I will name you and then
you can be. You are named Captain. He is named Priest. He is named
Engineer. He is named Flunky."

"Thanks a lot," said Steiner.

"But are we not people?" persisted Captain Stark.

"No. We are the people. There are no people but two. How could there be
other people?"

"And the damnest thing about it," muttered Langweilig, "is, how are you
going to prove him wrong? But it does give you a small feeling."

"Can we have something to eat?" asked the Captain.

"Pick from the trees," said Ha-Adamah, "and then it may be that you
will want to sleep on the grass. Being not of human nature (which does
not need sleep or rest), it may be that you require respite. But you
are free to enjoy the garden and its fruits."

"We will," said Captain Stark.

They wandered about the place, but they were uneasy. There were the
animals. The lion and lioness were enough to make one cautious, though
they offered no harm. The two bears had a puzzling look, as though they
wanted either to frolic with you or to mangle you.

"If there are only two people here," said Casper Craig, "then it may be
that the rest of the world is not dangerous at all. It looked fertile
wherever we scanned it, though not so fertile as this central bit. And
those rocks would bear examining."

"Flecked with gold, and possibly with something else," said Stark. "A
very promising site."

"And everything grows here," added Steiner. "Those are Earth-fruits and
I never saw finer. I've tasted the grapes and plums and pears. The figs
and dates are superb, the quince is as flavorsome as a quince can be,
the cherries are excellent. And I never did taste such oranges. But I
haven't yet tried the--" and he stopped.

"If you're thinking what I'm afraid to think," said Gilbert, "then it
will be the test at least: whether we're having a pleasant dream or
whether this is reality. Go ahead and eat one."

"I won't be the first to eat one. You eat."

"Ask him first. You ask him."

"Ha-Adamah, is it allowed to eat the apples?"

"Certainly. Eat. It is the finest fruit in the garden."
