
They were there for three days. They were delighted with the place.
It was a world with everything, and it seemed to have only two
inhabitants. They went everywhere except into the big cave.

"What is there, Adam?" asked Captain Stark.

"The great serpent lives there. I would not disturb him. He has long
been cranky because plans he had for us did not materialize. But we
are taught that should ever evil come to us, which it cannot if we
persevere, it will come by him."

They learned no more of the real nature of the sphere in their time
there. Yet all but one of them were convinced of the reality when they
left. And they talked of it as they took off.

"A crowd would laugh if told of it," said Stark, "but not many would
laugh if they had actually seen the place, or them. I am not a gullible
man, but I am convinced of this: that this is a pristine and pure world
and that ours and all the others we have visited are fallen worlds.
Here are the prototypes of our first parents before their fall. They
are garbed in light and innocence, and they have the happiness that
we have been seeking for centuries. It would be a crime if anyone
disturbed that happiness."

"I too am convinced," said Steiner. "It is Paradise itself, where the
lion lies down with the lamb, and where the serpent has not prevailed.
It would be the darkest of crimes if we or others should play the part
of the serpent, and intrude and spoil."

"I am probably the most skeptical man in the world," said Casper Craig
the tycoon, "but I do believe my eyes. I have been there and seen it.
It is indeed an unspoiled Paradise; and it would be a crime calling to
the wide heavens for vengeance for anyone to smirch in any way that
perfection.

"So much for that. Now to business. Gilbert, take a gram: Ninety
Million Square Miles of Pristine Paradise for Sale or Lease. Farming,
Ranching, exceptional opportunities for Horticulture. Gold, Silver,
Iron, Earth-Type Fauna. Terms. Special Rates for Large Settlement
Parties. Write, Gram, or call in person at any of our planetary offices
as listed below. Ask for Brochure--Eden Acres Unlimited."
