
Down in the great cave that Old Serpent, a two-legged one among whose
names were "Snake-Oil Sam," spoke to his underlings:

"It'll take them fourteen days to get back with the settlers. We'll
have time to overhaul the blasters. We haven't had any well-equipped
settlers for six weeks. It used to be we'd hardly have time to strip
and slaughter and stow before there was another batch to take care of."

"I think you'd better write me some new lines," said Adam. "I feel like
a goof saying those same ones to each bunch."

"You are a goof, and therefore perfect for the part. I was in show
business long enough to know never to change a line too soon. I did
change Adam and Eve to Ha-Adamah and Hawwah, and the apple to the
pomegranate. People aren't becoming any smarter--but they are becoming
better researched, and they insist on authenticity.

"This is still a perfect come-on here. There is something in human
nature that cannot resist the idea of a Perfect Paradise. Folks will
whoop and holler to their neighbors to come in droves to spoil and mar
it. It isn't greed or the desire for new land so much--though that is
strong too. Mainly it is the feverish passion to befoul and poison what
is unspoiled. Fortunately I am sagacious enough to take advantage of
this trait. And when you start to farm a new world on a shoestring you
have to acquire your equipment as you can."

He looked proudly around at the great cave with its mountains and tiers
of materials, heavy machinery of all sorts, titanic crates of foodstuff
space-sealed; wheeled, tracked, propped, vaned and jetted vehicles; and
power packs to run a world.

He looked at the three dozen space ships stripped and stacked, and at
the rather large pile of bone-meal in one corner.

"We will have to have another lion," said Eve. "Bowser is getting old,
and Marie-Yvette abuses him and gnaws his toes. And we do have to have
a big-maned lion to lie down with the lamb."

"I know it, Eve. The lion is a very important prop. Maybe one of the
crackpot settlers will bring a new lion."

"And can't you mix another kind of shining paint? This itches. It's
hell."

"I'm working on it."
