
Muhlenhoff stalked into his private office, the nerve-center of the
whole bulkheaded works.

In Muhlenhoff's private office, you would never know you were 1800
meters below the surface of the sea. It looked like any oilman's
brass-hat office anywhere, complete to the beautiful blonde outside the
door (but whitefaced and trembling), the potted palm (though the ends
of its fronds vibrated gently), and the typical section chief bursting
in in the typical flap. "Sir," he whined, frenzied, "Section Six has
pinholed! The corrosion--"

"Handle it!" barked Muhlenhoff, and slammed the door. Section Six be
damned! What did it matter if a few of the old bulkheads pinholed and
filled? The central chambers were safe, until they could lick whatever
it was that was corroding. The point was, you had to stay with it and
get out the oil; because if you didn't prove your lease, PetroMex
would. Mexican oil wanted those reserves mighty badly.

Muhlenhoff knew how to handle an emergency. Back away from it. Get a
fresh slant. Above all, _don't panic_.

He slapped a button that guaranteed no interruption and irritably,
seeking distraction, picked up his latest copy of the _New New
Review_--for he was, among other things, an intellectual as time
allowed.

Under the magazine was the latest of several confidential
communications from the home office. Muhlenhoff growled and tossed the
magazine aside. He reread what Priestley had had to say:

"I know you understand the importance of beating our Spic friends to
the Atlantic deep reserves, so I won't give you a hard time about it.
I'll just pass it on the way Lundstrom gave it to me: 'Tell Muhlenhoff
he'll come back on the Board or on a board, and no alibis or excuses.'
Get it? Well--"

Hell. Muhlenhoff threw the sheet down and tried to think about the
damned corrosion-leakage situation.

But he didn't try for long. There was, he realized, no point at all in
him thinking about the problem. For one thing, he no longer had the
equipment.

Muhlenhoff realized, wonderingly, that he hadn't opened a table
of integrals for ten years; he doubted that he could find his way
around the pages well enough to run down a tricky form. He had come
up pretty fast through the huge technical staff of Atlantic. First
he had been a geologist in the procurement section, one of those
boots-and-leather-jacket guys who spent his days in rough, tough
blasting and drilling and his nights in rarefied scientific air,
correlating and integrating the findings of the day. Next he had
been a Chief Geologist, chairborne director of youngsters, now and
then tackling a muddled report with Theory of Least Squares and
Gibbs Phase Rule that magically separated dross from limpid fact ...
or, he admitted wryly, at least turning the muddled reports over to
mathematicians who specialized in those disciplines.

Next he had been a Raw Materials Committee member who knew that
drilling and figuring weren't the almighty things he had supposed them
when he was a kid, who began to see the Big Picture of off-shore leases
and depreciation allowances; of power and fusible rocks and steel for
the machines, butane for the drills, plastics for the pipelines, metals
for the circuits, the computers, the doors, windows, walls, tools,
utilities. A committeeman who began to see that a friendly beer poured
for the right resources-commission man was really more important than
Least Squares or Phase Rule, because a resources commissioner who
didn't get along with you might get along, for instance, with somebody
from Coastwide, and allot to Coastwide the next available block of
leases--thus working grievous harm to Atlantic and the billions it
served. A committeeman who began to see that the Big Picture meant
government and science leaning chummily against each other, government
setting science new and challenging tasks like the billion-barrel
procurement program, science backing government with all its tremendous
prestige. You consume my waste hydrocarbons, Muhlenhoff thought
comfortably, and I'll consume yours.

Thus mined, smelted and milled, Muhlenhoff was tempered for higher
things. For the first, the technical directorate of an entire
Atlantic Sub-Sea Petroleum Corporation district, and all wells,
fields, pipelines, stills, storage fields, transport, fabrication and
maintenance appertaining thereto. Honors piled upon honors. And then--

He glanced around him at the comfortable office. The top. Nothing to
be added but voting stock and Board membership--and those within his
grasp, if only he weathered this last crisis. And then the rarefied
height he occupied alone.

And, by God, he thought, I do a damn good job of it! Pleasurably he
reviewed his conduct at the meeting; he had already forgotten his
panic. Those shaking fools would have brought the roof down on us, he
thought savagely. A few gallons of water in an unimportant shaft, and
they're set to message the home office, run for the surface, abandon
the whole project. The Big Picture! They didn't see it, and they never
would. He might, he admitted, not be able to chase an integral form
through a table, but by God he could give the orders to those who
would. The thing was organized now; the project was rolling; the task
force had its job mapped out; and somehow, although he would not do a
jot of the brainwearing, eyestraining, actual work, it would be _his_
job, because he had initiated it. He thought of the flat, dark square
miles of calcareous ooze outside, under which lay the biggest proved
untapped petroleum reserve in the world. Sector Fortyone, it was called
on the hydrographic charts.

Perhaps, some day, the charts would say: _Muhlenhoff Basin_.

Well, why not?
