
The emergency intercom was flickering its red call light
pusillanimously. Muhlenhoff calmly lifted the handset off its cradle
and ignored the tinny bleat. When you gave an order, you had to leave
the men alone to carry it out.

He relaxed in his chair and picked up a book from the desk. He was,
among other things, a student of Old American History, as time
permitted.

Fifteen minutes now, he promised himself, with the heroic past. And
then back to work refreshed!

Muhlenhoff plunged into the book. He had schooled himself to
concentration; he hardly noticed when the pleading noise from the
intercom finally gave up trying to attract his attention. The book was
a study of that Mexican War in which the United States had been so
astonishingly deprived of Texas, Oklahoma and points west under the
infamous Peace of Galveston. The story was well told; Muhlenhoff was
lost in its story from the first page.

Good thumbnail sketch of Presidente Lopez, artistically contrasted
with the United States' Whitmore. More-in-sorrow-than-in-anger
off-the-cuff psychoanalysis of the crackpot Texan Byerly, derisively
known to Mexicans as "El Cacafuego." Byerly's raid at the head of
his screwball irredentists, their prompt annihilation by the Mexican
Third Armored Regiment, Byerly's impeccably legal trial and execution
at Tehuantepec. Stiff diplomatic note from the United States. Bland
answer: Please mind your business, Senores, and we will mind ours.
Stiffer diplomatic note. We said _please_, Senores, and can we not let
it go at that? _Very_ stiff diplomatic note; and Latin temper flares at
last: Mexico severs relations.

Bad to worse. Worse to worst.

Massacre of Mexican nationals at San Antonio. Bland refusal of the
United States federal government to interfere in "local police problem"
of punishing the guilty. Mexican Third Armored raids San Antone,
arrests the murderers (feted for weeks, their faces in the papers,
their proud boasts of butchery retold everywhere), and hangs them
before recrossing the border.

United States declares war. United States loses war--outmaneuvered,
outgeneraled, out-logisticated, outgunned, outmanned.

And outfought.

Said the author:

"The colossal blow this cold military fact delivered to the United
States collective ego is inconceivable to us today. Only a study of
contemporary comment can make it real to the historian: The choked
hysteria of the newspapers, the raging tides of suicides, Whitmore's
impeachment and trial, the forced resignations of the entire General
Staff--all these serve only to sketch in the national mood.

"Clearly something had happened to the military power which, within
less than five decades previous, had annihilated the war machines of
the Cominform and the Third Reich.

"We have the words of the contemporary military analyst, Osgood
Ferguson, to explain it:

    "The rise of the so-called 'political general' means a decline in
    the efficiency of the army. Other things being equal, an
    undistracted professional beats an officer who is half soldier and
    half politician. A general who makes it his sole job to win a war
    will infallibly defeat an opponent who, by choice or constraint,
    must offend no voters of enemy ancestry, destroy no cultural or
    religious shrines highly regarded by the press, show leniency when
    leniency is fashionable at home, display condign firmness when the
    voters demand it (though it cause his zone of communications to
    blaze up into a fury of guerrilla clashes), choose his invasion
    routes to please a state department apprehensive of potential
    future ententes.

"It is unfortunate that most of Ferguson's documentation was lost when
his home was burned during the unsettled years after the war. But we
know that what Mexico's Presidente Lopez said to his staff was: 'My
generals, win me this war.' And this entire volume does not have enough
space to record what the United States generals were told by the White
House, the Congress as a whole, the Committees on Military Affairs,
the Special Committees on Conduct of the War, the State Department,
the Commerce Department, the Interior Department, the Director of the
Budget, the War Manpower Commission, the Republican National Committee,
the Democratic National Committee, the Steel lobby, the Oil lobby,
the Labor lobby, the political journals, the daily newspapers, the
broadcasters, the ministry, the Granges, the Chambers of Commerce.
However, we do know--unhappily--that the United States generals obeyed
their orders. This sorry fact was inscribed indelibly on the record at
the Peace of Galveston."
