
Erol Garbin sat on the cool stone terrace of the mountain lodge, gazing
out over the small valley with the golden orange sun of Lyrane setting
behind the mountains. The cool evening breeze gently rearranged his
white hair and brushed over the creased forehead and the worried eyes.

He looked up to see his daughter come out on to the terrace. She was a
comely young woman of slight build and apparently sensitive nature as
vivified in her piquant features. He gave her a wistful smile, at which
she rushed into his arms and buried her head in his shoulder, which was
still powerful despite his age. Her body quivered with muffled sobs.

"Yma, my dearest Yma," he said tenderly. "Why didn't you marry, so
that you would have none of this? You could be leading your own life,
instead of bearing my burden."

"You are no burden, Father. You are my life. And now that your life is
threatened--"

He knew what had upset her. He had heard the newscasts too--yes, the
video still operated, controlled by the people. He had heard the names
of his old friends--Fredrikson, Tomlin, Masschau--all dead by violence.

"Why do you keep silent?" his daughter asked with a little child's
pleading. "Where is the protection you were offered? Why don't you
tell the people?" The world was mad and destructive in the eyes of the
child--the woman who was a child in the face of this dilemma.

He gently quieted her with a large, steady hand that pressed her head
to him.

"It would do no good. Arnson tried it."

She looked up with hope in her eyes.

"He spoke to a special meeting of his stockholders and tried to tell
them. They scorned it as a wild fantasy to excuse his betrayal. They
issued him an ultimatum--work! He said that they would have to believe
him; he couldn't work. They killed him."

The hope slid away and her eyes assumed the depths of despair and
bitterness.

Despair for the future, and bitterness for the past. And she thought of
the past--for she dared not think of the future.

Where does violence start, she wondered. Trace it to its roots; what's
its source, what's its manifestation?

It starts with one man and an idea. Many men may have had the same
idea, but it takes one man to express it at the right time, to apply
it. Then the planning, by many or by one.

And, finally, the last step is persuasion. The man who had the original
idea must convince others. He must indoctrinate them with this new
concept so that they believe. No more.

For once a man, who has been a stable entity in a stable organization,
develops and believes a strange and contradictory idea--the result is
inevitable. Misunderstanding, resentment, hate, violence. The cycle
carries on from there with its own momentum.

And the people who are swept up in it, and that may include anyone
from the most innocent to the perpetrator himself, are as helpless to
control its outcome as are the atoms helpless to control the nova they
started in a sun.

So this violence on Lyrane had begun, with one man, then a group of
men, and then had come the misunderstanding, resentment, hate, violence
cycle. It manifested itself in the offices of Universal Relief as a
logical study in sociology and economics.

But to Yma Garbin and her father, it was pure hell.

When had it all started, and when would it end?

Did it start that first day when an orphanage in the capital city
burned to the ground, and not one of the many philanthropists made a
move or an offer to aid or restore?

Yes, that was when it started for the public, but it had really started
in midnight conversations in locked rooms. Words, an idea, then the
act--and who is to say which is more real?

But there was no questioning the reality of what she had seen at
Tomlin's house. That was yesterday.

Tomlin, the greatest living biochemist in the empire, was nothing but a
sad, huddled corpse. His beautiful mansion was slashed and looted, and
then fired to the ground. The air was filled with the odor of burning,
of death--but especially the mentally sickening, defeating odor of
violence.

This was true of the whole planet, especially in the cities. The great
houses beseiged by furious mobs, shattered. Night full of stray shots
and casual death. Every man with that cold gleam in his eye when he
looked at even his best friend.

"Did you cause it?"

Yma lay in her father's arms, her mind reeling through this wax works
of personal horror and death.

This scene was interrupted by a gyro landing on the lawn.
