
The office of the new, self-appointed Planetary Governor of Lyrane was
quite busy. It was the disorganization of a new office, set up during
an emergency. And yet, it was an office, a recognizable political
mechanism.

Considering the murderous imbroglio that this planet had been facing,
such an office, even in disorganized form, was quite surprising.

Due to the confusion and a knack for bluffing, Florin Brite was able
to gain admittance to the Secretary-Governor's office. This official,
a former municipal police chief, was obviously impressed with his new
position. He was quite brusque to Florin.

"What is it man? I hope that it's important--don't want my time wasted.
We're frightfully busy."

"I can see that, sir. I merely wished to establish my classification in
the new administration."

"Good grief man!" the Secretary-Governor exploded. "We've published
classification lists. Do I have to tell every man, woman and child
their classification? Are you blind--or just too lazy to read?"

"My classification isn't listed," Florin said mildly.

"Isn't listed? What classification is that?"

"A scientist--and a former corporation-man."

Years of police work and interrogation had steeled the official. There
was no surprise shown. "We handle those cases directly, Mr. ah--ah--"

"Florin Brite."

"Mr. Brite, there is a feeling of--uh--well, touchiness about such
individuals so we handle their cases in confidence. I'm glad you came
here--"

"Yes, you're quite delighted," Florin was no longer mild. "You're also
quite amazed--for you had no idea that there were any corporation-men
left after the 'purge', a very thorough purge, I might add."

"Now, see what I mean about touchiness? We were not responsible, not
even involved in that mess. This new government is composed of citizens
who merely wish stability and sanity. Co-operation is our keynote--"

"Cut it. I don't need the party platform, I've read your handbills. I
just want to know, what about me?"

"Well, you will undoubtedly have to be put under some sort of
protective custody. There is still strong feeling--"

Their tete a tete was interrupted by a rushing clerk shouting wildly.

"They did it! Universal Relief finally declared it a Class AA!"

The clerk was brandishing a sheet of paper, which he proffered to the
Secretary, who took it with an expression of pleasure. His reading was
interrupted by Florin's voice.

"It seems highly unnecessary that we be declared Class AA now. You
people have done such a marvelous job of organizing an emergency
government that everything seems to be well under control."

"Nonsense man," the Secretary declared. "There is still isolated
fighting and rioting, even murder is not unusual."

"I merely wished to congratulate you on your speedy action. It was
almost as if this government was waiting to spring into existence." The
irony was very thinly veiled.

The Planetary Governor himself had entered the office while Florin was
speaking.

There was ice in his voice as he said, "What do you mean by that, sir?"

Florin turned and bowed to him. When he spoke again, the veil was torn
off and the irony was as flagrant as a dead rat--and as fragrant.

"Good day sir. I'm delighted to meet you. I was merely commenting to
your Secretary on your efficiency and speed which has so helped this
planet in its hour of need."

The Governor's eyes ossified. "Just words. What do you want?"

The irony disappeared, and Florin's voice transmuted to a tone of
accustomed authority. "I want to find out just how you were able to
organize and take over so quickly in this emergency. With this planet's
economy completely shot after the corporation-men quit producing and
with stocks down to nothing, I am fascinated by the problem of how you
got financial backing."

"That is none of your business."

"On the contrary, it is very much my business. You left your offices in
rather a turmoil in your rush to take control. Since you haven't had
the time to security screen your governmental employees, the files were
as open as if they'd been set on the sidewalks.

"From those files, my agents have procured some interesting items,
such as--" and he paused to pull out a sheaf of papers--"cancelled
checks made out to officials of your new government from Titanic Food
Distributors, a subsidiary of Galactic Aid.

"Also a detailed plan of organization for this government, outlining
each step for acquisition of power during the emergency. This plan is
dated two years ago and is initialed 'CRS', which, I believe, are the
initials of the president of Galactic Aid Incorporated. Hand-writing
analysts will sew that one up.

"The plan is quite fascinating. It gives the procedure for your present
establishment: the vigilantes gradually converted to city councils,
local governments, consisting of confused and unprepared citizens
gullible to the suggestions of agent provocateurs, regional then
international conventions to formulate the new government. And at every
turn, every election, guided by citizen-agents who would never have
seen political power under the old status quo.

"The future of this plan is even more fascinating--putting Lyrane on an
industrialized economy, when Lyrane has never had industrial potential,
gumming up the works with embargoes and tariffs; and a bureaucratic,
leech-like government that will sop up everything in taxes.

"It's a masterpiece of planning--of planning the permanent financial
and moral destruction of a planet."

The planetary officials had suddenly been confronted by a master
duelist, this stranger was a swords-man with complete command of
riposte, parry and thrust. All they could do was try a few clumsy
lunges.

"Just who the hell are you to take charge this way and say these
preposterous things?" the Governor asked.

Florin replied. "You, I know, are a minor executive of one of Galactic
Aid's subsidiaries. I happen to be Roald Gibbons, head of Universal
Relief.

"And since you want the cards on the table--here they are.

"We have this evidence that I have mentioned, and much more, all
under lock and key now. We will use that evidence to prove that this
planetary government was and is sponsored by Galactic Aid for the
purpose of exploiting this planet in a negative sense and thereby
removing it from the accounts of Universal Relief.

"We also have a solid case to prove that you, or some of your cohorts,
incited the original treason and violence that caused this whole
mess. My special investigators have unearthed the cobra nest of your
government, while I personally had the satisfaction of gathering proof
of your hand in the corporation-men purge."

From a casual administrative difficulty, Florin had turned the
conversation, since he entered, into a venomous attack. Florin had
remained standing, but the two officials had retired to chairs. As
opposition, they were discouragingly silent, but Florin had more than
enough to carry the conversation alone.

The two governors were just listening, appalled, but as all men do
when they watch their world crumbling, figuring angles, escapes,
explanations. But Florin, or rather Roald, was smashing angles faster
than they could think of them.

"Furthermore," he continued to the silent men, "if you will read that
bulletin declaring this planet under Class AA emergency, you will find
some interesting facts. As you may or may not know, when a planet is
declared Class AA by a relief company, that company is empowered by
galactic law to have several controls.

"Those controls consist of complete administration of the planet until
status quo is resumed, establishment of martial law with the right to
arrest and confiscate any persons or things that may have caused the
emergency, confiscation of all planetary currency to be retained and
re-issued at face value when normalcy returns and, of course, the right
to bring charges in Galactic Court against individuals or organizations
that have caused the emergency.

"On that last point, we, Universal Relief that is, have many charges
to bring against Galactic Aid and its agents on this planet. First
there is the charge of coercion, readily proved by the testimony of
the corporation-men ... yes, there are some left. _We_ protected them.
Other charges will include inciting planetary revolution, establishing
a false government through outside sources, and--oh, just lots of
others.

"Since you are an executive in Galactic Aid's organization, I will
speak for your benefit now." Roald moved over and faced the Governor.

"You were pulled in from some desk job to handle this fledgling
government. You had your orders, and for you it was mostly a paper
operation. You understand what I have just been talking about, because
you know galactic law.

"But now, let's talk about something you aren't familiar with. Let's
talk about violence, death, and a sick planet--the things that your
company planned and executed.

"For that your company will stand trial and be found guilty. It will
probably be outlawed, and certainly bankrupt once fines and reparations
are paid. Meanwhile, this planet, under the guidance of Universal
Relief, will be helped to recuperate and the people will be informed of
the gross injustice they have suffered. I am sure they will then desire
to return to their previous system.

"But so much for the future. What about the past? Do you fully realize
the enormity of the crime that your company has committed?

"Of course you don't. You weren't with me when I saw a nice old
gentleman, one of the most brilliant minds of the age, blasted down
with primitive rifles and even more primitive rage. You haven't heard
the screams at night, have you? You weren't around, and neither was I,
thank God, when Gerta Robin, that beautiful woman physicist was caught
by the mob.

"Friend against friend, and the old hunting guns polished up for more
deadly and constant shooting--is that a story that belongs in galactic
history? Is it for this that great galactic corporations work--to turn
peaceable planets into charnel houses for a stinking profit?

"That's the charge that you, and the rest of your workers, will have to
answer to--not in courts, but to the people of the Galaxy.

"And, most important--to yourselves!"

With that, he strode out.
