
"Yes, that is quite a polite way of saying it. But it would seem that
with all their circumlocutions they would be inefficient."

"Yet they are quite efficient. They do things so well that it is almost
imperative that we learn from them. Yet for all our contacts, for all
their extreme politeness coupled with their seeming openness, we have
been able to learn almost nothing. We cannot learn the secret of the
amazing productivity of their fields. According to Sharper, another of
the young pilots, they suggest (though so circumspectly that it seems
hardly a suggestion, certainly not a criticism) that if we were more
polite to our own plants, the plants would be more productive for us;
and if we gave the plants the ultimate of politeness, they would give
us the ultimate of production."

"Could I talk to Sharper, or is he also--"

"No, he is not dead. He was quite well till the last several days. Now,
however, he is ailing, but I believe it will be possible for you to
talk to him before you leave, if he does not worsen."

"It would still seem difficult for the Puds to get anything done.
Wouldn't a superior be too polite to give a reprimand to an inferior?"

"Probably. But Masters, who visited them, had a theory about it, which
is that the inferior would be so polite and deferential that he would
do his best to anticipate a wish or a desire, or would go to any
lengths to learn the import of an unvoiced preference."

"Is Masters one of the young pilots?"

"No, an old-timer."

"Now you _do_ interest me."

"Dead quite a few years. But it is you who interest me, Marlow. I have
been told to give you all the information you need about the Polite
People of Pudibundia. And on the subject of the Polite People, I must
also be polite. But--saving your presence, and one hears of one who
hears and all that--what in gehenna is a captain in Homicide on the
Solar Police Force going to Pudibundia about?"

"About murder. That is all I ever go anywhere about. We once had a
private motto that we would go to the end of the Earth to solve a case."

"And now you have amended your motto to 'to the end of the Earth and
beyond'?"

"We have."

"But what have the Polite People to do with murder? Crime is unknown on
Pudibundia."

"We believe, saving their feelings, that it may not be unknown there.
And what I am going to find out is this. There have been pilots for
many years who have brought back stories of the Puds, and there are
still a few--a very few--young pilots alive to tell those stories. What
I am going to find out is why there are no old pilots around telling
those stories."
