
It wasn't much of a trip for a tripper, six weeks. And Marlow was
well received. His host also assumed the name of Marlow out of
politeness. It would have been impossible to render his own name in
human speech, and it would have been impossible for him to conceive
of using any name except that of his guest, with its modifiers. Yet
there was no confusion. Marlow was Marlow, and his host was the
One-Million-Times-Lesser-Marlow.

"We could progress much faster," said Marlow, "if we dispensed with
these formalities."

"Or assumed them as already spoken," said the
One-Million-Times-Lesser-Marlow. "For this, in private, but only in the
strictest privacy, we use the deferential ball. Within it are all the
formulae written minutely. You have but to pass the ball from hand to
hand every time you speak, and it is as if the amenities were spoken.
I will give you this for the time of your stay. I beg you never to
forget to pass it from hand to hand every time you speak. Should you
forget, I would not, of course, be allowed to notice it. But when you
were gone, I should be forced to kill myself for the shame of it. For
private reasons I wish to avoid this and therefore beseech you to be
careful."

The One-Million-Times-Lesser-Marlow (hereafter to be called OMTLM
for convenience but not out of any lack of politeness) gave Marlow
a deferential ball, about the size of a ping-pong ball. And so they
talked.

"As a police official, I am particularly interested in the crime
situation on Pud," said Marlow. "An index of zero is--well, if I could
find a politer word I would use it--suspicious. And as you are, as well
as I can determine, the head police official here, though in politeness
your office would have another name, I am hoping that you can give me
information."

"Saving your grace, and formula of a formula, what would you have me
tell you about?"

"Suppose that a burglar (for politeness sake called something else)
were apprehended by a policeman (likewise), what would happen?"

"Why, the policeman (not so called, and yet we must be frank) would
rattle his glottis in the prescribed manner."

"Rattle his gl--I see. He would clear his throat with the appropriate
sound. And then the burglar (not so called)?"

"Would be covered with shame, it is true, but not fatally. For the
peace of his own soul, he would leave the site in as dignified a manner
as possible."

"With or without boodle?"

"Naturally without. One apprehended in the act is obliged to abandon
his loot. That is only common politeness."

"I see. And if the burglar (not so called) remains unapprehended? How
is the loss of the goods or property recorded?"

"It goes into the coefficient of general diminution of merchandise,
which is to say shrinkage, wastage or loss. At certain times and places
this coefficient becomes alarmingly large. Then it is necessary to use
extraordinary care; and in extreme cases a thrice-removed burglar may
become so ashamed of himself that he will die."

"That he will die of shame? Is that a euphemism?"

"Let us say that it is a euphemism of a euphemism."

"Thrice-removed, I imagine. And what of other crimes?"
