
Here OMTLM rattled his glottis in a nervous manner, and Marlow
hurriedly transferred his deferential ball to the other hand, having
nearly forgotten it.

"There being no crime, we can hardly speak of _other_ crimes," said
OMTLM. "But perhaps in another matter of speaking, you refer to--"

"Crimes of violence," said Marlow.

"Saving your presence, and formula of a formula, what would we have to
be violent about? What possible cause?"

"The usual: greed, lust, jealousy, anger, revenge, plain perversity."

"Here also it is possible for one to die of shame, sometimes the
offender, sometimes the victim, sometimes both. A jealous person
might permit both his wife and her paramour to die of shame. And the
State in turn might permit him to perish likewise, unless there were
circumstances to modify the degree of shame; then he might still
continue to live, often in circumscribed circumstances, for a set
number of years. Each case must be decided on its own merits."

"I understand your meaning. But why build a fence around it?"

"I do not know what you mean."

"I believe that you do. Why are the Polite People of Pudibundia so
polite? Is it simply custom?"

"It is more than that," said the polite Pud.

"Then there is a real reason for it? And can you tell it to me?"

"There is a real reason for it. I cannot tell it to you now, though,
and perhaps not ever. But there is a chance that you may be given a
demonstration of it just before you leave. And if you are very wise,
you may be able then to guess the reason. I believe that there are
several who have guessed it. I hope that we will have time for other
discussions before you leave our sphere. And I sincerely do hope
that your stay on Pudibundia is a pleasant one. And now, saving your
presence, we must part. Formula of a formula."

"Formula of a formula and all that," said Marlow, and went to discover
the pleasures of Pudibundia.

Among the pleasures of Pud was Mitzi (Miniature Image a
thousand-times-removed of the Zestful Irma) who had now shaped up into
something very nice. And shaped up is the correct term.

At first Marlow was shocked by the appearance of all the females he met
on Pud. Crude-featured, almost horse-faced, how could they all look
like that? And he was even more shocked when he finally realized the
reason. He had become used to the men there looking like himself out of
politeness. And this--this abomination--was the female version of his
own appearance!

But he was a man of resources. He took from his pocket a small picture
of Irma that he always carried, and showed it to the most friendly of
the girls.

"Could you possibly--?"

"Look like that? Why, of course. Let me study it for a moment. Now,
then."

So the girl assumed the face of Irma.

"Incredible," said Marlow, "except Irma is red-headed."

"You have only to ask. The photo is not colored and so I did not know.
We will try this shade to start with."

"Close, but could you turn it just a little darker?"

"Of course."

And there she was Irma of the most interesting face and wonderful hair.
But the picture had been of the face only. Below that, the girl was a
sack. If only there were some way to convey what was lacking.

"You still are not pleased with me," said the Miniature Image a
thousand-times-removed of the Zestful Irma (Mitzi). "But you have only
to demonstrate. Show me with your hands."

Marlow with his hands sculptured in the air the figure of Irma as he
remembered it, and Mitzi assumed the form, first face on, then face
away, then in profile. And when they had it roughly, they perfected it,
a little more here, a little less there. But there were points where
his memory failed him.

"If you could only give me an idea of the convolutions of her ears,"
said Mitzi, "and the underlying structure of the metatarsus. My only
desire is to please. Or shall I improvise where you do not remember?"

"Yes, do that, Mitzi."

And how that girl could improvise!
