
Marlow and Mitzi were now buddies. They made a large evening of it.
They tied one on; formula of a formula, but they tied one on. They
went on a thrice-removed bender. At the Betelgeuse Bar and Grill,
they partook of the cousin of the cousin of the alcohol itself in the
form of the nono-rhumbezoid, made of nine kinds of rum. At the B-flat
Starlight Club, they listened to the newest and most exciting music on
all Pudibundia. At Alligator John's, one checks his inhibitions at the
door. Here one also checks his deferential ball. Of course the formulae
are built into the walls and at each exchange it is always assumed that
they are said.

But the Iris Room is really the ultimate. The light comes through
seven different colors of glass, and it is very dim when it arrives.
And there the more daring remove their goggles entirely and go about
without them in the multi-colored twilight. This is illegal. It is
even foolhardy. There is no Earthly equivalent to it. To divest oneself
and disport with Nudists would be tame in comparison. But Mitzi and her
friends were of the reckless generation, and the Iris Room was their
rendezvous.

The orgy will not be detailed here. The floor show was wild. Yet we
cannot credit the rumor that the comedian was so crude as to look
directly at the audience even in that colored twilight; or they so
gauche as to laugh outright at the jokes, they who had been taught
always to murmur, "One knows of one who knows of one who ventures to
smile." Yet there was no doubting that the Iris Room was a lively
place. And when they left it at dawn, Marlow was pleased and sleepy and
tipsy.

There was a week of pleasure on Pudibundia: swimming with Mitzi down
at West Beach, gourmandizing with Mitzi at Gastrophiles, dancing with
Mitzi, pub-crawling, romancing, carrying on generally. The money
exchange was favorable and Marlow was on an expense account. It was a
delightful time.

But still he did not forget the job he was on, and in the midst of his
pleasure he sought always for information.

"When I return here," he said slyly, "we will do the many things that
time does not allow. When I come back here--"

"But you will not return," said Mitzi. "Nobody ever does."

"And why not? It is surely a pleasant place to return to. Why won't I
return?"

"If you cannot guess, then I cannot tell you. Do you have to know why?"

"Yes, I have to know why. That is why I came here, to find out. To find
out why the young men who come here will never be able to return here,
or to anywhere else."

"I can't tell you."

"Then give me a clue."

"In the Iris Room was a clue. It was not till the color-filtered light
intruded between us that we might safely take off our goggles. I would
save you if I could. I want you to come back. But those higher in
authority make the decisions. When you leave, you will not return here,
or anywhere else. But already one has spoken to one who has spoken to
one who has spoken too much."

"There is a point beyond which politeness is no longer a virtue, Mitzi."

"I know. If I could change it, I would."
