
So the period of the visit was at an end, and Marlow was at his last
conference with OMTLM, following which he would leave Pudibundia,
perhaps forever.

"Is there anything at all else you would like to know?" asked OMTLM.

"There is almost _everything_ that I still want to know. I have found
out nothing."

"Then ask."

"I don't know how. If I knew the questions to ask, it is possible that
I would already know the answers."

"Yes, that is entirely possible."

OMTLM seemed to look at him with amused eyes. And yet the eyes were
hidden behind purple goggles. Marlow had never seen the eyes of OMTLM.
He had never seen the eyes of any of the Puds. Even in the Iris Room,
in that strangely colored light, it had not been possible to see their
eyes.

"Are you compelling me to do something?" asked Marlow.

"I may be compelling you to think of the question that has eluded you."

"Would you swear that I have not been given some fatal sickness?"

"I can swear that to the very best of my knowledge you have not."

"Are you laughing at me with your eyes?"

"No. My eyes have compassion for you."

"I have to see them."

"You are asking that?"

"Yes. I believe the answer to my question is there," Marlow said firmly.

OMTLM took off his purple goggles. His were clear, intelligent eyes
and there was genuine compassion in them.

"Thank you," said Marlow. "If the answer is there, it still eludes me.
I have failed in my mission for information. But I will return again. I
will still find out what it is that is wrong here."

"No, you will not return."

"What will prevent me?" asked Marlow.

"Your death in a very few weeks."

"What will I die of?"

"What did all your young pilots die of?"

"But you swore that you did not know of any sickness I could have
caught here!" Marlow cried.

"That was true when I said it. It was not true a moment later."

"Did all the pilots ask to see your eyes?"

"Yes. All. Curiosity is a failing of you Earthlings."

"Is it that the direct gaze of the Puds kills?"

"Yes. Even ourselves it would kill. That is why we have our eyes always
shielded. That is also why we erect another shield: that of our ritual
politeness, so that we may never forget that too intimate an encounter
of our persons may be fatal."

"Then you have just murdered me?"

"Let us say rather that one hears of one who hears of one who killed
unwillingly."

"Why did you do it to me?" demanded Marlow.

"You asked to see my eyes. It would not be polite to refuse."

"It takes you several weeks to kill. I can do it in a few seconds."

"You would be wrong to try. Our second glance kills instantly."

"Let's see if it's faster than a gun!"
