
Limpy was sullen; the more the right side of his face drew down in
anger, the more sardonically leered the frozen left side. Swede's
placid features showed no emotion, but his clenched fists did. Mac
alone tried to appear cheerful, though his mind was furiously analyzing
their grave situation. While Birchall said nothing, peering absently
into space.

Silently, the men pulled on steel-soled shoes, lead-fiber gloves and
infra-red goggles. On their backs they strapped compact battery-radios
with short antennae, a fixed microphone at the chest. The loudspeaker
atop each small set, at neck level, could be heard in anything short
of a vacuum or explosion. Then the defenders armed themselves with
flame-throwers and machine guns that shot steel-piercing bomb bullets.

Straightening, Mac asked: "How many fishmen are staying?"

"Twenty-one," snarled Birchall.

Mac grinned wryly. "Cheer up, Al. That's better than I figured on." He
turned. "Limpy, stay up at lookout. Warn me when the 'pedes are getting
close. Swede, you and Al set up ammunition dumps in the compound. Then
make sure the explosives and contacts will work fast if we have to blow
up the place in a hurry."

While the others dispersed, Mac gathered a squad of fishmen, armed with
flame-throwers and led them outside the high fence. Methodically, they
burned down all vegetation for a distance of several hundred yards, to
prevent the centaurpedes from creeping up close under cover.

When Mac and his detachment were returning, Limpy opened a sluice from
the central control tower. Oil poured into the shallow water-filled
moat that ringed the wire barrier. A thick, greasy film spread over the
water.

Meanwhile, the rest of the fishmen had been deployed around the inside
of the fence. They stood nervously holding their flame-throwers, their
membrane-covered eyes bulging anxiously. Up on the stilt towers, the
best native marksmen pressed their quivering scaled shoulders against
the stocks of mounted machine-guns.

Mac felt a pang of gratitude. He knew what their decision to stay had
meant. All life on Venus dreaded the centaurpede with a blind, wild
terror.

"Hey!" Limpy's voice grated through the radio. "Come up to the lookout
room!"

MacAloon rushed through the mud and climbed to the glass-walled
chamber. He glanced questioningly at Limpy. The lookout man wordlessly
handed him a pair of binoculars and pointed to the coast.

Swede and Al burst in, as usual, asked no questions. But Birchall was
babbling at a terrific rate.

"Shut up!" Limpy said tensely.

Mac stared at the ocean. His jaw muscles suddenly bunched into hard
knots. At wide intervals, six black waves were lapping over the shore
and rolling down on the mine like a flood--a deluge with gigantic
mandibles and fiendish cunning, a torrent miles long and spread far
over the muddy plain.

"That's never happened before," Limpy whispered. "It was always one
colony to a mine."

Swede and Al took turns at the binoculars. No change came over Swede's
face. Birchall's, though, contracted in horror.

"They got together!" he yapped. "We're done for, Mac! We can't fight
six colonies all at once, and without a boat!"

Scowling, Mac jammed his hands into his pockets. "They're using holding
attacks on the other mines to tie up help from Adonis City. Meanwhile,
they're concentrating their main force here."

"Smart little devils," rumbled Swede.

"We ought to quit!" Al chattered. "We can't lick them!"

His face whiter and more contorted than ever, Limpy said: "Why don't
you guys beat it?"

Mac's head jerked up sharply. Swede looked at Limpy in mild surprise.
Al Birchall's chin dropped.

"What do you mean--us guys?" Al demanded. "What about you?"

Both sides of Limpy's face grinned sardonically. "No boat, all the
animals set free--you'll have to run for it. And me? Well, I'm not
much good at running. But you three can escape, if I'm not along to
hold you back."

"I'm a heel," snarled Birchall. "Forget what I said."

"Sure, Limpy," Swede added with clumsy joviality. "This little ape is
always talking before he thinks. We're sticking--all of us."

"Cut it out!" snapped Limpy. "Somebody has to stay here to throw the
dynamite switch. I don't need any help."

"Nobody's throwing any switch," Mac declared. "This is our mine, and no
damned vermin are taking it over!"

"But you'll never beat them," pleaded Limpy. "And even if you did,
they'd only keep coming back until they got the place. You can't wipe
them out once and for all."

"Someday, somebody will," Mac said. "In the meantime, we can fight like
hell. 'Pedes haven't any more intelligence than a bee, but even they
get tired of being slaughtered."

"A bee?" Al asked. "I thought 'pedes were smart devils."

"Not individually, according to Graves, the old-time biologist."

"Then how can they plan and act all together?"

"They have some way of coordinating, Graves claimed. How does a beehive
act as a unit? We don't know, but it does just the same."

"Can't I talk you fellows into leaving?" begged Limpy.

"No!" Al stated flatly.

Limpy shrugged. Shuffling over to the window, he pointed down at the
closed-cabin tractor beside the smelter.

"Then how about letting me use that as a tank?" he asked. "I'm not much
good here, anyhow. The 'pedes wouldn't be able to get at me, inside the
cabin, and I could crush and burn them down till they quit."

"That was tried once at a mine," said Mac. "The 'pedes dug tank traps.
The driver killed himself after being stuck in one for a week. It
didn't matter; he'd have died soon enough. But even when he skipped the
traps, the 'pedes dodged the treads. They don't just stand around and
wait to be crushed."

The right side of Limpy's face drew down in disappointment. "You guys
are suckers to stick around. I'm just a rubber cog."

"Rubber cog, huh?" Al yelped. "How do you think we're going to fight
without a lookout man?"

"Don't talk like a sap, Limpy," added Mac with gruff gentleness. "We
need you a lot more than you need us."

A slow, sad smile spread over Limpy's twisted features.

"Okay, if that's how you feel about it."

"That's how we feel about it," Swede answered.

They went down to their stations within the enclosure. In deadly
silence, the camp waited for the first blow.
