
It came when the tension was almost unbearable. Through his infra-red
goggles, MacAloon could see a vast, dark smear, advancing inexorably,
like the ominous march of a black glacier. Before the ordered ranks
came the expected stampede of animals.

As if they had studied the break-through tactics of the extinct Nazis,
the 'pedes were driving huge beasts ahead of them, living tanks
that were meant to smash down the mine's fortifications. Enormous
meat-eaters were thundering along on vast legs, crushing smaller
carnivores in their frenzied flight. Fleet, timid vegetarians raced
beside their killers, but neither thought of anything except the
hideously lethal creatures close behind them.

When the animals were close to the fence, Mac snapped an order into
his microphone. Instantly, flame-throwers spat at the pool of oil
surrounding the mine. A fierce blaze sprang up.

The demented rabble scattered right and left--all but the meat-eaters,
the biggest beasts on Venus. Too stupid to fear fire, they were the
greatest danger. In idiot terror, they crashed toward the fence.

Somehow, the fishmen stood their ground. Mac knew how they felt. It was
a sensation of unnerving horror to watch a gigantic animal plunging
toward you, to stare at the enormous fangs in the slavering yard-wide
mouth, to feel the ground trembling beneath their tremendous feet....

MacAloon opened fire. From every side of the camp, he heard answering
blasts. The pounding of the machine-guns made a furious clatter.
Bullets exploded savagely in the great bodies. Then horrible bellows of
agony drowned every other sound.

For minutes after a man managed to pump an endless burst of slugs into
a meat-eater, and saw the flesh erupt in bloody blobs, he couldn't help
shaking, though he knew the monster was already dead on its feet. Then
the vast beast collapsed into the mud with a deafening splash, and he
wondered if he could ever forget the terrifying sight.

When the thick, oily smoke thinned out, the smaller animals had fled
into the fog. Mac sent out a squadron of fishmen, who destroyed the
dying meat-eaters. If the bodies had been allowed to remain, the 'pedes
would have used them as a food supply.

The fishmen came back inside, and all the fog-wrapped world was silent.
On noiseless feet, the oncoming army moved with impossible precision
toward the camp.

Twenty-five defenders against uncounted millions, with only a web of
wiring and a concrete wall between them and the jaws of doom. And even
if they won, victory would be no more than a truce....
