
The six armies of centaurpedes met and fused. Narrower and narrower
grew the gap between the mine and the unending wave of repulsive
vermin. Then, when they were almost at the fence, the main army
suddenly slowed down, and the two wings broke into double-swift march,
advancing on both sides of the barrier.

"Turn on the juice!" Mac snapped into his microphone.

Abruptly, the fence began shooting off big blue sparks in the wet air.
The main body of centaurpedes halted a few yards away and remained
impassive. Inside, the fishmen stood frozen, staring in terror at the
long, multi-legged animals, the round, intelligent-looking heads, the
huge mandibles, and the upright shoulders with pairs of clever hands
and arms.

Behind the camp, the encircling wings met and joined. More advanced
until the surrounding army was uniform in depth. Then, with a single
movement, the black cataract flooded straight at the wire fence.

"Hold your fire!" Mac yelled at his fishmen.

Around the compound, he heard Swede and Al shouting the same order. But
it was too much to expect of fear-tightened native nerves. Spasmodic
bursts of fire spurted out. Undaunted, the horde pressed on against the
fence.

Crackling and flashing, the electrified wire suddenly flung out great
streamers of sparks. The moist chitinous bodies shriveled into ashes. A
stink of burned flesh polluted the heavy fog.

Apparently at an inaudible signal, the entire mass of 'pedes fell
back out of danger. MacAloon was awed. He knew that the rear of a
human army, unable to see what was happening up front, would keep
pushing forward. But a secret knowledge, impossible to men, made the
centaurpedes act as a single entity.

Looking along the fence, Mac could see detachments of 'pede scouts,
moving warily toward the sparking barrier. While the army watched, the
reconnoiterers experimentally touched the wire. A flash and they were
destroyed, but not before serving their purpose. They had given the
army a chance to analyze the fence's properties.

Again the entire force moved forward, this time with more caution than
before. MacAloon looked on anxiously, knowing they were aware of the
danger.

"Mac!" cried Al's voice. "What're they going to do?"

"They're too smart to keep electrocuting themselves," said MacAloon
tersely. "They must have a plan."

"But what is it?"

"I don't know," Mac admitted.

The first ten lines halted within a foot of the flashing barricade. The
next nine marched forward and mounted the backs of the first lines.
Then each succeeding rank climbed those in front.

"A pyramid!" Al yapped.

The fishmen gaped up at Mac, then back at the 'pedes. They were close
to cracking.

"Wait!" Mac ordered. "Wait till boss-limpy says they're almost to the
top of the fence. Then fire low. Don't keep firing after the pyramid
falls!"

The sporadic firing ceased. Immense gaps had appeared in the pyramid,
but the fence had heated red. The drain on the generators would be
enormous, and this MacAloon had feared more than the few invaders that
might drop across.

Swiftly, the pyramid grew until it was as high as the fence. Then, up
in the lookout room, Limpy barked a signal.

Flame leaped out at the lowest line of 'pedes, slashed back and forth.
All in an instant, the pyramid collapsed. The centaurpedes retreated,
leaving a ring of charred bodies around the fence. But the survivors
were as numberless as ever.

In the sudden silence, agonized shrieks rang out across the compound.

"What's wrong, Limpy?" demanded MacAloon.

"It's Al, but I can't see what happened!"

"Stay where you are, Swede!" Mac ordered. "Keep the fishmen fighting!"

He raced to Birchall's station, saw that Al's flame-thrower had jammed.
Hundreds of centaurpedes had hurled themselves over the fence and
surrounded two natives. Others had brought up a tree trunk and hammered
a big hole in the wire. Through the gap, a full regiment was pouring
into the enclosure.

"Take care of the ones inside!" Al shrieked. "I'll stop them!"

"Don't be a fool!" shouted Mac. "Fall back and get another
flame-thrower!"

Unheeding, Al smashed a path to the fence with the butt of his weapon.
'Pedes were already climbing up his body and wasting no time. He bit
his lip and charged on. The trickle of blood running down his chin
was the smallest one flowing from his torn flesh. In a last desperate
lunge, he grabbed the ends of the broken fence.

"_Al!_" Mac cried out.

He was too late. A sheet of blue flame had sprung up. There was a
piercing scream of pain beyond endurance. Then Birchall hung limply,
caught, as he had intended, by the jagged ends of wire. His mangled,
lifeless body, through which the current flowed, had closed the gap.
