
A sudden film spoiled Mac's vision. Savagely, he blinked it away. With
vicious fury, he burned down the swiftly crawling centaurpedes around
him. The two fishmen, no longer surrounded, shuddered free of their
fright and began to help. Under the fierce heat, all the animals in the
enclosure curled and died.

Murderously calm, Mac fired a steady blast through the fence at the
pyramid outside. Sizzling and frying, the formation fell to the ground.

In spite of that, the 'pedes had won this battle. They had unleashed a
new weapon while the defenders had turned to watch the struggle. A rain
of vermin seemed to come from the sky. For, thrust deep into the mud
outside the fence, were whip-like catapults. Ten animals were drawing
back each slingshot, flinging a 'pede into the enclosure!

Dismayed, MacAloon watched them hurtle over the wire in unbelievable
numbers. Shooting wildly at them, yet fixed to the ground they were
defending, the fishmen were desperately near panic.

"Stop firing!" Mac shouted.

His order was ignored. He cursed and pulled half of the natives away,
giving their flame-throwers to the remaining guards. The first half
he sent inside the compound with snapped instructions. The others he
placed just before the concrete rampart. Armed with two weapons instead
of one, each fishmen had double firing power.

"Let them reform their ranks inside the camp," Mac ordered. "Then let
them have it!"

Limpy communicated the command to Swede on the other side of the
compound. The haphazard blasts stopped. Undisturbed now, the
centaurpedes well into military formation, as Mac had expected. When
their lines were twenty deep, they advanced, a black, tight unit with
champing mandibles.

"Now!" MacAloon roared.

A withering wall of flame lashed out, burning down the invaders by the
hundreds. But reinforcements kept flying over the blue-flashing fence.
And under cover of the air invasion, the pyramids were being built
again! The fishmen, backed up against the curved concrete barricade,
were unable to reach this new threat with a stream of fire.

Obeying his previous instructions, a squad of fishmen came staggering
through the doors in the wall. They dragged oxygen and hydrogen
tanks that were connected in pairs by flexible, insulated hoses with
triggered nozzles.

"Forward!" Mac commanded.

Limpy passed the word around the besieged mine, and fishmen advanced
with blazing flame-throwers. Behind them, the reserves hauled up the
tanks. Slowly, stubbornly, the tide of centaurpedes was driven back
into the fence. An ear-splitting crackle, and they were gone, a smoking
pile of cinders.

Even after the camp was clear, Mac did not rest. He drove the reserves
to the fence and kept them firing at the enemy beyond.

"Not the 'pedes!" he shouted. They looked up, bewildered, wondering
why ammunition should be used, if not to burn down the foe. "Melt the
catapults!" he ordered.

The natives understood at last that the hand-weapons were too feeble to
reduce the crude plastic slingshots, but that the tank flame-throwers
were not. They blasted out at the catapults.

But the centaurpedes were damnably shrewd. In half the time it had
taken the fishmen to comprehend, the vermin had begun pulling up their
slingshots and retreating out of range.

Harrying his forces to get the catapults, Mac glanced aside and swore
viciously. In the gaps between his widely spaced crew, more pyramids
were forming.

"Forget the slingshots!" he yelled. "They can wait till later!"

The revised order didn't make sense to the fishmen. They couldn't see
that, while their attention was diverted, the main army could pour over
the fence on a secure pyramid. They blasted away at the slingshots and
ignored the wall of 'pedes.

The deadly animals saw their chance and acted. With quick cunning,
they sent over a torrent of invaders. Chattering in fear, the fishmen
switched their attack to the pyramids, but they were too late. They
were being driven back by the vermin inside the fence, and more and
more were coming over.

"I can't hold them, Mac," came Swede's unalarmed voice.

"I can't either," Mac said tensely. "Get the fishmen and fuel tanks
into the compound."

Shrill screams erupted from the natives. Faced by alert, precise ranks
marching toward them, they threw down their weapons and rushed for the
concrete wall.
