
Mac ran forward, cursing. He grabbed an oxy tank and pulled it to
safety. Most of the thrower fuel was safe in the camp, but the tanks
outside would be badly needed if the attack continued in force. But
regiments of 'pedes had by-passed the ammunition and posted guards to
prevent their being rescued.

Hard-faced, Mac ordered a fishmen to go out into the enclosure with
him. While Mac kept back the horde with a hail of fire, the shivering
native pulled a tank into the compound. Mac increased the size of the
raiding parties. Again and again they sallied out, until the bulk of
the abandoned fuel was saved.

Sweating, Mac signaled to Limpy in the blockade house. The hermetic
doors in the wall slid shut. The natives stood on the ledge on the
inner side of the rampart, watching with horror-filled eyes as the
fiendish beasts tried to scale the concave surface.

Mac called Swede by radio, then trudged through the mud to the blockade
house. The three men met in the lookout room.

Seeing Swede, Mac realized for the first time how dirty, wet and
exhausted he was himself. They were both blackened with mud and flame
blasts, their clothing grimy and sopping.

Limpy's good eye was harrowed, the frozen side of his face contorted in
an evil grin.

"Poor Al," muttered Swede. He sank down ponderously on a chair. "He was
a game little fellow. I'll miss him."

Without replying, Limpy turned around. He stared sightlessly through
the infra-red windows at the white fog and the eternal mud, the
seething mass of centaurpedes and the shaking, gabbling fishmen.
All around the mine, seeming to reach every horizon, stretched the
completely encircling army of vermin. But that was not what Limpy was
seeing.

Mac came over to the window. "I saw Al die, too," he said in a harshly
gentle voice. "If I have to kick off that way, I hope I'll be as brave
as he was."

"Maybe you'll get your chance sooner than you think," Limpy snarled.
"Six armies against us, one dead, our boat no good, the fence useless,
the fishmen demoralized--" He whirled. "What are we waiting for? Why
don't we blow up the place and quit?"

"Because we still have a chance," Mac answered. "They've taken our
first line of defense, but we still have the second."

"The wall?" Swede grunted. "Think that'll stop them long?"

"Long enough," promised Mac. "It's thirty times as high as they are,
and three feet out of plumb-line with the bottom. Before they figure
out how to get across, maybe Adonis City'll be able to send us a
rocket. Get them on the radio, anyhow, Limpy. We're carrying the whole
weight of the attack. They've got to give us a ship."

Limpy shuffled to the panel. He set the dials, then spoke mechanically
into the microphone: "Adonis City. Limpy Austin calling Adonis
City...." Several minutes went by. He looked up. "They don't answer."

"Keep trying," Mac said. "Everybody must be calling them from all the
other mines."

"That's what I mean," Swede put in earnestly. "We fight; the other
mines fight. Sometimes we win; sometimes the 'pedes do. Whatever
happens, it's never finished. We spoil their old tricks, so they figure
out new ones. They're devils, Mac. We can never lick them for good."

"Someday, somebody will," Mac said stubbornly.

He gripped the sill and stared out through the infra-red glass. In
the outer compound was a black fester of centaurpedes, crawling like
gigantic lice before the concrete barricade.

"Nothing can stop them," Swede said beside him. "They'll find a way of
getting over. They always do. And then--"

Mac's skin began to creep. To be eaten, the flesh stripped off your
bones while you're alive and screaming.... The fence had halted them,
and they'd built pyramids. When flame-throwers cut down the pyramids,
they used catapults. Now the wall was holding them back, but they'd
work out some method of hurtling over.

Then those armored bodies would push back the defenders until they
could retreat no farther. Before those steel-hard mandibles, one man
after another would go down, a living skeleton, covered with black,
crawling vermin....

Mac shuddered. "As long as that wall holds them," he said, "it isn't
hopeless. But the sooner the boat gets here, the better off we'll be.
Are you trying Adonis City, Limpy?"

"All over the dial!" Limpy groaned. "They don't answer!"

Swede shook his head. "The fishmen know what the odds are. Look at
that."

Mac saw three natives fling up their arms, claw over the wall and throw
themselves into the 'pedes' jaws. They fought to their feet and raced
toward the fence, but their fleetness didn't save them. Long before
they reached the wire, they were black and shapeless, covered from head
to foot with clinging, rending animals.

"The fence," Swede explained quietly. "That's why they went crazy."
