
Far to the right, a corps of centaurpede engineers had hauled up the
huge tree trunk. Using it as a battering ram again, they smashed
down a section of the barrier. Now they were rushing in, tearing the
chargeless fence to pieces. As the two men watched tensely, another
section collapsed with a splash into the mud. Instantly, the 'pedes
began moving it toward the concrete wall.

"I knew they'd find a way," said Swede. "They're going to use the fence
segments as ladders." He turned away.

Mac, continuing to stare down, suddenly stiffened. The 'pedes were
acting queerly, moving around sluggishly, as if they had lost interest
in their task! He frowned and faced his companions.

"That's funny," he muttered. "They're stopping--they seem confused."

Limpy shrugged and went on twirling the dials. Swede glanced out, then
looked at Mac with upraised eyebrows.

"They look the same to me," he said slowly. "You seeing things, Mac?"

Startled, MacAloon shot his gaze back to the scene below. Swede was
right! The 'pedes had resumed their work! Mac stood still for a moment,
his mind racing swiftly, trying to grasp the significance of that
momentary halt. Then he whirled, facing Limpy.

"What were you doing just a moment ago?"

Limpy raised his head from the dials. "Trying all the wave lengths.
Adonis City isn't on its usual--"

"I thought so!" Mac yelled triumphantly. "Get back to the length you
had before!"

"But there wasn't any answer."

"They're halfway to the wall," Swede muttered abstractedly.

"Get that wave length again!" Mac snapped.

Limpy's right shoulder shrugged. He twisted the dial gently while
MacAloon turned back to the window and stared out tensely.

"Hold it!" he suddenly ordered. "Don't touch those dials!"

Swede and Limpy looked at him puzzledly. He pointed down at the
swarming enclosure. Limpy shuffled over to him, followed the direction
of his finger.

"They've dropped the fence," whispered the lookout. "They don't seem to
know what they're doing."

"Yah," Swede said in an awed voice.

Below, the centaurpedes were moving about aimlessly, as if they had
forgotten their orders. They had completely lost their terrible
machine-like precision!

"I don't get it," Swede complained in bewilderment. "What's wrong with
them?"

Mac's grin was hard and tight. "They're directed by a central brain, a
sort of queen 'pede which coordinates their actions by ultra-short-wave
commands, the way a queen bee directs a beehive. That's the secret of
their synchronization!"

"And I was working the ultra-short--" Limpy stopped, stunned.

"That's the idea," Mac nodded. "Our signals blanket theirs! They can't
get orders from the main intelligence, so they don't know what to do!"

For a moment, the men were silent. Slowly, then, Swede said: "Now all
we have to do is kill the brain."

"Yeah," Limpy agreed bitterly. "What a chance of getting through!
Where's the queen 'pede, or the brain, or whatever it is?"

Mac squinted through a pair of binoculars. He gazed along that
meandering tangle of disorganized vermin. Abruptly, he halted. A mile
beyond the ravaged fence was a small patch of integrated activity, a
regiment of centaurpedes that still functioned in unison.

"There's the truth," he muttered. "Or more likely, there are six of
them, one from each undersea colony. They probably formed a council of
war to attack us. That's why we almost lost."

"_Almost?_" Swede echoed. "But we can't fight them now!"

Mac shook his head. "We won't lose," he said grimly. "I'm going to kill
the council of war."

"You're crazy!" Limpy cried. "You'd have to run through a mile of mud
and 'pedes. Brain or no brain to direct them, they'll pull you down
instinctively. Mac, you won't have a chance!"

MacAloon looked out at the wandering army. "I think I will," he said.
He went to the door. "They won't attack together. Open the wall, Limpy.
Don't mind if a few 'pedes get through. You can take care of them. Just
keep that ultra-short-wave blanket clamped down over their minds. So
long."
