
He ran down the metal steps and across the mud toward the smelter.
Tearing open the door of the closed-cabin tractor, he jumped inside and
slammed the port shut. He started the motor, drove past the blockade
house. Swede and Limpy were at the window. Mac waved.

A door in the wall swung wide for him. He tooled through, the door
closed and he was among the centaurpedes. Infinitely disgusting things,
a few individuals attacked the tractor in blind rage, clamping their
mandibles on the steel parts and clinging senselessly. Others gaped up
in blank wonder as the machine bore down on them. He heard them _crack_
and _squish_ beneath the threads.

He drove straight at the fence. It went down and he was out of the
enclosure, entirely surrounded by vermin. On all sides, farther than
he could see, were purposeless animals, no longer in orderly ranks,
obeying a single dictate. How long would they remain severed from the
controlling brains?

Desperately, Mac fixed in his mind the position of the place where he
had seen unified activity. He headed directly for the war council of
intelligent centaurpedes.

The treads of his tractors made sucking, splashing sounds through the
mud. 'Pedes, not bright enough by themselves to get out of the way of
danger, died by the thousands under the grinding chains.

He was drawing closer, into the thickest cluster of all. The vermin
here were also wandering around, but they seemed to be trying to make
up their minds. Mac knew the blanketing wave was weaker here, that the
council of queens 'pedes was struggling to get its nearer minions under
control again. Before that happened, they had to be destroyed.

But where were they? Two hundred yards away was a great battle square
of centaurpedes, setting themselves with idiot bravery to stop his
invincible machine. Mandibles opened wide, they crouched back, ready to
spring and rend the indestructible steel.

Were the 'pede dictators in the center of that battalion?
Theoretically, they should be, but Mac knew better than to expect the
obvious. Were they brain-like, slug-like, or did they hide their vast
significance behind protective disguises of mediocrity, pretending to
be nothing but ordinary centaurpedes?

The tractor lumbered on across the mud, smashed into that wall of
nauseating bodies. The cracking and squashing made his stomach heave,
yet he kept grinding ahead.

"Damn your murdering hearts, where are you?" he bit out.

He crashed through the battalion, started to turn back for another
charge. Instead, he clamped his teeth together and continued savagely.
Far before him, he had seen several 'pedes, identical with the rest,
racing in different directions toward the ocean. They had set up a rear
guard to cover their retreat.

He wrenched the wheel aside. _Crack!_

"One!" he gloated.

Another was scampering furiously twenty feet ahead. He drove down on
it, exulted when he heard the treads crush the hard chitinous shell.

"Two!"

"Three!"

The revolting beasts were fleet, but the tractor was swifter. One after
another, he ran them down, his lips twisting in a fierce grin each
time he heard one squash beneath his treads.

At last, two miles from camp, he stopped. He had destroyed the last
'pede trying to escape to the ocean. But had he killed the brains that
had directed this gigantic assault on the mine?
