
Commander General Adstrom, president of the terrestrial Congress,
surveyed the two men who stood in front of him. One was an officer in
uniform, while the other was a pale-faced, poorly dressed person.

The commander general addressed the officer.

"Is--is this a--a criminal?" he asked.

The pale-faced young man watched with evident amusement.

"The gland extracts have been most effective during the past ten years,
sir," the officer said. "This is the only law violator we've been able
to find."

Commander General Adstrom shook his head. "We should have known
when to stop with those gland extracts," he declared. "We sought to
destroy criminality and we did. But we also destroyed creativeness,
originality, individuality. I hoped that the gland extract would not
affect everyone. I expected that some individualists would remain and
that we could find him among the criminal classes. But there are no
criminal classes!"

"This man is a criminal. His name is Marmaduke Karns. Perhaps you
remember the trial not long ago. It was quite a sensation."

"Marmaduke Karns? The name is familiar." The commander general
appraised the young man. "What crime did he commit?"

"He synthesized teakwood without a permit, sir."

"I got thirty days, too!" Marmaduke Karns added proudly. "They treated
me royally in jail. It was the first job the jailer has had in ten
years."

"Did you take the gland extract?" Commander General asked.

Marmaduke nodded.

"There's something funny about that, too, sir," the officer
interrupted. "Karns was given a test in jail and the gland extract was
found in his veins, but there also was a trace of another substance. An
antidote, sir!"

Marmaduke's face grew paler. The commander general eyed his prisoner
seriously.

"You know it's a capital offense to take an antidote to the extract?"
the commander general asked.

"I'm standing on my Constitutional rights," Marmaduke said. "I want a
lawyer."

"I didn't know there was an antidote," the commander general said. "It
seems that the antidote probably will be, in your case, a great boon to
the universe. Have you got any more of it?"

"I'm still standing on my Constitutional rights," Marmaduke said. "The
stuff--and I'm not admitting anything--is a secret."

"You can feel perfectly free to talk," the commander general said.
"Nothing you say will go beyond these walls. Furthermore, one
difficulty we are up against is that of finding an executioner, even if
you were convicted and sentenced to death for manufacturing an antidote
to the extract. There's not a human being on earth who would take
another man's life, even legally."

"I know," Marmaduke said. "That's why I invented the stuff and took
it. Now I'm in the position of a superman. I've got a monopoly on
originality, individuality and creativeness in the world. If I revealed
my antidote, I'd not have a monopoly."

"We can still put you in jail," the commander general reminded.

"The world would beat a pathway to my cell," Marmaduke replied. "I
wouldn't stay in jail long."
