
Commander General Adstrom was confronted with a serious problem.
Marmaduke Karns represented a one-man revolution that could not be
suppressed. The commander general might call out the army, the navy,
the airforce and the spaceforce, but not a human being would kill
Karns, because the gland extract had made it psychologically impossible
for one human being to kill another. As long as Karns were alive,
whether he be in jail or free, Karns was bound to climb to the top of
the heap.

The commander general played his final trump.

"I plead with you in the name of human progress," he said, "to thrust
aside your personal ambitions and put your self-bestowed gift of
individuality in the service of mankind!"

"When you put it that way," Karns said, "I'd be a heel to refuse."

"Ah!" Commander General Adkins drew a deep sigh.

Briefly he explained his proposition. He told of the radio reports
received from the _Burnt Atom_ indicating that a creature existed in
the middle of The Black Hole that blocked progress in developing Chaos.

"There was an interruption of signals and then silence," Adstrom
continued. "We have not heard from the _Burnt Atom_ since and there's
no doubt that this terrible creature, Limio, destroyed the ship. Now
we human beings have learned a few lessons in our millions of years of
existence. One of them is that a rotten place on the world or in the
universe spreads. We must someday come to death grips with Limio and we
believe we can tackle him better now than later on."

"Why now?"

"At present he is confined to only one planet--or star, for we
believe Chaos is simply a burnt-out star. As he grows he will become
desperate, just as mankind grew desperate when the earth became
overpopulated. Limio, sooner or later, will find a way to move Chaos
out of The Black Hole. By that time he will be large enough to join
other planets to his own. The eventual conclusion will be that Limio
will absorb every atom of carbon in the universe, including the human
race, and the whole universe will be occupied by a single living
creature."

"It sounds rather absurd," Marmaduke said.

"It's not half as absurd as some other theories about the end of the
world and it's just as logical."

"I suppose you want me to destroy this monster?"

"We've tried our best weapons against him and failed to hurt him,"
the commander general pointed out. "You've got to invent a weapon to
conquer Limio. You're the only man in the world with genius enough to
do it."

"May I see the reports from the _Burnt Atom_?"

"The resources of the world are at your command."

"Then I'll take the job," Marmaduke said. "But when I get back, it's
every man for himself. Either you abdicate, or I'll overthrow you."

Commander General Adstrom smiled. "I'll abdicate," he said.

The door of the room opened and a slender figure dressed in slacks
entered.

"Oh, it's you, Sandra!" Commander General Adstrom said. He turned to
Marmaduke. "This is Sandra, my daughter; Sandra, this is Marmaduke
Karns, the world's foremost public enemy."

Sandra stepped forward and took the hand of the prisoner in a friendly
clasp.

"I read about your trial! It was so exciting! I've always wanted to
meet a bad man."

Marmaduke Karns grinned bashfully. "You're Sandra Adstrom! I've had
your pictures from the rotogravure section pasted all over my cell!"

It was Sandra's turn to blush. She noted that if Marmaduke had
more color he wouldn't be so bad looking, even if he were a little
underweight.

"Karns is going to lead an expedition into The Black Hole," Commander
General Adstrom explained. "He's going to invent a weapon to conquer
Limio."

"Oh!" Sandra caught her breath. "How soon?"

"Not for a few weeks," Marmaduke explained. "I've got to invent the
weapon first."

"Oh, then you could drop over to my house for tea," Sandra smiled.
"Some of my friends would like to meet you. Perhaps you could autograph
their copies of the court records of your trial."

Karns quickly accepted the invitation. The officer showed him out of
the room.

The commander general turned to his daughter.

"Nice work, child," he said. "No man will execute Karns, but Limio has
no such limitations. The fool did not even suspect that he was under
a death sentence the minute our scientists found the antidote for the
extract in his veins."

"It seems such a shame, too," Sandra said. "But after all, I suppose
he's a public enemy."
