
Marmaduke, at Sandra's party, strutted like a rooster among a dozen of
her close friends. The sight sickened Sandra, but it made her glad at
the same time. There was not another man in the world with conceit. The
gland extract had eliminated man's worst failing.

When the others left, Sandra turned on her guest of honor.

"I don't think you were very modest," she said. "In old times a
criminal didn't crow about his crimes, he was ashamed. You acted like a
national hero."

"After all, I am, am I not?"

"You didn't need to date up all of my friends!"

A slow smile crept across Marmaduke's face. He looked nicer even than
he had in Commander General Adstrom's office. There was more color in
his cheeks and he had gained weight. There was a trace of devilishness
in his eyes. Somehow, Sandra felt sorry to find it there. She was part
of the plot to bring about this criminal's execution.

"So that's it, is it?" Marmaduke asked.

"What's what?"

"You're jealous!"

"You conceited fool!" Sandra said. She did not appear to be angry, and
in fact she was not, for the gland extract had eliminated anger in her
temperament. She was simply stating facts.

Marmaduke took her in his arms and planted a kiss on her lips. She
tried to break away, but he kissed her again, very firmly. She ceased
resisting and kissed him.

"After all," said Sandra, "you're the only male left in the world who
has the remotest resemblance to what a man should be. I'll have no part
in this thing. You must not go to The Black Hole!"

"If you mean you're afraid your father's plan to use Limio as an
executioner will work, you needn't worry."

"You know--about that?"

"Of course! I knew when I was brought before Old Monkeyface--pardon,
I mean your father--that the antidote in my veins had been discovered
and that I would be sentenced to death. I was curious as to how he was
going to execute me."

"Now you know. You can't kill Limio! The monster is invulnerable."

"Sandra, dear," Marmaduke said, "everyone thinks the gland extract is
foolproof. But look! You're aiding and abetting a criminal, giving me a
chance to escape after warning me that I face death."

"Oh! I'm a criminal, too."

"Yes. It seems as though love is an antidote for a lot of things,
including the extract. Of course, my antidote is not a love potion, but
it works just as well as love to overcome the extract. Now all I have
to do is to meet Limio and show he's not invulnerable. I'll do it, too."

In her mind Sandra doubted, but in her heart she hoped.

The terrestrial Congress, anxious for law enforcement, commandeered a
laboratory for Marmaduke Karns, who intended to use it to construct
a chemical weapon to use against Limio. Marmaduke argued that if the
human race could be completely subdued by a shot or two of extract,
Limio could be made docile. Commander General Adstrom didn't care
whether Karns was successful or not. If successful, Karns would have
won a pardon from his death sentence; if not, the death penalty would
have been carried out and the laws enforced. Adstrom couldn't lose.

The work was completed at last. Tank after tank of liquid was stored
aboard the _Burnt Atom II_, the space ship destined to take Karns into
The Black Hole. The craft was loaded with provisions and fuel and then
it shot into space and beyond the solar system at a speed many times
the velocity of light.

At the edge of The Black Hole, Karns' radio receiver crackled.

"Commander General Adstrom calling!"

This was remarkable. The radio signals had no right to catch up! True,
the signals could be sent through the time dimension and traverse space
at a pace more rapid than light, but this signal from earth shouldn't
have reached Karns for several days.

"Hello, Adstrom!" spoke Karns.

"You're under arrest. Halt. You've kidnaped my daughter!"

"But I haven't got your daughter, sir!" Karns said.

"Oh, yes, you have!"
