
The four words came, not from the receiver, but from the storeroom of
the space ship. There in the doorway stood Sandra.

"Sandra!"

"Aha!" came from Adstrom.

"I hope you don't mind having a stowaway," said Sandra.

"I'm training a battery of neutron guns on your ship," Adstrom called.
"Surrender my daughter or I'll fire."

Karns swung to the microphone. "You won't fire," he said. "You're
primed with too much extract and even if you weren't, you wouldn't want
to destroy your daughter along with the kidnaper." He turned to Sandra.
"There's a lifeboat in the hold. Get in it and take off."

"You're afraid to take me with you! Haven't you faith in your weapon?"

"There's always a certain amount of danger."

"Then I'll share it with you!"

Karns glanced at the pursuing ship. It was overtaking him. He didn't
dare wait. He touched the controls and nosed into The Black Hole. He
flew toward the shadow of the star that was silhouetted in darkness in
the center of the whirlpool of space.

"Limio! Limio!" he called into the radio.

At last a reply came from the monster.

"Go away, earthman. Go away before I kill you."

"There's no reason for me to kill you. Why can't terrestrials and you
get along?"

Limio's answer was simple.

"If I don't kill you, you'll kill me. It's the law of life. I don't
want to be killed, so I kill you."

"If you kill me, my atoms will fall to your planet. You'll absorb them
and grow. Other men will come to avenge my death and you'll kill them.
You will eat their atoms and grow some more. Some day you'll be too big
for Chaos. You'll die. By killing me, you kill yourself."

"If I don't kill you, you'll kill me," Limio repeated.

"You don't trust me, Limio. Listen. I don't come to kill, I came to
bring peace."

"You are a fool, man, but I'm not. Go away, while you are in one piece."

"I offer you a long life and a more exciting one!"

As he spoke Karns glanced behind him. Adstrom's ship was circling
above, ready to dive. It would try to disable _Burnt Atom II_, board
the ship and rescue Sandra, and then leave Karns to Limio's mercy.

"The last earthman to come here talked of progress," Limio said. "You
speak of other gifts. What--"

"Not a gift, Limio, but a price! We terrestrials wish to buy precious
minerals you guard on Chaos."

"What has happened of progress on earth?"

"The minerals represent our ideal of progress."

"Do the minerals make you grow?"

"No, Limio."

"Then there is no progress. Progress is purely a matter of size."

"But even to you, growth means death and destruction. On our planet we
grow in numbers. When the world is overpopulated, enough people die to
leave it under-populated again. The human race, in a sense, is more
immortal than you, Limio."

Karns saw Adstrom's ship in a dive. He jerked the controls and sent his
own craft forward out of the way. The action was mistaken by Limio as
an attack. The huge, fifty-mile tentacle shot out toward the _Burnt
Atom II_. Karns twisted the controls again and dodged, so that the blow
barely missed his ship.

Adstrom, however, was not so lucky. As he attempted to follow Karns'
maneuver, his craft came directly in line with the piston-like plunge
of the tentacle. He swerved his ship, but he swerved too late. The
tentacle caught Adstrom's ship a glancing blow.

The ship bounced upward out of control. But it was caught by the
gravity of Chaos and it tumbled back, like a falling leaf, toward the
surface of the planet.

A roar came from Limio.

Adstrom's ship tumbled close to the ground before the commander fired
the rockets. Even with the fuel blast, he was unsuccessful in keeping
the craft off the ground, but he managed to steer it to a safe landing
on a rocky cliff some distance from the huge body of Limio.

Sandra screamed as she saw a thousand-foot wave of flesh roll across
the rocky planet toward her father.

Karns already was nosing his craft down in a dive.

There were two courses open. He might leave Adstrom to his fate and try
to flee, in which case Limio most certainly would bring him down with
a blow from the tentacle. Or, Karns might try to land, hoping to fool
Limio into thinking he had damaged both craft. Limio might not attack
Karns in belief that Karns was a lame duck.

Karns chose the second course, not only as the safest, but as a means
of bringing Limio under control. Adstrom did not deserve to be rescued,
perhaps, but after all he was Sandra's father.

Besides, it was a battle between a monster and man, and Adstrom was on
Karns' side.
