
The space ship tumbled to the foot of the rocky cliff. As it fell,
Karns gave the tubes just enough fuel to keep the landing bump from
being too severe. As the ship crashed, he opened the cockpit of the
tanks containing the fluid he intended to use upon Limio.

"Follow me, Sandra!" he called, running toward the locks.

They leaped from the craft into an atmosphere surprisingly pleasant
and sweet. It was only slightly frosty, but the terrestrials were well
clad.

They began scrambling up the sides of the cliff. Below they heard the
rumbling of the monster's body.

Limio roared as his processes splashed into the sweet liquid that
washed the gulleys at the foot of the cliff.

Sandra screamed as one of the processes struck a rock a few feet from
her.

"It isn't working!" she cried. "It can't work. The extract simply
prevents crime and individualism. You can't prevent individualism when
there is only one individual in a species; and there can be no crime
without fellow creatures to harm!"

"Hurry, Sandra!" Karns urged. "Save your breath. It wasn't the extract
I gave him, but the antidote!"

A huge tentacle raised above the fleeing pair. Sandra closed her eyes.
She couldn't escape this blow.

The tentacle did not fall. Instead it snapped back to Limio's body,
landing with the crack of a whip.

Suddenly Limio seemed to writhe in pain. Sparks flew from the
rocks. The planet shook as if it was in the throes of dissolution.
Searchlights from Adstrom's craft flickered down into the valley to
reveal a billowing ocean of flesh struggling with itself, fighting
itself.

At the top of the cliff Karns and Sandra paused for breath.

"His mind was in unity, now it is in discord," he said. "His evolution
was different from ours. He grew as one individual, while life on our
planet resolved itself into countless individuals. The antidote served
to separate the individuals of his being for the first time in history.
Every nerve cell in his body now has individuality. Limio is a billion
intellects instead of one."

"In other words, he is crazy!"

"Only in the sense that he is one creature. If we look at him as the
whole creation of a world--many creatures--he is not so crazy. He is
simply conservative. He is bound to progress and that progress is going
to be the kind that lasts, because it was won in a struggle."

"What on earth is progress?" Sandra asked. "It looks to me, if that is
progress, that it's a rather crazy thing--"

"Progress is simply the settlement of a lot of arguments. Every time
we settle one argument we find another and progress goes on. At home,
progress was blocked by the extract, which made all minds in unison,
blocked all argument, ended criminality, made the whole race one
individual. The antidote which I gave myself preserved progress by
allowing one individual, at least, a different viewpoint. I proved my
individuality by getting thrown in jail. You fell in love and became an
individualist by warning me of a plot to kill me. Progress continued
when your father chased me into The Black Hole--"

"Hello! Hello out there! Are you all right?" Adstrom's voice boomed
from the locks of his space ship.

"Perfectly!" Karns replied.

"Ah! A moment ago I wanted to kill you! Now, strangely enough, I feel
very grateful toward you for--er--saving Sandra. You will be pardoned
of all your crimes."

"He didn't kidnap me, Father," Sandra explained as they entered the
ship.

"He has done plenty to the earth! He connected his laboratory with a
food factory so that the antidote he made has been spread all over the
world in food! He's destroyed the unity of the world! He ought to go to
jail, but the jailer's resigned because he had too much to do."

"Marmaduke has brought progress back to the world, Father!"

"Progress! Bah! He's turned the world into a turmoil! The whole
population is fighting. The planet's in an uproar. I'll abdicate rather
than rule the mess. Let Marmaduke try to straighten it out!"

"Sir," Marmaduke said, "it's every man for himself. You've better
qualifications for the office and I can swing some votes your way. You
couldn't swing a barn door mine."

The damaged ship had been repaired. They soared earthward. Limio, too
busy with his own problems, made no move to stop them. In fact, he
might be disturbed enough now to enter into commercial agreement with
other planets--parts of his brain trading with other creatures at the
expense of other parts. Progress, human style, had come to Chaos.



