
That night the men of Teloth lodged the stranger in a stable, and in
the morning an archon came to him and told him to go to the shop of
Athok the cobbler, and be apprenticed to him.

"But I am Iranon, a singer of songs," he said, "and have no heart for
the cobbler's trade."

"All in Teloth must toil," replied the archon, "for that is the law."
Then said Iranon:

"Wherefore do ye toil; is it not that ye may live and be happy? And if
ye toil only that ye may toil more, when shall happiness find you? Ye
toil to live, but is not life made of beauty and song? And if ye suffer
no singers among you, where shall be the fruits of your toil? Toil
without song is like a weary journey without an end. Were not death
more pleasing?" But the archon was sullen and did not understand, and
rebuked the stranger.

"Thou art a strange youth, and I like not thy face or thy voice. The
words thou speakest are blasphemy, for the gods of Teloth have said
that toil is good. Our gods have promised us a haven of life beyond
death, where there shall be rest without end, and crystal coldness
amidst which none shall vex his mind with thought or his eyes with
beauty. Go thou then to Athok the cobbler or be gone out of the city by
sunset. All here must serve, and song is folly."

[Illustration: "Beyond the Karthian hills lieth Oonai, the city of
lutes and dancing."]

So Iranon went out of the stable and walked over the narrow stone
streets between the gloomy square houses of granite, seeking something
green, for all was of stone. On the faces of men were frowns, but by
the stone embankment along the sluggish river Zuro sate a young boy
with sad eyes gazing into the waters to spy green budding branches
washed down from the hills by the freshets. And the boy said to him:
"Art thou not indeed he of whom the archons tell, who seekest a far
city in a fair land? I am Romnod, and born in the blood of Teloth,
but am not old in the ways of the granite city, and yearn daily for
the warm groves and the distant lands of beauty and song. _Beyond
the Karthian hills lieth Oonai, the city of lutes and dancing, which
men whisper of and say is both lovely and terrible._ Thither would I
go were I old enough to find the way, and thither shouldst thou go
and thou wouldst sing and have men listen to thee. Let us leave the
city Teloth and fare together among the hills of spring. Thou shalt
show me the ways of travel and I will attend thy songs at evening
when the stars one by one bring dreams to the minds of dreamers. And
peradventure it may be that Oonai the city of lutes and dancing is even
the fair Aira thou seekest, for it is told that thou hast not known
Aira since old days, and a name often changeth. Let us go to Oonai,
O Iranon of the golden head, where men shall know our longings and
welcome us as brothers, nor ever laugh or frown at what we say." And
Iranon answered:

"Be it so, small one; if any in this stone place yearn for beauty he
must seek the mountains and beyond, and I would not leave thee to pine
by the sluggish Zuro. But think not that delight and understanding
dwell just across the Karthian hills, or in any spot thou canst find
in a day's, or a year's, or a lustrum's journey. Behold, when I was
small like thee I dwelt in the valley of Narthos by the frigid Xari,
where none would listen to my dreams; and I told myself that when
older I would go to Sinara on the southern slope, and sing to smiling
dromedarymen in the market place. But when I went to Sinara I found the
dromedarymen all drunken and ribald, and saw that their songs were not
as mine; so I travelled in a barge down the Xari to onyx-walled Jaren.
And the soldiers at Jaren laughed at me and drave me out, so that I
wandered to other cities.

"I have seen Stethelos that is below the great cataract, and have gazed
on the marsh where Sarnath once stood. I have been to Thraa, Ilarnek,
and Kadatheron on the winding river Ai, and have dwelt long in Olathoë
in the land of Lomar. But though I have had listeners sometimes,
they have ever been few, and I know that welcome shall wait me only
in Aira, the city of marble and beryl where my father once ruled as
King. So for Aira shall we seek, though it were well to visit distant
and lute-blessed Oonai across the Karthian hills, which may indeed be
Aira, though I think not. Aira's beauty is past imagining, and none can
tell of it without rapture, whilst of Oonai the camel-drivers whisper
leeringly."
