
At the sunset Iranon and small Romnod went forth from Teloth, and for
long wandered amidst the green hills and cool forests. The way was
rough and obscure, and never did they seem nearer to Oonai the city of
lutes and dancing; but in the dusk as the stars came out Iranon would
sing of Aira and its beauties and Romnod would listen, so that they
were both happy after a fashion. They ate plentifully of fruit and
red berries, and marked not the passing of time, but many years must
have slipped away. Small Romnod was now not so small, and spoke deeply
instead of shrilly, though Iranon was always the same, and decked his
golden hair with vines and fragrant resins found in the woods. So it
came to pass one day that Romnod seemed older than Iranon, though
he had been very small when Iranon had found him watching for green
budding branches in Teloth beside the sluggish stone-banked Zura.

Then one night when the moon was full the travellers came to a mountain
crest and looked down upon the myriad lights of Oonai. Peasants had
told them they were near, and Iranon knew that this was not his
native city of Aira. The lights of Oonai were not like those of Aira;
for they were harsh and glaring, whilst the lights of Aira shine as
softly and magically as shone the moonlight on the floor by the window
where Iranon's mother once rocked him to sleep with song. But Oonai
was a city of lutes and dancing; so Iranon and Romnod went down the
steep slope that they might find men to whom songs and dreams would
bring pleasure. And when they were come into the town they found
rose-wreathed revellers bound from house to house and leaning from
windows and balconies, who listened to the songs of Iranon and tossed
him flowers and applauded when he was done. Then for a moment did
Iranon believe he had found those who thought and felt even as he,
though the town was not an hundredth so fair as Aira.

When dawn came Iranon looked about with dismay, for the domes of
Oonai were not golden in the sun, but gray and dismal. And the men of
Oonai were pale with revelling, and dull with wine, and unlike the
radiant men of Aira. But because the people had thrown him blossoms
and acclaimed his songs Iranon stayed on, and with him Romnod, who
liked the revelry of the town and wore in his dark hair roses and
myrtle. Often at night Iranon sang to the revellers, but he was
always as before, crowned only with the vine of the mountains and
remembering the marble streets of Aira and the hyaline Nithra. In the
frescoed halls of the monarch did he sing, upon a crystal dais raised
over a floor that was a mirror, and as he sang, he brought pictures
to his hearers till the floor seemed to reflect old, beautiful and
half-remembered things instead of the wine-reddened feasters who pelted
him with roses. And the King bade him put away his tattered purple, and
clothed him in satin and cloth-of-gold, with rings of green jade and
bracelets of tinted ivory, and lodged him in a gilded and tapestried
chamber on a bed of sweet carven wood with canopies and coverlets of
flower-embroidered silk. Thus dwelt Iranon in Oonai, the city of lutes
and dancing.

It is not known how long Iranon tarried in Oonai, but one day the King
brought to the palace some wild whirling dancers from the Liranian
desert, and dusky flute-players from Drinen in the East, and after
that the revellers threw their roses not so much at Iranon as at the
dancers and the flute-players. And day by day that Romnod who had been
a small boy in granite Teloth grew coarser and redder with wine, till
he dreamed less and less, and listened with less delight to the songs
of Iranon. But though Iranon was sad he ceased not to sing, and at
evening told again his dreams of Aira, the city of marble and beryl.
Then one night the reddened and fattened Romnod snored heavily amidst
the poppied silks of his banquet-couch and died writhing, whilst
Iranon, pale and slender, sang to himself in a far corner. And when
Iranon had wept over the grave of Romnod and strewn it with green
budding branches, such as Romnod used to love, he put aside his silks
and gauds and went forgotten out of Oonai the city of lutes and dancing
clad only in the ragged purple in which he had come, and garlanded with
fresh vines from the mountains.

Into the sunset wandered Iranon, seeking still for his native land
and for men who would understand and cherish his songs and dreams. In
all the cities of Cydathria and in the lands beyond the Bnazic desert
gay-faced children laughed at his olden songs and tattered robe of
purple; but Iranon stayed ever young, and wore wreaths upon his golden
head whilst he sang of Aira.
