
So came he one night to the squalid cot of an antique shepherd, bent
and dirty, who kept flocks on a stony slope above a quicksand marsh. To
this man Iranon spoke, as to so many others:

"Canst thou tell me where I may find Aira, the city of marble and
beryl, where flows the hyaline Nithra and where the falls of the tiny
Kra sing to verdant valleys and hills forested with yath-trees?" And
the shepherd, hearing, looked long and strangely at Iranon, as if
recalling something very far away in time, and noted each line of the
stranger's face, and his golden hair, and his crown of vine-leaves. But
he was old, and replied:

"O stranger, I have indeed heard the name of Aira, and the other names
thou hast spoken, but they come to me from afar down the waste of
long years. I heard them in my youth from the lips of a playmate, a
beggar's boy given to strange dreams, who would weave long tales about
the moon and the flowers and the west wind. We used to laugh at him,
for we knew him from his birth though he thought himself a King's son.
He was comely, even as thou, but full of folly and strangeness; and he
ran away when small to find those who would listen gladly to his songs
and dreams. How often hath he sung to me of lands that never were, and
things that never can be! Of Aira did he speak much; of Aira and the
river Nithra, and the falls of the tiny Kra. There would he ever say he
once dwelt as a Prince, though here we knew him from his birth. Nor was
there ever a marble city of Aira, or those who could delight in strange
songs, save in the dreams of mine old playmate Iranon who is gone."

And in the twilight, as the stars came out one by one and the moon cast
on the marsh a radiance like that which a child sees quivering on the
floor as he is rocked to sleep at evening, there walked into the lethal
quicksands a very old man in tattered purple, crowned with withered
vine leaves and gazing ahead as if upon the golden domes of a fair city
where dreams are understood.

That night something of youth and beauty died in the elder world.

