
Between the outer and inner locks we had to cool off the men a little.
When they stepped in from the crust the sheath couplings on their
non-combustible suits had to be sprayed over with liquid air.

We went up in the jacket-lift with our knees braced and down the stern
passageway to the "peel off" room, the old man striding on ahead of
me. Had I stopped to reflect I might have realized there was trouble
brewing. The old man wasn't psychic exactly, but his hunches came out
pat.

Before I looked through the lock port my nerves were merely jumpy, but
when I actually saw Murphy standing in the freeze vault enveloped in
smoke and sizzle I nearly passed out from shock.

Murphy was waving his arms up and down and the man behind him was
making frantic signs to us. The frog was dangling by its long legs from
the Irishman's gloved right hand. It was about three feet in height.
Every time he raised it up it tried to leap in his hand, and twisted
its eyes around.

Some quirk of parallel evolution had given it a froglike face, webbed
feet and long, powerful hindlimbs. But, of course, it wasn't a frog. It
was a Mercurian animal, and my stomach went tight ten seconds after I
laid eyes on it.

I've said that I was just a green kid. The old man thought otherwise,
but he was wrong and I proceeded to prove it. I turned on the freeze
conduits. Liquid air poured into the vault over Murphy and he stopped
gesticulating. He just stood there looking at me through the eye-piece
of his helmet.

Murphy had gone out at the risk of his life and brought back a living
Mercurian animal. When he perceived that I had frozen that frog to a
crisp something must have gone dead inside him. When he came in through
the inner locks his couplings were coated with frost and there was a
look of anguish on the upper part of his face. Behind the eye-piece his
features seemed all wrenched apart. From his gloved right hand the frog
still dangled, but its squirmings had ceased. Its limbs were rigid, its
stalked eyes frozen shut.

With shaking fingers Murphy removed his helmet and started peeling off
his suit, his gaze riveted on my face. The other miners stood watching
him as though fearful of what he might do.

The old man laid a hand on my arm. "You'd better go below, Dave."

Murphy shook his head. "No, no, let the lad stay."

He had laid the frog on the deck and was pushing his suit down below
his knees. I noticed that his features were twitching, but I thought he
was making an effort to control his anger until he came up out of that
crouch with all his strength riding on his fists.

He clipped me on the side of the head, and delivered a blow to my
midriff which sent me reeling back against the bulkhead.

The old man leapt between us. "Watch yourself, Murphy," he thundered.
"I'm still in command here."

Murphy spat on the deck, a slow flush creeping up over his face. "I
just can't figure it," he muttered. "I saw an infant once without one,
but its skull tapered and it had to be fed through a tube."

I had always liked Murphy, but suddenly I saw red. I jumped him,
and for a minute it was touch and go. We rolled over on the deck,
exchanging hammer blows. He was hampered by the tangle his legs were
in, but he made good use of his fists.

The old man had to intervene again. He accomplished it by backing up
his tuggings with profanity. He cast aspersions on our ancestry, and
threatened us with the psycho-lash.

I'm hot-tempered, but I cool off quickly. The instant I realized I was
making it tough for the old man I struggled to my feet, and held out my
hand.

"Any time you're ready, Murphy," I said.

The Irishman rose groggily, shaking his head to clear it. He stood
for a minute staring incredulously at my extended palm, his eyebrows
twitching. Then his own hand went out and locked with mine.

"I guess I was a bit hasty, lad," he said.
