
Ten minutes later Sylvia was placing cool pads on my face, one on each
cheek, and shaking her head over my blackened eye. "I'm not really
sorry for you, Dave," she said. "You apparently _enjoy_ lashing out
with your fists. You just used that frog as an excuse."

Perhaps I should have mentioned sooner that there was a woman on board.
A slim and attractive girl with coppery hair named Sylvia Varner was
visiting us for five days consecutively. But she had come out on the
crew-shift cruiser _Aquila_ which was berthed right alongside of us on
the semi-molten crust.

Women are out of place on Mercury run ships, and if I were taking
fictional liberties with this record I'd leave her out. But facts are
facts, and the feminine zig-zag had a lot to do with the way the frog
brought us all to the brink of despair. Without her it would have been
less though, but less exciting, too, and, of course, for romantic
reasons I was glad she had come. She happened to be Ellison's niece,
and my fiancee, and had a kid brother working on the metallurgical
staff.

"But it isn't a frog," I said, irritably. "It's a Mercurian animal. And
I don't blame Murphy for sailing into me."

"You're being very charitable," she said. "He tried to kill you."

"All right," I said. "For a minute he went berserk. But what would
_you_ do if you bagged the first Mercurian animal ever seen and a dumb
kid turned it into a museum piece? If Murphy could have brought that
frog back to Earth alive the National Geographic Society would have
smothered him with medals."

"But won't it thaw out, Dave?"

"It's limper than a rag right now," I said. "But it is also dead as a
doornail."

Sylvia's brow crinkled. "I should think a Mercurian animal would have
to be plated like an armadillo. I should think it would need some sort
of air-cooling system and a--"

"Hold on," I said. "You're jumping to a priori conclusions. We'll start
with the animal. It _is_ froglike, so conditions on Mercury must favor
the development of slender, agile quadrupeds with powerful hindlimbs.
Since Mercury is flecked with semi-molten 'marsh patches' its froglike
appearance does not surprise me. We can only speculate as to its
habits, but it's probably oviparous, and has a brief life-cycle.

"Now, in hot baths with carefully regulated approaches human beings
have been able to stand degrees of heat above the boiling point of
water. Back in the eighteenth century a Frenchman named Chamouni the
Incombustible entered an oven containing a raw leg of mutton, and
remained there until the meat was completely cooked. Medical history
records hundreds of similar cases."

"But what has that to do with Murphy's frog?"

"Don't you see? If human beings can build up all that resistance in a
few minutes what's to stop a _rapidly breeding_ Mercurian animal from
acquiring ten times as much immunity in fifty thousand generations?
With already immune invertebrates to start with natural selection could
give even a highly evolved, meaty-fleshed animal plenty of resistance."

I was feeling distinctly proud of myself when Sylvia countered with:
"You said the sides of its body and its hindlimbs were covered with
fine, reddish hairs. Villosities was the term you used. How could
natural selection build up immunity in hair?"

I could have brought up another player, but I wanted her to smooth
my forehead instead. So I leaned back with a sigh and refrained from
pointing out that chitin was slow-burning at best, and that the only
hairy frog on Earth--Trichobatatrachus robustus from West Africa--lived
up to its name.

She sat on the arm of my chair and leaned forward and for a minute I
thought I was going to get my wish. But all she did was kiss me. She
leaned her lips against mine and for about three minutes a pleasant
tingling surged through me. Then I began to grow restless. I couldn't
breathe and her lips were no longer warm and vibrant.

I had to move her face to one side in order to inhale, and the instant
I did so she swayed and her elbows descended on my chest.
