
For an instant I just stood there gasping, too stunned to realize that
I was staring at a physician who could no longer heal. It wasn't until
I went up to him and discovered that his body was cold and his face a
frozen mask that my brain started to soak up horror.

I went reeling out into the passageway like a drunken man and tried to
locate the commander, and found him at last in the control room with
his body glinting in light-silvered dust.

He was standing before one of the _Lyra's_ translucent windows staring
out upon the steamy Mercurian landscape, his arms folded on his
chest. When I touched him he swayed and when I looked into his eyes I
perceived that the pupils were set in a fixed stare, and covered with a
dull, grayish film.

Murphy was standing beside him. The Irishman had evidently come in
for orders and stiffened to immobility with a pipe in his mouth and a
slightly provoked look on his face, as though my stupidity still riled
him.

A nightmare unreality lengthened the minutes which followed into
unevenly-spaced eternities filled with a steadily mounting dread. In
the more crowded parts of the ship frozen men clustered in little
queues. Every member of the atomotor crew stood frozen at his post. The
starboard watch looked like statues carved in bronze and in the chain
locker room were three crewmen whose muscular contortions conveyed an
illusion of motion as they tugged at windlasses which had ceased to
turn.

My palms were wet and I was trembling in every limb when I completed
my inspection of the ship. It was especially bad going back in the
jacket-lift to the commander's cabin. In the dark fore-hold I had
glimpsed obscure, rigid shadows which had unnerved me more than all the
frozen, brittle men illumed by cold light in the crew spaces fore and
aft.

When I stepped from the jacket-lift a voice said: "They only _seem_
brittle, Rawley. Actually they are still soft and flabby, like all the
inhabitants of the third planet."

It was a telepathic voice, but I didn't know that. I thought it was a
human voice speaking close to my ear. Appalled, I swung about.

The frog was peering around a bend in the passageway, its stalked
eyes pointing toward the lift. I fought a desire to scream as it
leapt agilely toward me. It seemed to be grinning up at me. Its wet,
yellowish lips were split in a grimace which gave it the appearance of
being convulsed with mirth.

"Why are you trembling, Rawley?" it said. "Surely you expected to find
intelligent life on at least _one_ of the planets."

"You mean you are--"

"Intelligent, yes. So intelligent that you seem very primitive to us.
It is a hindrance, in a way. Too wide a gulf."

"Then _you_ did this," I choked. "You--you froze every man on this
ship."

"Froze? Oh, I see what you mean. It is unfortunate that I am
compelled to use your mental concepts to think with. You are giving
my thoughts a verbal twist peculiar to yourself. You see, Rawley,
I can correlate your fugitive reactions to a given phenomenon with
everything experienced by you from the day of your birth. By simply
tuning in on your thoughts I can get your--your slant. Not merely your
thought images, Rawley, but all the little twists and turns of your
familiar speech. Fortunately you have telepathic powers, too. Somewhat
rudimentary, but adequate."

The frog's eyes quivered. "Don't glare at me, Rawley. I have no
intention of harming you."

"You harmed _her_," I groaned.

"I harmed--Oh, I see. The girl, eh? We propagate by fission, so we've
been spared all that. I didn't harm her, Rawley. All I did was diminish
her mass. I had to do that to warm myself.

"Rawley, I was almost gone. I can stand a little cold, but that liquid
air--"

"You did _what_ to her?"

"Diminished her mass. Now keep your shirt on, Rawley. I need the glow
to warm me. Needed it badly. For real warmth there's nothing like the
radiant energies imprisoned in kalium. The bodies of terrestrials are
ideal sources of heat in all respects; not only because they contain
kalium, but because the other elements of which they are composed are
among the easiest to tap.

"No harm done, you understand. I can radiate back subatomic particles
at any time. All I did was squeeze out the radiations in a soft,
glutinous mass. You don't have to bombard atoms or surround them with
water-jackets to strip them, Rawley. With a little patience you can
squeeze out their energies the way you squeeze toothpaste from a tube.

"My body has soaked up a fine, tingling warmth from all those frozen
terrestrials. They are mere atomic husks now, but perfectly preserved
and restorable at any time."

I scarcely heard it. Something was happening to the ship. Beneath my
feet the deck was unmistakably swaying, and there were twangings and
creakings all along the passageway which could only mean one thing.

The ship was in motion!
