
The frog had noticed it, too. It stiffened abruptly and cocked its head
as though listening, its stalked eyes squinting shut.

In paralyzed astonishment I stood staring at the vibrating overhead,
wondering what in hell it could mean. Had one of the frozen crewmen
regained the use of his limbs and attempted an emergency take-off?
I strained my ears, but could detect no atomotor drone, or other
indication that we were rocketing upward from the crust.

"No, Rawley," the frog's voice came again, vibrant but strained. "No,
we are not leaving the planet. I think I know what is happening.
Rawley, you have an instrument which enables you to see the ship as
though it were being viewed from a distance by someone out on the
planet. Horiz--horizonscope. Suppose we see for ourselves."

We descended in the jacket-lift together, the frog bracing its knees
precisely as the commander had done long ago in another world.

I don't know how I lived through the next ten minutes. When I stood in
the control room and looked in the horizonscope I saw a sight which I
shall never forget if I live to be a hundred.

On both sides of the ship were dozens of froglike shapes moving in
single file, their bodies bent nearly double as though they were
straining at the leash.

All about them swirled steamy vapors and flickering tongues of flame.
A blood-red sun, so gigantic that it spanned a fifth of the sky, hung
like a vast, glowing eye directly overhead, dazzling my pupils as I
stared. Even in the horizonscope it seemed huge, blinding.

The scene was weird beyond all imagining--weird and unutterably
terrifying.

"Rawley, they are moving the ship. They are using magnetic tow lines
and making a mighty good job of it."

"Where--where are they taking us?" I gasped.

The frog's reply was utterly bewildering. "We'll label it terrestrial
fauna--habitat group. We'll take the ship right into the museum.
Large-brained bipeds from the third planet, stooping above their
artifacts in perfectly natural attitudes. Magnificent.

"Mustn't let sunlight touch them. It's curious I didn't think of this
when I absorbed their energies. My one thought was to warm myself, but
necessity is the mother of invention. They'll honor me for this. I'll
_head_ the next expedition. My instructions were imbecilic. 'Observe
all their habits and then mummify them.'

"What good are shriveled specimens? So long as sunlight doesn't
touch them they'll keep this way for a thousand years. This one has
been--helpful. Oh, enormously. Just as well I didn't tap him.

"I mustn't let him suspect that I couldn't--can't. I've absorbed too
much radiance as it is. My energies are brimming over. He thinks I can
still diminish his mass. Might have to kill him if he knew.

"Kill him. I could do that, of course. But I'd hate to lose one of
these specimens."

It hit me all at once, with the force of a physical blow. There was
something that the frog didn't know. It didn't know that I could listen
in on its private thoughts. It thought it could shut off its mind from
me. Hitting me also with force was the sudden realization that when in
close proximity to it I had telepathic powers which were first rate, as
good as its own.

Wait a minute--better. Because it didn't seem aware of what I
was thinking now. So we were just animals to it, eh? Big-brained
bipeds--_specimens_. I was edging away from it and toward the control
panel, very cautiously.
