
Keeping my excitement down wasn't easy. There was a lot of anger mixed
up with it, and more fear than a man of courage likes to own up to. I
wondered how strong the magnetic tow lines were. Would they hold the
ship if I blasted out all the rocket jets and started the atomotors ten
seconds later?

It didn't seem likely. If I could reach the control panel nine-tenths
of the battle would be won. Nearer to it I inched, and nearer.

The frog stirred just as my hand touched the rocket control. I swung
down on it hard. Something in my brain started babbling as I swung my
other hand toward the atomotor emergency bulb and splintered it with my
naked palm.

The whole ship seemed to explode, carrying the top of my skull with it.
I was no longer in a Mercury run spaceship screaming defiance at a frog.

I was far out in space between massive gaseous suns, red and blue
and mottled, with island universes to right and left of me and a
long-tailed comet sweeping down from a ragged hole on the sky.

When I crawled through the fence into my own backyard again I was
bruised and partly numb, but the ship was plowing steadily through the
void, and Mercury was so far away from it that it was a mere fly-speck
mottling on the dull-corona-encircled disk of the sun.

The frog? Yes, it was still with us, but all the cockiness had gone out
of it. It came to me, as meek as a lamb, and laid all its cards on the
table.

It would be the specimen now. So long as we didn't cast it out through
the air-locks to freeze in the void it would consent to be exhibited
in every museum on Earth. Only the museums would have to be roofless,
because it would need the sunlight.

It promised not to diminish the mass of a single human being on Earth.
All it needed was our sunlight. Locked up in the _Lyra_ and freezing
to death it had been compelled to tap the nearest energy source, which
happened to be us.

But on Earth it would tap the sunlight. It pointed out that the
sunlight falling on one square foot of Earth would keep one of our big
power plants running for a year, if we knew as much as the Mercurians
did about radiant heat.

"I'll be no trouble at all, Rawley. And if you wish, I'll show you
how to convert sunlight into useful energy. You won't need so many
cyclotrons then. Before _I'd_ monkey with anything as unpredictable as
a skinless atom I'd go jump in a lake."

I was no longer listening. There was something I had left unfinished
and it suddenly seemed more important to me than anything a frog could
say or do.

Going down in the jacket-lift to Sylvia I kept trying to recall just
how I felt when it had cheated me out of something I was entitled to.

It didn't seem right to leave a kiss dangling in midair, and I was sure
that Sylvia was feeling frustrated, too.

She was. She came into my arms in utter silence, and we did the kiss up
brown, and stored it away in our memories for when we were eighty-eight.

"Darling," she said. "I'm glad we thought of that."

I felt better almost at once. They had sent me out from Earth with
a pat on the back and a commission, and I was returning with the
commander's niece in my arms and a story in my brain which the news
syndicates would certainly want.

I'd ask a good price for it. Lunar honeymoons were expensive, and
although Sylvia wasn't extravagant she liked orchids as well as the
next girl and was just the right height to wear sables with grace.



