
Meanwhile, the elevator operator, upon finding he could not move the
elevator, returned to reassure the occupants. He went to the seventh
floor and called down very cheerily, "Everything's all right, folks. If
this'd happened before six o'clock there'd be plenty of blessed people
around, but it's almost seven and the engineer ain't back from supper
yet. It won't be but a little while though, and then--"

The operator became aware that only silence answered him. Had they been
scared dumb? "You--hey you--down there--"

More silence. The operator frowned and crawled down into the shaft. He
looked through the trap. Empty. "Well I'll be damned!" he said. And
because an obvious situation was covered by an obvious answer, added,
"All four of them crawled out and went home. Funny they couldn't stick
around a few minutes."

He did not ponder the difficulties involved in such an escape. The only
direction they could have gone was up and out on the seventh floor. He
thus accepted the obvious. And his only thought on the subject was that
he'd like to have been the one to boost the girl up.

Later, he bawled the engineer out and that was that so far as he was
concerned.

But the situation was far less simple for the four passengers. As
Fleming Carter struggled to his feet, Walter Maltby used his leg for a
ladder and came erect also and said, "I'll bet Jenny will sue somebody
for this! Jenny won't let them get away with it! Not for a minute."

Wilmer Payton was also on his feet looking dully about him. Fleming
Carter said, "Why don't you help the lady, young man? I'm sure she
would appreciate the courtesy from you more than myself or--?"

He looked questioningly at the other male member of the quartette.

"Walter Maltby--and as I was saying, Jenny will never--"

"I'm sure she won't."

"What happened?" Wilmer Payton asked of no one in particular as he
hauled Peggy Wilson to her feet.

The girl was biting her lip, trying hard to be brave. "The elevator
must have fallen. It's a wonder we weren't all killed!"

They agreed. All save Fleming Carter who was looking around with bright
interest. "It seems to me that we are no longer in the elevator."

Walter Maltby's jaw dropped. "No longer in the--"

"This is a somewhat larger area. And I fail to see any walls. Also, the
ceiling seems to have vanished."

The other three gazed about in shocked silence and the truth of Fleming
Carter's statements dawned on them. No walls, no ceiling. Nothing but
hard earth under their feet and a high blue sky above.

"Why we're out--out in the country!" Peggy Wilson babbled.

"I agree," Fleming Carter said. "But let's not get panicky. We are
still alive and unhurt."

"But I don't understand it," Walter Maltby said, plaintively. "I just
don't understand it."

Fleming Carter regarded the little man with pity. No Jenny around to
reassure the little man with her domineering bulk. Carter knew as a
matter of course that Jenny would be both bulky and domineering.

Carter looked about him. They were out in open country--that was
obvious. There was a huge sun and a huge blue sky and huge clouds
floating overhead. Everything in place but something very wrong.

Things were just too big.

That was it, Carter told himself. The size of this new world was far
out of proportion to the size of him and his new friends. They were
all standing in coarse grass that reached their knees--high grass--but
Carter realized instantly that the grass was not high. They themselves
were short!
