
Wilmer Payton, holding Peggy Wilson in the crook of one arm, looked
about through eyes that obviously sent no intelligent messages to his
brain. He turned them on Carter and said, "I don't get any of this."

"I think I know what happened," Carter said.

This even caught the interest of Walter Maltby who was wondering what
Jenny would have to say about his not arriving home on schedule. "What
_did_ happen?"

"We've fallen--or were snatched--through some sort of a space-time
warp."

Wilmer Payton gaped idiotically and said, "We did _which_ through a
_what_?"

Fleming Carter seemed not to hear. He was staring pensively at the
thick blades of grass that brushed his knees. "There are more things in
heaven and earth, Horatio--" he mused.

"There ain't nobody here named Horatio," Wilmer said sullenly.

"Excuse me. My mind was wandering," Carter's mind was not wandering at
all, however. He said, "There are certain unexplained phenomena that
are believed to have happened in our world. People have been known to
disappear mysteriously and those who remain behind formulate theories
as to the how and the why of their vanishing. It is believed by some
that people can be moved, under certain conditions from one plane of
existence to another--that there are many of these so-called planes of
existence where many and varied peoples live and breathe upon them.

"Of course, no proof has ever been found for these theories because
the vanished persons never came back to testify, but--" Carter stopped
suddenly and regarded the three with a touch of compassion. "You
haven't the least idea what I'm talking about, do you?"

"I'm afraid not," Walter Maltby said timidly.

"Well, never mind. Perhaps I don't either. In any case, existence is
its own excuse for accepting any locale. Suffice it to say we are now
in a world that was not built for us--a world for creatures of far
greater dimensions than ourselves--and how we got here is really of
little importance."

Peggy Wilson was now snugly in Wilmer Payton's arms, her head tight
against his chest. Wilmer was just opening his mouth to say something
when, over the slope of the land, a huge form appeared. There was
nothing mystifying about it. The creature was obviously a man. He
wore rather strange loose clothing that, Carter thought, had some
resemblance to those of the ancient Greeks. But otherwise there was
nothing different about him except his size. As he approached, Fleming
Carter estimated that Wilmer Payton--the tallest of the four--would
about come to the top of his odd sandal-like footgear.

There was no panic now--the three being completely frozen with terror
and Carter statue-quiet and sharply alert. The giant, he was sure,
would pass within two hundred yards of them. A distance dangerously
close considering the man's size.

Still, Carter was optimistic. There was no reason why the giant should
see them. As things were, they could certainly hope to be overlooked.

But Peggy Wilson dashed this hope as the pressure within her became too
strong to contain and broke out in the form of a scream.

The giant stopped, took a few quick steps in their direction and was
upon them. Carter knew then, that they were lost. A huge hand swooped
down and lifted Walter Maltby into the air. Far above, Carter saw the
terrified Maltby being transferred carefully to the giant's other
hand. Now Wilmer Payton and Peggy Wilson were running blindly in two
directions, Peggy having been suddenly deserted by her protector. Twice
more the huge hand descended and the two also vanished into the vast
palm.

Apparently, the giant overlooked Fleming Carter who had stood quite
still during the whole time. But Carter made a swift decision based
more on charity than good sense. Somehow, he could not leave those
three to their fate. So he cried out and waved his arms. "Just a
moment! You overlooked me!"

The hand swooped down again as the giant saw him.
