
Carter Fleming found himself resting comfortably with his face against
someone's back. Otherwise he was completely surrounded by soft flesh.
He realized they were being handled carefully however so he felt that
death, while definitely a threat had been at least postponed. He
wondered about the others, so close to him and yet so far away so far
as contact was concerned. He knew the terror that raced through their
minds and he pitied them....

The giant was continuing on, Carter decided, and he endured the ride as
best he could.

Then it terminated suddenly as Carter and the others were very gently
tumbled into a room. The room had no ceiling but this situation was
speedily remedied when a ceiling was lowered and set into place above
them. In the resulting darkness, Carter heard Peggy Wilson sobbing and
various unintelligible noises from Maltby and Payton. Then the room
began suddenly to move in haphazard directions.

Possibly this was finally the end, but Fleming Carter could not bring
himself to think so. Because even though the room pitched and tossed,
Carter felt it was being done rather gently by the giant hands.

Then it was over. The room settled down and remained on solid base.
Immediately there was a rending sound and a vast finger was thrust
through the wall just below ceiling level. The finger was withdrawn but
only to reappear when thrust through the other side.

It vanished again and the two resulting holes let in ample air and
light.

For a few moments Carter and the other three sat motionless, waiting.
Something was going on outside the room--the room itself moving
slightly--but the violent tossing was evidently over.

Peggy Wilson spoke first--or rather, sobbed. "Where are we?"

"I'm sure I don't know, my dear, but if I stood on the young man's
shoulders I could look out through one of those openings and perhaps
learn a little something."

"You want me to lift you?" Wilmer Payton said dully.

"That is the general idea," Carter replied in a gentle voice.

Wilmer braced himself against the wall and Carter clambered to his
shoulders and cautiously pushed his head through the opening. He
remained thus for quite a while--until Wilmer Payton began moving
restlessly. Then he clambered down.

They waited for him to speak but he said nothing. He stared at the hole
with a look of amazement upon his face as though, for the first time
the wonder of this strange transition had struck him forcibly. Then
he turned his eyes upon his three companions and there was a look in
his eyes that had not been there before; personal, yet impersonally
analytical. A hard look to read, so they could have no way of knowing
that he was trying to forecast how they would react to the fate that
awaited them.

"Well," Wilmer Payton demanded impatiently. "Did you see anything?"

"Yes. This is not a room. It is a huge box of some sort. It is bound
around on all sides by what looks like red carpeting of a width used
in hallways. I believe such carpetings are called runners. Attached to
the top is a large white sail although it appears to be made of paper
rather than canvas." He was watching them closely as he spoke.

"It took you all that time to see those things?" Walter Maltby asked a
trifle plaintively.

"No. There were other things."

At this point Peggy Wilson, coming out of her shock, began to
cry hysterically. "My God! What's to become of us? We'll all be
killed--murdered!"

"I don't think so," Carter said.

"Then we'll be held prisoner. That will be just as bad!"

"In a sense, you will be held prisoner--but I don't think it will be
bad. I think our jailer will probably be a rather kindly person who
will give us every consideration."

"How could a jailer do that?" Peggy Wilson moaned.
