
Captain Philo's sail-loft was a pleasant place to sit in, and it was
much frequented. At one end was a wide, sliding door, that opened on the
water, and through it you saw the little harbor and the low, glistening
sand-bar at its entrance, and whitecaps in the sea beyond, and shining
sails. At the other end another wide door led, by a gently descending
cleated platform, to the ground.

It was a pleasant place to rest and refresh the mind in, whether you
chose to look in or out. You could rock in the hair-cloth chair by the
water door, and join in conversation with more active persons mending
seines upon the wharf; or you could dangle your heels from the
work-bench, and listen to stories and debates inside, and look on
Captain Philo sewing upon a mainsail.

It was a summer afternoon: warm under the silver poplars, hot in the
store, and hotter in the open street; but in the sail-loft it was cool.

"More than once," Captain Bennett was remarking from the rocking-chair,
while his prunella shoes went up and down,--"more than once I've wished
that I could freight this loft to Calcutta on speculation, and let it
out, so much a head, for so long a time, to set in and cool off."

"How about them porious water-jars they hev there?" asked Uncle Silas,
who had never sailed beyond Cape Pogue; "how do they work?"

"Well," said the captain, "they 're so-so. But you set up this loft,
both doors slid open, air drawing through and all, right on Calcutta
main street, or what they call the Maiden's Esplanade, and fit it up
with settees like a conference-meeting, and advertise, and you could let
out chances to set for twenty cents an hour."

"You 'd hev to hev a man to take tickets, to the door," said Uncle
Silas, who had been looking for an easy job for forty years.

"That's Si all over." said Captain Bennett, with a wink; "that berth
would be just his size."

"Well," said Uncle Silas, faintly smiling, "'t is no use rubbin' the fur
the wrong way; stroke the world from head to tail is my rule."

"Speaking of folks being easy," said Captain Bennett, "it seems there
's quite a little story about David Prince's voyage on the 'Viola.'" "I
thought he went off whaling rather in a hurry," said Captain Philo,
"and if it had been 'most anybody else, I should have thought there was
something up."

"It seems," said Captain Bennett, "it was like this: You know, Delia was
n't much over ten years old when her mother died, along a piece after
her father, and she come to live with us. And you know how she was
almost like one of the family. Well, about eight years ago, when she
'd got to be towards nineteen, it was then that David first set out to
shine up to her; and when he begun to come home from singing-school with
her that winter, and got to coming to the house quite often the next
spring along, I begun to feel a little shaky. Finally, one Sunday
afternoon I was sitting out on the porch and she was singing hymns
inside,--you know she was always singing,--and I called to her to quit
and come out, and sit down alongside of me, and says I,--"'Delia, it
can't be you 're thinking of taking up with David Prince?'

"Well, she flared a little, but finally says she:

"'Why should n't I, or anybody that has the chance, take David Prince?'

"'Well,' says I, 'I don't think you need to ask why; I should say that
a smart girl wouldn't want more than to travel once along the Lower Road
and see those two run-down houses,--one deserted, and the other, handy
by, about as bad,--and the barn across the road, that was raised and
boarded in over forty years ago, and never shingled, and stood so till
it's all rotted and sunk in.'

"'What's that got to do with David?' says she.

"'It's got this to do with David,' says I, 'that his father and his
Uncle Ezekiel and their father before 'em--good, kindly men--all seemed
to settle, settle, somehow; and it was all to-morrow, and to-morrow,
with 'em; 'and then I told Delia how they sold off their wood and
then their land, piecemeal, all but the spot where the old buildings
stand,--and that's worth nothing.

"'And that's the way,' says I, 'it 'll be with David when he gets over
being a boy and settles down; it's in the blood; and I don't want to see
you, Delia, keel-hauled there--'"

"Like David's mother,--Prudence Frost, that was," said Uncle Silas;
"originally she was a good, smart girl, and full of jingle; but finally
she give up and come to it,--lef sweepin'-day out o' the almanic, washed
dishes in cold water, and made up beds at bedtime; and when she ironed a
shirt, jes' 's like's not she 'd iron a hoss-fly right into the bosom."

"And lived a dog's life generally," said Captain Bennett. "So I laid the
whole thing out to Delia, the best way I knew how.

"'Well,' says she, 'I know you mean my good, Captain Bennett,--but I
shall take my chances.' And so she did. Well--"

"Speakin' o' the barn," said Uncle Silas, "do you remember that high
shay that David's father hed? I was up to the Widow Pope's vendue the
day he bid it off. He managed to spunk up so fur's to hitch the shaffs
under his team and fetch the vehicle home, and then he hed n't no place
to put it up out o' the weather,--and so he druv it along under that big
Bald'n apple-tree that used to stand by the pantry window, on the north
side o' the house, and left it there, with the shaffs clawin' down in
the ground. Then the talk was, he was goin' to build him a sort of a
little tabernacle for it before winter set in; and he hed down a load
of lumber from Uncle Joe's mill and hed it dumped down alongside o' the
shay. But the shay was n't never once hitched up, nor the tabernacle
built; and the timber and the shay jes' set there, side by side, seein'
who 'd speak first, for twenty year, to my cer-ting knowledge; and you
go by there when it was blowin' fresh, and the old curtings would be
flappin' in and out, black and white, till finally the whole arrangement
sunk out o' sight. I guess there 's more or less wrack there now, 'f you
sh'd go poke in the grass."

"It was thirty-one year ago, come October, that he bought the shay,"
said Captain Philo; "it was the fall I was cast away on the Tombstones,
and lost every dollar I had. I remember it because the old man came down
to the house of his own accord, when I got home, and let me have two
hundred dollars. He 'd just been selling the West New Field; and when he
'd sold land and had money on hand, it was anybody's that wanted it. But
what was it about David's going off so sudden on the 'Viola'?"

"Oh, yes, I forgot my errand," said Captain Bennett; "and now I 've got
adrift in my story, and I shall have to take an observation; let's see,
where was I?"

"Delia allowed she 'd take her chances," said Uncle Silas.

"Oh, yes," said Captain Bennett. "Well, you know how it was when they
got married: David fixed the old house up a little, and mother put in
some furniture and things for her, and all went on first-rate awhile;
and then you know how David begun to settle, settle, just the old way;
could n't seem to keep up to the wind; appeared to carry a lee helm,
somehow; and Delia begun to take in work and go out to work, and quit
singing. She never said a word, even to my wife; but I could see 't it
cut her a good deal--"

"But all this time," said Uncle Silas, "she 's kep' up smart,--allers
hed a high crower's-feather 'n her bunnet, and kep' her little boys
a-lookin' like nine-shillin' dolls."

"I should n't have ever called David lazy," said Captain Philo. "He
could n't seem to make up his mind what to do next, that 's all; but get
him going--you remember how he worked at Jason's fire; and I know of my
own knowledge he was in the surf for sixteen hours, when that Norwegian
bark was on the Bar."

"I think there's some folks," said Uncle Silas, "that their mind works
all the time--runs a day gang and runs a night gang. You know how a hard
sum 'll shake itself out in your head overnight; and I think it's the
most natural thing that a man with a A No. I active mind always should
feel sort of tired and not know what ails him. George, won't you jes'
git up and hand me that pipe--you ain't doin' nothin'."

"However it was," said Captain Bennett, "Delia saw that he was drifting
to leeward, and she was worried. Well, you know when the reformation set
in, that winter, and run crowded houses,--one night in the West Church
and the next in the other. One night David surprised his wife by going;
and he set in a back seat, and come away and said nothing; and the same
the next night; and the same for seven or eight nights right along.
Finally, one night, they had a pretty searching sermon,--'_Choose ye
this day_,' et cetera,--and I suppose the Deacon, here, was rather
expecting David to rise for prayers; but, instead of that, as soon
as Amen was said, he gets right up, and off he goes, and leaves Delia
there, without saying a word to her or to anybody, and goes right up to
Captain Westcott's house and agrees to ship. And glad enough Captain
W. was to have him, and next day off he went. Now here he is, gone two
years and over, and comes home night before last; his lay 'll figure
out five hundred dollars; and the biggest thing is"--here the Captain
brought down his heavy hand, for emphasis, on Uncle Silas's knee--"that
Delia 's kept herself and the children, and never drawn one cent against
the voyage; so they've got the whole clear, and they 've been up this
morning early and traded for the Callender place, and they 're going to
move in to-morrow. And I guess he means business now."

"But they don't git paid off till Monday," said Uncle Silas. "They 're
all goin' up to town to be paid off then."

"Well, he moves in to-morrow, anyway," said Captain Bennett. "Monday
night, I believe, he's going to pay down what he has, and take a deed,
and give a mortgage back for the balance."

But Uncle Silas gravely shook his head.

"I can't indorse this runnin' in haste," he said. "I never, in all my
experience, knew a man before to buy real estate without sort of goin'
up street and talkin' it over, and comparin' notes 'round generally.
Now, we could have given him points down here about the Callender
place."

"Oh, he's made a good trade there," said Captain Bennett.

"That all may be," said Uncle Silas, "but it 's the principle, not the
five cents, I 'm lookin' at. I should have hed more faith in his holdin'
out if he hed n't jumped quite so quick. 'Slow bind, fast find,' I say."

Captain Bennett rose, and drew on a grass-cloth coat that showed his
suspenders through.

"I must be on my winding way," he said. "But did you hear how close he
came to never coming back? No? Well, it was like this: It was blowing
a gale, and considerable sea on, one night when they were rounding Cape
Horn on the home voyage, and she was pitching pretty bad, and David was
out on the jib-boom taking in jib, and somehow she pitched with a jerk,
so he lost his hold and went off, and, as he fell in the dark, naturally
he struck out both hands, blind, like this; and he just happened to
catch, by sheer accident, a gasket that was hanging from the jib-boom,
and so he saved himself by a hair's breadth. And when he came up they
thought it was his ghost."

"Well, I always make it a point to look on the bright side, without
exception," said Uncle Silas; "nevertheless, I prophesy it won't be two
years before he 'll have the place all eat up, and sold out under the
mortgage. This jumpin' so quick,--looks as if he was sca't to trust
himself for a day."

"Well, we shall see," said Captain Bennett; "time will tell."

*****

There are many little farms along the New England sea-board, which the
currents of life, diverted from ancient channels, have left one side,
pleasant and homelike often, but of small money value. The Callender
place was such a farm.

It lay a mile from the village, in a hamlet of half-a-dozen dwellings.
There was a substantial house, with four large rooms below, besides an
L kitchen, and above, two sunny chambers, each with a dormer and a gable
window. From the front fence projected, for a hitching-post, a Minerva,
carved from wood,--a figure-head washed up years before from the wreck
of a brig with the bodies of the crew.

The house was on a little elevation, and looked across the road, near
which it stood, and over a sloping field or two, to sea. From the
windows you could count the sail in the North Channel, and look down the
coast and follow with the eye the long, low curving line of shore until
at Indian Point it vanished; or look up shore ten miles to where
the coast-line ended in a bold, wooded headland, which seemed, by a
perpetual mirage, to bear foliage so lofty as to show daylight through
beneath the branches. At night you could see the flash of the revolving
light on Windmill Rock, and the constant rays from the lightship on
the Rips. So that by day or night you could never be lonesome, unless,
perhaps, on some thick night, when you could see no light, and could
only hear a grating knell from the bell-buoy, and could seem to see,
through the white darkness, the waters washing over its swaying barrel.

There was a good-sized boarded barn, well shingled on the roof, with
hay-mows, and with room for two or three cows and a horse and a wagon,
and with wide doors "fore and aft," as the neighbors put it; through its
big front door you could look out to sea. Then there were twenty acres
of land, including a wood-lot which could be thinned out every year to
give one all his fire-wood, and what was cut would hardly be missed.

Such was the place which, on the death of the Widow Callender, had been
offered for sale for eight hundred dollars. For months it had stood
empty, stormed by all the sea-winds, lit up by the sun, when at last an
unexpected buyer had turned up in David Prince.

*****

It was a happy Sunday that he passed with his little family at the new
home. They went all over the house again and again, and looked from
every window, and planned where flower-frames should be put, to take
the sun. Then, going out of doors, they inspected the revolving
clothes-dryer, which David, with a seaman's instinct, had already rigged
with four little sloops to sail about on the ends of the projecting
arms, on Mondays, tacking after shirts and stockings. Then they went
to the barn, and David showed how he was going to cover the sides with
spruce shingles, so that he could have a warm place to work in in the
winter. Then they went over the fields, and planned a garden for the
next spring; and then they went down to the shore, and, where a little
arm of the sea made in, David showed where he would haul up his dory,
and would keep his boat, when he could afford to get one together: in
the mean time he was going to fish on shares with Jacob Foster, who
lived a few rods up the road. Then they all strolled back to the house,
and dined on shore-birds shot on Saturday afternoon, and new potatoes
and turnips which Jacob Foster had brought in.

After dinner, they all sat at the front windows, in the room which they
were pleased to call the parlor, David holding on his knees the two
oldest boys, delighted with the recovery of such a Sindbad of a father,
while the third, still a little shy of him, stood by his mother. David
told of the voyage, repeating, by request, full half-a-dozen times, the
story of the night when he was snapped off the end of the jib-boom;
to do which he had to set the boys down and stand, to make the swift,
sudden clutch, with his eyes shut, at the towing rope; at which the boys
screamed on every repetition.

After supper, David and his wife, leaving the children with orders to go
to bed at the first flash from the Windmill, went to church.

They took the same back seat which they had the night that David
shipped. There was much the same scene before them. There was
bald-headed Deacon Luce, in his usual Damocles' seat exactly beneath the
dangling chandelier, which children watched in morbid hope of a horror;
there was the president of the Dorcas Society, a gray-haired woman who
had navigated home a full-rigged ship from the Gold Coast; there were
grave-faced men who, among them, could have charted half the globe. In
the pulpit was the same old-fashioned, bookish man, who, having led
his college class, had passed his life in this unknown parish, lost
in delight, in his study, in the great Athenian's handling of the
presumptuous Glaucon, or simply unfolding parables in his pulpit.

That former night came vividly back to Delia Prince. Through the opening
hymn, in which she did not join; through the story of the feast in
Simon's house, she was thinking of the time when David told her he had
shipped, and she had made up her mind to save a home.

But in the second hymn she joined; and in her joy she forgot herself and
sang,--as she had been used to sing when she was the leader of all the
singing. In a moment they all knew that she was there.

     "Thus far the Lord hath led me on;
     Thus far His power prolongs my days;
     And every evening shall make known
     Some fresh memorial of His grace."



