
"M. Isaacs" was over the door; Mr. Isaacs was within. Without, three
golden balls were hanging, like apples of the Hesperides; within was an
array of goods which the three balls had brought in.

Mr. Isaacs was walking to and fro behind the counter, and briskly
rubbing his hands.

"My good wife Sarah," he said, with a strong Semitic accent, "those
sudden, raw east winds! I am so frozen as if I was enjoying myself upon
the skating-rink,--and here it is the summer. Where is that long spring
overcoat that German man hypotecated with us last evening? Between the
saddle and the gold-lace uniform, you say?"

And taking it down, by means of a long, hooked pole, he put it on. It
covered his ears and swept the ground: "It make me look like Aaron in
those pictures," he said.

It would have been a grasping disposition that could not be suited with
something from out Mr. Isaacs's stock. It would have been hard to name
a faculty of the human soul or a member of the human body to which it
could not lend aid and comfort. One musically inclined could draw the
wailing bow or sway the accordion; pucker at the pensive flute, or beat
the martial, soul-arousing drum. One stripped, as it were, on his way
to Jericho, could slink in here and select for himself a fig-leaf from
a whole Eden of cut-away coats and wide-checkered trousers, all fitting
"to surprise yourself," and could be quite sure of finding a pair of
boots, of whatever size was needed, of the very finest custom hand
work,--a misfit, made for a gentleman in New York. A devout man,
according to his leanings, could pray from the prayer-book of an
impoverished Episcopalian, or sing from the hymn-book of an insolvent
Baptist.

"So help me gracious!" Mr. Isaacs used to say, raising his shoulders
and opening wide his palms; "when you find a man so ungrateful that he
cannot be fitted out with somethings from my stock, I really suppose you
could not fit that man out in Paradise."

Mr. Isaacs was looking nervous. But it was not by the images which
his ordinary stock in trade would naturally cause to arise that he
was disturbed,--images though they were of folly, improvidence, and
distress. There was indeed hardly an article in the shop, except the new
plated jewelry in the window, that was not suggestive of misery or
of sin. But in Mr. Isaacs's well-poised mind no morbid fancies arose.
"Those hard winters makes me cheerful," he was wont to say in the fall;
"they makes the business lifely."

Still, Mr. Isaacs was a little troubled this afternoon, and, singularly
enough, about a most happy purchase that he had just made, at ninety per
cent below value. There the articles lay upon the counter,--a silk hat,
a long surtout, a gold-headed cane and a pair of large rubbers; a young
man's Derby hat and overcoat and rattan cane, and a pair of arctics;
a lady's bonnet and dolman and arctics; a young girl's hat with a soft
bird's-breast, and her seal-skin sack and arctics; besides four small
boys' hats and coats and arctics. It seemed as if some modern Elijah, a
family man, expectant of translation, had made with thrifty forethought
an "arrangement" that Mr. Isaacs's shop should be the point of
departure, and flying off in joyous haste, with wife and children, had
left the general raiment on the counter. You would naturally have looked
for a sky-lit hole in the ceiling.

"So help me gracious!" said Mr. Isaacs, turning the articles over; "I
suppose there 's some policemen just so wicked and soospicious to say I
must know those garments are stolen--scooped off some hat-tree, the last
winter, at one grab."

"Why do you enter dose on de book to-gedder?" said Mrs. Isaacs. "If
you put dose separate on de book, how de policeman know dey came in
togedder?"

"That is a great danger, Sarah. That's just the way they fix our good
friend Greenbaum. When they caught the thief, and he tell them where he
sell some things, and Greenbaum had put down those earrings and those
bracelets and that Balmoral skirt for three different times, they say he
must know those things was stolen,--if not, why did he put those things
down different from each other?

"But so help me gracious!" he added, presently, "I have not the least
soospicions, like the babes unborn, those goods are stolen. The man that
brought them in was very frank, and very much of a gentleman; and he lay
his hand upon his bosom-pin, and swear he sell those things because
he has no more use for them,--his family all sick of tyvoid fever, and
cannot live the week out. But I suppose there's some policemen just so
soospicious to say I must know those things are stolen."

"And so cruel soospicions," said Mrs. Isaacs,--"and your heart so pure
and white like your shirt-bosom." She meant his ideal shirt-bosom.

"Just like those evil-minded policemen," he said. "You remember how they
lock up our old friend Abrahamson? So help me gracious! sent that good
old man to prison, just because he buy two gold watches and two pairs
of gold spectacles and an ivory-handled knife and two empty pocket-books
and two silk umbrellas and a seal ring and two bunches of keys and two
black wigs from a red-headed laboring man; they say he must know that
two old gentlemen were robbed of that personal property."

But here his attention was diverted by the sight of two men, seamen to
appearance, who were looking into the show-window.

"I like so much," he said, "to see the public enjoying themselves in my
window; it give them so happy pleasure to see those lovely things; and
often they comes in and buy somethings. This young man," he added, after
a pause, "seem to admire those broad neck-wear; he look at both those
two,--the Four-in-hand and the Frolic."

"I think he look most at de Frolic," said Mrs. Isaacs; "I think he would
come in if you go outside and take him by de arm like a true frient, and
bring him in. My broder Moses walk outside de whole day long, and take
each man when he go by and talk to him like his own broder, wid tears in
his eyes, and make dem come in and buy somedings."

But Mr. Isaacs only wrapped the long coat more closely about his linen
garments, and watched the younger man as he turned his eyes away from
the Four-in-hand and the Frolic and bent them on the trays in which
were glittering tiers of rings and pins, and rows of watches labelled
"Warranted genuine, $14;" "Dirt-cheap, $8.75;" "Doct's Watch,
Puls-counting, $19.50."

"He look like he had some money," said Mrs. Isaacs. "Perhaps he would
come in and buy a watch if you go out and pull him in. How can he
buy someding through de glass? My broder Moses say, 'So many folks is
bashful.'"

But at last the men, after talking awhile, apparently of the goods in
the window, came in.

"What's the price of some of those ear-rings in the window?" said the
younger. "Let's see what you've got for a couple of dollars or so."

"So help me gracious!" said Mr. Isaacs, as he took from the show-window
three or four cards of plated ear-rings. "I knew you would come in to
buy somethings. When I saw you look in--the very first moment--I say
to my wife, 'There is a good young man that will give a present to some
lovely young lady.' Yes, sir, the very words I said to Sarah."

"What's the price of this pair? I haven't got any girl to treat, but
I 've just got paid off for a whaling voyage, and my lay figured up a
twenty-dollar bill above what I expected, and I don't care if I do lay
out a couple of dollars on my wife besides what I 've brought home for
her."

"Well, sir," said Mr. Isaacs, "the good wife is the very best jewelry.
Those are two dollars. But only study this pair. Hold those up to the
light and take a bird's-eye view through those lovely stones, so round
and large like green peas. Now look. So! Now let your friend look!"

"I 'm no judge," said the other man, "I know what pleases me--that's
all. But them would make a great display, David, wouldn't they?"

"You 're right, sir," said Mr. Isaacs. "'Display' is the very word. My
wife wear just the twins of this pair to the congregation, every week."

Mrs. Isaacs raised her eyebrows: she wore nothing but diamonds.

"What's the price of these green ones?" asked David.

Mr. Isaacs shrugged his shoulders.

"I suppose those are the finest articles of the kind in the whole
creation," he said. "We can let you have those to-day," and he lowered
his voice to a whisper, and put his hand up beside his mouth, "to close
out stock--for six dollars. They cost us only last week eight-fifty, but
we are obliged to reduce stock prior to removal. The building is to be
taken down."

"I would like those tip-top; but I don't know--it's a good deal of money
for gewgaws; my wife would take me to do for it; I guess I must keep
to the two-dollar ones. I come pretty hard by my dollars, and a dollar
means a good deal to me just now."

"But just once look again," said Mr. Isaacs, and he stepped briskly
behind his wife and held up an ear-ring to each of her ears. "See them
on a chaste and lovely form. With these your wife will be still more
lovely. All those other men will say, 'Where did that graceful lady
find so rich ear-rings?' You will see they are a great success: her most
bosom friends will hate her; they will turn so green like the grass on
the ground with envy. It is a great pleasure when my wife wears those
kind: her very sisters cannot speak for anger, and her own mother looks
so rigid like the Cardiff Giant."

"Well, I guess I shall have to take them," said David, "and you 'll have
to wrap them right up: we have n't got more than about time to get the
train, have we, Calvin?"

"So help me gracious!" said Mr. Isaacs, "is there no time to sell our
friend Calvin a pair? He will repent not to secure those other pair,
until his dying day; so sorry like he lose his ship some day upon those
rocks. I suppose there is no others like those in the whole creation."

But he wrapped the purchase up in a bit of white paper and gave David
Prince four trade dollars in change for a ten-dollar bill, and the two
men went out, leaving Mr. Isaacs free to attend to a timid woman in
black who had just come in to raise fifty cents upon a ring, while Mrs.
Isaacs looked after a carpenter who proposed to pawn his edge-tools for
rent-money.

Mr. Isaacs waved his hand and smiled as the men went out of the door.
"You will find they are a success, to surprise yourself," he called out:
"her most bosom friends will writhe and scream with envy."

*****

The winding line of the long New England coast faces the sea, in its
sweeping curves, in every direction. From the Callender place, the ocean
lay to the south. Though elsewhere east winds might be blowing harsh
upon the coast, here, almost every day, and all day long, in summer,
the southwest wind came pouring in from the expanse of waters, fresh and
cool, boisterous often, but never chill; and even winds from the east
lost edge in crossing miles of pitch-pine woods, of planted fields, of
sandy ponds, of pastures, and came in softened down and friendly.

A gentle breeze was drifting in from sea. All day long it had been
blowing, salt and strong and riotous, tossing the pine-tops, bending the
corn, swaying the trees in the orchards, but now it was preparing to die
away, as was its wont, at sundown, to give to the woods, the cornfields
and the orchards a little space of rest and peace before it should rise
again in the early evening to toss them all night long. The blue of the
sky was blue in the water. Every object stood out sharp and clear. Down
the low, curving shore-line, curls of smoke rose from distant roofs, and
on the headland, up the coast, the fairy forest in the air was outlined
with precision. Distant ships were moving, like still pictures, on the
horizon, as if that spell were laid on them which hushed the enchanted
palace. There was just sea enough to roll the bell-buoy gently, and
now and then was rung an idle note of warning. Three fishing-boats lay
anchored off the Spindle, rising and falling, and every now and then a
sea broke on the rock. On the white sand beach, waves were rolling in,
dying softly away along the shore, or heavily breaking, with a long,
flying line of foam.

The sun was fast descending. Delia Prince went out to the corner of the
house and shaded her eyes to look at the sunset. The white clouds turned
to a flaming red, and the reflection dyed to crimson the surface of the
creeks; the sun descended toward the wooded bluff that flanked the
bay, sent a thousand shattered, dazzling rays through the trees, and
disappeared.

The red of the clouds and the red of the water gave place to gray. The
wind died down. The silence was intense,--all the more marked because
of the few sharp sounds that broke it now and then. Across the bay, near
shore, a man was raking oysters; he stood in the stern of his skiff,
and the bow was up in the air. Near by a girl was driving sluggish cows
along the beach, and her shrill cries came over the water; by a cottage
on the bank a boy was chopping brush upon a block, and Delia watched the
silent blows, and heard the sound come after. He smiled as she looked;
for every night she saw the boy's mother stand at the door to call him,
and saw him come reluctant to his task.

There was a sense of friendly companionship in all these homely sights
and sounds. It was different from the old house, shut in close by a
second growth of birch and oak.

The table was standing ready for a late supper. The children had gone
for berries to the Island, and they would soon come home, and David was
due, too, with his money.

She smiled as he appeared. The ascent to the brow of the hill was so
sharp that first you saw a hat in movement, then a head, then shoulders,
body, legs, and feet. She ran quickly down the road to meet him, and
took his arm.

"You couldn't catch the noon train?" she said. "Captain Wells stopped
at the door a little while ago to see what time we should be down to get
the deed, and luckily I told him that we might not be down until into
the evening. He said he 'd stay at home and wait till we came."

"Delia," said David, when he had seated himself in the house, "I 've got
bad news to tell you, and I may as well out with it first as last."

"You have n't shipped for another whaling voyage?"

"No; that would be nothing," he said.

Delia stood and looked at him.

"Well," she said, "didn't you get as much as you counted on?"

"Yes,--twenty more."

"It isn't anything about the children? I expect them home every minute."

"No."

"Delia," he said, "you was a great fool ever to have me. You ought to
have taken advice."

"What is the matter?" she said. "Why don't you tell me?"

"I 've lost the money," he said. "The Captain warned me how apt a
seafaring man is to lose money; but I did n't take any heed, and I went
off with Calvin Green--"

"With Calvin Green! What did I tell you!" she said.

"Wait a minute--and I stopped into a jewelry store and bought you a pair
of ear-rings, and I came off and left my wallet on the counter, the way
that fool Joe Bassett did, to Gloucester. When I went back, the rascal
claimed he never saw me before--said he didn't know me from the Prophet
Samuel, as if I was born that minute. And now they'll all say--and it's
true--that I'm a chip of the old block, and that I 'm bound to come out
at the little end. There!" he said, as he opened a little parcel and
took out the earrings. "There 's what 's left of five hundred and twenty
dollars, and you must make the most of 'em. Hold 'em up to the light and
see how handsome they are. I don't know, after all, but they are worth
while for a man to pitch overboard off Cape Horn and harpoon whales two
years for. All is, just tell folks they cost five hundred dollars, and
they 'll be just as good as hen's-egg diamonds.

"In fact, I don't know but I sort o' like the situation," he went on,
in a moment. "It seems sort of natural and home-like. I should have felt
homesick if I 'd really succeeded in getting this place paid for.
'T would have seemed like getting proud, and going back on my own
relations. And then it 'll please everybody to say, 'I told you so.'
There 'll be high sport round town, when it gets out, and we back water
down to the old place.

"Come, say something, Delia!" he said, in a moment. "Why don't you say
something about it? Don't you care that the money's lost, that you stand
there and don't say a word, and look at nothing?"

"I don't want to say anything now," she said, "I want to think."

*****

"Well!" said Captain Bennett, the next day, to his wife, "Delia 's got
more spunk! I should have felt like laying right down in the shafts,
in her place; but instead of that, to actually go and talk them into
letting her keep the Cal-lender place and pay for it so much a month!
And David's signed a paper to do it."

"I guess if the truth was known," said Mrs. Bennett, knitting on, "that,
come to think it over, she was more scared of David's settling back than
she was for losing the money."

"She 's got a pull on him now," said the Captain, "anyway, for if he
once agrees to a thing he always does it."



