
"It's this way," General Webb began, once they were seated uncomfortably
in his office. From a pocket in his khaki jacket, Webb had produced a
big-bowled calabash pipe, and was puffing its noxious gray fumes in all
directions while he spoke. "Up until the late fifties, war was a simple
thing ..."

Oh, not the March of Science Speech! said Whitlow to himself. He knew it
by heart. It was the talk of the Capitol, and the nightmare of military
strategists. As the general's voice droned on and on, Whitlow barely
listened. The general, Top Secret or no Top Secret, was divulging
nothing that wasn't common knowledge from the ruins of Philadelphia to
the great Hollywood crater ...

All at once, weapons had gotten _too_ good. That was the whole problem.
Wars, no matter what the abilities of the death-dealing guns, cannon,
rifles, rockets or whatever, needed one thing on the battlefield that
could not be turned out in a factory: Men.

In order to win a war, a country must be vanquished. In order to
vanquish a country, soldiers must be landed. And that was precisely
wherein the difficulty lay: landing the soldiers.

Ships were nearly obsolete in this respect. Landing barges could be
blown out of the water as fast as they were let down into it.

Paratroops were likewise hopeless. The slow-moving troop-carrying planes
daren't even peek above the enemy's horizon without chancing an
onslaught of "thinking" rockets that would stay on their trail until
they were molten cinders falling into the sea.

So someone invented the supersonic carrier. This was pretty good,
allowing the planes to come in high and fast over the enemy's territory,
as fast as the land-to-air missiles themselves. The only drawback was
that the first men to try parachuting at that speed were battered to
confetti by the slipstream of their own carriers. That would not do.

Next, someone thought of the capsules. Each man was packed into a
break-proof, shock-proof, water-proof, wind-proof plastic capsule, and
ejected safely beyond the slipstream area of the carriers, at which
point, each capsule sprouted a silken chute that lowered the enclosed
men gently down into range of the enemy's rocket-fire ...

This plan was scrapped like the others.

And so, things were at a stalemate. There hadn't been a really good
skirmish for nearly five years. War was hardly anything but a memory,
what with both sides practically omnipotent. Unless troops could be
landed, war was downright impossible. And, no one could land troops, so
there was no war.

As a matter of fact, Whitlow _liked_ the state of affairs. To be
Secretary of Defense during a years-long peace was a soft job to top all
soft jobs. And Whitlow didn't much like war. He'd rather live peacefully
with his mystery stories and ham sandwiches.

But the Capitol, under the relentless lobbying of the munitions
interests, was trying to find a way to get a war started.

They _had_ tried simply bombing the other countries, but it hadn't
worked out too well: the other countries had bombed back.

This plan had been scrapped as too dangerous.

And then, just when all seemed lost, when it looked as though mankind
was doomed to eternal peace ...

Along came General "Smiley" Webb.

"Land troops?" he'd said, confidently, "nothing easier. With the
government's cooperation, I can have our troops in any country in the
world, safely landed, within the space of one year!"

Congress had voted him the money unanimously, and off he'd gone to work
at Project W. No one knew _quite_ what it was about, but the general had
seemed so self-assured that-- Well, they'd almost forgotten about him
until some ambitious clerk, trying to balance at least _part_ of the
budget, had discovered a monthly expenditure to an obscure base in the
southwest totalling some millions of dollars. Perfunctory checking had
brought out the fact that "Smiley" Webb had been drawing this money
every month, and hadn't as much as mailed in a single progress report.

There'd been swift phone-calls from Denver to Project W, and, General
Webb informed them, not only was all the money to be accounted for, but
so was all the time and effort: the project was completed, and about to
be tested. Would someone like to come down and watch?

Someone would.
