
I followed my cue. "Really? And what was this mysterious exception?" I
thought I was playing straight man for some elaborate joke, but Lee
was serious.

"Damn it all, don't you people even read your own directives? I'm
talking about the powder puffs. Does _that_ mean anything to you?"

Seeing my blank look, he explained resignedly, "The powder puffs are
the way the Xenon equivalent of Earthly mushrooms takes to spread its
spores. They have some unpronounceable Latin name, but we called them
powder puffs because, oddly enough, that's what they looked like. The
puffs are little round balls of a very light fluffy material, with the
spores adhering to small fibers on the surface. The things are carried
by the winds over great distances and when they finally come down,
they bump along, leaving a dusting of spores on anything they touch."

"They don't sound very dangerous," I told him.

"They aren't then. It's the next step in their life cycle that makes
them a nuisance. You see, Sam, if they don't come in contact with some
substance containing moisture and a high percentage of nitrogen, the
spores lie dormant. Can you think of any substance fitting those
requirements better than a nice warm mess of living protein?"

He grinned at me ghoulishly. "Don't look so horrified, Sam. I'll bet
credits against chalk that you're host to at least one kind of fungus
right now. Do you have athlete's foot?"

He was thirsty again and took steps to remedy such a deplorable
situation. "The puffs are only another type of fungus, even though
they do cause more trouble than most. The animals on Xenon are immune
from them, but when they land on a man, they send out tiny rootlets
that are like minute hairs. These go into the nearest capillary and
start taking the nitrogen they need from the blood. After a week or
so, they drop off and continue their cycle. I'm told that a man can be
practically covered with the varmints and his nitrogen balance won't
be disturbed enough to bother him."

"Then why worry about them?" I asked as he paused a moment.

He didn't seem to hear me. "Those puffs would be just another
annoyance except for the fact that those little rootlets evidently
work on the nerve endings of the body just enough so they don't hurt
but itch instead and, brother, how they do itch! Makes you wish you
had four more hands and someone else to help scratch."

He squirmed in remembrance. "I understand some of the earlier men dug
out divots of flesh to get rid of the intolerable itch and to keep
from going crazy. It's that bad. Good thing, though, that the spores
can't live inside the body. Can you imagine having an itch like that
in your lungs?"
