
I laid more wood on the fire as Lee paused to sip and roll the brandy.

He said, "I've always suspected, however, that the real reason for
Johnny's assassination struck Prunella, so to speak, like a bolt from
the blue when she walked under his nest in the tower. At any rate, I
saw her shoving her shirt into the disposer chute. Johnny had one bad
habit and all of us knew better than to get within his range, but
Prunella, being new with us, just didn't understand that bird."

He stopped, twirling his empty glass suggestively, with painful
memories obviously clouding his eyes while he stared into the
hypnotically flickering fire.

"Empty," he said mournfully, "just as my heart was." He bowed his head
to Johnny's memory as I hastily left him alone with his grief. I
quickly returned from the kitchen, bringing a fresh supply of the
medicinal spirits that Grandfather had advised for moments of stress
and, over Lee's feeble protests, forced a generous dosage into his
glass. He regarded it with a wan, pathetic smile, then, at my urging,
choked back his sorrow and nearly drained the goblet in a manful gulp.
Grandfather was right. The sorrow left Lee's eye and from somewhere he
found new courage to go on.

"The death of the bird seemed to crystalize the rebellion. That night,
the entire personnel of the station unanimously elected themselves as
joint chairmen of the Ways and Means Committee of the Xenon
Anti-Prunella and After-sundown Elbow-bending League and immediately
called a special meeting. The emergency session convened around a keg
of my illegal brandy which, in some miraculous manner, had escaped
Prunella's searching hatchet. Not wishing to offend the unknown gods
who had thus smiled upon us, we took small token sips as we
meditated."

Lee demonstrated with the glass in his hand. "How to throw off the
yoke of the oppressor who had come among us? How to ease the bite of
her lash on our quivering backs? How to restore our tiny, inoffensive
still whose musical, tinkling drip we loved so well? The suggestions
put before the committee that night were many and varied and
wonderful."

Lee tried to light a cigarette and nearly broiled the end of his nose
with the flame.

"Lopez, head of our camera team, wanted to pickle her in a barrel of
brandy and send her back to Venus Relay Station aboard the next
courier rocket. Sounded like a good idea, too, until Olsen, one of the
biologists, objected on the grounds that those bums on Venus never did
anything for us, so why should they get all that good brandy? The
motion was tabled as impractical when we saw the pit into which Lopez
and his wild ideas had nearly led us. A whole barrel of brandy! The
man must have been desperate to call for such extreme measures."
