
He shook his head. "Akermann, the chemist of the bunch, proposed
smoking her as one would a ham and then hanging her over the main gate
of the compound to keep away the beasties and things that go boomp in
the night. Now _that_ was what I thought a fine idea. Functional, you
might say. Might as well get some good out of her. But then Joe
smothered it with his observation that, after one look at that face of
hers, the good beasties would stay out of the compound, too.

"The dark and devious ways of the plotter were difficult for us to
assume, scientists and technicians that we were, and the trips to the
keg became more frequent as we sought the aid of the nameless gods who
had sent it to us." He paused again as Grandpa's brandy took another
beating. "The web of our own fuzzy thinking was entangling us more and
more when I was privileged to be present during the only true flash
of genius I've ever witnessed."

The wonder, the awe was still in his voice. "Akermann's assistant, the
Kid, was singled out for the touch and I must say for him that he held
up very nicely under the blow, but one could see that his sudden
responsibility set heavy on his narrow bony shoulders. The Kid drew
additional inspiration from the glass in his hand, then leaped to his
feet and as promptly sat down again. He gave the decking at his feet a
baleful glare and tried again, first choosing his footing carefully as
a man should when the floor shows that alarming tendency to tilt."

"'Men,' he said owlishly, 'le's fix it show see--I mean so she--won't
like it here an' maybe she'll go 'way. Le's set the puffs on her.'

"'On her what?' someone wanted to know.

"'On her nuthin'. Just on _her_!' the Kid said.

"'Oh.'

"There was another mass assault on the speedily diminishing supply of
illicit brandy while the committee prayed to the gods of the spacemen
for guidance. The committee decided to consider the motion.

"'Wunnerful idea,' Akermann beamed at his protege, 'but how you gonna
get 'em to bite through that protective goo she dunks herself in every
mornin'. Just how you gonna, huh?'"
