
I nodded. "How about that?" I asked Lee.

"The Kid was ready with an answer. 'Do y' know why we wear clothes
made only of vegetable or synthetic fibers and not any animal wool,
hide or fur?'

"'Sure, any fool knows that,' Akermann said. 'The cotton lobby had a
law passed.'

"'I'm serious,' the Kid told him disgustedly.

"'Howdy,' our learned chemist said happily, sticking out his hand.
'I'm Akermann.'

"The Kid must have finally decided that his boss was even more
advanced in brandy shock than he was if it was possible--and it was.
He picked another chemist, Harry North, as his new straight man and,
squinting one eye a bit in an effort to keep him in focus, said,
'Harry, do _you_ know why we don't wear wool 'n stuff like that?'

"'Sure,' Harry answered. 'The _Handbook_ says animal fibers are
protein an' if the puffs get a foothold on any article of clothing
made of 'em, then their rootlets c'n penetrate most any kind of goo
an' fasten into the guy that happens to be so stupid. Then someone has
to give him the treatment to keep him from scratching right down to
the liver an' lights.'

"The Kid's punch line was trying to get out so bad that he was about
to blow a tube. 'That's right, Harry,' he smiled patronizingly. 'Now
if Prunella was to wear somethin' like that, do y' spose the puffs
would get 'er?'

"Harry was still puzzled. 'Sure they would, but she's not gonna do it.
_Handbook_ says not to, n' even gives a long list of stuff _not_ to
wear. Nope, she won't.'

"'I know there's a list, but one nitrogenous fiber didn't get on it.
Silk is a protein--fibroin--but it's not on the list.'

"'Silk? Why should silk be on the list?' Martin, a big, beefy
physicist, was red-faced and indignant. 'It's too expensive and
fragile for ordinary wear an' besides, no self-respecting spaceman _I_
ever knew would be caught dead in a silk undershirt or a silk anything
else! What d'you think those guys are, a bunch of women to go around
wearing sil--' He stopped abruptly, staring at the Kid with something
like awe. 'Do you think we can get 'er into something made of silk?'
he asked humbly, as befits a man when he speaks to a superior being.

"There was a respectful silence as the group waited for Mr. Paulson,
formerly the Kid, to speak.

"Mr. Paulson clapped his hand over his mouth, said 'Urp' between his
clenched fingers, turned a remarkable shade of green and looked about
him like a trapped animal. A few of his admirers led him through a
small door, no doubt to worship silently at his feet while he rested
after his soul-shaking ordeal. It was clear that Mr. Paulson had given
his all for the cause."
