
Lee said, "The door slid shut on Mr. Paulson's pain-racked exit, its
latching hiss drowned by the simultaneous demand of the committee,
individually, for the attention of the committee, collectively. Each
of them considered himself the sole person present capable of carrying
on the great work for which Mr. Paulson had so nobly sacrificed
himself. Ordinarily sedate doctors of this or that gibbered at each
other in an arm-waving, frenzied attempt to be heard.

"In a matter of seconds, half the committee had the other half backed
into chairs, against tables and into corners, earnestly explaining in
a conspiratorial roar just how Prunella was to be enticed into wearing
the silken booby-trap.

"The committee gradually shouted itself into a red-faced, thirsty
semi-hoarseness only to find a demon--ne Shulman, our top
botanist--guarding the inspirational keg with a heavy stool and
promising a swift and personal drought to any man who didn't shut up
on the spot. I need not say that we shut nor that order was fast in
coming among us.

"In the comparative quiet that followed, there was a rapid-fire
shifting of ideas, deleting some, adding to others, and Prunella was
doomed. The plot wasn't _too_ thick. It depended only on the fact that
an expert's eye was needed to detect the difference between sheer
Enduron, the newest and best of the synthetic fibers, and sheer silk.
By the same token, the reverse was true. That is, given silk, one
could easily mistake it for Enduron.

"The services of a woman on Terra were necessary to us, so Sparks
magnanimously recruited his young sister, a writer or artist or
something of the sort, who lives somewhere in southern Europe. All she
had to do was buy a dozen pairs of the fluffiest, frilliest, most
outrageously feminine silk undies she could find in the most chi-chi
shop in Paris and then send them to Prunella with a note honoring her
as the first woman on Xenon and asking Prunella to accept them as a
token of admiration from one woman to another. Some fictitious name
was to be signed to it.

"We raided the office, obtained Prunella's file and copied out the
proper measurements from it. Sparks fed the message, measurements and
a blank signed photo-check into the coder and the automatic ultra-wave
transmitter took it with a swift _blip_ of sound and that was that."
