
I waited for Lee to catch his breath, which he did by inhaling from a
full glass. Then he continued talking.

"All this occurred about the middle of Xenon's third month. We
expected the skivies to arrive on a supply ship due the first of the
following month, which gave us nearly three Earth weeks to wait, but
we didn't mind. After all, we had something to wait _for_.

"The ship, bless the crew, was on schedule almost to the hour. Adams
had had his wide-angle 'scope aimed at the sky above Xenon since long
before breakfast, and he and the detectors ran a dead heat when the
ship winked out of sub-space about two million or so miles out.

"By mid-morning, the ship's gravitors had floated her into the field
for the usual feather-light landing, and mail call, always the first
order of business, was over.

"Women have a well-deserved reputation for dawdling over trifles when
important matters wait, but that morning Prunella broke all previous
records. She gossiped with the ship's captain about interminable
bills of lading, she inspected the field for any possible damage by
the ship, she swallowed enough coffee to start a fair-sized shortage.
Finally, just in time to save the station from a mass nervous
collapse, she left the office for her quarters, carrying her mail in
one hand and that small, all-important package in the other.

"She reappeared for lunch wearing the tiny smile of a woman who knows
she is appreciated by _someone_ and, we hoped, also wearing something
else not quite so visible. Never was one so closely watched by so
many. If she looked distressed, we gloated. If she squirmed in her
chair, we rejoiced. Her every move was analyzed for possible puff
symptoms.

"Prunella, that evening, dined as the captain's guest aboard ship. In
the mess hall, with Mr. Paulson installed in the seat of honor, the
arguments were long, loud and heated: She had 'em on. She didn't. The
puffs had her. They didn't.

"I hadn't realized there were so many synonyms for fool and idiot or
so many genteel ways to sneer until my learned colleagues that night
debated the case of the puffs versus Prunella. We went to bed still in
an agony of indecision."
