
Vogel left the shop and drove across town to Amenth's address. It
turned out to be an ancient rooming house on the West Side. Mrs.
Reardon, the landlady, was an apathetic woman who brightened when he
asked her about Amenth.

"He moved in just three weeks ago." Her face softened in recollection.
"He was like a lost dog coming in out of the rain. Couldn't hardly
speak English and he wanted me to trust him for the rent. I must have
been crazy." Her nostrils flared. "Not that he hasn't paid up. Are you
a cop?"

Vogel nodded as he took out his wallet. In it was his honorary
sheriff's badge, but he doubted if the woman would know the
difference. She didn't. She led the way upstairs to Amenth's room,
worrying, and Vogel assured her they were only looking for a
hit-and-run witness, that it was strictly routine.

Amenth's room was incredibly aseptic, barren of pictures, ash trays,
dirty laundry, any of the normal masculine debris. Vogel got the stark
impression of a convict's cell. In the bleak dresser were two pair of
socks, underwear, one tie. In the closet hung one white shirt ...
period. Everything wore an indefinable patina of newness. Two books
graced the top of the dresser. Vogel recognized one of them, a text on
fabrication and design which Amenth had borrowed from his office. The
other was a child's primer of English.

"He stays in his room almost every night--reads mostly, and he speaks
English much better now," said Mrs. Reardon. "A good tenant--I can't
complain--and he's quiet and clean." She described Amenth and Vogel
shook his head.

"Our man is about sixty, with a beard," he said. "Funny coincidence.
It's a strange name."

Mrs. Reardon agreed.

Vogel drove back to the shop, whistling.

[Illustration]

He did not go to his chess club that night, but went to the library
instead. He read about Flying Saucers, about space travel, about the
possibility of life on other planets. Sometimes he chuckled. Once he
frowned deeply and bit his lip.

That night in bed, listening to his wife's shallow breathing, he said,
"Alice."

"Yes?"

"Supposing you were lost on a desert island. What would you do?"

"I'd build a raft," she said sleepily.

Vogel smiled into the darkness.

Next day he made a systematic tour of the stockroom, scanning the
racks of completed sub-assemblies, the gleaming fixture components,
the rows of panels, brackets, extrusions, all waiting like soldiers to
march from the stockroom into final assembly.

Vogel suddenly grunted.

There, half hidden behind a row of stainless-steel basin assemblies,
was a nine-inch bowl. He examined it. The bowl was heavy and shiny.
There was no part number stamp, and the metal was not alclad, not
stainless, not cad nor zinc. Five small copper discs had been welded
to the lower flange.

Vogel carefully scraped off a sample with a file. Then he replaced the
part in the stock rack and went into his office where he placed the
sample in an envelope.

That afternoon he ranged the shop like a hound.

In the shipping crib, he found a half-completed detail that struck a
chord of strangeness. Two twisted copper vanes with a crumpled shop
traveler signed by Amenth. The next operation specified furnace braze.
Vogel squinted at the attached detail print. It was a current job
number.

He spent the next two hours in the ozalid room, leafing through the
print files. The job number called for a deep-freeze showcase, and
there were exactly two hundred and seven detail drawings involved.

Not one of them matched the print in shipping.

After an almost silent dinner at home, he sat smoking his pipe,
waiting for the phone to ring. It rang at eight.

"It's platinum," Carstairs said. Tim Carstairs was a night-shift
chemist. "Anything wrong, Mr. Vogel?"

"No." Vogel paused. "Thanks, Tim." He hung up, glanced at his fingers.
They were shaking.

"You," Alice said, "look ready to call mate in three."

"I'm going over to the shop," he said, kissing her. "Don't wait up."
