
He was not surprised to see the light on in the parts control section.
Amenth was writing planning sheets.

"I don't believe we authorized overtime," Vogel told him mildly,
hanging up his coat.

"Just loose ends." Amenth's smile was nervous. "Tying up these burden
charts. I'm on my own time."

"Thought I'd set up next month's budget." Vogel sat at his desk. "By
the way, what did you do before you came here?"

"Odd jobs." Amenth's lips twitched.

"Your family live on the coast?"

Sweat glistened on the little man's forehead. "Ah--no. My folks passed
on years ago."

Cat and mouse.

"You've done good work lately." Vogel yawned, studying the progress
chart on the wall. Behind him he heard a soft exhalation of relief,
the furtive rustle of papers as Amenth cleaned off his desk.

When Amenth finally left, Vogel went over to his desk and methodically
ransacked the work in process file. It took him two hours to find what
he was looking for.

One: A schematic detail on graph paper which resembled no type of
circuit Vogel had ever seen.

Two: Fourteen completed shop travelers on which were typed clearly,
_Call Amenth upon completion_. That was not unusual; most expediters
wanted to be notified when a hot part hit Inspection. The unusual part
was that no inspection stamp had been placed opposite the final
operation of _Inspect_, _Identify_, _Return to Stock_. Ergo, Amenth
had inspected and stocked the parts himself.

Three: A progress chart with dates, indicating four detail parts still
remaining in fabrication. Final assembly date--tomorrow!

The following afternoon, Vogel sat alone in the conference room. The
door opened and Amenth came in. "You sent for me, sir?"

"Sit down, Amenth. Let's talk a while."

Amenth sat down uneasily.

"We're considering you for promotion," Vogel said, silencing the
little man's protests with a deprecating wave. "But we've got to know
if you're ready. Let's talk about your job."

Amenth relaxed.

They talked shop for a few moments, then Vogel opened a folder, took
out his watch. "Very good," he said. "Now let's check your initiative
potential." As Amenth stiffened, Vogel reassured him, "Relax. It's a
routine association test."

For the next ten minutes he timed Amenth's responses with a stop
watch. Most of the words were familiar shop words and most of the
responses were standard.

"_Job._"

"Escape," Amenth said instantly.

"_Blueprint._"

"Create."

"_Noise._"

"Hate."

"_Want._"

"Home!"

It was all so childish, so obvious, and Amenth's eyes were frightened
amber pools when Vogel dismissed him. No matter. Let him suspect.
Vogel studied the reaction results with grim amusement.

Outside, the shop roared.

And Amenth's travelers sped the rounds: Issue material; Shear to size;
Form on brake; Weld per print; Miter, drill, inspect, stock. One by
one, the strange details were being formed, finished, to lie inert in
the stockroom, to await final assembly.

Assembly.

Of _what_?

Tonight was project completion.
