
Sirening police cars passed Stonery three times as he drove home in the
evening. Outside the tan stucco ranch-style house on Euclid Avenue,
cars blocked the driveway and a crowd milled on the lawn. Stonery
parked under the oak tree at the curb and got out.

Martha stood in the living room by the picture window and harangued the
crowd through a screened side panel. Centered in the window her spaniel
Fiffalo writhed, hanging by a hind leg from the massive gilt floor lamp
and yipping piteously. Martha had on her suit of gray Harris tweed and
her diamond brooch.

"... moral pressure the Russians simply _cannot_ resist," Stonery heard
her shouting as he joined the crowd. "The men talk, but the United
Dames of the Dog are not afraid to act. Putting a dear little dog on
the moon to die of heart-break!"

Several young men near the window scribbled on white pads.

"How many members do you have, Mrs. Stonery?" one asked.

"The U.D.D. is bigger than you think, young man. Bigger than the
Russians think, for all their spies and traitors!"

Stonery sidled in and tried the front door.

"She locked it," one of the reporters told him. "The cops went back for
a warrant. Say! You're Stonery!"

"Yes," the thin man said, flushing. A press camera flashed and he put
up his hands too late to shield his face.

"Give us a statement, Mr. Stonery, before the cops come back," the
reporters clamored.

Stonery backed off, waving his hands. "Please, please," he said.

"She cracked?" a reporter asked. "When did you first notice?"

"Please," Stonery said. "Yes, she's upset. Her oldest son went into the
state penitentiary in California last week. She's very upset about it."

"He kill somebody?" the same reporter asked.

"No, oh no ... just armed robbery ... please don't print that, boys."

"Here come the cops back!" someone shouted.

Two policemen crossed the lawn, one waving a paper. "Here is our
warrant of forcible entry, Mrs. Stonery," he called out. He began
reading it aloud.

"The U.D.D. will not shrink from any extremes of police brutality,"
Martha cried sharply. Fiffalo struggled and yelped louder.

The second policeman smashed the lock with a ten-pound sledge. The
reporters swept Stonery into the house with them. One policeman untied
Fiffalo and held him in his arms. He strained his head back and away
from the spaniel's whimpering kisses. Martha glared selflessly while
flash bulbs popped.

Stonery pulled gently at the other policeman's sleeve.

"May I come along, officer?" he asked. "I'm her husband. I'll have to
arrange bail."

"Not taking her," the policeman said. "No room left in the pokey. Since
two o'clock we been arresting the dogs."
