
The bellboy put down the silver bucket of ice cubes, pocketed the
quarter and went out. The skinny secretary put a bottle of whisky
beside it and turned to that fat adjutant sprawled shoeless on the bed.

"Looks like Governor Bob'll be a while yet, Sam," the secretary said.
"Shall we drink without him?"

"Hell yes, I need one, Dave," the adjutant said in his frog voice,
wiggling his toes. "Bob must be having himself a time with that Stonery
dame." He chuckled and slapped his belly.

The secretary tore wrappers off two tumblers and clinked ice into them.
His rabbit face with its spectacles framed in clear plastic expressed a
rabbity concern.

"It ain't for laughs, Sam," he said. "It's like the dancing mania of
the Middle Ages, ever hear of it?"

"No. D'they string up dogs by a hind leg too?"

"No, only danced. But it was catching, like this is. My God, Sam,
it's all over the state now, U.D.D. women running in packs at night,
singing, hanging up every dog they can catch. Sam, it _scares_ me."

He splashed whisky into the two glasses. The adjutant belched, sat up
in a creaking of bed springs, and scratched his heavy jaw.

"You're thinking they might start hanging up us poor sons of bitches,
ain't you?" he asked. "Hell, call out the Guard. Clamp on a curfew." He
reached for a glass.

"Yes, and the Russians'll fake pictures of your boys sticking old
women with bayonets," the secretary said. "Governor Bob couldn't get
reelected as dogcatcher, even."

The adjutant drained his glass, lipping back the ice, and whistled his
breath out through pouting lips.

"Good! Needed that," he grunted. "Dave, Bob's got that Stonery dame by
the short hairs, he'll swing her into line. Just that about her boy in
the state pen out in California is enough. Brown would do Bob a favor
and spring him. Or the papers here would splash it. Either way."

"I know, I know," the secretary said, sipping at his drink. "We'll see,
when Bob gets here. Meanwhile, as of yesterday we had thirty-three
thousand seven hundred twenty-six dogs in protective custody and God
knows how many more under house arrest. Sixteen thousand bucks a day
it's costing us--"

He broke off as a knock sounded on the door. He hastily tore the
wrapper off another glass and splashed it full of ice and bourbon.
The adjutant padded to the door and opened it. The governor, a stout,
florid man in a gray sports coat, came in and sat stiffly on the edge
of the bed. The secretary handed him the drink and he gulped half of it
before speaking.

"No smoke, boys," he said finally. "She give it to me just like she
does to the papers. We got to go to the moon, or make the Russians do
it, and bring that poor, dear, sweet, trusting, cuddly little dog back
to Earth again."

"How about her kid out on the coast?" the adjutant asked.

"She spit in my eye, Sam. Said she was just as brave to be a martyr as
the dogs they string up. Why, she even told me about another boy of
hers, living in sin with a black woman down in Cuba, and dared me to
give that to the papers too."

"She sounds tough as she looks."

"She's tougher," the governor groaned. "Like blue granite. I felt
like I was back in the third grade." He handed his empty glass to the
secretary.

"What did you finally do?" the secretary asked.

"What the hell _could_ I do? I want that U.D.D. vote, it must be a
whopper. I wagged my tail and barked for her and said I had an idea."

"And now I got to think up the idea," the secretary said, still holding
the empty glass.

"No, I thought it up on my way back," the governor said. "I'm going to
fly to Washington this afternoon."

"Not the army, for God's sake," pleaded the adjutant.

"No, I'm going to dump it on the Russian embassy. Damn their black
hearts, they started this. Hurry up with that drink!"

"Watch out you don't lose your donkey for sure and all," the adjutant
said. "Them Russians are smart cookies."

"They'll have to be," the governor said, reaching for the fresh drink.
"They sure ... as ... _hell_ ... will have to be!"
