
All the folding chairs were taken. Extra women stood in the aisles and
along the side of the hall. Martha Stonery bulged over the rostrum in
blue knitted wool and a pearl necklace. Seated around a half-circle of
chairs behind her, pack leaders and committee chairwomen smoothed at
their skirts. Monica Flint in dove gray sat at the organ.

Martha pounded with her gavel so hard that her pearls rattled.

"Everyone will please stand while we sing our hymn," she said into the
resultant hush. She nodded to Monica, who began to play.

"_I did not raise my dog to ride a sputnik, I will not let him wander
to the moon...._" The song was a shrill thundering.

Martha beamed across her bosom as the crowd settled itself again.

"I have a most thrilling announcement to make before we adjourn,
girls," she said, "but first we will have committee reports. Paula
Hart, will you begin?" She yielded the rostrum.

All the reports were favorable. The U.D.D. was getting four times as
many column-inches in the state press as the Russian moonship. It was
on TV and radio. A _Life_ team was coming.

Changes were recommended. Vigilante packs were not to carry hat pins
any more. Two policemen had lost eyes and the police were being ugly
about it. A bar of soap in a man's sock was to be substituted. More
practice on the clove hitch was needed. Too often, in their excitement,
the pack ladies were only putting two half hitches around the leg and
the dog could struggle out of it.

Martha came back to the rostrum to read the honor roll of those whom
dogs had bitten or policemen had insulted. Each heroine came forward
amid cheers and clapping to receive a certificate exchangeable for the
Bleeding Heart medal as soon as the honors committee could agree on a
design and have a supply made up. Martha shook the hands, some of them
bandaged, and wept a few tears.

"And now, fellow U.D.D. members," she said, "I will tell you my
surprise. Tomorrow morning I have an appointment with someone coming
from Washington!"

A sighing murmur swept through the hall.

"No, not _Eisenhower_," Martha said scornfully. "A man from the Russian
embassy, a Mr. Cherkassov."

Applause crashed shrilly. Women wept and hugged each other.

"They want to make peace," Martha shouted ringingly into the tumult.
"We've won, girls! Sally out tonight and don't come in until the last
dog is hung! We'll show them what it means to challenge the massed
U.D.D.-ers of America!"
