
The state police cordon kept the 2200 block of Euclid Avenue free
of reporters and idle gapers. The state car drove up at 10:00
A.M. and parked under the oak tree. Mr. Cherkassov and the two
TASS men got out.

Mr. Cherkassov was stocky and crop-haired in a blue suit. His broad,
high-cheekboned face, with snub nose and an inward tilt about the
eyes, managed to seem both alert and impassive. Carrying a pig-skin
briefcase, he led the way to the Stonery front door.

He stepped on the doormat and pressed the bell. The doormat whirred and
writhed under his feet and he stepped back hastily. Martha Stonery,
regal in maroon silk, four-inch cameo and piled gray hair, opened the
door.

"Don't be afraid of the doormat, Mr. Cherkassov--you _are_ Mr.
Cherkassov, aren't you?" she asked sweetly.

He nodded, looking from her to the doormat.

"Your weight presses something and the little brushes spin around and
clean your shoes," she explained. "I expect you don't have things like
that in Russia. But _do_, please, come in and sit down."

The three men stepped carefully across the mat on entering. In the
oak-paneled living room, Paula Hart waited in black wool and pearls
with Monica Flint, who wore white jade and green jersey. Martha and Mr.
Cherkassov made introductions back and forth and the men bowed stiffly.
Then Martha sat down flanked by her aides on the gray sofa facing the
picture window. The men sat in single chairs and rubbed their polished
black shoes uneasily against the deep-pile gray rug.

"Madame Stonery, I have come to justify moondog," Mr. Cherkassov said.
His voice was deep and controlled.

"Two wrongs don't make a right, Mr. Cherkassov," Martha said, raising
her head. "You needn't bring up Hiroshima. We already know about those
thousands of little black and white spaniels. Besides, I saw a _Life_
picture where you sewed a little dog's head to the side of a big dog's
neck."

Mr. Cherkassov looked at his stubby fingers and hid them under his
briefcase. Paula and Monica nodded accusingly and one TASS man made a
note.

"We do not believe it is a wrong when a greater value prevails over a
lesser," Mr. Cherkassov said. "Moondog sends us information that will
hasten the time of safe space-travel for humans."

"And who might _you_ be, to say which value is greatest? Space travel
is moonshine, just _moonshine_!"

"I do not understand your word, madame. If you mean impossible, I must
point out that moondog has already crossed space."

Martha clasped her hands in her lap. "That's what I mean, grown men
and such _silliness_, and the poor little dog has to pay."

Mr. Cherkassov spoke earnestly. "Forgive me if my ignorance of your
language causes me to misunderstand, madame. We believe because man now
has the ability to cross space he therefore has a _duty_ to all life on
Earth to help it reach other planets. Earth is overcrowded with men,
not to speak of the wild life that soon must all die. We believe that
around other suns we will find Earth-like planets where we can plough
and harvest and build homes. I cannot agree that it is silly."

Martha flung her head back.

"Well, it _is_ silly. Who'll go? All the men who do things will run
away to them and then where will we be? Oh no, Mr. Cherkassov, that
gets you nowhere!"

"Your pardon, madame," a TASS man interrupted. "What kind of men will
run away?"

"The sour-faced men who fix pipes and TV and make A-bombs and
electricity and things."

"Oh," said Mr. Cherkassov. He drummed on his briefcase. Then, "Perhaps
only Russians will go, madame. You could pass a law. I must confess to
you, we might have sent a man to the moon, but we feared the propaganda
use your country might make of it."

Martha made her parrot mouth. "You should have sent a _man_!" She
chomped the last word off short. Paula and Monica nodded vigorously.

Mr. Cherkassov stroked his briefcase. "Moondog's mistress wished
greatly to go. One might say moondog saved her mistress' life. Is not
that a value to you?"

Martha stared. "Did you dare think of sending a poor weak _woman_ to
the ... to the _moon_?"

"Russian women are coarse and strong," Mr. Cherkassov said soothingly.
"A large number of them, among the scientists, did volunteer."
