
Martha sat bolt upright and made her parrot beak again. Her fat cheeks
flushed under the powder.

"No!" she snapped. "I see where you're trying to lead me and I won't
go! You should have sent the hussy! It is _immoral_ to sacrifice a
loving little dog just for a careless whim."

Her two aides gazed admiringly at their chieftainess. "Think of it,
just for a whim!" Paula echoed.

Mr. Cherkassov's fingers traced an aimless, intricate pattern on the
briefcase and he crossed his ankles.

"All dogs are not loving in the same way, madame. Tell me, how do you
know when a dog loves you?"

"You just know," Martha said. "Take my little Fiffalo--and I just know
he's so miserable now away from me in that dreadful concentration camp
and it's all your fault, really, Mr. Cherkassov--when I pet Fiffalo he
jumps in my lap and kisses me and just _wiggles_ all over. That's real
love!"

"Ah ... I perhaps understand. What does he do when you speak sharply to
him?"

"He lies on his back with his paws waving and looks so sad and pitiful
and defenseless that my heart melts and I feel good all over. You just
_know_ that's love, when it happens to you."

Monica dabbed at a tear. Both TASS men scribbled.

"I think I may see a way to resolve our differences," Mr. Cherkassov
said. He put his feet side by side and leaned slightly forward,
gripping the briefcase on his knees.

"What do you know of the history of the dog?" he asked.

"Well, he's always been man's best friend and the savage Indians used
to eat him and ... and...."

"The true dog, madame, was domesticated about twenty thousand years
ago. He was originally the golden jackal, _Canis aureus_, which still
exists in a wild state. Selective breeding for submissiveness and
obedience over that long time has resulted in the retention through
maturity of many traits normal only to puppyhood. The modern pureline
golden jackal dog no longer develops a secret life of his own, with
emotional self-sufficiency. He must love and be loved, or he dies."

Monica sniffed. "What a beautiful name," Paula murmured. Martha nodded
warily.

"But, madame, there is also a kind of false dog. Certain Siberian
tribes slow to reach civilized status also domesticated the northern
wolf, _Canis lupus_. This was many thousands of years later, of course,
and in the false dog the effect of long breeding is not so evident.
He is loving as a puppy, but when he matures he is aloof and reserves
his loyalty to one master. He is intensely loyal and will die for his
master, but even to him he will display little outward affection.
Perhaps a wag of the tail or a head laid on the knee, not too often.
No others except quite young children may pet him at all. To all but
his master he displays a kind of tolerant indifference unless he is
molested, and then he defends himself."

"What a horrible creature, not a dog at all!" Martha exclaimed.

"Not culturally, you are quite correct, madame," Mr. Cherkassov agreed,
shifting his hold on the briefcase and leaning further forward, "but
unfortunately he is a dog biologically. Some wolf blood has crept into
most of the jackal-derived breeds, you know. It betrays itself in high
cheekbones and slanting eyes and in the _personality_ of the breed. The
chow, for instance, has considerable wolf blood."

"Chows!" Martha beaked her lips again. "I despise them! No better than
cats!" Paula nodded emphatic agreement.

"But your little Fiffalo, as you describe him, is probably of pure
_Canis aureus_ descent and very highly bred."

"I'm sure he is. Blood will tell. Monica, haven't I always said blood
will tell?"

Monica nodded, her eyes shining. Mr. Cherkassov shifted his position
slightly, nearer to the chair edge.

"Now moondog, Madame Stonery, is of the _lajka_ breed and has even more
wolf blood than the chow. If you brought her back to Earth she would
just walk away from you with cold indifference."

"Not _really_?"

"Madame, you know the wolf traits only as you find them tempered with
the loving jackal traits in such dogs as the chow. But a _Russian_ dog!
If you were to hand moondog a piece of meat, do you know what she would
do?"

"No. Tell me."

Mr. Cherkassov leaned forward, his slanting gray eyes opening wide, and
dropped his voice almost to a whisper. "Madame, she would _bite_ your
hand!"

"Then she doesn't deserve to be rescued!" Martha said sharply.

Mr. Cherkassov straightened up and began stroking his briefcase. "In
one sense she is not even a dog," he suggested.

"No, she's an old wolf-thing. Like a cat. Dogs are _loving_!"

"Perhaps not morally worthy of your campaign?"

"No, of _course_ not. Mr. Cherkassov, you have given me a new
thought.... I hadn't realized...."

Mr. Cherkassov waited attentively, his fingers tracing another pattern.
Paula and Monica looked at Martha and held their breaths.

"... hadn't realized how that subversive wolf blood has been
creeping into our loving dogs all this long time. Why ... why it's
miscegenation! It's _bestiality_! Confess it, Mr. Cherkassov--that's
one way you Russians have been infiltrating us, now isn't it?"

Mr. Cherkassov raised his sandy eyebrows, and a frosty twinkle shone in
his tilted eyes.

"You must realize that I could hardly admit to such a thing, even if it
were true, Madame Stonery," he said judiciously.

"It _is_ true! Go back to your Kremlin, Mr. Cherkassov, and shoot every
wolf in Russia to the moon. I'm sure the U.D.D. won't mind!"

Mr. Cherkassov and the TASS men stood up and bowed. Martha rose and
sailed ahead of them to the door. Hand on knob, she turned to face them.

"Our meeting will be historic, Mr. Cherkassov," she said. "I have
forced you to betray your country's plot to undermine our loving
dogs. You may expect from the U.D.D. instant and massive retaliation!
An aroused America will move at once, to set up miscegenation and
segregation barriers against your despicable wolf blood!"

Paula and Monica stood up, each with her hands clasped under her
flushed and excited face. Mr. Cherkassov bowed again. Martha opened the
door.

"Goodbye, Mr. Cherkassov," she said. "You will, no doubt, be liquidated
in a few days."

Mr. Cherkassov stepped carefully across the doormat.



