
He chuckled, and said something loving in their private code, and
switched off. His curiosity about Deez' discovery rivaled his
excitement about seeing his friend again; in a hundred years of
exploration, the space vessels of Illyri had merely confirmed the
ancient belief that Life was a rare and precious gift. They had found
slugs and lichen and moss on rocky, almost-airless worlds; they had
seen wild plant growth in steaming alien jungles; the sea creatures
of the Planet Vosa, despite their infinite variety, proved utterly
lacking in intelligence. Once, on an unnamed world in the Acheos
galaxy, the great space pioneer Val-Rion unearthed the artifacts of a
dead civilization and stunned the people of Illyri by his announcement.
He claimed to have found written language, works of art, implements
and weapons. Val-Rion was a brave man and a mighty adventurer, but a
poor scholar. In the time it took Illyri's double suns to rise and
set, the Archeological Commission completed a study of his findings
and declared it a not-too-clever hoax, perpetrated by students of
the University of Space Sciences. To the end of his days, even after
some of the students came forward to admit their deception, Val-Rion
persisted in his belief that the finding was authentic, and squandered
his fortune in an attempt to interpret the mysterious language. He
failed, of course; the "language" was nonsense. Some of the students
had been sensitive enough to regret their hoax; one of them, Deez-Cor,
named his ship after the late explorer.

But now the _Val-Rion_ and her crew were home, after an odyssey so
long overdue that the Space Commission had officially declared the
expedition lost.

Ky-Tann had never mourned for his missing friend. Sense told him that
the _Val-Rion_ was gone, atomized by its own engines, shriveled by some
alien sun or demolished on the terrain of some unfriendly world. But
he refused to make the admission, even after official hope was gone;
he continued to envision Deez at the controls of his ship, grinning
cockily into space, eyes challenging the void.

He left the spaceworks early and flew his Sked home at just above the
legal airspeed. If he had expected to find his wife excited by the
prospect of Deez' visit, he was mistaken. Su-Tann had a new tooth,
and Devia was more elated by the sight of the little white stump in
the baby's mouth than she could be by all the extra-illyrian worlds in
the known galaxies. But when Deez arrived as promised, right after the
second sunset, she burst into tears at the sight of him.

Ky-Tann himself swallowed hard as he embraced his friend. Deez
was gaunt inside his spaceman's coveralls, the bones in his face
pronounced. The skin of his right cheek and neck had been burned, and
the hair whitened on that side, giving him a strangely off-balance
look. He grinned as Deez always grinned, but when he stopped grinning
his eyes were weary.

"You must rest, Deez," Devia said sorrowfully. "It must have been awful
for you."

"No," Deez answered. "I want to talk, Devia, I can't tell you how much
I've wanted to see you both, to tell you about it."

Ky-Tann said: "The Administrators must have given you a rough time."

"I've turned over all our film records to them, and the artifacts we
stored aboard. But I haven't really talked to anyone." He licked his
dry lips, and brushed a hand over the whitened side of his hair. "The
baby," he said softly. "Could I see the baby?"

"What?" Ky-Tann seemed surprised at the request.

Devia leaped to her feet. "Of course, Deez, I'll bring her." To
Ky-Tann, she said: "Ky, you idiot, get Deez a drink or something."

"I just want to see the baby. It's a girl, isn't it?"

"Her name is Su-Tann," Devia said.
