
"We skedded across this dry ocean floor a distance of some two to
three thousand amfions, and found its peaks and valleys marvelous to
behold but utterly devoid of vegetation. Gi-Linn made some cursory
examinations of mineral specimens during our flight, and reported
that the planet's crust was an astonishing mixture of various layers,
ranging in geological age from millions of years to mere thousands.
It was further evidence that this world hadn't always been a barren
rock, that a cataclysmic volcanic upheaval had altered its terrain,
sifted and blended its strata, had dried its oceans and swallowed its
continents. For the first time, we began to look upon this particular
planet with more than routine interest.

"And then we saw it.

"At first, Totin, our navigator, swore it was only an optical trick,
an illusion of the sort we had encountered on other worlds. Once, on a
planet in the Casserian system, we had each of us seen a herd of cattle
grazing peacefully in a green field--this on a planet of interminable
yellow dust. But there was nothing dreamlike about the great metallic
ruin that came into our sight, this giant who seemed to lift its
shattered arm to us in greeting.

"I have seen terrors, and beasts, and horrors of the flesh, but I tell
you now that never before have I experienced such a pounding of the
heart as when that alien monument came into view. For not only was it
plainly a remnant of a forgotten civilization, the first we had ever
found, but it was also apparent that the ancients who had lived--and
died--on this world had been cut from the same evolutionary cloth as we
of Illyri.

"The figure was that of a woman."

Devia, who had been listening open-mouthed, said:

"A woman! Deez, how thrilling! It's like some marvelous old fable--"

"She stood some ninety amfs high," Deez said, "buried to the shoulder
in the arid soil of the planet. Her right arm was extended towards the
heavens, and clutched within her hand was a torch plainly meant to
symbolize the shedding of light. Her headpiece was a crown of spikes,
her features noble and filled with sadness. She was blackened with
the grime of centuries, battered by time, and yet still wonderfully
preserved in the airless atmosphere.

"We were thrilled by the sight of this ancient wonder, and speculated
about its builders. Had they been giants her size, or had they erected
her as a Colossus to celebrate some great deed or personage or ruler?
What did she mean to her builders, what did her uplifted torch signify?
What aspirations, hopes, dreams? Could we find the answer beneath that
dry soil?"

"Did you dig?" Ky-Tann said, his eyes shining with excitement. "You
weren't equipped for any major excavation work, were you?"

"No; the most we could have done was scratch the surface of the planet,
perhaps enough to free the entire figure of the Colossus. But that
wasn't enough; we burned with curiosity to know what lay under our
feet, what buried cities, people, histories.... Totin set up a signal
station, and beamed our message to the space station on Briaticus.
After a few days, we made contact, and relayed our story. There was
skepticism at first, but they finally agreed to dispatch all available
manpower and excavation equipment to the planet Earth."

"The planet what?" Devia said.

"Earth," Deez said, with a wan smile. "That was its name, eons ago,
and the builders, who were called Earthmen, lived within natural and
artificial boundaries called nations, empires, states, dominions,
protectorates, satellites, and commonwealths. That empty globe had
once housed as many as three _billion_ of these Earthmen, and their
works were prodigious. Their science was advanced, and they had already
thrust their ships into the space of their own solar system...."

Ky-Tann was plainly startled.

"Deez, you're really serious about this? It's not another hoax?"

"I've seen the ruins of their cities, I've touched their dry bones,
I've turned the pages of their books...." Deez' eyes glowed, pulsating
eerily. "We found libraries, Ky, great volumes of writing, in languages
astonishingly varied and yet many that were swiftly encodable.... We've
seen their machines and their houses, their working tools and their
play-things. We found their histories, records of their bodies and
voices, their manners and morals and sometimes mad behavior ... Ky!"
Deez said, his voice choked. "It'll take a hundred years to understand
all we've found!"

Devia rose quickly at the sound of his agitated voice, and went to his
side. "Try not to overexcite yourself," she said. "I know how you must
feel...."

"You can't. You can't possibly," Deez muttered. "To know the
overwhelming--_greediness_ I felt--turned loose in an archeological
treasure house--I began waking up at night, sweating at the thought
that I might die before I had seen all there was to see on that planet,
read all its books, learned all its secrets--"

"And what _did_ you learn?" Ky-Tann said.

Deez stood up slowly. He crossed the room to the view-glass, but they
knew his eyes looked out at nothing.

"I learned," he said bitterly, "that it was a world which deserved to
die."
