
The screen refocused. Now Woodward saw the injured "man" more closely,
saw the face blue in the moonlight, saw the lacerations on his cheek
and forehead. Then the "camera" traveled downwards, towards the ribs,
almost as if it were exploring the extent of the injuries for diagnosis
(later, he learned this was true).

"Well, come on," he said gruffly. He took his coat and instrument bag
from the hall closet, and shut the door on Panacea's hysteria. When
he was outside with his visitor, he saw his face for the first time.
Then he knew that the face he had seen in the tiny screen hadn't merely
looked blue in the moonlight. It was blue. A smoky, almost lavender
blue. Those who came to hate the aliens described it as purple, but
Borsu, his dying companion, and all the aliens who followed were
blue-skinned.

Woodward was in a fever of excitement by the time he reached the scene
of the crash, in the woods some five hundred yards from his home. He
understood its significance by now, knew that the fallen vessel had
been some kind of space craft, that its dual occupants were visitors
from another world. The fact that he had been first on the scene
thrilled him; the fact that he was a doctor, and could help, gratified
him.

But there was nothing in his black bag which could aid the crash
victim. His black-pupiled eyes rolled in the handsome blue head, and
his fine-boned blue hand reached for the touch of his companion's
fingers in a gesture of farewell. Then he was dead.

"I'm sorry," Woodward said. "Your friend is gone."

There was no grief evident in the placid blue face that looked down at
the body. Once again, the alien lifted the metal box and forced the
doctor's attention on the diamond-shaped screen.

The picture was that of Woodward's house.

"You want to come home with me?" Woodward said. Then he gasped as he
saw himself on the screen, entering the house, alone. Then he realized
that the scene typified a request--or a command. The man from space
wanted the doctor to return home.

"All right," he said reluctantly. "I'll go home, my friend. But I can
tell you right now--don't expect me to keep all this a secret."

He turned, and limped through the woods.

Woodward had just entered the house when the woods burst with light,
one incredible split-second of white fire that lit the world for miles.
It was the alien's funeral pyre.

Then the alien came back. When the doctor answered the door, he strode
into the room purposefully, and placed his strange visual aid on a
table top. He looked squarely at Woodward, and then placed a finger in
the center of his smooth blue forehead.

"Borsu," he said.

The doctor hesitated. Was the alien identifying himself by name?
Indicating himself by the most vital organ, his brain?

The doctor pointed to his own forehead.

"Carl," he said.

Then he looked about, and his eyes fell on the book he had been
reading. He picked it up, and tapped its cover.

"Book," he said.

The stranger took it from his hand.

"Book," he said. "Borsu, Carl. Book."

And the alien smiled.
