
Woodward handled his request to see Ridgemont, Secretary of Science,
with extreme care. He understood the functions and fears of the
bureaucrat, the ever-present concern about wasting time on crackpots,
lobbyists, representatives of various useless or lunatic fringe groups.
He had arranged the meeting through the Secretary of the Navy, and made
certain that Ridgemont knew of his good service record, that he was
convinced that Woodward was a man of sound mind and character. Only
then did he make the appointment.

Yet despite his precautions, Ridgemont looked at Woodward exactly as
the doctor knew he would.

"A man from _where_?" he said.

"From outer space," Woodward said quietly. "Not from our own solar
system, but from another. Their world exists no longer. Borsu and the
others recall nothing about it, but that was a case of deliberate
Forgetting; I'll tell you about that later. The important thing is--"

"The important thing," Woodward said icily, "is for you to see
the right person. Frankly, this department isn't concerned
with--extra-terrestrial matters. Perhaps the Department of Defense--"

"I've thought about this for some time," Woodward persisted. "I believe
you're the one person most capable of both understanding and helping.
Please don't disappoint me."

Perhaps Ridgemont was flattered; at any rate, he calmed down and let
the doctor speak.

"Borsu and a companion came to Earth about a month ago, their descent
undetected except by the astronomical observatory at Clifton; if you
check with meteor landing. But it wasn't a meteor. It was a space
vessel, and its crash killed Borsu's friend. You won't find traces of
it, either, because Borsu followed his people's tradition of totally
annihilating the remains. No, it wasn't a secret weapon of any kind; he
merely triggered the ship's atomic reactor.

"Borsu came to me by chance. But when he discovered I was sympathetic,
he allowed me to become his mentor and teacher of language. I couldn't
have wanted a better student; he's already read and digested half the
books I own.

"I have had long conversation with Borsu, about his past and his future
hopes; indeed, the hopes of his entire race. When I learned his story,
and understood why he came to our world, I decided to act as his
emissary. Borsu has a mortal--and understandable--fear of being treated
like a freak or a guinea pig. I'm here to pave the way for him, and the
others."
