
Ridgemont must have been aware of Woodward's sincerity; he looked
astonished.

"You really mean this, don't you?" he said. "A man from another planet
is here, with you?"

"Yes," Woodward said firmly. "In my own home. But I cannot give you
the name of his world, and neither can Borsu. At the moment, their
way-station is an airless asteroid in our solar system, where they are
living in an artificial atmosphere and surviving on synthetic food.
There are fewer than ten thousand of them, refugees from a world which
suffered a fate so terrible that they have allowed themselves to forget
everything about it."

"Forget? What do you mean?"

"They have a belief, an ancient conviction, about Forgetting. I don't
know whether it's cultural, or religious, or scientific in origin; but
each generation conceals the past from the new generation, especially
those things in the past which have been unpleasant or hurtful. They
are future-minded; they believe their children are sounder mentally
if they know nothing of past evils. Whatever happened on the world of
their birth is a story only their dead ancestors knew. Their interest
is only in tomorrow."

"And just what kind of tomorrow do they have in mind?"

Woodward took a deep breath.

"They wish to migrate to Earth, Mr. Ridgemont. All of them. Their
evolutionary development was virtually identical to ours; when I
marveled at this, Borsu laughed heartily at me. It is the belief of
their science--or perhaps their theology--that the physical form both
races share is the only one possible to the intelligent beings of the
universe. So you see," Woodward said wryly, "perhaps the old prophets
were right, when they said that God made Man in his own image. Perhaps
it's the only possible image in the cosmos."

"Then they look like us? Exactly like us?"

"Not exactly, no. There are some--surface differences. I know nothing
of Borsu's interior construction, only X rays could tell us that."

Ridgemont said, suspiciously: "What surface differences?"

"They are somewhat more angular than we are, a bit taller. Their
craniums are larger, their shoulders narrower and bones finer. Borsu
told me that they have no tonsils or appendix. In a way, they might
be one lateral step higher on the evolutionary scale than the people
of Earth. Their science is slightly more advanced in some areas,
behind us in others. And of course, the number of their scientists and
technicians is greatly limited." Woodward paused. "And they are blue. A
soft, pleasant shade, but unmistakably--blue."

The Secretary's chair creaked.

"And they want to settle _here_? Among us?"

"They feel sure that our races will be compatible, sharing as we do our
evolutionary heritage, that--"

"One moment," Ridgemont said sharply. "When you say compatible--are you
implying that these creatures can interbreed with us?"

The doctor winced at the word "creatures." But his reply was soft.

"No," he said. "That coincidence would be too great. But they have
no such desires; they will be happy to produce their own future
generations of citizens. They have deliberately controlled their
birthrate until they could find a home. Earth can be that home, Mr.
Ridgemont, but they wish to be sure of a welcome."
