
That night, in a hotel room in Washington, Dr. Carl Woodward died of a
coronary thrombosis.

Secretary of Science Ridgemont, however, was curious enough about the
doctor's story to send a deputation to his home in Pennsylvania. As a
simple precaution, one of the men in the party was an armed policeman
named Sergeant Kemmer. At the first sight of the blue-skinned man,
Kemmer became alarmed enough to draw his gun. Borsu recognized the
weapon, and its dangerous potential, from his reading. Frightened,
he tried to flee through the front door, and Kemmer misinterpreted
his movement as an attack. He fired three times. One of the bullets
penetrated Borsu's temple, and killed him instantly.

Three months passed before the next delegation from the aliens appeared
on Earth. This time, their arrival was detected, and the visitors were
brought safely to the local authorities in the Nebraska community where
their vessel landed. Their names were Cor, Basuc, and Stytin. Stytin
was a female, lovely in her blue-skinned shapeliness.

A team of scientists were dispatched from Washington, Tokyo, and London
to take charge of the alien trio. It was another two weeks before their
marvelous facility with language permitted them to talk intelligently
to their examiners.

On November 8, 1973, Stytin, the blue female, was found assaulted,
mutilated, and murdered in the woods near the town of Ponchi. The
brutal slaying shocked the scientists, who tried to assure Cor and
Basuc that the episode had not been typical of the behavior of the
people of Earth. But Cor and Basuc, who had no memory-record of
killing, became terrified, and fled. Cor was shot and killed by a
farmer, and Basuc was accidently drowned while forging a stream during
his escape.

The death of the four aliens, however, didn't prevent the migration
from beginning. Hunger--not for food alone, but for the blessed green
promise of the Earth--drove the blue aliens to make the journey before
receiving assurance of their welcome. Their tiny two, three, and
four-man craft began dotting the heavens, filling the world with fears
and panics that were only partially allayed by the repeated assurances
of the world's leaders. Despite explanations and pleas for order, the
blue people were frequently slain the moment their ships touched Earth.
There was never an official estimate of the deaths, but it was certain
that well over three thousand of the aliens lost their lives before
ever tasting a drop of cool Earth water, or knowing the shade of an
Earth tree, the peaceful blue of an Earth sky.

Finally, the killings were over. Less than seven thousand Blues
survived the perilous journey, protected upon their arrival by
contingents of armed soldiers, sped to the scene of the landings in
time to stop the citizens from their slaughter.
