
It was Mostyn Herbert, Secretary-General of the United Nations, who
made the first speech of welcome, before the general assembly.

"The world," he said, "has seen a new migration in these past months,
an event which has brought new hours of infamy to the human race.
The savagery of man to beast, the bestiality of man to man, has now
been exceeded by our shameful record of cruelty towards these homeless
wanderers from a forgotten world. We have slain almost a third of their
number wantonly and without cause. They proffered to us the wisdom and
knowledge of their own civilization, and asked for nothing in return
but sanctuary. We have answered them with murder, and rape, and a
bigotry that has exceeded all others in the long and reeking history
of human injustice. It is time for the human race to call a halt; not
merely for the sake of our alien visitors, but for the sake of the
almighty soul of Man. We must hold out our hand, and say 'Welcome.
Welcome to Earth!'"

Moved by the plea of the Secretary-General, the assembly voted to
form a 12-nation commission to study the problem. Many governments
made offers of hospitality to the aliens; the United States, Canada,
Australia, the Scandinavian and Low Countries, all expressed a
willingness to set aside land areas for the exclusive use of the
aliens. The U.S.S.R. made no offer of land, but suggested that the
Blues could be completely integrated into Russian society. The choice
was left to the Blues and their leader, an Elder named Trecor.

The wisdom of Trecor's decision became a subject of debate for
generations to come. He declined to isolate his people as a "nation,"
separate and apart from the human race. He declined to have them as
boarders within any one sovereign state. Instead, he asked that the
Blues be divided into small communities and dispersed over the world,
where each could work out their individual destiny. His purpose was a
noble one: he wished to make his people truly the neighbors, even the
partners, of the Earthmen.

And so it was.

In the United States, a Blue community began a collective farming
project on acreage deeded to them by the government in Kansas. Within
three years, the crops of winter wheat and corn produced on the
Blue farmlands were so superior in quality that they provoked the
admiration, and envy, of every farmer in the district. In '77, the year
of the Terrible Twisters, only the Blue farmlands were miraculously
spared the destruction of their fields. The ignorant claimed that
some spiritual agency had helped the Blues; the more enlightened
credited the sturdiness of their crops. But both became united in
a sullen resentment of the Blues, the strangers who had committed
the unpardonable sin of prospering in a season of want. From these
beginnings came the illicit organization of terrorists who called
themselves the Dom-Dom, a name originally meaning Defenders of Mankind.
Between the years 1977 and 1991, the Dom-Dom could take the blame for
the violent deaths of more than a thousand Blues.
