
In New Zealand, another farming community of Blues fared better than
their fellows in Kansas. But in the year 1982, they fell victim to the
still-unnamed plague which Earthmen merely called the Blue Disease.
It seemed to strike only the aliens, but it resembled typhoid in its
symptoms and deadly progress. The Blues themselves became unable to
cope with the disease; their pleas for outside medical help brought
only a handful of Earth physicians. When one of them, a Dr. Martin
Roebuck, died of a seizure that the Blues swore was unrelated to the
plague, the others fled in fear of contagion. Their statement to the
world press claimed that the biological differences between Earthmen
and Blues were too great for Earth medicine to be of value. And so the
Blues of New Zealand died. The white flash of their funeral pyres lit
the night again and again.

In Russia, a non-farming community of Blues, composed mainly of artists
and scientists, lived in a government-constructed "city" and were
carefully nurtured and pampered like talented, precocious children.
After five years of this treatment, the Blues sickened of it and
yearned for a freer life. With the eyes of the world upon them, the
Russians quickly agreed to the Blue demands. Yes, they could do as they
please, live as they please, work as they please. One by one, their
privileges were withdrawn. The Blues found that they had to provide
their own food, their own clothing, maintain their own shelters; the
Russians had given them independence with a vengeance. They found
themselves unable to care for their own elementary needs; they were
like helpless children; they began quarreling among themselves. For the
first time in the remembered history of the race, a Blue killed another
Blue; it was said that the shame of this episode was the cause of the
Elder Trecor's death. Eventually, the Blues surrendered; they preferred
the easy comforts of their prison, and begged their jailers to lower
the bars again.

In the thirty-six years of the Blues' residence on Earth, only four
thousand births were recorded; while ten thousand of the race perished.

It was in the year 2009, following the Kansas City Massacre by the
Dom-Dom, in which eight hundred Blues died under the flamethrowers of
the terrorists, that the Decision was reached. It was relayed to the
world by an Elder named Dasru, whose prepared statement was read to the
United Nations.

"We came to your world unbidden and unwelcome," the statement said. "We
came to your world asking no privilege, bearing no arms, wishing for no
more than forbearance for our differences, patience for our ignorance,
and sympathy for our homelessness. We offered love and received hatred.
We came in peace and died in war.

"We love the sweet green fields of your planet, its clear water and
skies, its generous soil. But you have never permitted Earth to become
our home, and so we leave you. We leave you, people of the cruel
planet. Rather than suffer your bigotry, and yes, your tolerance, we
leave you. We go to seek another homeland, and in the minds of our
future generations no memory of this hated visit shall remain. We shall
Forget you, Earth; but may you always remember, what drove us from your
world."

Then the exodus began. One by one, the small spacecraft of the Blues
began to rise towards the heavens. Before the next Spring came to
Earth, the Blues were gone.

Ky-Tann cleared his throat, and looked at his young wife. Devia stared
at Deez.

"How long ago?" Ky-Tann asked. "When did this happen?"

"Perhaps three, four thousand years ago," Deez said. "They left the
Earth to its fate, and eventually that fate was extinction. Some defect
in its sun caused an outburst of nuclear fire, and shriveled the
planet to what it has become. But still _she_ stands, their goddess of
welcome, lifting her torch to the empty skies.

"When we dug up that statue, do you know what we found? There was an
inscription on the base. When we learned the story of that planet's
past, the irony of those words was poignant."

"Do you remember them?"

"I could never forget them," Deez said, and his eyes were dark. "_Give
me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
the wretched refuse of your teeming shore; send these, the homeless,
tempest-tossed, to me; I lift my lamp beside the golden door._"

There was silence. Ky-Tann became aware of his wife's tears.

He went to her, and she wiped her eyes. "I'd better put Su-Tann to
bed," she said, trying to smile at Deez. "Did you see her tooth, Deez?
It's her very first."

Ky-Tann took his wife's blue hand, and kissed her blue cheek. "A
beautiful tooth," he said.

