
The commander smiled an unwilling agreement, but he stayed in the open
door, searching the gathering darkness toward the city. He could not
shake loose from the feeling of doom that had settled on him as soon
as they had made their landfall and clambered from the airlocks of the
spaceship. This was a strange world, the commander thought to himself.
It seemed to have everything--everything but intelligent inhabitants.
They had circled it for two days before they had chosen this wide green
valley for their landfall. They had seen cities, many of them, great
cities along seacoasts and in rich plains, cities in mountains and in
valleys, but nowhere had they seen life.

The first cautious explorations after the landing that morning had
shown that there was plenty of good water. The soil seemed rich, and
vegetation grew in profusion, even among the ruins they had warily
skirted. The atmosphere was perfect ... it was what they had searched
for through the long bitter years ... this stable atmosphere with
its abundance of life-giving oxygen. And minerals aplenty ... the
burned and blasted metal skeletons of the ruined city showed that. The
commander told himself that he was a fool for worrying, when he should
be shouting with joy at his luck.

There was a shout from the outpost, a laugh, and then his
second-in-command loped through the rain, smiling broadly. Behind him
were the others, laughing and joking, shrugging their packs to the
ground. Gladness and wonder were in their faces and their voices, and
the commander knew that this was the world they had sought for so long.

The lieutenant ducked into the doorway and paused to warm himself at
the little thermal unit. He wiped the rain from his face, reached for
the wine bottle beside the astrogator's work board, and tilted it.

"This is it, sir," he said. He was young, and Fate had been good to
him, and he was exulting in it. "It's everything we ever dared dream
about. It will support the whole race, every one of us, I think, if the
rest of this world is anything like what we've seen this day."

The commander grinned back at him, relief plain in his face. He was
phrasing the message that he would send home across the void, the
message they had waited for down through the weary years, the years
that had rolled by while the land burned up under a blazing sun, while
the water disappeared and the atmosphere became thin.... But there was
still in him the doubt, the remnant of fear....

"Did you," he spaced the words carefully, "find any sign
of--intelligent life?"

The lieutenant's smile faded. He glanced quickly out at the men,
breaking out their rations, resting from the labor, and looked back at
his captain. He nodded.

"Tracks," he said. "We came across them leading out of the deserted
city."

"Many?"

"I don't think so. Five or six, perhaps. And we found where they had
killed one of the small animals and eaten it."

"Did they seem--intelligent? Really, I mean?"

The lieutenant shrugged. "Who knows? They're bipeds, at any rate. We
followed the tracks, but they had taken to a small stream bed, and we
lost them."

The commander pondered. Then he made his decision.

"In a country as large as this," he said, "five or six can't make any
difference to us, not even to a small party like our own. And certainly
not when the ships begin arriving from home."

The lieutenant leaned back on his pack, his face content. The commander
sat at a field desk and started writing, carefully, knowing that
what he wrote would someday be in every textbook. The message was not
difficult, really. Thousands of space captains had phrased the message
in their minds down through, the years of The Search. So had he, time
and again, as he lay in his bunk or watched the wheeling stars from
the bridge. In the glow of the thermal unit his stern face glowed with
pride and the certainty that it was his ship that had saved a world....

In another hut the scholar stared thoughtfully at the thing he had
found in the old house where they had discovered the tracks. There had
been a language on this dead world, and in his hand he held some of the
brown mouldering pages upon which the language had been written. He
applied his scholar's mind to the puzzle....
