
So that was that. During the night watch two men of the crew lugged
the ancient Nolan heat cannon from stores and I went below to check. I
found young Slops bent over the old cannon, giving it a strenuous and
thorough cleaning. The way he was oiling and scrubbing at that antique
reminded me of an apprentice gunner coddling his first charge.

I must have startled him, entering unexpectedly as I did, for when I
said, "Hi, there!" he jumped two feet and let loose a sissy little
piping squeal. Then, crimson-faced with embarrassment, he said, "Oh,
h-hello, Lieutenant. I was just getting my new incinerator shipshape.
Looks O.Q., eh?"

"If you ask me," I said, "it looks downright lethal. The Old Man must
be off his gravs to let a young chuckle-head like you handle that toy."

"But I'm only going to use it," he said plaintively, "to dispose of
garbage."

"Well, don't dump your cans when there are any ships within range," I
warned him glumly, "or there'll be a mess of human scraps littering up
the void. That gun may be a museum piece, but it still packs a wallop."

"Yes, sir," said Slops meekly. "I'll be careful how I use it, sir."

I had finished my inspection, and I sniggered as his words reminded me
of a joke I'd heard at a spacemans' smoker.

"Speaking of being careful, did you hear the giggler about the old maid
at the Martian baths? Well, it seems this perennial spinster wandered,
by accident, into the men's shower room and met up with a brawny young
prospector--"

Captain Slops said, "Er--excuse me, Lieutenant, but I have to get this
marsh-duck stuffed."

"Plenty of time, Slops. Wait till you hear this; it will kill you. The
old maid got flustered and said, 'Oh, I'm sorry! I must be in the wrong
compartment--'"

"If you don't mind, Mr. Dugan," interrupted the cook loudly, "I'm
awfully busy. I don't have any time for--"

"The prospector looked her over carefully for a couple of seconds; then
answered, 'That's O.Q. by me, sister. I won't--'"

"I--I've got to go now, Lieutenant," shouted Slops. "Just remembered
something I've got to get from stores." And without even waiting to
hear the wallop at the end of my tale he fled from the galley, very
pink and flustered.

So there was one for the log-book! Not only did our emergency chef lack
a sense of humor, but the little punk was bashful, as well! Still, it
was no skin off my nose if Slops wanted to miss the funniest yarn of a
decade. I shrugged and went back to the control turret.
