
There are soldiers and soldiers. Fighting men, as a rule, are pretty
decent guys at the core. Having experienced danger, violence and the
crawling horror of death themselves, they know the meaning of mercy.
They respect their foes, and extend a fine magnanimity in the moment of
victory.

Lieutenant-Colonel Ras Thuul, commander of the Third Outer Planets'
Alliance Flotilla, was not this type of enemy. Half-breed spawn of a
Jovian tribal priestess and a renegade Earthman, he retained the worst
characteristics bequeathed by each of his parents.

From his father he had inherited height--he towered a full head above
the squat, gnarled Jovian "runts" he led--and a festering hatred
of the planet Earth. From his priestess mother he had suckled the
milk of sadistic savagery which typified Jovian civilization before
space-spanning Earthlings carried enlightenment to the far-flung
sisterhood of the Sun.

His first words demonstrated clearly how slender was the mercy we might
expect at his hands. To Captain O'Hara he said coldly, bluntly, rudely,
"Your sidearms, Captain!" Then as the Old Man silently proffered
his personal weapons: "You will walk before me, sir, on a tour of
inspection. You might advise your men I hold you as hostage. One
hostile move from any source means your death."

The skipper's reply was richly disdainful.

"I have surrendered myself to you under the Rules of War, Colonel. This
play-acting is childish and altogether unnecessary."

Ras Thuul's swarthy cheeks sallowed; he took a swift step forward and,
before one could guess his intention, slapped the Old Man viciously
across the mouth with his gauntlet. The heavy, asbestos-lined
space-glove cut and bruised; a thin trickle of blood split the
skipper's lips.

"One in your position," snarled the invader, "should learn not to
insult his betters! Now, lead the way, Captain. There is much to be
done, and no time to waste."

Thus began our painful journey through the conquered _Leo_. As Ras
Thuul had said, there was much to be done by his forces--nor had they
delayed in getting about their task. A laboring crew was busily engaged
in stripping the food-stuffs from our supply bins, other workmen were
dismantling all hypo and radio equipment, verifying our belief that the
O.P.A. was desperately in need of such material. Grim-faced Jovians
had herded our marksmen from the gun embrasures, and were quickly
dismantling every piece of ordnance the _Leo_ boasted.

From room to room we went, from passage to sector to cabin. Nothing
escaped the eagle eye of our foeman. By word and sign he designated to
his henchmen those items which were to be removed, those which were to
be destroyed. Only in the control-room was everything left untouched.
It was here that Ras Thuul volunteered the explanation which proved the
depths of his infamy. With a grin of sheer savagery he explained:

"I find it needless to waste energy in smashing this equipment,
Captain. I am sure the rocky fragments of the Bog will do that most
efficiently."

The Old Man stared at him uncomprehendingly.

"You--you mean you're going to wreck the _Leo_ in the Bog? Just turn it
loose and let the grindstone smash it?"

Ras Thuul shrugged. "It is the easiest way."

"But--" puzzled the skipper confusedly--"how about us? I mean, are you
going to take us aboard your ship, or do we get camped on one of the
asteroids, or--"

The half-breed shrugged negligently. "Why, Captain, you wouldn't want
to desert your ship? I've always heard you Earthmen made it a point of
honor to stand by your decks. Of course I would not think of forbidding
you this signal honor."

The skipper's face turned white, but it was not fear that drained his
cheeks of color; it was righteous rage. His words exploded like a fused
hypatomic.

"_What!_ You _dare_ do a thing like this, Colonel! You accepted my
surrender under military covenant--"

"That will do, Captain!" rapped Ras Thuul. "It will do you no good to
prate of technicalities. I acknowledge but one rule of war--destroy
your enemy! When this vessel has been stripped of its fuel and
supplies, I shall turn it loose in the Bog. What happens then to it--or
you--is none of my concern. Your pleas are vain, sir!

"And now, have we seen the entire ship?"

It was his selection of the word "pleas" that ended the Old Man's
protestations. O'Hara needed no microscope to read our adversary's
character; he knew that Ras Thuul would enjoy nothing more than
listening to pleas for mercy. If we had to die, we could at least die
like men. His jaw clamped forever on argument.

"We have," he said. "We are now where we started."
