
And so we were, back in the Officers' Mess. A half hour ago our
troubles had begun here; now they threatened to end abruptly and, for
us, horribly.

But the half-breed's eyes had narrowed. A liar and dastard himself, he
had a liar's distrust for everyone else. He nodded toward the closed
door on the farther wall.

"We haven't been in there. Where does that lead?"

I said caustically, "No, and there's one mouse-trap you haven't crawled
into yet, too. What's the matter? Got a tapeworm? That's just the
kitchen."

It sounds right daring now that I see it in writing, but it was pure
braggadocio. I figured my number was up, and a few healthy insults
wouldn't make me die any deader. But our captor paid no attention.
Prodding Captain O'Hara before him, he pushed into the galley.

Of course Captain Slops was on duty. The little guy was a study in
technicolor; sort of pink around the eyebrows, white around the lips,
and green around the gills. But I had to hand it to him, he was a
game little fighting cock. Never a cringe for the Jovian commander,
who brushed by him to peer about the cookhouse, and though the runt
warriors had taken his massive old Haemholtz when they stripped us all,
I saw he had a very large, and a very sharp, cleaver hanging not too
far from his grasp.

Naturally, there wasn't anything for our foe to find in the galley. But
he went through all the motions, just the same. Squinted in the stove,
the refrigerator, the vegetable bins. And finally--

"Ah, ha!" rasped he. "What have we here? A cannon! So, Captain
O'Hara--a concealed weapon, eh? Sergeant--"

He wheeled to one of his subalterns. But Andy Laney stepped forward
awkwardly.

"It--er--it's not really a cannon, sir," he piped. "If you'll just
open the breech, sir, you'll see--Oh! _Do_ be careful, sir! Oh, my
goodness!"

Because Lieutenant-Colonel Ras Thuul had hurled open the breech, and
the incinerator-cannon was full--or had been a moment before. Now
it was half empty, and the accumulation of slops and refuse as yet
unincinerated had dumped backwards all over him!

It was the one bright spot in an otherwise dull day. Thuul howled and
bellowed, and that was a mistake because his mouth opened. Then he
spluttered. And gagged. And coughed. And backed, slipping and sliding
on cold gravy, away from the incinerator. He wasn't the impressive
figure he had been ten minutes ago. Coffee-grounds mottled his gold
tunic, and lima beans tangled coyly with his once-gleaming epaulets.
Potato-peelings draped gracefully from his ears, and the exotic odor of
a slightly antique egg exuded from his shirt-front.

Well, what would _you_ do? Even if you knew your life was in danger,
what would you do at such a moment?

The same as we did, of course. We laughed. The Old Man and I, we burst
out in a guffaw and rocked till we almost split our surcingles. And
Slops laughed, too, in that piping little squeal of his, though even
through his laughter he was gasping spasmodically, "I--I tried to warn
you, sir. I'm _so_ sorry! But you see it's only a garbage incinerator."

But he who laughs last, laughs last. And if our foe had been despicable
before, he was a raging fury now. He did not even stop to scrape the
last clinging turnip-top from his jacket. He spun to his subordinates
and screamed, "Come! We are finished here! Back to our ship! I'll show
these Earthmen one does not insult a Jovian commander with impunity!"

And his face a thundercloud of wrath, he dashed from the galley. We
heard him calling his men, heard them exiting through the airlock, and
then--silence again.
