
It was then, his paroxysms of mirth stifled by sober recollection, that
the Old Man turned and said, "Well, it was fun while it lasted. But
it's all over now, Dugan. Call the men together. This is the last act,
and we might as well all face it together."

But before I could leave the room, Slops clutched my arm with fingers
tense and hot as live wires.

"No, Joey! Don't go! I need your help. And yours, Skipper! Hurry! We
haven't a minute to lose!"

I stared at the Old Man and he at me. "H-huh?" said the two of us.
"Help? Help for what?"

"Oh, don't _talk_ so much!" bleated Andy. "_Work!_ Get this garbage out
of here--like this!"

And recklessly he plunged both arms into the channel of the
incinerator, recklessly hurled it about the previously immaculate floor
of the galley. As he worked, he panted: "An incinerator, yes ...
but ... it was a good cannon ... in its ... day. It will still work. I
cleaned ... and oiled it ... and connected it to the charger. _It still
shoots!_"

_Shoots!_ That was all we had to hear. We fell all over ourselves
trying to get an armload of that goo. I never thought I'd live to see
the day I'd go fond and blissful over a gallon of boiled noodles, but
that's just what happened. I dug in, and so did the skipper. In less
time than I've taken to tell it, we had that incinerator-cannon empty,
swabbed out and ready for use as a cannon-incinerator.

Then the captain clapped a hand to his forehead.

"Omigawd--I clean forgot! The firing-plate! There ain't no vision-field
for this gun!"

"Oh, yes there is!" cried Captain Slops. "Over your head, there--the
galley-vent. I--I removed the atmosphere-duct and installed a
vision-field. Use the crossed wires for a target centering device."

I flung open the vent. As he had said, the vent had been converted into
a perfect firing-plate. There before me, a fat and gladsome target, was
the largest of the enemy ships which had captured us, the flagship of
Ras Thuul's fleet. As I watched, I saw the commander and his boarding
party re-enter their own craft.

I said grimly, "Well, it's six against one. They'll blast us out of
space, but by the purple gods of Pluto, we'll take at least one of them
with us. This thing is connected?"

And I reached for the trigger. But once again Slops held my hand.

"No, Joey! There's a fighting chance we can get _all_ of them. Wait
till they cut the tractor beams and we're free of them. Then turn the
cannon _upward_ toward the Belt--"

"Upward?" I repeated dazedly. It didn't make sense. I glanced outside
to make sure. Here was the situation. The planetoid Vesta lay about a
mile or so below us. Larger than most of the meteoric and planetesimal
fragments that comprise the Belt, its orbit was irregular. The smaller
hunks of rock--and of course when you talk about "smaller" asteroids
that means shards ranging anywhere from a yard to several miles in
diameter, with weights ranging from a hundred pounds to twice that many
thousands of tons--were whirling and swirling _above_ our ships in a
tight, lethal little huddle. That, of course, was the _melee_ into
which Ras Thuul planned to plunge us after he cut his tractor beams.
