
Surprisingly, it was O'Hara who seconded Andy Laney.

"Do what he says, Joe. I don't know exactly what he has in mind, but
it's his pigeon. He's steered us right this far; we might as well go
whole-hog."

"Thank you, Captain!" said Slops gratefully. And as he spoke the words,
the _Leo_ rocked violently. With gathering speed we began to move away
from our erstwhile captors, their tractor beams now released. Upward
we surged toward the web-work of flailing missiles that spelled pure
destruction.

"Now, Joey!" almost screamed Slops. "Aim the cannon at the rubble. Hold
it firm. Full strength!"

And I did. I yanked the controls over to full power and aimed the heat
gun straight into the heart of the rubble. The radiation was invisible,
of course. Our enemies couldn't know we had an operative weapon. I held
it for seconds which dragged like centuries. Nearer we were hurtling
toward doom, nearer and nearer.

I cried, "Nothing's happening, Skipper! We're going to crash in a
minute. I might as well turn the gun on one of their ships--"

"_Hold it!_" shrieked Captain Slops. "It's working as I hoped. Hold it
steady, Joey!"

And now, returning my gaze to the target, I saw what he meant.
Something strange and weird was happening--not to us or to the enemy
spacecraft, but to the Bog itself! Like a huge, churning kettle it was
seething, rolling, boiling! And even as I cried aloud my astonishment,
one of the tinier bits of matter plummeted _down_ from the overhanging
canopy of death to rattle against the hull of Ras Thuul's flagship.

Then another ... and another ... and then a large piece. A hunk of rock
which must have weighed half a ton. It struck one of the Jovian vessels
like a sledgehammer, and a huge gap split in the spaceship's seams.
There came signs of frenzied activity from aboard the enemy boat; fire
spurted from stern-jets as engineers hurriedly warmed their rockets.

We saw two warships, desperately trying to get under way, ram each
other head on. Three more were crushed, beaten shapeless, by the
tons of stony metal that smashed their very girders. The last, Ras
Thuul's flagship, met its doom most horribly. It was caught as in a
vise between two mountainous boulders which rolled tangentially over
it. When they separated, all that remained of a once proud ship was a
flattened, lacerated shred of tortured steel.

[Illustration: _In the unbelievable shambles, two of the cruisers
collided._]

It was then, and then only, that Slops said to me:

"That's all, Joey. You can turn it off now." There was something
akin to sadness in his voice. I understood. I didn't feel any too
good myself, watching those Jovians, foes though they were, die so
frightfully. "Captain O'Hara, if we can repair the damage done by the
marauders, we can now go on to Callisto and complete our mission.
I--What's the matter, Captain?"

Cap O'Hara was glaring at his little finger irately.

"Matter? Why, confound it, I cut myself on that tin can. Look at this!"

He thrust before our noses a pudgy paw, the pinky of which was leaking
very feebly. I chuckled. Not so Slops; he loosed one horrified gasp,
and--

"Blood!" he screamed. "Oh, gracious, I simply can't _stand_ the sight
of blood! _Oooooohh!_"

His face went suddenly white. And--just like that!--Captain Slops
fainted dead away!

The skipper said, "Well, I'll be damned!" Dazed, he knelt beside the
little fellow, fumbled at his jacket collar. "Ain't that the funniest
you ever saw, Dugan? Sees six ships scuttled without batting an
eye-lash, and passes out at seeing a pinprick! Aw, well, it's probably
shock more than anything else. I'll unloose his shirt, give him a
little air--"

I said, "He's the queerest guy I ever met. But he's a _man_, Skipper."

Then a funny thing happened. The Skipper, strangely scarlet of face,
rose suddenly from Andy's side. He croaked, "You--you wouldn't like to
lay a little bet on that, Dugan?"

"Huh?" I said. "On what? I don't understand--"

The Old Man moaned softly.

"Neither do I, Dugan. But you were wrong! Slops, here, ain't no man at
all, and never was! He--_he's a girl!_"
