
Milt, Frankie's master control, came down to the beach and strolled over
to join them. Milt had been a Five-Time Defender in the Welter division
before his fights ran out. Now he was skinny and sixty. His was the mind
that had directed every punch Frankie had ever thrown.

He studied the figure of Frankie lying on the sand. The
two-hundred-pound fighting machine was thirty years old. Milt winced
when he compared it to that of the twenty-two-year-old slugger they
would have to meet in a few hours.

Benny said "Hi," and ambled off.

"Well, boy, this one means a lot to both of us," Milt said.

"Sure," was all Frankie could answer.

"For you, the first Ten-Time Defender the heavyweight division has ever
produced. For me, The Hall of Boxing Fame."

"You want that pretty bad, don't you, Milt?"

"Yeah, I guess I do, Frankie, but not bad enough to win it the wrong
way."

Frankie's head jerked up. "What do you mean, the wrong way?"

Milt scowled and looked as though he wished he hadn't said that. He
turned his head and stared hard at his fighter. "There's something we
maybe ought to have talked about, Frankie."

"What's that?"

Milt struggled for words. "It's just--oh, hell! Forget it. Just forget I
said anything."

"You figure we win tonight?"

"I think maybe we will."

"You don't seem very sure. On points, huh?"

"Yeah, maybe on points." Milt turned his eyes back on Frankie's eager
face. "Frankie, boy--there's something about being a Ten-Time Defender
that's, well--different."

Milt took a deep breath and was evidently ready to tell Frankie exactly
what he meant. But Frankie broke in, his voice low and tense. "Milt--"

"Yes?"

"When I get in there tonight--turn me loose!"

Milt was startled at the words. "Release _control_?"

"Yeah--sure. I think I can take Nappy Gordon on my own!"

"Nappy can stick his fist through a brick wall--all night long. And Pop
Monroe knows all there is to know and some he makes up himself. They'd
be a tough pair to beat. Our big ace is that they have to beat us. We
_got_ the Nine-Times."

"I can take him, Milt!"

There was a strange light in Milt's eyes. He did not speak and Frankie
went on. "Just one round, Milt! If I slip you can grab control again."

"You just want a try at it, huh?"

There seemed to be disappointment in Milt's voice; something Frankie
couldn't understand. Milt seemed suddenly nervous, ill-at-ease. But
Frankie was too eager to give it much attention. "How about it,
Milt--huh?"

Milt had been squatting on the sand. He got to his feet and looked out
across the water. "All right. Maybe we'll try it."

He seemed sad as he walked away. Frankie, occupied with his own elation,
didn't notice ...
