
I called on them the next at their lodgings, the modesty of which was
enhanced by a hundred pretty feminine devices--flowers and photographs
and portable knick-knacks and a hired piano and morsels of old brocade
flung over angular sofas. I took them to drive; I met them again at
the Kursaal; I arranged that we should dine together, after the Homburg
fashion, at the same table d'hote; and during several days this
revived familiar intercourse continued, imitating intimacy if not quite
achieving it. I was pleased, as my companions passed the time for me
and the conditions of our life were soothing--the feeling of summer and
shade and music and leisure in the German gardens and woods, where we
strolled and sat and gossiped; to which may be added a vague sociable
sense that among people whose challenge to the curiosity was mainly not
irresistible we kept quite to ourselves. We were on the footing of old
friends who still had in regard to each other discoveries to make. We
knew each other's nature but didn't know each other's experience; so
that when Mrs. Pallant related to me what she had been "up to," as I
called it, for so many years, the former knowledge attached a hundred
interpretative footnotes--as if I had been editing an author who
presented difficulties--to the interesting page. There was nothing new
to me in the fact that I didn't esteem her, but there was relief in my
finding that this wasn't necessary at Homburg and that I could like her
in spite of it. She struck me, in the oddest way, as both improved
and degenerate; the two processes, in her nature, might have gone on
together. She was battered and world-worn and, spiritually speaking,
vulgarised; something fresh had rubbed off her--it even included the
vivacity of her early desire to do the best thing for herself--and
something rather stale had rubbed on. At the same time she betrayed
a scepticism, and that was rather becoming, for it had quenched the
eagerness of her prime, the mercenary principle I had so suffered from.
She had grown weary and detached, and since she affected me as more
impressed with the evil of the world than with the good, this was a
gain; in other words her accretion of indifference, if not of cynicism,
showed a softer surface than that of her old ambitions. Furthermore
I had to recognise that her devotion to her daughter was a kind of
religion; she had done the very best possible for Linda.

Linda was curious, Linda was interesting; I've seen girls I liked
better--charming as this one might be--but have never seen one who for
the hour you were with her (the impression passed somehow when she
was out of sight) occupied you so completely. I can best describe the
attention she provoked by saying that she struck you above all things
as a felicitous FINAL product--after the fashion of some plant or some
fruit, some waxen orchid or some perfect peach. She was clearly the
result of a process of calculation, a process patiently educative, a
pressure exerted, and all artfully, so that she should reach a high
point.

This high point had been the star of her mother's heaven--it hung
before her so unquenchably--and had shed the only light (in default of a
better) that was to shine on the poor lady's path. It stood her instead
of every other ideal. The very most and the very best--that was what the
girl had been led on to achieve; I mean of course, since no real miracle
had been wrought, the most and the best she was capable of. She was as
pretty, as graceful, as intelligent, as well-bred, as well-informed,
as well-dressed, as could have been conceived for her; her music, her
singing, her German, her French, her English, her step, her tone, her
glance, her manner, everything in her person and movement, from the
shade and twist of her hair to the way you saw her finger-nails were
pink when she raised her hand, had been carried so far that one found
one's self accepting them as the very measure of young grace. I regarded
her thus as a model, yet it was a part of her perfection that she had
none of the stiffness of a pattern. If she held the observation it was
because you wondered where and when she would break down; but she never
broke down, either in her French accent or in her role of educated
angel.

After Archie had come the ladies were manifestly his greatest resource,
and all the world knows why a party of four is more convenient than a
party of three. My nephew had kept me waiting a week, with a serenity
all his own; but this very coolness was a help to harmony--so long, that
is, as I didn't lose my temper with it. I didn't, for the most part,
because my young man's unperturbed acceptance of the most various forms
of good fortune had more than anything else the effect of amusing me. I
had seen little of him for the last three or four years; I wondered what
his impending majority would have made of him--he didn't at all carry
himself as if the wind of his fortune were rising--and I watched
him with a solicitude that usually ended in a joke. He was a tall
fresh-coloured youth, with a candid circular countenance and a love
of cigarettes, horses and boats which had not been sacrificed to more
strenuous studies. He was reassuringly natural, in a supercivilised age,
and I soon made up my mind that the formula of his character was in the
clearing of the inward scene by his so preordained lack of imagination.
If he was serene this was still further simplifying. After that I had
time to meditate on the line that divides the serene from the inane, the
simple from the silly. He wasn't clever; the fonder theory quite defied
our cultivation, though Mrs. Pallant tried it once or twice; but on
the other hand it struck me his want of wit might be a good defensive
weapon. It wasn't the sort of density that would let him in, but
the sort that would keep him out. By which I don't mean that he had
shortsighted suspicions, but that on the contrary imagination would
never be needed to save him, since she would never put him in danger.
He was in short a well-grown well-washed muscular young American, whose
extreme salubrity might have made him pass for conceited. If he looked
pleased with himself it was only because he was pleased with life--as
well he might be, with the fortune that awaited the stroke of his
twenty-first year--and his big healthy independent person was
an inevitable part of that. I am bound to add that he was
accommodating--for which I was grateful. His habits were active, but
he didn't insist on my adopting them and he made numerous and generous
sacrifices for my society. When I say he made them for mine I must duly
remember that mine and that of Mrs. Pallant and Linda were now very
much the same thing. He was willing to sit and smoke for hours under the
trees or, adapting his long legs to the pace of his three companions,
stroll through the nearer woods of the charming little hill-range of the
Taunus to those rustic Wirthschaften where coffee might be drunk under
a trellis. Mrs. Pallant took a great interest in him; she made him, with
his easy uncle, a subject of discourse; she pronounced him a delightful
specimen, as a young gentleman of his period and country. She even
asked me the sort of "figure" his fortune might really amount to, and
professed a rage of envy when I told her what I supposed it to be. While
we were so occupied Archie, on his side, couldn't do less than converse
with Linda, nor to tell the truth did he betray the least inclination
for any different exercise. They strolled away together while their
elders rested; two or three times, in the evening, when the ballroom of
the Kursaal was lighted and dance-music played, they whirled over the
smooth floor in a waltz that stirred my memory. Whether it had the
same effect on Mrs. Pallant's I know not: she held her peace. We had on
certain occasions our moments, almost our half-hours, of unembarrassed
silence while our young companions disported themselves. But if at other
times her enquiries and comments were numerous on this article of my
ingenuous charge, that might very well have passed for a courteous
recognition of the frequent admiration I expressed for Linda--an
admiration that drew from her, I noticed, but scant direct response.
I was struck thus with her reserve when I spoke of her daughter--my
remarks produced so little of a maternal flutter. Her detachment, her
air of having no fatuous illusions and not being blinded by prejudice,
seemed to me at times to savour of affectation. Either she answered me
with a vague and impatient sigh and changed the subject, or else she
said before doing so: "Oh yes, yes, she's a very brilliant creature.
She ought to be: God knows what I've done for her!" The reader will have
noted my fondness, in all cases, for the explanations of things; as an
example of which I had my theory here that she was disappointed in the
girl. Where then had her special calculation failed? As she couldn't
possibly have wished her prettier or more pleasing, the pang must have
been for her not having made a successful use of her gifts. Had she
expected her to "land" a prince the day after leaving the schoolroom?
There was after all plenty of time for this, with Linda but
two-and-twenty. It didn't occur to me to wonder if the source of her
mother's tepidity was that the young lady had not turned out so nice a
nature as she had hoped, because in the first place Linda struck me
as perfectly innocent, and because in the second I wasn't paid, in
the French phrase, for supposing Louisa Pallant much concerned on that
score. The last hypothesis I should have invoked was that of private
despair at bad moral symptoms. And in relation to Linda's nature I had
before me the daily spectacle of her manner with my nephew. It was as
charming as it could be without betrayal of a desire to lead him on. She
was as familiar as a cousin, but as a distant one--a cousin who had been
brought up to observe degrees. She was so much cleverer than Archie
that she couldn't help laughing at him, but she didn't laugh enough to
exclude variety, being well aware, no doubt, that a woman's cleverness
most shines in contrast with a man's stupidity when she pretends to take
that stupidity for her law. Linda Pallant moreover was not a chatterbox;
as she knew the value of many things she knew the value of intervals.
There were a good many in the conversation of these young persons;
my nephew's own speech, to say nothing of his thought, abounding in
comfortable lapses; so that I sometimes wondered how their association
was kept at that pitch of continuity of which it gave the impression.
It was friendly enough, evidently, when Archie sat near her--near
enough for low murmurs, had such risen to his lips--and watched her with
interested eyes and with freedom not to try too hard to make himself
agreeable. She had always something in hand--a flower in her tapestry
to finish, the leaves of a magazine to cut, a button to sew on her glove
(she carried a little work-bag in her pocket and was a person of the
daintiest habits), a pencil to ply ever so neatly in a sketchbook
which she rested on her knee. When we were indoors--mainly then at her
mother's modest rooms--she had always the resource of her piano, of
which she was of course a perfect mistress.

These pursuits supported her, they helped her to an assurance under
such narrow inspection--I ended by rebuking Archie for it; I told him he
stared the poor girl out of countenance--and she sought further relief
in smiling all over the place. When my young man's eyes shone at her
those of Miss Pallant addressed themselves brightly to the trees and
clouds and other surrounding objects, including her mother and me.
Sometimes she broke into a sudden embarrassed happy pointless laugh.
When she wandered off with him she looked back at us in a manner that
promised it wasn't for long and that she was with us still in spirit.
If I liked her I had therefore my good reason: it was many a day since a
pretty girl had had the air of taking me so much into account. Sometimes
when they were so far away as not to disturb us she read aloud a little
to Mr. Archie. I don't know where she got her books--I never provided
them, and certainly he didn't. He was no reader and I fear he often
dozed.



