
Julia stood with her back against the door. Her arms, tired of reaching
out, hung limply against her sides. A ray of sunlight streamed through
the partly open window and a little pool of it snuggled on her pillow.
It had been such a long ride in from Beverly Hills and on two buses.
She had sat in the back where it wasn't so crowded and the smell of
exhaust was still in her nostrils.

She walked over to the dresser and put her purse down beside the cat
and ran her fingers caressingly through the soft fur. Belle took a
swipe with a hind paw. Julia rested her head on the dresser.

"I'm going to die, Belle."

The cat sat up and lifted a front paw. She washed it with little
delicate strokes from her tongue.

Julia moved over to the bed and sat down on the edge of it. She slipped
her shoes off. Her feet hurt. They always hurt in heels. Why does one
get dressed up to see the doctor? He could have told her she had six
months to live while she was wearing flats.

He didn't actually blurt it out as I walked in the door. He fooled
around under that sheet for a long time. And then he said it. No, not
then either. He just looked pained and hurt and a little white around
the lips and he told me to get dressed and come into his office. He had
the lab reports on his desk and he pounded on them and he said you're
as good as dead now!

I wish he had! Then I could hate him. I could hate instead of feeling
numb all over. He didn't want to tell me anything. Just get ready for
an operation. No, there really wasn't any rush. But soon. And then I
dragged it out of him. I insisted I had a right to know. It was my
life. No, I don't have any family here. No one ... no one! A brother in
New York. Don't call him! The doctor stammered like a schoolboy who's
unprepared in class.

Julia fell back on the bed. She stared at the unlighted ceiling
fixture. She should cry, but she'd cried in the doctor's office and
there was nothing left to cry. Six months to live. Maybe only five
months. Certainly no more than seven with the operation.

A spring in the bed got her in the back. She ought to tell Mrs. Shultz
to fix that. She certainly didn't want to spend her last six months
sleeping on a loose spring. Spend her last six months!

She turned over on her stomach and pressed her face into the blanket.
Her body was rigid. She tried to contemplate her own death. She should
call her brother. No, she would die first.

"Hello, excuse me, my name is Vassi."

Julia raised her head and looked around the room. It was empty.

"Would you say this is a typical prior dwelling?"

Julia sat up. There was no one.

"Oh, I hadn't thought of that possibility. I suppose we don't have a
similar frame of reference. You'll never understand my thoughts."
