
She got off the bed. She walked around the room and her stocking feet
made little padded sounds on the cotton carpet. Then she crossed to the
door of the apartment and pressed her ear against it.

"Are you a ventriloquist?" she said.

"A ventriloquist? Oh, my, no. I'm an historian." The voice was in her
head.

"I'm insane." It had to happen. She touched her finger-tips to her
mouth.

"Is that so? That's too bad. We're over and done with that sort of
thing."

"I'll wash my face with cold water. It must be the strain. I shouldn't
have forced the doctor...."

"You _are_ alone, aren't you? I looked around rather carefully.
I didn't see anyone except that ... that thing on that piece of
furniture."

Julia looked at Belle. The cat was asleep on the dresser. She started
to walk to the bathroom but stopped in front of the bed and sat down.
Her head was going to burst.

"Please" she said. "Please stop."

"I really don't want to intrude. But I have my recorder right here.
It won't take long and then I must move on. Now I notice you're fully
dressed. Most remarkable. We always thought you prior people indulged
in sex orgies almost continuously."

"My God!"

"Your thoughts are confused. Is it because you're insane? You haven't
had much experience in thought projection, have you?"

Julia jumped from the bed and ran into the bathroom. She locked the
door behind her and turned on the cold water full force. She cupped her
hands under the faucet and plunged her face into the cascading coldness.

My name is Julia Fenway. I'm a file clerk at Continental Insurance. I'm
going to die and I'm not preoccupied with sex.

She turned off the faucet and stared into the sink. The water gathered
into a little whirlpool and disappeared down the drain. There was a
knock on the bathroom door.

The voice was in her head. "I wonder if I could see that. We have some
rather indistinct writings on running water. I'd like to bring them up
to date."

The cold water didn't help. If anything, it was worse now. The knocking
came from the door. She was sure of it. But the voice ... the voice was
inside her.

"May I come in?"

Julia sat down on the edge of the tub. She squeezed her head between
her hands. I don't deserve this. What did I do to deserve this?

"Please. I'm on a tight schedule."

"So am I! Go away!" She was talking to it. She was talking to the voice
in her head.

Then it was very quiet. Julia watched the door, waiting for someone to
walk through its solidness. Nothing happened. She lowered her head and
started to count the tiny tiles in the floor.

If I count one row very carefully, it will take me five minutes, two
rows ten minutes, three rows....

She started to count.
