
As she was midway through the fourth row, the voice said, "I don't
think you realize the importance of my visit. We recognize your right
of privacy, but don't you feel in this case...?"

Julia jumped up and pulled open the door. "Let me die in peace!"

She ran into the other room and stood in the middle of it, looking all
around, breathing hard. Belle leaped down from the dresser, her doze
finished, and rubbed against Julia's leg.

The water in the bathroom was running.

She hadn't shut it off. But she had. She had.

The water started again. It stopped. It started. It stopped.

"How quaint."

There is someone here!

"Who are you?"

"Vassi."

"Vassi?"

"I'm chief historian, research division. It's my first trip in time.
The scientists have been playing around with this thing for years and
they've only just let us take it over."

A time traveler! Julia stood very still. Her eyes searched the room
slowly once again. The window was open about three inches. Too small
for anyone to squeeze through. The door was locked from the inside.
There was absolutely no one in the room. In her desperate state, she
was hunting for an out. She was involved in a fairy story. Her body
started to relax.

"I can't see you, Mr. Vassi."

I can't accept death. I'm looking for escape.

"You can't see me? I'm standing right in front of you."

"I can't see you."

"I don't understand. I can see you. Here, take my hand."

For a moment, Julia hoped. There was nothing.

"Why, I can't touch you!"

Not even a breath of wind.

Julia walked over to the dresser and took a package of cigarettes out
of her handbag. She carried it over to the sofa and sat down.

"You walked through me!"

She lit the cigarette, inhaled deeply and blew out the smoke in a long
steady stream. When she was a little girl and she had a sharp pain in
her side, her mother would say it's only gas, hold on, it'll pass.

She would hold on.... Mother, help me!

The voice in her head. "I wish I had paid more attention to those
scientists. What was it they said? I had so much to do before I left.
Something about transporting living matter.... Are you _sure_ I'm
invisible?"

"I can't see you."

"Do you people have trouble with your eyes? No, that's not it. I can't
touch you. And I'd expected to bring back some artifacts. I am terribly
disappointed."

"I'm sorry."

"And well you might be. It's going to be extremely difficult going
around asking people a lot of questions when they can't see me. You
must have had quite a start."

"Stop it! Stop it! My head. Oh, dear God, my head!" Julia got up. "I'm
going out!"

"You are having trouble with the thought projection. I'll sit down and
be quiet for a moment."
