
Julia sank down on the couch. If only she could see him. "Don't leave
me to die."

"How strange to talk about dying," said Vassi. "We all live so long we
never think about it."

"You will take me with you, Vassi?"

"If people in your time have such short lives, then why does dying
trouble you? It would seem a matter of course."

"Vassi, I haven't lived yet."

"This is out of my line. I'll tell you what. When I return, I'll talk
to one of the scientists. If they're interested in the project, they'll
send someone back."

"How long will that be?"

"Now let's see if I can figure in your time. Hmm.... I'd say about a
year...."

Julia closed her eyes. She felt dampness under the lids. Her voice was
hollow as she spoke to the empty room. "I'll be dead in six months."

And the voice in her head echoed, "Six months...."

"Vassi, isn't there someone you can talk to now?"

He didn't answer her.

Julia looked around the room. "Vassi, are you still here? Vassi?
Vassi, if you don't talk, I can't tell if you're still here! Vassi,
please answer me. Did I talk too much? I didn't mean to run on about
my problems. I know you have a job to do. Maybe you can squeeze me
in. I don't want to keep you from your work. Vassi, you didn't go, did
you? You didn't leave me! Don't leave. I believe in you. I believe in
you...."

And now she had the aloneness she had longed for. He was gone and she
would be left with the Mrs. Shultzes and the doctor.

She went from the living room to the kitchen to the bathroom and back
into the living room, listening, hoping to catch the small sound of his
breathing. But her body would not be quiet and she heard nothing except
herself.

She stood for a long while looking down at the bed. The sunlight
drifted from the pillow onto the covers and finally spilled off the
foot of the bed onto the floor and the room was a shade darker. She was
a stone, but a stone whose blood gurgled and stomach rumbled and heart
beat and pulse pounded, so loudly she could hear nothing else.

Her legs gave way and she crumpled to the bed and she was silent at
last.

The breathing came from the direction of the window.

She spoke into the covers. "Vassi, why didn't you answer me?"

"You tempt me and I have so much to do, so much ground to cover."

"You can come back."

"We haven't got enough of these time centers. There's quite a lineup
to use them. If I go now, there's no telling how long it'll take me to
get back."

Julia got up and went to the window. "Am I facing you?"

"Yes."

"You're my only hope, wild as it seems. Vassi, wouldn't it be helpful
to your research to have a real live person from my time to study?"
