
Vassi spoke slowly. "You mean you would be willing to have us--study
you?"

"Within limits.... No, not within limits."

"They'll be very angry if I come back without my research project."

"Are people that cold in your time?" asked Julia.

"Cold?" Vassi repeated in bewilderment.

"Heartless?"

"Heartless? I hardly think so."

"I mean callous, without pity, without compassion."

"I've been very busy. I haven't thought about it."

"Do men and women marry in your time?"

"Yes, they do."

"Are you married?"

"No, you see, I'm not very--presentable. Besides, I have my research."

"To me you're the most beautiful man in the world."

"You can't see me. If you saw me, you wouldn't think so."

"I can hear you. That's all I need."

Julia turned from the window and walked back to the couch. When she sat
down she could feel herself trembling. Never, never in her life had she
spoken to a man like that. Maybe, if she could see him, his eyes would
be mocking her.

She said, "If you take me back with you, then later when I'm well I
could come back with you and show you everything you would want to see.
Then I could be your guide."

He was standing in front of her. She could hear him breathing again.
There was excitement in his breathing; she was sure of it.

He said, "I wish I could touch you. You're very beautiful."

"Vassi, in my own time I'm ugly. Perhaps I belong in your time."

Then the excitement that was in his breathing was in his voice. "All
right. All right. I'll see what I can do. You wait right here. It may
take me several years to get back. But I'll do it if I can...."

"Several years! Vassi, I can't wait that long!" She was very near
despair.

"No, no, you don't understand. In your time it'll only be a matter of
minutes. The controls would be set to right now, however long it may
take to have the project approved in my time."

The room was quiet. A slight breeze drifted in through the open window.
Julia sat very still on the couch for a few moments. Belle rubbed
herself against the coffee table and then climbed into Julia's lap.

She had to hold on. She had to believe. A world with no illness. A
world where people live practically forever. A world with Vassi.

She scratched the cat behind the ears. Belle started to purr softly.

"Belle," Julia said, "what am I going to do with you? Vassi will think
of something. He's coming back, Belle. He's coming back and he'll take
both of us with him."

She picked up the cat and put it on the couch. Then she got up and went
to the mirror over the dresser. She pushed her hair back from her face.

He said I was beautiful. Not even my mother ever said I was beautiful.
What will they think at the office when I don't come in tomorrow or
even phone? They won't think anything. They'll get Sheila with the
black hair and the big bust to do my work and they won't think about me
at all.

Even _that_ one didn't say I was beautiful. Not even right after I
moved in here and he was a little drunk, and he could have said it
then. Then, of all times, but he didn't. He just looked a little
ashamed, maybe disgusted afterward, and he talked about being late for
a dinner appointment.
