
Julia bent down and picked up the cat. Her tears fell on the animal's
fur. She held it close to her. The cat was quiet, unknowing.

Julia said, "Do me first."

"Even if I could, I would not," said Vassi. "The cat first."

"I've had her since she was a kitten, a little round ball with a button
for a nose. I can't do this to her. If it does not work.... This is my
madness, not hers!"

"What were you going to do with her six months from now?"

"Six months.... Alone, she would be left alone.... Belle has never
been alone except for the hours when I'm at work. Who would take care
of her? She's such a fussy eater. I have to feed her liver from my
hand...."

"You'll be together."

"Together...."

"Take one of the pillows on the bed. Don't think about it! Do it!"

Julia carried Belle over to the bed. As she tried to put it down, one
of its claws became entangled in her dress. The cat started to struggle
as if finally awakened. Julia reached over for a pillow. Sweat stood
out on her forehead. Her tears blinded her. She saw the mass of fur.
She saw the softness. The claws were freed. She brought the pillow
down over Belle.

Julia blacked out, sprawled across the pillow.

She couldn't have been out long. She pulled herself from the bed. The
pillow was on the floor. Belle was gone.

Vassi's voice was in her head. "It worked! The anatomists are wild!
I've never seen so much excitement!"

"Belle is all right?"

"Wonderful. It took them no time at all to revive her. The laboratory
is a bedlam. Everyone wants to examine her."

"How should I do it? I'll never be able to suffocate myself." She
laughed a little. "I can't even turn on the gas range. Mine is
electric."

She looked around the apartment. If she slashed her wrists there would
be too much blood. She hated blood. The thought of poison repelled her.
Wait--she had it.

She pulled one of the sheets off the bed and twisted it. She pushed the
overstuffed chair into the center of the room and stood on one of the
arms to attach an end of the sheet to the ceiling fixture. At the other
end she made a noose.

There was a knock on the door again.

"Julia, if you're not well, it's no good you should be alone," Mrs.
Shultz said.

Julia slipped the noose over her head.

"Vassi, do you love me?"

"Of course. I just hope you'll love me."

Mrs. Shultz knocked hard. "Julia, I hear you talking. I know you're
home. Let me in. I have some soup for you."

"Vassi, do you think I'm beautiful?"

"The most beautiful woman I have ever seen."

Mrs. Shultz pounded on the door. "Julia, why don't you answer me?"

As Julia stepped off the arm of the chair, she saw the open window. A
thought crossed her mind before the noose tightened. Belle could have
jumped out of the window when I passed out. _Julia, you're a realist!_
