
Grannie spilled a few shreds of Martian tobacco onto a paper and deftly
rolled herself a cigarette.

"It wasn't _Guns_, it was _Pistols_; and it wasn't _Ganymede_, it was
_Pluto_."

I grinned. "All complete, I'll bet, with threats against the universe
and beautiful Earth heroines dragged in by the hair."

"What else is there in science fiction?" she demanded. "You can't have
your hero fall in love with a bug-eyed monster."

Up on the wall a clock chimed the hour. The old woman jerked to her
feet.

"I almost forgot, Billy-boy. I'm due at the _Satellite_ Theater in ten
minutes. Come on, you're going with me."

Before I realized it, I was following her through the lounge and out to
the jetty front. Grannie Annie hailed a hydrocar. Five minutes later we
drew up before the big doors of the _Satellite_.

They don't go in for style in Swamp City. A theater to the grizzled
colonials on this side of the planet meant a shack on stilts over the
muck, _zilcon_ wood seats and dingy atobide lamps. But the place was
packed with miners, freight-crew-men--all the tide and wash of humanity
that made Swamp City the frontier post it is.

In front was a big sign. It read:

                            ONE NIGHT ONLY
                        DOCTOR UNIVERSE AND HIS
                             NINE GENIUSES
                        THE QUESTION PROGRAM OF
                              THE SYSTEM

As we strode down the aisle a mangy-looking Venusian began to pound a
tinpan piano in the pit. Grannie Annie pushed me into a seat in the
front row.

"Sit here," she said. "I'm sorry about all this rush, but I'm one of
the players in this shindig. As soon as the show is over, we'll go
somewhere and talk." She minced lightly down the aisle, climbed the
stage steps and disappeared in the wings.

"That damned fossilized dynamo," I muttered. "She'll be the death of me
yet."

The piano struck a chord in G, and the curtain went rattling up. On the
stage four Earthmen, two Martians, two Venusians, and one Mercurian
sat on an upraised dais. That is to say, eight of them sat. The
Mercurian, a huge lump of granite-like flesh, sprawled there, palpably
uncomfortable. On the right were nine visi sets, each with its new
improved pantascope panel and switchboard. Before each set stood an
Earthman operator.
