
A tall man, clad in a claw-hammer coat, came out from the wings and
advanced to the footlights.

"People of Swamp City," he said, bowing, "permit me to introduce
myself. I am Doctor Universe, and these are my nine experts."

There was a roar of applause from the _Satellite_ audience. When it had
subsided, the man continued:

"As most of you are familiar with our program, it will be unnecessary
to give any advance explanation. I will only say that on this stage are
nine visi sets, each tuned to one of the nine planets. At transmitting
sets all over these planets listeners will appear and voice questions.
These questions, my nine experts will endeavor to answer. For every
question missed, the sender will receive a check for one thousand
_planetoles_.

"One thing more. As usual we have with us a guest star who will match
her wits with the experts. May I present that renowned writer of
science fiction, Annabella C. Flowers."

From the left wing Grannie Annie appeared. She bowed and took her place
on the dais.

The Doctor's program began. The operator of the Earth visi twisted his
dials and nodded. Blue light flickered on the pantascope panel to
coalesce slowly into the face of a red-haired man. Sharp and dear his
voice echoed through the theater:

"_Who was the first Earthman to titter the sunward side of Mercury?_"

Doctor Universe nodded and turned to Grannie Annie who had raised her
hand. She said quietly:

"Charles Zanner in the year 2012. In a specially constructed
tracto-car."

And so it went. Questions from Mars, from Earth, from Saturn flowed in
the visi sets. Isolated miners on Jupiter, dancers in swank Plutonian
cafes strove to stump the experts. With Doctor Universe offering
bantering side play, the experts gave their answers. When they failed,
or when the Truthicator flashed a red light, he announced the name of
the winner.

It grew a little tiresome after a while and I wondered why Grannie had
brought me here. And then I began to notice things.

The audience in the _Satellite_ seemed to have lost much of its
original fervor. They applauded as before but they did so only at the
signal of Doctor Universe. The spell created by the man was complete.

Pompous and erect, he strode back and forth across the stage like a
general surveying his army. His black eyes gleamed, and his thin lips
were turned in a smile of satisfaction.

When the last question had been answered I joined the exit-moving
crowd. It was outside under the street marquee that a strange incident
occurred.

A yellow-faced Kagor from the upper Martian desert country shuffled by,
dragging his cumbersome third leg behind him. Kagors, of course, had an
unpleasant history of persecution since the early colonization days of
the Red Planet. But the thing that happened there was a throw back to
an earlier era.

Someone shouted, "Yah, yellow-face! Down with all Kagors!" As one
man the crowd took up the cry and surged forward. The helpless Kagor
was seized and flung to the pavement. A knife appeared from nowhere,
snipped the Martian's single lock of hair. A booted foot bludgeoned
into his mouth.

Moments later an official hydrocar roared up and a dozen I.P. men
rushed out and scattered the crowd. But a few stragglers lingered to
shout derisive epithets.

Grannie Annie came out from behind the box office then. She took my arm
and led me around a corner and through a doorway under a sign that read
THE JET. Inside was a deep room with booths along one wall. The place
was all but deserted.

In a booth well toward the rear the old lady surveyed me with sober
eyes.

"Billy-boy, did you see the way that crowd acted?"

I nodded. "As disgraceful an exhibition as I've ever seen. The I.P. men
ought to clamp down."

"The I.P. men aren't strong enough."

She said it quietly, but there was a glitter in her eyes and a harsh
line about her usually smiling lips.

"What do you mean?"
