
The following day was our seventh in the swamp. The water here
resembled a vast mosaic, striped and cross-striped with long winding
ribbons of yellowish substance that floated a few inches below the
surface. The mold balls coming into contact with the evonium water of
the swamp had undergone a chemical change and evolved into a cohesive
multi-celled marine life that lived and died within a space of hours.
The Venusians paddled with extreme care. Had one of them dipped his
hand into one of those yellow streaks, he would have been devoured in
a matter of seconds.

At high noon by my Earth watch I sighted a low white structure on one
of the distant islands. Moments later we made a landing at a rude
jetty, and Grannie Annie was introducing me to Ezra Karn.

He was not as old a man as I had expected, but he was ragged and
unkempt with iron gray hair falling almost to his shoulders. He was
dressed in _varpa_ cloth, the Venus equivalent of buckskin, and on his
head was an enormous flop-brimmed hat.

"Glad to meet you," he said, shaking my hand. "Any friend of Miss
Flowers is a friend of mine." He ushered us down the catwalk into his
hut.

The place was a two room affair, small but comfortable. The latest
type of visi set in one corner showed that Karn was not isolated from
civilization entirely.

Grannie Annie came to the point abruptly. When she had explained the
object of our trip, the prospector became thoughtful.

"Green Flames, eh?" he repeated slowly. "Well yes, I suppose I could
find that space ship again. That is, if I wanted to."

"What do you mean?" Grannie paused in the act of rolling herself a
cigarette. "You know where it is, don't you?"

"Ye-s," Karn nodded. "But like I told you before, that ship lies in
Varsoom country, and that isn't exactly a summer vacation spot."

"What are the Varsoom?" I asked. "A native tribe?"

Karn shook his head. "They're a form of life that's never been seen by
Earthmen. Strictly speaking, they're no more than a form of energy."

"Dangerous?"

"Yes and no. Only man I ever heard of who escaped their country outside
of myself was the explorer, Darthier, three years ago. I got away
because I was alone, and they didn't notice me, and Darthier escaped
because he made 'em laugh."

"Laugh?" A scowl crossed Grannie's face.

"That's right," Karn said. "The Varsoom have a strange nervous reaction
that's manifested by laughing. But just what it is that makes them
laugh, I don't know."

Food supplies and fresh drinking water were replenished at the hut.
Several mold guns were borrowed from the prospector's supply to arm the
Venusians. And then as we were about to leave, Karn suddenly turned.

"The Doctor Universe program," he said. "I ain't missed one in months.
You gotta wait 'til I hear it."

Grannie frowned in annoyance, but the prospector was adamant. He
flipped a stud, twisted a dial and a moment later was leaning back in a
chair, listening with avid interest.

It was the same show I had witnessed back in Swamp City. Once again I
heard questions filter in from the far outposts of the System. Once
again I saw the commanding figure of the quiz master as he strode back
and forth across the stage. And as I sat there, looking into the visi
screen, a curious numbing drowsiness seemed to steal over me and lead
my thoughts far away.
