
Half an hour later we headed into the unknown. The Venusian boatmen
were ill-at-ease now and jabbered among themselves constantly. We
camped that night on a miserable little island where insects swarmed
about us in hordes. The next day an indefinable wave of weariness and
despondency beset our entire party. I caught myself musing over the
futility of the venture. Only the pleadings of Grannie Annie kept me
from turning back. On the morrow I realized the truth in her warning,
that all of us had been exposed to the insidious radiations.

After that I lost track of time. Day after day of incessant rain ... of
steaming swamp.... But at length we reached firm ground and began our
advance on foot.

It was Karn who first sighted the ship. Striding in the lead, he
suddenly halted at the top of a hill and leveled his arm before him.
There it lay, a huge cigar-shaped vessel of blackened _arelium_ steel,
half buried in the swamp soil.

"What's that thing on top?" Karn demanded, puzzled.

A rectangular metal envelope had been constructed over the stern
quarters of the ship. Above this structure were three tall masts. And
suspended between them was a network of copper wire studded with white
insulators.

Grannie gazed a long moment through binoculars. "Billy-boy, take three
Venusians and head across the knoll," she ordered. "Ezra and I will
circle in from the west. Fire a gun if you strike trouble."

But we found no trouble. The scene before us lay steeped in silence.
Moments later our two parties converged at the base of the great ship.

A metal ladder extended from the envelope down the side of the vessel.
Mid-way we could see a circular hatch-like door.

"Up we go, Billy-boy." Heat gun in readiness, Grannie Annie began to
climb slowly.

The silence remained absolute. We reached the door and pulled it open.
There was no sign of life.

"Somebody's gone to a lot of trouble here," Ezra Karn observed.

Somebody had. Before us stretched a narrow corridor, flanked on the
left side by a wall of impenetrable stepto glass. The corridor was
bare of furnishings. But beyond the glass, revealed to us in mocking
clarity, was a high panel, studded with dials and gauges. Even as we
looked, we could see liquid pulse in glass tubes, indicator needles
swing slowly to and fro.

Grannie nodded. "Some kind of a broadcasting unit. The Green Flames in
the lower hold are probably exposed to a _tholpane_ plate and their
radiations stepped up by an electro-phosicalic process."

Karn raised the butt of his pistol and brought it crashing against the
glass wall. His arm jumped in recoil, but the glass remained intact.

"You'll never do it that way," Grannie said. "Nothing short of an
atomic blast will shatter that wall. It explains why there are no
guards here. The mechanism is entirely self-operating. Let's see if the
Green Flames are more accessible."

In the lower hold disappointment again confronted us. Visible in
the feeble shafts of daylight that filtered through cracks in the
vessel's hull were tiers of rectangular ingots of green iridescent ore.
Suspended by insulators from the ceiling over them was a thick metal
plate.

But between was a barrier. A wall of impenetrable stepto glass.

Grannie stamped her foot. "It's maddening," she said. "Here we are at
the crux of the whole matter, and we're powerless to make a single
move."
