
Outside the day was beginning to wane. The Venusians, apparently
unawed by the presence of the space ship, had already started a fire
and erected the tents. We left the vessel to find a spell of brooding
desolation heavy over the improvised camp. And the evening meal this
time was a gloomy affair. When it was finished, Ezra Karn lit his pipe
and switched on the portable visi set. A moment later the silence of
the march was broken by the opening fanfare of the Doctor Universe
program.

"Great stuff," Karn commented. "I sent in a couple of questions once,
but I never did win nothin'. This Doctor Universe is a great guy. Ought
to make him king or somethin'."

For a moment none of us made reply. Then suddenly Grannie Annie leaped
to her feet.

"Say that again!" she cried.

The old prospector looked startled. "Why, I only said they ought to
make this Doctor Universe the big boss and...."

"That's it!" Grannie paced ten yards off into the gathering darkness
and returned quickly. "Billy-boy, you were right. The man behind this
_is_ Doctor Universe. It was he who stole my manuscript and devised a
method to amplify the radiations of the Green Flames in the freighter's
hold. He lit on a sure-fire plan to broadcast those radiations in such
a way that millions of persons would be exposed to them simultaneously.
Don't you see?"

I didn't see, but Grannie hurried on.

"What better way to expose civilized life to the Green Flames
radiations than when the people are in a state of relaxation. The
Doctor Universe quiz program. The whole System tuned in on them, but
they were only a blind to cover up the transmission of the radiations
from the ore. Their power must have been amplified a thousandfold, and
their wave-length must lie somewhere between light and the supersonic
scale in that transition band which so far has defied exploration...."

"But with what motive?" I demanded. "Why should...?"

"Power!" the old woman answered. "The old thirst for dictatorial
control of the masses. By presenting himself as an intellectual genius,
Doctor Universe utilized a bizarre method to intrench himself in the
minds of the people. Oh, don't you see, Billy-boy? The Green Flames'
radiations spell doom to freedom, individual liberty."

I sat there stupidly, wondering if this all were some wild dream.

And then, as I looked across at Grannie Annie, the vague light over the
tents seemed to shift a little, as if one layer of the atmosphere had
dropped away to be replaced by another.

There it was again, a definite movement in the air. Somehow I got the
impression I was looking around that space rather than through it. And
simultaneously Ezra Karn uttered a howl of pain. An instant later the
old prospector was rolling over and over, threshing his arms wildly.

An invisible sledge hammer descended on my shoulder. The blow was
followed by another and another. Heavy unseen hands held me down.
Opposite me Grannie Annie and the Venusians were suffering similar
punishment, the latter screaming in pain and bewilderment.

"It's the Varsoom!" Ezra Karn yelled. "We've got to make 'em laugh. Our
only escape is to make 'em laugh!"

He struggled to his feet and began leaping wildly around the camp fire.
Abruptly his foot caught on a log protruding from the fire; he tripped
and fell headlong into a mass of hot coals and ashes. Like a jumping
jack he was on his feet again, clawing dirt and soot from his eyes.

Out of the empty space about us there came a sudden hush. The unseen
blows ceased in mid-career. And then the silence was rent by wild
laughter. Peal after peal of mirthful yells pounded against our ears.
For many moments it continued; then it died away, and everything was
peaceful once more.

Grannie Annie picked herself up slowly. "That was close," she said. "I
wouldn't want to go through that again."

Ezra Karn nursed an ugly welt under one eye. "Those Varsoom got a funny
sense of humor," he growled.
