
It didn't make sense, of course. But nothing made sense in this mad
venture. Grannie Annie opened her duffel bag and drew out a copy of
her most popular book. With the volume under her arm, she mounted the
ladder to the top of the envelope. Ezra Karn rigged up a radite search
lamp, and a moment later the old woman stood in the center of a circle
of white radiance.

Karn gripped my arm. "This is it," he said tensely. "If this fails ..."

His voice clipped off as Grannie began to read. She read slowly
at first, then intoned the words and sentences faster and more
dramatically.

And out in the swamp a vast hush fell as if unseen ears were listening.

"... _the space liner was over on her beam ends now as another shot
from the raider's vessel crashed into the stern hold. In the control
cabin Cuthbert Strong twisted vainly at his bonds as he sought to free
himself. Opposite him, lashed by strong Martian vinta ropes to the
gravascope, Louise Belmont sobbed softly, wringing her hands in mute
appeal._"

A restless rustling sounded out in the marsh, as if hundreds of bodies
were surging closer. Karn nodded in awe.

"She's got 'em!" he whispered. "Listen. They're eatin' up every word."

I heard it then, and I thought I must be dreaming. From somewhere out
in the swamp a sound rose into the thick air. A high-pitched chuckle,
it was. The chuckle came again. Now it was followed by another and
another. An instant later a wave of low subdued laughter rose into the
air.

Ezra Karn gulped. "Gripes!" he said. "They're laughing already.
_They're laughing at her book!_ And look, the old lady's gettin' sore."

Up on the roof of the envelope Grannie Annie halted her reading to
glare savagely out into the darkness.

The laughter was a roar now. It rose louder and louder, peal after peal
of mirthful yells and hysterical shouts. And for the first time in my
life, I saw Annabella C. Flowers mad. She stamped her foot; she shook
her fist at the unseen hordes out before her.

"Ignorant slap-happy fools!" she screamed. "You don't know good science
fiction when you hear it."

I turned to Karn and said quietly, "Turn on the visi set. Doctor
Universe should be broadcasting now. Tune your microphone to pull in
as much of that laughter as you can."
