



It was upon the waterfront that I first met her, in one of the shabby
little tea shops frequented by able sailoresses of the poorer type.
The uptown, glittering resorts of the Lady Aviators' Union were not
for such as she.

Stern of feature, bronzed by wind and sun, her age could only be
guessed, but I surmised at once that in her I beheld a survivor of the
age of turbines and oil engines--a true sea-woman of that elder time
when woman's superiority to man had not been so long recognized. When,
to emphasize their victory, women in all ranks were sterner than
today's need demands.

The spruce, smiling young maidens--engine-women and stokers of the
great aluminum rollers, but despite their profession, very neat in
gold-braided blue knickers and boleros--these looked askance at the
hard-faced relic of a harsher day, as they passed in and out of the
shop.

I, however, brazenly ignoring similar glances at myself, a mere male
intruding on the haunts of the world's ruling sex, drew a chair up
beside the veteran. I ordered a full pot of tea, two cups and a plate
of macaroons, and put on my most ingratiating air. Possibly my
unconcealed admiration and interest were wiles not exercised in vain.
Or the macaroons and tea, both excellent, may have loosened the old
sea-woman's tongue. At any rate, under cautious questioning, she had
soon launched upon a series of reminiscences well beyond my hopes for
color and variety.

"When I was a lass," quoth the sea-woman, after a time, "there was
none of this high-flying, gilt-edged, leather-stocking luxury about
the sea. We sailed by the power of our oil and gasoline. If they
failed on us, like as not 'twas the rubber ring and the rolling wave
for ours."

She referred to the archaic practice of placing a pneumatic affair
called a life-preserver beneath the arms, in case of that dreaded
disaster, now so unheard of, shipwreck.

"In them days there was still many a man bold enough to join our
crews. And I've knowed cases," she added condescendingly, "where just
by the muscle and brawn of such men some poor sailor lass has reached
shore alive that would have fed the sharks without 'em. Oh, I ain't so
down on men as you might think. It's the spoiling of them that I don't
hold with. There's too much preached nowadays that man is fit for
nothing but to fetch and carry and do nurse-work in big child-homes.
To my mind, a man who hasn't the nerve of a woman ain't fitted to
father children, let alone raise 'em. But that's not here nor there.
My time's past, and I know it, or I wouldn't be setting here gossipin'
to you, my lad, over an empty teapot."

I took the hint, and with our cups replenished, she bit thoughtfully
into her fourteenth macaroon and continued.

"There's one voyage I'm not likely to forget, though I live to be as
old as Cap'n Mary Barnacle, of the _Shouter_. 'Twas aboard the old
_Shouter_ that this here voyage occurred, and it was her last and
likewise Cap'n Mary's. Cap'n Mary, she was then that decrepit, it
seemed a mercy that she should go to her rest, and in good salt water
at that.

"I remember the voyage for Cap'n Mary's sake, but most I remember it
because 'twas then that I come the nighest in my life to committin'
matrimony. For a man, the man had nerve; he was nearer bein'
companionable than any other man I ever seed; and if it hadn't been
for just one little event that showed up the--the _mannishness_ of
him, in a way I couldn't abide, I reckon he'd be keepin' house for me
this minute."
