
"We cleared from Frisco with a cargo of silkateen petticoats for
Brisbane. Cap'n Mary was always strong on petticoats. Leather breeches
or even half-skirts would ha' paid far better, they being more in
demand like, but Cap'n Mary was three-quarters owner, and says she,
land women should buy petticoats, and if they didn't it wouldn't be
the Lord's fault nor hers for not providing 'em.

"We cleared on a fine day, which is an all sign--or was, then when the
weather and the seas o' God still counted in the trafficking of the
humankind. Not two days out we met a whirling, mucking bouncer of a
gale that well nigh threw the old _Shouter_ a full point off her
course in the first wallop. She was a stout craft, though. None of
your featherweight, gas-lightened, paper-thin alloy shells, but
toughened aluminum from stern to stern. Her turbine drove her through
the combers at a forty-five knot clip, which named her a speedy craft
for a freighter in them days.

"But this night, as we tore along through the creaming green billows,
something unknown went 'way wrong down below.

"I was forward under the shelter of her long over-sloop, looking for a
hairpin I'd dropped somewheres about that afternoon. It was a gold
hairpin, and gold still being mighty scarce when I was a girl, a
course I valued it. But suddenly I felt the old _Shouter_ give a jump
under my feet like a plane struck by a shell in full flight. Then she
trembled all over for a full second, frightened like. Then, with the
crash of doomsday ringing in my ears, I felt myself sailing through
the air right into the teeth o' the shrieking gale, as near as I could
judge. Down I come in the hollow of a monstrous big wave, and as my
ears doused under I thought I heard a splash close by. Coming up, sure
enough, there close by me was floating a new, patent, hermetic,
thermo-ice-chest. Being as it was empty, and being as it was shut up
air-tight, that ice-chest made as sweet a life-preserver as a woman
could wish in such an hour. About ten foot by twelve, it floated high
in the raging sea. Out on its top I scrambled, and hanging on by a
handle I looked expectant for some of my poor fellow-women to come
floating by. Which they never did, for the good reason that the
_Shouter_ had blowed up and went below, petticoats, Cap'n Mary and
all."

"What caused the explosion?" I inquired.

"The Lord and Cap'n Mary Barnacle can explain," she answered piously.
"Besides the oil for her turbines, she carried a power of gasoline for
her alternative engines, and likely 'twas the cause of her ending so
sudden like. Anyways, all I ever seen of her again was the empty
ice-chest that Providence had well-nigh hove upon my head. On that I
sat and floated, and floated and sat some more, till by-and-by the
storm sort of blowed itself out, the sun come shining--this was next
morning--and I could dry my hair and look about me. I was a young
lass, then, and not bad to look upon. I didn't want to die, any more
than you that's sitting there this minute. So I up and prays for land.
Sure enough toward evening a speck heaves up low down on the horizon.
At first I took it for a gas liner, but later found it was just a
little island, all alone by itself in the great Pacific Ocean.

"Come, now, here's luck, thinks I, and with that I deserts the
ice-chest, which being empty, and me having no ice to put in it, not
likely to have in them latitudes, is of no further use to me. Striking
out I swum a mile or so and set foot on dry land for the first time in
nigh three days.

"Pretty land it were, too, though bare of human life as an iceberg in
the Arctic.

"I had landed on a shining white beach that run up to a grove of
lovely, waving palm trees. Above them I could see the slopes of a hill
so high and green it reminded me of my own old home, up near
Couquomgomoc Lake in Maine. The whole place just seemed to smile and
smile at me. The palms waved and bowed in the sweet breeze, like they
wanted to say, 'Just set right down and make yourself to home. We've
been waiting a long time for you to come.' I cried, I was that happy
to be made welcome. I was a young lass then, and sensitive-like to how
folks treated me. You're laughing now, but wait and see if or not
there was sense to the way I felt.

"So I up and dries my clothes and my long, soft hair again, which was
well worth drying, for I had far more of it than now. After that I
walked along a piece, until there was a sweet little path meandering
away into the wild woods.

"Here, thinks I, this looks like inhabitants. Be they civil or wild, I
wonder? But after traveling the path a piece, lo and behold it ended
sudden like in a wide circle of green grass, with a little spring of
clear water. And the first thing I noticed was a slab of white board
nailed to a palm tree close to the spring. Right off I took a long
drink, for you better believe I was thirsty, and then I went to look
at this board. It had evidently been tore off the side of a wooden
packing box, and the letters was roughly printed in lead pencil.

"'Heaven help whoever you be,' I read. 'This island ain't just right.
I'm going to swim for it. You better too. Good-by. Nelson Smith.'
That's what it said, but the spellin' was simply awful. It all looked
quite new and recent, as if Nelson Smith hadn't more than a few hours
before he wrote and nailed it there.

"Well, after reading that queer warning I begun to shake all over like
in a chill. Yes, I shook like I had the ague, though the hot tropic
sun was burning down right on me and that alarming board. What had
scared Nelson Smith so much that he had swum to get away? I looked all
around real cautious and careful, but not a single frightening thing
could I behold. And the palms and the green grass and the flowers
still smiled that peaceful and friendly like. 'Just make yourself to
home,' was wrote all over the place in plainer letters than those
sprawly lead pencil ones on the board.

"Pretty soon, what with the quiet and all, the chill left me. Then I
thought, 'Well, to be sure, this Smith person was just an ordinary
man, I reckon, and likely he got nervous of being so alone. Likely he
just fancied things which was really not. It's a pity he drowned
himself before I come, though likely I'd have found him poor company.
By his record I judge him a man of but common education.'

"So I decided to make the most of my welcome, and that I did for weeks
to come. Right near the spring was a cave, dry as a biscuit box, with
a nice floor of white sand. Nelson had lived there too, for there was
a litter of stuff--tin cans--empty--scraps of newspapers and the like.
I got to calling him Nelson in my mind, and then Nelly, and wondering
if he was dark or fair, and how he come to be cast away there all
alone, and what was the strange events that drove him to his end. I
cleaned out the cave, though. He had devoured all his tin-canned
provisions, however he come by them, but this I didn't mind. That
there island was a generous body. Green milk-coconuts, sweet berries,
turtle eggs and the like was my daily fare.

"For about three weeks the sun shone every day, the birds sang and the
monkeys chattered. We was all one big, happy family, and the more I
explored that island the better I liked the company I was keeping. The
land was about ten miles from beach to beach, and never a foot of it
that wasn't sweet and clean as a private park.

"From the top of the hill I could see the ocean, miles and miles of
blue water, with never a sign of a gas liner, or even a little
government running-boat. Them running-boats used to go most everywhere
to keep the seaways clean of derelicts and the like. But I knowed that
if this island was no more than a hundred miles off the regular
courses of navigation, it might be many a long day before I'd be
rescued. The top of the hill, as I found when first I climbed up
there, was a wore-out crater. So I knowed that the island was one of
them volcanic ones you run across so many of in the seas between
Capricorn and Cancer.

"Here and there on the slopes and down through the jungly tree-growth,
I would come on great lumps of rock, and these must have came up out
of that crater long ago. If there was lava it was so old it had been
covered up entire with green growing stuff. You couldn't have found it
without a spade, which I didn't have nor want."
