
"Well, at first I was happy as the hours was long. I wandered and
clambered and waded and swum, and combed my long hair on the beach,
having fortunately not lost my side-combs nor the rest of my gold
hairpins. But by-and-by it begun to get just a bit lonesome. Funny
thing, that's a feeling that, once it starts, it gets worse and worser
so quick it's perfectly surprising. And right then was when the days
begun to get gloomy. We had a long, sickly hot spell, like I never
seen before on an ocean island. There was dull clouds across the sun
from morn to night. Even the little monkeys and parrakeets, that had
seemed so gay, moped and drowsed like they was sick. All one day I
cried, and let the rain soak me through and through--that was the
first rain we had--and I didn't get thorough dried even during the
night, though I slept in my cave. Next morning I got up mad as thunder
at myself and all the world.

"When I looked out the black clouds was billowing across the sky. I
could hear nothing but great breakers roaring in on the beaches, and
the wild wind raving through the lashing palms.

"As I stood there a nasty little wet monkey dropped from a branch
almost on my head. I grabbed a pebble and slung it at him real
vicious. 'Get away, you dirty little brute!' I shrieks, and with that
there come a awful blinding flare of light. There was a long,
crackling noise like a bunch of Chinese fireworks, and then a sound as
if a whole fleet of _Shouters_ had all went up together.

"When I come to, I found myself 'way in the back of my cave, trying to
dig further into the rock with my finger nails. Upon taking thought,
it come to me that what had occurred was just a lightning-clap, and
going to look, sure enough there lay a big palm tree right across the
glade. It was all busted and split open by the lightning, and the
little monkey was under it, for I could see his tail and his hind legs
sticking out.

"Now, when I set eyes on that poor, crushed little beast I'd been so
mean to, I was terrible ashamed. I sat down on the smashed tree and
considered and considered. How thankful I had ought to have been. Here
I had a lovely, plenteous island, with food and water to my taste,
when it might have been a barren, starvation rock that was my lot. And
so, thinking, a sort of gradual peaceful feeling stole over me. I got
cheerfuller and cheerfuller, till I could have sang and danced for
joy.

"Pretty soon I realized that the sun was shining bright for the first
time that week. The wind had stopped hollering, and the waves had died
to just a singing murmur on the beach. It seemed kind o' strange, this
sudden peace, like the cheer in my own heart after its rage and storm.
I rose up, feeling sort of queer, and went to look if the little
monkey had came alive again, though that was a fool thing, seeing he
was laying all crushed up and very dead. I buried him under a tree
root, and as I did it a conviction come to me.

"I didn't hardly question that conviction at all. Somehow, living
there alone so long, perhaps my natural womanly intuition was stronger
than ever before or since, and so I _knowed_. Then I went and pulled
poor Nelson Smith's board off from the tree and tossed it away for the
tide to carry off. That there board was an insult to my island!"

The sea-woman paused, and her eyes had a far-away look. It seemed as
if I and perhaps even the macaroons and tea were quite forgotten.

"Why did you think that?" I asked, to bring her back. "How could an
island be insulted?"

She started, passed her hand across her eyes, and hastily poured
another cup of tea.

"Because," she said at last, poising a macaroon in mid-air, "because
that island--that particular island that I had landed on--had a heart!

"When I was gay, it was bright and cheerful. It was glad when I come,
and it treated me right until I got that grouchy it had to mope from
sympathy. It loved me like a friend. When I flung a rock at that poor
little drenched monkey critter, it backed up my act with an anger like
the wrath o' God, and killed its own child to please me! But it got
right cheery the minute I seen the wrongness of my ways. Nelson Smith
had no business to say, 'This island ain't just right,' for it was a
righter place than ever I seen elsewhere. When I cast away that lying
board, all the birds begun to sing like mad. The green milk-coconuts
fell right and left. Only the monkeys seemed kind o' sad like still,
and no wonder. You see, their own mother, the island, had rounded on
one o' them for my sake!

"After that I was right careful and considerate. I named the island
Anita, not knowing her right name, or if she had any. Anita was a
pretty name, and it sounded kind of South Sea like. Anita and me got
along real well together from that day on. It was some strain to be
always gay and singing around like a dear duck of a canary bird, but I
done my best. Still, for all the love and gratitude I bore Anita, the
company of an island, however sympathetic, ain't quite enough for a
human being. I still got lonesome, and there was even days when I
couldn't keep the clouds clear out of the sky, though I will say we
had no more tornadoes.

"I think the island understood and tried to help me with all the
bounty and good cheer the poor thing possessed. None the less my heart
give a wonderful big leap when one day I seen a blot on the horizon.
It drawed nearer and nearer, until at last I could make out its
nature."

"A ship, of course," said I, "and were you rescued?"

"'Tweren't a ship, neither," denied the sea-woman somewhat
impatiently. "Can't you let me spin this yarn without no more remarks
and fool questions? This thing what was bearing down so fast with the
incoming tide was neither more nor less than another island!

"You may well look startled. I was startled myself. Much more so than
you, likely. I didn't know then what you, with your book-learning,
very likely know now--that islands sometimes float. Their underparts
being a tangled-up mess of roots and old vines that new stuff's growed
over, they sometimes break away from the mainland in a brisk gale and
go off for a voyage, calm as a old-fashioned, eight-funnel steamer.
This one was uncommon large, being as much as two miles, maybe, from
shore to shore. It had its palm trees and its live things, just like
my own Anita, and I've sometimes wondered if this drifting piece
hadn't really been a part of my island once--just its daughter like,
as you might say.

"Be that, however, as it might be, no sooner did the floating piece
get within hailing distance than I hears a human holler and there was
a man dancing up and down on the shore like he was plumb crazy. Next
minute he had plunged into the narrow strip of water between us and in
a few minutes had swum to where I stood.

"Yes, of course it was none other than Nelson Smith!

"I knowed that the minute I set eyes on him. He had the very look of
not having no better sense than the man what wrote that board and then
nearly committed suicide trying to get away from the best island in
all the oceans. Glad enough he was to get back, though, for the
coconuts was running very short on the floater what had rescued him,
and the turtle eggs wasn't worth mentioning. Being short of grub is
the surest way I know to cure a man's fear of the unknown."
