
"Well, to make a long story short, Nelson Smith told me he was a
aeronauter. In them days to be an aeronauter was not the same as to be
an aviatress is now. There was dangers in the air, and dangers in the
sea, and he had met with both. His gas tank had leaked and he had
dropped into the water close by Anita. A case or two of provisions was
all he could save from the total wreck.

"Now, as you might guess, I was crazy enough to find out what had
scared this Nelson Smith into trying to swim the Pacific. He told me a
story that seemed to fit pretty well with mine, only when it come to
the scary part he shut up like a clam, that aggravating way some men
have. I give it up at last for just man-foolishness, and we begun to
scheme to get away.

"Anita moped some while we talked it over. I realized how she must be
feeling, so I explained to her that it was right needful for us to get
with our kind again. If we stayed with her we should probably quarrel
like cats, and maybe even kill each other out of pure human
cussedness. She cheered up considerable after that, and even, I
thought, got a little anxious to have us leave. At any rate, when we
begun to provision up the little floater, which we had anchored to
the big island by a cable of twisted bark, the green nuts fell all
over the ground, and Nelson found more turtle nests in a day than I
had in weeks.

"During them days I really got fond of Nelson Smith. He was a
companionable body, and brave, or he wouldn't have been a professional
aeronauter, a job that was rightly thought tough enough for a woman,
let alone a man. Though he was not so well educated as me, at least he
was quiet and modest about what he did know, not like some men,
boasting most where there is least to brag of.

"Indeed, I misdoubt if Nelson and me would not have quit the sea and
the air together and set up housekeeping in some quiet little town up
in New England, maybe, after we had got away, if it had not been for
what happened when we went. I never, let me say, was so deceived in
any man before nor since. The thing taught me a lesson and I never was
fooled again.

"We was all ready to go, and then one morning, like a parting gift
from Anita, come a soft and favoring wind. Nelson and I run down the
beach together, for we didn't want our floater to blow off and leave
us. As we was running, our arms full of coconuts, Nelson Smith,
stubbed his bare toe on a sharp rock, and down he went. I hadn't
noticed, and was going on.

"But sudden the ground begun to shake under my feet, and the air was
full of a queer, grinding, groaning sound, like the very earth was in
pain.

"I turned around sharp. There sat Nelson, holding his bleeding toe in
both fists and giving vent to such awful words as no decent sea-going
lady would ever speak nor hear to!

"'Stop it, stop it!' I shrieked at him, but 'twas too late.

"Island or no island, Anita was a lady, too! She had a gentle heart,
but she knowed how to behave when she was insulted.

"With one terrible, great roar a spout of smoke and flame belched up
out o' the heart of Anita's crater hill a full mile into the air!

"I guess Nelson stopped swearing. He couldn't have heard himself,
anyways. Anita was talking now with tongues of flame and such roars as
would have bespoke the raging protest of a continent.

"I grabbed that fool man by the hand and run him down to the water. We
had to swim good and hard to catch up with our only hope, the floater.
No bark rope could hold her against the stiff breeze that was now
blowing, and she had broke her cable. By the time we scrambled aboard
great rocks was falling right and left. We couldn't see each other for
a while for the clouds of fine gray ash.

"It seemed like Anita was that mad she was flinging stones after us,
and truly I believe that such was her intention. I didn't blame her,
neither!

"Lucky for us the wind was strong and we was soon out of range.

"'So!' says I to Nelson, after I'd got most of the ashes out of my
mouth, and shook my hair clear of cinders. 'So, that was the reason
you up and left sudden when you was there before! You aggravated that
island till the poor thing druv you out!'

"'Well,' says he, and not so meek as I'd have admired to see him, 'how
could I know the darn island was a lady?'

"'Actions speak louder than words,' says I. 'You should have knowed it
by her ladylike behavior!'

"'Is volcanoes and slingin' hot rocks ladylike?' he says. 'Is snakes
ladylike? T'other time I cut my thumb on a tin can, I cussed a little
bit. Say--just a li'l' bit! An' what comes at me out o' all the caves,
and out o' every crack in the rocks, and out o' the very spring o'
water where I'd been drinkin'? Why snakes! _Snakes_, if you please,
big, little, green, red and sky-blue-scarlet! What'd I do? Jumped in
the water, of course. Why wouldn't I? I'd ruther swim and drown than
be stung or swallowed to death. But how was I t' know the snakes come
outta the rocks because I cussed?'

"'You, couldn't,' I agrees, sarcastic. 'Some folks never knows a lady
till she up and whangs 'em over the head with a brick. A real, gentle,
kind-like warning, them snakes were, which you would not heed! Take
shame to yourself, Nelly,' says I, right stern, 'that a decent little
island like Anita can't associate with you peaceable, but you must
hurt her sacredest feelings with language no lady would stand by to
hear!'

"I never did see Anita again. She may have blew herself right out of
the ocean in her just wrath at the vulgar, disgustin' language of
Nelson Smith. I don't know. We was took off the floater at last, and I
lost track of Nelson just as quick as I could when we was landed at
Frisco.

"He had taught me a lesson. A man is just full of mannishness, and the
best of 'em ain't good enough for a lady to sacrifice her
sensibilities to put up with.

"Nelson Smith, he seemed to feel real bad when he learned I was not
for him, and then he apologized. But apologies weren't no use to me. I
could never abide him, after the way he went and talked right in the
presence of me and my poor, sweet lady friend, Anita!"
