
The Mystery was abruptly solved one sunny Sunday afternoon. Going
into the bathroom in her stocking feet, Kitty-Come-Here saw Gummitch
apparently trying to drown himself in the toilet. His hindquarters were
on the seat but the rest of his body went down into the bowl. Coming
closer, she saw that his forelegs were braced against the opposite
side of the bowl, just above the water surface, while his head thrust
down sharply between his shoulders. She could distinctly hear rhythmic
lapping.

To tell the truth, Kitty-Come-Here was rather shocked. She had certain
rather fixed ideas about the delicacy of cats. It speaks well for her
progressive grounding that she did not shout at Gummitch but softly
summoned her husband.

By the time Old Horsemeat arrived the young cat had refreshed himself
and was coming out of his "well" with a sudden backward undulation. He
passed them in the doorway with a single mew and upward look and then
made off for the kitchen.

The blue and white room was bright with sunlight. Outside the sky was
blue and the leaves were rustling in a stiff breeze. Gummitch looked
back once, as if to make sure his human congeners had followed, mewed
again, and then advanced briskly toward his little bowl with the air of
one who proposes to reveal all mysteries at once.

Kitty-Come-Here had almost outdone herself. She had for the first time
poured him the bottled water, and she had floated a few rose petals on
the surface.

Gummitch regarded them carefully, sniffed at them, and then proceeded
to fish them out one by one and shake them off his paw. Old Horsemeat
repressed the urge to say, "I told you so."

When the water surface was completely free and winking in the sunlight,
Gummitch curved one paw under the side of the bowl and jerked.

Half the water spilled out, gathered itself, and then began to flow
across the floor in little rushes, a silver ribbon sparkling with
sunlight that divided and subdivided and reunited as it followed the
slope. Gummitch crouched to one side, watching it intensely, following
its progress inch by inch and foot by foot, almost pouncing on the
little temporary pools that formed, but not quite touching them. Twice
he mewed faintly in excitement.
