
"He's _playing_ with it," Old Horsemeat said incredulously.

"No," Kitty-Come-Here countered wide-eyed, "he's _creating_ something.
Silver mice. Water-snakes. Twinkling vines."

"Good Lord, you're right," Old Horsemeat agreed. "It's a new art form.
Would you call it water painting? Or water sculpture? Somehow I think
that's best. As if a sculptor made mobiles out of molten tin."

"It's gone so quickly, though," Kitty-Come-Here objected, a little
sadly. "Art ought to last. Look, it's almost all flowed over to the
wall now."

"Some of the best art forms are completely fugitive," Old Horsemeat
argued. "What about improvisation in music and dancing? What about
jam sessions and shadow figures on the wall? Gummitch can always do
it again--in fact, he must have been doing it again and again this
last month. It's never exactly the same, like waves or fires. But it's
beautiful."

"I suppose so," Kitty-Come-Here said. Then coming to herself, she
continued, "But I don't think it can be healthy for him to go on
drinking water out of the toilet. Really."

Old Horsemeat shrugged. He had an insight about the artistic
temperament and the need to dig for inspiration into the smelly
fundamentals of life, but it was difficult to express delicately.

Kitty-Come-Here sighed, as if bidding farewell to all her efforts with
rose petals and crystalline bottled purity and vanilla extract and the
soda water which had amazed Gummitch by faintly spitting and purring at
him.

"Oh, well," she said, "I can scrub it out more often, I suppose."

Meanwhile, Gummitch had gone back to his bowl and, using both paws,
overset it completely. Now, nose a-twitch, he once more pursued the
silver streams alive with suns, refreshing his spirit with the sight
of them. He was fretted by no problems about what he was doing. He had
solved them all with one of his characteristically sharp distinctions:
there was the _sacred_ water, the sparklingly clear water to create
with, and there was the water with character, the water to _drink_.



