
It didn't take long. Without taking her eyes from him, she moved like
an animal to the food and stooped slowly, keeping alert for any sudden
move on his part, and picked up the food. She stood up, and stepped
back a couple of steps.

She ate with her fingers, dipping them in and extracting hot food,
with no apparent concern for the heat. She pushed the food into her
mouth and licked her fingers carefully of clinging food. She ate
rapidly, as if for the first time in weeks. And she kept her eyes, all
the time, on Nelson.

Nelson didn't care, now; he wouldn't have jumped her, or done anything
to scare her at all, even if her guard were to be let down for a
moment.

He let her finish her meal, then smiled at her when she looked at him.
She still held the empty can, and she was wiping her mouth with her
free hand. She stared at him for almost half a minute before he said
slowly, "You like that food. Don't you?" She said nothing. She looked
at him and at the can she held. He knew what was going on in her mind
and he believed that he was winning. "You know we'll both be needing
someone out here, don't you?" But her answer was an uncertain
expression on her face as she stared at him.

"Loners don't last too long out here. Being alone gets to you sooner
or later," he said. "You go mad or you get careless and the patrol
gets you."

The girl opened her mouth and glanced around quickly, then back at
Nelson. She bent over, still watching Nelson all the time, and put the
can down. Then she stepped backwards, toward the edge of the clearing,
feeling the way with her feet and a hand held back to tell her if she
were backing into a tree or rock. When she was almost to the edge of
the clearing, almost to the trees, she stopped and stared at him.
There were shadows now; it was almost night, and night came quickly in
this country. Nelson could not see her face as she looked at him. She
turned suddenly and ran into the trees. He made no effort to stop her
or call her back; any such effort would have been futile and for his
purposes, disastrous. No such effort was necessary.

He spent the night sheltered between some boulders and awoke the next
morning rested by an undisturbed sleep.

He found a small creek near by and washed his face to awaken himself.
It was a clear morning, with a warm sun and a cool wafting breeze. He
felt good; he felt alive and ready for whatever the day had to offer.
And he felt ready for breakfast.

He found another can of pork and beans in his pack and opened it. It
was, he noted, almost the last. His supplies were getting low. He
considered the situation as he slowly ate his breakfast.

Of course there was only one thing to do. He supposed that he could
have gotten by simply by hunting his food, but hunting was at best
seasonal and required that he keep more or less to a specific area;
agriculture was about the same, only worse. A farm meant a smaller
area than a hunting preserve and it also meant sticking to it more. It
meant buildings to store food against winter. It meant inevitable--and
almost certainly prompt--capture by a patrol. No, all things
considered, there was only one answer and he knew the answer from long
experience. Find a patrol warehouse and steal your food there.

The question of course, was where and when. There was a patrol station
near where Nelson now was, and that was the natural target. He had a
few furnace beam guns--three, to be exact--and since the patrol could
detect the residue from a furnace beamer a mile away even at low
force, the only safe thing to use one on was the patrol. And to be
frank, he rather enjoyed his brushes with the patrol. Like him, they
were wakers--people who had never known the electronic dreams which
were fed to all but a few of Earth's peoples. People who had never
lain asleep in nutrient baths from their seventeenth birthday living
an unreal world built to their own standards. Of the billions on
earth, only a few hundred were wakers. Most of those were patrol, of
course, but a few were rebels.

That was he, and also the girl he had seen yesterday. And it had been
Edna and Sammy and Jeanne and Gardner; and maybe a dozen other people
he had known since he had escaped from the Commune, when he had been
just a kid--but when he had seen the danger.

For the past two and a half centuries or so, almost everyone raised on
Earth had been raised in a commune, never knowing his or her parents.
They had been raised, they had been indoctrinated and they had mated
in the communes--and then gone into Sleep. More than likely, Nelson's
parents were there still, dreaming in their trance, having long ago
forgotten each other and their son, for those were things of a harsher
world over which one could have no control. In Sleep one dreamed of a
world that suited the dreamer. It was artificial. Oh, yes, it was a
highly personalized utopia--one that ironed out the conflicts by
simply not allowing them. But it was artificial. And Nelson knew that
as long as the universe itself was not artificial nothing artificial
could long stand against it. That was why he had escaped the commune
without letting them get him into the nutrient bath in which the
dreamers lived out their useless lives. His existence gave the lie to
the pseudo-utopia he was dedicated to overthrowing. The called it
individualism, but Nelson called it spineless.
