
Above him was sky stretching light blue to the horizons--and beyond
the blueness of stars. He felt a pang of longing as he looked up
trying to see stars in the day sky. That was where he should be, out
there with the pioneers, the men who were carving out the universe to
make room for a dynamic mankind that had long ago forgotten the
Sleepers of the home world. But no, he decided. Out there he would not
be giving so much to mankind as he was here and now. However decadent
these people were, he knew that they were men. Nelson knew that
somehow he had to overthrow the Sleepers.

Before something happened while they lay helpless in their coffins,
dreaming dreams that would go on and on until reality became harsh
enough to put them down.

What if the spacefarers should return? What if some alien life form
should grow up around some other solar type star, develop space
travel, go searching for inhabitable worlds--solar type worlds--and
discover Earth with it's sleeping, unaware populace? could dreams
defend against that?

Nelson shuddered with the knowledge that he had his work cut out for
him, and awoke to his own hunger. He fished out a can and started to
open it before he remembered, and fished out another can as well. He
pressed the release on both and the tops flew off, releasing the odor
of cooking food.

He leaned over and set one can on a flat rock that was just inside his
reach, then scooted back about a foot and using his fingers, scooped
up a mouthful of his own breakfast. Half turning his head, he caught
sight of her out of the corner of his eye, about fifteen feet away,
tense and expectant but ready to spring away if she thought it was
necessary. He turned back and concentrated on eating his own
breakfast.

"This sure is good after all night," he said, after a few minutes,
making a show of gulping down a chunk of stew beef, and sucking the
gravy from his fingers. He did not look back.

"My name is Glynnis," he heard abruptly. He sensed the uncertainty in
her voice, and the--distant--hint of belligerence, but even so he
could tell it was a soft voice, musical and clear--if he could judge
after not having heard a woman's voice in so long.

"Glynnis," he said slowly. "That's a pretty name. Mine's Hal Nelson.
Like I told you last night."

"I haven't forgotten. Is that for me?" She meant the food, of course.
Hal Nelson looked around. She was still standing by the tree. She was
trying to seem at ease and making an awkward show of it.

"Yes," he told her. She took a step closer and stopped, looking at
him. He turned back to his own eating. "No need to be scared, Glynnis,
I won't hurt you." He became uncomfortably aware that she had not
spoken his name yet and he wanted her to very much.

"No." Then a brief pause before she said, "I'm not used to anybody."

"It isn't good to be alone out here with the animals and food so hard
to come by--and the patrol searching for wakers. You ever have any
brush with the patrol?"

She had come up and was eating now; her answer came between eager
mouthfuls. "I seen them once. They didn't know I saw them--or they
would have caught me and taken me back with them."

"Where're you from? What are you doing out here?"

For a moment he thought she had not heard him. She was busy eating,
apparently having classified him as a friend. Finally, she said, "My
folks were out here. They were farmers for a while. I was born out
here and we moved around a lot until my daddy got tired of moving. So
we built a farm. He built it in a place in a valley off there"--She
vaguely indicated south--"And they planted some grain and potatoes and
tried to round up some kind of livestock. We had mostly goats. But the
patrol found us."

Nelson nodded, bitterly, he knew what had happened. Her father had
gone on as long as he could until at last, broken and uncaring he had
made one last ditch stand. More than likely he had half wanted to give
up anyway, and had not only because of the conflict of his family and
saving face. "You were the only one who got away?" he asked.

"Uh-huh. They took the others." She spoke without emotion, peering
into her food can to see if there was any left. "I was out in the
field but I saw them coming. I hid down low behind some tall grain and
got to the forest before they could find me." She examined the can
again, then decided it was empty and put it down.

"Do you know what they do to people they take?" Nelson asked.

"Yes."

"Your daddy tell you? What did he say?"

"He said they take you back to the Mausoleum and put you to sleep in a
coffin." She looked up at him, her face open, as if that was all there
was to it. Nelson decided that she was as guileless as he had expected
her to be, and reflected absently on that factor for a moment.

A light breeze was up and the air was full of the scents of the
forest. Nelson liked the pungent smell of the pines and rich odor of
chokeberries and bushes; and the mustiness that could be found in
thickly overgrown places where the ground had become covered with a
brown carpet of fallen pine needles. Some days he would search places
in the forest until he found one or another brush or tree whose leaves
or berries he would crush in his fingers simply so that he could savor
the fragrance of them. But not this morning.

He rose to his feet and reached over to pick up Glynnis' discarded
food container. She drew away from him, bracing herself as if to leap
and run. He stopped himself and froze where he stood for a moment,
then drew back.

"I didn't mean to scare you," he said. "We can't stay here, because if
you stay somewhere they find you. We can't leave the containers here,
either, because if they find them it might give them a clue in
tracking us."

She looked ashamed, so he reached over, ready to draw back his hand if
she acted as if she were scared. She tugged at her lower lip with her
teeth and stared at him with eyes that were wide but she did not
spring to her feet. Somehow Nelson knew that the girl was acutely
aware of how much she needed help out here. Suddenly, her right hand
darted out and for a split second Nelson feared he had lost after all.
But she reached over for the discarded can, picked it up and handed it
to him. He reacted a little slowly, but he smiled and took the
container. Their hands touched briefly and the girl drew hers away,
immediately looking ashamed for so doing. Nelson continued to smile at
her, and rather stiffly, she answered with a smile of her own. He put
the container into the knapsack with the others and then slipped into
the armstraps. Glynnis helped him.
