
They walked for an hour, that first day together, neither speaking.
Glynnis stayed close by his side and Nelson could feel her proximity
to him. He felt good in a way he had not felt in along time. When the
silence was finally broken, it was Nelson who broke it. They were
topping a small hill in a section of wilderness that was not as
heavily wooded as most and the sunlight was warm against Nelson's
face. He had been thinking the matter over off and on all morning, and
now he asked, "Have you ever raided a patrol depot?"

"No," she answered, a trace of apprehension in her voice.

They topped the hill and began moving down the other side. "Sometimes
it's a pushover, when nobody is there. Other times it's mortal hell.
The patrol is always anxious to get their hands on wakers, so they try
to keep an eye out for them at the depots. That means a fight unless
we're very lucky. If the depot we pick is too heavily manned--"

"What do you mean, 'Depot we pick'?"

"We need more food. We either shoot some, raise some, or steal some."

"Oh," she said, but there was apprehension in her voice.

"We don't have any choice. We'll wait until almost dark. If the depot
is guarded by too many men, or for some reason an extra number is
there for the night, then we're in trouble unless we play our cards
just right. You just do as I tell you and we'll be all right." He
reached back and fumbled with the side pouch on his pack. "You know
how to use one of these? Here, catch." He tossed her in his spare
furnace beamer.

She almost missed it. She caught it awkwardly and held it gingerly
with both hands, looking first at the gun and then him. Then, still
gingerly, but with a certain willingness, she took the gun by the grip
and pointed it to the ground, her eyes shut hard. Then, suddenly, her
expression changed and she glanced up at him, worriedly.

"Oh, you said they could tell if we fired one of these."

"Don't worry," Nelson said. "The safety is on. Let me show you." He
took the gun and explained to her how to use it. "Now then," he
concluded. "When we get to the depot you stay outside the alarm
system. I'll go in, leaving you to guard. Try not to use this unless
you have to, but if it is necessary, don't hesitate. If you fire it,
I'll know. My job will be to slip past the alarm and get inside to the
food. If you fire, that'll be a signal that you've been discovered by
the guards and we have to get out of there."

"Won't this give us away the same as shooting game?"

"Sure, but we get more food this way and maybe some other stuff.
Especially reloads for the furnace guns. And, if we're lucky, we can
ground the patrol. One more thing, Glynnis," he added. "Are you sure
you can kill a man?"

"Is it hard?" she asked innocently. Nelson was rattled only for a
second.

"No, it isn't hard, except that he'll probably be trying to kill you,
too."

"I've hunted some game with this." She held up her hunting knife so
that the blade caught the sunlight. She had kept it clean and sharp.
Nelson could see, but there were places where the blade had been
chipped.

"Well, maybe there won't be any need to kill anyone at all," he said,
a little more hastily than he intended. "I guess you'll do fine,
Glynnis, I'll feel a lot safer knowing you're out there." He would
feel as he had felt when Edna had gone with him on raids.
