
Toward evening they came to the depot Nelson had picked out. They were
on a high although gently sloping hill, among the trees that crested
it, looking down at the depot about a quarter of a mile away. There
was still enough light to see by, but the sky was darkening for night.
For the past two or three hours, Nelson had been repeatedly drilling
Glynnis over her part. It was simple, really, and she knew it
backwards, but she patiently recited her role when he asked her,
whether out of regard for his leadership or an instinctive realization
of his pre-raid state of nerves, he did not know. He made her recite
it again, one last time. She spoke in low tones, just above a whisper.
Around them the gathering of dusk had quieted the world. He waited for
it to get a little darker, then he touched her shoulder and clasped it
for a second before beginning his way to the depot.

[Illustration]

He kept close to the bushes as far down as he could and crouched low
over the ground the rest of the way even though he knew it was too
dark for ordinary optics to pick him up. He had an absorber in his
pack that would take care of most of the various radiations and
detectors he would come into contact with, and for the most part,
unless the alarms were being intently watched, he didn't expect to be
noticed on the control board. And you couldn't watch a board like that
day after day with maximum efficiency. Not when the alarms were set
off only by an occasional animal or falling tree limb. Mostly he had
to keep watch for direct contact alarms and traps; he was an
accomplished thief and an experienced burglar. At last he found
himself at the fence surrounding the depot.

In a clump of bushes a few feet from the fence he hid the containers;
it saved him the job of having to bury them, and they would be
deadweight now, anyway. Then he turned his attention on the fence.

He took a small plastic box out of his pack and pressed a panel in its
center with his thumb. Silently, smoothly, two long thin rods shot out
from each end of the box until they were each about a foot long. There
was a groove on the box and Nelson fitted it to the lower strand of
the fence wire. He let go of the gadget and it balanced of its own
accord, its antenna vibrating until they blurred, then ceasing to
vibrate as the gadget balanced. Nelson went down on his back and
pulled on gloves. He grabbed the fence wire and lifted it so that he
could slide under. When he was inside he picked the gadget off the
wire by one antenna and shut it off. The antennae pulled back inside.
Gardner had made this gadget; Gardner had been handy with things like
this. And there would be no other when Nelson lost this. He didn't
want to leave it where it could be found or where he might have to
abandon it to save his neck in an emergency.

He turned to the problem of getting across the open field. He had
little fear of being picked up by radiation detectors, thanks to his
absorber. But direct contact could give him away. But most of those
had to be buried. That meant that he could keep close to the bushes
and not have to worry. The roots of the bushes fouled up the detection
instruments if they got to them. He made his way, judging each step
before he took it and at last stood by the door.

It was dark by then. He could see the stars in the clear darkness of
the sky. They seemed somehow brighter than they had before. Nelson
fished through his pack until he felt the familiar shape of the gadget
he wanted. It was smaller, more compact than the one he had used to
get over the fence; but it was more complex. He felt along the door
frame for the alarm trip and found it. He placed the gadget there and
switched it on. There was a short, low, buzzing sound as the gadget
did its job and Nelson glanced around nervously, in fear it had been
heard. The door's lock clunked back and Nelson released air from his
lungs. He pushed the door open and found himself in darkness.

He was in a corridor with doors facing off from it. He could see light
coming under two of the doors, meaning patrolmen behind them. He moved
cautiously by the two doors, almost opposite each other, to a door at
the end of the corridor. He grasped the handle and opened the door,
realizing too late that the door should have been locked.

But by that time the door was open. His hand darted to his holstered
furnace beamer and unlocked the safety. It was almost pitch dark in
the room but he heard the room's occupant turning over on the bunk and
mumble low, incoherently, in his sleep. Nelson waited a minute but
the man didn't wake up.

Nelson closed the door.

He tried another door; this time, one that was locked. He had no
trouble forcing the lock pattern; less than a minute later he was
inside, with the door shut behind him. He took out a flashlight.

This was the storeroom, all right. It was piled with boxes mostly
unopened. Nelson read the labels on the boxes and opened those which
contained food he needed and supplies. He found another pack in an
opened box in one corner and began outfitting it like his own. Or as
nearly like his own as possible; he know that he could never duplicate
or replace the gadgets Gardner had designed, and in a way he was
bitter about it. He found the ammunition stores and took as many
capsules for the furnace beamers as he could carry. He went to the
door but slipped the furnace beamer out of his holster before opening
the door.

The corridor was still dark. He stepped into it, alert for any sound
or movement that might mean danger or herald discovery. His
nervousness had given way to cool, detached determination. He almost
made it to the door before he heard the footsteps.
