
His reaction was unconscious and reflexive. He turned, leveling his
gun. He had passed the two doors light had shown under. One of them
was opening and Nelson saw the shadow of the man who had opened it;
then the man. The man saw Nelson at about the same time and stood
gaping at him. Without realizing that he had fired, Nelson felt the
recoil of the gun; the roar of the beam against the close walls hurt
his ears, parts of the wall blistered and buckled, other parts of it
charred black, some parts vaporizing in thin patches. The patrolman
had flared instantly, never really knowing what had hit him. Smoke and
heavy odors filled the corridor as Nelson slid out into the open. The
patrol depots were fireproof, but the area Nelson had blasted would be
far to hot to pass through for the rest of the night.

Nelson toned down the volume of his beamer and fired at a fence post.
The tough plastic burst into splinters with a sudden explosion. A
snapping wire whipped to within inches of Nelson's face but he didn't
have to think about it. He was running up the hillside a short while
later--he had lost track of time as such--hoping that Glynnis would
use her gun if any patrolmen were following him.

He reached the hilltop in darkness, afraid to use his flashlight.
Suddenly, he stumbled; was falling over something soft, like an animal
or a man. Cursing low and involuntarily, he managed to roll over so
that he fell on his back. He saw the form, a patch of irregular
blackness in the darkness around him and knew it for a body. He got to
his feet glancing around, not knowing what this meant. He bent over
the form, keeping the furnace beam's muzzle only a few inches from
it, but too far back to be grabbed suddenly. He couldn't see the man's
clothing very plainly but he could tell it was a patrolman's uniform.
Nelson reached down to feel for a heartbeat and drew his hand away
sticky with what he knew must be blood. Nelson was shaken for a
moment; but he put aside the strange kinship he so often felt for
patrolmen because they were also wakers and drew back, peering round
into the darkness, pretty certain that he knew what had happened to
this patrolman.

He pushed himself erect and turned to see Glynnis, a dark figure but
obviously her, standing near a clump of trees a few feet off.

"You move quiet as a cat," he said. "You do this?"

"Uh-huh." She came forward and stared down at the corpse. Nelson was
glad he couldn't see her face in the darkness. "There were two of
them. They split up and I followed after this one and came up behind
him. I slit his throat. Then I went and got the other one the same
way."

And it had been so simple, thought Nelson. He handed Glynnis the extra
pack. "Take this." She accepted it wordlessly and slipped her arms
into the straps. "Oh," he added, as an afterthought. "Let me show you
something." He reached into the pack and drew out a knife. A good one
with a long plasteel blade that would not chip or corrode like hers.
He handed it to her and imagined her smiling face in the darkness.

"It doesn't feel like metal," she said, after she had taken the knife
from its scabbard.

"It isn't. It's a kind of plastic, stronger than most metals. Do you
like it?" He was wasting time, he knew, and he cursed himself for it.
But it didn't matter.

"It's real nice," she answered.

"I'm glad you like it," he said, taking her elbow in his hand. "We'd
better go now. They'll be after us."

They ran most of the night, although it wasn't always running. Nelson
picked a lot of terrain that was too uneven or too thickly covered
with growth for running. They kept to rocks and creekbeds as much as
they could, and they stopped only a few hours before dawn to get a few
hours sleep they were too exhausted to postpone any longer.

When Nelson awoke the sun was a little higher than he had wanted it to
be. He got to his feet and scanned the morning sky but saw nothing to
indicate sky patrol robots. He felt uneasy about not having made more
territory; but the way had been erratic and uneven. A thorough search
pattern could find him easily; the further away he got from the depot
the better chance he stood of not being discovered by a robot. He
wondered, briefly, just how many would be called out, but there was no
reason to wonder. Three patrolmen dead meant a lot of searching to
find the killers. He and Glynnis couldn't waste much time.

He nudged the still sleeping girl with his foot to wake her. She awoke
suddenly, her hand darting toward her new knife and a low but
startled cry came from her.

"Quiet." He had dug two cans out of his pack and handed one to her.
"We overslept. Eat in a hurry."

She opened her breakfast. "We'll be traveling most of the day?" she
asked. When he nodded, "yes," she said, "I can take it."

"I know you can; but they'll have a search out for us by now and a
thorough one. If we hadn't met when we had they'd have picked you up
for sure after I raided that depot--if I could have pulled it off
alone."

She smiled.

"You ever see an air robot?" he asked.

"No."

"I hope you never do. They'll fly out a search pattern, and they have
equipment that can detect a human being. They can send back signals to
tell where we are if they spot us. Our only hope is to get away before
the search pattern gets this far. If we can get far enough away, we
stand a better chance, because they'll have to spread out more thinly.
We'll have to run for a long time, but eventually they'll give up.
Until then--Well--" He let it hang. But Glynnis caught on.
