
Nelson lay awake for a few moments, trying to identify the noise. It
was a low humming sound off in the distance. He could feel Glynnis,
breathing evenly with sleep beside him. The sky was just beginning to
color with sunrise in the east. As quietly as possible, Nelson eased
himself erect, still trying to place the noise. He placed it, and
realized that he had not really wanted to identify it.

"Quiet," he said as he roused the girl. She opened her eyes wide, and
stared at him, confused and uncomprehending.

"What's wrong?"

"Hear that noise?"

"Yes," she said after a second.

"One of their search machines. Probably they've adopted a loose search
pattern, or maybe we left some kind of sign somewhere. It's not coming
closer, but we'd better get out of here."

They ate hastily, in the awakening light of sunrise. They ran away
from the sound of the machine, and it lessened in the distance.

It was the middle of the morning when they heard it again. Nelson
judged it to be roughly a mile away and to the west. He waited a
minute, listening. It seemed to be describing a search pattern curve
that swung in front of their path. He decided to double back and
around to miss it.

The undergrowth was thick in this part of the forest. They made their
way through the bushes and waist-high grasses, being as careful as
possible not to leave too many signs of their passing. Glynnis' shorts
and thin blouse weren't much protection against the thorns or the
recoiling limbs of bushes but she didn't complain. Gradually the
forest became mostly trees again. They found a path some animal had
made and followed it.

When they came to the clearing, Nelson almost didn't see the thing in
the air. He heard Glynnis gasp behind him, and with a start, glanced
around. She was staring at something in front of them, and in the air.
He looked where she was staring and saw the air robot hovering near
the edge of the clearing. It was about two feet long, slender,
metallic and smooth. Nelson knew though that it was alert and that
receptors built into its skin were registering their presence. It
hovered about ten feet above the ground, some twenty feet from them,
making no noise. Sky robots made noise only when they were moving at
a fairly good speed. They had fled the noise of one only to be trapped
in the silence of another.

Suddenly, Glynnis was shouting, "It's one of them!" Nelson turned to
see her level her gun, and before he could stop her a white hot
streamer lashed out at the robot and engulfed it.

"No," he shouted, too late. The machine took the blast turning cherry
red and bobbing lightly in the air for a moment before energy
compensators and stabilizers adjusted to the effects of the blast. The
machine turned back to its lustrous silver color and there was a low
hum as it righted itself gracefully then swung around, into the center
of the clearing to get a better focus on them.

"It doesn't even have a mark on it," Glynnis said, in a low tone,
moving closer to Nelson and laying one hand on his shoulder.

"No. But don't worry; it can't hurt us. We've got to figure some way
to get out of here and leave it behind." He turned and gently guided
her toward the trees. When they were in the dubious shelter of the
trees, Nelson stopped and tried to figure a way out. He could see the
machine hanging in the center of the clearing on invisible lines of
force, turning slightly to find them in the dense growth, then, with
one end pointed at them, bobbing slightly with the low breeze.

"What's it doing?" Glynnis asked. There was superstitious awe in her
voice that annoyed Nelson.

"Sending a signal to the patrol. We don't have much time before they
get here."

"But if the machine can't be shot down what can we do?"

"Hand me your gun." He took her gun and pointed to a vernier control
set into the side of the weapon. "This is the intensity control; it's
on low." He turned it up. "Now it's on full."

"Will that stop the machine?"

"Not by itself. But if we both move in, blasting together, again and
again we might do it some damage."

"All right," she said, taking the gun.

Nelson led the way into the clearing. The machine moved back a little
and bobbed to keep them in alignment. Nelson felt the dryness of his
throat as he raised his gun to aim at the incurious machine. "All
set?" he asked. From the corner of his eye he could see that Glynnis
had raised her gun and was sighting.

"All set," she answered.

"O.K." Nelson fired. His blast hit the robot head on. It was absorbed,
but almost as soon as it had died down, Glynnis fired. Nelson fired
again, catching the machine in an almost steady stream of white hot
energy. The machine suddenly caught on to what they were doing. It
tried to escape their range by going up, but they followed it. By this
time the compensators were already beginning to fail. Haywire
instruments jerked the machine back down and then side to side, then
into a tree trunk, blindly. It rebounded and dipped low, almost
touching the ground before it curved back up. Some of Glynnis' shots
were missing, but Nelson made every shot count, even while the robot
was darting about wildly.

The machine was glowing cherry red, now, some twelve feet off the
ground, unable to rise further, one end pointed sharply upward.
Something inside it began screaming, loudly, shrilly, with a vibration
that hurt Nelson's teeth. Nelson was firing mechanically. The
machine's loud screaming stopped suddenly. Nelson checked his fire.
Glynnis fired once more, missing as the machine suddenly dropped about
a foot. For perhaps a second the machine remained motionless. Then it
died without sound, and fell to the ground, landing with a dull noise
and setting fire to the grass under and around it.

[Illustration]

For that matter, they had started a major forest fire with their
blastings. The trees across the clearing from them were already
roaring with flames. Nelson didn't wait to check on the machine. He
grabbed Glynnis and pulled her around toward the way they had come.
She stumbled, staring back at the machine.

"Come on!" he said, in agitation. She came to life, mechanically, and
let him propel her along. The wind was away from them, but the fire
growing. They ran madly until they had to stop and fall exhausted to
the ground. When he could breathe again without torturing his lungs,
Nelson looked back and saw the smoke from the fire in the distance
behind them. They were safe from the fire, but their escape was cut
off by it. It would, he knew with dull certainty, attract attention.

When he had rested as long as he dared, he said, "We'd better get
going."

"I'm not sure I can," she said.

"Well, you've got to. If we stay here, we'll be caught."
