
They did not pause to eat. It was about midday when they encountered
the robot and they walked well into the afternoon, their only purpose
being to put as much distance between them and the place where they
had shot the robot down as possible. Nelson found himself moving
numbly, blindly uncaring of anything by making progress forward. He
listened to the humming of an approaching robot for a long while
before it registered on his consciousness.

He whirled, drawing his gun, momentarily giving way to the panic that
had been threatening to engulf him all afternoon. He saw the machine,
high above the trees behind them, safely out of range, he knew.
Bitterly, he fought down the urge to fire the gun anyway. It took a
tremendous exertion of will to make his arm return the gun to its
holster.

"What can we do?" asked Glynnis, a slight quaver in her voice.

"Not a thing," said Nelson; then, almost in a rage he cried it. "Not
one damned thing!"

They both turned back the way they had been going and ran, hoping to
find some cover with which to duck the machine. Nelson converted his
rage and fear into a strength he had never known he could call upon.
He ran on, and Glynnis behind him. And he knew that she, like he, ran
despite the rawness in her throat and lungs and cramping of her legs.
The only thing he could think of was that he wanted to enter a
mausoleum not as a prisoner, but as the head of an army.

He ran blindly, hearing nothing but the machine and his own rasping
breath. Then suddenly, he was stumbling over the edge of an
embankment, flailing his arms and twisting himself around so that he
managed to land on his back. It hurt and the wind went out of him. He
was sliding and rolling. Somehow he managed to stop himself. He lay
painfully coughing and trying to get his breath. Below him he could
see the wild rushing of a river at the base of the sheer embankment.
He looked back up. Glynnis had one leg over the edge but had not
fallen. Nelson crawled his way back up the slope.

They were trapped by the river. It must be another part of the same
river they had spent the night by, thought Nelson. But where it had
been calm and shallow, it was now a raging torrential river where
brown, churning waters ran between high, difficult to climb cliffs.

There was no need for either of them to speak. They began looking for
a place to cross the river. All the time they searched they could hear
the machine behind them, above them, humming safely out of their
range.

The sun was low in the sky when they heard the second humming. The
humming grew until it was a throbbing that covered the weaker sound of
the robot and chilled Nelson.

"The patrol," he said, pushing the girl toward the forest. "Back into
the trees. We're going to have to fight it out with them."

They ran into the trees. The throbbing stopped and behind them, Nelson
could hear the sounds made by men thrashing through the undergrowth.
His palms were wet; he wiped them on his shirt front. The impending
contact with the patrol gave him a calmness as always, and he picked
out a thicket where he believed he could make some sort of stand.

He reached the thicket with Glynnis behind him. Her gun was out. He
signed to her to lower the intensity of the gun; she caught on. He
watched her face. It was like a mask.

Nelson listened to the sounds of the approaching patrolmen. Five or
six, he decided. Plus a guard back at the flier. He'd figure on eight,
in all, he decided. Then the first one showed behind some bushes.

Nelson touched Glynnis' arm in a signal to wait. The patrolman looked
around, searching too intensely to find anything. He was young. Nelson
didn't think he would uncover their whereabouts and for a moment
debated letting him pass.

But he didn't want to be surrounded. He pulled his gun up and sighted
carefully before squeezing the trigger. In the tenth of a second
before the patrolman burst into flames, the blast produced a blast
circle that grew to the size of a basketball in his midsection. The
patrolman fell without screaming.

The others were there now. Most of them were young and two rushed
forward at the sight of their companion's death, to die like heroes.
The others wisely sought cover. Nelson decided that the thicket wasn't
as safe as he'd hoped. One of the patrolmen was doing a good job with
an energizer, coming closer with each shot, before Nelson finally saw
where he was, and fired at him. Nelson saw the trunk of a large fallen
tree and pointed to it for Glynnis' benefit. She nodded.

There was cover most of the way. Nelson went first, crouching low to
the ground and running with the ease of a cat. He made the log and
began firing to cover Glynnis. He saw her coming, out of the corner of
his eye, then concentrated on covering her with firepower. Suddenly
the girl let out a startled yell and he saw her sprawl to the ground,
tripping over a root. He called her name and without thinking leaped
to his feet to run to help her. He was halfway there when the
patrolman came into range. Nelson realized what he had done. Glynnis
was already on her feet and running. Cursing himself, Nelson jerked
his gun around, but it was too late. An energizer blast exploded the
ground beneath him and he felt himself hurtling over backwards. He
could only see blackness and the bright, quick, flashing of pin-point
light in it. Then, he was falling, spinning....
