
Patrol Cadet Wallace Sherman watched the man on the table with mixed
feelings; on the one hand, there was pity for a man whose condition
was hopeless, and on the other there were the misgivings that come
with guarding a criminal. Perhaps it was Sherman's youth that caused
him to emphasize those misgivings and move his hand toward his sidearm
when the man stirred.

But the man on the table only stirred a little and groaned. Sherman
was not sure whether or not the man was coming to. He shouldn't be,
Sherman knew. He took a couple of steps forward and starred at the
man's face.

The man was breathing normally. His head moved slightly but his eyes
were still closed. His face was the palest, softest looking face
Sherman had ever seen. It was the face of a man who had never known
sunlight, Sherman thought somberly; or at least had not known it in
many years. He wondered, vaguely just what kind of life the man
dreamed he had. As he was watching the man's face, Sherman saw his
lips move and heard him utter something he could not make out. He bent
closer to hear better.

"Glynnis"--the man on the table was saying.

"Is he waking up?" Sherman heard a voice asking.

A little embarrassed, Sherman turned around and saw Blomgard standing
in the doorway, "Oh, I'm sorry, sir. No. At least I don't think so. He
said something; a word. _Glynnis_, I think. Sounds like a girl's
name."

Dr. Blomgard came into the room and walked over to the table on which
his patient was stretched out. He removed the clipboard from its hook
and looked through the sheaf of papers fastened to it. After a few
seconds, he said, "Ah, yes. Glynnis. Part of his dream."

"Doctor--," Sherman heard himself saying, then caught himself.

"What, cadet," Blomgard asked, turning around. He was a big man,
gray-haired, his hair an unruly mop. His eyes were dark and piercing,
but they were softened by the thickness of the white brows over them.

"Nothing, sir--"

"I assure you, that no question will be considered out of place, if
that's what is worrying you."

"Well, doctor," Sherman said with some difficulty, "I was wondering if
all this is worth it. I mean a special reserve with the artificial
life-dreams for these people. Is it worth the expense and effort?"

Blomgard regarded the question a moment before answering. "Well, that
depends on things. We have a fairly dynamic, expanding civilization.
This man was born out of step; a natural born rebel. We've reached the
stage where, with a little effort on their own part, most people can
sooner or later find exactly what they want. There are, of course,
exceptions. They can't help being the way they are, but they are that
way. It isn't his fault that he would think nothing of blowing up any
civilization he found himself living in. This is the solution."

"A drug-induced dream state? Is that a solution?"

"It's a pretty good one. We provide him with a completely fictitious,
a totally unreal world in which he will be happy."

"How can anyone be happy like that? I prefer reality."

Blomgard smiled. "Yes, to a larger extent than he does, you do. Or you
like what you think of as reality." He picked up the clipboard again
and studied the papers on it. "His dream world is one that is designed
for his happiness. In it, he sees everyone else as inhabiting the
dream-coffin. And he pictures himself as a rugged individualist, going
about trying to destroy such a civilization. And of course, he is
practically a lone wolf. Not completely, for he would not be happy
that way. The man is an underdog."

"I guess it's best," Sherman said.

"It is," the doctor replied, seriously. "We have no right to take his
life; nor do have the right to destroy his personality, however much
that personality may be offensive to us. And since most inhabitable
planets are, unfortunately, inhabited before we ever get to them, we
have more urgent colonies to establish where we can find room. No,
this is best. We give him a dream based exactly on his psychological
needs; a compensation, so to speak, for the real life we take away
from him. For most people only have the right to pursue happiness. In
return for a normal life, we've given him a guaranteed happiness."

The doctor let that sink in for a while; but Sherman still had a
strong wish that he had pulled some other duty. Perhaps on one of the
new outposts, like Deneb.

The doctor glanced at his watch. "Well, the repairs are done with and
they should have the nutrient refreshed by now. Let's wheel him on
back."

A little gratefully, Sherman moved over to the table.

"You'll be all right, soon enough," the doctor said to the unconscious
man on the table. "This interruption will be neatly explained away and
remain as merely a memory of a slightly unpleasant moment after things
get back to normal. That'll convince you of the reality of your
world--if you ever need convincing."

Sherman saw the sleeping man stir slightly and heard him utter sounds
again.

"Wheel him out," Blomgard said.

Gratefully, Sherman turned the table around and wheeled it out the
door.
