
From far off, Nelson heard Glynnis calling to him. "Are you all right,
Hal?" he heard. "Can you hear me, Hal?"

"I can hear you," he managed to say. He opened his eyes. He saw his
gun a few dozen feet away on the ground.

"I thought they had you, sure," Glynnis said quietly. "I got the two
of them. Don't ask me how I did it, but I got them."

He sat up, feeling dizzy from having hit the ground with such force.
"I don't guess I was much help," he said weakly. "You sure did a fine
job." His head ached, but the remembered the fight and being thrown by
the impact of the blast. And something else--something distant and
alien, like a dream, from the deepest part of his mind. It pestered
him a moment, just out of reach of his consciousness, then he shrugged
it off as unimportant. He looked around and saw the charred bodies of
the patrolmen. "You did a fine job," he told Glynnis, meaning it.

"Can you fly a patrol ship?"

"Huh?"

"We've got one now," Glynnis said. "I shot the guard they left with
it, too. Had to."

"I see," he said, marveling at the girl. "I can fly one. I haven't
since I was in the commune, though. As long as it's in good
condition."

"I guess it is. I didn't hit it with any shots."

"We can go anywhere in the world with that ship," he said getting to
his feet. "It doesn't need fuel; it can fly forever. You know what
that means Glynnis? We can raise an army, if we want to."

"And we can get into the mausoleums and wake everybody up?"

"Yes. Come on," he said and started toward the flier. But Glynnis
grabbed his arm and stopped him. "What is it?" he asked.

"What's it like to live in a world where everyone's awake?" she asked
him.

"Why ... I don't know, I've never lived in one."

"Then why do you want to wake everyone up?"

"It's wrong the way they are now."

Glynnis scowled and Nelson could tell that she was struggling with
strange concepts. He felt sympathy for her, knowing how she felt.

"What I mean," she asked finally, "is why is it wrong? What's the
reason?"

"Because they can do better. We can save them and show them that; I
can lead them back where they belong."

"I see," Glynnis said gravely accepting his words. "All right."

Nelson smiled at her. She looked up at him and smiled back. The patrol
ship was waiting for them, not far off.

Together, they marched off to save the world.
