
Mr. Jell was unhuman, yes, but other than that he was a very gentle,
usual old man. He had been born and raised on a planet so overpopulated
that it was one vast city from pole to pole. It was the kind of
place where a man could walk under the open sky only on rooftops,
where vacant lots were a mark of incredible wealth. Mr. Jell had
passed most of his long life under unbelievably cramped and crowded
conditions--either in small spaceships or in the tiny rooms of unending
apartment buildings.

When Mr. Jell had happened across Earth on a long voyage some years
ago, he had recognized it instantly as the place of his dreams. He had
had to plan very carefully, but when the time came for his retirement,
he was able to slip away. The language of Earth was already on record;
he had no trouble learning it, no trouble buying a small cottage on the
river in a lovely warm place called Florida. He settled down quietly, a
retired old man of one hundred and eighty-five, looking forward to the
best days of his life.

And Earth turned out to be more wonderful than his dreams. He
discovered almost immediately that he had a great natural aptitude for
fishing, and though the hunting instinct had been nearly bred out of
him and he could no longer summon up the will to kill, still he could
walk in the open woods and marvel at the room, the incredible open,
wide, and unoccupied room, live animals in a real forest, and the sky
above, clouds seen through the trees--_real trees_, which Mr. Jell had
seldom seen before. And, for a long while, Mr. Jell was certainly the
happiest man on Earth.

He would arise, very early, to watch the sun rise. After that, he might
fish, depending on the weather, or sit home just listening to the
lovely rain on the roof, watching the mighty clouds, the lightning.
Later in the afternoon, he might go for a walk along the riverbank,
waiting for school to be out so he could pass some time with the
children.

Whatever else he did, he would certainly go looking for the children.

A lifetime of too much company had pushed the need for companionship
pretty well out of him, but then he had always loved children, and they
made his life on the river complete. They _believed_ him; he could
tell them his memories in safety, and there was something very special
in that, to have secrets with friends. One or two of them, the most
trustworthy, he even allowed to see the Box.

Now the Box _was_ something extraordinary, even to so advanced a man as
Mr. Jell. It was a device which analyzed matter, made a record of it,
and then duplicated it. The Box could duplicate anything.

What Mr. Jell would do, for example, would be to put a loaf of bread
into the Box, and press a button, and presto, there would be _two_
loaves of bread, each perfectly alike, atom for atom. It would be
absolutely impossible for anyone to tell them apart. This was the way
Mr. Jell made most of his food, and all of his money. Once he had
gotten one original dollar bill, the Box went on duplicating it--and
bread, meat, potatoes, anything else Mr. Jell desired was instantly
available at the touch of a button.
