
Once the Box duplicated a thing, anything, it was no longer necessary
to have the original. The Box filed a record in its electronic memory,
describing, say, bread, and Mr. Jell had only to dial a number any time
he wanted bread. And the Box needed no fuel except dirt, leaves, old
pieces of wood, just anything made out of atoms--most of which it would
arrange into bread or meat or whatever Mr. Jell wanted, and the rest of
which it would use as a source of power.

So the Box made Mr. Jell entirely independent, but it did even more
than that; it had one other remarkable feature. It could be used also
as a transmitter and receiver. Of matter. It was, in effect, the Sears
Roebuck catalogue of Mr. Jell's people, with its own built-in delivery
service.

If there was an item Mr. Jell needed, any item at all, and that item
was available on any of the planets ruled by Mr. Jell's people, Mr.
Jell could dial for it, and it would appear in the Box in a matter of
seconds.

The makers of the Box prided themselves on the speed of their delivery,
the ease with which they could transmit matter instantaneously across
light-years of space. Mr. Jell admired this property, too, but he could
make no use of it. For once he had dialed, he would also be billed. And
of course his Box would be traced to Earth. That Mr. Jell could not
allow.

No, he would make do with whatever was available on Earth. He had to
get along without the catalogue.

And he really never needed the catalogue, not at least for the first
year, which was perhaps the finest year of his life. He lived in
perfect freedom, ever-continuing joy, on the riverbank, and made some
special friends: one Charlie, aged five, one Linda, aged four, one Sam,
aged six. He spent a great deal of his time with these friends, and
their parents approved of him happily as a free baby-sitter, and he was
well into his second year on Earth when the first temptation arose.

Bugs.

Try as he might, Mr. Jell could not learn to get along with bugs. His
air-conditioned, antiseptic, neat and odorless existence back home had
been an irritation, yes, but he had never in his life learned to live
with bugs of any kind, and he was too old to start now. But he had
picked an unfortunate spot. The state of Florida was a heaven for Mr.
Jell, but it was also a heaven for bugs.

There is probably nowhere on Earth with a greater variety of insects,
large and small, winged and stinging, than Florida, and the natural
portion of all kinds found their ways into Mr. Jell's peaceful
existence. He was unable even to clear out his own house--never mind
the endless swarms of mosquitoes that haunted the riverbank--and the
bugs gave him some very nasty moments. And the temptation was that he
alone, of all people on Earth, could have exterminated the bugs at will.

One of the best-selling export gadgets on Mr. Jell's home world was
a small, flying, burrowing, electronic device which had been built
specifically to destroy bugs on planets they traded with. Mr. Jell
was something of a technician, and he might not even have had to order
a Destroyer through the catalogue, but there were other problems.
