
Mr. Jell's people had not been merely capricious when they formed their
policy of non-intervention. Mr. Jell's bug-destroyer would kill all the
bugs, but it would undoubtedly ruin the biological balance upon which
the country's animal life rested. The birds which fed on the bugs would
die, and the animals which fed on the birds, and so on, down a course
which could only be disastrous. And even one of the little Destroyers
would put an extraordinary dent in the bug population of the area; once
sent out into the woods, it could not be recalled or turned off, and it
would run for years.

No, Mr. Jell made the valiant decision to endure little itchy bumps on
his arms for the rest of his days.

Yet that was only the first temptation. Soon there were others, much
bigger and more serious. Mr. Jell had never considered this problem
at all, but he began to realize at last that his people had been more
right than he knew. He was in the uncomfortable position of a man who
can do almost anything, and does not dare do it. A miracle man who must
hide his miracles.

The second temptation was rain. In the middle of Mr. Jell's second
year, a drought began, a drought which covered all of Florida. He sat
by helplessly, day after day, while the water level fell in his own
beloved river, and fish died gasping breaths, trapped in little pockets
upstream. Several months of that produced Mr. Jell's second great
temptation. Lakes and wells were dry all over the country, farms and
orange groves were dry, there were great fires in the woods, birds and
animals died by the thousands.

All that while, of course, Mr. Jell could easily have made it rain.
Another simple matter, although this time he would have had to send
away for the materials, through the Box. But he couldn't do that. If he
did, _they_ would come for him, and he consoled himself by arguing that
he had no right to make it rain. That was not strictly controllable,
either. It might rain and rain for several days, once started, filling
up the lakes, yes, and robbing water from somewhere else, and then what
would happen when the normal rainy season came?

Mr. Jell shuddered to think that he might be the cause, for all his
good intentions, of vast floods, and he resisted the second temptation.
But that was relatively easy. The third temptation turned out to be
infinitely harder.

Little Charlie, aged five, owned a dog, a grave, sober, studious dog
named Oscar. On a morning near the end of Mr. Jell's second year, Oscar
was run over by a truck. And Charlie gathered the dog up, all crumpled
and bleeding and already dead, and carried him tearfully but faithfully
off to Mr. Jell, who could fix _anything_.

And Mr. Jell could certainly have fixed Oscar. Hoping to guard against
just such an accident, he had already made a "recording" of Oscar
several months before. The Box had scanned Oscar and discovered exactly
how he was made--for the Box, as has been said, could duplicate
anything--and Mr. Jell had only to dial Oscar number to produce a new
Oscar. A live Oscar, grave and sober, atom for atom identical with the
Oscar that was dead.
