
But young Charlie's parents, who had been unable to comfort the boy,
came to Mr. Jell's house with him. And Mr. Jell had to stand there,
red-faced and very sad, and deny to Charlie that there was anything
he could do, and watch the look in Charlie's eyes turn into black
betrayal. And when the boy ran off crying, Mr. Jell had the worst
temptation of all.

He thought so at the time, but he could not know that the dog had not
been the worst. The worst was yet to come.

He resisted a great many temptations after that, but now for the first
time doubt had begun to seep in to his otherwise magnificent existence.
He swore to himself that he could never give this life up. Here on the
riverbank, dry and buggy as it well was, was still the most wonderful
life he had ever known, infinitely preferable to the drab crowds he
would face at home. He was an old man, grimly aware of the passage of
time. He would consider himself the luckiest of men to be allowed to
die and be buried here.

But the temptations went on.

First there was the Red Tide, a fish-killing disease which often sweeps
Florida's coast, murdering fish by the hundreds of millions. He could
have cured that, but he would have had to send off for the chemicals.

Next there was an infestation of the Mediterranean fruit fly, a bug
which threatened most of Florida's citrus crop and very nearly ruined
little Linda's father, a farmer. There was a Destroyer available which
could be set to kill just one type of bug, Mr. Jell knew, but he would
have had to order it, again, from the catalogue. So he had to let
Linda's father lose most of his life's savings.

Shortly after that, he found himself tempted by a young, gloomy couple,
a Mr. and Mrs. Ridge, whom he visited one day looking for their young
son, and found himself in the midst of a morbid quarrel. Mr. Ridge's
incredible point of view was that this was too terrible a world to
bring children into. Mr. Jell found himself on the verge of saying that
he himself had personally visited forty-seven other worlds, and not one
could hold a candle to this one.

He resisted that, at last, but it was surprising how close he had come
to talking, even over such a relatively small thing as that, and he had
concluded that he was beginning to wear under the strain, when there
came the day of the last temptation.

Linda, the four-year-old, came down with a sickness. Mr. Jell learned
with a shock that everyone on Earth believed her incurable.
