
He had no choice then. He knew that from the moment he heard of the
illness, and he wondered why he had never until that moment anticipated
this. There was, of course, nothing else he could do, much as he loved
this Earth, and much as he knew little Linda would certainly have died
in the natural order of things. All of that made no difference; it had
finally come home to him that if a man is able to help his neighbors
and does not, then he ends up something less than a man.

He went out on the riverbank and thought about it all that afternoon,
but he was only delaying the decision. He knew he could not go on
living here or anywhere with the knowledge of the one small grave for
which he would be forever responsible. He knew Linda would not begrudge
him those few moments, that one afternoon more. He waited, watching the
sun go down, and then he went back into the house and looked through
the catalogue. He found the number of the serum and dialed for it.

The serum appeared within less than a minute. He took it out of the
Box and stared at it, the thought of the life it would bring to Linda
driving all despair out of his mind. It was a universal serum; it would
protect her from all disease for the rest of her life. _They_ would
be coming for him soon, but he knew it would take them a while to get
here, perhaps even a full day. He did not bother to run. He was much to
old to run and hide.

He sat for a while thinking of how to get the serum to her, but that
was no problem. Her parents would give her anything she asked now, and
he made up some candy, injecting the serum microscopically into the
chunks of chocolate, and then suddenly had a wondrous idea. He put the
chunks into the Box and went on duplicating candy until he had several
boxes.

When he was finished with that, he went visiting all the houses of all
the good people he knew, leaving candy for them and their children. He
knew he should not do that, but, he thought, it couldn't really do much
harm, could it? Just those few lives altered, out of an entire world?

But the idea had started wheels turning in his mind, and toward the
end of that night, he began to chuckle with delight. Might as well be
flashed for a rogg as a zilb.

He ordered out one special little bug Destroyer, from the Box, set
to kill just one bug, the medfly, and sent it happily down the road
toward Linda's farm. After that, he duplicated Oscar and sent the dog
yelping homeward with a note on his collar. When he was done with that,
he ordered a batch of chemicals, several tons of it, and ordered a
conveyor to carry it down and dump it into the river, where it would be
washed out to sea and so end the Red Tide.

By the time that was over, he was very tired; he had been up the whole
night. He did not know what to do about young Mr. Ridge, the one who
did not want children. He decided that if the man was that foolish,
nothing could help him. But there was one other thing he could do.
Praying silently that once he started this thing, it would not get out
of hand, he made it rain.

In this way, he deprived himself of the last sunrise. There was nothing
but gray sky, misty, blowing, when he went out onto the riverbank that
morning. But he did not really mind. The fresh air and the rain on
his face were all the good-by he could have asked for. He was sitting
on wet grass wondering the last thought--why in God's name don't more
people here realize what a beautiful world this is?--when he heard a
voice behind him.

The voice was deep and very firm.

"Citizen Jell," it said.

The old man sighed.

"Coming," he said, "coming."



