
"What's in the duffel bag?"

"Clean overalls--towel." Joe pulled the zipper down halfway. The guard
fingered the blue denim but didn't dig deeper to find the towel. He
checked Joe's badge number, made a note on his pad, and motioned to the
next worker. Joe let tight breath slowly out of his lungs as he walked
toward Building B. Getting past the guard was a load off his mind. He'd
expected to get by, but it was one of the calculated risks that could
have stopped him cold.

Once inside the building, he put the bag into his locker and went to
work. He labored briskly and carried more than his share of the load.
But now and again he stopped to look over at the outline of Building A,
limned hard against hot blazing sky. And each time it was with a sense
of heady exhilaration that he thought of his destiny--his hard-earned,
dearly bought destiny. To be among that select group who would first set
foot upon the surface of the Moon!

He had no worries about not being allowed to do so. Once he showed
himself--with the ship far out in space--they'd have to accept him. Not
graciously of course, but they'd have to admire his courage and
tenacity. They could not, in all humanity, deny him a share of the
victory.

The day wore on and as quitting time approached, he became more
tense--more alert. Five minutes before the whistle, he faded back into
the building and hurried to the lavatory. He went into the booth
furthest from the entrance and locked the door. Now there was nothing to
do but wait. Another of the calculated risks.

The whistle blew. Almost immediately, the sound of footsteps broke the
silence and the lavatory was filled with hurrying men. Their stay in the
room was short, however, as Joe had known it would be. Men leaving for
home do not dawdle on the premises.

The lavatory was empty again. A period of silence while Joe raised his
feet from the floor and braced them on the toilet seat. The entrance
door opened. A guard making the departure checkup.

Joe held his breath. If the guard came down the line and tried the door,
he was finished. But Joe had banked upon human nature. The guard
stopped. For a long moment there was no sound and Joe knew the man was
bending over to run his eyes down the line of toilets close to the
floor. In this manner he could see the floor of every booth. The guard
straightened, turned, walked out. The door closed. Silence. Joe's heart
swelled with gratitude. He grinned, looking forward with joy to the long
night ahead.

He found a spot over behind the barrels where the night watchman would
have to climb over a lot of equipment in order to find him. He made
himself comfortable, practically certain the guard would not do this. He
stretched out on the hard floor and recorded the passing of the hours by
the number of times the watchman went through.

And he was surprised at how fast the time passed. Finally, checking his
count carefully, he left his hiding place and tiptoed to the line of
lockers. He took the oxygen equipment from the duffel bag after which he
hid the bag and the clothing therein behind a wall flange in a far
corner. Then he climbed into the barrel at the front end of the packing
line. He checked the barrel with a small X, and jockeyed the lid into
place.
