
Not just any radio show could be placed in the Time Capsule. What
picture of contemporary 1960 mankind would the men of the future derive
from a soap opera? A news analysis? Or top comedy show? Certainly not
a flattering one, and so, reasoned the brass in charge of the project,
not a true one.

No, the only answer was to produce a special documentary program,
painting on a broad canvas the glories that were the common man's
birthright in an enlightened democracy. As July 4th was only a
month away, the idea was a natural. The program would be carried
simultaneously on four networks, then placed in the Time Capsule so
that historians of the future would have something solid on which to
base their conclusions.

A famous poet-radio writer was hired to write the script. Hollywood's
greatest young male star donated his services (with much attendant
publicity) as narrator. A self-acknowledged genius who directed radio
shows for a living condescended to lend his talents to the production.
Numerous other actors, musicians, technicians and assistants were
hired ... none well-known, but all quite competent.

July 4th, the big day, arrived. The cast went into rehearsal early in
the morning. By the second complete run-through, just before the break
for lunch, the show was hanging together nicely. After four hours of
polishing in the afternoon, it was ready to go on the air. Everyone's
nerves were raw, but the show sounded great.

Naturally, when a room full of creative people have been rubbing
against one another for a full day, a lot of emotions are generated.
The listening audience never knew about it, but it took the actors,
directors, musicians and technicians several days to get the session
out of their systems. During rehearsals, the young Hollywood star
developed a consuming lust for one of the minor actresses. One of the
minor actors developed a consuming lust for the young Hollywood star.
Everyone immediately hated the director, and he, lofty and all-wise,
contemptuously hated them in return. By eight o'clock that night, show
time, the splendid documentary on the splendid American people was not
the only thing that was at peak pitch.

It was the only thing, however, that the radio audience heard. It was
magnificent. Future students hearing the tape could not but conclude
that here was the Golden Age. Man, at least American man, circa 1960,
noble, humble and sincere, was carrying in his bosom the seeds of
greatness. Difficulties still existed, of course, but they were not
insurmountable. A few deluded people seemed to be working against the
common good, but the program left no doubt that this would be cleaned
up in short order. The millenium was at hand!
