
_The Face at the Window_


This was our first encounter with the white invaders. It was too
real to ignore or treat lightly. One may hear tales of a ghost, even
the recounting by a most reliable eye-witness, and smile
skeptically. But to see one yourself--as we had seen this thing in
the moonlight of that Bermuda shorefront--that is a far different
matter.

We told our adventure to Jane's father when he drove in from
Hamilton about eleven o'clock that same evening. But he, who
personally had seen no ghost, could only look perturbed that we
should be so deluded. Some trickster--or some trick of the
moonlight, and the shadowed rocks aiding our own sharpened
imaginations. He could think of no other explanation. But Don had
fired pointblank into the thing and had not harmed it.

Arthur Dorrance, member of the Bermuda Parliament, was a gray-haired
gentleman in his fifties, a typical British Colonial, the present
head of this old Bermuda family. The tales or the ghosts, whatever
their origin, already had forced themselves upon Governmental
attention. All this evening, in Hamilton, Mr. Dorrance had been in
conference trying to determine what to do about it. Tales of terror
in little Bermuda had a bad enough local effect, but to have them
spread abroad, to influence adversely the tourist trade upon which
Bermuda's very existence depended--that presaged economic
catastrophe.

"And the tales are spreading," he told us. "Look here, you young
cubs, it's horribly disconcerting to have you of all people telling
me a thing like this."

Even now he could not believe us. But he sat staring at us,
eyeglasses in hand, with his untouched drink before him.

"We'll have to report it, of course. I've been all evening with the
steamship officials. They're having cancellations." He smiled
faintly at me. "We can't get along without you Americans, Bob."

I have not mentioned that I am an American. I was on vacation from
my job as radio technician in New York. Don Livingston, who is
English and three years my senior, was in a similar line of work--at
this time he was technician in the small Bermuda broadcasting
station located in the nearby town of St. Georges.

       *       *       *       *       *

We talked until nearly midnight. Then the telephone rang. It was the
Police Chief in Hamilton. Ghosts had been seen in that vicinity this
evening. There were a dozen complaints of ghostly marauders prowling
around homes. This time from both white and colored families.

And there was one outstanding fact, frightening, indeed, though at
first we could not believe that it meant very much, or that it had
any connection with this weird affair. In the residential suburb of
Paget, across the harbor from Hamilton, a young white girl, named
Miss Arton, had vanished. Mr. Dorrance turned from the telephone
after listening to the details and faced us with white face and
trembling hands, his expression more perturbed and solemn than ever
before.

"It means nothing, of course. It cannot mean anything."

"What, father?" Jane demanded. "Something about Eunice?"

"Yes. You know her, Bob--you played tennis down there with her last
week. Eunice Arton."

I remembered her. A Bermuda girl; a beauty, second to none in the
islands, save perhaps Jane herself. Jane and Don had known her for
years.

"She's missing," Mr. Dorrance added. He flashed us a queer look and
we stared at him blankly. "It means nothing, of course," he added.
"She's been gone only an hour."

But we all knew that it did mean something. For myself I recall a
chill of inward horror; a revulsion as though around me were
pressing unknown things; unseeable, imponderable things menacing us
all.

"Eunice missing! But father, how missing?"

He put his arm around Jane. "Don't look so frightened, my dear
child."

He held her against him. If only all of us could have anticipated
the events of the next few days. If only we could have held Jane,
guarded her, as her father was affectionately holding her now!

       *       *       *       *       *

Don exclaimed, "But the Chief of Police gave you details?"

"There weren't many to give." He lighted a cigarette and smiled at
his trembling hands. "I don't know why I should feel this way, but I
do. I suppose--well, it's what you have told me to-night. I don't
understand it--I can't think it was all your imagination."

"But that girl, Eunice," I protested.

"Nothing--except she isn't at home where she should be. At eleven
o'clock she told her parents she was going to retire. Presumably she
went to her room. At eleven-thirty her mother passed her door. It
was ajar and a bedroom light was lighted. Mrs. Arton opened the door
to say good night to Eunice. But the girl was not there."

He stared at us. "That's all. There is so much hysteria in the air
now, that Mr. Arton was frightened and called upon the police at
once. The Artons have been telephoning to everyone they know. It
isn't like Eunice to slip out at night--or is it, Jane?"

"No," said Jane soberly. "And she's gone? They didn't hear any sound
from her?" A strange, frightened hush came upon Jane's voice. "She
didn't--scream from her bedroom? Anything like that?"

"No, he said not. Jane, dear, you're thinking more horrible things.
She'll be found in the morning, visiting some neighbor or something
of the kind."

But she was not found. Bermuda is a small place. The islands are so
narrow that the ocean on both sides is visible from almost
everywhere. It is only some twelve miles from St. Georges to
Hamilton, and another twelve miles puts one in remote Somerset. By
noon of the next day it was obvious that Eunice Arton was quite
definitely missing.

       *       *       *       *       *

This next day was May 15th--the first of the real terror brought by
the White Invaders. But we did not call them that yet; they were
still the "ghosts." Bermuda was seething with terror. Every police
station was deluged with reports of the ghostly apparitions. The
white figures of men--in many instances, several figures
together--had been seen during the night in every part of the
islands. A little band of wraiths had marched down the deserted main
street of Hamilton. It was nearly dawn. A few colored men, three or
four roistering visitors, and two policemen had seen them. They had
appeared down at the docks and had marched up the slope of the main
street.

The stories of eye-witnesses to any strange event always are
contradictory. Some said this band of ghostly men marched on the
street level; others said they were below it, walking with only
their heads above the road surface and gradually descending. In any
event the frightened group of onlookers scattered and shouted until
the whole little street was aroused. But by then the ghosts had
vanished.

There were tales of prowlers around houses. Dogs barked in the
night, frantic with excitement, and then shivered with terror,
fearful of what they could sense but not see.

In Hamilton harbor, moored at its dock, was a liner ready to leave
for New York. The deck watch saw ghosts walking apparently in
mid-air over the moonlit bay, and claimed that he saw the white
figure of a man pass through the solid hull-plates of the ship. At
the Gibbs Hill Lighthouse other apparitions were seen; and the St.
David Islanders saw a group of distant figures seemingly a hundred
feet or more beneath the beach--a group, heedless of being observed;
busy with some activity; dragging some apparatus, it seemed. They
pulled and tugged at it, moving it along with them until they were
lost to sight, faded in the arriving dawn and blurred by the white
line of breakers on the beach over them.

The tales differed materially in details. But nearly all mentioned
the dark helmets of strange design, the white, tightly fitting
garments, and many described the dark thread-like wires looped along
the arms and legs, running up into the helmet, and back across the
chest to converge at the belt where there was a clock-like
dial-face.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ghostly visitors seemed not aggressive. But Eunice Arton was
missing; and by noon of May 15th it was apparent that several other
white girls had also vanished. All of them were under twenty, all of
prominent Bermuda families, and all of exceptional beauty.

By this time the little government was in chaos. The newspapers, by
government order, were suppressed. The cable station voluntarily
refused to send press dispatches to the outside world. Don, Jane and
I, through Mr. Dorrance's prominence, had all the reports; but to
the public it was only known by whispered, garbled rumor. A panic
was impending. The New York liner, that morning of May 15th, was
booked beyond capacity. An English ship, anchored out in the open
channel outside Hamilton harbor, received passengers up to its limit
and sailed.

The shops of St. Georges and Hamilton did not open that morning of
May 15th. People gathered in the streets--groups of whites and
blacks--trying to learn what they could, and each adding his own
real or fancied narrative to the chaos.

Although there had seemed so far no aggression from the ghosts--our
own encounter with the apparition being typical of them all--shortly
after noon of the 15th we learned of an event which changed the
whole aspect of the affair; an event sinister beyond any which had
gone before. It had occurred in one of the hotels near Hamilton the
previous night and had been suppressed until now.

A young woman tourist, living alone in the hotel, had occupied a
bedroom on the lower floor. The storm blinds and windows were open.
During the night she had screamed. Guests in nearby rooms heard her
cries, and they were also conscious of a turmoil in the woman's
room. Her door was locked on the inside, and when the night clerk
finally arrived with a pass-key and they entered, they found the
room disordered, a wicker chair and table overturned, and the young
woman gone, presumably out of the window. She had been a woman of
about twenty-five, a widow, exceptionally attractive.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stolen by the ghosts? We could think of nothing else. Was that what
had happened to Eunice Arton? Did that explain the reported
disappearances of the several other girls? Did this ghostly activity
have some rational purpose--the stealing of young white women, all
of them of unusual beauty? The conclusion was forced upon us, and
with it the whole affair took on a complexion shudderingly sinister.
It was not a mere panic of the people with which Bermuda now had to
cope--not merely an unexplainable supernatural visitation, harmless
enough, save that it was terrorizing. This was a menace. Something
which had to be met with action.

It would be futile for me to attempt detailing the events of that
chaotic day. We had all ridden over to Hamilton and spent the day
there, with the little town in a turmoil and events seething around
us--a seemingly endless stream of reports of what had happened the
night before. By daylight no apparitions were seen. But another
night was coming. I recall with an inward sinking of heart I saw the
afternoon sun lowering, the sky-blue waters of the bay deepening
into purple and the chalk-white little stone houses taking on the
gray cast of twilight. Another night was coming.

The government was making the best preparations it could. Every
policeman of the island force was armed and ready to patrol through
the night. The few soldiers of the garrisons at St. Georges and
Hamilton were armed and ready. The police with bicycles were ready
to ride all the roads. The half dozen garbage trucks--low-geared
motor trucks--were given over to the soldiers for patrol use. The
only other automobiles on the islands were those few permitted for
the use of the physicians, and there were a few ambulance cars. All
of these were turned over to the troops and the police for patrol.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the late afternoon an American newspaper hydroplane arrived from
New York. It landed in the waters of Hamilton harbor and prepared to
encircle the islands throughout the night. And the three or four
steamship tenders and the little duty boat which supplied the
government dockyards with daily provisions all had steam up, ready
to patrol the island waters.

Yet it all seemed so futile against this unknown enemy. Ghosts? We
could hardly think of them now as that. Throughout the chaotic day I
recall so many wild things I had heard others say, and had myself
thought. The dead come to life as living wraiths? A ghost could not
materialize and kidnap a girl of flesh and blood. Or could it?
Hysterical speculation! Or were these invaders from another planet?

Whatever their nature, they were enemies. That much we knew.

Night fell upon the crowded turmoil of the little city of Hamilton.
The streets were thronged with excited, frightened people. The
public park was jammed. The hotels and the restaurants were crowded.
Groups of soldiers and police on bicycles with electric torches
fastened to their handlebars were passing at intervals. Overhead the
airplane, flying low, roared past every twenty minutes or so.

The night promised to be clear. The moon would rise, just beyond the
full, a few hours after sunset. It was a warm and breathless night,
with less wind than usual. Most of the people crowding the streets
and the restaurants were in white linen--themselves suggesting the
white and ghostly enemy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Dorrance was occupied at the Government House. Jane, Don and I
had supper in a restaurant on Queen Street. It was nearly eight
o'clock and the crowd in the restaurant was thinning out. We were
seated near the street entrance where large plate-glass windows
displayed a variety of bakery products and confections. Jane had her
back to the street, but Don and I were facing it. Crowds were
constantly passing. It was near the end of our meal. I was gazing
idly through one of the windows, watching the passing people when
suddenly I became aware of a man standing out there gazing in at me.
I think I have never had so startling a realization. It was a man in
white doeskin trousers and blue blazer jacket, with a jaunty linen
cap on his head. An abnormally tall, muscular man. And his
smooth-shaven, black-browed face with the reflection from the
restaurant window lights upon it, reminded me of the apparition we
had seen the night before!

"Don! Don't look up! Don't move! Jane, don't look around!" I
whispered, almost frantically.

I must have gone white for Don and Jane gaped at me in astonishment.

"Don't do that!" I murmured. "Someone outside, watching us!" I tried
to smile. "Hot night, isn't it? Did you get a check, Don?" I looked
around vaguely for the waitress, but out of the tail of my eyes I
could see the fellow out there still peering in and staring intently
at us.

"What is it?" Don whispered.

"Man watching us! See him out there--the right-hand window! Jane,
don't look around!"

"Good Lord!" murmured Don.

"Looks like him, doesn't it?"

"Good Lord! But I say--"

"What is it?" murmured Jane. "What is it?"

"Waitress!" I called. "Check, please. There's a man out there,
Jane--we're crazy, but he does look like that ghost we saw on the
Fort Beach."

If the fellow knew that we had spotted him he gave no sign. He was
still apparently regarding the bakery display in the window, but
watching us nevertheless. I was sure of that.

The waitress gave us our check. "Nine and six," Don smiled. "Thank
you. But didn't you forget that last coffee?"

The colored girl added the extra sixpence, and left us.

"You think that's the same--I say, good Lord--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Don was speechless. Jane had gone white. The fellow moved to the
other window, and Jane had a swift look at him. We all recognized
him, or thought we did. What necromancy was this? Had one of the
apparitions materialized? Was that ghost we saw, this gigantic
fellow in doeskins and blazer who looked like a tourist standing out
there at the window? Were these ghosts merely human enemies after
all?

The idea was at once terrifying, and yet reassuring. This was a man
with whom we could cope with normal tactics. My hand went to the
pocket of my blazer where I had a little revolver. Both Don and I
were armed--permits for the carrying of concealed weapons had been
issued to us this same day.

I murmured, "Jane! There are the Blakinsons over there. Go join
them. We'll be back presently."

"What are you going to do?" Don demanded.

"Go out and tackle him--shall we? Have a talk. Find out who he is."

"No!" Jane protested.

"Why not? Don't you worry, Jane. Right here in the public
street--and we're both armed. He's only a man."

But was he only a man?

"We'll have a go at it," said Don abruptly. He rose from his seat.
"Come on, Jane, I'll take you to the Blakinsons."

"Hurry it up!" I said. "He's leaving! We'll lose him!"

The fellow seemed about to wander on along the street. Don brought
Jane over to the Blakinsons' table which was at the back of the
restaurant. We left our check with her and dashed for the street.

"Where is he? Do you see him?" Don demanded.

He had gone. But in a moment we saw him, his white cap towering
above the crowd down by the drugstore at the corner.

"Come on, Don! There he is!"

We half ran through the crowd. We caught the fellow as he was
diagonally crossing the street. We rushed up, one on each side of
him, and seized him by the arms.



