
The great creature made no protest as they climbed up the broad flat
back and strapped themselves down with the belts that had been threaded
through holes cut in the h端ffen's thin, tough shell. Its lungs slowly
gathered a tremendous breath of air, causing the riders to rise up as
the huge air-sacs became distended. The girth of an inflated h端ffen
was nearly four times as great as when deflated. When the air was
gathered, the creature began to shrink again as its muscles tightened,
compressing the breath until a faint leakage-hiss came from behind. It
waited, wings taut.

The girl tugged at a ring set through the flesh of its flank. There
was a blast of sound and a jerk. Nature's experiment in jet propulsion
soared ahead and turned into the wind. Its first breath exhausted, it
gathered another and blew itself ahead again. The ride was jerky. Each
tailward belch was a rough lurch. They let the h端ffen choose its own
heading as it gained altitude. Then Mara tugged at the wing-straps, and
the creature wheeled to soar toward the dark hills in the distance.

Asir sat behind her, a sardonic smirk on his face, as the wind whipped
about them. He waited until they had flown beyond screaming distance of
the village. Then he took her shoulders lightly in his hands. Mistaking
it for affection, she leaned back against him easily and rested her
dark head on his shoulder. He kissed her--while his hand felt gingerly
for the knife at her belt. His fingers were numb, but he managed to
clutch it, and press the blade lightly against her throat. She gasped.
With his other hand, he caught her hair.

"Now guide the h端ffen down!" he ordered.

"_Asir!_"

"Quickly!" he barked.

"What are you going to do?"

"Leave you here and circle back to the vaults."

"No! Not out here at night!"

He hesitated. There were slinking prowlers on the Cimmerian plain,
beasts who would regard the marooned daughter of Welkir a delicious bit
of good fortune, a gustatory delight of a sort they seldom were able
to enjoy. Even above the moan of the wind, he could hear an occasional
howl-cry from the fanged welcoming committee that waited for its dinner
beneath them.

"Very well," he growled reluctantly. "Turn toward the vaults. But one
scream and I'll slice you." He took the blade from her throat but kept
the point touching her back.

"Please, Asir, _no_!" she pleaded. "Let me go on to the hills. Why do
you want to go to the vaults? Because of Tokra?"

He gouged her with the point until she yelped. "Tokra be damned, and
you with him!" he snarled. "Turn back."

"_Why?_"

"I'm going down to kindle the Blaze of the Winds."

"You're _mad_! The spirits of the ancients live in the vaults."

"I am going to kindle the Blaze of the Winds," he insisted stubbornly.
"Now either turn back, or go down and I'll turn back alone."
