
After a hesitant moment, she tugged at a wing-rein and the hüffen
banked majestically. They flew a mile to the south of the village, then
beyond it toward the cloister where the priests of Big Joe guarded the
entrance to the vaults. The cloister was marked by a patch of faint
light on the ground ahead.

"Circle around it once," he ordered.

"You can't get in. They'll kill you."

He doubted it. No one ever tried to enter, except the priests who
carried small animals down as sacrifices to the great Sleeper. Since no
outsider ever dared go near the shaft, the guards expected no one. He
doubted that they would be alert.

The cloister was a hollow square with a small stone tower rising in
the center of the courtyard. The tower contained the entrance to the
shaft. In the dim light of Phobos, assisted by yellow flickers from the
cloister windows, he peered at the courtyard as they circled closer. It
seemed to be empty.

"Land beside the tower!" he ordered.

"Asir--please--"

"Do it!"

The hüffen plunged rapidly, soared across the outer walls, and burst
into the courtyard. It landed with a rough jolt and began squeaking
plaintively.

"Hurry!" he hissed. "Get your straps off and let's go."

"I'm not going."

A prick of the knife point changed her mind. They slid quickly to the
ground, and Asir kicked the hüffen in the flanks. The beast sucked in
air and burst aloft.

Startled faces were trying to peer through the lighted cloister windows
into the courtyard. Someone cried a challenge. Asir darted to the door
of the tower and dragged it open. Now forced to share the danger, the
girl came with him without urging. They stepped into a stair-landing.
A candle flickered from a wall bracket. A guard, sitting on the floor
beneath the candle, glanced up in complete surprise. Then he reached
for a short barbed pike. Asir kicked him hard in the temple, then
rolled his limp form outside. Men with torches were running across the
courtyard. He slammed the heavy metal door and bolted it.

Fists began beating on the door. They paused for a moment to rest, and
Mara stared at him in fright. He expected her to burst into angry
speech, but she only leaned against the wall and panted. The dark mouth
of the stairway yawned at them--a stone throat that led into the bowels
of Mars and the realm of the monster, Big Joe. He glanced at Mara
thoughtfully, and felt sorry for her.

"I can leave you here," he offered, "but I'll have to tie you."

She moistened her lips, glanced first at the stairs, then at the door
where the guards were raising a frantic howl. She shook her head.

"I'll go with you."

"The priests won't bother you, if they see that you were a prisoner."

"I'll go with you."

He was pleased, but angry with himself for the pleasure. An arrogant,
spiteful, conniving wench, he told himself. She'd lied about Tokra. He
grunted gruffly, seized the candle, and started down the stairs. When
she started after him, he stiffened and glanced back, remembering the
barbed pike.

As he had suspected, she had picked it up. The point was a foot from
the small of his back. They stared at each other, and she wore her
self-assured smirk.

"Here," she said, and handed it casually. "You might need this."
