
Starting from the first square, the path went left, straight, right,
right, right. And after zero, the numbers went 1, 2, 3, 3, 3.
Apparently he had found the key. One meant a square to the southeast;
two meant south; and three southwest. Shivering, he moved up to the
fifth square upon which the monster growled his first warning. He
looked back at the door, then at Big Joe. The taloned hands could grab
him before he could dive back into the corridor.

He hesitated. He could either turn back now, or gamble his life on the
accuracy of the tentative belief. The girl was calling to him again.

"Come to the end of the corridor!" he replied.

She came hurriedly, to his surprise.

"_No!_" he bellowed. "Stay back of the entrance! Not on the tile! _No!_"

Slowly she withdrew the foot that hung poised over a trigger-tile.

"You can't come in unless you know how," he gasped.

She blinked at him and glanced nervously back over her shoulder. "But I
hear them. They're coming down the stairs."

Asir cursed softly. Now he _had_ to go ahead.

"Wait just a minute," he said. "Then I'll show you how to come through."

He advanced to the last tile that he had tested and stopped. The next
two numbers were two--for straight ahead. And they would take him
within easy reach of the long taloned arms of the murderous sentinel.
He glanced around in fright at the crushed bones scattered across the
floor. Some were human. Others were animal-sacrifices tossed in by the
priests.

He had tested only one two--back near the door. If he made a mistake,
he would never escape; no need bothering with the pike.

He stepped to the next tile and closed his eyes.

"_If the intruder makes an error, Big Joe will kill._"

He opened his eyes again and heaved a breath of relief.

"Asir! They're getting closer! I can hear them!"

He listened for a moment. A faint murmur of angry voices in the
distance. "All right," he said calmly. "Step only on the tiles I tell
you. See the gray one at the left of the door?"

She pointed. "This one?"

"Yes, step on it."

The girl moved up and stared fearfully at the monstrous sentinel. He
guided her up toward him. "Diagonally left--one ahead--diagonally
right. Now don't be frightened when he speaks--"

The girl came on until she stood one square behind him. Her quick
frightened breathing blended with the growing sounds of shouting from
the stairway. He glanced up at Big Joe, noticing for the first time
that the steel jaws were stained with a red-brown crust. He shuddered.

The grim chess-game continued a cautious step at a time, with the girl
following one square behind him. What if she fainted again? And fell
across a triggered tile? They passed within a foot of Big Joe's arm.

Looking up, he saw the monster's eyes move--following them,
scrutinizing them as they passed. He froze.

"We want no plunder," he said to the machine.

The gaze was steady and unwinking.

"The air is leaking away from the world."

The monster remained silent.

"Hurry!" whimpered the girl. Their pursuers were gaining rapidly and
they had crossed only half the distance to the opposing doorway.
Progress was slower now, for Asir needed occasionally to repeat through
the whole series of numbers, looking back to count squares and make
certain that the next step was not a fatal one.

"They won't dare to come in after us," he said hopefully.

"And if they do?"

"_If the intruder makes an error, Big Joe will kill_," announced the
machine as Asir took another step.

"Eight squares to go!" he muttered, and stopped to count again.

"Asir! They're in the corridor!"

Hearing the rumble of voices, he looked back to see blue-robed men
spilling out of the stairway and milling down the corridor toward
the room. But halfway down the hall, the priests paused--seeing the
unbelievable: two intruders walking safely past their devil-god. They
growled excitedly among themselves. Asir took another step. Again the
machine voiced the monotonous warning.

"_If the intruder makes an error...._"
