
There was dead silence and Heidel found his smile again. "All right, now
I'll explain a bit further. Before Dr. Kingly, the head of our
laboratory, died a few days ago, he made a very peculiar discovery. As
you know, there has been no evidence to indicate that the Martian is any
different, physically, from the Earthman. Not until Dr. Kingly made his
discovery, that is."

Heidel looked from face to face. "This is how it happened," he went on.
"Dr. Kingly ..."

He paused and glanced about in false surprise. "I beg your pardon,
gentlemen. We might as well be enjoying our wine. Excellent port. Very
old, I believe. Shall we?" he asked, raising his glass.

Five other glasses shimmered in the candlelight.

"Let us, ah, toast success to the unveiling of the rotten Martian who
sits among us, shall we?" Heidel's smile glinted and he drank a quarter
of his glass.

The five glasses tipped and were returned to the table. Again there was
silence as the men waited.

"To get back," Heidel said, listening with excitement to his own voice.
"Dr. Kingly, in the process of an autopsy on a derelict Martian, made a
rather startling discovery ..."

"I beg your pardon," Forbes said. "Did you say autopsy?"

"Yes," said Heidel. "We've done this frequently. Not according to base
orders, you understand." He winked. "But a little infraction now and
then is necessary."

"I see," said Forbes. "I just didn't know about that."

"No, you didn't, did you?" said Heidel, looking at Forbes closely. "At
any rate, Dr. Kingly had developed in his work a preserving solution
which he used in such instances, thereby prolonging the time for
examination of the cadaver, without experiencing deterioration of the
tissues. This solution was merely injected into the blood stream,
and ..."

"Sorry again, sir," Forbes said. "But you said blood stream?"

"Yes," Heidel nodded. "This had to be done before the cadaver was a
cadaver, you see?"

"I think so, yes," said Forbes, leaning back again. "Murdered the
bastard for an autopsy, what?"

Heidel's fingers closed around the pistol. "I don't like that, Forbes."

"Terribly sorry, sir."

"To get on," Heidel said finally, his voice a cutting sound. "Dr. Kingly
had injected his solution and then ... Well, at any rate, when he
returned to his laboratory, it was night. His laboratory was black as
pitch--I'm trying to paint the picture for you, gentlemen--and the
cadaver was stretched out on a table, you see. And before Dr. Kingly
switched on the lights, he saw the eyes of this dead Martian glowing in
the dark like a pair of hot coals."

"Weird," said Sadler, unblinking.

"Ghostly," said Clarke.

"The important thing," Heidel said curtly, "is that Dr. Kingly
discovered the difference, then, between the Martian and the Earthman.
The difference is the eyes. The solution, you see, had reacted
chemically to the membranes of the eyeballs, so that as it happened
they lit up like electric lights. I won't go into what Dr. Kingly found
further, when he dissected the eyeballs. Let it suffice to say, the
Martian eyeball is a physical element entirely different from our
own--at least from those of five of us, I should say."

His grin gleamed. He was working this precisely and carefully, and it
was effective. "Now, however," he continued, "it is this _sixth_ man who
is at issue right now. The fly in the soup, shall we say. And in just a
few seconds I am going to exterminate that fly."

He picked up the pistol from the table. "As I told you, gentlemen, I am
quite versatile with this weapon. I am a dead shot, in other words. And
I am going to demonstrate it to you." He glanced from face to face.

"You will notice that since Mr. Meehan has moved, I have a clear field
across the table. I don't believe a little lead in the woodwork will mar
the room too much, would you say, Forbes?"

Forbes sat very still. "No, I shouldn't think so, sir."

"Good. Because I am going to snuff out each of the four candles in the
center of this table by shooting the wick away. You follow me,
gentlemen? Locke? Meehan? Sadler?"

Heads nodded.

"Then perhaps you are already ahead of me. When the last candle is
extinguished, we will have darkness, you see. And then I think we'll
find our Martian rat. Because, as a matter of fact," Heidel lolled his
words, "I have taken the privilege of adding to the wine we have been
drinking Dr. Kingly's preserving solution. Non-tasteful, non-harmful.
Except, that is, to one man in this room."

Heidel motioned his gun. "And God rest the bastard's soul, because if
you will remember, I have five bullets in the chamber of this pistol.
Four for the candles and one for the brain of the sonofabitch whose eyes
light up when the last candle goes out."
