
The trail was arched by wide-spreading branches of oaks and
silver-mottled sycamores, and dappled with sunlight and shade. A gray
squirrel scampered along a limb and leaped to a slender branch that bent
and swayed above us. Yet the mare did not flinch, but swept on, her
hoofs sounding a muffled rhythm on the soft earth. I marked squirrels
off the tentative list of unpleasant possibilities. Round a wide bend in
the trail the mare stepped on a slender, fallen branch. It snapped, and
a piece of it flicked up and struck her, yet she did not flinch or play
up. A vagrant wind, drifting along the afternoon hillside, scattered a
heap of dead leaves piled beside the trail. The mare hesitated the least
bit, then shook her head and went on. Fallen branches and dead leaves
were scratched from the list. Farther along, a Mexican, clearing out
brush, rose suddenly and stared at us. The mare stopped and snorted, not
because she was actually frightened, but rather because she was
indignant at being startled.

I scratched sudden Mexicans off the list. A horse would hardly be worth
riding that would not be startled by such an apparition. A straight
stretch offered, and I put the mare into a canter. She went collectedly,
smoothly, and with fine restraint. My suspicions were rocked to sleep. I
had begun to get the pace of the mare, to get in tune with her mood and
manner of going. When such harmony is attained, riding becomes a
superlative delight. But delights are ephemeral.

At the head of the valley are the gravel pits. And up toward the head of
the valley a road crosses the bridle trail diagonally, a modern road,
hard-surfaced and commercial. It is a highway for mammoth steel gravel
trucks that, empty and loaded, go and come day and night. Their right of
way is never disputed or ignored. What do they care about mere
automobiles or even more insignificant horses and riders? These trucks
are the clamoring juggernauts of civilization.

Shortly before we came within sight of this hazardous crossing, both the
mare and I were aware of the heavy boom and roar of a motor. The mare
stopped abruptly. I urged her on. She responded, going at a walk, but
daintily, as though afraid of treacherous ground. I felt her grow tense.
I surmised that she intended to whirl and run. The sound of the motor
grew louder. I tried to take the mare on, that she might at least see
what caused the noise, but she refused. Then, with the rattle and clash
and clang of a drayload of iron pipe over cobbles, an empty gravel truck
thundered past. The mare laid back her ears, whirled, and bolted.

It happened that I was fortunate enough to accompany her, but in a more
or less impromptu manner. I had been told, often enough, that there are
certain rules to observe in such cases: Use your legs; take a firm hold
of the snaffle; don’t take hold too hard; give your horse his head; sit
down and ride; let him see that you are not afraid of that which
frightened him; speak to him quietly; keep him going on. These rules are
all very well, but the difficulty seems to be that there are no two
cases exactly alike. About all there was left to do was to sit down and
try to ride. Also, there were branches and tree trunks to dodge. The
mare was cutting turns, with a wild disregard of obstacles. She did not
seem especially interested in taking me past them if she cleared them
herself.

I had a vision of foliage whisking past, of a winding trail that swept
dizzily underneath, and of a sharp pair of upstanding ears, ever pointed
toward the south and the stables. By great good fortune, I managed to
get the mare down to a reasonable gallop before we made the turn into
the stable yard. We made it together, but I came along merely as a
passenger, not a rider. She stopped at the entrance to the stable, drew
a deep breath, and stood quietly, with ears pointed sharply to the
front.

Maurice came up, a quizzical smile tugging at one corner of his mouth.
He stroked the mare’s neck.

“You’ll be taking her out again?” he asked.

I told him that I had dropped my whip, and thought I’d go back and get
it.

“And don’t forget to pick up your hat, also,” he said. “I have known a
gentle horse to shy at a hat in the road, him thinking, most like, that
it was no place for a hat, anyhow.”
