
Again the mare went out of the yard, now, at a walk. Arrived at the
memorable crossing, she sidled, but went on. And when we returned, about
an hour later, it was evident that she had not forgotten the gravel
truck. While she was doing her best to behave, she did not intend to be
caught napping. Back at the stable, I sat down in Maurice’s old
armchair, fetched from the tack room. Patiently he led the mare round
and round the quadrangle, cooling her. He gave her a little water, then
walked her again. Presently he fetched her up, took off her cooler, and
went to work. Sponge, rag, brush, and water bucket--ten minutes, twenty
minutes, and he was still at it. At last he led her to her stall,
blanketed her, and gave her some hay.

Two of the grooms came from the stable, on their way to supper. Maurice
puttered about, hanging up this tie rope and that halter, straightening
the coolers on their racks, and tidying up the runway. Long shadows of
early evening reached across the quadrangle. Quail called plaintively
from the brushy hillside, west of the stable buildings. The sound of
contented munching came from the stalls. Maurice fetched another chair
from the tack room and sat down.

“Won’t you be late for supper?” I asked.

“It can wait. I’ll rest a bit.” He glanced at me, his head the least bit
to one side, a twinkle of humor in his bright brown eyes. “The mare,
now--and did you have a good ride?”

I nodded and tried to appear casual.

“’Twas good that you took her out the second time,” he said. “Good for
the both of you.”

“It might have been worse,” I told him.

“And you need not be telling me that, sir. But you must have patience
with her. She is young and green--a country girl, sir, with manners to
learn and city ways and the like. She is not mean, nor is she a fool.
It’s the wise head she has, and all the more reason for a man to be wise
in the handling of her. You cannot fight her kind, nor can you let her
be the boss. I would take her along at any gait, but I would not let her
take me, when she had a mind to. ’Tis hard to explain, but if you have
the feeling for a horse, ’tis but a matter of time and patience, and
you’ll be riding as sweet a mare as ever I laid a brush to. You see,
sir, I was not always a groom.”

I told him that he was a whole lot more than that, as far as I was
concerned. Perhaps, because I meant it, Maurice felt inclined to talk
intimately of his past or a portion of it.

“I was not always a groom,” he reiterated. “One time I had a little
money put by and some good clothes.” He smiled wistfully. “I’ll not tell
you about Ireland and the steeplechases and flat races I rode when I was
a lad. And I was no more than a young man when I came to America. New
York it was, where I worked for a gentleman, at his country place, a
millionaire, sir, but that did not hinder him from being a fine
horseman. I rode his hunters, trained them, and showed many a jumper of
his at the Garden. Being a bit handy with the ribbons, there would be
times when I would be driving his four-in-hand. He paid good wages. I
put by a little money, thinking that maybe some day I would set up in
the horse business, myself--in a small way, of course.

“But you know how it is. A man would be having a lot of friends, and
what with the treating, and lending to them who would be forgetting to
pay back, the money went. But I kept me good clothes, sir. I have some
of them yet. Anyhow, one day I quit me job. I’ll not be telling you why,
but it was not the fault of me boss, and maybe not so much me own fault.
I bought a ticket and came West. One time I would be working on a ranch,
but always I would be moving on. One good job I had taking care of fifty
brood mares and their colts. But when the man sold out, I left. I worked
in many places, sir, and always where there were horses. But I must
always be moving on. Maybe it was me pride that kept me moving on. I was
not always a groom. Anyhow, I kept me trunkful of good clothes against
the day when I would have the job I was looking for. And I thought I had
found it when I came to this city and went to work for a man I’ll not
name, but maybe you’ll be knowing who he is without that.

“But it makes no difference. He gave me a string to do--mostly jumpers
that he was getting ready for the winter show. And there was my work,
and I knew how to do it. It was not long before I was taking some of
them over the jumps, with him leaning on his cane and watching me. One
day he called me into the office and tells me that he will be putting
another groom on my string, and that I will be exercising the jumpers
and getting them ready for the winter show. And he tells me that if I
keep straight, I’ll be riding some of them over the jumps at the show.
It was my chance. But it would have been better if I had never had that
chance. You see, the man had in his stable some boarders and some school
horses and some show horses, five-gaited and jumpers and the like. But
what he cared for most was to buy and sell. He was not so much a
horseman, sir, as a horse dealer, and there’s a bit of a difference.
