
You see, sir, he would be buying a sick horse, or a lame one, or one
with a bad temper, and doctoring them and patching them up and doping
them till he had something that looked like a real horse. Then he would
sell it. And he was clever at it. But it was not for me to say a word to
anybody, although there was times when I felt like telling some nice
young lady, who didn’t know horses at all, at all, to buy somewhere
else, and not to buy something that looked pretty and went sound with a
trainer up, and the horse gingered and primped and too scared to show
lame. But it was not for me to speak. My work was to condition and train
the jumpers, and that I did.

“Yes, the man I speak of was clever at buying and selling. But tell me,
sir, what dealer has not been fooled at one time or another? Now, there
are some dealers who will buy a horse and get fooled on him, and,
finding it out, they will take their medicine. They are the kind that
will try to get rid of the horse to some other dealer who is supposed to
know his business. And there be dealers who would sell anything with a
mane and tail to it, to anybody. And the man I speak of was that kind.
And that is the great trouble with the horse business. Buying a bad one
or a lame one discourages them as would spend their money, and you know,
sir, ’tis the money of the amateur horseman that keeps the game going.
And it is a queer game, at best. There be riders who will spoil the best
horse money can buy, in a week, and say that the horse is no good and
that they have been cheated. You have noticed, sir, that some rich
people, who ride because it is the fashion, are always having trouble
with their horses. And there be riders who will get along with most any
kind of a horse. But money never made a rider, sir, much less a
horseman. The best money can do, in the way of lessons, is to make a
natural rider a better one. And it is a poor stick of a man that cannot
learn something from a horse.

“But I would be telling you about the man who would be buying and
selling, and who would cheat his best friend. In every stable you will
find, maybe, one or two horses that it would be best to shoot before
they kill some one. The man I am telling you about had one--a big
chestnut hunter, with a blaze and one white foot. He stood close to
sixteen hands and had good bone and muscle. His powerful hind quarters
had just the right drop to make him a good jumper. He was the type. I
have seen many like him in Ireland, but not with his temper. I would be
thinking his sire was a thoroughbred and his dam a range mare. You see,
he was shipped down from Alberta, with a bunch of hunters, and sold at
auction. The man I was working for bought him cheap.

“It was not long before the horse had a bad name. He crippled one boy,
broke his leg, and he like to tore the shoulder off one of the grooms.
He was sullen, sir. There would be days when he would behave like any
decent animal, sir, and then, without warning, he would bite or strike
or kick or rear and go over backward. A devil he was. But I paid little
attention to him, being busy with my own string. And the grooms that
knew him didn’t say much. They knew the old man wanted to get rid of
him, and they were hoping he would, and that soon. You see, ’tis not so
bad when a horse is honestly mean and shows it. But this one was sullen
and tricky. I have seen one of the boys put him over two or three jumps
and bring him in with never a wrong move. And I have seen him rear and
come over back before he was scarce out of the stable. Just tricky,
sir.”

“I had been working on my own string, and I was bringing in one of my
horses, when the old man told me to put a saddle on the blaze-face
gelding and take him over two or three jumps. I wondered what the old
man was up to, till I saw a young fellow with him--one of them kind that
dresses horsy and tries to make himself believe that he has a right to
be wearing them kind of clothes. As I brought the gelding out, I heard
the old man telling the young fellow that the gelding could jump
anything up to six feet, and that anybody who knew his business could
handle him. ‘He’s got plenty of life,’ says the old man, ‘but that’s
what you want in a jumper. Go ahead, Maurice.’
