
Well, sir, that horse took the first jump as square and clean as any
horse I ever sat on. I brought him back and was for taking him in before
he got a chance to show his meanness, when the old man told me to take
him over the first jump again. I was for leaving well enough alone, but
it was not for me to say. So I turned him and put him at the jump again.
And, before he got his stride, I knew that he intended to run wide or
refuse. And, knowing that, I forced him, and it took all I had to keep
him from running into the corner of the wing and crashing through. But I
got him over and fetched him back, him plunging and fighting his head.

“‘He’s a good one,’ says the old man to the young fellow. ‘I admit it
takes a man to handle him.’

“‘That don’t worry me any,’ says the young fellow. And then I knew he
was no horseman at all, at all, and that it would be plain murder to
sell him the horse. For, by the same token, any man who could tell one
end of a horse from the other, could see that it was all I could do to
put him over the jump the second time, and that he intended to run blind
into the corner of the wing and not take off at all. I had him in the
stable and was just turning him over to his groom, when the old man
tells me to fetch him out again. I was afraid that the young fellow was
going to try him, but it was not that. And, just as I came out, leading
the gelding, the bookkeeper called the old man to the telephone.
‘Begging your pardon for asking,’ says I to the young fellow, ‘but was
you thinking of buying this horse?’

“‘And suppose I was?’ says he, and he might just as well have gone on
and said: ‘What business is it of yours?’ It was in his eye.

“‘He’s dangerous. I wouldn’t buy him,’ says I. And maybe I looked at the
young fellow’s riding breeches and new boots a bit longer than was
called for.

“‘Are you afraid of him?’ says he, smiling.

“‘I am,’ says I. ‘He’d kill a man if he got half a chance.’

“The young fellow laughed in me face. I haven’t much use for the opinion
of a man who would knock his employer’s business,’ says he. It was a
queer way of thanking me for trying to save his neck. And, what with
handling the horse and the young fellow’s talk, and how the old man was
willing to chance having me break my neck, showing a devil to a buyer, I
got hot in the collar. I had it in mind to say more to the young fellow,
but the old man came from the office and walked up, swinging his cane.
The young fellow takes out a cigarette and lights it. ‘I’ll buy him,’
says he, ‘if your man will put him over that jump again.’

“‘All right,’ says the old man. ‘Take him over, Maurice.’

“’I was thinking of the show coming on, and the other jumpers,’ says I.

“‘That’s my business,’ says the old man. ‘If you haven’t nerve enough to
put a real jumper over that jump, you can’t show any of my horses.’

“Now, the grooms had all come out and were standing by the doorway,
watching us, and maybe expecting to see somebody get hurt. And it was
the first time in me life, sir, that anybody had ever said to me that I
didn’t have nerve enough to take a horse over a jump. ’Twas a black rage
that took hold of me. ‘No man has ever said the like to me,’ says I. And
I mounted and took the horse down the field and turned him. When he
lunged out and went toward the jump, I knew that I had lost my judgment
of distance and stride, and more, that I didn’t care. I was as blind mad
as the horse himself. I fought him up to the wings, and I tried to hold
him straight, him rearing and lunging. But no living man could have held
him to the jump. He went into the corner. He didn’t even try to take
off. They told me he turned over twice. I knew nothing about that. I was
down and under him.”
