
Maurice shrugged his shoulders. The ghost of a smile twitched at the
corners of his mouth.

“We all get it, sir, sooner or later. Of course, I have seen some of the
boys that got hurted bad ride again, but they would have to have the
liquor to do it. Their nerve was gone. And that is a terrible thing to
happen to a man. But it was not nerve that made me put that horse at
that jump. It was pride. I knew better. I should have refused to take
him over. ’Twas plain reckless, and ’tis no credit to a man to be
reckless, for then he has no judgment. If he comes through, ’tis luck
that does it. And, sir, I had plenty of time to think about it all, on
me back in the hospital. It was close to six months before they let me
go. And me being a stranger in this city, never a soul came to see me,
saving a young man who was riding master at the stable, a boy from
Ireland, like meself.

“He would be bringing me a package of tobacco, or maybe some fruit, or a
bit of a book to read, and telling me a joke or two to pass the time.
And when I was to leave the hospital, he put some money in me hand, and
says the boys at the stable had took up a collection to pay me hospital
bill. You see, sir, grooms and stablemen and trainers will always be
helping one another, when a man is sick or hurted bad. And many the
dollar that is give outright, and many is the dollar lent and by the
same token never paid back. But, then, sir, the fellow that will borrow
and not pay back will be helping some other fellow, so it is all in the
family, like. But the old man, who had money, he never came to see me
once. But one day a lawyer came and told me I could sue the old man for
damages.

“The lawyer would be asking me to sign a paper, saying he would take the
case for half when we got out of it. But I did not like his talk, and I
signed no paper. I told him it was me own fault that I got hurted, and
that I knew the horse was bad, and the chance I took. It was a long time
after that I found out the old man sent the lawyer to see what I
intended to do about it. A trick of the trade, sir. But I signed no
paper. I would not be blaming the old man. He knew the horse was bad,
but also he knew I would be knowing it meself. They say there is some
good comes out of everything. I don’t know. But maybe my getting broke
up saved that young fellow from getting killed complete. If so, I am
glad. But I paid a terrible price for saving him, sir. Look at me hands!
Sometimes I look at them and wonder if they belong to some old man with
the palsy. And I am not an old man, sir. Ah, well, ’tis all in the way
of our business. I’ll always be with the horses. ’Tis in me blood. I was
born and raised to it, in Ireland, and me father before me.”

One of the grooms came back from supper. Maurice got up stiffly.

“I’ll be getting a bite to eat,” he said.

“But the mare,” I said, as we walked across the quadrangle; “there’s
nothing mean about her. She’s just young and lively. You can’t blame her
for wanting to play.”

“No, she is not mean,” said Maurice deliberately. “’Tis not that. I got
to thinking, sir, why take any risk at all? You see, it is not just
yourself--you have a family. With me it would be different. I have no
one. I was paid for riding. It was my business. But you ride for
pleasure. You are your own boss. You do not have to take any chances.”

“Chances? Why, Maurice, I take a longer chance driving my car from here
to my home, through this town, than I do when riding the mare.”

“It may be so, sir. They do be smashing up cars and people something
wicked. ’Tis hard to say what a man should do to keep his bones whole.”

“That’s just it,” I said. “Where can we draw the line? Why, a man isn’t
safe, even in jail. There might be an earthquake. But we were talking
about the mare. I am going to let you make a decision. I’ll stand by it.
If you were in my place would you keep on riding the mare, or would you
ride a deadhead and try to make yourself believe you enjoyed it?”

“Deadhead, is it? There are no deadheads in this stable.” Maurice’s tone
was brusque, but he smiled instantly. “And the others--well, I would be
thinking the mare is the best of the lot. I will have her ready for you
at the same time to-morrow, sir.”

[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the April 7, 1927 issue
of The Popular Magazine.]
