
_The ruby rolled across the table...._

His eyes were no longer focussed on the watch, but he remembered that
the hands had last indicated eleven fifty-five. And now they were back
at _eleven forty-five_. He was trapped in a period of time only ten
minutes long!

He lit a cigarette with trembling fingers and tried to think calmly.
What danger was there in a time trap? He felt no physical pain and so
far the trap had only caused him small inconveniences. Anything he did
during the ten-minute period was magically undone when he was thrown
backward in time. He had put iodine on the cut on his hand and it had
disappeared. He had walked to the window, but at the beginning of the
next cycle, without any conscious sensation, he found himself sitting
in the chair once more. But how could movement through time harm him?

And was he the only one aware of the trap?

He turned the television set on and watched a news announcer during
several following cycles. Before long, he was convinced that he was
the only one who was aware of the repeated time interval. The news
announcer represented everyone in the world, and if he were conscious
of the fact that he'd read the same news more than a dozen times, there
would have been _some_ change in his expression!

He recalled how the Martian had moved his fingers over the globe and
how he'd felt a burning sensation inside his skull. The device had
evidently been adjusted to his neural pattern so that only he was
conscious of the trap. Or else only someone within a certain effective
radius--fifty feet, for instance--was conscious of the repeated time
intervals.

Although he'd always believed the stories about the time machines
and he now had proof of their existence, he still found it difficult
to comprehend their operation. He had heard that such a machine
concentrated on only a few atoms of a radioactive substance. By drawing
energy from the space-time continuum itself, the machine succeeded in
thrusting those atoms backward or forward in time, and since that
affected the entire probability stream, all physical matter was forced
to follow them through the time stream.

He couldn't totally comprehend the concept, but he realized he had
to do _something_ nevertheless, and during following cycles that
totaled hours, he tried to decide on a course of action. He recalled
the Martian legend about how a particularly vicious criminal had been
punished with a similar machine. The unfortunate had been tossed into
a pit filled with lionlike animals and then, by repeating the time
interval, he had been made to suffer the same death a thousand times.
In his own case, he was in no physical danger, but he knew that an
enemy was creeping toward him ... an enemy that could kill him as
surely as any lion ... _boredom_.

If he submitted to boredom and just sat through the endless time
cycles, it would be the same as sitting in a room for weeks, months,
or years. That would be the same as solitary confinement and would
eventually drive him insane.

So, there were two possibilities: he could attempt to wreck the machine
or wait for it to wear itself out and fight boredom while waiting.

It didn't take him long to decide that he should wait for the
machine to run down. If the alien devices really drew energy from the
space-time continuum, it would be dangerous to tamper with one. A
wrong move when fooling with such a tremendous amount of energy might
be disastrous, and perhaps that was exactly what the old Martian had
planned for him to do! On the other hand, it didn't seem possible that
a machine could run _forever_.

There should be plenty of ways to keep himself occupied and his mind
busy while he waited....

He began reading the magazines scattered about the apartment. There was
only time to read a few pages, but he mentally noted the page number
during each cycle and when the succeeding interval began, he opened the
magazine to that exact page and continued....
