
Desperate for a way to overcome boredom, he used the bottle of whiskey
in the kitchen. After several attempts, he discovered to his dismay
that there were ways to get violently sick from gulping liquor but no
possible way to get drunk in ten minutes!

He sat through endless cycles staring at the empty air; began to have
wild thoughts and knew he was on the verge of insanity. And if he
were losing the fight with boredom, he might as well try the other
alternative: break the machine and hope it wouldn't blow up in his face.

Taking a long-bladed knife, he attacked the small mechanisms inside the
globe. He probed, twisted and jabbed but they seemed indestructible.

Furious, he held it underwater with the hope that water would
short-circuit "electrical contacts" if there were any.

When that didn't work, he beat it with a hammer, kicked it, threw it
about the room and as a last result, dropped it from the window.

It bounced off the sidewalk fourteen floors below and attracted
attention, but a few minutes later he was once more sitting in the
chair and watching the sickeningly familiar ruby as it rolled across
the sickeningly familiar table.

He stared at the telephone. If only it would ring; if only someone
would call him and break the _monotony_! But that was impossible.
At the beginning of each cycle, all physical things and events were
exactly as they had been....

Telephone!

He could use it to break the monotony--he could phone all his friends!

He telephoned all his friends and talked with them for numerous
ten-minute intervals that totaled days. Because they were always
unaware of the previous cycles, his repeated phone calls never annoyed
them. Sometimes he told them about the time trap but it was beyond
their comprehension and they always thought he was drunk, so he learned
not to mention it.

When he tired of talking to his friends, he started at the front of
the telephone directory and began calling every name. He made dates
with girls he'd never seen, memorized marvelous sales talks and sold
non-existent vacuum cleaners and cars. Sometimes he pretended to be
the master of ceremonies on a quiz program and when someone answered
a difficult question, he told them they had just won a dollar. The
various reactions he received were amusing and broke the monotony, but
after a few days, even that became boring.

He tried to leave the hotel's fourteenth floor, but discovered that the
elevator boy was not on the job at that particular time. Although he
ran to the elevator at the beginning of numerous cycles and pushed the
_down_ button, the indicator needle never moved during the ten minutes.

He used the stairs at the end of the corridor with the hope of reaching
another floor and meeting someone. To see someone or speak to someone
in person would have done a lot to break the monotony, but he found
that the thirteenth and fifteenth floors were inaccessible. The doors
that led to them from the stairway wouldn't push in and there was no
hand-grip to pull them outward. Evidently the hotel management used
the method to prevent burglars from having an absurdly easy and unseen
access to the apartments. Anyone could leave a floor and use the stairs
to reach the hotel lobby, but anyone wishing to go from the lobby to
a certain floor or from one floor to another was forced to use the
elevator.

Cursing the bad luck, he sat for hours and wondered what he could
do. He was restricted to succeeding but separate and identical time
intervals, and that was also a physical restriction in effect: ten
minutes wasn't long enough to leave that floor of the hotel.
