
He now thought of boredom as an ugly monster that lurked everywhere
about him and waited ... waited to seize him with sharp teeth of
inactivity....

Desperate for the sight of another person, he tried to enter the other
apartments. There were five on that floor, but of them, only the one
next to his own seemed to be occupied. When he knocked, there was no
answer, but he pressed an ear against the door and heard the faint
sound of running water. Whoever the occupant was, he or she was taking
a shower and couldn't hear him no matter how hard he knocked.

It irritated him because the apartment was so close. If he could
contact the person somehow, he or she could be reached at the beginning
of each cycle and would be a tangible individual to help him fight
boredom--not a voice on the telephone, an image on the TV screen or a
tiny dot of a person fourteen floors below his window.

By phoning the hotel desk, he learned that a woman named Mary Jeffers
rented apartment 1403, and he found her telephone number in the
directory.

Dialing the number, he was relieved when she answered within a few
minutes. The ringing of the phone was evidently loud enough to
penetrate the noise of the shower while his knocking on the door hadn't
been.

"Mary Jeffers?" he asked.

"Yes?"

"Mary, are you a college graduate?"

"Yes. Who is this? Why do you want to know?"

"This is the police. It's very important. Which college did you attend?"

He knew it was a flimsy trick to get information, but he caught her
off guard and she answered, "The University of Delaware."

He hung up the phone and waited until the next cycle. Dialing the
number again, he said, "Mary? This is Harry Ogden."

Because of the nature of the time trap, she was unaware of the previous
conversation, and her automatic reply to the unfamiliar voice was,
"Ogden? You must have the wrong number. I don't know anyone by that
name."

"Don't you remember? I went to the University of Delaware with you. I
remember you. You have blonde hair and--"

"No. It's brunette."

Hanging up the phone, he waited until the next cycle, dialed the number
again and said, "Mary? This is Harry Ogden."

"Ogden? You must have the wrong number. I don't know anyone by that
name."

"Don't you remember? I went to the University of Delaware with you. I
remember you. You're a brunette about a hundred and thirty pounds and--"

"Well, not quite that much."

By calling dozens of times, he used the system to learn more and more
about Mary Jeffers, until at last he knew enough to convince her within
a few minutes that he was a friend from her college days whom she'd
forgotten.

As he talked with her during various cycles that totaled weeks, he
began to feel as if she _were_ a friend, and the desire to see her in
person increased. The sight of anyone would have done wonders to break
the monotony, and she was the only possibility since all the other
apartments were empty.

"I have the apartment next to yours," he said during one time cycle.
"Can I come over?"

"I'm not dressed," she replied. "I was taking a shower. Give me time to
get dressed."

He glanced at his watch and saw that only four minutes remained in
that cycle. He realized despairingly that there wasn't time for her
to get dressed. All his efforts had been in vain: ten minutes wasn't
long enough to phone her, go through the carefully memorized routine
convincing her he was an old friend, wait for her to dress and open the
door of her apartment.

_It couldn't be done in ten minutes!_
