
Boredom was like a hungry beast that breathed in his ears with a roar
of silence while he sat through several succeeding cycles.

_Silence._ It seemed to echo in his ears as he looked about the
apartment. It seemed to whisper that he was losing the duel. The
Martian's trap was working: he would sit and wait, and think, and
think endlessly until they were wild thoughts and he was insane. And
then, the Martian would have his revenge, for insanity was a form of
walking death....

He made a decision. He had fought boredom legally and exhausted every
method he could think of. If there were no more legal ways, then he
would fight boredom _illegally_. The police couldn't reach him in ten
minutes no matter what he did.

Dialing Mary Jeffers' phone number at the beginning of the next cycle,
he laid the receiver on the desk, ran across the room and climbed
through the window.

The stone ledge just beneath his window wasn't very wide, but by
inching his way along it, he reached the open window of apartment 1403.

Climbing through the window, he saw that Mary Jeffers had picked up the
telephone receiver with one hand and was trying to dry herself with a
towel in the other.

"Hello," she said.

Her back was to him, but he noticed that she wasn't very efficient with
the towel. Water dripped from her body and collected in a small pool
around her feet.

He grinned and said, "Hello."

She whirled to face him and dropped the telephone receiver, her dark
brown eyes widening.

"Harry Ogden," he said. "Remember?"

As soon as he asked the question, he knew it was a foolish one. The
time trap was his trap alone and only he was conscious of all the
repeated cycles. She was unaware of all their previous conversations
and he was now a stranger to her.

She backed away and let out a scream.

It didn't bother him. It was music to his ears--a sound that broke the
silence of his peculiar world--a weapon to combat boredom with, and he
reflected that he would make many trips to apartment 1403....
