
Kessler grinned. "Thanks, senator. As for the political sabotage
possibilities, you've undoubtedly seen a copy of my confidential
report. Three of the passengers had definite subversive connections in
the past. I know, I'm not trying to make much of this. Their
associations all date back to the 1930s and one of them was just a
girl flirting with a Communist fellow student, but we didn't want to
overlook any possibilities. Pearlow, on the other hand, was Russian
born. He's the one who barely survived another airline crash three
years ago."

"Pearlow was perfectly loyal. Just an ironic coincidence, that's all.
I know the papers tried to make something out of it but I find it hard
to believe that you took it seriously. As for Stepowski, he testified
openly about his past here in Washington five years ago."

"I know. I even know that Stepowski's favorite television program was
'I Led Three Lives.' I tell you there's very little I don't know about
anybody who was aboard, with one possible exception."

Brogan was alert. "Who's this?"

"Oh, it's no great mystery, senator. Robert J. Spencer, of Keokuk,
Iowa. We know quite a bit about him, actually, but it's all third
hand. He was a retired court stenographer, seventy-three years old,
going to New York for his sister's funeral at the time of the crash.
He boarded the plane at Chicago. He took a train to Chicago because he
didn't like to fly, then he got sick there, apparently from some
mushrooms he picked at home and had for lunch before he left. He had
to lay over in Chicago for a day and then he got on the plane at the
last minute so he wouldn't miss the funeral."

"Sounds to me as though you knew everything about him."

"Funny thing, though," said Kessler, "I have yet to speak to a single
person who ever exchanged ten words with Robert J. Spencer. He lived
alone, a complete recluse. Neighbors never saw him. Probably his
sister would have been able to tell me something about him but she's
dead. Actually, while I'm here in Washington I'm going to stop by and
see an old acquaintance of his, a Miss Valeria Schmitt. They worked
together as court stenographers in Iowa City more than twenty-five
years ago. They were engaged but they never married. She moved here
during World War II and they never saw much of each other after that."
He shrugged. "I know it's a long shot, but I don't want to miss a
chance."

Senator Brogan shook his head, smiling. "I have to admire you,
Kessler. But may I express some little reservation? Do you really
think looking up an acquaintance of Mr. Spencer's from twenty-five
years ago is going to help materially in solving the mystery of a
plane crash that occurred just last February? Or that the taxpayers
could be very happy at this sort of expenditure of their money?"

Kessler flushed darkly and leaned forward in his chair, clasping his
hands. "Senator," he said, his voice cracking a little, "the taxpayers
are not spending a cent currently on this investigation. My staff has
been dismissed or returned to their regular duties. I went off the
payroll three weeks ago. My final report has been submitted. I'm doing
this at my own expense because I feel that I have to. I'm not
satisfied. There has to be an answer!"
