
A buzzer on Senator Brogan's desk hummed two short discreet hums.
Brogan made no attempt to answer it. He stood and came around the
desk, putting his hand on Kessler's shoulder. "Don't get up just yet,"
he said. "My secretary buzzes me every fifteen minutes in case I want
to show my constituents how busy I am. If there's anyone waiting, let
them wait. There's just a little bit more I'd like to say." He sat in
the wide embrasure of the window and leaned forward on a crossed knee.
He looked the picture of negligence but he was obviously pausing to
choose his words with care. Kessler shifted his chair to face him.

"I won't mince words," Brogan said, "because I think we understand
each other. We always have. Thanks to your splendid investigation, and
my only little efforts perhaps, we know more about the circumstances
of this crash than any other in aviation history. I had exactly your
feeling that the answer ought to be there. But I don't see it and you
don't see it. We know absolutely everything but one thing. We don't
know what caused it. And we're never going to know that. I really
think you are doing the aviation industry, yes and the country itself,
a real injury by going on. I won't say what I think you're doing to
yourself because it will sound like a sentimental appeal and you've
known me too long not to know I'm pretty hard-headed."

"The investigation is over," Kessler said sullenly.

"Yes, I know, officially, but you've just told me you're going on with
it personally."

"It's one last remote chance."

"Well, tell me this, Bob, if this last remote chance doesn't work out,
will you call it quits and not start in on another last remote chance?
Will you and Margaret get on up to that place of yours in Maine and
take a good long vacation?"

Kessler smiled wryly. "Margaret has ideas of her own along that line.
She's followed through on this with me all the way but she came down
to Washington to meet me today and she says she's going to drag me off
when I'm through here."

Brogan smiled his famous smile. "Good girl, Margaret. If she's here
and has a leash on you, I know I don't have anything to worry about.
There's nothing I admire more than a woman who has a mind and uses it.
I'll tell you something else," he said, standing and permitting
Kessler to rise this time. "I was truly sorry about Eileen Bennett's
death on this plane, but Eileen was getting along like me. Sarah
Pollitt's was the really tragic case, to have accomplished so much so
young and with that fearful handicap! From childhood, too, wasn't it?"

[Illustration]

"Actually, she was about seventeen. Someone threw a firecracker in a
car in which she was riding, but she could see partially with one
eye."

Brogan nodded. "But a beautiful woman, for all that. And then to have
achieved so much. I understand nothing about chemistry but I know her
international repute. She had just become head of the chemistry
department at Wellesley, hadn't she?"

"Radcliffe."

Brogan laughed loudly. "I might have known I couldn't trip you up. But
tell me this," he added slyly, "did you know that Dr. Pollitt had once
been a good friend of Bergmann?"

"Our former Commie on the plane? Yes, as a matter of fact, we came
across that quite accidentally. You did a good job, senator."

"Well, you know we have some sources not generally accessible."

"Then you undoubtedly found out that though Sarah Pollitt and friend
Bergmann knew each other well at one time she dropped him like a hot
cake when he suggested she do a little undercover work for the
Commies. Their being on the same plane was the sheerest coincidence."

Brogan stood with his hand on the door with led to the corridor. He
nodded. "That was a little hard to take, wasn't it? We really thought
we had something there for a while." He sighed. "It's like the whole
thing, Bob, irrational and unexplainable. And believe me, I hope I
haven't sounded critical of the job you did. I hope we can call on you
whenever we need really expert advice?"

"Of course, senator, though I don't feel much like an expert on
anything right now."

"You did your best, Bob." He patted him on the shoulder in farewell.
