
That's how it happened that _The Luck_ lifted that night from Yakki,
outward bound for Ley's Landing, with Pop and Kane aboard her alone.

Sitting at the battered console of _The Luck_, Pop watched his
passenger. He knew Kane, of course. Or rather, he knew of him. A
killer. The kind that thrives and grows fat on the frontiers. The
bulky frame, the cropped black hair, the predatory eyes that looked
like two blaster muzzles. They were all familiar to Pop. Kane was all
steel and meanness. The kind of carrion bird that took what others had
worked for. Not big time, you understand. In another age he'd have
been a torpedo--a hireling killer. But out among the stars he was
working for himself. And doing well.

Pop didn't care. His loyalty to the Patrol had stopped quite suddenly
not long before--in a dark alley in Lower Marsport. This was only a
job, he told himself now. A job for coffee and cakes, and maybe a
grubstake to work a few more lonely rocks. Life had become a habit for
Pop, even if living had ended.

"What are you staring at, Pop?" Kane's voice was like the rest of him.
Harsh and cold as space itself.

"At you, I guess," Pop said, "I was wondering what you'd done--and
where--and to whom."

"You're a nosey old man," Kane said. "Just get me to Ley's Landing.
That's what I'm paying for, not a thing more."

Pop nodded slowly and turned back to the control board. They were
above the Belt by now, and a few short hours from turnover point. The
cranky drives of _The Luck_ needed all his attention.

Presently he said, "We'll be turning over soon. Want to get some
rest?"

Kane laughed. "No thanks, old man. I'll stay here and watch you."

Pop eyed the ready blaster and nodded again. He wondered vaguely how
it would feel to die under the blast of such a weapon. It couldn't be
very painful. He hoped it wasn't painful. Perhaps the boy hadn't
suffered. It would be nice to be sure, he thought.

There wasn't much for Pop to remember about the boy. He'd never been
one for writing many letters. But the District Patrolman had come down
to Yakki and looked Pop up--afterward. He'd said the boy was a good
officer. A good cop. Died doing his job, and all that sort of thing.
Pop swallowed hard. His job. What had 'his job' been that night in
Lower Marsport, he wondered. Had someone else finished it for him?

He remembered about that time hearing on the Mars Radio that a
Triangle Post Office had been knocked over by a gunman. That might
have been it. The Patrol would be after anyone knocking over EMV
Triangle property. The Earth-Mars-Venus Government supported the
Patrol for things like that.

Pop guided _The Luck_ skillfully above the Belt, avoiding with
practiced ease the few errant chunks of rock that hurtled up out of
the swarms. He talked to Kane because he was starved for
talk--certainly not because he was trying to play Sherlock. Pop had
long ago realized that he was no mental giant. Besides, he owed the
Patrol nothing. Not a damned thing.

"Made this trip often?" Pop tried to strike up a conversation with
Kane. His long loneliness seemed sharper, somehow, more poignant,
when he actually had someone to talk to.

"Not often. I'm no space pig." It was said with scorn.

"There's a lot to spacing, you know," Pop urged.

Kane shrugged. "I know easier ways to make a buck, old timer."

"Like how?"

"A nosey old man, like I said," Kane smiled. Somehow, the smile wasn't
friendly. "Okay, Pop, since you ask. Like knocking off wacky old
prospectors for their dust. Or sticking up sandcar caravans out in
Syrtis. Who's the wiser? The red dust takes care of the leftovers."

Pop shook his head. "Not for me. There's the Patrol to think of."

Kane laughed. "Punks. Bell-boys. They'd better learn to shoot before
they leave their school-books."

Pop Ganlon frowned slightly. "You talk big, mister."

Kane's eyes took on that metallic glitter again. He leaned forward and
threw a canvas packet on the console. It spilled crisp new EMV
certificates. Large ones. "I take big, too," he said.

Pop stared. Not at the money. It was more than he had ever seen in one
pile before, but it wasn't that that shook him. It was the canvas
packet. It was marked: _Postal Service, EMV_. Pop suddenly felt cold,
as though an icy wind had touched him.

"You ... you killed a Patrolman for this," he said slowly.

"That's right, Pop," grinned Kane easily. "Burned him down in an alley
in Lower Marsport. It was like taking candy from a baby...."

Pop Ganlon swallowed hard. "Like taking candy from a ... baby. As easy
as that...."

"As easy as that, old man," Kane said.
