
Pop knew he was going to die then. He knew Kane would blast him right
after turnover point, and he knew fear. He felt something else, too.
Something that was new to him. Hate. An icy hate that left him shaken
and weak.

So the boy's job hadn't been finished. It was still to do.

There was no use in dreaming of killing Kane. Pop was old. Kane was
young--and a killer. Pop was alone and without weapons--save _The
Luck_....

Time passed slowly. Outside, the night of deep space keened
soundlessly. The stars burned bright, alien and strange. It was time,
thought Pop bleakly. Time to turn _The Luck_.

"Turnover point," he said softly.

Kane motioned with his blaster. "Get at it."

Pop began winding the flywheel. It made a whirring sound in the
confined space of the tiny control room. Outside, the night began to
pivot slowly.

"We have to turn end-for-end," Pop said. "That way we can decelerate
on the drop into Callisto. But, of course, you know all about that,
Mr. Kane."

"I told you I'm no space pig," Kane said brusquely. "I can handle a
landing and maybe a takeoff, but the rest of it I leave for the
boatmen. Like you, Pop."

Pop spun the flywheel in silence, listening to the soft whir.
Presently, he let the wheel slow and then stop. He straightened and
looked up at Kane. The blaster muzzle was six inches from his belly.
He swallowed against the dryness in his throat.

"You ... you're going to kill me," Pop said. It wasn't a question.
Kane smiled, showing white teeth.

"I ... I know you are," Pop said unsteadily. "But first, I want to say
something to you."

"Talk, old timer," Kane said. "But not too much."

"That boy--that boy you killed in Marsport. He was my son," Pop said.

Kane's face did not change expression. "Okay. So what?"

Pop's lips twitched. "I just wanted to hear you say it." He looked at
the impassive face of the killer. "You made a mistake, Mr. Kane. You
shouldn't have done that to my boy."

"Is that all?"

Pop nodded slowly. "I guess that's all."

Kane grinned. "Afraid, old man?"

"I'm a space pig," Pop said. "Space takes care of its own."

"You're in a bad way, old timer," Kane said, "and you haven't much
sense. I'm doing you a favor."

Pop lifted his hands in an instinctive gesture of futile protection as
the blaster erupted flame.

There was a smell in the control room like burnt meat as Kane
holstered his weapon and turned the old man over with a foot. Pop was
a blackened mass. Kane dragged him to the valve and jettisoned the
body into space.
