
They managed to get some sleep; but they awoke with their throats on
fire. The game that they had played was over. But they avoided the
thought of their new plan as much as possible, since they did not want
the possibility of fatal consequences to look them in the face.

A chill in the atmosphere generally preceded the customary heat of the
day; and the coldness now seemed unusually severe. They got together a
few sticks and built a fire. The sun had not yet risen, but the island
was immersed in the ghostly gray light of early dawning. They saw
everything vividly. The boulders on the beach seemed alive. A light
wind furred the steel-gray sea with tiny ripples.

"We mustn't waste time," said Van Wyck. It was obvious that his dread
of Bill had grown in the night. Bill's threat had taken complete
possession of his shriveled, selfish little brain. His teeth chattered
over the fire and he planned a thousand assaults on the man beside him.
His fingers clutched frantically at the knife which he kept hidden;
but he lacked the stomach for malicious manslaughter. He feared that
his cowardice might betray him into a false or dangerous move, and he
endeavored to conquer his hysteria with loud boasts.

"It was all poppycock, our worrying about the cannibals," he announced.
"The thing for us to do is to put on a bold front. They'll make gods of
us!"

In the present condition of his mind these words produced a curious
effect on Bill. He waved his arms wildly, and swore at the sky. "Yes,"
he shouted, "they'll do that. But sometimes they're not satisfied
with a living man. They're head-hunters, you know. They have a way of
removing the skull from a man's head, and drying it up, and worshiping
it. They have a predilection for red hair and beards. When they find
both on one head they go wild."

Bill looked directly at Van Wyck. The latter could scarcely stand. He
was swaying hysterically back and forth and running his fingers through
his bristling red beard. "Perhaps I could shave it off before we
start," he wailed.

"With what?" demanded Bill.

"With the clam shells," cried Van Wyck, dejectedly seeking to grasp
some straw that would save his head.

"I refuse to permit it," said Bill. "It's time we started. It wouldn't
be pleasant to swim in the full glare of the sun."

They stripped and rolled their clothes into neat, round balls. Somehow
it did not seem right to abandon them helter-skelter on the beach. They
had a vague idea that they might return for them. They deposited them
gingerly beneath the one coco palm, and walking solemnly to the water's
edge they scowled into the clouded mirror of sea before them.
