
The water was like ice, and Bill shivered and stood on one foot. "Walk
right in," said Van Wyck. "The cannibals expect us!" His smile was
ghastly and indescribable. The blue veins stood out on his scrawny
neck, and his forehead was covered with globules of perspiration.

Bill was the first to go into deep water. Van Wyck stood with the icy
current swirling about his ankles, and watched him wade out until he
stood waist-deep. Bill turned and looked back reproachfully. "You're
coming, aren't you?" Bill's disdain and distrust of Van Wyck were
forgotten in a momentary need for companionship.

As Van Wyck stood with the cold water numbing his toes he had an
irrational desire to turn back and run wildly up the beach, and to
stay on the island until thirst finished him off. The risk of the
swim seemed suddenly displeasing to him. A mist passed rapidly before
his eyes; he ran his fingers through his hair and gulped. But when he
saw the pitiful, hurt expression on Bill's face he put aside unworthy
thoughts. "I'm coming, Bill," he said.

He walked forward until the water eddied and swirled about his chin.
His face was hideously drawn and his eyes bulged, but a forlorn ray
of sunlight filtered through the clouds and played about his head,
bringing out its latent manliness.

"It's deep, out there," said Bill.

They both lurched forward. The sudden loss of footing accentuated
Bill's weakness, and he went under. He felt that his arms and legs were
incapable of sustaining him, and he wondered if Van Wyck would try to
save him.

He came up and struck out, his mouth full of water. The salt burned his
throat and he swallowed. The water went into his stomach. He shivered.
The sun beat mercilessly down upon his naked body.

He swam boldly, with a brief sense of triumph. He had conquered his
physical weakness. He knew that his strength might not last, but
the thought that he had not depended upon Van Wyck gave him secret
satisfaction.

He could see Van Wyck's red head on the water several yards ahead of
him. The little wretch had evidently made good use of his legs and
arms. "Slow up, Van Wyck!" he shouted.

"I don't dare to!" Van Wyck called back. "If I stop I might sink. And
think how deep it is!"

Bill resented Van Wyck's reminder. "If you don't ease up," he shouted,
"you'll surely go down. This isn't an athletic contest!"

"It is," cried Van Wyck. "It's the greatest ever--even if there are
head-hunters at the goal. I advise you to talk to me. It keeps me from
thinking. If I think I shall go down."

But Bill did not feel like talking. The water was cold and he had no
stomach for repartee. He felt the chill of the depths beneath in his
nude limbs. He swallowed great quantities of sea water. He knew that
he might suffer eventually, but he did not care. He wanted to reach
the island. He had never shared Van Wyck's dread of cannibals, and the
thought of the island, with its crystal-clear springs and refreshing
fruits, was a precious balm to him.

He wondered if Van Wyck would survive him. The latter was swimming with
frightful rapidity, leaving him definitely in the lurch. Bill envied
and pitied his little companion. Van Wyck might survive to view the
island, with its green, welcome frondage--but would he ever reach it?

Bill had an uncomfortable suspicion that he might sink. His initial
courage threatened to give out. A mounting hysteria surged through his
brain. He closed his eyes and tried not to think. There was nothing
before him but a limitless stretch of malachite sea. He was fascinated
and horrified by his isolation. A cold, brilliant sun blinded his eyes
and dried up the sap of life in him. The water seemed to thicken, and
he had great difficulty in moving his arms and legs.
