
Bill never knew how he reached the island. For a starving, emaciated
man to swim seven miles is tremendous, and deserves some reward. Like
most valiant men, Bill was conscious of his own worth. When he sighted
the island he said nothing, but he thought: "This is only just. I have
paid the price, and I deserve this."

He had also caught up with Van Wyck. The awful glare in the despairing
eyes that Van Wyck turned upon him told of a fatigue immeasurable and a
desire for water that had passed the bounds of sanity. Van Wyck's eyes
were living pools of liquid fire. His voice was hoarse and rasping, and
he turned over and over in the water; and twice his head went under.

They were horribly near when they sighted the cannibals. Van Wyck saw
them first. He was puffing and wailing, and he had been swimming on his
back, and when he turned over and sighted them his face took on the
aspect of an open wound. His mouth became an awful gash in a grotesque,
streaked horror of countenance.

"Bill," he called hoarsely. "It's worse than we thought. There are
hundreds of 'em!"

Fixing his frightened and horrified eyes on the shore, Bill trod water,
and became suddenly very angry. The scene before him burned itself on
his brain, and robbed him of his victory. He felt that the fates had
taken an indecent advantage of him. His anger mounted, and flushed his
neck and throat. "Damn their black hides!" he muttered.

A clamor and a stench arose from the rocks. The cannibals seemed to be
recovering from a drinking-bout. They writhed in the sun like wounded
snakes. Bill counted sixty or seventy. Their bodies were hideously
tattooed, and they wore monstrous shell rings through their ears and
noses. The women joined with the men in dancing and spitting venom. The
hubbub was deafening. Ages of savagery and blood had shaped them into
capering devils. They were all the more terrible because they had seen
other white men. Bill did not expect much from them. He confessed a
frank horror at the situation.

"If we only had something to give 'em," he groaned.

Van Wyck had somehow expected Bill to rally and come to his support.
He needed a moral prop and he noted with horror that Bill had lost his
solid, comforting manner. Van Wyck's lips were so dry that he could
scarcely get his tongue to shape words of rebuff.

"I don't like it," he finally blurted out. "They certainly mean
business. You might swim in and test 'em!"

"Don't be an ass!" roared Bill.

"All right, then. But if one of us doesn't swim in, both of us are
goners. And since I've never talked with savages I'm hardly the man.
You have a way with you. You could pacify a Java ape-man! Get 'em
laughing--tell 'em a funny story!"

Bill protested venomously. "Those cannibals aren't children," he
groaned. "You can't spoof 'em. This is serious business, Van Wyck."

Van Wyck refused to be convinced and he would have gone on urging Bill
to commit suicide to save his own precious skin if something had
not made all conversation ridiculous. They both saw it at the same
time. They looked at each other and said nothing. Then Van Wyck began
frantically swimming toward the rocks.

The fin divided the water into two glassy walls. As it passed along it
turned the dark surface to shining quicksilver. Bill had barely grasped
the meaning of it when something touched his ankles and he knew that
the water was infested. He gave a sudden, defiant shriek.

But the sharks did not molest him. They made straight for Van Wyck.
They approached in vicious circles, and Bill saw the whites of their
stomachs through the dark green water. The mouth of the largest opened
and closed; and then there followed a clashing of teeth that sounded
like the clanging to of iron-clad portcullises.

Once the horrible gray back of the fish showed above the surface, and
glittered lethally in the sun, and Bill knew that Van Wyck was done
for. Van Wyck was almost near enough to the rocks to climb them, and he
might reasonably have pushed the shark off with his foot, but Bill knew
that he wouldn't. Bill knew that Van Wyck was as good as eaten, and he
thought: "That shark will hardly be content with Van Wyck alone!"

A dozen fins intersected on the surface and occasionally one of the
ravenous monsters would jump clear of the water in its eagerness to
taste satisfying human flesh.

The sight got in under Bill's skin and hurt. He closed his eyes, and
endeavored to think of the grinning, leering savages on the rocks. The
sharks made frantic dashes at Van Wyck and came away with something in
their mouths. They would rush forward, their great jaws would snap--and
there would be less and less of Van Wyck.

Bill was unable to keep his eyes shut. He tried to cover them with
his hands, but then he would go under and get an extra mouthful of
salt water. He came up gasping, and saw that the sea was streaked with
crimson.

As the sharks darted away from Van Wyck they left dark red trails
behind them. Bill heard Van Wyck's screams distinctly, although the
latter had reached a point where screams seemed futile. They became
less and less coherent. Perhaps Van Wyck realized the absurdity of
protest. Perhaps he realized that all things eventually work together
for the best. Certainly the cannibals would have treated him worse. It
is not pleasant to be boiled in oil or hacked to pieces with little
knives.

Bill saw the last of Van Wyck disappear in the maw of an enormous
shark. The water turned a deeper red, and for a moment the sky and sea
and even the naked, gesticulating savages seemed bathed in a crimson
aura. It may have been an optical illusion, since Bill's eyes had
ceased to function with clarity. Bill knew that the sharks would look
about a bit after finishing Van Wyck, and the thought gave him no
satisfaction. "You're next on the list," he told himself.

But somehow the sharks seemed satisfied with poor Van Wyck. Perhaps
they found Van Wyck so unsavory that they did not care to risk tackling
another of the same breed. They circled about for a few minutes after
the last of Van Wyck had disappeared, and then they passed solemnly
eastward, their fins glistening in the brilliant sunlight.

Meanwhile Bill trod water and shuddered when he thought of Van Wyck.
But he didn't let himself think of Van Wyck much after that. Van Wyck,
he argued, was no longer in need of sympathy. "It is the living who
have to suffer," he thought. It was patent that he could enjoy no
security in waters infested with man-eating sharks.

He shouted with delight when he discovered that the cannibals had
disappeared from the rocks. He was forcefully tempted to swim in and
take advantage of his amazing good fortune. But he thought better of
that when he calmly considered the nature of cannibals. They were
probably waiting behind the rocks for him to swim in, and he didn't
care to be boiled in oil when there were sharks to make a quicker,
cleaner job of it.

He decided to attempt to round the island. His ability to keep afloat
amazed and frightened him. He had evidently drawn upon some reserve
strength that nature had hitherto wilfully concealed. Destiny had
played him a new hand. He secretly congratulated himself, although he
continued to curse fate for the cannibals.
