
He got around the island somehow. The current set to at the northern
end and he had some difficulty in surmounting the backwash of black
tidal water; but he finally reached a beach so clean and white and
refreshing that he shouted with boyish eagerness and gratification. He
swam in without reckoning consequences, for in his exultation he had
forgotten or overlooked the cannibals.

He would build a fire and warm himself, and he would eat nothing but
fruit. It needed but a momentary inspection to convince him that the
island contained an excess of fruit. And there was water! A tiny
streamlet came out from the woods, between the boles of fabulously
ancient trees, and ran down the smooth white beach.

Bill swam in and clambered up the beach. He sat down under a hotoo
tree, an absurd horror of bones and wet, clinging sand. He was a living
scarecrow come out of the sea with the wisdom and weariness of ancient
ocean upon him. He could scarcely open and close his thick, black
lips. His sun-baked skin was drawn painfully taut over his protruding
ribs.

A steady surf was crashing on the beach, and he paused while he
listened to the roar of the breakers. He reposed for a time; then he
got up, and a peal of wild laughter came from between his swollen lips.
He had won out! He had hoodwinked the cannibals and sharks! In that
blazing crystal world of sunlight and water he came to life again.

The sun dried him. He gulped up gallons of water from the tiny
streamlet. It was fresh and clear. He was genuinely elated. The wind
swept in from the sea in great, steady gusts, and the flaffing breeze
whistled through his hair and under his armpits. He shouted and danced
in sheer joy. The cannibals, he assured himself, were on the other side
of the island. It was a large island, and he could hide. The chances
against him, he thought, were negligible.

He decided to look about for a hiding-place. He knew that in the vast
forest of tangled vegetation he would have no difficulty in achieving
utter concealment. He could hoard up fruits and coconuts and live
unmolested for days.

But when he turned he saw something peering from between the boles of
the distorted, antique trees that made him change his mind. He stood
still in the center of the beach, and stared, and presently he saw
black, hideous figures come forward into the clearing. Others appeared
crawling toward him on their hands and knees. He realized then the
absurdity of attempting any sort of concealment.

He stood stark still while the cannibals advanced toward him across the
smooth, white sands. He began to envy Van Wyck. He knew too much about
savages. He had that and his imagination to blame for the little hell
that he endured. How could he guess that they did not want revenge? A
savage considers everything an insult. He knew that he should not have
landed upon their infernal island. He wanted to apologize to them, and
to make them understand. He had no desire to lord it over them, and he
admitted to himself that he had deliberately injured their sense of
dignity.

At first he thought that they intended to make short work of him. They
looked sinister. There were three dozen of them in the guard of honor
that advanced toward him across the beach and he did not like their
faces. Their faces were black and swollen and ugly and incredibly
tattooed, and their cheeks were smeared with green and blue paint. One
of them paraded a discarded panama hat. Bill could not imagine where
he had obtained the hat. The wretch had probably repaid the owner by
boiling him in oil. It was quite the thing twenty years ago to burn
traders and missionaries in oil, although the custom has been outgrown
among respectable savages. But the hat looked at least twenty years
old. And one of the devils smoked a corncob pipe! They were tall,
solemn-looking cusses, and Bill did not pretend to like them.

But when they got close to him they formed a circle, shutting him off
from the sea, and he felt then that everything was worse than he had
anticipated. When cannibals begin forming into rings it is customary
to give up hope. They were grinning hideously and Bill could count the
number of teeth in the rings which they wore about their necks.

Some of the leanest and tallest wore thirty or forty teeth. And Bill
knew that a savage never wears more than one tooth from a single head.
It is not considered decent. And each tooth means--but Bill never wept
over spilt milk. He felt that his own head was in imminent danger, and
the knowledge annoyed and frightened him. But he did not dare let
on that he feared them, and he stood up very stiff and straight, and
scowled into their narrow, blood-shot eyes.

They seemed to resent his hostility. It seemed to hurt them, and Bill
was amazed at the hint of reproach in their glances. A cannibal is
something of a gentleman, and he would not deliberately hurt a man's
feelings for the world. And Bill's resentment somehow seemed an insult
to their hospitality. Bill understood how they felt, and he realized
that he had behaved like a boor. But his teeth were knocking together
like billiard balls, and a stern front was necessary.

But he could not look his captors in the face. They came close to
him, and then one of them stepped forward and patted him on the back.
He spoke and Bill understood him. Bill knew nearly all of the Bantu
languages, and the savage spoke a corruption of several.

"We thank our brother for the very fine gift," he said. "We are indeed
grateful!"

Although Bill could understand what the black devil said a reply was
utterly beyond him. The grammatical construction of Bantu overwhelmed
him. Bill kept his mouth shut and stared, pretending not to understand.

The spokesman turned and beckoned. A tall, lean youth with protruding
yellow teeth came quickly forward. Save for a slight hint of pity
in his small eyes his face bore no expression. He held in his right
hand a large, round object which Bill did not immediately recognize.
The spokesman nodded and took the object by its hair. He stroked it
effusively, calling upon it to protect and succor him in war and in
peace. He begged that the object's pity and benevolence would extend
to the whole tribe. He praised the object in terms that would have
embarrassed any living man. Then he turned to Bill and made a very low
bow. "It came ashore before you," he said. "And we are most grateful!"

Bill opened his eyes wide with horror. He sought to express his agony
in words, but no sound came from between his black, swollen lips. A
sudden shriek would perhaps have saved him, and Bill tried hard to make
a sound in his throat. But his horror lay too heavily upon him. He made
a wild, horrid gesture with his right arm and collapsed in a heap upon
the sand.

Three months later Bill was taken off by a trading-sloop. He blabbered
idiotically about the right of a head to decent burial and made
uncomplimentary allusions to the wearing of teeth. He evidently sought
to stir up anger against the cannibals, but the traders ignored his
insinuations, since he was obviously mad and since the cannibals had
worshiped him and given him the run of the island. The memory of Van
Wyck's encrimsoned head had addled his wits.

