
The iron rails crushed the romance of plains travel. With the airplane
also the crossing of the West, like the crossing of the East, is
business. In the long overland stretches the aviator pays scant
attention to the dead epics that he violates with the drumming blast of
his propeller when he bores through the atmosphere above those plains
where the spirits still dance in little dust whirls that pivot and
career with no breath of wind. But I’ve often wandered what imploring
shades we dislocate when we ride in that half-world ether which is
neither heaven nor earth.

My passenger and I made our first leg without event. Out of Cheyenne
the motor began to buck, and a rudder control jammed annoyingly. There
was only one thing to do. Spiraling and slanting like a wing-tipped
bird we sought a landing place.

The country below, as revealed, was rugged, inhospitable desert--a
bad-lands desert with deeply graven face upturned immutable. Plunging
from high covert as we did, and bursting into full earth-view, we
should have appeared like a prodigy from the nethermost. But no buffalo
rocked in flight, no antelope scoured flashily, no red warriors
hammered their ponies for refuge. I saw, however, far, far away toward
the horizon, the smoke thread of a train, and I read in the signal a
message of derision.

We skimmed above a flattish uplift. Fissures and canyons yawned for us.
My passenger’s voice dinned hollowly into my ear, through our ’phone.

“A country God forgot. And there’s nothing here. Useless, useless! We
must go on.”

But I had to do it. Passing with a great rush we turned into the wind,
and breasting, fluttering, managed to strike just at the edge of a
flat-top butte or mesa. We bounded, rolled, checked, halted, and there
we were.

My passenger was out first, divested of his safety harness. He acted
like one distraught. Our brief stop near Cheyenne had vexed him--he had
wished to spend either more time there, or less time. Now this
impromptu stop enraged him.

“What a place, what a place!” he stormed. “There’s nothing here; there
_can_ be nothing here. We must get on. I’m wasting time. I paid to get
on, to San Francisco; even Salt Lake. Then I can work back. But what am
I to do here? And I’m growing old. How long will you be?”

“Not long. And meanwhile,” I retorted, “you’ll not be bothered with
women. You can be thankful for that.”

He snorted.

“Women! No women here; yes. A spot without woman: man and God. We’ve
got to get on. I’ll pay you well to get me on. Do you hear? To San
Francisco--to Salt Lake; some center where I can look, look, and then
work back. I must look again.”

He strode frenziedly. A glance about as I stripped myself of
incumbrances showed me that we were isolated. The mesa dropped abruptly
on all sides; by a running start we might soar from an edge like a
seaplane from the platform of a battleship. And I noted also that
without doubt we should have to depend upon our own resources, for if
this was a country God forgot it moreover seemed to be a country by man
forgotten, granted that man ever before had known it. All furrowed and
washed and castlemented, it was a region where we might remain pancaked
and unremarked, as insignificant as a beetle.
