
I was hunting our engine trouble, when on a sudden he called, and
beckoned.

“Here, you! What’s this?”

I went over. Something quickened me, electric and prickling as when
one’s flesh crawls in contact with a presence unseen. Skull and
skeleton lay eery and mysterious, whitely gleaming, bleached by many
weathers. He stooped----

“Great God!” he stammered.

“You’ve found it?” I asked: and I knew that he had, even while he was
polishing it against his sleeve.

“I don’t know, I don’t know. Look at it. Tell me. I can’t see. What is
it?”

His hand shook as with palsy as he extended it to me; then the half of
a silver coin, plucked from the loosened grip of skeleton fingers; the
date----

“Give it to me,” he cried, and snatched at it.

The date, 1866; and the legend, upon the side less tarnished, “--Till
We Meet Again.” He fumbled in his pocket. The two halves matched
sufficiently--“God Be With You Till We Meet Again.”

“What you’ve been looking for?” I prompted.

He stared dazedly at me.

“Looking for! A thousand times. A thousand years. No, no; not that
long, but more than fifty years. Denver, Cheyenne, Salt Lake, San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Helena, Laramie, Creede, Deadwood, Leadville,
Dodge City--wherever men and women of her kind gathered in her day and
his I’ve searched again and again. Not for her! She must be dead, and
long dead. But for word of this; for this, or trace of this. It was
mine. I gave it. And now, here! How came it here? Those bones won’t
speak.” He angrily kicked them. “Speak! What were you doing with this
half coin? Where was she? Were you man or woman?”

“Woman, Mr. Brown,” said I.

His jaw tautened as he faced me full.

“You say woman? How do you know? What woman?”

“I know,” said I. “And what woman? A young woman, a girl, somebody’s
wife who was supposed to have run away with a breed on the Overland
Trail fifty odd years ago--but didn’t.”

He recoiled a step, tottering, countenance blanched.

“What? Supposed! Supposing I say there was such a woman--my own wife,
sir--my bar sinister--my cross that has ruined my life and made me
doubt God and man and woman for half a century. And this half coin! I
vowed I’d have it back. When at old Fort Bridger I got word that _she_
had deserted me--deserted me for a scoundrelly half-breed--I swore that
I’d trail her down till I got back the only bond between us. It’s been
my passion; it’s been something to live for. That was 1867; this is
1920. I am seventy-four years of age. I have covered the West, and
cursed women while cursing her. And to what end? This forsaken spot, a
mess of bones, and no word! Oh, God! I thought I didn’t care--she
deserved the worst that could happen to her. This is the keepsake
token. Yes. But where is she? I loved her. I want to know.”

He shut his face in his quivering hands.

I put my hand upon his shoulder.

“Come, come,” said I. “The half of the coin and the half of the story
have been yours. Shall I tell you the other half of the story, to match
this other half of the coin? It says ‘Till We Meet Again’, remember.”

Then he faced me once more.

“We halved the coin when we parted in the States, I for Fort Bridger as
a government clerk there, she to wait till I should send for her. Yes,
yes. Fifty and more years ago. ‘Till We Meet Again’! And mine: ‘God Be
With You’! Ah! What do you know? How can you stand and tell me of
_her_? Did you ever see her--did you ever see her?” He clutched me by
the arm. “Did you ever see her, that hussy, that scarlet woman,
that--that--yes, and my own wife who made me lose faith in woman, man,
and God; took my youth from me, sent me wandering about without home
and without charity? Curse her! The end of the trail, and what do I
find? Dry bones. Whose bones?” He faltered, and he implored, simply:
“You guessed? You’re too young to have been on the plains in those
days. Did you know _him_?”

“Pierre Lavelle?”

“Ah!” he quavered. He dashed down the half coin. “Are you going to tell
me these bones are his? No, no! Such men as he live long. And this
keepsake! Tell me she died miserably; that will be something. You did
know him? You did? Or do you dare to allege you can rebuild a past,
from this dungheap? What?”

“You wrong her, Mr. Brown,” I answered. “I never knew Lavelle, never
saw him, I never knew her--I do not even know her name, except by
yours. But----”

“Catherine,” he murmured. “Kitty. A beautiful girl, and false as hell.”

“You wrong her,” I repeated. “You wrong these poor bones. Will you
listen?”

“Go on.” He steadied himself. “They won’t speak. Can you?”

“I’ll speak for them,” I continued. “In 1867 a government wagon train
was en route from Leavenworth for old Fort Bridger of Utah.”

“Very likely,” he sneered.

“There was a young wife with it, to join her husband at the post. And
there was a train attaché named Pierre Lavelle, half Spanish and half
Indian--a handsome scoundrel.”

“I’ll take your word for that.”

“He coveted the girl. She was innocent--she had no notion. One evening
after supper he and she rode up into a narrow draw, here in western
Wyoming, to seek flowers. He roped her and gagged her and left her
while he returned to the camp, on one pretext or another. He succeeded
in fastening a note inside her tent: ‘Tell my husband I’ve gone with a
better man.’”

“I got the note,” nodded the old man grimly. “Well?”

“The note was a forgery and a lie,” said I.

He sneered again.

“How do you know?”?

“I know. This first night he rode with the woman tied to her saddle;
the second night he freed her. He didn’t fear pursuit, and the trail
and the train were fifty miles behind. It was a lowering evening, and a
wild land. He advanced upon her, she smiled as if she had yielded, but
when he reached for her she struck him across the mouth and snatched
his knife from his belt and defied him.”

“Indeed? And how do you happen to know that, sir?”

“Wait. This stopped him for a moment. She fell upon her knees and
prayed to God for help. He wiped his lips and laughed. Can you imagine
that little scene, Mr. Brown? She in white, as she was----”

“She always loved white. There you are right,” conceded the old man.

“And disheveled and at bay; he in his buckskins and greasy black Indian
hair, his lips bloody and his teeth glistening; and all the country
around promising no succor for her?”

“My imagination is dead,” he said. “Yours seems much alive. Well, go
on, go on.”

“Lavelle wiped his lips and laughed. ‘There’s no God in this region, my
lady,’ he mocked. ‘There’s only you and me.’”

“God-forsaken, God-forsaken,” the old man muttered. “A land
God-forsaken it is, as I have been.”

“Is it?” I challenged. “Wait. She prayed, and these are her very words:
‘God, lift me from this fiend’s hands, or give me strength to lift
myself.’ Lavelle taunted: ‘Why not call upon your husband? He’ll be hot
to know. I left him just enough word to make him curious.’ And he told
her of the note. She cried: ‘Oh! How I hate you! Some day he shall
know, and know the truth. I hope he kills you.’ ‘Not for you, he
won’t,’ Lavelle answered. ‘He won’t want you after you’ve lived in my
Sioux lodge for a while.’”

The old man’s hands had clenched. He gazed fixedly as if witnessing the
scene.

“At this,” I proceeded, “she saw something in the fellow’s eyes that
alarmed her. When he rushed her she dodged and lunged, and snapped the
knife blade close to the hilt, upon his belt buckle. Then she ran,
leaving a strip of her dress in his fingers. She ran for higher
ground--ran like a hunted rabbit; sprang across a fissure, and gained
the top of a butte--a flat butte or mesa. And he made after, jeering,
for he knew that she had trapped herself. The mesa top ended abruptly.
Further flight was barred. He came on slowly, enjoying her plight.”

The old man rasped:

“You say all this. How do you know? Answer me that.”

“Wait,” I bade. “Then she again fell on her knees, panting like a nun
of old Panama facing a buccaneer. But suddenly she called out, this
time gladly, and flung up her two arms, to the sky. And Lavelle saw
that which frightened even him. The north was strangely black and
jagged; out of the black there issued a roaring, and a gigantic
spectacle speeding very swiftly. It might have been the thunder bird of
the Sioux, said Lavelle, or a winged canoe, or monstrous devouring
demon--and it might have been an avalanching cloud of wind and rain.
But to her it was as if God were riding in upon a thunderbolt chariot,
and she had reached up her two arms to be taken into that driving
shelter.”

“And this happened, you say; did it?” smiled my old man, sarcastically.
“And you happen to know!”

“It happened, and I happen to know,” said I. “Lavelle was stopped short
again. The Indian in him recoiled. Then his ruffian courage surged back
within him. Whether god or spirit, it should not have her. So he threw
his rifle to his shoulder, and just as the blackness swooped roaring
and whistling to envelop her he touched trigger. Then he ran headlong,
in retreat out of the way. The cloud descended, it passed, the rush of
air in its wake knocked him flat, the terror and the rain and the hail
and the thunder and lightning plastered him, face to the ground, at the
foot of the mesa.”
