
There was a light in Simon's room as I entered my house. A vague
impulse urged me to visit him. As I opened the door of his sitting-room
unannounced, he was bending, with his back toward me, over a Carcel
lamp, apparently engaged in minutely examining some object which he held
in his hands. As I entered, he started suddenly, thrust his hand into
his breast pocket, and turned to me with a face crimson with confusion.

"What!" I cried, "poring over the miniature of some fair lady? Well,
don't blush so much; I won't ask to see it."

Simon laughed awkwardly enough, but made none of the negative
protestations usual on such occasions. He asked me to take a seat.

"Simon," said I, "I have just come from Madame Vulpes."

This time Simon turned as white as a sheet, and seemed stupefied, as
if a sudden electric shock had smitten him. He babbled some incoherent
words, and went hastily to a small closet where he usually kept his
liquors. Although astonished at his emotion, I was too preoccupied with
my own idea to pay much attention to anything else.

"You say truly when you call Madame Vulpes a devil of a woman," I
continued. "Simon, she told me wonderful things to-night, or rather
was the means of telling me wonderful things. Ah! if I could only get a
diamond that weighed one hundred and forty carats!"

Scarcely had the sigh with which I uttered this desire died upon my lips
when Simon, with the aspect of a wild beast, glared at me savagely, and,
rushing to the mantelpiece, where some foreign weapons hung on the wall,
caught up a Malay creese, and brandished it furiously before him.

"No!" he cried in French, into which he always broke when excited. "No!
you shall not have it! You are perfidious! You have consulted with that
demon, and desire my treasure! But I will die first! Me, I am brave! You
can not make me fear!"

All this, uttered in a loud voice, trembling with excitement, astounded
me. I saw at a glance that I had accidentally trodden upon the edges of
Simon's secret, whatever it was. It was necessary to reassure him.

"My dear Simon," I said, "I am entirely at a loss to know what you mean.
I went to Madame Vulpes to consult with her on a scientific problem,
to the solution of which I discovered that a diamond of the size I just
mentioned was necessary. You were never alluded to during the evening,
nor, so far as I was concerned, even thought of. What can be the meaning
of this outburst? If you happen to have a set of valuable diamonds in
your possession, you need fear nothing from me. The diamond which I
require you could not possess; or, if you did possess it, you would not
be living here."

Something in my tone must have completely reassured him, for his
expression immediately changed to a sort of constrained merriment,
combined however, with a certain suspicious attention to my movements.
He laughed, and said that I must bear with him; that he was at certain
moments subject to a species of vertigo, which betrayed itself in
incoherent speeches, and that the attacks passed off as rapidly as they
came.

He put his weapon aside while making this explanation, and endeavored,
with some success, to assume a more cheerful air.

All this did not impose on me in the least. I was too much accustomed
to analytical labors to be baffled by so flimsy a veil. I determined to
probe the mystery to the bottom.

"Simon," I said gayly, "let us forget all this over a bottle of
Burgundy. I have a case of Lausseure's _Clos Vougeot_ downstairs,
fragrant with the odors and ruddy with the sunlight of the Cote d'Or.
Let us have up a couple of bottles. What say you?"

"With all my heart," answered Simon smilingly.

I produced the wine and we seated ourselves to drink. It was of a famous
vintage, that of 1848, a year when war and wine throve together, and its
pure but powerful juice seemed to impart renewed vitality to the system.
By the time we had half finished the second bottle, Simon's head, which
I knew was a weak one, had begun to yield, while I remained calm as
ever, only that every draught seemed to send a flush of vigor through
my limbs. Simon's utterance became more and more indistinct. He took to
singing French _chansons_ of a not very moral tendency. I rose suddenly
from the table just at the conclusion of one of those incoherent verses,
and, fixing my eyes on him with a quiet smile, said, "Simon, I have
deceived you. I learned your secret this evening. You may as well be
frank with me. Mrs. Vulpes--or rather, one of her spirits--told me all."

He started with horror. His intoxication seemed for the moment to fade
away, and he made a movement toward the weapon that he had a short time
before laid down, I stopped him with my hand.

"Monster!" he cried passionately, "I am ruined! What shall I do? You
shall never have it! I swear by my mother!"

"I don't want it," I said; "rest secure, but be frank with me. Tell me
all about it."

The drunkenness began to return. He protested with maudlin earnestness
that I was entirely mistaken--that I was intoxicated; then asked me to
swear eternal secrecy, and promised to disclose the mystery to me. I
pledged myself, of course, to all. With an uneasy look in his eyes, and
hands unsteady with drink and nervousness, he drew a small case from his
breast and opened it. Heavens! How the mild lamplight was shivered into
a thousand prismatic arrows as it fell upon a vast rose-diamond that
glittered in the case! I was no judge of diamonds, but I saw at a glance
that this was a gem of rare size and purity. I looked at Simon with
wonder and--must I confess it?--with envy. How could he have obtained
this treasure? In reply to my questions, I could just gather from
his drunken statements (of which, I fancy, half the incoherence was
affected) that he had been superintending a gang of slaves engaged
in diamond-washing in Brazil; that he had seen one of them secrete a
diamond, but, instead of informing his employers, had quietly watched
the negro until he saw him bury his treasure; that he had dug it up and
fled with it, but that as yet he was afraid to attempt to dispose of
it publicly--so valuable a gem being almost certain to attract too
much attention to its owner's antecedents--and he had not been able
to discover any of those obscure channels by which such matters are
conveyed away safely. He added that, in accordance with oriental
practice, he had named his diamond with the fanciful title of "The Eye
of Morning."

While Simon was relating this to me, I regarded the great diamond
attentively. Never had I beheld anything so beautiful. All the glories
of light ever imagined or described seemed to pulsate in its crystalline
chambers. Its weight, as I learned from Simon, was exactly one hundred
and forty carats. Here was an amazing coincidence. The hand of destiny
seemed in it. On the very evening when the spirit of Leeuwenhoek
communicates to me the great secret of the microscope, the priceless
means which he directs me to employ start up within my easy reach! I
determined, with the most perfect deliberation, to possess myself of
Simon's diamond.

I sat opposite to him while he nodded over his glass, and calmly
revolved the whole affair. I did not for an instant contemplate so
foolish an act as a common theft, which would of course be discovered,
or at least necessitate flight and concealment, all of which must
interfere with my scientific plans. There was but one step to be
taken--to kill Simon. After all, what was the life of a little peddling
Jew in comparison with the interests of science? Human beings are taken
every day from the condemned prisons to be experimented on by surgeons.
This man, Simon, was by his own confession a criminal, a robber, and I
believed on my soul a murderer. He deserved death quite as much as any
felon condemned by the laws: why should I not, like government,
contrive that his punishment should contribute to the progress of human
knowledge?

The means for accomplishing everything I desired lay within my reach.
There stood upon the mantelpiece a bottle half full of French laudanum.
Simon was so occupied with his diamond, which I had just restored to
him, that it was an affair of no difficulty to drug his glass. In a
quarter of an hour he was in a profound sleep.

I now opened his waistcoat, took the diamond from the inner pocket in
which he had placed it, and removed him to the bed, on which I laid him
so that his feet hung down over the edge. I had possessed myself of
the Malay creese, which I held in my right hand, while with the other I
discovered as accurately as I could by pulsation the exact locality of
the heart. It was essential that all the aspects of his death should
lead to the surmise of self-murder. I calculated the exact angle at
which it was probable that the weapon, if leveled by Simon's own hand,
would enter his breast; then with one powerful blow I thrust it up to
the hilt in the very spot which I desired to penetrate. A convulsive
thrill ran through Simon's limbs. I heard a smothered sound issue from
his throat, precisely like the bursting of a large air-bubble sent up by
a diver when it reaches the surface of the water; he turned half round
on his side, and, as if to assist my plans more effectually, his right
hand, moved by some mere spasmodic impulse, clasped the handle of the
creese, which it remained holding with extraordinary muscular tenacity.
Beyond this there was no apparent struggle. The laudanum, I presume,
paralyzed the usual nervous action. He must have died instantly.

There was yet something to be done. To make it certain that all
suspicion of the act should be diverted from any inhabitant of the house
to Simon himself, it was necessary that the door should be found in the
morning _locked on the in-side_. How to do this, and afterward escape
myself? Not by the window; that was a physical impossibility. Besides,
I was determined that the windows _also_ should be found bolted. The
solution was simple enough. I descended softly to my own room for
a peculiar instrument which I had used for holding small slippery
substances, such as minute spheres of glass, etc. This instrument was
nothing more than a long, slender hand-vise, with a very powerful grip
and a considerable leverage, which last was accidentally owing to the
shape of the handle. Nothing was simpler than, when the key was in the
lock, to seize the end of its stem in this vise, through the keyhole,
from the outside, and so lock the door. Previously, however, to doing
this, I burned a number of papers on Simon's hearth. Suicides almost
always burn papers before they destroy themselves. I also emptied some
more laudanum into Simon's glass--having first removed from it all
traces of wine--cleaned the other wine-glass, and brought the bottles
away with me. If traces of two persons drinking had been found in the
room, the question naturally would have arisen, Who was the second?
Besides, the wine-bottles might have been identified as belonging to me.
The laudanum I poured out to account for its presence in his stomach, in
case of a _post-mortem_ examination. The theory naturally would be that
he first intended to poison himself, but, after swallowing a little of
the drug, was either disgusted with its taste, or changed his mind from
other motives, and chose the dagger. These arrangements made, I walked
out, leaving the gas burning, locked the door with my vise, and went to
bed.

Simon's death was not discovered until nearly three in the afternoon.
The servant, astonished at seeing the gas burning--the light streaming
on the dark landing from under the door--peeped through the keyhole and
saw Simon on the bed.

She gave the alarm. The door was burst open, and the neighborhood was in
a fever of excitement.

Every one in the house was arrested, myself included. There was an
inquest; but no clew to his death beyond that of suicide could be
obtained. Curiously enough, he had made several speeches to his friends
the preceding week that seemed to point to self-destruction. One
gentleman swore that Simon had said in his presence that "he was tired
of life." His landlord affirmed that Simon, when paying him his last
month's rent, remarked that "he should not pay him rent much longer."
All the other evidence corresponded--the door locked inside, the
position of the corpse, the burned papers. As I anticipated, no one
knew of the possession of the diamond by Simon, so that no motive was
suggested for his murder. The jury, after a prolonged examination,
brought in the usual verdict, and the neighborhood once more settled
down to its accustomed quiet.



