
The three months succeeding Simon's catastrophe I devoted night and day
to my diamond lens. I had constructed a vast galvanic battery, composed
of nearly two thousand pairs of plates: a higher power I dared not use,
lest the diamond should be calcined. By means of this enormous engine
I was enabled to send a powerful current of electricity continually
through my great diamond, which it seemed to me gained in lustre every
day. At the expiration of a month I commenced the grinding and polishing
of the lens, a work of intense toil and exquisite delicacy. The great
density of the stone, and the care required to be taken with the
curvatures of the surfaces of the lens, rendered the labor the severest
and most harassing that I had yet undergone.

At last the eventful moment came; the lens was completed. I stood
trembling on the threshold of new worlds. I had the realization of
Alexander's famous wish before me. The lens lay on the table, ready to
be placed upon its platform. My hand fairly shook as I enveloped a drop
of water with a thin coating of oil of turpentine, preparatory to
its examination, a process necessary in order to prevent the rapid
evaporation of the water. I now placed the drop on a thin slip of glass
under the lens, and throwing upon it, by the combined aid of a prism and
a mirror, a powerful stream of light, I approached my eye to the minute
hole drilled through the axis of the lens. For an instant I saw nothing
save what seemed to be an illuminated chaos, a vast, luminous abyss. A
pure white light, cloudless and serene, and seemingly limitless as space
itself, was my first impression. Gently, and with the greatest care, I
depressed the lens a few hairbreadths. The wondrous illumination
still continued, but as the lens approached the object a scene of
indescribable beauty was unfolded to my view.

I seemed to gaze upon a vast space, the limits of which extended far
beyond my vision. An atmosphere of magical luminousness permeated the
entire field of view. I was amazed to see no trace of animalculous
life. Not a living thing, apparently, inhabited that dazzling expanse.
I comprehended instantly that, by the wondrous power of my lens, I had
penetrated beyond the grosser particles of aqueous matter, beyond the
realms of infusoria and protozoa, down to the original gaseous globule,
into whose luminous interior I was gazing as into an almost boundless
dome filled with a supernatural radiance.

It was, however, no brilliant void into which I looked. On every side I
beheld beautiful inorganic forms, of unknown texture, and colored with
the most enchanting hues. These forms presented the appearance of what
might be called, for want of a more specific definition, foliated clouds
of the highest rarity--that is, they undulated and broke into vegetable
formations, and were tinged with splendors compared with which the
gilding of our autumn woodlands is as dross compared with gold. Far away
into the illimitable distance stretched long avenues of these gaseous
forests, dimly transparent, and painted with prismatic hues of
unimaginable brilliancy. The pendent branches waved along the fluid
glades until every vista seemed to break through half-lucent ranks of
many-colored drooping silken pennons. What seemed to be either fruits or
flowers, pied with a thousand hues, lustrous and ever-varying, bubbled
from the crowns of this fairy foliage. No hills, no lakes, no rivers,
no forms animate or inanimate, were to be seen, save those vast auroral
copses that floated serenely in the luminous stillness, with leaves and
fruits and flowers gleaming with unknown fires, unrealizable by mere
imagination.

How strange, I thought, that this sphere should be thus condemned to
solitude! I had hoped, at least, to discover some new form of animal
life, perhaps of a lower class than any with which we are at present
acquainted, but still some living organism. I found my newly discovered
world, if I may so speak, a beautiful chromatic desert.

While I was speculating on the singular arrangements of the internal
economy of Nature, with which she so frequently splinters into atoms our
most compact theories, I thought I beheld a form moving slowly through
the glades of one of the prismatic forests. I looked more attentively,
and found that I was not mistaken. Words can not depict the anxiety with
which I awaited the nearer approach of this mysterious object. Was it
merely some inanimate substance, held in suspense in the attenuated
atmosphere of the globule, or was it an animal endowed with vitality
and motion? It approached, flitting behind the gauzy, colored veils of
cloud-foliage, for seconds dimly revealed, then vanishing. At last the
violet pennons that trailed nearest to me vibrated; they were gently
pushed aside, and the form floated out into the broad light.

It was a female human shape. When I say human, I mean it possessed the
outlines of humanity; but there the analogy ends. Its adorable beauty
lifted it illimitable heights beyond the loveliest daughter of Adam.

I can not, I dare not, attempt to inventory the charms of this divine
revelation of perfect beauty. Those eyes of mystic violet, dewy and
serene, evade my words. Her long, lustrous hair following her glorious
head in a golden wake, like the track sown in heaven by a falling star,
seems to quench my most burning phrases with its splendors. If all the
bees of Hybla nestled upon my lips, they would still sing but hoarsely
the wondrous harmonies of outline that inclosed her form.

She swept out from between the rainbow-curtains of the cloud-trees into
the broad sea of light that lay beyond. Her motions were those of some
graceful naiad, cleaving, by a mere effort of her will, the clear,
unruffled waters that fill the chambers of the sea. She floated forth
with the serene grace of a frail bubble ascending through the still
atmosphere of a June day. The perfect roundness of her limbs formed
suave and enchanting curves. It was like listening to the most spiritual
symphony of Beethoven the divine, to watch the harmonious flow of lines.
This, indeed was a pleasure cheaply purchased at any price. What cared
I if I had waded to the portal of this wonder through another's blood.
I would have given my own to enjoy one such moment of intoxication and
delight.

Breathless with gazing on this lovely wonder, and forgetful for an
instant of everything save her presence, I withdrew my eye from the
microscope eagerly. Alas! as my gaze fell on the thin slide that lay
beneath my instrument, the bright light from mirror and from prism
sparkled on a colorless drop of water! There, in that tiny bead of dew,
this beautiful being was forever imprisoned. The planet Neptune was not
more distant from me than she. I hastened once more to apply my eye to
the microscope.

Animula (let me now call her by that dear name which I subsequently
bestowed on her) had changed her position. She had again approached the
wondrous forest, and was gazing earnestly upward. Presently one of the
trees--as I must call them--unfolded a long ciliary process, with which
it seized one of the gleaming fruits that glittered on its summit, and,
sweeping slowly down, held it within reach of Animula. The sylph took
it in her delicate hand and began to eat. My attention was so entirely
absorbed by her that I could not apply myself to the task of determining
whether this singular plant was or was not instinct with volition.

I watched her, as she made her repast, with the most profound attention.
The suppleness of her motions sent a thrill of delight through my frame;
my heart beat madly as she turned her beautiful eyes in the direction of
the spot in which I stood. What would I not have given to have had the
power to precipitate myself into that luminous ocean and float with her
through those grooves of purple and gold! While I was thus breathlessly
following her every movement, she suddenly started, seemed to listen
for a moment, and then cleaving the brilliant ether in which she was
floating, like a flash of light, pierced through the opaline forest and
disappeared.

Instantly a series of the most singular sensations attacked me. It
seemed as if I had suddenly gone blind. The luminous sphere was still
before me, but my daylight had vanished. What caused this sudden
disappearance? Had she a lover or a husband? Yes, that was the solution!
Some signal from a happy fellow-being had vibrated through the avenues
of the forest, and she had obeyed the summons.

The agony of my sensations, as I arrived at this conclusion, startled
me. I tried to reject the conviction that my reason forced upon me. I
battled against the fatal conclusion--but in vain. It was so. I had no
escape from it. I loved an animalcule.

It is true that, thanks to the marvelous power of my microscope, she
appeared of human proportions. Instead of presenting the revolting
aspect of the coarser creatures, that live and struggle and die, in
the more easily resolvable portions of the water-drop, she was fair and
delicate and of surpassing beauty. But of what account was all that?
Every time that my eye was withdrawn from the instrument it fell on a
miserable drop of water, within which, I must be content to know, dwelt
all that could make my life lovely.

Could she but see me once! Could I for one moment pierce the mystical
walls that so inexorably rose to separate us, and whisper all that
filled my soul, I might consent to be satisfied for the rest of my life
with the knowledge of her remote sympathy.

It would be something to have established even the faintest personal
link to bind us together--to know that at times, when roaming through
these enchanted glades, she might think of the wonderful stranger who
had broken the monotony of her life with his presence and left a gentle
memory in her heart!

But it could not be. No invention of which human intellect was capable
could break down the barriers that nature had erected. I might feast my
soul upon her wondrous beauty, yet she must always remain ignorant
of the adoring eyes that day and night gazed upon her, and, even when
closed, beheld her in dreams. With a bitter cry of anguish I fled from
the room, and flinging myself on my bed, sobbed myself to sleep like a
child.



