
Derrence strode toward the voice, heels clicking sharply on the black
squares of asphalt tile. The voice stopped. _Aha, a little game of cat
and mouse, was it?_ Derrence kept going, watching the seemingly endless
line of offices on his right for one with its door open or a light
shining through the frosted glass panel. And he saw the light in the
office ahead.

He stopped, his long, smooth face crinkling in a swift smile. He took a
quick, silent step, and jerked open the door. The man seated behind the
desk was middle-aged, fat and solemn. He had bright blue eyes and jet
black hair. "Good morning," he said in his high-pitched voice. "I'm Mr.
Tzadi." He smiled. "I'd better spell it." He spelled it. "Edwin Tzadi.
This is my first day."

So that explained it, and Derrence was ready to back out as gracefully
as possible. But then he noticed how meek Tzadi seemed, and decided to
stay a few moments. He came forward with hand out-stretched. "Welcome
aboard, Ed. I'm Derrence Cale. Der to you." They shook hands. "New
writer, eh?"

Tzadi nodded and smiled.

Derrence put his hands behind his back and rocked on his heels.
"Personnel never bothered to inform me that you were coming. I'll have
to check Miss McCarty. She may have heard and forgotten to mention it."

"Is she your secretary?"

Derrence said, "Not exactly," and regretted having given into his
impulse to act important. "Well, work's awaitin', as they say in the
Ozarks." He chuckled. "Though for future reference, Ed, you needn't
come in until nine-fifteen. The hours at Chester Chemical...."

"Yes, I know, but I am an early riser. I will be here each morning at
eight-thirty, perhaps earlier."

Derrence decided he didn't like Tzadi. There was something vaguely
foreign in the way the man spoke. Not that he had an accent. It was
more a matter of off-beat timing. And that name--Central European in
origin. Personnel was getting sloppy.

"I'm afraid that's not feasible, Ed. At eight, the cleaning people
leave, locking the hall doors. Miss McCarty and I have keys, but we
couldn't allow them out of our possessions. (He'd waited three years
before borrowing Miss McCarty's and having a copy made.)

"I too have a key." The fat man beamed. "That solves our little
problem, doesn't it?"

"How'd you get...." He stopped short. _Time to leave. Should never have
come in here in the first place. This man isn't an ordinary writer!_

"Is there anything wrong, Der?"

Derrence smiled. "Wrong? Of course not. Just thought of an urgent bit
of business. Again, _welcome_ aboard, Ed."

"And again, thank you, Der." Tzadi smiled, somewhat apologetically.
"And again, that question."

"What question?"

"Is Miss McCarty your secretary?"

"I answered it," Derrence said, and found it hard to smile. "I said she
_wasn't_."

"No, Der," Tzadi said, right hand rising, index finger lifting
scholastically. "You said, and I quote, 'Not exactly.' That indicated
semi-secretarial status."
