
His office was at the other end of the floor from Tzadi's. He reached
it, shut the door and slumped into his chair. He was trembling. This
was the first time in almost six years that anyone had shown true
knowledge of his position. The last time had been when old Halvertson,
his group head, had called him in and said, "Derrence, your work's
falling off badly. I'd be justified in recommending you for discharge
right now, but I want to give you a fighting chance. We've got the
new polio vaccine pamphlet to do, and an important fact sheet for
distribution to newspapers. I'll be watching you carefully." But he
hadn't. He'd dropped dead two days later while walking to the men's
room. When word came that Halvertson's group was being dissolved and
his writers assigned to other groups, Derrence had decided to make
his move. Besser and Trance had been assigned to Gordon. Pete Ward
had come to Derrence's office and said, "While I don't really need an
extra man, Cale, you're supposed to be assigned to me." Derrence had
expressed delight ... "but I've got quite a bit of work to clear up
before I'm free, Mr. Ward." Ward had seemed relieved. "Yes, well,
carry on, Cale." Derrence had carried on for three months; then Ward
had been promoted upstairs, and the man who took his place never even
spoke to Derrence. Derrence carried on and on, creating the impression,
which soon hardened into fact, that he was now overseeing Miss McCarty
in her position as floor manager. Since he was careful to please and
flatter her, and meticulous in maintaining the routine which kept him
outwardly busy, he'd never again been asked to report to anyone, work
for anyone, account to anyone. As for his salary, it was handled by
total strangers--the Fiscal department on the 17th floor, which was as
remote from the 36th floor as interior New Guinea. Now this Tzadi came
along, and soon the lovely, secure life would go down the drain. And
what would he do then?

His face went gray, and he whispered, "I could go back to writing...."

He groaned. It was impossible! He couldn't write. He couldn't even sit
for the hours necessary for writing!

A deal. He had to make a deal with Tzadi. Twenty a week for as long as
he was allowed to go on this way. Or thirty. Maybe even forty.

"Or kill the dirty little...."

His voice, hard and shrill, shocked him. He was standing, fists
clenched, body trembling, leaning forward as if about to rush to the
door and up the hall.

He made himself sit down. He laughed, but it didn't come out his
hearty, impressive laugh. It was a laugh he hadn't heard since college
days (except in dreams; nightmares of the past)--weak, frightened,
ineffectual and apologetic.

There was a knock at the door. He straightened in his chair, took a
deep breath, said, "Come ahead."

The door opened. Mr. Tzadi stood there, his round face solemn. "Before
you become too involved in your numerous and important duties, Der, I
would like to suggest that we have lunch together."

Derrence blinked. "Yes ... how about today?"

"Today would be fine, Der. We could talk about the company and our
respective positions. You could, perhaps, help me with a rather
pressing problem."

Derrence relaxed quite suddenly. "Twelve o'clock. Come by here?"

"Yes, Der." The door closed.

Derrence lit a cigarette. He no longer trembled. In that luncheon
invitation he read a deal.
