
They started with vodka Gibsons. Derrence gulped his, and was ready
for another. Tzadi, however, merely sipped once, and then read the
menu. Derrence decided he couldn't relax _too_ much. There was going
to be some hard bargaining. Tzadi said, "It's very nice here, but
rather expensive. I would like to be able to afford Manfredo's, but I
doubt...."

"What do you earn?" Derrence asked bluntly.

Tzadi looked at him. "Twenty thousand."

Derrence was startled. "Really? That's very high for a PR writer ... or
even a company investigator."

Tzadi smiled. "You know what they say. No matter what you earn, you
always need more."

"And you need more?"

"Yes. I have hidden expenses."

"Like what?"

Again Tzadi smiled. "Now, Der, you wouldn't believe me if I told you."

"Try me."

"Mental improvement. It costs me ten thousand a year and up to maintain
the rate of growth I desire."

"You mean college courses and books and such things cost you _ten
thousand_ a year?"

"I said you wouldn't believe me."

"So you did," Derrence muttered.

"Shall we order?"

Derrence decided the time had come. "How much?" he asked quietly.

Tzadi was looking around the room. He turned to Derrence. "I beg your
pardon?"

"How much do you want?"

Tzadi stared at him; then his head jerked slightly and he smiled and
said, "Ah, yes. How much. For my silence. I see. That _would_ be the
way, wouldn't it?"

Derrence didn't understand the man's reaction. It was almost as if
money had never entered Tzadi's head before this moment. But if it
hadn't been money....

Tzadi said, "How much would you consider equitable?"

"You make almost twice as much as I do," Derrence said, some bitterness
investing his voice. "Twenty a week should be enough to give you a few
extra sessions in ... mental improvement."

"Agreed," Tzadi said.

Derrence covered his surprise, and his discomfort. This wasn't a man
adept in the shakedown, the way a company spy should be. This was a man
pleasantly surprised by a windfall!

"For that," Derrence said, "I expect absolute silence. You understand
me, don't you?"

"Yes. I do. You can count on me, Der."

"Good," Derrence muttered, fighting the awful feeling that he'd thrown
away a hefty slice of income for nothing. Yet Tzadi _had_ information
which could hurt him. Tzadi _had_ known Mercy before today and lied
about it. Tzadi _had_ said he needed "help" with a personal problem.
