
The waiter came. Derrence asked for the bill. The waiter glanced at
the plates half full of food and asked if anything was wrong. Derrence
said no, they were merely in a hurry. The waiter said, "But, sir, the
management would be willing to give you credit for a meal if, indeed,
the food were not absolutely...."

Tzadi said, "Will you stop this theatrical nonsense? Don't you know
there's no audience left to appreciate it?"

The waiter looked at him. "Truly, sir?"

Tzadi hesitated; then said, "Except for one. Just one. And does it make
sense to expect that one to come to this place of all the places in the
world?"

The waiter's face was grim. "I ... I find it a very painful concept,
sir. I know it was bound to happen, that it was the logical goal, and
still...."

"Yes," Tzadi said. "Now please give us the bill."

The waiter wrote quickly and tore the sheet from his pad. He said,
"That one, sir ... is he protected?"

"No," Tzadi said. "The majority say he must go."

"Well, they surely know what is best. But I...." He sighed and walked
away.

"I too," Tzadi murmured. "I too."

"What was _that_ all about?" Derrence asked. He was preoccupied with
his own problem, but had heard enough to be puzzled. "You two sounded
like a bad mystery movie; members of the underground meeting in enemy
territory."

"Something like that," Tzadi said.

"One what?" Derrence asked. "You said there was only one. And what did
he have to do with a waiter offering us credit on an unfinished meal?
And why...."

"We are members of a rather strange religious order," Tzadi said,
looking at Derrence with unblinking intensity. "The objects of our
worship are just about extinct. Except for one. I recognized this
waiter as practicing a certain ritual ... well, suffice it to say I
told him we have run out of gods."

"Except for one?"

"Yes. One. Just one. And soon that one...."

"One what? Is it an animal?"

"Yes, an animal."

"How could he expect an animal to come to a restaurant?"

"As man is an animal."

"Then it's a man?"

"Yes, a man."

"To hell with this!" Derrence said, getting to his feet. "You're
playing with me! I don't know why, but you're...."
