
Tzadi was also standing. "Please do not shout, Der." His eyes darted
around the room. "No one here is shouting. You will be noted."

"Noted?" Derrence snorted. "Why the hell don't you learn to speak
English! You may have me in the palm of your hand, but you don't speak
well enough to be a clerk junior grade!"

"You are right. It is one of the reasons I need mental improvement."

Derrence reached for his wallet. Tzadi said, "Allow me, Der, please. I
feel I have upset you and caused you to have a bad lunch."

Derrence had to laugh at that. He was confused, and through the
confusion a strange new fear was growing, but still he had to laugh.
"To put it mildly," he said, and walked away.

He returned to the office without waiting for Tzadi. Mercy was at her
desk, typing one of his memos. She glanced up and smiled. "Nice lunch,
Mr. Cale?"

He stopped. He looked at her; looked hard. "Yes."

She met his gaze, eyes puzzled.

_What in the world could she have on Tzadi to make him want her dead?_

"An interesting lunch, too, Mercy. I ate with your old friend, Edwin
Tzadi."

She dropped her eyes. "My old friend? I met him today, as you did, Mr.
Cale. Did he ... did he say different?"

"Yes, he said different."

Her head stayed down. "What ... what did he say?"

"He said you were his enemy, and my enemy." And he knew this was wrong.
He was warning her, bringing the moment of his dismissal closer by
seven days.

And then he understood _why_ he was doing this. He didn't want seven
days in which to consider killing Mercy Adrians. He was afraid of all
that time. He was afraid he would learn that this job meant more to him
than a young girl's life. "He said you wanted me turned in. He said
that if he didn't turn me in, you would."

Her head came up, slowly, until she was looking at her typewriter. She
began to type. He said, "Stop that and answer me."

She continued typing. Mr. Tzadi came up behind them, and passed them.
He said, "Hello, Mercy, Der." Neither answered him. He stopped and
looked at them. Mercy kept typing. He said, "I see you've made a
serious error, Der." He said it softly, sadly.

He continued on up the hall. Derrence watched him. Tzadi said hello to
everyone he passed. He called them by name. They called him by name. He
knew everyone and everyone knew him.

The confusion was stronger, and so was the strange new fear. Everyone
was a spy! Everyone on the 36th floor was in with Tzadi! And yet, Tzadi
wanted him to stay on. It was Mercy, and the others, who wanted him
fired. Yet how could everyone else....

He trembled. He backed from Mercy, staring at her. She kept typing. He
turned and entered his office. He closed the door, and wished he could
lock it. He heard himself saying, "Dear God, dear God, dear God." He
sat behind his desk. Then he got up and went to the window. He looked
down to the busy street far below. Cars and people; millions of them.
Life, going on normally, as it always had. Why then this feeling of
being alone? Why then this growing horror of total isolation?

"_Except for one_," Tzadi had said to the waiter, and the waiter's face
had grown sad and he had moved away. As sad as Tzadi's face when he'd
looked at Derrence in the hall a few minutes ago.

_And the one was an animal. And man was an animal. And he was a man._
