
He shook his head and put his trembling hands together and said, "What
is this? You're going to lose your job, granted. Is that any reason
to lose your mind too? Tzadi and that waiter are religious nuts. They
have a symbolism and language all their own. Besides...." Here he
laughed, because the fear was coming out into the open, and as soon
as it did it was revealed as ridiculous. "Besides, how can you be the
last man on earth if Tzadi and all the others are here, right here in
Chester Chemical? And the waiter and all the millions down there in the
streets? And the other millions in the other cities and countries of
the world?"

He sat down. He used his handkerchief to wipe sweat from his face and
neck. He laughed, and it was almost his booming, confident laugh. He
lit a cigarette and inhaled deeply. And then he began to tremble again.
Against all logic, all reasoning, the horror of being totally alone in
the world returned.

He got up and went to the door. He put his hand on the knob.

_No, he couldn't open it!_

He laughed. It was a cracked and shattered sound. He said, "Listen. Out
there are the typists and writers and executives. Just listen to them.
Just listen to the noise...." His voice slid upward in a strangled
scream. He heard no noise.

He looked at his watch. Two-twenty. There had to be noise!

He put his ear to the door. Nothing. Not a sound of any sort.

He backed from the door, both hands over his mouth. He bumped into his
desk. His phone rang. He listened to it. It rang and rang, the only
sound on the 36th floor. Finally, he turned and picked it up. He heard
Tzadi's voice. "Der, could you come to my office for a moment?"

He said, "What's happening?" He heard himself sobbing, and didn't care.
He said, "Am I losing my mind? What's happening?"

"No, Der, you are not losing your mind." Tzadi's voice sounded as if
he, too, were weeping. "It's just ... what I tried to tell you before."

"Yes, before. Listen, I've changed my mind. If it's the only way....
Listen, Ed, I'll do ... I'll do what you said. You know, Mercy.
I'll...."

"Too late," Tzadi murmured. "Please come to my office, Der."

"No!"

"You must be dismissed, Der."

"Dismissed," Derrence said. "I must be dismissed." He quieted. "That's
all that's going to happen, isn't it? I mean, I'm going to be fired?"

"Then you'll come to my office, Der?"

Derrence took a deep breath. "Yes."
