
He reached Tzadi's office. The door was open and Tzadi sat behind his
desk, unblinking, unmoving. Behind him stood three men; taller, better
built men than Tzadi. The middle one was looking out the window,
his back to Derrence. The man to the right of Tzadi said, "Come in,
please." He had a long, lean face. It looked sad.

Derrence moved forward, slowly, until he was right up against the desk.
He looked down at Tzadi. "What's it all about, Ed?"

Tzadi said nothing.

"What did you try to do for me?"

The man to the right of Tzadi said, "He tried to save your life. He'll
be dismantled for that. It's a sad thing, of course, him being one of
the original hundred, but most have been dismantled anyway."

"Dismantled," Derrence said, the fear was immense now.

"You mean you don't know? You didn't guess anything, and Tzadi didn't
tell you?"

Derrence raised his eyes from Tzadi. "Dismantled?"

"Yes. Taken apart. Destroyed. Killed. He lasted longer than most of
the original hundred by each year. You understand? He was one of
the _first hundred_ made by the Original himself. That's why he had
defects--stilted speech, squat construction and, most serious, a
tendency to romanticize humanity. Even among the latest models, there
are a few who feel that way, but once the last human is gone that
problem...."

Derrence was calm now; the calmness beyond shock, beyond horror. "_I'm_
the last human?"

"So we believe. There might be another in India--we're still checking.
One more in Sweden is a possibility. But for the records, Derrence Cale
was the last human being."

"Was the last human being," Derrence whispered.

The man to the left of Tzadi began to raise his right arm. The man to
the right of Tzadi said, "Not yet." Then, more sharply, to Derrence,
"We were kinder in our war than you and your people ever were. We
created no blood baths, no gas chambers, no panic. Over a period of
twenty-seven years, we eliminated and replaced. Families lived with our
replacements, never suspecting the loved one was an android. We caused
almost no pain at all, as you'll soon find out."

"Android," Derrence whispered. "Machine."

The voice grew curt. "Anything else you'd like to know?"

Derrence wanted to ask why Tzadi and the others were so quiet now, and
why children still ran around the streets of residential neighborhoods,
and--above all--what was the sense in a world of machines. But he asked
no questions. These were not people. In man's image, but not man.
Their answers weren't for him.

"I don't believe you," he said, wanting to hurt them, anger them;
wanting most of all to hear himself say it. "I believe it's all a joke,
or nightmare, or figment of my insane mind."

The man to Tzadi's right held up his hand. A small opening appeared in
the palm, and grew larger. When it was a hole as large as the wrist
behind it, the man said, "Breathe deeply and you won't suffer."

"Wait," the man to Tzadi's right said. "He's the last. Let him
_believe_!" He tapped the man between; the one looking out the window
with his back to Derrence. That man turned, and cleared his throat, and
seemed embarrassed. Derrence heard himself laughing. It was too much.
He looked at the man and laughed and laughed.

His duplicate, his android self, also laughed. It was the laugh of the
true Derrence Cale--weak, frightened, ineffectual and apologetic. "I'm
sorry, sir," the android Derrence Cale said. "I hope I can do as well
as you've done."

The hand with the hole came across the desk, and something very sweet
filled the air. Derrence Cale breathed deeply.


                                THE END

