
The Military Attache pulled at his lower lip. "In that case, we can't
try conclusions with these fellows until we have an indetectible drive
of our own. I recommend a crash project. In the meantime--"

"I'll have my boys start in to crack this thing," the Chief of the
Confidential Terrestrial Source Section spoke up. "I'll fit out a
couple of volunteers with plastic beaks--"

"No cloak and dagger work, gentlemen! Long range policy will be
worked out by Deep-Think teams back at the Department. Our role will
be a holding action. Now I want suggestions for a comprehensive,
well rounded and decisive course for meeting this threat. Any
recommendation?"

The Political Officer placed his fingertips together. "What about a
stiff Note demanding an extra week's time?"

"No! No begging," the Economic Officer objected. "I'd say a calm,
dignified, aggressive withdrawal--as soon as possible."

"We don't want to give them the idea we spook easily," the Military
Attache said. "Let's delay the withdrawal--say, until tomorrow."

"Early tomorrow," Magnan said. "Or maybe later today."

"Well, I see you're of a mind with me," Nitworth nodded. "Our plan of
action is clear, but it remains to be implemented. We have a population
of over fifteen million individuals to relocate." He eyed the
Political Officer. "I want five proposals for resettlement on my desk
by oh-eight-hundred hours tomorrow." Nitworth rapped out instructions.
Harried-looking staff members arose and hurried from the room. Magnan
eased toward the door.

"Where are you going, Magnan?" Nitworth snapped.

"Since you're so busy, I thought I'd just slip back down to Com Inq. It
was a most interesting orientation lecture, Mr. Ambassador. Be sure to
let us know how it works out."

"Kindly return to your chair," Nitworth said coldly. "A number of
chores remain to be assigned. I think you, Magnan, need a little field
experience. I want you to get over to Roolit I and take a look at these
Qornt personally."

Magnan's mouth opened and closed soundlessly.

"Not afraid of a few Qornt, are you, Magnan?"

"Afraid? Good lord, no, ha ha. It's just that I'm afraid I may lose my
head and do something rash if I go."

"Nonsense! A diplomat is immune to heroic impulses. Take Retief along.
No dawdling, now! I want you on the way in two hours. Notify the
transport pool at once. Now get going!"

Magnan nodded unhappily and went into the hall.

"Oh, Retief," Nitworth said. Retief turned.

"Try to restrain Mr. Magnan from any impulsive moves--in any
direction."


                                  II

Retief and Magnan topped a ridge and looked down across a slope
of towering tree-shrubs and glossy violet-stemmed palms set among
flamboyant blossoms of yellow and red, reaching down to a strip of
white beach with the blue sea beyond.

"A delightful vista," Magnan said, mopping at his face. "A pity we
couldn't locate the Qornt. We'll go back now and report--"

"I'm pretty sure the settlement is off to the right," Retief said. "Why
don't you head back for the boat, while I ease over and see what I can
observe."

"Retief, we're engaged in a serious mission. This is not a time to
think of sightseeing."

"I'd like to take a good look at what we're giving away."

"See here, Retief! One might almost receive the impression that you're
questioning Corps policy!"

"One might, at that. The Qornt have made their play, but I think it
might be valuable to take a look at their cards before we fold. If I'm
not back at the boat in an hour, lift without me."

"You expect me to make my way back alone?"

"It's directly down-slope--" Retief broke off, listening. Magnan
clutched at his arm.

There was a sound of crackling foliage. Twenty feet ahead, a leafy
branch swung aside. An eight-foot biped stepped into view, long, thin,
green-clad legs with back-bending knees moving in quick, bird-like
steps. A pair of immense black-lensed goggles covered staring eyes set
among bushy green hair above a great bone-white beak. The crest bobbed
as the creature cocked its head, listening.

Magnan gulped audibly. The Qornt froze, head tilted, beak aimed
directly at the spot where the Terrestrials stood in the deep shade of
a giant trunk.

"I'll go for help," Magnan squeaked. He whirled and took three leaps
into the brush.

A second great green-clad figure rose up to block his way. He spun,
darted to the left. The first Qornt pounced, grappled Magnan to its
narrow chest. Magnan yelled, threshing and kicking, broke free,
turned--and collided with the eight-foot alien, coming in fast from the
right. All three went down in a tangle of limbs.

Retief jumped forward, hauled Magnan free, thrust him aside and
stopped, right fist cocked. The two Qornt lay groaning feebly.

"Nice piece of work, Mr. Magnan," Retief said. "You nailed both of
them."
