
"Those undoubtedly are the most bloodthirsty, aggressive, merciless
countenances it has ever been my misfortune to encounter," Magnan said.
"It hardly seems fair. Eight feet tall _and_ faces like that!"

The smaller of the two captive Qornt ran long, slender fingers over
a bony shin, from which he had turned back the tight-fitting green
trousers.

"It's not broken," he whistled nasally in passable Terrestrial, eyeing
Magnan through the heavy goggles, now badly cracked. "Small thanks to
you."

Magnan smiled loftily. "I daresay you'll think twice before interfering
with peaceable diplomats in future."

"Diplomats? Surely you jest."

"Never mind us," Retief said. "It's you fellows we'd like to talk
about. How many of you are there?"

"Only Zubb and myself."

"I mean altogether. How many Qornt?"

The alien whistled shrilly.

"Here, no signalling!" Magnan snapped, looking around.

"That was merely an expression of amusement."

"You find the situation amusing? I assure you, sir, you are in perilous
straits at the moment. I _may_ fly into another rage, you know."

"Please, restrain yourself. I was merely somewhat astonished--" a small
whistle escaped--"at being taken for a Qornt."

"Aren't you a Qornt?"

"I? Great snail trails, no!" More stifled whistles of amusement escaped
the beaked face. "Both Zubb and I are Verpp. Naturalists, as it
happens."

"You certainly _look_ like Qornt."

"Oh, not at all--except perhaps to a Terrestrial. The Qornt are
sturdily built rascals, all over ten feet in height. And, of course,
they do nothing but quarrel. A drone caste, actually."

"A caste? You mean they're biologically the same as you?"

"Not at all! A Verpp wouldn't think of fertilizing a Qornt."

"I mean to say, you are of the same basic stock--descended from a
common ancestor, perhaps."

"We are all Pud's creatures."

"What are the differences between you, then?"

"Why, the Qornt are argumentive, boastful, lacking in appreciation
for the finer things of life. One dreads to contemplate descending to
_their_ level."

"Do you know anything about a Note passed to the Terrestrial Ambassador
at Smorbrod?" Retief asked.
