
The beak twitched. "Smorbrod? I know of no place called Smorbrod."

"The outer planet of this system."

"Oh, yes. We call it Guzzum. I had heard that some sort of creatures
had established a settlement there, but I confess I pay little note to
such matters."

"We're wasting time, Retief," Magnan said. "We must truss these chaps
up, hurry back to the boat and make our escape. You heard what they
said."

"Are there any Qornt down there at the harbor, where the boats are?"
Retief asked.

"At Tarroon, you mean? Oh, yes. Planning some adventure."

"That would be the invasion of Smorbrod," Magnan said. "And unless we
hurry, Retief, we're likely to be caught there with the last of the
evacuees!"

"How many Qornt would you say there are at Tarroon?"

"Oh, a very large number. Perhaps fifteen or twenty."

"Fifteen or twenty what?" Magnan looked perplexed.

"Fifteen or twenty Qornt."

"You mean that there are only fifteen or twenty individual Qornt in
all?"

Another whistle. "Not at all. I was referring to the local Qornt only.
There are more at the other Centers, of course."

"And the Qornt are responsible for the ultimatum--unilaterally?"

"I suppose so; it sounds like them. A truculent group, you know. And
interplanetary relations _are_ rather a hobby of theirs."

Zubb moaned and stirred. He sat up slowly, rubbing his head. He spoke
to his companion in a shrill alien clatter of consonants.

"What did he say?"

"Poor Zubb. He blames me for his bruises, since it was my idea to
gather you as specimens."

"You should have known better than to tackle that fierce-looking
creature," Zubb said, pointing his beak at Magnan.

"How does it happen that you speak Terrestrial?" Retief asked.

"Oh, one picks up all sorts of dialects."

"It's quite charming, really," Magnan said. "Such a quaint, archaic
accent."

"Suppose we went down to Tarroon," Retief asked. "What kind of
reception would we get?"

"That depends. I wouldn't recommend interfering with the Gwil or the
Rheuk; it's their nest-mending time, you know. The Boog will be busy
mating--such a tedious business--and of course the Qornt are tied up
with their ceremonial feasting. I'm afraid no one will take any notice
of you."

"Do you mean to say," Magnan demanded, "that these ferocious Qornt, who
have issued an ultimatum to the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne--who
openly avow their occupied world--would ignore Terrestrials in their
midst?"

"If at all possible."

Retief got to his feet.

"I think our course is clear, Mr. Magnan. It's up to us to go down and
attract a little attention."


                                  III

"I'm not at all sure we're going about this in the right way," Magnan
puffed, trotting at Retief's side. "These fellows Zubb and Slun--Oh,
they seem affable enough, but how can we be sure we're not being led
into a trap?"

"We can't."

Magnan stopped short. "Let's go back."

"All right," Retief said. "Of course there may be an ambush--"

Magnan moved off. "Let's keep going."

The party emerged from the undergrowth at the edge of a great
brush-grown mound. Slun took the lead, rounded the flank of the
hillock, halted at a rectangular opening cut into the slope.

"You can find your way easily enough from here," he said. "You'll
excuse us, I hope--"

"Nonsense, Slun!" Zubb pushed forward. "I'll escort our guests to Qornt
Hall." He twittered briefly to his fellow Verpp. Slun twittered back.

"I don't like it, Retief," Magnan whispered. "Those fellows are
plotting mischief."

"Threaten them with violence, Mr Magnan. They're scared of you."

"That's true. And the drubbing they received was well-deserved. I'm a
patient man, but there are occasions--"

"Come along, please," Zubb called. "Another ten minutes' walk--"

"See here, we have no interest in investigating this barrow," Magnan
announced. "We wish you to take us direct to Tarroon to interview your
military leaders regarding the ultimatum!"

"Yes, yes, of course. Qornt Hall lies here inside the village."

"This is Tarroon?"

"A modest civic center, sir, but there are those who love it."

"No wonder we didn't observe their works from the air," Magnan
muttered. "Camouflaged." He moved hesitantly through the opening.

The party moved along a wide, deserted tunnel which sloped down
steeply, then leveled off and branched. Zubb took the center branch,
ducking slightly under the nine-foot ceiling lit at intervals with what
appeared to be primitive incandescent panels.

"Few signs of an advanced technology here," Magnan whispered. "These
creatures must devote all their talents to warlike enterprise."

Ahead, Zubb slowed. A distant susurration was audible, a sustained
high-pitched screeching. "Softly, now. We approach Qornt Hall. They
can be an irascible lot when disturbed at their feasting."

"When will the feast be over?" Magnan called hoarsely.

"In another few weeks, I should imagine, if, as you say, they've
scheduled an invasion for next month."

"Look here, Zubb." Magnan shook a finger at the tall alien. "How is it
that these Qornt are allowed to embark on piratical ventures of this
sort without reference to the wishes of the majority?"

"Oh, the majority of the Qornt favor the move, I imagine."

"These few hotheads are permitted to embroil the planet in war?"

"Oh, they don't embroil the planet in war. They merely--"

"Retief, this is fantastic! I've heard of iron-fisted military cliques
before, but this is madness!"

"Come softly, now." Zubb beckoned, moving toward a bend in the
yellow-lit corridor. Retief and Magnan moved forward.
