
The corridor debouched through a high double door into a vast oval
chamber, high-domed, gloomy, paneled in dark wood and hung with
tattered banners, scarred halberds, pikes, rusted longswords, crossed
spears over patinaed hauberks, pitted radiation armor, corroded power
rifles, the immense mummified heads of horned and fanged animals. Great
guttering torches in wall brackets and in stands along the length
of the long table shed a smoky light that reflected from the mirror
polish of the red granite floor, gleamed on polished silver bowls and
paper-thin glass, shone jewel-red and gold through dark bottles--and
cast long flickering shadows behind the fifteen trolls at the board.

Lesser trolls--beaked, bush-haired, great-eyed--trotted briskly,
bird-kneed, bearing steaming platters, stood in groups of
three strumming slender bottle-shaped lutes, or pranced an
intricate-patterned dance, unnoticed in the shrill uproar as each of
the magnificently draped, belted, feathered and jeweled Qornt carried
on a shouted conversation with an equally noisy fellow.

"A most interesting display of barbaric splendor," Magnan breathed.
"Now we'd better be getting back."

"Ah, a moment," Zubb said. "Observe the Qornt--the tallest of the
feasters--he with the head-dress of crimson, purple, silver and pink."

"Twelve feet if he's an inch," Magnan estimated. "And now we really
must hurry along--"

"That one is chief among these rowdies. I'm sure you'll want a word
with him. He controls not only the Tarroonian vessels but those from
the other Centers as well."

"What kind of vessels? Warships?"

"Certainly. What other kind would the Qornt bother with?"

"I don't suppose," Magnan said casually, "that you'd know the type,
tonnage, armament and manning of these vessels? And how many units
comprise the fleet? And where they're based at present?"

"They're fully automated twenty-thousand-ton all-purpose dreadnaughts.
They mount a variety of weapons. The Qornt are fond of that sort of
thing. Each of the Qornt has his own, of course. They're virtually
identical, except for the personal touches each individual has given
his ship."

"Great heavens, Retief!" Magnan exclaimed in a whisper. "It sounds as
though these brutes employ a battle armada as simpler souls might a set
of toy sailboats!"

Retief stepped past Magnan and Zubb to study the feasting hall. "I can
see that their votes would carry all the necessary weight."

"And now an interview with the Qorn himself," Zubb shrilled. "If you'll
kindly step along, gentlemen...."

"That won't be necessary," Magnan said hastily, "I've decided to refer
the matter to committee."

"After having come so far," Zubb said, "it would be a pity to miss
having a cosy chat."

There was a pause.

"Ah ... Retief," Magnan said. "Zubb has just presented a most
compelling argument...."
