
Retief turned. Zubb stood gripping an ornately decorated power pistol
in one bony hand, a slim needler in the other. Both were pointed at
Magnan's chest.

"I suspected you had hidden qualities, Zubb," Retief commented.

"See here, Zubb! We're diplomats!" Magnan started.

"Careful, Mr. Magnan; you may goad him to a frenzy."

"By no means," Zubb whistled. "I much prefer to observe the frenzy
of the Qornt when presented with the news that two peaceful Verpp
have been assaulted and kidnapped by bullying interlopers. If there's
anything that annoys the Qornt, it's Qornt-like behavior in others. Now
step along, please."

"Rest assured, this will be reported!"

"I doubt it."

"You'll face the wrath of Enlightened Galactic Opinion!"

"Oh? How big a navy does Enlightened Galactic Opinion have?"

"Stop scaring him, Mr. Magnan. He may get nervous and shoot." Retief
stepped into the banquet hall, headed for the resplendent figure at
the head of the table. A trio of flute-players broke off in mid-bleat,
staring. An inverted pyramid of tumblers blinked as Retief swung past,
followed by Magnan and the tall Verpp. The shrill chatter at the table
faded.

Qorn turned as Retief came up, blinking three-inch eyes. Zubb stepped
forward, gibbered, waving his arms excitedly. Qorn pushed back his
chair--a low, heavily padded stool--and stared unwinking at Retief,
moving his head to bring first one great round eye, then the other, to
bear. There were small blue veins in the immense fleshy beak. The bushy
hair, springing out in a giant halo around the grayish, porous-skinned
face, was wiry, stiff, moss-green, with tufts of chartreuse fuzz
surrounding what appeared to be tympanic membranes. The tall head-dress
of scarlet silk and purple feathers was slightly askew, and a loop of
pink pearls had slipped down above one eye.

Zubb finished his speech and fell silent, breathing hard.

Qorn looked Retief over in silence, then belched.

"Not bad," Retief said admiringly. "Maybe we could get up a match
between you and Ambassador Sternwheeler. You've got the volume on him,
but he's got timbre."

"So," Qorn hooted in a resonant tenor. "You come from Guzzum, eh? Or
Smorbrod, as I think you call it. What is it you're after? More time?
A compromise? Negotiations? Peace?" He slammed a bony hand against the
table. "The answer is _no_!"

Zubb twittered. Qorn cocked an eye, motioned to a servant. "Chain that
one." He indicated Magnan. His eyes went to Retief. "This one's bigger;
you'd best chain him, too."

"Why, your Excellency--" Magnan started, stepping forward.

"Stay back!" Qorn hooted. "Stand over there where I can keep an eye on
you."

"Your Excellency, I'm empowered--"

"Not here, you're not!" Qorn trumpeted. "Want peace, do you? Well, I
don't want peace! I've had a surfeit of peace these last two centuries!
I want action! Loot! Adventure! Glory!" He turned to look down the
table. "How about it, fellows? It's war to the knife, eh?"
