
There was a momentary silence from all sides.

"I guess so," grunted a giant Qornt in iridescent blue with
flame-colored plumes.

Qorn's eyes bulged. He half rose. "We've been all over this," he
bassooned. He clamped bony fingers on the hilt of a light rapier. "I
thought I'd made my point!"

"Oh, sure, Qorn."

"You bet."

"I'm convinced."

Qorn rumbled and resumed his seat. "All for one and one for all, that's
us."

"And you're the one, eh, Qorn?" Retief commented.

Magnan cleared his throat. "I sense that some of you gentlemen are not
convinced of the wisdom of this move," he piped, looking along the
table at the silks, jewels, beaks, feather-decked crests and staring
eyes.

"Silence!" Qorn hooted. "No use your talking to my loyal lieutenants
anyway," he added. "They do whatever I convince them they ought to do."

"But I'm sure that on more mature consideration--"

"I can lick any Qornt in the house." Qorn said. "That's why I'm Qorn."
He belched again.

A servant came up staggering under a weight of chain, dropped it with a
crash at Magnan's feet. Zubb aimed the guns while the servant wrapped
three loops around Magnan's wrists, snapped a lock in place.

"You next!" The guns pointed at Retief's chest. He held out his arms.
Four loops of silvery-gray chain in half-inch links dropped around
them. The servant cinched them up tight, squeezed a lock through the
ends and closed it.

"Now," Qorn said, lolling back in his chair, glass in hand. "There's a
bit of sport to be had here, lads. What shall we do with them?"

"Let them go," the blue and flame Qornt said glumly.

"You can do better than that," Qorn hooted. "Now here's a suggestion:
we carve them up a little--lop off the external labiae and pinnae,
say--and ship them back."

"Good lord! Retief, he's talking about cutting off our ears and sending
us home mutilated! What a barbaric proposal!"

"It wouldn't be the first time a Terrestrial diplomat got a trimming,"
Retief commented.

"It should have the effect of stimulating the Terries to put up a
reasonable scrap," Qorn said judiciously. "I have a feeling that
they're thinking of giving up without a struggle."

"Oh, I doubt that," the blue-and-flame Qornt said. "Why should they?"

Qorn rolled an eye at Retief and another at Magnan. "Take these two,"
he hooted. "I'll wager they came here to negotiate a surrender!"

"Well," Magnan started.

"Hold it, Mr. Magnan," Retief said. "I'll tell him."

"What's your proposal?" Qorn whistled, taking a gulp from his goblet.
"A fifty-fifty split? Monetary reparations? Alternate territory? I can
assure you, it's useless. We Qornt _like_ to fight."

"I'm afraid you've gotten the wrong impression, your Excellency,"
Retief said blandly. "We didn't come to negotiate. We came to deliver
an Ultimatum."

"What?" Qorn trumpeted. Behind Retief, Magnan spluttered.

"We plan to use this planet for target practice," Retief said. "A new
type hell bomb we've worked out. Have all your people off of it in
seventy-two hours, or suffer the consequences."


                                  IV

"You have the gall," Qorn stormed, "to stand here in the center of
Qornt Hall--uninvited, at that--and in chains--"

"Oh, these," Retief said. He tensed his arms. The soft aluminum links
stretched and broke. He shook the light metal free. "We diplomats like
to go along with colorful local customs, but I wouldn't want to mislead
you. Now, as to the evacuation of Roolit I--"

Zubb screeched, waved the guns. The Qornt were jabbering.

"I told you they were brutes," Zubb shrilled.

Qorn slammed his fist down on the table. "I don't care what they are!"
he honked. "Evacuate, hell! I can field eighty-five combat-ready ships!"

"And we can englobe every one of them with a thousand Peace Enforcers
with a hundred megatons/second firepower each."

"Retief." Magnan tugged at his sleeve. "Don't forget their superdrive."

"That's all right. They don't have one."

"But--"

"We'll take you on!" Qorn French-horned. "We're the Qorn! We glory in
battle! We live in fame or go down in--"

"Hogwash," the flame-and-blue Qorn cut in. "If it wasn't for you, Qorn,
we could sit around and feast and brag and enjoy life without having to
prove anything."

"Qorn, you seem to be the fire-brand here," Retief said. "I think the
rest of the boys would listen to reason--"

"Over my dead body!"

"My idea exactly," Retief said. "You claim you can lick any man in
the house. Unwind yourself from your ribbons and step out here on the
floor, and we'll see how good you are at backing up your conversation."
