
Magnan hovered at Retief's side. "Twelve feet tall," he moaned. "And
did you notice the size of those hands?"

Retief watched as Qorn's aides helped him out of his formal trappings.
"I wouldn't worry too much, Mr. Magnan. This is a light-Gee world. I
doubt if old Qorn would weigh up at more than two-fifty standard pounds
here."

"But that phenomenal reach--"

"I'll peck away at him at knee level. When he bends over to swat me,
I'll get a crack at him."

Across the cleared floor, Qorn shook off his helpers with a snort.

"Enough! Let me at the upstart!"

Retief moved out to meet him, watching the upraised backward-jointed
arms. Qorn stalked forward, long lean legs bent, long horny feet
clacking against the polished floor. The other aliens--both servitors
and bejeweled Qornt--formed a wide circle, all eyes unwaveringly on the
combatants.

Qorn struck suddenly, a long arm flashing down in a vicious cut at
Retief, who leaned aside, caught one lean shank below the knee. Qorn
bent to haul Retief from his leg--and staggered back as a haymaker took
him just below the beak. A screech went up from the crowd as Retief
leaped clear.

Qorn hissed and charged. Retief whirled aside, then struck the alien's
off-leg in a flying tackle. Qorn leaned, arms windmilling, crashed to
the floor. Retief whirled, dived for the left arm, whipped it behind
the narrow back, seized Qorn's neck in a stranglehold and threw his
weight backward. Qorn fell on his back, his legs squatted out at an
awkward angle. He squawked and beat his free arm on the floor, reaching
in vain for Retief.

Zubb stepped forward, pistols ready. Magnan stepped before him.

"Need I remind you, sir," he said icily, "that this is an official
diplomatic function? I can brook no interference from disinterested
parties."

Zubb hesitated. Magnan held out a hand. "I must ask you to hand me your
weapons, Zubb."

"Look here," Zubb began.

"I _may_ lose my temper," Magnan hinted. Zubb lowered the guns, passed
them to Magnan. He thrust them into his belt with a sour smile, turned
back to watch the encounter.

Retief had thrown a turn of violet silk around Qorn's left wrist, bound
it to the alien's neck. Another wisp of stuff floated from Qorn's
shoulder. Retief, still holding Qorn in an awkward sprawl, wrapped
it around one outflung leg, trussed ankle and thigh together. Qorn
flopped, hooting. At each movement, the constricting loop around his
neck, jerked his head back, the green crest tossing wildly.

"If I were you, I'd relax," Retief said, rising and releasing his grip.
Qorn got a leg under him; Retief kicked it. Qorn's chin hit the floor
with a hollow clack. He wilted, an ungainly tangle of over-long limbs
and gay silks.

Retief turned to the watching crowd. "Next?" he called.

The blue and flame Qornt stepped forward. "Maybe this would be a good
time to elect a new leader," he said. "Now, my qualifications--"

"Sit down," Retief said loudly. He stepped to the head of the table,
seated himself in Qorn's vacated chair. "A couple of you finish
trussing Qorn up for me."

"But we must select a leader!"

"That won't be necessary, boys. I'm your new leader."
