
"As I see it," Retief said, dribbling cigar ashes into an empty wine
glass, "you Qornt like to be warriors, but you don't particularly like
to fight."

"We don't mind a little fighting--within reason. And, of course, as
Qornt, we're expected to die in battle. But what I say is, why rush
things?"

"I have a suggestion," Magnan said. "Why not turn the reins of
government over to the Verpp? They seem a level-headed group."

"What good would that do? Qornt are Qornt. It seems there's always one
among us who's a slave to instinct--and, naturally, we have to follow
him."

"Why?"

"Because that's the way it's done."

"Why not do it another way?" Magnan offered. "Now, I'd like to suggest
community singing--"

"If we gave up fighting, we might live too long. Then what would
happen?"

"Live too long?" Magnan looked puzzled.

"When estivating time comes there'd be no burrows for us. Anyway, with
the new Qornt stepping on our heels--"

"I've lost the thread," Magnan said. "Who are the new Qornt?"

"After estivating, the Verpp moult, and then they're Qornt, of course.
The Gwil become Boog, the Boog become Rheuk, the Rheuk metamorphosize
into Verpp--"

"You mean Slun and Zubb--the mild-natured naturalists--will become
warmongers like Qorn?"

"Very likely. 'The milder the Verpp, the wilder the Qorn,' as the old
saying goes."

"What do Qornt turn into?" Retief asked.

"Hmmmm. That's a good question. So far, none have survived Qornthood."

"Have you thought of forsaking your warlike ways?" Magnan asked. "What
about taking up sheepherding and regular church attendance?"

"Don't mistake me. We Qornt like a military life. It's great sport to
sit around roaring fires and drink and tell lies and then go dashing
off to enjoy a brisk affray and some leisurely looting afterward. But
we prefer a nice numerical advantage. Not this business of tackling you
Terrestrials over on Guzzum--that was a mad notion. We had no idea what
your strength was."

"But now that's all off, of course," Magnan chirped. "Now that we've
had diplomatic relations and all--"

"Oh, by no means. The fleet lifts in thirty days. After all, we're
Qornt; we have to satisfy our drive to action."

"But Mr. Retief is your leader now. He won't let you!"

"Only a dead Qornt stays home when Attack day comes. And even if
he orders us all to cut our own throats, there are still the other
Centers--all with their own leaders. No, gentlemen, the Invasion is
definitely on."

"Why don't you go invade somebody else?" Magnan suggested. "I could
name some very attractive prospects--outside my sector, of course."

"Hold everything," Retief said. "I think we've got the basis of a deal
here...."


                                   V

At the head of a double column of gaudily caparisoned Qornt, Retief
and Magnan strolled across the ramp toward the bright tower of the CDT
Sector HQ. Ahead, gates opened, and a black Corps limousine emerged,
flying an Ambassadorial flag under a plain square of white.

"Curious," Magnan commented. "I wonder what the significance of the
white ensign might be?"

Retief raised a hand. The column halted with a clash of accoutrements
and a rasp of Qornt boots. Retief looked back along the line. The high
white sun flashed on bright silks, polished buckles, deep-dyed plumes,
butts of pistols, the soft gleam of leather.

"A brave show indeed," Magnan commented approvingly. "I confess the
idea has merit."

The limousine pulled up with a squeal of brakes, stood on two fat-tired
wheels, gyros humming softly. The hatch popped up. A portly diplomat
stepped out.

"Why, Ambassador Nitworth," Magnan glowed. "This is very kind of you."

"Keep cool, Magnan," Nitworth said in a strained voice. "We'll attempt
to get you out of this."

He stepped past Magnan's out-stretched hand and looked hesitantly at
the ramrod-straight line of Qornt, eighty-five strong--and beyond, at
the eighty-five tall Qornt dreadnaughts.

"Good afternoon, sir ... ah, Your Excellency," Nitworth said, blinking
up at the leading Qornt. "You are Commander of the Strike Force, I
assume?"

"Nope," the Qornt said shortly.

"I ... ah ... wish to request seventy-two hours in which to evacuate
Headquarters," Nitworth plowed on.

"Mr. Ambassador." Retief said. "This--"

"Don't panic, Retief. I'll attempt to secure your release," Nitworth
hissed over his shoulder. "Now--"

"You will address our leader with more respect!" the tall Qornt hooted,
eyeing Nitworth ominously from eleven feet up.

"Oh, yes indeed, sir ... your Excellency ... Commander. Now, about the
invasion--"

"Mr. Secretary," Magnan tugged at Nitworth's sleeve.

"In heaven's name, permit me to negotiate in peace!" Nitworth snapped.
He rearranged his features. "Now your Excellency, we've arranged to
evacuate Smorbrod, of course, just as you requested--"

"Requested?" the Qornt honked.

"Ah ... demanded, that is. Quite rightly of course. Ordered.
Instructed. And, of course, we'll be only too pleased to follow any
other instructions you might have."

"You don't quite get the big picture, Mr. Secretary," Retief said.
"This isn't--"

"Silence, confound you!" Nitworth barked. The leading Qornt looked at
Retief. He nodded. Two bony hands shot out, seized Nitworth and stuffed
a length of bright pink silk into his mouth, then spun him around and
held him facing Retief.

"If you don't mind my taking this opportunity to brief you, Mr.
Ambassador," Retief said blandly. "I think I should mention that this
isn't an invasion fleet. These are the new recruits for the Peace
Enforcement Corps."

Magnan stepped forward, glanced at the gag in Ambassador Nitworth's
mouth, hesitated, then cleared his throat. "We felt," he said, "that
the establishment of a Foreign Brigade within the P. E. Corps structure
would provide the element of novelty the Department has requested
in our recruiting, and at the same time would remove the stigma of
Terrestrial chauvinism from future punitive operations."

Nitworth stared, eyes bulging. He grunted, reaching for the gag, caught
the Qornt's eye on him, dropped his hands to his sides.

"I suggest we get the troops in out of the hot sun," Retief said.
Magnan edged close. "What about the gag?" he whispered.

"Let's leave it where it is for a while," Retief murmured. "It may save
us a few concessions."
