
An hour later, Nitworth, breathing freely again, glowered across his
desk at Retief and Magnan.

"This entire affair," he rumbled, "has made me appear to be a fool!"

"But we who are privileged to serve on your staff already know just how
clever you are," Magnan burbled.

Nitworth purpled. "You're skirting insolence, Magnan," he roared. "Why
was I not informed of the arrangements? What was I to assume at the
sight of eighty-five war vessels over my headquarters, unannounced?"

"We tried to get through, but our wavelengths--"

"Bah! Sterner souls than I would have quailed at the spectacle!"

"Oh, you were perfectly justified in panicking--"

"I did _not_ panic!" Nitworth bellowed. "I merely adjusted to the
apparent circumstances. Now, I'm of two minds as to the advisability of
this foreign legion idea of yours. Still, it may have merit. I believe
the wisest course would be to dispatch them on a long training cruise
in an uninhabited sector of space--"

The office windows rattled. "What the devil!" Nitworth turned, stared
out at the ramp where a Qornt ship rose slowly on a column of pale blue
light. The vibration increased as a second ship lifted, then a third.

Nitworth whirled on Magnan. "What's this! Who ordered these recruits to
embark without my permission?"

"I took the liberty of giving them an errand to run, Mr. Secretary,"
Retief said. "There was that little matter of the Groaci infiltrating
the Sirenian System. I sent the boys off to handle it."

"Call them back at once!"

"I'm afraid that won't be possible. They're under orders to maintain
total communications silence until completion of the mission."

Nitworth drummed his fingers on the desk top. Slowly, a thoughtful
expression dawned. He nodded.

"This may work out," he said. "I _should_ call them back, but since
the fleet is out of contact, I'm unable to do so, correct? Thus I can
hardly be held responsible for any over-enthusiasm in chastising the
Groaci."

He closed one eye in a broad wink at Magnan. "Very well, gentlemen,
I'll overlook the irregularity this time. Magnan, see to it the
Smorbrodian public are notified they can remain where they are. And
by the way, did you by any chance discover the technique of the
indetectable drive the Qornt use?"

"No, sir. That is, yes, sir."

"Well? Well?"

"There isn't any. The Qornt were there all the while. Underground."

"Underground? Doing what?"

"Hibernating--for two hundred years at a stretch."
