
Jonner could not check with Sir Stanrich by radio--Mars City was
too close, and they would be overheard. He had no time to spend
investigating his personnel--Sir Stanrich had impressed on him that
their mission must be carried out on schedule.

He decided he would not tell them just yet that one of them could not
be trusted. He might be able to trip the spy. But he said:

"One or more of us may be killed or captured, so I'm going to brief
everyone. No matter how many of us are lost, those who are left must
carry out the mission. What were you told about this?"

"I was told to meet you here and follow your instructions. I was told
it's a dangerous and important assignment. That's all," said Tyruss.
The others murmured agreement.

"The instructions I give you won't be mine, but those of Sir Stanrich
O'Kellin, supreme commander of the Rebel forces," said Jonner. He
squatted on the sand and the others crowded around in the blue twilight
as he sketched diagrams with his gloved hand while he talked:

"As some of you may have learned, the Charax Rebellion is in danger of
collapsing, because our supplies have been running out since Marscorp
intercepted and destroyed our last space fleet from Earth. Plan Red,
which was our master plan for defeating Marscorp in the field by
capturing the dome-cities one by one, has failed. Regina and Charax are
being evacuated because we couldn't hold them much longer anyway, and
all our people are being transported around the Marscorp territory to
the secret underground spaceport we established in the Isidis Desert
two years ago.

"This is a temporary measure, to prepare for Plan Blue, our last-gasp
emergency plan. Marscorp will no doubt find the location of the
underground base by observation of the refugees, but we hope to
have Plan Blue in operation before they can shift their forces from
Hadriacum to the desert and break through our defenses."

"I've heard rumors of this Plan Blue," said Farlan, a slight man with
blond hair. "What is it?"

"I don't know," conceded Jonner candidly. "I don't think anyone does
but Sir Stanrich and a few of our top strategists. But our part of it
is this:

"You may not know it, but we lost our last G-boat when we pulled that
unsuccessful attack on Phobos early this year. We do have an old
spaceship, riding in a polar orbit, that Marscorp doesn't know about,
but no way to get up to it. Our job is to capture a Marscorp G-boat,
get to that spaceship, capture The Egg and tow it into an Earthward
orbit."

"The Egg?" repeated Stein, a dark, chubby fellow. "You mean that ovoid
space station of Marscorp's with the antennae sticking out all over it?
I've seen that thing floating up there. I always wondered why we didn't
blast it."

"Not important enough," said Jonner. "It's an experimental laboratory
that amplifies the magnetic field of Mars, and they've been
experimenting with it as an auxiliary power station. But neither side
is bothered by any lack of power from the atomic energy sources on
Mars."

Tyruss appeared annoyed at this.

"Tell me something, Jonner," he demanded. "If it wasn't important
enough to blast when we had the ships to do it, why is it important
enough for us to capture now?"

"I don't know," said Jonner. "Those are our orders. Now, we leave the
groundcars here and go on foot to Marsport. Check equipment, everyone."

"Say," commented Farlan after a moment, "I don't seem to have any
sunburn lotion."

"You can have mine," said Aron, laughing. "This far from the sun, I
haven't been sunburned yet, and don't expect to be."

"Haven't been on Mars a year yet, have you?" suggested Tyruss.

"No," admitted Aron. "I came from Earth with the last space fleet and
escaped in a lifeboat. Why?"

"There's an Earth-sun conjunction coming up. Every time the Earth
swings between Mars and the sun, everybody on Mars gets a bad sunburn.
When it comes, you better cover yourself with lotion, because clothes
don't protect you and even if you're in a city, the domes and house
roofs are transparent to pick up the sun's heat."

"We have enough among us," said Jonner. "Besides, if our mission goes
off on schedule, we'll be back at base by the time the Earth-sun
conjunction starts. Let's head for Marsport."
