
The six men crouched in the concealing canal sage near the edge of
Marsport, the spaceport outside Mars City. The blue mist was a heavy
fog that swirled around them.

In the lighted circle of the spaceport area three stubby, two-stage
gravity-boats sat upright, about a hundred yards apart. These were the
heavy duty rockets that plied back and forth to Phobos, Mars' inner
moon and Marscorp's natural space station, entering the planetary
atmosphere of Mars where spaceships could not go. Workmen stirred
busily around one of the G-boats; a guard stood at the entrance port of
each of the other two.

Jonner tried to assess the evidence, to decide which of his five
companions was the Marscorp spy. How Marscorp had found out about the
expedition, how the credentials had been forged, how the rendezvous had
been learned, did not matter now. Marscorp could not know their plans
beyond the rendezvous in the desert, because only he and Sir Stanrich
had known the orders Sir Stanrich had given him for this mission.

The fact that Stein and Wessfeld had arrived together from Charax
eliminated them as suspects, for the Charax command would have known
whether one or two men were to be sent from there.

Jonner did not believe Tyruss was the spy. Jonner had won his space
papers just before the Rebellion began, but it was logical that Sir
Stanrich would send a more experienced space captain to handle their
ship.

That left Farlan and Aron, from different sections of the Hadriacum
front. Which one? In their specialties, Farlan was an alternate to
Stein as an astrogator, Aron an alternate to Wessfeld as an engineer.
But every spaceman could handle every other spaceman's duties in an
emergency, and it was hard to say which task they had decided to double
up on.

Jonner expected the spy to make some move here, tonight, and he had
prepared for it on the way from the desert. One earphone of his helmet
receiver was tuned with his speaker to the Rebel band they used,
the other was tuned to the local frequency used by Marscorp. Jonner
listened with one ear to the occasional reports and orders that were
passed around the spaceport.

Jonner punched Tyruss, next to him, twice on the shoulder. It was the
signal. The six men rose and moved forward together.

The sentry who loomed before them had no chance. A heat-gun beam is
invisible. They cut him down and scurried to the edge of the spaceport,
into the circle of light, running in long leaps toward the nearest
G-boat.

It was as they broke from the canal sage that the thing happened which
Jonner had expected. The words were shouted into the earphone attuned
to the Marscorp band: "Attention, Marscorp! Att...."

Jonner pressed a button on his belt, and his other defense went
into action. A scrambler beam cut in on the attempted warning, and
everything on that channel dissolved into a buzzing roar.

Jonner cast a glance down the line of his companions, but they were too
far separated for him to see whether any of them was talking into his
helmet microphone.

Some of the workmen at the far G-boat saw them running across the
field, and scattered in alarm, but the scrambling prevented them from
warning others through helmet communicators. The guard at the G-boat
that was their goal saw them when they were fifty feet away. He was cut
down as he tried to duck around the G-boat.

They ran up the ramp. Jonner, first to reach the port, stopped and
tried to watch his companions as they hurried past him. Tyruss was
fumbling at some control on the belt of his marsuit. His radio channel
control?

Armed men were converging on the G-boat from all over the field as
Jonner slammed and fastened the port. They scrambled up to the nose of
the G-boat, and he and Tyruss sank into the pilots' seats.

"Strap down for blast-off!" shouted Jonner, and wished viciously that
the spy would still be tuned on the Marscorp band and fail to hear him.
But everyone strapped down, hurriedly.

A score of Marscorp soldiers were standing around the G-boat, firing
up at its ports with heat-guns. The beams were futile, for G-boats
were built to stand frictional temperatures it would take a heat-gun
minutes to build to. Halfway across the field, a squad of men wheeled
an anti-tank gun into position.

The gentle gravity of Mars quadrupled as the G-boat strained upward
on roaring jets, gathering speed. Through the port, Jonner saw the
anti-tank gun's muzzle elevate and blossom flame. There was no impact;
and there was no opportunity for another shot.

The G-boat curved eastward in a long ascending arc. The first stage
dropped off over the Aerian Desert, and in a few moments they were in
free fall.
