
Jonner, Stein and Aron lay around in the Marscorp brig on Phobos for
more than a month. To be precise, they floated around, for Phobos had
little more surface gravity than a spaceship in orbit. When there was
no indication they were going to be transferred from Phobos, Jonner
set up a howl that at last was heard in the little moon's officialdom.

Jonner was taken before the adjutant of the Phobos base to air his
complaint.

"Look," said Jonner, placing both hands belligerently on the official's
desk, "the terms of the terrestrial Space Compact apply to Mars, too.
No prisoners of war shall be confined beyond a planetary atmosphere,
except for so long as it is impracticable for them to be transferred to
a surface prison."

"That provision was written into the compact to permit inspection by
neutral powers and because, ordinarily, a prisoner has some hope that
a surface prison will be overrun by troops of his own side and he will
be released," answered the adjutant mildly, peering at Jonner over
old-fashioned rimless spectacles. "In your case, that's not likely to
happen and I can't see why you're raising such a fuss. The last we
heard up here, our troops were about to overrun your last base."

"What do you mean, the last you heard?" demanded Jonner. "I heard that
two days before we were brought to Phobos."

"Radio communication with Mars has been out completely," explained the
adjutant good-naturedly. "Static's always bad during the Earth-sun
conjunctions, as you ought to know, being a spaceman. This time we
haven't been able to get anything through at all."

"Well, maybe it's true that we've lost and the war's about over,"
said Jonner. "But the three of us still want to be transferred to the
surface. Free fall can drive you nuts when you're in an eight-by-eight
cell."

"As a matter of fact," said the adjutant, "there hasn't been any
G-boat traffic to and from the surface since the radio went out. It's
a dangerous business, trying to land at a spaceport without any radio
guide. But we have to send a G-boat down for supplies in a couple of
days, and if you fellows are insistent about it, we'll send you down to
Marsport on it."

It was not two days, but more than a week later that the three of them
were allowed to get into spacesuits and were escorted out to a G-boat
anchored to the surface of Phobos.

Above them, the orange disc of Mars filled the sky. Phobos was swinging
across the inhabited hemisphere now, and the dark green areas of Syrtis
and Hadriacum were plainly visible.

Jonner strained his eyes upward at the red spot that was the Isidis
Desert. Somewhere in the heart of that red spot, Sir Stanrich O'Kellin
was directing the last-gasp stand of the Charax Rebels. They would be
manning the underground chambers of the base, perhaps fighting in the
corridors as the Marscorp troops battled to effect an entry.

It might even be that the base had fallen by now, overrun by the
government forces, and he and his companions would be, technically,
free men by the time they landed at Marsport. Jonner sighed unhappily.
He didn't want that kind of freedom.

Following Stein and Aron, he climbed into the G-boat. It had a crew of
two, plus an armed guard for the prisoners.

"There'll be no unstrapping during free fall," announced the G-boat
pilot. "Everybody will remain strapped down until we land. With the
Earth-sun conjunction over, we've re-established radio communication
partially, but it's spotty, and we may crash."

"Is the war over?" asked Jonner.

"How the hell should I know?" grunted the pilot. "We haven't had a
single news broadcast that makes sense since the radio came back in.
They're all chopped up with static."

The G-boat lifted gently from the surface of Phobos and began its
spiral downward toward Mars. The six men, crowded together in its
single passenger compartment, listened to the radio that spat and
growled over their heads.

What they heard was unintelligible.

"Sector Four ... squawk ... spsst!" snarled the loudspeaker.
"Colonel ... squawk ... troops in ... squawk ... move tank squad
to ... spsst-crack-crack!... more ambulances ... squawk ... ninety
per cent disabled...."

Periodically the pilot tried to establish contact:

"G-boat MC-20 to Marsport. G-boat MC-20 to Marsport. Come in, Marsport."

The attempts were futile until the G-boat had entered the atmosphere
and was gliding high above the desert on its broad wings. Then,
miraculously, the airwaves were clear for a moment.

"Marsport to G-boat MC-20," said the loudspeaker. "Go ahead."

"G-boat MC-20 to Marsport," said the pilot hurriedly. "Give us a beam.
We're coming in for a landing."

"Don't land! We're...!" exclaimed the loudspeaker, and exploded into
static in midsentence.

"What the hell do they mean, don't land?" snorted the pilot, fiddling
frantically and uselessly with dials. "They think I've got enough fuel
to get back to Phobos?"

The G-boat held its glide and swooped down on Marsport, a tiny landing
field and a miniature group of buildings set apart from the dome of
Mars City. Groups of men were scurrying about at the port like ants. A
column of smoke rose ominously from one of the buildings.

The G-boat touched ground and skidded to a stop in mid-field. Its
passengers unstrapped and the pilot opened the port.

Men crowded into the G-boat, men with drawn heat-guns, men in the
blue-and-gold marsuits of the Charax Rebels!
