
The only thing that was happening to Ollie was that he was getting
hungrier and hungrier. He had, in fact, never before been so ravenous.
He felt as if he hadn't eaten in years.

He had met with two strokes of luck--the accessible bottle and the
incredibly generous manager. They had left him just as hungry and
thirsty as before. Now he encountered a third gift of fortune. On the
plate glass window of a restaurant was the flamboyant announcement:
EATING CONTEST TONIGHT AT MONTE'S RESTAURANT! FOR THE CHAMPIONSHIP
OF THE WORLD! ENTRIES BEING TAKEN NOW! NO CHARGE IF YOU EAT ENOUGH FOR
AT LEAST THREE PEOPLE.

Ollie's face brightened. The way he felt, he could have eaten enough
for a hundred. The fact that the contestants, as he saw upon reading
further, would be limited to hard-boiled eggs made no difference to
him. For once he would have a chance to eat everything he could get
down his yawning gullet.

That night it was clear that neither the judges nor the audience
thought much of Ollie as an eater. Hungry he undoubtedly was, but it
was obvious that his stomach had shrunk from years of disuse, and
besides, he didn't have the build of a born eater. He was long and
skinny, whereas the other contestants seemed almost as broad and wide
as they were tall. In gaining weight, as in so many other things, the
motto seemed to be that those who already had would get more. Ollie
had too little to start with.

In order to keep the contest from developing an anticlimax, they
started with Ollie, believing that he would be lucky if he ate ten eggs.

Ollie was so ravenous that he found it difficult to control himself,
and he made a bad impression by gulping the first egg as fast as he
could. A real eater would have let the egg slide down rapidly yet
gently, without making an obvious effort. This uncontrolled, amateur
speed, thought the judges, could only lead to a stomachache.

Ollie devoured the second egg, the third, the fourth, and the rest of
his allotted ten. At that point, one of the judges asked, "How do you
feel?"

"Hungry."

"Stomach hurt?"

"Only from hunger. It feels like it got nothin' in it. Somehow, them
eggs don't fill me up."

Somebody in the audience laughed. The judges exchanged glances and
ordered more eggs brought on. From the crowd of watchers, cries of
encouragement came to Ollie. At this stage, there was still nobody who
thought that he had a chance.

Ollie proceeded to go through twenty eggs, forty, sixty, a hundred. By
that time, the judges and the crowd were in a state of unprecedented
excitement.

Again a judge demanded, "How do you feel?"

"Still hungry. They don't fill me up at all."

"But those are large eggs. Do you know how much a hundred of them
weigh? Over fifteen pounds!"

"I don't care how much they weigh. I'm still hungry."

"Do you mind if we weigh you?"

"So long as you don't stop givin' me eggs, okay."

They brought out a scale and Ollie stepped on it. He weighed one
hundred and thirty-nine pounds, on the nose.

Then he started eating eggs again. At the end of his second hundred,
they weighed him once more. Ollie weighed one hundred thirty-eight and
three-quarters.

The judges stared at each other and then at Ollie. For a moment the
entire audience sat in awed silence, as if watching a miracle. Then the
mood of awe passed.

One of the judges said wisely, "He palms them and slips them to a
confederate."

"Out here on the stage?" demanded another judge. "Where's his
confederate? Besides, you can see for yourself that he eats them. You
can watch them going down his throat."

"But that's impossible. If they really went down his throat, he'd gain
weight."

"I don't know how he does it," admitted the other. "But he does."

"The man is a freak. Let's get some doctors over here."

Ollie ate another hundred and forty-three eggs, and then had to stop
because the restaurant ran out of them. The other contestants never
even had a chance to get started.
