
"You transmitted the message in one of the latter tablets?" asked Zolto
in their native tongue.

"I have explained all that has happened," replied his wife. "They will
stop sending food and wait for other directives."

"Good. Now we'll have to get the transfer out of him as soon as
possible. We ourselves can operate and he will never be the wiser."

"I wonder," said Pojim. "Once we have the transfer, it will only be a
nuisance to us. We'll have to guard it carefully and be in continual
fear of losing it. Perhaps it would be more sensible to leave it inside
him."

"Inside him? Pojim, my sweet, have you taken leave of your senses?"

"Not at all. It is easier to guard a man than a tiny object. I took
a look at one of the X-ray plates, and it is clear that the transfer
switch has adhered to his stomach. It will remain there indefinitely.
Suppose we focus a transpositor on that stomach of his. Then, as
the objects we want arrive from our own universe in their collapsed
condition, we can transpose them into our laboratory, enlarge them, and
send them off to Aldebaran, where they are needed."

"But suppose that he and that stomach of his move around!"

"He will stay in one place if we treat him well. Don't you see, Zolto?
He is a creature who has always lacked food. We shall supply him such
food as his own kind have never dreamed of, complete with pandigestion
fluid. At the same time, we shall set him to doing light work in order
to keep him busy. Much of his task will involve studying and improving
himself. And at night we shall receive the things we need from our own
universe."

"And when we have enough to supply the colony on Aldebaran II?"

"Then it will be time enough to remove the transfer switch."

Zolto laughed. It was a laugh that would have been curiously out of
place in a human being, and if the taxi driver hadn't been so busy
steering his way through traffic, he would have turned around to look.
Pojim sensed the danger, and held up a warning finger.

Zolto subsided. "You have remarkable ideas, my wife. Still, I see no
reason why this should not work. Let us try it."
