
But that is getting along too far in the story. “Slim” Simpson weighed
exactly two hundred and twenty pounds. He was twenty-two years of
age—and in love. He had been a perfectly good cowpuncher until the
love-bug inoculated his emaciated form; but now he was worthless for
anything—except love.

Sadie Thompson was the maid of his choice. Sadie’s pa was proprietor, or
rather station-agent at San Rego. He owned a little home on the
outskirts of San Rego, with honeysuckle, or something like that, around
the door.

Sadie was of a jealous and suspicious nature, and she had a sneaking
idea that Slim had danced too many times with the school teacher the
night before. Anyway, she told Slim that she wouldn’t divide him up with
any woman, even if there was enough of him to divide.

Poor Slim had poked his nose to the sky and wailingly assured her that
he was “her’n, and only her’n.” But Sadie parted the honeysuckles, or
whatever grew about the porch, and sent Slim uptown, pawing his way
through a haze of indigo blue.

Slim didn’t want a drink; he wanted solitude. And where may a man find
more assorted kinds of solitude than on the heat scourged planks of a
desert depot. He made up his mind to be a martyr—and melt.

But at the depot he ran into Jim Hilton and Barney McGonigle from the
Lazy B ranch. They were trying to dig up enough money to pay for an
express package, which had come C. O. D. They greeted him warmly and
borrowed a dollar and eighty cents.

It was at this time that the freight train pulled in. Jim and Barney
went outside, carrying their package, and got one look at Alicia. Slim
was resting his elbows on the ledge of the ticket window, when Barney
tiptoed back inside and nudged Slim.

“C’mere,” he whispered sotto voce. “My ——, Slim, the Queen of Sheber is
among us. C’mon.”

Slim followed. Who wouldn’t? Alicia had sat up. The box of soggy
chocolates were forgotten. Here was raw material for her to work on.
Back in the car she heard her mother say—

“Hundred aces and a hundred and fifty trump.”

Slim moved closer. From the front end of the train came the clatter of
couplers as the engine moved ahead. Slim moved closer. Just before the
Lake Louise obeyed the impulse of the engine, Alicia’s left eyelid drew
down in an unmistakable wink—a very expressive wink.

Barney exploded and clung weakly to Jim Hilton. Slim did not turn his
head, but walked slowly to the far edge of the platform, following the
departing train. But Alicia did not wink again. She picked up her book,
dipped into the chocolates and faded out in the distance.

Slim sighed, turned around and looked into the face of Sadie Thompson.
He shuddered. Barney and Jim were watching them.

“So that’s the way you put in your time, is it?” demanded Sadie.
“Flirting with every girl you see, eh?”

“I—I wasn’t flirtin’,” denied Slim. “My gosh, Sadie, I never——”

“Yes?” Sadie grew sarcastic. “Didn’t I see that wink? Here!”

She tugged at the third finger of her left hand and gave him back his
ring.

“I’m all through with you,” she declared chokingly. “I will never trust
a man again. Take back your fickle ring.”

Sadie turned and hurried toward home, while behind her came Slim,
looking all spraddled out, as he tried to catch her and explain. But
Sadie walked erratically down the narrow sidewalk, which kept Slim
jumping from side to side; much to the amusement of every one who
observed it.

Sadie beat him to the gate, fastened it from the inside, and faced him—a
picture of outraged womanhood.

“Go back!” Sadie pointed dramatically. “Get on your horse and follow the
maid. I want no more of you!”

Slim went. There was no good reason why he should stay. Back there on
the sunny side of the depot, where the thermometer registered one
hundred and ten degrees in the shade, Slim sat in the sun, and cogitated
over the vagaries of women.

The incident passed from the mind of Alicia Steele. It was only one wink
among many. If her wink brought a thrill to that fat cowboy, he was
welcome to it. Two miles out of San Rego the train lurched to another
stop.
