
Half an hour later the conductor, perspiring, dusty, came to the Lake
Louise and informed James Worthington Steele that half the axle-boxes on
the train were on fire, and they would have to be delayed another hour.

James Worthington Steele mopped his brow and swore. It was imperative
that he move on.

“Can’t be did,” declared the conductor. “It’s ten miles to Mesquite
City, and ten more to the Mission Junction. I’m afraid you won’t be able
to hook this car on to No. 117. They are due there in thirty minutes.”

James Worthington Steele was a good railroad man; so he did not rave. He
knew just how bad most of their rolling-stock was. But he must at least
get a message through; so the conductor ran a wire from the Lake Louise,
tapped the telegraph, and let James Worthington Steele send his own
messages.

Be it known that James Worthington Steele had at one time been a
dispatcher on this same road; so it was no trouble for him to handle his
correspondence via wire, through the medium of his own private telegraph
instrument, which had long since been part of the Lake Louise’s
equipment.

After proving an alibi for not being able to attend the important
meeting, which he managed to postpone, he went back to his game of
pinochle. Not that he wanted to play; but his wife did.

The instrument clacked merrily away, and excited the interest of Alicia,
who was becoming more bored each moment. On the polished mahogany table
was a code book, containing the station calls, codes, etc., and on the
fly-leaf was printed the Morse code of telegraphy.

Alicia glanced over it, and the code, with its dots and dashes,
attracted her. She scanned the pages for San Rego. The station call was
SR. Looking back at the code, she found the two letters. She had seen
her father use it many times; so what could be easier?

She sat down, opened the key and began laboriously to tap out the SR
signal. Several times she repeated it, before closing the key. The
sounder rattled, as the operator at San Rego answered his call. Alicia
had no idea what he was saying, but she had an idea of what she was
going to say. Her ennui was all gone now.

Back in the hot little depot at San Rego, old Bill Thompson, the father
of Sadie, squinted at the sounder of his instrument, a scowl on his
face, as it began slowly ticking out a message.

“H-e-l-p,h-e-l-p,h-e-l-p.”

The dots, dashes and spaces were not the work of a telegrapher. The
agent cut open his key and wanted to know who in the blankety-blank was
using that instrument.

But still it continued to tap out the one word. The agent bit down on
his pipestem and swore to himself. Then the sounder awoke anew.

“H-e-l-p h-o-l-d-u-p p-r-i-v-a-t-e c-a-r h-e-l-p.”

The agent snapped to his feet. He had seen the private car at the rear
of that freight, and he knew well who James Worthington Steele was.
There was a holdup. Some one was robbing the private car!

He opened his key and called Mesquite City. Had the freight reached
there? It had not. The agent asked him if he had heard the call for
help.

“Been out to eat,” replied the Mesquite operator. “Heard J. W. Steele
sending before I left. The freight is stuck about two miles from San
Rego.”

The agent whirled from his desk and ran outside. Around the corner he
went and almost fell over Slim, who grunted and got to his feet. The
agent was a quick thinker.

“Slim, where’s your horse?”

“Right there.” Slim pointed at a long-legged sorrel, tied to a ring in
the rear platform. “What’s the matter?”

“Did you see that private car on that freight that——”

“Yeah, I seen it.” Slim was sarcastic.

“Down the track about two miles!” panted the agent. “It’s being held up.
Just got a wire.”

“Oh, yeah.”

Slim squinted at the agent. It might be a joke, but the man seemed in
earnest. “Slim, that’s Steele, the biggest railroad man in this country;
owns this —— railroad and more too. Can’t yuh go and help ’em?”

But Slim was halfway to the sorrel, running as fast as he could go. The
agent ran back, opened his key and sent an assurance that help was
coming.

“What are you kidding about?” demanded the operator at Mesquite City.

Swiftly the San Rego agent told him about the holdup. Mesquite City was
the county seat.

“Shall I notify the sheriff?” asked Mesquite City.

The San Rego operator started in to tell him what to do, when the door
opened behind him and Sadie came in. He glanced at her and turned back
to his key.

“Dad, where is Slim going?” asked Sadie.

Dad broke off sending.

“He’s following that freight.”

Then Dad turned and hammered out instructions.

“Where is that freight?” Sadie was outwardly calm, but her face had gone
white. Slim was following out her instructions.

“Two miles down the road,” said Dad, and continued to hammer at his key.

Sadie fairly ran out of the office and around to where her roan horse
was tied. She had seen Slim going away in a cloud of dust, which had not
yet settled. In a few moments she was adding to the dust cloud,
following Slim.
