
The telegraph instrument did not amuse Alicia for long. She was unable
to decipher anything it said, because it clicked too fast; so she sank
down in a deep, leather chair, picked up her book and began reading. The
air off the desert was like a blast from a furnace. Two electric fans
droned softly, but did little more than stir up the heat.

In his own end of the car, where an ice box and other luxuries of
private-car life were carried, Moses Jones, an elongated, shuffling son
of Ham, proceeded to uncork two more bottles. Mose was immaculate, but
very moist.

Mose picked up his tray, containing glasses and the two cold bottles,
stepped into the corridor just in time to feel the swift jab of Soup’s
automatic into his white-clad ribs.

Mose almost telescoped under the strain, and he elevated his tray until
the bottles almost hit the ceiling.

“Yuh—yuh—yessah!” grunted Mose.

“Yeah, bo!” replied Soup. “Squeak once and you’re done.”

“N-n-nosah,” whispered Mose.

“Yessir,” nodded Soup. “Move on, nigger.”

Straight into the privacy of the Steele family came Mose and Soup; and
the first hint of something wrong was when one of the bottles fell from
its dizzy height, landed in the middle of the card table and shot its
agitated contents into the face of James Worthington Steele.

“What the ——?” Thus said James Worthington Steele, pawing the suds out
of his eyes.

It was then that Mose Jones side-stepped and gave them an unobstructed
view of Soup Lannigan, who was enjoying himself hugely.

“Don’t yelp,” advised Soup coldly. “C’mere, you!”

He meant Alicia. She came. The combination of automatic and Soup’s face
was enough to cow any one. Alicia sank into one of the seats and stared
at Soup.

“Kinda pretty,” observed Soup appreciatively. “Gimme the sparks, kid.
You too—” turning to Mrs. Steele—“hand over them rings. Shell out your
money and make it fast. I ain’t got all day. C’mon! What the —— do yuh
think this is; a lecture?”

They shelled. Soup held out his battered cap for the spoils and his eyes
glittered. The hunting was much better than he anticipated. Mose Jones
rolled his eyes and leaned against the wall, while his legs fairly
twitched for a chance to run.

Far down the line the engine whistle signaled for the rear flagman to
come in. Soup backed toward the rear door, his automatic covering the
two men and two women.

“T’anks, folks,” he said. “I’ll be on me way now.”

He laughed mockingly and backed into a man, who had come through the
rear door, filling the passageway with his bulk. Soup spun around, tried
to use his automatic, but this hulk of a man tore it from his hand,
threw it out of the window and proceeded to mop up the open space with
the luckless Soup.

Soup was no coward. He had fought many fights; but this fat person; who
wore flapping leather chaps, spurs and a heavy belt, did not give him a
chance. The cap, which contained the loot, went flying under a chair,
when Slim Simpson got Soup by the legs, handling him like a wheelbarrow,
and rammed him viciously into the underpinning of a heavy chair.

Soup went limp. Slim tossed Soup’s legs aside, as if he had no further
use for them, and stared at Alicia. Came the “bump” of some one boarding
the car, and Sadie came in. Her face was streaked with dust, but in her
eyes was a great resolve. She wasn’t going to lose Slim Simpson, not
without a battle. Slim gawped at her and waved his arms weakly.

“Huh—hello, Sadie,” he panted, and then turned to the dazed Alicia.

“You—you tell her,” he said dramatically, pointing at Sadie. “You tell
huh-her about that wink. Hurry up, can’tcha?”

“The—that wink?” faltered Alicia wonderingly.

“You winked at me?” queried the perspiring Slim. “Back there at the
depot, you winked.”

“At you?” Alicia shook her head. “No. I—I didn’t. It was a cinder in my
eye.”

“Now, yuh see?” Slim was triumphant.

“Do yuh see——”

But just at that moment Soup Lannigan decided that it was a mighty good
time for him to leave. He jumped to his feet, knocked Sadie aside and
darted out of the rear door.

“Gosh ding him, he didn’t stay dead!” blurted Slim; and out of the door
he went.

Soup Lannigan, running like a rabbit, was heading for the brushy hills,
when Slim went into his saddle, shook out his rope and gave chase. And
Sadie was not far behind him.

Straight up over a brushy slope galloped Soup, bending every effort to
gain deeper cover, while behind him pounded two running horses; and now
he could hear the swish of a whirling loop. Again the engine whistled,
as if cheering them on.
