
Down through a gully went Soup, where Slim was forced to detour; but a
few moments later he was chased on to the next slope. For ten minutes
they played hide-and-seek; but the hard riding cowboy won, when Soup
essayed to cross a fifty foot stretch of open country to gain a mesquite
patch.

The loop caught Soup in mid-air and brought him down on his neck in a
cat-claw bush.

The jerk of the rope knocked all the fight out of the hard-faced yegg,
who was content to lie there and goggle at the sky. Slim kept the rope
tight and waited for Sadie to join him.

“What are you goin’ to do with him, Slim?” asked Sadie.

“Huh! I dunno. Prob’ly turn him over to them folks.”

“Did you know it was a holdup, Slim, dear?” asked Sadie.

“Shore. Didn’t you know it? Somebody wired to yore dad at San Rego,
tellin’ him that there was a holdup.”

Soup Lannigan sat up, staring blankly. Some one had wired about the
holdup? His little eyes batted violently.

“Get up,” ordered Slim.

Soup got up, his arms pinned to his sides.

“Vamoose toward the train, _hombre_.”

Soup knew better than to argue. It was quite a way back to the train,
but Soup led the way, his head hanging with weariness, while behind him
came Slim and Sadie, riding close together. Over the brow of the hill
they came—and stopped.

There was no train!

“It has went!” exclaimed Slim. “Whatcha know about that?”

From a mile or so away came the whistle of the freight, as it clattered
its way on to Mesquite City.

“They didn’t wait for us,” complained Slim.

“We don’t care, do we?” asked Sadie softly.

Slim looked at her and a grin twisted his lips.

“Yuh see how it was, don’tcha, Sadie?” he asked. “It was jist a cinder.
The wind jist blowed a cinder back with the smoke and it got in her eye.
That’s all it was.”

“I—I know it, Slimmie. I was to blame. I—I—it looked just like a wink,
you see.”

“Yeah, it did,” admitted Slim. “But I knowed that it wasn’t, Sadie.”

“Well, I’m glad we found out,” said Sadie, sighing with relief. “Let’s
go home, Slimmie. Ma’s got apple pie for supper.”

“What about me?” asked Soup painfully.

“You?” Slim twitched the rope and the loop fell around the feet of the
yegg.

“Yeah—about me?” Thus Soup anxiously.

“You don’t interest me none,” declared Slim. “Step out of that loop and
rattle yore hocks out of here; _sabe_?”

Soup did. He ran all the way to the track, where he began counting ties
toward Mesquite City. He stopped and looked back. Slim and Sadie were
heading back toward San Rego, riding very close together.

Soup Lannigan dug out a very limp sack of tobacco and a crumpled cigaret
paper.

“Don’t it beat ——?” he asked the wide world, as he carefully rolled a
smoke. “Don’t it beat —— a mile? I don’t know what it was all about, but
I got a laugh out of that cinder that come back with the smoke.

“This —— road burns oil!”

THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the December 10, 1924 issue
of _Adventure_ magazine.]