
The back space, tabular, margin release, shift and shift lock worked
perfectly. But the keys only went down a short way before they
stopped. All except one key. The cap _D_.

I hit the _D_. It worked fine the first time, but not the second. I
tried all the keys again. This time only the _i_ worked. Now I had
_Di_. I went ahead testing. Pretty soon I had

_Dimly_

Then came a space. A few letters more and it was

_Dimly drouse the dreary droves_

Phipps had one eyebrow raised. I lifted the cover plate again.
Quickly.

There I saw a fuzzy thing. It whisked out of sight. I snapped the
plate down and held it down. The party I had been on the night before
hadn't been that good and I had had at least three hours' sleep.

I tried typing again. I got nothing until I started a new line. Then
out came

_Primly prides the privy prose_

I banged up the plate, saw a blur of something slinking down between
the type bar levers again. Whatever it was, it managed to squeeze
itself out of sight in a most amazing way.

"Hey!" I said. "I know you're down there. What's the big idea?"

Fuzzy squeezed his head up from the levers. The head looked like that
of a mouse, but it had teeth like a chipmunk and bright little black
beads for eyes. They looked right at me.

"You go right ahead," he said in a shrill voice. "This is going to be
a great poem. Did you get all that alliteration there in those two
lines?"

"Listen, will you get out of there? I've got work to do!"

"Yes, I think I've hit it at last. It was that four-stress iambic that
did it. It was iambic, wasn't it?"

"Go away," I said miserably.

Fuzzy pulled the rest of himself out of the bars and stood on hind
feet. He crossed his forepaws in front of him, vibrated his long,
furry tail, and said defiantly, "No."

"Look," I pleaded, "I'm not Don Marquis and you're not Archie and I
have work to do. Now will you _please_ get out of this typewriter?"

His tiny ears swiveled upward. "Who's Don Marquis? And Archie?"

"Go to hell," I said. I slammed the cover down and looked up into the
cold eyes of Oscar Phipps who was standing next to my desk.

"Who, may I ask," he said ominously, "do you think you're talking to?"

"Take a look." I lifted the plate once again. Fuzzy was there on his
back, his legs crossed, his tail twitching.

"I don't see anything," Phipps said.

"You mean you can't see Fuzzy here?" I pointed to him, the end of my
finger an inch from his head. "Ouch!" I drew my hand away. "The little
devil bit me."

"You're fired, Mr. Weaver," Phipps said in a tired voice. "Fired as of
right now. I'll arrange for two weeks' severance pay. And my advice to
you is to stay off the bottle or see a psychiatrist--or both. Not that
it'll do you any good. You never amounted to anything and you never
will."

I would have taken a swipe at Fuzzy, but he had slunk out of sight.
