
He confessed he had lived with such a man, a freelance writer who
never made the grade with his writing, but who had plenty of girl
friends who paid the freight.

"He had a way with women," Trlk explained.

"He certainly had," I said, reading again the last page he had
dictated.

"He finally married an older woman with money. Then he gave up trying
to write."

"I don't blame him," I said wistfully.

"I had to find another writer. This time I decided to try a newspaper.
That's where I ran into you."

"Don't remind me."

Things got better after that. We began to get a few checks from
magazines. They were small checks, but they paid a few bills.

The big blow fell, however, when Mr. Aldenrood, the superintendent,
came roaring upstairs one day clutching a sheaf of papers.

"This stuff!" he screamed, waving the sheets before me. "The kids
found it in the waste paper. They're selling them a dime a sheet
around the neighborhood."

"They're worth more than that," I said, regretting that Trlk and I
hadn't burned our rough drafts.

"You're going to move," Mr. Aldenrood said, "at the earliest possible
instant." His face was apoplectic. "I'm giving you notice right
now--thirty days!" He turned and went out, muttering, "The idea of
anybody committing to paper--" and slammed the door.

Two days later, I was seated at the typewriter, smoking a cigarette
and waiting for Trlk as he paced back and forth on the rug, tiny paws
clasped behind his back, talking to himself and working out a story
angle at the same time, when suddenly there appeared on the carpet
next to him a whole host of creatures just like him.

I nearly gulped down my cigarette.

Trlk let out a high-pitched screech of joy and ran over to them. They
wound their long tails around each other, clasped and unclasped them,
twined them together. It seemed a sort of greeting. Meanwhile, they
kept up a jabber that sounded like a 33-1/3 rpm record being played 78
rpm.

Finally, the biggest one detached himself from the group and gave Trlk
a tongue-lashing that would have done justice to a Phipps. Trlk hung
his head. Every time he tried to say something, the big one would
start in again.
