
He turned to Trlk. "It's against the rules of the Galactic Tours to
make yourself visible to any of the inhabitants along the way. You
know that. And it's a prime offense to interfere with their lives. Do
you realize how many rules you have broken, how long we have been
looking for you?"

"He did the best he could," I said hopefully. "As a matter of fact, we
were having considerable success with his--a literary project."

"I understand you lost your job because of him. Is that right?"

"Yes, but I encouraged him." I hoped there was some way I could ease
the sentence.

"Trlk has committed grievous wrongs, Mr. Weaver. We must make it up to
you."

"Oh?" Here was an angle I hadn't expected.

"What can we do for you?"

I considered a moment. "You mean a wish or something?"

Brknk laughed. "Nothing like that. We're not magicians."

"Well, I could stand a little cash."

"I'm sorry," he said, and did look pained. "We can't interfere in
business. We don't have any of your currency and we are forbidden to
duplicate or steal it."

He frowned and studied me. Suddenly his face brightened. He bawled
orders and several smaller Sybillians rushed forward and started
scampering all over me. One of them nipped a piece of flesh out of my
arm.

"Ouch!" I yelped, rubbing the spot. "What are you doing?"

"You humans are a proud race," Brknk explained. "I'll give you reason
to be prouder than the rest. We'll change your metabolism, your
endocrine balance, toughen your muscle fibers a thousandfold. We'll
make you the strongest man on Earth!"

"Look," I said, "I don't want to be the strongest man on Earth."

"Well, how about the world's champion boxer? We can speed up your
reflexes at least ten times."

I shook my head. "I don't want that, either. Sounds too much like
work. Besides, I never liked getting into fights."

Brknk scowled, called a huddle. They buzzed at each other, their tails
vibrating like mad. One of them finally yipped and everybody spun
around.

Brknk beamed. "We've got it!"

"What is it?"

A little Sybillian I hadn't noticed jabbed something in my arm. I
winced and he nearly fell off. He retreated with injured pride.

"Come along, Trlk," Brknk said.

"What's supposed to happen?" I asked.

"It will be a glorious surprise," Brknk assured me. "You'll never
regret it. The only thing I ask is that you never tell anyone about
us."

I promised.

Trlk looked up at me. I noticed the beginning of tears in his eyes. I
reached down and patted him gently on the head.

"So long, little fellow," I said. "It's been fun."

"Good-by," he said sorrowfully.

They vanished.

Nothing happened for several days, so I bought a copy of _Editor and
Publisher_ and was writing for my first job when I felt a tender spot
on my tail bone. When I examined it, I saw a protuberance there.

There was no denying it. The Sybillians had given me what they
treasured most.

I was growing a tail--a long, hairy tail.

As I say, I have come to like circus life.

At first I tried to get doctors to cut it off, but they were too
curious for that. Then I thought of jumping in the river or putting a
bullet through my head.

But after I saw what the scientists were making of it, when I viewed
my picture in all the papers, and when I saw the awe with which I was
regarded by everyone, I changed my mind.

Now I make a cool twenty-five thousand a year without lifting a
finger.

Just my tail.

I've become rather fond of it. I've even learned how to vibrate it.

But I've never told anyone about the Sybillians. They wouldn't believe
it.

Not old Phipps, anyway.

Some day I'll go and vibrate my tail right in his face. I'd never
amount to anything, eh? Let's see _him_ grow a tail!

                                                        --JERRY SOHL
