



     _The remarkable characteristic of Balaam's ass was that it
      was more perceptive than its master. Sometimes a child is
      more perceptive--because more straightforward and
      logical--than an adult...._

      [Illustration]

     _It is written in the Book of Numbers that Balaam, a wise
      man of the Moabites, having been ordered by the King of Moab
      to put a curse upon the invading Israelites, mounted himself
      upon an ass and rode forth toward the camp of the Children
      of Israel. On the road, he met an angel with drawn sword,
      barring the way. Balaam, not seeing or recognizing the
      angel, kept urging his ass forward, but the ass recognized
      the angel and turned aside. Balaam smote the beast and
      forced it to return to the path, and again the angel blocked
      the way with drawn sword. And again the ass turned aside,
      despite the beating from Balaam, who, in his blindness, was
      unable to see the angel._

     _When the ass stopped for the third time and lay down,
      refusing to go further, Balaam waxed exceeding wrath and
      smote again the animal with a stick._

     _Then the ass spoke and said: "Why dost thou beat me? I have
      always obeyed thee and never have I failed thee. Have I ever
      been known to fail thee?_"

     _And Balaam answered: "No." And at that moment his eyes were
      opened and he saw the angel before him._

                                    --STUDIES IN SCRIPTURE

                                   by Ceggawynn of Eboricum


With the careful precision of controlled anger, Dodeth
Pell rippled a stomp along his right side.
_Clop_clopclop_clop_-clopclop-_clop_clop-clop_clop_clopclop....
Each of his twelve right feet came down in turn while he glared across the
business bench at Wygor Bedis. He started the ripple again, while he
waited for Wygor's answer. The ripple was a good deal more effective than
just tapping one's fingers, and equally as satisfying.

Wygor Bedis twitched his mouth and allowed his eyelids to slide up
over his eyeballs in a slow blink before answering. Dodeth had simply
asked, "Why wasn't this reported to me before?" But Wygor couldn't
find the answer as simply as that. Not that he didn't have a good
answer; it was just that he wanted to couch it in exactly the right
terms. Dodeth had a way with raking sarcasm that made a person tend
to cringe.

Dodeth was perfectly well aware of that. He hadn't been in the
Executive Office of Predator Council all these years for nothing; he
knew how to handle people--when to praise them, when to flatter them,
when to rebuke them, and when to drag them unmercifully over the
shell-bed.

He waited, his right legs marching out their steady rhythm.

"Well," said Wygor at last, "it was just that I couldn't see any point
in bothering you with it at that point. I mean, _one_ specimen--"

"Of an entirely new species!" snapped Dodeth in a sudden interruption.
His legs stopped their rhythmic tramp. His voice rose from its usual
eight-thousand-cycle rumble to a shrill squeak. "Fry it, Wygor, if you
weren't such a good field man, I'd have sacked you long ago! Your
trouble is that you have a penchant for bringing me problems that you
ought to be able to solve by yourself and then flipping right over on
your back and holding off on some information that ought to be brought
to my attention immediately!"

There wasn't much Wygor could say to that, so he didn't try. He simply
waited for the raking to come, and, sure enough, it came.

Dodeth's voice lowered itself to a soft purr. "The next time you have
to do anything as complicated as setting a snith-trap, you just hump
right down here and ask me, and I'll tell you all about it. On the
other hand, if the lower levels all suddenly become infested with
shelks at the same time, why, you just take care of that little detail
yourself, eh? The only other alternative is to learn to think."

Wygor winced a trifle and kept his mouth shut.

Having delivered himself of his jet of acid, Dodeth Pell looked down
at the data booklet that Wygor had handed him. "Fortunately," he said,
"there doesn't seem to be much to worry about. Only the Universal
Motivator knows how this thing could have spawned, but it doesn't
appear to be very efficient."

"No, sir, it doesn't," said Wygor, taking heart from his superior's
mild tone. "The eating orifice is oddly placed, and the teeth are
obviously for grinding purposes."

"I was thinking more of the method of locomotion," Dodeth said. "I
believe this is a record, although I'll have to look in the files to
make sure. I think that six locomotive limbs is the least I've ever
heard of on an animal that size."

"I've checked the files," said Wygor. "There was a four-limbed
leaf-eater recorded seven hundred years ago--four locomotive limbs,
that is, and two grasping. But it was only as big as your hand."

Dodeth looked through the three pages of the booklet. There wasn't
much there, really, but he knew Wygor well enough to know that all the
data he had thus far was there. The only thing that rankled was that
Wygor had delayed for three work periods before reporting the
intrusion of the new beast, and now five of them had been spotted.

He looked at the page which showed the three bathygraphs that had been
taken of the new animals from a distance. There was something odd
about them, and Dodeth couldn't, for the hide of him, figure out what
it was. It aroused an odd fear in him, and made him want to burrow
deeper into the ground.

"I can't see what keeps 'em from falling over," he said at last. "Are
they as slow-moving as they look?"

"They don't move very fast," Wygor admitted, "but we haven't seen any
of them startled yet. I don't see how they could run very fast,
though. It must take every bit of awareness they have to stay balanced
on two legs."

Dodeth sighed whistlingly and pushed the data booklet back across the
business bench to Wygor. "All right; I'll file the preliminary
spotting report. Now get out there and get me some pertinent data on
this queer beast. Scramble off."

"Right away, sir."

"And ... Wygor--"

"Yes, sir?"

"It's apparent that we have a totally new species here. It will be
called a _wygorex_, of course, but it would be better if we waited
until we could make a full report to the Keepers. So don't let any of
this out--especially to the other Septs."

"Certainly not, sir; not a whistle. Anything else?"

"Just keep me posted, that's all. Scramble off."

After Wygor had obediently scrambled off, Dodeth relaxed all his knees
and sank to his belly in thought.

His job was not an easy one. He would like to have his office get full
credit for discovering a new species, just as Wygor had--understandably
enough--wanted to get his share of the credit. On the other hand, one had
to be careful that holding back information did not constitute any danger
to the Balance. Above all, the Balance must be preserved. Even the snith
had its place in the Ecological Balance of the World--although one didn't
like to think about sniths as being particularly useful.

After all, every animal, every planet had its place in the scheme;
each contributed its little bit to maintaining the Balance. Each had
its niche in the ecological architecture, as Dodeth liked to think of
it. The trouble was that the Balance was a shifting, swinging,
ever-changing thing. Living tissues carried the genes of heredity in
them, and living tissues are notoriously plastic under the influence
of the proper radiation or particle bombardment. And animals _would_
cross the poles.

The World had been excellently designed by the Universal Motivator for
the development and evolution of life. Again, the concept of the
Balance showed in His mighty works. Suppose, for instance, that the
World rotated more rapidly about its axis, thereby exposing the whole
surface periodically to the deadly radiation of the Blue Sun, instead
of having a rotation period that, combined with the eccentricity of
the World's orbit, gave it just enough libration to expose only
sixty-three per cent to the rays, leaving the remaining thirty-seven
per cent in twilight or darkness. Or suppose the orbit were so nearly
circular that there were no perceptible libration at all; one side
would burn eternally, and the other side would freeze, since there
would be no seasonal winds blowing first east, then west, bringing the
warmth of the Blue Sun from the other side.

Or, again, suppose there were no Moon and no Yellow Sun to give light
to the dark side. Who could live in an everlasting night?

Or suppose that the magnetic field of the World were too weak to focus
the majority of the Blue Sun's output of electrons and ions on the
poles. How could life have evolved at all?

Balance. And the Ultimate Universal Motivator had put part of the
responsibility into the hands of His only intelligent species. And a
part of that part had been put into the hands of Dodeth Pell as the
head of Predator Control.

Fry it! Something was niggling at the back of Dodeth's mind, and no
amount of philosophizing would shake it. He reached into the drawer of
the business bench and pulled out the duplicate of Wygor's data
booklet. He flipped it open and looked at the bathygraphs again.
