
There was no single thing about them that he could pinpoint, but the
beasts just didn't _look_ right. Dodeth Pell had seen many monstrous
animals in his life, but none like this.

Most people disliked and were disgusted by a snith because of the
uncanny resemblance the stupid beast had to the appearance of Dodeth's
own race. There could be no question of the genetic linkage between
the two species, but, in spite of the physical similarities, their
actions were controlled almost entirely by instinct instead of reason.
They were like some sort of idiot parody of intelligent beings.

But it was their similarity which made them loathsome. Why should
Dodeth Pell feel a like emotion when he saw the bathygraphs of the
two-legged thing? Certainly there was no similarity.

Wait a minute!

He looked carefully at the three-dimensional pictures again.

Fry it! He couldn't be sure--

After all, he wasn't a geneticist. Checking the files wouldn't be
enough; he wouldn't know how to ask the proper cross-filing questions.

He lolled his tongue out and absently rasped at a slight itch on the
back of his hand while he thought.

If his hunch were correct, then it was time to call in outside help
now, instead of waiting for more information. Still, he needn't
necessarily call in official expert help just yet. If he could just
get a lead--enough to verify or disprove the possibility of his hunch
being correct--that would be enough for a day or two, until Wygor got
more data.

There was always Yerdeth, an older parabrother on his prime-father's
side. Yerdeth had studied genetics--theoretical, not applied--with the
thought of going into Control, and kept on dabbling in it even after
he had discovered that his talents lay in the robot design field.

"Ardan!" he said sharply.

At the other end of the office, the robot assistant ceased his work
for a moment. "Yes, sir?"

"Come here a minute; I want you to look at something."

"Yes, sir."

The robot's segmented body was built very much like Dodeth's own,
except that instead of the twelve pairs of legs that supported
Dodeth's body, the robot was equipped with wheels, each suspended
separately and equipped with its individual power source. Ardan rolled
sedately across the floor, his metallic body gleaming in the light
from the low ceiling. He came to a halt in front of Dodeth's business
bench.

Dodeth handed Ardan the thin data booklet. "Scan through that."

Ardan went through it rapidly, his eyes carefully scanning each page,
his brain recording everything permanently. After a few seconds, he
looked back up at Dodeth. "A new species."

"Exactly. Did you notice anything odd about their appearance?"

"Naturally," said Ardan. "Since their like has never been seen before,
it is axiomatic that they would appear odd."

_Fry it!_ Dodeth thought. He should have known better than to ask a
question like that of Ardan. To ask it to determine what might be
called second-order strangeness in a pattern that was strange in the
first place was asking too much of a robot.

"Very well, then. Make an appointment for this evening with Yerdeth
Pell. I would like to see him at his home if it is convenient."

"Yes, sir," said the robot.
