
Evening was four work-periods away, and even after Yerdeth had granted
the appointment, Dodeth found himself fidgeting in anticipation.

Twice, during the following work periods, Wygor came in with more
information. He had gone above ground with a group of protection
robots, finally, to take a look at the new animals himself, but he
hadn't yet managed to obtain enough data to make a definitive report
on the strange beasts.

But the lack of data was, in itself, significant.

Dodeth usually liked to walk through the broad tunnels of the main
thoroughfares, since he didn't particularly care to ride robot-back
for so short a distance, but this time he was in such a hurry to see
Yerdeth that he decided to let Ardan take him.

He climbed aboard, clamped his legs to the robot's sides, and said:
"To Yerdeth Pell's."

The robot said "Yes, sir," and rolled out to the side tunnel that led
toward one of the main robot tunnels. When they finally came to a
tunnel labeled _Robots and Passengers Only_, Ardan rolled into it and
revved his wheels up to high speed, shooting down the tunnelway at a
much higher velocity than Dodeth could possibly have run.

The tunnelway was crowded with passenger-carrying robots, and with
robots alone, carrying out orders from their masters. But there was no
danger; no robot could harm any of Dodeth's race, nor could any robot
stand idly by while someone was harmed. Even in the most crowded of
conditions, every robot in the area had one thing foremost in his
mind: the safety of every human within sight or hearing.

Dodeth ignored the traffic altogether. He had other things to think
about, and he knew--without even bothering to consider it--that Ardan
could be relied upon to take care of everything. Even if it cost him
his own pseudolife, Ardan would do everything in his power to preserve
the safety and health of his passenger. Once in a while, in unusual
circumstances, a robot would even disobey orders to save a life, for
obedience was strictly secondary to the sanctity of human life, just
as the robot's desire to preserve his own pseudoliving existence was
outranked by the desire to obey.

Dodeth thought about his job, but he carefully kept his mind off the
new beasts. He knew that fussing in his mind over them wouldn't do him
any good until he had more to work with--things which only his
parabrother, Yerdeth, could supply him. Besides, there was the
problem of what to do about the hurkle breeding sites, which were
being encroached upon by the quiggies. Some of the swamps on the
surface, especially those that approached the Hot Belts, were being
dried out and filled with dust, which decreased the area where the
hurkle could lay its eggs, but increased the nesting sites for
quiggies.

That, of course, was a yearly cycle, in general. As the Blue Sun moved
from one side to the other, and the winds shifted accordingly, the
swamps near the Twilight Border would dry out or fill up accordingly.
But this year the eastern swamps weren't filling up as they should,
and some precautionary measures would have to be taken to prevent too
great a shift in the hurkle-quiggie balance.

Then there was the compensating migratory shift of the Hotland
beasts--those which lived in the areas where the slanting rays of the
Blue Sun could actually touch them, and which could not stand the, to
them, terrible cold of the Darklands. Instead, they moved back and
forth with the Blue Sun and remained in their own area--a hot, dry,
fiery-bright hinterland occupied only by gnurrs, gpoles, and other
horrendous beasts.

Beyond those areas, according to the robot patrols which had
reconnoitered there, nothing lived. Nothing could. No protoplasmic
being could exist under the direct rays of the Blue Sun. Even the
metal-and-translite bodies of a robot wouldn't long protect the
sensitive mechanisms within from the furnace heat of the huge star.

Each species had its niche in the World. Some, like the hurkle, lived
in swamp water. Others lived in lakes and streams. Still others flew
in the skies or roamed the surface or climbed the great trees. Some,
like Dodeth's own people, lived beneath the surface.

The one thing an intelligent species had to be most careful about was
not to disturb the balance with their abilities, but to work to
preserve it. In the past, there had been those who had built cities on
the surface, but the cities had removed the natural growth from large
areas, which, in turn, had forced the city people to import their food
from outside the cities. And that had meant an enforced increase in
the cultivation of the remaining soil, which destroyed the habitats of
other animals, besides depleting the soil itself. The only sensible
way was to live _under_ the farmlands, so that no man was ever more
than a few hundred feet from the food supply. The Universal Motivator
had chosen that their species should evolve in burrows beneath the
surface, and if that was the niche chosen for Dodeth's people, then
that was obviously where they should remain to keep the Balance.

Of course, the snith, too, was an underground animal, though the
tunnels were unlined. The snith's tunnels ran between and around the
armored tunnels of Dodeth's people, so that each city surrounded the
other without contact--if the burrows of the snith could properly be
called a city.

"Yerdeth Pell's residence," said Ardan.

"Ah, yes." Dodeth, his thoughts interrupted, slid off the back of
the robot and flexed his legs. "Wait here, Ardan. I'll be back in an
hour or so." Then he scrambled over to the door which led to Yerdeth's
apartment.

[Illustration]
