
Twenty minutes later, Yerdeth Pell looked up from the data book
facsimiles and scanned Dodeth's face with appraising eyes.

"Very cute," he said at last, with a slight chuckle. "Now, what I want
to know is: is someone playing a joke on you, or are you playing a
joke on me?"

Dodeth's eyelids slid upwards in a fast blink of surprise. "What do
you mean?"

"Why, these bathygraphs." Yerdeth rapped the bathygraphs with a
wrinkled, horny hand. He was a good deal older than Dodeth, and his
voice had a tendency to rasp a little when the frequency went above
twenty thousand cycles. "They're very good, of course. _Very_ good.
The models have very fine detail to them. The eyes, especially are
good; they look as if they really _ought_ to be built that way." He
smiled and looked up at Dodeth.

Dodeth resisted an urge to ripple a stomp. "Well?" he said
impatiently.

"Well, they can't be real, you know," Yerdeth replied mildly.

"Why not?"

"Oh, come, now, Dodeth. What did it evolve from? An animal doesn't
just spring out of nowhere, you know."

"New species are discovered occasionally," Dodeth said. "And there are
plenty of mutants and just plain freaks."

"Certainly, certainly. But you don't hatch a snith out of a hurkle
egg. Where are your intermediate stages?"

"Is it possible that we might have missed the intermediate stage?"

"I said 'stages'. Plural. Pick any known animal--_any_ one--and tell
me how many genetic changes would have to take place before you'd come
up with an animal anything like this one." Again he tapped the
bathygraph. "Take that eye, for instance. The lid goes down instead of
up, but you notice that there's a smaller lid at the bottom that
_does_ go up, a little ways. The closest thing to an eye like that is
on the hugl, which has eyelids on top that lower a little. But the
hugl has eighteen segments; sixteen pairs of legs and two pairs of
feeding claws. Besides, it's only the size of your thumb-joint. What
kind of gene mutation would it take to change that into an animal like
the one in this picture?

"And look at the size of the thing. If it weren't in that awkward
vertical position, if it were stretched out on the ground, it'd be a
long as a human. Look at the size of those legs!

"Or, take another thing. In order to walk on those two legs, the
changes in skeletal and visceral structure would have to be
tremendous."

"Couldn't we have missed the intermediate stages, then?" Dodeth asked
stubbornly. "We've missed the intermediates before, I dare say."

"Perhaps we have," Yerdeth admitted, "but if you boys in the
Ecological Corps have been on your toes for the past thousand years,
we haven't missed many. And it would take at least that long for
something like this to evolve from anything we know."

"Even under direct polar bombardment?"

"Even under direct polar bombardment. The radiation up here is strong
enough to sterilize a race within a very few generations. And what
would they eat? Not many plants survive there, you know.

"Oh, I don't say it's flatly im_possi_ble, you understand. If a female
of some animal or other, carrying a freshly-fertilized zygote, and her
species happened to have all the necessary potential characteristics,
and a flood of ionizing radiation went through the zygote at exactly
the right time, and it managed to hit just the right genes in just the
right way ... well I'm sure you can see the odds against it are
tremendous. I wouldn't even want to guess at the order of magnitude of
the exponent. I'd have to put on a ten in order to give you the odds
against it."

Dodeth didn't quite get that last statement, but he let it pass. "I
am going to pull somebody's legs off, one by one, come next work
period," he said coldly. "One ... by ... one."
