
The armored car jounced across the grassland at high speed. Behind it,
two more cars followed, each taking care not to run exactly in the
tracks of the one ahead, so that there would be as little damage as
possible done to the grass.

In the lead car, Dodeth Pell watched the forest loom nearer, wondering
what sort of madness he would find there this time. Beside him, the
Eldest Keeper dozed gently, in the way that only the very young or the
very old can doze. It was just as well; Dodeth didn't feel much like
talking.

This time, as they approached the clearing, he didn't bother to tell
the car to stop two miles away. If the animals were gone, there was no
point in being cautious. All through the wooded area, he could see
occasional members of the pesticide robots. He told the car to stop at
the base of the little rise that he used before as a vantage point.
Then, without further preliminaries, he got out of the car and marched
up the slope to take a look at the clearing. Overhead, the burning
spark of the Yellow Sun cast its pale radiance over the landscape.

At the ridge, he stopped suddenly and ducked his head. Then he grabbed
his field glasses and took a good look.

The animals had built themselves a few crude-looking shelters out of
the logs, but he hardly noticed that.

There were four of the animals, in plain sight, standing guard!

The others were obviously inside the rude huts, asleep!

Great galloping fungus blight! Was he out of his mind? What was going
on around here? Couldn't the robots _see_ the beasts?

"That's very odd," said the voice of the Eldest Keeper in puzzled
tones. "I thought the robots said they'd gone away. Lend me your field
glasses."

[Illustration]

As he handed the powerful glasses over to the Keeper, who had followed
him up the hill, Dodeth said: "I'm glad you can see them. I thought
maybe my brain had been short-circuited."

"I can see them," said the Eldest Keeper, peering through the glasses.
Then he handed them back to Dodeth. "Let's get back down to the car. I
want to find out what's going on around here."

At the car, the Eldest Keeper just scowled for a moment, looking very
worried. By this time, the other two cars had pulled up nearby,
discharging their cargo of two more Keepers apiece. While the Eldest
Keeper talked in low tones with his colleagues, Dodeth stalked over to
one of the pesticide robots who was prowling nearby.

"Found anything useful?" he asked sarcastically, knowing that sarcasm
was useless on a robot.

"I'm not looking for anything useful, sir. I'm looking for the animals
we are supposed to destroy."

"You come over and tell the Eldest Keeper that," Dodeth said.

"Yes, sir," the robot agreed promptly, rolling along beside Dodeth as
he returned to where the Keepers were waiting.

"What's going on here?" the Eldest demanded curtly of the robot. "Why
haven't you destroyed the animals?"

"Because we can't find them, sir."

"What's your name?" the Eldest snapped.

"Arike, sir."

"All right, Arike," said the Eldest somewhat angrily. "Stand by for
orders. You'll repeat them to the other robots, understand?"

"Yes, sir," said the robot.

"All right, then," said the Eldest. "First, you take a run up that
hill and look into that clearing. You'll see those creatures in there
all right."

"Yes, sir. I've seen those creatures in there."

The Eldest Keeper exploded. "Then get in there and obey your orders!
Don't you realize that their very existence threatens the life of all
of us? They must be eliminated before our whole culture is destroyed!
Do you understand? Obey!"

"Yes, sir," said the robot. His voice sounded odd, but he spun around
and went to pass the word on to the other robots. Within minutes, more
and more of the pesticide robots were swarming towards and into the
clearing. They could hear rumbling noises from the clearing--low
grunts that were evidently made by animals who were trapped by the
encircling robots.

And then there was a vast silence.

Dodeth and the Keepers waited.

Not a shot was fired.

It was as though a great, sound-proof blanket had been flung over the
whole area.
