
His mind carried him back through the years to the days near the end
of what had to be the Last War, because there would be no one left to
fight another. He was carried back again to the sterile white rooms
where the searching instruments, the prying needles, the clucking
scientists, all labored over him and his group.

They were to be a last-ditch throwaway. They were the indestructible
men: a new breed of soldier, able to live through the searing heat of
the bombs; to walk unaffected through the purgatory hail of radiation,
to assault where ordinary men would have collapsed long before.

Seligman picked his way over the rubble, his aura casting the faintest
phosphorescence over the ruptured metal and plastic shreds. He paused
momentarily, eyeing the blasted remnants of a fence, to which clung a
sign, held to the twined metal by one rusting bolt:

                           NEWARK SPACEPORT
                              ENTRANCE BY
                          AUTHORIZATION ONLY

Shards of metal scrap moved under his bare feet, their razored edges
rasping against the flesh, yet causing no break in the skin. Another
product of the sterile white rooms and the strangely-hued fluids
injected into his body?

Twenty-three young men, routine volunteers, as fit as the era of war
could produce, had been moved to the solitary block building in Salt
Lake City. It was a cubed structure with no windows and only one door,
guarded night and day. If nothing else, they had security. No one knew
the intensive experimentation going on inside those steel-enforced
concrete walls, even the men upon whose bodies the experiments were
being performed.

It was because of those experiments performed on him that Seligman was
here now, alone. Because of the myopic little men with their foreign
accents and their clippings of skin from his buttocks and shoulders,
the bacteriologists and the endocrine specialists, the epidermis men
and the blood-stream inspectors--because of all of them--he was here
now, when no one else had lived.

Seligman rubbed his forehead at the base of the hairline. _Why_ had he
lived? Was it some strain of rare origin running through his body that
had allowed him to stand the effects of the bombs? Was it a combination
of the experiments performed on him--and only in a certain way on him,
for none of the other twenty-two had lived--_and_ the radiation? He
gave up, for the millionth time. Had he been a student of the ills of
man he might have ventured a guess, but it was too far afield for a
common foot-soldier.

All that counted was that when he had awakened, pinned thighs, chest
and arms under the masonry of a building in Salt Lake City, he was
alive and could see. He could see, that is, till the tears clouded the
vision of his own sick green glow.

It was life. But at times like this, with the flickering light of his
passage marked on the ash-littered remains of his culture, he wondered
if it was worth the agony.
