
He never really approached madness, for the shock of realizing he was
totally and finally alone, without a voice or a face or a touch in all
the world, overrode the smaller shock of his transformation.

He lived. He was that fabled, joked-about Last Man On Earth. But it
wasn't a joke now.

Nor had the months after the final dust of extinction settled
across the planet been a joke. Those months had labored past as he
searched the country, taking what little food was still sealed from
radiation--though why radiation should bother him he could not imagine;
habit more than anything--and disease, racing from one end of the
continent in search of but one other human to share his torment.

But of course there had been no one. He was cut off like a withered arm
from the body that was his race.

Not only was he alone, and with the double terror of an aura that never
dimmed, sending the word, "Freak!" pounding through his mind, but there
were other changes, equally terrifying. It had been in Philadelphia,
while grubbing inside a broken store window that he had discovered
another symptom of his change.

The jagged glass pane had ripped the shirt through to his skin--but
had not damaged him. The flesh showed white momentarily, and then
even that faded. Seligman experimented cautiously, then recklessly,
and found that the radiations, or his treatments, or both, had indeed
changed him. He was completely impervious to harm of a minor sort: fire
in small amounts did not bother him, sharp edges could no more rip
his flesh than they could a piece of treated steel, work produced no
callouses; he was, in a limited sense of the word, invulnerable.

The indestructible man had been created too late. Too late to bring
satisfaction to the myopic butchers who had puttered unceasingly about
his body. Perhaps had they managed to survive they might still not
comprehend what had occurred. It was too much like the product of a
wild coincidence.

But that had not lessened his agony. Loneliness can be a powerful
thing, more consuming than hatred, more demanding than mother love,
more driving than ambition. It could, in fact, drive a man to the stars.

Perhaps it had been a communal yearning within his glowing breast;
perhaps a sense of the dramatic or a last vestige of that unconscious
debt all men owe to their kind; perhaps it was simply an urge to
talk to someone. Seligman summed it up without soul-searching in the
philosophy, "I can't be any worse off than I am now, so why not?"

It didn't matter really. Whatever the reason, he knew by the time his
search was over that he must seek men out, wherever in the stars they
might be, and tell them. He must be a messenger of death to his kin
beyond the Earth. They would mourn little, he knew, but still he had
to tell them.

He would have to go after them and say, "Your fathers are gone. Your
home is no more. They played the last hand of that most dangerous of
games, and lost. The Earth is dead."

He smiled a tight, grim smile as he thought: At least I won't have to
carry a lantern to them; they'll see me coming by my own glow. _Glow
little glow worm, glimmer, glimmer...._
