
Seligman threaded his way through the tortured wreckage and crumpled
metalwork of what had been a towering structure of shining-planed glass
and steel and plastic. Even though he knew he was alone, Seligman
turned and looked back over his shoulder, sensing he was being watched.
He had had that feeling many times, and he knew it for what it was. It
was Death, standing straddle-legged over the face of the land, casting
shadow and eternal silence upon it. The only light came from the lone
man stalking toward the rocket standing sentry like a pillar of January
ice in the center of the blast area.

His fingers twitched as he thought of the two years' work that had
gone into erecting that shaft of beryllium. Innumerable painstaking
trips to and from the junk heaps of that field, pirating pieces from
other ships, liberating cases of parts from bombed-out storage sheds,
relentlessly forcing himself on, even when exhaustion cried its claim.

Seligman had not been a scientist or a mechanic. But determination,
texts on rocket motors, and the original miracle of finding an only
partially-destroyed ship with its drive still intact had provided him
with a means to leave this place of death.

It was one of the latest model ships; a _Smith_ class cruiser with
conning bubble set far back on the tapered nose, and the ugly black
depressions behind which the Bergsil cannons rested on movable tracks.

He climbed the hull-ladder into the open inspection hatch, finding his
way easily, even without a torch. His fingers began running over the
complicated leads of the drive-components, checking and re-checking
what he already knew was sound and foolproof--or as foolproof as an
amateur could make them.

Now that it was ready, and all that remained were these routine
check-tests and loading the food for the journey, he found himself more
terrified of leaving than of remaining alone till he died--and when
that might be with his stamina he had no idea.

How would they receive a man as transformed as he? Would they not
instinctively fear, mistrust, despise him? _Am I stalling?_ The
question suddenly formed in his mind, causing his sure inspection to
falter. Had he been purposely putting the takeoff date further and
further ahead? Using the checks and other tasks as further attempts to
stall? His head began to ache with the turmoil of his thoughts.

Then he shook himself in disgust. The tests were necessary, it was
stressed repeatedly in all of the texts lying about the floor of the
drive chamber.

His hands shook, but that same impetus which had carried him for two
years forced him to complete the checkups. Just as dawn oozed up over
the outline of the tatters that had been New York, he finished his work
on the ship.

Without pause, sensing he must race, not with time, but with the doubts
raging inside him, he climbed back down the ladder and began loading
food boxes. They were stacked neatly to one side of a hand-powered lift
he had restored. The hard rubber containers of concentrates and the
bulbs of carefully-sought-out liquids made an imposing and somewhat
perplexing sight.

Food is the main problem, he told himself. If I should get past a point
of no return and find my food giving out, my chances would be nil. I'll
have to wait till I can find more stores of food. He estimated the time
needed for the search and realized it might be months, perhaps even
another year till he had accrued enough from the wasted stores within
any conceivable distance.

In fact, finding a meal in the city, after he had carted box after box
of edibles out to the rocket, had become an increasingly more difficult
job. Further, he suddenly realized he had not eaten since the day
before.

The day before?

He had been so engrossed in the final touches of the ship he had
completely neglected to eat. Well, it had happened before, even before
the blast. With an effort he began to grope back, trying to remember
the last time he _had_ eaten. Then it became quite clear to him. It
leaped out and dissolved away all the delays he had been contriving.
_He had not eaten in three weeks._

Seligman had known it, of course. But it had been buried so deeply that
he only half-feared it. He had tried to deny the truth, for when that
last seemingly insurmountable problem was removed, there was nothing
but his own inadequacies to prevent his leaving.

Now it came out, full-bloom. The treatments and radiation had done more
than make him merely impervious to mild perils. He no longer needed to
eat! He boggled at the concept for a moment, shaken by the realization
that he had not recognized the fact before.

He had heard of anaerobic bacteria or yeasts that could derive their
energy from other sources, without the normal oxidation of foods.
Bringing the impossible to relatively homely terms made it easier for
him to accept. Maybe it was even possible to absorb energy directly. At
least he felt no slightest twinge of hunger, even after three weeks of
back-breaking work without eating.

Probably he would have to take along a certain amount of proteins to
replenish the body tissue he expended. But as for the bulky boxes
of edibles dotting the space around the ship, most were no longer a
necessity.

Now that he had faced up to the idea that he had been delaying through
fear of the trip itself, and that there was nothing left to stop his
leaving almost immediately, Seligman again found himself caught up in
the old drive.

He was suddenly intent on getting the ship into the air and beyond.
