
Dusk mingled with the blotching of the sun before Seligman was ready.
It had not been stalling this time, however. The sorting and packing of
needed proteins took time. But now he was ready. There was nothing to
keep him on Earth.

He took one last look around. It seemed the thing to do. Sentimentalism
was not one of Seligman's more outstanding traits, but he did it in
preparation for anyone who might ask him, "What did it look like--at
the end?" It was with a twinge of regret that he brought the fact to
mind; he had never really _looked_ at his sterile world in the two
years he had been preparing to leave it. One became accustomed to
living in a pile of rubble, and after a bit it no longer offered even
the feel of an environment.

He climbed the ladder into the ship, carefully closing and dogging the
port behind him. The chair was ready, webbing flattened back against
the deep rubber pile of its seat and backrest. He slid into it and
swung the control box down on its ball-swivel to a position before his
face.

He drew the top webbing across himself and snapped its triple-lock
clamps into place. Seligman sat in the ship he had not even bothered to
name, fingers groping for the actuator button on the arm of the chair,
glowing all the while, weirdly, in the half-light of the cabin.

So this was to be the last picture he might carry with him to the
heavens: a bitter epitaph to a race misspent. No warning; it was too
late for such puny action. All was dead and haunted on the face of the
Earth. No blade of grass dared rise; no small life murmured in its
burrows and caves, in the oddly dusty skies, or for all he knew, to the
very bottom of the Cayman Trench. There was only silence. The silence
of a graveyard.

He pushed the button.

The ship began to rise, waveringly. There was a total lack of the
grandeur he remembered when the others had left. The ship sputtered and
coughed brokenly as it climbed on its imperfect drive. Tremors shook
the cabin and Seligman could feel something wrong, vibrating through
the chair and floor into his body.

Its flames were not so bright or steady as those other take-offs, but
it continued to rise and gather speed. The hull began to glow as the
rocket lifted higher into the dust-filled sky.

Acceleration pressed down on Seligman, though not as much as he
had expected. It was merely uncomfortable, not punishing. Then he
remembered that he was not of the same stamp as those who had preceded
him.

His ship continued to pull itself up out of the Earth's atmosphere. The
hull oranged, then turned cherry, then straw-yellow, as the coolers
within its skin fought to counteract the blasting fury.

Again and again Seligman could feel the _wrongness_ of the climb.
Something was going to give!

As the bulkheads to his right began to strain and buckle, he knew what
it was. The ship had not been built or re-welded by trained experts,
working in teams with the latest equipment. He had been one lone
determined man, with only book experience to back him. Now his errors
were about to tell.

The ship passed beyond the atmosphere, and Seligman stared in horror as
the plates cracked and shattered outwards. He tried to scream as the
air shrieked outwards, but it was already impossible.

Then he fainted.
