
But he did not dwell on such speculation. The sun rose very, very slowly
in what by convention was called the east. It took nearly two hours to
urge its disk above the horizon, and it burned terribly in emptiness for
fourteen times twenty-four hours before sunset. Then there was night,
and for three hundred and thirty-six consecutive hours there were only
stars overhead and the sky was a hole so terrible that a man who looked
up into it--what with the nagging sensation of one-sixth gravity--tended
to lose all confidence in the stability of things. Most men immediately
found it hysterically necessary to seize hold of something solid to keep
from falling upward. But nothing felt solid. Everything fell, too.
Wherefore most men tended to scream.

But not Pop. He'd come to the Moon in the first place because Sattell
was here. Near Sattell, he found memories of times when he was a young
man with a young wife who loved him extravagantly. Then pictures of his
children came out of emptiness and grew sharp and clear. He found that
he loved them very dearly. And when he was near Sattell he literally
recovered them--in the sense that he came to know new things about them
and had new memories of them every day. He hadn't yet remembered the
crime which lost them to him. Until he did--and the fact possessed a
certain grisly humor--Pop didn't even hate Sattell. He simply wanted to
be near him because it enabled him to recover new and vivid parts of his
youth that had been lost.

Otherwise, he was wholly matter-of-fact--certainly so for the far side
of the Moon. He was a rather fussy housekeeper. The shack above the Big
Crack's rim was as tidy as any lighthouse or fur-trapper's cabin. He
tended his air-apparatus with a fine precision. It was perfectly simple.
In the shadow of the shack he had an unfailing source of extreme low
temperature. Air from the shack flowed into a shadow-chilled pipe.
Moisture condensed out of it here, and CO{2} froze solidly out of it
there, and on beyond it collected as restless, transparent liquid air.
At the same time, liquid air from another tank evaporated to maintain
the proper air pressure in the shack. Every so often Pop tapped the pipe
where the moisture froze, and lumps of water ice clattered out to be
returned to the humidifier. Less often he took out the CO{2} snow, and
measured it, and dumped an equivalent quantity of pale-blue liquid
oxygen into the liquid air that had been purified by cold. The oxygen
dissolved. Then the apparatus reversed itself and supplied fresh air
from the now-enriched fluid, while the depleted other tank began to fill
up with cold-purified liquid air.

Outside the shack, jagged stony pinnacles reared in the starlight, and
craters complained of the bombardment from space that had made them.
But, outside, nothing ever happened. Inside, it was quite different.

Working on his memories, one day Pop made a little sketch. It helped a
great deal. He grew deeply interested. Writing-material was scarce, but
he spent most of the time between two particular rocket-landings getting
down on paper exactly how a child had looked while sleeping, some
fifteen years before. He remembered with astonishment that the child had
really looked exactly like that! Later he began a sketch of his
partly-remembered wife. In time--he had plenty--it became a really
truthful likeness.

The sun rose, and baked the abomination of desolation which was the
moonscape. Pop Young meticulously touched up the glittering triangles
which were landing guides for the Lunar City ships. They glittered from
the thinnest conceivable layer of magnesium marking-powder. He checked
over the moondozer. He tended the air apparatus. He did everything that
his job and survival required. Ungrudgingly.

Then he made more sketches. The images to be drawn came back more
clearly when he thought of Sattell, so by keeping Sattell in mind he
recovered the memory of a chair that had been in his forgotten home.
Then he drew his wife sitting in it, reading. It felt very good to see
her again. And he speculated about whether Sattell ever thought of
millions of dollars' worth of new-mined diamonds knocking about
unguarded in the shack, and he suddenly recollected clearly the way one
of his children had looked while playing with her doll. He made a quick
sketch to keep from forgetting that.

There was no purpose in the sketching, save that he'd lost all his young
manhood through a senseless crime. He wanted his youth back. He was
recovering it bit by bit. The occupation made it absurdly easy to live
on the surface of the far side of the Moon, whether anybody else could
do it or not.

Sattell had no such device for adjusting to the lunar state of things.
Living on the Moon was bad enough anyhow, then, but living one mile
underground from Pop Young was much worse. Sattell clearly remembered
the crime Pop Young hadn't yet recalled. He considered that Pop had made
no overt attempt to revenge himself because he planned some retaliation
so horrible and lingering that it was worth waiting for. He came to hate
Pop with an insane ferocity. And fear. In his mind the need to escape
became an obsession on top of the other psychotic states normal to a
Moon-colonist.

But he was helpless. He couldn't leave. There was Pop. He couldn't kill
Pop. He had no chance--and he was afraid. The one absurd, irrelevant
thing he could do was write letters back to Earth. He did that. He wrote
with the desperate, impassioned, frantic blend of persuasion and
information and genius-like invention of a prisoner in a high-security
prison, trying to induce someone to help him escape.

He had friends, of a sort, but for a long time his letters produced
nothing. The Moon swung in vast circles about the Earth, and the Earth
swung sedately about the Sun. The other planets danced their saraband.
The rest of humanity went about its own affairs with fascinated
attention. But then an event occurred which bore directly upon Pop Young
and Sattell and Pop Young's missing years.

Somebody back on Earth promoted a luxury passenger-line of spaceships
to ply between Earth and Moon. It looked like a perfect set-up. Three
spacecraft capable of the journey came into being with attendant reams
of publicity. They promised a thrill and a new distinction for the rich.
Guided tours to Lunar! The most expensive and most thrilling trip in
history! One hundred thousand dollars for a twelve-day cruise through
space, with views of the Moon's far side and trips through Lunar City
and a landing in Aristarchus, plus sound-tapes of the journey and fame
hitherto reserved for honest explorers!

It didn't seem to have anything to do with Pop or with Sattell. But it
did.

There were just two passenger tours. The first was fully booked. But the
passengers who paid so highly, expected to be pleasantly thrilled and
shielded from all reasons for alarm. And they couldn't be. Something
happens when a self-centered and complacent individual unsuspectingly
looks out of a spaceship port and sees the cosmos unshielded by mists or
clouds or other aids to blindness against reality. It is shattering.

A millionaire cut his throat when he saw Earth dwindled to a mere
blue-green ball in vastness. He could not endure his own smallness in
the face of immensity. Not one passenger disembarked even for Lunar
City. Most of them cowered in their chairs, hiding their eyes. They were
the simple cases of hysteria. But the richest girl on Earth, who'd had
five husbands and believed that nothing could move her--she went into
catatonic withdrawal and neither saw nor heard nor moved. Two other
passengers sobbed in improvised strait jackets. The first shipload
started home. Fast.

The second luxury liner took off with only four passengers and turned
back before reaching the Moon. Space-pilots could take the strain of
space-flight because they had work to do. Workers for the lunar mines
could make the trip under heavy sedation. But it was too early in the
development of space-travel for pleasure-passengers. They weren't
prepared for the more humbling facts of life.

Pop heard of the quaint commercial enterprise through the micro-tapes
put off at the shack for the men down in the mine. Sattell probably
learned of it the same way. Pop didn't even think of it again. It seemed
to have nothing to do with him. But Sattell undoubtedly dealt with it
fully in his desperate writings back to Earth.
