
Pop reached the rocketship. He approached the big tail-fins. On one of
them there were welded ladder-rungs going up to the opened air-lock
door.

He climbed.

The air-lock was perfectly normal when he reached it. There was a glass
port in the inner door, and he saw eyes looking through it at him. He
pulled the outer door shut and felt the whining vibration of admitted
air. His vacuum suit went slack about him. The inner door began to open,
and Pop reached up and gave his helmet the practiced twisting jerk
which removed it.

Then he blinked. There was a red-headed man in the opened door. He
grinned savagely at Pop. He held a very nasty hand-weapon trained on
Pop's middle.

"Don't come in!" he said mockingly. "And I don't give a damn about how
you are. This isn't social. It's business!"

Pop simply gaped. He couldn't quite take it in.

"This," snapped the red-headed man abruptly, "is a stickup!"

Pop's eyes went through the inner lock-door. He saw that the interior of
the ship was stripped and bare. But a spiral stairway descended from
some upper compartment. It had a handrail of pure, transparent,
water-clear plastic. The walls were bare insulation, but that trace of
luxury remained. Pop gazed at the plastic, fascinated.

The red-headed man leaned forward, snarling. He slashed Pop across the
face with the barrel of his weapon. It drew blood. It was wanton, savage
brutality.

"Pay attention!" snarled the red-headed man. "A stickup, I said! Get it?
You go get that can of stuff from the mine! The diamonds! Bring them
here! Understand?"

Pop said numbly: "What the hell?"

The red-headed man hit him again. He was nerve-racked, and, therefore,
he wanted to hurt.

"Move!" he rasped. "I want the diamonds you've got for the ship from
Lunar City! Bring 'em!" Pop licked blood from his lips and the man with
the weapon raged at him. "Then phone down to the mine! Tell Sattell I'm
here and he can come on up! Tell him to bring any more diamonds they've
dug up since the stuff you've got!"

He leaned forward. His face was only inches from Pop Young's. It was
seamed and hard-bitten and nerve-racked. But any man would be quivering
if he wasn't used to space or the feel of one-sixth gravity on the Moon.
He panted:

"And get it straight! You try any tricks and we take off! We swing over
your shack! The rocket-blast smashes it! We burn you down! Then we swing
over the cable down to the mine and the rocket-flame melts it! You die
and everybody in the mine besides! No tricks! We didn't come here for
nothing!"

He twitched all over. Then he struck cruelly again at Pop Young's face.
He seemed filled with fury, at least partly hysterical. It was the
tension that space-travel--then, at its beginning--produced. It was
meaningless savagery due to terror. But, of course, Pop was helpless to
resent it. There were no weapons on the Moon and the mention of
Sattell's name showed the uselessness of bluff. He'd pictured the
complete set-up by the edge of the Big Crack. Pop could do nothing.

The red-headed man checked himself, panting. He drew back and slammed
the inner lock-door. There was the sound of pumping.

Pop put his helmet back on and sealed it. The outer door opened.
Outrushing air tugged at Pop. After a second or two he went out and
climbed down the welded-on ladder-bars to the ground.

He headed back toward his shack. Somehow, the mention of Sattell had
made his mind work better. It always did. He began painstakingly to put
things together. The red-headed man knew the routine here in every
detail. He knew Sattell. That part was simple. Sattell had planned this
multi-million-dollar coup, as a man in prison might plan his break. The
stripped interior of the ship identified it.

It was one of the unsuccessful luxury-liners sold for scrap. Or perhaps
it was stolen for the journey here. Sattell's associates had had to
steal or somehow get the fuel, and somehow find a pilot. But there were
diamonds worth at least five million dollars waiting for them, and the
whole job might not have called for more than two men--with Sattell as a
third. According to the economics of crime, it was feasible. Anyhow it
was being done.

Pop reached the dust-heap which was his shack and went in the air lock.
Inside, he went to the vision-phone and called the mine-colony down in
the Crack. He gave the message he'd been told to pass on. Sattell to
come up, with what diamonds had been dug since the regular cannister was
sent up for the Lunar City ship that would be due presently. Otherwise
the ship on the landing strip would destroy shack and Pop and the colony
together.

"I'd guess," said Pop painstakingly, "that Sattell figured it out. He's
probably got some sort of gun to keep you from holding him down there.
But he won't know his friends are here--not right this minute he won't."

A shaking voice asked questions from the vision-phone.

"No," said Pop, "they'll do it anyhow. If we were able to tell about
'em, they'd be chased. But if I'm dead and the shacks smashed and the
cable burnt through, they'll be back on Earth long before a new cable's
been got and let down to you. So they'll do all they can no matter what
I do." He added, "I wouldn't tell Sattell a thing about it, if I were
you. It'll save trouble. Just let him keep on waiting for this to
happen. It'll save you trouble."

Another shaky question.

"Me?" asked Pop. "Oh, I'm going to raise what hell I can. There's some
stuff in that ship I want."

He switched off the phone. He went over to his air apparatus. He took
down the cannister of diamonds which were worth five millions or more
back on Earth. He found a bucket. He dumped the diamonds casually into
it. They floated downward with great deliberation and surged from side
to side like a liquid when they stopped. One-sixth gravity.

Pop regarded his drawings meditatively. A sketch of his wife as he now
remembered her. It was very good to remember. A drawing of his two
children, playing together. He looked forward to remembering much more
about them. He grinned.

"That stair-rail," he said in deep satisfaction. "That'll do it!"

He tore bed linen from his bunk and worked on the emptied cannister. It
was a double container with a thermware interior lining. Even on Earth
newly-mined diamonds sometimes fly to pieces from internal stress. On
the Moon, it was not desirable that diamonds be exposed to repeated
violent changes of temperature. So a thermware-lined cannister kept them
at mine-temperature once they were warmed to touchability.

Pop packed the cotton cloth in the container. He hurried a little,
because the men in the rocket were shaky and might not practice
patience. He took a small emergency-lamp from his spare spacesuit. He
carefully cracked its bulb, exposing the filament within. He put the
lamp on top of the cotton and sprinkled magnesium marking-powder over
everything. Then he went to the air-apparatus and took out a flask of
the liquid oxygen used to keep his breathing-air in balance. He poured
the frigid, pale-blue stuff into the cotton. He saturated it.

All the inside of the shack was foggy when he finished. Then he pushed
the cannister-top down. He breathed a sigh of relief when it was in
place. He'd arranged for it to break a frozen-brittle switch as it
descended. When it came off, the switch would light the lamp with its
bare filament. There was powdered magnesium in contact with it and
liquid oxygen all about.

He went out of the shack by the air lock. On the way, thinking about
Sattell, he suddenly recovered a completely new memory. On their first
wedding anniversary, so long ago, he and his wife had gone out to dinner
to celebrate. He remembered how she looked: the almost-smug joy they
shared that they would be together for always, with one complete year
for proof.

Pop reflected hungrily that it was something else to be made permanent
and inspected from time to time. But he wanted more than a drawing of
this! He wanted to make the memory permanent and to extend it--

If it had not been for his vacuum suit and the cannister he carried, Pop
would have rubbed his hands.
