
He leaned against the door-jamb for a moment, surveying the party
within--a handsome youth, but with a thin-lipped mouth given too readily
to sneering. His eye, the cool, keen gray eye of the killer, never
opened very widely, turned but little, yet saw everything.

“Hello, Sam, yo’ old polecat!” he greeted the man behind the counter.
“Rustle me a quart of moonshine. And good stuff, too, or I’ll come back
and brand yo’.”

Sam Turner smiled nervously. Everybody in Rodeo and vicinity knew the
lunch-counter as only a mask for his real occupation, which was selling
bootleg stuff. But he hated having it bellowed to the world. Even one of
the harmless-looking gang in front of him might be a dry agent. His
reply was intended to turn the subject.

“Hello, Pete. You leavin’ the Bar-X?”

The cowpuncher grinned. “Leavin’ ’em flat. McCaleb got gabby because I
take a drink, the--” His profanity was more impressive because it was
low-voiced and drawled. “I beat him up with my six-gun and come away.”

He strolled along the line of stools. At the lower end on the last stool
sat a mild-appearing little man of perhaps fifty. He wore olive-drab
cotton clothes, belted jacket and trousers, and a floppy-brimmed, homely
brown canvas hat. His eyes were protected by sun-glasses.

“Come on, you sawed-off, climb down,” commanded the youth.

“Who, me?” queried the little man. “Why should I?”

“Because I tell you to,” retorted Chihuahua, a nasty smile on his lips,
a scowl on his brow. “I admire to set down on that stool. I’m tired o’
standin’.”

The other smiled amiably. “Aw, forget it,” he advised.

As he took his empty cup from his lips, Chihuahua Pete, still with the
sneering, contemptuous grin on his face, laid an ungentle hand on the
collar of the ill-fitting coat. He jerked backward. The little man’s
hands flew up wildly. His coffee-cup clattered inside the counter and
crashed on the floor. His feet thumped on the rough pine boards. The
stool tipped over. The olive-drab shoulders jolted against the wooden
wall of the Last Chance.

“My, my, I have an awful time teachin’ yo’ manners,” observed Pete, evil
in his sleepy gray eyes. “When you see a gentleman come in, you better
offer him your chair, next time, stranger.” He righted the stool, drew
it to the counter, and sat down. “Come on, you Sam. Let’s have a egg
sandwich and some coffee. I’m a wild wolf from Battle Mountain. And this
is my day to howl.”

The little man did not seem annoyed, or even fussed. He sauntered
forward, smiling a little, and took his place at the end of the counter,
near Chihuahua’s right hand. He rested his arms comfortably on the oak.

“Don’t mention it,” he said cheerfully.

“I was through, anyway.”

The cowpuncher searched his face swiftly for evidences of insolence, and
seemed to find none. “That’s the idee, tenderfoot,” he patronized. “When
yo’ come to a he-man’s country, you better keep yo’ place. And dodge
trouble!”
