
The others were silent. It was evident to all of them that the lank
young puncher was a bad one, inflamed by poisonous liquor, potentially
as dangerous as a rattlesnake. He showed a characteristic of one type of
half-drunken man--a bitter and unreasoning dislike of an utter stranger.

A still tongue: that was it. The same thought was in every mind. They
must truckle to this deadly young bully, truckle and grovel, to get away
from Rodeo without a tragedy. He was ripe for murder.

“Uh-huh,” agreed the little man. He surveyed Chihuahua through his amber
glasses. “Yes; I try to keep my place. But I don’t like anyone to shove
me out of it.”

“For God’s sake, Henry--” began another speaker, a larger one, at Pete’s
left hand. His clothing was like the little man’s, except that he wore
an army campaign hat instead of the ugly brown canvas.

Chihuahua Pete laid down his knife and fork. A sort of unbelieving
jubilation in his manner and his repressed voice, he ignored the man
sitting beside him and spoke to the smaller one:

“Say, you little runt, you meanin’ to hint anything?”

“Not hinting--trying to tell you,” was the good-natured reply. “So
you’re a bad wolf, are you? And you’re Chihuahua Pete. I suppose they
call you that because you skipped to Chihuahua to dodge the draft--hey,
Peter! Keep your hand on the counter!”

There was a surprising change in the tone of the last sentence, a
whip-like bite of command in it. Chihuahua’s right hand twitched
involuntarily, and came up again.

“I don’t know what your game is, Henry,” said the other khaki-clad man,
“but I’m playing it.” He tapped the counter gently with a black, squat,
ugly-looking automatic. “Don’t reach for that gun again, kid, or I’ll
blow your ribs out.”

Chihuahua Pete gave him a quick, sidewise look and again turned his
attention to the little man, standing almost at his elbow. His face was
a trifle pale. Sam and the travelers were immovable and tense.

“Thanks, Ed,” returned the little man placidly. “My game’s to teach this
young bully some manners. He demonstrated on me just now. Turn about’s
fair play.

“Now, you Chihuahua, I understand you’re a killer--shot a couple of men
in the back awhile ago, or something like that. You’re all set to pick a
fuss with me and drop me. Well, you get your chance. But so will I.
Guess we better have that revolver off you while I make my proposition.
That’s fair, isn’t it?” He appealed to the others.

A border booze-peddler has his failings, but a yellow streak is not one
of them. Sam spoke up promptly: “Fair enough, stranger. No snap-shootin’
in this place while I’m runnin’ it.” He lumbered round the end of the
counter, brushed by the little man and approached Chihuahua. “Pete, I’ll
just take your gun.” The cowpuncher sullenly permitted him to withdraw
the pearl-handled weapon. The larger khaki-clad man, without waiting to
be asked, surrendered his automatic.

“All right,” announced Sam, disposing of the weapons under the counter.
“Now, stranger, what you got on your mind?”

“Well, our young friend seems to have his fighting-clothes on today. He
wants to hear some popping. I'm willing to oblige, so long as two pop,
and not one.” He turned to Pete, who sat immovable, hatred in his narrow
eyes.

“I see you have a rifle on your saddle. I happen to have one with me.
You take your gun and get down behind that log I saw out here by the
road as we came up. That gives you an advantage. I’ll lie out in the
open a couple hundred yards away, say.

“When these boys give the word, we shoot. Start advancing whenever you
feel like it. We keep on shooting till one has enough, or”--he shrugged
his shoulders--“somebody gets hurt.”

“For God’s sake, Henry!” burst out the larger khaki-clad man. “That’s
murder! Think of your family.”

“He started thinkin’ too late!” gritted the cowpuncher, sliding off his
stool. He confronted Henry balefully for a moment. “Go get your gun, you
little-- You’ve bought somethin’! I aint killed a jackrabbit this week
yet. But here’s where I start.”

“Just a minute,” interposed Sam. “This play is on your own deal,
stranger. But you ought to know what you’re up against. Pete’s a good
rifle shot. He won the turkey-shoot over to Escandero last Christmas.
You should be behind that log, not him. Or we’ll dig up another one for
you.”

The little man was so ineffective, so insignificant-looking, so--so
puttery, that they felt sorry for him. There was a chorus of assent from
the travelers. He thanked them with a smile, then turned and led the way
to the door.

“Oh, I’ll worry along with old Betsey,” he said cheerfully. “A log’s
such a nuisance to carry when you start to run!”
