
Rodeo, smelling the trouble somehow, walked en masse up the
railroad-track with the travelers. The town, looking for all the world
like a movie-set, with its short line of one-story, false-fronted frame
buildings, was left alone. The spectators took station midway between
the antagonists, and perhaps fifty yards off the line of fire. The
roadbed was somewhat above the general level, and they could see
clearly.

Chihuahua Pete rested on one elbow behind the center of a fire-blackened
log. The log was thick and substantial-looking. The little man,
seemingly smaller and more helpless than ever, sprawled on the open
sand. His coat was off; it lay beside him, a heap of cartridges in clips
of five, upon it. His left arm was in the sling of his rifle. Both men
watched the group on the railroad, for a signal from Sam was to start
the battle.

“Say, this aint legal!” declared the derby-hatted drummer to Ed, the
smaller man’s friend. “Why, this is duelin', contrary to the laws of
these here United States! Yes sir! Why don’t you do something about it?
Why don’t you stop it? What did you let him goad this drunken cowpuncher
for?”

Ed turned a bitter eye on him. “Do something?” he echoed. “Say, I’ve
been trying to do something with that little worm for forty years! He
jumps from one trouble to another like a mountain-goat! Always jumps out
again, though; I’ll say that for him.” This in grudging afterthought.

The traveling man clawed his sleeve. “But this is murder!” he protested.
“He hasn’t got a chance. This cowboy’ll stiffen him, first shot.”

Poor little Henry did seem pitifully exposed. From where they stood, he
was clearly outlined in the bare sand. Ed grunted.

“The only way this bad man can hit him is shoot straight up in the air,”
Ed explained impatiently. “Henry’s protected. There’s thirty inches of
sand in front of his head. That isn’t what bothers me: I want to know
what that little devil’s going to do. I’m worrying about the other guy.”

“Protected?” The traveling man squinted against the white, glaring light
of sun on sand. “Say, he does seem to be behind a little riffle, at
that. But thirty inches--gosh! That isn’t much.”

“He’ll keep on fussing till he gets into a proper jam, sometime,” went
on the gloomy Ed, following his own train of thought. “You can’t get
away with funny-business forever. What’s that? Aw, thirty inches is
plenty. This crazy man’s gun only shoots through fourteen.”

“Oh,” said the traveling man, opening his eyes. And “Oh,” he said again,
in enlightenment. “He knows, hey? That’s the reason he looked at the
cowboy’s gun and ca’tridges, was it?”

“Sure,” replied Ed, in scorn at the obviousness of the question. He
returned to the puncher’s original remark. “Do something with Henry?
Say, you don’t know what you’re talking about! He’s as stubborn as a
mule. You’d think being turned down by three examining boards’d be
enough for anybody. Now, wouldn’t you--at his age? But no sir--”

“Ready?” roared Sam, and raised his arm.
