
A hurrying series of reports rolled out over the desert wastes. The
cowboy’s gun spoke with the signal from the railroad track. The rifle
was over the log; he worked it savagely. The spectators shuddered. It
looked like certain death for Henry. Bullets kicked up the sand in front
of his nose and to either side of him, and went tearing off down-country
with the urgent whine of the ricochet. Ed chuckled.

“See?” he said gleefully to the traveling man. “Notice twigs falling
from that dark-green bush about twenty yards in front of Henry? Thought
he’d do something like that. He’s lined up behind it so this Chihuahua
can’t see him at all. Has to feel for him.”

“But he can’t see either, can he?” protested the traveler, mopping the
sweatband of his derby.

“You bet he can see! He’s low--under the branches. Now watch!”

Chihuahua’s gun was empty. He started to reload, after a swift glance in
the enemy’s direction. There was a flat, brisk report from the little
man’s rifle. The watchers saw the bullet raise a spray of sand in front
of the log. Then the hoarse note of a ricochet, as though there were a
frog in the throat of the bullet.

“Cripes!” ejaculated Sam. “She went through!”

“Of course,” retorted Ed. “Anyone could see that log was only a shell.”

The cowpuncher was flurried. A burst of splinters on his side of the log
and a few feet from him, made him unsteady. The long magazine of his
sporting-rifle was only half-filled. But he threw the gun across the log
and fired again, rapidly, frantically. This time, the onlookers noted,
his aim was poor. The sand fountained up a long way from where the
little man lay tucked in his hollow.

Again the quicker, sharper report of Henry’s rifle--the long, splitting
after-crack as the air closed behind the hurrying bullet, a dull
interruption, and the ricochet in diminishing crescendo. Another report,
and another, and another at intervals reasonably close, but unhurried.

“The son-of-a-gun!” crowed the admiring bootlegger. “See what he’s
doin’? He’s pushin’ Chihuahua right out from behind that log!”

They looked, slack-jawed and swaying in their intensity, and saw that it
was true. Henry’s first shot pierced the outer end of Chihuahua Pete’s
barrier, well beyond his left elbow. But with each succeeding report the
bullets crept closer, until splinters showered the puncher.

Busy as he was reloading, he gave ground. When he tried to take aim over
the log, a bullet nudged him. He shifted a little, sidewise, wriggling
his body on his elbows, and brought the barrel down again. The log
ripped wickedly beside his sleeve. He hunched again. And again the
remorseless Henry drove him over.

The last move thrust his right leg out from the shelter. There was a
report from the Springfield, a gout of sand from just under the
cowpuncher’s boot, apparently, and a yell from the puncher himself. He
crawled to his feet, bringing his rifle up with him. He aimed
half-heartedly at Henry, threw the gun down in fright, and ran away. He
limped as he ran. Though that, of course, might have been due to his
boots hurting him.
