
He fled directly to the rear, toward a friendly rise of ground. He was
accompanied, shepherded and steered by the offerings of Henry.
_Crr-ack_--and a bullet struck close beside him on the right.
_Crr-ack_--and another threatened his toenails on the left. So it went,
right and left, right and left, until the ridge intervened, and he flung
himself headlong to safety.

A rush of cheering, babbling spectators engulfed the little man, who
stood up to brush the sand off his clothes and put the remainder of his
ammunition in the pockets of his ill-fitting jacket.

Ed’s long legs brought him quickly. He grabbed his friend by the
shoulder and shook him, half in fondness and half in vexation. “Henry,”
he said, “Henry, you damned little scoundrel!”

Henry’s face was alight with a big idea. “Say, Ed, I’m going to ask the
N. R. A. to stage a moving-target thing at Perry next year--you know, a
silhouette on a sledge going off down the range away from you. It’s
bully sport. Keeps you busy raising her for increasing distance.”

“Say, _hombre_, you sure can shoot!” panted Sam, thrusting out a beefy
hand.

“Of course he can shoot,” agreed Ed, impatience merely a cloak to his
pride. “He was instructor in rifle-practice during the war. And he’s
just won the Governor’s Trophy at the State Rifle Association matches
over at Mineral Springs.”

Henry’s face fell. “Shoot, nothing!” he denied. “See the first one? Say,
it hit the ground a foot this side of that log--yes sir, a foot! I was
afraid to let myself out after that. Might have hurt that cowboy if I
did.”

“Maybe it’s the gun, Henry,” suggested Ed thoughtfully. They were
oblivious now to the milling spectators.

“Well, maybe it is,” said Henry pensively. “I got an unaccountable in
the National Individual--and a couple of threes in the Palma tryouts
that looked all right when they left. Maybe old Betsey’s gone, at last.”
He smoothed the stock of the squat brown rifle caressingly.

“Say, mister,” began the derby-hatted traveling man, elbowing his way
forward, “you’re a professional, aint you? You give exhibitions around
the country, don’t you?”

“Hell, no,” replied the little man. “I run a grocery-store in Palmdale.
And my friend here’s a banker. Say, you ought to see him shoot! He’s the
boy that--”

“Aw, shut up,” interrupted Ed, dragging Henry off toward the stage. The
driver was honking impatiently.

“I don’t get it,” complained the derby-hatted one, falling into step
with Sam. “He says he aint a profesh. A grocer, and shootin’ like that!
An amateur!”

“Ayah,” replied Sam, wiping the sweat off his fat red forehead with a
once-clean apron. “I’ve seen ’em, them kind o’ birds, froggin’ around,
shootin’ at paper targets out in the cactus. And I laughed at ’em for
crazy fools. But I don’t laugh no more, _hombre_.”

He looked after the pair ahead with a sort of proprietory pride. “Just
ordinary citizens, but it shows what kind o’ people us Americans are. Is
it any wonder we won that damn’ war?”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the January 25 issue of Blue
Book Magazine.]

