
"First, let's review a few points I know you are all familiar with,
but that you should keep in mind, starting with the beginning of space
travel." Bronsen ran his hand through his hair and looked over the
eagerly expectant faces of his staff, considering carefully the points
he had to make.

"First, there were the Detorium-driven rockets. Fine ships that opened
up the realm of travel in outer space." His voice was firm, stringent
with his inner excitement, his faith in his idea. "In fact, it was
just such a ship as this that Joc Kenton, Mars to you folks, was on
when they made their first landing on Mars. These ships had their good
points and still are excellent over short distances but certainly are
of no use for intergalactic flight. They are much too slow, requiring
more than a lifetime to make the trip there and back.

"Then came the interstellar drive, the method we are now using. This
drive, utilizing Carbolium which we have to manufacture, makes full
use of space as a medium of travel. There's only one catch. We can
make only a certain amount of Carbolium, and the costs of making it
are astronomical. However, no matter what the expense, the supply is
limited. Still, everything's fine. We use the old rockets for short
distances and the interstellar drive for intergalactic trips."

He paused a minute to let it sink in. "That is everything _was_ fine.
As you know, we have found another planet, remarkably similar to Earth
in the Eastrex Galaxy, and have succeeded in setting up a colony there.
This presents problems. For one, since we can send only four ships a
year to Naver, this new planet, our colonizing is going to be slowed
down to a crawl. Also, we will have a mighty hard time trying to get
supplies and everything else that a new colony needs to Naver within a
reasonable length of time. In other words, what we need is a ship that
will be cheap to run, fast enough to get there and get back again and
also safe enough to carry passengers and cargo, even in small amounts.
You've heard of this problem before; I know you've tried independently
to work it out and have not had much luck. I think we might have an
answer now.

"How many of you have shot a rifle or are familiar with a gun?"

The expectant faces had gone blank. What was he leading up to anyhow?
Still, a large number of hands cautiously worked their way into the air.

"All right. All you have to do right now is forget about space ships
and concentrate on a rifle and a bullet." There was beginning to be
the muttering and stirring of a confused group of people. Bronsen's
muscular hands gripped the table eagerly. They were confused, but they
were also interested. "You are familiar with the fields and grooves
of a gun barrel," he continued, "and you know they are there to give
the bullet a spin when it is fired. Now what happens to a bullet when
it is fired from a smooth barrel, with no grooves? It is inaccurate,
wobbles, has less power and eventually turns end over end. Now, take
the grooved rifle barrel. The bullet is given a spin, it has many times
the velocity of the other, it has a straight line accuracy due to the
spiral motion--keep these last two points in mind--and providing the
rifle is aimed right in the first place, will hit the target."

The group was being split up into two factions, those who leaned
forward expectantly once more and those who shook their heads in
bafflement.

"Now, let's go back again to the old rockets, and also our present
ones. They all use the same principle to get off the ground--blast
off with rockets. But let's add a second type of blasting off area,
also using rockets, but one that looks like a monstrous rifle barrel,
complete to the fields and grooves. We have a launching apparatus
that is like a grooved rifle compared to a smooth barreled one. The
smooth barrel that we now use, the rockets taking off straight, gives
good acceleration but not enough top speed. Our old rockets had that
fault and never could get good velocity even when in flight. Our new
ones take over with the interstellar drive, but we want to eliminate
this last method. The spiral take off though, would give much greater
velocity right from the start, would enable the ship to hit outer space
with a greater speed than it could attain using the other methods
and it would continue on in space at a much faster rate. The lack of
friction would keep it from slowing down and if we could hit the speed
we want before entering outer space, the ship could go right on at that
same rate in space. There wouldn't even be need for rocket power while
in actual galactic flight. The initial momentum would carry it through
to its destination. The rocket could do all this because this spiral
launching would give us more 'muzzle velocity', and in a given time
after blast off, the spinning ship would have reached a much greater
speed than the regularly fired one. This means operating cost will be
confined to blast off, landing and to skirt around any sudden dangers
that might arise in space.

"We therefore have a ship that has the velocity of the drive and maybe
more, without the cost of drive. It has safety since our old rockets
proved to be remarkably accident-free and this design would actually
be working on almost the same principle as the old rockets, except for
the blast off. The difference in outer space would be this. The old
ships used rockets throughout the trip to increase their velocity. The
new ones will be traveling so fast when they enter outer space, they
won't have to use any power because they will already have the velocity
needed."

He paused to swallow the dryness in his mouth and noticed with pleasure
that more than one face was twisted in thought. Good. All they have to
do is be given a theory to think about, the time to do that thinking
and they'd be on their way.

"That's about it for now. I have some ideas of my own for the design
of this ship ... and it's really surprising when you think how simple
it is. But I'll save that for some other time. Right now, I'd want all
of you to think about it. It gets top priority. Report back to me with
your ideas. I think we can lick this problem and get our bread and
butter, Inter Galactic Enterprises, right on top of the pile. Good
luck."

The meeting broke up amidst frantic discussion, wails of
misunderstanding, confusion and quiet self-musings. Bronsen smiled to
himself, his face almost boyishly radiant in his pleasure. The seed had
been planted. Now all he had to do was give it time to grow and bear
fruit.
