
Vern's cry of amazement rang with reverence as he stood with Bronsen
looking over the first test rocket as it was slowly wheeled to the
launching area. "Boy-o-boy! Look at that beauty! Did you ever see
anything like it?" The silver ship lay on its side as it approached the
huge tower, but already Vern could see its glistening majesty soaring
through the sky.

"She was a lot of work, Vern. Let's just keep our fingers crossed.
By the way, that design of yours on the rotating cylinder inside the
rocket, working independently of the rocket's forced spin, was good.
Tough thing to lick, but now the pilot can keep a steady 'up' and
'down' no matter how much the outside of the ship is spinning. Good
work."

Vern shrugged his shoulders. "Just call me the Einstein of the 23rd
century, that's all. We'll all see how well everything works pretty
soon now."

Bronsen was finding the tension beginning to build up in him. Just
a few more hours and his theory would be lauded with success or
shattered into the dust. He peered at the rocket, at the tiny black
figures of the men that were dwarfed by its size and at the giant,
black tube, towering hundreds of feet high, waiting patiently to
receive her first charge. The needle-nosed space craft glistened in
the early morning sun, her thin beauty tantalizing to the senses of a
spaceman. Her lines swept gracefully back across her smooth expanse
until they hit the four fin tips sweeping out from the rotating band of
the tail piece, the fin tips that would fit into the slowly spiraling
grooves of the launching tower. The field and groove construction first
suggested by Bronsen had been replaced by lands and grooves when it was
found that the fewer grooves gave greater accuracy and better muzzle
velocity when tested on the laboratory models. Thus, there were only
four fins instead of the originally planned eight.

The rocket reached the lowering platform and Bronsen watched in nervous
anxiety as the ship was lowered into the ground tail first, then slowly
began its upward ascent into the belly of the launcher. He thought of a
thousand things that could happen right then, found that none of them
were going to and returned to his office. The rocket was safely nestled
in the launcher's belly, patiently waiting for the human crew to arrive
and give it life.

When they gathered about the launching field that afternoon Bronsen
found himself sweating in both the heat of the day and the torrid
intensity of Mars' insistence that the whole thing was going to be one
big flop.

"Just one blast from those rockets and we'll all be blown into the next
galaxy, without benefit of a space ship. Trying to shoot a 70,000 pound
rocket as if it were a toy gun. You'll learn one of these days, Corbow,
that the old way was still the best. It got us to Mars and back and if
you'd work on that instead of this, it would be good for intergalactic
flight too. But no, you've got to have your name up there in print."

"Oh, shut up your damned mumbling, Mars!"

Bronsen shot the words out savagely. He gave the older man a withering
look and turned his attention again to the ship. The men that were
to take her up had disappeared inside the expanse of the launching
tower and the other figures darted back and forth, making last minute
preparations. The minutes began to tick off. Five minutes until blast
off. Four minutes. Three minutes. The field was now completely devoid
of human figures. Two minutes. One minute. Ten seconds, nine, eight.
The launcher looked lonely and terrifying in its greatness and Bronsen
tried to wish the rocket up out of her belly by will power alone.
_Four, three, two, one...._

The ground trembled as the ear-shattering roar jumped across the lunar
landscape. The sound grew louder, sharper, and Bronsen began to think
his head would split with the noise. The rockets pitched higher,
their scream pierced the air and then the silver nose of the ship
edged above the top of the launcher. It pulled further into view, the
shimmering silver glinting in the sun and Bronsen clenched his fists in
anxiety. Come on baby; show them what you can do. That's it baby, keep
right on coming. Come on girl! The ship rose clear of the launcher, the
distance making it look as if it were shot straight out, but Bronsen
knew the steadily spinning hull was heading right.

Suddenly he noticed it. Something was wrong! The ship wasn't acting
right. What was it? His eyes tried to leap from his head to get closer
to the rising needle and then he saw it. It was shaking. The whole ship
was trembling as if in human terror. He watched the tremors pass from
the nose to the tail, each one more violent than the last, until the
whole ship was wracked with a shaking like palsy. Why? It had worked so
beautifully with the experimental models. What was causing it? The bow
of the ship was now visibly shaking, the tremors becoming more savage
and then the nose began to dip. With a final shudder of resignation,
the rocket pitched over and began its screaming descent. Bronsen
watched the plunging ship, felt his heart grab in pain in his chest and
stumbled back from the observation window unable to watch any longer.
The burst of a million shells at once slammed into the unyielding lunar
plain. In his mind's eye he could see the twisted, exploding mass of
metal and the thought sickened him.

The others ran from the room, heading for the wrecked ship. Bronsen
watched them with dull eyes and made no attempt to follow. What could
they do for the four men that had gone to their deaths in his mad
creation? What could they do for the millions of dollars that now lay a
twisted heap of rubble? He turned to drag his defeated body back to the
lab, to twist and mull in his mind what had happened, and found himself
looking into the glaring eyes of Mars.

"I told you, didn't I, Mr. Corbow?"

Bronsen covered his ears so that he wouldn't hear. He screamed, "Shut
up! Shut up before I slam you one."

Mars spat in disgust. "Four nice guys in that ship, too. Knew 'em,
didn't you?"

Bronsen's hammer-hard first smashed into Mars' mouth and the old man
was slammed against the wall before falling in a crumpled heap on the
floor. He sat there, the blood oozing from his mouth as he stared at
the retreating back of the man he never thought would have enough nerve
to really hit him. Now he was sorry he had said anything and the self
pity welled up within him. He really didn't mean half of what he always
managed to spit out. What made him do it? He wiped the blood from his
mouth and pulled himself to his feet.
