
Bronsen slumped further down into the soft contours of the chair,
eyeing Hanson Reed with a tortured soul. The president of Inter
Galactic Enterprises glared at him from the other side of the desk,
every inch of his paunchy frame the body of an outraged executive. He
chewed violently on the black cigar in his mouth and waited impatiently
for Bronsen to explain. Bronsen spread his hands helplessly.

"I don't know Reed. I just don't know." His shoulders heaved in a sigh
of dejection. "Every single person in the moon lab has been looking
for an answer and we still can't find out why the ship crashed. We've
tested the laboratory models over and over again. We've gone over every
little detail and have nothing but a blank to show for it."

Reed chewed more savagely at the end of his cold cigar. "We spent two
million dollars on research and development and all _we_ have to show
for it is a pile of scrap metal and four corpses scattered over the
lunar landscape. There's got to be some explanation."

"Just one in a million chances that an accident like this would
happen," Bronsen countered desperately. "It's just coincidence that it
happened on the first model."

"Coincidence!" Mars' voice was guttural with contempt. "I told you from
the start it wasn't practical. I knew...."

"All right, Mars," Reed interrupted. "You were project design engineer,
right?" Mars nodded in agreement. "Was there anything wrong with the
design of the ship, any reason why it probably wouldn't have worked,
from a design stand-point?"

"No," he answered reluctantly. "Not that I could see. I just knew from
the start it wasn't going to work. I told Bronsen that, lots of times,
but he just isn't the type to take advice."

Bronsen roared and leaped to his feet.

"You old fool," he bellowed. "Technically, theoretically and
mechanically, there wasn't one indication that it wasn't going to be
a completely successful launching procedure. You know that as well as
anyone! Ask the men around you. They handled the final application, the
mechanics, the construction, the blast off. Ask any one of them. Every
single one of them will tell you the same thing. There was no reason
why the ship should have crashed! Every item had been checked, double
checked and re-checked again. The instruments indicated everything was
functioning perfectly at blast off. If you didn't have such a twisted
inverted opinion of everything...."

Mars leaned forward, his body now trembling, "Don't you go calling me
names, you swell-headed pup!"

Reed pounded his desk violently.

"Mars! Bronsen!" he shouted impatiently. "This is hardly the time for
name-calling and airing personal gripes. We're here to find a good
reason for spending more money on this project. We're not children in a
schoolyard, arguing over a piece of candy, although that's exactly what
it's beginning to sound like. Frankly, I'm of the opinion that with
so much internal fighting going on, nothing could possibly come of
spending more. It would be a waste of both finances and time."

Bronsen slowly sat down again, his trembling hands clenched into tight
fists.

"That's one item you don't have to worry about," he growled. "Kenton is
completely finished as far as I'm concerned. He's out. Fired."

Mars' face fell in shocked surprise. Reed tore the cigar from his mouth
and glared at Bronsen.

"No one is being fired, Bronsen. You've been a good leader, in my
opinion, as well as a friend, but I do the firing around here." Bronsen
glowered and reddened under the unexpected rebuttal but said nothing.
"You are young yet," Reed continued. "You've got brains, imagination,
leadership and ability. Wouldn't be where you are if you didn't.
There's just one thing lacking, and Mars is the one that has it.
Experience. And with that experience goes well-used caution. You've got
the go-ahead, but he has the wisdom. Temperance and drive. That's Mars
and you. You've got each other. Why don't you just learn how to work
with and use each other?"

Bronsen remained in baleful silence. Mars glared at the younger man and
sneered contemptuously.

"That young pup never will know what the word caution means. He's so
eager to get his name up...."

Bronsen rose to his feet, his grey eyes flashing in hate. Reed slammed
his cigar into the ashtray and threw up his hands.

"That's it! It's the last straw! I'm through playing referee for two
snarling dogs. The project is closed, finished! If and when somebody
can come up with a decent reason why it should be opened again, we'll
consider it then. Until that time, consider the project non-existent
and return to your regular jobs. And cut out the bickering and
fighting--or you are both fired!"

He pulled out a fresh cigar, bit into it in disgust and dismissed
the meeting by returning to the papers on his desk. Bronsen felt the
anger boiling over within him and suppressed the desire to hand in his
resignation on the spot. He looked for Mars and saw his thin frame out
the door. He wearily passed a hand over his eyes and left the room.
