
Mars scowled in annoyance at Vern's whistling and silently wished the
young assistant would get out of the room and let him brood in peace.
He chewed the end of his pencil methodically and savagely, his features
blushing pink with anger as he remembered the tirade of words exchanged
with Bronsen a week ago. "Stupid, insolent, day-dreaming pup," he
snarled half aloud.

Vern stopped in mid-step, eyeing him in surprise. "Huh?" he said. "Did
you say something to me?"

Mars grimaced. "No. I was just talking to myself."

Vern grinned widely. "That's good. I'd sure hate to have anybody think
those words were a description of me. Good old Vern, that's me.
Combination office boy, slave, master of ceremonies and soothing balm
for ruffled egos. That's my description of me. Master of all trades,
Jack of none. Of course, I can't say what others think."

"You don't make much sense," Mars growled thickly, biting again into
the pencil.

"Neither do you," Vern countered quickly. "But then again, what man
does to a struggling young genius like myself?"

"Oh dry up," came the reply. "And take that drawing table into the new
drafter's room."

"Oh, sure. You only need about three men to move that monster but...."
He left the sentence unfinished and dragged the table from the wall.
Mars smiled sympathetically, shook his head, and pointed to his bad leg
when Vern indicated he could use some help.

"Such is the life of a slave," the younger man sighed and hoisting the
clumsy article, headed for the door.

"Look out!" Mars suddenly yelled and jumped forward to catch a falling
rocket model as the table edge glanced off it. Vern yelped in surprise,
jolted backward and fell against the wall, the heavy board crashing
down on his foot.

"My God, Vern. Your foot...."

The other grinned, withdrew his foot from beneath the board and pulled
down his sock. "Not this baby," he flipped. "I've got cast-iron
insurance. It's plastic from the ankle down, see?"

Mars stared in shock at the artificial limb and could think of nothing
very brilliant to say.

"Got it in cadet school," Vern explained and then answered the question
in Mars' eyes. "I was training to be a space pilot myself. Some fellows
and I decided to celebrate our graduation, got drunk and ended up in a
wreck. They put me together real good, even taught me how to use the
foot so no one would ever know it wasn't the real thing. It washed
me out as far as the Space Corps was concerned though. I drowned my
sorrows in alcohol for a couple weeks, told myself I was going to hell
with myself and then decided to put what I did know to work. That's how
I joined up with this outfit. Now I sit back and design the rockets my
classmates have to worry about flying.... Enough of this chatter ...
got to get busy. See you."

Mars turned thoughtfully back to his desk. "That kid's got only one
foot," he mused soberly. He looked down at his own injured leg and
savagely kicked it against the wall.

"Your leg. Your poor, crippled leg ... what a fine crutch it has been,"
he bitterly reproached himself. "It proves you were one of the first in
space, and you won't let people forget it. You're a jealous old man.
You're afraid to have someone else do what you no longer can do. You
want things to stay the way they were when you got hurt, so no one else
can live your dream. If time stood still, there would be no trips to
new planets, no new discoveries and Mars Kenton would still be the hero
of his dream."

He tried to revolt, to denounce the self-accusations. "What about
Bronsen Corbow?" he asked. "Does that explain why I've fought him so
hard?"

His slowly growing conscience laughed at him. "But it does. Bronsen
ignores your crutch, your proof that the old way worked the best. He's
concerned with the future, the future you never want to come." He
buried his grey-thatched head in his hands and felt the weariness in
his bones. His thoughts returned to the unsuccessful launching.

"But it was a crazy idea," he argued weakly. "It would never have
worked anyway." It was a poor defense, one that faltered and failed
when he finally admitted the truth: He was a jealous, bitter man,
fighting anonymity.

Once more he found himself mulling over the rocket launching, probing
for support to his initial decision that it wouldn't work, searching
for some point to substantiate his claim. But was he really right in
that decision? Had he let his hate-ridden heart rule his reasoning
mind? He waded back to the beginning of Bronsen's theory. Bullets ...
the test models were the bullets. Shells ... the huge rocket itself
was a shell compared to the bullets. Shells have an ojive, bourrelet,
rotating band, but bullets are different. How? He stopped. He reviewed
the parts in his mind, then suddenly lurched to the files and pulled
out the rocket plans. He compared the ship's construction bit by
bit with a shell, his mind working quickly, accurately, with a new
enthusiasm....

Hours later he leaned back from his drawing table and his voice rumbled
out into the quiet reaches of the empty room.

"Men will fly to the stars like a bullet," he prophesized. "Because I
know why the rocket crashed."

It was dark but the light in Bronsen's office was still on. Mars pulled
himself erect and turned toward Bronsen's room, then faltered. "I could
just forget it," he mused. "Then the idea would be filed away. But
someday...." He could not do it. The excitement was beginning to mount
inside of him, pushing him forward. He took a deep breath and with a
decisive shrug drew back his shoulders, standing straighter and taller
than he had in fifteen long years. He strode from the room and headed
down the hall.

Bronsen heard the door behind him open and close softly. He glanced up
and saw who it was and returned, scowling, to his work. When Mars did
not leave, he looked up again, curiosity stirring within him at the
expression in the older man's face.

"Well?"

It wasn't really a question, nor an inflection denoting that he wanted
to hear what Mars had to say. It was more of a compromise between
physically throwing him out and grudgingly listening to what he had to
say.

"I've got it, I know what happened to the ship," Mars announced
quietly. "I knew it when I saw it come out of the launcher but I
couldn't explain it." Bronsen returned to his papers with a snort and
Mars pleaded, "I'm sorry about all those things I said. For God's sake.
Listen to me!"

The tortured pleading in the man's voice made Bronsen put down the
papers in surprise.

"The models worked," Mars plunged ahead. "Sure they did. But because
they were small ... so much smaller than the real ship ... there was no
trouble and they worked perfectly. The trouble reveals itself only as
the projectile gets larger. The nose, Bronsen. A nose band. Don't you
see what I'm trying to say?"

The younger man stared in silence at the pleading ex-space pilot,
before the words began to penetrate his whirling thoughts. He forgot
the crash of the ship; he forgot the feel of hard teeth splitting the
skin across his knuckles; he forgot the animosity that existed between
them. His mind could focus on nothing but what Mars was trying to say.

"The nose of the ship is long. The only guides were on the tail at
the rotating band. Think of shells. Bourrelets. The _big_ shells have
bourrelets ... bands around the nose that dig into the grooves and
steady the front of the shell. The ship ... its front began trembling
because there was nothing to guide the nose in a steady path. The more
velocity the rocket had, the worse the trembling became until it threw
the whole ship out of control. Don't you see? That's all that was
wrong with it! It would have been perfect if it had had guide wings
on the bourrelet. The guide pieces could be withdrawn when the ship
is launched ... but they would have to be there in order to _get_ it
launched. I'm right, you know I am! That's your answer. That was the
only part wrong with it!"

The enormity of Mars' words left Bronsen speechless. He looked at the
suddenly joyous man before him and saw the old bitterness replaced by
the rapture of his discovery. Yes, that was what had been wrong. It
was the solution ... the one tiny piece that made the puzzle into an
understandable picture. He paused a moment, as if trying to make a
great decision, then grabbed the older man by the arm.

"Come on! Let's get it down on paper!"
