
The rocket lay huddled in the belly of the launching tower, her
needle-like body quiet, waiting, her control panels flashing signals
and instructions to her masters, her circuits buzzing with the
tenseness of the seconds before blast off. The steady counting drummed
through her wires, tripped relays, and her masters flipped the
switches, pressed the buttons and pulled the levers that readied her
for her maiden flight. Eight seconds, seven seconds. Six seconds, five,
four. The switch was jerked upward and she felt the power beginning to
move in her vitals.

_Three, two, one!_

The driver button slammed home, her rockets roared out in ferocious
birth, snarling, roaring, growing with each passing second. She
settled back upon her rockets as if in protest at their screaming
growth, then was forced to give ground and the ship moved up the shaft.
Her rotating band and bourrelet fins dug deep into the spiraling
grooves, her body began to turn ... slowly, so slowly. Then she
suddenly leaped forward, her hull whirling upward; the shaft raced
by in dizzy swiftness, her rockets roared louder and she raised her
spinning body further. She was free! Her body hurtled up and up, her
needle nose straight and true, her velocity leaping forward....

"Off rockets! Set up emergency interstellar drive for instant
activation if needed. Signal in scanning screens. Activate force field
and take a breather, boys. We're on our way and the blast off was
perfect."

The pilot's mechanical sounding voice droned through the speaker in the
moon-bound observation room and simultaneously the air was ruffled by
the deep exhale of relief, the rustle of slowly relaxing bodies strung
tight with the hopeful tenseness of the blast off.

Mars gazed up at the disappearing silver streak, his blue eyes intent,
glistening with pride and excitement. "I never thought I'd see the
day," he breathed. "Look at her, she's going straight and true. She's
the most beautiful thing I ever saw."

Bronsen's face relaxed into a happy grin as the gleaming rocket hurtled
up out of sight. He glanced at Mars and gave him a companionable smile.

"Even more beautiful than Mars that day? Or the old rockets?"

Mars looked slightly embarrassed and shuffled his legs into a more
comfortable position. "Aw hell," he said awkwardly. "Can't you forget
an old fool's ramblings? We just watched a rocket launched that's going
to open up a whole new era in space travel. It was a perfect blast off
and we know it'll be a perfect trip and landing."

Bronsen thoughtfully nodded his head, his grey eyes dancing.

"Tell you what," Mars continued. "I've got a bottle that I've been
saving for about fifteen years. Got it when we got back from that first
trip and never opened it."

Bronsen grinned and gave the old man's thin shoulder a hearty slap.

"Let's get that drink!"



