
"Headaches, Dr. Al," said Perrie Rochelle. "Sometimes quite bad
headaches--" She hesitated. She was a thin, pale girl with untidy
arranged brown hair who vacillated between periods of vivacious
alertness and activity and somewhat shorter periods of blank-faced
withdrawal. "And then," she went on, "there are times during the day
when I get to feeling sort of confused and not quite sure whether I'm
asleep or awake ... you know?"

Dr. Ormond nodded, gazing at her reflectively from the little lectern
on which he leaned. His composed smile indicated that he was not in
the least surprised or disturbed by her report on the results of the
week's experiments--that they were, in fact, precisely the results he
had expected. "I'll speak to you about it later, Perrie," he told her
gently. "Dexter ... what experiences have you had?"

Dexter Jones cleared his throat. He was a serious young man who
appeared at meetings conservatively and neatly dressed and shaved to
the quick, and rarely spoke unless spoken to.

"Well, nothing very dramatic, Dr. Al," he said diffidently. "I did
have a few nightmares during the week. But I'm not sure there's any
connection between them and, uh, what you were having us do."

Dr. Ormond stroked his chin and regarded Dexter with benevolence. "A
connection seems quite possible, Dexter. Let's assume it exists. What
can you tell us about those nightmares?"

Dexter said he was afraid he couldn't actually tell them anything. By
the time he was fully awake he'd had only a very vague impression of
what the nightmares were about, and the only part he could remember
clearly now was that they had been quite alarming.

Old Mrs. Folsom, who was more than a little jealous of the special
attention enjoyed by Dexter and Perrie, broke in eagerly at that point
to tell about a nightmare _she'd_ had during the week and which _she_
could remember fully; and Cavender's attention drifted away from the
talk. Mrs. Folsom was an old bore at best, but a very wealthy old
bore, which was why Dr. Ormond usually let her ramble on a while
before steering the conversation back to the business of the meeting.
But Cavender didn't have to pretend to listen.

From his vantage point behind most of the group, he let his gaze and
thoughts wander from one to the other of them again. For the majority
of the advanced students, he reflected, the Institute of Insight
wasn't really too healthy a place. But it offered compensations.
Middle-aged or past it on the average, financially secure, vaguely
disappointed in life, they'd found in Dr. Al a friendly and eloquent
guide to lead them into the fascinating worlds of their own minds. And
Dr. Al was good at it. He had borrowed as heavily from yoga and
western mysticism as from various orthodox and unorthodox
psychological disciplines, and composed his own system, almost his own
cosmology. His exercises would have made conservative psychiatrists
shudder, but he was clever enough to avoid getting his flock into too
serious mental difficulties. If some of them suffered a bit now and
then, it made the quest of Total Insight and the thought that they
were progressing towards that goal more real and convincing. And
meeting after meeting Dr. Al came up with some intriguing new twist or
device, some fresh experience to keep their interest level high.

"Always bear in mind," he was saying earnestly at the moment, "that an
advance made by any member of the group benefits the group as a whole.
Thus, because of the work done by our young pioneers this week I see
indications tonight that the group is ready to attempt a new
experiment ... an experiment at a level I frankly admit I hadn't
anticipated you would achieve for at least another two months."

Dr. Ormond paused significantly, the pause underlining his words.
There was an expectant stirring among the students.

"But I must caution you!" he went on. "We cannot, of course, be
certain that the experiment will succeed ... in fact, it would be a
very remarkable thing if it did succeed at a first attempt. But if it
should, you will have had a rather startling experience! You will have
seen a thing generally considered to be impossible!"

He smile reassuringly, stepping down from the lectern. "Naturally,
there will be no danger. You know me well enough to realize that I
never permit the group or individuals to attempt what lies beyond
their capability."
