
Cavender stifled a yawn, blinked water from his eyes, watching Ormond
walk over to a small polished table on the left side of the room in
front of the rows of chairs. On it Mavis Greenfield had placed a
number of enigmatic articles, some of which would be employed as props
in one manner or another during the evening's work. The most prominent
item was a small suitcase in red alligator hide. Dr. Ormond, however,
passed up the suitcase, took a small flat wooden plate from the table
and returned to the center of the room.

"On this," he said, holding up the plate, "there rests at this moment
the air of this planet and nothing else. But in a minute or two--for
each of you, in his or her world of subjective reality--something else
_will_ appear on it."

The students nodded comprehendingly. So far, the experiment was on
familiar ground. Dr. Ormond gave them all a good-humored wink.

"To emphasize," he went on, "that we deal here with practical,
down-to-earth, _real_ matters ... not some mystical nonsense ... to
emphasize that, let us say that the object each of you will visualize
on this plate will be--a ham sandwich!"

There were appreciative chuckles. But Cavender felt a twinge of
annoyance. At the moment, when along with fighting off fatigue he'd
been trying to forget that he hadn't eaten since noon, Dr. Al's choice
looked like an unfortunate one. Cavender happened to be very fond of
ham.

"Now here," Ormond continued, putting the plate down, "is where this
experiment begins to differ from anything we have done before. For all
of us will try to imagine--to visualize as being on this plate--_the
same ham sandwich_. And so there will be no conflict in our
projections, let's decide first on just what ingredients we want to
put on it." He smiled. "We'll make this the finest ham sandwich our
collective imagination can produce!"

There were more chuckles. Cavender cursed under his breath, his mouth
beginning to water. Suggestions came promptly.

"Mustard?" Dr. Ormond said, "Of course--Not too sharp though,
Eleanor?" He smiled at Mrs. Folsom. "I agree! A light touch of
delicate salad mustard. Crisp lettuce ... finely chopped gherkins.
Very well!"

"Put it all on rye," Cavender said helplessly. "Toasted rye."

"Toasted rye?" Ormond smiled at him, looked around. "Any objections?
No? Toasted rye it shall be, Wally. And I believe that completes our
selection."

He paused, his face turning serious. "Now as to that word of caution I
gave you. For three minutes each of you will visualize the object we
have chosen on the plate I will be holding up before me. You will do
this with your eyes open, and to each of you, in your own subjective
reality, the object will become, as you know, more or less clearly
discernible.

"But let me tell you this. Do not be too surprised if at the end of
that time, when the exercise is over, the object _remains visible to_
you ... does not disappear!"

There was silence for a moment. Then renewed chuckles, but slightly
nervous ones, and not too many.

Dr. Ormond said sternly, "I am serious about that! The possibility,
though it may be small tonight, is there. You have learned that, by
the laws of Insight, any image of subjective reality, if it can be
endowed with _all_ the attributes of objective reality by its human
creator, _must_ spontaneously become an image in objective reality!

"In this case, our collective ham sandwich, if it were perfectly
visualized, could not only be seen by you but felt, its weight and the
texture of each of its ingredients perceived, their appetizing
fragrance savored"--Cavender groaned mentally--"and more: if one of
you were to eat this sandwich, he would find it exactly as nourishing
as any produced by the more ordinary methods of objective reality.

"There are people in the world today," Dr. Ormond concluded, speaking
very earnestly now, "who can do this! There always have been people
who could do this. And you are following in their footsteps, being
trained in even more advanced skills. I am aware to a greater extent
than any of you of the latent power that is developing--has
developed--in this group. Tonight, for the first time, that power will
be focused, drawn down to a pinpoint, to accomplish one task.

"Again, I do not say that at the end of our exercise a ham sandwich
will lie on this plate. Frankly, I don't expect it. But I suggest very
strongly that you don't let it surprise or startle you too much if we
find it here!"

There was dead stillness when he finished speaking. Cavender had a
sense that the lecture room had come alive with eerie little chills.
Dr. Ormond lifted the plate solemnly up before him, holding it between
the fingertips of both hands.

"Now, if you will direct your attention here ... no, Eleanor, with
your eyes open!

"Let us begin...."
