
"There is a point," Dr. Ormond began in a solemn voice, riveting their
eager attention on him, "a point in the orderly advance towards Total
Insight at which further progress becomes greatly simplified and
accelerated, because the student has now developed the capability to
augment his personal efforts by the use of certain instruments."

Cavender thoughtfully reached inside his coat, brought out a cigarette
case, opened it and slowly put a cigarette to his lips. About to flick
on a lighter, he saw Ruben Jeffries watching him with an expression of
disapproval from across the aisle. Jeffries shook his head, indicated
the NO SMOKING sign on the wall. Cavender nodded, smiling a rueful
apology for his absent-mindedness, and returned the cigarette to its
case. He shoved his hands into his trousers pockets, slouched back in
the chair.

"I have told you," Ormond was saying, "that the contributions many of
you so generously made to the Institute were needed for and being
absorbed by vital research. Tonight I had intended to give you a first
inkling of what that research was accomplishing." He tapped the
suitcase on the table before him. "In there is an instrument of the
kind I have mentioned. The beneficial forces of the Cosmos are
harnessed by it, flow through it. And I believe I can say that my
efforts in recent months have produces the most effective such device
ever seen...."

"Dr. Al," Mrs. Folsom interrupted firmly, "I think you should let them
know how the instrument cured my heart condition."

Faces shifted toward her, then back to Dr. Al. The middle-aged
majority of the students pricked their ears. For each of them,
conscious of the years of increasingly uncertain health to come, Mrs.
Folsom's words contained a personal implication, one that hit home.
But in spite of the vindication of her claim to have seen a
materialized ham sandwich, they weren't quite ready to trust her about
this.

Dr. Ormond's face was grave.

"Eleanor," he said reprovingly, "that was letting the cat out of the
bag, wasn't it? I hadn't intended to discuss that part of the matter
just yet."

He hesitated, frowning, tapping the table top lightly with his
knuckles. Mrs. Folsom looked unabashed. She had produced another
sensation and knew it.

"Since it was mentioned," Ormond said with deliberation at last, "it
would be unfair not to tell you, at least in brief, the facts to which
Eleanor was alluding. Very well then--Eleanor has served during the
past several weeks as the subject of certain experiments connected
with this instrument. She reports that after her first use of it, her
periodically recurring heart problem ceased to trouble her."

Mrs. Folsom smiled, nodded vigorously. "I have not," she announced,
"had one single touch of pain or dizziness in all this time!"

"But one should, of course," Dr. Ormond added objectively, "hesitate
to use the word 'cure' under such circumstances."

In the front row someone asked, "Dr. Al, will the instrument heal ...
well, other physical conditions?"

Ormond looked at the speaker with dignity. "John, the instrument does,
and is supposed to do, one thing. Providing, as I've said, that the
student working with it has attained a certain minimum level of
Insight, it greatly accelerates his progress towards Total Insight.
Very greatly!

"Now, as I have implied before: as one approaches the goal of Total
Insight, the ailments and diseases which commonly afflict humanity
simply disappear. Unfortunately, I am not yet free to show you proof
for this, although I have the proof and believe it will not be long
before it can be revealed at least to the members of this group. For
this reason, I have preferred not to say too much on the point....
Yes, Reuben? You have a question?"

"Two questions, Dr. Al," Reuben Jeffries said. "First, is it your
opinion that our group has now reached the minimum level of Insight
that makes it possible to work with those instruments?"

Ormond nodded emphatically. "Yes, it has. After tonight's occurrence
there is no further question about that."

"Then," Jeffries said, "my second question is simply--_when do we
start?_"

There was laughter, a scattering of applause. Ormond smiled, said, "An
excellent question, Reuben! The answer is that a number of you will
start immediately.

"A limited quantity of the instruments--fifteen, I believe--are
available now on the premises, stored in my office. Within a few weeks
I will have enough on hand to supply as many of you as wish to speed
up their progress by this method. Since the group's contributions paid
my research expenses, I cannot in justice ask more from you
individually now than the actual cost in material and labor for each
instrument. The figure ... I have it somewhere ... oh, yes!" Ormond
pulled a notebook from his pocket, consulted it, looked up and said,
mildly, "Twelve hundred dollars will be adequate, I think."

Cavender's lips twitched sardonically. Three or four of the group
might have flinched inwardly at the price tag, but on the whole they
were simply too well heeled to give such a detail another thought.
Checkbooks were coming hurriedly into sight all around the lecture
room. Reuben Jeffries, unfolding his, announced, "Dr. Al, I'm taking
one of the fifteen."

Half the students turned indignantly to stare at him. "Now wait a
minute, Reuben!" someone said. "That isn't fair! It's obvious there
aren't enough to go around."

Jeffries smiled at him. "That's why I spoke up, Warren!" He appealed
to Ormond. "How about it, Dr. Al?"

Ormond observed judiciously, "It seems fair enough to me. Eleanor, of
course, is retaining the instrument with which she has been working.
As for the rest of you--first come, first served, you know! If others
would like to have Mavis put down their names...."
