
There was a brief hubbub as this suggestion was acted on. Mavis,
Dexter Jones and Perrie Rochelle then went to the office to get the
instruments, while Dr. Ormond consoled the students who had found
themselves left out. It would be merely a matter of days before the
new instruments began to come in ... and yes, they could leave their
checks in advance. When he suggested tactfully that financial
arrangements could be made if necessary, the less affluent also
brightened up.

Fifteen identical red alligator-hide suitcases appeared and were lined
up beside Ormond's table. He announced that a preliminary
demonstration with the instrument would be made as soon as those on
hand had been distributed. Mavis Greenfield, standing beside him,
began to read off the names she had taken down.

Reuben Jeffries was the fifth to come up to the table, hand Ormond his
check and receive a suitcase from the secretary. Then Cavender got
unhurriedly to his feet.

"Dr. Ormond," he said, loudly enough to center the attention of
everyone in the room on him, "may I have the floor for a moment?"

Ormond appeared surprised, then startled. His glance went up to Reuben
Jeffries, still standing stolidly beside him, and his face slowly
whitened.

"Why ... well, yes, Wally." His voice seemed unsteady. "What's on your
mind?"

Cavender faced the right side of the room and the questioning faces
turned towards him.

[Illustration]

"My name, as you know," he told the advanced students, "is Wallace
Cavender. What you haven't known so far is that I am a police
detective, rank of lieutenant, currently attached to the police force
of this city and in temporary charge of its bunco squad."

He shifted his gaze towards the front of the room. Ormond's eyes met
his for a moment, then dropped.

"Dr. Ormond," Cavender said, "you're under arrest. The immediate
charge, let's say, is practicing medicine without a license. Don't
worry about whether we can make it stick or not. We'll have three or
four others worked up by the time we get you downtown."

For a moment, there was a shocked, frozen stillness in the lecture
room. Dr. Ormond's hand began to move out quietly towards the checks
lying on the table before him. Reuben Jeffries' big hand got there
first.

"I'll take care of these for now, Dr. Al," Jeffries said with a
friendly smile. "The lieutenant thinks he wants them."
