
Footsteps were coming down the short hall from the back of the
building. Then Reuben Jeffries' voice said, "Go into the office. The
lieutenant's waiting for you there."

Cavender stubbed out his cigarette as Dexter Jones, Perrie Rochelle
and Mavis Greenfield filed into the office. Jeffries closed the door
behind them from the hall and went off.

"Sit down," Cavender said, lighting a fresh cigarette.

They selected chairs and settled down stiffly, facing him. All three
looked anxious and pale; and Perrie's face was tear-stained.

Cavender said, "I suppose you've been wondering why I had Sergeant
Jeffries tell you three to stay behind."

Perrie began, her eyes and voice rather wild, "Mr. Cavender ...
Lieutenant Cavender...."

"Either will do," Cavender said.

"Mr. Cavender, I swear you're wrong! We didn't have anything to do
with Dr. Al's ... Mr. Grady's cheating those people! At least, I
didn't. I swear it!"

"I didn't say you had anything to do with it, Perrie," Cavender
remarked. "Personally I think none of you had anything to do with it.
Not voluntarily, at any rate."

He could almost feel them go limp with relief. He waited. After a
second or two, Perrie's eyes got the wild look back. "But...."

"Yes?" Cavender asked.

Perrie glanced at Dexter Jones, at Mavis.

"But then what _did_ happen?" she asked bewilderedly, of the other two
as much as of Cavender. "Mr. Cavender, I saw something appear on that
plate! I know it did. It was a sandwich. It looked perfectly natural.
I don't think it could have possibly been something Mr. Grady did with
mirrors. And how could it have had the paper napkin Mavis had just
been thinking about wrapped around it, unless...."

"Unless it actually was a materialization of a mental image you'd
created between you?" Cavender said. "Now settle back and relax,
Perrie. There's a more reasonable explanation for what happened
tonight than that."

He waited a moment, went on. "Grady's one real interest is money and
since none of you have any to speak of, his interest in you was that
you could help him get it. Perrie and Dexter showed some genuine
talent to start with, in the line of guessing what card somebody was
thinking about and the like. It's not too unusual an ability, and in
itself it wasn't too useful to Grady.

"But he worked on your interest in the subject. All the other
students, the paying students, had to lose was a sizable amount of
cash ... with the exception of Mrs. Folsom who's been the next thing
to a flip for years anyway. She was in danger. And you three stood a
good chance of letting Grady wreck your lives. I said he's a competent
hypnotist. He is. Also a completely ruthless one."

He looked at Mavis. "As far as I know, Mavis, you haven't ever
demonstrated that you have any interesting extrasensory talents like
Dexter's and Perrie's. Rather the contrary. Right?"

She nodded, her eyes huge.

"I've always tested negative. Way down negative. That's why I was
really rather shocked when that.... Of course, I've always been
fascinated by such things. And he insisted it would show up in me
sometime."

"And," Cavender said, "several times a week you had special little
training sessions with him, just as his two star pupils here did, to
help it show up. You were another perfect stooge, from Grady's point
of view. Well, what it amounts to is that Grady was preparing to make
his big final killing off this group before he disappeared from the
city. He would have collected close to thirty thousand dollars
tonight, and probably twice as much again within the next month or so
before any of the students began to suspect seriously that Dr. Al's
instruments could be the meaningless contraptions they are.

"You three have been hypnotically conditioned to a fare-you-well in
those little private sessions you've had with him. During the past
week you were set up for the role you were to play tonight. When you
got your cue--at a guess it was Mrs. Folsom's claim that she'd seen
the ham sandwich materialize--you started seeing, saying, acting, and
thinking exactly as you'd been told to see, say, act, and think.
There's no more mystery about it than that. And in my opinion you're
three extremely fortunate young people in that we were ready to move
in on Grady when we were."
