
There was silence for a moment. Then Perrie Rochelle said hesitantly,
"Then Mrs. Folsom...."

"Mrs. Folsom," Cavender said, "has also enjoyed the benefits of many
private sessions with Grady. She, of course, was additionally paying
very handsomely for them. Tonight, she reported seeing what she'd been
told to report seeing, to set off the hypnotic chain reaction."

"But," Perrie said, "she said her heart attacks stopped after she
started using the instrument. I really don't see how that could have
been just her imagination?"

"Very easily," Cavender said. "I've talked with her physician. Mrs.
Folsom belongs to a not uncommon type of people whose tickers are as
sound as yours or mine, but who are convinced they have a serious
heart ailment and can dish up symptoms impressive enough to fool
anyone but an informed professional. They can stop dishing them up
just as readily if they think they've been cured." He smiled faintly.
"You look as if you might be finally convinced, Perrie."

She nodded. "I ... yes, I guess so. I guess I am."

"All right," Cavender said. He stood up. "You three can run along
then. You won't be officially involved in this matter, and no one's
going to bother you. If you want to go on playing around with E.S.P.
and so forth, that's your business. But I trust that in future you'll
have the good sense to keep away from characters like Grady. Periods
of confusion, chronic nightmares--even chronic headaches--are a good
sign you're asking for bad trouble in that area."

They thanked him, started out of the office in obvious relief. At the
door, Perrie Rochelle hesitated, looked back.

"Mr. Cavender...."

"Yes?"

"You don't think I ... I need...."

"Psychiatric help? No. But I understand," Cavender said, "that you
have a sister in Maine who's been wanting you to spend the summer with
her. I think that's a fine idea! A month or two of sun and salt water
is exactly what you can use to drive the last of this nonsense out of
your mind again. So good night to the three of you, and good luck!"
