
Cavender snapped the top of the squat little thermos flask back in
place and restored it to the glove compartment of Jeffries' car. He
brushed a few crumbs from the knees of his trousers and settled back
in the seat, discovering he no longer felt nearly as tired and washed
out as he had been an hour ago in the lecture room. A few cups of
coffee and a little nourishment could do wonders for a man, even at
the tail end of a week of hard work.

The last light in the Institute building across the street went out
and Cavender heard the click of the front door. The bulky figure of
Detective Sergeant Reuben Jeffries stood silhouetted for a moment in
the street lights on the entrance steps. Then Jeffries came down the
steps and crossed the street to the car.

"All done?" Cavender asked.

"All done," Jeffries said through the window. He opened the door,
eased himself in behind the wheel and closed the door.

"They took Grady away by the back entrance," he told Cavender. "The
records in his files ... he wasn't keeping much, of course ... and the
stuff in the safe and those instruments went along with him. He was
very co-operative. He's had a real scare."

Cavender grunted. "He'll get over it."

Jeffries hesitated, said, "I'm something of a Johnny-come-lately in
this line of work, you know. I'd be interested in hearing how it's
handled from here on."

"In this case it will be pretty well standard procedure," Cavender
said. "Tomorrow around noon I'll have Grady brought in to see me. I'll
be in a curt and bitter mood--the frustrated honest cop. I'll tell him
he's in luck. The D. A.'s office has informed me that because of the
important names involved in this fraud case, and because all but
around forty thousand dollars of the money he collected in this town
have been recovered, they've decided not to prosecute. He'll have till
midnight to clear out. If he ever shows up again, he gets the book."

"Why leave him the forty thousand?" Jeffries asked. "I understood they
know darn well where it's stashed."

Cavender shrugged. "The man's put in two years of work, Reuben. If we
clean him, he might get discouraged enough to get out of the racket
and try something else. As it is, he'll have something like the
Institute of Insight going again in another city three months from
now. In an area that hasn't been cropped over recently. He's good in
that line ... one of the best, in fact."

Jeffries thoughtfully started the car, pulled out from the curb.
Halfway down the block, he remarked, "You gave me the go-ahead sign
with the cigarette right after the Greenfield girl claimed she'd put
the paper napkin into that image. Does that mean you finally came to a
decision about her?"

"Uh-huh."

Jeffries glanced over at him, asked, "Is there any secret about how
you're able to spot them?"

"No ... except that I don't know. If I could describe to anyone how to
go about it, we might have our work cut in half. But I can't, and
neither can any other spotter. It's simply a long, tedious process of
staying in contact with people you have some reason to suspect of
being the genuine article. If they are, you know it eventually. But if
it weren't that men with Grady's type of personality attract them
somehow from ten miles around, we'd have no practical means at present
of screening prospects out of the general population. You can't
distinguish one of them from anyone else if he's just walking past you
on the street."

Jeffries brought the car to a halt at a stop light.

"That's about the way I'd heard it," he acknowledged. "What about
negative spotting? Is there a chance there might be an undiscovered
latent left among our recent fellow students?"

"No chance at all," Cavender said. "The process works both ways. If
they aren't, you also know it eventually--and I was sure of everyone
but Greenfield over three weeks ago. She's got as tough a set of
obscuring defenses as I've ever worked against. But after the jolt she
got tonight, she came through clear immediately."

The light changed and the car started up. Jeffries asked, "You feel
both of them can be rehabilitated?"

"Definitely," Cavender said. "Another three months of Grady's
pseudoyoga might have ruined them for good. But give them around a
year to settle out and they'll be all right. Then they'll get the
call. It's been worth the trouble. Jones is good medium grade--and
that Greenfield! She'll be a powerhouse before she's half developed.
Easily the most promising prospect I've come across in six years."

"You're just as certain about Perrie Rochelle?"

"Uh-huh. Protopsi--fairly typical. She's developed as far as she ever
will. It would be a complete waste of time to call her. You can't
train something that just isn't there."

Jeffries grunted. "Never make a mistake, eh?"

Cavender yawned, smiled. "Never have yet, Reuben! Not in that area."

"How did you explain the sandwich to them--and Greenfield's napkin?
They couldn't have bought your stage magic idea."

"No. Told them those were Dr. Al's posthypnotic suggestions. It's the
other standard rationalization."
