
As Gorsline had been talking, the others had come in and now Hagen
turned to them. "What about Bodkin?" he asked.

Bondieu, the tall, thin, gloomy-looking entomologist, said, "Not much
hope, I'm afraid." He tapped his head. "The doctor says he's gone, like
the others. Alive, but empty."

Fenner sat up abruptly and slapped his hands together. "I'm certain I'm
right," he said. "It must be some sort of animal. The fact that you
didn't notice anything doesn't mean a thing; any hostile animal would
be exceedingly cautious and probably carefully camouflaged as well. The
one thing you noticed--that it was so quiet--seems to me to indicate
that _something_ was prowling nearby."

"That is so," said Gorsline. "You remember, Hakim, there were no bird
calls, no rustlings, none of the amphibians cheeping."

Dark-faced Hakim nodded.

Fenner went on, "I've said this before, and I'll say it again. It
is possible--just possible, mind you--that this mental paralysis
represents an emanation of some kind from a predator, a method of
paralyzing its prey before attacking. Wasn't Bodkin off more or less by
himself, away from the rest of you?"

"That's right," Gorsline said.

"And the same was true of Lermontov and Parson, both of them were
alone, or at any rate, a little apart from the rest."

He got to his feet. "I'll tell you one more thing I've noticed, on
my own field trips, not only in areas A and B, but also in the bush.
You're familiar with this, Bodkin, you were with me all four times.
But I haven't told you yet, Hagen. Those large banks of red flowers
always grow near marshy areas. The marshes are thick with those furry
reeds, the ones that look like giant bulrushes that have opened
their seed pods. I have found two things: one, numbers of bones and
exoskeletons among the flowers and the reeds, and two, in one place, in
the mud, a definite mark as if a heavy body had rested there. There was
a scent-spoor; the tracker confirmed it."

Hagen twisted the point of his goatee between two fingers. "This
is hardly proof of anything," he said. "Now, one minute. I agree,
it's interesting and provocative. Was the spoor fresh? It was? Well,
it gives us something to think of. We have no definite indication,
however--"

"No, of course not," Fenner said impatiently. "But we can't go on this
way, losing a man almost every time we send out a party. We'll be
afraid to set foot outside, after a while. And how the devil can we
study ecology under these circumstances? We've got to _know_ what
we're up against."

Hagen stood up, too, and suddenly his wiry little body assumed great
poise and authority. "Let me think about this," he said. "We'll have a
meeting tonight of the entire Station personnel, and we'll discuss the
matter. But I want time to consider all the aspects of it."

He went to the iris. "I want to look at Bodkin, too," he said. "Take it
easy, gentlemen."

There was a short silence after he had left. Then Gorsline, looking
speculatively at Fenner, said, "Luke, if you're right--you know, it's
interesting that in the month we've been here we haven't seen a single
large animal, not one larger than a rabbit."

"That doesn't mean much," said Hakim. "Imagine a Station being set
up in, say, Sussex. In one month--barring the animals that go with
civilization--you would hardly expect to find anything larger than a
fox. And nowadays you'd be hard put to it to find a fox, at that."

"Not quite apt, Hakim," Fenner said. "Because in Sussex a larger
predator--Man--has cleared away all his lesser rivals. Is it possible
that something has swept this region clean, and perhaps only a last few
survivors are now hanging about? Perhaps they're delighted to have us
visit them, eh?"

He cracked the knuckles of his long, bony fingers, and strode
restlessly to the iris. "I'm going to think about it, too," he said.

Gorsline, as if with a sort of clairvoyance, said, "Don't go jumping
into things, Luke."

"No, no, of course not."
