
Fenner went out into the corridor. There was a faint odor of pine that
blew from the air conditioner, and contrasted oddly with the almost
hospital bareness of the hall. He walked down to his own room, musing,
and glanced through the large window at the Orphic landscape.

As the Station's head ecologist, it was his duty to evaluate a
great many aspects of the survey which might not be apparent even
to the chief. For instance, assuming there were such a predator in
the neighborhood, what might be the probable results of trying to
exterminate it? Or what was its relationship to a region in which
there were so many winged creatures--"birds," they called them for
the sake of simplicity, although they were actually flying marsupials
and some very large insects--and so few ground animals that might
serve as its prey? Was it itself winged, or, he asked himself, did its
mind-paralyzing ability serve to pluck birds out of the trees?

He stiffened. Even while his mind had been busy with the subject, he
had been automatically scanning the view with the involuntary precision
of his profession. From the Station, the cleared ground sloped away to
a cluster of tall tree-ferns whose upper branches, long and drooping
like greatly oversized date-palm fronds, brushed the mossy earth. And
among those branches Fenner had seen something long and glossy move
swiftly.

All his attention focused at once on that spot. In the same instant, he
whipped out the tiny binoculars he always carried in a side pocket, and
put them to his eyes.

There was no doubt of it, something was crouching in the shadow of the
fronds. He had difficulty making it out, for it was a pale blue-green,
but he had an impression of a heavy head and shoulders, and what
appeared to be, incongruously, a bunch of feathers.

"Feather crest?" he thought to himself, with a grin. "Indians?"

The creature moved again. It slid sinuously out of the shadows and
crouched on the moss. Its color then changed to a darker green dappled
with brown. Fenner saw through the glass that the bunch of feathers was
a pair of antennae, similar to those of the larger moths, that sprang
from the top of its narrow head. It had short legs and a slender body
covered with short, fine fur. The general effect was that of a smallish
mountain lion.

As he watched, the creature turned on its own length somewhat as a
snake might turn, and glided out of sight over the edge of a ridge.

Fenner did not hesitate. Without a second thought, he snatched up his
plastic suit and zipped it on. The air of Orpheus was breathable, but
the suits had been designed to prevent contact with possibly poisonous
spores, pollen, plants, or insects. He took down a Remington which was
capable of delivering a bolt sufficient to stun a bear at thirty yards;
his intention was to capture the beast for study, not to kill it. He
also clipped to his belt a Mark III collecting net, a light, strong,
fine-mesh net in a capsule the size of an old-fashioned hand grenade.
Then he let himself out the side lock and ran quickly across the moss
towards the spot where the beast had vanished.

The moss was crushed and flattened where the thing had lain, and he
touched the selector of his wrist tracker and held it over the spot.
The scent-cell glowed, and the tiny needle swung over to point. Fenner
followed it over the ridge and down the hill on the other side.

The forest began at the foot of the hill, and beyond, looming above
the foliage, were the peaks of distant mountains, hazy in the faintly
greenish air. Somewhere beyond those peaks the Archeological Survey
was at work, and there was something comforting and neighborly in the
thought.

The light was always crepuscular here, and because of the color of
Orpheus' sun, the sky had a green tint as of a summer pool. This green,
against which the dark brown moss and lighter colors of the trees
shimmered like waterweed, was extremely restful and yet alien so that
in four weeks Fenner had not been able to accustom himself to it. He
felt always as if he were walking in a dream, as if his limbs were
weighted and languid, although in fact the purity of the air made him
feel more vigorous than ever before in his forty-five years.

He entered the forest which here was composed chiefly of a gray-stemmed
tree, very slender and rigid with a crown of glossy red-brown leaves.
The tall boles rose straight out of the moss, and there was little
underbrush so that it was almost like a planted park. The needle of the
tracker led him on a winding course but he was not afraid of becoming
lost for if by some mischance his homing compass, which was always set
for the Station, should fail, he had only to follow his own footsteps
back with the tracker.
