
The trail led for half a mile or so through the gray trees. Now and
then one of the long-tailed "birds" flashed like a shining jewel across
some cleared space, the yellow-green sunlight glistening on its fur.
Once in a while, a giant jointed thing, like a centipede, fluttered
lazily past on wide, scaly wings. From the tree-tops came whistles and
hoarse calls. He came at last to the bank of a rushing stream and the
needle halted. The beast had taken to the water.

Fenner decided to cast up and down the bank for a little way, in case
it had come out on the same side again. He had walked only a short
distance, when suddenly he had the distinct feeling that he was under
observation. He glanced down at the tracker. The needle had swung over
to the right.

He turned slowly in that direction, at the same time cautiously raising
his gun. In the corner of his eye, movement flickered. He braced
himself and tapped the firing button. A halo of white light surrounded
the muzzle, and there was the dull "crump!" of the discharge. He saw a
flurry in the leaves of the oil-bushes that grew here and there among
the trees. Leaves and bits of branches flew. A mottled gray and brown
shape darted like a streak away between the trees.

Fenner ran after it. He began to pant for breath, and sweat dripped
into his eyes. The trail led upstream, now, and soon the stream grew
more sluggish and broadened, and the gray trees thinned away. There
were dank, twisted plants here, some of them eight or ten feet high,
and wide stretches of reeds between which gleamed brown water and
patches of oily mud. A chorus of chirps sounded from the marsh, dying
away at his approach and starting again when he moved on.

Without warning, the needle of the tracker spun round, and Fenner
stopped. At the same instant, a lithe form shot out of the reeds
towards him. He dodged, throwing himself to the ground. The beast
bounded past him, and turned. Fenner rolled over and sat up, groping
in the moss for his gun. For a moment they regarded each other, Fenner
trying to bring his gun into position. The creature, he saw, had a
wedge-shaped face, narrower at the top where the feathery antennae
were, wide at the jaw which now gaped showing a double row of small
but sharp teeth. Its eyes were round and large, and bulged as a frog's
do; they were completely dark purple showing no trace of white. They
swiveled forward to stare at him, and as he braced his weapon the beast
made a coughing sound and sprang into the reeds.
