
All was quiet again. Fenner got up slowly, holding his gun ready, and
glanced at his tracker. There was a crack across the face of it, and
the needle was motionless. It had struck against a stone, when he fell.

He tried to see into the reeds, but he knew it was hopeless. By now,
the animal must have changed its color and pattern, and without the
tracker to guide him he could distinguish nothing. He commenced to walk
upstream, in the hope of somehow flanking it. He unclipped his net
capsule and held it ready.

It seemed to him that there was a slight movement in the marsh. He
stopped. There was no sound about him; the chirpings in the water had
ceased, and there was a quality of hush in the air, of almost ominous
tenseness as though the marsh itself were waiting for him.

He began to feel a little frightened. He looked from side to side.
Where was the thing? He had not realized how much he depended on the
wrist tracker. He found that he was trembling, and the perspiration
stung his eyes so that he had to keep blinking. Cautiously, he slipped
one of his gloved hands under the edge of the hood and wiped his eyes.

Something rustled slightly in the oil-bushes. These were thick clumps
of low shrubs, their branches a naked and repellent pink, covered with
spiny leaves on which a thick, pungent oil gathered during each day. It
apparently served to attract small insects which the leaves closed over
in much the same way as the Venus fly-catcher, of Earth. Fenner went
towards the bushes, moving very slowly, his gun tight against his hip,
his net-capsule in his left hand.

There was nothing in the bushes, and yet he thought the moss beneath
them looked flattened, as if something had lain there watchfully. Were
there two of the beasts? Was one still in the marsh, among the reeds,
while its mate stalked him here? His spine crept, and he glanced over
his shoulder.

He went softly on. Beyond the bushes, the ground rose again in a high
bank that overlooked the marsh, and all along this bank grew the
lustrous red flowers. They were larger than poppies, emphatically
vermilion so that they stood out among the dark greens and browns.
They had hairy stalks as thick as a man's wrist, and all about
them buzzed the snouted little beetles the survey team had named
_leptorrhinus_.

Fenner stood before the flowers thoughtfully. Their leaves were broad,
and close to the ground, but underneath one of them he could see a
small cage of white: the clean rib bones of some animal. He went
closer, bending to peer. Brittle bones, some with rags of skin clinging
to them, were scattered here and there on the ground. There were also
the empty wing-cases of some very large flying insects, as big as
crows, spotted yellow and black.

If he was right, this was the lair of the beast itself. And just beyond
these flowers, or even among them, itself vermilion now, the thing
might be lying.

He straightened cautiously, holding himself ready for a sudden attack.
And as he came erect, he was conscious of a curious light-headedness.

It was like inhaling too much oxygen. His ears rang and he felt giddy.
He took a step, and it was as if the ground heaved under his feet like
a living thing. A group of flowers before his eyes appeared to increase
in size, and to sway towards him.

He shook his head to dispel the illusion. He staggered a few steps
away, and it seemed to him that the flowers reached after him on stalks
that became incredibly elongated, like red worms, bristling all their
length with coarse hairs.

At that precise instant, the beast charged.

Fenner saw it in midair, and in his dizziness it seemed to move very
slowly, so slowly that his automatic movement with the net-capsule was,
by comparison, leisurely. He squeezed the capsule; the net shot out and
opened in the air. It missed the beast by an inch or so and fell among
the flowers. The beast struck Fenner full in the chest and bowled him
over. Its antennae bent towards his face, all his weight rested on
him. Its jaws were open. He closed his eyes.
