
Gorsline and Hakim, using their wrist-trackers, found them less than
half an hour later. Hakim, a little in the rear, threw up his gun but
Fenner snapped, "Don't shoot!"

"Are you all right?" Gorsline said incredulously.

Fenner was sitting up with one arm around the neck of the beast which,
at Hakim's movement, had recoiled.

"I'm fine," he said. "Speak softly."

"What ... what _is_ that thing?" Hakim asked.

Fenner looked at the animal. It was now brown, with a bluish tinge from
the surface of his plastic suit. He patted its head, and the thing put
out a slender tongue and licked his mask.

"I can tell you what it isn't," he grinned. "It isn't very dangerous.
Judging by its teeth and general appearance, I suspect it hunts
amphibians in the swamp, or perhaps goes after water-creatures like an
otter."

"So it does live in the swamp," said Gorsline.

"Yes."

"Why haven't we seen it before?"

"It's timid," Fenner replied. "There were always so many of us, and
we made so much noise. Alone, as I was, it was less frightened of
me, although I must have scared it by firing at it. I thought it was
stalking me. As a matter of fact," he added, "it _was_ stalking
me. But not for the purpose I imagined."

"What do you mean?" Hakim said.

"Why, appearances are deceiving. If a man who had never seen a dog
before were to see one jump up on its master, he might think the
creature was attacking the man. Putting two and two together, I was
sure this animal lived among the red flowers and was stalking me for
its dinner. But it was stalking me, and it rushed at me, only because
it wanted to protect me."

"Protect you? From what?"

"Well, I was right, you see. There _is_ a beast of prey here
which uses a form of mind-paralysis in order to stun its victims." He
motioned over his shoulder. "Those are the real predators, those red
flowers."

He looked at the lovely bank of vermilion, and shuddered. "I should
judge that their use of the mind-paralysis is automatic, but we are too
big and too many for them to actually attack us. That is why, although
poor Bodkin and the others succumbed, the flowers never tried to go
for them. If you'll look over there, you'll see the remains of my Mark
III net. It fell amongst them and they devoured most of it before they
realized that it wasn't alive."

He stood up. The beast nuzzled his calf and he stroked its neck, behind
the feathery stalks.

"I can't tell you how it's done," he went on, "because it only just
happened to me. We'll have to study it. But apparently this creature
has the ability, by means of these antennae of his, to counter, or
nullify the mind-destroying waves of the flowers."

"Great heavens!" Gorsline exclaimed. "Then it must have been
lurking--one like it, at any rate--each time we came near the flowers."

"Yes. It would have saved Bodkin," Fenner said, "but it was afraid of
the rest of you. You were so many, so noisy--"

"But why should it try to save us?" Hakim said. "If it is an animal, I
mean."

Fenner shrugged. "Why did the first dog become domesticated, and how
did it happen? Perhaps," he said softly, "there were once other beings
here who were its masters. One thing is clear to me: this creature is
very intelligent. And like all intelligent creatures it has a profound
need--"

"For food, you mean? Or shelter?"

"Oh, of course, for food, shelter, propagation, and so on. No," said
Fenner, smiling, "it is a deeper need than that."

"What?"

"Affection," said Fenner, and he set off walking, with the beast at his
heels.


                                THE END