
In the case of Lieutenant Hamilton Richardson, USN, there had been
no mysterious troubles of this kind--in fact, no troubles of any
kind at all. Aged thirty-six, he had been one of the first of the
astronauts to volunteer. He had passed with flying colors every one
of the grueling preliminary tests, mental and physical, and as far as
could be judged by science, he had seemed to be the perfect specimen,
mentally and physically, for the job. In the many tests made with him
inside the capsule, nothing had gone wrong with him. There had been
no signs of fatigue or failure of any kind. Had Snow been asked who,
in his opinion, would be the first man--or, at any rate, the first
American--to go into deep space, he would unhesitatingly have nominated
Richardson. That is to say, until that afternoon when the thing had
happened.

It had been a long test, one made for the first time. The object of
it was to find out how the spacesuit, which was sealed off from the
rest of the capsule, would stand up if something happened to the
capsule itself. If, for instance, in its headlong flight through space,
something struck it, something, maybe, no bigger than a small pebble.
The odds were that in collision with even so small a meteor, the shell
of the capsule would be punctured, and within a minute or less, the
atmospheric pressure inside it, fixed at about five thousand feet above
sea level, would be reduced to zero. In other words, the capsule would
become a vacuum in which nothing on Earth could live. The astronaut
would then have to depend upon his spacesuit which, being pressurized,
and being really a capsule within a capsule, with its own supply of
oxygen, would be the one hope of survival.

That day, the test had consisted of the "puncturing" of the capsule.
At a given signal, the pressure inside it had been reduced to that of
fifty miles above the Earth's surface--in other words, to zero--by
pumping out the air inside it. Richardson, the ace of the astronauts,
had been chosen for this important test.

It had gone well. With the other scientists at their dials, Snow,
seated at the big console of literally dozens of dials, the only one to
be connected with Richardson by sound and speech, had given the signal.
In a minute, the capsule had become a vacuum fifty miles above the
surface of the Earth, outside its envelope of atmosphere.

Richardson's voice, reading his instruments, acknowledging Snow's
instructions, answering his questions, had come through as normal
and as calm as ever. Snow had felt a rising excitement as the test
proceeded.

And then, without warning, the thing had happened. Richardson's voice
had stopped in the middle of an instrument reading, as if it had
suddenly been cut off. A few seconds later, it had resumed. But when
it did so, the voice was uttering a stream of unintelligible sounds
in a low, lilting chant. Snow had listened incredulously for perhaps
thirty seconds, at the end of which the sounds had suddenly ceased.
Immediately, Snow had given instructions for the normal pressure inside
the capsule to be restored. Almost as he had done so, Richardson's
voice, once again normal, had resumed the reading of the instruments,
taking up from where it had left off a minute before.

Acting on a sudden impulse. Snow had decided to say nothing over the
wire to Richardson at the time. He had continued his conversation with
the astronaut, telling him they were "bringing him down" and asking the
usual questions until the test ended.
