
When, with the others, he had stood around watching while Richardson
was helped out of his spacesuit, he had carefully watched their faces,
looking for some sign of doubt or puzzlement. But he saw none. On the
contrary, they all seemed triumphantly satisfied. Even Richardson had
shown no sign that anything unusual had occurred. He had been his usual
cheerful self, seeming not even slightly fatigued by the long test.

Being the only one who had been in contact with Richardson, Snow
had suddenly found himself wondering if he really had heard those
sounds, if, maybe, he had been the victim of a hallucination. This
was why he had said nothing about it at the time. He had just asked,
as casually as he could, if any of them had anything they wanted to
bring up immediately. They had shaken their heads, beaming their
satisfaction, and he had dismissed them all, saying that in view of the
length of the test they might all call it a day, and postponing the
usual interrogation until the morrow. Then he had hurried back to his
quarters, bringing with him the recording machine on which, as was the
practice, his conversation with Richardson during the test had been
recorded. Controlling his impatience with difficulty, he had rewound
the tape on the machine and played it back, the tension rising within
him as he listened.

There had been no hallucination. He heard Richardson's voice reading
the instrument, the sudden cut-off in the middle of it, the short
silence, then the voice uttering the strange sounds in a low-pitched
chant with a gentle rise and fall to it. Three times he had played it
back, and now it seemed to him that these were not just disconnected
sounds. They appeared to have a cadence, a phrasing which indicated
that they belonged to a language of some sort.

Snow was no linguist. He had less than a fair conversational knowledge
of French and German, and a scholar's acquaintance with Latin, but he
had travelled very extensively in his time and had been accustomed
to hear many languages spoken. He was quite sure he had never heard
anything even remotely resembling these sounds. Certainly Richardson
was no linguist either. He was third-generation American from British
stock, and all he knew about languages was what he had learned in
school.
