
Then where had those sounds come from? Were they a language, and if
so, what did they mean? How could this happen to a man like Richardson
without his knowing about it? Did it mean that here was, after all,
something strange about him which the man himself might not even know
about, and which might mean that he was not fit for the project? This
last question worried Snow more than the others.

He went to the telephone on his desk and dialed the Richardson
bungalow. The voice of Richardson's pretty wife answered him.

"Yes? Sandra Richardson here."

"Hello, Sandra. Phil Snow calling. Is Ham there?"

"He's in the shower singing his head off. Shall I get him?"

"No, it isn't important. I just wanted to ask him again if he feels all
right after the test. It was rather a long one, and I wondered if he
might feel tired, or...."

"Tired? He seems even more full of pep than usual. Was the test so very
long, then?"

"Yes, it was. That's why I called and--just to tell him it was a
success. I haven't checked all the reports yet, but it looks good. And
you say he's as usual?"

"Yes. Why? There wasn't anything...?"

"No, no, nothing at all. Just as I said. I'll be seeing you."

He rang off, hoping that nothing he had said was now making Sandra
Richardson suspicious, and resumed his pacing up and down the floor.
Now another question came into his mind. The same test would be run
several times again before final conclusions could be made. Should
he wait for them to see if this thing happened again before starting
anything with Richardson and his colleagues? But even as he asked
himself the question, he knew the answer. If this never again happened
in any future test, the fact would remain that it had happened once
and could not be forgotten or brushed aside. It must be cleared up.
Something had happened to Richardson's mind.

He decided to take Abe Franstein, his head psychologist, into his
confidence. As he dialed Franstein's bungalow, he recalled with a sense
of comfort that the brilliant little man was not only a world authority
in his particular subject, but that he was said to be able to read,
write, and converse in a staggering number of languages, some of them
obscure Oriental dialects.

When Franstein answered the call, Snow asked him to drop in for coffee
after dinner.


                                  II

"Well, I must say," said Franstein as they sipped their coffee, "yours
is the first glum face I've seen around here since that test this
afternoon. Here we are, within sight of our goal at last, and look at
you! Weren't you satisfied?"

"Before I go into that," Snow replied, "there are a few things I want
to ask you."

"About the test?"

"In a way, but principally about Richardson. Have you ever had any
reason to suspect that there is anything unusual about him?"

"In what way?"

"In your line."

Franstein produced an enormous meerschaum pipe and proceeded to fill it
from an untidy plastic pouch as he replied.

"Yes, there is. One very unusual thing."

"There is?"

"He's got a very rare type of mind. It's probably perfectly balanced."
The little man lit his pipe and continued: "The vast majority of us
have some sort of imbalance, mentally. He hasn't. When I say imbalance,
I mean the sort of thing that makes for genius, a phenomenal memory, an
outstanding, effortless talent, amnesia, any form of insanity, or even
something like a violent temper. Anything, so to speak, overemphasized."

"Is it physical? I mean, does it have anything to do with the size or
weight of the brain, or anything like that?"

"You can take the brain of a genius and that of an ordinary person of
average intelligence, and find them exactly the same in measurements
and tissue condition. The popular conception of the genius as a man
with a bulging forehead is so much nonsense. Plenty of lunatics and
retarded individuals have bulging foreheads."

"Then what does it have to do with?"

"Ah! That's the big question. Nobody knows. You can take two men, equal
physically in every respect, equal in upbringing, education, health,
and with the same sized brain. One of them might turn out to be a
genius, the other an average individual, and nobody knows what makes
the difference. Nobody knows what makes an infant prodigy, or what it
is which enables a child of two to read easily, or a kid of five or
six to play some instrument as if he'd been at it for years or compose
symphonies, or master advanced mathematics. Same answer. Nobody knows.
It's got nothing to do with heredity. So few geniuses have had genius
offspring that they form exceptions to the rule. Again, why does an
infant prodigy sometimes lose his gift or talent entirely as he grows
older? We don't know. All we know is that the gift or talent is there,
but where it comes from, or why it is in one brain and not in another,
we don't know. But surely you don't have to have me to tell you all
this, Phil? What's on your mind?"

"Listen to this," Snow said, and went to the tape recorder.
