
He rewound the tape to its beginning, depressed the switch marked
_Play_, and presently they heard the two voices, Snow's and
Richardson's.

"Now!" said Snow as the point on the tape approached.

There came the sudden stopping of Richardson's voice in the middle
of an instrument reading, the short silence, then Richardson's voice
chanting the strange sounds. Franstein took his pipe from between his
teeth and his mouth fell open as he listened. The sounds ceased and
Richardson's voice resumed the instrument reading at the point at which
it had left off.

"That's all," said Snow, and switched off the machine.

Franstein put his pipe back into his mouth. "Is this the recording of
this afternoon's test?"

"Yes. What d'you make of it?"

"Let's hear it again."

Snow played back the recording a second and a third time, and then
said: "Well?"

Franstein went to the table and helped himself to more coffee before
replying. "It's a new one on me," he said presently. "I've got about a
thousand recordings of languages and dialects from all over the world,
and not one of them is anything like that."

"You think it is a language, not just sounds?"

"That we've got to find out, but I'd say, offhand, it's a primitive
form of a language of some sort."

"Then how the devil does it come out of a man like Richardson who's
never spoken anything but English--nor his forebears, for that matter?"

Franstein shrugged his shoulders. "How does great music come out of a
child of six, and so on? Same question, same answer. Nobody knows.
Have you spoken to Richardson about it?"

"No. I rang his bungalow just before dinner and spoke to Sandra.
Richardson was in the shower, and she said he was feeling fine. I
didn't tell her about this, of course."

"Then it couldn't have been some sort of mediumistic trance. They
usually feel the effects of that sooner or later."

"You're not suggesting spiritualism, are you?" and in Snow's voice was
a note of amusement.

"Don't laugh at it. If it's never been proved, neither has it been
disproved."

And that touched off a discussion which went on for two hours. It
covered many theories, many beliefs and faiths, all of which Franstein
spoke learnedly and with great respect. He talked of reincarnation,
spiritualism, the mystery of time, and in this last connection, he
paused in the middle of what he was saying and asked: "If this--" and
he waved a hand toward the machine--"is a language, and I'm pretty
sure it is, how can we be sure that it is a language of the past? Why
shouldn't it be one belonging to the future? All languages change with
time. We'd probably find it very difficult to understand the English
spoken ten centuries ago. What if this is the English that is going to
be spoken a thousand years hence?"
