
To all of which Snow listened with the skepticism of the exact
scientist, and Franstein, quick to notice this, went on: "You think
yourselves clever, you exact scientists, and so you are. You can do
a lot of things. You can split the atom, measure the stars, estimate
the life expectancy of the sun; you have conquered distance, you have
surrounded us with miracles like radio, television, invisible rays and
all the rest of it. Presently, you will conquer space and colonize the
planets, and so it will go until it will seem to you that you will
know everything. And you will too, except for one thing--the one final
mystery, the last secret of the universe--MAN. And that means you and
me, and any human being from a bum of Skid Row to the President. Man
is the eternal unknown quantity, and you've never had a more clear
demonstration of this than what happened to Richardson this afternoon.
Oh, I know what you've found out. You know all about man, his insides,
his glands, muscles, nerves, brain, and so on. You can even display him
on a table as a bucket of water and little piles of salts and minerals,
and you can point to them and say: 'That is what man is made of.' Only
the other day I was reading about some scientist who thinks he's on
the verge of producing a cell of life in a test tube. You may even do
that, and you may find out one day how to put the water and the salts
and the minerals together again and make a man. I've always thought the
Frankenstein story was a bit of inspired prophecy. But you still won't
be able to explain why great music can come from a child of six, or
what happened to Richardson this afternoon." He lit his big pipe, which
had gone out, and through the puffs asked: "And what do you propose to
do about Richardson?"

"Run the test again tomorrow with him and see if this happens again,
and then decide," replied Snow.

"But even if nothing happens tomorrow, you can't ignore this."

"That's true. We've got to get to the bottom of it, and that's where
you come in. You're the expert on this sort of thing."

Franstein looked at his watch. "Let's sleep on it and see what happens
tomorrow, eh?"

He was on his way to the door when the telephone bell rang. Snow picked
up the receiver, and he heard him say: "Sandra?... _What?_... I'll be
right over. I've got Abe Franstein with me. I'll bring him with me.
Don't worry dear."

Snow hung up. "Something's happened to Richardson," he said. "He's gone
into a deep sleep and won't wake, and he's talking to himself in some
funny language. Let's go."

Snow rummaged in a drawer of his desk and found a stethoscope.


                                  III

Five minutes later, they were standing with pretty Sandra Richardson at
the foot of the bed on which Richardson, clad in his pajamas, sprawled
on his back. He was in a deep sleep and from his mouth came a low
chanting. Franstein and Snow glanced at each other as they recognized
the sounds.

Snow tried to wake the astronaut, gently at first, then less so, but it
had no effect. He used his stethoscope on heart and lungs, drew back an
eyelid and examined the eye beneath, felt the brow.

"When did this happen?" he asked the anxious Sandra.

"About fifteen, maybe twenty minutes ago," she replied. "We came in
here and undressed and I used the bathroom first. When I came out, I
found him like this."

"How's he been all the evening?"

"Fine, just as I told you when you rang. Tom and Betty Moreland came
for dinner and we played canasta. Is he all right?"

"As far as I can see, yes. Heart, lungs, eyes all right, no fever. I
guess we'll just have to wait till he wakes."

They went into the sitting room and Sandra left them to make coffee.

"He's living through something," Franstein said. "Pity you haven't got
the recorder here."

"I thought the same. I'll get it."

Snow left and Franstein wandered back into the bedroom and leaned over
Richardson. Now he was sure this was a language and that the sleeper
was conversing with someone in his sleep. The expressions changed on
Richardson's face rapidly as they do on the face of anyone during a
conversation. At one moment he laughed as he said something, then
became serious as he said something else.

Sandra came into the bedroom and joined Franstein at the bedside. "He's
never been like this before," she said worriedly.

"Doesn't he ever talk in his sleep?"

"He never even snores. When we were first married, he slept so quietly
that I thought he'd stopped breathing, but I'd only have to touch him
or whisper to him and he'd wake in an instant. What does this mean?"

"We'll find out, never fear."

They went back into the sitting room as they heard Snow return. He was
carrying the recording machine, and seeing the question in Sandra's
eyes as she saw it, he said reassuringly: "We're going to make a
recording of what Ham's saying. We'll soon find out what this is all
about."

He busied himself changing the tapes on the machine, taking the new
one from his pocket, and fumbled the job in his haste. He had plugged
in the microphone and was unwinding the long chord when they heard
Richardson's voice call out from the next room: "Sandra!" and a moment
later, Richardson appeared in the open doorway, staring at them in
astonishment.

"Abe! Phil! When did you come here?"

"About half an hour ago," Snow replied.
