
Richardson passed a hand over his eyes. "I must have fallen asleep," he
said.

"You did, darling, and I couldn't wake you," Sandra said. "So I called
Phil."

"You couldn't wake me?"

"No, and you were talking away in your sleep. You had me worried."

"Why?"

Sandra, at a loss, looked at Franstein and he answered for her. "You
were dreaming, Ham," he said.

Richardson thought for a moment before replying. "Now that you mention
it, I was. But what's so extraordinary about that? Why are you all
looking at me as if I'd suddenly grown horns?

"D'you remember what the dream was about?" Franstein asked.

"Vaguely. Yes, I do. It was just a dream. Why is it so important?" He
sat down in a deep chair and looked around at them. "What is all this?"
he said. "I fall asleep for half an hour, have a silly dream, and wake
up to find you here looking as if something big has happened."

"Something has happened, Ham," said Franstein. "Something we don't
understand." Richardson started up in his seat. "Take it easy, there's
nothing to worry about. We'll get to the bottom of it." He turned to
Snow. "I think I know the way out of this. Play the recording for Ham
to hear."

Snow hesitated for a moment. "All right, if you think so," he said, and
busied himself with the recorder, replacing the used tape on the spool.

Sandra perched herself on the arm of her husband's chair and put an arm
about his shoulders. They waited while Snow linked up the end of the
tape to the other spool. He pressed the _Play_ switch, and presently
there came the voices of Snow and Richardson.

"That's this afternoon's test," Richardson said.

Franstein nodded, and they continued to listen. Then came the chanting
sounds, and when he heard them, Richardson's expression changed to one
of amazement. Snow switched off the machine.

"What was that?" Richardson asked.

"We hoped you'd be able to tell us," Franstein replied.

"I? What should I know about it?"

"That was your voice, Ham. Nobody's touched the tape, and I heard it
during the test."

"But this is crazy. How could I make a noise like that without knowing
anything about it? Why, I remember every second of that test, and I
know I didn't do anything like that." He jumped to his feet and began
to walk up and down the room, his hands pressed to his head.

"I said take it easy, Ham," Franstein said.

Richardson pulled up short in his pacing and turned to the little
man. "How can I take it easy? I spend six hours in the capsule in a
difficult test, remember every bit of it, come out of it feeling not
even tired, and now you tell me that in the middle of it I had some
sort of a blackout and made funny noises. That can only mean that
there's something wrong with me, and you don't have to tell me what
that means. I don't qualify, after all. Is that what you came here to
tell me?"
