
Again, Richardson concentrated before replying. "To another Earth," he
said. "That's right. The old guy, our father, said that this one was
going to be destroyed by some disaster, and the people standing about
were laughing and jeering and saying the old man was crazy."

"Do you know what sort of disaster was going to happen?" asked
Franstein.

Richardson looked at him and suddenly a smile formed on his face. "Now
I know where that dream came from," he said. "Remember that book _On
The Beach_? The story about how everyone on Earth was wiped out by
nuclear fallout? That's it! I remember wondering when I read it if some
of us would be able to go to another planet before anything like that
happened here, and I remember thinking, too, that we'd probably take
things like seeds and so on with us, and even the ova of animals, and
that by then we'd probably know how to preserve them--freeze them or
something of the sort."

"We can do that now," Snow said.

"Well, there it is, then," said Richardson, smiling again. "There's the
explanation."

"It explains the dream all right," agreed Snow, "but what about the
sounds? Particularly those you made in the capsule?"

"Lord, yes!" said Richardson, and the smile left his face. "I'd
forgotten about those. That puts us back to where we came in, doesn't
it?"

"I'm not so sure," said Franstein. He got to his feet and, in his turn,
prowled up and down the room, deep in thought. The others waited for
him to go on, and presently he turned to them, a glint of excitement in
his eyes. "I think we're onto something," he said. "Those sounds are
obviously a part of your dream, Ham, including the ones you made in the
capsule, and only you know what they mean."

"But I don't even remember making them!"

"No, but your mind does. If we can unlock your mind, we can find the
secret, and there's a way in which it can be done. Hypnosis."

"Hypnosis?" The others spoke at once.

Franstein nodded. "I've got to put you into a hypnotic trance, Ham,
and we'll play that recording back to you and I think--only think,
remember--that you're going to be able to tell us what they mean. Any
objection, Phil?"

"You're the expert."

"How about you, Ham?"

"I'll do anything to clear up this business." He jumped to his feet.
"Let's get on with it now. What do I do? Shall I lie down on the sofa?"

"I didn't know you are a hypnotist too, Abe," said Snow. "I'm not
surprised, though. I might have known."

Franstein took no notice of this. He stepped up to Richardson and
looked up at him, holding out one hand which the other, wonderingly,
took. "The big thing is confidence, Ham," he said, looking up
earnestly. "Complete confidence. You have that in me?"

Richardson looked down on the little man and nodded his head. "Sure,"
he said. "I've always had that in you, Abe."

Franstein continued to hold the other's hand. "That's fine," he said.
"All you have to do is to relax and trust in me. Just relax completely.
Just let yourself go--eh?"
