
Richardson's head nodded again, and for a moment Franstein, still
holding the hand continued to look up into Richardson's face above
him. Then he released the hand and said: "Now you can lie down on the
couch if you like."

Richardson went to the couch and stretched himself out on it.

"I've heard a lot about this," Sandra said, "but I've never seen it
done."

Franstein smiled at her. "You've just seen it done, my dear," he said,
and as she stared back at him in astonishment, added: "He's a very good
subject. Now, when that machine is ready...."

"If I'm right in what I think," Franstein said a few minutes later to
Snow, who stood by the table on which now rested the recorder, and to
Sandra who was at the head of the couch looking down on her husband who
lay there, his eyes half-closed, "you're going to hear something very
surprising. Please don't make a sound."

They nodded their heads, and Franstein seated himself on the edge of
the couch, leaned over Richardson, and spoke softly: "You hear me, Ham?"

"Yes, I hear you."

"Then listen." Franstein turned and nodded to Snow. The machine was
switched on and there came, clearly, the chanted sounds of the test.
They finished and the machine was switched off. "You heard, Ham?"

"Yes, I heard."

"You made those sounds that we just heard."

"Yes."

"Can you repeat them?"

"Yes."

"Then do so."

And now the strange low chanting sounds streamed from Richardson's
lips. Sandra put her hands to her mouth to stifle a gasp. Snow stepped
to her side, his face tense.

The sounds ceased and Franstein, his eyes alight with excitement, said
softly: "Tell us, to whom are you speaking?"

"To my sons."

"Tell us in English what you are saying to them."

There was a silence. Franstein repeated his command, and Richardson
spoke again, this time in his normal voice.

"_And God saw the earth, and behold it was corrupt; for all flesh
had corrupted their way upon the earth. And God said to Noah, I have
determined to make an end of all flesh; for the earth is filled with
violence through them; behold I will destroy them with the earth. Make
yourself an ark ... and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons,
your wife, and your sons' wives with you. And of every living thing of
all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them
alive with you, they shall be male and female.... Also take with you
every sort of food that is eaten and store it up.... And Noah did all
that the Lord had commanded him._..."

The voice tapered off into silence, and Sandra, her eyes wide with fear
and amazement whispered: "That's the story of the Flood and he told it
as if he was there. What does it mean?"

Franstein silenced her with a gesture and bent over Richardson whose
eyes were closed. "Ham," he said, a note of insistence in his voice,
"you hear me? Answer!"

The eyes half opened. "Yes, I hear you."

"Tell me, where did you go in the ark?"

"To a place of many waters ... many waters, and we rested on them until
they went down." Now the voice was fading.

"Where was it? Tell me, where was it?"

The reply came in almost a whisper. "I don't know. It was another
earth ... another earth...."

The eyes closed again, the breathing became deeper, but the lips still
moved, and through them, barely heard in the tense silence, came again
the low, chanting sounds. Then they, too, died away to silence, the
lips ceased to move, and Richardson slept.



