
Thompson nodded his head affably and remained silent. Presently he went
to the cupboard and got out the whisky; he poured a shot and downed it
in one quick movement. Then he filled his pipe and lit it. He puffed
clouds of smoke and stared at the green men through a blue haze.

"Well," said the nearest green man again, "Aren't you glad?"

Thompson nodded genially.

"We're here to help you write a story, you know," pursued the other.

"Oh." Thompson brightened. "Good. Got any ideas?"

"Naturally. What would you like to write about? Romance? Adventure?
Mystery? Fantasy?"

"Let's try--" Thompson pursed his lips and looked at the ceiling, "a
short mystery. Something with a surprise ending that lays you out."

"Easy," said the other. "Try this."

He began narrating.

Thompson relaxed in his chair and puffed more clouds of smoke.
Presently his face lit up. His eyes dilated and his pupils diminished
to specks.

"Ah!" He exclaimed. He pulled his chair up to the typewriter and
started typing notes, interspersing the green man's narrative with
muttered exclamations.

The green man finished with an ending that sent Thompson over backwards
in his chair. Thompson extricated himself and set up the chair again.
"Terrific!" he said. "It'll make my fortune!"

"It will," assented the green man.

"What do you want for it?" inquired Thompson craftily.

"Nothing," responded the vision.

"Oh yes," said Thompson. "Nothing. Certainly. Well," he withdrew a
stack of typewriter paper from his cluttered desk, "I certainly thank
you fellows. Goodbye." He inserted a sheet in the typewriter.

"Oh, we're not leaving," said the off-color gnome.

"You will," said Thompson imperturbably. "In the morning. I'll have a
headache but you'll be gone."

"Suit yourself," said the green man. He and his companions rose a foot
in the air and sat suspended again. Thompson began to type. Now and
then he looked at the green men and smiled, and turned back to his
click-clacking on the typewriter.

Twenty double-spaced pages later he was done. He made a neat stack of
the sheets and shoved them into an envelope, handily pre-addressed to
the editorial offices of one of the more prominent magazines. He sealed
the envelope and slapped postage on it. Then he walked three flights
down from his apartment to the street, slipped the envelope into a
mailbox, and staggered back up to bed.
