
He awoke, true to his prediction, with a raging headache. He sat up
in bed and looked around the room for the little green men. They were
nowhere to be seen. His doubts assuaged, he rose stiffly from his bed
and careened off the chest-of-drawers into the bathroom, where he
swallowed three aspirins in a glass of water. He turned on the water
to see if it was hot, letting it run over his fingers. It was. He took
a steaming shower and followed it with an icy one. Then he rubbed
himself down with a Turkish towel and, the towel precariously wrapped
around his middle, went back into the bedroom. His eyes bugged out and
he tripped on the edge of the rug and fell heavily to the floor. When
he got up four green men were still sitting complacently on a shaft of
sunlight that poured in through the Venetian blind.

Thompson's mouth opened and closed but nothing came out.

"See," said the nearest green man. "I told you so. And don't take on
so," he added in alarm. "You'll dislocate your jaw."

Thompson turned his back to the vision and went into the cupboard. He
poured a shot of rye and downed it in one quick movement. The bottle in
his hand, he sat down on the edge of the bed, regaining his composure.

"Why do you do that?" inquired the gnome with curiosity.

"If I'm going to go on seeing you," Thompson explained, "I may as well
be drunk. It helps."

"You mean you still attribute our existence to the effects of alcohol?"
inquired the other.

"Oh no," Thompson denied vigorously. "To the bitters."

"You jest," said the gnome in hurt tones. "Don't you want to become a
great author?"

"Certainly," Thompson agreed hastily. "You mean you have more ideas?"

"An infinite number," said the green man, waving a deprecatory hand.
"We thought of an excellent novel," he added, "while you slept last
night. Do you want to hear it?"

"Of course!" Thompson jerked on his shorts. "Wait, though. I need
breakfast first." He writhed into a shirt.

"Plenty of time," said the greenie. "While you're gone, we'll
assimilate some more ideas."

"Good," said Thompson, pulling on his trousers. "Shall I bring you
something to eat?"

"We don't eat," said the other airily. "You can bring a spotlight,
though. We can sit best on a beam of light."

"Right," said Thompson. He opened the door.

"Goodbye," remarked the gnome.

"Goodbye," Thompson hurried from the room.
