
He went to the bathroom and washed. By the time he came to the kitchen,
Edna had hotcakes on a plate and coffee in a cup. He sat down and ate.
Part way through the meal, he paused. "Got an awful craving for meat,"
he said. "Goddam those rations! Man can't even butcher his own stock
for his own table!"

"We're having meat for lunch," she said placatingly. "Nice cut of
multi-pro."

"Multi-pro," he scoffed. "God knows what's in it. Like spam put through
a grinder a hundred times and then baked into slabs. Can't hardly taste
any meat there."

"Well, we got no choice. Country's on emergency rations. The current
crisis, you know."

The way she said it irritated him. Like it was Scripture; like no one
could question one word of it without being damned to Hell. He finished
quickly and without speaking went on out to the barn.

He milked and curried and fed and cleaned, and still was done inside
of two hours. Then he walked slowly, head down, across the hay-strewn
floor. He stopped, put out his hand as if to find a pole or beam that
was too familiar to require raising his eyes, and almost fell as he
leaned in that direction. Regaining his balance after a sideward
staggering shuffle, he looked around, startled. "Why, this ain't the
way I had my barn...."

He heard his own voice, and stopped. He fought the flash of senseless
panic. Of course this was the way he'd had his barn built, because it
_was_ his barn!

He rubbed his hard hands together and said aloud, "Get down to the
patch. Them tomatoes need fertilizer for tang." He walked outside and
took a deep breath. Air was different, wasn't it? Sweet and pure and
clean, like country air always was and always would be; but still,
different somehow. Maybe sharper. Or was sharp the word? Maybe....

He went quickly across the yard, past the pig-pen--he'd had twelve
pigs, hadn't he? Now he had four--behind the house to where the
half-acre truck farm lay greening in the sun. He got to work. Sometime
later, Edna called to him. "Delivery last night, Harry. I took some.
Pick up rest?"

"Yes," he shouted.

She disappeared.

He walked slowly back to the house. As he came into the front yard,
moving toward the road and the supply bin, something occurred to him.
_The car._ He hadn't seen the old Chevvy in ... how long? It'd be nice
to take a ride to town, see a movie, maybe have a few beers.

No. It was against the travel regulations. He couldn't go further than
Walt and Gloria Shanks' place. They couldn't go further than his. And
the gas rationing. Besides, he'd sold the car, hadn't he? Because it
was no use to him lying in the tractor shed.
