
He whirled, staring out across the fields to his left. Why, the tractor
shed had stood just fifty feet from the house!

No, he'd torn it down. The tractor was in town, being overhauled and
all. He was leaving it there until he had use for it.

He went on toward the road, his head beginning to throb. Why should
a man his age, hardly sick at all since he was a kid, suddenly start
losing hold this way? Edna was worried. The Shanks had noticed it too.

He was at the supply bin--like an old-fashioned wood bin; a box with
a sloping flap lid. Deliveries of food and clothing and home medicines
and other things were left here. You wrote down what you needed, and
they left it--or whatever they allowed you--with a bill. You paid the
bill by leaving money in the bin, and the next week you found a receipt
and your new stuff and your new bill. And almost always you found some
money from the government, for not planting wheat or not planting corn.
It came out just about even.

He hauled out a sack of flour, half the amount of sugar Edna had
ordered, some dried fruit, a new Homekit Medicine Shelf. He carried it
into the house, and noticed a slip of paper pinned to the sugar bag. A
television program guide.

Edna hustled over excitedly. "Anything good on this week, Harry?"

He looked down the listings, and frowned. "All old movies. Still only
one channel. Still only from nine to eleven at night." He gave it to
her, turned away; then stopped and waited. He'd said the same thing
last week. And she had said the films were all new to her.

She said it now. "Why Harry, I've never seen this movie with Clark
Gable. Nor the comedy with Red Skeleton. Nor the other five neither."

"I'm gonna lie down," he said flatly. He turned and stepped forward,
and found himself facing the stove. Not the door to the hall; the
stove. "But the door...." he began. He cut himself short. He turned and
saw the door a few feet to the left, beside the table. He went there
and out and up the stairs (they too had moved; they too weren't right)
and into the bedroom and lay down. The bedroom was wrong. The bed was
wrong. The windows were wrong.

The world was wrong! Lord, the whole damned world was wrong!
