
They ate in the kitchen. They talked--or rather Edna, Gloria and Walt
did. Harry nodded and said uh-huh and used his mouth for chewing.

Walt and Gloria went home at ten-fifteen. They said goodbye at the
door and Harry walked away. He heard Gloria whispering something about
Doctor Hamming.

He was sitting in the living room when Edna came in. She was crying.
"Harry, please see the doctor."

He got up. "I'm going out. I might even sleep out!"

"But why, Harry, why?"

He couldn't stand to see her crying. He went to her, kissed her wet
cheek, spoke more softly. "It'll do me good, like when I was a kid."

"If you say so, Harry."

He left quickly. He went outside and across the yard to the road. He
looked up it and down it, to the north and to the south. It was a
bright night with moon and stars, but he saw nothing, no one. The road
was empty. It was always empty, except when Walt and Gloria walked over
from their place a mile or so south. But once it hadn't been empty.
Once there'd been cars, people....

He had to do something. Just sitting and looking at the sky wouldn't
help him. He had to go somewhere, see someone.

He went to the barn and looked for his saddle. There was no saddle. But
he'd had one hanging right behind the door. Or had he?

He threw a blanket over Plum, the big mare, and tied it with a piece of
wash line. He used another piece for a bridle, since he couldn't find
that either, and didn't bother making a bit. He mounted, and Plum moved
out of the barn and onto the road. He headed north, toward town.

Then he realized he couldn't go along the road this way. He'd be
reported. Breaking travel regulations was a serious offense. He didn't
know what they did to you, but it wasn't anything easy like a fine.

He cut into an unfenced, unplanted field.

His headache was back, worse now than it had ever been. His entire
head throbbed, and he leaned forward and put his cheek against Plum's
mane. The mare whinnied uneasily, but he kicked her sides and she moved
forward. He lay there, just wanting to go somewhere, just wanting to
leave his headache and confusion behind.

He didn't know how long it was, but Plum was moving cautiously now. He
raised his head. They were approaching a fence. He noticed a gate off
to the right, and pulled the rope so Plum went that way. They reached
the gate and he got down to open it, and saw the sign. "Phineas Grotton
Farm." He looked up at the sky, found the constellations, turned his
head, and nodded. He'd started north, and Plum had continued north.
He'd crossed land belonging both to himself and the Franklins. Now he
was leaving the Franklin farm. North of the Franklins were the Bessers.
Who was this Phineas Grotton? Had he bought out Lon Besser? But
anything like that would've gotten around.

Was he forgetting again?
