
His entire body trembled. His mind trembled too. He walked, and came to
a waist-high metal railing, and made a tiny sound deep in his throat.
He looked out over water, endless water rolling in endless waves under
the night sky. Crashing water, topped with reflected silver from the
moon. Pounding water, filling the air with spray.

He put out his hands and grasped the railing. It was wet. He raised
damp fingers to his mouth. Salt.

He stepped back, back, and turned and ran. He ran wildly, blindly,
until he could run no more. Then he fell, feeling the sand beneath him,
and shut his eyes and mind to everything.

Much later, he got up and went to the fence and climbed it. He came
down on the other side and looked around and saw Plum. He walked to
her, mounted her, sat still. The thoughts, or dreams, or whatever they
were which had been torturing him these past few weeks began torturing
him again.

It was getting light. His head was splitting.

Davie. His son Davie. Fourteen years old. Going to high school in
town....

_Town!_ He should've gone there in the first place! He would ride east,
to the road, then head south, back toward home. That would bring him
right down Main Street. Regulations or not, he'd talk to people, find
out what was happening.

He kicked Plum's sides. The mare began to move. He kept kicking until
she broke into a brisk canter. He held on with hands and legs.

Why hadn't he seen the Pangborns and Elvertons lately--a long time
lately?

_The ocean. He'd seen the ocean. Not a reservoir or lake made by
flooding and by damming, but salt water and enormous. An ocean, where
there could be no ocean. The Pangborns and Elvertons had been where
that ocean was now. And after the Elvertons had come the Dobsons.
And after them the new plastics plant. And after that the city of
Crossville. And after that...._

He was passing his own farm. He hadn't come through town, and yet here
he was at his own farm. Could he have forgotten where town was? Could
it be north of his home, not south? Could a man get so confused as to
forget things he'd known all his life?

He reached the Shanks' place, and passed it at a trot. Then he was
beyond their boundaries and breaking regulations again. He stayed on
the road. He went by a small house and saw colored folks in the yard.
There'd been no colored folks here. There'd been Eli Bergen and his
family and his mother, in a bigger, newer house. The colored folks
heard Plum's hooves and looked up and stared. Then a man raised his
voice. "Mistah, you breakin' regulations! Mistah, the police gonnah get
you!"
