
It occurred to Terri that he had misinterpreted the situation. Relief
came, mixed with a certain amount of chagrin at the way in which he
allowed himself to show alarm. He had looked ridiculous. He leaned
back in the chair and allowed a note of official hauteur and annoyance
to creep into his voice. "I see," he said. "You want something?"

The old man nodded energetically.

"I do. Indeed I do."

"And you think you have some kind of a bargaining tool that is useful
but might not be so if it became known to official channels."

"Well--" said the old man cautiously.

"Don't waste my time," interrupted Terri, harshly. "I'm not an
ordinary politician. No man who works his way up to the fifth level of
the government is. I didn't get to where I am today by pussy-footing
around and I haven't the leisure to spend on people who do. Now _what_
do you want?"

The other cackled. "Now, what do you think?" he said, putting one
finger to his nose cunningly.

"You are old," Terri said. "And therefore cautious. Consequently you
would not risk trying to force something from me, but are almost
certainly trying to sell me something. Now what do I want? Not the
usual things, certainly. Within my position I have all the material
things a man could want; and within my shield I enjoy complete
immunity. No one but the Central Bureau, itself, can crack this
shield. And no one but they can prevent the conditioned reflex that
stops my heart if for some reason the shield should be broached. I
have a hold on every man beneath me that prevents him from knifing me
in the back. There could be only one thing that I want that you could
give me--" he leaned forward, staring into the deep-pouched eyes--"and
that is a means of getting at the man above me. Am I right?"

"No," said the old man.

Terri stiffened.

"No?" he echoed in angry incredulity.

Their eyes locked. For a long time they held, and at last Terri looked
away.

The old man sighed--sipped noisily from a drink on the table beside
his chair.

"Wait!" said Terri. To his own surprise, his voice was eager, even a
little timorous in its hopefulness. "Wait. I've got it. There will be
a test. There always is a test every time a man moves up. His
superiors watch him when he doesn't suspect it. It will be that way
for me when I am ready for the fourth level. And you have some kind of
advance information. You know what the test will be. Maybe you know
the man who will administer it. You want to sell me this information."

The other said nothing.

"Well," Terri spread his hands openly. "I am interested. I'll buy.
What do you want. Money? A favor? Protection?"

"No."

"No?" Terri shouted, starting up from his chair. "What do you mean by
no? Can't you say anything but 'no'?" A rage possessed him. He flung
himself forward two furious steps to stand threateningly over the aged
figure. "You doddering idiot! Say what you want, and quickly! My two
hours are nearly up. I'll be missed. They'll be here in a few
minutes--the Bureau Guards. They'll crack the room shield. They'll
rescue me. And they'll take you into custody. To be questioned. To be
executed. At my order. Do you understand? Your life depends on me."

After a little, the old man chuckled again. "Yes," he muttered, in a
high-pitched old voice. "That's the way it'll be."

Terri stared at him. "You don't seem to understand. You're going to
die."

"Oh yes," said the old man, nodding his head indulgently. "I'll die.
But I'm an old man. I'd die anyway in a year or so--maybe in a day or
so. But for you--for a young man like you--the up and coming young
governmental with everything to lose--" he leered slyly at Terri.
"Your death won't be so easy for you to take."

"I die?" echoed Terri, stupefied. "But I'm not going to die. They're
coming to _rescue_ me."

"Oh, are they?" said the old man, ironically.

"Of course!" said Terri. "Of course, why shouldn't they?"

The old man winked one faded eye portentously.

"Fine young man," he said. "Up and coming young man. Brilliant. Never
a thought for the people he trampled on the way up the ladder. Dear
me, no."

"What do you mean?" said Terri.

The old eyes, looking up suddenly, pierced him.

"Do you remember Kilaren?"

"K-Kilaren?"

"Kilaren," recited the old man as if quoting from a newspaper. "The
beautiful young secretary of a provincial governor whose lecherous and
unnatural pursuit drove her to suicide. So that one day to escape the
governor, she jumped or fell from a high window. And the people of the
province, who had for a long time heard ugly stories and rumors,
finally mobbed the office and lynched the governor, hanging him from
the same window from which the girl had jumped. They said that even
the fall had not spoiled her beauty, but that was probably false." The
old man's words dwindled away into silence.

"If so what of it?" said Terri. "What's that to do with me?"

"Why, you were there. You were the governor's aide, and when the mob
had gone home and feeling had slackened off, you stepped into the gap
and seized up the reins of government, handling matters so skillfully
that you were immediately promoted to an under-post at Government
City."

"What of it?"

"Why it was all your doing," replied the other, in a mildly reproving
voice, "the rumors, the stories, the mob, even the suicide. Poor
Kilaren--a pitiful pawn in your ruthless game to eliminate the
governor in your mad dash up the ladder."

"I never touched her!" cried Terri, his voice cracking. "I swear it."

"Who said you did? The type of mind that stoops to murder would never
have gotten you this far. But you were the one who hired her, knowing
the governor's tendencies. You were the one that gave her work that
kept her, night after night, alone with the man. You preyed upon her
fear of losing her job. You threw the sin in her face after she had
committed it. You told her what she might have been, and what she was,
and what she would be. You broke her, day after day. In the sterile
privacy of the office you reviled her, scorned her, brought her to
believe that she was what she was not, a creature of filth and
dishonor. You blocked off all avenues of escape but the one that led
through one high window. _You killed her!_"

"No!"

"Yes!"
