
Terri brought his quivering hands together and clenched them in his
lap. He stared at the old man. "Who are you?"

"I was a friend of hers. We lived in the same hotel-apartment. She had
no family. I believe you knew that when you hired her."

"I see," said Terri. He drew a long, deep, shuddering breath, and
leaned back in the chair. "So that's the story," he said, his voice
strengthening, "I might have known it. Blackmail. There are always
fools that want to try blackmail."

"No," said the old man. "Not Blackmail, Comptroller. I want your
life."

Terri laughed shortly, contemptuously. "No knowledge that you have can
threaten my life."

"They will come," said the old man, leaning wearily back against his
cushions. "As you said, the Bureau Guards will come; and I think I
shall kill myself when I hear them starting to crack the shield around
this room. They will come in and find you with a dead man. What will
you tell them, Terri?"

"Tell them? Anything I choose. They won't question _me_."

"No. The guards won't. But the Bureau will. How can they raise a man
to the fourth level when there is a two-hour mystery in his
background? They will want to know what you were doing here."

"I was kidnapped," said Terri.

"By whom? Can you prove it? And why?"

"I've been held a prisoner here."

"By a dead man? No, no, Terri. The circumstances are suspicious. You
walk away from the embassy under your own power. You disappear and are
found in a shielded room with a man who has committed suicide. This
must be explained, and in the end you will have to tell them the
truth."

"And what if I do?" said Terri, truculently.

"But the truth is so fantastic, Terri. So uncheckable. I am dead, and
I am the only one who could have supported your story. These people
who were here when you came in are common actors. They have no idea
why I wanted you decoyed here. These are my rooms. And there is no
obvious connection between me and the dead Kilaren. And perhaps I will
decide to live just long enough to denounce you as a traitor when they
enter."

Ashen-faced, Terri stared.

"The Bureau will have to question you. They will clamp a block on your
mind so that you can't operate the reflex that stops your heart. And
they will question you over and over again, because the Bureau cannot
afford to take chances. You will go into a private hell of your own,
Terri Mac. You will tell the story of your own evil to that girl over
and over again, pleading to be believed. And they will not believe
you. And in the end they will kill you, just to be on the safe side.
Because, you see, you _might_ have been doing something traitorous in
these two shielded hours."

Terri's head bobbed limply, like a drunken man's. He made one last
effort. "Why?" he said. "Why do you do this? Your life. For a girl who
was no connection to you?"

The old man folded his hands.

"I was a little like your governor," he said. "We all have our sins. I
loved Kilaren and the shock of her death wrecked my health." He cocked
his head suddenly on one side. "Listen," he said.

From beyond the closed door of the room, a high-pitched humming was
barely audible. It grew in volume, going up the scale. Terri leaped to
his feet; and for the space of a couple of seconds, he lunged first
this way then that, like a wild animal beating against its trap. Then,
as if all will had at last gone out of him, he stopped in the middle
of the room and closed his eyes. For a fraction of a moment he stood
there, before a faint convulsion seized him and he fell.

With a faint smile on his face, the old man reached out to a hidden
switch and cut the shield about the room. Uniformed guards tumbled
through the door, to pull up in dismay at the sight of the body on the
floor.

"I'm sorry," said the old man, "I must have turned the shield on by
mistake. I was trying to signal someone. The Comptroller seems to have
had a heart attack."

THE END
