
That was the sweetest shot Hathaway ever took. Marnagan and the
monsters!

Only now it was only Marnagan.

No more monsters.

Marnagan smiled a smile broader than his shoulders. "Hey, Click, look
at me! I'm in one piece. Why, hell, the damned things turned tail and
ran away!"

"Ran, hell!" cried Hathaway, rushing out, his face flushed and
animated. "They just plain vanished. They were only imaginative
figments!"

"And to think we let them hole us in that way, Click Hathaway, you
coward!"

"Smile when you say that, Irish."

"Sure, and ain't I always smilin'? Ah, Click boy, are them tears in
your sweet grey eyes?"

"Damn," swore the photographer, embarrassedly. "Why don't they put
window-wipers in these helmets?"

"I'll take it up with the Board, lad."

"Forget it. I was so blamed glad to see your homely carcass in one
hunk, I couldn't help--Look, now, about Gunther. Those animals are part
of his set-up. Explorers who land here inadvertently, are chased back
into their ships, forced to take off. Tourists and the like. Nothing
suspicious about animals. And if the tourists don't leave, the animals
kill them."

"Shaw, now. Those animals can't kill."

"Think not, Mr. Marnagan? As long as we believed in them they could
have frightened us to death, forced us, maybe, to commit suicide. If
that isn't being dangerous--"

The Irishman whistled.

"But, we've got to _move_, Irish. We've got twenty minutes of oxygen.
In that time we've got to trace those monsters to their source,
Gunther's Base, fight our way in, and get fresh oxy-cannisters." Click
attached his camera to his mid-belt. "Gunther probably thinks we're
dead by now. Everyone else's been fooled by his playmates; they never
had a chance to disbelieve them."

"If it hadn't been for you taking them pictures, Click--"

"Coupled with your damned stubborn attitude about the accident--" Click
stopped and felt his insides turning to water. He shook his head and
felt a film slip down over his eyes. He spread his legs out to steady
himself, and swayed. "I--I don't think my oxygen is as full as yours.
This excitement had me double-breathing and I feel sick."

Marnagan's homely face grimaced in sympathy. "Hold tight, Click. The
guy that invented these fish-bowls didn't provide for a sick stomach."

"Hold tight, hell, let's move. We've got to find where those animals
came from! And the only way to do that is to get the animals to come
back!"

"Come back? How?"

"They're waiting, just outside the aura of our thoughts, and if we
believe in them again, they'll return."

Marnagan didn't like it. "Won't--won't they kill us--if they come--if
we believe in 'em?"

Hathaway shook a head that was tons heavy and weary. "Not if we believe
in them to a _certain point_. Psychologically they can both be seen and
felt. We only want to _see_ them coming at us again."

"_Do_ we, now?"

"With twenty minutes left, maybe less--"

"All right, Click, let's bring 'em back. How do we do it?"

Hathaway fought against the mist in his eyes. "Just think--I will see
the monsters again. I will see them again and I will not feel them.
Think it over and over."

Marnagan's hulk stirred uneasily. "And--what if I forget to remember
all that? What if I get excited...?"

Hathaway didn't answer. But his eyes told the story by just looking at
Irish.

Marnagan cursed. "All right, lad. Let's have at it!"

The monsters returned.
