
A soundless deluge of them, pouring over the rubbled horizon, swarming
in malevolent anticipation about the two men.

"This way, Irish. They come from this way! There's a focal point, a
sending station for these telepathic brutes. Come on!"

Hathaway sludged into the pressing tide of color, mouths, contorted
faces, silvery fat bodies misting as he plowed through them.

Marnagan was making good progress ahead of Hathaway. But he stopped and
raised his gun and made quick moves with it. "Click! This one here!
It's real!" He fell back and something struck him down. His immense
frame slammed against rock, noiselessly.

Hathaway darted forward, flung his body over Marnagan's, covered the
helmet glass with his hands, shouting:

"Marnagan! Get a grip, dammit! It's not real--don't let it force into
your mind! It's not real, I tell you!"

"Click--" Marnagan's face was a bitter, tortured movement behind glass.
"Click--" He was fighting hard. "I--I--sure now. Sure--" He smiled.
"It--it's only a shanty fake!"

"Keep saying it, Irish. Keep it up."

Marnagan's thick lips opened. "It's only a fake," he said. And then,
irritated, "Get the hell off me, Hathaway. Let me up to my feet!"

Hathaway got up, shakily. The air in his helmet smelled stale, and
little bubbles danced in his eyes. "Irish, _you_ forget the monsters.
Let me handle them, I know how. They might fool you again, you might
forget."

Marnagan showed his teeth. "Gah! Let a flea have all the fun? And
besides, Click, I like to look at them. They're pretty."

The outpour of animals came from a low lying mound a mile farther on.
Evidently the telepathic source lay there. They approached it warily.

"We'll be taking our chances on guard," hissed Irish. "I'll go ahead,
draw their attention, maybe get captured. Then, _you_ show up with
_your_ gun...."

"I haven't got one."

"We'll chance it, then. You stick here until I see what's ahead. They
probably got scanners out. Let them see me--"

And before Hathaway could object, Marnagan walked off. He walked about
five hundred yards, bent down, applied his fingers to something, heaved
up, and there was a door opening in the rock.

His voice came back across the distance, into Click's earphones. "A
door, an air-lock, Click. A tunnel leading down inside!"

Then, Marnagan dropped into the tunnel, disappearing. Click heard the
thud of his feet hitting the metal flooring.

Click sucked in his breath, hard and fast.

"All right, put 'em up!" a new harsh voice cried over a different
radio. One of Gunther's guards.

Three shots sizzled out, and Marnagan bellowed.

The strange harsh voice said, "That's better. Don't try and pick that
gun up now. Oh, so it's you. I thought Gunther had finished you off.
How'd you get past the animals?"

Click started running. He switched off his _sending_ audio, kept his
_receiving_ on. Marnagan, weaponless. _One_ guard. Click gasped. Things
were getting dark. Had to have air. Air. Air. He ran and kept running
and listening to Marnagan's lying voice:

"I tied them pink elephants of Gunther's in neat alphabetical bundles
and stacked them up to dry, ya louse!" Marnagan said. "But, damn you,
they killed my partner before he had a chance!"

The guard laughed.
