
Inspector Campbell's bright brown eyes showed a hint of hooded horror,
yet he shook his head. "I know no more than you. But whatever they do to
the victims, they are never heard of again."

"But you must know something more!" Ennis protested. "What is this
Door?"

Campbell again shook his head. "That too I don't know, but whatever it
is, the Door is utterly sacred to the members of the Brotherhood, and
whomever they mean by They Beyond the Door, they dread and venerate to
the utmost."

"Where leads the Door? _It leads outside our world_," repeated Ennis.
"What can that mean?"

"It might have a symbolic meaning, referring to some secluded fastness
of the order which is away from the rest of the world," the inspector
said. "Or it might----"

He stopped. "Or it might what?" pressed Ennis, his pale face thrust
forward.

"It might mean, literally, that the Door leads outside our world and
universe," finished the inspector.

Ennis' haunted eyes stared. "You mean that this Door might somehow lead
into another universe? But that's impossible!"

"Perhaps unlikely," Campbell said quietly, "but not impossible. Modern
science has taught us that there are other universes than the one we
live in, universes congruent and coincident with our own in space and
time, yet separated from our own by the impassable barrier of totally
different dimensions. It is not entirely impossible that a greater
science than ours might find a way to pierce that barrier between our
universe and one of those outside ones, that a Door should be opened
from ours into one of those others in the infinite outside."

"A door into the infinite outside," repeated Ennis broodingly, looking
past the inspector. Then he made a sudden movement of wild impatience,
the dread leaping back strong in his eyes again.

"Oh, what good is all this talk about Doors and infinite universes doing
in finding Ruth? I want to _do_ something! If you think this mysterious
Brotherhood has taken her, you must surely have some idea of how we can
get her back from them? You must know something more about them than
you've told."

"I don't know anything more certainly, but I've certain suspicions that
amount to convictions," Inspector Campbell said. "I've been working on
this Brotherhood for many years, and block after block I've narrowed
down to the place I think the order's local center, the London
headquarters of the Brotherhood of the Door."

"Where is the place?" asked Ennis tensely.

"It is the waterfront cafe of one Chandra Dass, a Hindoo, down by East
India Docks," said the detective officer. "I've been there in disguise
more than once, watching the place. This Chandra Dass I've found to be
immensely feared by everyone in the quarter, which strengthens my belief
that he's one of the high officers of the Brotherhood. He's too
exceptional a man to be really running such a place."

"Then if the Brotherhood took Ruth, she may be at that place now!" cried
the young American, electrified.

Campbell nodded his bald head. "She may very likely be. Tonight I'm
going there again in disguise, and have men ready to raid the place. If
Chandra Dass has your wife there, we'll get her before he can get her
away. Whatever way it turns out, we'll let you know at once."

"Like hell you will!" exploded the pale young Ennis. "Do you think I'm
going to twiddle my thumbs while you're down there? I'm going with you.
And if you refuse to let me, by heaven I'll go there myself!"

Inspector Pierce Campbell gave the haggard, fiercely determined face of
the young man a long look, and then his own colorless countenance seemed
to soften a little.

"All right," he said quietly. "I can disguise you so you'll not be
recognized. But you'll have to follow my orders exactly, or death will
result for both of us."

That strange, hooded dread flickered again in his eyes, as though he saw
through shrouding mists the outline of dim horror.

"It may be," he added slowly, "that something worse even than death
awaits those who try to oppose the Brotherhood of the Door--something
that would explain the unearthly, superhuman dread that enwraps the
secret mysteries of the order. We're taking more than our lives in our
hands, I think, in trying to unveil those mysteries, to regain your
wife. But we've got to act quickly, at all costs. We've got to find her
before the great gathering of the Brotherhood takes place, or we'll
never find her."
