
Two hours before midnight found Campbell and Ennis passing along a
cobble-paved waterfront street north of the great East India Docks. Big
warehouses towered black and silent in the darkness on one side, and on
the other were old, rotting docks beyond which Ennis glimpsed the black
water and gliding lights of the river.

As they straggled beneath the infrequent lights of the ill-lit street,
they were utterly changed in appearance. Inspector Campbell, dressed in
a shabby suit and rusty bowler, his dirty white shirt innocent of tie,
had acquired a new face, a bright red, oily, eager one, and a high,
squeaky voice. Ennis wore a rough blue seaman's jacket and a vizored cap
pulled down over his head. His unshaven-looking face and subtly altered
features made him seem a half-intoxicated seaman off his ship, as he
stumbled unsteadily along. Campbell clung to him in true land-shark
fashion, plucking his arm and talking wheedlingly to him.

They came into a more populous section of the evil old waterfront
street, and passed fried-fish shops giving off the strong smell of hot
fat, and the dirty, lighted windows of a half-dozen waterfront saloons,
loud with sordid argument or merriment.

Campbell led past them until they reached one built upon an abandoned,
moldering pier, a ramshackle frame structure extending some distance
back out on the pier. Its window was curtained, but dull red light
glowed through the glass window of the door.

A few shabby men were lounging in front of the place but Campbell paid
them no attention, tugging Ennis inside by the arm.

"Carm on in!" he wheedled shrilly. "The night ain't 'alf over yet--we'll
'ave just one more."

"Don't want any more," muttered Ennis drunkenly, swaying on his feet
inside. "Get away, you damned old shark."

Yet he suffered himself to be led by Campbell to a table, where he
slumped heavily into a chair. His stare swung vacantly.

The cafe of Chandra Dass was a red-lit, smoke-filled cave with cheap
black curtains on the walls and windows, and other curtains cutting off
the back part of the building from view. The dim room was jammed with
tables crowded with patrons whose babel of tongues made an unceasing
din, to which a three-string guitar somewhere added a wailing undertone.
The waiters were dark-skinned and tiger-footed Malays, while the patrons
seemed drawn from every nation east and west.

Ennis' glazed eyes saw dandified Chinese from Limehouse and Pennyfields,
dark little Levantins from Soho, rough-looking Cockneys in shabby caps,
a few crazily laughing blacks. From sly white faces, taut brown ones and
impassive yellow ones came a dozen different languages. The air was
thick with queer food-smells and the acrid smoke.

Campbell had selected a table near the back curtain, and now stridently
ordered one of the Malay waiters to bring gin. He leaned forward with an
oily smile to the drunken-looking Ennis, and spoke to him in a wheedling
undertone.

"Don't look for a minute, but that's Chandra Dass over in the corner,
and he's watching us," he said.

Ennis shook his clutching hand away. "Damned old shark!" he muttered
again.

He turned his swaying head slowly, letting his eyes rest a moment on the
man in the corner. That man was looking straight at him.

Chandra Dass was tall, dressed in spotless white from his shoes to the
turban on his head. The white made his dark, impassive, aquiline face
stand out in chiseled relief. His eyes were coal-black, large, coldly
searching, as they met Ennis' bleared gaze.

Ennis felt a strange chill as he met those eyes. There was something
alien and unhuman, something uncannily disturbing, behind the Hindoo's
stare. He turned his gaze vacantly from Chandra Dass to the black
curtains at the rear, and then back to his companion.

The silent Malay waiter had brought the liquor, and Campbell pressed a
glass toward his companion. "'Ere, matey, take this."

"Don't want it," muttered Ennis, pushing it away. Still in the same
mutter, he added, "If Ruth's here, she's somewhere in the back there.
I'm going back and find out."

"Don't try it that way, for God's sake!" said Campbell in the wheedling
undertone. "Chandra Dass is still watching, and those Malays would be on
you in a minute. Wait until I give the word.

"All right, then," Campbell added in a louder, injured tone. "If you
don't want it, I'll drink it myself."

He tossed off the glass of gin and set the glass down on the table,
looking at his drunken companion with righteous indignation.

"Think I'm tryin' to bilk yer, eh?" he added. "That's a fine way to
treat a pal!"

He added in the coaxing lower tone, "All right, I'm going to try it. Be
ready to move when I light my cigarette."

He fished a soiled package of Gold Flakes from his pocket and put one in
his mouth. Ennis waited, every muscle taut.

The inspector, his red, oily face still injured in expression, struck a
match to his cigarette. Almost at once there was a loud oath from one of
the shabby loungers outside the front of the building, and the sound of
angry voices and blows.

The patrons of Chandra Dass looked toward the door, and one of the Malay
waiters went hastily out to quiet the fight. But it grew swiftly,
sounded in a moment like a small riot. _Crash_--someone was pushed
through the front window. The excited patrons pressed toward the front.
Chandra Dass pushed through them, issuing quick orders to his servants.

For the time being the back of the cafe was deserted and unnoticed.
Campbell sprang to his feet, and with Ennis close behind him, darted
through the black curtains. They found themselves in a black corridor at
the end of which a red bulb burned dimly. They could still hear the
uproar.

Campbell's gun was in his hand, and the American's in his.

"We dare only stay here a few moments," the inspector cried. "Look in
those rooms along the corridor here."

Ennis frantically tore open a door and peered into a dark room smelling
of drugs. "Ruth!" he cried softly. "Ruth!"




_2. Death Trap_


There was no answer. The light in the corridor behind him suddenly went
out, plunging him into pitch-black darkness. He jumped back into the
dark corridor, and as he did so, heard a sudden scuffle further along
it.

"Campbell!" he exclaimed, lunging forward in the black passageway. There
was no answer.

He pitched forward through stygian obscurity, his hands searching ahead
of him for the inspector. In the dark something whipped smoothly around
his throat, tightened there like a slender, contracting tentacle.

Ennis tore frenziedly at the thing, which he felt to be a slender silken
cord, but he could not loosen it. It was choking him. He tried to cry
out again to Campbell, but his throat could not emit the sounds. He
thrashed, twisted helplessly, hearing a loud roaring in his ears,
consciousness receding. Then, dimly as though in a dream, Ennis was
aware of being lowered to the floor, of being half carried and half
dragged along. The constriction around his throat was gone and rapidly
his brain began to clear. He opened his eyes.

He found himself lying on the floor of a room illuminated by a great
hanging brass lamp of ornate design. The walls of the room were hung
with rich, grotesquely worked red silk Indian draperies. His hands and
feet were bound behind him, and beside him, tied in the same manner, lay
Inspector Campbell. Over them stood Chandra Dass and two of the Malay
servants. The faces of the servants were tigerish in their menace, but
Chandra Dass' face was one of dark, impassive scorn.

"So you misguided fools thought you could deceive me so easily as that?"
he said in a strong, vibrant voice. "Why, we knew hours ago that you,
Inspector Campbell, and you, Mr. Ennis, were coming here tonight. We let
you get this far only because it was evident that somehow you had
learned too much about us, and that it would be best to let you come
here and meet your deaths."

"Chandra Dass, I've men outside," rasped Campbell. "If we don't come
out, they'll come in after us."

The Hindoo's proud, dark face did not change its scorn. "They will not
come in for a little while, inspector. By that time you two will be dead
and we shall be gone with our captives. Yes, Mr. Ennis, your wife is one
of those captives," he added to the prostrate young American. "It is too
bad we cannot take you and the inspector to share her glorious destiny,
but then our accommodations of transport are limited."

"Ruth here?" Ennis' face flamed at the words, and he raised himself a
little from the floor on his elbows.

"Then you'll let her go if I pay you? I'll raise any amount, I'll do
anything you ask, if you'll set her free."

"No amount of money in the world could buy her from the Brotherhood of
the Door," answered Chandra Dass steadily. "For she belongs now, not to
us, but to They Beyond the Door. Within a few hours she and many others
shall stand before the Door, and They Beyond the Door shall take them."

"What are you going to do to her?" cried Ennis. "What is this damned
Door and who are They Beyond it?"

"I do not think that even if I told you, your little mind would be able
to accept the mighty truth," Chandra Dass said calmly. His coal-black
eyes suddenly flashed with fanatic, frenetic light. "How could your
poor, earth-bound little intelligences conceive the true nature of the
Door and of those who dwell beyond it? Your puny brains would be
stricken senseless by mere apprehension of them, They who are mighty and
crafty and dreadful beyond anything on earth."

A cold wind from the alien unknown seemed to sweep the lamplit room with
the Hindoo's passionate words. Then that rapt, fanatic exaltation
dropped from him as suddenly as it had come, and he spoke in his
ordinary vibrant tones.

"But enough of this parley with blind worms of the dust. Bring the
weights!"

The last words were addressed to the Malay servants, who sprang to a
closet in the corner of the room.

Inspector Campbell said steadily, "If my men find us dead when they come
in here, they'll leave none of you living."
