
They climbed dripping to their feet, and hastened from the little
floating dock up onto the shore, through the darkness to the cobbled
street.

The shabbily disguised men of Inspector Campbell were not now in front
of Chandra Dass' cafe, but lurking in the shadows across the street.
They came running toward Campbell and Ennis.

"All right, we're going in there," Campbell exclaimed in steely tones.
"Get Chandra Dass, whatever you do, but see that his prisoners are not
harmed."

He snapped a word and one of the men handed pistols to him and to Ennis.
Then they leaped toward the door of the Hindoo's cafe, from which still
streamed ruddy light and the babel of many voices.

A kick from Inspector Campbell sent the door flying inward, and they
burst in with guns gleaming wickedly in the ruddy light. Ennis' face was
a quivering mask of desperate resolve.

The motley patrons jumped up with yells of alarm at their entrance. The
hand of a Malay waiter jerked and a thrown knife thudded into the wall
beside them. Ennis yelled as he saw Chandra Dass, his dark face
startled, leaping back with his servants through the black curtains.

He and Campbell drove through the squealing patrons toward the back. The
Malay who had thrown the knife rushed to bar the way, another dagger
uplifted. Campbell's gun coughed and the Malay reeled and stumbled. The
inspector and Ennis threw themselves at the black curtains--and were
dashed back.

They tore aside the black folds. A dull steel door had been lowered
behind them, barring the way to the back rooms. Ennis beat crazily upon
it with his pistol-butt, but it remained immovable.

"No use--we can't break that down!" yelled Campbell, over the uproar.
"Outside, and around to the other end of the building!"

They burst back out through that mad-house, into the dark of the street.
They started along the side of the pier toward the river-end, edging
forward on a narrow ledge but inches wide. As they reached the back of
the building, Ennis shouted and pointed to dark figures at the end of
the pier. There were two of them, lowering shapeless, wrapped forms over
the end of the pier.

"There they are!" he cried. "They've got their prisoners out there with
them."

Campbell's pistol leveled, but Ennis swiftly struck it up. "No, you
might hit Ruth."

He and the inspector bounded forward along the pier. Fire streaked from
the dark ahead and bullets thumped the rotting boards around them.

Suddenly the loud roar of an accelerated motor drowned out all other
sounds. It came from the river at the pier's end.

Campbell and Ennis reached the end in time to see a long, powerful, gray
motor-boat dash out into the black obscurity of the river, and roar
eastward with gathering speed.

"There they go--they're getting away!" cried the agonized young
American.

Inspector Campbell cupped his hands and shouted out into the darkness,
"River police, ahoy! Ahoy there!"

He rasped to Ennis. "The river police were to have a cutter here
tonight. We can still catch them."

With swiftly rising roar of speeded motors, a big cutter drove in from
the darkness. Its searchlight snapped on, bathing the two men on the
pier in a blinding glare.

"Ahoy, there!" called a stentorian voice over the roar of the motors.
"Is that Inspector Campbell?"

"Yes. Come alongside," yelled the inspector, and as the big cutter shot
close to the end of the pier, its reversing propellers churning the dark
water to foam, Ennis and Campbell leaped.

They landed amid unseen men in the cockpit, and as he scrambled to his
feet the inspector cried, "Follow that boat that just went down-river.
But no shooting!"
