
With thunderous drumfire from its exhausts, the cutter jerked forward so
rapidly that it almost threw them from their feet again. It shot out
onto the bosom of the dark river that flowed like a black sea between
the banks of scattered lights that were London.

The moving lights of yachts and barges coming up-river could be seen
gliding in that darkness. The captain of the cutter barked an order and
one of his three men, the one crouched at the searchlight, switched its
powerful beam out over the waters ahead.

In a moment it picked up a distant gray spot racing eastward on the
black river, leaving a white trail of foam.

"There she is!" bawled the man at the searchlight. "She's running
without lights!"

"Keep her in the searchlight," ordered the captain. "Sound our siren,
and give the cutter her head."

Swaying, rocking, the cutter roared on through the darkness on the trail
of that distant fleeing speck. As they raced down Blackwall Reach, the
distance between the two craft had already begun to lessen.

"We're overtaking him!" cried Campbell, clutching a stanchion and
peering ahead against the rush of wind and spray. "He must be making for
whatever spot it is in England that is the center of the Brotherhood of
the Door--but he'll never reach it."

"He said that within a few hours Ruth would go with the others through
the Door!" cried Ennis, clinging beside him. "Campbell, we mustn't let
them get away now!"

Pursuers and pursued flashed on down the dark, broadening river, through
mazes of shipping, the cutter hanging doggedly to the motor-boat's
trail. The lights of London had dropped behind and those of Tilbury now
gleamed away on their left.

Bigger, stronger waves now tossed and pounded the cutter as it raced out
of the river mouth toward the heaving black expanse of the sea. The Kent
coast was a black blur on their right; the gray motor-boat followed it
closely, grazing almost beneath the Sheerness lights.

"He's heading to round North Foreland and follow the coast south to
Ramsgate or Dover," the cutter captain cried to Campbell. "But we'll
catch him before he passes Margate."

The quarry was now but a quarter-mile ahead. Steadily as they roared
onward the gap narrowed, until in the glare of the searchlight they
could make out every detail of the powerful gray motor-boat plunging
through the tossing black waves.

They saw Chandra Dass' dark face turn and look back at them, and the
cutter captain raised his speaking-trumpet to his lips and shouted over
the roar of motors and dash of waves.

"Stand by or we'll fire at you!"

"He won't obey," muttered Campbell between his teeth. "He knows we
daren't fire with the girl in the boat."

"Yes, blast him!" exclaimed the captain. "But we'll have him in a few
minutes, anyway."

The thundering chase had brought them into sight of the lights of
Margate on the dark coast to their right. Now only a few hundred feet of
black water separated them from the fleeing craft.

Ennis and the inspector, gripping the stanchions of the rushing cutter,
saw a white figure suddenly stand erect in the boat ahead and wave its
arms to them. The gray motor-boat slowed.

"It's Chandra Dass and he's signaling that he's giving up!" Ennis cried.
"He's stopping!"

"By heavens, he is!" Campbell explained. "Drive alongside him, and we'll
soon have the irons on him."

The cutter, its own motors hastily throttled down, shot through the
water toward the slowing gray craft. Ennis saw Chandra Dass standing
erect, awaiting their coming, he and the two Malays beside him holding
their hands in the air. He saw a half-dozen or more white-wrapped forms
in the bottom of the boat, lying motionless.

"There are their prisoners!" he cried. "Bring the boat closer so we can
jump in!"

He and Campbell, their pistols out, hunched to jump as the cutter drove
closer to the gray motor-boat. The sides of the two craft bumped, the
motors of both idling noisily. Then before Ennis and Campbell could jump
into the motor-boat, things happened with cinema-like rapidity. Two of
the still white forms at the bottom of the motor-boat leaped up and like
suddenly uncoiled springs shot through the air into the cutter. They
were two other Malays, their dark faces flaming with fanatic light, keen
daggers glinting in their upraised hands.

"'Ware a trick!" yelled Campbell. His gun barked, but the bullet missed
and a dagger slit his sleeve.

The Malays, with wild, screeching yells, were laying about them with
their daggers in the cutter, insanely.

"God in heaven, they're running amok!" choked the cutter captain.

His slashed neck spurting blood and his face livid, he fell. One of his
men slumped coughing beside him, another victim of the crazy daggers.




_3. Up the Water-Tunnel_


The man at the searchlight sprang for the maddened Malays, tugging at
his pistol as he jumped. Before he got the weapon out, a dagger slashed
his jugular and he went down gurgling in death. One of the Malays
meanwhile had knocked Inspector Campbell from his feet, his knife-hand
swooping down, his eyes blazing.

Ennis' gun roared and the bullet hit the Malay between the eyes. But as
he slumped limply, the other fanatic was upon Ennis from the side.
Before Ennis could whirl to meet him, the attacker's knife grazed down
past his cheek like a brand of living fire. He was borne backward by the
rush, felt the hot breath of the crazed Malay in his face, the
dagger-point at his throat.

Shots roared quickly, one after another, and with each shot the Malay
pressing Ennis back jerked convulsively. With the light of murderous
madness fading from his eyes, he still strove to drive the dagger home
into the American's throat. But a hand jerked him back and he lay
prostrate and still.

Ennis scrambled up to find Inspector Campbell, pale and determined, over
him. The detective had shot the attacker from behind.

The captain of the cutter and two of his men lay dead in the cockpit
beside the two Malays. The remaining seaman, the helmsman, held his
shoulder and groaned.

Ennis whirled. The motor-boat of Chandra Dass was no longer beside the
cutter, and there was no sight of it anywhere on the black sea ahead.
The Hindoo had taken advantage of the fight to make good his escape with
his two other servants and their prisoners.

"Campbell, he's gone!" cried the young American frantically. "He's got
away!"

The inspector's eyes were bright with cold flame of anger. "Yes, Chandra
Dass sacrificed these two Malays to hold us up long enough for him to
escape."

Campbell whirled to the helmsman. "You're not badly hurt?"

"Only a scratch, but I nearly broke my shoulder when I fell," answered
the man.

"Then head on around North Foreland!" Campbell cried. "We may still be
able to catch up to them."

"But Captain Wilson and the others are killed," protested the helmsman.
"I've got to report----"

"You can report later," rasped the inspector. "Do as I say--I'll be
responsible."

"Very well, sir," said the helmsman, and jumped back to the wheel.

In a minute the big cutter was roaring ahead over the heaving black
waves, its searchlight clawing the darkness ahead. There was no sign now
of the craft of Chandra Dass ahead. They raced abreast of the lights of
Margate, started rounding the North Foreland, pounded by bigger seas.

Inspector Campbell had dragged the bodies of the dead policemen and
their two slayers down into the cabin of the cutter. He came up and
crouched down with Ennis beside Sturt, the helmsman.

"I found these on the two Malays," Campbell shouted to the American,
holding out two little objects in his spray-wet hand.

Each was a flat star of gray metal in which was set a large oval,
cabochon-cut jewel. The jewels flashed and dazzled with deep color, but
it was a color wholly unfamiliar and alien to their eyes.

"They're not any color we know on earth," Campbell shouted. "I believe
these jewels came from somewhere beyond the Door, and that these are
badges of the Brotherhood of the Door."

Sturt, the helmsman, leaned toward the inspector. "We've rounded North
Foreland, sir," he cried. "Head straight south along the coast,"
Campbell ordered. "Chandra Dass must have gone this way. No doubt he
thinks he's shaken us off, and is making for the gathering-place of the
Brotherhood, wherever that may be."

"The cutter isn't built for seas like this," Sturt said, shaking his
head. "But I'll do it."

They were now following the coast southward, the lights of Ramsgate
dropping back on their right. The waters out here in the Channel were
wilder, great black waves tossing the cutter to the sky one moment, and
then dropping it sickeningly the next. Frequently its screws raced
loudly as they encountered no resistance but air.

Ennis, clinging precariously on the foredeck, turned the searchlight's
stabbing white beam back and forth on the heaving dark sea ahead, but
without any sign of their quarry disclosed.

White foam of breaking waves began to show around them like bared teeth,
and there was a humming in the air.

"Storm coming up the Channel," Sturt exclaimed. "It'll do for us if it
catches us out here."

"We've got to keep on," Ennis told him desperately. "We must come up
with them soon!"

The coast on their right was now one of black, rocky cliffs, towering
all along the shore in a jagged, frowning wall against which the waves
dashed foamy white. The cutter crept southward over the wild waters,
tossed like a chip upon the great waves. Sturt was having a hard time
holding the craft out from the rocks, and had its prow pointed obliquely
away from them.

The humming in the air changed to a shrill whistling as the outrider
winds of the storm came upon them. The cutter tossed still more wildly
and black masses of water smashed in upon them from the darkness, dazing
and drenching them.

Suddenly Ennis yelled, "There's the lights of a boat ahead! There,
moving in toward the cliffs!"

He pointed ahead, and Campbell and the helmsman peered through the
blinding spray and darkness. A pair of low lights were moving at high
speed on the waters there, straight toward the towering black cliffs.
Then they vanished suddenly from sight.

"There must be a hidden opening or harbor of some kind in the cliffs!"
Inspector Campbell exclaimed. "But that can't be Chandra Dass' boat, for
it carried no lights."

"It might be others of the Brotherhood going to the meeting-place!"
Ennis exclaimed. "We can follow and see."
