
Sturt thrust his head through the flying spray and shouted, "There are
openings and water-caverns in plenty along these cliffs, but there's
nothing in any of them."

"We'll find out," Campbell said. "Head straight toward the cliffs in
there where that boat vanished."

"If we can't find the opening we'll be smashed to flinders on those
cliffs," Sturt warned.

"I'm gambling that we'll find the opening," Campbell told him. "Go
ahead."

Sturt's face set stolidly and he said, "Yes, sir."

He turned the prow of the cutter toward the cliffs. Instantly they
dashed forward toward the rock walls with greatly increased speed, wild
waves bearing them onward like charging stallions of the sea.

Hunched beside the helmsman, the searchlight stabbing the dark wildly as
the cutter was flung forward by the waves, Ennis and the inspector
watched as the cliffs loomed closer ahead. The brilliant white beam
struck across the rushing, mountainous waves and showed only the
towering barriers of rock, battered and smitten by the raving waters
that frothed white. They could hear the booming thunder of the raging
ocean striking the rock.

Like a projectile hurled by a giant hand, the cutter fairly flew now
toward the cliffs. They now could see even the little streams that ran
off the rough rock wall as each giant wave broke against it. They were
almost upon it.

Sturt's face was deathly. "I don't see any opening!" he yelled. "And
we're going to hit in a moment!"

"To your left!" screamed Inspector Campbell over the booming thunder.
"There's an arched opening there."

Now Ennis saw it also, a huge arch-like opening in the cliff that had
been concealed by an angle of the wall. Sturt tried frantically to head
the cutter toward it, but the wheel was useless as the great waves bore
the craft along. Ennis saw they would strike a little to the side of the
opening. The cliff loomed ahead, and he closed his eyes to the impact.

There was no impact. And as he heard a hoarse cry from Inspector
Campbell, he opened his eyes.

The cutter was flying in through the mighty opening, snatched into it by
powerful currents. They were whirled irresistibly forward under the huge
rock arch, which loomed forty feet over their heads. Before them
stretched a winding water-tunnel inside the cliff.

And now they were out of the wild uproar of the storming waters outside,
and in an almost stupefying silence. Smoothly, resistlessly, the current
bore them on in the tunnel, whose winding turns ahead were lit up by
their searchlight.

"God, that was close!" exclaimed Inspector Campbell.

His eyes flashed. "Ennis, I believe that we have found the
gathering-place of the Brotherhood. That boat we sighted is somewhere
ahead in here, and so must be Chandra Dass, and your wife."

Ennis' hand tightened on his gun-butt. "If that's so--if we can just
find them----"

"Blind action won't help if we do," said the inspector swiftly. "There
must be all the number of the Brotherhood's members assembled here, and
we can't fight them all."

His eyes suddenly lit and he took the blazing jeweled stars from his
pocket. "These badges! With them we can pose as members of the
Brotherhood, perhaps long enough to find your wife."

"But Chandra Dass will be there, and if he sees us----"

Campbell shrugged. "We'll have to take that chance. It's the only course
open to us."

The current of the inflowing tide was still bearing them smoothly onward
through the winding water-tunnel, around bends and angles where they
scraped the rock, down long straight stretches. Sturt used the motors to
guide them around the turns. Meanwhile, Inspector Campbell and Ennis
quickly ripped from the cutter its police-insignia and covered all
evidences of its being a police craft.

Sturt suddenly snicked off the searchlight. "Light ahead there!" he
exclaimed.

Around the next turn of the water-tunnel showed a gleam of strange, soft
light.

"Careful, now!" cautioned the inspector. "Sturt, whatever we do, you
stay in the cutter. And try to have it ready for a quick getaway, if we
leave it."

Sturt nodded silently. The helmsman's stolid face had become a little
pale, but he showed no sign of losing his courage.
