
The cutter sped around the next turn of the tunnel and emerged into a
huge, softly lit cavern. Sturt's eyes bulged and Campbell uttered an
exclamation of amazement. For in this mighty water-cavern there floated
in a great mass, scores of sea-going craft, large and small.

All of them were capable of breasting storm and wind, and some were so
large they could barely have entered. There were small yachts, big
motor-cruisers, sea-going launches, cutters larger than their own, and
among them the gray motor-launch of Chandra Dass.

They were massed together here, those with masts having lowered them to
enter, floating and rubbing sides, quite unoccupied. Around the edges of
the water-cavern ran a wide rock ledge. But no living person was visible
and there was no visible source for the soft, strange white light that
filled the astounding place.

"These craft must have come here from all over earth!" Campbell
muttered. "The Brotherhood of the Door has assembled here--we've found
their gathering-place all right."

"But where are they?" exclaimed Ennis. "I don't see anyone."

"We'll soon find out," the inspector said. "Sturt, run close to the
ledge there and we'll get out on it."

Sturt obeyed, and as the cutter bumped the ledge, Campbell and Ennis
leaped out onto it. They looked this way and that along it, but no one
was in sight. The weirdness of it was unnerving, the strangely lit,
mighty cavern, the assembled boats, the utter silence.

"Follow me," Campbell said in a low voice. "They must all be somewhere
near."

He and Ennis walked a few steps along the ledge, when the American
stopped. "Campbell, listen!" he whispered.

Dimly there whispered to them, as though from a distance and through
great walls, a swelling sound of chanting. As they listened, hearts
beating rapidly, a square of the rock wall of the cavern abruptly flew
open beside them, as though hinged like a door. Inside it was the mouth
of a soft-lit, man-high tunnel, and in its opening stood two men. They
wore over their clothing shroud-like, loose-hanging robes of gray,
asbestos-like material. They wore hoods of the same gray stuff over
their heads, pierced with slits at the eyes and mouth. And each wore on
his breast the blazing star-badge.

Through the eye-slits the eyes of the two surveyed Campbell and Ennis as
they halted, transfixed by the sudden apparition. Then one of the hooded
men spoke measuredly in a hissing, Mongolian voice.

"Are you who come here of the Brotherhood of the Door?" he asked,
apparently repeating a customary challenge.

Campbell answered, his flat voice tremorless. "We are of the
Brotherhood."

"Why do you not wear the badge of the Brotherhood, then?"

For answer, the inspector reached in his pocket for the strange emblem
and fastened it to his lapel. Ennis did the same.

"Enter, brothers," said the hissing, hooded shape, standing aside to let
them pass.

As they stepped into the tunnel, the hooded guard added in slightly more
natural tones, "Brothers, you two are late. You must hurry to get your
protective robes, for the ceremony soon begins."

Campbell inclined his head without speaking, and he and Ennis started
along the tunnel. Its light, as sourceless as that of the great
water-cavern, revealed that it was chiseled from solid rock and that it
wound downward.

When they were out of sight of the two hooded guards, Ennis clutched the
detective's arm convulsively.

"Campbell," he said, "the ceremony begins soon! We've got to find Ruth
first!"

"We'll try," the inspector answered swiftly. "Those hooded robes are
apparently issued to all the members to be worn during the ceremony as
protection, for some reason, and once we get robes and get them on,
Chandra Dass won't be able to spot us.

"Look out!" he added an instant later. "Here's the place where the robes
are issued!"

The tunnel had debouched suddenly into a wider space in which were a
group of men. Several were wearing the concealing hoods and robes, and
one of these hooded figures was handing out, from a large rack of the
robes, three of the garments to three dark Easterners who had apparently
entered in the boat just ahead of the cutter.

The three dark Orientals, their faces gleaming with strange fanaticism,
quickly donned the robes and hoods and passed hurriedly on down the
tunnel. At once Campbell and Ennis stepped calmly up to the hooded
custodians of the robes, and extended their hands.

One of the hooded figures took down two robes and handed them to them.
But suddenly one of the other hooded men spoke sharply.

Instantly all the hooded men but the one who had spoken, with loud
cries, threw themselves forward on Campbell and Paul Ennis.

Taken utterly by surprize, the two had no chance to draw their guns.
They were smothered by gray-robed men, held helpless before they could
move, a half-dozen pistols jammed into their bodies.

Stupefied by the sudden dashing of their hopes, the detective and the
young American saw the hooded man who had spoken slowly lift the
concealing gray cowl from his face. It was the dark, coldly contemptuous
face of Chandra Dass.




_4. The Cavern of the Door_


Chandra Dass spoke, and his strong, vibrant voice held a scorn that was
almost pitying.

"It occurred to me that your enterprise might enable you to escape the
daggers of my followers, and that you might trail us here," he said.
"That is why I waited here to see if you came.

"Search them," he told the other hooded figures. "Take anything that
looks like a weapon from them."

Ennis stared, stupefied, as the gray-hooded men obeyed. He was unable to
believe entirely in the abrupt reversal of all their hopes, of their
desperate attempt.

The hooded men took their pistols from Ennis and Campbell, and even the
small gold knife attached to the chain of the inspector's big,
old-fashioned gold watch. Then they stepped back, the pistols of two of
them leveled at the hearts of the captives.

Chandra Dass had watched impassively. Ennis, staring dazedly, noted that
the Hindoo wore on his breast a different jewel-emblem from the others,
a double star instead of a single one.

Ennis' dazed eyes lifted from the blazing badge to the Hindoo's dark
face. "Where's Ruth?" he asked a little shrilly, and then his voice
cracked and he cried, "You damned fiend, where's my wife?"

"Be comforted, Mr. Ennis," came Chandra Dass' chill voice. "You are
going now to join your wife, and to share her fate. You two are going
with her and the other sacrifices through the Door when it opens. It is
not usual," he added in cold mockery, "for our sacrificial victims to
walk directly into our hands. We ordinarily have a more difficult time
securing them."

He made a gesture to the two hooded men with pistols, and they ranged
themselves close behind Campbell and Ennis.

"We are going to the Cavern of the Door," said the Hindoo. "Inspector
Campbell, I know and respect your resourcefulness. Be warned that your
slightest attempt to escape means a bullet in your back. You two will
march ahead of us," he said, and added mockingly, "Remember, while you
live you can cling to the shadow of hope, but if these guns speak, it
ends even that shadow."

Ennis and Inspector Campbell, keeping their hands elevated, started at
the Hindoo's command down the softly lit rock tunnel. Chandra Dass and
the two hooded men with pistols followed.

Ennis saw that the inspector's sagging face was expressionless, and knew
that behind that colorless mask, Campbell's brain was racing in an
attempt to find a method of escape. For himself, the young American had
almost forgotten all else in his eagerness to reach his wife. Whatever
happened to Ruth, whatever mysterious horror lay in wait for her and the
other victims, he would be there beside her, sharing it!

The tunnel wound a little further downward, then straightened out and
ran straight for a considerable length. In this straight section of the
rock passage, Ennis and Campbell for the first time perceived that the
walls of the tunnel bore crowding, deeply chiseled inscriptions. They
had not time to read them in passing, but Ennis saw that they were in
many different languages, and that some of the characters were wholly
unfamiliar.

"God, some of those inscriptions are in Egyptian hieroglyphics!"
muttered Inspector Campbell.

The cool voice of Chandra Dass said, behind them, "There are
pre-Egyptian inscriptions on these walls, inspector, could you but
recognize them, carven in languages that perished from the face of earth
before Egypt was born. Yes, back through time, back through mediaeval and
Roman and Egyptian and pre-Egyptian ages, the Brotherhood of the Door
has existed and has each year gathered in this place to open the Door
and worship with sacrifices They Beyond it."

The fanatic note of unearthly devotion was in his voice now, and Ennis
shuddered with a cold not of the tunnel.

As they proceeded, they heard a muffled, hoarse booming somewhere over
their heads, a dull, rhythmic thunder that echoed along the long
passageway. The walls of the tunnel now were damp and glistening in the
sourceless soft light, tiny trickles running down them.

"You hear the ocean over us," came Chandra Dass' voice. "The Cavern of
the Door lies several hundred yards out from shore, beneath the rock
floor of the sea."

They passed the dark mouths of unlit tunnels branching ahead from this
illuminated one. Then over the booming of the raging sea above them,
there came to Ennis' ears the distant, swelling chant they had heard in
the water-cavern above. But now it was louder, nearer. At the sound of
it, Chandra Dass quickened their pace.

Suddenly Inspector Campbell stumbled on the slippery rock floor and went
down in a heap. Instantly Chandra Dass and his two followers recoiled
from them, the two pistols trained on the detective as he scrambled up.

"Do not do that again, inspector," warned the Hindoo in a deadly voice.
"All tricks are useless now."

"I couldn't help slipping on this wet floor," complained Inspector
Campbell.

"The next time you make a wrong step of any kind, a bullet will smash
your spine," Chandra Dass told him. "Quick--march!"
