
They looked across a colossal rock chamber hollowed out beneath the
floor of ocean. It was elliptical in shape, three hundred feet by its
longer axis. Its black basalt sides, towering, rough-hewn walls, rose
sheer and supported the rock ceiling which was the ocean floor, a
hundred feet over their heads.

This mighty cathedral hewn from inside the rock of earth was lit by a
soft, white, sourceless light like that in the main tunnel. Upon the
floor of the cavern, in regular rows across it, stood hundreds on
hundreds of human figures, all gray-robed and gray-hooded, all with
their backs to Campbell and Ennis, looking across the cavern to its
farther end. At that farther end was a flat dais of black basalt upon
which stood five hooded men, four wearing the blazing double-star on
their breasts, the fifth, a triple-star. Two of them stood beside a
cubical, weird-looking gray metal mechanism from which upreared a
spherical web of countless fine wires, unthinkably intricate in their
network, many of them pulsing with glowing force. The sourceless light
of the cavern and the tunnel seemed to pulse from that weird mechanism.

Up from that machine, if machine it was, soared the black basalt wall of
that end of the cavern. But there above the gray mechanism the rough
wall had been carved with a great, smooth facet, a giant, gleaming black
oval face as smooth as though planed and polished. Only, at the middle
of the glistening black oval face, were carven deeply four large and
wholly unfamiliar characters. As Ennis and Campbell stared frozenly
across the awe-inspiring place, sound swelled from the hundreds of
throats. A slow, rising chant, it climbed and climbed until the basalt
roof above seemed to quiver to it, crashing out with stupendous effect,
a weird litany in an unknown tongue. Then it began to fall.

Ennis clutched the inspector's gray-robed arm. "Where's Ruth?" he
whispered frantically. "I don't see any prisoners."

"They must be somewhere here," Campbell said swiftly. "Listen----"

As the chant died to silence, on the dais at the farther end of the
cavern the hooded man who wore the triple-jeweled star stepped forward
and spoke. His deep, heavy voice rolled out and echoed across the
cavern, flung back and forth from wall to rocky wall.

"Brothers of the Door," he said, "we meet again here in the Cavern of
the Door this year, as for ten thousand years past our forefathers have
met here to worship They Beyond the Door, and bring them the sacrifices
They love.

"A hundred centuries have gone by since first They Beyond the Door sent
their wisdom through the barrier between their universe and ours, a
barrier which even They could not open from their side, but which their
wisdom taught our fathers how to open.

"Each year since then have we opened the Door which They taught us how
to build. Each year we have brought them sacrifices. And in return They
have given us of their wisdom and power. They have taught us things that
lie hidden from other men, and They have given us powers that other men
have not.

"Now again comes the time appointed for the opening of the Door. In
their universe on the other side of it, They are waiting now to take the
sacrifices which we have procured for them. The hour strikes, so let the
sacrifices be brought."

As though at a signal, from a small opening at one side of the cavern a
triple file of marchers entered. A file of hooded gray members of the
Brotherhood flanked on either side a line of men and women who did not
wear the hoods or robes. They were thirty or forty in number. These men
and women were of almost all races and classes, but all of them walked
stiffly, mechanically, staring ahead with unseeing, distended eyes, like
living corpses.

"Drugged!" came Campbell's shaken voice. "They're all drugged, and don't
know what is going on."

Ennis' eyes fastened on a small, slender girl with chestnut hair who
walked at the end of the line, a girl in a straight tan dress, whose
face was white, stiff, like those of the others.

"There's Ruth!" he exclaimed frantically, his cry muffled by his hood.

He plunged in that direction, but Campbell held him back.

"No!" rasped the inspector. "You can't help her by simply getting
yourself captured!"

"I can at least go with her!" Ennis exclaimed. "Let me go!"

Inspector Campbell's iron grip held him. "Wait, Ennis!" said the
detective. "You've no chance that way. That robe of Chandra Dass' you're
wearing has a double-star badge like those of the men up there on the
dais. That means that as Chandra Dass you're entitled to be up there
with them. Go up there and take your place as though you were Chandra
Dass--with the hood on, they can't tell the difference. I'll slip around
to that side door out of which they brought the prisoners. It must
connect with the tunnels, and it's not far from the dais. When I fire my
pistol from there, you grab your wife and try to get to that door with
her. If you can do it, we'll have a chance to get up through the tunnels
and escape."

Ennis wrung the inspector's hand. Then, without further reply, he walked
boldly with measured steps up the main aisle of the cavern, through the
gray ranks to the dais. He stepped up onto it, his heart racing. The
chief priest, he of the triple-star, gave him only a glance, as of
annoyance at his lateness. Ennis saw Campbell's gray figure slipping
round to the side door.

The gray-hooded hundreds before him had paid no attention to either of
them. Their attention was utterly, eagerly, fixed upon the stiff-moving
prisoners now being marched up onto the dais. Ennis saw Ruth pass him,
her white face an unfamiliar, staring mask.

The prisoners were ranged at the back of the dais, just beneath the
great, gleaming black oval facet. The guards stepped back from them, and
they remained standing stiffly there. Ennis edged a little toward Ruth,
who stood at the end of that line of stiff figures. As he moved
imperceptibly closer to her, he saw the two priests beside the gray
mechanism reaching toward knurled knobs of ebonite affixed to its side,
beneath the spherical web of pulsing wires.

The chief priest, at the front of the dais, raised his hands. His voice
rolled out, heavy, commanding, reverberating again through all the
cavern.




_5. The Door Opens_


"Where leads the Door?" rolled the chief priest's voice.

Back up to him came the reply of hundreds of voices, muffled by the
hoods but loud, echoing to the roof of the cavern in a thunderous
response.

"_It leads outside our world!_"

The chief priest waited until the echoes died before his deep voice
rolled on in the ritual.

"Who taught our forefathers to open the Door?"

Ennis, edging desperately closer and closer to the line of victims, felt
the mighty response reverberate about him.

"_They Beyond the Door taught them!_"

Now Ennis was apart from the other priests on the dais, within a few
yards of the captives, of the small figure of Ruth.

"To whom do we bring these sacrifices?"

As the high priest uttered the words, and before the booming answer
came, a hand grasped Ennis and pulled him back from the line of victims.
He spun round to find that it was one of the other priests who had
jerked him back.

"_We bring them to Those Beyond the Door!_"

As the colossal response thundered, the priest who had jerked Ennis back
whispered urgently to him. "You go too close to the victims, Chandra
Dass! Do you wish to be taken with them?"

The fellow had a tight grip on Ennis' arm. Desperate, tensed, Ennis
heard the chief priest roll forth the last of the ritual.

"Shall the Door be opened that They may take the sacrifices?"

Stunning, mighty, a tremendous shout that mingled in it worshipping awe
and superhuman dread, the answer crashed back.

_"Let the Door be opened!"_

The chief priest turned and his up-flung arms whirled in a signal.
Ennis, tensing to spring toward Ruth, saw the two priests at the gray
mechanism swiftly turn the knurled black knobs. Then Ennis, like all
else in the vast cavern, was held frozen and spellbound by what
followed.

The spherical web of wires pulsed up madly with shining force. And up at
the center of the gleaming black oval facet on the wall, there appeared
a spark of unearthly green light. It blossomed outward, expanded, an
awful viridescent flower blooming quickly outward farther and farther.
And as it expanded, Ennis saw that he could look _through_ that green
light! He looked through into another universe, a universe lying
infinitely far across alien dimensions from our own, yet one that could
be reached through this door between dimensions. It was a green
universe, flooded with an awful green light that was somehow more akin
to darkness than to light, a throbbing, baleful luminescence.

Ennis saw dimly through green-lit spaces a city in the near distance, an
unholy city of emerald hue whose unsymmetrical, twisted towers and
minarets aspired into heavens of hellish viridity. The towers of that
city swayed to and fro and writhed in the air. And Ennis saw that here
and there in the soft green substance of that restless city were circles
of lurid light that were like yellow eyes.

In ghastly, soul-shaking apprehension of the utterly alien, Ennis knew
that the yellow circles were _eyes_--that that hell-spawned city of
another universe was _living_--that its unfamiliar life was single yet
multiple, that its lurid eyes looked now through the Door!

Out from the insane living metropolis glided pseudopods of its green
substance, glided toward the Door. Ennis saw that in the end of each
pseudopod was one of the lurid eyes. He saw those eyed pseudopods come
questing through the Door, onto the dais.

The yellow eyes of light seemed fixed on the row of stiff victims, and
the pseudopods glided toward them. Through the open door was beating
wave on wave of unfamiliar, tingling forces that Ennis felt even through
the protective robe.

The hooded multitude bent in awe as the green pseudopods glided toward
the victims faster, with avid eagerness. Ennis saw them reaching for the
prisoners, for Ruth, and he made a tremendous mental effort to break the
spell that froze him. In that moment pistol-shots crashed across the
cavern and a stream of bullets smashed the pulsing web of wires!

The Door began instantly to close. Darkness crept back around the edges
of the mighty oval. As though alarmed, the lurid-eyed pseudopods of that
hell-city recoiled from the victims, back through the dwindling Door.
And as the Door dwindled, the light in the cavern was failing.

"Ruth!" yelled Ennis madly, and sprang forward and grasped her, his
pistol leaping into his other hand.

"Ennis--quick!" shouted Campbell's voice across the cavern.

The Door dwindled away altogether; the great oval facet was completely
black. The light was fast dying too.

The chief priest sprang madly toward Ennis, and as he did so, the hooded
hordes of the Brotherhood recovered from their paralysis of horror and
surged madly toward the dais.

"The Door is closed! Death to the blasphemers!" cried the chief priest
as he plunged forward.

"Death to the blasphemers!" shrieked the crazed horde below.

Ennis' pistol roared and the chief priest went down. The light in the
cavern died completely at that moment.

In the dark a torrent of bodies catapulted against Ennis, screaming
vengeance. He struck out with his pistol-barrel in the mad melee,
holding Ruth's stiff form close with his other hand. He heard the other
drugged, helpless victims crushed down and trampled under foot by the
surging horde of vengeance-mad members.
