
When he handed them back a bit later, his voice was no longer ominous.
My feelings of guilt vanished. To cement our relationship, I chatted
with the two of them about their job.

"I suppose the masks give you some trouble," I observed. "Over in
England we've been reading about your new crop of masked female
bandits."

"Those things get exaggerated," the first policeman assured me. "It's
the men masking as women that really mix us up. But, brother, when we
nab them, we jump on them with both feet."

"And you get so you can spot women almost as well as if they had naked
faces," the second policeman volunteered. "You know, hands and all
that."

"Especially all that," the first agreed with a chuckle. "Say, is it
true that some girls don't mask over in England?"

"A number of them have picked up the fashion," I told him. "Only a few,
though--the ones who always adopt the latest style, however extreme."

"They're usually masked in the British newscasts."

"I imagine it's arranged that way out of deference to American taste,"
I confessed. "Actually, not very many do mask."

The second policeman considered that. "Girls going down the street bare
from the neck up." It was not clear whether he viewed the prospect with
relish or moral distaste. Likely both.

"A few members keep trying to persuade Parliament to enact a law
forbidding all masking," I continued, talking perhaps a bit too much.

The second policeman shook his head. "What an idea. You know, masks are
a pretty good thing, brother. Couple of years more and I'm going to
make my wife wear hers around the house."

The first policeman shrugged. "If women were to stop wearing masks, in
six weeks you wouldn't know the difference. You get used to anything,
if enough people do or don't do it."

I agreed, rather regretfully, and left them. I turned north on Broadway
(old Tenth Avenue, I believe) and walked rapidly until I was beyond
Inferno. Passing such an area of undecontaminated radioactivity always
makes a person queasy. I thanked God there weren't any such in England,
as yet.

The street was almost empty, though I was accosted by a couple of
beggars with faces tunneled by H-bomb scars, whether real or of makeup
putty, I couldn't tell. A fat woman held out a baby with webbed fingers
and toes. I told myself it would have been deformed anyway and that she
was only capitalizing on our fear of bomb-induced mutations. Still,
I gave her a seven-and-a-half-cent piece. Her mask made me feel I was
paying tribute to an African fetish.

"May all your children be blessed with one head and two eyes, sir."

"Thanks," I said, shuddering, and hurried past her.

"... There's only trash behind the mask, so turn your head, stick to
your task: Stay away, stay away--from--the--girls!"
