
I switched off the newscast. It was growing dark and once again I
pictured a tender, frightened face behind a mask. I hadn't had a date
since England. It's exceedingly difficult to become acquainted with a
girl in America, where as little as a smile, often, can set one of them
yelping for the police--to say nothing of the increasing puritanical
morality and the roving gangs that keep most women indoors after dark.
And naturally, the masks which are definitely not, as the Soviets
claim, a last invention of capitalist degeneracy, but a sign of great
psychological insecurity. The Russians have no masks, but they have
their own signs of stress.

I went to the window and impatiently watched the darkness gather. I was
getting very restless. After a while a ghostly violet cloud appeared to
the south. My hair rose. Then I laughed. I had momentarily fancied it a
radiation from the crater of the Hell-bomb, though I should instantly
have known it was only the radio-induced glow in the sky over the
amusement and residential area south of Inferno.

Promptly at twenty-two hours I stood before the door of my unknown girl
friend's apartment. The electronic say-who-please said just that. I
answered clearly, "Wysten Turner," wondering if she'd given my name to
the mechanism. She evidently had, for the door opened. I walked into a
small empty living room, my heart pounding a bit.

The room was expensively furnished with the latest pneumatic hassocks
and sprawlers. There were some midgie books on the table. The one I
picked up was the standard hard-boiled detective story in which two
female murderers go gunning for each other.

The television was on. A masked girl in green was crooning a love song.
Her right hand held something that blurred off into the foreground.
I saw the set had a handie, which we haven't in England as yet, and
curiously thrust my hand into the handie orifice beside the screen.
Contrary to my expectations, it was not like slipping into a pulsing
rubber glove, but rather as if the girl on the screen actually held my
hand.

A door opened behind me. I jerked out my hand with as guilty a reaction
as if I'd been caught peering through a keyhole.

She stood in the bedroom doorway. I think she was trembling. She was
wearing a gray fur coat, white-speckled, and a gray velvet evening
mask with shirred gray lace around the eyes and mouth. Her fingernails
twinkled like silver.

It hadn't occurred to me that she'd expect us to go out.

"I should have told you," she said softly. Her mask veered nervously
toward the books and the screen and the room's dark corners. "But I
can't possibly talk to you here."

I said doubtfully, "There's a place near the Consulate...."

"I know where we can be together and talk," she said rapidly. "If you
don't mind."

As we entered the elevator I said, "I'm afraid I dismissed the cab."
