
Arnek shivered down the length of his nerves with an ancient distaste
for crawling things. "Let's go back," he suggested uneasily. "There's
nothing here for us, and I'm hungry."

"Don't be silly," Ptarra answered, and the old female superiority
was strong in the thought. "Of course it's too small for us; I knew
that when I saw the landing trail yesterday evening. It must be an
instrument probe, with test animals. If it has telemetering equipment,
though--"

Arnek tested the three spectra uneasily. At this distance, even a tight
beam should be detectable. But he could feel nothing. There was only
the steady wash of inertia-gravitic wavules, the electromagnetic noise
from the sun and the growing, contemptuous mental leakage from Ptarra.
Then he squirmed in embarrassment as his eyes detected the cracked base
of the little ship.

Obviously, it had landed hard--probably hard enough to ruin instruments
and release the two creatures. He should have noticed that at once.

There was no time to admit his error, however. Ptarra's silth lunged
upright and the great rear legs began pulping ground and rocks in a
full charge. Arnek leaped to follow out of old hunting habit. On a
down-grade, his lighter silth soon caught up with the other.

Below, the two humans swung around at the earth-shaking thunder of
the charge and started a frantic scrambling. They were making shrill
sounds now, and the extreme low band of the mental spectrum held faint
impulses.

Ptarra's thoughts lashed against his nerves. "Cut them off! Don't let
them back to the probe. They may have destruct conditioning."

In the hunt, Arnek had long since become only an extension of his
dominant mate. Now he folded his forelegs and dropped his head and neck
into a javelin aimed between humans and ships. The smaller of the two
was almost at the ramp.

At the last moment, moved by a sudden impulse, Arnek dropped his head
lower and retracted his neck to soften the blow. He felt the human
midge strike against his snout and go caromming off, to land fifty feet
away.

Dim pain impulses stirred in the low mental background. Anger--or
something like it--came from the other creature.

Arnek braked and pivoted sharply. The larger human had run forward
toward the bloodied smaller figure. But as the silth's head faced
the creature, one of the human's arms darted to something strapped
about its middle. There was a surprising blast of sound. A stream of
tiny, exploding pellets struck against Arnek's snout. He bellowed in
annoyance and took a step forward, lifting a foreleg to swat at the
midge.

It jerked back. Then it darted forward, bending to lift its companion
in its forelimbs. Either the gravity here was less than on its home
world, or the thing was stronger than it looked. The first leap sent
the burdened human backwards more than twenty feet. Then it was
bounding off in frantic efforts to reach the further side of the
depression where a jumble of rocks might give it cover.

There was amusement in Ptarra's thoughts. "If your hunger is so great,
why didn't you eat them? They aren't much, of course, but the blood
smells sweet enough."

Arnek sighed along his nerves, unable to answer.

Let Ptarra put it down to another male whim if she liked, but he hadn't
thought of eating them before. There had been something cute and
pathetic about them. They reminded him of the little gulla he had owned
in his youth, in a long-lost, ruined universe.

"It had a weapon," he commented, changing the subject.

Ptarra rumbled an assent. "I noticed. Interesting conditioning. The
probe builders must have superb nerve development to do that to the
lower orders. They'll make good silths.... Now let's see what we can
find in the probe."
