
She slipped a claw into the base opening and began working it upwards
as delicately as the clumsy foreleg would permit.

Arnek moved forward to help, but she waved him back impatiently, and he
waited meekly until she finished. She was right, of course. As a male,
he had no training with mechanisms. He would only have ruined whatever
lay inside. It was a marvelously delicate set of machinery ... though
the theory behind the engineering seemed rather elementary.

Arnek studied what he could of it, growing more puzzled. "Maybe the
creatures operated it," he suggested.

"What makes you think so?"

"I don't know. It just seems somehow--"

"Intuition!" Ptarra snorted. Then she seemed less certain. "Yet I can't
blame you this time. It _does_ almost look that way. But it's logically
impossible. Besides, there are automatic controls for guiding the
probe. The builders probably just amused themselves, the way we once
put slurry-pods in the gulla pens. Ah, this looks sound enough!"

She pulled a tiny box out of the wreckage that had been spread out flat
on the ground.

With infinite care, she managed to hook one claw over a miniature
control. Almost immediately, radio waves began forming a recurrent
pattern along their nerves, coming in long and short pulses.

Half an hour later, there was another faint quiver of radio waves from
space, this time completely modulated. Even Arnek could realize that
it was on the same frequency, but dopplered to indicate something
approaching their world. He stopped browsing for the few stunted trees
and came back to join his mate.

Night was just falling. Ptarra led them back toward the rock ledge from
which they had first spied the probe. There was a large fissure in the
rocks into which they could just squeeze, and which would hide them
from the sight of any landing craft.

A moon came up, and they could see the depression clearly in its light.
Now Arnek saw the larger human slipping across the ground toward the
wreck of the probe. It darted about frantically, but with an appearance
of purpose. A few moments later, it was retreating, carrying a load of
packages with it.

"It seems almost intelligent," he said softly.

He strained to follow the faint wash of impressions on the lower band.
There was something there that struck a familiar chord in his thoughts,
but he could not decode it.

"Just instinct," Ptarra dismissed it with cool logic. "A female seeking
food for its injured mate."

Arnek sighed uncomfortably. "It doesn't seem female," he objected.

"Another hunch? Don't be silly, Arnek. It has to be a female. The
larger, stronger and more intelligent form is always female. How else
could it care for the young? It needs ability for a whole family, while
the male needs only enough for himself. The laws of evolution are
logical or we wouldn't have evolved at all."

There was no answer to such logic, other than the vague discontent
Arnek felt. And he knew that was only because of his envy of the
greater ability of the other sex. He settled back, ruminating hungrily
and listening to the signal from space.

The little box from the wreck was silent now, but the other signals
were stronger.

Ptarra nodded. "They're coming. After four hundred years, we have
a chance. New silths to breed. A chance to reproduce ourselves and
multiply. A new universe for our own." There was immense satisfaction
with self in her thoughts. "Well, I earned it!"
