
Arnek could not deny it. It had been more than four hundred years in
this galaxy. Eight thousand of them had set out, leaving behind a
small, ancient universe being wrecked by the horror of an exploding
supernova. They had been driven out from the planetary conquests of a
billion years and had sought refuge across intergalactic space to this
universe.

A hundred of the marvelously adapted silths of their universe had
survived the eons of suspended animation to preserve their occupants.
And then had come the hunt for new silth forms, since the trip had aged
the others beyond the power of reproduction, in spite of all their
precautions.

Finding a silth form was never easy. There had been only three animals
that had served in their entire old galaxy. Only a creature with
several pounds of nerve tissues could hold the nuclear proteins of the
sentient annas. And that required huge creatures, since nerve tissue
was always so thinly scattered in normal flesh.

They had toured a quadrant of the new galaxy, studying planet after
planet, before they found this world. Here the great beasts were
barely sufficiently endowed with nerve fiber. Eight annas had survived
this far. Six failed to stand the shock of entry and regrowth in the
new silth forms. Now there was only the one pair--Arnek and Ptarra.

Left to himself, Arnek would have perished long ago. Their hope of
retraining the clumsy forelegs of the silth forms had proved futile,
and the nerve capacity was too low for them to exercise their full
faculties. The converted nuclei of the cells was never quite efficient,
either. And there seemed no hope of ever reproducing their own.
Certainly no newly budded anna could survive the metamorphosis into
these awkward bodies; that had been almost impossible for mature
powers. Nor could a young anna survive long without a silth.

Four hundred years! And now--now, he thought, he was tired. It no
longer mattered. His home lay in ruins eons away. Let Ptarra worry
about it. He twisted his neck back to put his snout under his tail and
tried to sleep, while hunger rumbled noisily in his stomach.

The sun was glaring down again when he awoke to the nudging of Ptarra's
snout, and there was a roaring in the air above. Something rushed
downwards, bellowing out thrust against gravity. It was another ship,
landing over the wreckage of the first.

But it was no monster such as might have carried new and better silth
forms. It was hardly larger than the first, though it somehow seemed
to be better made. It landed smoothly and squatted on the ground,
sending out signals.

"Another probe," Ptarra said. There was disappointment in her thoughts,
quickly masked by cold logic. "Naturally, they'd wait to check with
something like this. There will probably be several probes before they
decide they have to investigate personally. All right! We'll give them
something to worry about."

She was lunging to her feet, just as an opening appeared in the ship.
This time something ran out, down the ramp--a tiny gadget of churning
tracks and metal carapace, chuffing out shrill little motor sounds. It
circled briefly and then headed across the bowl.

"Stop it," Ptarra ordered. "It may have a camera, so don't waste time.
The less the builders learn about us, the better."

Arnek took off. His hunger had so far failed to weaken him, and he was
covering the ground at two hundred miles an hour before the little
vehicle had picked up a tenth of that speed.

At the last moment, it seemed to be aware of him. There was a wash of
mental shock and confusion. Then his snout hit the car in a sideswipe
that tossed it fifty feet to land on its back. He lumbered forward to
squash it, then hesitated. An opening had appeared and two of the tiny
humans were staggering out. One was supporting the other. At sight of
him, both stopped in shock. For a second, they stood rooted to the
ground. Then the larger one began a clumsy effort at running, half
carrying the other. Blood left a trail behind them.

Arnek could have squashed them with a single thrust of his leg. But
he stood irresolutely, observing the garments and headgear they wore,
remembering his youth and a gulla draped with a ribbon and bells. They
were heading for the rocks nearest them, a long way from where the
first two had found refuge. For a second, he felt impelled to turn them
and drive them toward the others.

Then a wave of amusement from Ptarra checked him. "They'd never reach
that far," she called. "They can't survive the crash of their vehicle.
Let them go."
