
Arnek felt the faint, murky mental signals so low on the band, and he
knew Ptarra was right. They were staggering now, and the smaller one
seemed to be only partly conscious. He sighed and scooped up the ground
car, carrying it back to Ptarra.

This time his mate was making no effort to rip the ship apart. She was
staring through one of the tiny ports, trying to fit her great eye
against it. And she seemed uncertain. Finally she took the ground car
and began dismantling it, looking for automatic or remote controls.

There were none.

"Maybe the creatures operated it--and the ship," Arnek said. He
expected the same reaction the remark had drawn before.

This time Ptarra showed no amusement. Her great head shook in
puzzlement. "About one time in ten thousand a crazy male hunch comes
true," she muttered. "Intuition! It's against all logic. But there are
only manual controls here. Where _are_ those silly creatures?"

The two that had arrived last were pitifully exposed, just within an
opening in the rocks. It was a shallow space, hopeless to defend. The
smaller one lay supine, but the larger human faced the two silths,
holding his pitiful weapon, and waited grimly until they were almost
within reach. This time the explosive pellets were aimed for their eyes.

Ptarra dropped her eyelids, swearing as the missiles stung. She reached
in with a short foreleg. There was a single shrill cry and the sound of
the weapon striking against a rock; the low band was suddenly quiet.
Arnek heard a soft gulp. When he looked, the larger human was gone.

A sudden shock ran through Ptarra's thoughts. Her great eyes blinked
and a huge tongue ran over her lips. "Nerve fiber!" Her shout covered
the entire spectrum. "Arnek, there are pounds of nerve fiber in the
creature! High grade--better than that in these silth forms. As good as
that in any silth. Here, give me the other."

She didn't wait for Arnek's help, however. She dragged the corpse out
and began working as delicately as the silth body would permit. Her
mental signals were a blur. Then she stopped, staring down at what she
held. "There--a cavity in the head, filled with nerve fibers. There
must be three pounds there alone. What freak of evolution would put
them all together in such a vulnerable spot? And yet, there's a certain
efficiency about it. It isn't logical--and yet it is."

Abruptly, the evidence was gone. "Come on," she ordered.

Arnek sighed, and his stomach rumbled a protest. But he ignored it.
"What good is it? We surely can't make a silth out of a tiny thing like
that?"

"Why not?" Contempt for male thought was mixed with smug satisfaction
for her own. "We don't use the other cells anyhow. Oh, there will be
difficulties. They may be short-lived. But with such high grade fiber,
we can risk infiltrating a new one as often as we need. There should
be enough of them. They probably have half a dozen to a litter twice
a year, like most small forms. Possibly billions of them can live on
a single planet. And since they're colonizing other worlds like this
one...."

Even Arnek could see the logic behind Ptarra's assumption in that.
Colonizing would explain the sending out of a male and female in each
ship, with ships spread out days apart. It wasn't the most efficient
method, but it usually insured against any major accident. His people
had used the same method at times.

It all seemed quite logical, but Arnek felt a tension of intuition
along his entire nerve network. No anna had ever used a silth capable
of independent intelligence. There must be something wrong with it.
Once they infiltrated the new silth, of course, they could soon convert
enough nerves to blank out all control from their carriers. But....

"Their weapons," he cried. "Ptarra, in those bodies, we'd be vulnerable
to their weapons. And during the ten days we have to hibernate to grow
into their nerves, they'd kill us."

Ptarra grunted. "Sometimes," she admitted, "you almost think like a
female. They would kill us, of course, if we stupidly stayed where
later arrivals could find us. Now come on. We've got to chase the
creatures around today until they're tired enough to sleep soundly. And
don't let them get near that ship, either!"
