
It was a bitter day for Arnek. His stomach protested, and by the end of
the chase, his legs were beginning to weaken. But ahead of them, the
two humans were staggering in the light of the setting sun. The smaller
was leaning on the larger as they finally found and entered the little
cave near the ship that Ptarra had chosen for them long before.

Night had fallen before Ptarra was satisfied. The two silths moved
forward as softly as they could, but the loud breathing noises went on,
and there was no stir of alarm anywhere on the mental band.

"Do you remember everything?" Ptarra asked. "You've got to regain
consciousness after the first stage. You can do that, if you set your
mind to it."

"I remember," Arnek agreed wearily. He'd had the whole routine drilled
into him repeatedly until he was sick of it. It was like the horror of
having her force him to adapt to this present silth. While he had been
ready to accept assimilation, she had fought with him and with her own
transformation, refusing to admit even his intuition that their race
was ended. Only her cold logic had saved them. He could not deny it now.

"Be sure you take the smaller male body," she warned again.

"Unless that's the female. You found evolution different in these
creatures once," he reminded her.

For a moment, she was silent. Then there was a mental shrug, and almost
amusement as she answered. "Matching sex isn't logically necessary.
It might even be an interesting amusement. But I must have the larger
body."

She began shifting at once. The silth gasped and tried to thresh about
in death as Ptarra released control. Arnek sighed to himself and began
to follow.

It was worse than he remembered. After the centuries, the cells hated
to give up their fixed form. The agony of the silth fed back to him,
until his withdrawal stopped its heart. But slowly the nuclear matter
flowed from the cells and up the pathways to their egress, taking the
minimum of nutrient fluid with them.

It took nearly an hour, and he could see the thin film of Ptarra
already lying over the sleeping human.

He began hurrying now, remembering her warning that the humans would
not stay here once they wakened to find the two abandoned silths dead.
He forced himself over the hateful dryness of the floor, up to the
open mouth. Beyond lay the lungs, the circulatory system, and then the
strange nerve bundle in the skull.

Some of it was ugly, and some was hard. But the last stage was almost
pleasant. He had forgotten how unsatisfactory the nerves of the last
silth had been. These were like coming home to a friendly world, in a
universe that had died too long ago and far away. For a time, he was
almost glad that he had not died with it.

Then the first allergic reactions began, and he had to relapse into
instinct, to let his being fight to save both himself and his host
cells from the reaction.

He set the first stage up, however. This time he managed with no help
from Ptarra. Then he relapsed into unconsciousness, making no effort to
control his new silth yet. He'd have to revise when the silth awoke, he
told himself.

But it was only a dream order, half completed....
