
It was a sudden painful pressure of acceleration that finally brought
him out of his torpor. He felt half sick, and he could vaguely sense
that the new silth was fevered and uncomfortable. But, amazingly, it
was sitting up. And around it was a room bigger than the whole ship had
seemed, and controls under its hands, and fantastic equipment.

"It's about time," Ptarra's thoughts reached him. They were weak now,
since it was hard to transmit in a partial stage, but they were cold
and sure. "I've been aware for hours, while the silths reached the ship
and took off. We've been off planet for at least an hour. Long enough
to study their body controls and to learn how the ship operates."

Arnek sighed to himself, while the pressure of tension refused to
leave. "Are you sure?"

"Of course I'm sure! These are primitive machines, and I learned most
of it from dismantling the first. They're primitive--but they're
logical enough for understanding. I can even control the silth when she
isn't aware."

The larger human suddenly moved the controls, then jerked its hand
back, staring at it. Words came to the ears of the silth in which Arnek
rode. "I'm sick, Luke. I've got the twitches."

The words brought stirrings strongly on the low band, almost but not
quite understandably. They also brought a vocal reply from the other
human. "Be glad you can twitch. Some bug we picked up, but it's better
than being eaten. We're in the clover, kid. Maybe we still got more cop
ships tailing us, but let 'em look. When they find the dinosaurs and
what's left of our ship, they'll stop looking. The heat's going to be
off! We can get back to Earth in a year or so and really live."

Ptarra's thoughts cut through Arnek's efforts to understand.
"Reproduction feelings," she reported in satisfaction. "They must have
higher fertility than I hoped if they can think of it while sick." Then
her thoughts sharpened. "Take over your silth!"

The human at the board slumped abruptly. Arnek lashed out from the
converted cells, felt a brief protest, and then was alone in the brain
of the silth.

He could not yet control it, but it had no independent will.

"There is food and water near if we have to rouse from hibernation
while we grow into these silths," Ptarra reported. "Now--help me if you
can."

Arnek let his weak thoughts blend into hers, trying to give strength as
she had often done to him. She was straining her utmost will.

Slowly and in jerks, the arm moved across the control board, and clumsy
fingers managed to move controls. And at last, from Ptarra's mind,
Arnek began to see the plan.

There was fuel enough to bring them at maximum speed across an eddy
of the galaxy toward the lone sun they had found long before. There
a single planet swung in orbit--a planet with food but no dangerous
animal life. And there they could wait and grow strong, and multiply
as their silths multiplied. They could reach it almost as soon as they
came out of hibernation finally, and it would be a safe haven in its
isolation.

There would be no fuel for further travel. But that could wait, while
their numbers grew, and they could restore their lost technology and
weapons with the clever hands of the human silths. Then they could take
over the galaxy--as they had taken the one so long away!

The hands fumbled under the limited control, but they moved across the
board. And the automatic pilot was finally set and sealed.

"Logic!" Arnek thought softly, and there was wonder at a mind
like Ptarra's that could achieve such understanding of even alien
mechanisms. Yet under it there was still a cold knot of fear along his
nerves.

Ptarra's thoughts had begun to fade from the strain and the long
interruption to her hibernation. But now she caught momentary control
again. There was appreciation in them for his praise. And then there
was amusement. "Logic," she agreed. "But perhaps intuition isn't too
bad for a male. You've been right twice."

"Twice?" Arnek asked. He'd been somehow right that the silths
controlled their own ships, of course. But....

"Twice," Ptarra said. "I've just realized my silth is a male, as you
suggested it might be. Amusing, reversing the sexes, isn't it?"

She tried to say something else, but the strain was too much, and full
hibernation swept her mind away from that of Arnek.

Arnek sat frozen for a time in his silth, knowing that it was also male.

Then he turned it somehow to face the lost galaxy where his race had
known its day and now entered its eternal night.



