
The hours drifted by and Kull still sat before the mirrors of Tuzun
Thune, gazing into that which depicted himself. Sometimes it seemed
that he gazed upon hard shallowness; at other times gigantic depths
seemed to loom before him. Like the surface of the sea was the mirror
of Tuzun Thune; hard as the sea in the sun's slanting beams, in
the darkness of the stars, when no eye can pierce her deeps; vast
and mystic as the sea when the sun smites her in such way that the
watcher's breath is caught at the glimpse of tremendous abysses. So was
the mirror in which Kull gazed.

At last the king rose with a sigh and took his departure still
wondering. And Kull came again to the House of a Thousand Mirrors;
day after day he came and sat for hours before the mirror. The eyes
looked out at him, identical with his, yet Kull seemed to sense a
difference--a reality that was not of him. Hour upon hour he would
stare with strange intensity into the mirror; hour after hour the image
gave back his gaze.

The business of the palace and of the council went neglected. The
people murmured; Kull's stallion stamped restlessly in his stable and
Kull's warriors diced and argued aimlessly with one another. Kull
heeded not. At times he seemed on the point of discovering some vast,
unthinkable secret. He no longer thought of the image in the mirror as
a shadow of himself; the thing, to him, was an entity, similar in outer
appearance, yet basically as far from Kull himself as the poles are
far apart. The image, it seemed to Kull, had an individuality apart
from Kull's; he was no more dependent on Kull than Kull was dependent
on him. And day by day Kull doubted in which world he really lived; was
he the shadow, summoned at will by the other? Did he instead of the
other live in a world of delusion, the shadow of the real world?

Kull began to wish that he might enter the personality beyond the
mirror for a space, to see what might be seen; yet should he manage
to go beyond that door could he ever return? Would he find a world
identical with the one in which he moved? A world, of which his was but
a ghostly reflection? Which was reality and which illusion?

At times Kull halted to wonder how such thoughts and dreams had come
to enter his mind and at times he wondered if they came of his own
volition or--here his thoughts would become mazed. His meditations were
his own; no man ruled his thoughts and he would summon them at his
pleasure; yet could he? Were they not as bats, coming and going, not at
his pleasure but at the bidding or ruling of--of whom? The gods? The
Women who wove the webs of Fate? Kull could come to no conclusion, for
at each mental step he became more and more bewildered in a hazy gray
fog of illusory assertions and refutations. This much he knew: that
strange visions entered his mind, like bats flying unbidden from the
whispering void of non-existence; never had he thought these thoughts,
but now they ruled his mind, sleeping and waking, so that he seemed
to walk in a daze at times; and his sleep was fraught with strange,
monstrous dreams.

"Tell me, wizard," he said, sitting before the mirror, eyes fixed
intently upon his image, "how can I pass yon door? For of a truth, I
am not sure that that is the real world and this the shadow; at least,
that which I see must exist in some form."

"See and believe," droned the wizard. "Man must believe to accomplish.
Form is shadow, substance is illusion, materiality is dream; man is
because he believes he is; what is man but a dream of the gods? Yet man
can be that which he wishes to be; form and substance, they are but
shadows. The mind, the ego, the essence of the god-dream--that is real,
that is immortal. See and believe, if you would accomplish, Kull."

The king did not fully understand; he never fully understood the
enigmatical utterances of the wizard, yet they struck somewhere in
his being a dim responsive chord. So day after day he sat before the
mirrors of Tuzun Thune. Ever the wizard lurked behind him like a shadow.
