
Then came a day when Kull seemed to catch glimpses of strange lands;
there flitted across his consciousness dim thoughts and recognitions.
Day by day he had seemed to lose touch with the world; all things had
seemed each succeeding day more ghostly and unreal; only the man in the
mirror seemed like reality. Now Kull seemed to be close to the doors
of some mightier worlds; giant vistas gleamed fleetingly; the fogs of
unreality thinned; "form is shadow, substance is illusion; they are but
shadows" sounded as if from some far country of his consciousness. He
remembered the wizard's words and it seemed to him that now he almost
understood--form and substance, could not he change himself at will, if
he knew the master key that opened this door? What worlds within what
worlds awaited the bold explorer?

The man in the mirror seemed smiling at him--closer, closer--a fog
enwrapped all and the reflection dimmed suddenly--Kull knew a sensation
of fading, of change, of merging----

"Kull!" the yell split the silence into a million vibratory fragments!

[Illustration: "Kull!" The yell split the silence into a million
vibratory fragments.]

Mountains crashed and worlds tottered as Kull, hurled back by that
frantic shout, made a superhuman effort, how or why he did not know.

A crash, and Kull stood in the room of Tuzun Thune before a shattered
mirror, mazed and half blind with bewilderment. There before him lay
the body of Tuzun Thune, whose time had come at last, and above him
stood Brule the Spear-slayer, sword dripping red and eyes wide with a
kind of horror.

"Valka!" swore the warrior. "Kull, it was time I came!"

"Aye, yet what happened?" The king groped for words.

"Ask this traitress," answered the Spear-slayer, indicating a girl who
crouched in terror before the king; Kull saw that it was she who first
sent him to Tuzun Thune. "As I came in I saw you fading into yon mirror
as smoke fades into the sky, by Valka! Had I not seen I would not have
believed--you had almost vanished when my shout brought you back."

"Aye," muttered Kull, "I had almost gone beyond the door that time."

"This fiend wrought most craftily," said Brule. "Kull, do you not now
see how he spun and flung over you a web of magic? Kaanuub of Blaal
plotted with this wizard to do away with you, and this wench, a girl of
Elder Race, put the thought in your mind so that you would come here.
Kananu of the council learned of the plot today; I know not what you
saw in that mirror, but with it Tuzun Thune enthralled your soul and
almost by his witchery he changed your body to mist----"

"Aye," Kull was still mazed. "But being a wizard, having knowledge of
all the ages and despising gold, glory and position, what could Kaanuub
offer Tuzun Thune that would make of him a foul traitor?"

"Gold, power and position," grunted Brule. "The sooner you learn that
men are men whether wizard, king or thrall, the better you will rule,
Kull. Now what of her?"

"Naught, Brule," as the girl whimpered and groveled at Kull's feet.
"She was but a tool. Rise, child, and go your ways; none shall harm
you."

Alone with Brule, Kull looked for the last time on the mirrors of Tuzun
Thune.

"Mayhap he plotted and conjured, Brule; nay, I doubt you not, yet--was
it his witchery that was changing me to thin mist, or had I stumbled on
a secret? Had you not brought me back, had I faded in dissolution or
had I found worlds beyond this?"

Brule stole a glance at the mirrors, and twitched his shoulders as if
he shuddered. "Aye. Tuzun Thune stored the wisdom of all the hells
here. Let us begone, Kull, ere they bewitch me, too."

"Let us go, then," answered Kull, and side by side they went forth from
the House of a Thousand Mirrors--where, mayhap, are prisoned the souls
of men.
