
The gray dog hurled itself on Darter. Jaws gaped to get a hold on necks
so short and thick as to be mere courtesy terms. They whirled like a
fanged merry-go-round. Three more dogs, one white, one slate blue and
one pink, hurried up and tried to climb aboard.

Butch yawned.

"What's the matter?" inquired Darter's master. "I thought you liked dog
fights, Butch."

"I do like dog fights," Butch said somberly, without looking around. "I
don't like uninj fights. They're just a pretend, like everything else.
Nobody gets hurt. And look here, Joggy--and you, too, Hal--when you
talk to me, don't just say Butch. It's the Butcher, see?"

"That's not exactly a functional name," Hal observed with the
judiciousness of budding maturity, while Joggy said agreeably: "All
right, Butcher, I suppose you'd like to have lived way back when people
were hurting each other all the time so the blood came out?"

"I certainly would," the Butcher replied. As Joggy and Hal turned back
skeptically to watch the fight, he took out the metal tube, screwed
up his face in a dreadful frown and jabbed himself in the hand. He
squeaked with pain and whisked the tube out of sight.

"A kid can't do anything any more," he announced dramatically. "Can't
break anything except the breakables they give him to break on purpose.
Can't get dirty except in the dirt-pen--and they graduate him from that
when he's two. Can't even be bitten by an uninj--it's contraprogrammed."

"Where'd you ever get so fixated on dirt?" Hal asked in a gentle voice
acquired from a robot adolescer.

"I've been reading a book about a kid called Huckleberry Finn," the
Butcher replied airily. "A swell book. That guy got dirtier than
anything." His eyes became dreamy. "He even ate out of a garbage pail."

"What's a garbage pail?"

"I don't know, but it sounds great."

The battling uninjes careened into them. Brute had Darter by the ear
and was whirling him around hilariously.

"Aw, _quit_ it, Brute," the Butcher said in annoyance.

Brute obediently loosed his hold and returned to his master, paying no
attention to his adversary's efforts to renew the fight.

The Butcher looked Brute squarely in the eyes. "You're making too much
of a rumpus," he said. "I want to think."
