
He kicked Brute in the face. The dog squirmed joyously at his feet.

"Look," Joggy said, "you wouldn't hurt an uninj, for instance, would
you?"

"How can you hurt something that's uninjurable?" the Butcher demanded
scathingly. "An uninj isn't really a dog. It's just a lot of circuits
and a micropack bedded in hyperplastic." He looked at Brute with
guarded wistfulness.

"I don't know about that," Hal put in. "I've heard an uninj is
programmed with so many genuine canine reactions that it practically
has racial memory."

"I mean if you _could_ hurt an uninj," Joggy amended.

"Well, maybe I wouldn't," the Butcher admitted grudgingly. "But shut
up--I want to think."

"About what?" Hal asked with saintly reasonableness.

The Butcher achieved a fearful frown. "When I'm World Director," he
said slowly, "I'm going to have warfare again."

"You think so now," Hal told him. "We all do at your age."

"We do not," the Butcher retorted. "I bet _you_ didn't."

"Oh, yes, I was foolish, too," the older boy confessed readily. "All
newborn organisms are self-centered and inconsiderate and ruthless.
They have to be. That's why we have uninjes to work out on, and death
games and fear houses, so that our emotions are cleared for adult
conditioning. And it's just the same with newborn civilizations. Why,
long after atom power and the space drive were discovered, people
kept having wars and revolutions. It took ages to condition them
differently. Of course, you can't appreciate it this year, but Man's
greatest achievement was when he learned to automatically reject all
violent solutions to problems. You'll realize that when you're older."

"I will not!" the Butcher countered hotly. "I'm not going to be a
sissy." Hal and Joggy blinked at the unfamiliar word. "And what if we
were attacked by bloodthirsty monsters from outside the Solar System?"

"The Space Fleet would take care of them," Hal replied calmly. "That's
what it's for. Adults aren't conditioned to reject violent solutions to
problems where non-human enemies are concerned. Look at what we did to
viruses."

"But what if somebody got at us through the Time Bubble?"

"They can't. It's impossible."

"Yes, but suppose they did all the same."

"You've never been inside the Time Theater--you're not old enough
yet--so you just can't know anything about it or about the reasons
why it's impossible," Hal replied with friendly factuality. "The Time
Bubble is just a viewer. You can only look through it, and just into
the past, at that. But you can't travel through it because you can't
change the past. Time traveling is a lot of kid stuff."

"I don't care," the Butcher asserted obstinately. "I'm still going to
have warfare when I'm World Director."

"They'll condition you out of the idea," Hal assured him.

"They will not. I won't let 'em."

"It doesn't matter what you think now," Hal said with finality. "You'll
have an altogether different opinion when you're six."

"Well, what if I will?" the Butcher snapped back. "You don't have to
keep _telling_ me about it, do you?"
