
It was really a more tiring method of transportation than walking
and quite useless against the wind. True, by rocking the repulsor
hemisphere backward, you could get a brief forward push, but it would
be nullified when you rocked forward. A slow swimming stroke was the
simplest way to make progress.

The general sensation, however, was delightful and levitators were
among the most prized of toys.

"There's the Theater," Joggy announced.

"I _know_," the Butcher said irritably.

But even he sounded a little solemn and subdued. From the Great Ramp
to the topmost airy finial, the Time Theater was the dream of a god
realized in unearthly substance. It imparted the aura of demigods to
the adults drifting up and down the ramp.

"My father remembers when there wasn't a Time Theater," Hal said softly
as he scanned the facade's glowing charts and maps. "Say, they're
viewing Earth, somewhere in Scandinavia around zero in the B.C.-A.D.
time scale. It should be interesting."

"Will it be about Napoleon?" the Butcher asked eagerly. "Or Hitler?" A
red-headed adult heard and smiled and paused to watch. A lock of hair
had fallen down the middle of the Butcher's forehead, and as he sat
Joggy like a charger, he did bear a faint resemblance to one of the
grim little egomaniacs of the Dawn Era.

"Wrong millennium," Hal said.

"Tamerlane then?" the Butcher pressed. "He killed cities and piled the
skulls. Blood-bath stuff. Oh, yes, and Tamerlane was a Scand of the
Navies."

Hal looked puzzled and then quickly erased the expression. "Well, even
if it is about Tamerlane, you can't see it. How about it, Joggy?"

"They won't let me in, either."

"Yes, they will. You're five years old now."

"But I don't feel any older," Joggy replied doubtfully.

"The feeling comes at six. Don't worry, the usher will notice the
difference."

Hal and Joggy switched off their levitators and dropped to their
feet. The Butcher came down rather hard, twisting an ankle. He opened
his mouth to cry, then abruptly closed it hard, bearing his pain in
tight-lipped silence like an ancient soldier--like Stalin, maybe, he
thought. The red-headed adult's face twitched in half-humorous sympathy.

Hal and Joggy mounted the Ramp and entered a twilit corridor which
drank their faint footsteps and returned pulses of light. The Butcher
limped manfully after them, but when he got inside, he forgot his
battle injury.
