
Hal looked back. "Honestly, the usher will stop you."

The Butcher shook his head. "I'm going to think my way in. I'm going to
think old."

"You won't be able to fool the usher, Butcher. You under-fives
simply aren't allowed in the Time Theater. There's a good reason for
it--something dangerous might happen if an under-five got inside."

"Why?"

"I don't exactly know, but something."

"Hah! I bet they're scared we'd go traveling in the Time Bubble and
have some excitement."

"They are not. I guess they just know you'd get bored and wander away
from your seats and maybe disturb the adults or upset the electronics
or something. But don't worry about it, Butcher. The usher will take
care of you."

"Shut up--I'm thinking I'm World Director," the Butcher informed them,
contorting his face diabolically.

Hal spoke to the uninjes, pointing to the side of the corridor.
Obediently four of them lined up.

But Brute was peering down the corridor toward where it merged into a
deeper darkness. His short legs stiffened, his neckless head seemed to
retreat even further between his powerful shoulders, his lips writhed
back to show his gleaming fangs, and a completely unfamiliar sound
issued from his throat. A choked, grating sound. A growl. The other
uninjes moved uneasily.

"Do you suppose something's the matter with his circuits?" Joggy
whispered. "Maybe he's getting racial memories from the Scands."

"Of course not," Hal said irritably.

"Brute, get over there," the Butcher commanded. Unwillingly, eyes still
fixed on the blackness ahead, Brute obeyed.

The three boys started on. Hal and Joggy experienced a vaguely
electrical tingling that vanished almost immediately. They looked back.
The Butcher had been stopped by an invisible wall.

"I told you you couldn't fool the usher," Hal said.

The Butcher hurled himself forward. The wall gave a little, then
bounced him back with equal force.

"I bet it'll be a bum time view anyway," the Butcher said, not giving
up, but not trying again. "And I still don't think the usher can tell
how old you are. I bet there's an over-age teacher spying on you
through a hole, and if he doesn't like your looks, he switches on the
usher."
