
But the others had disappeared in the blackness. The Butcher waited and
then sat down beside the uninjes. Brute laid his head on his knee and
growled faintly down the corridor.

"Take it easy, Brute," the Butcher consoled him. "I don't think
Tamerlane was really a Scand of the Navies anyhow."

Two chattering girls hardly bigger than himself stepped through the
usher as if it weren't there.

The Butcher grimly slipped out the metal tube and put it to his lips.
There were two closely spaced faint _plops_ and a large green stain
appeared on the bare back of one girl, while purple fluid dripped from
the close-cropped hair of the other.

They glared at him and one of them said: "A cub!" But he had his arms
folded and wasn't looking at them.

Meanwhile, subordinate ushers had guided Hal and Joggy away from the
main entrance to the Time Theater. A sphincter dilated and they found
themselves in a small transparent cubicle from which they could watch
the show without disturbing the adult audience. They unstrapped their
levitators, laid them on the floor and sat down.

The darkened auditorium was circular. Rising from a low central
platform was a huge bubble of light, its lower surface somewhat
flattened. The audience was seated in concentric rows around the
bubble, their keen and compassionate faces dimly revealed by the pale
central glow.

But it was the scene within the bubble that riveted the attention of
the boys.

Great brooding trees, the trunks of the nearer ones sliced by the
bubble's surface, formed the background. Through the dark, wet foliage
appeared glimpses of a murky sky, while from the ceiling of the bubble,
a ceaseless rain dripped mournfully. A hooded figure crouched beside a
little fire partly shielded by a gnarled trunk. Squatting round about
were wiry, blue-eyed men with shoulder-length blond hair and full blond
beards. They were clothed in furs and metal-studded leather.

Here and there were scattered weapons and armor--long swords glistening
with oil to guard them from rust, crudely painted circular shields, and
helmets from which curved the horns of beasts. Back and forth, lean,
wolflike dogs paced with restless monotony.
