
As if to provide an example, a figure suddenly materialized on
their side of the bubble. The wolflike dogs bared their fangs. For
an instant, there was only an eerie, distorted, rapidly growing
silhouette, changing from blood-red to black as the boundary of the
bubble cross-sectioned the intruding figure. Then they recognized the
back of another long-haired warrior and realized that the audience on
the other side of the bubble had probably seen him approaching for some
time.

He bowed to the hooded figure and handed him a small bag.

"More atavistic cubs, big and little! Hold still, Cynthia," a new voice
cut in.

Hal turned and saw that two cold-eyed girls had been ushered into the
cubicle. One was wiping her close-cropped hair with one hand while
mopping a green stain from her friend's back with the other.

Hal nudged Joggy and whispered: "Butch!"

But Joggy was still hypnotized by the Time Bubble.

"Then how is it, Hal," he asked, "that light comes out of the bubble,
if the people don't? What I mean is, if one of the people walks toward
us, he shrinks to a red blot and disappears. Why doesn't the light
coming our way disappear, too?"

"Well--you see, Joggy, it isn't real light. It's--"

Once more the interpreter helped him out.

"The light that comes from the bubble is an isotope. Like atoms of
one element, photons of a single frequency also have isotopes. It's
more than a matter of polarization. One of these isotopes of light
tends to leak futureward through holes in space-time. Most of the
light goes down the vistas visible to the other side of the audience.
But one isotope is diverted through the walls of the bubble into the
Time Theater. Perhaps, because of the intense darkness of the theater,
you haven't realized how dimly lit the scene is. That's because we're
getting only a single isotope of the original light. Incidentally, no
isotopes have been discovered that leak pastward, though attempts are
being made to synthesize them."

"Oh, explanations!" murmured one of the newly arrived girls. "The cubs
are always angling for them. Apple-polishers!"

"_I_ like this show," a familiar voice announced serenely. "They cut
anybody yet with those choppers?"

Hal looked down beside him. "Butch! How did you manage to get in?"

"I don't see any blood. Where's the bodies?"

"But how _did_ you get in--Butcher?"
