
The Butcher replied airily: "A red-headed man talked to me and said it
certainly was sad for a future dictator not to be able to enjoy scenes
of carnage in his youth, so I told him I'd been inside the Time Theater
and just come out to get a drink of water and go to the eliminator, but
then my sprained ankle had got worse--I kind of tried to get up and
fell down again--so he picked me up and carried me right through the
usher."

"Butcher, that wasn't honest," Hal said a little worriedly. "You
tricked him into thinking you were older and his brain waves blanketed
yours, going through the usher. I really _have_ heard it's dangerous
for you under-fives to be in here."

"The way those cubs beg for babying and get it!" one of the girls
commented. "Talk about sex favoritism!" She and her companion withdrew
to the far end of the cubicle.

The Butcher grinned at them briefly and concentrated his attention on
the scene in the Time Bubble.

"Those big dogs--" he began suddenly. "Brute must have smelled 'em."

"Don't be silly," Hal said. "Smells can't come out of the Time Bubble.
Smells haven't any isotopes and--"

"I don't care," the Butcher asserted. "I bet somebody'll figure out
someday how to use the bubble for time traveling."

"You can't travel in a point of view," Hal contradicted, "and that's
all the bubble is. Besides, some scientists think the bubble isn't real
at all, but a--uh--"

"I believe," the interpreter cut in smoothly, "that you're thinking
of the theory that the Time Bubble operates by hypermemory. Some
scientists would have us believe that all memory is time traveling and
that the basic location of the bubble is not space-time at all, but
ever-present eternity. Some of them go so far as to state that it is
only a mental inability that prevents the Time Bubble from being used
for time traveling--just as it may be a similar disability that keeps
a robot with the same or even more scopeful memories from being a real
man or animal.

"It is because of this minority theory that under-age individuals and
other beings with impulsive mentalities are barred from the Time
Theater. But do not be alarmed. Even if the minority theory should
prove true--and no evidence for it has ever appeared--there are
automatically operating safeguards to protect the audience from any
harmful consequences of time traveling (almost certainly impossible,
remember) in either direction."

"Sissies!" was the Butcher's comment.
