
"You're rather young to be here, aren't you?" the interpreter inquired.

The Butcher folded his arms and scowled.

The interpreter hesitated almost humanly, probably snatching through a
quarter-million microtapes. "Well, you wouldn't have got in unless a
qualified adult had certified you as plus-age. Enjoy yourself."

There was no need for the last injunction. The scene within the bubble
had acquired a gripping interest. The shaggy warriors were taking up
their swords, gathering about the hooded sorcerer. The hood fell back,
revealing a face with hawklike, disturbing eyes that seemed to be
looking straight out of the bubble at the future.

"This is getting good," the Butcher said, squirming toward the edge of
his seat.

"Stop being an impulsive mentality," Hal warned him a little nervously.

"Hah!"

The sorcerer emptied the small bag on the fire and a thick cloud of
smoke puffed toward the ceiling of the bubble. A clawlike hand waved
wildly. The sorcerer appeared to be expostulating, commanding. The
warriors stared uncomprehendingly, which seemed to exasperate the
sorcerer.

"That's right," the Butcher approved loudly. "Sock it to 'em!"

"Butcher!" Hal admonished.

Suddenly the bubble grew very bright, as if the Sun had just shone
forth in the ancient world, though the rain still dripped down.

"A viewing anomaly has occurred," the interpreter announced. "It may be
necessary to collapse the Time Bubble for a short period."

In a frenzy, his ragged robes twisting like smoke, the sorcerer rushed
at one of the warriors, pushing him backward so that in a moment he
must cross-section.

"Attaboy!" the Butcher encouraged.

Then the warrior was standing outside the bubble, blinking toward the
shadows, rain dripping from his beard and furs.

"Oh, _boy_!" the Butcher cheered in ecstasy.

"Butcher, you've done it!" Hal said, aghast.

"I sure did," the Butcher agreed blandly, "but that old guy in the
bubble helped me. Must take two to work it."

"Keep your seats!" the interpreter said loudly. "We are energizing the
safeguards!"
