
Growling quite unmechanically, the five uninjes hurled themselves
forward and closed with the warrior's wolflike dogs. At the first
encounter, Brute and Pinkie were grabbed by the throats, shaken, and
tossed a dozen feet. The warriors snarled approval and advanced. But
then Brute and Pinkie raced back eagerly to the fight--and suddenly the
face of the leading warrior was drenched with scarlet. He blinked and
touched his fingers to it, then looked at his hand in horror.

The Butcher spared a second to repeat his command to the uninjes. But
already the battle was going against the larger dogs. The latter had
the advantage of weight and could toss the smaller dogs like so many
foxes. But their terrible fangs did no damage, and whenever an uninj
clamped on a throat, that throat was torn out.

Meanwhile, great bloody stains had appeared on the bodies of all the
warriors. They drew back in a knot, looking at each other fearfully.
That was when the Butcher got to his feet and strode forward, hand
clenching the levitator above his head.

"Get back where you belong, you big jerks! And drop that lady!"

The first warrior pointed toward him and hissed something. Immediately,
a half dozen swords were smiting at the Butcher.

"We are working to energize the safeguards," the interpreter said in
mechanical panic. "Remain patient and in your seats."

The uninjes leaped into the melee, at first tearing more fur than
flesh. Swords caught them and sent them spinning through the air. They
came yapping back for more. Brute fixed on the first warrior's ankle.
He dropped the woman, stamped unavailingly on the uninj, and let out a
screech.

Swords were still rebounding from the invisible shield under which the
Butcher crouched, making terrible faces at his attackers. They drew
back, looked again at their bloodstains, goggled at the demon dogs.
At their leader's screech, they broke and plunged back into the Time
Bubble, their leader stumbling limpingly after them. There they wasted
no time on their own ragged sorcerer. Their swords rose and fell, and
no repulsor field stayed them.

"Brute, come back!" the Butcher yelled.
