
In one of the rooms upstairs Mary sat before the dressing table with her
back to the mirror, while June and Adele occupied the two overstuffed
chairs. Night sounds drifted up from the yellow canal, and fresh flower
scents whispered on the warm air. The diaphanous glass curtains rustled
at the open window.

"They're too expensive," Mary said. "I'm sure Miss Bestris overcharges
us for them."

"Hush," said June, glancing around at the walls nervously. "Hush, Mary."
She smoothed at the delicate, plutolac lace fringe above her breasts.
"Imported material like this costs money. You can't get it for nothing,
and we have to have the best."

"I still think she charges too much."

Adele shrugged delicately and crossed shapely ankles. "I think Miss
Bestris must like you, or she wouldn't let you wear that dress again
tonight. You ought to watch out that you don't get on the wrong side of
her."

Mary laughed, her amethyst eyes sparkling. "I won't care. Not after
tonight."

"You're not going to run away?" June asked breathlessly. "You wouldn't
dare do that. You'd catch it, sure!"

Mary shook her head. "Not _run_ away."

Adele leaned forward and said huskily, "You got enough money to redeem
your contract?"

Again Mary shook her head. "No. It's nine hundred and ten _dordocs_. I
have only ninety-three. But I'll have enough in the morning!" She stood
up and crossed to the window, looked out toward the spaceport.

"How?"

"Tell us, Mary!"

"Tell you what?" Anne asked, coming into the room. Languidly she drew
the door closed behind her and rested against it. "Tell you what?" she
insisted, narrowing milky eyes.

"Mary says she can redeem her contract tomorrow."

Anne's wide mouth curled contemptuously. "Nonsense!"

"It's not," said Mary without turning.

Anne glided sensuously across the room to the bed, her tight fitting
plastic rippling with her tigerish muscles. She sat down.

"He said he'd take me away, this trip," Mary continued. "He'll sign off,
and then we'll both get a ship and go to one of the frontier planets.
Where it won't matter about--all this."

Anne laughed harshly. "My God! You believe _that_?"

"We've both been saving our money," Mary said dreamily. "He's in love
with me. He said so."

"Honey, that's what they all say."

Smiling, Mary turned from the window and leaned backward, stretching.
"You don't know him. He's different."

"They're all the same," Anne said, her mouth twisting bitterly.
"They're just alike. Don't believe any of them."

And Mary said, "With him, it's different. You'll see."

After a moment, Anne said, "That Earthman? That what's-his-name?" Mary
nodded, and Anne brushed an imaginary something off her knee. "An
Earthman," Anne said. "They're the worst of all."

"You don't know him, or you wouldn't say that."

Adele looked away from Anne. "You love him, don't you, Mary?"

"Yes."

"You're a fool," Anne said. "Listen to me. _Love_ a man? God! You'll
see. After him, there'll be another and another, and--just like
Rosy--you'll watch 'em leave you and laugh at you until finally you're
hurt so bad you don't think you can stand being hurt any more, and then
along comes another one, and it starts all over again, and then one
night you take a razor blade and go to the sink and stick out your
throat and...."

"No! No! You're wrong! He's not like the rest!"

Anne leaned back carelessly, resting, propped on one hand. "See. You
know I'm right, already."

"You're not!"

Anne shrugged. "Honey, tell me that tomorrow night."

"I better go take my cake out," Mary said. She fled the room in a swirl
of shimmering glastic.

Anne sneered, "I don't see why Miss Bestris puts up with her the way she
does."

"You're jealous," June said quietly.

Anne did not answer.

"Mary's decent," Adele said. "Maybe that's why. She's from the sticks,
and her parents still come to see her on visiting days, and there's
something about her so--so innocent. Maybe that's why Miss Bestris likes
her."

June said, "I think she's better than the rest of us. I think Miss
Bestris feels sorry for her in a way."

"Don't make me laugh," Anne said, facing June. "The only one that'll
ever feel sorry for her is herself!"

"You shouldn't have talked like that to her!" June snapped. "Why don't
you let her alone? She'll feel bad enough without you helping!"

Anne rolled over on the bed and stared up at the ceiling. June took a
helox lamp from her drawer and started to bake her hair darker. Those
Earthmen were so funny about colors.

In the kitchen, Mary took the cake out of the oven. It was steamy and
light and fluffy, and it smelled sweet and warm. She set it on the table
and mixed a two-minute green frosting which she spread, carefully, over
the cake. She patted here and there with the spatula and stood back, her
eyes proud and serious.

She hummed a little tune under her breath as she scrubbed the pots and
pans. Her hands moved in practiced rhythm, and the water splashed and
gurgled. When the kitchen was again spotless, she looked once more at
the cake, and then, turning out the light, she went back to her room.

Anne and Adele had left, but June was sitting quietly in the dusky
moonlight. Her white dress seemed vaguely luminous.

Laughing, Mary flicked on the light.

"It's a wonderful cake," she said. "The best one I ever made. Just the
way it should be."

"I wouldn't feel too bad, Mary, if he doesn't come to eat it," June
said. "I don't want to sound like Anne, but there was a lot of sense in
what she said."

"It's just like a real wedding cake." She hummed the snatch of Martian
tune. "Like in the tele-papers." She laughed with her eyes. "The
bridegroom takes the silver knife and cuts two large pieces of the cake
while the bride, dressed in filament coral, stands at his right hand.
She carries a bouquet of--Anne just likes to be mean!"

June frowned. Mary crossed to the dressing table. She studied her face
in the mirror. It was heart shaped, elfin; her purple hair was a riot of
curls, and her eyes were amethyst and gold. She smiled at herself. "I
want to look as pretty as I can tonight." She twisted around. "You don't
think he'll come either, do you?"

"I--no, Mary."

Mary looked back at the mirror. "He likes our canal blossom perfume."
She dabbed some of it on her ear lobes. "I like it best, too."

June stood up, crossed to the musikon, found a slow five-toned waltz.
She turned the music very low, and left the color mixer dim enough so
that only the faintest ghosts projected hues moved on walls and ceiling.

Mary continued to stare into the mirror. "But he will come. I know it."

June said nothing.

"Don't you see. I just _know_ he'll come."

June crossed back to her seat.

Mary turned from the mirror. "I'm sure he will. He's--I mean...."

June smiled wanly.

"Well, he will! You'll see!"

June said, "Even if it is an old dress, you look very nice in it."

"I've been learning his language. I can say 'thank you' and 'yes' and
'no' and 'I love you' and all kinds of things in it. He gave me a book,
and I've been studying. I want to be able really to talk with him. We've
got a lot to talk about. I want to find out about his parents, and what
he likes for supper and what kind of music he likes to hear, and--and
all sorts of things. I want to find out all about his planet, and...."

"Yes," June said wearily, "I know."

The music played on. The moving lights on the walls were like colored
reflections from a sunlit river.

"He may be a little late tonight; he has a lot to do, first. But he'll
be here."

_Buzzzzz_....

It was the red button; it blinked on and off.

"Visitors," June said.

"Look--" Mary said. "Look, June. I'm not half ready yet. Look. Tell Miss
Bestris I'll be down a little late. Tell her I have a special boy, and
it'll be all right. He wants me to wait for him."

June was on her feet. "... All right. You'd better not wait too long!"

"I won't."

After June was gone, Mary returned to the task of making her face
pretty, but after a moment, she turned from the mirror, leaned back, and
tried to relax. Underneath her dress, her heart was pounding.

The warm air carried sounds of the night creatures. One of the great
canal insects, screeching, flapped by the window. The tiny third moon
crept up over the horizon, and the buildings cast triple shadows.

_Buzzz. Buzzzz._

Still Mary waited.

_Buzzz. Buzzzz. Buzzzzzz...._

She was afraid to wait any longer. But by now she was sure that he would
be down stairs.

There was a last-minute flurry of combing and primping, and then she
rustled out of the room, her head erect, her eyes shining.
