
The large reception room was filling. Overhead, the color organ threw
shimmering, prismatic beams on the ceiling. Beneath it, stiff,
embarrassed spacemen, mostly officers dressed in parade uniforms,
chatted in space-pidgin with the laughing, rainbow-haired girls.

Miss Bestris sat in one corner, her eyes roving the room: settling here
for a second, there for a second, checking, approving, disapproving,
silently. Occasionally she would smile or nod at one of the girls or one
of the spacemen, and once she frowned ever so slightly and shook her
head.

Anne was reclining on a couch, eating a golden Martian apple, listening
to a second mate; she played with a lock of his hair and smiled her wide
smile.

June, angelic, sat primly in a straight-backed chair, the captain at her
feet, a boyish, space-pale Earthman, drew embarrassed circles on the
carpet with his index finger.

In the next room, three couples were dancing to the slow music of an
Earth orchestra.

An inner door opened, and a uniformed native sheriff stepped in, a
crisp, military figure. "Miss Bestris?"

She stood up. "Yes?"

The Earthmen fell silent, waiting.

"We think we have your runaway." He turned to the door. "Bring her in."

Two more sheriffs entered, and between them, there was a young, slender
girl. Her face was gaunt and tear-stained. Her body trembled. She looked
at the Madame fearfully.

"You idiots!" Miss Bestris screamed. "Get her out of here! You'll ruin
my party! Take her out!"

The two men removed the girl. To the remaining sheriff, Miss Bestris
said, "Damn you, if you ever do anything like that again, I'll ...
I'll...."

"I'm sorry, Madame. But we wanted immediate identification. Would you
want us to hold the wrong girl?"

"That's her, all right! Now, get out! Wait for me in my office."

When they were gone Miss Bestris turned to the silent room. In quite
passable Esperanto she said, "I--am sorry. A misunderstanding. I assure
you, nothing. Go on with the party, and I'll see what I can do for the
poor girl."

She stood up and in her own language said, "Lively, girls! Smile! You,
Rita, hurry and serve tea!"

She made her exit.

The spacemen grumbled among themselves, coughed uneasily, watched the
closed door through which the Madame had gone. Listening, they could
hear only a muted mumble of sing-song sounds in several voices.

With determined animation, the girls moved about, smiled, chatted.

Rita came in, wheeling the tea tray, and the girls converged on it, each
trying to be the first to serve her escort. The tea was the Martian
stuff, concocted of a kind of local hemp. The Earthmen found it harsh
and bitter to the taste, but gentle on the soul.

Anne had filled two cups and returned to the second mate when she caught
sight of Mary coming down the stairs.

On the lowest step, Mary stood for a long time; her eyes eagerly
searched the crowd. Slowly a puzzled, hurt look came over her face.

June came to her side after a little while.

"Isn't he here?"

"No. Not yet."

"I'm sorry," June said, touching Mary's arm lightly.

"It's all right. It's early yet. I'll just sit down by Miss Bestris'
chair and wait for him."

She turned from June and went to the chair. Before she could sit down, a
space corporal came over, bowed, tried to take her hand. She shook her
head. He smiled twistedly and walked stiffly away.

Another man smiled at her. She shook her head slowly.

Someone came in the front door, and she leaned forward. Then she slumped
back limply.

She heard a tinkly laugh. She looked in its direction. She met Anne's
eyes, bright and amused. Just then Miss Bestris came in, her eyes angry
and her cheeks flushed. She strode across the room.

"Well," she said. "I'm glad to see you finally came down." She sank
heavily into her chair. "Cresent's back. They just brought her in. The
idiots came right in here with her. I'll bet I lost half-a-dozen
customers. These Earthmen are sensitive about such things."

Mary was still staring at the door; Miss Bestris looked down at her.

"Well, what are you sitting here for?"

"Please, Miss Bestris. I'm waiting for my special boy friend tonight."

She snorted and looked away. "Why isn't he here?"

"He will be."

"He'd better. I'll let you wait another--half an hour. That's all."

"Thank you, Miss Bestris. You're very kind to me."

"I indulge you more than I ought to, child," she said. "More than is
good for you, if the truth were known."

A man came in; Mary stiffened and then relaxed.

The mutter of voices blended into a steady hum. More couples were
dancing. Miss Bestris moved around the room. The music was tinny.

Another man came in.

"Your time's up," the Madame told Mary.

"Please, let me just wait for another few minutes."

Miss Bestris fixed her lips grimly. "I've had enough nonsense for
tonight. You heard me!"

"_Please!_"

"You heard what I said."

"Miss Bestris, I couldn't. Not tonight. Honest, I couldn't. If I had to
talk to anybody, I'd break down and cry. He'll ... come. I know he
will."

Miss Bestris whirled on her. "Listen, you little--" But she stopped,
suddenly. "All right," she said, gritting her teeth. "I can't afford
another scene tonight. But you'll be sorry for this."

Miss Bestris stormily looked away. The dancers danced; the music swelled
louder. Gradually, deliberately, the lights were waning.

"Haven't I always been good to you, Mary?" the Madame asked.

"Yes."

"Then like an obedient girl, do as I say. If he hasn't come by now, he
just won't. He's gone to some other house."

"No!" Mary said doggedly.

"Just remember, tomorrow, how you deliberately disobeyed me. Your silly
emotions are costing me money, and that's one thing I simply won't stand
for."

"He'll come." Mary said. "You won't lose money."

Couples sat side by side, laughing, talking in whispers. Occasionally
there were giggles. The room began to empty slowly.

The lights continued to dim until the rooms were gloomy. Even the
shifting shades of the color organ were no more than a faint ambience.
Anne, laughing, helped her second mate to his feet.

"I'll give you one more chance," Miss Bestris said. "The next man that
comes in...."

"No! I just couldn't! Not tonight!"

A few more customers drifted in. Then even the stragglers stopped
coming. It was very late.

"He's deserted you; you see that now?" Madame Bestris sneered.

Mary stood up. There were tears in her eyes. "You can't--you
don't--know--how I feel," she choked. "You don't care!" She turned and
ran up the stairs, crying.

Several Earthmen, still in the big room, turned to watch. The torches
were misty twinkles now. The last couples climbed the stairs and then
Miss Bestris, too, went to bed.
