
The blue morning came. The town awoke; commerce began.

At seven, Miss Bestris lay in bed frowning, considering the events of
the previous evening. But she was not so annoyed that she forgot to call
a doctor on the teleview and arrange for him to come at nine to give a
physical examination.

Her bulk out of bed, she dressed and went to the kitchen to brew a pot
of hemp tea. The cleaning maid, moving about in the next room, heard
Miss Bestris call sharply: "Flavia! Come in here!"

Flavia appeared with a dust rag in her hand.

"Did you cut this cake?"

"No, ma'am."

Miss Bestris glowered. "That little idiot! She must have slipped down
here after we were all asleep and sat here and cried her silly little
eyes out! If she thinks she can pull that love-sick act on me she'll
soon find out different. Am I supposed to put up with having her moon
over every space tramp that comes in? Why, I've taken more from her--!"

"Yes, ma'am."

Miss Bestris waddled to the stairs, climbed them determinedly. At Mary's
door she stopped and twisted the knob. Locked!

Miss Bestris hammered. "Open up, Mary!" The door rattled under her hand.
"Open that door at once!"

No answer.

Miss Bestris pounded harder. "Open up, I say!"

Anne sauntered into the hall, her dressing gown swishing. "She really
made you look the fool last night, didn't she?" Anne said lazily.

"You--you slut! Mind your own business."

Anne smiled and shrugged.

"Open the door, Mary! Do you hear me! Open it!"

"Maybe she killed herself," Anne said. "It has happened."

"My God! No.... She wouldn't dare. You think she would?"

Anne shrugged again. "They do funny things sometimes."

Miss Bestris' face was red. "Run down and get my keys. In my desk. You
know where they are."

Then, "_For God's sake, hurry!_"

While she waited Miss Bestris rattled the door, pleading and cursing.

Finally Anne returned. Miss Bestris snatched the key with a shaking
hand. She hurled the door open and burst inside.

"See here, you little--!" She stopped.

The room was empty.

On the neatly made bed reposed a little stack of money. When Miss
Bestris got around to counting it, she found that it contained exactly
nine hundred and ten _dordocs_.

THE END

