
The sun glinted from the burnished green hull, but no light entered the
blackness that was the doorway. There was nothing to see or hear. The
men and women stood patiently in front of the ship and waited. They
seemed unaware of the passage of time, for they lived in the stasis of
a minute.

Shadows were longer by a foot or more when Clyde Ellery again appeared
among them. There was an expression of hope on his face, but they
stared back without understanding.

"We must leave the field," he told them. They followed him across the
furrowed ground, accepting for the moment his leadership. Beyond the
staggering rail fence, near to the once-red barn, he turned to look
back at the strange ship.

The doorway was closed and once again there was only the smooth metal,
looking green and alive against the brown earth. As they watched, the
ship quivered, then rose a few feet on a single leg of fire. It hung
poised in the air as the fire fanned out, grew solid and orange. There
was no sound, but they could feel the heat against their faces. The
pillar of fire lengthened, pushing the ship against the sky. Then the
fire lifted from the earth and the ship was flashing out of sight,
leaving only the offal of blackened soil as proof of its visit.

Clyde Ellery turned and walked to where the gnarled apple trees
guarded Max Carr's house. He dropped to the ground. The others seated
themselves around him and waited. The children grouped near the pump
and were silent.

"It'll be back," Clyde Ellery said, and there was confidence in his
voice. The strength of words had been redeemed. "It has gone to other
communities like this one--all over the world. But it will return--it
and other ships like it."

He paused, but there were no questions. The hope that was within him
found no new ground. They were aware of no questions that had not been
answered by the bursting flame and mushrooming smoke he had helped to
make. They expected no answers, yet they respected that which they saw
in his face.

"The ship was empty," Clyde Ellery said after a while, "but there was a
recording which told me everything. There is to be another chance for
Man--for those of us who are not yet radioactive."

They waited patiently, these men and women who had looked too long upon
death to recognize life.

"The ship is from Venus--built by what, I don't know. Speech, as we
know it, must be unknown, for the recording we all heard, and those
that were played for me, were pieced together from words recorded here
on Earth. Almost every word was spoken by a different voice. They must
have recorded many conversations here, then picked out the needed
words and made up their message on new records. It indicates no spoken
language, perhaps no vocal cords, but a high degree of intelligence."

He was the only one interested in the high degree of intelligence.

"The ships are apparently remote-controlled," he said, and it was easy
to see that he was dreaming of the science that had made such ships
possible. "I suspect the ships are magnetic-powered for the record said
that the trip to Venus can be made very quickly--a matter of hours." He
realized then that among his listeners there was not one who cared how
the ship was powered. He said bluntly, "All the people of Earth who are
still healthy are invited to go to Venus. One half of the entire planet
will be given to us. We must take with us our own animals and our own
plant seeds, those that are also healthy. They will provide as many
ships as are necessary.

"The ships are somehow built to detect the healthy and the unhealthy.
It will be impossible for a person, an animal, or for any seed, to pass
within the ship unless it is healthy. There will be no chance for the
sickness to take root in the new colony."

They had come to accept death for all, and there was only fear at the
thought that some of them might live. They stared stolidly at a point
just above Clyde Ellery's head.

"The climate and the atmosphere on Venus are pretty much the same as
here," Clyde Ellery continued. "There is more precipitation--more rain,
but not too much. The soil is rich, and will not need fertilizers
for years. One half of the planet--the half towards Earth--will be
ours to cultivate and govern as we please. We may take as many
personal possessions with us as we wish, as long as they are free
from radioactivity. There--there is--" his voice faltered, then went
on--"one other requirement in accepting their help. We cannot take any
equipment or literature necessary to the making of weapons of war,
including atomic bombs, and the record said that any attempt to make
destructive weapons on Venus will bring death to those doing it. Other
than that, there will be no interference. The ships will be here within
a week."

A bird chirped feebly from the branches of the apple tree, but there
was no other sound. The men and women sat quietly in the grass and
looked at Clyde Ellery without emotion. From farther off, the children
stared in futile imitation.

"That's all," Clyde Ellery said lamely. "The ships for this area will
land in the same field. Within a week." He paused, then walked toward
the road. He was alone again, a leader with no followers.

By ones and twos, the others left as the sun dropped lower. No words
were given, no promises made, in the leaving. No man looked to his
neighbor.
