
It was an uneventful week. The women still cooked meals automatically,
and between meals they stared endlessly through windows; the men still
did a few chores or sat in the shade and stared. Here and there a man
might lift his head to the skies and feel a stirring of something like
hope, but then he'd see a withered plant or walk through the fields to
find a dead cow and he'd go back to sitting in the shade. And it was
the same all over the world, whether the man was black or yellow or
white.

The same ship returned to the field on Max Carr's farm. With it were
a number of other ships, larger by far. They covered the field, like
strange green growths, and the earth was black from their flames.

They stood there, empty and waiting for the people to come. And come
they did, without hope and with little curiosity. Still they came,
walking through the dry dust, riding in Fords and Cadillacs, driving
horses and oxen and even goats. They came for days in an endless
stream of plodding humanity, clutching personal possessions, carrying
precious bags of seeds, driving livestock before them. Men and women
and squawling children. Some wore scars where they could be seen, great
livid welts that gave mute testimony to the progress of man; others
bore their scars unseen. All were silent and looked away quickly if
they met another's eye.

The doors of the ships opened and the recorded voice from the smaller
ship told them to enter the other ships, taking with them their seed
and their animals. In listless streams they poured through the nearest
doorways, and some came out of one door and some from another. Some
entered holding a bag of seed and came out holding two. There were
husbands and wives who went in holding hands and came out by different
doors. As they left the ships, they stood where the voice directed
them. Slowly one group grew, one or two at a time adding to its
numbers, while the other swelled out over the field.

Those in the smaller group looked to the larger and there were many who
saw a beloved, a husband or wife, a child or parent, standing among the
rejected. A hand that a moment before had gripped another now clutched
the limp throat of a bag filled with dying seed. There were some who
gazed across the field, then looked briefly through a mist of sadness
and longing at the shimmering ships before stepping across to volunteer
for death with those they could not leave. There were others who looked
across to the larger group and turned away to weep, but stayed where
they were.

For several days the sorting of seed and equipment, animals and people,
continued. The two camps became little tent villages with smoldering
fires. Thin rays of light, unseen during the day, soft blue at night,
reached out from the ships between the two groups. Those from the
smaller group could pass through the rays, but when two men tried to
sneak in among the chosen they were stopped as though by a brick wall.
Others tried going around the fingers of light late at night, but the
rays curved and drove them back. None of the rejected left, but camped
there in silent resignation. One place was the same as another, and
they had nothing to do but wait.

Clyde Ellery worked day and night, helping to form the lines, carrying
children and packages, seeing that the campers had enough to eat. He
almost forgot himself in the pressing needs of the exodus.

On the third day, the smaller ship again shot into the sky and vanished
from sight. On the morning of the fourth day, just as the last of the
sorting was being done, it returned. The door yawned blackly and the
recorded voice spoke:

"Those who have shown no evidence of radiation will please enter the
large ships." The small group stirred into life and began to file into
the ships, prodding their animals before them. Here and there a man or
woman waved in the direction of the larger group and looked quickly
away; but the rest of them looked rigidly ahead as they went.

Clyde Ellery again helped, wondering if he should enter the last ship.
Then the chosen were all loaded, while beyond the fence those who were
to stay watched wordlessly. Children of the atom, Clyde Ellery thought
fleetingly, and turned to enter the ship only to find his way barred by
the closing panel. For a swift moment, he felt panic flooding him.

"The man," said the metallic voice from the small ship, "who first
entered this ship will now enter again."
