
Clyde Ellery crossed the field quickly and stepped into the ship. On
his first visit, he had turned to the right into a small chamber where
the recorded voice had spoken to him. But this time he felt some unseen
force turning him to the left. He followed the pressure and entered
a large room. Weird flickering lights blazed from niches high on the
rounded wall. Scattered around the room were various-sized pads similar
in shape to chairs. A number of other men looked up as he entered.

The floor quivered beneath his feet. There was a quick surge of
soundless power, and he knew they were taking off. His body was heavy
and ungainly; there was a feeling of pressure which brought with it a
quick nausea. Then, slowly, he was aware of an adjustment in the room.
The pressure eased off, gravity returned to normal. The ringing in his
ears stopped and his stomach righted itself. Having seen the ship take
off, he knew that they were traveling at a rate of speed never before
known on Earth, yet he was soon unaware of movement at all. He stepped
forward to become acquainted with the others.

He had seen at a glance that these were men from all over the
world--their faces all colors and shapes. Slowly making his way around
the room, he learned their names. It was an exotic roll call--Wang Chin
Kwang, Anton Dubov, Jean-Paul Monet, David Hellman, Courtland Stokes,
Riyad el Khoury, Kano Mbabane, Alexandre Spaak, Boleslaw Rzymowski,
Vincent Ravielli, Mohandas Punjab, Konstantinos Piraeus. To it, he
added the name of Clyde Ellery. Language was only a minor problem, for
there was always someone who could translate when he was unable to
understand. There were as many occupations and trades as there were
faces. Some wore a look of guilt that faded slowly, and some still held
confusion darkly in their eyes. But in all there was the slow-fuse of a
new hope.

Each, Clyde Ellery found, had gone through much the same experience as
he had. Each of them represented the science of his community, whatever
its stage, ranging from Kano Mbabane, a witch doctor, to Ellery who was
a nuclear physicist.

As the ship flashed silently on its journey, the men explored. The
hull was of a metal unknown on Earth. They were able to groove deep
scratches in its surface with an ordinary penknife, but within two
minutes the scratch would vanish. It felt almost soft to the touch, but
was obviously of great strength. They began to understand its purpose,
if not its structure, when a section of the wall suddenly bulged inward
more than a foot, then slowly smoothed out.

"Good heavens," exclaimed Courtland Stokes, as they stared at the
retreating bulge, "that must have been a small meteorite! Imagine the
uses of a metal with the strength to resist such a force. Why if we'd
had this metal--"

He broke off, but the thought was there. This was a metal which might
have resisted even the atom bomb.

Two of the men translated his remarks into the other languages.

"_Djen shi dje yang dy mo?_" Wang Chin asked dryly.

There was no need to translate the comment. They all understood the
ironic tones. Stokes' thought had reminded them that if they and their
kind had used atomic energy for the benefit of the world there would
have been no need for a defense against it. They turned to other things
within the ship in order to forget the thought.
