
Light for the interior of the ship came from shoulder-high recesses
around the wall. They looked into them, expecting an improved lighting
system, surprised at finding only small steady-burning flames. The
flames seemed to be coming from the center of a small green plant. One
of the men stretched a hand toward a small flame only to withdraw it
quickly with an exclamation of pain. The heat was intense for several
inches around the flame, but then it dissipated quickly.

The remainder of the ship was just as strange. The seating arrangements
around the interior of the ship seemed to be made of broad thick
leaves, somehow fused together, yet still feeling alive. In the small
compartment, where each of them had originally gone to listen to the
recordings, they discovered a number of fibrous cones which were
apparently the records. One was still in a position which indicated
that it had not yet been used, while the others were dropped to one
side. But they were unable to examine them, for there was some sort of
energy belt which kept them at a distance.

There was another small compartment which was apparently the engine
room, or what would have corresponded to it in an Earth ship. But there
were no mighty motors, as might have been indicated by the power of the
ship--only a small hopper into which another hopper fed a continuous
stream of crimson pellets. Except for their color, these looked like
large seeds. The men guessed that in some way the second hopper broke
down the atomic structure of the pellets to convert them into power,
but again they were frustrated in their attempts at closer examination
by an invisible belt of energy.

Hardly had they finished their sketchy inspection when they felt
the ship decelerate. A moment later, they were aware that the ship
had come to rest. The door did not immediately open, so they turned
expectantly toward the compartment of the cones. They did not have long
to wait.

"You are now on the planet you know as Venus," the voice said in
English, with that strange change of voice on almost every word. "You
who have helped to organize your own kind for this trip are the first
to arrive. The other ships will begin to arrive within an hour, so
there will be time for you to do preliminary planning. As you leave the
ship, you will notice that this half of the planet has been cleared of
all native vegetation with the exception of a few trees. You will find
that they are so arranged as not to interfere with the construction of
your housing, so you are requested not to destroy them. They will not
cross-breed with your own vegetation. You will notice that arrangements
have been made for the protection of the ships which brought you here;
but for the rest--you are on your own, Earth-men. You may now leave the
ship."

The door opened and the men hurried out, anxious to see the world which
would become a new Earth.

"Strange," Stokes muttered to Clyde Ellery, as they filed through the
door. "From the way that record was worded, it sounds as if the natives
who sent the ships for us do not intend to show themselves at all.
Deuced peculiar."

"Maybe not so strange," Clyde Ellery said. "Remember the theories that
evolution on other planets may have followed an entirely different
line than on Earth? This may be the case, and, knowing the tendency of
humans to dislike anything different from themselves, the natives may
have wisely decided to stay in hiding for the time being."

"Whatever they are," said David Hellman, who had been listening, "they
are certainly more advanced than we, so any contact should be to our
advantage."

"If our hosts ever decide that they want anything to do with us,"
Clyde Ellery said dryly. He waved ahead of them as they stepped to the
ground. "And they apparently don't as yet."

Ahead of them stretched the broad, flat continent. With two
exceptions, all there was to see was rich-looking, bare soil. There
was a looseness to the dirt which made it seem that not so long ago
it had been cultivated, but now there was not so much as a blade of
grass. The bareness of the black earth made the exceptions even more
noticeable. Not far from where their ship was grounded, there were two
rows of trees, about the width of an Earth city street apart. The trees
were towering, half again as tall as the giant redwoods of Earth. The
leaves, a delicate pink in color, were broad and oval, curling at the
edges to form almost a perfect ball. These hung down from the limbs,
swaying toward the ground. From each rounded leaf there were two waving
tendrils, looking almost like antennae, ranging from a deep pink at the
base to a light purple at their tips.

Back of where the ship had grounded, there was a rounded, dome-like
structure, large enough to house several hundred of the ships. Green
in color, it seemed to be built of broad, flat leaves. Around it were
a number of trees, their limbs twisting far above the building. Their
leaves were long and tapering, a deep orange in color, while the trunk
and limbs were dark green. From each limb hung dozens of pods, fully
three feet long and a foot thick at the center, tapering to an end
which seemed to have an opening three or four inches in diameter.

For the rest, there was only rich dark soil for almost as far as the
eye could see. At a distance, where the curve of land met the sky, they
could see the edge of what appeared to be almost a jungle. But, except
for the tree leaves moving restlessly in the slight breeze, there was
no movement, no sound.

Within the hour the other ships began arriving, in groups of two and
three. First to land were those which had been loaded with material.
As the passenger ships landed, the men were divided into two groups.
One was set to putting up tents which could shelter them that night,
while the other swiftly unloaded materials and began to throw up the
prefabricated walls of the first Earth buildings.

When night came on the strange planet, darkness descending quickly,
bringing with it a light pattering of rain. A city of tents had
mushroomed across the Venusian plains and skeletal walls were already
thrusting skyward near the double line of trees.
