
The Earthlings were up with the sun the following morning, small fires
blazing among the tents as the women busied themselves with breakfast.
The men held a hasty meeting, and elected as a temporary council to
govern them the men who had come in the first ship. They in turn
elected Clyde Ellery as their first chairman.

That second day upon Venus was a hectic one. A hasty tabulation
revealed that they were a little more than two hundred thousand
strong--counting children and infants--all that were still healthy from
Earth's once thriving billions. Architects and city planners were found
among them and Earth City began to go up with a rush. As one building
was being finished, the plans for the next one were being handed to the
workers. Construction crews were followed by electricians; plumbing
went into houses as cesspools were still being dug. Farms were laid out
around the new city, all of them equal in size, and furrows were being
turned while surveyors still sighted through their instruments.

For two weeks the work continued at the same mad pace. And that section
of Venus more and more took on the look of Earth. The broad fields were
sectioned in geometric patterns where already tender green plants and
young grass shoots were thrusting their way through the soil. Within
fenced plots, the cows and horses munched on their hay and looked with
longing at the tender shoots. Chickens scratched in the black dirt, and
roosters greeted the Venusian sunrise with the same clarion voices as
on Earth.

Within the city, which had now spread to almost ample size, flowers
were already growing in the yards. Clothes, bought in Cleveland and
Pinsk, in Surrey and Isfahan, hung side by side to dry in the Venusian
sun. The main street, running between the two rows of strange trees
with their curved and nodding leaves, was lined with stores bearing
signs in almost every language of Earth. The colony had already issued
its own money and business was flourishing. Earth City possessed every
business and profession save one--they had no use for a mail man.

It was on the fifteenth day of their stay on Venus, when the work was
slacking down to normal, that two of the colonists decided that if they
had some extra wood they would build corncribs although it was still
some time before they would have corn. They shouldered axes, mounted
horses and rode off toward the line of jungle that marked the edge of
the land given to Earth people.

Hours later, the two horses returned without the riders, and a search
party was formed.

It was almost dark when the two men were found, lying unconscious not
far from the edge of the strange and exotic forest. When they were
revived, they remembered only that there had seemed to be some sort of
barrier trying to keep them out of the forest. One of them described it
as a strong wind, although there had been no wind blowing. But they had
forced their way against it, shoving step by step within the jungle,
and that was the last they remembered. Both had the impression that
something must have struck them down. Much bruised and shaken, they
were helped back to their homes, and the story of their experience
spread rapidly.

That evening, a voice spoke to the colonists. It was a voice much
like the one heard from the first ship to land on Earth, but this one
sounded as if it came through several loudspeakers. Its message was
simple.

"People of Earth," the voice said; "you were offered a generous portion
of this planet, and ships were sent to bring you from your sickened
homes, with the understanding that you would not attempt to enter the
other portions, nor would you harm any of the life already existing
here. Yet some of you have tried to break this agreement, intending to
destroy local trees. Do not let this happen again."

There was no way to tell from where the voice came.

That night there was a Town Meeting; and by the time it was called it
seemed that the entire colony was there and waiting. There were angry
looks on many of the faces and on some the anger was mixed with fear.
It was obvious that they had already talked among themselves about the
earlier incident, for little time was lost once the meeting was called
to order by Clyde Ellery. A big, red-headed man stood up in the center
of the building.

"I'm Lennie Johnson," he said loudly, "but I reckon I'm talking for
most of them here. And we don't like the way things are going."

"Are you referring to the accident that happened to Roberts and
Sayyid?" Clyde Ellery asked.

"You're damned right I am," the red-headed man said, "and we don't
think it was an accident. When we were first invited to come up here,
most of us thought it was a pretty neighborly thing. We had the idea
that there was a bunch of people up here, pretty much like ourselves,
and they were acting the way any of us would if a neighbor was in
trouble. But now we ain't so sure. Why was them ships sent down to us
and why was this land turned over to us? And why ain't we seen anybody?"

A murmur from the crowd showed that others were thinking the questions
he asked. Clyde Ellery rapped for order and said: "I'm afraid that we
haven't been in a position to question our gift too strongly. It has
been enough that we've had the opportunity of saving our lives."

"Have we now?" shouted the big red-headed man. "We're beginning to
get a different idea about it. If this thing was on the up and up--if
there was people up here who wanted to help us--why, then, they'd have
been around to welcome us when we got here. They'd have showed up like
honest men instead of skulking around in that jungle out there to knock
out a couple of good men without so much as a by-your-leave."

"But Roberts and Sayyid were breaking the agreement--" Ellery began.

"And whose agreement?" demanded the man in the hall. "We never made no
agreement, so it's nothing but orders. It's a free world and we don't
have to take no such orders from anybody--on Earth or here. We'll go
where we please and stay where we please."
