
Clyde Ellery was annoyed, but he tried not to show it. A glance at the
other council members showed him they shared his reaction. "What do you
propose we do about it?" he asked the red-headed man.

"We don't care what you do about it," the man retorted, "but we're
going back to Earth. We know where we stand on Earth and we don't have
to worry about a bunch of savages ambushing us every time we turn
around."

"How do you intend to do this? The ships which brought us were
remote-controlled."

"We've got pilots and mechanics. We'll find some way to make the damn
things work."

"One more thing," Clyde Ellery said. "_If_ some of you wish to leave,
and _if_ the ships can be made to operate, the matter will still have
to be taken up by this council. We were duly elected to represent this
community for its best interests, and we will not permit a few unruly
characters to endanger the entire colony."

"Yeah?" the red-headed man said with a grin. He turned and looked
around the hall. "Everybody who wants to go back to Earth," he shouted,
"raise your hand, so these wise guys can see where they stand."

Almost every hand in the hall was raised.

"There's been a new election," the red-headed man said, turning back to
the council. "You boys want to come along with the rest of us, or stay
here until some Venusian cannibal decides you're fat enough to eat?"

"_Hey!_" a voice shouted from the back of the hall. "_Fire!_"

There was a red glare visible through the windows, unnoticed until now.
The crowd jammed and shoved their way out of the building, the council
following as fast as they could. Once outside, they could see the
flames leaping toward the sky as something beyond the edge of the city
burned.

The crowd ran through the streets but when they reached the limits of
Earth City they came to an abrupt halt and stared at the flames which
were taking a decision out of their hands.

The huge domed structure which housed the strange space ships was a
mass of writhing flames. The fire crackled and roared, flames twisting
upward to lick against the orange leaves of the towering trees. And the
crowd stood and watched, for they knew that there was nothing to be
done. The colony had fire-fighting equipment, but nothing that would
handle such a fire as this.

An hour later, the building was a blackened crater, and all that was
left of the space ships were smoking lumps of the strange metal. The
crowd of colonists turned and walked silently through the streets of
the untouched city.
