
There was a grimness about the Earth men the following morning. Clyde
Ellery was first aware of the new note when he awakened to hear the
plodding thump of many feet. He looked out of the window to see several
hundred men marching down the main street. Every man in the group was
armed in some crude fashion. Many carried axes and clubs, while others
hefted sledge hammers and crowbars as they marched out of the city in
the direction of the Venusian jungle. At the head of the group strode
the red-headed man, an axe gleaming brightly over his shoulder.

Clyde Ellery hurriedly dressed and sought the other council members.
Most of them had also seen the mob and were ready. Here and there
within Earth City they were able to find a small handful of men who had
not joined the others and these became the council's posse. Unarmed,
they mounted horses and rode after the crowd. None of them was quite
sure of what they could do, but felt that something had to be done.

They rode swiftly, but even so too much time had elapsed. They were
still several miles from the jungle when they saw the knot of men, the
sun glinting from the weapons they carried, move resolutely into the
green wall and vanish. As they spurred their horses forward, they heard
the distant shout of the red-headed man as he led his troops forward.
It seemed to them that the cry was cut off abruptly, and then there was
silence except for the hoofbeats and labored breathing of the horses.

As they neared the jungle, the council was greeted by a sight which
made them pull their horses up short. From the forest came the mob
of men, the red-headed man still leading them, marching with the same
vigor with which they had gone in. But the grimness had fled from their
faces, to be replaced by a relaxed friendliness. They halted as they
recognized the horsemen. The red-headed man looked up at Clyde Ellery
with an easy grin.

"Out riding, Councilor Ellery?" he asked pleasantly.

"What happened in there?" Ellery asked, nodding toward the jungle.

"Why, nothing," the red-headed man said with surprise. "Why should
anything happen?"

"What were you men doing in there?"

For a moment the red-headed man looked perplexed, his gaze shifting
from Ellery to the jungle and then back to Ellery; then his expression
cleared. "Why, me and the boys were just looking around," he said.
"Since we're going to be living here for the rest of our lives, we
thought we might as well take a look at this jungle. We figured there
might be some dangerous animals in it and if there was we ought to know
about it. But it looks like everything's okay."

The council members exchanged glances. "But what about your idea of
going back to Earth?" Clyde Ellery asked.

This time the red-headed man was really surprised. "You must be off
your rocker, councilor," he said. "We like it here."

"Well, if you were only looking around," Ellery said, "why did each of
you bring a weapon?"

The red-headed man glanced down at the axe he was carrying and frowned.
"I'll be damned if I know," he said. "It just seemed like a good idea
at the time. Well, councilor, me and the boys better be getting back to
work. We'll be seeing you."

The councilors sat on their horses and watched the man march off toward
the city with swinging strides. Then they rode silently along behind
them.

Back in Earth City, the council members quartered their horses and went
straight to the town hall, straight to the private room that served for
their council meetings.

"What do you think happened?" Clyde Ellery asked slowly.

"Seems rather obvious," Courtland Stokes said, running a hand through
his thinning hair. "They showed all the symptoms of having been
hypnotized. Apparently, the minute they entered the forest with the
intention of destruction, they were hypnotized and given a post
hypnotic block which made them completely forget their original
reactions."

"Clever, these--Venusians," said Wang Chin Kwang, privately amused at
the new usage of an old expression.

"However," Clyde Ellery said slowly, "the action of these men does
bring up something which we have pretty much ignored since we
landed--the question of our hosts. I confess I'm not too satisfied with
the explanation that they are merely a strange life form which doesn't
show itself to us because we may be prejudiced."

"Have any of you thought about that fire last night?" David Hellman
asked. "It looked as if some intelligence knew that some of us were
planning to leave and so deliberately burned the space ships."

"Yes," Stokes said dryly, "it occurred to me that the fire might be
evidence that our--hosts were determined that we stay on Venus."

"But why?" demanded Clyde Ellery. There was no answer, and for a
moment the members of the council knew the same fear of the unknown
which had been on the faces of the colonists the night before. Clyde
Ellery cleared his throat. "For the moment," he said, "it would seem
to me that our most pressing problem is one of finding some way of
communicating with our hosts and determining the exact status we are to
enjoy here. Are there any suggestions?"

There were none. After a few more pointless and nervous remarks, the
council adjourned.
