
It was the next day that they were reminded of the corncribs which had
started the whole thing. That morning Arthur Roberts, whose farm was
nearest to the jungle, went out to find a number of sheets of metal
lying in his field. They were obviously of the same material which had
been used in the space ships. Stranger still, they were of the exact
sizes to build the corncrib as Arthur Roberts had imagined it.

Most of the colonists took this as evidence of the good intentions of
their unseen hosts, but it only served to increase the uneasiness of
the council.

Two days later, they were quickly summoned by Jean-Paul Monet. Without
offering an explanation, he insisted that they again mount their horses
and ride toward the jungle. As they neared the giant wall of green,
they heard a strange thumping noise ahead of them and once more pressed
Monet for answers.

"You will soon see," he said grimly. "For two days, I have stayed in
the fields watching for the secret to the metal. Now, you will see what
I witnessed early this morning."

A few minutes later, the men reined their horses to a stop and stared
into the jungle, scarcely believing what they saw.

Near the outer edge of lush, living green, there was a huge vine. Its
creepers, almost a foot thick and covered with cup-shaped thick leaves,
seemed to enter the ground at intervals and then reappear to grow
along the top. But the Earth men soon realized that the creepers were
moving, as though growing at a tremendous rate. And each time one of
the scarlet cup-shaped leaves appeared out of the ground it dumped a
greenish lump of something on the ground. On looking closer, they saw
that the ground here was covered with the broad flat leaves of some
other plant.

Towering above this scene were a number of orange-leafed trees like
those which had surrounded the field where the space ships first
landed. As they watched, the green limbs of these trees swayed and bent
until the huge green pods were directly over the lumps cast up out
of the ground. Then, from what they had thought were seed pods, came
a gush of white fire, striking the lumps. Under that direct fire, so
strong that the horses shied from the heat a hundreds yards away, the
lumps took on a fire of their own.

From the edge of the jungle there grew long stalks with what had seemed
to be large square flowers on them. But, as the men watched, the stalks
whipped forward and the flowers descended upon the heated lumps. It
was this which was producing the thumping noise they'd heard, and each
blow from the square flowers was helping to pound the lumps into sheets
of metal.

As the men watched, the last lump of metal was cast up, heated,
flattened and cast aside. The thumping ceased, the flames died out,
and once more the jungle was a wall of exotic plants and trees swaying
gently in the breeze. If it hadn't been for the sheets of metal on the
ground, they might have imagined that what they had seen had been an
illusion. But there were a good six-dozen sheets of metal on the ground
before them.

It was Clyde Ellery who finally dismounted and approached the jungle.
The others sat on their horses and watched him. They saw him stoop to
gaze intently at the giant creeper on the ground and then step briskly
into the jungle. He did not go far, but seemed to stand there in an
attitude of listening for several minutes. Then he turned and walked
briskly back to where the others waited. He mounted his horse and
turned its head toward the distant city.

"Well?" demanded Courtland Stokes, when Ellery still said nothing.
"What happened in there?"

"Nothing," Clyde Ellery said. He seemed surprised that anyone should
think that anything had happened. "I merely looked into the jungle and
came back. After all, it was part of our agreement that we not enter
that part of the planet."

"But you stood there for several minutes," Stokes insisted.

"I'm afraid you must be wrong," Ellery said. "I believe I'm quite aware
of what I'm doing when I do it. I merely glanced into the forest to see
if there was any more metal there. The minute I saw there wasn't, I
turned around. In fact, I distinctly remember that I didn't even stop
walking."

The others exchanged glances, but said nothing more. When they reached
Earth City, they agreed to hold a meeting that afternoon and then
separated.
