
By the time the council met, Clyde Ellery was aware that he too had
been hypnotized when he tried to enter the jungle. But he had no memory
of what had happened. It still seemed to him that he had merely
glanced into the jungle and had then retraced his steps.

The meeting was delayed because of Alexandre Spaak, who at last came
bustling in, his face tense with excitement.

"Wait until you hear this," he said in answer to the questioning looks.
"You know my house is at the edge of town, not far from the spot where
the space ships were kept? Well, this afternoon, the kids were missing.
I went looking for them and finally found them playing under those big
Venusian trees with the orange leaves. You know, the same kind of trees
we saw with flames shooting out of their pods to melt that metal? Well,
take a guess what my kids were doing?"

"What was it?" Ellery said irritably. "Don't make us play guessing
games."

"Among the foodstock my wife and I brought to Venus," Spaak said, "was
a package of marshmallows. The kids had the marshmallows on the ends of
sticks and there were little tiny flames coming out of the tree pods,
roasting them. If you remember those trees at all, you'll remember the
nearest pods were at least fifteen feet from the ground--which means
the tree had to bend its limbs down to reach the marshmallows the
children were holding."

"But how did your children control the flames?" Stokes asked. "Those
flames we saw this morning would have blasted them to ashes within
twenty feet."

"The children weren't controlling the flame," Spaak said. "The tree was
controlling the flame for the benefit of the children."

"I have a feeling," said Jean-Paul Monet, "that the colonists were
right the other night. We should leave this planet."

"How?" Wang Chin Kwang murmured.

"A minute, gentlemen," Alexandre Spaak broke in. "I believe I have
solved the mystery of our hosts." He paused and looked around at the
others. "Gentlemen, the intelligent life which invited us to this
planet is the plant life of Venus."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Stokes. "The intelligent life which invited us
here is one capable of building space ships--an engineering feet beyond
even the highly advanced technical skill of Earth. You don't mean to
say a plant could do that!"

"You forget," said Spaak, "that all of us stood in a field this morning
and watched a plant dig ore out of the ground, another plant smelt the
ore, a third plant flatten it into sheets of metal, using a fourth
plant as an anvil. After seeing that flame tree in action, there can
be no doubt that the flame trees also deliberately destroyed the space
ships when some of us were about to use them to leave Venus. No,
gentlemen, I tell you that the intelligent and dominant life on this
planet consists of trees, bushes, vines, and so on down to the smallest
plant. That, incidentally, must be the reason we were told to bring our
own plants and not to touch any of the plant life here."

"_You are right, Earth-Man._"
