
For a moment, the thirteen men in the room sat, frozen, not daring to
look at each other. It had not been a voice speaking this time, yet
each had heard the thought within his head. As each of them realized
that all had heard it, that the thought had not been a personal
hallucination, they relaxed. Quickly, they looked around the room. But
there was no one there except themselves.

"I have been expecting this," Alexandre Spaak said. "I knew that my
theory was right--and I thought that once it was out, they might
communicate with us."

"But who--where?" gasped Stokes. "There's no one else in this room--I
mean, there isn't even a plant."

"No, but look out of the window," Spaak said. "Look at the trees lining
both sides of the street--the trees with those curling leaves which
look almost like heads--with tendrils waving from them, like antennae!"

They looked from the window, and it was true that the leaves on the
trees did look like heads. They noticed that the antennae on the leaves
of the nearest tree were all bent in the direction of their building,
even though the wind was blowing away from it.

"_Ih dien buh tso!_" exclaimed Wang Chin Kwang.

"But it's impossible, really!" said Stokes. "That space ship, all of
those records in the various languages, the clearing of the land here,
everything!"

"Even if one does accept the idea of intelligent plants," Clyde Ellery
said, "it does seem that some of the things which have happened would
be beyond the ability of--say--a tree."

_You are wrong, Earth-Man_, came the thought. _We have been the
dominant life on this planet for many thousands of years, by your
reckoning of time. Long ago, we knew there was intelligent life on the
third planet of our sun, for we could catch an occasional thought, and
we knew that your science was less advanced than our own. But we didn't
realize until much later that it was animal life which was dominant
there. At first, we found it hard to believe our senses._

"Then you did build the space ships?" Spaak asked.

_Of course. It was not difficult. The Scarlet Diggers among us dug up
the Llantl ore, even as you saw it done this morning. The Flame Tree
processed it, and the Great Pounder hammered the hull into shape._

"But how did you power the ship? What were those crimson pellets which
we saw pouring into the hopper in the ship?" Clyde Ellery asked.

_The seeds of the Flame Tree. They are a more powerful explosive than
anything known to your science._

"And the recordings?" asked Ellery.

_The seed-bearing cones of our Repeater Tree. It took many trips of our
first ship, for our message had to be made up of individual words from
your languages. We could not communicate as we are now because of the
distance._

"How did you know that we needed help?" Ellery asked.

_We felt the waves of force set up by the explosion of what you called
atomic energy. We had felt these waves before, coming from other
planets, and each time all thoughts gradually died out on those planets
and we knew that the intelligent life there had died. The last time it
happened was on the fourth planet of our sun, a long time ago._

"And you were unable to save any of them?"

_We could have saved them if we'd wished_, came the thought.

"Which seems to bring us to the most important question of all," Clyde
Ellery said with a wry smile. "Why did you save us?"
