
There was a hesitation, and then the thought came to them: _The animal
life on our planet died out because we could not, of course, permit it
to feed on us. Yet, as you must know, we needed some form of animal
life to maintain the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide necessary
to our lives. You seemed ideal for our purpose, for you could bring
with you other animal life and your undeveloped plant life to feed
yourselves._

"And you did destroy the ships so that we could not leave?"

_Of course._

For several minutes, the men looked silently at each other and
considered that which they had received.

"It's hard to accept," Clyde Ellery said to the others, "but I suppose
it's not too surprising when you stop to think about it. Even on Earth,
the actual boundaries between animals and plants were artificial, as
shown by our one-celled animal life which often couldn't be told from
a unicell plant. It was just a question of where this evolutionary
accident happened."

_Not an accident_, came the thought swiftly. _It was an accident
that plants did not become dominant upon your planet. It is logical
that we should be highest on the evolutionary scale. We are the only
non-destructive form of life there is._

"Oh, I say now!" protested Stokes.

_Think, Earth-Men. Animals are in reality a parasite upon plant life,
needing to destroy plants in order to exist. But we plants can build
our carbohydrates and proteins out of inorganic salt and so need to
destroy nothing. Can you do that, Earth-Men?_

There was a moment of silence. Clyde Ellery turned to the others. "I
suppose, in a way," he said, "they're right. Anyway, the important
thing is that we are to live out our lives on a strange planet and must
adapt ourselves to the conditions here. We mustn't forget that one of
the things which led to the destruction of Earth was our attempt to
believe that certain people--certain life forms, shall we say--were
inferior to the rest of us. We must not let that happen again.... May I
speak for all of us?"

The other twelve men looked to each other and then nodded. Clyde Ellery
turned to face the window, looking embarrassed.

"I hardly know the proper way of addressing an intelligent tree," he
began, "but you may inform the rest of the life on this planet that we
men of Earth have learned our lessons. We are quite prepared to treat
you as our equals, and to cooperate with you to our fullest extent."

There was a long moment of silence; and, when the answering thought
came, it seemed to be tinged with surprise and something which might
have been humor:

_You misunderstand. It was pointed out to you that all animal life
exists as a parasite upon plant life. In our case, unfortunately, we
need you parasites in order to live, but that does not imply special
privileges. So long as you continue to supply us with carbon dioxide
and do not attempt to destroy any of us, we are content to leave you
alone. But should you attempt to step out of your place, we will have
to take measures. Those of you who have tried to enter our part of the
planet have already experienced the weaker radiations of the one of
us which you might call an energy tree. If you persist, you will be
exposed to its full strength which will render you incapable of any
action except what is needed for your survival._ The thought softened.
_As your hosts--in a double sense, you might say--we do not like to
make a point of your inferiority, but we are sure you will understand
our present reaction if you will consider how you might have felt if
the fleas which infested your bodies, the viruses in your bloodstreams,
had offered you equality and cooperation._

The thought ceased. Outside, a heavy Venusian rain began, beating for a
second upon the roof, before sliding to the ground and sinking to the
level of thirsty roots.

Quietly the council bowed and departed.