
She had no trouble in making her breakfast leisurely. She could hardly
choke it down. Under Patch's admiring gaze and flagrant approval she
was uncomfortably conscious of treachery. She left as soon as the
protracted meal was over, even though she knew it would give him the
opportunity to discover the rape of his plants.

The lieutenant was waiting for her in his cabin. He sat behind his desk
eyeing a motley collection of clover in an assortment of little jars
and boxes. Bridget brought out her pocket 'scope and without a word
pulled the first specimen up by the roots and began to examine it. The
lieutenant watched in fascination.

"It's a good thing Mr. Maguire can't see you now," he said. "He'd take
an entirely different tone from the one I've been hearing lately."

"I'm hoping he doesn't find out," she muttered. "What he doesn't
know.... Oh! Oh! Look here! A fine big cyst! Now if they're all like
this...."

The lieutenant's face took on a look of respect. He came around
from behind his desk and peered over her shoulder. "Found something
already?" he asked.

Bridget pushed the scope under his nose. "See that?" she said. "In the
right-hand corner."

"You mean that lump? Doesn't look very dangerous."

"No, it doesn't. But it's a nematode cyst, all right. That little brown
lump, if turned loose in the soil--give it a few years and you'll have
a real pest on your hands."

"You don't say. We'd better get rid of it right away. Do you think
there's any more?"

"That's just what I'm going to find out."

But before she could move to the desk for the other containers there
was a sound of scuffling outside, the door was flung violently open,
and a rich, Irish voice proclaimed in righteous anger: "So here you
are, conspiring against me! Both the culprits red-handed! And my
shamrocks, my little plants, my babies! Thank heavens I got here in
time!"

The lieutenant moved to intercept him. "I beg your pardon, sir, but
these plants are in quarantine, and if you have any others we haven't
found--"

"You're no true daughter of Ireland, Bridget Kelly. And I'm fortunate
to have found you out in time, false and faithless as you are!"

"Now, now," cautioned the lieutenant, getting between Maguire and the
desk. "She was only doing her duty. You should see the things she's
been showing me in her microscope. A menace to the whole planet!"

"Don't you believe a word of it!" thundered Maguire. "These inspectors
are full of fears and fancies. Puffed up with their own importance.
And I'll thank you to give me back my plants that you stole out of my
cabin."

"I'm afraid I can't do that," the lieutenant said. "Not until Miss
Kelly has examined each one--and then only the ones that get a clean
bill of health." And he began to collect the little pots and remove
them as far as possible from Maguire's reach.

"Well, come along then, Bridget--give them the bill of health," Maguire
ordered. "You'll do that for me, I'm sure. And I don't know what all
the fuss is about either, all over a few little plants, and shamrocks
at that."

"The few little plants have a few little cysts all through their
roots," said Bridget, whose temper was wearing thin. "I've only looked
at one so far, but as nice an infestation of the golden nematode I've
seldom seen. It's got to go down the incinerator."

"The incinerator!" screamed Maguire. "Woman! My shamrocks! All the way
from Ireland!"

"If you hadn't spent your whole life circumventing regulations and
pulling wires, this wouldn't have happened. Why didn't you get them
treated and certified before coming aboard?"
