
"Because there wasn't time, that's why!" Patch shouted. "They only came
from Ireland as I was leaving for the ship. If it hadn't been for a
snooping, sniveling worry-wart--all about a worm that you can't even
see...."

"You can see the results right enough!" Bridget's voice was rising to
match his. "Did you ever hear of the Long Island potato? The best on
the East Coast they were. The golden nematode ruined Long Island for
potatoes. That's what the shamrock did for America! That's a sneaking,
treacherous worm for you!"

"And who would want to grow potatoes on Long Island, built up into a
city as it is?"

"They're going to want to grow potatoes on New Eden, and I'm here to
see they can."

"If that's all that's worrying you, I'll breed you a nematode-resistant
potato. And now I'll thank you to let me take my shamrocks and make an
end to this disgraceful scene."

But when he looked around, he found the lieutenant had quietly removed
himself with the plants, and the door of the cabin was crowded with
interested passengers.

"So you think you've put one over on me!" Patch shouted. "It's a good
thing I found out in time how I was being deceived by a pair of eyes
and a mouth that says one thing and means another!"

"And I suppose you're the soul of honor! With no thought of
responsibility to your fellow man! You've had your way all your life,
and it's lucky I found _that_ out, too--before--before...."

But he was gone, elbowing his way through the crowd, and the onlookers
drifted away, embarrassed at the sight of the stormy girl who shouted
hysterically after him. Bridget slammed the door and collapsed into a
chair.

"I'm sorry for the noise," she apologized when the officer returned.
"I'd better finish checking the plants before it's time to land."

"Never mind the plants," the lieutenant told her. "I've put them where
he won't find them in a hurry. As a matter of fact, we aren't going
to land. We're in orbit now and they're to send a rocket shuttle. They
aren't worried about what we're bringing in this time. It's what we
might take out. There's a howling plague on New Eden after all. Several
of our passengers have changed their minds about landing."

"A plague?" said Bridget stupidly. It was hard to concentrate on
anything more deadly than the golden nematode.

"Oh, nothing you or I could catch. Something to do with agriculture
and the plants. Which reminds me, I've a batch of telegrams for you.
The authorities are delighted to learn we've a registered entomologist
aboard. Very few of them have come this way."

By the time Bridget had read the sheaf of papers, she had made the
transition from the world of shipboard romance to her accustomed world
of science and order. There was work to be done. Her talents were
needed in a dozen places at once. She left orders for the confiscated
clovers to be destroyed and went to her cabin to pack. She was on the
first shuttle to leave the ship.
