
The weeks that followed were filled with hard work with test tube
and microscope, at her desk and in the field. The majority of her
co-workers were men, but none had time to look for a laughing eye or
a smiling mouth. The beautiful garden planet of New Eden was being
reduced to a desert by a mysterious _something_ that was swiftly
attacking all the cultivated areas. Starvation was looming and there
was talk of hasty evacuation. The situation was passing out of control.

The villain could not be isolated. Was it an insect, a virus, a
chemical in the soil? Some of the few native insects were caught and
subjected to experiment. The soils were analyzed and tested. Those were
not the answer. The only thing certain was that the previously lush
brown loam was turning to a yellow, chalky sand, and everything that
grew in it withered and died.

Bridget visited farm after farm and trudged from field to field. She
looked at worried faces and tried to think of words of encouragement.
Back at the laboratory she studied her specimens far into the night
and fell asleep at her desk. She was too tired to think about Patch
Maguire, who, she concluded, had never left the spaceship. What would a
grower of gardens, a breeder of plants do in a spreading desert? He had
gone on to some more flourishing planet.

She was called to the office one day.

"I hear there's a farm that claims they don't have the plague," said
the harassed young scientist behind the desk. "Better get over there
and see if it's any more than a rumor. Take the heli and bring back all
the usual samples. Here's the directions on getting there."

He shoved a torn piece of paper at her and turned back to his cluttered
desk. Bridget picked up her collecting kit and climbed into the cab
of the machine. By this time she knew her way about the settlements.
Without doubt, she told herself, this farm was on the outskirts of
civilization, in some valley as yet untouched by the plague. But long
before she reached the limits of cultivated land, she could see her
destination. It stood out like an oasis in the desert, a little patch
of green between a dried-up cornfield and an expanse of stricken wheat.

Bridget brought her heli down on a velvety lawn in front of a small
cottage and walked, unbelieving, to the door. A shout from within
welcomed her and she entered a clean and simple kitchen-parlor. The
owner of the one healthy farm in New Eden was busy in the attached
greenhouse.

As she glimpsed the red waistcoat dangling from a hook, Bridget
screamed, and Patch Maguire came through the greenhouse door, a flower
pot in one hand, trowel in the other.

"And if it isn't the worm-hunter herself!" he cried. "The czar of the
spaceways! The dandelion dictator! And I was wondering how long it
would take you to find me out."

"But you--" she gasped. "You couldn't--you wouldn't--aren't supposed to
be here!"

"And why not?" he countered. "I'm not like Carrie, she'd rather go on
too sick to eat in space than face starvation on this planet. And then
the bargain I was offered for this place--you wouldn't believe it! All
modern conveniences and they were practically giving it away. Besides,
what had I to fear with the best entomologist in five solar systems
working for the Department of Agriculture? Sure, you'll be having the
problem solved in no time!"

"Don't be giving me that blarney!" Bridget said. "You need only look
out the window to know we've solved nothing at all. And you sitting
here crowing to yourself! You've been breeding plague-resistant plants,
that's what you've done, and keeping them all to yourself! It's a
disgrace!"

Patch began to laugh, and the more he laughed, the angrier Bridget got.

"You should be ashamed!" she shouted. "The whole planet dying and you
sitting here growing greener all the time!"

"And that's the way it's been," he assured her. "This place was dying
on me, too. But only the last few days it's taken a new lease and I'm
at my wit's end to explain it."

"You mean you don't _want_ to explain it. You're hoarding the secret,
and it's a shameful thing!"

"Woman, you're crazy!" he bellowed at her. "I'm no magician to breed a
plague-resistant plant overnight. It takes patience and many seasons,
and I've only just settled in. I put a few things in the garden and
stirred things up in the potting shed. Here, come along--you can see
for yourself."
