
Jack was lucky. As one of the last to be herded into the truck, which
had been once used for hauling cattle, he had more room to breathe than
most of the others. He faced the rear bars. The vehicle was heading into
the sun. Its rays were not as hard on him as on some of those who were
so jam-packed they could not turn to get the hot yellow splotch out of
their eyes.

He looked through lowered lids at the youths on either side of him. For
the last three days in the transie jungle, the one standing on his left
had given signs of what was coming upon him, what had come upon so many
of the transies. The muttering, the indifference to food, not hearing
you when you talked to him. And now the shock of being caught in the
raid had speeded up what everybody had foreseen. He was hardened, like a
concrete statue, into a half-crouch. His arms were held in front of him
like a praying mantis', and his hands clutched a bar. Not even the
pressure of the crowd could break his posture.

The man on Jack's right murmured something, but the roaring of motor and
clashing of gears shifting on a hill squashed his voice. He spoke
louder:

"_Cerea flexibilitas_. Extreme catatonic state. The fate of all of us."

"You're nuts," said Jack. "Not me. I'm no schizo, and I'm not going to
become one."

As there was no reply, Jack decided he had not moved his lips enough to
be heard clearly. Lately, even when it was quiet, people seemed to have
trouble making out what he was saying. It made him mildly angry.

He shouted. It did not matter if he were overheard. That any of the
prisoners were agents of the Bureau of Health and Sanity didn't seem
likely. Anyway, he didn't care. They wouldn't do anything to him they
hadn't planned before this.

"Got any idea where we're going?"

"Sure. F.M.R.C. 3. Federal Male Rehabilitation Camp No. 3. I spent two
weeks in the hills spying on it."

Jack looked the speaker over. Like all those in the truck, he wore a
frayed shirt, a stained and torn coat, and greasy, dirty trousers. The
black bristles on his face were long; the back of his neck was covered
by thick curls. The brim of his dusty hat was pulled down low. Beneath
its shadow his eyes roamed from side to side with the same fear that
Jack knew was in his own eyes.

Hunger and sleepless nights had knobbed his cheekbones and honed his
chin to a sharp point. An almost visible air clung to him, a hot aura
that seemed to result from veins full of lava and eyeballs spilling out
a heat that could not be held within him. He had the face every transie
had, the face of a man who was either burning with fever or who had seen
a vision.

Jack looked away to stare miserably at the dust boiling up behind the
wheels, as if he could see projected against its yellow-brown screen his
retreating past.

He spoke out of the side of his mouth. "What's happened to us? We should
be happy and working at good jobs and sure about the future. We
shouldn't be just bums, hobos, walkers of the streets, rod-hoppers,
beggars, and thieves."

His friend shrugged and looked uneasily from the corners of his eyes. He
was probably expecting the question they all asked sooner or later: _Why
are_ you _on the road?_ They asked, but none replied with words that
meant anything. They lied, and they didn't seem to take any pleasure in
their lying. When they asked questions themselves, they knew they
wouldn't get the truth. But something forced them to keep on trying
anyway.

Jack's buddy evaded also. He said, "I read a magazine article by a Dr.
Vespa, the head of the Bureau of Health and Sanity. He'd written the
article just after the President created the Bureau. He viewed, quote,
with alarm and apprehension, unquote, the fact that six percent of those
between the ages of twelve and twenty-five were schizophrenics who
needed institutionalizing. And he was, quote, appalled and horrified,
unquote, that five percent of the nation were homeless unemployed and
that three point seven percent of those were between the ages of
fourteen and thirty. He said that if this schizophrenia kept on
progressing, half the world would be in rehabilitation camps. But if
that occurred, the sane half would go to pot. Back to the stone age. And
the schizos would die."

       *       *       *       *       *

He licked his lips as if he were tasting the figures and found them
bitter.

"I was very interested by Vespa's reply to a mother who had written
him," he went on. "Her daughter ended up in a Bohas camp for schizos,
and her son had left his wonderful home and brilliant future to become a
bum. She wanted to know why. Vespa took six long paragraphs to give six
explanations, all equally valid and all advanced by equally
distinguished sociologists. He himself favored the mass hysteria theory.
But if you looked at his gobbledegook closely, you could reduce it to
one phrase, _We don't know_.

"He did say this--though you won't like it--that the schizos and the
transies were just two sides of the same coin. Both were infected with
the same disease, whatever it was. And the transies usually ended up as
schizos anyway. It just took them longer."

Gears shifted. The floor slanted. Jack was shoved hard against the rear
boards by the weight of the other men. He didn't answer until the
pressure had eased and his ribs were free to work for more than mere
survival.

He said, "You're way off, schizo. My hitting the road has nothing to do
with those split-heads. Nothing, you understand? There's nothing foggy
or dreamy about me. I wouldn't be here with you guys if I hadn't been so
interested in a wasp catching a caterpillar that I never saw the Bohas
sneaking up on me."

While Jack described the little tragedy, the other allowed an
understanding smile to bend his lips. He seemed engrossed, however, and
when Jack had finished, he said:

"That was probably an ammophila wasp. _Sphex urnaria_ Klug. Lovely, but
vicious, little she-demon. Injects the poison from her sting into the
caterpillar's central nerve cord. That not only paralyzes but preserves
it. The victim is always stowed away with another one in an underground
burrow. The wasp attaches one of her eggs to the body of a worm. When
the egg hatches, the grub eats both of the worms. They're alive, but
they're completely helpless to resist while their guts are gnawed away.
Beautiful idea, isn't it?

"It's a habit common to many of those little devils: _Sceliphron
cementarium_, _Eumenes coarcta_, _Eumenes fraterna_, _Bembix spinolae_,
_Pelopoeus_ ..."

Jack's interest wandered. His informant was evidently one of those
transies who spent long hours in the libraries. They were ready at the
slightest chance to offer their encyclopaedic but often useless
knowledge. Jack himself had abandoned his childhood bookwormishness. For
the last three years his days and evenings had worn themselves out on
the streets, passed in a parade of faces, flickered by in plate-glass
windows of restaurants and department stores and business offices, while
he hoped, hoped....

"Did you say you spied on the camp?" Jack interrupted the sonorous,
almost chanting flow of Greek and Latin.

"Huh? Oh, yeah. For two weeks. I saw plenty of transies trucked in, but
I never saw any taken out. Maybe they left in the rocket."

"Rocket?"

The youth was looking straight before him. His face was hard as bone,
but his voice trembled.

"Yes. A big one. It landed and discharged about a dozen men."

"You nuts? There's been only one man-carrying rocket invented, and it
lands by parachute."

"I saw it, I tell you. And I'm not so nutty I'm seeing things that
aren't there. Not yet, anyway!"

"Maybe the government's got rockets it's not telling anybody about."

"Then what connection could there be between rehabilitation camps and
rockets?"

Jack shrugged and said, "Your rocket story is fantastic."

"If somebody had told you four years ago that you'd be a bum hauled off
to a concentration camp, you'd have said that was fantastic too."

Jack did not have time to reply. The truck stopped outside a high,
barbed wire fence. The gate swung open; the truck bounced down the bumpy
dirt road. Jack saw some black-uniformed Bohas seated by heavy machine
guns. They halted at another entrance; more barbed wire was passed. Huge
Dobermann pinschers looked at the transies with cold, steady eyes. The
dust of another section of road swirled up before they squeaked to a
standstill and the engine turned off.

This time, agents began to let down the back of the truck. They had to
pry the pitiful schizo's fingers loose from the wood with a crow-bar and
carry him off, still in his half-crouch.

A sergeant boomed orders. Stiff and stumbling, the transies jumped off
the truck. They were swiftly lined up into squads and marched into the
enclosure and from there into a huge black barracks. Within an hour each
man was stripped, had his head shaven, was showered, given a grey
uniform, and handed a tin plate and spoon and cup filled with beans and
bread and hot coffee.

Afterwards, Jack wandered around, free to look at the sandy soil
underfoot and barbed wire and the black uniforms of the sentries, and
free to ask himself where, where, wherewherewhere? Twelve years ago it
had been, but where, where, where, was...?

