
Jack stood inside the wire and bent his neck back to watch a huge black
and silver oyster feel the dusk for a landing-field with its single
white foot and its orange toes. Blindingly, lights sprang to attention
over the camp.

When Jack had blinked his eyes back to normal, he could see over the
flat half-mile between the fence and the ship. It lay quiet and
glittering and smoking in the flood-beams. He could see the round door
in its side swing open. Men began filing out. A truck rumbled across the
plain and pulled up beside the metal bulk. A very tall man stepped out
of the cab and halted upon the running board, from which he seemed to be
greeting the newcomers or giving them instructions. Whatever he was
saying took so long that Jack lost interest.

Lately, he had not been able to focus his mind for any length of time
upon anything except that one event in the past. He wandered around and
whipped glances at his comrades' faces, noting listlessly that their
uniforms and shaved heads had improved their appearance. But nothing
would be able to chill the feverishness of their eyes.

Whistles shrilled. Jack jumped. His heart beat faster. He felt as if the
end of the quest were suddenly close. Somebody would be around the
corner. In a minute that person would be facing him, and then ...

Then, he reflected, and sagged with a wave of disappointment at the
thought, then there was nobody around the corner. It always happened
that way. Besides, there weren't any corners in this camp. He had
reached the wall at the end of the alley. Why didn't he stop looking?

Sergeants lined the prisoners up four abreast preparatory to marching
them into the barracks. Jack supposed it was time to turn in for the
night. He submitted to their barked orders and hard hands without
resentment. They seemed a long way off. For the ten thousandth time he
was thinking that this need not have happened.

If he had been man enough to grapple with himself, to wrestle as Jacob
did with the angel and not let loose until he had felled the problem, he
could be teaching philosophy in a quiet little college, as his father
did. He had graduated from high school with only average marks, and
then, instead of going to college, as his father had so much wanted him
to, he had decided he would work a year. With his earnings, he would see
the world.

He had seen it, but when his money ran out he had not returned home. He
had drifted, taking jobs here and there, sleeping in flop-houses,
jungles, park benches, and freight cars.

When the newly created Bureau of Health and Sanity had frozen jobs in an
effort to solve the transiency problem, Jack had refused to work. He
knew that he would not be able to quit a job without being arrested at
once. Like hundreds of thousands of other youths, he had begged and
stolen and hidden from the local police and the Bohas.

Even through all those years of misery and wandering, he had not once
admitted to himself the true nature of this fog-cottoned grail. He knew
it, and he did not know it. It was patrolling the edge of his mind,
circling a far-off periphery, recognizable by a crude silhouette but
nameless. Any time he wanted to, he could have summoned it closer and
said, _You are it, and I know you, and I know what I am looking for. It
is...? Is what? Worthless? Foolish? Insane? A dream?_

Jack had never had the courage to take that action. When it seemed the
thing was galloping closer, charging down upon him, he ran away. It must
stay on the horizon, moving on, always moving, staying out of his grasp.

"All you guys, for'ard 'arch!"

Jack did not move. The truck from the rocket had come through a gate and
stopped by the transies, and about fifty men were getting off the back.

The man behind Jack bumped into him. Jack paid him no attention. He did
not move. He squinted at the group who had come from the rocket. They
were very tall, hump-shouldered, and dressed in light grey-green Palm
Beach suits and tan Panama hats. Each held a brown leather briefcase at
the end of a long, thin arm. Each wore on the bridge of his long nose a
pair of rose-colored glasses.

A cry broke hoarsely from the transies. Some of those in front of Jack
fell to their knees as if a sudden poison had paralyzed their legs. They
called names and stretched out open hands. A boy by Jack's side sprawled
face-down on the sand while he uttered over and over again, "Mr.
Pelopoeus! Mr. Pelopoeus!"

The name meant nothing to Jack. He did feel repulsed at seeing the
fellow turn on his side, bend his neck forward, bring his clenched fists
up against his chest, and jackknife his legs against his arms. He had
seen it many times before in the transie jungles, but he had never
gotten over the sickness it had first caused him.

He turned away and came almost nose to nose with one of the men from the
rocket. He had put down his briefcase so it rested against his leg and
taken a white handkerchief out of his breast pocket to wipe the dust
from his lenses. His lids were squeezed shut as if he found the lights
unbearable.

Jack stared and could not move while a name that the boy behind him had
been crying out slowly worked its way through his consciousness.
Suddenly, like the roar of a flashflood that is just rounding the bend
of a dry gulch, the syllables struck him. He lunged forward and clutched
at the spectacles in the man's hand. At the same time he yelled over and
over the words that had filled out the blank in his memory.

"Mr. Eumenes! Mr. Eumenes!"

A sergeant cursed and slammed his fist into Jack's face. Jack fell down,
flat on his back. Though his jaw felt as if it were torn loose from its
hinge, he rolled over on his side, raised himself on his hands and
knees, and began to get up to his feet.

"Stand still!" bellowed the sergeant. "Stay in formation or you'll get
more of the same!"

Jack shook his head until it cleared. He crouched and held out his hands
toward the man, but he did not move his feet. Over and over,
half-chanting, half-crooning, he said, "Mr. Eumenes! The glasses!
Please, Mr. Eumenes, the glasses!"

The forty-nine Mr. Eumenae-and-otherwise looked incuriously with
impenetrable rosy eyes. The fiftieth put the white handkerchief back in
his pocket. His mouth opened. False teeth gleamed. With his free hand he
took off his hat and waved it at the crowd and bowed.

His tilted head showed a white fuzzlike hair that shot up over his pale
scalp. His gestures were both comic and terrifying. The hat and the
inclination of his body said far more than words could. They said,
_Good-by forever, and bon voyage!_

Then Mr. Eumenes straightened up and opened his lids.

At first, the sockets looked as if they held no eyeballs, as if they
were empty of all but shadows.

Jack saw them from a distance. Mr. Eumenes-or-his-twin was shooting away
faster and faster and becoming smaller and smaller. No! He himself was.
He was rocketing away within his own body. He was falling down a deep
well.

He, Jack Crane, was a hollow shaft down which he slipped and screamed,
away, away, from the world outside. It was like seeing from the wrong
end of a pair of binoculars that lengthened and lengthened while the man
with the long-sought-for treasure in his hand flew in the opposite
direction as if he had been connected to the horizon by a rubber band
and somebody had released it and he was flying towards it, away from
Jack.

Even as this happened, as he knew vaguely that his muscles were locking
into the posture of a beggar, hands out, pleading, face twisted into an
agony of asking, lips repeating his croon-chant, he saw what had
occurred.

The realization was like the sudden, blinding, and at the same time
clarifying light that sometimes comes to epileptics just as they are
going into a seizure. It was the thought that he had kept away on the
horizon of his mind, the thought that now charged in on him with long
leaps and bounds and then stopped and sat on its haunches and grinned at
him while its long tongue lolled.

Of course, he should have known all these years what it was. He should
have known that Mr. Eumenes was the worst thing in the world for him. He
had known it, but, like a drug addict, he had refused to admit it. He
had searched for the man. Yet he had known it would be fatal to find
him. The rose-colored spectacles would swing gates that should never be
fully open. And he should have guessed _what_ and _who_ Mr. Eumenes was
when that encyclopedic fellow in the truck had singsonged those names.

How could he have been so stupid? Stupid? It was easy! He had _wanted_
to be stupid! And how could the Mr. Eumenes-or-otherwise have used such
obvious giveaway names? It was a measure of their contempt for the
humans around them and of their own grim wit. Look at all the double
entendres the salesman had given his father, and his father had never
suspected. Even the head of the Bureau of Health and Sanity had been
terrifyingly blase about it.

Dr. Vespa. He had thrown his name like a gauntlet to humanity, and
humanity had stared idiotically at it and never guessed its meaning.
Vespa was a good Italian name. Jack didn't know what it meant, but he
supposed that it had the same meaning as the Latin. He remembered it
from his high school class.

As for his not encountering the salesman until now, he had been lucky.
If he had run across him during his search, he would have been denied
the glasses, as now. And the shock would have made him unable to cry out
and betray the man. He would have done what he was so helplessly doing
at this moment, and he would have been carted off to an institution.

How many other transies had seen that unforgettable face on the streets,
the end of their search, and gone at once into that state that made them
legal prey of the Bohas?

That was almost his last rational thought. He could no longer feel his
flesh. A thin red curtain was falling between him and his senses.
Everywhere it billowed out beneath him and eased his fall. Everywhere it
swirled and softened the outlines of things that were streaking by--a
large tree that he remembered seeing in his living room, a naked giant,
his father, leaning against it and eating an apple, and a delicate
little white creature cropping flowers.

Yet all this while he lived in two worlds. One was the passage downwards
towards the Garden of Eden. The other was that hemisphere in which he
had dwelt so reluctantly, the one he now perceived through the
thickening red veil of his sight and other senses.

They were not yet gone. He could feel the hands of the black-clad
officers lifting him up and laying him upon some hard substance that
rocked and dumped. Every lurch and thud was only dimly felt. Then he was
placed upon something softer and carried into what he vaguely sensed was
the interior of one of the barracks.

Some time later--he didn't know or care when, for he had lost all
conception or even definition of time--he looked up the deep
everlengthening shaft of himself into the eyes of another Mr. Eumenes or
Mr. Sphex or Dr. Vespa or whatever he called himself. He was in white
and wore a stethoscope around his neck.

Beside him stood another of his own kind. This one wore lipstick and a
nurse's cap. She carried a tray on which were several containers. One
container held a large and sharp scalpel. The other held an egg. It was
about twice the size of a hen's egg.

Jack saw all this just before the veil took on another shade of red and
blurred completely his vision of the outside. But the final thickening
did not keep him from seeing that Doctor Eumenes was staring down at him
as if he were peering into a dusky burrow. And Jack could make out the
eyes. They were large, much larger than they should have been at the
speed with which Jack was receding. They were not the pale pink of an
albino's. They were black from corner to corner and built of a dozen or
so hexagons whose edges caught the light.

They twinkled.

Like jewels.

Or the eyes of an enormous and evolved wasp.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Fantastic Universe_ January 1954.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



