
Slowly, Jerry said, "I'm not sure it's crazy at all."

Carver brooded. "I shot that thing tonight. Should 'a been dead if a
critter ever was. Then I seen it go after Ed."

"You know what all this means, don't you? Witchcraft. Something people
haven't believed in for hundreds of years."

"Mebbe they better get started again."

They were nearing the divide that overlooked Dark Valley. "Mike, I've
been reading up on it, for hours. Everything I could find. And it fits.
It's been the hardest struggle I ever had--admitting such a thing
existed. But it was either acknowledge that or lose my mind."

The night seemed colder as they started downward. Unaccountably, the
headlights dimmed.

"Somethin' watchin' us," Carver said suddenly, as the car bored on
through the thick and swirling darkness.

Jerry nodded. His hands gripped the wheel until the knuckles were white.
Sweat began to glisten on his forehead.

The headlights picked out a dark spot, that looked like a yawning hole.
Jerry stamped on the brake, skidded slightly. But there was only a
shallow rut, deformed by shadows. He pressed the accelerator ... and the
motor died. Hurriedly, he jabbed the starter button, pumped the gas
pedal. Again he pushed it, and again, as the lights faded from the drain
on the battery.

"What's the matter?" Carver's old voice was thin.

"Flooded, maybe. Better let her sit a minute."

The darkness pressed close around them, shifted and danced. Chill air
moved over their faces.

"Mike."

"Yeah."

"Why didn't that animal come after, you, too?"

Carver breathed heavily for a moment. Then he took something from his
shirt pocket and held it out. Jerry's fingers moved over it. A crucifix.

"My mother give it to me a long time ago."

"That's probably the only thing that could have saved you. From what I
read, they can't stand a cross. And silver's got something to do with
it." Jerry reached into his own pocket. "Feel this."

Carver's rough hand fumbled over the object.

"Made it this evening. Took a cold chisel and hammer to an old silver
tray. Not fancy, but it was all I had."

"You done that, before I came and told you about Ed?"

Jerry nodded grimly. "I'm convinced we're up against something terrible.
And believe me, Mike, I'm scared."
