
Seeing that the two boys were still dumb, the rabbit, with a mighty
effort, picked up the three-pound calculus text, which was bound in a
revolting green. As he did so, a paper fluttered out, and the professor
deftly scooped it up. He studied Fatty's messy scrawlings for a moment,
then said warmly: "Ah, I observe that you chaps are beginning the study
of elementary mathematics." He shook a paw waggishly. "The limits are
wrong on this integration: they should go from pi-over-two to
pi-over-three first, instead of to zero. There's a discontinuity at
pi-over-three, and your result, that the center of gravity of this
six-inch cube is nine feet to the right, looks somewhat implausible."

At this, Fatty finally found his voice. "A discontinuity?" he gulped.
"Whassat?"

"Aw, you know," Irv rebuked him. "Old Cusp's been gassing about 'em for
days, now."

"Has he? Well, what is it, if you're so smart?"

"I don't remember," Irv said brazenly, "but at least I heard the name
before."

"At pi-over-three," the rabbit broke in with authority, "the denominator
of the integrand vanishes. To put it loosely, the function becomes
infinite."

Fatty looked at Irv; Irv gaped at Fatty. The piggy eyes lit up. "A
rabbit that knows math!" Fatty breathed.

"Knows it! He wrote the damn book--a real brain!" Irv exulted.

Once again their eyes met meaningly. "You always said," Irv remarked in
an abstracted manner, "that you could lick the guy who invented calc."

"I sure can," Fatty asserted, "but--" He paused; then with a speed
surprising in one of his bulk, his thick hands shot out, and Professor
Slakmak, the eminent Venusian savant, found himself dangling by the ears
from stubby, freckled fingers. He kicked with a vigor shockingly
undignified.

"Let me down!" he squeaked furiously. "This is outrageous. A friendly
ambassador's person is sacred among all civilized peoples; your national
President shall hear of this insult!"

Fatty looked at him, showing uneven teeth in a loose grin. "Bugs Bunny,"
he gloated, "you are now the official mascot of Omega Pi Upsilen!"

"I second the motion," Irv said, shuffling in excitement.

"We'd better hide his ship, though," Fatty cried, full of ingenious
intelligence now that nobody was grading him for it.

"It's too big, ain't it?" Irv replied doubtfully. "Simmer down you!" he
ordered the writhing professor. "We don't wanna choke you, but--" The
captive subsided, contenting himself with little quivers of indignation.

"It's awful light," Fatty muttered, shoving the damaged saucer with one
size eleven shoe. "We'll move it over here, pile a lot of brush on top,
and--"

"--Start a fire!" Irv interrupted joyously.

The professor gave a piercing squeal of protest.

"No, stupid," Fatty told him, winking. "If the prof here helps us out
this semester, we'll give him back his old disc, right?"

"Right," Irv agreed, crossing two fingers.

In fifteen minutes, even with Fatty working one-handed, the ship
vanished under a pile of stiff brush. "That's that," Irv said, taking a
deep breath. "Now--"

"We can't take him like this," Fatty remarked, swinging the professor by
his ears and giving him a shake by way of emphasis.

"Why not? We just been rabbit-hunting, that's all."

"Too risky. Even if the professor keeps quiet, some joker from another
frat might get nosy."

"He'll be quiet," Irv said grimly. "I know how to hit a rabbit on the
neck with the edge of my hand--" Here the professor began to kick
frantically, and Fatty snatched his hind legs, holding him rigid from
ears to toes.

"There's an old cardboard box back there," Fatty said. "That'll do the
trick."

A few seconds later the sullen captive was stuffed unceremoniously into
a damp, mouldy container, and the two students returned to the campus,
their hearts free from mathematical worries.

"The frat will owe us plenty for this," Fatty said darkly. "We've never
had anybody to coach us in math."

"They'll be licking our boots," Irv agreed. "But they always have, the
poor dopes!"
