
That night Fatty told his unwilling mascot the bad news. "I'm sorry,
Prof," he said genially. "It's only one more term, then I'll be done
with math, and you can go back to your disc. By my last course is with
old Totient, and he's rough."

"You promised!" the professor squealed angrily.

"This time I mean it, honest."

"Hey, Fatty," a fraternity brother objected, "ain't you gonna leave the
prof to our gang? Just cause _you're_ through--" He broke off in
confusion as Irv kicked his ankle, hard.

"Ignore the jerk," Lece reassured the crestfallen rabbit. "When Fatty
and I finish our math requirement, you're on your own again. Course,
you'll have to promise not to tell the President!" Over the professor's
head he winked broadly at his friends.

"I won't do it! It's a cad's trick!" The rabbit's brown eyes were bright
with rage.

Fatty pawed his soft fur with one lardy hand. "C'mon, Prof, be a sport,"
he urged, greasily affectionate. "We like you a lot. You wouldn't let us
down now."

"I--will--not--do--it! You promised--"

"You will, too!" Irv grunted. "Don't give us any backtalk. If I have to
twist your ears--"

"Use the cigarette lighter," somebody suggested, half ashamed. "He's
only bluffing again."

"I'm not," the professor said sturdily. "You can burn me, kill me, but I
won't tutor this bunch of cretins any more!"

"Where does he get those words?" a student wondered aloud. "What's a
cretin?"

"Irv," Fatty said in a sly, buttery voice, "where's that nasty pooch who
adopted the Delts last week? The one that chased the chaplain into Tom
Paine Hall. I'll bet he's a first class abbitray oundhay."

"Mac," Irv addressed a slender, dark boy, "they keep him in that shed
by the athletic field. Go and--ah borrow him, will you?" Mac left.

"What's an abbitray oundhay?" the professor quavered.

"You'll find out!" Fatty told him grimly. "Don't they teach pig-latin on
Venus?"

There was a strained silence, while some members of the group whispered
protests. But there was no open resistance. Fatty and Irv ran Omega Phi
Upsilon with an iron hand.

Then the door opened, and Mac, tugging hard at the collar of a large
dog, lurched into the room. "Here's Hotspur," he grinned, as the brute
strove to mangle the cowering professor.

Hotspur was a canine melting pot. The Spitz in his ancestry seemed to
predominate, but there were plain traces of airdale, setter--and
crowning evidence of some mis-alliance--dachshund. White teeth bared in
a slavering snarl, the dog glared at the rabbit, lunging against his
collar as Mac held hard.

But the professor had collapsed, all his courage gone. "A dog!" he
gasped in horror, and Hotspur seemed startled at the human voice
emerging from a rabbit. A thin whimper came from the professor. "Take
that monster away," he begged. "I'll do anything--anything!"

"That's better," Fatty chortled. "But we need this good ol' hound more
than the Delts do. Put him down in the basement--just in case." He eyed
the professor, who shrank into a furry, abject heap.

"My new prof, Dr. Totient, is tough," Fatty said. "Bugs Bunny here is
gonna have plenty to do. We'll clear out now and let him prepare his
assignments! See that you watch those signs," he jibed, handing out what
he had so long received. He fastened the rabbit's chain to its stout
staple in the wall. "Here." He fished an apple core from his jeans, and
tossed it at the professor, giving him an oily smirk. "Just to show
there's no hard feeling. Eat hearty!" He stumped out, followed by his
companions.
