
Gradually it grew dark, and the deserted fraternity-house was quiet.
Ravenous, the professor finally nerved himself to nibble the apple core,
which to his sensitive nostrils reeked of Fatty. He had just downed the
last noisome fragment, when there was a loud, inquisitive sniff at the
door. He grew rigid. Another sniff and the shoulder thrust of a heavy
body.

Insecurely shut, the door swung open, and a huge, white form stalked in.
The professor cringed, moaning a little, the hot alien scent of dog in
his nose, prepared to meet a terrible death.

"Ssst!" the big mongrel admonished him. "I'm a friend," he rumbled in
slow, thick English. Trotting over, he took the slender chain in his
great teeth, and threw his thirty pound body into the wrench. The staple
pulled free.

"Let's get t'hell out of here," he grunted, "while your bunch is gone."

"B-but my ship," the professor stammered, staring in bewilderment. "It's
broken down, and those two awful boys will find me before I can fix it."

"Never mind; I'll give you a lift in mine. I'm heading for Washington,
then I'll have to report back on Mars. I can drop you either place. I
just got word myself, only a few days ago, that our two planets had
finally made contact. They asked me to find out where you'd disappeared
to, but I never dreamed you were here. When I heard you talking
English--! But we'd better scoot. I've spied out this place long
enough-- I don't think it's quite representative."

They had just reached the brush behind the library, where the
professor's passionate story was completed, when Hotspur, looking back,
saw lights flash in the fraternity house windows.

"Wait here," he said cryptically. "Be right back." He sprang into the
brush, and vanished. A few moments later, the anxious professor heard
some yells of agony coming from the campus, and before long Hotspur
returned, panting.

"I know you'll get a sympathetic hearing in Washington," he gasped; "and
we Martians abhor violence, but there are times--" He rubbed one paw
against his mouth. "I didn't like the taste of Irv, but Fatty's even
worse! I hope," he added viciously, "they have to take Pasteur
treatments!"

"Me too!" Professor Slakmak agreed cheerfully. "And best of all, they'll
flunk math--but good! Where's your ship--Pal?"

