
"It's the same way with the number of objects. Instead of having five
fingers I have three, four, five, six and so on, fingers all at the same
time. But my mind can't see that. It can only grasp a single number. My
eyes look at my fingers and see the many simultaneous numbers of
fingers, but my mind can't grasp that, so _it conjures up a single
number at random_. It RATIONALIZES what it gets, and so we have a real
problem--the devising of some method of helping the mind deal with what
it can't grasp because it hasn't the equipment to grasp it as it really
is.

"There are sixty of us on board--or rather, there WERE sixty. Now there
are three, four, and so on, to some number above sixty. The last report
handed in by the crew shows eighty-three men on board! I can't prove it,
because if I handed you the report sheets you would count more or less
than that number.

"So what we must realize is that now there isn't any NUMBER of crew
members, but a 'something else' that is different than a number,
corresponding to an INTERVAL of numbers. It is real. It's a metaphysical
basic for this part of space around this planet.

"It's subtle, too. For example, right now there may be more than one me
on this ship, depending on whether there are more than sixty people on
board or not. I don't quite understand about that yet. There are a lot
of things I don't understand about it. If there is more than one of any
person on board, is it a reality, or is it a trick of rationalization of
the mind to fit something utterly incomprehensible into at least a
semblance of something comprehensible? If it is the latter, then why do
the two who are supposedly the same person hand in DIFFERENT reports on
what the supposedly one person did, and why do the reports check with
other reports?

"I have a theory which might account for part of all this. Our ship and
all in it belongs to the universe of the metaphysics we know of and use
as the thought process. It is hovering on the borders of a region
containing this planet we are to land on--a region operating on other
basics. In some way both sets of basics operate in either conflict or
compromise. Besides mental confusion there is actual physical confusion.

"But maybe it's better that way. If we make the transition in steps the
actual noumenal confusion may guide our minds correctly into a correct
understanding of the new basics of this system by the time we land."

Ford Gratrick had come into the dining room unnoticed at the beginning
of this. He spoke now.

"Then you claim that the laws of nature are different here than we are
accustomed to, and that our minds are not equipped to deal with them?"
he asked.

Ren frowned. Not at the words but at something he had not mentioned,
about people and identities.

"They are different, yes," Ren returned. "But as to our minds dealing
with them--human minds have dealt with things without truly
comprehending them since the dawn of time."

"Things that were sane," Ford said.

"These are sane, too," Ren said, studying Ford keenly from hidden eyes.
"They're just sane in a different way."

"So is a crazy man," Ford almost sneered openly. "I think we've seen
enough to make it obvious we should get away from here while we can."

There was a murmur among the men at the tables that agreed with what
Ford had said.

"We may do that," Ren said, ignoring the signs of almost open defiance
patent in Ford's tone and manner, and in the men's muttered approval of
what he had said. "But we won't until we're sure it's suicide to go down
there and land. Don't you realize that we have something here which may
be unique in the universe? This space wanderer won't be close enough to
the solar system for exploration more than two or three years. Then it
will be gone. There may never be another opportunity to study something
like it."

"Which is a good thing," Ford snorted. "If you decide to drop the ship
any closer to this mad planet you're going to have trouble with the
men."

"Meaning you've been talking to them?" Commander Hugh Dunnam asked
softly.

"Talking WITH them," Ford Gratrick said, matching Hugh's softness.
"Don't try to put me in the position of being a leader of any rebellion
that might develop. I'll confess quite frankly, though, that I want no
part of landing on this God-forsaken hunk of matter, and a good many of
the crew agree on that. It's suicidal. Frankly, sir, I think you must be
under some kind of spell to turn your command over to a spaceman second
class as you did."
