



_Copyright, 1898_

_By_ ROBERT HOWARD RUSSELL


_Copyright, 1903_

_By_ HARPER & BROTHERS




_To the memory of_

ALFRED B. STAREY




_ACKNOWLEDGMENTS_

are made to Messrs. Harper & Brothers, in whose magazine, _Harper's
Young People_, when under the management of the late Alfred B. Starey,
some years ago, this story in a condensed form first appeared. The
story has been rewritten and amplified.--_T.N.P._




Illustrations


"Straight Away the Bird Flew" . . . . . . . . . _Frontispiece_

"Could See a Little Girl Walking About with her Nurse"

"Mildred Played Out-of-Doors all Day Long"

"'Are You a Princess?' Asked Molly"

"'Mother,' She Whispered"




Two Prisoners


Squeezed in between other old dingy houses down a dirty, narrow street
paved with cobble-stones, and having, in place of sidewalks, gutters
filled with gray slop-water, stood a house, older and dingier than the
rest.  It had a battered and knock-kneed look, and it leant on the
houses on either side of it, as if it were unable to stand up alone.
The door was just on a level with the street, and in rainy weather the
water poured in and ran through the narrow little passage leaving a
silt of mud in which the children played and made tracks.  The windows
were broken in many places, and were stuffed with old rags, or in some
places had bits of oilcloth nailed over the holes.  It looked black and
disreputable even in that miserable quarter, and it was.  Only the
poorest and the most unfortunate would stay in such a rookery.  It
seemed to be in charge of or, at least, ruled over by a woman named
Mrs. O'Meath, a short, red faced creature, who said she had once been
"a wash lady," but who had long given up a profession which required
such constant use of water, and who now, so far as could be seen, used
no liquid in any way except whiskey or beer.

The dingiest room in this house was, perhaps, the little hall-cupboard
at the head of the second flight of rickety stairs.  It was small and
dim.  Its single window looked out over the tops of wretched little
shingled houses in the bottom below to the backs of some huge
warehouses beyond.  The only break in the view of squalor was the blue
sky over the top of the great branching elm shading the white
back-portico of a large house up in the high part of the town several
squares off.  In this miserable cupboard, hardly fit to be called a
room, unfurnished except with a bed and a broken chair, lived a
person--a little girl--if one could be said to live who lies in bed all
the time.  You could hardly tell her age, for the thin face looked much
older than the little crooked body.  There were lines around the mouth
and about the white face which might have been worn by years or only by
suffering.  The bed-ridden body was that of a child of ten or twelve.
The arms and long hands looked as the face did--older--and as she lay
in her narrow bed she might have been any moderate age.  Her sandy hair
was straight and faded; her dark eyes were large and sad.  She was
known to Mrs. O'Meath and the few people who knew her at all as
"Molly."  If she had any other name, it was not known.  She had no
father or mother, and was supposed by the lodgers to be some relative,
perhaps a niece, of Mrs. O'Meath.  She had never known her father.  Her
mother she remembered dimly, or thought she did; she was not sure.  It
was a dim memory of a great brightness in the shape of a young woman
who was good to her and who seemed very beautiful, and it was all
connected with green trees and grass, and blue skies, and birds flying
about.  The only other memory was of a parting, the lady covering her
with kisses, and then of a great loneliness, when she did not come
back, and then of a woman dropping her down the stairs--and ever since
then she had been lying in bed.  At least, that was her belief; she was
not sure that the memory was not a dream.  At least, all but the bed,
that was real.

Ever since she knew anything she had been lying a prisoner in bed, in
that room or some other.  She did not know how she got there.  She must
belong in some way to Mrs. O'Meath, for Mrs. O'Meath looked after her
and kept others away.  It was not much "looking after," at best.  Mrs.
O'Meath used to bring her her food, such as it was--it was not very
much--and attend to her wants, and bring her things to sew, and make
her sew them.  Molly suffered sometimes, for she could not walk; she
had never walked--at least, unless that vague recollection was true.
She had once or twice asked Mrs. O'Meath about her mother, but she had
soon stopped it.  It always made Mrs. O'Meath angry, and she generally
got drunk after it and was cross with her.

Sometimes when Mrs. O'Meath got drunk she did not come up-stairs at all
during the day.  She was always kinder to her next day, however, and
explained, with much regret, that she had been sick--too sick to get a
mouthful for herself even; but other people who lived in the house told
Molly that she was "just drunk," and Molly soon got to know the signs.
Mrs. O'Meath would be cross and ugly and made her sew hard.  Sometimes
she used to threaten her with the Poorhouse.  Molly did not know what
that was; she just knew it was something dreadful (like a prison, she
thought).  She could not complain, however, for she knew very well that
what Mrs. O'Meath did was out of charity for her and because she had
promised some one to look after her.  The little sewing Molly was able
to do for her was not anything, she knew.  Mrs. O'Meath often told her
so.  And it made her back ache so to sit up.

The rest of the people in the house were so busy they did not have time
to trouble themselves about the child, and Mrs. O'Meath was cross with
them if they came "poking about," as she called it.

Molly's companions were two books, or parts of books--one a torn copy
of the "Pilgrim's Progress," the other a copy of the "Arabian Night's
Entertainment."  Neither of them was complete, but what remained she
knew by heart.  She used to question the women in the house, when they
would stop at the door, about things outside; but they knew only about
their neighbors and their quarrels and misfortunes--who got drunk; who
had a new sofa or frock; who had been arrested or threatened by the
police, and who had been refused a drink at the bar.  Molly's questions
about the fairies and great ladies simply set her down with them as a
half crazy thing.  So Molly was left to her own thoughts.  Her little
bed was fortunately right by the window, and she could look out over
the houses.  The pigeons which circled about or walked upon the roofs,
pluming themselves and coquetting, and the little brown sparrows which
flew around and quarrelled and complained, were her chief companions,
and she used to make up stories about them.  She soon learned to know
them individually, even at a distance, and knew where they belonged.
She learned their habits and observed their life.  She knew which of
them were quiet, and which were blustering; which were shy, and which
greedy--most of them were this--and she used to feed them with crumbs
on the window-sill.  She gave them names out of her books and made up
stories about them to herself.  They were fairies or genii, and lived
under spells; they saw things hidden from the eyes of men, and heard
strange music which the ears of men could not catch.  One bird,
however, interested her more than all the others.  It was a bird in a
cage, which used to hang outside of the back window of a house not far
from hers, but on another street.  This bird Molly watched more closely
than all the rest, and had more feeling for it.  Shut up within the
wire bars, whilst all the other birds were flying so free and joyous,
it reminded her of herself.  It had not been there very long.  It was a
mocking-bird, and sometimes it used to sing so that she could hear its
notes clear and ringing.  She felt how miserable it must be, confined
behind its bars, when there was the whole sky outside for it to spread
its wings under.  (It used to sing almost fiercely at times.  Molly was
sure that it was a prince or princess imprisoned in that form.)
Shortly after it first came it sang a great deal, yet Molly knew it was
not for joy, but only to the sky and the birds outside; for it used to
flutter and look frightened and angry whenever the woman leaned out of
the window; and sometimes the birds would go and look at it in a
curious, half pitying way, and it would try to fly, and would strike
against the cage and fall down, and then it would stop singing for
awhile.  Molly would have loved to pet it, and then have turned it
loose and seen it flying away singing.  She knew what joy would have
filled its little heart to see again the woods and the green fields and
pastures and streams, for she knew how she would have felt to see them.
She had never seen them in all her life, unless she had not dreamed
that dream.  Maybe, if it were set free, it would come back sometimes
and would sing for her and tell her about freedom and the green fields.
Or, maybe, it might even go to Heaven and tell her mother about her.

The bird had not always been in a cage; it had been born in a lilac
bush in a great garden, with other lilac bushes and tall hollyhocks of
every hue, and rose bushes all around it; and it had been brought up
there, and had found its mate in an orchard near by, where there were
apple trees white with bloom and a little stream bordered with willows,
which sometimes looked almost white, too, when the wind blew fresh and
lifted the leaves.  It had often sung all night long in the moonlight
to its mate; and one day, when it was getting a breakfast for the young
in its nest in the lilacs, it had been caught in a trap with slats to
it; and a man had come and had carried it somewhere in a close basket,
and had put it into a thing with bars all around it like a jail, and
with a dirty floor; and a woman had bought it and had kept it shut up
ever since in a cage.  It had come near starving to death for a while,
for at first it could not eat the seed and stuff which covered the
bottom of its cage, they were so stale; but at last it had to eat, it
was so hungry.  It grew sick, though, not being used to being shut up
in such a close, hot place, with people always moving about.  Though
its owner was kind to it, and talked to it, and was gentle with it, it
could not forget its garden and freedom, and it hoped it would die.
The woman used to hang it outside of her window, and after she went
away it used to sing, hoping that its mate might hear, and, even if it
could not release it, at least might come near enough to sing to it and
tell it of its love and loneliness, and of the garden and the lilacs
and the orchard and the dew.  Then, again, when she did not come, it
would grow melancholy, and sometimes would try desperately to break out
of its prison.  Sometimes at night it would dream of the lilacs and
would sing.  How Molly watched it and listened to it, and how she
pitied it and hoped it knew she was there, too!

One other thing that interested Molly greatly was the great gray house
over beyond the other houses.  She supposed it was a palace.  There she
could see a little girl walking about in the long upper
gallery--sometimes alone and sometimes with a colored woman, her nurse.
Molly had very keen eyes and could see clearly a long distance; but she
could not, of course, see the features of the little girl.  She could
only tell that she had long brown hair, and wore beautiful dresses,
sometimes white, sometimes blue, sometimes pink.  She knew she must be
beautiful, and wondered if she were a princess.  She always pictured
her so, and she was always on the watch for her.  At times she came out
with something in her arms, which Molly knew was a doll, and Molly used
to fancy how the doll looked; it must have golden ringlets, and blue
eyes, and pink cheeks, and look like a princess.  Molly felt sure that
the little girl must be a princess.  The doll would be dressed in silk
and embroidery.  She set to work, and with her scraps, left from the
pieces Mrs. O'Meath brought her, made a dress and a whole suit of
clothes for it, such as she thought it ought to have.  The dress was
nothing but a little piece of shiny cambric, trimmed with her silk
bits, and the underclothes were only cotton; but she flounced the dress
with ends of colored thread and embroidered it beautifully, and folded
it up in a piece of paper and stuck it away under the mattress where
she kept her treasures.

[Illustration: "_COULD SEE A LITTLE GIRL WALKING ABOUT WITH HER NURSE_"]

One day she saw the little girl on the gallery playing with something
that was not a doll; it ran around after her and hung on to her skirt.
At first Molly could not see it well; but presently the little girl
lifted it up in her arms, and Molly saw that it was a little dog, a
fat, grayish-yellow puppy.  For several days it used to come out and
play with its little mistress, or she would play with it, lifting it,
carrying it, feeding it, hugging and kissing it.  Molly sighed.  Oh,
how she would have liked to have a little dog like that!  Her little
room looked darker and gloomier than ever.  She turned over and tried
to sleep, but could not.  She was so lonely.  She had nothing; she had
never had anything.  She could not ever hope to have a doll, but, oh,
if she had a puppy!  Next day she thought of it more than ever, and
every day afterwards she thought of it.

She even dreamed about it at night: a beautiful, fat, yellow puppy came
and got up by her on the bed and cuddled up against her and went to
sleep.  She felt its breathing.  She actually saved some of her dinner,
her bones, next day, and hid them, to feel that she had some food for
it, though she was hungry herself.  No puppy came, however, and she had
to give it up and content herself with looking out for the puppy on the
white gallery under the elm beyond the housetops.



