
The big house, the back of which, with its double porticos and great
white pillars, Molly could see away up on the hill across the
intervening squares, was almost as different from the rickety tenement
in which the little cripple lay as daylight is from darkness.  It was
on one of the highest points in the best part of the city, and was set
back in grounds laid off with flower beds and surrounded by a high iron
fence.  In front it looked out on a handsome park, where fountains
played, and at the back, while it looked over a very poor part of the
town, filled with small, wretched looking houses, they were so far
beneath it that they were almost as much separated from it as though
they had been in another city.  A high wall and a hedge quite shut off
everything in that direction, and it was only from the upper veranda
that one knew there was any part of the town on that side.  Here,
however, Mildred, the little girl that Molly saw with her doll and
puppy, liked best to play.

Mildred was the daughter of Mr. Glendale, one of the leading men in the
city, and she lived in this house in the winter.  In the summer she
lived in the country, in another house, quite as large as this, but
very different.  The city house was taller than that in the country,
and had finer rooms and handsomer things.  But, somehow, Mildred liked
the place in the country best.  The house in the country was long and
had many rooms and curious corners with rambling passages leading to
them.  It was in a great yard with trees and shrubbery and flowers in
it, with gardens about it filled with lilacs and rosebushes, and an
orchard beyond, full of fruit trees.  Green fields stretched all about
it, where lambs and colts and calves played.  And when in the country
Mildred played out of doors all day long.

[Illustration: "_MILDRED PLAYED OUT-OF-DOORS ALL DAY LONG_"]

The city Mildred did not like.  She was a little lame and had to wear
braces; but the doctors had always said she must be kept out of doors,
and she would become strong and outgrow her lameness.  Thus she had
been brought up in the country, and knew every corner and cranny there.
She knew where the robins and mocking-birds nested; the posts where the
bluebirds made their homes and brought up their young, and the hollow
locusts where the brown Jenny Wrens kept house, with doors so tiny that
Mildred could not have gotten her hand in them.  In town she felt
constrained.  There she had to be dressed up and taken to walk by her
mammy.  In the country she never thought of her lameness; but in town
she could not help it.  It was hard not to be able to run about and
play games like the other children.  Rough boys, too, would talk about
the braces she had to wear, and sometimes would even laugh at her.  So
she was shy, and often thought herself very wretched.  Her mother and
her mammy used to tell her that she was better off than most little
girls, but Mildred could not think so.  At least, they did not have to
wear braces, and could run about where they pleased and play games and
slide down hills without any one scolding them for ruining their
dresses or not being a lady.  Mildred often wished she were not a lady,
and, though efforts were made to satisfy her least whim, she was
dissatisfied and unhappy.

A large playroom was set apart for her in town; and it was fitted up
with everything that could be thought of.  After the first few days it
ceased to give her pleasure.  The trouble was that it was all "fixed,"
her playthings were all "made playthings."  She had to play according
to rule; she could not do as she pleased.  In the country she was free;
she could run about the yard or garden, and play with the young birds
and chickens and "live" things.  One "live" thing was, in Mildred's
eyes, worth all the "made" ones in the world; and if it was sick or
crippled, she just loved it.  A lame chicken that could not keep up
with the rest of the brood, or a bird that had broken its wing falling
out of the nest, was her pet and care.  Her playroom in town was filled
with dolls and toys of every size and kind, and in every condition, for
a doll's condition is different from that of people; it depends not on
the house it lives in and the wealth it has, but on the state of its
body and features.  Mildred's playhouse in the country was a corner of
a closet, under the roof.  There she used to have war with her mammy,
for Mammy was very strict, and had severe ideas.  So whenever a sick
chicken or lame duck was found crying and tucked up in some of the
doll's best dresses there was a battle.  "I don't want dolls," Mildred
would say.  "It don't hurt a doll to break it; they don't care; and it
don't help them to mend them; they can't grow.  I want something I can
get well and feed."  Indeed, this was what her heart hungered for.
What she wanted was company.  She felt it more in the city than in the
country.  In town she had nothing but dolls.  She used to think, "Oh,
if I just had a chicken or a bird to pet and to love--something young
and sweet!"  The only place in town where she could do as she pleased
was the upper back veranda.  Thus she came to like it better than any
other spot, and was oftenest there.



