
One day when Mildred had been dressed up by her mammy and taken out to
walk, as she stopped on the edge of the park to rest, a fat, fawn
colored puppy, as soft as a ball of wool and as awkward as a baby, came
waddling up to her on the street; pulled at her dress; rolled over her
feet, and would not let her alone.  Mildred was delighted with it.  It
was quite lame in one of its legs.  She played with it, and hugged it,
and fed it with a biscuit; and it licked her hands and pinched her with
its little white, tack-like teeth.  After a while Mammy tried to drive
it away, but it would not go, it had taken too great a fancy to its new
found playmate to leave her, and, though Mammy slapped at it and
scolded it, and took a switch and beat it, it just ran off a little way
and then turned around when they moved on and followed them again,
coming up to them in the most cajoling and enticing way.  When they
reached home Mammy shut it out of the gate; but it stayed there and
cried, and finally squeezed through the fence, scraping its little fat
sides against the pickets, and, running up to the porch after them,
slipped into the house, and actually ran and hid itself from Mammy
under some furniture in the drawing-room.

Mildred begged her father to let her keep the dog.  He said she might,
until they could find the owner, but that it was a beautiful puppy and
the owner would probably want him.  Mildred took him to her veranda and
played with him, and that night she actually smuggled him into her bed;
but Mammy found him and turned him out of so snug a retreat, and
Mildred was glad to compromise on having him safely shut up in a box in
the kitchen.  Her father put an advertisement in the papers and every
effort was made to find the owner, but he never appeared, which was
perhaps due to Mildred's fervent prayers that he might not be found.
She prayed hard that he might not come after Roy, as she named him,
even if he had to die not to do so.

From that time Mildred found a new life in the city.  The two were
always together, playing and romping.  Roy was the most adorable of
puppies, and was always doing the most comical and unexpected things.
At times he would act like a baby, and other times would be as full of
mischief as a boy.

The upper gallery was Mildred's favorite place.  Her mother had given
it up to her.  There she could run about, without having Mammy scold
her for letting Roy scratch up the floor.  Roy made havoc in her
playroom; he appeared to have a special fondness for doll babies, and
would chew their feet off recklessly.  He did not have a wholly easy
time, however, for Mildred used to insist on dressing him up and making
him sleep in her doll's carriage, and, as Roy had the bad taste not to
appreciate these honors, he had to be trained.  Mammy had been strict
enough with Mildred to give her very sound ideas of discipline, so
sometimes Mildred used to coerce Roy till he rebelled with whines.  It
was all due to affection, however, and Roy used to whine more over the
huggings his little mistress gave him than anything else.

"What you squeezin' dat dog so for?  Stop dat!  Don' you heah him
crying?" Mammy used to say.

"'Tain' any use havin' a dog if you carn't squeeze him," Mildred would
reply.

Whenever they went out Roy used to go along.  Roy was a most
inquisitive dog.  Curiosity was his besetting sin.  It got him into
more trouble than anything else.  He used to chew up lace curtains, and
taste the silk of the chair covers in the parlors just to try them,
though anything else would have done just as well; and once or twice he
actually tried the bottom of Mammy's dress.  This was a dreadful
mistake for him to make, as he found out, for Mammy allowed no
liberties to be taken with her.

"Ain't you got no better sense'n to be chawing my frock, dog?" she used
to say.  "Ef you ain't, I gwine teach you better."  And she did.  When
he went out to walk he carried his curiosity to great limits; indeed,
as it proved, to a disastrous length.  He had grown somewhat and could
run about without tripping up over himself every few steps; and as he
grew a little older he was always poking into strange yards or around
new corners.  Once or twice he had come near getting into serious
trouble, for large dogs suddenly bounded up from door-mats and out of
unnoticed corners and appeared very curious to know what business he, a
little, fat puppy, had coming into their premises uninvited.  In such
cases Roy always took out as hard as his little fat legs could carry
him; or, if they ran after him, he just curled over on his back,
holding up his feet in the most supplicating way, till no dog would
have had the heart to hurt him.

At last one day he disappeared, and no efforts could find him.  He was
hunted for high and low; advertisements were put in the papers; a
reward was offered, and every exertion was made to find him; but in
vain.  The last that had been seen of him he was playing out in the
street in front of the house, and had gone down a side street.  It was
in the direction of the worst part of the town, and, after he did not
turn up, there was no doubt that he was stolen, or maybe killed.
Mildred was inconsolable.  She cried herself almost sick.  Her father
offered to get her another puppy just like Roy; but it did no good; it
would not be Roy, she said; it would not be lame.  The sight of the
dolls which Roy had so often chewed with so much pleasure made her cry
afresh.  She prayed that he might come back to her.



