
That very afternoon on which Roy disappeared Molly had just got her
dinner--a little soup, with a knuckle-bone in it, and a piece of
bread--and she was thinking what a pity the bone was so large, as she
was hungry, when she heard something on the staircase outside.  The
door had been left slightly open by the woman who had brought the
dinner, and the sound was quite distinct; it sounded like something
dragging up the steps.  She thought it was a rat, for there were a
great many of them about, and she was wishing the door was shut, for
she did not want it to come into her room, and, besides, it was cold.
But as she could not reach the door, she was about to begin on her
dinner.  Just as she started, however, she heard a soft and low step at
her door, and she looked up.  There came a dear, fat, yellow-gray
puppy, with a black nose, walking in just as straight and solemnly as
if he were a doctor and had a visit to pay.  She did not dare to move
for fear he would be frightened and go out; but he did not trouble
himself.  Walking straight on, he took a glance around as if to assure
himself that this was the place he wanted, and then, looking at her, he
gave a queer little switch of his tail, which twisted half his body in
the funniest way, and, quickening his pace, came trotting up to her bed
and reared up to try and climb up on it.  Molly put her hand over on
it, and he began to lick it rapidly and whimper in his efforts to get
up.  She gave a little cry of delight and, catching him, pulled him up
on the bed.  He immediately began to walk over her and lick her face.
It was the first time she had ever been kissed in her life that she
remembered.  The next thing he did was to poke his little head into her
soup bucket, and begin to eat as if it belonged to him.  He finished
the soup and began at the bone.  This gave him the greatest delight.
He licked and nibbled and chewed it; got his fat paws in, and worked
over it.  Molly, too, got the greatest pleasure out of it.  She forgot
that she was hungry.

Suddenly he lay down and went fast asleep snuggled up against her.
Molly felt as if he were a little fat baby curled up in her arm.  Her
life seemed suddenly to have opened.  The only trouble was the fear
that Mrs. O'Meath might take him away and drive him out.  To prevent
this was her dream.  She thought of hiding him, but this was difficult;
besides, she wanted to tell Mrs. O'Meath about him.

The puppy stayed with her that night, sleeping beside her, and
snuggling up against her like a little child.  Molly had never spent so
happy a night.

Next morning by light he was awake hunting for his knuckle-bone, and
when he got it went to work at it.  In the midst of Molly's reflections
Mrs. O'Meath walked in.  Her eye fell on Roy, and Molly's heart sank.

"What's that dirty dog doin' in this room?"

Roy answered for himself.  The hair on his back rose and he began to
bark.  Molly tried to check him.

"Where did ye git him?"

"Oh, Mrs. O'Meath, please, madam, let me keep him.  He came from
heaven.  I haven't anything, and I want him so.  Hush!  You must not
bark at Mrs. O'Meath.  Hush, sir!"

But Roy just pulled loose, and, standing astride of Molly, barked worse
than ever.

"Not I, indeed.  Out he goes.  'Ave I to be slavin' meself to death for
the two of you?  It isn't enough for the wan of you, and him barkin' at
me like that."

"Oh, Mrs. O'Meath, please, madam!  I will sew for you all my life, and
do everything you want me to do," cried Molly.  "O God, don't let her
take him away from me!" she prayed.

Whether it was that Mrs. O'Meath was troubled by the great, anxious
eyes of the little girl, and did not have the heart to tear the dog
away from her, or whether she thought that perhaps Roy was a piece of
property worth preserving, she did not take him away.  She simply
contented herself with abusing him for "a loud-mouthed little baste,"
and threatening to "teach him manners by choking the red, noisy tongue
out his empty head."  She actually brought him a new knuckle-bone at
dinner time, which greatly modified his hostility.  No puppy can resist
a knuckle-bone.

Roy had been with Molly four days, and they had been the sweetest days
of the crippled girl's life.  He had got so that he would play with his
bones on the floor, rolling them as a child does a ball.  He would come
when Molly called him, and would play with her, and he slept on her bed
beside her.  One day he walked out of the room and went down the steps.
Molly called and called, but to no purpose.  He had disappeared; he was
gone.  Molly's heart was almost broken.  Her room suddenly became a
prison; her life was too dark to bear.

Mildred had prayed and prayed in vain that Roy might come back to her,
and had at length confided to Mammy that she did not believe he was
coming, and she was not going to pray any more.  She was sure now that
she was the most wretched child in the world.  She took no pleasure in
anything, even in the finest new doll she had ever seen.  However, she
was playing with her doll on the front portico that morning when Roy
came walking up the steps as deliberately as if he had just gone out.
She gave a little shriek of delight, and ran forward.  Seeing her, he
came trotting up, twisting himself as he always did when he was
pleased.  She called her mother.  There was a great welcoming, and Roy
was petted like the returned prodigal.  Mildred determined never again
to let him get out of her sight.

Looking out of her little window next day Molly saw her little girl on
the white gallery romping with a dog, and her heart was bitter with
envy.  She glanced down at the cage below her, and the mocking-bird,
which, whilst she had the puppy she had almost forgotten, was drooping
on his perch.

Mildred, however, though she watched Roy closely, did not have a wholly
easy time.  After this Roy had a wandering fever.  One day he was
playing in the yard with Mildred, who was about to give him a roll she
had.  Near where they were playing stood a rose-bush covered with great
red roses.  Mildred thought it would be great fun to take a rose and
tease Roy with it.  So she turned and broke off from the bush one of
the finest.  It took some little time, and when she turned back, Roy,
whether offended at being neglected or struck by some recollection, had
squeezed through the fence, and started down the street.  Mildred
called after him, but he paid no attention to her.  She opened the gate
and ran after him.

"Roy, Roy!" she called.  "Here, Roy, come here."

But Roy took no heed of her; he just trotted on.  When she ran faster
he ran, too, just as if she were a stranger.  He turned into another
street and then another.  She had to hurry after him for fear she might
lose him.  He reached a dirty little narrow street and turned in.  She
was not far behind him, and she saw the door he went into.  She ran to
it.  He was going up the stairs, climbing steadily one after another.
As she did not see anybody to catch him she went on up after him.  She
saw him enter a door that was slightly ajar, and when she reached it
she started to follow him in, but at the sight that caught her eye she
stopped on the threshold.  There was Roy up on a bed licking the face
of a little girl, and acting as if he were wild with joy.



