
The poor lady who had given Mildred the bird was still leaning out of
her window studying the backs of the houses on the other street down
below hers in the direction the little girl had gone, when at the top
window of one of the oldest and most tumbled-down houses there was a
movement, and a flash of sunlight on something caught her eye.  Yes,
that was the place.  Looking hard, she could make out what was going
on.  She could see the cage set on the window sill and two little
figures on the bed at the open window.  It was a flash of sunshine on
the cage which had reached her.  She knew now where the bird would
hang, and if it ever sang again she would be able to hear it faintly.
In the distant past she had heard birds singing at least that far off.
She was watching intently, when to her astonishment she saw the bird
step out on the sill into the sunlight, and the next second it dashed
away.  It had escaped!  With a gasp she watched it until it rose above
the housetops and disappeared far away in the depths of the blue sky.

When it had quite disappeared she looked back at the window.  The two
little figures were there as still as ever.  There was no excitement.
Could they have set the bird free on purpose?  She gazed at them long
and earnestly, then turned and looked back at the sky where the bird
had faded from her view.  It was deep and fathomless, without a speck.
Her thoughts followed the lost bird--away over the housetops into the
country, into the past, into the illimitable heavens.  Her life was all
spread out before her like a panorama.  She saw a beautiful country of
green fields, where lambs skipped and played; gardens filled with
flowers, and orchards with clouds of bloom, where bees hummed all day
long and birds sang in the leafy coverts.  A little girl was playing
there as free as the birds; as joyous as the lambs.  In time the little
girl grew to be a big girl.  And one day a lad came up the country road
and stopped at the gate and looked across at her.  He was shy, but
pleasant looking, and after a moment he opened the gate and came
straight up to her and asked for lodging.  He was unlike any one else
she had ever known.  He had come from a State far away.  He looked into
her eyes, and she felt a sudden fear lest her father would not take him
in.  He was, however, given lodging, and he stayed on and on, and
helped her father on the farm.  He knew more than any one she had ever
seen, and he bought her books and taught her.  The girl's whole life
seemed to open up under his influence, and in his presence.  She used
to wander with him through the pleasant woods; among the blossoms; in
the moonlight; reading with him the books he brought her; finding new
realms of which she had never dreamed.  Then one evening he had leaned
over, and put his arm around her and begun to speak as he had never
spoken before.  Her happiness was almost a pain, and yet it was only
such pain as the bud must feel when the warm sun unfolds its petals and
with its deep eyes seeks its fragrant heart.  The young girl's life
suddenly opened as that rose opens; and for a time she seemed to walk
in paradise.  Then clouds had gathered; talk of war disturbed the peace
of her quiet life.  Her lover was on one side, her father on the other.
One day the storm burst.  War came.  Her husband felt that he must go.
Her father said that if she went with him she could never more come
back.  Her heart was torn asunder and yet she could not hesitate.  Her
place was with her husband.  So she had parted from her father; she
half fainting with sorrow, he white and broken, yet both sustained by
the sense of duty.  For a time there had been great happiness in a baby
girl, who, though feeble, was the light of her eyes.  The doctors said
if she were taken care of she would outgrow her trouble.  Then came a
bitterer parting than the first; her husband went off to the war,
leaving her a stranger in a strange land, with only her baby.  Even
this was not the worst.  Shortly came the terrible tidings that her
husband had been desperately wounded and left in the enemy's hands.
She must go to him.  She learned at the last moment that she could not
take her child with her.  Yet it was life or death.  She must go.  Then
Providence had seemed to open the way.  Unexpectedly she met an old
friend; a woman who had been a servant of her mother's in the old days
back at her old home.  Though she had one weakness, one fault, she was
good and kind, and she had always been devoted to her.  She would take
care of her child.  So she left the little girl with her, together with
the few pieces of jewelry she possessed.  She herself set off to go
through the lines to her husband.  It was a long journey.  In time she
arrived at the place where he had been.  But it was too late.  He was
gone.  All that was left was an unmarked mound in a field of mounds.
Since that time there had been for her nothing but graves.  Just then
the lines were closely drawn, and before she could get back through
them she had heard from the woman that her child was dead of a
pestilence that had broken out, and she herself dying.  So she was
left.  In her loneliness she had turned to her father.  She could go to
him.  He, too, was dead.  The war had killed him.  His property had
melted away.  The old home had passed from his hands and he himself had
gone, one of the unnamed and unnumbered victims.

When at length the war had closed the widowed and childless woman had
gone back to where she had left her child, to find at least its grave.
But even this was denied her.  There had been a pestilence, and in war
so many are falling that a child's death makes no difference except to
those who love it.  The mother could not find even the grave to put a
flower on.

Since that time she had lived alone--always alone except for the
memories of the past.  Her gift with her needle enabled her to make
enough to keep body and soul together.  But her heart hungered for that
it had lost.

Of late her memories had gone back much to her girlhood; when she had
walked among the fruit trees with the lambs frisking and the birds
singing about her.  She had bought the mocking-bird to sing to her.  It
bore her back to the time when her lover had walked beside her; and
there had been no thought of war, with its blood and its graves.  She
tried to blot out that dreadful time; to obliterate it from her memory;
to bridge it over, except for the memory of her child--with its touch,
its voice, its presence.  Always that called her, and she prayed--if
she only might find its grave.

For this she had come back once more to the place where she had left
it, and where she knew its grave was.  She had not found it; but had
put flowers on many unmarked little mounds; and had blessed with her
tender eyes many unknown little crippled children.

The mention of the crippled girl had opened her heart.  And now when
she lifted her head she was in some sort comforted.  She rose and took
up her bundle, and once more went down into the street.  She determined
to go and see the little crippled child who had let her bird go.

She could not go, however, till next day, and when she went she learned
that the child had been taken away by a rich lady and sent to a
hospital.  This was all the people she saw knew.  She did not see Mrs.
O'Meath.



