
As soon as Molly could be moved she was taken from the hospital out to
Mildred's country home.  She had pined so to see the country that the
doctors said it might start her towards recovery and would certainly do
her good.  So Mildred's mother had closed her town house earlier than
usual and moved out before Easter.

From the very beginning it seemed to do her good.  The fresh air and
sunshine; the trees just putting on their spring apparel; the tender
green grass; the flowers, and the orchards filled with bloom, all
entranced her and invigorated her.  She loved to be out of doors, to
lie and look at the blue sky, with the great white clouds sailing away
up in it (she said they were great snow islands that floated about in
the blue air), and to listen to the songs of the birds flitting about
in the shrubbery and trees.  She said she felt just as that mocking
bird must have done that day when he stood in the warm sunshine and saw
the blue sky above him when he got out of prison.  Mildred used to take
her playthings and stay with her, and read to her out of her story
books, whilst Roy would lie around and look lazy and contented.  There
was no place where he loved to sleep so well as on Molly's couch,
snuggled up against her.

One afternoon she was lying on her couch out in the yard.  Mildred was
sitting by her, and Roy was asleep against her arm.  It was Easter
Sunday, and everything was unusually quiet and peaceful.  There had
been a good deal of talk about Easter.  Molly did not know what Easter
was, and she had been wondering all day.  Mildred herself had mentioned
it several times.  She had a beautiful new dress, and Mrs. Johnson, the
lady who had given her the mocking bird, and for whom her mother had
gotten a place, had made it.  Still to Molly's mind this was not all
that Easter meant.  Molly had heard something about somebody coming
back from the dead.  This had set her to thinking all day.  She knew
about Sunday, because that day people did not go to work as on other
days; and could not go into the barroom by the front door, and some of
them went to church.  But Easter was different.  Something strange was
to happen.  But nothing had happened.  Mildred had been to church with
her mother; but no one had come.  Even the poor lady who had made
Mildred's dress, and who had been invited to come out to the country
and spend Easter, had not appeared; and had written that she could not
come until the evening, if she could get off at all.  So Molly was
puzzled and a little disappointed.  She had waited all day and no one
had come.  She must have misunderstood or else they had told her a lie.
Now Mildred was sitting by her.

"Mildred," she said.  Mildred leaned over her.

"Well, what is it?"

"Do you think my mother will know me when I get to Heaven?  I was so
little when she went away."

Mildred told her that a mother would know her child always.  "Just so."
This seemed to satisfy her.

A mocking-bird on a lilac bush began to sing.  It sang until the air
seemed to be filled with music.

"Molly," said Mildred, "I wonder if that is not your mocking-bird?"
Molly's eyes turned slowly in that direction.

"I think maybe he went to Heaven that day, to my mother," she said,
softly.

"And told your mother that you set him free?"

Suddenly Molly spoke, slowly and softly.

"Mildred, I am very happy," she said.  "If I had all the money in the
world, do you know what I would do with it?"

"No.  What?"  Mildred took her hand and leaned over her.  She did not
answer immediately.  She was looking at the far away horizon beyond the
blue hills, where the softly fading light was turning the sunset sky
into a land of purple and gold.  Presently she said:--

"I would buy up all the birds in the world that are in cages--every
one--and set them free."  Mildred looked at her in vague wonder.

"Mildred, what is Easter?" she asked suddenly.  Mildred was astonished.
The idea of any one not knowing what Easter was!

"Why Easter was the time when----"  She paused to find just the word
she wanted, and as it did not come to her mind she began to think what
Easter really was.  It was harder to explain than she had thought.  Of
course, she knew; but she just could not remember exactly all about it.
Oh!  Yes----

"Why Easter is the time when you have nice things--a new dress and
don't have to give up butter or candy, or any thing you want to
eat--don't you know?"

This was beyond Molly's experience.  She did not know.  Mildred was not
satisfied with her explanation.  She added to it.  "Why, it's the day
Christ rose from the dead--Don't you know?"

"Is that a fairy tale?" asked Molly.

"No, of course not; it's the truth."  Mildred looked much shocked.
Molly looked a little disappointed.

"Oh!  I was in hopes it was a fairy tale.  Tell me about it."

Mildred began, and told the story; at first in vague sentences merely
to recall it to Molly's memory, and then as she saw the interest of her
hearer, in full detail with the graphic force of her own absolute
belief.  She had herself never before felt the reality of the story as
she did now, with Molly's eager eyes fastened on her face; her white
face filled with wonder and earnestness, her thin hand holding hers,
and at times clutching it until it almost hurt her.  She began with the
birth in the manger and ended with the rising in the garden.

"And did he sure 'nough come back--what you call rise again?" said
Molly presently.  Mildred nodded.  She was still under the spell of
Molly's vivid realization of it.

"And where is He now?"

"He went back up to Heaven."  Mildred looked up in the sky.  Molly too
looked up and scanned the pale blue cloudless depths.

"Can He send back anybody he wants?"

Mildred thought so.

"Then I'm going to ask Him to send back my mother to me," she said.  "I
did not know about Him.  I always asked God; but I never thought He
would do it.  I always thought He had too much to do to think about a
poor little thing like me--except once.  I asked Him not to let Mrs.
O'Meath take Roy and He didn't.  But I never asked that other one.
Maybe that's the reason He never did it before.  He'll know about it
and maybe He'll do it, because He was a little child too once, and he
must know how bad I want her."  She ducked her head down, squeezed her
eyes tightly, and remained so about two minutes.

This was a little too complicated for Mildred's simple theology.  She
was puzzled; but she watched Molly with a vague, curious interest.
Molly opened her eyes and gazed up to the skies with an air of deep
relief, not unmingled with curiosity.

"Now, I'm going to see if He'll do it," she said.  "I've asked Him real
hard three times, and if He won't do it for that I ain't ever goin' to
ask Him no more."  Mildred felt shocked, but somehow Molly's eagerness
impressed her, and she too followed Molly's gaze up into the deep
ether, and sat in silence.  Roy moved his head a little and licked
Molly's hand gently.  The mocking-bird sang sweetly in the softening
light.  The only other sound was that of footsteps coming softly across
the grass.  Mildred, half turning, could see from where she sat.  Her
mother and another person, who, as she came near, Mildred saw was Mrs.
Johnson, the poor woman who had given her the mocking-bird, were coming
together.  As they came nearer Mildred's mother was just saying:--

"This is the little girl who turned the bird loose."

Molly was still watching the far off skies, too earnest to hear the new
comers.  Mrs. Johnson's eyes fell on her.  She stopped; started on
again; stopped again, and drew her hand across her forehead, as if she
were dreaming and trying to awake.  The next second with a cry she was
down on her knees beside Molly's lounge, her arms around her.

"My baby----!"

The cripple lay quite still, gazing into her eyes with vague wonder.
Then a sudden light seemed to fall across her face.

"Mother?" she whispered, with an awed inquiry in her tone.  Then as she
caught the look in the eyes fastened on hers the inquiry passed away
and a deeper light seemed to illumine her face.

[Illustration: "_'MOTHER,' SHE WHISPERED_"]

"Mother!" she cried.




THE END









