
Miss Thomas, a relative newcomer to our bailiwick, seemed baffled by the
warmth of our greeting. She entered the office with our visitor, and as
Joyce and I pumphandled him enthusiastically she asked, "You--you _know_
this gentleman, Mr. Mallory?"

"I should say we do!" I chortled. "Pat, you old naughty word! Where on
earth have you been hiding lately?"

"Surely you've heard of the great Patrick Pending, Miss Thomas?" asked
Joyce.

"Pending?" faltered Miss Thomas. "I seem to have heard the name. Or seen
it somewhere--"

Pat beamed upon her companionably. Stepping to my desk, he up-ended the
typewriter and pointed to a legend in tiny letters stamped into the
frame: _Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.--Pat. Pending._

"Here, perhaps?" he suggested. "I invented this. And the airplane, and
the automobile, and--oh, ever so many things. You'll find my name
inscribed on every one.

"I," he announced modestly, "am Pat Pending--the greatest inventulator
of all time."

Miss Thomas stared at me goggle-eyed.

"_Is_ he?" she demanded. "I mean--_did_ he?"

I nodded solemnly.

"Not only those, but a host of other marvels. The bacular clock, the
transmatter, the predictograph--"

Miss Thomas turned on Pat a gaze of fawning admiration. "How wonderful!"
she breathed.

"Oh, nothing, really," said Pat, wriggling.

"But it is! Most of the things brought here are so absurd. Automatic
hat-tippers, self-defrosting galoshes, punching bags that defend
themselves--" Disdainfully she indicated the display collection of
screwball items we call our Chamber of Horrors. "It's simply marvelous
to meet a man who has invented things really worth while."

Honestly, the look in her eyes was sickening. But was Pat nauseated? Not
he! The big goon was lapping it up like a famished feline. His simpering
smirk stretched from ear to there as he murmured, "Now, Miss Thomas--"

"Sandra, Mr. Pending," she sighed softly. "To you just plain ... Sandy.
Please?"

"Well, Sandy--" Pat gulped.

I said disgustedly, "Look, you two--break it up! Love at first sight is
wonderful in books, but in a Federal office I'm pretty sure it's
unconstitutional, and it _may_ be subversive. Would you mind coming down
to earth? Pat, you barged in here squalling about some new invention. Is
that correct?"

With an effort Pat wrenched his gaze from his new-found admirer and
nodded soberly.

"That's right, Mr. Mallory. And a great one, too. One that will
revolutionate the world. Will you give me an applicaceous form, please?
I want to file it immediately."

"Not so fast, Pat. You know the routine. What's the nature of this
remarkable discovery?"

"You may write it down," said Pat grandiloquently, "as Pat Pending's
lightening rod."

I glanced at Joyce, and she at me, then both of us at Pending.

"But, Pat," I exclaimed, "that's ridiculous! Ben Franklin invented the
lightning rod two hundred years ago."

"I said _lightening_," retorted my redheaded friend, "not _lightning_.
My invention doesn't conduct electricity _to_ the ground, but _from_
it." He brandished a slim baton which until then I had assumed to be an
ordinary walking-stick. "With this," he claimed, "I can make things
weigh as much or as little as I please!"

The eyes of Sandy Thomas needed only jet propulsion to become flying
saucers.

"Isn't he wonderful, Mr. Mallory?" she gasped.

But her enthusiasm wasn't contagious. I glowered at Pending coldly.

"Oh, come now, Pat!" I scoffed. "You can't really believe that yourself.
After all, there _are_ such things as basic principles. Weight is not a
variable factor. And so far as I know, Congress hasn't repealed the Law
of Gravity."

Pat sighed regretfully.

"You're always so hard to convince, Mr. Mallory," he complained.
"But--oh, well! Take this."

He handed me the baton. I stared at it curiously. It looked rather like
a British swagger stick: slim, dainty, well balanced. But the ornamental
gadget at its top was not commonplace. It seemed to be a knob or a dial
of some kind, divided into segments scored with vernier markings. I
gazed at Pending askance.

"Well, Pat? What now?"

"How much do you weigh, Mr. Mallory?"

"One sixty-five," I answered.

"You're sure of that?"

"I'm not. But my bathroom scales appeared to be. This morning. Why?"

"Do you think Miss Joyce could lift you?"

I said thoughtfully, "Well, that's an idea. But I doubt it. She won't
even let me try to support _her_."

"I'm serious, Mr. Mallory. Do you think she could lift you with one
hand?"

"Don't be silly! Of course not. Nor could you."

"There's where you're wrong," said Pending firmly. "She can--and will."

He reached forward suddenly and twisted the metal cap on the stick in my
hands. As he did so, I loosed a cry of alarm and almost dropped the
baton. For instantaneously I experienced a startling, flighty giddiness,
a sudden loss of weight that made me feel as if my soles were treading
on sponge rubber, my shoulders sprouting wings.

"Hold on to it!" cried Pat. Then to Joyce, "Lift him, Miss Joyce."

Joyce faltered, "How? Like th-this?" and touched a finger to my midriff.
Immediately my feet left the floor. I started flailing futilely to
trample six inches of ozone back to the solid floorboards. To no avail.
With no effort whatever Joyce raised me high above her head until my
dazed dome was shedding dandruff on the ceiling!

"Well, Mr. Mallory," said Pat, "do you believe me now?"

"Get me down out of here!" I howled. "You _know_ I can't stand high
places!"

"You now weigh less than ten pounds--"

"Never mind the statistics. I feel like a circus balloon. How do I get
down again?"

"Turn the knob on the cane," advised Pat, "to your normal weight.
Careful, now! _Not so fast!_"

His warning came too late. I hit the deck with a resounding thud, and
the cane came clattering after. Pat retrieved it hurriedly, inspected it
to make sure it was not damaged. I glared at him as I picked myself off
the floor.

"You might show some interest in _me_," I grumbled. "I doubt if that
stick will need a liniment rubdown tonight. Okay, Pat. You're right and
I'm wrong, as you usually are. That modern variation of a witch's
broomstick _does_ operate. Only--how?"

"That dial at the top governs weight," explained Pat. "When you turn
it--"

"Skip that. I know how it is operated. I want to know what makes it
work?"

"Well," explained Pat, "I'm not certain I can make it clear, but it's
all tied in with the elemental scientific problems of mass, weight,
gravity and electric energy. What _is_ electricity, for example--"

"I used to know," I frowned. "But I forget."

Joyce shook her head sorrowfully.

"Friends," she intoned, "let us all bow our heads. This is a moment of
great tragedy. The only man in the world who ever knew what electricity
is--and he has forgotten!"

"That's the whole point," agreed Pending. "No one knows what
electricity really is. All we know is how to use it. Einstein has
demonstrated that the force of gravity and electrical energy are
kindred; perhaps different aspects of a common phenomenon. That was my
starting point."

"So this rod, which enables you to defy the law of gravity, is
electrical?"

"Electricaceous," corrected Pat. "You see, I have transmogrified the
polarifity of certain ingredular cellulations. A series of
disentrigulated helicosities, activated by hypermagnetation, set up a
disruptular wave motion which results in--counter-gravity!"

And there you are! Ninety-nine percent of the time Pat Pending talks
like a normal human being. But ask him to explain the mechanism of one
of his inventions and linguistic hell breaks loose. He begins jabbering
like a schizophrenic parrot reading a Sanskrit dictionary backward! I
sighed and surrendered all hope of ever actually learning _how_ his
great new discovery worked. I turned my thoughts to more important
matters.

"Okay, Pat. We'll dismiss the details as trivial and get down to brass
tacks. What is your invention used for?"

"Eh?" said the redhead.

"It's not enough that an idea is practicable," I pointed out. "It must
also be practical to be of any value in this frenzied modern era. What
good is your invention?"

"What good," demanded Joyce, "is a newborn baby?"

"Don't change the subject," I suggested. "Or come to think of it, maybe
you should. At the diaper level, life is just one damp thing after
another. But how to turn Pat's brainchild into cold, hard cash--that's
the question before the board now.

"Individual flight _a la_ Superman? No dice. I can testify from personal
experience that once you get up there you're completely out of control.
And I can't see any sense in humans trying to fly with jet flames
scorching their base of operations.

"Elevators? Derricks? Building cranes? Possible. But lifting a couple
hundred pounds is one thing. Lifting a few tons is a horse of a
different color.

"No, Pat," I continued, "I don't see just how--"

Sandy Thomas squeaked suddenly and grasped my arm.

"That's it, Mr. Mallory!" she cried. "That's it!"

"Huh? What's what?"

"You wanted to know how Pat could make money from his invention. You've
just answered your own question."

"I have?"

"Horses! Horse racing, to be exact. You've heard of handicaps, haven't
you?"

"I'm overwhelmed with them," I nodded wearily. "A secretary who repulses
my honorable advances, a receptionist who squeals in my ear--"

"Listen, Mr. Mallory, what's the last thing horses do before they go to
the post?"

"Check the tote board," I said promptly, "to find out if I've got any
money on them. Horses hate me. They've formed an equine conspiracy to
prove to me the ancient adage that a fool and his money are soon
parted."

"Wait a minute!" chimed in Joyce thoughtfully. "I know what Sandy means.
They weigh in. Is that right?"

"Exactly! The more weight a horse is bearing, the slower it runs. That's
the purpose of handicapping. But if a horse that was supposed to be
carrying more than a hundred pounds was actually only carrying
_ten_--Well, you see?"

Sandy paused, breathless. I stared at her with a gathering respect.

"Never underestimate the power of a woman," I said, "when it comes to
devising new and ingenious methods of perpetrating petty larceny.
There's only one small fly in the ointment, so far as I can see. How do
we convince some racehorse owner he should become a party to this gentle
felony?"

"Oh, you don't have to," smiled Sandy cheerfully. "I'm already
convinced."

"You? You own a horse?"

"Yes. Haven't you ever heard of Tapwater?"

"Oh, sure! That drip's running all the time!"

Joyce tossed me a reproving glance.

"This is a matter of gravity, Donald," she stated, "and you keep
treating it with levity. Sandy, do you _really_ own Tapwater? He's the
colt who won the Monmouth Futurity, isn't he?"

"That's right. And four other starts this season. That's been our big
trouble. He shows such promise that the judges have placed him under a
terrific weight handicap. To run in next week's Gold Stakes, for
instance, he would have to carry 124 pounds. I was hesitant to enter him
because of that. But with Pat's new invention--" She turned to Pat, eyes
glowing--"he could enter and win!"

Pat said uncertainly, "I don't know. I don't like gambling. And it
doesn't seem quite ethical, somehow--"

I asked Sandy, "Suppose he ran carrying 124. What would be the probable
odds?"

"High," she replied, "_Very_ high. Perhaps as high as forty to one."

"In that case," I decided, "it's not only ethical, it's a moral
obligation. If you're opposed to gambling, Pat, what better way can you
think of to put the parimutuels out of business?"

"And besides," Sandy pointed out, "this would be a wonderful opportunity
to display your new discovery before an audience of thousands. Well,
Pat? What do you say?"

Pat hesitated, caught a glimpse of Sandy's pleading eyes, and was lost.

"Very well," he said. "We'll do it. Mr. Mallory, enter Tapwater in the
Gold Stakes. We'll put on the most spectaceous exhibition in the history
of gambilizing!"
