
Thus it was that approximately one week later our piratical little crew
was assembled once again, this time in the paddock at Laurel. In case
you're an inland aborigine, let me explain that Laurel race track (from
the township of the same name) is where horse fanciers from the District
of Columbia go to abandon their Capitol and capital on weekends.

We were briefing our jockey--a scrawny youth with a pair of oversized
ears--on the use of Pat's lightening rod. Being short on gray matter as
well as on stature, he wasn't getting it at all.

"You mean," he said for the third or thirty-third time, "you don't want
I should _hit_ the nag with this bat?"

"Heavens, no!" gasped Pat, blanching. "It's much too delicate for that."

"Don't fool yourself, mister. Horses can stand a lot of leather."

"Not the horse, stupid," I said. "The bat. This is the only riding crop
of its kind in the world. We don't want it damaged. All you have to do
is _carry_ it. We'll do the rest."

"How about setting the dial, Don?" asked Joyce.

"Pat will do that just before the horses move onto the track. Now let's
get going. It's weigh-in time."

We moved to the scales with our rider. He stepped aboard the platform,
complete with silks and saddle, and the spinner leaped to a staggering
102, whereupon the officials started gravely handing him little leather
sacks.

"What's this?" I whispered to Sandy. "Prizes for malnutrition? He must
have won all the blackjacks east of the Mississippi."

"The handicap," she whispered back. "Lead weights at one pound each."

"If he starts to lose," I ruminated, "they'd make wonderful
ammunition--"

"One hundred and twenty-four," announced the chief weigher-inner. "Next
entry!"

We returned to Tapwater. The jockey fastened the weights to his gear,
saddled up and mounted. From the track came the traditional bugle call.
Sandy nodded to Pat.

"All right, Pat. Now!"

Pending twisted the knob on his lightening rod and handed the stick to
the jockey. The little horseman gasped, rose three inches in his
stirrups, and almost let go of the baton.

"H-hey!" he exclaimed. "I feel funny. I feel--"

"Never mind that," I told him. "Just you hold on to that rod until the
race is over. And when you come back, give it to Pat immediately.
Understand?"

"Yes. But I feel so--so lightheaded--"

"That's because you're featherbrained," I advised him. "Now, get going.
Giddyap, Dobbin!"

I patted Tapwater's flank, and so help me Newton, I think that one
gentle tap pushed the colt half way to the starting gate! He pattered
across the turf with a curious bouncing gait as if he were running on
tiptoe. We hastened to our seats in the grandstand.

"Did you get all the bets down?" asked Joyce.

I nodded and displayed a deck of ducats. "It may not have occurred to
you, my sweet," I announced gleefully, "but these pasteboards are
transferrable on demand to rice and old shoes, the sweet strains of _Oh,
Promise Me!_ and the scent of orange blossoms. You insisted I should
have a nest egg before you would murmur, 'I do'? Well, after this race
these tickets will be worth--" I cast a swift last glance at the tote
board's closing odds, quoting Tapwater at 35 to 1--"approximately
seventy thousand dollars!"

"Donald!" gasped Joyce. "You didn't bet all your savings?"

"Every cent," I told her cheerfully. "Why not?"

"But if something should go wrong! If Tapwater should lose!"

"He won't. See what I mean?"

For even as we were talking, the bell jangled, the crowd roared, and the
horses were off. Eight entries surged from the starting gate. And
already one full length out in front pranced the weight-free, lightfoot
Tapwater!

At the quarter post our colt had stretched his lead to three lengths,
and I shouted in Pending's ear, "How much does that jockey weigh,
anyway?"

"About six pounds," said Pat. "I turned the knob to cancel one
eighteen."

At the half, all the other horses could glimpse of Tapwater was heels.
At the three-quarter post he was so far ahead that the jockey must have
been lonely. As he rounded into the stretch I caught a binocular view of
his face, and he looked dazed and a little frightened. He wasn't
actually _riding_ Tapwater. The colt was simply skimming home, and he
was holding on for dear life to make sure he didn't blow off the horse's
back. The result was a foregone conclusion, of course. Tapwater crossed
the finish line nine lengths ahead, setting a new track record.

The crowd went wild. Over the hubbub I clutched Pat's arm and bawled,
"I'll go collect our winnings. Hurry down to the track and swap that
lightening rod for the real bat we brought along. He'll have to weigh
out again, you know. Scoot!"

The others vanished paddockward as I went for the big payoff. It was
dreary at the totalizer windows. I was one of a scant handful who had
bet on Tapwater, so it took no time at all to scoop into the valise I
had brought along the seventy thousand bucks in crisp, green lettuce
which an awed teller passed across the counter. Then I hurried back to
join the others in the winner's circle, where bedlam was not only
reigning but pouring. Flashbulbs were popping all over the place,
cameramen were screaming for just one more of the jockey, the owner, the
fabulous Tapwater. The officials were vainly striving to quiet the
tumult so they could award the prize. I found Pending worming his way
out of the heart of the crowd.

"Did you get it?" I demanded.

He nodded, thrust the knobbed baton into my hand.

"You substituted the normal one?"

Again he nodded. Hastily I thrust the lightening rod out of sight into
my valise, and we elbowed forward to share the triumphant moment. It was
a great experience. I felt giddy with joy; I was walking on little pink
clouds of happiness. Security was mine at last. And Joyce, as well.

"Ladies and gentlemen!" cried the chief official. "Your attention,
please! Today we have witnessed a truly spectacular feat: the setting of
a new track record by a champion racing under a tremendous handicap. I
give you a magnificent racehorse--_Tapwater_!"

"That's right, folks!" I bawled, carried away by the excitement. "Give
this little horse a great big hand!"

Setting the example, I laid down the bag, started clapping vigorously.
From a distance I heard Pat Pending's agonized scream.

"Mr. Mallory--the suitcase! Grab it!"

I glanced down, belatedly aware of the danger of theft. But too late.
The bag had disappeared.

"Hey!" I yelled. "Who swiped my bag? Police!"

"Up there, Mr. Mallory!" bawled Pat. "Jump!"

I glanced skyward. Three feet above my head and rising swiftly was the
valise in which I had cached not only our winnings but Pat's
gravity-defying rod! I leaped--but in vain. I was _still_ making feeble,
futile efforts to make like the moon-hurdling nursery rhyme cow when
quite a while later two strong young men in white jackets came and
jabbed me with a sedative ...
