
Later, when time and barbiturates had dulled the biting edge of my
despair, we assembled once again in my office and I made my apologies to
my friends.

"It was all my fault," I acknowledged. "I should have realized Pat
hadn't readjusted the rod when I placed it in my bag. It felt lighter.
But I was so excited--"

"It was _my_ fault," mourned Pat, "for not changing it immediately. But
I was afraid someone might see me."

"Perhaps if we hired an airplane--?" I suggested.

Pat shook his head.

"No, Mr. Mallory. The rod was set to cancel 118 pounds. The bag weighed
less than twenty. It will go miles beyond the reach of any airplane
before it settles into an orbit around earth."

"Well, there goes my dreamed-of fortune," I said sadly. "Accompanied by
the fading strains of an unplayed wedding march. I'm sorry, Joyce."

"Isn't there one thing you folks are overlooking?" asked Sandy Thomas.
"My goodness, you'd think we had lost our last cent just because that
little old bag flew away!"

"For your information," I told her, "that is precisely what happened to
me. My entire bank account vanished into the wild blue yonder. And some
of Pat's money, too."

"But have you forgotten," she insisted, "that we _won_ the race? Of
course the track officials were a wee bit suspicious when your suitcase
took off. But they couldn't prove anything. So they paid me the Gold
Stakes prize. If we split it four ways, we all make a nice little
profit.

"Or," she added, "if you and Joyce want to make yours a double share, we
could split it three ways.

"Or," she continued hopefully, "if Pat wants to, we could make _two_
double shares, and split it fifty-fifty?"

From the look in Pat's eyes I knew he was stunned by this possibility.
And from the look in hers, I felt she was going to make every effort to
take advantage of his bewilderment.

So, as I said before, what this country needs is a good cigar-shaped
spaceship. There's a fortune waiting somewhere out in space for the man
who can go out there and claim it. Seventy thousand bucks in cold, hard
cash.

Indubitatiously!




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Fantastic Universe_ August 1957.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



