
He leaned against the gnarly bole of a stabicus tree, folded his arms
across his meager chest and glowered at the thatch-roofed village. They
had been on Loray for nearly two months and Fred detested the village
more each day.

He was an underweight, unlovely young man and he wore his hair in a
bristling crewcut which accentuated the narrowness of his brow. He
had accompanied the professor for close to ten years, had journeyed
with him to dozens of planets, and had seen many strange and wonderful
things. Everything he saw, however, only increased his contempt for
the Galaxy at large. He desired only to return, wealthy and famous, or
wealthy and unknown, to his home in Bayonne, New Jersey.

"This thing could make us rich," Fred accused. "And _you_ want to pass
it up."

Professor Carver pursed his lips thoughtfully. Wealth was a pleasant
thought, of course. But the professor didn't want to interrupt his
important scientific work to engage in a wild goose chase. He was
now completing his great book, the book that would fully amplify and
document the thesis that he had put forth in his first paper, _Color
Blindness Among the Thang Peoples_. He had expanded the thesis in his
book, _Lack of Coordination in the Drang Race_. He had generalized it
in his monumental _Intelligence Deficiencies Around the Galaxy_,
in which he proved conclusively that intelligence among Non-Terrans
decreases arithmetically as their planet's distance from Terra
increases geometrically.

Now the thesis had come to full flower in Carver's most recent work,
his unifying effort, which was to be titled _Underlying Causes of the
Implicit Inferiority of Non-Terran Peoples_.

"If you're right--" Carver said.

"Look!" Fred cried. "They're bringing in another! See for yourself!"

Professor Carver hesitated. He was a portly, impressive, red-jowled
man, given to slow and deliberate movement. He was dressed in a
tropical explorer's uniform, although Loray was in a temperate zone. He
carried a leather swagger stick, and strapped to his waist was a large
revolver, a twin to the one Fred wore.

"If you're right," Carver said slowly, "it would indeed be, so to
speak, a feather in the cap."

"Come on!" said Fred.
