
Four srag hunters were carrying a wounded companion to the medicine
hut, and Carver and Fred fell in beside them. The hunters were visibly
exhausted; they must have trekked for days to bring their friend to the
village, for the srag hunts ranged deep into the rain-forest.

"Looks done for, huh?" Fred whispered.

Professor Carver nodded. Last month he had photographed a srag, from
a vantage point very high in a very tall, stout tree. He knew it for
a large, ill-tempered, quick-moving beast, with a dismaying array of
claws, teeth and horns. It was also the only non-taboo meat-bearing
animal on the planet. The natives had to kill srags or starve.

But the wounded man had not been quick enough with spear and shield,
and the srag had opened him from throat to pelvis. The hunter had bled
copiously, even though the wound had been hastily bound with dried
grasses. Mercifully, he was unconscious.

"That chap hasn't a chance," Carver remarked. "It's a miracle he's
stayed alive this long. Shock alone, to say nothing of the depth and
extent of the wound--"

"You'll see," Fred said.

The village had suddenly come awake. Men and women, gray-skinned,
knobby-headed, looked silently as the hunters marched toward the
medicine hut. The Sweeper paused to watch. The village's only child
stood before his parents' hut, and, thumb in mouth, stared at the
procession. Deg, the medicine man, came out to meet the hunters,
already wearing his ceremonial mask. The healing dancers assembled,
quickly putting on their makeup.

"Think you can fix him, Doc?" Fred asked.

"One may hope," Deg replied piously.

They entered the dimly lighted medicine hut. The wounded Lorayan was
laid tenderly upon a pallet of grasses and the dancers began to perform
before him. Deg started a solemn chant.

"That'll never do it," Professor Carver pointed out to Fred, with the
interested air of a man watching a steam shovel in operation. "Too late
for faith healing. Listen to his breathing. Shallower, don't you think?"

"Absolutely," Fred said.

Deg finished his chant and bent over the wounded hunter. The Lorayan's
breathing was labored. It slowed, hesitated....

"It is time!" cried the medicine man. He took a small wooden tube out
of his pouch, uncorked it, and held it to the dying man's lips. The
hunter drank. And then--

Carver blinked, and Fred grinned triumphantly. The hunter's breathing
was becoming stronger. As they watched, the great gash became a line of
scar tissue, then a thin pink mark, then an almost invisible white line.

The hunter sat up, scratched his head, grinned foolishly and asked for
something to drink, preferably intoxicating.

Deg declared a festival on the spot.
