
Carver and Fred moved to the edge of the rain-forest for a conference.
The professor walked like a man in a dream. His pendulous lower lip was
thrust out and occasionally he shook his head.

"How about it?" Fred asked.

"It shouldn't be possible," said Carver dazedly. "No substance in
nature should react like that. And you saw it work last night also?"

"Damned well right," Fred said. "They brought in this hunter--he had
his head pulled half off. He swallowed some of that stuff and healed
right before my eyes."

"Man's age-old dream," Carver mused. "A universal panacea!"

"We could get any price for stuff like that," Fred said.

"Yes, we could--as well as performing a duty to science," Professor
Carver reminded him sternly. "Yes, Fred, I think we should obtain some
of that substance."

They turned and, with firm strides, marched back to the village.

Dances were in progress, given by various members of the beast cults.
At the moment, the Sathgohani, a cult representing a medium-sized
deerlike animal, were performing. They could be recognized by the three
red dots on their foreheads. Waiting their turn were the men of the
Dresfeyxi and the Taganyes, cults representing other forest animals.
The beasts adopted by the cults were taboo and there was an absolute
injunction against their slaughter. Carver had been unable to discover
the rationale behind this rule. The Lorayans refused to speak of it.

Deg, the medicine man, had removed his ceremonial mask. He was seated
in front of his hut, watching the dancing. He arose when the Earthmen
approached him.

"Peace!" he said.

"Sure," said Fred. "Nice job you did this morning."

Deg smiled modestly. "The gods answered our prayers."

"The gods?" said Carver. "It looked as though the serum did most of the
work."

"Serum? Oh, the sersee juice!" Deg made a ceremonial gesture as he
mentioned the name. "Yes, the sersee juice is the mother of the Lorayan
people."

"We'd like to buy some," Fred said bluntly, ignoring Professor Carver's
disapproving frown. "What would you take for a gallon?"

"I am sorry," Deg said.

"How about some nice beads? Mirrors? Or maybe a couple of steel knives?"

"It cannot be done," the medicine man asserted. "The sersee juice is
sacred. It must be used only for holy healing."

"Don't hand me that," Fred said, a flush mounting his sallow cheek.
"You gooks think you can--"

"We quite understand," Carver broke in smoothly. "We know about sacred
things. Sacred things are sacred. They are not to be touched by
profane hands."

"Are you crazy?" Fred whispered in English.

"You are a wise man," Deg said gravely. "You understand why I must
refuse you."

"Of course. But it happens, Deg, I am a medicine man in my own country."

"Ah? I did not know this!"

"It is so. As a matter of fact, in my particular line, I am the highest
medicine man."

"Then you must be a very holy man," Deg said, bowing his head.

"Man, he's holy!" Fred put in emphatically. "Holiest man you'll ever
see around here."

"Please, Fred," Carver said, blinking modestly. He said to the medicine
man, "It's true, although I don't like to hear about it. Under the
circumstances, however, you can see that it would not be wrong to give
me some sersee juice. On the contrary, it is your priestly duty to give
me some."

The medicine man pondered for a long time while contrary emotions
passed just barely perceptibly over his almost blank face. At last he
said, "It may be so. Unfortunately, I cannot do what you require."

"Why not?"

"Because there is so little sersee juice, so terribly little. There is
hardly enough for the village."

Deg smiled sadly and walked away.
