
Life in the village continued its simple, invariant way. The Sweeper
moved slowly along, cleaning with his twig broom. The hunters trekked
out in search of srags. The women of the village prepared food and
looked after the village's one child. The priests and dancers prayed
nightly for the sun to rise in the morning. Everyone was satisfied, in
a humble, submissive fashion.

Everyone except the Earthmen.

They had more talks with Deg and slowly learned the complete story of
the sersee juice and the troubles surrounding it.

The sersee bush was a small and sickly affair. It did not flourish in
a state of nature. Yet it resisted cultivation and positively defied
transplantation. The best one could do was to weed thoroughly around it
and hope it would blossom. But most sersee bushes struggled for a year
or two, then gave up the ghost. A few blossomed, and a few out of the
few lived long enough to produce their characteristic red berries.

From the berry of the sersee bush was squeezed the elixir that meant
life to the people of Loray.

"And you must remember," Deg pointed out, "how sparsely the sersee
grows and how widely scattered it is. We must search for months,
sometimes, to find a single bush with berries. And those berries will
save the life of only a single Lorayan, or perhaps two at the most."

"Sad, very sad," Carver said. "But surely some form of intensive
fertilization--"

"Everything has been tried."

"I realize," Carver said earnestly, "how important the sersee juice is
to you. But if you could give us a little--even a pint or two--we could
take it to Earth, have it examined, synthesized, perhaps. Then you
could have all you need."

"But we dare not give any. Have you noticed how few children we have?"

Carver nodded.

"There are very few births. Our life is a constant struggle against
the obliteration of our race. Every man's life must be preserved until
there is a child to replace him. And this can be done only by our
constant and never-ending search for the sersee berries. And there are
never enough," the medicine man sighed. "Never enough."

"Does the juice cure _everything_?" Fred asked.

"It does more than that. Those who have tasted sersee add fifty of our
years to their lives."

Carver opened his eyes wide. Fifty years on Loray was roughly the
equivalent of sixty-three on Earth.

The sersee was more than a healing agent, more than a regenerator. It
was a longevity drug as well.

He paused to consider the prospect of adding another sixty years to his
lifetime. Then he asked, "What happens if a man takes sersee again
after the fifty years?"

"We do not know," Deg told him. "No man would take it a second time
while there is not enough."

Carver and Fred exchanged glances.

"Now listen to me carefully, Deg," Professor Carver said. He spoke of
the sacred duties of science. Science, he told the medicine man, was
above race, above creed, above religion. The advancement of science
was above life itself. What did it matter, after all, if a few more
Lorayans died? They would die eventually anyhow. The important thing
was for Terran science to have a sample of sersee.

"It may be as you say," Deg said. "But my choice is clear. As a priest
of the Sunniheriat religion, I have a sacred trust to preserve the
lives of my people. I cannot go against this trust."

He turned and walked off. The Earthmen frustratedly returned to their
spaceship.
