
After coffee, Professor Carver opened a drawer and took out the
manuscript of _Underlying Causes for the Implicit Inferiority of
Non-Terran Races_. Lovingly he read over the last chapter, the chapter
that dealt with the specialized inferiorities of the Lorayan people.
Then he put the manuscript away.

"Almost finished, Fred," he told his assistant. "Another week's work,
two weeks at the most!"

"Um," Fred replied, staring at the village through a porthole.

"This will do it," Carver said. "This book will prove, once and for
all, the natural superiority of Terrans. We have proven it by force of
arms, Fred, and we have proven it by our technology. Now it is proven
by the impersonal processes of logic."

Fred nodded. He knew the professor was quoting from the book's
introduction.

"Nothing must interfere with the great work," Carver said. "You agree
with that, don't you?"

"Sure," Fred said absent-mindedly. "The book comes first. Put the gooks
in their place."

"Well, I didn't exactly mean that. But you know what I mean. Under the
circumstances, perhaps we should forget about sersee. Perhaps we should
just finish the job we started."

Fred turned and faced his employer. "Professor, how much do you expect
to make out of this book?"

"Hm? Well, the last did quite well, you will remember. This book should
do even better. Ten, perhaps twenty thousand dollars!" He permitted
himself a small smile. "I am fortunate, you see, in my subject matter.
The general public of Earth seems to be rather interested in it, which
is gratifying for a scientist."

"Say you even make fifty thousand. Chicken feed! Do you know what we
could make on a test tube of sersee?"

"A hundred thousand?" Carver said vaguely.

"Are you kidding? Suppose a rich guy was dying and we had the only
thing to cure him. He'd give everything he owned! Millions!"

"I believe you're right," Carver agreed. "And it _would_ be a valuable
scientific advancement.... But the medicine man unfortunately won't
give us any."

"Buying isn't the only way." Fred unholstered his revolver and checked
the chambers.

"I see, I see," Carver said, his red face turning slightly pale. "But
have we the right?"

"What do _you_ think?"

"Well, they _are_ inferior. I believe I have proven that conclusively.
You might indeed say that their lives don't weigh heavily in the scheme
of things. Hm, yes--yes, Fred, we could save Terran lives with this!"

"We could save our own lives," Fred said. "Who wants to punk out ahead
of time?"

Carver stood up and determinedly loosened his gun in its holster.
"Remember," he told Fred, "we are doing this in the name of science,
and for Earth."

"Absolutely, Professor," Fred said, moving toward the port, grinning.
