
They found Deg near the medicine hut. Carver said, without preamble,
"We must have some sersee."

"But I explained to you," said the medicine man. "I told you why it was
impossible."

"We gotta have it," Fred said. He pulled his revolver from its holster
and looked ferociously at Deg.

"No."

"You think I'm kidding?" Fred asked. "You know what this weapon can do?"

"I have seen you use it."

"Maybe you think I won't use it on you."

"I do not care. You can have no sersee."

"I'll shoot," Fred warned, his voice rising angrily. "I swear to you,
I'll shoot."

The villagers of Loray slowly gathered behind their medicine man.
Gray-skinned, knobby-headed, they moved silently into position, the
hunters carrying their spears, other villagers armed with knives and
stones.

"You cannot have the sersee," Deg said.

Fred slowly leveled the revolver.

"Now, Fred," said Carver, "there's an awful lot of them. Do you really
think--"

Fred's thin body tightened and his finger grew taut and white on the
trigger. Carver closed his eyes.

There was a moment of dead silence. Then the revolver exploded. Carver
warily opened his eyes.

The medicine man was still erect, although his knees were shaking.
Fred was pulling back the hammer of the revolver. The villagers had
made no sound. It was a moment before Carver could figure out what had
happened. At last he saw the Sweeper.

The Sweeper lay on his face, his outstretched left hand still clutching
his twig broom, his legs twitching feebly. Blood welled from the hole
Fred had neatly drilled through his forehead.

Deg bent over the Sweeper, then straightened. "He is dead," the
medicine man said.

"That's just the first," Fred warned, taking aim at a hunter.

"No!" cried Deg.

Fred looked at him with raised eyebrows.

"I will give it to you," Deg said. "I will give you all our sersee
juice. Then you must go!"

He ran into the medicine hut and reappeared a moment later with three
wooden tubes, which he thrust into Fred's hands.

"We're in business, Professor," Fred said. "Let's get moving!"

They walked past the silent villagers, toward their spaceship.
Something bright flashed in the sunlight. Fred yipped and dropped his
revolver. Professor Carver hastily scooped it up.

"One of those gooks cut me," Fred said. "Give me the revolver!"

A spear arced high and buried itself at their feet.

"Too many of them," said Carver. "Let's run for it!"

They sprinted to their ship with spears and knives singing around them,
reached it safely and bolted the port.

"Too close," Carver said, panting for breath, leaning against the
dogged port. "Have you got the serum?"

"I got it," said Fred, rubbing his arm. "Damn!"

"What's wrong?"

"My arm. It feels numb."
