
The witness to the impending slap was a withered little lady, scarcely
five feet tall, with silvered hair, eyes that twinkled like a March
wind, and a friendly rash of wrinkles that gave her face the kindly,
weathered appearance of an old stone idol. Her slight figure was lost
in volumes of black cloth draped on her in a manner that had gone out
of style at least fifty years before. The little woman coughed politely.

"I beg your pardon," she told them in a sweet, high little voice.
"I hope I didn't interrupt anything. If you would like to hit the
gentleman, Miss Toujours, I'll be glad to come back later."

Darling Toujours opened her violet eyes wide in surprise. "Why, I
was ... I was ... I--" The actress uttered a small, gulping sound as
she recovered her poise. "Why, I was just going to pat him on the cheek
for being such a nice boy. You are a nice boy, aren't you, Carlton?"
She leaned forward to stroke him gently on the face. Carlton roared
with laughter and the good Captain colored deeply.

"Oh," said the little old woman, "I'm sorry. I didn't know that he was
your son." Carlton choked suddenly and Darling suffered from a brief
fit of hysteria.

The Captain took command. "Now, look here, Madam," he sputtered. "What
is it you want?"

"I really wanted to see you, Captain," she told him, her battered old
shoes bringing her fully into the room with little mincing steps. "The
Purser says I have to sign a contract of some kind with you, and I
wanted to know how to write my name. I'm Mrs. Omar K. Perkins, but you
see, I'm really Mrs. Matilda Perkins because my Omar died a few years
ago. But I haven't signed my name very much since then and I'm not at
all sure of which is legal." She put one bird-like little hand to
her throat and clasped the cameo there almost as if it could give her
support. She looked so small and so frail that Fogarty forgave her the
intrusion.

"It really doesn't make much difference how you sign the thing, just so
long as you sign it," he blustered. "Just a mere formality anyway. You
just sign it any way you like." He paused, hoping that she would leave
now that she had her information.

"Oh, I'm so glad to hear that," she said, but made no move whatsoever
to leave. Captain Fogarty gave her his hardened stare of the type which
withered most people where they stood. Mrs. Perkins just smiled sweetly
at him.

His rage getting out of hand, he finally blurted, "And now, Mrs.
Perkins, I think you'd better be getting back to your quarters. As you
know, this is a private lounge for the _first_ class passengers."

Mrs. Perkins continued to smile at him. "Yes, I know. It's lovely,
isn't it? I'll just go out this way." And before anyone could stop her,
she had moved to the door to Darling Toujours' suite and had opened it,
stepping inside.

"That's my room, not the door out," Darling said loudly.

"So I see," said Mrs. Perkins, staring at the opulent furnishings
with avid pleasure. "It's such a pretty thing, all done up with
mother-of-pearl like that, isn't it? And what a pretty lace nightie
lying on the bed." Mrs. Perkins picked up the sheer, gossamer garment
to examine it. "You do wear something under it, don't you?"

Darling screeched and darted for the door. She snatched the nightie
away from Mrs. Perkins and rudely propelled the older woman out the
door, closing it behind her. "Captain, this woman must GO!"

"I was just leaving, Miss Toujours. I hope you and your son have a very
happy voyage. Good day, Captain Fogarty," she called over her shoulder
as she exited. Carlton E. Carlton's shrill laughter followed her down
the companionway.
