
Mrs. Perkins had been lying in her berth reading for less than an hour
when the knock sounded at her door. She would have preferred to sit up
and read, but her cabin was so small that there was no room for any
other furniture besides the bed.

"Come in," she called in a small voice.

Johnny Weaver, steward for the cheaper cabins, poked his youthful,
freckled face through the door. "Howdy, Mrs. Perkins. I wondered if I
could do anything for you? It's about ten minutes before we eat."

"Well, you can pull that big box down from the top shelf there, if you
don't mind. And, I wonder, would you mind calling me Grandma? All my
children do it and I miss it so." She gave him a wrinkled smile that
was at once wistful and petulant.

Johnny laughed in an easy, infectious manner. "Sure thing, Grandma."
He stretched his long arms up to bring down the heavy bag and found
himself wondering just how it had gotten up there in the first place.
He didn't remember ever putting it there for her and Grandma Perkins
was obviously too frail a woman to have handled such a heavy box by
herself. He put it on the floor.

As she stooped over and extracted a pair of low-heeled, black and
battered shoes from the box, she asked him, "Johnny, what was that
paper I signed this afternoon?"

"Oh, that? Why that was just a contract for passage, Grandma. You
guaranteed to pay them so much for the flight, which you've already
done, and they guaranteed that you wouldn't be put off against your
will until you reached your destination."

"But why do we have to have a contract?"

Johnny leaned back, relaxing against the door. "Well, STAR--that's
Stellar Transportation and Atomic Research, you know--is one of
the thirteen monopolies in this part of the solar system. The "Big
Thirteen," we call them. STAR charters every space flight in this neck
of the woods. Well, back in the old days, when space flights were
scarce, it used to be that you'd pay for a ticket from Saturn to Earth,
say, and you'd get to Mars and they'd stop for fuel. Maybe somebody
on Mars would offer a lot of money for your cabin. So STAR would just
bump you off, refund part of your money and leave you stranded there.
In order to get the monopoly, they had to promise to stop all that. And
the Solar Congress makes them sign contracts guaranteeing you that they
won't put you off against your wishes. Of course, they don't dare do it
anymore anyway, but that's the law."

Grandma Perkins sighed. "It's such a small cabin I don't think anybody
else would want it. But it's all that I could afford," she said,
smoothing out the wrinkles in her dress with both hands.

"Anything else I can do for you, Grandma?"

"No, thank you, Johnny. I think I can make it up the steps to the
dining room by myself."

A little while later when Johnny looked into her room to see if she had
gone, the cabin was empty and the heavy box was back in place in the
top cabinet.
