
The food that evening was not the very best, Grandma Perkins thought to
herself, but that was mostly due to her seat. By the time the waiter
got around to her little cranny most of it was cold. But she didn't
complain. She enjoyed watching the people with the more expensive
cabins parade their clothes and their manners at the Captain's table.
And, it must be admitted, she was more than a trifle envious of them.
Her acquaintances of the afternoon, Miss Toujours and Mr. Carlton, were
seated there, Miss Toujours having the place of honor to the Captain's
right.

Grandma watched them as they finished up their food and then she moved
from her little table over to one of the very comfortable sofas in the
main lounge. In reality she wasn't supposed to be sitting there, but
she hoped that she could get away with it. The divans were so much more
comfortable than her hard, narrow bed that she felt like sitting there
for a long time, by herself, just thinking.

But her hopes met with disappointment. For shortly after she sat down,
Darling Toujours and Carlton E. Carlton strolled over and sat down
across from her, not recognizing her at first. Then Carlton spied her.

"Darling! There's that priceless little woman we met this afternoon."

"The little hag, you mean," Miss Toujours muttered under her breath,
but loudly enough for Grandma Perkins to hear.

"Why, hello, Miss Toujours. And Mr. Carlton too. I hope you'll forgive
me for this afternoon. I've found out who you were, you see."

"Of course we forgive you, Mrs. Jerkins," Darling said throatily,
baring her teeth like a feline.

"My name is Perkins," Grandma smiled.

"I hope you don't mind, Toujours, but you know, you remind me a great
deal of my grandniece, Agatha. She was undoubtedly the most lovely
child I've ever seen."

"Why, thank you, Mrs. Perkins," Darling purred, starting to preen just
a bit. Anything could be forgiven someone who complimented her.

"Of course, Agatha never was quite bright," Grandma said as she turned
her head aside as if in sorrow. "They were all set to put her in an
institution when she ran off and married the lizard man in a carnival.
I believe she's still appearing in the show as the bearded lady. A
pity. She was so pretty, just like you."

Darling Toujours muttered a few choice words under her breath.

"But we must all make the best of things as they come. That's what
Omar, my husband, used to say." Grandma paused to wipe away a small
tear that had gotten lodged in one of her eyes. "That reminds me," she
said finally, "I've got a three dimensional picture of Omar right here.
And pictures of all my children, my ten lovely children. I brought them
with me specially tonight because I thought you might want to look at
them. Now, where did I put them?" Grandma opened her purse and began
rummaging around in its voluminous confines.

Darling and Carlton exchanged horrified glances and then rose silently
and tip-toed out of the lounge.

Grandma looked up from her search. "Oh, my, they seem to have gone."

Johnny Weaver, who had been clearing one of the nearby tables, put down
a stack of dirty dishes and came over to her. "I'd like to see the
pictures, Grandma."

"Oh, that's very nice of you, Johnny, but--" she said quickly.

"Really I would, Grandma. Where are they?"

"I--" She stopped and the devilment showed in her eyes. Her withered
little face pursed itself into a smile. "There aren't any pictures,
Johnny. I don't carry any. I know their faces all so well I don't have
to. But any time I want to get rid of somebody I just offer to show
them pictures of my family. You'd be surprised how effective it is."

Johnny laughed. "Why are you going to Earth, anyway, Grandma?"

The old woman sighed. "It's a long story, Johnny, but you just sit down
and I'll tell it to you."

"I can't sit down in the lounge, but I'll be glad to stand up and
listen."

"Then I'll make it a short story. You see, Johnny, I'm an old woman.
I'll be 152 this year. And ever since Omar, my husband, died a few
years ago, I've lived from pillar to post. First with one child and
then with another. They've all been married for decades now of course,
with children and grandchildren of their own. And I guess that I just
get in their way. There just isn't much left in life for a feeble old
woman like me." She sniffled a moment or two as if to cry. Johnny,
remembering the heavy box in her cabin that got moved up and down
without his help, suppressed a smile on the word "feeble."

"There aren't many friends my age left around any more. So I'm being
sent to Earth to a home full of dear, sweet old ladies my age, the
money for which is being provided by my dear, sweet children--all ten
of them." Grandma dabbed a bit of a handkerchief at her eyes. "The
rats," she muttered under her breath. When she saw her companion was
smiling she dropped her pretense of crying.

"To be truthful, Johnny, they've grown old and stodgy, all of them.
And I'm sure they think I've lost most of my marbles. Everything I did
embarrassed them, so I guess it's for the best, but--"

Grandma Perkins never finished the sentence, for interrupting her came
the horrendous clang of the _Kismet's_ general alarm, and on its heels,
charging through the main salon like a rhinoceros in heat, came Captain
Fogarty.

"PIRATES! PIRATES! We're being attacked by space pirates! You there!"
he shouted at Johnny. "Man your station! And you, Madam, to your
quarters at once! PIRATES!" he shouted again and barged through the
door again and bellowed down the hall to the main bridge.

Johnny was off like a startled rabbit, but Grandma moved with serene
calmness to the door. Maybe, she thought, we're going to have a little
excitement after all.

At the door to the steps leading to her downstairs cabin she paused to
think.

"If I go down and hide, I'll miss all the fun. Of course, it's safer,
and an old woman like me shouldn't be up and about when pirates are
around, but--" A delicious smile spread over her face as she took her
scruples firmly in hand and turned to follow the bellowing Captain
towards the bridge.


                                  II

The Starship _Kismet_ was the pride and joy of Stellar Transportation
and Atomic Research. It was outfitted with every known safety device
and the control room was masterfully planned for maximum efficiency.
But the astral architect who designed her never anticipated the
situation facing her at the present. The _Kismet's_ bridge was a welter
of confusion.

The Senior Watch Officer was shouting at his assistant, the Navigator
was cursing out the Pilot and the Gunnery Officer, whose job had been
a sinecure until now, was bellowing at them all. Above the hubbub,
suddenly, came the raucous voice of Captain Fogarty as he stalked onto
the bridge.

"What in great space has happened to the motors? Why are we losing
speed?"

The Senior Watch Officer saluted and shouted, "Engine Room reports the
engines have all stopped, Sir. Don't know why. We're operating the
lights and vents on emergency power."

The Communications Officer spoke up. "The pirate ship reports that
they're responsible, Sir. They say they've got a new device that will
leave us without atomic power for as long as they like."

As if to confirm this, over the loudspeaker came a voice. "Ahoy, STAR
_Kismet_. Stand by for boarders. If you don't open up to us, we'll
blast you off the map."

"Pirates! Attacking us! Incredible!" cried the Captain. "There are no
pirates any more. What have we got a Space Patrol for? Where in blazes
is the Space Patrol anyway?"

The Communications Officer gulped. "Er, ah, we got in contact with
Commodore Trumble. He says his ship can get here in ten hours anyway,
and for us to wait for him."

Captain Fogarty snorted. "Fat lot of good he'll do us. Wait for him,
eh? Well, we'll just blow that pirate out of the sky right now. Stand
by the guns!"

"The guns are useless," whined the Gunnery Officer. "The atomics that
run them won't operate at all. What will we do?"

"Ahoy, STAR _Kismet_. Open up your hatches when we arrive and let us
in, or we won't spare a man of you," boomed the loudspeaker.

"Pirates going to board us. How nice," muttered Grandma to herself as
she eavesdropped just outside the door to the bridge.

"They'll never get through the hatches alive. At least our small arms
still work. We'll kill 'em all!" cried Captain Fogarty.

"We only want one of you. All the rest of you will be spared if you
open up the hatches and don't try to make no trouble," came the voice
over the radio.

"Tell them I'd rather all of us be killed than to let one dirty pirate
on board my ship," the Captain shouted to the Communications Officer.

"Oh, my goodness. That doesn't sound very smart," Grandma said half
aloud. And turning from the doorway, she crept back through the
deserted passageway.

The main passenger hatch was not too far from the bridge. Grandma found
it with ease, and in less than three minutes she had zipped herself
into one of the emergency-use space suits stowed away beside the port.
She felt awfully awkward climbing into the monstrous steel and plastic
contraption, and her small body didn't quite fit the proportions of the
metallic covering. But once she had maneuvered herself into it, she
felt quite at ease.

Opening the inner door to the airlock, she clanked into the little
room. As the door shut behind her, she pressed the cycling button and
evacuated the air from the lock.

A minute or so later she heard poundings outside the airlock and quite
calmly she reached out a mailed fist and turned a switch plainly
marked:

                            EMERGENCY LOCK
                       DO NOT OPERATE IN FLIGHT

The outer hatch opened almost immediately. The radio in Grandma's suit
crackled with static. "What are you doing here?" demanded a voice over
the suit radio.

"Pirates! I'm hiding from the pirates. They'll never find me here!" she
told them in a voice she hoped sounded full of panic.

"What's your name?" asked the voice.

"Darling Toujours, famous television actress," she lied quite calmly.

"That's the one, boys," said another voice. "Let's go." Catching hold
of Grandma's arm, they led her out into the emptiness of free space.
