
Half an hour later, after the pirate ship had blasted far enough away
from the _Kismet_, the men in the control room relaxed and began to
take off their space suits. One of the men who Grandma soon learned was
Lamps O'Toole, the nominal leader of the pirates, stretched his brawny
body to ease the crinks out of it and then rubbed his hands together.
Grandma noticed that he carried a week's beard on his face, as did most
of the other men.

"Well, that was a good one, eh, Snake?" said Lamps.

Snake Simpson was a wiry little man whose tough exterior in no way
suggested a reptile, except, perhaps, for his eyes which sat too close
to one another. "You bet, Skipper. We're full fledged pirates now, just
like old Captain Blackbrood."

"You mean Blackbeard, Snake," said Lamps.

"Sure. He used to sit around broodin' up trouble all the time."

One of the other men piped up. "And to think we get the pleasurable
company of the sweetest doll in the whole solar system for free besides
the money."

"Aw, women are no dern good--all of them," said Snake.

"Now, Snake, that's no way to talk in front of company. You just
apologize to the lady," Lamps told him. Lamps was six inches taller and
fifty pounds heavier than Snake. Snake apologized.

"That's better. And now, Miss Toujours, maybe you'd be more
comfortable without that space suit on," he said.

"Oh, no, thank you. I feel much better with it on," a small voice said
over the suit's loudspeaker system.

Lamps grinned. "Oh, come now, Miss Toujours. We ain't going to hurt
you. I guarantee nobody will lay a finger to you."

"But I feel much--much safer, if you know what I mean," said the voice.

"Heck. With one of them things on, you can't eat, can't sleep,
can't--Well, there's lots of things you can't do with one of them
things on. Besides, we all want to take a little look at you, if you
don't mind. Snake, you and Willie help the little lady out of her
attire."

As the men approached her, Grandma sensed the game was up. "Okay," she
told them. "I give up. I can make it by myself." She started to take
the bulky covering off. She had gotten no more than the headpiece off
when the truth dawned on her companions.

"Holy Smoke (or something like that)," said one of the men.

"Nippin' Nebulae," said another.

"It ain't Darling Toujours at all!" cried Lamps.

"It ain't even no woman!" cried Snake.

"I beg your pardon," said Grandma, and quite nonchalantly shed the rest
of the suit and sat down in a comfortable chair. "I am Mrs. Matilda
Perkins."

When he could recover his powers of speech, Lamps sputtered, "I think
you owe us a sort of an explanation, lady. If you know what I mean."

"Certainly. I know exactly what you mean. It's all quite simple. When I
overheard that you intended to board the _Kismet_, searching for only
one person, I decided that one person had to be Darling Toujours. I
guessed right off that she was the only one on board worth kidnapping
and holding for ransom, so I simply let you believe that I was she and
you took me. That's easy to understand, isn't it?"

"Lady, I don't know what your game is, but it better be good. Now, just
why did you do this to us?" Lamps was restraining himself nobly.

"You never would have gotten inside the _Kismet_ without my assistance.
And even if you had, you'd never have gotten back out alive.

"Captain Fogarty's men would have cut you to ribbons. So I opened the
hatch to let you in, planted myself in the way, and you got out with
me before they could muster their defenses. So, you see, I saved your
lives."

Grandma Perkins paused in her narrative and looked up at her audience,
giving them a withered little smile. "And if you want to know why,
well ... I was bored on the _Kismet_, and I thought how nice it would
be to run away and join a gang of cutthroat pirates."

"She's batty," moaned Snake.

"She's lost her marbles," muttered another.

"Let's toss her overboard right now," said still another.

Lamps O'Toole took the floor. "Now, wait a minute. We can't do that,"
he said loudly. "We got enough trouble as is. You know what would
happen to us if the Space Patrol added murder to the list. They'd put
the whole fleet in after us and track us and our families down to the
last kid." Then he turned to the little old lady to explain.

"Look, lady--"

"My name is Mrs. Matilda Perkins. You may call me Grandma."

"Okay, Grandma, look. You really fixed us good. To begin with, we ain't
really pirates. We used to operate this tub as a freighter between the
Jupiter moons. But STAR got a monopoly on all space flights, including
freight, and they just froze us out. We can't operate nowhere in the
solar system, unless we get their permission. And they just ain't
giving permission to nobody these days." Lamps flopped into one of the
control seats and lit a cigarette.

"So, when us good, honest men couldn't find any work because of STAR,
and we didn't want to give up working in space, we just ups and decides
to become pirates. This was our first job, and we sure did need the
money we could have gotten out of Darling Toujours' studios for ransom."

Lamps sighed. "Now, we got you instead, no chance of getting the ransom
money, and to top it all off, we'll be wanted for piracy by the Space
Patrol."

"Well, it doesn't seem to me that you're ever going to be good pirates
at this rate," Grandma told him. "You should have known better than to
take a woman at her word."

"I don't suppose you got any rich relatives what would pay to get you
back?" suggested Snake hopefully.

"I haven't got any rich relatives period," she said pertly. Then she
added, "But my ten children might scrape up a little cash for you if
you promised you wouldn't bring me back at all."

"I figured as much," Lamps said dolefully. "Lookit, Grandma, the best
thing we can do is to put you off safely at the next place we stop.
Unless we get you back in one piece the Space Patrol will be on our
necks forever. So don't go getting any ideas about joining up with us."

"Well, the very least you could do for a poor old lady is to feed her,"
Grandma told him, her lower lip sticking out in a most petulant manner.
"They like to have starved me to death on that _Kismet_."

"We ain't got much fancy in the line of grub...." Lamps began.

"Just show me the way to the kitchen," said Grandma.


                                  III

A full meal and three extra helpings of hot biscuits later, Grandma,
Lamps and Snake were sitting around in the captain's cabin talking.

"... and that's the way it is, Grandma. When STAR froze us out of work,
we just took our ship here and became pirates." Lamps stuffed one more
of Grandma's biscuits into his mouth.

"But where'd you get that fancy gadget that stopped the Kismet's
engines from running?" Grandma asked, passing the plate to Snake.

Snake took a biscuit and passed the plate back. "That's our Suggestor
Ray. Perfessor Spindle, he invented it. He invents a lot of things.
He's got a lavoratory at our hideout."

"You mean laboratory, Snake. But who's Professor Spindle?" Grandma
asked.

Snake wolfed the biscuit down in one mighty gulp. "He used to work for
STAR until they stole a couple of his inventions and wouldn't pay him
for them. So he come to work for us. He fixed up the suggestor ray in
no time."

"You mean suppressor ray," muttered Lamps, his mouth full.

"That's right. We get close to another space ship and turn it on and it
suggests that the engines don't work. Perfessor Spindle, he shedded our
engines so they'd work even with it on."

"You mean shielded," said Grandma.

"That's right. He put a big shed over the engines to shed out the
suggestor rays." As Snake leaned over to pick up the remaining biscuit
from the plate in front of him, a locket slipped out of the neck of
his shirt. Grandma saw the picture of a pretty blonde girl in it, and
attached to the chain was a wedding ring. Snake noticed her looking at
it. "That's my wife. We was married when we was awful young. But she
up and flewed the coop on me about a year after we was married. Awful
pretty, she was."

"She reminds me of someone," said Grandma.

Lamps leaned back in his chair and propped his feet up on the desk.
"You know, Grandma, you sure do bake fine biscuits. Maybe we'll stop in
and see you sometimes at that old folks home and you can fix us some
more. Yes, sir, you sure can cook."

Grandma Perkins saw her opening and seized upon it. "You sure could use
a woman's touch on this ship. Why, this is the dirtiest ship I've ever
seen, and--"

"Aw, now, Grandma. You know we never could have a female on a pirate
ship. And we got to get you back to safety before the Space Patrol has
us in the coop for good. And what would your ten children say--"

Lamps was saved from further explanation when the door to the cabin
burst open and Willie Wicket, the youngest of the pirates, dashed in.

"Captain Lamps! There's a Space Patrol ship bearing down on our tail
hell bent for leather!"

Lamps jumped to his feet, as did Snake. "Well, turn on the suppressor
ray. That ought to fix it!"

"I turned on the ray and they're still a-coming!" wailed Willie.

"Oh, Lordy, Lordy! Professor Spindle told us this would happen, and we
didn't believe him. That must be one of the new patrol ships," Lamps
moaned as he, Snake and Grandma rushed for the control room. En route
Grandma was told that the newest patrol ships had a special kind of
shielding that made them invulnerable to the Spindle suppressor ray.

Lamps, Snake, Willie and the rest of the crew took turns at trying
to out-maneuver the patrol craft, but it had far too much speed for
the slower craft, and it became obvious within a few minutes that the
pirate ship was doomed to be captured.

Then Grandma spoke up. "Where's that suppressor ray of yours, Lamps?"

"Over there in the corner of the control panel by the televideo set,
but don't monkey with it," he told her in the middle of a stream of
curses at his ancient vessel. He slammed his hands around the control
board frantically trying to elude the oncoming patrol craft. Grandma
ignored his warning and quickly pried off the top of the box containing
the suppressor mechanism.

A brilliant burst of atomic energy lit the control room. "They're
firing at us!" cried Lamps. "Man the guns, men!"
