
The crew was so busy executing this order that none of them saw exactly
what Grandma was doing until Willie, who was manning the radar screen,
suddenly shouted, "Captain Lamps! The patrol ship's stopped!"

"Of course it's stopped," Grandma said indignantly. "I just fixed
your old dingus here so it'd work right. And it's going to stay fixed
until I can get you out of trouble." She crossed her arms and stared
adamantly at Lamps who was so shocked he could scarcely move.

Then she pointed her finger. "Willie, you come over here and turn
this televideo on and get me in touch with that patrol ship right
away. We've got some things to settle." Willie looked at Lamps for
permission, but the captain of the pirate craft was still too stunned
to do more than nod his head. Willie walked to the set and began to
fiddle with the dials.

Snake broke the silence and asked the question they all wanted to ask.
"Grandma, how come you could fix that Suggestory Ray?"

"Young man," she snapped, "I had ten children, like I told you. One of
them, Franklin, my next to oldest boy, was a physicist. And you don't
help put a boy through college physics without learning something about
how to fiddle with electronics." Lamps felt faint.

The screen of the televideo lit up. "Hello, Patrol Ship! Hello, Patrol
Ship!" Willie called over the microphone.

The chubby face of a middle aged man appeared on the screen. His cap
carried enough gold braid to stock a small-sized mint. "Hello, Pirate,"
he cried. "This is Commodore Trumble of the Space Patrol on board the
cruiser _Faultless_. What in blue blazes have you done to my ship!"

"Give me that microphone, Willie," Grandma said, taking the device away
from him. She moved over to the screen. "Hello, Commodore. This is Mrs.
Omar Perkins on board the pirate ship--" She stopped and turned to
Lamps. "What is the name of this tub?" she asked.

"It's--it's the _Lulu Belle_," he said, turning his head aside as if in
shame.

"That's hardly a fit name for a pirate ship," Grandma told him, turning
back to the televideo. "That's a sissy name."

"That's her name, and that's what it's going to--"

Grandma ignored him. "Hello, Commodore. This is Mrs. Omar Perkins on
board the pirate ship _Dirty Shame_."

Lamps groaned audibly.

"Are you the one they kidnapped from the _Kismet_?"

"That's right, Commodore. And now I'm ready to go back."

"What are you doing at the microphone? Who's in command of the _Dirty
Shame_?" The Commodore looked near apoplexy.

"I am, for the moment," Grandma told him. Lamps groaned again, this
time louder. "And I want you to do me a favor. Please get Captain
Fogarty on your long-distance video right away. I want to talk to him."

The Commodore screamed, "I'll do nothing of the kind! What have you
done to the _Faultless_? What are those pirates doing?"

Grandma smiled at him. "Well, right now they're getting ready to blow a
hole right in the side of your ship. And I don't know that I can stop
them if you don't do what I say."

"What!" shouted the Commodore.

"And I don't believe your guns are working too well with your atomics
out of order, so I'd suggest that you get Captain Fogarty on the video
right away."

The Commodore ranted, he bellowed and he raved, but in less than a
minute, Captain Fogarty's face appeared on the screen, relayed from the
more powerful communications center on the _Faultless_.

"Good evening, Captain Fogarty. This is Mrs. Omar Perkins on board the
pirate craft _Dirty Shame_."

Fogarty harrumped. "Oh, it's you. Well, I'm glad to see that you're
safe. Did the Commodore rescue you?"

"Well, you could put it that way, I guess. Where is the _Kismet_ now?"
she asked.

"Heading for Earth as scheduled, if it's any of your business. Why?"

Grandma gave him a twinkling grin. "Well, I don't think you'd better
land without me. So you just hold your horses till I get back aboard."

"I'll do nothing of the kind. I can't help it if one of the poorer
paying passengers gets herself kidnapped. The Space Patrol has plenty
of room. They can just bring you in. I've got a schedule to meet."

Grandma pretended to yawn. "I wouldn't advise your landing on Earth
without me. Or landing anywhere, for that matter. You know, Stellar
Transportation signed a contract with me guaranteeing that I wouldn't
be put off the ship against my will and promising to deliver me to
Earth this trip. If I'm not aboard when you land, that contract is
broken and so is STAR'S monopoly. So you go right ahead without me. I
figure I could make about a million dollars off the law suit myself if
you do."
