
Captain Fogarty exploded. "I ... I ..." he stammered, then turned
away from the screen. Grandma could hear a hasty conversation between
him and the _Kismet's_ legal officer. In a moment he returned to the
screen, a broad but very forced grin on his face. "Why, Mrs. Perkins,
we wouldn't think of landing without you. Please tell Commodore Trumble
that we'll be waiting for you."

"But I just might not feel like coming, Captain," Grandma said demurely.

"Tell Commodore Trumble I said he had to bring you back immediately!"
blustered Fogarty. "And I hope he wrings those pirates' necks!"

Grandma put on her most pained expression. But to Lamps, Snake and the
rest of the men still standing in awe, it was obvious that she was
enjoying every minute of it.

"I don't think Commodore Trumble has much to say about it. You see, the
pirates captured him and the entire crew of the _Faultless_ just before
he called you. So the pirates would be the ones who'd have to bring me
back. And I'm sure they wouldn't do that unless they were sure I'd be
well taken care of."

"I don't believe it!" cried Fogarty. "Trumble, say it isn't so!"

There came a slight sputtering on the circuit. "Well, Fogarty, I ...
well ... that is, I--"

"Oh, no," moaned Fogarty.

Grandma smiled prettily. "Now, then, about my accommodations. You know
that lovely mother-of-pearl suite that Miss Toujours has? Well, I think
I ought to have that suite. I'm far too old to be climbing all those
stairs and that other cabin was so small." She looked up a bit, as if
in a blissful reverie. "Miss Toujours has to rush back to make some new
pictures, and I'm sure that she wouldn't like to be delayed in space
for weeks and weeks. So you might have her leave me a set of those lacy
nighties, too. They looked so nice. And I'll have to have her seat
at the Captain's table too, of course. And I'd need my own private
steward. Johnny Weaver will do nicely, I think. And--"

Grandma, the morose Captain and the _Kismet's_ legal officer finally
straightened matters out. In return for the granting of her every
whim for the rest of the voyage, Grandma agreed to return to the ship
and free Stellar Transportation from any liability arising from her
kidnapping. She was almost glowing over it all, but it was a beaten and
broken Fogarty who finally broke the video circuit some minutes later.

Turning to the crew of the _Dirty Shame_, Grandma smiled with great
innocence. "Now, wasn't it nice of them to go to all that trouble over
a little old lady like me," she said.

Lamps grinned. "You sure fixed them, Grandma. But what a pack of
trouble you got us into with the law. What are we going to do with
Trumble and the _Faultless_ out there? The Space Patrol will chase us
the rest of our lives for pulling a fast one like this."

Grandma snapped her fingers. "I knew there was something I had
forgotten." She turned back to the video set. "Hello, Commodore
Trumble," she called.

"Well, I hope you're satisfied," came the booming voice of the
Commodore.

"No, not quite. There's a small matter of amnesty for the crew of the
_Dirty Shame_. If you'll just make out the papers giving them a full
pardon for this whole affair, everything will be just fine."

Grandma winced at the language he used in reply. On the tail of the
last string of curses, he added, "I won't do it. What do you think I
am, an idiot?"

"We won't discuss the subject just at the moment, Commodore. But,
really, you wouldn't want the story to get out that the big, brave,
fearless Commodore Trumble got himself out-foxed by a poor little
innocent old lady like me, would you? Silence comes dear, as my husband
used to say to me."

"I--I--"

"And I see that the boys here have got that gun pointed in your
direction again. The Space Patrol wouldn't be too happy if you brought
the _Faultless_ back with a few big holes in her sides, would they. And
I don't know if I can stop the boys--"

The Commodore turned green, then purple, then a trifle black in
the face. "I can't do it. It--it isn't legal. I--I haven't got the
authority."

Grandma silenced him with a wave of her hand. "Of course you have. In
the case of the Space Patrol vs. Pickens and Poof, the Solar Supreme
Court ruled that Patrol Commodores, while in space, have the power
to grant complete amnesty to any deserving citizens who merit it. I
didn't put my eldest son Wade through law school without learning
something about the subject. Furthermore, in the case of Higgins vs.
Abercrombie--"

"All right. I give up. You win." The Commodore retired from the video
screen, tears in his eyes.

A few hours later the _Dirty Shame_ hove into sight of the _Kismet_.
Grandma Perkins put on her space suit again and prepared to head back
to the luxury liner, but not before she and her boys had had a small
celebration, the high spot of which was another batch of fresh-baked
biscuits.

Grandma then told them all good-bye and insisted on kissing each
of them on their cheeks in spite of the beards. She then explained
that she hated to go off and leave them like this, but that she had
a contract to live up to and that she always kept her bargains. But
anyway they had their pardons now and they probably wouldn't need
her--much.

And it must be reported that as the tiny little figure, safe in the
over-sized space suit, drifted across the void that separated the two
ships, more than one of the grizzled crew turned aside to wipe his eyes
on a dirty sleeve.


                                  IV

It is doubtful that anyone ever enjoyed a trip on the _Kismet_ as
much as Grandma Perkins did hers. Johnny waited on her hand and foot,
she was served first at the table and she kept up a running flow of
brilliant conversation. And if Captain Fogarty seemed to enjoy his
meals less the latter part of the voyage than he had the first part,
only the more malicious of the passengers dared to connect his loss of
appetite with his new-found guest of honor.

All in all the rest of the trip was a fairly uneventful one for
Grandma, save for one small incident the first night she was back on
board ship. Luxuriating in her large, comfortable mother-of-pearl bed,
Grandma heard a soft knocking at her door.

"Come in," she called in a small voice.

The door opened and in stalked Darling Toujours, a suitcase under her
arms.

"I've come to take my cabin back, Mrs. Perkins," she said, a mean look
in her eyes. "The only vacant one was the little hole in the wall they
had you in the first part of the voyage, and I must say it isn't fit
for a dog."

"Oh, I think you'll get used to it then," cood Grandma.

"Well, I don't intend to be the one to do the getting used to it,"
snarled the actress. "You see, my dear woman, I didn't say anything
about this until you were safely on board again and we could start
back for Earth, because I can't afford to be late for making my next
picture."

Grandma looked a little surprised. "Say anything about what?"

"About how I was in the passageway and saw you get into that space suit
and let yourself out the airlock, Mrs. Perkins. I don't believe that
constitutes being forced to leave against your will. Therefore, STAR
doesn't owe you a thing more than your passage, if that, and I want my
suite back." The actress smiled triumphantly.

"But, Miss Toujours, surely no one would believe such a fantastic story
like that."

Darling Toujours began to purr softly. "Captain Fogarty would. And now,
my dear, if you'll just leave, I won't have to have you put out. And
you can just take off my nice lace nightie to begin with!"

"Oh, my," said Grandma, sighing deeply but making no sign of moving.
"And I was so hoping that I wouldn't have to say anything about all
that business and cause you so much trouble."

Darling Toujours looked startled. Then a distrustful look came into her
eyes. "What are you talking about?" she demanded suspiciously.

"Why, on board that pirate ship I noticed that one of the men, Snake
Simpson, was wearing a picture of a very pretty girl. His wife, he
said, only she had run out on him many years ago. Of course, her hair
was blonde, and yours is black, and you seem to have done something to
your nose in the meantime, but I'd never mistake the mouth. So large
for your face, you know."

"Why, you little--" the younger woman began.

"I wouldn't tell anybody in the world about it. Unless, of course, you
made trouble, Mrs. Simp--I mean, Miss Toujours."

"Nobody in the world would believe you!" snapped the actress.

Grandma gave her a beneficent smile. "Carlton E. Carlton would. By the
way, my dear, I think I know now why you wear these nighties. But
one does feel so naked in them, if you know what I mean. And now, if
you'll please leave. This part of the ship is restricted to first class
passengers."
