
When the _Kismet_ landed at the New York spaceport many days later,
Grandma left the ship reluctantly, knowing that it marked the end
of a great adventure for her. In protest against this, she took the
little money she had with her and spent a full week of almost riotous
living on the town, visiting all the nightclubs and the dives, flirting
dangerously with men of 70 and 80, half her age, and almost getting
arrested six times.

But one bright morning, her funds exhausted, she was deposited bag and
baggage on the front lawn of Melissa Muir's Home for Elderly Ladies.
Grandma looked the place over dourly.

"Well, I guess there's nothing left for me to do now but retire from
active life and take up painting," Grandma said to herself. And picking
up some of her effects, she started up the walk. Close to the front
porch, however, two men stepped out from behind some shrubbery and
started towards her.

"Grandma!" one of them shouted. And it was only then that she
recognized Lamps and Snake, freshly shaven and with clean suits on.

"Why, Lamps O'Toole! And you, too, Snake! Whatever are you two doing at
this old boneyard?" she said, hugging each in turn.

"We come to see you, Grandma," Lamps told her, bashful as a boy asking
for his first date. "We had to put in to Earth for fuel, so we came by
to see how you was."

Snake Simpson, plainly embarrassed at her display of affection,
wriggled free from her bony embrace. "Yeah, Grandma, we come by to
bring you a message from Perfessor Spindle. He still don't know what
you did to the Suggestor Ray, but he says you're a real Icy Stein."

"You mean Einstein, Snake. That's very kind of the professor."

"And we brought you a little present to show you how much we appreciate
you getting us the pardons," Lamps told her, thrusting a small package
into her hands. "Don't go and open it until we leave, though."

Grandma Perkins felt a little flustered by all the attention she was
receiving. "Why, thank you very much, boys. I'm sure I'll like it."

The three of them stood quite still and quite silent for a moment or
two. Then Lamps said, "Well, I guess we ought to be going, Grandma.
It's been good seeing you, and take care of yourself."

"Yeah, bye," said Snake, holding out a grimy paw hoping to escape with
just a handshake. He did.

The two burly spacemen strode rapidly down the walk and climbed into
their aircar. Grandma stood transfixed until the little vehicle had
climbed far out of sight. Then she opened the present.

In the box she found a delicate bit of jewelry--a solid gold locket.
The medallion was shaped like a rocket ship, and along the side of it,
spelled out in tiny diamonds, was the name, _Dirty Shame_. Grandma
held it in her hands for a spell, then pulled out a bit of a lace
handkerchief and honked loudly.

Turning around, she surveyed her new home again. And she began to
think, which was always dangerous. Her conscience, catching the drift
of her thoughts, became alarmed.

"Now, Matilda Perkins, you wouldn't dare--" her conscience said to her.

"Oh, you shut up," she retorted. "But it would be awfully nice...."
