
The girl was small and slender, well under Mirrh Yahn y Cona's athletic
six-foot height. She was warmly and roundly vital with a stunning
abundance of life at which the two-dimensional simulacra of recorded
soap-opera could only hint.

"Miss Leila Anderson," Ellis introduced her. "Member of Diplomatic, so
it's all in the family."

She took the hand that Mirrh Yahn y Cona raised as if to defend himself.

"I'm to see that you aren't bored to death here among strangers," she
said. "All work and no play isn't good for anyone. Especially," she
said to Ellis, "for one so handsome. I didn't dream he'd look so--"

"So Terran," Ellis finished before she could say _so human_. "And why
not? We're from the same original stock, separated ages before our
history begins. Martian annals run back for millennia, did you know?
Gold mine of information, settle problems our experts have puzzled over
for centuries."

"I am not truly representative of my people," Mirrh Yahn y Cona said
with some bitterness. "A special case, reared from birth for this
assignment."

The multisensory projector swung into the _Tchulkione Serafi's_ Song of
Parting. Mirrh Yahn y Cona's resonant baritone, operatically assertive
above Yrml's reedy soprano, filled the room. He shut off the machine
abruptly, feeling a sense of desecration that the tender scene had been
bared to alien eyes.

Still he felt a puzzling premonitory twinge of guilt when the
projection collapsed. Yrml had been infinitely desirable when the
sequence was cubed; why should she now seem so sallow and angular, so
suddenly and subtly distant?

"Remarkable voice," Ellis said. "You could make a fortune with it
here."

"It was lovely," Leila Anderson said. "Could I hear the rest of it some
time?"

"No." He realized his curtness and added, "It is the Song of Parting
for lovers. Very personal."

He found that he was still holding Leila's hand, and dropped it
hastily. Ellis, who had risen high in Diplomatic for good reasons,
stepped competently into the breach.

"Night duty calls," Ellis said. "Let's be off."
