
A diplomatic limousine without insignia took them to a nightclub large
enough, and dim enough, to promise anonymity. On the way a quick summer
shower left the streets wet and glistening and turned the night into a
many-scented freshness that was sheer fantasy to one accustomed to the
sterile air of sealed underground ways.

The rain had ended when they left the car, but the brief moment
outside, under a vast openness of night sky empty except for dispersing
clouds and speeding white moon, struck Mirrh Yahn y Cona suddenly cold
with too-familiar panic.

They had found their table before anyone spoke.

"Agoraphobia?" Ellis said, in frowning concern. "I should think you'd
be conditioned against that, with all the time they've had to prepare
you."

Leila Anderson put an impulsive hand on the Martian's.

"I'm a touch claustrophobic, so I know how it must be." She shivered.
"To be buried under all those tons and tons of--"

"Immurement is security," Mirrh Yahn y Cona said. "The ultimate
stability."

"You'll get acclimatized," Ellis said. "It takes time."

He broke off to peer through the gloom beyond the dance floor. "Good
Lord, there's Ryerson of the _Post_, camera and all. If he recognizes
me he'll know who Mirrh is and--"

"Yahn," Mirrh Yahn y Cona corrected automatically. "With us the second
name is impersonal. First is used only by loved ones."

"Yahn, then," Ellis said. "If Ryerson tumbles, he'll want pictures and
an interview. Yahn will be lionized before he's ready. Can't publicize
him until he knows the ropes."

"You'd better skip," Leila said. "If we all go, he'll spot us for sure."

"Right." Ellis shoved some money at Leila. "Call me at my office when
it's safe."

When Ellis had gone and their waiter had brought drinks, they faced
each other across the table, Yahn visibly on guard and Leila with the
beginning of speculation in her eyes.

"Maybe it's better like this, without protocol," she said. "Yahn, can
you--do you dance in our gravity?"

He was bitter again. "Remember my training. I am taller, stronger and
more freakishly agile than any Martian--including my fiancee--has been
for thousands of years."

Her clear look made him ashamed and he added, "With us the dance is an
art form only. Here the intent seems different."

"It is," Leila said almost grimly. "Finish your drink, Buster. You're
going to need it."
