
He needed several before the evening was finished. The Terran dance in
its limited variations offered small challenge; Yahn mastered it with
an ease that delighted Leila and brought tacit envy from other couples.
The cocktails may have contributed to his own mixed reactions, lending
primitive tactility to Leila's pliant response.

Neither of them, when Ryerson of the _Post_ went away with his camera,
considered calling Ellis.

"I don't often enjoy my work so much," Leila said. "Let's not spoil the
evening with diplomacy, shall we?"

They left the Diplomatic vehicle for Ellis, rented an agency car and
drove through the charged serenity of the night into the mountains.
They talked the Moon down and the Sun up. Nothing took place that might
have shocked a reasonably tolerant duenna, but by dawn they had reached
the sort of understanding that comes spontaneously or not at all.

"The biologists who tailored me to Terrestrial standards," Yahn said,
"did their work too well. I find myself more Terran than Martian."

The immovable obstacle, of course, was Yahn's obligation to Yrml,
who would be waiting with enduring Martian patience for his return.
Leila went into that matter later with Ellis, not so much to enlist
his dubious sympathies as to clarify the bristly problem in her own
troubled mind.

"Martians use our broadcasts as a standard of judgment," Leila said.
"And you know where _that_ leads. The more prominent the people in
the newscasts, the higher the divorce rate. The more popular a video
serial, the greater its emotional shilly-shallying. To Martians we're
the last word in fickleness."

"I know," Ellis agreed. "Our cultural geometry was always triangular."

"Exactly. So how can Mirrh-Yahn break the news to his dry little
fiancee back home? We're accustomed to inconstancy and to incontinence.
We sing corny songs about girls who write jilting letters to their men
in service. Our opera flaunts Perkinses and Mesdames Butterfly, and
the fact that we enjoy them shocks the ascetic pants off the Martians.
Did you know that their population control quota demands a strictly
equal sex-ratio, so that there's never more than one boy for one girl
from the beginning? Mirrh-Yahn simply hasn't it in him to leave Yrml
dangling. He'd feel a renegade for the rest of his life."

"_Mirrh_-Yahn," Ellis noted. "Obviously he's willing enough, if you're
on a first-name footing."

"I can't call him Yahn any longer, like a stranger. Mirrh-Yahn is a
compromise."

Ellis rummaged in his desk and brought out a personnel folder. "Dossier
on J. Frederic Thomas, our young man on Mars. Maybe we can turn up an
angle through him."

The exchange ambassador's folder was neither interesting nor helpful.
J. Frederic Thomas stood revealed as a dwarfish scholastic type,
complete with massive glasses and receding hairline.

"He looks more Martian than Terran," Leila said. "Is that deliberate?"

"Mars sent us a man specially bred to fit into our culture, didn't
they? Simple job here to turn up a Martian type. Matter of fact, J.
F.'s reports show he fits in up there like a native."

"Check with him, then," Leila said. "Though I can't imagine what help
we can expect from a wizened little stick like that."
