
Bartle was straining to follow the train of thought that was lost in the
camouflage of Pettigill's flowery phraseology.

"You see all about you these many recorders, Mr. Bartle?"

Bartle nodded.

"On those machines, sir, are spools of tape. Music tapes, all music. My
heavens, every kind: classical music, jazz, western, all kinds of music.
Some tapes are no more than a single melodious note, sustained for
whatever length of time necessary to relax and please the Echelon level
home it is being beamed to. Oh, I tell you, Mr. Bartle, when the last
tape has expended itself for the day, as our service code suggests, I
leave this great edifice with a feeling of profound pride in the fact
that I have so served my fellow man. You share that feeling too, don't
you Mr. Bartle?"

Bartle shrugged. Pettigill paused and looked at the watch he carried on
a long chain attached to a clasp on his tunic.

"A Benz chronometer, given to me by Section Secretary Andrews on the
completion of my twenty-five years of service. It's radio-synchronized
with the master timepiece in Greenland. It gives me a feeling of close
communion with my superiors, if you understand what I mean."

Bartle did not. He said, "Am I keeping you from your work? If I am, I
believe I can fill in on most of this back at the paper; we have files
on the Center's operation."

The little man hurriedly put out a hand to restrain Bartle who was
easing out of the chair.

"Not yet, Mr. Bartle," he said, suddenly much more sober. Then his
incongruous pomposity appeared again. "My gracious, no, you aren't
keeping me from my work. I just must start the Mid-Lower Echelon tape.
It won't take a moment. Tonight, they receive 'Concerto For Ass's
Jawbone.' Sounds rather ridiculous, doesn't it? Be that as it may, there
is a certain stimulation in its rhythmic cacophony. Aboriginality--yes,
I would say it arouses a primitive exaltation."

He flicked a switch above the recorder, turned a knob, and pressed the
starter button on the machine. The tape began winding slowly from one
spool to another.

"Is it 'casting'?" Bartle asked. "I don't hear a thing."

Pettigill laughed. "My stars, no; you can't hear it. See--" He pointed
at a needle doing a staccato dance on the meter face of the machine.
"That tells me everything is operating properly. Mass Psych advises us
never to listen to 'casts. The selections were designed by them for
specific social and intellectual levels. It could cause us to experience
a rather severe emotional disturbance."

A peculiar look came over Bartle's face. "Is there ever a time when all
the machines run at once? That is, when every Echelon home is tuned to
the melopsych tapecasts?"

Pettigill registered surprise. "Why, certainly, Mr. Bartle. Don't you
know Amendment 34206-B specifically states that all Echelon homes must
receive music therapy at 2300 hours every night? Of course, different
tapes to different homes."

"That's what I mean."

"Haven't you been abiding by the directive, Mr. Bartle?"

"I told you I owed my classification to my father's industry. I am
definitely lax in my duties."

Pettigill laughed--almost wickedly, Bartle thought.

"What I'm getting at, is," Bartle continued, "what if the wrong 'casts
were channeled into the various homes?"

"I remind you, sir, I am in charge of the Center and have been for
thirty years. Not even the slightest mistake of that nature has ever
occurred during that time!"

"That, I can believe, Pettigill," Bartle said, his voice edged with
sarcasm. "But, hypothetically, if it were to happen, what would the
reaction be?"

The little man fidgeted with his watch chain. Then he leaned close to
Bartle and said in a barely audible whisper, "This isn't for publication
in your article, is it?"

"You don't think the Government would allow that, do you? No, this is to
satisfy my own curiosity."

"Well, since we're both Mid Echelon--brothers, so to speak--I suppose we
can share a secret. It will be disastrous! I firmly believe it will be
disastrous, Mr. Bartle!" He moved closer to the tall man. "I recall a
secret administrative directive we received here twenty years ago
concerning just that. In essence, it stated that, though music therapy
has its great advantages, if the pattern of performance were broken or
altered, a definite erratic emotional reaction would develop on the part
of the citizens! That was twenty years ago, and I shudder to think what
might be the response now; especially if the 'cast were completely
foreign to the recipient." He gave a little shudder to emphasize the
horror of the occurrence. "It would make psychotics of the entire
citizenry! That's what would happen--a nation of psychotics!"

"The fellow who didn't hear the 'miscast' would be top dog, eh,
Pettigill? He could call his shots."
