
When I turned around to look for Skippy, to ask him some questions, he
was gone. Evidently he didn't want to answer.

I beat up and down every block in the neighborhood until I spotted him
in a beanery, drinking a cup of coffee and looking worried.

I sat down beside him, quiet. He didn't look around. The counterman
opened his mouth to say hello. I shook my head, but Skippy said,
"That's all right. I know you're there."

I blinked. This was a creep! But I had to find out what was going on. I
said, "You made a mistake, kid."

"Running out?" He shrugged. "It's not the first mistake I made," he
said bitterly. "Getting into your little setup with the bugged game
came before that."

I said, "You can always quit," but then stopped. Because it was a lie.
He couldn't quit--not until I found out how he read Chapo's cards
through a drawn shade.

He said drearily, "You've all got me marked lousy, haven't you? Don't
kid me about Henry--I know. I'm not so sure about you, but it wouldn't
surprise me."

"What are you talking about?"

"I can hear every word that's on Henry's mind," he said somberly.
"You, no. Some people I can hear, some I can't; you're one I can't."

"What kind of goofy talk is that?" I demanded. But, to tell you the
truth, I didn't think it was so goofy. The window shade was a lot
goofier.

"All my life," said Skippy, "I've been hearing the voices. It doesn't
matter if they talk out loud or not. Most people I can hear, even when
they don't want me to. Field glasses? I didn't need field glasses. I
could hear every thought that went through Chapo's mind, clear across
the street. Henry too. That's how I know." He hesitated, looking at me.
"You think Henry took eight thousand off Chapo, don't you? It was ten."

I said, "Prove it."

The kid finished his coffee. "Well," he said, "you want to know what
the counterman's got on his mind?" He leaned over and whispered to me.

I yelled, "That's a lousy thing to say!"

Everybody was looking at us. He said softly, "You see what it's like? I
don't want to hear all this stuff! You think the counterman's got a bad
mind, you ought to listen in on Henry's." He looked along the stools.
"See that fat little woman down at the end? She's going to order
another cheese Danish."

He hadn't even finished talking when the woman was calling the
counterman, and she got another cheese Danish. I thought it over. What
he said about Henry holding out on me made it real serious. I had to
have more proof.

But I didn't like Skippy's idea of proof. He offered to call off what
everybody in the beanery was going to do next, barring three or four he
said were silent, like me. That wasn't good enough. "Come along with
me," I told him, and we took off for Jake's spot.

That's a twenty-four-hour place and the doorman knows me. I knew Jake
and I knew his roulette wheel was gaffed. I walked right up to the
wheel, and whispered to the kid, "Can you read the dealer?" He smiled
and nodded. "All right. Call black or red."

The wheel spun, but that didn't stop the betting. Jake's hungry. In
his place you can still bet for a few seconds after the wheel starts
turning.

"Black," Skippy said.

I threw down fifty bucks. Black it was.

That rattled me.

"Call again," I said.

When Skippy said black, I put the fifty on red. Black won it.

"Let's go," I said, and led the kid out of there.

He was looking puzzled. "How come--"

"How come I played to lose?" I patted his shoulder. "Sonny, you got a
lot to learn. Jake's is no fair game. This was only a dry run."

Then I got rid of him, because I had something to do.
