
Henry came across. He even looked embarrassed. "I figured," he said,
"uh, I figured that the expenses--"

"Save it," I told him. "All I want is my split."

He handed it over, but I kept my hand out, waiting. After a minute he
got the idea. He reached down inside the waistband of his pants, pulled
loose the tape that held the dimes to his skin and handed over the
radio receiver. "That's it, huh?" he said.

"That's it."

"Take your best shot," he said glumly. "But mark my words. You're not
going to make out on your own."

"I won't be on my own," I told him, and left him then. By myself? Not
a chance! It was going to be Skippy and me, all the way. Not only
could he read minds, but the capper was that he couldn't read mine!
Otherwise, you can understand, I might not want him around all the time.

But this way I had my own personal bug in every game in town, and I
didn't even have to spend for batteries. Card games, gaffed wheels,
everything. Down at the track he could follow the smart-money guys
around and let me know what they knew, which was plenty. We could even
go up against the legit games in Nevada, with no worry about bluffs.

And think of the fringe benefits! With Skippy giving the women a
preliminary screening, I could save a lot of wasted time. At my age,
time is nothing to be wasted.

I could understand a lot about Skippy now--why he didn't like most
people, why he laughed at jokes nobody else thought were funny, or even
could hear. But everybody has got to like somebody, and I had the edge
over most of the human race. He didn't know what I was thinking.

And then, take away the voices in his head, and Skippy didn't have much
left. He wasn't very smart. If he had half as much in the way of brains
as he did in the way of private radar, he would have figured all these
angles out for himself long ago. No, he needed me. And I needed him.
We were all set to make a big score together, so I went back to his
rooming house where I'd told him to wait, to get going on the big time.

However, Henry had more brains than Skippy.

I hadn't told Henry who tipped me off, but it didn't take him long to
work out. After all, I had told him I was going out to look for Skippy,
and I came right back and called him for holding out. No, it didn't
take much brains. All he had to do was come around to Skippy's place
and give him a little lesson about talking.

So when I walked in the door, Skippy was there, but he was out cold,
with lumps on his forehead and a stupid grin on his face. I woke him up
and he recognized me.

But you don't make your TV set play better by kicking it. You don't
help a fine Swiss watch by pounding it on an anvil. Skippy could walk
and talk all right, but something was missing. "The voices!" he yelled,
sitting up on the edge of the bed.

I got a quick attack of cold fear. "Skippy! What's the matter? Don't
you hear them any more?"

He looked at me in a panic. "Oh, I hear them all right. But they're all
different now. I mean--it isn't English any more. In fact, it isn't any
language at all!"
