

Frozen in utter stillness, Mike listened for the watchman’s
exclamation of astonishment at sight of the bound man on the floor.
Instead, he heard only a faint murmur. Then he caught words, faintly
amused.

“Just got out, Jack, eh? I heard you fall. Out of luck, though. The
watchman was in the other building. I saw him go in. He didn’t hear
you.”

Then little noises as if the helpless man were being turned
over–inspected to make sure the bonds were firmly in place. Then
Mike felt that the last-come man was somewhat relieved.

“Don’t know how you got loose, Jack,” said the voice, as before kept
lowered, “but you didn’t do any harm, anyhow. And the watchman won’t
be back for an hour yet. I’ll be getting to work.”

There was a sound like a groan, as if the bound man were trying to
make some sound or plea; but footsteps crossed lightly to the vault.

“Wondering, Jack, who I am, or did you recognize me?” The second man
had stopped before the vault door. Mike heard an infinitely faint
rustling, as of thin rubber being manipulated. He guessed at rubber
gloves. “I think you must’ve recognized me when I slugged you.
Anyway, since I asked you to wait a minute after office hours and
then hit you with a sandbag, you must have guessed, while you’ve
been waiting, that I was responsible for the matter.”

There was a little pause and a slight snapping sound, as if an
elastic had been flicked into place.

“Yep, Jack, I’m Saunders, your boss. Don’t mind telling you, now,
because you’re not going to split on me. I’m going to loot the
safe–clean, this time, and quit. By the way, Jack, I’m putting on
rubber gloves, but, rather curiously, they’ll leave your
fingerprints on the safe knob. You see, I’ve done this twice before.
Once I got away with a lot of bullion and a few indifferent stones.
That was a year and more ago and everyone’s grown careless since
then. I managed to plant it so the watchman was suspected. He’s in
jail now. And then, once, I fixed up the matter so that a theft of
some finished stuff was discovered while I was on vacation. They
never suspected me. But this time I’m going to clean out the works,
all the bullion, all the stones, and tomorrow’s payroll.”

The unknown’s voice changed, and grew intent. Mike, in the dusty
little closet, could hear a muted, musical tinkle, as he spun the
combination knob.

“Got your fingerprints some time ago, Jack, when you knew nothing
about it. I brought ’em out, photographed them, and contrived to fix
them on the ends of these rubber gloves. I’ve run ’em through my
hair, so they’ll be slightly oily, and they’ll convict you
completely of opening the safe. I’ll have to use a microphone,
myself, to hear the tumblers fall.”

Mike was listening with a curious mixture of fear and indignation
and curiosity. He, himself, had a microphone apparatus in his
pocket, which he had intended to use. The other man had beat him to
it. Mike began to revolve a misty scheme for following the other man
and taking his loot away. There was a clanking as of tiny bits of
metal being fitted together.

“I rather think, Jack,”–the voice became amused,–“that you’re
thinking of the trap that’s fixed for any man who breaks into the
safe. Aren’t you?”–A moment of silence–“So that even if someone gets
inside the vault, when he touches one of several things he’ll set
off a switch, have the doors swing shut and lock on him, and ring a
loud bell in police headquarters? I suggested that, Jack, and I was
the one who was strong for the bell. I told ’em a burglar would be
smothered in here in two hours, but with the doors closing fast on
him to catch him, the police could get here, let him out and save
his life, and catch him with the goods. But you forget there’s a
switch to run that burglar-trap on.”

Mike, listening, found himself suddenly cold all over. If he had
opened the huge vault,–as he was confident he could do,–he would
never have thought of anything like that! He would have gone in,
only anxious to secure his loot and depart before the watchman’s
return. With luck, he would have been able, he thought, to get the
big doors closed so his burglary would have gone unnoticed until
morning. But when he went in, he would have touched one of a number
of concealed springs. The huge doors would have swung to,
relentlessly, upon him. He would have been trapped in an air-tight
tomb, to batter futilely at the armor-plate barriers until the
police came.

He was to get another shock.

“This afternoon, though,” said the soft voice outside, interrupted
now and then by the infinitely faint musical sound of the spinning
knobs, “I did a little work on that wiring. The doors will work, but
the alarm won’t. The police will not be notified that a burglar is
caught in the vault.”

Sweat came out, cold and clammy, on Mike’s skin. He would have been
caught in there! He would have strangled! Hunched upon the floor of
the smelly little book-closet, he shivered in uncontrollable terror
from sheer horror at what he had escaped. Again he longed to get
away from the factory, at any cost.

“’Most through,” said the abstracted voice, outside. “Wonder why I’m
telling you, Jack? You see, I need the stuff in there. Need it in my
business. I’m going to take it, but I don’t want to have detectives
chasing around to try to find the thief. With your fingerprints on
the knob, they’d look for you, of course, but you might have proved
an alibi to make ’em look farther. And also, Jack, you’re too damned
fascinating. I was getting along pretty well with Ethel, until she
met you. I want to get you out of the way. With you dead, she’ll
marry me, sooner or later. I’m going to tap you on the head again,
Jack, and put you in here. The doors will close on you. In the
morning they’ll find that you opened the vault, passed out quite a
lot of stuff to a confederate, and then by accident touched off the
alarm that closes the doors. A sandbag doesn’t leave any sign, and I
used straps to tie you up so there’ll be no marks on your wrists.
I’ve thought of pretty nearly everything, Jack. I’ve even taken out
all the pencils and fountain pens from your pockets. I’ve no notion
of your writing an accusation of me while you’re in there; also I
don’t want to kill you before you go in there. I want you to show
the signs of dying from–er–the natural cause of being locked in an
air-tight vault.... Ah....”

There was a series of tiny clicks, then a faint creaking. Mike, in
his hiding-place, with the smell of dust and books and new-placed
rubber insulation in his nostrils, knew that the great doors had
swung open.

There was a pause, and the little snap of a watch-case.

“Watchman’s due in half an hour. Plenty of time.”

The voice stopped.

The man seemed to be listening. That was what Mike would have done.
He lay utterly and completely motionless, barely breathing. He was
queerly afraid of the man he had not seen. Perhaps because of that,
Mike felt a sudden cramp in one of his legs, a sharp, tingling,
shooting pain. He could not run on a leg like that. It might give
way beneath him.

“All clear,” said the voice, with a certain ghastly cheerfulness.
“But in case you’re thinking that I might set off the trap, Jack,
I’d like to mention that after I had you neatly trussed up, I pulled
out the switch. It’s in that little closet back there. I shall turn
it on after I’ve got the stuff out–and then the doors will close on
you. But first I’ll tap you on the head, and put you inside.”

Mike shivered. The smell of insulation.... The switch was in the
closet in which he was hiding! In a little while more the unknown
would come in where he was! Sheer panic came over Mike. It was with
a terrific effort that he calmed himself, trying to figure out an
escape from the inevitable struggle. The other man would open the
door. He, Mike, was inside. At best there would be a struggle. At
worst....



