

Mike’s whole body was bathed in sweat at the thought of himself
thrown inside the vault with armor-plated doors inexorably shutting
out every atom of fresh air. He clenched his teeth to keep them from
chattering. The man outside took on the aspect of a monster. To
Mike, he was something more or less than human. Mike might be a
criminal, and could visualize,–shrinking,–the thought of killing a
man in making a getaway, but not the deliberate strangling of a man
in cold blood, for the covering of his tracks. That was the other
man’s plan.

There would have to be a struggle, a fight of some sort. Mike’s leg
throbbed horribly. He doubted that it would support his weight. And
in an instant or two more he would inevitably be fighting. One way
or another, he was bound to be in terrible danger. If he shot the
other man, the pistol-shot would raise an alarm. If he did not
shoot....

He heard a faint thump on the floor.

“One load,” said the voice outside. “Two or three more, Jack, and
I’ll skip.” The voice, already soft, became muffled as its owner
went into the vault. “Here’s the payroll. Nice packet, in itself.
I’ve a good twenty minutes left. You realize what will happen, Jack?
I loot the vault, tap you on the head, take off your bonds and put
you in here. Then I push on the switch, the doors close on you, and
I get away with the stuff. In the morning they’ll find you inside,
and the stuff gone. Your fingerprints will be on the knobs.
Inference will inevitably be that the trap got you as you were
handing out the stuff to a confederate. Pretty scheme, isn’t it
Jack?”

The man seemed to be gloating a little over the agony of his
prospective victim. Mike, struggling to massage his leg into some
semblance of life and to make no noise in doing so, heard the
infinitely faint sound of the bound man struggling upon the floor.
He made a curious moan, utterly despairing.

“Just one more trip, Jack,” said the voice, filled with a terrifying
amusement. “Then I’ll come back for you.”

Mike’s throat was dry. He feared that man he had not seen; feared
him with the ultimate of terror. And in a moment or two more he
would have to fight him, struggle with him.

Cold to the marrow, dry-lipped with fear, his little eyes staring,
Mike started to raise himself to his feet as he heard the other man
enter the vault. His leg was numb. It would barely hold his weight
up. Mike’s teeth began to chatter. He heard the man rummaging about
inside the steel tomb. And then Mike felt a sudden agonizing pain in
his back. Something jabbed cruelly into his backbone, hurting
horribly. And then, with a spitting flash of bluish light, the pain
ceased. But outside, there was a sudden rumbling and a cushioned
crash. Then a distant, muffled scream, barely audible.

Glassy-eyed with terror, Mike flung open the door, to run. He saw a
small electric lantern upon the floor, its beam directed at the two
huge doors of the vault. _And they were closed!_

In the fraction of an instant Mike knew what had happened. Rising,
in the closet, he had jammed his back into the knife-switch that
turned on the current for the burglar-trap. It had closed the doors,
imprisoning the unknown Saunders in the air-tight vault. And he, the
imprisoned man, had cut the wires that would have warned the police
of his predicament.

Uttering a little gasp that was compounded of horror and fear, Mike
started forward, only to have his numbed leg give way beneath him.
The fall sobered him to a curious, fictitious calmness. He flashed
his lamp on the bound, still figure. Its eyes were closed. The face
was utterly white.

“Fainted,” said Mike to himself, shakily. “Safe enough, though....”

He suddenly scrambled to his feet again and ran. Through the dark
hallways and down the steps he fled. He was possessed by an
unreasoning terror. The window through which he had entered was
open. Evidently the other man had arranged it for his own ingress.
Mike fairly fell outside, and suddenly was in complete possession of
himself again. With the quiet, dark night all around him, he felt
secure, and he abruptly became conscious that he was carrying
something in one hand. He had picked it up when his leg gave way.

He let a faint ray trickle through his fingers upon it. Then he
grinned uncertainly. Evidently he had happened upon a portion of the
payroll. He saw yellow backs, at any rate, with the bills in the
bundle he held.

“M-my Gawd,” said Mike, unevenly. “That was a shock. There’ve been
shocks all around tonight. That feller in the vault.... An’ the
feller that fainted.... Say”–a thought struck him–“wonder if he’ll
come out of that faint in time to tell about a feller bein’ in th’
vault. M-my Gawd! Maybe he don’t know!”

He looked back through the window he had left, his breath coming
hurriedly, uneasily. He saw a faint glow a long distance away. The
watchman was making his rounds again. Mike saw the confident,
assured steps of the man by the light of his lantern. His legs threw
monstrous shadows on the walls. He went on his way unhurriedly,
reached a time-clock and extracted a key. He inserted and turned it,
registering his presence and vigilance upon a strip of paper inside
the mechanism. Then, casually, he went on his way.

“Brother,” Mike apostrophized the unconscious figure, “I just hadda
shock. Two other fellers had their shocks. An’ now, ol’ top, you’re
in for yours. Here’s hopin’.”

The watchman turned a corner and was lost to sight, but his steady,
even footsteps came dully to Mike’s ears. He was climbing the
stairs, and he wore squeaky shoes.

Mike slipped quickly and quietly away.


[Transcriber’s Notes:
  1. Story from the August, 1922 issue of _The Black Mask_ magazine.
  2. Typo corrected: “loot the same” to “loot the safe” in Chapter II.
]