
"Maybe you've seen some pictures of those big nests in travel books.
They were usually photographed with seven-foot natives standing beside
'em, to make you realize what insects could accomplish. Old travel
books, of course, because Africa is just one big stone highway now.

"Those nests were huge, weren't they? If my memory doesn't betray
me--some of those nests were twelve feet tall.

"Uh ... Uh. But this mound would have dwarfed twenty termite nests in
a valley of giants--all tumbled together and piled up in a skyward
direction.

"As near as I could make out the footprints ran right up to the base of
the mound, and stopped there.

"Well ... you can be sure I didn't just stand in my own prints goggling
up at the stars. I followed that impossible trail--straight out into
the valley as fast as I could clump.

"It took me about ten minutes to reach the mound. Once or twice I
stumbled and almost went sprawling. But whenever I felt the plain
slipping out from under me I shot a quick glance at the mound and its
sheer massiveness steadied me.

"Close up it had a corrugated, hoary look, as if it had bubbled up out
of the ground when the moon had a molten crust and been fused into a
mound by fire and earthquake.

"But when I halted directly in front of it I saw that it wasn't as
solid as it looked. It was riddled with little dark holes, as though a
woodpecker had spent at least a month making a wreck of it. And at its
base there was a wide, dark, tunnel-like opening.

"Another man might have thought of a hundred excuses for not crawling
through that tunnel on his hands and knees. But when my curiosity is
aroused I'm a very special kind of idiot.

"The tunnel was about twenty feet in length. I crawled along through
the darkness with my atomic blaster slapping against my hip, my heart
hammering against my ribs.

"When the smothering feeling you get in tunnels began to wear thin I
knew that it would be safe for me to stand up. You can feel a stone
wall arching above you without touching it, and I knew suddenly that I
was in the clear.

"When I got to my feet and stared about me I could see the dark end of
the tunnel and what appeared to be stone walls hemming me in. The walls
arched away into shadows, and were faintly luminous.

"I've spent as many hours underground as there are seeds in a
watermelon--so I can take a cave interior in my stride. But the mound
wasn't just hollow and cavelike and filled with wavering shadows. It
was--occupied!

"He was sitting on a projecting ledge in deep shadows. But the wall
behind him glowed, and I could see him clearly. He was wearing a
space-suit exactly like my own, but it was all shriveled up over him.

"Take a little monkey--a lemur or a spectral tarsier will do--and put
him inside a cumbersome space-suit, and let his bright eyes shine out
through the viewpane. Do that--and you'll have as clear a picture of
him as I could give you if I rambled on for ten minutes.

"I couldn't see the little fellow's face through the pane. It was all
a shadowy blue. But I could see his bright eyes, and I could tell he
was little by the way the suit overlapped, and bulged out in the wrong
places.

"You know how a kid of eight or ten looks when he puts on a man's suit
on Hallowe'en? But this wasn't Hallowe'en, and he wasn't trying to
scare anyone!

"He was too scared himself. He was shaking all over and when he saw me
his eyes got even brighter, and he started to get up. He was trembling
so I had to help him to his feet.

"I steadied him with one arm and lifted off the helmet with my free
hand. As you know, you can stay outside a suit on the moon without
getting frost-bitten for about half a minute.

"When his face came into view and his eyes looked straight into
mine I was so startled that fifteen seconds were lost right at the
start--before a single word could be exchanged between us. But at least
I had a chance to get a good look at him.

"If you saw yourself as a boy of ten, suddenly, without warning, would
you recognize yourself? Maybe some men would. If you looked at yourself
a lot in a mirror when you were growing up--or kept photographs of
yourself, carefully preserved in an old album, you might not have any
trouble. Right off you might hear yourself muttering, 'Why, that's
_me_!'

"But I had trouble. The kid's face was just enough like my own to give
me a start. But I couldn't really place it--couldn't remember where I
had seen it before.

"Then the kid spoke. 'I--I thought you were Pops! But you're not! He's
older! Where am I? How did I get here?'
