
"The voice did something to me. You get a chance to hear yourself
talking a lot when you're knee-high to a grasshopper. And I had no kids
of my own! But my own father had looked enough like me to be my twin
brother, and if this kid thought I was his dad--

"It hit me between the eyes--and like a voice screaming at me through a
blur of spinning suns!

"I was staring at myself as I had been long ago--and no tracks made by
a dead man in a bog could have been more nerve-shattering.

"He wasn't even a poor little kid in a desperate plight, because you
can't feel paternal about yourself! He was a tormented ghost out of the
past, and for an instant I had an impulse to blame him and rail at him
for returning to torture me.

"But I'm not a cruel man, deep down, and that crazy impulse passed
quickly. He was a poor little lost cuss, even if he _was_ myself, and
all my sympathy went out to him.

"I even forgot for a moment how insane the whole thing was. He was
gasping for breath, so I put the helmet back on, and gave the oxygen
tube a double twist to straighten it out. But an instant before the
helmet descended over his mouth he managed to stammer, 'I was up in the
attic playing--'

"Playing 'Pirate's den!' I had spent the happiest years of my boyhood
in the attic, pretending I was Captain Kidd, or climbing out on the
tree that arched over our house when the December snows weighed it
down, and making myself out to be in the crow's nest of an arctic
windjammer!

"As I swayed there beside myself my mind followed crazy-paved paths
in all directions. Great chunks of the past seemed to float before
me--like icebergs nine-tenths submerged.

"But all the while the sanest part of my mind was seeking an
explanation that would one-tenth explain it! I gripped my own boy-self
by the shoulder to make sure he'd stay solid until the man he'd become
could get a mental toe-hold on the problem.

"If you can persuade a man to mount a stepladder and plant himself
firmly on the air you've taken your first brave step into the unknown.
The poor devil may or may not fall. But at least you've made a start in
the right direction.

"It isn't too hard to believe that certain things can happen to Time
on the wrong side of yesterday--or tomorrow! Time--the physicists tell
us--never stops flowing. It's like a melting candle or silk before it
hardens on the loom--all crinkled up and sparkling like a dew-drenched
spider web.

"If Time melts in a back-of-yesterday dimension what's to stop a man
from dissolving with it, and running in a thin trickle back to his
yesterdays? You were a boy once and you could be a boy again--without
ceasing to be a man.

"Put it this way. On the dark side of the moon there was a valley of
shadows. A big, blundering fool went stumbling into it, and landed in
a heap. Before he could pick himself up a part of himself dissolved
in some unimaginable backwash of time, and he became a boy again. His
boy-self split off from him, and went stumbling off over the plain in a
suit five sizes too large for him.

"It's not as impossible as it sounds. The boy you were still exists in
Time, and he could emerge from the past to stand beside you in a vortex
of dissolving Time. Was there something in the valley that could change
the flow of time, reverse it, and twist it around like butter in a
churn?

"The answer was right there in the cave with me. But I couldn't see
it because _another_ space-suited figure was making my brain whirl.
He'd come clumping into the cave bent nearly double, and now he was
shuffling toward me as though I'd committed some horrible crime I could
never hope to atone for.

"Through the pane of his helmet his eyes burned accusingly into mine.
But it wasn't until he halted directly in front of me and lifted the
helmet from his head that I knew what my crime was and why he found it
hard to forgive me.

"I had committed the crime of living beyond my alloted span! The man
facing me was old ... old. His face was still my face, but if ever I
had been young and handsome and a target for the wiles of a pretty
woman I was so no longer!

"He seemed to realize that I could hardly bear to look upon myself as I
would be, for he spoke sharply, quickly, without attempting to explain
his presence, or even to prepare me for what he had to say by working
up to it like a story-teller with a great load of unimaginable horror
on his mind.

"'It's a monstrous beast of prey!' he croaked. 'It can dissolve Time
and re-shape Time in a hundred horrible ways!'

"He quirked his head at me. 'You know more than that lad but I know
more than you--for I have lived through this moment before! Once long
ago I stood in this cave and warned you! You are at the crossroads of
a branching future! If you take the right turn now you will live to
become me. But, if you take the wrong turn--'

"He straightened, and pointed with his gloved forefinger into the
shadows behind me. 'It is there--at your back! When you turn you will
see the shining web which it uses to dissolve Time! All over this
valley the creature has thrown a Time-dissolving web of force!'
