
"His voice rose warningly. 'It is as intelligent as we are, but it
moves with glacial slowness. An inch in an hour--a foot in a day! When
it dissolves Time it nourishes itself by drawing the energy-whirl into
itself, and spinning it out again in another form, like an immense,
living shuttlecock. A spider--'

"He looked at me with a haggard intensity of appeal. 'It will try to
hold you with the web--to hold you in complete helplessness until you
become a hundred lads and a hundred men. You'll be an infant, a boy of
five, a lad of twenty, and a man older than myself. But every time you
split up in the folds of the web you'll lose a part of your substance.

"'You'll cease to be a man with a past and a future. You'll become a
mere hollow shell--no more substantial than I am, and I am little more
than a wraith. You'll be drained, and you'll vanish like a puff of
smoke. You'll be devoured and swallowed up!'

"He was struggling for breath and the veins on his forehead had begun
to swell. 'You've got to blast it down before the web dazzles and
confuses you! You'll have to face it to blast, but if you fight it with
your mind--'

"Suddenly the helmet was back on his head and he was turning from me.
He moved straight toward the lad and put a palsied hand on the shoulder
of that younger me.

"Then, slowly, they both turned to face me, and I could see their
eyes inside their helmets, trained upon me in desperate appeal. At
least--there was appeal in the eyes of the old one. The lad may have
been merely terrified, and confused.

"He couldn't have been more terrified than I was as the shadows
lengthened about me, and a coldness crept into my bones.

"I knew I'd have to come to grips with the web. I knew, too, that
if it was behind me I'd be safer facing it. When there's something
unspeakable at your back, you can die so many deaths just waiting for
it to make its presence known that all the courage and decision goes
out of you.

"Panic smote me as I turned, hip and thigh like a flat sword. But all I
could see for an instant was a faint, moving radiance blending with the
shadows, a kind of nebulous flowing in the darkness on the far side of
the cave.

"My hand must have closed on my blaster, for I could feel the bite of
cold metal against my palm. But there was something about the light
that my will could not withstand. My arms seemed to freeze as I stared
at it, and terrifying thoughts rushed into my brain.

[Illustration: _My arms seemed to freeze!_]

"At first I experienced only a feeling of almost unbearable oppression.
Then something in the glow seemed to reach out toward me and there was
no sound in the cave but the beating of my heart.

"A ghastly something seemed to be watching me with a kind of fiendish
triumph, as though the soul of a devil lurked in the depth of the light
which could send out vampire tendrils, filmed with writhing menace.

"I couldn't tear my eyes from the glow and the longer I stared the
worse it got.

"The light seemed filled with an evil purpose. It writhed and changed
shape as I stared at it, seeming to sweep out through the walls of the
cave and back again with a pulsing greediness.

"Then, gradually, it ceased to blend with the shadows. It became
stationary and transparent, hanging suspended in the murky air like a
gigantic burning glass.

"As though in a dream-delirium I became slowly aware that a picture
was forming within it. A valley swept into view, walled with high,
saw-toothed mountain ranges.

"Deep in the weaving radiance I could see a tiny, plodding figure
coming toward me across the valley.

"For an instant I thought I was looking at the far-off image of a human
figure plodding over the plain. A figure clad in a heavy space-suit,
moving awkwardly--as I had moved.

"Nearer it came and nearer, its reflection floating on ahead of it,
bobbing about like a little ship.

"And then, suddenly, I saw that it was _skimming_ the plain. It was
balancing itself on flapping wings, sweeping across the plain without
actually touching it, but so slowly that it appeared to be advancing
with the plodding, awkward gait of a man.

"It swerved abruptly as I stared, made a full turn, and soared into the
air. It flew straight toward me, its wings beating the air as though it
were struggling against a furious uprush of wind.

"There was a sloping wall of light-dappled rock at the edge of the
radiance, and for an instant the winged shape disappeared behind it. I
didn't see it descend.

"I saw only a shadow forming behind the rock, and swirling out from
it. It came into view again abruptly, dragging its wings behind it,
hobbling toward me over the ice.
