
"My spine congealed. The thing that had crossed the valley was a
monstrous bird of prey. It was wearing a space-suit, but no helmet, and
I could see its vulture-like head bobbing about in the glow.

"It seemed to be in pain. It had halted at the edge of the glow, as
if fearful of what lay beyond it, and suddenly as I stared it began
furiously to pluck and tear at its breast with its taloned foreclaws.

"So frenzied were the creature's exertions that the front of its
space-suit came away in shreds. The hideous creature had scales on its
breast instead of feathers, and a pulsing, lizardlike throat ... a
throat which turned red as it continued to inflict cruel injuries on
itself.

"The impression I got was one of agonized despair, of a creature
trapped and cornered that could only escape by destroying itself. Again
and again it slashed at its flesh, twisting about in the glow, its eyes
brimming with agony.

"Then, suddenly, it was no longer alone. A little bird-lizard shape
had materialized at its side and was going through the same grisly
pantomime.

"As I blinked in stunned disbelief a third shape swam into view--and a
fourth. The eyes of the third shape were dull and opaque, like frosted
glass, and the fourth shape was so atrophied that the scales on its
breast seemed to overlap, squeezing out the flesh between them.

"Then, abruptly, the first shape began to grow transparent. It
shriveled and glistened, and I could see its skeleton gleaming beneath
the glassy transparency of its dissolving flesh.

"It vanished in a gush of gray light, so quickly that the air about it
had a sucked-in look. Swiftly, terribly, the other shapes converged
toward that swirling vacuum and were swallowed up, as though with their
passing Time had collapsed in upon itself.

"That Time _had_ collapsed I knew! For I am no fool. Long ago the alien
inhabitant of another world had landed in that valley of all horror,
and the living shuttlecock had split it up into time fragments, the
better to destroy it.

"It wanted me to know that--to realize that my time was short. So it
had brought back a scene out of the past to unnerve me, and sap my will!

"Could I go on taking it? I hadn't much time to think about it--for the
web was filling with another picture. A living shuttlecock, the old one
had called it. So now it was weaving another picture for me on Time's
dissolving loom.

"It was a picture so hideous I could hardly bring myself to believe in
it. It was a picture of still another me. But if the old one had seemed
palsied, wretched, at the end of his endurance--the face that stared
out at me from the radiance was a thousandfold more so!

"It was a face that had lost itself in Time--a face that was all
sagging jowls and puckered brows, a toothless, yellowed caricature of a
face.

"But it was my face still--_my_ face ravaged by a century's decay!

"Looking at myself as I would be--I suddenly had no longer any desire
to live. A small, shrill voice shrieked within me that the monstrous,
living shuttlecock desired just that--that it was resorting to a
devilish subterfuge!

"But I did not heed the voice. I just stood there, waiting to die,
hoping that the end would come quickly.
