
Several small shadows crossed the windows overhead. They might have
been birds, except they moved too slowly.

"I think I understand," the Archeologist said softly.

"So get on with it and tell me about your discovery!" the Explorer
exploded.

"I've already told you that it wasn't my discovery," the Archeologist
reminded him. "A few years after your expedition left, there was begun
a detailed resurvey of Earth's mineral resources. In the course of
some deep continental borings, one party discovered a cache--either a
very large box or a rather small room--with metallic walls of great
strength and toughness. Evidently its makers had intended it for the
very purpose of carrying a message down through the ages. It proved to
contain artifacts; models of buildings, vehicles, and machines, objects
of art, pictures, and books--hundreds of books, along with elaborate
pictorial dictionaries for interpreting them. So now we even understand
their languages."

"Languages?" interrupted the Explorer. "That's queer. Somehow one
thinks of an alien species as having just one language."

"Like our own, this species had several, though there were some words
and symbols that were alike in all their languages. These words and
symbols seem to have come down unchanged from their most distant
prehistory."

The Explorer burst out, "I am not interested in all that dry stuff!
Give me the wet! What were they like? How did they live? What did they
create? What did they want?"

The Archeologist gently waved aside the questions. "All in good time.
If I am to tell you everything you want to know, I must tell it my own
way. Now that you are back on Earth, you will have to reacquire those
orderly and composed habits of thought which you have partly lost in
the course of your wild interstellar adventurings."

"Curse you, I think you're just trying to tantalize me."

The Archeologist's expression showed that this was not altogether
untrue. He casually fondled an animal that had wriggled up onto his
desk, and which looked rather more like an eel than a snake. "Cute
little brute, isn't it?" he remarked. When it became apparent that the
Explorer wasn't to be provoked into another outburst, he continued, "It
became my task to interpret the contents of the cache, to reconstruct
its makers' climb from animalism and savagery to civilization, their
rather rapid spread across the world's surface, their first fumbling
attempts to escape from the Earth."
