
"They had spaceships?"

"It's barely possible. I rather hope they did, since it would mean
the chance of a survival elsewhere, though the negative results of
your expedition rather lessen that." He went on, "The cache was laid
down when they were first attempting space flight, just after their
discovery of atomic power, in the first flush of their youth. It was
probably created in a kind of exuberant fancifulness, with no serious
belief that it would ever serve the purpose for which it was intended."
He looked at the Explorer strangely. "If I am not mistaken, we have
laid down similar caches."

After a moment the Archeologist continued, "My reconstruction of their
history, subsequent to the laying down of the cache, has been largely
hypothetical. I can only guess at the reasons for their decline and
fall. Supplementary material has been very slow in coming in, though
we are still making extensive excavations at widely separated points.
Here are the last reports." He tossed the Explorer a small metal-leaf
pamphlet. It flew with a curiously slow motion.

"That's what struck me so queer right from the start," the Explorer
observed, putting the pamphlet aside after a glance. "If these
creatures were relatively advanced, why haven't we learned about them
before? They must have left so many things--buildings, machines,
engineering projects, some of them on a large scale. You'd think we'd
be turning up traces everywhere."

"I have four answers to that," the Archeologist replied. "The first
is the most obvious. Time. Geologic ages of it. The second is more
subtle. What if we should have been looking in the wrong place? I mean,
what if the creatures occupied a very different portion of the Earth
than our own? Third, it's possible that atomic energy, out of control,
finished the race and destroyed its traces. The present distribution of
radioactive compounds throughout the Earth's surface lends some support
to this theory.

"Fourth," he went on, "it's my belief that when an intelligent species
begins to retrogress, it tends to destroy, or, rather, debase all the
things it has laboriously created. Large buildings are torn down to
make smaller ones. Machines are broken up and worked into primitive
tools and weapons. There is a kind of unraveling or erasing. A cultural
Second Law of Thermodynamics begins to operate, whereby the intellect
and all its works are gradually degraded to the lowest level of meaning
and creativity."
