
"But why?" The Explorer sounded anguished. "Why should any intelligent
species end like that? I grant the possibility of atomic power
getting out of hand, though one would have thought they'd have taken
the greatest precautions. Still, it could happen. But that fourth
answer--it's morbid."

"Cultures and civilizations die," said the Archeologist evenly. "That
has happened repeatedly in our own history. Why not species? An
individual dies--and is there anything intrinsically more terrible in
the death of a species than in the death of an individual?"

He paused. "With respect to the members of this one species, I think
that a certain temperamental instability hastened their end. Their
appetites and emotions were not sufficiently subordinated to their
understanding and to their sense of drama--their enjoyment of the
comedy and tragedy of existence. They were impatient and easily
incapacitated by frustration. They seem to have been singularly guilty
in their pleasures, behaving either like gloomy moralists or gluttons.

"Because of taboos and an overgrown possessiveness," he continued,
"each individual tended to limit his affection to a tiny family; in
many cases he focused his love on himself alone. They set great store
by personal prestige, by the amassing of wealth and the exercise of
power. Their notable capacity for thought and manipulative activity was
expended on things rather than persons or feelings. Their technology
outstripped their psychology. They skimped fatally when it came to hard
thinking about the purpose of life and intellectual activity, and the
means for preserving them."

Again the slow shadows drifted overhead.

"And finally," the Archeologist said, "they were a strangely haunted
species. They seem to have been obsessed by the notion that others,
greater than themselves, had prospered before them and then died,
leaving them to rebuild a civilization from ruins. It was from those
others that they thought they derived the few words and symbols common
to all their languages."

"Gods?" mused the Explorer.

The Archeologist shrugged. "Who knows?"
