
The Explorer turned away. His excitement had visibly evaporated,
leaving behind a cold and miserable residue of feeling. "I am not
sure I want to hear much more about them," he said. "They sound
too much like us. Perhaps it was a mistake, my coming here. Pardon
me, old friend, but out there in space even _our_ emotions become
undisciplined. Everything becomes indescribably poignant. Moods
are tempestuous. You shift in an instant from zenith to nadir--and
remember, out there you can see both.

"I was very eager to hear about this lost species," he added in a sad
voice. "I thought I would feel a kind of fellowship with them across
the eons. Instead, I touch only corpses. It reminds me of when, out in
space, there looms up before your prow, faint in the starlight, a dead
sun. They were a young race. They thought they were getting somewhere.
They promised themselves an eternity of effort. And all the while there
was wriggling toward them out of that future for which they yearned ...
oh, it's so completely futile and unfair."

"I disagree," the Archeologist said spiritedly. "Really, your absence
from Earth has unsettled you even more than I first surmised. Look at
the matter squarely. Death comes to everything in the end. Our past
is strewn with our dead. That species died, it's true. But what they
achieved, they achieved. What happiness they had, they had. What they
did in their short span is as significant as what they might have done
had they lived a billion years. The present is always more important
than the future. And no creature can have all the future--it must be
shared, left to others."

"Maybe so," the Explorer said slowly. "Yes, I guess you're right. But
I still feel a horrible wistfulness about them, and I hug to myself
the hope that a few of them escaped and set up a colony on some planet
we haven't yet visited." There was a long silence. Then the Explorer
turned back. "You old devil," he said in a manner that showed his gayer
and more boisterous mood had returned, though diminished, "you still
haven't told me anything definite about them."

"So I haven't," replied the Archeologist with guileful innocence.
"Well, they were vertebrates."

"Oh?"

"Yes. What's more, they were mammals."
