
Diane from the first had been fascinated by the exotic atmosphere in
which Clarke had planted her after their marriage; but in the end,
seeing how they had become a part of him, she half consciously hated
them and their everlasting song of Bokhara and Herat of the Hundred
Gardens: an unheard song to which Clarke listened, and replied in
unspoken syllables. And thus it was that Diane learned that to live in
Clarke's apartment would be to become an accessory to those precious
fabrics that were his hard-ridden hobby; for no woman would fit into
the dim, smoky shadows of that titled salon unless bejeweled and
diaphanously veiled she could dance with curious paces and gestures
beneath the sullen glow of the great brazen mosque lamp as became
the favorite of a khan in far-off Tartary. From the very beginning,
Diane fought to keep her individuality untainted by the overwhelming
personality of those damnably lovely fabrics from Shiraz and the dusty
plains of Feraghan.

And Diane was right; for they dreamed, those old weavers, of the roses
of Kirman, of the evening star that danced on the crest of Mount
Zagros, of dancing girls in the gardens of Naishapur, of fountains that
sprayed mistily in the moonlit valley of Zarab-shan; and all this they
wove into what we now learn to catalogue as Sixteenth Century Persian,
or whatever our best guess may be. Into his masterwork the weaver
wove his soul; so that whoever lives with one of those imperishable
sorceries that come out of the East must in the end feel its presence
unless he be somewhat duller than the very wood of the loom on which it
was woven.

Look upon wine as often as you wish, but beware of a Bokhara when it is
red--red as the blood of slaughter--red as the embers of a plundered
city--a redness charged with the quartered octagons of Turkestan--for
in the end you will become enslaved to the silky splendor that once
graced the tent floor of a Tekke prince....

Diane was right; though Diane never suspected, even dimly, what in the
end really did happen to Hammersmith Clarke. For, naturally enough,
neither she nor anyone else saw or heard the Yellow Girl; that is, no
one but Clarke: and he saw and heard too much.

Had she suspected--but she couldn't have. For who would imagine Fate
riding to the crossroads in a truck of the American Express Company? It
just isn't done; not until one looks back and sees that it could have
happened in no other way.

But unheard-of things happen in Turkestan; and while one may pause for
an evening's glamor beside some moon-kissed fountain in the valley of
Zarab-shan, and then march on, forgetting, there is that which does not
forget, being undying and everlasting; so that though forgotten, it
reaches forth across time and space, not only clinging to the pile of
a rug from Samarcand, but resorting even to express trucks to carry it
the last step toward capturing the forgetful one....

All this Diane knew without knowing why she knew: and it seemed so
reasonable that there was nothing incongruous in shuddering and saying
as she often had, "I'm afraid of the damned things...."
