
As the door clicked behind the departing expressman, Clarke clipped the
leaden seals of the cylindrical bale, cut its stitching, and thrilled
at the thought of the rug he was about to unwrap; for the bale was from
Siraganian of New York, who by dint of persistent reaching into the
East must finally have succeeded in executing Clarke's impossible order.

A tawny, golden silkiness smiled from the gaping burlap sheath.

Just a glimpse of that wonder in buff and cream, with its lotus-bud
border, and frets and meanders in blue and coral and peach, told
Clarke that this of all things was as far as possible from what he had
ordered Siraganian to get, cost what it might. For in place of Persian
intricacies in deep wine reds and solemn green, florid magnificence
that Ispahan had given to the world before the splendor died, Clarke
was confronted by an ancient rug from Samarcand--silken Samarcand in
the valley of Zarab-shan--thick-napped and luxurious, mysterious with
its Mongolian cloud bands and asymmetrical corner pieces, bats and
dragons, and five-medallioned firmaments of blue that could come from
none but the vats of Turkestan.

"Good God! It's silk!" marveled Clarke as he stroked the lustrous pile.
"Silk, and by the Rod, on a linen warp!"

He wondered how Siraganian could have made that incredible mistake,
sending him such a rug in place of what he had ordered. If it were a
case of sending something just as good--an unheard-of procedure with
that Armenian merchant-prince--he certainly had been crafty enough, for
no connoisseur who once touched that rich pile, whose eyes were once
dazzled by those insinuant colors, whose senses were stricken by the
sorcery of cabalistical designs, could ever return it and say that he
had ordered something else. Rather would he thank Siraganian for his
error.

A silk pile on a warp of blue linen, and woven in the days when Persian
Hafiz was called to account by that fierce Mongol for a verse wherein
the poet bartered the prince's favorite cities, Samarcand and Bokhara,
for the smile of a _Turki_ dancing girl, and the mole on her left
breast: unbelievable fortune had sent him this incredible rug.

And then Clarke's wondering, triumphant eyes clouded as he thought of
a girl beside whom Samarcand and Bokhara were but the tinkle of brazen
anklets--a very long time ago, when there was no Diane, when Clarke
pursued rugs for that same Siraganian who now sought them for Clarke.

"_Egher an Turki bedest ared dili mara_," muttered Clarke, forgetting
all but the glamorous perils that had lured him far into lost cities
and high adventure. Hafiz was right.

And for a moment the rug from Samarcand, its five by seven feet of
tawny, silken perfection putting to confusion the priceless Feraghan on
which it had been unrolled, gleamed unregarded as Clarke's mind whirled
to the sonorous accent with which the divine Hafiz had enslaved the
East and its savage conquerors.

"_Egher an Turki_----"

Strange, how after all this time one would remember. It must be that
one could never quite forget.

The telephone rang; but Clarke ignored it until the jangling became too
insistent, when he muffled the bell with several towels and a small
cushion.

"Too bad," he apologized, as he took the cord from his lounge robe and
completed the throttling of the almost stifled annoyance, "but I simply
can't be disturbed."

In which he was wrong: for to contemplate that wonder from Samarcand
was more disturbing than any voice that could creep in over the wire.
He fingered the rings of dull, hand-hammered gold that were sewed
to one of the selvaged sides; he wondered what palace wall had been
enriched by that precious fabric--and with it all came the knowledge
that that very rug had been a part of his own past. The life that had
been knotted into its pile and the sorcery that had been woven into
its pattern were speaking to one of Clarke's forgotten selves. Yet
he was certain that he had never before seen it; for one could never
have forgotten such as this, though seen but for an instant. Truly,
the _rug_ was a stranger, but the presence that accompanied it was
demanding recognition.

In the meanwhile, Diane tired of hearing the operator's "They don't
answer," and abandoned her efforts to remind Clarke of an engagement.

"I wonder," she mused, as she finally set aside the useless telephone,
"what deviltry my _bien aimé_ is devising."

And then she sought the rendezvous unattended, and made the customary
apologies for Clarke's unaccountable absence.

He might have retreated into that dusky inner kingdom which from the
very beginning he had held against Diane--a silence into which he
plunged unaccompanied, not lacking appreciative company, but rather
loving solitude and electing seclusion rather than the sharing of the
fancies that twisted and the thoughts that writhed in his strange brain.

As Diane made her well-rehearsed apologies and frothed behind her
vivacious mask, Clarke noted the manila envelope that was fastened to
the web of the rug from Samarcand, and addressed to him: a letter,
doubtless from Siraganian.

"We regret," wrote the Armenian, "that thus far we have had no success
in finding at any cost a rug of the weave you ordered. However, we take
pleasure in forwarding you this rug which a caravan stopping at Meshed
left with our agent in that city with instructions to forward it to
our New York office and thence to you. We are pleased that your agent
saw fit to use our facilities for forwarding it to you, and wish to
congratulate you on having obtained such a priceless specimen. Should
you at any time care to dispose of it, be so kind as to give us an
option on it, for we are in a position to offer you a better price than
any dealer or collector in the United States...."

The rug itself was improbable enough--but Siraganian's letter! An
insoluble riddle. It couldn't be a jest. Then who----?

True enough, Colonel Merbere's expedition must have passed through
Samarcand, Yarkand, and Kashgar on its way into the unknown stretches
of Chinese Turkestan; but his acquaintance with the colonel was
slight, and he had no friend in the colonel's train. And what obscure
acquaintance of the "wish you were here" postal-card banality would
send a rug which in the old days served as a gift from one prince to
another?

Diane's arrival cut the thread of fancy.

"Oh, Ham, but it is gorgeous," enthused _la belle Livaudaise_ as she
entered the roseate duskiness of Clarke's studio. And to herself,
"Another rival...."

Then she rehearsed the excuses she had offered for Ham's absence, and
hoped he'd absent-mindedly contradict her the first time he deigned to
speak for himself. That done, one must consider the latest addition to
the seraglio.

Clarke detailed the story of the rug and its riddle.

"But who in the world would send you such a gift," wondered Diane.

"Exactly no one, _très chère_."

"Unless," Diane pointed out, "it might be one of your lost loves in
those Asiatic playgrounds you've never entirely left."

Clarke laughed, but his derision was unconvincing, and Diane knew that
he had been deep in the blacknesses of Asian nights; knew that her
arrival had been an intrusion, that he was but a friendly stranger,
babbling to her, a friendly stranger, of loveliness whose intoxication
forced him to speak of it to anyone, even her.

The others were bad enough, with their everlasting song of Bokhara, and
Herat of the Hundred Gardens--an unheard song to which Clarke listened,
and replied in unspoken syllables; they were bad enough, they, and
those monstrous fancies which at times he smilingly expressed with
deliberate vagueness, but this yellow witch from Samarcand----
