
Le Vieux Carré wondered when the next morning it was rumored that
_la belle Livaudaise_ had been seen hurrying down Saint Peter Street
without speaking to any one of the several acquaintances she had met;
but when at the Green Shutter and the Old Quarter Bookstore it was
announced that Diane was living in a loft of the Pontalba Building,
wonder ceased. For Diane's friend Louise had been no less garrulous
than she should have been, so that the habitués of the French Quarter
were prepared for the news.

And then it was said that to gain admittance to Clarke's studio one
must know the code of taps whereby someone who at times left a certain
side door bearing bottles of Pernod announced his arrival; for Clarke
answered neither doorbell nor telephone. The vendor of Pernod was
certainly a discreet person; yet even a discreet seller of absinthe
could see no harm in mentioning that his patron found enormous
fascination in watching the play of sunlight and the dance of moonbeams
on the golden buff pile of a rug that was more a sleeping, breathing
creature than any sane child of the loom.

Finally the courier failed to gain admittance, despite his tapping in
code. And this he thought worthy of Diane's ear.

"He starves himself, _petite_--since three days now he has not admitted
me. All the while she lies there, gleaming in the moon, that awful
rug--_mordieu_, it is terrible...."

Diane had stedfastly denied that which had been clamoring for
recognition. But when this last bit was added to what had gone before,
logic gave way, and Diane's fears asserted themselves. That rug _was_
haunted, _was_ bewitched, _was_ bedevilling Clarke; logic or no logic,
the fact was plain.

Driven by that monstrous thought, Diane exhumed the little golden
key-ring and started up Royal Street, determined to cross the barrier
before it became impassable. But her determination wavered; and before
fitting the well worn key into the lock, she applied her ear to the
keyhole, listened, and heard Clarke's voice.

Diane resisted the temptation to use her key and stage a scene that
even in the imperturbable Vieux Carré would be sensational for at least
a week. Then her pride conquered, and she achieved a most credible
smile of disdain.

"Sly devil, pretending it was a rug he was so absorbed in...."

And, since it was but an amorous escapade, Diane's unbelievable
speculations were replaced by thoughts reasonable enough not to be
terrifying.
