
That very night, Clarke was sitting cross-legged on the floor of his
studio, full under the red glow of a tall bronze mosque lamp. Before
him, shimmering in the moonlight that streamed in through the French
windows, lay the rug from Samarcand, mysterious and golden, with its
pale sapphire corner pieces glittering like a distant sea viewed
through a cleft between two mountain crests.

All the witchery and ecstasy that had ever been lost in the entire
world were reassembled, pulsing in the silken pile which he
contemplated. And this was _the_ night; the Night of Power, when Fate
stalked through the corridors of the world like a colossus just risen
from an age-old throne of granite, resistless and unconquerable. Clarke
had spent so many nights and days of staring that it was inevitable
that there must be such a night. He saw more than the wonder before
him: in place of the marvel woven by deft, forgotten hands, there
gleamed enchantingly as through moon-touched mist a garden in the
valley of Zarab-shan.

Then came a faint, oddly accented drumming and piping, music to whose
tune dead years reassembled their bones and danced forth from their
graves. And their ghosts as they danced exhaled an overwhelming
sweetness that made Clarke's brain reel and glow, and his blood surge
madly in anticipation of that which he knew must follow.

Then out of the blackness just beyond the range of the ruddy mosque
lamp and full into the moonlight that marched slowly across the rug
came a slim Yellow Girl, diaphanously garbed and veiled. Her anklets
clicked faintly; and very faint was the tinkle of the pendant that
adorned her unusual coiffure.

"All these many days I have sought you, my lord," she began, as she
extended her arms in welcome. "But in vain, until tonight, when at last
I parted the veil and crossed the Border."

Clarke nodded understandingly, and looked full into her dark, faintly
slanted eyes.

"And I have been thinking of you," he began, "ever since someone sent
me this rug on which you stand. It is strange how this rug could bridge
the gap of twenty years and bring into my very house a glimpse of the
valley of Zarab-shan. And stranger yet that you could escape from your
father's house and find me here. Though strangest of all, time has not
touched you, when by all reason you should be old, and leathery, and
past forty.... Yet you are lovelier now than you were then, by that
fountain in a garden near Samarcand."

[Illustration: "You are lovelier now than you were then, by that
fountain in a garden near Samarcand."]

"It is not strange," contradicted the Yellow Girl, as she pirouetted
with dainty feet across the moon-lapped silk. "For you see me now as I
was when I wove my soul into this very rug."

Clarke smiled incredulously: which was illogical enough, since,
compared with the girl's presence, nothing else should be incredible.

"How can that be, Yellow Girl, seeing that we two met one evening
twenty years ago, whereas this rug was woven when the Great Khan sat
enthroned in Samarcand and reproved the Persian Hafiz for his careless
disposal of the Great Khan's favorite cities. This was the joy of kings
hundreds of years before you and I were born----"

"Before the _last_ time we were born," corrected the Yellow Girl. "But
the first time--at least, the first time that I can recollect--the
barred windows of a prince's palace failed to keep you from me. And
eunuchs with crescent-bladed simitars likewise failed. But in the
end--why must all loveliness have an end?--a bowstring for me, and a
swordstroke for you...."

The Yellow Girl shuddered as she stroked her smooth throat with
fingers that sought to wipe off the last lingering memory of a cord of
hard-spun silk.

"And from the first," continued the girl, "I knew what our doom would
be. So I started weaving, and completed my task before they suspected
us and the bowstring did its work. My soul, my self, being woven
cunningly and curiously into silk rich enough to hang on the wall of
the khan's palace, waited patiently and wondered whether you and I
could have our day again. Thus it was in the beginning----"

"Ah ... how it does come back to me," interrupted Clarke, "as in
a dream dimly remembered. How compactly and stiflingly they would
wrap me in a bale of silk and carry me past the guards and into your
presence. And by what devious routes I would leave you ... yes, and how
painlessly swift is the stroke of a simitar...."

The Yellow Girl shuddered.

"A simitar truly wielded is really nothing, after all," continued
Clarke. "I might have been sawn asunder between planks.... Well, and
that meeting in the garden these short twenty years ago was after all
not our first ... it seems that I knew then that it was not the first.
Though but for an evening----"

"Yes. Just for an evening. So to what end were we spared bowstrings
and the stroke of swift simitars, since we had but an evening?" And
thinking of the empty years of luxurious imprisonment that followed,
she smiled somberly. "For only an evening. And then you forgot, until
this rug--this same rug I wove centuries ago--interrupted your pleasant
adventuring, and reminded you.

"Death stared me in the face. The end of life more vainly lived than
the first. I knew that I was leaving this avatar after having lived but
one stolen evening. So I sent a trusted servant to carry this very rug
to Meshed. For when we met in the garden, you were hunting rugs for
him who now seeks them for your delight. And I knew that he would find
you if you still lived. Thus it is that I have crossed the Border, and
stand before you as I did once before--this time on that very rug which
I wove centuries ago, while living in hope of another meeting and in
dread of the bowstring I knew would in the end find me."

The moon patch had marched toward the end of the rug from Samarcand,
and was cutting into the blue web at its end. Clarke knew that when
there remained no more room for her tiny feet, she would vanish, not
ever to reappear. But Clarke hoped against knowledge.

"Yellow Girl," he entreated, "my door will be barred to friend and
acquaintance alike, if you will but return on whatever nights the moon
creeps across our rug...."

Had Diane, listening at the door, understood, she would have used her
key. But Diane merely heard:

"And I shall wait for these nights as long as life remains in me. For
all that has happened since then is nothing and less than nothing; and
all has been a dream since that one night in a garden of Zarab-shan."

Very little remained of the moon patch. The Yellow Girl stepped a tiny
pace forward, to prolong her stay yet another few moments. All but the
moonlit strip of the rug from Samarcand glowed bloodily in the flare of
the brazen mosque lamp.

"No, forgetful lover," chided the Yellow Girl, "I can not return. I
can not cross the Border again. In Samarcand, eight hundred years
ago we mocked for a while the doom that hung over us, and in the end
called the bowstring but a caress of farewell. Again, in the garden of
Zarab-shan we met, we parted, and you forgot: so this time I take no
chances. While I can not return, you at least can follow me ... if you
will ... for it is very easy...."

She edged along the ever narrowing strip of moon-bathed silk, and with
an embracing gesture, lured Clarke to rise and follow her.

"It is so easy ... move lightly ... but be careful not to disturb your
body or overbalance it...."

Had Diane not turned away from the door; were she not even now
strolling insouciantly down Royal Street----

"Yellow Girl, you and I have had enough of farewells!"

Something left Clarke, tottered perilously on the two handbreadths of
moonlight that remained, then caught the Yellow Girl by the hand and
took the lead.

The blue web of the rug from Samarcand gleamed for another moment in
the moonlight, then sweltered in the red glow of the mosque lamp.

