
The Los Angeles papers made little enough fuss over the death of old
Bratton. True, he was murdered--they found him stabbed, lying face down
across the threshold of his rear room that was jammed full of strange
mechanical junk--but the murder of a janitor is not really big crime
news in a city the size of Los Angeles.

The police were baffled, more so because none of them could guess what
the great mass of machinery could be, if indeed it were anything. But
they forgot their concern the following week, when they had a more
important murder to consider, that of one Digs Dilson.

Digs Dilson was high in the scale of local gang authority. He had long
occupied a gaudy apartment in that expensive Los Angeles hotel which
has prospered by catering to wealthy criminals. He was prudent enough
to have a bedroom with no fire escape. He feared climbing assassins
from without more than flames from within. In front of his locked room
slept two bodyguards on cots, and his own bedside window was tightly
wedged in such a fashion that no more than five inches of opening
showed between sill and sash. The electric power-line that was clamped
along the brickwork just outside could hardly have supported a greater
weight than thirty or forty pounds.

Yet Digs Dilson had been killed at close range, by a stab with an
ordinary kitchen knife, as he slept. The knife still remained in the
wound, as if defying investigators to trace finger-prints that weren't
there. And the bodyguards had not been wakened and the door had
remained locked on the inside.

The blade of the knife, had anyone troubled to compare wounds, could
have been demonstrated to be the exact size and shape as the one that
had killed old Bratton. His landlord might have been able to testify
that it came from old Bratton's little store of kitchen utensils. But
nobody at police headquarters bothered to connect the murders of a
friendless janitor and a grand duke of gangdom. After considerable
discussion and publicity, the investigators called the case one of
suicide. How else could Digs Dilson have received a knife in his body?

Hope was expressed that the Dilson mob, formerly active and successful
in meddling with film extras' organizations and the sea food racket,
would now dissolve. But the hope was short-lived.

A spruce lieutenant of the dead chief, a man by the name of Juney
Saltz, was reputed to have taken command. He appeared briefly at the
auction of old Bratton's effects, buying all the mysterious machinery
at junk prices and carting it away. After that, the organization,
now called the Salters, blossomed out into the grim but well-paid
professions of kidnapping, alien-running and counterfeiting.

The first important kidnapping they achieved, that of a very frightened
film director, gained them a ransom of ninety thousand dollars and the
attention of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The victim, once released, told of imprisonment in a dank cellar,
blind-folded and shackled. Once, fleetingly, he saw a captor who looked
like the rogue's gallery photographs of Juney Saltz, but that person
was plainly not the one in authority. In fact, he seemed to listen with
supple respect to a high but masterful voice that gave orders. And
the owner of that high voice once came close to the chair where the
prisoner sat bound; the point from which the voice seemed to issue was
very, very close to the cellar floor, as though the speaker was no more
than two feet high.

An individual short and shrill! Did a child rule that desperate
band? The sages of the law were more apt to consider this a clever
simulation, with the order-giver crouching low and squeaking high lest
he be identified. A judicious drag-netting of several unsavory drinking
places brought in one of the old Dilson crowd, who was skilfully, if
roughly, induced to talk.

He admitted a part in the kidnapping and ransom collection. He
described the cellar hideout as being located in a shabby suburb. He
implicated several of his comrades by name, including Juney Saltz. But
he shut up with a snap when his interrogators touched on the subject
of the Salters' real chief. No, it wasn't Juney Saltz--Juney was only
a front. No, nobody on the police records but, he insisted pallidly,
he wouldn't say any more. Let them kill him if they wanted to, he was
through talking.

"I'd rather die in the chair this minute than get my turn with the
boss," he vowed hysterically. "Don't tell me you'll take care of me,
either. There's things can get between bars, through keyholes even,
into the deepest hole you got. And you can smack me around all week
before I'll pipe up with another word."

His captors shut him in an inside cell generally reserved for
psychopathic cases--a solidly plated cubicle, with no window, grating,
or other opening save a narrow ventilator in the ceiling that gave upon
a ten-inch shaft leading to the roof. Then they gathered reenforcements
and weapons and descended on the house with the cellar where the
kidnapped director had been held for ransom.

Stealthily surrounding that house, they shouted the customary
invitation to surrender. Silence for a few seconds, then a
faint-hearted member of the Salters appeared at the front door with
his hands up. He took a step into the open, and dropped dead to the
accompaniment of a pistol-report from inside. And the besiegers heard
the shrill voice about which they had been wondering:

"Come in and take us. This place is as full of death as a drug store!"

Followed a loud and scientific bombardment with machine guns, gas bombs
and riot guns. The mobster who had been placed on guard at the back
door showed too much of himself and was picked off. A contingent of
officers made a quick, planned rush. More fighting inside, with three
more Salters dying in hot blood in the parlor and kitchen. What seemed
to be the sole survivor fled to the cellar and locked himself in a
rear compartment. The walls were of concrete, the one door of massive
planking. The chief of the attacking force stood in front of this door
and raised his voice:

"Hello, in there! You're Juney Saltz, aren't you?"

Gruff was the reply: "What if I am? Don't try to crack in here. I'll
get the first copper shows me his puss, and the second and the third."

"You can't get us all, Juney. And we've got more men out here than
you've got bullets in there. Come out with your hands up while you
still have the chance to stand a fair trial."

"Not me," growled Juney Saltz from within. "Come in and catch me before
you talk about what kind of a trial I'll get."

There was a keyhole, only partially blocked by the turnkey. One of the
G-men bent and thrust in the point of something that looked like a
fountain pen. Carefully he pressed a stud. The little tube spurted a
cloud of tear gas through the keyhole into Juney Saltz's fortress. The
besiegers grinned at each other, and all relaxed to wait.

The waiting was not long, as it developed. Juney Saltz spoke up within,
his voice a blubber: "Hey! I--I'm s-smothering--"

"But I'm not," drawled the same high voice that was becoming familiar.
"Sit back, Juney, and put your head between your knees. You'll stand it
better that way."

"I'm--done for!" wailed Juney Saltz. "If they crack in, I--I can't
s-see to shoot!"

"I can see to shoot." The shrill voice had become deadly. "And you'll
be the first thing I shoot at if you don't do what I tell you."

A strangled howl burst from Juney Saltz. "I'd rather be shot than--"
And next moment he was scrabbling at the door. "I surrender! I'll let
you bulls in!"

He had turned the key in the lock just as the shot that killed him rang
out. A rush of police foiled an attempt from within to fasten the door
again. Sneezing and gurgling, two of the raiders burst into the final
stronghold, stumbling over the subsiding lump of flesh that had been
Juney Saltz.

Blinded by tears from their own gas, they could not be sure afterward
of what the scurrying little thing was that they saw and fired at.
Those outside knew that nothing could have won past them, and the
den itself had no window that was not bricked up. When the gas had
been somewhat blown out, an investigator gave the place a thorough
searching. Yes, there was one opening, a stovepipe hole through which a
cat might have slipped. That was all. And the place was empty but for
the body of Juney Saltz.

"Juney was shot in the back," announced another operative, bending to
examine the wound. "I think I see what happened. Squeaky-Voice was at
that stovepipe hole, and plugged him from there as he tried to let us
in. Then Juney tried to lock up again, just as we pushed the door open."

Upstairs they went, and investigated further. The hole had joined a
narrow chimney, with no way out except the upper end, a rectangle eight
inches by ten. Even with six corpses to show, the agents returned to
their headquarters with a feeling of failure. "In the morning," they
promised one another, "we'll give that one Salter we're holding another
little question bee."

But in the morning, the jailer with breakfast found that prisoner dead.

He had been caught with a noose of thin, strong cord, tightened around
his throat from behind. Suicide? But the cord had been drawn into the
little ventilator hole, and tied to a projecting rivet far inside and
above.

On the same day, police, federal agents, newspapers and the public
generally were exercised by the information that Shannon Cole, popular
contralto star of stage, screen and radio, had been kidnapped from her
Beverly Hills bedroom. No clues, and so the investigation turned to her
acquaintances, among whom was Ben Gascon, recently retired from stage,
screen and radio.
