
Benjamin Franklin Gascon left the office of the Los Angeles chief
of detectives, where he had spent a most trying forenoon convincing
his interrogators that he had no idea why he should be brought into
the case. He knew nothing of the underworld. True, he knew Miss Cole
professionally, but--and his face was rueful--had no reason to count
himself a really close friend of hers. He had not seen her since the
termination of their latest radio assignment. His personal affairs,
meanwhile, were quite open to investigation; he had grown weary
of ventriloquism, and had retired to live on the income from his
investments. Later, he might resume his earlier profession, medicine.
He was attending lectures now at the University of California in Los
Angeles. And once again, he had no idea of how he was being brought
into this case, or of who could have kidnapped Miss Cole.

But, even as he departed, he suddenly got that idea.

"_Tom-Tom!_"

It took moments to string together the bits of logic which brought that
thought into his mind.

Things had happened to people, mostly gangsters, at the hands of a
malevolent creature; that is, if the creature had hands--but it must
have hands, if it could wield a gun, a slip-cord, a knife! It must
also be notably small and nimble, if it really traveled up chimneys,
down ventilator shafts, along power-lines and through stovepipe holes.
Gascon's imagination, as good as anyone's, toyed with the conception
of a wise and wicked monkey, or of a child possessed by evil like the
children of old Salem, or a dwarf.

But the point at which he coupled on his theory was the point at which
police had paused, or rather begun.

Digs Dilson had been killed with a knife. So had old Bratton.

He, Ben Gascon, had given old Bratton the dummy that people called
Tom-Tom. And old Bratton was forthwith murdered. Gascon had meant to go
to the funeral, but something had turned up to interfere. What else
concerned the janitor? What, for instance, had the younger electricians
and engineers teased him about so often? "Electricity is life," that
was old Bratton's constant claim. And he was said to have whole
clutters of strange machinery at his shabby rooms.

Bratton had taken Tom-Tom. Thereafter Bratton and others had been
killed. In the background of their various tragedies had lurked and
plotted something small, evil, active, and strange enough to frighten
the most hardened of criminals. "Electricity is life"--and Bratton had
toiled over some kind of electrical apparatus that might or might not
be new and powerful in ways unknown to ordinary electricians.

Gascon left the rationalization half completed in the back of his mind,
and sought out the shabby street where the janitor had lodged.

The landlord could not give him much help. To be sure old Bratton had
made a nuisance of himself with his machines, mumbling that they would
startle the world some day; but after his death, someone had bought
those machines, loaded them upon a truck and carted them off. The
landlord had seen the purchase, and later identified the purchaser from
newspaper photographs as the late Juney Saltz.

And Juney Saltz, pondered Gascon, had been killed by something with a
shrill voice, that could crawl through a stovepipe hole.... "You saw
the sale of the goods?" he prompted the landlord. "Was there a dummy--a
thing like a big doll, such as ventriloquists use?"

The landlord shook his head. "Nothing like that. I'd have noticed if
there was."

So Tom-Tom, who had gone home with old Bratton, had vanished.

Gascon left the lodgings and made a call at a newspaper office, where
he inserted a personal notice among the classified advertisements:

T-T. I have you figured out. Clever, but your old partner can add two
and two and get four. Better let S.C. go. B.F.G.

The notice ran for three days. Then a reply, in the same column:

B.F.G. So what? T-T.

It was bleak, brief defiance, but Gascon felt a sudden blaze of
triumph. Somehow he had made a right guess, on a most fantastic
proposition. Tom-Tom had come to life as a lawless menace. All that
he, Gascon, need do, was act accordingly. He made plans, then inserted
another message:

T-T. I made you, and I can break you. This is between us. Get in touch
with me, or I'll come looking for you. You won't like that. B.F.G.

Next day his telephone rang. A hoarse voice called him by name:

"Look, Gascon, you better lay off if you know what's good for you."

"Ah," replied Gascon gently, "Tom-Tom seems to have taken up
conventional gangster methods. It means that he's afraid--which I'm
not. Tell him I'm not laying off, I'm laying on."

That night he took dinner at a restaurant on a side street. As he left
it, two men sauntered out of a doorway and came up on either side of
him. One was as squat and bulky as a wrestler, with a truculent square
face. The other, taller but scrawny, had a broad brow and a narrow
chin, presenting the facial triangle which phrenologists claim denotes
shrewdness. Both had their hands inside their coats, where bulges
betrayed the presence of holstered guns.

"This is a stickup," said Triangle-Face. "Don't make a move or a peep,
or we'll cut down on you."

They walked him along the street.

"I'm not moving or peeping," Gascon assured them blandly, "but where
are you taking me?"

"Into this car," replied the triangle-faced one, and opened the rear
door of a parked sedan. Gascon got in, with the powerful gunman beside
him. The other got into the front seat and took the wheel.

"No funny business," he cautioned as he trod on the starter. "The boss
wants to talk to you."

The car drew away from the curb, heading across town. Gascon produced
his cigarette case--Shannon Cole had given it to him on his last
birthday--opened it, and offered it to the man beside him. Smiling
urbanely at the curt growl of refusal, he then selected a cigarette and
lighted it.

"Understand one thing," he bade his captors, through a cloud of smoke.
"I've expected this. I've worked for it. And I have written very fully
about all angles of this particular case. If anything happens to me,
the police will get my report."

It was patently a bluff, and in an effort to show that it did not work
both men laughed scornfully.

"We're hotter than a couple wolves in a prairie fire right now," the
triangle-faced one assured him. "Anyway, no dumb cop would believe the
truth about the boss."

That convinced Gascon that he was on his way to Tom-Tom. Too, the
remark about "a coupla wolves" showed that the driver thought of only
two members of the gang. Tom-Tom's following must have been reduced
to these. Gascon sat back with an air of enjoying the ride. Growling
again, his big companion leaned over and slapped him around the body.
There was no hard lump to betray knife or pistol, and the bulky fellow
grunted to show that he was satisfied. Gascon was satisfied as well.
His pockets were not probed into, and he was carrying a weapon that,
if unorthodox, was nevertheless efficient. He foresaw the need and the
chance to use it.

"Is Miss Cole all right?" he asked casually.

"Sure she is," replied Square-Face.

"Pipe down, you!" snapped his companion from the driver's seat. "Let
the boss do the talking to this egg."

"Your boss likes to do the talking, I judge," put in Gascon, still
casually. "Do you like to listen? Or," and his voice took on a mocking
note, "does he give you the creeps?"

"Never mind," Square-Face muttered. "He's doing okay."

"But not his followers," suggested Gascon. "Quite a few of them have
been killed, eh? And aren't you two the only survivors of the old
Dilson crowd? How long will your luck hold out, I wonder?"

"Longer than yours," replied the man at the wheel sharply. "If you talk
any more, we'll put the slug on you."

The remainder of the ride was passed in silence, and the car drew up
at length before a quiet suburban cottage, on the edge of town almost
directly opposite the scene of the recent fight between police and the
Salters.

The three entered a dingy parlor, full of respectable looking
furniture. "Keep him here," Triangle-Face bade Square-Face. "I'll go
help the boss get ready to talk to him."

He was gone. His words suggested that there would be some moments alone
with Square-Face, and Gascon meant to make use of them.

The big fellow sat down. "Take a chair," he bade, but Gascon shook his
head and lighted another cigarette. He narrowed his eyes, in his best
diagnostician manner, to study his guard.

"You look as if there was something wrong with your glands," he said
crisply.

"Ain't nothing wrong with me," was the harsh response.

"Are you sure? How do you feel?"

"Good enough to pull a leg off of you if you don't shut that big mouth."

Gascon shrugged, and turned to a rear wall. A picture hung there, a
very unsightly oil painting. He put his hand up, as if to straighten it
on its hook. Then he glanced toward a window, letting his eyes dilate.
"Ahhhh!" he said softly.

Up jumped the gangster, gun flashing into view. "What did you say?" he
demanded.

"I just said 'Ahhhh,'" replied Gascon, his eyes fixed on the window.

"If anybody's followed you here--" The giant broke off and tramped
toward the window to look out.

Like a flash Gascon leaped after him. With him he carried the picture,
lifted from where it hung. He swept it through the air, using the edge
of the frame like a hatchet and aiming at the back of the thick neck.

The blow was powerful and well placed. Knocked clean out, the gangster
fell on his face. Gascon stooped, hooked his hands under the armpits,
and made shift to drag the slack weight back to its chair. It took
all his strength to set his victim back there. Then he drew from his
side pocket the thing he had been carrying for days--a wad of cotton
which he soaked in chloroform. Holding it to the broad nose, he waited
until the last tenseness went out of the great limbs. Then he crossed
one leg over the other knee, poised the head against the chair-back,
an elbow on a cushioned arm. Clamping the nerveless right hand about
the pistol-butt, he arranged it in the man's lap. Now the attitude was
one of assured relaxation. Gascon hung the picture back in place, and
himself sat down. He still puffed on the cigarette that had not left
his lips.

He had more than a minute to wait before the leaner mobster returned.
"Ready for you now," he said to Gascon, beckoning him through a rear
door. He gave no more than a glance to his quiet, easy-seeming comrade.

They went down some stairs into a basement--plainly basements were an
enthusiasm of the commander of this enterprise--and along a corridor.
At the end was a door, pulled almost shut, with light showing through
the crack. "Go in," ordered Triangle-Face, and turned as if to mount
the stairs again.

But it was not Gascon's wish that he find his companion senseless.
In fact, Gascon had no intention of leaving anyone in the way of the
retreat he hoped to make later. With his hand on the doorknob, he
spoke:

"One thing, my friend."

Triangle-Face paused and turned. "I'm no friend of yours. What do you
want?"

Gascon extended his other hand. "Wish me luck."

"The only luck I wish you is bad. Don't try to grab hold of me."

The gangster's hand slid into the front of his coat, toward that bulge
that denoted an armpit holster. Gascon sprang upon him, catching him
by the sleeve near the elbow so that he could not whip free with the
weapon. Gascon's other hand dived into his own pocket, again clutching
the big wad of chloroform-soaked cotton.

He whipped the wad at and upon the triangular face. The man tried to
writhe away but Gascon, heavier and harder-muscled than he, shoved
him against the wall, where the back of his head could be clamped and
held. Struggling, the fellow breathed deeply, again, again. His frantic
flounderings suddenly went feeble. Gascon judged the dose sufficient,
and let go his holds. The man subsided limply and Gascon, still holding
to his sleeve, dragged the right hand out of the coat. Dropping his wad
of cotton, he took up the big pistol.

"I'm afraid, Gaspipe," said a shrill, wise voice he should know better
than anyone in the world, "that that gun won't really help you a
nickel's worth."

Gascon spun around. A moment ago he had put his hand on the doorknob.
When he had turned to leap at the triangle-faced man, he had pulled
the door open. Now he could see inside a bare, officelike room, a big
sturdy desk and a figure just beyond; a figure calm and assured, but so
tiny, so grotesque.

"Come in, Gaspipe," commanded Tom-Tom, the dummy.
