
He awoke in softness. He opened his eyes and knew he was in bed. He
was also aware of three other things--a horrible taste in his mouth--a
splitting headache--and the fact he was not alone. He blinked and the
form beside the bed sharpened from a blur and turned into a beautiful
girl; a girl he felt he should know. Then he remembered. He had met her
the previous night in the Lotus Room. She had been introduced to him as
Daphne. She was still very beautiful; cool as a summer afternoon in the
woods.

Though he had on completely adequate pajamas, Lee felt naked and ducked
again behind his belligerence. "What the hell are you doing here?"

She regarded him with an almost childlike seriousness. "Mr. Clifford
thought you ought not to be alone when you awakened."

"Very thoughtful of him since he was the guy who put me under. How
long have you been here?"

"About two hours."

Filled with contempt for himself, Lee unconsciously used the device of
redirecting it on the first handy person. Daphne was handy. His mouth
twisted knowingly. "Sure you're not here for another reason?"

"What reason?"

"Trying to pick up a few bucks, maybe?"

The question in her eyes was obviously sincere, her look entirely
innocent, and he knew she was not that kind of a girl.

Her expression changed only in that the question vanished. The
innocence remained. Yet there was something about this last that caught
Lee's attention. He tried to define it. The innocence of knowledge
rather than that of ignorance? He wondered.

"If you want me to," Daphne said. "But no money would be required."

Stunned, Lee forgot his headache and slowly swung his feet to the
floor. He studied her, the analytical mind that had made him a great
scientist while still a young man now framing the questions.

"Why?"

"I do not need money."

"I mean why are you willing to--"

"Because Mr. Clifford asked that I serve you in any way I'm able."

"Why the rotten--!"

"Oh, no! Mr. Clifford is one of the Great Ones." There was reverence in
her voice.

"You must be a fool! Trusting a man who would ask you to do a thing
like that!"

"You're putting words in my mouth. Mr. Clifford did not mention
sleeping with you. He only asked that I render any service possible."

"And you don't think that was included?"

"Possibly it was."

"And you respect a man who would _let_ it be included?"

Daphne smiled, brilliantly, quietly. "Perhaps Mr. Clifford knew I would
not be asked to render any such service."

"How could any man know that?"

"I told you. Mr. Clifford is one--"

"I know--I know. One of the Great Ones. What's that? A lodge of some
kind?"

She pondered for a moment. "In a sense."

Suddenly Lee's decency took command. "I'm sorry--more sorry than I can
say. Forgive me?"

She returned his smile. "There is nothing to forgive. Would you like
some coffee?"

"That's an idea, but mainly I want to talk."

"About what?"

"Who brought me here? Who--" he rubbed a hand across his chin. "Who
cleaned me up and shaved me?"

"Mr. Clifford."

"Why?"

"I don't know. I imagine he had a reason."

"Where is he now?"

"I don't know. In China perhaps--South America--India."

Lee smiled wryly. "Okay--okay. Ask a foolish question, you get a
foolish answer."

"I spoke the truth."

"What is he? A traveling sales man?"

Again Daphne considered with deep seriousness. "I suppose you could
call him that?"

"When will he be back? I want a few more words with him."

"I doubt," Daphne said, "if you will ever see him again."

Lee tried to stand. He made a bad job of it. He swayed and sat down
again. She was beside him instantly. "Your head?"

"My _two_ heads."

"Perhaps I can help." Her fingers were cool on his skin; live,
soothing, merciful. Lee closed his eyes and was enveloped in a
wonderful sense of well-being. Then he realized what seemed like a
long time had been only a few moments. But his headache was gone.
