
He turned on her sharply. "How did you do that?"

"It's very simple." Daphne went quickly to the phone and ordered coffee
and orange juice. She put down the receiver, faced Lee, and said, "You
wanted to talk?"

"Yes. I have one big fat question. Why?"

"Why?"

"Don't evade--please. You know what I mean. I was lying drunk in the
gutter. This man picked me up and put me here. Why?"

"Perhaps you are more important to humanity than you realize."

"Why do you say that?"

"Because Mr. Clifford concerns himself with humanity."

Lee felt a quick exasperation. Daphne seemed perfectly willing
to answer any question he asked, but her answers were about as
enlightening as midnight in a dark closet. He sought a different tack.
"Tell me about these Great Ones."

"I'm afraid I can't."

"Why not?"

"Because I know so little about hem."

"They don't tell you much, then?"

"I am unworthy of knowing much. As yet I am hardly an initiate."

A waiter brought the coffee and departed. Daphne poured from the silver
pot. "Is there anything else I can do?"

"I think you've done enough. And I'm grateful. I haven't got the least
idea as to reasons--but I'm grateful."

"I'll be at the Lotus Room if you want me."

Daphne picked up her coat, smiled at Lee, and started toward the door.
As she extended her hand toward the knob, Lee said, "Just one more
thing."

She turned. "Yes?"

"Before I passed out, there was something this Clifford said. Something
about my being ready to meet the man with the golden eyes. What kind of
gibberish was that?"

Daphne hesitated. For the first time, she seemed at a loss for an
answer.

Lee asked, "Was it just my imagination?"

"No."

"What did he mean?"

"Just what he said, I'm sure."

Lee smothered his exasperation. "All right--then who _is_ the man with
the golden eyes?"

Daphne regarded Lee with a sort of impersonal fondness. "Someone I'm
sure you will meet very, very soon."

She left before Lee could get in another question. He sat on the edge
of the bed staring moodily at his coffee cup. "She cured my headache,"
he muttered, "but I've got a hunch this guy with the golden eyes is
going to bring it right back again...."
