
He walked from the hotel straight to the nearest bar. He knocked off
a double bourbon, neat, and let it warm the lining of his stomach. It
felt good. He set down his glass and gestured to the barkeep. Then he
was looking into the refilled glass and making no move to lift it. A
moment later he was out in the street, realizing this was the first
time in eighteen months that he'd walked away from a drink.

It was no reformation, though; merely a temporary diversion of his mind
from a prime objective; that of drinking himself to death; that of
blotting from his brain the picture of eleven men dying horribly as the
ship he had designed shivered and buckled and collapsed in deep space.

Not even a temporary respite, because the horrible vision of his own
shortcomings--his own failure--was still there. But how could he have
known? Neither he nor anyone else could possibly have been aware of
the true conditions encountered out there. Theories and abstracts were
fine; almost enough to go on. But not quite. The payoff is always in
the doing. Otherwise, test pilots would not command fabulous salaries
to risk their necks on the first try-out. But eleven men! Snuffed out
because Lee Hayden's word had been taken. Eleven young men.

And here he was, many hours later--back in his room with the bottle on
the table ready to blot out the dream--the nightmare of their final
agony--that ripped and tore at him everytime he closed his eyes.

Still half sober, he fell into bed and began living it again, tasting
the horror, feeling his own flesh grind, his own bones break; living
their deaths over just as he had from that first moment when he'd
gotten word of the disaster; the last message they'd sent from space.

He awoke in a pool of sweat and realized where he was. He snatched at
the bottle, hit it, knocked it off the table. He watched the liquor
slop out onto the carpet. He sobbed.

Then, wide-awake--with the stench of fresh whiskey in his nostrils--he
saw the man with the golden eyes.
