
Or at least he thought he was awake. And even as it happened, there was
a certainty in his mind.

_This is no dream._

He was standing, apparently unobserved, in a huge cave; a strange,
fabulous place and the wonder of it caught at his breath and made his
heart race.

The cave was high in the side of a mountain. It was as though a huge
knife had cut horizontally into solid rock and sliced out a chunk nine
feet thick, fifty feet wide, and one hundred feet deep. The walls and
ceiling of the cave were of burnished black stone, the floor laid with
thick, silken carpet.

Light came soft and shadowless from somewhere, seemingly sourceless,
and from the outer lip of the cave where Lee stood, he could see a
full, yellow moon riding the night-sky.

The scene--above and below--was one of ecstacy; an overwhelming
sensation swept through Lee, something he had never known before.
At his feet was a sheer drop of ten thousand feet straight down the
face of the mountain to a green valley below. A silver river threaded
delicately through a valley hemmed in by towering snow-covered giants.
The air was like sharp wine and something within Lee said, _I am not
dreaming. I know I am here. I can feel the air in my lungs. I can feel
a new life vibrating through my flesh. I am still drunk but now it's
different. Now I'm drunk from a feeling of complete freedom. I know for
the first time that I have never been really alive._

He raised his eyes to the stars above--steel-blue stars in the clear
air. _I know too, that these are the Himalaya mountains--that this is
the roof of the world._

He turned and looked into the cave. A man stood nearby. He wore a
white gown, yet his form was not hidden; a magnificent six-foot body
supported a head of majestic proportions. The man's face was a magnet
and Lee would never know whether or not he was handsome. He would
remember that the mouth was firm, the nose straight, the eyes dark and
arresting. They were not golden, yet the light that came from them,
illuminating the face that would forever leave an impression of shining
gold.

The man with the golden eyes.

Lee said, "I am a stranger. How did I get here? Why have I come?"

The man moved forward and stood looking out across the mountains. But
he appeared to be seeing much further--into infinity itself. He said
nothing.

"Please. Why am I here?"

The man paid no attention. He finished regarding whatever had
interested him and turned back into the cave.

"Please."

At this word, the man stopped and turned. He looked at Lee for a long
moment. Then he said, "Be very careful. A fall from this height would
be fatal." With that he moved back into the cave, and....

Lee Hayden was lying in a sweat-soaked bed.

But his awakening was different from any he had ever known. Later,
trying to analyze this, he concluded he had awakened from not having
been asleep; awakened as it were, from an awakened state. When he tried
to rationalize this contradiction he could not do so. Neither could he
change it.

But he sprang from the bed with a wordless cry and was on his knees
clawing for the whiskey bottle. There was more than a double shot left.
He gulped it down. He dropped the bottle and sobbed. Then all strength
went out of him and he collapsed into sleep there on the whiskey-soaked
carpet....
