
Lee flew east. Seven days later he was in Karachi. He scarcely looked
at the place, his eyes turning northward toward Baluchistan; eastward
toward Lucknow and Delhi. In that direction, the roof of the world was
a faint blue haze on the horizon of his imagination. His face was grim
and cold. Seven days had changed him. The fanatic rode high, now. The
reasonable man was a dim spector lurking uneasily in the background.

He changed his money into the coin of the realm and took a train for
Delhi. He rode with strange people, scarcely aware of their presence.

He discovered that traveling from Karachi to Delhi on the railroad of
India was a frustrating and confusing business. He began counting his
money carefully; hoarding it; haggling. When he arrived in Delhi, he
was a lean, bearded stranger with a fever behind his eyes.

But there was a glory in his heart because of a new and sharpened
sensitivity. He was alone and friendless and almost without funds, yet
he had never before felt so able, so competent.

While stalking the streets of Delhi looking for a cheap hotel, he heard
a cheerful voice calling his name. He turned. The voice came from a car
at the curb. A brand new Ford convertible. Lee spoke casually. "How are
you, Mr. Clifford?"

The meeting was as strange and illogical as all the other events and
incidents of Lee's life had been since he had lain in a New York City
gutter.

Mr. Clifford smiled warmly. "Mr. Hayden--I'm glad to see you."

"A real surprise," Lee said.

"How have you been?"

"Fine--just fine."

"Taking a little trip, I see."

"Yes. Getting around a little. Seeing the world."

A mad conversation in the light of the questions he had for Mr.
Clifford; and the things Mr. Clifford could logically have had to tell
him.

But a new and exhilarating independence had sprung up in Lee Hayden. He
realized he was not the same man Clifford had rescued and drugged in
New York.

"You really get around," Lee said.

"Oh, yes. I have a lot to do."

Lee turned away.

"See you again sometime."

"I hope so--and by the way, there's a man you might like to talk to. I
think you'd feel free to ask him questions. Perhaps he'd feel free to
answer."

"Good--where can I find him?"

Mr. Clifford considered for a moment, then said, "I'm going in that
direction. Jump in."

Lee obeyed, throwing his rucksack in the back seat--the rucksack he'd
acquired, along with cash, for his expensive pigskin two-suiter.

Mr. Clifford tooled the Ford carefully through the streets and out
onto the dusty, country road leading northeast. No word was spoken for
many miles; until Lee extended a hand toward the horizon. "Beautiful
mountains."

"The Himalayas. The roof of the world."

"No mountains on earth quite like them."

"Rugged, aren't they?--and beautiful."

"By the way, how is Daphne?"

"In excellent health, I'm sure. I haven't seen her for a long time."

Mr. Clifford turned off the road and pulled up beside a parked Cadillac
sedan. Nearby was a small hut and a tiny enclosure. Within the
enclosure, a goat munched on dry, colorless hay.

In front of the hut a man sat cross-legged. He was very old and thin.
His skin was burned black by the sun and he wore only a white sheet
wound loosely around his body. His head was completely hairless and he
looked as though he had sat there for years without moving a muscle.

A woman sat on the ground in front of him. The sun was just setting
and its rays played on her magnificent white hair; upon the wealth of
color in her dress--a dress, Lee estimated, that must have cost several
hundred dollars. Yet she sat in the dust before this ancient Indian
and hung upon his every word.

"We will wait," Mr. Clifford said.

After a while, the woman got to her feet and approached the Cadillac.
Lee saw her beautiful, calm, unlined face, and he was struck by her
resemblance to Daphne. She looked nothing like Daphne in either face
nor figure, yet they had in common an arresting mystic beauty that
seemed to come from within.

The woman smiled at Mr. Clifford who smiled back. No word was said.
After she backed the car out and swung into the road, Mr. Clifford
said, "Wait, please," and got out of the car. He approached the
cross-legged man and sat down in the dust.

They talked for a long time and when Mr. Clifford got up and returned
to the car, it was after dusk, and the heavens over India were filled
with great flaming stars.

"I'll leave you now," Mr. Clifford said. "The man by the hut is known
only as Abat Krishna. You may approach and talk to him."

"Thank you."

Clifford hesitated before getting in behind the wheel. His eyes turned
toward the dark horizon.

"There is danger ahead for you."

"I am not afraid."

"Perhaps you will find what you want. Perhaps you will die."

"I will find my way. You said I might question this man?"

"You may ask him anything you like. Goodbye."

Mr. Clifford started the motor and drove away. The goat sent a bleat of
farewell through the star-lit darkness.
