
Lee went to the hut and sat down in front of Abat Krishna. The Indian
regarded the heavens and remained silent.

"Who," Lee asked, "are the Great Ones?"

"There are many names for the group. They have been called the Great
White Brotherhood. They have been referred to as the Chosen Ones. But
that name is misleading in that none are really chosen. The way is open
to all. Nothing is given, all is earned."

"Is Mr. Clifford a Great One?"

"Possibly. I do not know."

"Was it sheer chance that he found me in the gutter and lifted me up?"

"Nothing is sheer chance, my son. The most casual movement of an
insect's antenna is carefully planned."

"What do the Great Ones do?"

"Their duty--which is as simple and ordinary to them as ours is to us."

"How may they be recognized?"

"That would be difficult."

"Where may one find a Great One?"

"Anywhere. Wherever their duties and their destinies call them."

"_What_, exactly, is a Great One?"

"A child of God who, through his own efforts, has prepared himself--or
herself--for greater understanding of God's laws; for deeper awareness.
With this of course, comes greater responsibilities, and greater
achievements."

"I have heard that there are men in India--"

"Why necessarily India?"

"--that there are men on this earth who can walk on water; who can pass
through solid substances. Is there any truth in that?"

"I do not know. I have never met such a person."

"Do you believe that such persons exist?"

"The answer to that is difficult. Do you have complete understanding of
all natural laws? All God's laws?"

"No. I have very little knowledge of them."

"Then I might put it this way: A man walking through solid matter
would seem to you to be violating a natural law. But a trick of
elementary sleight-of-hand--the vanishing of a coin--could appear the
same to a child. So perhaps the answer lies in comparatively greater
understanding."

Lee regarded Abat Krishna. Abat Krishna calmly regarded the heavens.
Lee said, "But the _greatest_ Great One of all is the man with the
golden eyes. Am I correct?"

"You are correct."

"I seek him."

"A worthy endeavor. I have sought him for many years."

"But I know where he is."

"You are indeed fortunate."

"I saw him in what many might consider a dream. But I know it was not a
dream!"

"I'm sure it was not."

"I saw him in a cave high in one of the Himalaya Mountains."

"There are many mountains in the chain."

"I shall find the right one."

"I'm sure you shall."

Lee leaned forward. "You said you seek him too. Then come with me."

"I cannot. Each man follows his own destiny."

"And yours--?"

"To sit and study the heavens until I find myself worthy of lowering my
eyes."

"A strange destiny."

"All destinies are strange."

"I am selfish enough to ask your help."

"I have none to give."

"No advice?"

"One inconsequential bit perhaps. To the east is a settlement called
Almora. Trading caravans leave from there for the higher country--and
across."

"Thank you."

"The goat is ready to be milked. Refresh yourself before you go...."
