
The chill of evening had settled on the land. Most of the Folk were
already wrapped in their mantles, conserving their energy until the
dawn would warm them into life. But Kworn felt no need to estivate. It
was warm enough beside the wall.

The air shimmered as it cooled. Microcrystals of ice formed upon the
legs of the structure, outlining them in shimmering contrast to the
drab shadowy landscape, with its gray-green cover of lichens stippled
with the purple balls of the lichen feeders that clung to them. Beyond
Kworn and his neighbors, spaced twenty raads apart, the mantled
bodies of the Folk stretched in a long single line across the rolling
landscape, vanishing into the darkness. Behind this line, a day's
travel to the rear, another line of the Folk was following. Behind them
was yet another. There were none ahead, for the Ul Kworn and the other
Ul were the elders of the Folk and moved along in the first rank where
their maturity and ability to reproduce had placed them according to
the Law.

Caada and Varsi stirred restlessly, stimulated to movement by the heat
radiating from the obstacle, but compelled by the Law to hold their
place in the ranks until the sun's return would stimulate the others.
Their dark crimson mantles rippled over the soil as they sent restless
pseudopods to the boundaries of their strips.

They were anxious in their attempt to communicate with the Ul Kworn.

But Kworn wasn't ready to communicate. He held aloof as he sent a
thin pseudopod out toward the gleaming wall in front of him. He was
squandering energy; but he reasoned that he had better learn all
he could about this thing before he attempted to cross it tomorrow,
regardless of what it cost.

It was obvious that he would have to cross it, for the Law was specific
about encroachment upon a neighbor's territory. _No member of the Folk
shall trespass the feeding land of another during the Time of Travel
except with published permission. Trespass shall be punished by the
ejection of the offender from his place in rank._

And that was equivalent to a death sentence.

He could ask Caada or Varsi for permission, but he was virtually
certain that he wouldn't get it. He wasn't on particularly good terms
with his neighbors. Caada was querulous, old and selfish. He had not
reproduced this season and his vitality was low. He was forever hungry
and not averse to slipping a sly pseudopod across the boundaries of his
land to poach upon that of his neighbor. Kworn had warned him some time
ago that he would not tolerate encroachment and would call for a group
judgment if there was any poaching. And since the Folk were physically
incapable of lying to one another, Caada would be banished. After that
Caada kept his peace, but his dislike for Kworn was always evident.
