
But Varsi who held the land on Kworn's right was worse. He had advanced
to Ul status only a year ago. At that time there had been rumors among
the Folk about illicit feeding and stealing of germ plasm from the
smaller and weaker members of the race. But that could not be proved,
and many young Folk died in the grim process of growing to maturity.
Kworn shrugged. If Varsi was an example of the younger generation,
society was heading hell-bent toward Emptiness. He had no love for
the pushing, aggressive youngster who crowded out to the very borders
of his domain, pressing against his neighbors, alert and aggressive
toward the slightest accidental spillover into his territory. What
was worse, Varsi had reproduced successfully this year and thus had
rejuvenated. Kworn's own attempt had been only partially successful.
His energy reserves hadn't been great enough to produce a viable
offspring, and the rejuvenation process in his body had only gone to
partial completion. It would be enough to get him to the winter feeding
grounds. But as insurance he had taken a place beside Caada, who was
certain to go into Emptiness if the feeding en route was bad.

Still, he hadn't figured that he would have Varsi beside him.

He consoled himself with the thought that others might have as bad
neighbors as he. But he would never make the ultimate mistake of
exchanging germ plasm with either of his neighbors, not even if his
fertility and his position depended upon it. Cells like theirs would
do nothing to improve the sense of discipline and order he had so
carefully developed in his own. His offspring were courteous and
honorable, a credit to the Folk and to the name of Kworn. A father
should be proud of his offspring, so that when they developed to the
point where they could have descendants, he would not be ashamed of
what they would produce. An Ul, Kworn thought grimly, should have some
sense of responsibility toward the all-important future of the race.

His anger died as he exerted synergic control. Anger was a waster of
energy, a luxury he couldn't afford. He had little enough as it was. It
had been a bad year. Spring was late, and winter had come early. The
summer had been dry and the lichens in the feeding grounds had grown
poorly. The tiny, bulbous lichen feeders, the main source of food for
the Folk, had failed to ripen to their usual succulent fullness. They
had been poor, shrunken things, hardly worth ingesting. And those along
the route to the winter feeding grounds were no better.

Glumly he touched the wall before him with a tactile filament. It
was uncomfortably warm, smooth and slippery to the touch. He felt it
delicately, noting the almost microscopic horizontal ridges on the
wall's surface. He palpated with relief. The thing was climbable. But
even as he relaxed, he recoiled, the filament writhing in agony! The
wall had burned his flesh! Faint threads of vapor rose from where he
had touched the metal, freezing instantly in the chill air. He pinched
off the filament in an automatic protective constriction of his cells.
The pain ceased instantly, but the burning memory was so poignant that
his mantle twitched and shuddered convulsively for some time before the
reflexes died.
