
Thoughtfully he ingested his severed member. With a sense of numbing
shock he realized that he would be unable to pass across the disc. The
implications chilled him. If he could not pass, his land beyond the
roadblock would be vacant and open to preemption by his neighbors. Nor
could he wait until they had passed and rejoin them later. The Law was
specific on that point. _If one of the Folk lags behind in his rank,
his land becomes vacant and open to his neighbors. Nor can one who has
lagged behind reclaim his land by moving forward. He who abandons his
position, abandons it permanently._

Wryly, he reflected that it was this very Law that had impelled him to
take a position beside the Ul Caada. And, of course, his neighbors knew
the Law as well as he. It was a part of them, a part of their cells
even before they split off from their parent. It would be the acme of
folly to expect that neighbors like Varsi or Caada would allow him to
pass over their land and hold his place in rank.

Bitterness flooded him with a stimulation so piercing that Caada
extended a communication filament to project a question. "What is this
thing which lies upon your land and mine?" Caada asked. His projection
was weak and feeble. It was obvious that he would not last for many
more days unless feeding improved.

"I do not know. It is something of metal, and it bars my land. I cannot
cross it. It burns me when I touch it."

A quick twinge of excitement rushed along Caada's filament. The old Ul
broke the connection instantly, but not before Kworn read the flash of
hope that Kworn had kindled. There was no help in this quarter, and
the wild greed of Varsi was so well known that there was no sense even
trying that side.

A surge of hopelessness swept through him. Unless he could find some
way to pass this barrier he was doomed.

He didn't want to pass into Emptiness. He had seen too many others go
that way to want to follow them. For a moment he thought desperately
of begging Caada and Varsi for permission to cross into their land for
the short time that would be necessary to pass the barrier, but reason
asserted itself. Such an act was certain to draw a flat refusal and,
after all, he was the Ul Kworn and he had his pride. He would not beg
when begging was useless.

And there was a bare possibility that he might survive if he closed his
mantle tightly about him and waited until all the ranks had passed. He
could then bring up the rear ... and, possibly, just possibly, there
would be sufficient food left to enable him to reach the winter feeding
grounds.

And it might still be possible to cross the disc. There was enough
warmth in it to keep him active. By working all night he might be able
to build a path of sand across its surface and thus keep his tissues
from being seared by the metal. He would be technically violating the
law by moving ahead of the others, but if he did not feed ahead, no
harm would be done.
