
He moved closer to the barrier and began to pile sand against its base,
sloping it to make a broad ramp to the top of the disc. The work was
slow and the sand was slippery. The polished grains slipped away and
the ramp crumbled time after time. But he worked on, piling up sand
until it reached the top of the disc. He looked across the flat surface
that stretched before him.

Fifty raads!

It might as well be fifty zets. He couldn't do it. Already his energy
level was so low that he could hardly move, and to build a raad-wide
path across this expanse of metal was a task beyond his strength. He
drooped across the ramp, utterly exhausted. It was no use. What he
ought to do was open his mantle to Emptiness.

He hadn't felt the communication filaments of Caada and Varsi touch
him. He had been too busy, but now with Caada's burst of glee, and
Varsi's cynical, "A noble decision, Ul Kworn. You should be commended,"
he realized that they knew everything.

His body rippled hopelessly. He was tired, too tired for anger. His
energy was low. He contemplated Emptiness impassively. Sooner or later
it came to all Folk. He had lived longer than most, and perhaps it
was his time to go. He was finished. He accepted the fact with a cold
fatalism that he never dreamed he possessed. Lying there on the sand,
his mantle spread wide, he waited for the end to come.

It wouldn't come quickly, he thought. He was still far from the
cellular disorganization that preceded extinction. He was merely
exhausted, and in need of food to restore his energy.

With food he might still have an outside chance of building the path in
time. But there was no food. He had gleaned his area completely before
he had ever reached the roadblock.

Lying limp and relaxed on the ramp beside the barrier, he slowly became
conscious that the metal wasn't dead. It was alive! Rhythmic vibrations
passed through it and were transmitted to his body by the sand.

A wild hope stirred within him. If the metal were alive it might hear
him if he tried to communicate. He concentrated his remaining reserves
of energy, steeled himself against the pain and pressed a communication
filament against the metal.

"Help me!" he projected desperately. "You're blocking my strip! I
can't pass!"

Off to one side he sensed Varsi's laughter and on the other felt
Caada's gloating greed.

"I cannot wake this metal," he thought hopelessly as he tried again,
harder than before, ignoring the pain of his burning flesh.

Something clicked sharply within the metal, and the tempo of the sounds
changed.

"It's waking!" Kworn thought wildly.
