
There was a creaking noise from above. A rod moved out from the
cylinder and twisted into the ground in Varsi's territory, to the
accompaniment of clicking, grinding noises. A square grid lifted from
the top of the cylinder and began rotating. And Kworn shivered and
jerked to the tremendous power of the words that flowed through him.
They were words, but they had no meaning, waves of sound that hammered
at his receptors in an unknown tongue he could not understand. The
language of the Folk had changed since the days of the ancients, he
thought despairingly.

And then, with a mantle-shattering roar, the cylinders jutting overhead
spouted flame and smoke. Two silvery balls trailing thin, dark
filaments shot out of the great cylinder and buried themselves in the
sand behind him. The filaments lay motionless in the sand as Kworn,
wrapped defensively in his mantle, rolled off the ramp to the ground
below.

The silence that followed was so deep that it seemed like Emptiness had
taken the entire land.

Slowly Kworn loosened his mantle. "In the name of my first ancestor,"
he murmured shakily, "what was that?" His senses were shocked and
disorganized by the violence of the sound. It was worse even than the
roar and scream of the samshin that occasionally blew from the south,
carrying dust, lichens, feeders and even Folk who had been too slow or
too foolish to hide from the fury of the wind.

Gingerly, Kworn inspected the damage to his mantle. It was minor. A
tiny rip that could easily be repaired, a few grains of sand that could
be extruded. He drew himself together to perform the repairs with the
least possible loss of energy, and as he did, he was conscious of an
emanation coming from the filaments that had been hurled from the
cylinder.

Food!

And such food!

It was the distilled quintessence of a thousand purple feeders! It
came to his senses in a shimmering wave of ecstasy so great that his
mantle glowed a bright crimson. He stretched a pseudopod toward its
source, and as he touched the filament his whole body quivered with
anticipation. The barrier was blotted from his thoughts by an orgy
of shuddering delight almost too great for flesh to endure. Waves of
pleasure ran through his body as he swiftly extended to cover the
filament. It could be a trap, he thought, but it made no difference.
The demands of his depleted body and the sheer vacuole-constricting
delight of this incredible foodstuff made a combination too potent for
his will to resist, even if it had desired to do so. Waves of pleasure
rippled through him as more of his absorptive surface contacted the
filament. He snuggled against it, enfolding it completely, letting the
peristaltic rushes sweep through him. He had never fed like this as
long as he could recall. His energy levels swelled and pulsed as he
sucked the last delight from the cord, and contemplated the further
pleasure waiting for him in that other one lying scarcely twenty raads
away.

Sensuously, he extended a pseudopod from his upper surface and probed
for the other filament. He was filled to the top of his primary vacuole
but the desire for more was stronger than ever--despite the fact that
he knew the food in the other filament would bring him to critical
level, would force him to reproduce. The thought amused him. As far
back as he could remember, no member of the Folk had ever budded an
offspring during the Time of Travel. It would be unheard of, something
that would go down through the years in the annals of the Folk, and
perhaps even cause a change in the Law.

The pseudopod probed, reached and stopped short of its goal. There was
nothing around it but empty air.
