
Fear drove the slow orgasmic thoughts from his mind. Absorbed in
gluttony, he hadn't noticed that the filament had tightened and was
slowly drawing back into the cylinder from whence it came. And now it
was too late! He was already over the rim of the metal disc.

Feverishly, he tried to disengage his absorptive surfaces from the
filament and crawl down its length to safety, but he couldn't move. He
was stuck to the dark cord by some strange adhesive that cemented his
cells firmly to the cord. He could not break free.

The line moved steadily upward, dragging him inexorably toward a dark
opening in the cylinder overhead. Panic filled him! Desperately he
tried to loosen his trapped surfaces. His pseudopod lashed futilely
in the air, searching with panic for something to grip, something to
clutch that would stop this slow movement to the hell of pain that
waited for him in the metal high overhead.

His searching flesh struck another's, and into his mind flooded the Ul
Caada's terrified thought. The old one had reacted quicker than he,
perhaps because he was poaching, but like himself he was attached and
could not break free.

"Serves you right," Kworn projected grimly. "The thing was on my land.
You had no right to feed upon it."

"Get me loose!" Caada screamed. His body flopped at the end of a
thick mass of digestive tissue, dangling from the line, writhing and
struggling in mindless terror. It was strange, Kworn thought, that fear
should be so much stronger in the old than in the young.

"Cut loose, you fool," Kworn projected. "There isn't enough of you
adhered to hurt if it were lost. A little body substance isn't worth
your life. Hurry! You'll be too late if you don't. That metal is
poisonous to our flesh."

"But it will be pain to cut my absorbing surface," Caada protested.

"It will be death if you don't."

"Then why don't you?"

"I can't," Kworn said hopelessly. "All my surface is stuck to the
filament. I can't cut free." He was calm now, resigned to the
inevitable. His greed had brought him to this. Perhaps it was a fitting
punishment. But Caada need not die if he would show courage.

He rotated his eye to watch his struggling neighbor. Apparently Caada
was going to take his advice. The tissue below the part of him stuck
to the filament began to thin. His pseudopod broke contact. But his
movements were slow and hesitant. Already his body mass was rising
above the edge of the disc.

"Quick, you fool!" Kworn projected. "Another moment and you're dead!"

But Caada couldn't hear. Slowly his tissues separated as he reluctantly
abandoned his absorptive surface. But he was already over the disc.
The last cells pinched off and he fell, mantle flapping, full on the
surface of the disc. For a moment he lay there quivering, and then his
body was blotted from sight by a cloud of frozen steam, and his essence
vanished screaming into Emptiness.
