
Kworn shuddered. It was a terrible way to die. But his own fate would
be no better. He wrapped his mantle tightly around him as his leading
parts vanished into the dark hole in the cylinder. In a moment he would
be following Caada on the journey from which no member of the Folk had
ever returned. His body disappeared into the hole.

--and was plunged into paradise!

His foreparts slipped into a warm, thick liquid that loosened the
adhesive that bound him to the cord. As he slipped free, he slowly
realized that he was not to die. He was bathed in liquid food! He was
swimming in it! He was surrounded on all sides by incredible flavors
so strange and delicious that his mind could not classify them! The
filament had been good, but this--this was indescribable! He relaxed,
his mantle spreading through the food, savoring, absorbing, digesting,
metabolizing, excreting. His energy levels peaked. The nuclei of his
germ plasm swelled, their chromosomes split, and a great bud formed and
separated from his body. He had reproduced!

Through a deadening fog of somatic sensation, he realized dully that
this was wrong, that the time wasn't right, that the space was limited,
and that the natural reaction to abundant food supply was wrong. But
for the moment he didn't care.

For thousands of seasons he had traveled the paths between equator and
pole in a ceaseless hunt for food, growing and rejuvenating in good
seasons, shrinking and aging in bad. He had been bound to the soil, a
slave to the harsh demands of life and Nature. And now the routine was
broken.

He luxuriated in his freedom. It must have been like this in the old
days, when the waters were plentiful and things grew in them that
could be eaten, and the Folk had time to dream young dreams and think
young thoughts, and build their thoughts and dreams into the gleaming
realities of cities and machines. Those were the days when the mind
went above the soil into the air and beyond it to the moons, the sun
and the evening stars.

But that was long ago.

He lay quietly, conscious of the change within him as his cells
multiplied to replace those he had lost, and his body grew in weight
and size. He was rejuvenated. The cells of his growing body, stimulated
by the abundance of food, released memories he had forgotten he had
ever possessed. His past ran in direct cellular continuity to the dawn
of his race, and in him was every memory he had experienced since
the beginning. Some were weak, others were stronger, but all were
there awaiting an effort of recall. All that was required was enough
stimulation to bring them out of hiding.

And for the first time in millennia the stimulus was available. The
stimulus was growth, the rapid growth that only an abundant food supply
could give, the sort of growth that the shrunken environment outside
could not supply. With sudden clarity he saw how the Folk had shrunk in
mind and body as they slowly adapted to the ever-increasing rigor of
life. The rushing torrent of memory and sensation that swept through
him gave him a new awareness of what he had been once and what he had
become. His eye was lifted from the dirt and lichens.
