
What he saw filled him with pity and contempt. Pity for what the Folk
had become; contempt for their failure to recognize it. Yet he had been
no better than the others. It was only through the accident of this
artefact that he had learned. The Folk _couldn't_ know what the slow
dwindling of their food supply had done to them. Over the millennia
they had adapted, changing to fit the changing conditions, surviving
only because they were more intelligent and more tenacious than the
other forms of life that had become extinct. A thousand thousand
seasons had passed since the great war that had devastated the world.
A million years of slow adaptation to the barren waste that had been
formed when the ultimate products of Folk technology were loosed on
their creators, had created a race tied to a subsistence level of
existence, incapable of thinking beyond the basic necessities of life.

The Ul Kworn sighed. It would be better if he would not remember so
much. But he could suppress neither the knowledge nor the memories.
They crowded in upon him, stimulated by the food in which he floated.

Beside him, his offspring was growing. A bud always grew rapidly in
a favorable environment, and this one was ideal. Soon it would be as
large as himself. Yet it would never develop beyond an infant. It could
not mature without a transfer of germ plasm from other infants of the
Folk. And there were no infants.

It would grow and keep on growing because there would be no check of
maturity upon its cells. It would remain a partly sentient lump of
flesh that would never be complete. And in time it would be dangerous.
When it had depleted the food supply it would turn on him in mindless
hunger. It wouldn't realize that the Ul Kworn was its father, or if it
did, it wouldn't care. An infant is ultimately selfish, and its desires
are the most important thing in its restricted universe.

Kworn considered his situation dispassionately.

It was obvious that he must escape from this trap before his offspring
destroyed him. Yet he could think of no way to avoid the poison
metal. He recognized it now, the element with the twelve protons in
its nucleus, a light metal seldom used by the Folk even in the days
of their greatness because of its ability to rapidly oxidize and its
propensity to burst into brilliant flame when heated. With sudden shock
he realized that the artefact was nothing less than a gigantic torch!

Why had it been built like this? What was its function? Where had it
come from? Why hadn't it spoke since it had released that flood of
unintelligible gibberish before it had drawn him inside? Ever since he
had entered this food tank it had been quiet except for a clicking,
chattering whir that came from somewhere above him. He had the odd
impression that it was storing information about him and the way he
reacted in the tank.

And then, abruptly, it broke into voice. Cryptic words poured from it,
piercing him with tiny knives of sound. The intensity and rapidity of
the projections shocked him, left him quivering and shaking when they
stopped as abruptly as they had begun.

In the quiet that followed, Kworn tried to recall the sequence of the
noise. The words were like nothing he had ever heard. They were not the
language of the Folk either past or present. And they had a flow and
sequence that was not organic. They were mechanical, the product of a
metal intelligence that recorded and spoke but did not think. The Folk
had machines like that once.

How had it begun? There had been a faint preliminary, an almost
soundless voice speaking a single word. Perhaps if he projected it,
it would trigger a response. Pitching his voice in the same key and
intensity he projected the word as best he could remember it.

And the voice began again.
