
Kworn quivered with excitement. Something outside the artefact was
forcing it to speak. He was certain of it. As certain as he was that
the artefact was recording himself and his offspring. But who--or
what--was receiving the record? And why?

This could be a fascinating speculation, Kworn thought. But there
would be time enough for that later. His immediate need was to get out.
Already the food supply was running low, and his offspring was becoming
enormous. He'd have to leave soon if he was ever going to. And he'd
have to do something about his own growth. Already it was reaching
dangerous levels. He was on the ragged edge of another reproduction,
and he couldn't afford it.

Regretfully, he began moving the cornified cells of his mantle and his
under layer toward his inner surfaces, arranging them in a protective
layer around his germ plasm and absorptive cells. There would be enough
surface absorption to take care of his maintenance needs, and his body
could retain its peak of cellular energy. Yet the desire to feed and
bud was almost overpowering. His body screamed at him for denying it
the right that food would give it, but Kworn resisted the demands of
his flesh until the frantic cellular urges passed.

Beside him his offspring pulsed with physical sensation. Kworn envied
it even as he pitied it. The poor mindless thing could be used as a
means to the end of his escape, but it was useless for anything else.
It was far too large, and far too stupid, to survive in the outside
world. Kworn extruded a net of hairlike pseudopods and swept the tank
in which they lay. It was featureless, save for a hole where the
filament had not completely withdrawn when it had pulled him into
this place. A few places in the wall had a different texture than the
others, probably the sense organs of the recorder. He rippled with
satisfaction. There was a grille of poison metal in the top of the tank
through which flowed a steady current of warm air. It would be pleasant
to investigate this further, Kworn thought, but there was no time. His
offspring had seen to that.

He placed his eye on a thin pseudopod and thrust it through the hole in
the wall of the tank. It was still night outside, but a faint line of
brightness along the horizon indicated the coming of dawn. The artefact
glittered icily beneath him, and he had a feeling of giddiness as he
looked down the vertiginous drop to the disc below. The dark blotch of
Caada's burned body was almost invisible against the faintly gleaming
loom of the still-warm disc. Kworn shuddered. Caada hadn't deserved a
death like that. Kworn looked down, estimating the chances with his new
intelligence, and then slapped a thick communication fibril against his
offspring's quivering flesh and hurled a projection at its recoiling
mass.

Considering the fact that its cells were direct derivations of his
own, Kworn thought grimly, it was surprising how hard it was to
establish control. The youngster had developed a surprising amount of
individuality in its few xals of free existence. He felt a surge of
thankfulness to the old Ul Kworn as the youngster yielded to his firm
projection. His precursor had always sought compliant germ plasm to
produce what he had called "discipline and order." It was, in fact,
weakness. It was detrimental to survival. But right now that weakness
was essential.
