
Under the probing lash of his projection the infant extruded a thick
mass of tissue that met and interlocked with a similar mass of his own.
As soon as the contact firmed, Kworn began flowing toward his eye,
which was still in the half-open hole in the side of the tank.

The outside cold struck his sense centers with spicules of ice as he
flowed to the outside, clinging to his offspring's gradually extending
pseudopod. Slowly he dropped below the cylinder. The infant was
frantic. It disliked the cold and struggled to break free, but Kworn
clung limpetlike to his offspring's flesh as it twisted and writhed in
an effort to return to the warmth and comfort into which it was born.

"Let go!" his offspring screamed. "I don't like this place."

"In a moment," Kworn said as he turned the vague writhings into a
swinging pendulum motion. "Help me move back and forth."

"I can't. I'm cold. I hurt. Let me go!"

"Help me," Kworn ordered grimly, "or hang out here and freeze."

His offspring shuddered and twitched. The momentum of the swing
increased. Kworn tightened his grip.

"You promised to let go!" his offspring wailed. "You prom--"

The infant's projection was cut off as Kworn loosed himself at the
upward arc of the swing, spread his mantle and plummeted toward the
ground. Fear swept through him as his body curved through the thin
air, missing the edge of the disc and landing on the ground with a
sense-jarring thud. Behind and above him up against the cylinder, the
thick tendril of his offspring's flesh withdrew quickly from sight.
For a moment the Ul Kworn's gaze remained riveted on the row of odd
markings on the metal surface, and then he turned his attention to life.

There was no reason to waste the pain of regret upon that half
sentient mass of tissue that was his offspring. The stupid flesh of his
flesh would remain happy in the darkness with the dwindling food until
its flesh grew great enough to touch the poison metal in the ceiling of
the tank.

And then--

With a harsh projection of horror, the Ul Kworn moved, circling the
artefact on Caada's vacated strip. And as he moved he concentrated
energy into his high-level communication organs, and projected a
warning of danger.

"Move!" he screamed. "Move forward for your lives!"

The line rippled. Reddish mantles unfolded as the Folk reacted. The
nearest, shocked from estivation, were in motion even before they came
to full awareness. Alarms like this weren't given without reason.

Varsi's reaction, Kworn noted, was faster than any of his fellows.
The young Ul had some favorable self-preservation characteristics.
He'd have to consider sharing some germ plasm with him at the next
reproduction season, after all.

In a giant arc, the Folk pressed forward under the white glow of
emerging dawn. Behind them the artefact began to project again in its
strange tongue. But in mid-cry it stopped abruptly. And from it came
a wail of mindless agony that tore at Kworn's mind with regret more
bitter because nothing could be done about it.

His offspring had touched the poison metal.

Kworn turned his eye backwards. The artefact was shaking on its broad
base from the violence of his offspring's tortured writhings. As he
watched a brilliant burst of light flared from its top. Heat swept
across the land, searing the lichens and a scattered few of the Folk
too slow to escape. The giant structure burned with a light more
brilliant than the sun and left behind a great cloud of white vapor
that hung on the air like the menacing cloud of a samshin. Beneath the
cloud the land was bare save for a few twisted pieces of smoking metal.

The roadblock was gone.
