
But we must look deeper than the spirit of an _era_ if we are to
account for a national tone in any given literature, and in the
characteristic Russian temperament we shall in this case find the
inspiring cause.

The word _Slav_ has given to the world our word _slave_. In the
pathetic and expressive phrase of Waliszewski, “The Slav race, the
latest comer into the world of civilization, has always been at school,
always under some rod or sway. Whether it be the Oriental and material
conquests of the thirteenth century, or the Western and moral one of
the eighteenth, it merely undergoes a change of masters.” Yet in the
face of all this the Russian people has persistently maintained, and
even accentuated, its personality. To me, this personality is marked
by six great characteristics: _hugeness_, _passion_, _simplicity_,
_religiousness_, _suffering_, and _fatalism_. Herzen said that
“sadness, skepticism, irony, are the three strings of Russian
literature--the skepticism is not typical; the other qualities are.”

In looking for the typical and distinctive elements of national
character in Russian literature we must remember that they are more to
be observed in the tone of the author considered than in the characters
he portrays, and this for a perfectly obvious reason: Russia is a land
of extremes, not alone of condition but of advancement. One class
outrivals the Parisian in refinement of desires, while no people in
Europe can surpass the remoter peasant in his stolidity; the greatest
wealth is just across the way from the most tax-oppressed poverty;
high-minded patriotism sits on the same park-bench with a Red maniac;
skepticism and religious credulity run to astounding contra extremes.

Of course, the Russian composite character is modified by the antipodal
nature of its society, but its literature is enriched by a vast variety
of types, and when, as in the stories of Tolstoi, these types appear in
dramatic juxtaposition; the effect is unique.

It would be interesting to trace here each of these six nationally
characteristic traits, but all are either dwelt upon in the succeeding
introductory studies or are clearly illustrated in the accompanying
stories; it may therefore be enough to point out in brief how naturally
each takes its place in the sum total of Russian temperament.

The physical vastness of this self-sufficient land, with its sweep of
continent-wide, continent-long domain, must at once suggest the bigness
of its spirit. Even its people grow big and Norse-like in frame, while
the centuries of indifference to the outlanders’ views and ideals
culminate readily in direct, fearless self-expression.

Passion, too, finds a similar origin, encouraged by Tartar fire,
Cossack physicality, and the composite life bred of oriental contact.

Simplicity is often in our day written down as the sign of ignorance,
or at least of inexperience of the great world; but in the Russian
character it has mainly a nobler origin. What need for hesitation,
finesse, caution in word and attitude, when one is certain of being the
chosen of Heaven? Not even the Jew is more firmly convinced and poised
than the Muscovite.

The essential religiousness--the mystical religiousness--of the Slav
is as old as his history. In fact, his Aryan origin, so often boasted
of, points to the Hindu origin of his religious attitude of mind. True,
many of his matter-of-fact appeals to divine things are habitual rather
than reverential and often have too close association with base dealing
to be convincing; still the peasant particularly is colored in all his
life by his church and her tenets.

The Russian countenance is typically sad, almost despairing. The yoke
worn for so many ages by the masses, the bitterness of a life devoted
to service for the “big man,” the hopelessness born of petty and major
oppressions, result for the Russian, as for all barbaric peoples--for
Russia is still largely barbaric--in a resigned suffering which has not
yet begun to be mitigated by the great increase of revolutionary ideas
among the people. Indeed, protest against the ruling order has thus
far yielded only greater present sadness, how hopeful soever the future
may be.

And lastly we have that most terrible, most pathetic, most depressing
temper--fatalism. And yet this is not the precise word, for no single
English word expresses the pessimism, the apathy, the expectation of
nothing, the anticlimax of ambition in which a whole race begins as a
Napoleon and--peters out.

All this may sound unlovely. And doubtless it is, for loveliness is not
the tone of Nihilism, nor is beauty the consort of despair. Yet the
towering ambition that ends in puny deeds shows even now signs of a
more effective result, and larger liberties, the outgrowth of contact
with the world without, must sooner or later bring to life a more
ardent and hope-cherishing Russia.
