
The short-story of today in Russia is strong--terribly strong, for the
most part, for it is not charming, certainly. But as an augury of what
the Russian people will yet become it has a thousand-fold more promise
than may be found in the perfumed politeness of an anæmic fiction such
as floods the magazines of England and America. Notwithstanding all her
gloom, Russia’s strength is her bow of promise.




                        PUSHKIN AND THE NEW ERA


Alexander Sergyevitch Pushkin was born in Moscow, June 7, 1799, at a
time when Russia was aswirl with various currents. Therefore, to gain
some clear vision of the distinguished service which he rendered the
literature of his native land, we must at least glance at the great
intellectual and political tides--they were largely coincident--which
swept Russia, first away from her own self-sufficient life, then toward
France, next in the direction of Germany, and finally out into a
national thought-channel of her own.

Pushkin is one of those writers who are big enough to have founded and
dominated an era, not solely because of his own preëminent genius, but
for the deeper reason that he represented in himself the culmination of
a series of national steps, each as definite as it was important.

For all the centuries of her life up to the nineteenth, Russia had
lived a separate existence from that of her great neighbors. In seeking
a cause for this condition, we must remember that the imperial bigness
of Russia, and her remote location, are not the only factors entering
into her segregate character. The _great_ factor is that Russia is
much more largely Asiatic in spirit than it is European. The typical
Slav of today is, temperamentally, though not in a precise sense
racially, a mixture of Tartar fierceness, old Slavonic stolidity, and
Hindu _Nirvana_, which, being translated into Russian, is essentially
Nihilism. Yet, today as for many centuries, the Slavic race is as truly
homogeneous as any can be.

During this long era of Russia’s ultra-exclusiveness, the polished
periods of Montaigne and the brilliant dramas of Corneille, Racine,
and Molière were delighting France, and Spenser, Milton, and Dryden
were doing rare things for English literature. At the same time,
nationally unconscious of all this, Russia was singing its epical and
ballad folk-songs, with only now and then a note of premeditated art
sounding forth. Here indeed was a true poetry _of_ the people--which,
as Dr. Gummere has pointed out, is a very different thing from that
pseudo-folk-poetry which is merely _about_ the people. Still, it
required influences from without to bring Russian literature to
artistic national expression.

The great autocratic rulers of Russia, and her leading nobles, at last
began to feel the allurement of the French, and Peter the Great even
travelled abroad, coming home imbued with new ideas for a progressive
nation. When a giant people, long content to be sufficient unto
itself, awakens to see that other ideals of life, other habits of
thought, other standards of conduct, have brought other great nations
to a brilliancy of position which its own solitary bigness has not
enabled it to attain, the first feeling is one of contempt for “those
others,” as the French would say. Later comes a naïve passion to
imitate. And finally, enter a whole train of foreign influences, good
and bad.

So it was with Russia after the powerful, rough, and somewhat
benevolently autocratic reign of Catherine II, at whose court Pushkin’s
father was a complacent noble. The French tongue, which even Pushkin
himself called “the language of Europe,” already prevailed at the
Russian court, and the literature of the country consisted chiefly of
imitations of the pseudo-classical French school, adaptations, or even
translations, from other languages, and here and there a struggling
voice which lifted itself with difficulty above the imitative clack.
All three of these types Catherine herself fostered--intermittently,
though still with some success.

But the alarming revolutionary ideas bruited from France, and the
Napoleonic campaign against Russia, caused a powerful revulsion of
feeling toward Germany and away from France. In Germany, however,
Young Russia met the same humanistic tendencies and passion for free
thought with which France had been gradually impregnating the empire of
the Slavs. Add to this the influence of Byron’s poetry, now stirring
Europe, and we have the external forces which drove Russia to look
at her own self with honest eyes--forces which at length found their
literary climax in Pushkin’s giving to his native land a literature
which was of the Russians, for the Russians, and by a Russian--a
literature born of the Russian spirit, breathing her ideals, speaking
her marvellously expressive tongue in new combinations of beauty, and
set against a background of her soil and her cities.

A further remarkable influence was operating to prepare both Russia
and Pushkin for the work of new creation: in the hands of Zhukovski
and others who immediately preceded our author, the Russian language
began suddenly to assume a flexibility and richness which, as I have
intimated, were destined to be still more greatly enlarged by the gifts
of Pushkin.

The author-to-be wasted no time beginning his career. Even at the
age of ten, while an unstudious but omnivorously reading school-boy,
he made deft imitations of French verse and the French drama, while
at twelve he knew four or five languages and was reading Rousseau,
Voltaire, and Molière with avidity. At this age the lad became a pupil
in the College Tsarskoïé-Siélo, in 1811, the year of its founding by
Alexander I. But while he absorbed enough to cause his wild genius to
flourish, he was incorrigible, and always in hot-water--except among
his comrades, by whom his dash, impudence, and wit made him to be both
admired and feared.

When Pushkin was only fifteen, the _European Messenger_ published
anonymously a series of clever but obscene Russian verses in the style
of Ossian and Parny. The name of the author soon leaked out, however,
and when the following year the boy read on a public speech-day a
suitable poem entitled “Recollections of Tsarskoïé-Siélo,” he was
hailed as a gifted poet. The poetic form was miraculous--the thought,
just about what a precocious lad could produce.

In 1817 Pushkin was graduated, and entered the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs. At once he was lionized by literary society, and became the
leader of a brilliant but rakish clique--the story of their escapades
would read like a tenderloin police-docket. At length, in 1820, the
year when “Ruslan and Lyudmila,” his first great poem, was published,
he committed some folly too outrageous to be condoned--probably an
especially licentious expression in verse--and was banished to South
Russia, where, wandering among the Caucasus ranges which color all
his later work, and living near the romantic Black Sea, he remained
for several years; until, in 1824, his banishment was commuted to
confinement to his father’s estates. In a literary way this date marks
the beginning of his new era, for he now began to bring into final form
the master-poem, “Eugene Onyegin,” on which he had been working for
several years--of which more presently.

Some--why, I cannot conceive--have attributed Pushkin’s ungovernable
disposition to the mixed blood that flowed in his veins, as was the
case with the elder Dumas. Pushkin’s maternal great-grandfather was
that Abram Hannibal, “Peter the Great’s Arab favorite,” who was really
an Abyssinian slave. The African youth was educated in France by his
royal master and godfather, later admitted to his friendship, and
eventually married to a Russian lady. Their son became a great Russian
general. The poet himself bore unmistakable marks of his ancestry in
his short curly hair and thick, sensuous lips, though his eyes were
blue, his skin fair, and his hair light in hue.

During these earlier years of his short life, Pushkin was profoundly
influenced by Byron, and even was willing to be called “the Russian
Byron.” Indeed, his license-loving and liberty-adoring nature was
quite like that of his English model. This influence is seen not only
in his poetic methods, but in his teachings and in his themes. The
poem “Poltava,” published in 1829, takes Mazeppa for its hero, and his
poetic masterpiece, “Eugene Onyegin,” published in 1828, is really
Don-Juanesque. Nor is it difficult to trace other evidences of this
frankly admiring spirit.

Singularly enough, “Eugene Onyegin” (which Tschaikovsky has made
the subject of an opera) is at once in the style of Byron (somewhat
resembling his “Beppo”), while in theme, locale, and handling it throws
off the trammels of Byronism, and indeed all foreignism, and becomes
the first really great work of modern Russian literature. Whatever the
original debt Pushkin owed to the author of “Don Juan,” in this and
later work he strikes out with all the self-confidence and attainment
of an original genius. So tender, so pathetic, yet so humorous, so full
of human understanding, so informed with the spirit of contemporary
Russian society, is this remarkable work, that its author achieved
immortality in its writing. Thus did the years of exile on the paternal
manor bear notable fruit.

Because this creation sets so lasting an initial mark, by establishing
Russian literature upon a basis of art, it seems worth while to recite
its argument here in full.

Eugene Onyegin is a “Byronic young society man,” who is recalled to
the country from his city dissipations by his father’s death. Here he
lives, for a long time avoiding all contact with his less cultivated
neighbors. A young poet, Vladimir Lensky, the son of one of these
manorial families, returns from abroad, and a congenial friendship
springs up between the young men. Lensky, who is betrothed to Olga
Larin, persuades Onyegin to call upon her family with him. Tatyana,
Olga’s elder sister, at once falls in love with Onyegin, and writes him
a letter of frank avowal--one of the most famous passages of the drama.
But Onyegin gently turns her aside by assuming the rôle of a fatherly
adviser, and the incident remains unknown to all except themselves
and Tatyana’s old nurse. Soon afterwards, Lensky induces Onyegin to
go to the Larins’ on the occasion of Tatyana’s name-day festival. For
the sake of preventing gossip in a district given over to small talk,
Onyegin yields and goes. At table, by the innocent scheming of her
family, he is placed opposite to Tatyana, and finds the situation so
embarrassing that he determines to revenge himself on the innocent
Lensky by flirting with Olga, who is shortly to become Lensky’s wife.
During the evening, Olga, pretty but weak-natured, accepts Onyegin’s
attentions with such interest that Lensky challenges him. Heart-sick
at the results of his momentary unjust anger, Onyegin would gladly
apologize, were it not that Lensky has chosen as his representative
an old fire-eater and tattler who would misrepresent his motives and
perhaps compromise Tatyana. Therefore, he accepts--and Lensky falls.
Onyegin then goes off on his travels. Olga soon consoles herself with
a handsome officer, and after their marriage goes with him to his
regiment. Tatyana, however, who is of a reserved, intense character,
pines, refuses all offers of marriage, and, by the advice of friends,
is finally taken to Moscow for the winter. There, as a wall-flower
at her first ball, she captivates a prince from St. Petersburg--a
distinguished and socially important general. She follows her parents’
wishes and marries him. When Onyegin returns to the capital a few
years later, he finds, to his great astonishment, “that the little
country girl whom he has patronized, rejected, almost scorned, is
one of the great ladies of the court and society.” He falls madly
in love with her, in his turn, but she gives him not the slightest
sign of friendship. Driven to despair by this coldness, he writes her
three letters, but she does not reply. Then, entering her boudoir
unexpectedly, through the carelessness of her servants, he finds her in
tears, reading his letter. He again avows his love. She is obliged to
confess that she loves him still, but finally makes him understand that
she will be true to her kind and high-minded husband. Thus the drama
ends.

After the production of his masterpiece, followed a notable poetic
tragedy, “Boris Godunov,” in which may be discerned the author’s
admiration for the methods of Shakespeare, to whom he turned, yet not
slavishly, after freeing himself from the overshadowing Byron.

It is inevitable that we should speculate upon the splendid work which
might have come from the pen of this greatest of Russian poets had he
not fallen in his prime. The story is sad and sordid enough. In 1831,
having been restored to imperial favor, he had married the beautiful
Natalya Nikolaevna Gontcharoff, and they plunged into society, loaded
with recognition by the court.

He had been married but five years when society began to gossip about
“the lovely Madame Pushkin” and Baron George Hekkeren-Dantes, the
natural son of the Dutch minister to Russia. Pushkin attached no blame
to his wife for the indiscretions of the infatuated young chevalier
of the Guards, but challenged him nevertheless. Dantes averted a
meeting by marrying Pushkin’s sister. Still the gossip persisted, and
eventually, being refused access to the Pushkin home, Dantes made his
persecutions so patent, and was so seconded by the elder Hekkeren,
that the poet challenged the father. The son intervened, adopted the
quarrel, and in a duel at St. Petersburg Pushkin was killed, January
29, 1837, being only thirty-eight years old.

The last six years of Pushkin’s life established his claim to greatness
not only as a poet and a dramatist, but also as a master of Russian
prose. We may not term him a novelist, but as a writer of prose tales
he set a new mark in the literature of his land. When we recall that
it was in the first years of that significant decade, 1830-1840,
that Poe, Balzac, and Mérimée perfected and brought to its modern
form the short-story, we shall realize what a great forward step was
being made in Russia at the very same time when Pushkin produced his
“Prose Tales.” His longer tales, “A Prisoner of the Caucasus” and
“The Captain’s Daughter,” exhibit little plot, but they are notable
impressionistic stories, full of rich and effective coloring.

Two of his shorter stories I outline, both on account of their
intrinsic interest and for the fact that they illustrate the romantic
vein which runs through all of Pushkin’s work. Else how could he ever
have turned to Byron? Gogol, a contemporary of Pushkin and in some
senses his successor, was the father of Russian realism. The two may be
said to be the joint parents of Russian fiction.

“The Queen of Spades” is like a “Weird Tale” by Hoffmann, or a
conception of Poe’s. It ranks as one of the world’s great short-stories.

At the house of a cavalry officer, several young Russians are gambling.
One of them asks Herman why he never plays. He replies, “Play interests
me greatly, but I hardly care to sacrifice the necessities of life for
uncertain superfluities.”

Tomsky says that he can understand Herman’s being economical, but
that he cannot understand why his own grandmother, the Countess Anna
Fedorovna, should not play, for, although she is eighty years of age,
she knows a secret which makes winning at faro certain. Tomsky then
goes on to relate how the old woman secured the secret from a friend
of hers in order to save her from the disastrous results of enormous
losses in cards. The secret consists of choosing three certain cards in
succession. This plan she followed, winning every time, and was soon
out of debt.

Being in need of funds, Herman is impressed with the story, and begins
to haunt the outside of the aged Countess’s home. In order to gain
admission and learn the secret, he contrives to flirt with Lisaveta
Ivanovna, the Countess’s ward, who at length arranges a way in which he
can gain admission to the house while the family are attending a ball.
He is to pass through the Countess’s apartments and await the girl in
her sitting-room, but instead of doing this the young officer secretes
himself in the apartments of the Countess. After she is in bed he
emerges and demands the names of the three cards, placing a pistol at
her brow, but assuring her that he means no harm if she will do as he
asks. She tremblingly tells him that it was only a jest, that there is
nothing in the report of her knowledge, but Herman insists, and after a
short time he grasps her arm roughly and is about to renew his threats
when he finds that she is dead.

Presently Herman makes his way to Lisaveta’s apartment, where he tells
her all. She realizes that she is not loved, and discerns the true
reason why the young man has sought her acquaintance. However, she
helps him to get out of the house safely.

The next night he drinks heavily and throws himself on his bed without
undressing. During the night he awakes with a start and sees looking
in at the window some one who quickly disappears. Presently he hears
the shuffling of loose slippers, the door of his room opens, and a
woman in white enters. As she comes close to his bed, the terrified man
recognizes the Countess. “I have come to you against my will,” she says
abruptly, “but I was commanded to grant your request. The trey, the
seven, and the ace are the magic cards. Twenty-four hours must elapse
after the use of each card, and after the three have been used you must
never play again.”

The phantom then turns and walks away.

The next night he enters a fashionable gambling club in St. Petersburg,
stakes forty thousand rubles, and wins a huge sum. The next night he
chooses a seven-spot and wins ninety-four thousand rubles.

    The following evening he went again. His appearance was the
    signal for the cessation of all occupation, every one being
    eager to watch the development of events. He selected his
    card--an ace.

    The dealing began: to the right, a queen; to the left, an ace.

    “The ace wins,” remarked Herman, turning up his card without
    glancing at it.

    “Your queen is killed,” remarked Tchekalinsky quietly.

    Herman trembled; looking down, he saw, not the ace he had
    selected, but the queen of spades. He could scarcely believe
    his eyes. It seemed impossible that he could have made such a
    mistake. As he stared at the card, it seemed to him that the
    queen winked one eye at him mockingly.

    “The old woman!” he exclaimed involuntarily.

    The croupier raked in the money while he looked on in stupid
    terror. When he left the table, all made way for him to pass.
    The cards were shuffled, and the gambling went on.

    Herman became a lunatic. He was confined at the hospital
    at Oboukov, where he spoke to no one, but kept constantly
    murmuring in a monotonous tone: “The trey, seven, ace! The
    trey, seven, queen!”

“The Shot” is in a different vein, being a tale of singular dramatic
intensity. There is a legend that it is largely biographical, Pushkin
himself having coolly eaten cherries, as did the Count, while under
fire in a duel.

A group of military men stationed in the dull little town of N----
welcome to their society the one eligible civilian, a certain Silvio, a
taciturn man of thirty-five, who has retired from the Hussars. He lives
meagrely in a small house, where he frequently entertains the officers
with the best he has, which always includes plenty of champagne. The
walls of this house are punctured with bullet-holes, for its occupant
is a marvellous shot with the pistol. Regarding his past, he says
practically nothing, but every one feels that some tragic event has
stamped his career.

One day a new-comer among the officers quarrels with Silvio, and slaps
his face. Much to the surprise and disappointment of all, Silvio does
not challenge him, but accepts a lame explanation. It takes some time
for Silvio to rehabilitate himself with his friends, but his good
qualities at last accomplish this, except with one officer, who tells
the story.

One day Silvio, all excitement, announces that a change has come in his
affairs, and that he must leave N----. He packs his goods, and invites
the officers to a final feast. At its close he asks the narrator to
remain, and tells him this story, to explain why he avoided challenging
his offender.

Some years before, while serving in the Hussars, Silvio was known as a
great rake and an incorrigible duellist. His popularity waned, however,
with the advent of a brilliant young Count, of whom he soon became
jealous, and upon whom he fixed a quarrel. In the duel which followed,
the Count won the first shot, and pierced his adversary’s cap, but
showed such nonchalance--having coolly eaten cherries while standing
to receive Silvio’s shot--that the latter decided to relinquish his
chance until a later time. In all these years a favorable opportunity
had not come in which to make the Count show fear, and that was why
Silvio was not willing to risk his life by engaging in another duel,
even though he knew he was a remarkable shot: he was holding himself
for his revenge. And now his opening had come, for he had just learned
that the Count had married a beautiful young woman and was enjoying his
honeymoon.

The narrator never sees Silvio again, but some time after the latter
has left N----, the narrator goes back to his own native village, and
there meets Count and Countess B----. At their first meeting their
visitor is interested by seeing two bullet-holes which have pierced
a painting. It transpires that Count B---- is the very one with whom
Silvio fought his duel. The Count then narrates the sequel.

Shortly after their marriage, the Count returned with his bride to
his estates, where he was startled to find Silvio, claiming the right
of the shot which was his due. The Count gallantly yielded to him and
stood up in his drawing-room, but Silvio a second time declined to
shoot, and proposed that they again draw for the first shot. The Count
won, and shot over Silvio’s head, making one of the two bullet-holes.
At this juncture the Countess came in and flung herself at Silvio’s
feet. In shame, the Count made her rise, and Silvio prepared to take
his shot, whereupon the Countess threw herself upon her husband’s
breast. As he saw Silvio point his weapon at them both, at last the
Count showed terror, although not for himself. Being satisfied with
this exhibition of fear, natural though it was, Silvio declined to
shoot. As he left the room, he turned, however, and, almost without
looking, took a parting shot at the painting, which he penetrated with
a bullet-hole precisely below that which had been made by the Count’s
bullet. And so this strange man passed out of their lives.
