
“The Snow-Storm” seems to me to be Pushkin’s greatest short-story. It
has a well-defined plot, a surprising dénouement, the action marches
on to its climax, and both local color and characterization are of a
high order. It is especially remarkable for its having been produced
at the very opening of the decade which gave to the world the modern
short-story.




                            THE SNOW-STORM
                        _By Alexander Pushkin_


Towards the close of the year 1811, during that very memorable epoch,
there lived in the village of Nenaradova the good Gavrila Gavrilovich
R----. He was famed throughout the district for his hospitality and
good-nature; and his neighbors continually kept coming to his house
to partake of food and drink, and to play the game of Boston at five
kopecks with his wife, Prascovia Petrovna. Others came, however,
to inspect their daughter, Maria Gavrilovna, a graceful, pale,
seventeen-year-old girl. She was considered a rich match, and many a
visitor had had designs upon her for himself or for his son.

Maria Gavrilovna had been brought up on French novels, and consequently
was in love. The object chosen by her for her love was a poor army
lieutenant, who was now on a leave of absence in his native village.
It goes without saying that the young man returned her passion. The
parents of the girl, however, having noted the mutual inclinations of
the pair, forbade their daughter even to think of him; while him they
received even worse than if he were a dismissed petty official.

Our lovers exchanged notes, and saw each other every day, alone, in
the pine wood or in the old chapel. There they vowed to each other
eternal love, bewailed their fate, and formed all sorts of plans.
Their discussions carried on in this way naturally brought them to the
following conclusion: “If we can’t exist without each other, and the
will of stern parents stands in the way of our felicity, why shouldn’t
we manage without them?” Needless to say, this happy idea originated
in the mind of the young man, and that it appealed strongly to the
romantic imagination of Maria Gavrilovna.

Winter came on, and interrupted their meetings. This, however, only
served to quicken the correspondence. Vladimir Nikolaevich, in every
letter, entreated her to give herself to him, to wed secretly, to
remain in concealment a while, and then to throw themselves at the feet
of the parents, who, to be sure, would be touched finally by the heroic
constancy and unhappiness of the lovers, and undoubtedly say to them,
“Children, come to our arms!”

Maria Gavrilovna hesitated a long time; and several of the plans to run
away she rejected. At last she consented. On the appointed day she was
to do without supper and escape to her room on the plea of a headache.
Her maid was in the plot. The two of them were to make their way into
the garden by means of the back-stairs. Outside the garden a sledge
would stand ready to take them straight to the church of Jadrino, a
village five versts away, where Vladimir would await them.

On the eve of the decisive day Maria Gavrilovna hardly slept at all.
She spent the night in packing some linens and dresses to take with
her; and wrote a long letter to a sentimental girl friend, and another
to her parents. She bade them farewell in the most touching terms,
and excused her action on grounds of a terrible overruling passion,
concluding by saying that she should consider it the most blessed
moment of her life when she should be permitted to throw herself at
the feet of her beloved parents. Having sealed both letters with a
Toula seal, on which were engraved two flaming hearts, accompanied by
an appropriate inscription, she threw herself on her bed just before
daybreak, and dozed off.

Terrible dreams, however, kept crowding upon her and constantly
awakened her. Now it seemed to her that the very moment she entered
the sledge for her journey her father stopped her and with a most
painful rapidity dragged her over the snow and cast her into a dark,
bottomless abyss.... Then she flew about precipitately, with an
indescribable oppression of the heart. Then she saw Vladimir lying on
the grass, pale, bleeding. Dying, he entreated her in shrill voice to
make haste to wed him.... Still other shapeless, incoherent visions
continued to pass before her. In the end she arose, looking more pale
than usual, with a real headache. Her father and her mother noticed her
agitation; their gentle solicitude and their ceaseless inquiries, “What
is the matter with you, Masha? Are you ill, Masha?” rent her heart. She
tried to quiet them, to appear cheerful, but she could not.

The evening came. The thought that this was the last day she would
spend in the midst of her family oppressed her. She scarcely could
breathe. Secretly she was bidding each one a separate farewell, as well
as all the objects which surrounded her. When the supper was announced
her heart beat violently. In a trembling voice she said that she could
not eat, and wished her father and her mother good-night. They kissed
her and, according to their custom, also blessed her.

Once in her own room, she threw herself into the arm-chair and wept.
Her maid tried to prevail upon her to be calm and to take courage;
everything was ready--in another half-hour Masha would leave forever
her paternal home, her room, her quiet, girlish life....

Outdoors, the snow was falling; the wind howled, the shutters rattled
and shook; all seemed to her to assume the aspect of a warning, the sad
presaging of disaster. Soon everything in the house grew quiet and sank
into slumber.

Masha wrapped a shawl around her, put on a long, warm mantle, took into
her hands her treasure-casket, and walked down the back-stairs. The
maid followed her with two bundles. They entered the garden. The storm
did not subside; the wind blew in their faces, as if it sought to stop
the young culprit. With the greatest difficulty, they reached the end
of the garden. On the road a sledge awaited them. The chilled horses
would not stand still, and Vladimir’s coachman was restlessly walking
in front of them, trying to quiet them. He assisted the young lady
and her maid into the sledge, and in disposing of the bundles and the
casket, then seized the reins, and off the horses flew.

Having thus committed the maiden to the care of fate and the skill of
Tereshka, the coachman, we will now return to our young lover.

The whole day long Vladimir spent in driving about. His first morning
errand was to the priest at Jadrino--it was with the greatest
difficulty that he prevailed upon him; he then journeyed to find
witnesses from among the neighboring land-owners. The first to whom he
appeared was the retired, forty-year-old cornet Dravin, who consented
with alacrity. This adventure, he assured Vladimir, recalled to him
his earlier days and his pranks in the Hussars. He persuaded Vladimir
to remain for dinner, and assured him that there would be no trouble
about the other two witnesses. Indeed, immediately after dinner there
appeared Surveyor Schmidt, with mustaches and spurs, and the son of
the chief of police, a youngster of sixteen years, who had only lately
joined the Uhlans. Not only were they in sympathy with Vladimir’s
plans, but they even swore to lay down their lives for him. Vladimir
embraced them joyously, and returned home to get everything ready.

It had already been dark for some time. He sent off the trusty
Tereshka to Nenaradova with his troika, after giving him most exact
instructions; while for himself he ordered a small sledge with a
single horse. He left alone for Jadrino, where two hours hence Maria
Gavrilovna was also due to arrive. The road was familiar to him; and
altogether it meant a twenty-minute journey.

Hardly, however, had Vladimir reached the open field, when the wind
rose; immediately it developed into a blinding snow-storm, so that he
could not see anything. In a remarkably short time the road became
hidden under the snow, while the surrounding landmarks were obliterated
in the nebulous, yellowish haze through which flew about great white
flakes of snow. The sky and the earth merged into one. Vladimir found
himself in the field, and it was in vain that he tried to find the road
again. The horse advanced at random, and now drove into a snowdrift
and now fell into a hole--the sledge kept on upsetting. Vladimir made
an effort not to lose the right direction. It seemed strange to him,
however, that after a half-hour’s driving he had not yet reached the
Jadrino wood.

Another ten minutes passed--still no wood in sight. Vladimir drove
across a field which was intersected by deep ditches. The storm did not
abate, the sky did not clear. The horse began to grow tired, and the
perspiration rolled down his body in large drops, notwithstanding the
fact that he was being half-buried in snow almost continually.

At last Vladimir concluded that he was not driving in the right
direction. He stopped, tried to recall, to consider, and decided that
he ought to take to the right; which he did. His horse made way
slowly. He had been on the road more than an hour. Jadrino could not
be very distant. On and on he drove his horse, but there seemed to be
no end to the field--only snowdrifts and ditches. The sledge kept on
upsetting, he kept on righting it. Time passed; Vladimir began to fret.

At last a dark shape seemed to loom up ahead. Vladimir jerked the reins
in that direction. On closer approach, he saw it was a wood. “Thank
God!” he thought, “now it is near.” He kept going along the edge of the
wood, hoping to strike the familiar road, or to make a detour of the
forest. Jadrino, he knew, was situated somewhere behind it. He soon
found the road, and drove into the darkness among the trees, which
stood in their winter nakedness. The wind could not make much headway
here; the road was smooth; the horse braced itself, and Vladimir
regained confidence.

On and on he continued his journey--and still no Jadrino in sight;
there was no end to the road. In consternation, Vladimir became aware
that he had entered an unfamiliar forest. Despair seized hold of him.
He lashed the horse; the poor animal went off at a canter, but soon
slowed down, and after a quarter of an hour relapsed into a walk,
despite all exertions on the part of the unhappy Vladimir.

Gradually the wood grew less dense, and Vladimir came out again into
the open. No Jadrino in sight. It must have been about midnight. Tears
gushed from his eyes; he drove about at random. The storm quieted down,
the clouds dispersed; before him lay a valley, covered with a white,
undulating carpet. The night was sufficiently clear. He discerned
not far off a tiny village, consisting of some four or five houses.
Vladimir drove towards it. At the very first cottage he sprang out of
his sledge, ran to the window, and began to knock. In a few minutes the
wooden shutter went up, and an old man stuck out his gray beard.

“What do you want?”

“Is Jadrino far from here?”

“Is Jadrino far from here!”

“Yes, yes, is it far?”

“Not far--ten versts or so!”

At this answer Vladimir caught hold of his hair and stood motionless,
like one condemned to death.

“And where do you come from?” continued the old man.

Vladimir had no courage left to reply to the question.

“Can you, old man,” he asked, “procure me horses to take me to
Jadrino?”

“How should we have horses?” answered the peasant.

“Can you at least give me a guide? I will pay as much as he wants.”

“Wait,” said the old man, lowering the shutter. “I’ll send my son out
to you. He’ll guide you.”

Vladimir waited. A minute had not elapsed when he began knocking again.
The shutter went up again, the same gray beard made its appearance.

“What do you want?”

“Well, where’s your son?”

“He’ll be out soon. He’s putting on his boots. Are you cold? Step in
and warm yourself.”

“Thanks, send your son out quickly.”

The gate creaked; a lad came out with a heavy stick in hand. He went
in front, now indicating, now searching for, the road hidden under
snowdrifts.

“What hour is it?” Vladimir asked him.

“It will soon be daylight,” replied the young peasant.

Vladimir spoke not another word.

The cocks were crowing and it was already light when they reached
Jadrino. The church was closed. Vladimir paid his guide and drove to
the priest’s house. His troika was not there. What news awaited him!

Let us return, however, to the good land-owners of Nenaradova and see
what is passing there.

Nothing out of the way.

The old people had had their sleep and had gone to the
dining-room--Gavrila Gavrilovich in his night-cap and flannel jacket,
Prascovia Petrovna in her dressing-gown of wadding. The samovar
was brought in, and Gavrila Gavrilovich sent the maid to ask Maria
Gavrilovna about her health and how she had rested. The maid returned,
announcing that the young lady had slept badly, but was feeling better
now, and that presently she would be in to breakfast. Very shortly, in
fact, the door opened, and Maria Gavrilovna came forward to greet her
papa and mamma.

“How is your head, Masha?” asked Gavrila Gavrilovich.

“Better, Papa,” replied Masha.

“Masha, you must have got a headache yesterday from the fumes of the
heater,” said Prascovia Petrovna.

“Perhaps so, Mamma,” answered Masha.

The day passed happily, but by night Masha was taken ill. A doctor was
sent for from town. He arrived towards evening and found the sick girl
in delirium. She developed high fever, and for two weeks the poor girl
was at death’s door.

No one in the house knew what had happened. The letters written by her
on the eve of her planned elopement were burned; her maid, fearing the
wrath of her master, had said a word to no one. The priest, the retired
cornet, the mustached surveyor, and the little Uhlan were quiet, and
with good reason. Tereshka, the driver, never uttered a superfluous
word, even when in drink. The secret was thus well kept by more than
a half-dozen conspirators. Maria Gavrilovna herself gave away her
secret while in delirium. Her words, however, were so incoherent that
her mother, who never left her bedside, could only gather that her
daughter was passionately in love with Vladimir Nikolaevich, and that
this love was apparently the cause of her illness. She held counsel
with her husband, and with some of the neighbors, and in the end they
unanimously decided that there was no getting around fate, that poverty
was no crime, that the man was the thing--not wealth, and so on. Such
moral discourses are astonishingly useful in those instances when we
are at a loss to find justification for our actions.

In the meantime, the young lady was returning to health. Vladimir
hadn’t been seen for a long time in the house of Gavrila Gavrilovich.
He had been frightened away by the previous receptions accorded him.
It was proposed to send for him and to announce to him his unawaited
good fortune: the consent to marriage. Imagine the amazement of the
proprietors of Nenaradova when in answer to their proposal they
received from him a half-insane letter! He informed them that his foot
would never be set in their house, and implored them to forget an
unhappy man, for whom death alone remained as an alleviation. In the
course of a few days it was learned that Vladimir had joined the army.
This was in the year 1812.

For a long time they dared not tell this to the convalescent Masha. She
never spoke about Vladimir. Several months having passed, she one day
discovered his name among the distinguished and the dangerously wounded
at the battle of Borodino, whereupon she fainted, and it was feared
that high fever would recur. God be thanked, however, the fainting fit
had no serious consequences.

Another sorrow visited her: Gavrila Gavrilovich died, leaving her
heiress to all his estates. But her wealth did not comfort her; she
free-heartedly shared the affliction of the poor Prascovia Petrovna,
and vowed never to part with her. Together they left Nenaradova, the
place of their sorrowful memories, and went to live on one of their
estates.

Here also many suitors paid court to the lovely heiress; but she gave
none the slightest hope. Her mother occasionally tried to persuade her
to choose a mate; in answer, Maria Gavrilovna would only shake her head
and grow thoughtful. Vladimir no longer existed; he had died in Moscow,
on the eve of the entry of the French. His memory Masha held sacred; at
least, she kept all that could remind her of him: there were the books
he had read, his drawings, his notes, and poems he had copied for her.
The neighbors, who knew her story, wondered at her constancy, and with
great curiosity awaited the hero who would in the end triumph over the
melancholy fidelity of this virgin Artemis.

In the meantime, the war ended with glory. Our regiments were returning
from alien soil. The nation greeted them with joy. The musicians played
the victorious songs, “_Vive Henri-Quatre_,” Tyrolese waltzes, the airs
from “Joconda.” Some of the officers who had entered upon the campaign
mere lads were returning from the battles grown into manhood, decorated
with crosses. The soldiers talked gaily among themselves, mingling
constantly with their speech German and French words. It was a
never-to-be-forgotten time! A time of glory and joy! How strongly beat
the Russian heart at the word “fatherland”! How sweet were the tears at
meeting again! How harmoniously did we combine the feeling of national
pride with love for the Czar! And for him--what a moment!

Women--the Russian women--were in those days incomparable! Their usual
coldness vanished. Their rapture was really intoxicating when, upon
meeting the victors, they cried, “Hurrah!” and threw their caps into
the air....

Who from among the officers of that day does not confess that to the
Russian women he owed his best, most valued reward?... During that
brilliant time Maria Gavrilovna lived with her mother in the ----
Province, and did not see how both capitals celebrated the return of
the troops. In the country districts and in the villages the general
enthusiasm was perhaps even stronger. The appearance of an officer in
such places was always the occasion of real triumph to him, and the
lover in the frock coat had a hard time of it in his presence.

We have already stated that, notwithstanding her coldness, Maria
Gavrilovna, as before, was surrounded by suitors. All of them,
however, were compelled to step aside when there appeared one day in
her castle the wounded Colonel of the Hussars, Bourmin, with the cross
of St. George in his buttonhole, and with “an interesting pallor” on
his face, to use the words of the young ladies of the place. He seemed
to be about twenty-six years old. He arrived, on leave, at his estate,
which neighbored upon that of Maria Gavrilovna. Maria showed him
distinction. Before him her usual pensiveness vanished. It cannot be
said that she played the coquette with him; but the poet, making note
of her conduct, would have said:

    _Se amor non è, che dunche?..._

Bourmin was indeed a most charming young man. He possessed precisely
that sense which is pleasing to women--a sense of decorum and
alertness, without pretensions; and an easy humor. His behavior towards
Maria Gavrilovna was simple and free; but, no matter what she said
or did, his soul and his glances followed her. He seemed a quiet,
unassuming sort of man, though rumor had it that he had been quite a
rake in his day, which did not, however, injure him in the eyes of
Maria Gavrilovna, who (like young ladies generally) was most willing
to overlook little larks which indicated boldness and a spirited
character.

But above all (more than his gentleness, more than his agreeable
speech, more than his interesting pallor, more than his bandaged arm)
the silence of the young Hussar stirred her curiosity and imagination.
She could not but feel conscious that she pleased him immensely;
undoubtedly, he too, with his keenness of perception, and experience,
had noted her preference for him; and she could not explain why she
had not yet seen him at her feet and had not heard his declaration.
What restrained him? Was it the timidity which is inseparable from true
love, or pride, or the coquetry of a shrewd wooer? This was a riddle to
her. Having reflected on the matter, she concluded that timidity was
the sole reason; and this decided her to encourage him with greater
attention, and, if the circumstances permitted it, even tenderness. She
anticipated the most surprising dénouement; and with impatience awaited
a romantic explanation. A secret, whatever its nature may be, is always
oppressive to the feminine heart. Her aggressive tactics had the
desired result; at least, Bourmin fell into such a pensive mood, and
his dark eyes fixed themselves with such a fire upon Maria Gavrilovna,
that the decisive moment seemed close at hand. The neighbors talked of
the forthcoming marriage as of a thing settled, and the good Prascovia
Petrovna rejoiced that her daughter had found at last a worthy mate.

The old mother was sitting one day in the drawing-room, playing
patience, when Bourmin entered and immediately inquired after Maria
Gavrilovna.

“She is in the garden,” answered the old lady. “You go out to her, and
I’ll await you here.”

Bourmin went into the garden, and the old lady crossed herself and
thought, “The matter will be settled today.”

At the pond, under a willow, Bourmin found Maria Gavrilovna, dressed
in white, looking like a real heroine of a novel. After the first
questions, Maria Gavrilovna purposely refrained from sustaining
the conversation, intending in this manner to create a mutual
embarrassment, from which it was possible to free oneself only by an
instant and decisive explanation. That was, in fact, what happened.
Bourmin, feeling the embarrassment of his position, said that he had
long sought an opportunity to reveal his heart to her, and requested a
moment’s attention from her. Maria Gavrilovna closed the book and cast
down her eyes as a sign of assent.

“I love you,” said Bourmin. “I love you passionately.” (Maria
Gavrilovna blushed and inclined her head even lower.) “I have behaved
imprudently in yielding to the sweet pleasure of seeing and hearing
you every day.” (Maria Gavrilovna recalled the first letter of St.
Preux.[1]) “It is too late now to resist my fate: the mere recollection
of you, your lovely, incomparable image, shall be the torment and
consolation of my life. It is still left to me, however, to execute a
weighty responsibility, to reveal to you a terrible secret which will
raise between us an insurmountable barrier.”

“It has always existed,” interrupted Maria Gavrilovna, in an excited
manner. “I could never be your wife.”

“I know,” he answered quietly. “I know that you once loved; and that he
died, and that you had mourned for three years.... My good, adorable
Maria Gavrilovna! Please don’t deprive me of my last consolation:
the thought that you would have consented to make my happiness
if----Please, not a word--for God’s sake, not a word! You torture me.
Yes, I know it, that you would have been willing to become mine, but
I--I am a most unhappy creature.... I am already married!”

Maria Gavrilovna looked at him in amazement.

“Yes, I am married,” continued Bourmin; “and this is the fourth year
of my marriage, and I don’t know--who my wife is, where she is, or
whether I shall ever see her.”

“What are you saying?” exclaimed Maria Gavrilovna. “How strange! But
continue--I also have something to tell--do me the kindness, continue!”

“In the beginning of the year 1812,” resumed Bourmin, “I was making
haste to rejoin my regiment at Wilna. Having arrived late one night at
a station, I ordered horses to be harnessed immediately, when suddenly
a terrible snow-storm broke out, and the station-master and the
drivers advised me to wait. At first I agreed, but an incomprehensible
restlessness took possession of me; it seemed to me as if some one
were prodding me on. The storm, however, showed no signs of abatement.
I could stand it no longer, ordered the horses to be harnessed, and
proceeded on my journey in the very height of the storm. The driver
took a notion into his head to drive along the river, which would
shorten the journey by three versts. The banks were buried under
snowdrifts; we drove past the place where we should have turned into
the road, and so chance took us into strange parts. The storm did
not quiet down. I saw a small light in the distance, and asked to be
driven there. We arrived in a village; there was light in the wooden
church. The church was open; within the outside enclosure stood
several sledges; people could be seen walking about on the porch of the
church. ‘This way! This way!’ cried a number of voices. I ordered my
man to drive up closer. ‘What made you so late, pray?’ some one said
to me. ‘The bride has fainted; the priest doesn’t know what to do; we
were just getting ready to go home. Come quickly!’ Silently I sprang
out of my sledge and entered the church, which was but dimly lighted by
two or three candles. The girl was sitting on a bench in a dark corner
of the church; another was rubbing her temples. ‘Thank God,’ said the
latter, ‘you have made up your mind to come! You have almost killed
her!’ The old priest approached me with the question, ‘Shall we begin?’
‘Begin, begin, Father,’ I replied absently. The girl was raised on her
feet. She seemed to me not at all bad-looking .... An incomprehensible,
unforgivable heedlessness .... I stood beside her before the pulpit;
the priest made haste; three men and the maid supported the bride, and
were giving her all their attention. We were married. ‘Now kiss each
other,’ they said to us. My wife turned towards me her pale face. I
made a movement to kiss her .... She cried out, ‘Oh, it is not he, not
he!’ and fainted away. The witnesses directed on me their frightened
eyes. I turned round and left the church without the slightest
interference, threw myself into my sledge, and cried out, ‘Let her go!’”

“My God!” cried out Maria Gavrilovna. “And you don’t know what became
of your poor wife?”

“I don’t know,” answered Bourmin. “I even don’t know the name of the
village where I was married. I can’t remember by what station I went.
At that time I attached so little importance to my wicked lark, that,
after leaving the church, I slept soundly and awakened only next
morning, having reached by that time the third station. My servant, who
was then with me, died in the campaign, so that I haven’t the slightest
hope of finding her upon whom I played such a horrible joke, and who
now is so terribly avenged.”

“My God! My God!” said Maria Gavrilovna, grasping his hand. “So, then,
it was you! And you do not recognize me?”

Bourmin became pale ... and threw himself at her feet ....


                              FOOTNOTES:

[1] In _La Nouvelle Heloise_, by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.




                   GOGOL, THE FIRST RUSSIAN REALIST


Professor William Lyon Phelps has noted that the year 1809 gave many
great men to literature, among them Darwin, Tennyson, Poe, Lincoln,
Gladstone, Holmes, and Gogol. Thus in a period of expanding ideas the
Russian genius was born, March 19 (March 31), of a small land-owner’s
family, at the town of Sorotchintzi, government of Poltava, in the land
of the Cossacks--in Little Russia, or the Ukraine, as it is variously
called.

When the lad of twelve was sent to school at Niéjine, a town near
Kiev, he found that the pupils prided themselves upon having their
own college journal. In this he soon published an early novel, “The
Brothers Tviérdislavitchy,” and later a tragedy, “The Robbers.” He
also contributed certain satires and ballads--all equally sophomoric.
Certainly in these beginnings there were no deep marks of genius. To
record that Gogol was a poor student is to bring to mind amusingly the
number of great littérateurs who were either dismissed from college
or showed no genius for application. I have often wondered how, in
the face of such alluring evidence, professors of literature succeed
in convincing ambitious young quill-drivers that their better course
would be conscientious devotion to the curriculum. At all events, Gogol
really derived more benefit from the training he secured while writing
for the school theatre than from his mathematical and linguistic
studies.

Upon leaving college, in 1828, the young enthusiast--romantic,
dreaming of great deeds for his country, and taking himself much too
seriously--went to the inevitable St. Petersburg, thinking that he
could easily secure employment there. But he was disillusionized, for
his talent excited no interest whatever. So, taking some hardly-saved
money which his mother had sent him for another purpose, he embarked
for foreign parts--some say for America. But his heart failed him, and
he got no farther than Lübeck, where he left the boat, and, after three
days’ wandering about the city, returned to St. Petersburg and secured
employment as a copying clerk in the Ministry of Domain. Let us not
forget this experience as we read “The Cloak.”

In this billet he remained for a year, chafing under the grinding
routine, whose pressure at length compelled him to resign. He took up
acting next, but his voice was not considered to be strong enough, and
he then became a tutor in the families of the nobility in the Russian
capital. Eventually he was appointed to a professorship of history in
the University. His opening address was altogether brilliant, but,
never a thorough student, he soon sounded the depths of his knowledge,
and his students complained that he put them to sleep. That ended his
teaching.

All these successive failures--for such they really were--drove him to
the one means of self-expression: literature. He now published a few
modest essays in the leading journals. These attracted some attention
and brought about his introduction to Pushkin, who received him warmly,
and advised him to write of the land and people that he knew so well.
This wise counsel resulted in a collection of brilliant fictional
sketches entitled “Evenings at a Farm Near Dikanka” (1828-1831).

The most important of these is probably “St. John’s Eve.” It is
instinct with the superstitious beliefs of his native province. The
story is soon told, how that a young man, finely favored of body,
falls in love with the daughter of his farmer-employer. His attentions
having been discovered, he is flatly dismissed, whereupon a certain
Mephistophelian character who has been doing tricksy things about
the village offers to procure for the youth a plentiful supply of
gold wherewith to win the favor of the girl’s father. This leads to
a night meeting with a witch, accompanied with all the traditional
manifestations. Under an incantation, the young man digs, finds a
coffer, and is about to take out the gold, when the witch admonishes
him that he first must perform a duty--thrust a knife into a large bag
which stands before him. He refuses, and tears open the bag, when to
his horror the form of his sweetheart’s little brother is disclosed.
The demon-man pictures all that the youth is about to lose by his
unwillingness to murder the child; and, thus tempted, he plunges in the
knife.

Thereafter all things go according to promise--he has plenty of gold,
wins the favor of the father, and marries the girl, but he can never
get over his settled melancholy as he thinks upon his terrible deed.
Eventually--quite in the manner of all the tales which involve the sale
of the soul to the devil--he disappears and goes to his Master.

The whole story is told with a remarkable handling of the weird.
Perhaps no tale of witchcraft was ever more vividly and brilliantly
handled--it is typical, both in matter and manner, of the Ukraine.

And this leads me to say that those writers are most interesting who
are the most distinctly national, and by “national” I mean those who
temperamentally exhibit the typical characteristics of their land, who
glory in its peculiar traits, and who in their writings picture and
interpret its spirit.

Little Russia is neither north nor south, but, for reasons which the
scientists may explain, displays quite marvellously the elements of
both north and south in the two great seasons of the year. The few
short summer months are saturated with flaring sunshine, causing the
fields fairly to leap toward the farmer, full-handed with harvests. In
these halcyon days the people revel in the miraculous transformation of
nature, but when winter comes, the land of the Dnieper feels the sweep
of icy northern winds quite as bitterly as do the dwellers on the Neva.

The population, too, is just as antipodal--in fact, it is really
complex. Little Russia was at one time dominated by the Turks, who left
many of their oriental traits among the people they had conquered;
later, the Ukraine was subdued by Poland, which “transmitted something
of its savage luxury to its vassals;” then Tartar hordes constantly
swept across its borders and kept alive the joy of savage warfare;
finally the Cossack leagues established themselves in the Ukraine and
set up a wild chivalry upon whose picturesque exploits the Little
Russian has ever since dwelt with prideful interest.

Gogol was born with a full measure of the Cossack spirit, descended, as
he was, directly from this stock. His native Poltava is the very heart
of the Cossack country, and Gogol’s grandfather, who was his first
teacher, infused the young spirit with all the imagery and fanciful
extravagance of Cossack folk-lore. His mother, too, of whom he speaks
most tenderly in his “Confessions of an Author,” poured into his ears
the legends of her land.

This primal literary equipment was bestowed upon a temperament
that never ceased to be mystical, religious, and at the last
melancholy--traits that are characteristic of almost every great
Russian writer.

Gogol was also a humorist, but from the strangest reason, a reason
which, unhappily, several other humorists shared with him: he wrote
grotesque and laughter-provoking conceits to keep his mind from
brooding on dark and depressing visions. Perhaps it may have been
bodily weakness--for Gogol was small, weazened, unlovely to look upon,
and often ill--or perhaps the result of an intensely religious nature
turned in upon itself, but some cause constantly evoked in him the
wildest hallucinations. Once while suffering the extremes of chilling
penury in St. Petersburg, he contemplated suicide. He saw Death, and
thus writes of the vision to his mother:

    Mother, dearest mother, I know you are my truest friend.
    Believe me, even now, though I have shaken off something
    of the dread, even now, at the bare recollection of it, an
    indescribable agony comes over my soul. It is only to you that
    I speak of it. You know that I was in my boyhood endowed with
    a courage beyond my years. Who, then, could have expected I
    should prove so weak? But I saw her--no, I cannot name her--she
    is too majestic, too awful for any mortal, not merely for me,
    to name. That face, whose brilliant glory in one moment burns
    into the heart; those eyes that quickly pierce the inner soul;
    that consuming, all-penetrating gaze: these are the traits of
    none that is born of woman. Oh, if you only had seen me in that
    moment! True, I could hide myself from all, but how hide myself
    from myself? The pains of hell, with every possible torture,
    filled my breast. Oh, what a cruel condition! I think, whatever
    the hell prepared for sinners may be, its tortures cannot equal
    mine. No, that was not love. At least, I never heard of love
    like that.... And then, my heart softened; I recognized the
    inscrutable finger of Providence that ever watches over us, and
    I blessed Him, who thus marvellously had pointed out the path
    wherein I should walk. No; this being whom He sent to rob me of
    quiet, and to topple down my frail plans, was no woman.... But
    I pray you, do not ask me who she is. She is too majestic, too
    awful, to be named.

A later series of short-stories and sketches appeared from 1831 to 1833
under the title of “Mirgorod.”

The first part of this collection constitutes one of the great romances
of history--“Taras Bulba.” It is long enough to be a short novel,
and, indeed, it is a novel in plot. Briefly, it tells the story of
a mighty Cossack colonel, whose name gives the work its title. The
romance opens with his two sons, Ostap and Andríi, coming home from
school and meeting their Homeric old father and gentle, homely, and
adoring mother. The father cannot be convinced that his boys have not
been injured by their course at school until he engages in violent
fisticuffs with Ostap. Almost immediately, to the heart-breaking of the
old lady, who plays a small part in the whole scheme of her husband’s
life, Taras Bulba personally takes his boys away to the great Cossack
camp, where these corsairs of the steppes are gathered waiting for some
chance of foray, or a war that may promise them spoils. The revelling
scenes of the camp are pictured with tremendous verve, and the doughty,
fear-despising, Jew-abusing Cossack is pictured to the life.

At length, a cause of war against the Tartars is cooked up and their
city besieged. One night, Andríi, the younger son of Taras Bulba, is
awakened by the gliding of a woman’s figure near his sleeping quarters.
She proves to be the servant of a beautiful Tartar maiden, the daughter
of the Governor of the beleaguered city, who with all the other
inhabitants is dying of starvation. Andríi gathers some provisions and
follows the old woman by a secret underground passage into the city,
where he meets the young beauty, who had previously enchanted him with
a single glance while he was on the march from his home to the Cossack
camp. For the sake of her love he renounces his own people and fights
tremendously against them in the subsequent battle. During the mêlée
he meets his father, who slays him with a single blow and scarcely
regrets the death of his traitorous son. Ostap is captured and carried
away to a distant city. Knowing that his son is to be executed with
torture, old Taras Bulba arises from his bed of many wounds and, after
a long journey, makes his way to the foot of the scaffold in the public
square. The boy suffers terribly, but is brave to the end.

    But when they took him to the last deadly tortures, it seemed
    as though his strength were failing. He turned his eyes about.

    Oh, God! all strangers, all unknown faces! If only some of his
    relatives were present at his death! He would not have cared
    to hear the sobs and anguish of his feeble mother, or the
    unreasoning cries of a wife, tearing her hair and beating her
    white breast; he would have liked to see the strong man who
    could refresh him with a wise word, and cheer his end. And his
    strength failed him, and he cried in the weakness of his soul,
    “Father, where are you? Do you hear all?”

    “I hear!” rang through the universal silence, and all that
    million of people shuddered in concert.

Force is its prime quality--physical, mental, religious. “In this
story,” writes Professor Phelps, “the old Cossacks, centuries dead,
have a genuine resurrection of the body. They appear before us in all
their amazing vitality, their love of fighting, of eating and drinking,
their intense patriotism, and their blazing devotion to their religious
faith. Never was a book more plainly inspired by passion for race and
native land. It is one tremendous shout of joy”--which even tragedy
cannot silence.

Gogol was a stylist of no mean order, as “Taras Bulba” well
demonstrates. It is full of Homeric passages, whose pungent vigor even
survives translation. And for sheer beauty what can surpass this, the
opening passage of “Night in May”?

    Do you know the beauty of the nights of Ukraine? The moon looks
    down from the deep, immeasurable vault, which is filled to
    overflowing and palpitating with its pure radiance. The earth
    is silver; the air is deliciously cool, yet almost oppressive
    with perfume. Divine, enchanting night! The great forest
    trees, black, solemn, and still, reposing as if oppressed with
    thought, throw out their gigantic shadows. How silent are the
    ponds! Their dark waters are imprisoned within the vine-laden
    walls of the gardens. The little virgin forest of wild cherry
    and young plum-trees dip their dainty roots timidly into the
    cold waters; their murmuring leaves angrily shiver when a
    little current of the night wind stealthily creeps in to caress
    them. The distant horizon sleeps, but above it and overhead
    all is palpitating life; august, triumphal, sublime! Like the
    firmament, the soul seems to open into endless space; silvery
    visions of grace and beauty arise before it. Oh, the charm of
    this divine night!

    Suddenly life, animation, spreads through forest, lake, and
    steppe. The nightingale’s majestic trill resounds through the
    air; the moon seems to stop, embosomed in clouds, to listen.
    The little village on the hill is wrapt in an enchanted
    slumber; its cluster of white cottages gleams vividly in the
    moonlight, and the outlines of their low walls are sharply
    clear-cut against the dark shadows. All songs are hushed;
    silence reigns in the homes of these simple peasants. But here
    and there a twinkling light appears in a little window of some
    cottage, where supper has waited for a belated occupant.

Gogol’s reputation as a humorist is strongly supported by his comedy
“Revizor” (“The Inspector-General”). It is held to be the best comedy
in the Russian language, and, while it brought out no immediate
followers, it did arouse an immense amount of amused discussion at the
time of its production.

The plot is simple enough. The officials of a provincial government
office are looking for the arrival of an inspector, who is supposed to
be coming _incognito_ to inspect their accounts. A traveller happens
to arrive at the inn, and him they all suppose to be the dreaded
official. Made anxious by their guilty consciences, each attempts to
plead his own cause with the supposed judge, and no one hesitates to
denounce a colleague in order to better his own standing. The traveller
is at first amazed, but he is astute enough to accept the situation
and pocket the money. The confusion grows until the crash of the final
thunderbolt, when the real inspector arrives upon the scene.

In his “Confessions of an Author,” Gogol says: “In the ‘Revizor,’ I
tried to present in a mass the results arising from the one crying evil
of Russia, as I recognized it in that year; to expose every crime that
is committed in those offices, where the strictest uprightness should
be required and expected. I meant to satirize the great evil. The
effect produced upon the public was a sort of terror; for they felt the
force of my true sentiments, my real sadness and disgust, through the
gay satire.”

The play was received with uproarious laughter all over the empire, but
it is a singular comment upon the Russian character of the period to
observe that, while it produced so great a furor that the Czar read it
with tears of laughter and afterwards handsomely pensioned the author,
it led to no official reforms.

A single specimen of its dry humor will illustrate. I quote from
Turner’s “Studies in Russian Literature.”

    The prefect is alarmed at the intelligence that his superior,
    the revising [inspecting] officer, may be expected on any
    day or at any hour, and begs the postmaster to open all the
    letters that may in the meantime pass through his office.
    That exemplary official informs him that such has always been
    his custom, “not from any state reason,” as he takes care to
    explain, “but from curiosity;” some of the letters he had
    opened being so entertaining that he really could not find the
    heart to send them on, but had kept them in his desk. When
    reminded by a cautious colleague that this is likely to get
    him into trouble with the public, the prefect cuts short the
    remonstration by crying out, “Oh, _batoushka_ [a diminutive
    term of endearment, meaning practically ‘little father’],
    don’t you see this is a family affair of our own? What have the
    public to do with it?”

Gogol founded the realistic school in Russia when he produced his
masterpiece “Dead Souls,” a work sufficiently powerful to raise him at
once to the pinnacle of literary fame. The idea of the book consists of
the ingenious plan of a certain Tchitchikoff, who had lost his place
in consequence of his misdemeanors in the custom-house having been
discovered. In order to retrieve his fortune he visits different landed
proprietors and buys from them the names of all their serfs who have
died since the last census. Having thus established an ownership, he
succeeds in borrowing large sums of money by giving the names of the
dead serfs as security, since these dead souls have been legally made
over to him. Naturally, the bankers think that they are making the loan
upon good live collateral. What becomes of Tchitchikoff, we do not
know, for Gogol destroyed the manuscript of the last section of his
work--some say, in a fit of abstraction; others, under the influence of
religious enthusiasm.

Upon this framework, the author has produced a series of remarkable
descriptions--not pure realism, indeed, in our modern acceptation of
the term, but rather akin to the realism of Dickens. Its truthful
picture of Russian life, its repellent yet attractive qualities, its
penetratingly keen analysis of character, caused Pushkin to exclaim
when Gogol read him the first chapters of his book, “God, how miserable
life is in Russia!”

Rarely do power and delicacy unite in a stylist as they do in Gogol.
For the one, we may find an origin in his love for the sun-steeped
and snow-blown plains of his native Cossack country--a love which
constantly manifested itself in a real nostalgia, yet never brought
him back for long from his wanderings, especially in Italy. But for
the other, that delicate power of evocation--that compound of Loti’s
subtlety of nature-sense, Hoffmann’s light fantasy, and Daudet’s
airy narrative manner, half-humorous, half-pathetic--for this we
must look to some inborn faculty. In any other writer we might trace
this gossamer lightness to much commerce with the thoughts of women.
But no woman ever entered largely into Gogol’s life, and when he
died, on March 4, 1852, being not yet forty-three years of age, his
mother--always his mother--was still his only love. His last days were
shadowed by a growing ineptitude. His frail body weakened by religious
fastings, his resources scattered by prodigal gifts, his mind enfeebled
and depressed--his passing was sad, lonely, and almost unnoticed.

Gogol was the first great prose artist in Russian literature. In the
tale and the sketch, in comedy, in romance, and in realism, he not only
blazed new trails but penetrated so far into the unknown that others
for a long time followed only at a distance. But follow they did, for,
as one of his compatriot wits has observed, “We have all hidden under
‘The Cloak.’”

The masterpiece of fantastic narration and character delineation which
follows in translation was published, under the title “Shinel,” in
1839, when Gogol was thirty. It is overlong, according to our modern
standards, yet not as a piece of artistic workmanship. Its humor, its
suggestiveness, its pathos, its whimsicality, all rank it with the
world’s great short fictions.




                               THE CLOAK
                          _By Nikolai Gogol_


In the department of ------ but it is better not to name the
department. Nothing is more annoying than all kinds of departments,
regiments, law courts--in a word, any branch of public service.
Nowadays things have come to such a pass that every individual
considers all society offended in his person. Only lately, I have
heard it told, a complaint has been received from a district chief of
police--I don’t remember of what town--in which he sets forth clearly
that the Imperial institutions are on the wane, and that the Czar’s
sacred name is being uttered in vain; and in proof of his assertion
he appended to the petition a voluminous romance, in which a district
chief of police is made to appear at least once every ten pages,
often in a hopelessly drunken condition. Therefore, to avoid all
unpleasantness, it is better to designate the department in question as
a _certain department_.
