
So, in a _certain department_ there served a _certain official_--in no
way a remarkable official, at least in appearance; short of stature,
somewhat pockmarked, somewhat red-haired, somewhat even dull-sighted,
with a bald forehead, wrinkled cheeks, and a complexion that is known
as hemorrhoidal. Poor man--the St. Petersburg climate was to blame!
As for his official rank--with us a man’s rank comes before all!--he
was what is called a perpetual titular councillor, a type which, as
is well-known, has evoked the jests of many writers, following the
praiseworthy custom of belaboring those who cannot bite back.

The official’s name was Bashmachkin. As is quite evident, it
was derived from _bashmak_ [shoe]; but when, at what period,
and in what manner, nothing is known. It is certain that his
father and grandfather, and even brother-in-law--in fact, all the
Bashmachkins--wore shoes, which were reheeled three times a year.
His name was Akaki Akakievich. Perhaps it may seem to the reader as
somewhat odd and far-fetched; but he may rest assured that it was by no
means far-fetched, and that, owing to the circumstances which led to
it, any other name would have been impossible. This is how it happened.

Akaki Akakievich, if my memory serves me right, was born in the evening
of the 23rd of March. His mother, the wife of an official, and a very
good woman, made all the proper preparations for baptizing the child.
She lay on her bed opposite the door, and at her right hand stood the
godfather, a most excellent man, Ivan Ivanovich Eroshkin by name, who
served as the chief clerk of the Senate; and the godmother, Arina
Semenovna Bielobrushkova, the wife of an officer, and a woman of rare
virtues. They offered the mother her choice of three names: Mokiya,
Sossiya, and that of the martyr Khozdazat.

“No,” said the mother. “What a lot of names!”

So as to please her, they turned to another page in the calendar, and
hit upon the names of Traphili, Dula, and Varakhasi.

“That sounds like a judgment!” muttered the sick woman. “What names!
I truly never heard the like. Varadat and Varukh would have been bad
enough, but Traphili and Varakhasi!”

They turned to another page. The result was: Povsikakhi and Vakhtisi.

“Enough,” said the mother. “I now see that it is fate. And since it is
so, I think he had better be called after his father. Akaki was his
father’s name, let the son too be Akaki.”

In such manner he became Akaki Akakievich. The child was christened,
at which he wept and made a bad grimace, as if he foresaw that he was
to be a titular councillor. That is how it all came about. We have
mentioned it so the reader might judge for himself that it was entirely
due to circumstance, and that to have given him any other name would
have been impossible.

When and how he entered the department, and who appointed him, no one
could remember. However much the directors and chiefs were changed, he
was always to be seen in the one and same spot, the same attitude, the
same occupation, always the letter-copying official, so that afterwards
the conviction grew that he came into the world as he was, in uniform
and with his bald spot. No one showed him the slightest respect in the
department. The porters not only did not rise from their seats when he
passed, but did not even glance at him; he might have been a common fly
that flew through the reception room. His chiefs treated him with a
sort of cold despotism. Some insignificant assistant to the head clerk
would thrust a paper under his very nose, without saying so much as
“Copy,” or “Here is an interesting little case,” or, in fact, anything
pleasant, as is usual among well-bred officials. And he would accept
the paper, without looking to see who gave it to him, and whether he
had a right to do so; he would take it and immediately start to copy it.

The young officials made merry at his expense so far as their official
wit would permit. In his presence they invented stories about his
life. Of his seventy-year-old landlady they said that she beat him;
they asked him when their wedding would be, and, strewing small pieces
of paper over his head, called it snow. Not a single word would Akaki
Akakievich answer to this, as though no one were near him. It did not
even affect his tasks; in the midst of all these taunts he made not
a single error in copying. Once, however, when the jesting became
unbearable, because they pushed his elbow while he was at his work, he
exclaimed:

“Leave me alone! Why do you insult me?”

And there was something strange in these words and the voice in which
they were uttered. There was something in it which stirred one’s
pity; so that, in fact, a young man, only recently appointed, who,
following the example of others, permitted himself to make fun of
him, suddenly stopped short, like one stunned, and from that time
everything seemed to him to undergo as it were a transformation and
to assume a new aspect. Some invisible power repelled him from his
companions, with whom he had become acquainted on the assumption that
they were well-bred, estimable men. And for a long time afterward,
even in his merriest moments, there appeared before his eye the little
official with the bald forehead, and his penetrating words: “Leave me
alone! Why do you insult me?” And in these touching words other words
resounded: “I am thy brother!” At this thought the young man would
cover his face with his hands, and many a time later in the course of
his life he shuddered at seeing how much inhumanity there is in man,
how much savage uncouthness hidden under the delicate and cultivated
worldliness, and, oh, God! even in the man whom the world acknowledges
as honorable and honest.

It would be no easy matter to find another man who attended so
faithfully to his duties. It is not enough to say that he labored
with zeal; no, he labored with love. This copying presented to him a
sufficiently varied and agreeable existence. Enjoyment showed on his
face; he had his favorites among the letters, and when they came his
way he was not himself; he would smile, wink, and work his lips, so
that by looking at his face it seemed that you could read every letter
which his pen put down. Were he rewarded according to the measure of
his ardor, he would, to his own astonishment, have been made even a
councillor of state. But his companions had their little joke about his
work.

It would be untrue to say that _no_ attention was paid him. One kindly
director, wishing to reward him for his long service, ordered him to
be given something more dignified to do than mere copying; namely, he
was requested to draw up some sort of report to another office of an
already concluded affair; all that he was required to do was to change
the heading, and to alter certain words from the first to the third
person. This entailed him such labor that he began to perspire, to
wipe his forehead, saying finally, “No, better give me copying.” From
that time on he was let alone in his copying. Aside from this copying,
nothing seemed to exist for him.

He gave no thought to his dress. His uniform was not green, but rather
a reddish-mealy color. Its collar was narrow and low, so that his neck,
though not really long, seemed inordinately long as it projected from
the collar, quite like the necks of the plaster cats with wagging heads
that one sees carried upon the heads of foreign peddlers. And something
always clung to his uniform; it was a bit of straw, or perhaps a
thread. Besides, he had the unfortunate tendency, while walking in
the street, to go past a window precisely at the moment when they
threw out of it all kinds of rubbish; hence he always carried about
on his hat pieces of melon-rind and articles of a similar nature. Not
once in his life did he direct his attention upon what was happening
daily in the street--quite unlike his colleague, the young official,
whose glance was sufficiently far-reaching and keen to observe when
any one’s trouser-straps became undone on the opposite sidewalk, which
always called forth upon his face a smile of gratification. But Akaki
Akakievich, when he happened to look at all, saw in everything only the
clear, even strokes of his written lines, and only when, from goodness
knows where, a horse’s head suddenly popped over his shoulder and sent
a whole gust of wind from its nostrils into his face, did he begin to
notice that he was not in the middle of a line, but in the middle of
the street.

On arriving home, he would sit down immediately at the table, gulp
down quickly his cabbage-soup, eat a piece of meat with onion without
noticing their taste, consuming everything--together with flies or
anything else which the Lord happened to send at the moment.

Becoming conscious of the swelling of his stomach, he would rise from
the table, take down a bottle of ink, and begin to copy papers which
he had brought home. If such were wanting, he had the habit of making a
special copy for his personal gratification, particularly if the paper
happened to be remarkable, not indeed so much on account of the beauty
of its style, but of its being addressed to some new or important
person.

Even in those hours when the gray sky of St. Petersburg became
altogether extinct, and the entire official multitude had already dined
to satiety, each as he could, according to his means and whim; when all
had rested after the departmental grating of pens, running about for
one’s own affairs and those urgent ones of strangers--indeed, all the
work which tireless man had willingly created for himself, even far
beyond any actual need; when officials hasten to devote the rest of
the evening to pleasure--the more alert going to the theatre; those on
the street employing their time looking at the bonnets; one spending
his evening in paying compliments to some pretty girl, the star of
a small official circle; another--and this being the more frequent
rule--visiting a colleague on the fourth or third floor, in two small
rooms, with an antechamber or kitchen, and some fashionable pretensions
such as a lamp or another article costing many sacrifices, perhaps
a dinner or an outing; in a word, at the very hour that all the
officials scatter among the confined quarters of their friends to play
whist, at the same time sipping their tea out of glasses with cheap
sugar, smoking long pipes, relating now and then titbits of gossip
emanating from superior society, which the Russian can never, under any
circumstances, deny himself, even when there is nothing to talk about,
repeating the eternal anecdote concerning the commandant to whom word
had been sent that the tails of the horses on the Falconet monument
had been cut off; in short, just at the hour when all seek to divert
themselves, Akaki Akakievich indulged in no kind of diversion. No one
could say that he had ever been seen at any kind of evening party.
Having written to his heart’s desire, he would go to bed, smiling
anticipatingly at the thought of the morrow: what will the Lord send
him for the next day’s copying?

So flowed on the peaceful life of this man, who on a salary of four
hundred rubles a year was yet content with his lot; and perhaps it
would have continued to flow on to a good old age, were it not for the
fact that the path of human life is strewn with all sorts of ills, not
alone for titular councillors, but also for private, actual, court, and
various other councillors, even for those who render counsel unto no
one, and take none themselves.

St. Petersburg contains a powerful enemy to all those receiving four
hundred rubles a year salary or thereabouts. This foe is none other
than our northern cold, though otherwise it is said to be very healthy.
At nine o’clock in the morning, precisely at the hour when the streets
are filled with officials on their way to their departments, the cold
begins to give them all, without discrimination, such powerful and
biting nips upon their noses that the poor officials are at a loss
where to hide them. At such a time, when even those occupying superior
positions suffer the pain of cold in their foreheads, and tears start
to their eyes, the poor titular councillors are sometimes unprotected.
Their only salvation lies in their ability to scamper quickly over
five or six streets in their scant cloaks, and then warm their feet in
the porter’s room; incidentally thawing out in the process all their
faculties and abilities for official service which had become frozen on
the way.

Akaki Akakievich had for some time felt the cold piercing his back and
shoulders with unwonted vigor, notwithstanding the fact that he tried
to cover the distance from his house to the department as quickly as
possible. He finally thought to see whether the fault did not lie in
his cloak. Examining the garment very carefully at home, he made a
discovery: that in two or three places--to be precise, in the back and
shoulders--it had become like a thin canvas; the cloth, in fact, was
threadbare to the point of transparency, while the lining too had gone
to pieces.

It should be mentioned that the cloak of Akaki Akakievich served as
an object of ridicule to the officials; they even had deprived it
of the dignified name of cloak and called it a cape. To confess the
truth, it was of a rather curious construction; year by year its collar
diminished more and more, because it served to patch other parts. The
patching itself did not exhibit much sartorial art; and was, in fact,
ill done and ugly. Seeing where the trouble lay, Akaki Akakievich
decided to take the cloak to Petrovich, a tailor who lived somewhere
on the fourth floor, up a dark staircase, and who, notwithstanding his
one eye and pockmarked face, busied himself, with fair success, mending
trousers and frocks of officials and others; that is to say, when he
was in sober condition and was not up to something or other.

It is really not necessary to speak much concerning this tailor, but
as it is customary that in a story the character of each person be
clearly defined, there is no help for it; so let us have Petrovich
too. Once he was known simply as Grigori and was a gentleman’s serf;
he began to call himself Petrovich when he received his release, and
started to drink in no small measure on all holidays, at first only
on the great ones, and afterwards indiscriminately upon all church
celebrations which were marked by a cross in the calendar. Again,
he was faithful to traditional custom, and in quarrelling with his
wife called her a street woman and a German. As we have mentioned
the wife, it becomes necessary for us to say a word or two about her
also; unfortunately, little is known about her, except that she was
Petrovich’s wife, that she wore a cap instead of a shawl, and could
not boast of good looks; at least, only the soldiers of the guard ever
looked under her cap upon meeting her, giving vent to their feelings by
fingering their mustaches and mumbling something in a peculiar voice.

Ascending the staircase leading to Petrovich, a staircase wet with
dishwater and reeking of that smell of spirits which affects the eyes,
and which is, as is well-known, a never-absent characteristic of all
dark stairways of St. Petersburg houses--ascending the staircase, Akaki
Akakievich was thinking of what Petrovich would demand for the job,
and he mentally decided not to give him more than two rubles. The door
was open, because the housewife was frying some sort of fish, and had
so filled the room with smoke that you could not see so much as the
roaches. Akaki Akakievich passed through the kitchen, unobserved even
by the housewife, and finally entered the room where he saw Petrovich
sitting on a large, unpainted wooden table, his legs tucked in under
him like a Turkish pasha. His feet, after the manner of tailors sitting
at their work, were bare, and first of all that caught one’s eye was
the big toe, very familiar to Akaki Akakievich, with its mutilated
nail as thick and as powerful as a turtle’s shell. On his neck hung
a skein of silk and thread, and upon his knees lay a garment. He had
already spent some three minutes in trying to thread his needle, and
was therefore very wroth at the darkness and even at the thread, and
growled under his breath: “It won’t crawl through, the barbarian!
You’ve pricked me, confounded rascal, you!”

Akaki Akakievich felt unhappy because he had come precisely at the
moment when Petrovich was angry; he preferred to deal with Petrovich
when that individual was somewhat discouraged, or, as his wife
expressed it, when “he had sunk down with brandy, the one-eyed demon!”
In such a condition Petrovich, as a rule, readily came down in price,
and thanked you profusely into the bargain. Afterwards, it is true,
his wife would visit the customer, saying, with weeping eyes, that
her husband had been drunk, and had charged too cheaply. Well, you
would add a ten-copeck piece, and have the best of it at that. On the
present occasion, however, Petrovich to all appearances was sober, and
therefore gruff, uncommunicative, and in a condition to demand the
devil only knows what a price! Akaki Akakievich felt this, and would
gladly have beat a retreat, but it was too late. Petrovich had already
fixed his one eye intently upon him, and Akaki Akakievich greeted him
rather unwillingly:

“How are you, Petrovich?”

“And how are you, sir?” returned Petrovich, and slanted his gaze
towards the hands of Akaki Akakievich, in order to see what sort of
booty he had brought.

“Ah--here I am to you, Petrovich, this----”

It should be noted that Akaki Akakievich expressed himself chiefly by
means of prepositions, adverbs, and particles of speech which have no
meaning whatsoever. And if the matter was very difficult, he was in
the habit of not completing his phrases, so that very often when his
sentence began with the words, “This, in fact, is quite----” nothing
would come of it, and he himself would forget to continue, thinking he
had said what he had to say.

“Well, what is it?” asked Petrovich, and at the same time surveyed with
his one eye the entire uniform from the collar to the cuffs, the back,
the coat-flaps, and the button-holes; they were all familiar to him,
for they were his own work. Such is the tailor’s habit; it is the first
thing he does upon meeting one.

“Well, I here--this, Petrovich--about the cloak--the cloth, you see,
everywhere in other places, is quite strong--it is a trifle dusty, and
looks old, but it is new, only here in one place, just a little on the
back, and a trifle too on the shoulder--bit worn through, and on this
shoulder a bit--do you see?--and that’s all. Not much to do----”

Petrovich took the cape, spread it on the table, examined it for a long
time, shook his head, and reached out his hand towards the window-sill
for his round snuff-box, on the lid of which was the portrait of some
general or other, whose identity was lost, however, because a finger
had been thrust straight through the face and the hole glued over with
a square bit of paper. Having taken a pinch of snuff, Petrovich held
up and examined the cape against the light, and again shook his head;
then turned it, lining upwards, and once more shook his head. Again
he removed the lid of his snuff-box, and, having applied some of its
contents to his nose, he pocketed the case, and finally said:

“No, it is impossible to mend it. It’s a miserable garment!”

Akaki Akakievich’s heart sank at these words.

“And why impossible, Petrovich?” he asked in a voice almost that of
an imploring child. “There’s nothing--only a bit worn-out at the
shoulders. You surely have some pieces----”

“It’s easy enough to find pieces,” answered Petrovich, “but how is one
to sew them on? The cloth is all rotten. Put a needle to it--and it
goes apart.”

“Let it; you can put another patch there.”

“There’s nothing to lay the patches on; there’s no way of strengthening
it--it is beyond all help. You may thank the stars that it’s cloth; or
else a wind would come along and blow it away.”

“Well, yes, better strengthen it. How is it, in fact, this----”

“No,” said Petrovich decisively, “nothing can be done. It’s a
thoroughly bad job. You’d better make gaiters out of it for cold
winter days, because stockings are not sufficiently warm. The Germans
invented them, in order to make more money.” (Petrovich took advantage
of every opportunity to make thrusts at the Germans.) “As for the
cloak, it’s quite evident you want a new one.”

At the word _new_ all grew dark before the eyes of Akaki Akakievich,
and everything in the room began to go round. Only one object he saw
clearly: the general with the mutilated face on the lid of Petrovich’s
snuff-box.

“How a new one?” he asked, as if he were in a dream. “Why, I have no
money for it.”

“Yes, a new one,” repeated Petrovich, with a savage calm.

“Well, and if I order a new one, how will it----?”

“That is, you want to know how much it would cost?”

“Yes.”

“Well, you’d have to put down a hundred and fifty,” said Petrovich, and
compressed his lips significantly. He liked powerful effects, he liked
to stun suddenly and completely, and then to look askance in order to
see what kind of face the victim might make after such words.

“A hundred and fifty rubles for a cloak!” shrieked the poor Akaki
Akakievich, perhaps for the first time since his birth, for he had
always been distinguished for the subdued quality of his voice.

“Yes-s,” said Petrovich; “and that’s for a cheap one. If you wish a bit
of marten fur on the collar, and to line the hood with silk, it will
mount up to two hundred.”

“Petrovich, please!” said Akaki Akakievich in a pleading voice, not
hearing, and not trying to hear, the words of Petrovich and all his
effects. “Mend it somehow, so it will last just a little while longer.”

“No, it’s of no use--it will only be a waste of time and money,”
answered Petrovich.

After these words Akaki Akakievich left the place completely crushed.
As for Petrovich, he remained standing for a long time, compressing
his lips significantly; nor did he resume his work, but thought with
gratification of how he upheld his own dignity and at the same time did
not prove a traitor to sartorial art.

Akaki Akakievich went into the street feeling as in a dream. “Well,
what an affair!” he said to himself. “Well, really, I never thought
it would come to that!” After a brief silence he added: “So that’s
how it is! So at last it has come to that! And I, really, never even
imagined that the matter stood like that!” Another silence followed,
after which he muttered: “So that’s how it is! Well, really, somehow
unexpected--it’s impossible--a kind of predicament!” Having said this,
instead of going home, he went in the exactly opposite direction,
altogether unconscious of the fact.

On the way he collided with a chimney sweep, who blackened his
shoulder; a whole hatful of lime fell upon him from the top of an
unfinished house. He did not notice the things that happened to him,
and only when he ran against a watchman, who, having placed his halberd
beside him, was shaking snuff out of a case upon his horny hand, did he
become slightly conscious of where he was, and that only because the
watchman said: “Why do you push yourself into a man’s very face? What’s
a sidewalk for?” This caused him to look around and to turn homeward.

It was only at home that he began to collect his thoughts, and to view
the situation in its true and clear aspect. He began to argue with
himself no longer in an incoherent manner, but reasonably and frankly,
as with a sensible companion, with whom one might discuss any intimate
and personal matter.

“Well, no,” said Akaki Akakievich. “Just now Petrovich is not in the
right mood to talk with; he now that--his wife, it seems, must have
given him a beating. I had better go to him on Sunday morning; after
Saturday night he will be cross-eyed and sleepy; he will want to get
drunk, and his wife won’t give him the money, and at such a time a
ten-copeck piece in his hand--and he will be more sociable, and the
cloak then and there----”

So argued Akaki Akakievich with himself. He now felt more cheerful, and
waited until the first Sunday, when, seeing from afar Petrovich’s wife
leave the house, he made haste to carry out his plan. Petrovich was, in
fact, squint-eyed after Saturday; his head drooped, and he was quite
sleepy; notwithstanding all this, the moment he knew what the business
was about he at once grew alert, as if the very Satan prompted him.

“Impossible,” he said. “You must order a new one.”

At this, Akaki Akakievich slipped a ten-copeck piece into his hand.

“Thank you, sir; I will drink a bit to your health,” said Petrovich.
“As for the cloak, you need not worry about it; it is nothing but a
rag. I will make you a handsome new cloak; let us settle that.”

Akaki Akakievich still insisted on his mending it, but Petrovich would
not listen, and said:

“There’s no way out of it; I shall have to make you a new one; and
you may depend upon it, I will do my best. It is even possible that I
shall make it according to the new fashion: the collar will fasten with
silver hooks underneath.”

When Akaki Akakievich began to comprehend that a new cloak was an
absolute necessity, his spirits sank utterly. How indeed was it to be
done? Where was the money to come from? He could of course depend for a
great part of it upon his customary holiday gift. But there was a new
pair of trousers to order; there was the old debt to pay the cobbler
for putting on new tops to old boots; he also needed three shirts and
at least two undergarments which it is impolite to mention in print;
in a word, there would not be a copeck left, and even if the director
should prove so generous as to allot as his share forty-five or fifty
rubles instead of forty, there would be the merest trifle left, which,
considered in connection with the cloak money, would seem as a drop in
the sea; though of course he knew that Petrovich would sometimes get a
sudden notion to charge the devil knows what an exorbitant price, so
that even his wife could not restrain herself from exclaiming: “Are you
out of your wits, you fool! At one time he will take almost nothing
for his work, but at another time he is mad enough to ask more than
the thing is worth!” Although Akaki Akakievich knew quite well that
Petrovich would undertake to make the cloak for eighty rubles, where
were even the eighty rubles to come from? He could manage to provide
half of it, perhaps even a trifle more; but where was he to find the
other half?

First of all, the reader should be informed where the first half was to
come from. Akaki Akakievich had the habit of putting away, for every
ruble he spent, a two-copeck piece into a small box, kept under lock,
and with a small hole in the top for the dropping in of the money. At
the expiration of every six months he would exchange the collected
coppers for silver. He had been doing this for a long time, and in the
course of several years had managed in this manner to save more than
forty rubles.

With the first half in hand, the question now was: how to procure the
other half? After much deliberation, Akaki Akakievich decided that it
would be necessary to curtail the ordinary expenses for at least a
period of one year, to deprive himself of his evening tea, to light no
candles; and if there was anything that had to be done, to do it in
the landlady’s room by her candle. He also could, when in the street,
step more lightly and cautiously upon the stones, almost on tiptoe,
and save thereby his heels from wearing out too quickly. He could give
his laundress as little wash as possible; and, in order not to wear his
clothes out, could throw them off upon arriving home and remain solely
in his cotton dressing-gown, an ancient garment spared mercifully by
time.

To tell the truth, these deprivations came hard in the beginning, but
gradually he became used to them; he even learned to go hungry in
the evening; but in compensation he nourished himself spiritually,
eternally bearing in his thoughts the idea of the new cloak. From this
time on, it seemed as if his existence had become fuller, as if he had
married, as if some other person was living with him, as if he were
not alone, but some pleasant companion had consented to share his lot
in life with him--and this companion was none other than the cloak,
thickly wadded and so strongly lined as never to wear out. He became
as it were livelier, even more characterful, as befits a man who has
a clear and a firm aim in life. Doubt and indecision seemed to have
vanished from his face and manner, and indeed all his wavering and
more undefined characteristics became less noticeable. At times even a
sparkle showed in his eyes, and his mind indulged in the most daring
thoughts. Why not, for instance, marten on the collar? Such a thought
made him absent-minded; and upon one occasion, in copying a paper, he
almost made an error, which caused him to cry almost aloud, “Oh!” and
to make a sign of the cross.

At least once a month he visited Petrovich, to talk over the cloak
with him--where best to buy the cloth, the question of its color, and
its price--and, though somewhat agitated, he always returned feeling
happier in the thought that the time was at last approaching when
everything would be bought and the cloak made.

The matter went even faster than he anticipated. Surpassing all his
hopes, the director allotted him not forty or forty-five rubles, but
sixty! Perhaps he felt that Akaki Akakievich needed a cloak, or else it
was an accident, but the fact was, Akaki Akakievich found himself with
twenty unexpected rubles. This circumstance hastened matters. Another
two or three months of hunger, and Akaki Akakievich found himself with
eighty rubles. His heart, usually tranquil, began to throb.

On the first free day he went shopping with Petrovich. They purchased a
very good cloth, and at a reasonable price, because they had considered
the matter for a full six months before, and hardly a month passed
but that they visited the shops to inquire prices; besides, Petrovich
himself said that better cloth couldn’t be found. For lining, they
selected a cotton cloth, but so strong and thick that, to use the words
of Petrovich, it was better than silk, and in appearance even showy
and shiny. Marten fur proved too expensive, and so in its place they
purchased the very best obtainable cat-skin, which in the distance
could be mistaken for marten. Petrovich worked on the cloak two weeks;
there was much quilting, otherwise it would have been finished sooner.
For his labor Petrovich charged twelve rubles--he couldn’t possibly
take less; it was all done with silk, in small double stitches, which
afterwards Petrovich went over with his own teeth, creating various
patterns in the process.

It was--it is difficult to say precisely on what day; but probably
the most triumphant day in Akaki Akakievich’s life was when Petrovich
at last brought the cloak. He brought it in the morning, just before
the time necessary to start for the department. It could not have
arrived at a more opportune moment, because a severe cold had set in,
and it seemed to threaten to become even colder. Petrovich himself
brought the cloak, as befits a good tailor. His face expressed such
an extraordinary significance as Akaki Akakievich never had beheld
there before. It was evident that he felt he had done no small
thing, and that he had suddenly revealed in himself the abyss which
separates these tailors who sew on mere linings and do mending, from
those who make an entire new garment. He drew out the cloak from a
handkerchief in which he brought it. The handkerchief had just come
from the laundress; so, folding it, he put it in his pocket for use.
Holding up the cloak proudly in both hands, he very deftly threw it
on Akaki Akakievich’s shoulders, after which he pulled it down with
his hand from behind, and let it hang unbuttoned. Akaki Akakievich,
like a man wise in years, wished to try the sleeves. Petrovich helped
him into them. The sleeves too fitted well. In short, the cloak was
all that was wanted of it. Petrovich did not let the opportunity pass
to remark that only because he conducted his establishment without a
signboard and in a small street, and had known Akaki Akakievich for so
long, had he charged him so cheaply, and that on Nevski Prospect they
would have charged him seventy-five rubles for the work alone. Akaki
Akakievich did not wish to argue the matter with Petrovich, and feared
all large amounts, of which the tailor loved to speak soundingly. Akaki
Akakievich paid and thanked Petrovich, and set forth in his new cloak
to the department. Petrovich followed him, and for a long time his
gaze lingered on the cloak from a distance; then, making a short cut
through a side street, he reappeared to view the cloak from another
point--namely, directly in front.

As for Akaki Akakievich, he walked on, experiencing exultation in every
part of his body. At every step he felt conscious of the new cloak
upon his shoulders, and several times he even smiled from internal
gratification. Indeed, the cloak had two advantages: it was warm and
it was handsome. He did not notice the road at all, and suddenly found
himself in the department. He threw off the cloak in the porter’s room,
and, after surveying it, he confided it to the special care of the
attendant. It is impossible to tell how every one in the department
suddenly knew that Akaki Akakievich had a new cloak, and that the cape
no longer existed. All at once ran into the porter’s room to inspect
the garment. They began to congratulate him, so that at the beginning
he smiled and afterwards even felt ashamed. When, however, every one
surrounding him said that the new cloak should be christened, and
that at least he should give them all a party some evening, Akaki
Akakievich lost his head completely, and did not know what to do,
what to say, and how to get out of it. For several minutes, blushing,
he tried to assure them, in a sufficiently naïve manner, that the
cloak was not at all a new one, that it was, in fact, an old cloak.
In the end, one of the officials, who served as assistant to the head
clerk, evidently wishing to show that he was not at all proud and did
not condescend towards his inferiors, said: “So be it. I, instead of
Akaki Akakievich, will give the party, and I invite you all to my house
tonight. As it happens, it is my birthday.” Naturally, the officials
then congratulated the head clerk’s assistant, and accepted the
invitation eagerly. Akaki Akakievich at first wished to decline, but
every one started to impress upon him how discourteous it was, and that
it was a shame and a disgrace, so that he could not refuse. Besides, he
afterwards began to feel pleasure in the thought that he would have an
opportunity to spend an evening in his new cloak.

That entire day was like a triumphant holiday for Akaki Akakievich.
He returned home in the happiest possible frame of mind, threw off
his cloak, and hung it carefully on the wall, his eye revelling once
more in the cloth and the lining; he afterwards held up beside it for
comparison the old cape, now all fallen to pieces. He laughed, so
great was the difference. And even a long time after dinner he smiled
each time the condition of his old cape occurred to him. He dined
cheerfully, and did not copy any papers afterwards, but rested upon
his bed until it grew dark. Afterwards, wasting no time, he dressed
himself, placed the cloak across his shoulders, and went into the
street.

Just where the inviting official lived, we unfortunately cannot say;
our memory is beginning to fail us, and the St. Petersburg streets
and houses have so badly massed and mixed themselves in our head that
it is most difficult to establish any kind of order out of all the
chaos. However that may be, at least it is certain that the official
lived in the better part of the city, from which may be guessed that
it was anywhere but near Akaki Akakievich’s neighborhood. At first he
had to pass through several dimly lighted, deserted streets, but in
proportion as he approached the official’s residence the streets grew
more lively, more populous, and more brightly illuminated; pedestrians
grew in greater numbers; women too, handsomely dressed, began to
appear; some of the men even wore beaver collars; peasants with their
wooden fence-rail sledges, hammered over with yellow-headed nails, were
more rarely met with; on the other hand, drivers with red velvet caps,
in lacquered sledges, with bearskin coverings, were becoming more
frequent; and beautifully ornamented carriages flew swiftly through the
street.

Akaki Akakievich gazed upon all this as upon a novelty; it was now
several years since he had passed an evening in the streets. He paused
with curiosity before a lighted shop-window, to look at a picture in
which was represented a handsome woman taking off her shoe and baring
her entire foot very prettily, while behind her a man with whiskers
and a handsome mustache peeped through the door of another room.
Akaki Akakievich shook his head and laughed, and then continued his
journey. Why did he laugh? Was it because he had met a thing altogether
unfamiliar to him, but for which, however, every one cherishes some
sort of feeling, or was it because he thought about it as many other
officials would? “Ah, those French! What is there to say? When they
want to do anything like that, they do it rather well!” And it is
possible that he did not think such a thing at all. After all, it is
impossible to steal into a man’s soul and to discover all that he
thinks.

At last he reached the house in which lived the head clerk’s assistant.
This man resided in grand style; the staircase was lighted by a lamp;
his quarters were on the second floor. Entering the vestibule, Akaki
Akakievich observed several rows of galoshes on the floor. Among
them, in the middle of the room, stood the samovar; it was humming
and emitting clouds of steam. The walls were covered with cloaks and
mantles, among which were even a few with beaver collars or with velvet
lapels. Behind the wall were audible the noise and conversation, which
suddenly grew clear and loud when the door opened and the servant came
out with a trayful of empty glasses, a cream-jug, and a sugar-bowl. It
was evident that the officials had arrived some time ago and had had
their first glass of tea.

Akaki Akakievich, having hung up his cloak himself, entered the room,
and his astonished gaze took in at once the lights, the officials,
the pipes, and the card-tables, and he was confused by the sound of
conversation rising from all sides and the noise of moving chairs. He
paused very awkwardly in the middle of the room, pondering what he
should do. But he had already been noticed, and he was received with
shouts; every one running towards the vestibule to survey his cloak
anew. Although Akaki Akakievich was somewhat astonished, still, being
a simple-hearted man, he could not help but feel flattered, seeing how
well his cloak was liked. Afterwards, it goes without saying, they
forgot him and his cloak, and returned quite properly to the tables
appointed for whist. All this--the noise, the conversation, and the
size of the gathering--all this was strange to Akaki Akakievich. He
simply did not know what to do with himself, where to put his hands,
his feet, and his entire body; finally he seated himself near the
players, looked at the cards, or into the face of now one, now another,
and after a time began to grow drowsy, and to feel a certain feeling of
weariness, all the more because his accustomed hour for going to bed
had long passed. He wished to bid his host good-night, but he was not
permitted to depart; they insisted that he drink a glass of champagne
in honor of his new garment. In another hour supper was served; it
consisted of a relish, cold veal, pastry, sweets, and champagne. Akaki
Akakievich was made to drink two glasses of champagne, after which
the room assumed to him a livelier aspect; nevertheless, he could
not forget that it was twelve o’clock, and that he should have been
home long ago. In order that the host might not detain him, he stole
silently out of the room, sought out in the anteroom his cloak, which,
to his sorrow, he found lying on the floor. He brushed it, removed
every speck of dust from it, put it on his shoulders, and descended
the stairs into the street.

The street was as yet all alight. Some of the petty shops, those
permanent clubs of servants and all sorts of people, were open; others,
however, which were closed, showed a long streak of light through
the entire length of the door-crack, suggesting that they did not
lack company, probably servants of both sexes, who were concluding
their gossip and conversation, and keeping their masters in complete
ignorance of their whereabouts. Akaki Akakievich walked on in a happy
frame of mind, started even to run, for an unknown reason, after a
woman who flashed by him like lightning. After this, however, he paused
and resumed his former leisurely pace, wondering at his own sudden
spurt. Very soon there stretched before him the deserted streets, not
particularly cheerful even by day, and much less so by night. Now they
seemed even more than usually dark and lonely; the lights were growing
further apart; then came wooden houses and fences; not a soul anywhere;
only the snow sparkled in the streets; and the slumbering, low-roofed
cabins with closed shutters looked melancholy against the snow. He was
approaching the spot where the street cut through a vast square, with
houses on the other side barely visible across the desert space.

In the distance, God knows how far, a tiny flame glimmered in a
watchman’s box, which seemed to verge on the edge of the world. Akaki
Akakievich’s cheerfulness diminished here perceptibly. He entered
the square not without a certain involuntary fear; not without some
foreboding of evil. He glanced behind him and on both sides--a sea
appeared to surround him. “No, it is better not to look,” he thought,
and walked on with closed eyes; and when he opened them to see whether
or not he had reached the end of the square, he suddenly beheld before
him, almost under his very nose, some bearded individuals, precisely
what sort he could not distinguish. Everything grew dark before his
eyes, and his heart began to throb.

“But, I say, the cloak is mine,” said one of the men in a loud voice,
seizing him by the collar.

Akaki Akakievich wished to cry out, “Help!” when the other man put his
fist, the size of an official’s head, to his very mouth, and said,
“Just try to make a noise!”

Akaki Akakievich only felt conscious of how they removed the cloak from
his shoulders, then gave him a parting kick, which sent him headlong
into the snow; after that he felt no more.

In a few minutes he recovered consciousness and rose to his feet, but
no one was to be seen. He felt cold, and the absence of his cloak; he
began to shout, but his voice did not seem to reach the bounds of the
square. Desperate, not ceasing to shout, he started to run across the
square straight towards the watchman’s box, beside which stood the
watchman, leaning upon his halberd, and looking, as it were, with eager
expectancy for an explanation as to this strange fellow’s running and
shouting. Akaki Akakievich, having reached him, began to shout in a
gasping voice that he was asleep and did not attend to his business,
and let people rob a man. The watchman replied that he saw nothing
except two men stop and talk to him in the middle of the square, and
that he thought they were his friends; he also suggested that rather
than waste time on talk he should report the matter to the police
captain, and that he would find the man who had taken the cloak.

Akaki Akakievich arrived home in complete disorder. His hair, which
thrived in no large numbers upon his temples and the back of his head,
was in a dishevelled state; while his entire body was covered with
snow. His old landlady, on hearing a loud knocking on the door, sprang
quickly out of bed, and with only one shoe on ran to open the door,
holding her night-gown, out of modesty, to her breast. Having opened
the door, she drew back upon seeing the condition of her lodger. When
he explained what had happened she wrung her hands and advised him to
inform the district chief of police at once; that a lesser official
would only promise without doing anything; besides, she had some
acquaintance with the chief, because Anna, her former cook, had just
become a nurse at his house. She saw him very often pass her house,
and, moreover, she knew that he went to church every Sunday, and
that as he prayed he looked cheerily at the same time upon all, and
therefore was, to all appearances, a good man. Having listened to this
suggestion, Akaki Akakievich very sadly betook himself to his room,
and how he spent the night there may be imagined by those who have the
faculty of putting themselves in the place of others.

Early next morning he visited the district chief and was told that he
was asleep; he went again at ten, with the same result; at eleven they
told him the chief was not at home; when he went at dinner-time, the
clerks in the anteroom would not admit him, but demanded to know the
business that brought him; so that finally Akaki Akakievich for once
in his life showed a spark of courage and said firmly that he must
see the district chief personally, that they dared not refuse him, as
he came from the department upon official business, and that if they
persisted he would present a complaint against them, which would make
them sorry. The clerks dared not reply to this, and one of them went in
to call the chief.

Instead of directing his attention to the important point of the case,
he began to cross-examine Akaki Akakievich. Why was he returning
home so late? Did he stop on the way in any disorderly house? In the
end Akaki Akakievich was so completely confused that he went out not
knowing whether anything would be done about the cloak or not.

The entire day he did not appear in the department--the first time
in his life. The next day he arrived at his place looking very pale
and in his old cape, which had grown even sadder-looking. The news of
the robbery of the cloak--notwithstanding the fact that some of the
officials did not permit even this opportunity to pass without laughing
at Akaki Akakievich--nevertheless touched many. They decided to take up
a collection for him, but succeeded in obtaining a mere trifle; as the
officials had already spent considerable money in subscribing for the
director’s portrait, and for a book, at the suggestion of the chief of
the bureau, who was a friend of the author; hence the insignificance of
the sum.

Some one, out of pity, wished at least to help Akaki Akakievich with
good advice; and so he told him not to go to the captain, for though
the captain might really wish to earn the approbation of the chiefs
and find the cloak in some way or other, the cloak itself would
nevertheless remain with the police, unless he could show legal proof
that it was his; he ought therefore to apply to a certain _important
personage_; and this _important personage_, by dealing with the proper
persons, could hasten and expedite matters. There was nothing else to
do but to turn to the _important personage_.

What was the precise function of the _important personage_ remains
unknown to this day. One point should be made clear: that this
particular _important personage_ only recently had become an important
personage, and that until quite lately he had been an unimportant
personage. And aside from that, his position was not even now
considered important when compared with that of other more important
personages. There will always be, however, a circle of people to whom
what is unimportant to other people is sufficiently important. Then,
again, he bent all his efforts to increase his importance through
numerous other means, as, for instance, he instituted the custom of
having his inferiors lined up on the stairway to greet his arrival
at the department; he also insisted that no one should venture to
appear before him directly, but that everything should follow in
most unrelenting order: the collegiate registrar should report to
the government secretary, the government secretary to the titular
councillor, or to whoever was the proper official, and that in this
manner the business should finally come to him.

This habit of imitation has infected all of Holy Russia: every one
imitates and mimics his superiors. It is even said that a certain
titular councillor, when promoted to the head of some small separate
office, immediately partitioned off a private room, calling it the
“audience chamber;” he placed at the door two attendants in red collars
and braid, whose sole duty consisted in taking the door by the handle
and opening it to every comer, although the “audience chamber” had
barely room enough to contain an ordinary writing-table.

The ways and manners of the _important personage_ were impressive and
imposing, but somewhat overdone. The main principle of his system
was strictness. “Strictness, strictness--and strictness,” he used
to say generally: and always when pronouncing the last word looked
significantly at the person whom he was addressing; although this
was altogether unnecessary, because the ten officials, constituting
the entire mechanism of his office, were afraid of him; and, seeing
him even from afar, they would stop all work and assume a respectful
attitude until their chief had passed through the room. His usual
conversation with his inferiors consisted almost entirely of three
phrases: “How dare you? Do you know to whom you are speaking? Do you
realize who stands before you?” Otherwise, he was a good-natured man
and solicitous towards his comrades; but the rank of general unhinged
his mind completely. Upon receiving this rank, he lost his head, and
did not know what to do with himself. When he happened to be in the
company of his equals he still managed to do the proper thing, to be
a gentleman, and in many respects quite a clever fellow; but once in
the company of folk even a single rank below him, he simply became
helpless; he was silent, and his condition aroused sympathy, the more
so as he himself felt that he could have passed the time incomparably
happier. At times the desire to join in some conversation or circle
was strongly evident in his eyes; but the following thought always
arrested him: would it not be regarded as a familiarity, and would it
not detract from his importance? In consequence of such reasoning, he
remained in the same eternal mood of silence, uttering only rarely some
monosyllabic sounds; and thereby earning the name of a most wearisome
person.

Before an _important personage_ of this type appeared our Akaki
Akakievich, and at a most inopportune moment--that is to say, for
himself, but opportune for the _important personage_. The _important
personage_ was in his cabinet, conversing very cheerfully with an
old acquaintance and friend of his youth, whom he had not seen for
many years. It was at such a time that they told him of a certain
Bashmachkin who wished to see him. He asked abruptly, “Who is he?”
They answered him, “Some sort of official.” “Ah, let him wait, now
is not the time,” said the _important personage_. It is necessary to
mention here that the _important personage_ simply lied: he had the
time to spare; he had already talked over everything with his friend,
and the conversation had begun some time ago to lag with long silences;
and they merely continued to tap each other on the leg, and exclaim,
“That’s how it is, Ivan Abramovich!” “That’s so, Stephen Varlamovich!”
Nevertheless, he caused the official to wait, in order to show his
friend, a man some time out of the service and living in a village, how
long he compelled officials to wait for him in the anteroom.

Finally, having conversed to his heart’s content, and having had also
his fill of silence and smoked a cigar in a very comfortable chair with
an easy back, he bethought himself all of a sudden, as it were, and
said to the secretary who stood at the door with papers needing his
signature, “Oh, yes, I believe an official is waiting to see me; tell
him to come in.” On seeing Akaki Akakievich’s humble aspect and his
shabby uniform, he suddenly turned to him and said, “What is it you
wish?” He put this question abruptly and in a hard voice, which he had
practised in his own room, when alone, and before the mirror, a full
week before receiving his present position and rank.

Akaki Akakievich, who already felt a certain timorousness, became
somewhat confused, and, so far as his power of speech would permit,
explained, with an even more frequent employment than usual of the
word “that,” that his cloak was quite new, and had been stolen in a
most inhuman manner, and that he was now applying to him to use his
influence with the chief of police or some one else to find his cloak.

The general, for some reason or other, regarded such conduct as
familiar. “What, dear sir,” said he in his abrupt manner, “are you
ignorant of the rules? Why do you come to me? Do you not know how such
matters are managed? You should have first presented a petition to the
office; it would have then gone to the chief clerk, then to the clerk
of the division, then to the secretary, and the secretary would have
reported it to me----”

“But, Your Excellency,” said Akaki Akakievich, gathering together
his final remnant of courage, and breaking out into a terrible
perspiration, “I, Your Excellency, have presumed to trouble you
because, you see, the secretaries are that--an untrustworthy race----”

“What! what! what!” ejaculated the _important personage_. “Where do
you get the courage? Where did you get such ideas? What a spirit of
impertinence has spread among the young generation against their chiefs
and superiors!”

The _important personage_, apparently, had not noticed that Akaki
Akakievich was already a man of about fifty, and that if he could be
called a young person, it was only in comparison with one who was
seventy.

“Do you know to whom you are speaking? Do you realize who stands
before you? Do you realize it? Do you realize it? Answer me!”

At this point he stamped his foot, and raised his voice to such a
high pitch that even a man different from Akakievich would have been
frightened. Akaki Akakievich grew faint; he reeled; trembled from head
to foot; then his legs gave way under him; if several attendants had
not run in to support him, he would have fallen to the floor. They
carried him out more dead than alive. The _important personage_, much
gratified that the effect he produced far exceeded all expectation,
and thoroughly intoxicated with the thought that even a word from him
could deprive a man of his senses, looked askance at his friend, to
see how that individual regarded the matter, and observed, not without
satisfaction, that his friend was in a most uncomfortable state, and
was beginning to show on his part certain signs of fear.

How he managed to descend the stairway and into the street--of this
Akaki Akakievich remembered nothing. He was unconscious of either
hands or feet. Never before in his life had he been so reprimanded by
a superior, let alone an unfamiliar one. He walked in the snow-storm
which whistled through the streets; his mouth open, he staggered along
the sidewalks; the wind blew upon him in St. Petersburg fashion from
all four sides and every crossing. In an instant it had blown a quinsy
down his throat, and he arrived at home all swollen and too weak to
utter a word. He lay down on his bed.

The next day a high fever developed. Thanks to the generous assistance
of the St. Petersburg climate, the illness advanced more rapidly than
could be expected; and when the doctor appeared and felt his pulse,
there was nothing for him to do except to prescribe a poultice, for no
other reason but that the patient be not deprived of the beneficent
aid of medicine; at the same time he predicted his inevitable end in
thirty-six hours, after which he turned to the landlady and said: “And
you, my woman, had better not lose any time about it, and order a pine
coffin for him, as an oak one will be too expensive.”

Did Akaki Akakievich hear these fatal words? And if he heard them,
did they agitate him? Did he bewail the bitterness of his life? It
is uncertain, because he spent his last hours in fever and delirium.
Visions, one stranger than the other, continued to appear before him.
Now he saw Petrovich and ordered him to make a cloak with traps for
thieves who he imagined were constantly under his bed; and he more
than once called for his landlady to drag a thief from under his
bed-cover. Then he inquired why the old cloak hung in front of him when
he had a new one. Several times he fancied himself as standing before
the general, addressing him as “Your Excellency,” and pleading with
him after the reprimand; and finally he began to utter imprecations,
employing the most terrible words, so that the aged housekeeper, never
before having heard the like, made a sign of the cross, all the more
since these curses usually followed after the words “Your Excellency.”
Later he began to utter sheer nonsense; one thing, however, was
evident: all his incoherent words and thoughts hovered around the one
and the same cloak.

At last poor Akaki Akakievich gave up his spirit. The usual legal
procedure with regard to his room and his effects was not followed,
because in the first place there were no heirs, and in the second,
because he left so little property, namely, a bundle of goose-quills,
a quire of white official paper, three pairs of socks, two or three
buttons that had come off his trousers, and the cape already familiar
to the reader. To whom all this fell, God knows; this, I must confess,
did not interest even him who relates this story.

They bore Akaki Akakievich away and buried him. And so St. Petersburg
was left without Akaki Akakievich, as though he had never been
there. A being disappeared, who was protected by none, dear to none,
interesting to none, and who did not even attract to himself the
attention of the student who does not let an opportunity slip by to put
a pin through a common fly and to examine it under the microscope--a
being who endured humbly the ridicule of his brother officials and went
to his grave without having experienced a single notable event, but
for whom nevertheless, at the very close of his life, came a radiating
guest in the shape of a cloak, which cheered for an instant his sorry
existence; and upon whom there afterwards descended an intolerable
misfortune, such as descends even on the heads of the mighty of this
world!

A few days after his death, an attendant was sent to his house to
request him to report immediately at the department; but the attendant
returned to his chief with the rather unsatisfactory answer that he
could not come, and to the question, “Why?” replied, “Well, you see,
he’s dead. He was buried four days ago.” In this manner did they hear
of Akaki Akakievich’s death in the department, and the next day, in
his place sat a new official, much taller in stature, and forming his
letters not quite so upright, but very much inclined and aslant.

But who could have imagined that this was not the end of Akaki
Akakievich, and that he was destined to live through several stirring
days after his death, in compensation, as it were, for his unnoticed
life? But it so happened, and our poor history takes an unexpectedly
fantastic conclusion.

St. Petersburg was suddenly startled by rumors that on the Kalinkin
Bridge and in its vicinity there had begun to appear nightly a corpse,
in the shape of an official, seeking a stolen cloak, and that, under
the pretense that it was the stolen cloak, he dragged off, regardless
of rank or calling, every one’s cloak from his shoulders, whether it
was cat-skin, beaver, raccoon, fox, or bear--in short, every variety
of fur and skin which man had thought of for his covering. One of the
department officials saw the dead with his own eyes, and immediately
recognized in him Akaki Akakievich; this, however, so frightened him
that he began to run with all his might, and was therefore unable to
observe him closely, but only saw him raise a threatening finger from
afar.

Complaints began to come in from all quarters that the backs and
shoulders, not alone of titular, but even of court, councillors were
being exposed to the danger of a cold, because of this frequent
deprivation of their cloaks. The police made arrangements to catch the
corpse, at all costs, either alive or dead, and to deal with him most
severely, as an example to others. In this they almost succeeded. A
watchman in Kirishkin Lane seized the corpse by the collar on the very
spot of his misdeeds; for he was in the act of dragging off the frieze
cloak of a retired musician, who in his day had blown the flute. The
watchman’s shout for help fetched two comrades to his side, and into
their hands he committed the marauder, while he himself thrust his
hand for a moment into his boot for his snuff-box, in order to refresh
temporarily his frozen nose. The snuff, however, must have been of such
poor quality that even the corpse could not stand it. Ere the watchman,
who had closed his right nostril with his thumb, had time to apply
a half-handful of the snuff to his left nostril, the corpse sneezed
so violently that the three of them were soon wiping their eyes; and
while they were doing this he vanished so completely that they were
not even sure whether he had been actually in their hands. Henceforth
the watchmen were so apprehensive of dead men that they even refrained
from laying their hands on the living, and only dared to exclaim at a
distance, “Hey, there, go your way!” As for the dead official, he began
to appear even beyond the Kalinkin Bridge, creating no slight terror
among all timid people.

We have, however, wholly neglected a _certain important personage_,
who had been the actual cause of the fantastic turn taken by this true
history. First of all, in justice to the _certain important personage_,
it is necessary to say that immediately after the departure of the
poor, totally crushed Akaki Akakievich he experienced an emotion akin
to pity. It was not new to him--this feeling of sympathy; his heart
was really accessible to many good impulses, notwithstanding the fact
that his rank often interfered with their outward manifestation. No
sooner had his friend gone than he began to think about the poor Akaki
Akakievich. And nearly every day thereafter there appeared before him
the pale Akaki Akakievich, who was unable to bear up under an official
reprimand. The thought agitated him to such an extent that after a
week had passed he resolved even to send an official to learn his
condition, and to see whether he could really assist him. When it was
reported to him that Akaki Akakievich had died suddenly of fever, he
was dumbfounded, suffered the reproaches of conscience, and was in poor
spirits all day long.

Desiring some diversion and to drive away the disagreeable impression,
he went in the evening to the house of one of his friends, where he
found a likely crowd, all the more pleasant because nearly every
one was of the one and the same rank, so that he was not in any way
embarrassed. This fact had a most astounding effect on his spirits.
He opened his heart, made himself very agreeable in conversation; in
short, he passed a charming evening. After supper he drank two glasses
of champagne, an excellent method, as every one knows, of arousing
cheerfulness.

The champagne communicated in him an inclination towards various
enterprises, and he decided not to go directly home, but to visit a
certain well-known lady named Karolina Ivanovna--probably of German
extraction--with whom he was on quite friendly terms. It should be
mentioned that the _important personage_ was no longer a young man, but
a good husband and the respectable father of a family. His two sons,
one of whom was already in the government service, and a good-looking,
sixteen-year-old daughter, with a trifle arched but rather pretty
little nose, came in every morning to kiss his hand, and say, “_Bon
jour, Papa_.” His wife, a woman still fresh and not at all bad-looking,
first gave him her hand to kiss and then kissed his. The _important
personage_, however, though content with his domestic caresses, thought
it elegant to maintain friendly relations in another part of the city.
This friend was hardly prettier or younger than his wife; but many such
mysteries exist on earth, and to solve them is none of our affair.

The _important personage_, therefore, descended the staircase, entered
his sledge, and said to the driver, “To Karolina Ivanovna!” Then,
wrapping himself luxuriously in his warm cloak, he settled into that
happy mood, better than which cannot be even imagined by the Russian.
It is that state when you are not thinking of anything in particular,
but the thoughts crowd in upon you of themselves, one pleasanter than
the other, and calling for no exertion on your part to pursue them or
seek them. Gratified beyond measure, he recalled all the gay features
of the evening, all the remarks and all the stories that made the
little circle laugh. Many of these he repeated in a low voice, and
found them just as funny as before.

Occasionally, however, he was hindered by an impetuous wind, which,
arising suddenly, God only knows whence and why, cut his face, and beat
snow into it, or caused the collar of his cloak to burst out like a
sail, and then blew it back over his head, with a supernatural force,
as it were, and this gave him no end of trouble to disentangle his head
out of its folds.

Suddenly the _important personage_ felt some one grip him by the
collar. Turning around, he noticed a man of small stature, dressed in
a shabby old uniform, and, not without terror, recognized in him Akaki
Akakievich. The face of the man was pale as snow, like that of a dead
man. But the horror of the _important personage_ exceeded all bounds
when he saw the mouth of the corpse open, and, while it breathed upon
him the terrible odor of the grave, he heard it utter the following
remarks: “Ah, so here you are at last! At last I have you that--caught
you by the collar! I need your cloak! You didn’t give a thought to
mine, and even reprimanded me. Well, now give me yours!”

The poor _important personage_ almost died of fright--despite his
manifestation of character in his office and before his inferiors
generally, and although every one, on noting his manly figure and
aspect, could not help but remark, “What a strong character!” Here,
however, he, like many others possessed of an heroic exterior, was so
terrified that, not without cause, he felt as though he would die on
the spot. With his own hands he flung the cloak off his shoulders, and
shouted to the driver in an unnatural voice, “Home, at full speed!” The
driver, hearing the tone, generally employed in critical moments, and
accompanied in this case by something much more emphatic, assumed the
physical attitude of an emergency, flourished his whip, and darted off
like an arrow.

In six minutes or so, the _important personage_ was before his own
house. Pale, frightened, and without his cloak, instead of being at
Karolina Ivanovna’s, he was in his own house; and he managed somehow
to reach his own room, where he passed the night in great agitation,
so that the next morning at tea his daughter said, “You are very pale
today, Papa.” But Papa was silent, and said not a word to any one about
what had happened, where he had been, and whither he was bound. This
event made a powerful impression on him. He even much more rarely said
to his subordinates, “How dare you? Do you realize who stands before
you?” and if he did utter these words, it was not until he had heard
out all the facts of the case.

Still more remarkable was it that from that day on the corpse of the
official ceased to appear. Evidently the general’s cloak fitted his
shoulders perfectly; at least, no more stories were heard about the
dragging-off of cloaks. Many active and anxious people, however, were
very apprehensive, and insisted that the corpse was still at large in
certain remote sections of the city. In fact, one watchman in the
Kolomen district saw with his own eyes the apparition stalk forth
from behind a house; but, being rather weak physically, he dared not
arrest him, but simply followed him in the darkness, until at last the
apparition suddenly turned upon him and said, “What do you want?” and
displayed such a fist as is never seen on a living man. The watchman
replied, “Nothing,” and started back. The apparition, however, looking
very tall and wearing enormous mustaches, directed his footsteps
seemingly towards the Obukhov Bridge and vanished in the nocturnal
darkness.




                       TURGENEV THE EMANCIPATOR


Turgenev was the most cosmopolitan of the Russian fiction-writers, yet
with all his long residence in Berlin, Baden, and Paris, with all his
broad culture and varied linguistic attainments, he never ceased to
choose Russian themes and yield a passionate devotion to his fatherland.

Ivan Sergieevich Turgenev was born on the 28th of October, 1818, in
the government of Orel. His father, a dissipated Russian military
officer, died while Ivan was still young, leaving the lad in charge
of his mother, who was about six years the senior of her husband. The
woman was even less fitted by temperament to be a careful mother than
was Lady Byron, and the youth of the future novelist was stained with
bitter tears. Her vindictive spirit she retained to the last, and,
dying in old age, she constantly refused to receive the visits of her
son.

Doubtless these disillusioning home experiences affected young
Turgenev, for he early declared that he would never marry--and
maintained his resolution. Likewise, his ideals of motherhood seem to
have suffered, for the maternal qualities of his women characters never
rise to the highest.

German, French, and English he early learned from instructors at
home--Russian he picked up from the servants of the ancestral estate
on which he was born. First, he went to Moscow to study, later the
University at St. Petersburg held him for three years as a student, and
Berlin completed his academic training--particularly in philosophy, for
the subject was at that time interdicted in the Russian schools for
fear of its levelling effects.

That was a vitally formative thought-period for Europe, the years
between 1835 and 1842, and during such of them as Turgenev spent in
the German capital he became impregnated with free thought in all its
phases, and never thereafter could he breathe without oppression the
air of his restricted Russia. Thus the propaganda of emancipation which
the great novelist subtly spread by means of his fiction, without ever
becoming a physically present leader, was first of all inspired by his
life at home and fanned to enthusiasm by contact with intrepid thinkers
in Germany.

There must have been something sweetly noble in this fine, robust young
giant for him to have emerged from his sad and jarring home-life, and
the autocracy of his natal “Nest of Nobles,” with so deeply rooted a
hatred of serfdom and all cruel inequalities. Like the young Lincoln,
he swore to strike a blow against slavery; like Lincoln, he lived to
witness its overthrow, though upon a more equitable and permanently
satisfactory basis than did his American contemporary.

Turgenev, however, was not a militant emancipator. He was too calm,
too forbearing, too much the typical man of culture, for this. Indeed,
the Russian literary system of dealing with abuses may be said to be
typified by Turgenev’s method--he merely described. But his pictures
were so vital that he must have mixed his reds with the bloody sweat
of knouted serfs, and gotten his blacks from the smoky gloom of
pestilent cabins which lined the noisome roadways on ten thousand
manors. All Russia saw and gasped--and reformed. Thus did his first
work of distinction, the twenty-five “Sportsman’s Sketches”--published
from 1847 to 1851, and in book-form in 1852--do their mighty work for
mankind.

In earlier days Turgenev was, with all enlightened Russia, an admirer
of the poet-fictionist Gogol. A letter in eulogy of this author on his
death in 1852 was severely rebuked by the Czar’s banishing its writer
to his estates, where he remained, busily engaged in writing, until
1855. Then he saw that Russia could best be served at a distance. He
was out of sympathy with the extreme Slavophile party, yet he loved
Russia. What better course opened before him than to live in an
atmosphere where freedom could breathe, and where his powerful pen
might not only do service for Russia among Russians, but in all of
Europe as well.

And this ambition he abundantly realized. His residence in Baden as
the friend of Madame Viardot, and, be it said, of her husband, and his
later life in Paris, whither he repaired shortly after the close of
the Franco-Prussian War--for he never lived again in Russia--brought
him brilliantly before a constantly increasing company of notables, of
whom he was at the last easily chief. His gigantesque figure, crowned
with that silvery hair and beard, was a loved and familiar sight until
he succumbed to a malignant cancer which attacked the spinal cord, and
Turgenev passed over, on the 3rd of September, 1883, at the age of
sixty-five.

A pessimist is one who looks upon the unequal struggle of life and
can discern no hand to succor the deserving weak from the rapacious
strong. Sitting while a lad in a Russian garden, Turgenev beheld a
fight-to-a-finish between a serpent and a toad. Then and there began
his doubts of a beneficent Providence, which culminated in his quiet,
and never aggressive, spiritual pessimism. In this he is only one with
most great Russian literary artists. And, singularly enough, he too
passed into a final era of mysticism, though not so completely as did
his compeer Tolstoi, as witness that fine symbolical sketch, “The Song
of Triumphant Love.”

An interesting contrast presents itself in the characters of Tolstoi
and Turgenev. The one, aggressively Christian, harsh in the judgment
of his opponents, and intolerant of what he adjudged to be error;
the other, meek, gentle, considerate, largely tolerant, and quietly
forceful. Tolstoi was the lion aroused and warring even when preaching
non-resistance; Turgenev, the lion resting with dignified forbearance
because of a great serenity within. Both were men of might, yet
ethically and artistically at variance. It is pleasant to record,
however, that the quarrel which separated them for sixteen years
did not prevent Turgenev from responding at once when in later life
Tolstoi sought a reconciliation. The interview was charged with
amity, but, naturally, Turgenev could not adopt his old-time friend’s
extreme religious views. So when they had parted, Tolstoi’s praise was
modified--Turgenev was “an unpleasant man”--while the latter had only
warm words for the religionist. In a later essay in this series it is
recorded how Turgenev from his death-bed besought Tolstoi to return to
the field of Romance, in which “thou hast no rival amongst us.”
