
In discussing Turgenev’s shorter fictions, we must remember that
most of them were written from seventy to forty years ago, and all
show that fine disregard of form which only a master may entertain
without inviting failure. Here, as in his novels, character is all.
Other story-tellers often make the story preëminent--Turgenev never.
His favorite method is to hold up many facets of a character, letting
the light--here a gleam, there a full radiance--fall on each. He is
a master of monologue and of dialogue. Even the jerky pauses are
eloquent. The vagueness of a mind is never asserted; it is shown
indubitably. The inept man, the supernumerary of society, the man
who is engrossed in self, the despairing peasant bound to the wheel,
the reflective but weak-willed dreamer--speech, physical habits, and
physical traits reveal them all as relentlessly as a scalpel uncovers
diseased tissue. This is the wonder of Turgenev’s fictional power. He
has brought suggestive description to the _n_^{th} power. No fictionist
has even approached him in this respect.

One further quality deserves special mention, for I have already
referred to his hatred of serfdom and his scorn for the superfluous
social orders it built up. It is that of nature description. Turgenev
was an Englishman in his love of gunning (although in later life he
disapproved of the needless slaughter of innocents). Consequently,
many of his tales--particularly his notable “A Sportsman’s
Sketches”--abound in fine nature passages. Here is one from “Yermolaï
and the Miller’s Wife.”

    A quarter of an hour before sunset in springtime you go out
    into the woods with your gun, but without your dog. You seek
    out a spot for yourself on the outskirts of the forest, take a
    look round, examine your caps, and glance at your companion.
    A quarter of an hour passes; the sun has set, but it is still
    light in the forest; the sky is clear and transparent; the
    birds are chattering and twittering; the young grass shines
    with the brilliance of emerald.... You wait. Gradually the
    recesses of the forest grow dark; the blood-red glow of the
    evening sky creeps slowly on to the roots and the trunks of
    the trees, and keeps rising higher and higher, passes from
    the lower, still almost leafless branches, to the motionless,
    slumbering tree-tops.... And now even the topmost branches
    are darkened; the purple sky fades to dark-blue. The forest
    fragrance grows stronger; there is a scent of warmth and damp
    earth; the fluttering breeze dies away at your side. The birds
    go to sleep--not all at once--but after their kinds; first the
    finches are hushed, a few minutes later the warblers, and after
    them the yellow buntings. In the forest it grows darker and
    darker. The trees melt together into great masses of blackness;
    in the dark-blue sky the first stars come timidly out. All
    the birds are asleep. Only the red starts and the nuthatches
    are still chirping drowsily.... And now they too are still.
    The last echoing call of the peewit rings over our heads;
    the oriole’s melancholy cry sounds somewhere in the distance;
    then the nightingale’s first note. Your heart is weary with
    suspense, when suddenly--but only sportsmen can understand
    me--suddenly in the deep hush there is a peculiar croaking and
    whirring sound, the measured sweep of swift wings is heard, and
    the snipe, gracefully bending its long beak, sails smoothly
    down behind a dark bush to meet your shot.

It is illuminating to observe Turgenev’s well-nigh invariable method
of story-telling. First he will draw in a setting with much attention
to detail and introducing characters who add nothing to the story
proper but do add immeasurably to the atmosphere--and atmosphere is
miraculously handled by this master. Then he will begin to show phases
of the leading character. And when at last we have formed a perfect
picture of the person in his surroundings, a dramatic, a pathetic,
a deep-revealing flash comes forth in the form of an anecdote or an
incident--and the story is done. Character pictures, mostly _in statu
quo_--these are the master’s offerings. Plot, in the modern sense, is
almost unknown to Turgenev--as character-drawing, alas, is almost a
lost art to the short-story writer of today! But it must be said that
only an artist of the first order could carry his method to success.

A list of Turgenev’s short fictional pieces--technical short-stories
they are not--would number more than fifty, many of them almost
novelettes in length. Some of the best are “Assia,” “The Jew,” “A Lear
of the Steppes,” “Mumu,” “First Love,” “The Brigadier,” and “The Song
of Triumphant Love.”

In the following outline and translated passages taken from M. de
Vogüé’s distinguished discussion of “Russian Novelists,” we may gain a
good view of Turgenev’s method and style.

In “A Living Relic,”[2] Turgenev as the narrator strongly wakes a
human chord. On a hunting expedition, he enters by chance an abandoned
shed, where he finds a wretched human being, a woman, deformed, and
unable to move. He recognizes in her a former serving-maid of his
mother’s, once a gay, laughing girl, now paralyzed, stricken by
some strange and terrible disease. This poor creature, reduced to a
skeleton, lying forgotten in this miserable shed, has no longer any
relations with the outside world. No one takes care of her; kind people
sometimes replenish her jar with fresh water. She requires nothing
else. The only sign of life, if life it can be called, is in her eyes
and her faint respiration. But this hideous wreck of a body contains
an immortal soul, purified by suffering, utterly resigned, lifted
above itself, this simple peasant nature, into the realms of perfect
self-renunciation.

Lukerya relates her misfortune: how she was seized with this illness
after a fall in the dark; how she had gone out one dark evening to
listen to the songs of the nightingales; how gradually every faculty
and every joy of life had forsaken her.

Her betrothed was so sorry; but, then, afterwards he married; what else
could he do? She hopes he is happy. For years her only diversion has
been to listen to the church-bells, and the drowsy hum of the bees in
the hives of the apiary near-by. Sometimes a swallow comes and flutters
about in the shed, which is a great event, and gives her something to
think about for several weeks. The people that bring water to her are
so kind, she is so grateful to them! And gradually, almost cheerfully,
she goes back with the young master to the memories of old days, and
reminds him how vain she was of being the leader in all the songs and
dances; at last, she even tries to hum one of those songs.

“I really dreaded to have this half-dead creature try to sing. Before
I could speak, she uttered a sound very faintly, but the note was
correct; then another, and she began to sing ‘In the Fields.’... As
she sang there was no change of expression in her paralyzed face or in
her fixed eyes. This poor little forced voice sounded so pathetic, and
she made such an effort to express her whole soul, that my heart was
pierced with the deepest pity.”

Lukerya relates her terrible dreams, how Death has appeared before
her; not that she dreads his coming, but he always goes away and will
not deliver her. She refuses all offers of assistance from her young
master; she desires nothing, needs nothing, is perfectly content. As
her visitor is about to leave her, she calls him back for a last word.
She seems to be conscious (how feminine is this!) of the terrible
impression she must have made upon him, and says:

“Do you remember, master, what beautiful hair I had? You know it
reached to my knees.... I hesitated a long time about cutting it off,
but what could I do with it as I am? So--I cut it off.... Adieu,
master!”
