
In the midst of so many vague and divergent expressions throughout
his whole literary career, and especially in “My Religion” and
“Resurrection,” it is difficult to crystallize what Tolstoi taught. But
this seems to me to be the gist:

We have two natures: the animal nature, which decays and dies, and the
spiritual, which lives forever. Life consists in doing those things
which gratify our desires, and thus bring happiness. But when we
attempt to live and gain happiness by the gratification of our animal
natures we meet only disappointment, for animal desires can never
be really satisfied. Therefore we need to be regenerated, which is
nothing more than the enthronement of our spiritual natures and the
denying or casting-out of our animal natures. The gratification of
our spiritual selves is found in Love, the only good, and the essence
of love consists not in self-pleasing but in seeking our happiness
in the happiness and well-being of others. Thus do we obey the law
of God and become one with Him. In the exercise of our desires for
the well-being of others we will not only deny ourselves all carnal
desires, but never oppose force by force--love will be sufficient to
overcome all enemies. We must not even flee from suffering, danger, or
death, but accept each as good, whereupon it will cease to have power
to harm us. This life of love is opposed to all selfish acquisition of
property. To be truly happy, we must get back to the soil, abandon the
artificialities of city life, labor for our food, and give to others.

Though Tolstoi turned so often, and finally without backsliding, to the
peasant class, he did not so much champion their cause as he gemmed a
crown for the obscure life as such. He could not pity those whose ways
were laborious, because to him no other career than bodily toil could
bring the highest good. The outbursting, fiercely passionate soul of
all his later years was for the pitiable masses who still chose swords
rather than plowshares, who preferred a lawsuit to a loss, who loved
the city more than the country, who saw joy in the factory and none in
the farm.

Those who have only a shivering admiration for the terrors of Russian
fiction in general will find in Tolstoi’s short-stories much that
is sweet and gentle; yet, being the most Russian of all Russian
fiction-writers, he could but cry aloud with the pity of his people.
But greater than his pity was his passion for preaching.

Sermons big and little lurk in every corner of his stories to fix
you with their relentless eyes. Even when the tale is not clearly
didactic, a swift vision of moral relations is sure to come to him who
reads. For an instance, take “My Dream,” the story of a Russian prince
whose daughter runs away with a married man and bears him a child. At
length the sister-in-law of the prince pleads with him to forgive his
daughter. Here is his severe reply:

    “I have suffered enough. I have now but one desire, and that
    is to put her in such a position that she will be independent
    of others, and that she shall have no further need of
    communicating with me. Then she can live her own life, and my
    family and I need know nothing more about her. That is all I
    can do.”

But the woman-heart crystallizes the teaching of the story when she
replies:

    “Michael, you say nothing but ‘I.’ She too is ‘I.’”

There is a fine, high spirit, too, in “Where Love is, There God is
Also.”

Martin Andyeeich was an honest Russian cobbler whose wife and children
had died, leaving him with but one child, a small boy, upon whom he had
set his heart. But that child also died, and Martin reproached God. At
length a pilgrim monk directed him to the gospels, and the cobbler
became a devout follower of their teachings.

One day he heard a Voice which bade him look tomorrow into the street,
for Christ would come to him. The Lord did not appear, however, and
for a long while the only one with whom Martin conversed was a chilled
old snow-sweeper, to whom the cobbler gave hot tea to drink, as he
explained to him the gospel; after which the grateful old man left.
Martin continued to look for Christ, but He did not come--though he
did see a poorly clad woman with a little child. These he fed and
warmed, hearing her story and bestowing an old jacket to cover her thin
summer garments. He next acted as mediator between an old woman and a
mischievous boy who had stolen her apples; and to her also he expounded
the new truth which had possessed him--the doctrine of love. Thus all
day long he had looked for the Christ and had not seen him. But now
as he returned to his cellar a Presence declared itself as He who had
said, “Inasmuch as ye have done it to the least of these My brethren,
ye have done it unto Me.” “And Martin then understood that his dream
had not deceived him, and that the Saviour had really come to him that
day, and he had really received Him.”

One of the stories in Tolstoi’s earlier style is “A Prisoner in the
Caucasus.”

Zhilin was an officer in the Caucasus in wartime. His aged mother
persuaded him to come home once more to see her, and to marry the girl
she had chosen to be his bride. The roads were impassable. The Tartars
killed or carried into the mountains all Russians they captured.
For this reason a military escort passed twice a week from fortress
to fortress. Travelling thus, Zhilin became impatient at delays and
decided to ride on alone. Kostuilin, another mounted officer, decided
to go with him. They had not gone far when they were taken by the
Tartars, bound, and held in a Tartar village for ransom. After many
weeks, they escaped, only to be retaken and brought back to the
village. And now the hut in which they were thrown and their food were
worse than before. Again, after many weeks, Zhilin, with the aid of a
Tartar maid, escaped, and finally reached the fortress. “You see,” he
told his comrades, “I was going home to be married. But no; that is
evidently not to be my fate.” Eventually he and his comrades ransomed
Kostuilin for five thousand rubles.

I relate this perfectly plotless tale to show how on a slender thread
of actual incident Tolstoi could hang a tremendous weight, for this
story, with its naked truth-telling as to conditions, forced the
government to act, by the sheer force of public opinion, and this is a
miracle in Russia.

Another plotless story whose ten thousand words pile up a tremendous
impression of character is “An Old Acquaintance.” The narrative,
told in the first person by Prince Nelshiludof, is of how, during an
expedition in the Caucasus, he met an acquaintance from Moscow. The
splendor of the night in the open and the recreations of the officers
are given in gems of description.

During a game of skittles, Guskof, a cashiered officer who now lives
with the adjutant, comes to the prince, who seems faintly to recollect
having met him before. After some general conversation, the officers
retire for either sleep or gambling, leaving the prince and Guskof
alone. Upon being asked if they had not met before, Guskof reminds the
prince of their having met at the home of Guskof’s sister in Moscow,
and this leads to further reminiscences.

During a long walk that night, Guskof, who constantly by his own story
exhibits his weakness of character, tells how he once was of the
highest society of St. Petersburg, but had been--through a liaison
and a resulting duel--put under arrest and later cashiered. But this
weakness is further shown when he goes on to lament his treatment at
the hands of other officers with whom he comes in contact. He expresses
a feeling of great disgust at their mode of spending their leisure
hours. He admits that he is a moral coward--which is proven later. At
length, after further conversation, which inspires a mixed feeling of
disgust and pity in the prince, Guskof borrows from him some money.
Suddenly, the bursting of a shell causes Guskof to cringe in abject
terror, and in the confusion he disappears, but later is seen by the
prince in a tent offering in a maudlin voice the money which he had
borrowed, and boasting of how “his friend the prince” was rich, and how
he had just gotten ten rubles from him.

Perhaps the pity of life, and the tragic results of its sins, are
nowhere more piercingly set forth than in Tolstoi’s short-story “Korney
Vasiliev”--structurally, his most perfect little fiction, for generally
situation rather than plot makes the stronger appeal to our author.

Korney, a well-to-do merchant, after a temporary absence, is returning
to his home. While en route, Kuzma, his driver, tells him that Martha,
Korney’s wife, has taken a new workman in the house--Yevstiquey, her
former lover, and that she is again living with him. The affair, says
Kuzma, is the talk of the village.

Korney does not know whether to believe the unreliable Kuzma, but on
arriving home sets out to find out for himself. He distributes the
presents he had brought back with him--one for his little daughter
Agatha, one for his son Theodore, one for his wife, and so on. At
bedtime, no longer able to restrain himself, he blurts out his
suspicions to his wife, who first ridicules them, but finally, under
her husband’s blows, admits their truth, and spitefully suggests that
little Agatha is not a child of Korney’s, but of Yevstiquey’s. The
child, coming into the room, is brutally used by him--her arm being
broken. At the end of this violent scene, Korney leaves his home.

After seventeen years, now a broken old man, Korney is returning home,
begging his way. After he left his wife he had taken to drink, spent
all his money, and, being unreliable, no one would keep him long at
work. The idea takes hold of him that it is his wife who has been the
cause of all his misery, and his one thought is, before she dies, to
go to her and show her what she has made of him. He is very weak, but
manages to make his way to a village, where a kindly young peasant
woman, seeing his plight, takes him in for the night and gives him
food, drink, and shelter. Noticing that she has a lame arm, he mentions
it, and the fact is revealed that she is Agatha, in whose eyes he
recognizes Yevstiquey. He breaks down, but does not reveal himself,
though in his heart he is sorry for what he did to the girl.

In the morning he trudges on toward his wife’s village. He knocks
on the door, and a woman comes out. He recognizes his wife, but how
old and haggard she has grown--she who had been so beautiful and so
strong! And all the resentment vanishes from his heart, and in its
place springs up a terrible pity. Everything else about the place
seems also to have undergone change. Even after he says appealingly,
“Martha, let us die together!” she still pretends not to recognize him,
takes him for a tramp, and tells him to go from the door. However, his
son Theodore--an image of his father when he was young--takes pity
on the old man, not knowing who he is, and, angry at his mother for
her unkindness, brings to the old man some black bread. The father is
touched, and, even weaker than he was, drags himself back to Agatha’s
village and begs for shelter, which is given him.

In the meantime, Martha’s conscience gives her no peace, and, learning
what direction old Korney has taken, she follows. Arrived at her
daughter’s house, she finds a crowd there mourning the old man, who has
died, and from his dignified old face she does not know whether he had
forgiven her or not.
