
They found Farrell in one of the blister laboratories, working on a
small edition of the power-transmission tubes. He was not dressed in
spacesuit, and so they entered the blister and watched him work.

"Have a little trouble getting the focus to stay sharp through the
trace," complained Wes. "I can get focus of atomic proportions--the
circle of confusion is about the size of the atom nucleus, I mean--at
the axis of the tube. But the deflection of the cone of energy produces
aberration, which causes coma at the edges. The corners of an area look
fierce."

"I wonder if mechanical scanning wouldn't work better."

"Undoubtedly. You don't hope to send life, do you?"

"It would be nice--but no more fantastic than this thing is now.
What's your opinion?"

Wes loosened a set screw on the main tube anode and set the anode
forward a barely perceptible distance. He checked it with a vernier
rule and tightened the screw. He made other adjustments on the works
of the tube itself, and then motioned outside. They left the blister,
Wes closed the airtight, and cracked the valve that let the air out of
the blister. He snapped the switch on the outside panel and then leaned
back in his chair while the cathode heated.

"With electrical scanning, you'll have curvature of field with this
gadget. That isn't too bad, I suppose, because the restorer will have
the same curvature. But you're going to scan three ways, which means
correction for the linear distance from the tube as well as the other
side deflections and their aberrations. Now if we could scan the gadget
mechanically, we'd have absolute flatness of field, perfect focus, and
so forth."

Walt grinned. "Thinking of television again? Look, bright fellows, how
do you move an assembly of mechanical parts in quanta of one atomic
diameter? They've been looking for that kind of gadget for centuries.
Dr. Rowland and his gratings would turn over in their graves with a
contrivance that could rule lines one atom apart."

"On what?" asked Don.

"If it would rule one atom lines, brother, you could put a million
lines per inch on anything rulable with perfection, ease, eclat, and
savoir faire. You follow my argument? Or would you rather take up this
slip of my tongue and make something out of it?"

"O.K., fella. I see your point. How about that one, Wes?"

Wes Farrell grinned. "Looks like I'll be getting perfect focus with
the electrical system here. I hadn't considered the other angle at all,
but it looks a lot tougher than I thought."

He squinted through a wall-mounted telescope at the set-up on the
inside of the blister. "She's hot," he remarked quietly, and then set
to checking the experiment. Fifteen minutes of checking, and making
notes, and he turned to the others with a smile. "Not too bad that
way," he said.

"What are you doing?"

"I've established a rather complex field. In order to correct the
aberrations, I've got nonlinear focusing fields in the places where
they tend to correct for the off-axis aberration. To correct for the
height-effect, I'm putting a variable corrector to control the whole
cone of energy, stretching it or shortening it according to the needs.
I think if I use a longer focal length I'll be able to get the thing
running right.

"That'll lessen the need for correction, too," he added, cracking the
blister-intake valve and letting the air hiss into the blister. He
opened the door and went inside, and began to adjust the electrodes.
"You know," he added over his shoulder, "we've got something here that
might bring in a few dollars on the side. This matter-bank affair
produces clean, clear, and practically pure metal. You might be able to
sell some metal that was rated 'pure' and mean it."

"You mean absolutely, positively, guaranteed, uncontaminated,
unadulterated, perfectly chemically pure?" grinned Don.

"Compared to what 'Chemically Pure' really means, your selection of
adjectives is a masterpiece of understatement," laughed Walt.

"I'm about to make one more try," announced Wes. "Then I'm going to
drop this for the time being. I've got to get up to the machine shop
and see what they're doing with the rest of the thing."

"We'll take over that if you wish," said Don.

"Will you? I'll appreciate it. I sort of hate to let this thing go when
I feel that I'm near an answer."

"We'll do it," said Walt. "Definitely."
