
The cabinet stood in the north end of Venus Equilateral but it was not
alone. It may even be the record for all times; certainly no other
cabinet three by three by five ever had twenty-seven men all standing
in a circle awaiting developments. The cabinet at the south end of
Venus Equilateral was no less popular, though the number of watchers
was less by one. Here, then, were winner and runner-up of inanimate
popularity for the ages. The communicator system set in the walls
of the two rooms carried sounds from the north room to the south,
and those sounds in the south room could be heard in the north room.
Channing grinned boyishly at Arden.

"This, my love, is a device which may make it quite possible for me to
send you back to mother."

Arden smiled serenely. "No dice," she said, "Mother went back to
grandmother last week. When is this thing going to cook?"

"Directly."

"What are we waiting for?"

"Walt."

"I'm ready," came Walt's voice through the speaker.

"About time, slowpoke."

"Really, it was not his fault," objected Wes. "I wanted to check the
scanner-synchronization."

"He's precious," chortled Arden in Don's ear. "He wouldn't think of
letting Walt--the big bum--take the blame for anything that wasn't
Walt's fault."

"That's a good line," grinned Don. "Walt's faults. After we set this
thing aside as a finished project, we'll set that 'Walt's faults' to
music. Ready, Walt?"

"Right. I am now slipping the block into the cabinet. The door is
closed. Have you got the preliminary synchronizing signal in tick?"

Channing called: "Wait a minute, I'm lagging a whole cycle."

"Cut your synchronization input and let the thing catch up."

"O. K. Um-m-m--Now, Walt."

"Has anyone any last words to say?" asked Walt.

No answer.

"Then since no one has any objections at this time, I assume that
everything may be run off. Silence, people, we are going on the air!"

"There was a very faint odor of corn in Walt's last remark," said Don.

"I think the corn was on his breath," said Arden.

"Done!" announced Walt. "Don, crack the door so that the rest of us
can laugh if it don't work."

Channing swaggered over and opened the door. He reached inside and took
out the--object.

He held it up.

"Walt," said he, "what are you giving me?"

"Huh?"

"I presume that you shipped me one of the cubes?"

"Right."

"Well, what we got at this end would positively scare the right arm off
of a surrealist sculptor."

"Hang on to it--I'll be up."

"Hang on to it?" laughed Don. "I'm afraid to."

It was three miles from one end of Venus Equilateral to the other and
Walt made it in six minutes from the time he stepped into the little
runaway car to the time he came into the north-end laboratory and
looked over Channing's shoulder at the--thing--that stood on the table.

"Um," he said. "Sort of distorted, isn't it?"

"Quite," said Don. "This is glass. It was once a three-inch cube of
precision, polish, and beauty. It is now a combination of a circular
stairway with round corners and a sort of accordion pleat. Hell's
bells!"

"Be not discouraged," gurgled Walt. "No matter what it looks like, we
did transmit matter."

Arden tapped Don on the shoulder. "May I say it now?"

"You do--!"

"Then I won't say it doesn't matter."

"I'm ignoring your crude remark. Walt, we did accomplish something. It
wasn't too good. Now let's figure out why this thing seems to have been
run over with a fourth dimensional caterpillar-tread truck."

"Well, I can hazard a guess. The synchronizing circuits were not
clamped perfectly. That gives the accordion-pleat effect. The starting
of the trace was not made at the same place each time due to slippage.
We'll have to beef up the synchronization impulse. The circular
staircase effect was probably due to phase distortion."

"Could be," said Don. "That means we have to beef up the transmission
band so it'll carry a higher frequency."

"A lower impedance with corrective elements?"

"Might work. Those will have to be matched closely. We're not
transmitting on a line, you know. It's sheer transmission-tube stuff
from here to there. Well, gang, we've had our fun. Now let's widen the
transmission band and beef up the sync. Then we'll try number two."
