
Number two was tried the following afternoon. Again, everybody stood
around and watched over Don's shoulder as he removed the cube from the
cabinet.

"Nice," he said, doing a little war dance.

Franks came in puffing, took the cube from Don's fingers and inspected
it. "Not too bad," he said.

"Perfect."

"Not by a jug full. The index of refraction is higher at this edge
than at the other. See? Walt held the cube before a newspaper and they
squinted through the glass block.

"Seems to be. Now why?"

"Second harmonic distortion, if present, would tend to thin out one
side and thicken up the other side. A sine-wave transmission would
result in even thicknesses, but if second harmonic distortion is
present, the broad loops at the top create a condition where the
average from zero to top is higher than the average from zero to the
other peak. Follow?"

"That would indicate that the distortion was coming in at this end. If
both were even, they would cancel."

"Right. Your scanning at one end is regular--at the other end it is
irregular, resulting in non-homogeneity."

"The corners aren't really sharp," objected Arden.

"That's an easy one. The wave-front isn't sharp either. Instead of
clipping sharply at the end of the trace, the signal tapers off. That
means higher frequency response is needed."

"We need a term. Audio for sonics; radio for electronics, video for
television signals--"

"Mateo," said Arden.

"Um--sounds sort of silly," grinned Walt.

"That's because it's strange. Mateo it is," said Don. "Our mateo
amplifier needs higher frequency response in order to follow the square
wave-front. Might put a clipper circuit in there, too."

"I think a clipper and sharpener will do more than the higher
frequency," said Farrell. He was plying a vernier caliper, and he
added: "I'm certain of that second harmonic stuff now. The dimension is
cockeyed on this side. Tell you what, Don. I'm going to have the index
of refraction measured within an inch of its life. Then we'll check the
thing and apply some high-powered math and see if we can come up with
the percentage of distortion."

"Go ahead. Meanwhile, we'll apply the harmonic analyzer to this
thing and see what we find. If we square up the edges and make her
homogeneous, we'll be in business."

"The space lines will hate you to pieces," said Arden.

"Nope. I doubt that we could send anything very large. It might be more
bother to run a huge job than the money it costs to send it by spacer.
But we have a market for small stuff that is hard to handle in space
because of its size."

"I see no reason why Keg Johnson wouldn't go for a hunk of it," offered
Wes Farrell.

"I've mentioned it to Keg; the last time I was in Canalopsis," said
Walt. "He wasn't too worried--providing he could buy a hunk."

"Interplanet is pretty progressive," mused Don. "There'll be no reason
why we can't make some real handy loose change out of this. Well, let's
try again tomorrow."

"O. K. Let's break this up. Will we need any more blocks from Terran
Electric?"

It was less than a month later that a newspaper reporter caught the
advanced patent notice and swallowed hard. He did a double take, shook
his head, and then read the names on the patent application and decided
that someone was not fooling. He took leave and made the run to Venus
Equilateral to interview the officials. He returned not only with a
story, but with a sample glass block that he had seen run through the
machine.

The news pushed one hatchet murder, a bank robbery, a football upset,
and three political harangues all the way back to page seven. In terms
more glowing than scientifically accurate, the matter transmitter
screamed in three-inch headlines, trailed down across the page in
smaller type, and was embellished with pictures, diagrams, and a
description of the apparatus. The latter had been furnished by
Walt Franks, and had been rewritten by the reporter because Walt's
description was too dry.

The following morning Venus Equilateral had nine rush telegrams. Three
were from cranks who wanted to go to Sirius and set up a restorer there
to take people; four were from superstitious nuts who called Channing's
attention to the fact that he was overstepping the rights given to him
by his Creator; one was from a gentleman who had a number of ideas, all
of which were based on the idea of getting something for nothing, and
none of which were legal; and the last one was a rather curt note from
Terran Electric, pointing out that this device came under the realm of
the power-transmission tube and its developments and that they wanted a
legal discussion.

"Have they got a leg to stand on?" asked Walt.

"I doubt it."

"Then to the devil with them," snapped Walt. "We'll tell 'em to go jump
in the lake."

"Nope. We're going in to Terra and slip them the slug. If we clip them
now, they'll have nothing to go on. If we wait until they get started,
they'll have a fighting chance. Besides, I think that all they want to
do is to have the facts brought out. Are we or are we not under the
terms of that contract?"

"Are we?"

"We're as safe as Sol. And I know it. That contract pertained to the
use of the Solar beam only, plus certain other concessions pertaining
to the use of the power-transmission tubes and other basic effects as
utilized in communications."

"Why can't we tell 'em that?"

"It's got to be told in a court of law," said Don. "Kingman's mind runs
to legal procedure like Blackstone."

"We'll take the gadgets?"

"Right. What are you using for power?"

"What other? Solar beams, of course. We don't bother about running
stuff around any more. We plug it in the 115-volt line, it energizes
the little fellows just long enough to make them self-sustaining from
Sol. All the 115-volt line does is to act as a starting circuit."

"You and Farrell had better dream up a couple of power supplies, then.
We can't use the Solar beam on Terra."

"I know. We're a little ahead of you on that. Wes and one of the Thomas
boys cooked up a beam-transducer power supply that will get its juice
from any standard 115-volt, sixty-cycle line socket. We've two of
them--and they run the things easily."

"Good. I'll 'gram Terran Electric and let 'em know we're on our way for
the legal tangle. You load up the _Relay Girl_ and we'll be on our way.
Stock up the usual supply of bars, blocks, gadgets, and traps. Might
include a bar magnet. When we show that it is still magnetized, we'll
gain a point for sure."

"If we take a magnet, we'd better take the fluxmeter to show that the
magnetic field hasn't dropped."

"Right. Take anything you can think of for a good show. We can knock
them dead!"
