
Mark Kingman put his assistant legal counsel on the witness stand. "You
will state the intent of the contract signed between Terran Electric
and Venus Equilateral."

"The contract holds the following intent: Use of the power-transmission
tubes for communications purposes shall fall under the jurisdiction of
Venus Equilateral. For power transmission, the tubes and associated
equipment is under the control of Terran Electric. In the matter of the
Solar beam tubes, the contract is as follows: Venus Equilateral holds
the control of the Solar beam in space, on man-made bodies in space,
and upon those natural bodies in space where Venus Equilateral requires
the Solar power to maintain subsidiary relay stations."

"Please clarify the latter," said Kingman. "Unless it is your intent to
imply that Terra, Mars, and Mercury fall under the classification of
'places where Venus Equilateral requires power.'"

"Their control on natural celestial objects extends only to their
own installations and requirements. Basically, aside from their own
power requirements, Venus Equilateral is not authorized to sell
power. In short, the contract implies that the use of the sub-etheric
phenomena is divided so that Venus Equilateral may use this region for
communications, while Terran Electric uses the sub-ether for power. In
space, however, Venus Equilateral holds the rights to the Solar beam."

Frank Tinkin, head legal man of Venus Equilateral, turned to Don and
said: "We should have this in a technical court."

Don took his attention from the long discussion of the contract and
asked: "Why not change?"

"Judges hate people who ask for change of court. It is bad for the
requestee--and is only done when the judge is open to the question or
disinterested--and also when the suspicion of dislike is less dangerous
than the judge himself."

"Well, this should be in a technical court."

"Want to chance it?'

"I think so. This is more than likely to turn up with differential
equations, physics experts, and perhaps a demonstration of
atom-smashing."

Kingman finished his examination and turned away. The judge nodded
sourly at Tinkin. "Cross-examination?"

Tinkin faced the witness, nodded, and then faced the court.

"The witness' statements regarding the contract are true. However,
Judge Hamilton, I will attempt to show that this case is highly
technical in nature and as such falls under the jurisdiction of the
Technical Court. May I proceed?"

"Counsel for the plaintiff assures me that this is not truly a
technical case," snapped Hamilton. "However if you can definitely prove
that the case in point hinges on purely technical matters, what you say
may be instrumental in having this hearing changed. Proceed."

"Thank you." Tinkin turned to the witness. "Exactly what is the point
in question?"

"The point in question," said the witness, "is whether or not the
matter transmitter falls under Terran Electric's contract or Venus
Equilateral's contract."

"Isn't the question really a matter of whether the basic effect is
technically communication or power transmission?"

"Objection!" barked Kingman. "The counsel is leading the witness."

"Objection permitted--strike the question from the record."

"I was merely trying to bring out the technical aspect of the case,"
explained Tinkin. "I'll rephrase the question. Is it not true that the
contract between Terran Electric and Venus Equilateral is based upon a
certain technology?"

"Certainly."

"Then if the case is based on technical aspects--?"

"Objection!" marked Kingman. "More than half of all manufacturing
contracts are based upon technical background. I quote the case of
Hines versus Ingall in which the subject matter was the development of
a new type of calculating machine. This case was heard in a legal court
and disposed of in the same."

"Objection permitted."

"No further examination," said Tinkin. He sat down and turned to Don.
"We're in trouble, Hamilton does not like us."

"Well, we still have the whip hand."

"Right, but before we get done we'll have trouble with Hamilton."

"Before we get done, Kingman will have trouble with us," said Don.
