
Terran Electric's lawyer called Wes Farrell to the stand. "Mr. Farrell,
you are employed by Venus Equilateral?"

"Yes."

"In what capacity?"

"As an experimental physicist."

"And as such, you were involved in some phases of the device under
discussion?"

"I was," said Farrell.

"Does the device make use of the Solar beam?"

"It does but--"

"Thank you," interrupted Kingman.

"I'm not through," snapped Farrell. "The Solar beam is not integral."

"It is used, though."

"It may be removed. If necessary, we can have hand-generators supplied
to generate the operating power."

"I see," said Kingman sourly. "The device itself is entirely new and
basic?"

"Not entirely. The main components are developments of existing parts,
specialized to fit the requirements."

"They are based on specifically what?"

"Certain effects noted in the power-transmission tubes plus certain
effects noted in the Solar beam tubes."

"And which of these effects is more contributory?"

"Both are about equally responsible. One will be useless without the
other."

Kingman turned to the judge. "I intend to show that the use of these
effects is stated in the contract."

"Proceed."

"Was there any time during the development of the device any question
of jurisdiction?"

"None whatever," said Farrell. "We knew how we stood."

"The statement is hearsay and prejudiced," stated Kingman.

"Strike it from the record," snapped Hamilton.

"It stands at 'none whatever,'" said Kingman.

The secretary nodded.

"Since absolutely no attention was paid to the terms of the contract,
doesn't that imply that a certain ignorance of the terms might prevail?"

"Objection!" shouted Tinkin. "Counsel's question implies legal
carelessness on the part of his opponent."

"How can you be aware of the ramifications of a contract that you do
not read?" stormed Kingman.

"Objection overruled."

"May I take exception?" requested Tinkin.

"Exception noted. Counsel, will you rephrase your question so that no
lack of foresight is implied?"

"Certainly," smiled Kingman. "How were you certain that you were within
your rights?"

"If this plan had been open to any question, my superiors would not
have permitted me--"

"That will not serve!" snapped Kingman. "You are making an
implication--your testimony is biased."

"Naturally," barked Farrell. "No one but an idiot would claim to have
no opinion."

"Does that include the court?" asked Kingman suavely.

"Naturally not," retorted Farrell. "I was speaking of interested
parties."

"Let it pass. In other words, Dr. Farrell, you were never sure that you
were within your rights?"

"I object!" exploded Tinkin. "Counsel is questioning a witness whose
business is not legal matters on a subject which is legal in every
phase."

"Objection sustained," said Hamilton wearily. The matter was dropped,
but Kingman had gained his point. The item may never appear in the
records, but it was present in the judge's mind.

"Dr. Farrell," said Kingman, "since you have no legal training,
precisely what has been your education and background?"

"I hold a few degrees in physics, one in mathematics, and also in
physical chemistry." Farrell turned to the judge. "Judge Hamilton, may
I explain my position here?"

"You may."

"I have spent thirteen years studying physics and allied sciences. I
believe that I stand fairly high among my fellows. Since no man may be
capable in many arts, I believe that I have not been lax in not seeking
degrees in law."

"No objection," said Kingman. "Dr. Farrell, in order that the process
be properly outlined in the record, I am going to ask you to explain it
in brief. How does your matter transmitter work?"

Farrell nodded, and took time to think. Tinkin whispered in Don's ear:
"The stinker! He knows Hamilton hates anything more complex than a can
opener!"

"What can we do?"

"Hope that our demonstration blasts them loose. That's our best bet,
plus fighting for every inch."
