
Farrell moistened his lips and said: "Utilizing certain effects noted
with earlier experimentation, we have achieved the following effects.
The matter to be transmitted is placed in situ, where it is scanned
by an atom-scanner. This tube removes the substance, atom by atom,
converting the atoms to energy. This energy is then reconverted into
atoms and stored in a matter bank as matter again. The energy of
disintegration is utilized in reintegration at the matter bank with
but small losses. Since some atoms have higher energy than others, the
matter bank's composition will depend upon the scanned substance."

"The matter bank is composed of the same elements as the matter for
transmission?" asked Kingman.

"No. Some elements release more energy than others. It is desirable
that the energy-transfer be slightly negative. That is to say that
additional energy must be used in order to make the thing work."

"Why?

"All power lines and other devices are developed for delivering
energy, not receiving it. It is less disastrous to take energy from a
power line than to try and drive it back in--and the energy must be
dissipated somehow."

"Then the matter bank is not the same material."

"No," said Farrell. "The substance of the matter bank is
nonhomogeneous. Instantaneously, it will be whatever element is
necessary to maintain the fine balance of energy--and it is in constant
change."

"Proceed," said Kingman.

"In passing from the disintegrator tube to reintegrator tube, the
energy impresses its characteristic signal on a sub-ether transmission
system. Radio might work, except that the signal is unbelievably
complex. Wired communications--"

"Objection to the term," said Kingman.

"Sustained."

"Wired ... transfer? ... might work, but probably would not due to
this same high complexity in transmitted signal. At any rate, upon
reception, the signal is used to influence, or modulate, the energy
passing from a disintegrator tube to a reintegrator tube in the
receiver. But this time the tube is tearing down the matter bank and
restoring the object. Follow?"

"I believe so. Does the Court understand?"

"This Court can follow the technical terms."

"Now, Dr. Farrell, the matter transmitter does actually transmit over a
power-transmission tube?"

"Yes. Of the type developed by us for communications."

"But it is a power tube?"

"Yes."

"Then are you certain that you are sending no energy?"

"I object!" shouted Tinkin. "The question has no answer!"

"Hasn't it?" queried Kingman. "My worthy opponent, all questions have
an answer."

"Objection overruled," snapped Hamilton sourly. "Let the witness
answer."

"It is impossible to send communications without sending some energy.
It is the intent to which the energy is put that determines the
classification."

"Explain further."

"You must send energy when you communicate with a light-blinker,"
grinned Farrell, "The receiving party receives the energy, but couldn't
possibly read a newspaper with it. The beams at Venus Equilateral send
out several million watts--and by the time they get to Luna, they
require amplifications bordering on the million-times before they are
usable. The intent is clear--we are not supplying power, we are sending
intelligence."

"I contend," said Kingman to the judge, "that the contract states
clearly that developments of this device are to be used for
communications only when operated by Venus Equilateral. I further
contend that the transmission of matter does not constitute a
communication, but rather a transfer of energy."

"I object," said Tinkin. "If this statement was objectionable to the
learned counsel before, it is equally objectionable to me now."

"Previously," said Kingman suavely, "counsel was trying to influence a
witness. I am merely trying to explain my point."

Hamilton cleared his throat. "Counsel is merely attempting to influence
the Court; the same privilege will be available to his opponent at the
proper time. That is why we have courts."

Tinkin sat down.

"I maintain that the concept of communication precludes matter
transmission," stormed Kingman. "Matter transmission becomes a problem
for the transportation companies and the power companies. Matter, your
honor, is energy. They are transmitting energy!"

He stalked over to Tinkin and smiled affably. "Cross-examination?" he
offered.

"No questions," said Tinkin.

Hamilton rapped on the bench. "Court is adjourned for ten minutes!"
