
"Looking for something?" asked Don. Arden turned from the window and
faced him.

"I was trying to see Niagara Falls," she smiled. "I've heard that you
could see 'em from Buffalo."

"You can," laughed her husband, "but not from this part of Buffalo.
What do you want to see Niagara Falls for, anyway? Just a lot of water
falling over a cliff at two pints to the quart."

"If you recall, chum, we went to Mars, not Niagara. There wasn't two
pints of water on the whole planet, let alone a thing like Niagara."

Don nodded. "At the risk of offending a lot of Buffalonians, I'm
beginning to dislike the place."

"It isn't the people," said Arden. "It's the position we're in. Bad,
huh?"

"Not going too good at all. Kingman slips in a sly dig every now and
then. Frankly, I am getting worried. He's got a few points that really
hit very close to home. If he can sell the judge on a couple more of
them, we'll be under the sod."

"You won't be out entirely, will you?"

"Not entirely. He'll have to use the beams of Venus Equilateral to
operate, but he'll be collecting all the real gravy. We'll just be
leasing our beams to him."

"Well, don't go down without a fight, chum."

"I won't. I really hate to see Kingman get ahead of this, though."
Don stretched, took another look out across the city of Buffalo, and
then said: "We'd best be getting back. We'll be late ... he said ten
minutes."

They went down the staircase slowly, and at the courtroom door they met
Keg Johnson. The latter smiled wearily. "Not too good?"

"Nope."

"Don, if you lose, then what?"

"Appeal, I guess."

"That isn't too good. Judges do not reverse lower courts unless a real
miscarriage of justice takes place."

"I know, but that's our only chance."

"What would you advise me to do?"

"Meaning?" asked Don.

"Interplanet. We'll be run right out of business if this thing goes
over to Kingman and that bunch."

"I know."

"Look, Don, have you tried living matter?"

"Plants go through with no ill effects. Microscopic life does, too.
Animals we have tried usually die because of internal disorders--but
they move while being scanned, and their bodies come out looking rather
ugly. An anaesthetized mouse went through all right--lived for several
hours. Died because the breathing-function made a microscopic rift in
the lungs, and the beating heart didn't quite meet true. We must speed
up the scanning-time to a matter of micro-seconds and then we can send
living bodies with no harm."

"That would clean out the space lines," said Keg. "I think I'll offer
that bird a slice of Interplanet for an interest, if he wins. We've got
to have it, Don."

"I know, Keg. No hard feelings."

"Of course," said Keg wistfully. "We'll be across a barrel if you win,
too. But the barrel will be less painful with you holding the handles
than if Terran Electric holds them. The same offer goes for you, too."

"O.K.," nodded Channing. He turned and entered the courtroom.

Tinkin called Don Channing to the stand as his first witness. Don
explained the function of Venus Equilateral, the job of interplanetary
communications, and their work along other lines of endeavor. Then
Tinkin said to the judge:

"I have here a glass cube, three inches on a side. This cube was
transmitted from Venus Equilateral to the Lunar Station. I offer it as
Exhibit A. It was a test-sample, and as you see, it emerged from the
test absolutely perfect."

The judge took the cube, examined it with some interest, and then set
it down on the desk.

"Now," said Tinkin, "if you do not object, I should like to present a
demonstration of the matter transmitter. May I?"

Hamilton brightened slightly. "Permission is granted."

"Thank you." Tinkin made motions and the technicians came in with the
two cabinets.

"This isn't good," said Kingman's assistant to the lawyer. "The old
goat looks interested."

"Don't worry," said Kingman. "This'll take a long time, and by the time
they get done, Hamilton will be ready to throw them out. Besides, it
will make a good arguing point for my final blast. And, brother, I've
got a talking-point that will scream for itself."

"But suppose they convince--"

"Look," smiled Kingman, "this is really no argument as to whether
matter or intelligence is carried. Believe me, that has nothing to do
with it. I'm keeping this one under the wraps until shooting-time so
they won't be able to get an argument against it. We're a cinch. That's
why I kept it in a legal court instead of a technical court. The Techs
would award it to Channing on a technical basis, but the legal boys
have got to follow my argument."

"How about an appeal?"

"The record of this court is still a very heavy argument. Look, they're
about to start."

The racket and hubbub died, and Tinkin faced the judge. "These are
plainly labeled. They are matter transmitter and matter receiver.
We have here a set of metal bars. They are made of copper, steel,
aluminum, some complex alloys, and the brother to that glass cube you
have before you. We will transmit this set of objects from here to
there. Have you any suggestions?"

"A matter of control and identity. What have you for control?"

"Nothing that is outside of our hands," smiled Tinkin. "Would you
care to send something of your own? Your gavel? Inkwell? Marked coin?
Anything?"

"I'd offer my glasses except for the fact that I can not see without
them," said Judge Hamilton.

"We wouldn't break them or damage them a bit."

"I know--that much faith I have--but I'd not see the experiment."

"A good point. Anything else?"

"My watch. It is unique enough for me." He handed over the watch, which
was quite sizable.

Tinkin inspected the watch and smiled. "Very old, isn't it? A real
collector's item, I daresay."

Hamilton beamed. "There are nine of them in the Solar System," he said.
"And I know where the other eight are."

"O.K., we'll put it on the top. I'll have to stop it, because the
movement of the balance wheel would cause a rift during transmission."

"How about the spring tension?"

"No need to worry about that. We've sent loaded springs before. Now,
people, stand back and we'll go on the air."
