
Don Channing himself inspected the machinery to see that nothing was
wrong. He nodded at Walt Franks at the receiver, and then started the
initial operations. "We are synchronizing the two machines," he said.
"Absolute synchronization is necessary. Ready, Walt?"

"Right!"

Channing pushed a button. There was a minute, whirring hum, a crackle
of ozone, very faint, and the almost-imperceptible wave of heat from
both machines. "Now," said Walt Franks, "we'll see."

He opened the cabinet and reached in with a flourish.

His face fell. It turned rosy. He opened his mouth to speak, but
nothing but choking sounds came forth. He spluttered, took a deep
breath, and then shook his head in slow negation. Slowly, like a boy
coming in for a whipping, Walt took out the judge's watch. He handed it
to Don.

Don, knowing from Walt's expression that something was very, very
wrong, took the watch gingerly, but quickly. He hated to look and was
burning with worried curiosity at the same time.

In all three dimensions, the watch had lost its shape. It was no longer
a lenticular object, but had a very faint sine wave in its structure.
The round case was distorted in this wave, and the face went through
the same long swell and ebb as the case. The hands maintained their
distance from this wavy face by conforming to the sine-wave contour of
the watch. And Channing knew without opening the watch that the insides
were all created on the sine-wave principle, too. The case wouldn't
have opened, Don knew, because it was a screw-on case, and the threads
were rippling up and down along with the case and cover. The knurled
stem wouldn't have turned, and as Channing shook the watch gently, it
gave forth with one--and only one--tick as the slack in the distorted
balance wheel went out.

He faced the judge. "We seem--"

"You blasted fools and idiots!" roared the judge. "Nine of them--!"

He turned and stiffly went to his seat. Channing returned to the
witness chair.

"How do you explain that?" roared Judge Hamilton.

"I can only think of one answer," offered Channing in a low voice.
"We made the power supplies out of power and voltage transducers
and filtered the output for sixty cycles. Buffalo is still using
twenty-five-cycle current. Since the reactances of both capacity and
inductance vary according to the--"

"Enough of this!" roared Hamilton. "I--No, I may not say it. I am on
the bench and what I am thinking would bring impeachment. Proceed
Attorney Kingman."

Kingman took the cue, and before anyone realized that it was still
Tinkin's floor, he opened.

"Dr. Channing, you can send a gallon of gasoline through this, ah,
so-called matter transmitter?"

"Naturally."

"Then, your honor, it is my contention that no matter what the means
or the intent, this instrument utilizes the sub-etheric effects
to transmit energy! It is seldom possible to transmit power over
the same carriers that carry communications--only very specialized
cases prevail, and they are converted to the job. But this thing is
universal. Perhaps it does transmit intelligence. It will and can be
used to transmit energy! Matter, your honor, is energy! That, even the
learned opponent will admit. We have our own means of transmitting
power--this is another--and no matter what is intended, power and
energy will be transmitted over its instruments.

"Since this machine transmits energy, I ask that you rule that it fall
under that classification. I rest my case."

Hamilton nodded grumly. Then he fixed Tinkin with an ice-cold stare.
"Have you anything to offer that may possibly be of any interest to me?"

Tinkin shook his head. He was still stunned.

"I shall deliver my ruling in the morning. I am overwrought and must
rest. Adjourned until tomorrow morning."
