
Attorney Tinkin faced Judge Hamilton with a slight smile. "Prior
to your ruling, I wish to present you with your watch. Also I ask
permission to sum up my case--an act which I was unprepared to do last
evening."

Hamilton reached for the watch, but Tinkin kept it.

"You may state your case--but it will make little difference in my
ruling unless you can offer better evidence than your opponent."

"Thank you," said Tinkin. He made a show of winding the watch, and
he set it accurately to the court clock on the wall. "Your honor, a
telegram is a message. It requires energy for transmission. A letter
also requires energy for carrying and delivery. A spacegram requires
the expenditure of great energy to get the message across. The case in
hand is this: If the energy is expended in maintaining the contact,
then communications are involved. But when the energy is expected to
be used on the other side--and the energies transmitted are far above
and beyond those necessary for mere maintenance of contact, it then
may be construed that not the contact but the transmittal of energy is
desired, and power transmission is in force."

Tinkin swung Hamilton's watch by the chain.

"The matter of sending flowers by telegram is not a matter of taking
a bouquet to the office and having the items sent by electricity to
Northern Landing. A message is sent--an order to ship or deliver.
It makes no difference whether the order be given in person or sent
by spacegram. It is a communication that counts. In this device, a
communication is sent which directs the device to produce a replica
of the transmitted object. Ergo it must fall under the realm of
communications. I will now demonstrate this effect, and also one other
effect which is similar to telegraphic communications."

Tinkin ignored Hamilton's outstretched hand, and put the watch in the
cabinet. Hamilton roared, but Tinkin held up a hand to stop him. "I
assure you that this will cause no ill effects. We have repaired the
damage."

"For every minute of delay between now and the moment I receive my
watch, I shall fine you one hundred dollars for contempt of court."

"Well worth it," smiled Tinkin.

Channing pressed the switch.
