
The Major scrambled to his feet and took the cool hand she offered him.
"Well, he_llo_! I can see why Ed left Northwestern."

"You drafting him? I hope not." She looked from Major Hall to Wilkes to
the booklet before them. "What gives?"

"Pete here," said Wilkes as they seated themselves, "bears gifts and
assorted tidings. I want you to hear his yarn."

"Well...." Major Hall picked up the document and ahemed. "Special
Testing and Materials needs a job done. I thought Ed was the man for
it, so they sent me down to talk things over.

"The prize is a calculator we'll install and leave here and--"

Julie's dark eyes sparkled. "Lawd, Ed! Sign up quick. A calculator! I
can see next fall's catalogue now. It'll jump enrollment thirty percent
at the very least."

"Yeah," said Wilkes cautiously. "That it might. But hear the soldier
man out."

"We want him and his team to come up with a nozzle lining. My guess is
that the work would be about nine-tenths sheer math and then a little
field work in New Mexico."

"Nozzle, eh." Julie put her elbows on the table, her chin on her folded
hands. "Flame thrower? Garden hose?" she asked brightly.

"Rockets, Julie. Seems that V One and Two and the rest of their hive
aren't mean enough."

Major Hall opened the booklet and hurried on. "We need a nozzle or
nozzle lining that will stand the two or three second change from
near zero to full blast temperatures. Frankly the long-range missile
business is up a creek. It seems there's a limit to the range."

"Incandescence," Julie offered.

The major looked at her with new respect. "How'd you know? They go too
far--they come down too fast. They burn up on reentering lower and
denser air. We've got to slow up their approach somehow--anyhow."

"And I'll bet you're going to try using nose rockets to brake with,"
she mused. "Tried carborundum with pre-heating units?"

"No, we haven't, but.... How the hell--pardon me--did you guess about
braking rockets?" The officer glowered suspiciously. "You doing work
for the _Navy_?" He made a mild oath of the word.

Chuckling, Ed Wilkes put a soothing hand on the other's arm. "Hang on,
Pete--simmer down. I told you we could use Julie. You see, weapons are
her hobby. Check the library lists sometime. You'll find a sweet work
there of hers dealing with every persuader from cross-bow to tommy gun."

"To say nothing of shillelagh, arbalest and stylet," she added
modestly. "Nor of whinyard, haguebut and assagai."

"Well, break me to sergeant!" The Major shook his head wonderingly.
"How come a sweet little Southern thing like you got such a bloody
mind?"

Wilkes tilted back against the wall. "Runs in her family, Pete. Ever
heard of her great-uncle--John Singleton Mosby?"

"Let's see...." Hall squinted, pursed his lips reflectively. "Something
about mobility.... Got it--Mosby's raiders. Couple of hundred
cutthroats who operated behind Northern lines in the Civil War. Each
man carried four or five pistols. Mobility plus firepower. As I recall
from a rather dull West Point course--and that was years ago, my
children--he raised merry hell with the Union war effort for a time.
Even captured a General, didn't he, Ed?"

"General Stoughton," Julie supplied. "And he would have snatched Grant
but peace broke out. My father used to insist that he could have won
the war for us."

"If?" Hall favored her with a rather indulgent smile. "If he'd just
been somewhere at the right time with the right weapon. A couple of
P-thirty-eights, perhaps?"

Julie Mosby studied him calmly. "Hardly--a few-score Garands would
have done it. A light submachine-gun like the Thompson or the crude
grease-gun."

"Grease-gun?" Wilkes slumped further back in his chair. "That's a new
one on me."

"It was quite a weapon," Hall told him. "A few pieces of pipe, some
springs and other scraps. They made them in garages during the war.
Crude, like Julie says, but damn mean gadgets. Light and rugged. The
underground in Europe loved them. Would have been just the thing for
your great-uncle Mosby and his crew. But as for his winning the war...."

He glanced at his watch, then jumped up. "Judas! I've got to catch a
plane out of here in an hour. Enjoyed talking with you, Doctor Mosby.
We'll get together again." He nodded his thanks. "And you, Ed? Are you
in on this nozzle project?"

"Don't know." Ed Wilkes regarded Julie's eagerness. "Let's leave it up
to you, Julie. I'll be a big thing for the school. You see, Pete, the
place is only partly State supported--Julie's family has been making up
most of the balance for years--and they must be weary of it. I don't
like the idea of bigger and better weapons--you both know me that
well--but I guess I hate what's with Europe and Asia even worse."

"Then us ole Rebels," Julie said, "we all'd be proud to help y'all
Nawthners."

"Fine." The officer stepped aside to let Julie pass first through the
door.

"Let's have a couple of beers with the Major, Ed. Is there time?"

Hall frowned at his watch. "I suppose. And we can settle a couple of
the whens and wherefores of the project."

They left the Science building together, walked down the worn stone
steps and out onto the rather neglected-looking June campus.

"There's a student beer hall about a block from here," said Julie.
"Will that do, Major?"

"Umm?" Hall was eyeing the rolling black sky. "Oh, yes--fine. Hope it's
not going to storm. My flight'll be scratched and I've got to be in
Washington by five at the latest." The first big drops came spattering
down. "Damn! Left my raincoat in the staff car."

The three hurried past a blighted, moss-grown statue of a wounded
Confederate soldier saluting General Lee in full uniform.
