
... glanced at his watch, climbed respectfully to his feet. "Madam, my
pardons but my visitor's visa is up tomorrow noon. I'll have to ride
till night to catch the Shenandoah stage or I'll never make my morning
steamboat connections to New York."

The artillery major, Peter Hall, bowed gravely to his hostess. "It's
extremely kind of such an important personage as yourself, Miss Mosby,
to spend a while with a poor foreigner."

He straightened, studied his friend. "Well, Ed, are you in on this
project? Our Government needs your help if we are ever to perfect an
electric cannon. And you are, remember, still a Union citizen."

"I haven't forgotten, Pete." He regarded Julie Mae's placid face. "It's
sort of up to you, Miss Julie. I don't like the idea of bigger and
better weapons--you both know me that well, but I guess I hate what the
French are doing in Mexico even worse."

"Our Governments now stand together, Major. Ed has my leave to do the
research."

"Fine." The officer stepped aside to let Julie Mae pass first through
the door.

"Have y'all time for refreshments before leaving, sir? There's a very
proper tavern on the campus."

Hall frowned at his watch. "I'll make the time, Ma'am."

Julie Mae Mosby, heir to her family's huge grants and honorary
president of the culturally important Mosby University, patted a long
curl into perfection with her folded fan. "I've learned one thing from
y'all. Not all Northernahs are the uncouth messes your Erskine Caldwell
says y'all are."

The officer managed a bleak smile. "You refer to his 'Marijuana Road'?"

Julie Mae nodded, allowed herself to be helped down a short flight of
lustrous tiled steps. "That's the very book. I should think y'all'd be
mighty unhappy with that scamp."

"He's not too well received in polite Union circles, I assure you,
Ma'am."

Professor Wilkes decided his friend had taken enough. "Miss Julie's
just teasin' you, Pete. She's traveled quite extensively in Union."

"That's where I met Ed here, major. Three or four years ago--nineteen
forty-eight, I believe. He was slavin' his little ole brains away at
dinky little Northwestern U." The woman nodded graciously to a bowing
negro slave, trilled her charming laugh. "Why, Major, I do believe it's
storming up to rain. If I'm going to walk with y'all to the tavern
someone's going to have to give me his coat. Professor?"

"Certainly, Miss Julie. Here."

They paused at the end of the wide and gleaming hallway, staring out
across the splendid campus at the rolling black sky.

"Rain," grumbled the Major. "And my horse is a bad mudder. I've got to
be in Fredericksburg by nine to make connections."

The first big drops came sailing down. "Heck! Hope my cape is in the
saddlebag."

The three hurried past a magnificent group of marble statuary that
depicted Grant surrendering to Lee. Beside them stood General Mosby
with his once incredible home-made grease-gun.
