
The idea of building a spaceship did not enter George Carlin's
mind until after he contracted the dread--and at that time
incurable--Matson's Disease. And then he thought of it only as the most
spectacular form of suicide ever devised. That was typical of the man.

George Carlin, owner of Carlin Industries and indubitably the richest
and worst spoiled individual on the North American continent, was an
irresponsible egocentric who had never done anyone a good turn in all
his thirty-six years of life. Bad turns he had done in plenty.

Take just this one example. A doctor had the effrontery to submit to
a medical journal an article suggesting a possible connection between
the bone-destroying virus infection called Matson's Disease and
Carlin Industries' highly profitable operations in thawing Antarctic
areas with atomic heat. He hinted that age-old spores might have been
released from the melting ice, and been carried to seaports.

Carlin's private intelligence operatives got wind of the article before
publication, and Carlin himself ordered that measures be taken. The
campaign was short and filthy, ending with the unfortunate doctor
discredited and barred from practice on framed evidence. The article
was not printed.

And then came a morning when George Carlin noticed a slight soreness in
his ribs and his fingers detected a peculiar flexibility. For a while
he could not believe it. Such things just did not happen to him. To
others perhaps, but he was above them. For he was George Carlin.

But when the symptoms not only persisted but increased he was at last
forced to a realization of doom. Gradually his bones would soften
and dissolve, until in a year or two he would be a mere lump of
quivering flesh without a skeleton to give it shape. He did not tell
his physician. That was useless, for the atypical plague had defied
all efforts of medical science. Instead he reacted in characteristic
fashion by getting grossly and disgustingly drunk.

During the hangover he decided upon suicide. There was nothing unique
about this; thousands upon thousands of victims had taken the short
road rather than helplessly endure the horrors of the final stages. But
mere suicide was not enough for George Carlin. He was not just anybody.
He was different.

With his money it had always been easier to arrange spectacular
gestures than to force himself through the hard work necessary for
more constructive achievements, and the substitutes had been just as
satisfying to his ego. This habit of thought persisted even in planning
his own death.

Verne Harris was an obscure junior engineer at one of Carlin
Industries' minor branch plants. A confidential report rated him as
extremely brilliant and original, although somewhat visionary and
inclined to overlook commercial possibilities. His very obscurity
was one of the reasons he was placed in charge of constructing the
spaceship. He could be handled, and the impression would be given in
all publicity releases that George Carlin himself was the moving force.

Carlin was annoyed at their first personal interview. Harris appeared
fascinated by the technical problems presented and insufficiently
impressed by George himself. Carlin felt slighted, but Harris possessed
the ability. The only stipulations upon which Carlin insisted were that
work be rushed and that all major arrangements should be made through
him personally. It pleased him to keep the reins in his own hands.

And so the spaceship went into design and then production, with all
other projects of Carlin Industries postponed or cancelled outright.
Nothing, absolutely nothing, was allowed to interfere, and money was no
object.

Once Harris recommended that three particular specialists be hired to
work on the navigation equipment. When Carlin discovered that the men
were under exclusive contract to American Calculator Company, which did
not wish to release them, he issued orders backed by eighty million
dollars. When the flurry of reorganization was over he owned majority
control of American Calculator and took revenge for the slight delay
by instituting policies that soon forced the other directors into
bankruptcy.

Seven months later the ship lay in its launching rack on the Arizona
desert. It was sleek and relatively small, built to carry a single man
and fuel for a one-way trip to the moon, with oxygen and supplies to
last five weeks. Harris had performed miracles of design, including
several intricate devices intended to insure a not-too-rough landing,
and in the nose compartment was stored a huge folding reflector and
high-intensity light which could be set up and operated from the ship's
electron-displacement power packs. Trajectory and power settings had
been worked out and set up in the automatic control equipment.

The ship was intended to land in the dark of the moon, as Harris had
calculated it would be easier to generate heat than to dissipate it on
an airless surface.

Harris tried to explain to Carlin why he had not used the almost
unlimited power of nuclear fission in the driving rockets. No shield
against the deadly radiations had been devised and a human would have
lived less than five minutes. But Carlin had not been interested. He
lacked a technical education, and he was quite content that the ship
was incapable of a round trip. It was more spectacular that way.

There had been a tremendous barrage of publicity throughout the
construction period, but all of it dealt with Carlin Industries or
George Carlin himself. Not a single public mention of Verne Harris had
been made.

Carlin had spent those seven months alternating between prolonged
drinking bouts and periods of flogging his organization to ever
more frantic activity. Anything to avoid thinking. And it required
increasingly clever and time-consuming use of cosmetics to hide the
progress of his disease. Concealment was a compulsive psychological
necessity, for Matson's Disease was so common, so plebian, that he
felt deeply ashamed. More and more he insisted upon being entirely
alone, afraid his secret might be discovered, conducting his affairs by
telephone and radio.
