
Then one evening, with the ship awaiting only final loading, Harris
drove over from the technicians' camp to the luxurious desert villa
which Carlin had caused to be built near the launching site. The two
men had come face to face only half a dozen times.

It was a thinner, older-looking Verne Harris than the young engineer
who had accepted the assignment with such enthusiasm, and the haggard
lines in his face showed the almost inhuman lengths to which he had
driven himself.

"Arrangements for the liquid oxygen are complete and I'll be ready to
blast off next Tuesday morning, right on schedule," the engineer opened
the interview. "I came over to thank you for the wonderful opportunity
you are giving me, and I promise you, sir, that I shall make the most
of it."

Carlin came out of his chair with a roar.

"You don't think _you_ are going to take that ship out?" he bellowed.

Verne looked profoundly shocked. No words had passed between them about
who was to handle the vessel and Harris had assumed unquestioningly it
would be he. It was only logical. Carlin had been smart enough to let
him think that way, knowing that thus he would receive Harris' greatest
efforts.

"Then who is?" the engineer asked.

"Me. I'll take it myself. That's why I had it built."

[Illustration: "_I'm taking that ship out myself!_"]

Harris looked incredulous. "But why?"

Carlin did not believe he owed him any explanation--he was receiving a
fair salary--but something, perhaps a couple of drinks, made him speak.

"The ship is my way out," he said. "A way by which I shall be
remembered. I have Matson's Disease."

If he had expected sympathy he was disappointed.

"So have I," Harris announced. "Can't you see?"

Carlin could, now that his attention was called to it. That subtle
softening of the lines....

A flush spread across Harris' hollowed cheeks and his eyes took on an
almost maniacal glitter.

"Look here, you. To you this is just a great big childish show-off
trick. Like those people who hesitate and draw a big crowd before
jumping from some tall building. And it will accomplish just about as
much. You'll either louse up the controls and crash, or else you'll
have enough liquor aboard to stay in a drunken stupor until your oxygen
runs out."

Carlin, livid at those outrageously disrespectful words, tried to break
in as Harris continued in mingled pleading and fury.

"My God, man, don't you see what this means? This is the first
spaceship ever built without scrimping and cutting expenses. This one
will reach the moon _without crashing_. Why do you think I had it
equipped with all sorts of scientific instruments? And why do you think
I put so much thought into that light-flash communicator?"

A thought came to him. "Good Lord, you probably don't even know Morse!"
he said disgustedly.

Carlin spluttered.

"I had planned a definite program of investigation," Harris continued.
"Physical studies of the moon's surface, astronomical observations
without atmospheric interference, collection of experimental data that
could forward the progress of space-flight by at least a century. And
you, an untrained individual who knows nothing but money, would throw
away that chance merely to satisfy your ego!"

Carlin looked thoughtful and made a few remarks about reconsidering the
matter. He could be extremely sly and devious when that would gain his
ends, and Verne Harris was completely taken in.

But Carlin was taking no chances on having his show spoiled by some
pipsqueak engineer he could buy and sell ten thousand times over. It
was easy enough, with his money and influence, to have Harris adjudged
insane and quietly committed to an asylum. The matter was attended to
the next morning.

Carlin spent the night before blast-off alone in his desert villa. He
had given orders not to be disturbed under any circumstances, so he was
not informed that Harris had escaped. And he had enough drinks during
the evening to miss the sound of a window catch being jimmied and the
tiptoeing footsteps behind him.

Only when the hypodermic needle plunged into the muscles of his neck
did he know anything was amiss, and then it was too late.
