
He awoke five days later in a hot and dingy furnished room in a nearby
city. His clothes were strange, cheap, and did not fit. In his pockets
was a large roll of money--and nothing else. Even the signet ring had
been removed from his finger. He was ravenously hungry, and after a
period of indecision he went out in search of a restaurant.

Less than a block away he passed a newsstand.

"CARLIN LANDS ON MOON!" the headlines screamed. Almost the entire front
page was devoted to the story, and several inside pages recounted in
greatest detail how George Carlin had come out to his ship alone, his
body taped and encased in a bulky pressure suit, mumbled a "no comment"
which had produced a deeper impression than any elaborate speech, waved
once to the huge throng that had gathered, and then left Earth in a
blast of flame while every telescope in the hemisphere swiveled to
follow his flight.

George Carlin walked into a liquor store and pointed to a very superior
brand of whisky. "Give me a bottle. No, make it two."

Then he went back to the room in which he had awakened. He had no place
else to go. For the hundredth time he searched himself for some proof
of identity, and for the hundredth time found nothing. For hours he sat
with his head in his hands, trying to think of something to do. Finally
he opened the second bottle.

Next day the headlines read, "CARLIN REPORTS LIFE ON MOON."

George Carlin had no cosmetics with which to hide the increasingly
visible ravages of his illness. He bought a supply of food as well as
liquor and did not emerge for another six days. Thus he missed the
period in which the world waited with bated breath for further news
from the moon. It was during this time that a spontaneous wave of mass
emotion swept the world and George Carlin became a hero. The grasping,
evil deeds of the organization he headed--and they were numerous--were
forgotten. No publicity staff could have produced such a reaction.

"CARLIN BELIEVES DISCOVERED CURE FOR MATSON'S DISEASE!" The newspapers
brought out their largest type and public acceptance verged on hysteria.

Reports from the moon were carefully condensed, for the power available
from the electron-displacement packs was strictly limited and every
flicker of light must be made to count. Carlin did not even sign his
name but all the world knew who he was.

The story, as pieced out and expanded by the news services, was this:
On the moon Carlin had found creatures resembling the terrestrial
louse. They looked like insects but they were of an entirely different
chemical structure and their metabolism was suited to their airless
surroundings. Their food was apparently any metal or ore.

While he was engaged in setting up the reflector, working in darkness
and terrible cold, one of these tiny creatures had climbed the leg of
the pioneer's armored suit and punctured it, eating its way through the
metal shell and rubberized fabric liner. Only hasty application of an
emergency patch had prevented disaster from loss of air.

The man had run to the shelter of his ship, but before he could remove
his armor the alien creature had bitten him on the upper leg. There had
been excruciating pain from the venom the thing injected, and a large
ulcer had since developed.

But, the dots and dashes reported, the course of Matson's Disease had
been not only arrested but reversed. His bones were hardening again.
Perhaps under proper conditions the venom might....

It was the first hint that the pioneer had been suffering from the
deadly plague, and public sympathy and fascination multiplied.

George Carlin bought more whisky.

Two days later the light on the moon winked again. A rough analysis of
moon-louse venom showed it to be a complex pseudo-protein, with silicon
substituting for carbon and chlorine for oxygen.

There followed a series of recommendations that set the press and radio
of the world completely wild. There was almost no questioning of the
wisdom of the voice from the moon, only acceptance and enthusiasm that
swept aside all hesitation.

Within hours the leading governments of Earth had pooled their
resources in one gigantic effort. The officers of Carlin Industries
accepted the message as a command from the owner and all personnel who
had had anything to do with construction of the first spaceship were
assigned to supervisory and coordinating positions.

Fifteen spaceships were to be built at top speed, and each was to carry
to the moon as much excess fuel as it could lift. There all fuel would
be transferred to one ship, which would return with a supply of living
moon-lice.

Thousands of welders were at work on the plates of a huge, hermetically
sealed laboratory building, while an army of machinists prepared the
vacuum pumps and huge refrigerating machines that would reproduce lunar
conditions for the alien creatures, and special laboratory equipment
was being assembled.

But George Carlin knew little of all this.
