
One more message flashed from the moon. The pioneer was dying. His
Matson's Disease had been cured but the ulcer was spreading into vital
areas. However, he suggested, tiny doses of diluted venom, administered
over a long period of time, might....

The message ended in the middle of a word as through their telescopes
astronomers saw a great flare go up from the moon's surface, a thousand
times brighter than the communications light.

The explanation was self-evident. Electron-displacement power packs
were treacherous. When their stored power reached a certain minimum
level they became highly explosive. The pioneer had sacrificed his
remaining days of life to transmit vital information to the world which
had given him birth.

Everything stopped for a day and night as the entire civilized world
went into deepest mourning for the man who had died 238,840 miles
away--everything but work on the fleet of spaceships. That did not
even falter.

George Carlin gave up his rented room, bought a car, and drove across
country to the Midwestern city housing the headquarters of Carlin
Industries.

He did not get past the outer offices. Carlin Industries had been
forced long before to develop a system for handling cranks and
crackpots, and it operated only too well. Matson's Disease had made
such changes in Carlin's features that he was not recognized. At last
he was forcibly ejected.

That was his final effort. He had become a nonentity, a nobody, and so
he wanted only to die. But with his identity he had lost his nerve. He
did, however, have enough money to avoid drawing even one sober breath.

It is history how nine rockets reached the moon, transferred their
remaining fuel, and one finally returned bearing a cargo of living
moon-lice as a gift beyond all price. The frantic medical campaign,
during which two thousand victims of Matson's Disease had their deaths
hastened as doctors sought the proper dosage, is also history.

But then there was a cure--and another--and still more. The treatment
became standardized as means were found for stabilizing the venom and
controlling its potency. The government assumed charge, and every
citizen afflicted with the plague was not only entitled to treatment
but compelled to take it.

When the health officers found George Carlin in his isolated cabin he
was almost dead. His skeleton had softened to such an extent that he
could not stand, and could crawl across the dirty, littered floor only
with the greatest difficulty. His atrophied muscles had almost nothing
against which to work, and malnutrition and alcoholism complicated the
case.

After six months in a sanitarium bed he had recovered enough to
become bored. He borrowed a book from the man in the next bed and was
disappointed to find it an advanced treatise on rocket fuels. But he
read it through and surprised himself by becoming interested.

Still flat on his back, unable to move, he began an intensive course
of study. He had been so nearly boneless when admitted, one of the most
advanced cases to survive, that the complete cure took three and a half
years.

When he was finally released he had learned enough to obtain a minor
job as technical assistant--under an assumed name--in the Carlin
Institute For Research which had replaced the old Carlin Industries.
He has been there fourteen years now, trying to compensate for lack of
brilliance by earnest effort and long hours.

He still has one dream. He hopes some day to stand on a barren, airless
spot marked by twisted fragments of a spaceship. And he hopes Verne
Harris' spirit still hovers there to hear his apologies.

He has long since given up trying to have his story believed. The myth
is too deeply embedded in the public consciousness, and no one has ever
heard of Verne Harris. Even the history books teach the children that
George Carlin was the first man to reach the moon alive. The last time
he attempted to tell the truth he was excoriated as an evil-minded
muckracker, probably insane, and received a fractured nose at the hands
of an irate listener for maligning a world hero. So he has surrendered
to the inevitable.

How do I know all this?

Once I was George Carlin.