
He checked himself. He was thinking of the clash after mess, last night,
between Adams and Tex Langdon. It had been a sharp one. Lieutenant Adams
was an old-timer--three weeks on the front. Tex had been up three days.
In that time he had nosed over one ship, cracked another up two miles
from the Squadron, in a forced landing, and then he had taxied into a
wing-tip of Adam’s pet Nieuport, just before mess. The old-timer had
told him just about what he had thought. Tex had listened with a grin on
his face, and the grin had enraged Lieutenant Adams.

“You’ll get yours in about three more days, Langdon!” he had shot at
him, and then, as Tex had kept right on smiling, Adams had gone the
limit. “And the sooner the better--for this outfit!”

Ben Chapin, standing out in the fog with his face tilted upward, swore
grimly. Adams hadn’t meant that. He’d been sore; the nervous strain was
telling on him. And Tex had smiled that provocative smile of his. The
big fellow was calm, or had been until that second. Then his eyes had
narrowed to little slits.

“Easy, Lieutenant!” he had shot back coldly. “Where I come from that’s
right bad talk!”

And then Adams had laughed. It had been a nasty laugh. And when he had
finished laughing he had shot more words at the big Texan.

“You’re not where you came from, unfortunately! But you’ll get there,
Lieutenant. The first Boche that gets on your tail will send you back to
where you came from!”

Tex had got to his feet, after that. There had been no color in his
face; Lieutenant Adam’s meaning had been unmistakable. Ben Chapin had
grabbed him, and the old-timer had turned his back and moved from the
mess-room.

Lieutenant Chapin listened for the roar of a ship’s engine, heard
nothing but the distant rumble of guns, muffled by the fog. Staff had
pulled a boner, in picking the locality of the Sixteenth Pursuit’s
field. Every five or six days the ground fog was so bad that ships
didn’t get in. Once or twice they hadn’t been able to get off.

The pilot turned back toward the barracks. He shook his head slowly.
Somewhere in the sky, winging back toward the squadron, most probably,
were Lieutenants Adams and Tex Langdon. Quite often two pilots, one
winging in from the north and the other from the south patrol of the
front, would meet over Chalbrouck, fly back to the Squadron together.
Perfectly synchronized wrist watches helped such a meet in the air.
Lieutenant Adams was an old-timer. He knew about fog; knew where it was
likely to hang and where the ground might be clear. If the two ships
met, he could guide Tex Langdon in. He could; but would he?

Ben Chapin swore again. He shook his head. It looked like a tough break
for Tex. One more smash and he’d go back toward Blois. The Squadron
needed ships too badly. And now there was fog, heavy fog. And the only
pilot who could help Tex was Lieutenant Adams. Ben Chapin’s lips moved
slowly as he moved along the corridor toward his tiny coop.

“If Tex rides this one into the corral,” he muttered grimly, “he’s good!
More than good, I’ll say--he’s _perfect_!”
