
Nine miles east of the Sixteenth Pursuit Squadron’s fog-shrouded field,
ten thousand feet above the front lines, two ships zoomed and dove,
twisted and spun in the sky. The two ships had been engaged in combat
for more than three minutes, and the battle was a tough one. One plane
was a baby Albatross, very well camouflaged. The other was a
fifteen-meter Nieuport, not so well camouflaged. In the narrow cockpit
of the Nieuport was Lieutenant Tex Langdon. His blue eyes were rimmed
with red, his lips were pressed tightly together as he handled the
American ship, trying to get in position for a machine-gun burst at the
enemy plane.

The German pilot was a fine flyer. Twice he had almost sent streams of
tracer-marked lead into the fuselage of the American ship. The left wing
surfaces showed the bullet holes of his last hit--and it was much too
close for comfort. But Tex Langdon was fighting on and fighting
desperately.

Two things worried him. He was running low in gas--and the damaged wing
surfaces might be badly weakened. The Boche pilot had come down out of
the clouds, almost taking him by surprise, as he was winging back toward
the Sixteenth. Tex had kicked the Nieuport into a tail-spin, and on
coming out of it the German lead had punctured his wing fabric. Since
then the fight had been sharp.

The air was bad; the earth below was obscured by drifting fog. The
patrol had not been a particularly successful one and now the attack of
the German pilot threatened to make it disastrous. Tex had the feeling
that he was too green for the enemy pilot.

The Nieuport came up in a zoom; for a flashing second he had the
Albatross in the ringsight of the Browning. He squeezed the
stick-trigger of the propellor-synchronized weapon, then released
pressure after a short burst. He saw that his stream was behind the
slanting enemy ship, then he lost the plane in a blind spot of his own
ship.

He nosed downward and caught the flash of a shape coming up at the
Nieuport then went over in a vertical bank. Green-yellow tracer-bullet
fire streaked through the sky close to the plane. Once again the German
pilot had come very close to scoring a hit!

Tex Langdon’s lean face twisted. The patrol had been a long one, a
difficult one. He was new to such flying. The German pilot was more
experienced. The Nieu-port’s gun was getting low. There was the fog
hanging close to the earth; it might mean that he would have to search
for the Squadron field.

The Albatross was a quarter mile away, between the Nieuport and the
Allied rear lines, and banking. Her pilot banked, came out of it, zoomed
for altitude. Tex Langdon wiped his goggle-glass clear of a splatter of
oil, nosed down to gain speed, and banked his own ship. He could not
afford to let the other pilot get altitude.

His lips moved as he squinted blue eyes on the enemy ship.

“Get sense--show tail and fly out of it! If I don’t--he’ll get me!”

It was the way he felt. He was fighting a losing combat. He was new at
the front. There was justification for a sky retreat. Just one thing
stopped him from winging out. One human--Lieutenant Adams. He would make
his report and Adams would learn about it. There were few secrets in the
outfit; he had learned that already. Adams would know that he had run
away from an enemy pilot.
