
Rage struck at Tex Langdon. His Nieuport was heading back toward the
Sixteenth, but the whole sector was covered with fog. Lieutenant Adams
knew that. The veteran pilot knew that Tex would have trouble finding
the Squadron. He must have guessed that gas was running low. And yet he
winged away from the other Nieuport; roared his ship into the ground
fog.

Tex Langdon swore grimly. He roared the engine into full voice and the
Nieuport rushed into the white blanket of fog. The beat of the engine
increased in tone, magnified by the density of the atmosphere. Tex could
barely see the wing-tips of his ship; his goggle-glass clouded
instantly. He felt that he was flying with a wing droop, and there was
no level guage in his baby plane.

He pulled back on the stick. It was either that or risk going into a
spin. He couldn’t drop down very low to the earth, as perhaps Lieutenant
Adams was doing. He didn’t know the country well enough. There were
hills about the sector; he might pile into one. Adams could fly by time
and his sense of direction.

“He knew I couldn’t make it!” he muttered. “Not without--his help. And
he pulled out on me!”

The engine spluttered, picked up again, spluttered once more. Tex
Langdon worked over the air and gas adjustment, his heart pounding.
Then, abruptly, as he nosed the ship forward, the engine died.

Tex Langdon was suddenly very cool. He banked the ship to the westward,
got her into a gentle glide, stretching it as much as he could. He cut
the ignition switch. The Nieuport glided downward, her wires shrilling
softly, the fabric of the left wing surfaces crackling in the
glide-wind. The fog enveloped her.

The altimeter was not registering at the low altitude. He guessed that
the ship was within fifty or seventy-five feet of the earth. He pulled
back slightly on the stick; the nose of the Nieuport came up. There was
a blur of dark color stabbing up through the gray stuff. Savagely he
wiped the glass of his goggles for the last time and stared ahead,
downward.

Something long and curved stabbed at the right wing. He saw other blurs
of color, fog clinging to them, rise up before him. He jerked the stick
back against his flying overalls; the nose came up. And then the ship
twisted violently to one side! Fabric ripped! He threw both arms before
his face, releasing his grip on the stick!

The weight of the Hispano-Suiza engine carried the Nieuport down through
the upper branches of the trees. And only the fact that Tex Langdon had
stalled, just before the plane struck into them, saved him. As it was, a
twisting, battering branch shot through the fuselage fabric, ripping the
overall material and sending a stabbing pain up his right leg.
