
Captain Louis Jones spoke across the crude desk between his short form
and the tall one of Lieutenant Langdon.

“You haven’t had the experience of Lieutenant Adams; and it was your
first combat. You should have flown out before your gas got so low.
Lieutenant Adams tells me that it looked as though you were in trouble.
He says he dropped on your Boche and got him. He hasn’t any verification
because the ship fell between the lines, and there was a lot of fog,
though not where the Albatross fell. Perhaps you will verify his
shoot-down.”

Tex Langdon nodded. There was a grim smile on his face.

“I will, Captain,” he stated. “He got the Albatross, all right. Got back
here without any trouble, they tell me.”

The Squadron C. O. nodded. “Went around to the west, slipped under the
fog and came in just off the earth. Of course, he knew--”

The captain frowned and changed the subject.

“We expect two new ships down from Colombey before dusk, if the fog
lifts. You’ll draw one of them. We’ll try to salvage your old ship.
Tomorrow morning you can stay back of the lines, working on your new gun
and feeling out the ship. I’m not exactly praising your work,
Lieutenant. Get _that_ straight. But you had a bad ground fog. Bad
enough to give you another crack at the front. _This_ time--”

He shrugged his shoulders, smiling at Tex Langdon. The lieutenant
nodded.

“I understand, Captain,” he stated. “I’ve cracked up a lot of ships in a
short time. But I’ve been trying--”

The C. O. smiled slightly. “That helps but it isn’t the whole thing,
Lieutenant,” he stated. “I know you’re trying. It isn’t enough. You’ve
got to succeed. Won’t always have Lieutenant Adams around to pull you
out of scrapes, you know.”

Tex felt rage strike at him. But he controlled his feelings with an
effort. Adams, getting him out of a scrape!

The C. O. nodded dismissal. Tex Langdon went from the captain’s office
toward his own coop. It was almost four o’clock; it had taken him five
hours to reach the Squadron from Battery H4. He was about to turn into
the barracks when he almost collided with Lieutenant Adams. That officer
muttered something, turned to one side. Tex caught him by the arm.
