
“Just a second, please, Lieutenant! C. O. tells me you got me out of a
jam, this morning.”

Adams narrowed dark eyes on the blue ones of the Texan. He nodded,
standing fully a head shorter than Tex.

“Well, didn’t I, Lieutenant?” he snapped. “Sorry I couldn’t fly both
ships--might have kept you out of another!”

“I’m not saying you _didn’t_ get me out of a sky jam, Adams,” Tex
replied in a quiet tone. “But I am saying this--you didn’t know you were
getting me out of one!”

The other pilot stiffened. His eyes narrowed on Tex Langdon’s blue ones.

“Come again!” he snapped. “Make that more clear!”

Tex nodded. “The C. O. asked me to verify your shoot-down, Adams. I did.
But get this straight. You saw me skyscrapping with a Boche. You had
ceiling, and a chance to drop in. You did and you got my Boche! You
didn’t know I was running low in gas, or that I’d been hit twice by the
enemy’s lead. And if you _had_ known it wouldn’t have made any
difference. You got the German ship for your record! And you winged
straight for the Squadron, not giving a damn about me!”

Lieutenant Adams smiled grimly. “Think so, Langdon?” he asked quietly.

“I know so!” Tex snapped back. “I mussed up your pet ship in a take-off,
and I didn’t get on my knees when you howled about it. You’re sore. You
knew I couldn’t find the Squadron in the fog and you left me to go where
you’ve said I came from!”

There was a little silence. Then Lieutenant Adams spoke. His voice was
like ice.

“You couldn’t have followed me through that fog, Langdon,” he stated.
“Because you can’t handle a ship in the sky. Is that any reason that I
should mess my chance up? My Nieuport was running low in gas, too. I
wasn’t sure of finding the outfit. And I dropped on that Boche because
he was out-maneuvering you. I sat up in the sky and watched you. You
never even saw me there!”

Tex stared at the other lieutenant. Then he laughed nastily.

“_You_ may get in a sky jam some time,” he said slowly. “You might even
crack up a ship one of these days. And if I’m around--”

Lieutenant Adams swore sharply. His face twisted.

“You won’t be!” he snapped. “I’ll be shooting lead around the front when
you’re--”

He broke off, controlling himself. Tex Langdon smiled at him, his eyes
narrowed. When he spoke his voice was very low and steady.

“When I’m back where I came from, eh, Lieutenant? Maybe you’re right,
Adams. But I’m not forgetting that you winged out on me, into the grey
stuff. The captain didn’t ask me to verify that fact.”

The veteran smiled grimly. “If I ever get in a sky jam, Langdon,” he
said slowly, “I won’t expect any help from you. If you did try to help
you’d probably crash me in the air. It’s about the only thing you
haven’t done since you’ve been up.”

Lieutenant Tex Langdon nodded. “Just about,” he agreed in a peculiar
tone. “Except--I haven’t quit a man in ground fog!”

The two replacement ships didn’t come in that afternoon. Nor the next
afternoon. The fog continued to hang low and thick. Most of the pilots
sat on the ground, worked on their ships, lined up guns. One morning of
the third day the fog lifted a bit and the two replacement Nieuports
were ferried in from Colombey. Lieutenant Schafer drew one and Tex
Langdon drew the other.

Tex worked over his Browning, got the ship off for an hour’s hop back of
the lines before dark. She handled well, and in a couple of bursts at
the ground target south of the Sixteenth’s field he didn’t do so bad.
But he almost cracked up setting her down, making a fast landing. He
taxied her into one of the camouflaged hangars, gave the ground-crew
sergeant his o. k., and moved toward his coop in the barracks.

An orderly was waiting for him; he was wanted at the C. O.’s office. He

washed up, hurried over. Captain Jones frowned up at him.

“Lieutenant Connors reports sick. Looks like a touch of flu. We’re short
pilots, and Brigade is howling for defense planes. Enemy ships are
flooding the Sector air. Is your new ship all right?”

“Yes, sir,” Tex replied quietly.

“Take her over until dark,” the C. O. ordered. “Lieutenants Harrington
and Adams are out. Head for Hill G.8. Some Fokkers are raising the devil
up that way. The French may get some ships across, and you might help
some in a dog fight. Pull back here before dark. That’s all. Get me a
report as soon as you get in.”

Tex nodded, saluted. He went to his barracks, got his helmet and
goggles, headed for the Nieuport again. The ground crew pulled her out.
Adams across the line! Tex smiled grimly. That lieutenant was getting
plenty of work. So were they all, for that matter.

He climbed into the cockpit, revved up the little ship’s engine for a
few minutes, nodded his head for the blocks to be pulled away. The
pursuit plane rolled out across the soggy field, climbed into the sky.
Tex headed straight for the front. As the Nieuport gained altitude, he
stared over the side. From the northeast, clinging low to the ground,
white fog was drifting.

Tex Langdon groaned. For a brief second he thought of banking around,
turning back. The C. O. was not pleased with his work. And he was
winging toward the front with darkness and fog coming to obscure the
Squadron field. If he cracked up again--

Well orders were orders. The Nieuport climbed steadily; he banked
slightly toward the north, toward Hill G.8. The fog was not yet thick,
but it would grow thick. There was little wind. The beat of the Hisso
was steady in his ears.
