
It took the plane eleven minutes and some odd seconds to reach the Hill.
The fog around the rise was slight; it was much thicker back of the
ship, back toward the Squadron. There were two ships in the sky, to the
east, on the German side of the lines. They were winging toward Allied
territory and were flying much higher than the altitude of the Nieuport.

Tex searched the sky with his eyes, climbed the Nieuport. He saw no
other planes. The American ship had reached an altitude of twelve
thousand feet; he guessed that the other two planes were flying just
beneath the clouds, at about fifteen thousand. There was no sun, and
darkness was not far away.

At thirteen thousand feet he leveled off. The two ships heading toward
the Allied lines had suddenly piqued; they were diving at his ship but
then he saw that he was mistaken. Across the lines, winging back toward
the Allied side, was a tiny plane. She was flying with a wing droop and
it was upon her that the two other planes were dropping!

Tex dove the Nieuport. She slanted down across the lines, her nose
pointed toward German territory. He could distinguish the other two
diving ships now. They were both Fokkers of the fighting type. The plane
below, he guessed, was an Allied ship--trying to get back across the
lines.

That ship was almost over the lines, and the German pilots had stretched
their drive, thus allowing Tex to gain on them. He was within a hundred
yards of the nearest enemy ship before the pilot saw him. Instantly the
enemy zoomed.

Tex, lips pressed tightly together, pulled back slightly on the stick.
The Fokker’s zoom failed. A long burst of lead from Tex’s Browning
streamed down into the cockpit of the enemy plane. As Tex pulled all the
way back on the stick, zooming and then going over on a wing, he saw the
second Fokker cease to dive on the ship below.

He pulled the Nieuport around in a vertical bank, stared over the side.
The Fokker on which he had come down was dropping in an uncontrolled
spin. The pilot had been hit! The other Fokker was trying to get
altitude, but her pilot had been forced to pull her over level, after
her first zoom.
