
Wind tore at Tex Langdon’s helmet. He moved the stick to the right,
expecting to feel no pressure, believing that the tail assembly had been
carried away in the crash. But there was pressure. He kicked right
rudder. The slip ceased but the Nieuport was now diving at terrific
speed, less than five hundred feet from the earth!

Slowly he pulled back on the stick. He cut the throttle speed down, held
his breath. And slowly the nose of the Nieuport came up. The tail
assembly was still sticking in place, although the ship answered
sluggishly.

He advanced the throttle to three-quarter speed. The plane was headed
toward the Squadron. She was flying less than three hundred feet above
the earth, and there could be no maneuvering now. The Nieuport would
have to be flown level, carefully. The slightest piece of
overcontrolling might rip the damaged tail assembly from the fuselage.

Tex Langdon stared ahead, down. He groaned. He had forgotten the ground
fog. It was spread over the earth, in the direction of the Squadron,
like a grey-white blanket. Even below the ship now, the first wisps of
it were drifting. And far ahead was the wing-drooping Nieuport,
vanishing from sight into the grey stuff.

Tex stiffened in the cockpit. Lieutenant Adams, once more winging away
from his plane in the fog! He couldn’t be sure of it but he could guess.
He had saved Adams from going down with Boche lead in his plane and body
and the lieutenant again was winging in to leave him alone. Even with a
drooping wing, he might have waited. Lieutenant Harrington _would_ have
waited. It was Adams, all right.

He reached for the throttle, but then he muttered to himself suddenly.
The Nieuport that had vanished into the fog was in sight again! She was
banking around, coming back!

Tex held the little combat ship in level flight. He watched the other
plane come on, his eyes wide. Her left wing drooped badly; she had
banked around to the right. He caught sight of a helmeted head, an arm
held out in the prop wash. The two ships rushed past each other. Tex
stared back. Once again the Nieuport was banking to the right. She came
around sluggishly, gained slowly on the throttled down sister plane.
