
Tex Langdon recovered consciousness slowly. His head ached; he raised a
hand to bandages wound about it. Slowly he blinked the dizziness away
from his eyes, wet his oil-stained lips with the tip of his tongue. He
looked around.

He was propped up against the wreckage of a plane. There were khaki-clad
figures moving in the mud of a field, against a back-ground of drifting
fog. He turned his head slightly. The eyes of Lieutenant Adames smiled
at him.

“Feel rotten, ’eh? But you _do_ feel! That’s something.”

Lieutenant Tex Langdon managed a painful grin. It was _more than_
something, he thought, It was everything. His blue eyes narrowed on
Lieutenant Adams’ dark ones.

“You--came back--” he muttered thickly. “You got--me--down here--”

Adams grunted. “Didn’t quite do that Tex,” he stated grimly. “That
tail-assembly of yours collapsed before you set her down. Figured this
lope would have less fog and headed for it.”

“You came back--” Tex persisted. “After you winged into the white
stuff.”

Lieutenant Adams swore softly. “You and I, Lieutenant--we’ve been acting
up,” he said slowly. “You may crack up your own ships, but you cracked
up two other ships, today! And you saved my neck. I couldn’t wing out on
you, Tex. Figured I might be able to bank around, without the droop
getting me into a slip. It was pretty rotten--winging out on you. Didn’t
know, though, that you had a crippled ship.”

Tex grinned feebly. “It was damn white--after what I’ve said to you,
Adams--” he said slowly. “We’ve both been--pretty thick.”

He fumbled for a cigaret, found two. Adams lighted them up. They inhaled
appreciatively.

“Pretty thick--” Lieutenant Adams was agreeing. “Sort of like--”

He stopped, grinned broadly. Tex nodded. He raised his eyes slightly.

“Like the ground fog, Adams,” he muttered. He closed his eyes. “But
we--got out of it.”

And Lieutenant Adams, smiling grimly, nodded his head.

“We cleared up, Tex,” he muttered, “just about in time!”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the January, 1929 issue of
Triple-X Magazine.]

