
He laid down his book and ran a hand over his ruffled hair.
"Institutions--organizations, that is--" his voice became more
resonant; like most professors, when he had to explain something he
instinctively slipped into his platform lecture mannerisms, and began
to deliver an essay--"have certain tendencies built into the way they
happen to have been organized, which cause them to expand or contract
without reference to the needs they were founded to serve."

He was becoming flushed with the pleasure of explaining his subject.
"All through the ages, it has been a matter of wonder and dismay
to men that a simple organization--such as a church to worship in,
or a delegation of weapons to a warrior class merely for defense
against an outside enemy--will either grow insensately and extend its
control until it is a tyranny over their whole lives, or, like other
organizations set up to serve a vital need, will tend to repeatedly
dwindle and vanish, and have to be painfully rebuilt.

"The reason can be traced to little quirks in the way they were
organized, a matter of positive and negative power feedbacks. Such
simple questions as, 'Is there a way a holder of authority in this
organization can use the power available to him to increase his power?'
provide the key. But it still could not be handled until the complex
questions of interacting motives and long-range accumulations of minor
effects could somehow be simplified and formulated. In working on the
problem, I found that the mathematics of open system, as introduced
to biology by Ludwig von Bertalanffy and George Kreezer, could be
used as a base that would enable me to develop a specifically social
mathematics, expressing the human factors of intermeshing authority and
motives in simple formulas.

"By these formulations, it is possible to determine automatically the
amount of growth and period of life of any organization. The UN, to
choose an unfortunate example, is a shrinker type organization. Its
monetary support is not in the hands of those who personally benefit
by its governmental activities, but, instead, in the hands of those
who would personally lose by any extension and encroachment of its
authority on their own. Yet by the use of formula analysis--"

"That's theory," I said. "How about proof?"

"My equations are already being used in the study of limited-size
Federal corporations. Washington--"

I held up my palm again. "Please, not that nasty word again. I mean,
where else has it been put into operation? Just a simple demonstration,
something to show that it works, that's all."

He looked away from me thoughtfully, picked up the book and began to
tap it on the desk again. It had some unreadable title and his name on
it in gold letters. I got the distinct impression again that he was
repressing an urge to hit me with it.

He spoke quietly. "All right, I'll give you a demonstration. Are you
willing to wait six months?"

"Certainly, if you can show me something at the end of that time."

Reminded of time, I glanced at my watch and stood up.

"Could we discuss this over lunch?" he asked.

"I wouldn't mind hearing more, but I'm having lunch with some
executors of a millionaire's will. They have to be convinced that by,
'furtherance of research into human ills,' he meant that the money
should go to research fellowships for postgraduate biologists at the
university, rather than to a medical foundation."

"I see you have your problems, too," Caswell said, conceding me
nothing. He extended his hand with a chilly smile. "Well, good
afternoon, Mr. Halloway. I'm glad we had this talk."

I shook hands and left him standing there, sure of his place in the
progress of science and the respect of his colleagues, yet seething
inside because I, the president and dean, had boorishly demanded that
he produce something tangible.

I frankly didn't give a hoot if he blew his lid. My job isn't easy.
For a crumb of favorable publicity and respect in the newspapers and
an annual ceremony in a silly costume, I spend the rest of the year
going hat in hand, asking politely for money at everyone's door,
like a well-dressed panhandler, and trying to manage the university
on the dribble I get. As far as I was concerned, a department had to
support itself or be cut down to what student tuition pays for, which
is a handful of over-crowded courses taught by an assistant lecturer.
Caswell had to make it work or get out.

But the more I thought about it, the more I wanted to hear what he was
going to do for a demonstration.
