
At lunch, three days later, while we were waiting for our order, he
opened a small notebook. "Ever hear of feedback effects?"

"Not enough to have it clear."

"You know the snowball effect, though."

"Sure, start a snowball rolling downhill and it grows."

"Well, now--" He wrote a short line of symbols on a blank page and
turned the notebook around for me to inspect it. "Here's the formula
for the snowball process. It's the basic general growth formula--covers
everything."

It was a row of little symbols arranged like an algebra equation. One
was a concentric spiral going up, like a cross-section of a snowball
rolling in snow. That was a growth sign.

I hadn't expected to understand the equation, but it was almost as
clear as a sentence. I was impressed and slightly intimidated by it.
He had already explained enough so that I knew that, if he was right,
here was the growth of the Catholic Church and the Roman Empire, the
conquests of Alexander and the spread of the smoking habit and the
change and rigidity of the unwritten law of styles.

"Is it really as simple as that?" I asked.

"You notice," he said, "that when it becomes too heavy for the cohesion
strength of snow, it breaks apart. Now in human terms--"

The chops and mashed potatoes and peas arrived.

"Go on," I urged.

He was deep in the symbology of human motives and the equations of
human behavior in groups. After running through a few different
types of grower and shrinker type organizations, we came back to the
snowball, and decided to run the test by making something grow.

"You add the motives," he said, "and the equation will translate them
into organization."

"How about a good selfish reason for the ins to drag others into the
group--some sort of bounty on new members, a cut of their membership
fee?" I suggested uncertainly, feeling slightly foolish. "And maybe a
reason why the members would lose if any of them resigned, and some
indirect way they could use to force each other to stay in."

"The first is the chain letter principle," he nodded. "I've got
that. The other...." He put the symbols through some mathematical
manipulation so that a special grouping appeared in the middle of the
equation. "That's it."

Since I seemed to have the right idea, I suggested some more, and he
added some, and juggled them around in different patterns. We threw
out a few that would have made the organization too complicated, and
finally worked out an idyllically simple and deadly little organization
setup where joining had all the temptation of buying a sweepstakes
ticket, going in deeper was as easy as hanging around a race track, and
getting out was like trying to pull free from a Malayan thumb trap. We
put our heads closer together and talked lower, picking the best place
for the demonstration.

"Abington?"

"How about Watashaw? I have some student sociological surveys of it
already. We can pick a suitable group from that."

"This demonstration has got to be convincing. We'd better pick a little
group that no one in his right mind would expect to grow."

"There should be a suitable club--"

Picture Professor Caswell, head of the Department of Sociology, and
with him the President of the University, leaning across the table
toward each other, sipping coffee and talking in conspiratorial tones
over something they were writing in a notebook.

That was us.
