
Four months later I had time out from a very busy schedule to wonder
how the test was coming along. Passing Caswell's office, I put my head
in. He looked up from a student research paper he was correcting.

"Caswell, about that sewing club business--I'm beginning to feel the
suspense. Could I get an advance report on how it's coming?"

"I'm not following it. We're supposed to let it run the full six
months."

"But I'm curious. Could I get in touch with that woman--what's her
name?"

"Searles. Mrs. George Searles."

"Would that change the results?"

"Not in the slightest. If you want to graph the membership rise, it
should be going up in a log curve, probably doubling every so often."

I grinned. "If it's not rising, you're fired."

He grinned back. "If it's not rising, you won't have to fire me--I'll
burn my books and shoot myself."

I returned to my office and put in a call to Watashaw.

While I was waiting for the phone to be answered, I took a piece of
graph paper and ruled it off into six sections, one for each month.
After the phone had rung in the distance for a long time, a servant
answered with a bored drawl:

"Mrs. Searles' residence."

I picked up a red gummed star and licked it.

"Mrs. Searles, please."

"She's not in just now. Could I take a message?"

I placed the star at the thirty line in the beginning of the first
section. Thirty members they'd started with.

"No, thanks. Could you tell me when she'll be back?"

"Not until dinner. She's at the meetin'."

"The sewing club?" I asked.

"No, sir, not that thing. There isn't any Sewing club any more, not
for a long time. She's at the Civic Welfare meeting."

Somehow I hadn't expected anything like that.

"Thank you," I said and hung up, and after a moment noticed I was
holding a box of red gummed stars in my hand. I closed it and put it
down on top of the graph of membership in the sewing circle. No more
members....

Poor Caswell. The bet between us was ironclad. He wouldn't let me
back down on it even if I wanted to. He'd probably quit before I put
through the first slow move to fire him. His professional pride would
be shattered, sunk without a trace. I remembered what he said about
shooting himself. It had seemed funny to both of us at the time,
but.... What a mess _that_ would make for the university.

I had to talk to Mrs. Searles. Perhaps there was some outside reason
why the club had disbanded. Perhaps it had not just died.

I called back. "This is Professor Smith," I said, giving the alias I
had used before. "I called a few minutes ago. When did you say Mrs.
Searles will return?"

"About six-thirty or seven o'clock."

Five hours to wait.

And what if Caswell asked me what I had found out in the meantime? I
didn't want to tell him anything until I had talked it over with that
woman Searles first.

"Where is this Civic Welfare meeting?"

She told me.

Five minutes later, I was in my car, heading for Watashaw, driving
considerably faster than my usual speed and keeping a careful watch for
highway patrol cars as the speedometer climbed.
