
The town meeting hall and theater was a big place, probably with lots
of small rooms for different clubs. I went in through the center door
and found myself in the huge central hall where some sort of rally was
being held. A political-type rally--you know, cheers and chants, with
bunting already down on the floor, people holding banners, and plenty
of enthusiasm and excitement in the air. Someone was making a speech up
on the platform. Most of the people there were women.

I wondered how the Civic Welfare League could dare hold its meeting at
the same time as a political rally that could pull its members away.
The group with Mrs. Searles was probably holding a shrunken and almost
memberless meeting somewhere in an upper room.

There probably was a side door that would lead upstairs.

While I glanced around, a pretty girl usher put a printed bulletin in
my hand, whispering, "Here's one of the new copies." As I attempted to
hand it back, she retreated. "Oh, you can keep it. It's the new one.
Everyone's supposed to have it. We've just printed up six thousand
copies to make sure there'll be enough to last."

The tall woman on the platform had been making a driving, forceful
speech about some plans for rebuilding Watashaw's slum section. It
began to penetrate my mind dimly as I glanced down at the bulletin in
my hands.

"Civic Welfare League of Watashaw. The United Organization of Church
and Secular Charities." That's what it said. Below began the rules of
membership.

I looked up. The speaker, with a clear, determined voice and conscious,
forceful gestures, had entered the homestretch of her speech, an appeal
to the civic pride of all citizens of Watashaw.

"With a bright and glorious future--potentially without poor and
without uncared-for ill--potentially with no ugliness, no vistas which
are not beautiful--the best people in the best planned town in the
country--the jewel of the United States."

She paused and then leaned forward intensely, striking her clenched
hand on the speaker's stand with each word for emphasis.

"_All we need is more members. Now get out there and recruit!_"

I finally recognized Mrs. Searles, as an answering sudden blast of
sound half deafened me. The crowd was chanting at the top of its lungs:
"Recruit! Recruit!"

Mrs. Searles stood still at the speaker's table and behind her,
seated in a row of chairs, was a group that was probably the board of
directors. It was mostly women, and the women began to look vaguely
familiar, as if they could be members of the sewing circle.

I put my lips close to the ear of the pretty usher while I turned over
the stiff printed bulletin on a hunch. "How long has the League been
organized?" On the back of the bulletin was a constitution.

She was cheering with the crowd, her eyes sparkling. "I don't know,"
she answered between cheers. "I only joined two days ago. Isn't it
wonderful?"

I went into the quiet outer air and got into my car with my skin
prickling. Even as I drove away, I could hear them. They were singing
some kind of organization song with the tune of "Marching through
Georgia."

Even at the single glance I had given it, the constitution looked
exactly like the one we had given the Watashaw Sewing Circle.

All I told Caswell when I got back was that the sewing circle had
changed its name and the membership seemed to be rising.
