
The end of the sixth month came. The test was over and the end reports
were spectacular. Caswell's formulas were proven to the hilt.

After reading the last newspaper reports, I called him up.

"Perfect, Wilt, _perfect_! I can use this Watashaw thing to get you so
many fellowships and scholarships and grants for your department that
you'll think it's snowing money!"

He answered somewhat disinterestedly, "I've been busy working with
students on their research papers and marking tests--not following the
Watashaw business at all, I'm afraid. You say the demonstration went
well and you're satisfied?"

He was definitely putting on a chill. We were friends now, but
obviously he was still peeved whenever he was reminded that I had
doubted that his theory could work. And he was using its success to
rub my nose in the realization that I had been wrong. A man with a
string of degrees after his name is just as human as anyone else. I had
needled him pretty hard that first time.

"I'm satisfied," I acknowledged. "I was wrong. The formulas work
beautifully. Come over and see my file of documents on it if you want a
boost for your ego. Now let's see the formula for stopping it."

He sounded cheerful again. "I didn't complicate that organization
with negatives. I wanted it to _grow_. It falls apart naturally when
it stops growing for more than two months. It's like the great stock
boom before an economic crash. Everyone in it is prosperous as long as
the prices just keep going up and new buyers come into the market, but
they all knew what would happen if it stopped growing. You remember, we
built in as one of the incentives that the members know they are going
to lose if membership stops growing. Why, if I tried to stop it now,
they'd cut my throat."

I remembered the drive and frenzy of the crowd in the one early meeting
I had seen. They probably would.

"No," he continued. "We'll just let it play out to the end of its
tether and die of old age."

"When will that be?"

"It can't grow past the female population of the town. There are only
so many women in Watashaw, and some of them don't like sewing."

The graph on the desk before me began to look sinister. Surely Caswell
must have made some provision for--

"You underestimate their ingenuity," I said into the phone. "Since they
wanted to expand, they didn't stick to sewing. They went from general
charity to social welfare schemes to something that's pretty close to
an incorporated government. The name is now the Watashaw Mutual Trade
and Civic Development Corporation, and they're filing an application
to change it to Civic Property Pool and Social Dividend, membership
contractual, open to all. That social dividend sounds like a Technocrat
climbed on the band wagon, eh?"

While I spoke, I carefully added another red star to the curve above
the thousand member level, checking with the newspaper that still lay
open on my desk. The curve was definitely some sort of log curve now,
growing more rapidly with each increase.

"Leaving out practical limitations for a moment, where does the formula
say it will stop?" I asked.

"When you run out of people to join it. But after all, there are only
so many people in Watashaw. It's a pretty small town."
