
That is how it came about that the next time the Professor sent into
town for supplies, his order included a mousetrap--not one of the
vicious kind that kills, but one of the wire-cage kind. And it had not
been set, with cheese, for more than ten minutes before Mitkey's sharp
little nose had smelled out that cheese and he had followed his nose
into captivity.

Not, however, an unpleasant captivity. Mitkey was an honored guest. The
cage reposed now on the table at which the Professor did most of his
work, and cheese in indigestion-giving abundance was pushed through the
bars, and the Professor didn't talk to himself any more.

"You see, Mitkey, I vas going to sendt to der laboratory in Hardtford
for a vhite mouse, budt vhy should I, mit you here? I am sure you are
more soundt und healthy und able to vithstand a long chourney than
those laboratory mices. No? Ah, you viggle your viskers und that means
yes, no? Und being used to living in dargk holes, you should suffer
less than they from glaustrophobia, no?"

And Mitkey grew fat and happy and forgot all about trying to get out of
the cage. I fear that he even forgot about the family he had abandoned,
but he knew, if he knew anything, that he need not worry about them in
the slightest. At least not until and unless the Professor discovered
and repaired the hole in the refrigerator. And the Professor's mind was
most emphatically not on refrigerators.

"Und so, Mitkey, ve shall place this vane so--it iss only of assistance
in der landing, in an atmosphere. It und these vill bring you down
safely und slowly enough that der shock-absorbers in der movable
combartment vill keep you from bumping your head too hard, I think." Of
course, Mitkey missed the ominous note to that "I think" qualification
because he missed all the rest of it. He did not, as has been
explained, speak English. Not then.

But Herr Oberburger talked to him just the same. He showed him
pictures. "Did you effer see der Mouse you vas named after, Mitkey?
Vhat? No? Loogk, this is der original Mitkey Mouse, by Valt Dissney.
Budt I think you are cuter, Mitkey."

Probably the Professor was a bit crazy to talk that way to a little
gray mouse. In fact, he must have been crazy to make a rocket that
worked. For the odd thing was that the Herr Professor was not really
an inventor. There was, as he carefully explained to Mitkey, not one
single thing about that rocket that was _new_. The Herr Professor was a
technician; he could take other people's ideas and make them work. His
only real invention--the rocket fuel that wasn't one--had been turned
over to the United States Government and had proved to be something
already known and discarded because it was too expensive for practical
use.
