
As he explained very carefully to Mitkey, "It iss burely a matter of
absolute accuracy and mathematical correctness, Mitkey. Idt iss all
here--ve merely combine--and ve achieff vhat, Mitkey?

"Eggscape velocity, Mitkey! Chust barely, it adds up to eggscape
velocity. Maybe. There are yet unknown facgtors, Mitkey, in der ubper
atmosphere, der troposphere, der stratosphere. Ve think ve know
eggsactly how mudch air there iss to calculate resistance against, but
are ve absolutely sure? No, Mitkey, ve are not. Ve haff not been there.
Und der marchin iss so narrow that so mudch as an air current might
affect idt."

But Mitkey cared not a whit. In the shadow of the tapering
aluminum-alloy cylinder he waxed fat and happy.

"Der tag, Mitkey, der tag! Und I shall not lie to you, Mitkey. I shall
not giff you valse assurances. You go on a dancherous chourney, mein
little friendt.

"A vifty-vifty chance ve giff you, Mitkey. Not der moon or bust, but
der moon _und_ bust, or else maybe safely back to earth. You see,
my boor little Mitkey, der moon iss not made of green cheese und if
it were, you vould not live to eat it because there iss not enough
atmosphere to bring you down safely und vith your viskers still on.

[Illustration: "NOT DER MOON OR BUST, BUT DER MOON UND BUST!"]

"Und vhy then, you may vell ask, do I send you? Because der rocket
may not attain eggscape velocity. Und in that case, it iss still an
eggsperiment, budt a different vun. Der rocket, if it goes not to der
moon, falls back on der earth, no? Und in that case certain instruments
shall giff us further information than ve haff yet about things up
there in space. Und you shall giff us information, by vether or not you
are yet alife, vether der shock absorbers und vanes are sufficient in
an earth-equivalent atmosphere. You see?

"Then ladter, vhen ve send rockets to Venus maybe vhere an atmosphere
eggsists, ve shall haff data to calculate the needed size of vanes und
shock-absorbers, no? Und in either case, und vether or not you return,
Mitkey, you shall be vamous! You shall be der virst liffing greature to
go oudt beyond der stratosphere of der earth, out into space.

"Mitkey, you shall be der Star-Mouse! I enfy you, Mitkey, und I only
vish I vere your size, so I could go, too."

Der tag, and the door to the compartment. "Gootbye, little Mitkey
Mouse." Darkness. Silence. Noise!

"Der rocket--if it goes not to der moon--falls back on der earth, no?"
That was what the Herr Professor thought. But the best-laid plans of
mice and men gang aft agley. Even star-mice.

All because of Prxl.
