
The Herr Professor found himself very lonely. After having had Mitkey
to talk to, soliloquies were somehow empty and adequate.

There may be some who say that the company of a small gray mouse is a
poor substitute for a wife; but others may disagree. And, anyway, the
Professor had never had a wife, and he _had_ a mouse to talk to, so
he missed one and, if he missed the other, he didn't know it.

During the long night after the launching of the rocket, he had been
very busy with his telescope, a sweet little eight-inch reflector,
checking its course as it gathered momentum. The exhaust explosions
made a tiny fluctuating point of light that was possible to follow, if
one knew where to look.

But the following day there seemed to be nothing to do, and he was too
excited to sleep, although he tried. So he compromised by doing a spot
of housekeeping, cleaning the pots and pans. It was while he was so
engaged that he heard a series of frantic little squeaks and discovered
that another small gray mouse, with shorter whiskers and a shorter tail
than Mitkey, had walked into the wire-cage mousetrap.

"Vell, vell," said the Professor, "vot haff ve here? Minnie? Iss it
Minnie come to look for her Mitkey?"

The Professor was not a biologist, but he happened to be right.
It _was_ Minnie. Rather, it was Mitkey's mate, so the name was
appropriate. What strange vagary of mind had induced her to walk into
an unbaited trap, the Professor neither knew nor cared, but he was
delighted. He promptly remedied the lack of bait by pushing a sizable
piece of cheese through the bars.

Thus it was that Minnie came to fill the place of her far-traveling
spouse as repository for the Professor's confidences. Whether she
worried about her family or not there is no way of knowing, but
she need not have done so. They were now large enough to fend for
themselves, particularly in a house that offered abundant cover and
easy access to the refrigerator.

"Ah, und now it iss dargk enough, Minnie, that ve can loogk for that
husband of yours. His viery trail across the sky. True, Minnie, it
iss a very small viery trail und der astronomers vill not notice it,
because they do not know vhere to loogk. But ve do.

"He iss going to be a very vamous mouse, Minnie, this Mitkey of ours,
vhen ve tell der vorld about him und about mein rocket. You see, Minnie
ve haff not told them yet. Ve shall vait und giff der gomplete story
all at vunce. By dawn of tomorrow ve'll--

"Ah, there he iss, Minnie! Vaint, but there. I'd hold you up to der
scope und let you loogk, but it vould not be vocused right for your
eyes, und I do not know how to--

"Almost vun hundred thousand miles, Minnie, und still agcelerating, but
not for much longer. Our Mitkey iss on schedule; in fagt he iss going
vaster than ve had vigured, no? It iss sure now that he vill eggscape
the gravitation of der earth, und fall upon der moon!"

Of course, it was purely coincidental that Minnie squeaked.

"Ah, yess, Minnie, little Minnie. I know, I know. Ve shall neffer see
our Mitkey again, und I almost vish our eggsperiment hadt vailed. Budt
there are gompensations, Minnie. He shall be der most vamous of all
mices. Der Star-Mouse! Virst liffing greature effer to go beyond der
gravitational bull of earth!"

The night was long. Occasionally high clouds obscured vision.

"Minnie, I shall make you more gomfortable than in that so-small vire
cage. You vould like to seem to be vree, vould you not, vithout bars,
like der animals at modern zoos, vith moats insteadt?"
