
And so, to fill in an hour when a cloud obscured the sky, the Herr
Professor made Minnie her new home. It was the end of a wooden crate,
about half an inch thick and a foot square, laid flat on the table,
and with no visible barrier around it.

But he covered the top with metal foil at the edges, and he placed the
board on another larger board which also had a strip of metal foil
surrounding the island of Minnie's home. And wires from the two areas
of metal foil to opposite terminals of a small transformer which he
placed near by.

"Und now, Minnie, I shall blace you on your island, vhich shall be
liberally supplied mitt cheese und vater, und you shall vind it iss
an eggcelent blace to liff. But you vill get a mild shock or two vhen
you try to step off der edge of der island. It vill not hurt much, but
you vill not like it, und after a few tries you vill learn not to try
again, no? Und--"

And night again.

Minnie happy on her island, her lesson well learned. She would no
longer so much as step on the inner strip of metal foil. It was a
mouse-paradise of an island, though. There was a cliff of cheese bigger
than Minnie herself. It kept her busy. Mouse and cheese; soon one would
be a transmutation of the other.

But Professor Oberburger wasn't thinking about that. The Professor
was worried. When he had calculated and re-calculated and aimed his
eight-inch reflector through the hole in the roof and turned out the
lights--

Yes, there _are_ advantages to being a bachelor after all. If one wants
a hole in the roof, one simply knocks a hole in the roof and there is
nobody to tell one that one is crazy. If winter comes, or if it rains,
one can always call a carpenter or use a tarpaulin.

But the faint trail of light wasn't there. The Professor frowned
and re-calculated and re-re-calculated and shifted his telescope
three-tenths of a minute and still the rocket wasn't there.

"Minnie, something iss wrong. Either der tubes haff stopped viring,
or--"

Or the rocket was no longer traversing a straight line relative to its
point of departure. By straight, of course, is meant parabollically
curved relative to everything other than velocity.

So the Herr Professor did the only thing remaining for him to do, and
began to search, with the telescope, in widening circles. It was two
hours before he found it, five degrees off course already and veering
more and more into a--Well, there was only one thing you could call it.
A tailspin.

The darned thing was going in circles, circles which appeared to
constitute an orbit about something that couldn't possibly be there.
Then narrowing into a concentric spiral.

Then--out. Gone. Darkness. No rocket flares.

The Professor's face was pale as he turned to Minnie.

"It iss _imbossible_, Minnie. Mein own eyes, but it could not be.
Even if vun side stopped viring, it could not haff gone into such
sudden circles." His pencil verified a suspicion. "Und, Minnie, it
decellerated vaster than bossible. Even mitt _no_ tubes viring, its
momentum vould haff been more--"

The rest of the night--telescope and calculus--yielded no clue. That
is, no believable clue. Some force not inherent in the rocket itself,
and not accountable by gravitation--even of a hypothetical body--had
acted.

"Mein poor Mitkey."

[Illustration: "POOR MITKEY"]

The gray, inscrutable dawn. "Mein Minnie, it vill haff to be a secret.
Ve dare not bublish vhat ve saw, for it vould not be believed. I am not
sure I believe it myself, Minnie. Berhaps because I vas offertired
vrom not sleeping, I chust imachined that I saw--"

Later. "But, Minnie, ve shall hope. Vun hundred vifty thousand miles
out, it vas. It vill fall back upon der earth. But I gannot tell vhere!
I thought that if it did, I vould be able to galculate its course,
und--But after those goncentric cirgles--Minnie, not even _Einstein_
could galculate vhere it vill land. Not effen _me_. All ve can do iss
hope that ve shall hear of vhere it falls."

Cloudy day. Black night jealous of its mysteries.

"Minnie, our poor Mitkey. There iss _nothing_ could have gauzed--"

But something had.

Prxl.

Prxl is an asteroid. It isn't called that by earthly astronomers,
because--for excellent reasons--they have not discovered it. So we
will call it by the nearest possible transliteration of the name its
inhabitants use. Yes, it's inhabited.

Come to think of it, Professor Oberburger's attempt to send a rocket to
the moon had some strange results. Or rather, Prxl did.

You wouldn't think that an asteroid could reform a drunk, would you?
But one Charles Winslow, a besotted citizen of Bridgeport, Connecticut,
never took a drink when--right on Grove Street--a mouse asked him the
road to Hartford. The mouse was wearing bright red pants and vivid
yellow gloves--

But that was fifteen months after the Professor lost his rocket. We'd
better start over again.
