
Prxl is an asteroid. One of those despised celestial bodies which
terrestrial astronomers call vermin of the sky, because the darned
things leave trails across the plates that clutter up the more
important observations of novae and nebulae. Fifty thousand fleas on
the dark dog of night.

Tiny things, most of them. Astronomers have been discovering recently
that some of them come close to Earth. Amazingly close. There
was excitement in 1932 when Amor came within ten million miles;
astronomically, a mere mashie shot. Then Apollo cut that almost in
half, and in 1936 Adonis came within less than one and a half million
miles.

In 1937, Hermes, less than half a million but the astronomers got
really excited when they calculated its orbit and found that the little
mile-long asteroid _can_ come within a mere 220,000 miles, closer than
Earth's own moon.

Some day they may be still more excited, if and when they spot the
3/8-mile asteroid Prxl, that obstacle of space, making a transit across
the moon and discover that it frequently comes within a mere hundred
thousand miles of our rapidly whirling world.

Only in event of a transit will they ever discover it, though, for
Prxl does not reflect light. It hasn't, anyway, for several million
years since its inhabitants coated it with a black, light-absorbing
pigment derived from its interior. Monumental task, painting a world,
for creatures half an inch tall. But worth it, at the time. When they'd
shifted its orbit, they were safe from their enemies. There were giants
in those days--eight-inch tall marauding pirates from Diemos. Got to
Earth a couple of times too, before they faded out of the picture.
Pleasant little giants who killed because they enjoyed it. Records
in now-buried cities on Diemos might explain what happened to the
dinosaurs. And why the promising Cro-Magnons disappeared at the height
of their promise only a cosmic few minutes after the dinosaurs went
west.

But Prxl survived. Tiny world no longer reflecting the sun's rays, lost
to the cosmic killers when its orbit was shifted.

Prxl. Still civilized, with a civilization millions of years old.
Its coat of blackness preserved and renewed regularly, more through
tradition than fear of enemies in these later degenerate days. Mighty
but stagnant civilization, standing still on a world that whizzes like
a bullet.

And Mitkey Mouse.
