
Klarloth, head scientist of a race of scientists, tapped his assistant
Bemj on what would have been Bemj's shoulder if he had had one. "Look,"
he said, "what approaches Prxl. Obviously artificial propulsion."

Bemj looked into the wall-plate and then directed a thought-wave at the
mechanism that jumped the magnification of a thousand-fold through an
alteration of the electronic field.

The image leaped, blurred, then steadied. "Fabricated," said Bemj.
"Extremely crude, I must say. Primitive explosive-powered rocket. Wait,
I'll check where it came from."

He took the readings from the dials about the viewplate, and hurled
them as thoughts against the psychocoil of the computer, then waited
while that most complicated of machines digested all the factors and
prepared the answer. Then, eagerly, he slid his mind into rapport with
its projector. Klarloth likewise listened in to the silent broadcast.

Exact point on Earth and exact time of departure. Untranslatable
expression of curve of trajectory, and point on that curve where
deflected by gravitational pull of Prxl. The destination--or rather
the original intended destination--of the rocket was obvious, Earth's
moon. Time and place of arrival on Prxl if present course of rocket was
unchanged.

"Earth," said Klarloth meditatively. "They were a long way from rocket
travel the last time we checked them. Some sort of a crusade, or battle
of beliefs, going on, wasn't there?"

Bemj nodded. "Catapults. Bows and arrows. They've taken a long stride
since, even if this is only an early experimental thing of a rocket.
Shall we destroy it before it gets here?"

Klarloth shook his head thoughtfully. "Let's look it over. May save us
a trip to Earth; we can judge their present state of development pretty
well from the rocket itself."

"But then we'll have to--"

"Of course. Call the Station. Tell them to train their
attracto-repulsors on it and to swing it into a temporary orbit until
they prepare a landing-cradle. And not forget to damp out the explosive
before they bring it down."

"Temporary force-field around point of landing--in case?"

"Naturally."

So despite the almost complete absence of atmosphere in which the vanes
could have functioned, the rocket came down safely and so softly that
Mitkey, in the dark compartment, knew only that the awful noise had
stopped.

Mitkey felt better. He ate some more of the cheese with which the
compartment was liberally provided. Then he resumed trying to gnaw a
hole in the inch-thick wood with which the compartment was lined. That
wooden lining was a kind thought of the Herr Professor for Mitkey's
mental well-being. He knew that trying to gnaw his way out would give
Mitkey something to do en route which would keep him from getting the
screaming meamies. The idea had worked; being busy, Mitkey hadn't
suffered mentally from his dark confinement. And now that things were
quiet, he chewed away more industriously and more happily than ever,
sublimely unaware that when he got through the wood, he'd find only
metal which he couldn't chew. But better people than Mitkey have found
things they couldn't chew.

Meanwhile, Klarloth and Bemj and several thousand other Prxlians
stood gazing up at the huge rocket which, even lying on its side,
towered high over their heads. Some of the younger ones, forgetting
the invisible field of force, walked too close and came back, ruefully
rubbing bumped heads.

Klarloth himself was at the psychograph.

"There _is_ life inside the rocket," he told Bemj. "But the impressions
are confused. One creature, but I cannot follow its thought processes.
At the moment it seems to be doing something with its teeth."

"It could not be an Earthling, one of the dominant race. One of them is
much larger than this huge rocket. Gigantic creatures. Perhaps, unable
to construct a rocket large enough to hold one of themselves, they sent
an experimental creature, such as our wooraths."

"I believe you've guessed right, Bemj. Well, when we have explored its
mind thoroughly, we may still learn enough to save us a check-up trip
to Earth. I am going to open the door."

"But air--creatures of Earth would need a heavy, almost a dense
atmosphere. It could not live."

"We retain the force-field, of course. It will keep the air in.
Obviously there is a source of supply of air within the rocket or the
creature would not have survived the trip."

Klarloth operated controls, and the force-field itself put forth
invisible pseudo-pods and turned the outer screw-door, then reached
within and unlatched the inner door to the compartment itself.
