
All Prxl watched breathlessly as a monstrous gray head pushed out of
the huge aperture yawning overhead. Thick whiskers, each as long as the
body of a Prxlian--

Mitkey jumped down, and took a forward step that bumped his black
nose hard--into something that wasn't there. He squeaked, and jumped
backwards against the rocket.

There was disgust in Bemj's face as he looked up at the monster.
"Obviously much less intelligent than a woorath. Might just as well
turn on the ray."

"Not at all," interrupted Klarloth. "You forget certain very obvious
facts. The creature is unintelligent, of course, but the subconscious
of every animal holds in itself every memory, every impression, every
sense-image, to which it has ever been subjected. If this creature
has ever heard the speech of the Earthlings, or seen any of their
works--besides this rocket--every word and every picture is indellibly
graven. You see now what I mean?"

"Naturally. How stupid of me, Klarloth. Well, one thing is obvious from
the rocket itself: we have nothing to fear from the science of Earth
for at least a few millenia. So there is no hurry, which is fortunate.
For to send back the creature's memory to the time of its birth, and to
follow each sensory impression in the psychograph will require--well, a
time at least equivalent to the age of the creature, whatever that is,
plus the time necessary for us to interpret and assimilate each."

"But that will not be necessary, Bemj."

"No? Oh, you mean the X-19 waves?"

"Exactly. Focused upon this creature's brain-center, they can, without
disturbing his memories, be so delicately adjusted as to increase his
intelligence--now probably about .0001 in the scale--to the point
where he is a reasoning creature. Almost automatically, during the
process, he will assimilate his own memories, and understand them just
as he would if he had been intelligent at the time he received those
impressions.

"See, Bemj? He will automatically sort out irrelevant data, and will be
able to answer our questions."

"But would you make him as intelligent as--?"

"As we? No, the X-19 waves would not work so far. I would say to
about .2 on the scale. That, judging from the rocket coupled with what
we remember of Earthlings from our last trip there, is about their
present place on the intelligence scale."

"Ummm, yes. At that level, he would comprehend his experiences on Earth
just sufficiently that he would not be dangerous to us, too. Equal to
an intelligent Earthling. Just about right for our purpose. Then, shall
we teach him our language?"

"Wait," said Klarloth. He studied the psychograph closely for a while.
"No, I do not think so. He will have a language of his own. I see in
his subconscious, memories of many long conversations. Strangely, they
all seem to be monologues by one person. But he will have a language--a
simple one. It would take him a long time, even under treatment, to
grasp the concepts of our own method of communication. But we can learn
his, while he is under the X-19 machine, in a few minutes."

"Does he understand, now, any of that language?"

Klarloth studied the psychograph again. "No, I do not believe he--Wait,
there is one word that seems to mean something to him. The word
'Mitkey.' It seems to be his name, and I believe that, from hearing it
many times, he vaguely associates it with himself."

"And quarters for him--with air-locks and such?"

"Of course. Order them built."


                                   V

To say it was a strange experience for Mitkey is understatement.
Knowledge is a strange thing, even when it is acquired gradually. To
have it thrust upon one--

And there were little things that had to be straightened out. Like the
matter of vocal chords. His weren't adapted to the language he now
found he knew. Bemj fixed that; you would hardly call it an operation
because Mitkey--even with his new awareness--didn't know what was going
on, and he was wide awake at the time. And they didn't explain to
Mitkey about the J-dimension with which one can get at the inwardness
of things without penetrating the outside.

They figured things like that weren't in Mitkey's line, and anyway they
were more interested in learning from him than teaching him. Bemj and
Klarloth, and a dozen others deemed worthy of the privilege. If one of
them wasn't talking to him, another was.

Their questioning helped his own growing understanding. He would not,
usually, know that he knew the answer to a question until it was asked.
Then he'd piece together, without knowing just how he did it (any more
than you or I know _how_ we know things) and give them the answer.

Bemj: "Iss this language vhich you sbeak a universal vun?"

And Mitkey, even though he'd never thought about it before, had the
answer ready: "No, it iss nodt. It iss Englitch, but I remember der
Herr Brofessor sbeaking of other tongues. I belieff he sboke another
himself originally, budt in American he always sboke Englitch to become
more vamiliar mitt it. It iss a beaudiful sbeech, is it nodt?"

"Hmmmm," said Bemj.

Klarloth: "Und your race, the mices. Are they treated vell?"

"Nodt by most people," Mitkey told him. And explained.

"I vould like to do something for them," he added. "Loogk, could I nodt
take back mitt me this brocess vhich you used upon me? Abbly it to
other mices, und greate a race of super-mices?"

"Vhy not?" asked Bemj.

He saw Klarloth looking at him strangely, and threw his mind into
rapport with the chief scientist's, with Mitkey left out of the silent
communion.

"Yes, of course," Bemj told Klarloth, "it will lead to trouble on
Earth, grave trouble. Two equal classes of beings so dissimilar as mice
and men cannot live together in amity. But why should that concern us,
other than favorably? The resultant mess will slow down progress on
Earth--give us a few more millennia of peace before Earthlings discover
we are here, and trouble starts. You know these Earthlings."

"But you would give them the X-19 waves? They might--"

"No, of course not. But we can explain to Mitkey here how to make
a very crude and limited machine for them. A primitive one which
would suffice for nothing more than the specific task of converting
mouse mentality from .0001 to .2, Mitkey's own level and that of the
bifurcated Earthlings."

"It is possible," communicated Klarloth. "It is certain that for aeons
to come they will be incapable of understanding its basic principle."

"But could they not use even a crude machine to raise their own level
of intelligence?"

"You forget, Bemj, the basic limitation of the X-19 rays; that no one
can possibly design a projector capable of raising any mentality to a
point on the scale higher than his own. Not even we."

All this, of course, over Mitkey's head, in silent Prxlian.

More interviews, and more.

Klarloth again: "Mitkey, ve varn you of vun thing. Avoid carelessness
vith electricity. Der new molecular rearranchement of your brain
center--it iss unstable, und--"

Bemj: "Mitkey, are you sure your Herr Brofessor iss der most advanced
of all who eggsperiment vith der rockets?"

"In cheneral, yess, Bemj. There are others who on vun specific boint,
such as eggsplosives, mathematics, astrovisics, may know more, but not
much more. Und for combining these knowledges, he iss ahead."

"It iss vell," said Bemj.
