
Small gray mouse towering like a dinosaur over tinier half-inch
Prxlians. Meek, herbivorous creature though he was, Mitkey could have
killed any one of them with a single bite. But, of course, it never
occurred to him to do so, nor to them to fear that he might.

They turned him inside out mentally. They did a pretty good job of
study on him physically, too, but that was through the J-dimension, and
Mitkey didn't even know about it.

They found out what made him tick, and they found out everything he
knew and some things he didn't even know he knew. And they grew quite
fond of him.

"Mitkey," said Klarloth one day, "all der civilized races on Earth year
glothing, do they nodt? Veil, if you are to raise der level of mices to
men, vould it not be vitting that you vear glothes, too?"

"An eggcelent idea, Herr Klarloth. Und I know chust vhat kind I vould
like. Der Herr Brofessor vunce showed me a bicture of a mouse bainted
by der artist Dissney, und der mouse vore glothing. Der mouse vas not a
real-life vun, budt an imachinary mouse in a barable, und der Brofessor
named me after der Dissney mouse."

"Vot kind of glothing vas it, Mitkey?"

That was on the eve of Mitkey's departure. Originally, Bemj had
suggested awaiting the moment when Prxl's eccentric orbit would again
take it within a hundred and fifty thousand miles of Earth. But, as
Klarloth pointed out, that would be fifty-five Earth-years ahead, and
Mitkey wouldn't last that long. Not unless they--And Bemj agreed that
they had better not risk sending a secret like that back to Earth.

"Bright red bants mitt two big yellow buttons in frondt und two in
back, und yellow shoes for der back feet und a pair of yellow gloves
for der vront. A hole in der seat of der bants to aggomodate der tail."

[Illustration: MOUSE

    --WARNING--
    FINE OF 500 BUCKS
    6 MO. IMPRISONMENT
    OR BOTH TO ANY
    PERSON CAUGHT
    TYING KNOTS IN OR
    PLUCKING HAIRS
    OUT OF CREATURE'S
    TAIL--_POLICE DEPT._

       HOT FRANKS

    TOURS
    ALL
    POINTS OF
    INTEREST
    EVERY
    HOUR
]

[Illustration: "A HOLE IN DER SEAT OF DER BANTS TO AGGOMODATE DER
TAIL." ]

"Ogay, Mitkey. Such shall be ready for you in fife minutes."

So they compromised by refueling Mitkey's rocket with something that
would cancel out the million and a quarter odd miles he would have to
travel. That secret they didn't have to worry about, because the fuel
would be gone by the time the rocket landed.

Day of departure.

"Ve haff done our best, Mitkey, to set und time der rocket so it vill
land on or near der spot from vhich you left Earth. But you gannot
eggspect agguracy in a voyach so long as this. But you vill land near.
The rest iss up to you. Ve haff equvipped the rocket ship for effery
contingency."

"Thank you, Herr Klarloth, Herr Bemj. Gootbye."

"Gootbye, Mitkey. Ve hate to loose you."

"Gootbye, Mitkey."

"Gootbye, gootbye...."


                                  VI

For a million and a quarter miles, the aim was really excellent. The
rocket landed in Long Island Sound, ten miles out from Bridgeport,
about sixty miles from the house of Professor Oberburger near Hartford.

They had prepared for a water landing, of course. The rocket went down
to the bottom, but before it was more than a few dozen feet under the
surface, Mitkey opened the door--especially re-equipped to open from
the inside--and stepped out.

Over his regular clothes he wore a neat little diving suit that would
have protected him at any reasonable depth, and which, being lighter
than water, brought him to the surface quickly where he was able to
open his helmet.

He had enough synthetic food to last him for a week, but it wasn't
necessary, as things turned out. The night-boat from Boston carried him
in to Bridgeport on its anchor chain, and once in sight of land he was
able to divest himself of the diving suit and let it sink to the bottom
after he'd punctured the tiny compartments that made it float, as he'd
promised Klarloth he would do.

Almost instinctively, Mitkey knew that he'd do well to avoid human
beings until he'd reached Professor Oberburger and told his story. His
worst danger proved to be the rats at the wharf where he swam ashore.
They were ten times Mitkey's size and had teeth that could have taken
him apart in two bites.

But mind has always triumphed over matter. Mitkey pointed an imperious
yellow glove and said, "Scram," and the rats scrammed. They'd never
seen anything like Mitkey before, and they were impressed.

[Illustration: "SCRAM!"]

So for that matter, was the drunk of whom Mitkey inquired the way to
Hartford. We mentioned that episode before. That was the only time
Mitkey tried direct communication with strange human beings. He took,
of course, every precaution. He addressed his remarks from a strategic
position only inches away from a hole into which he could have popped.
But it was the drunk who did the popping, without even waiting to
answer Mitkey's question.

[Illustration: "I BEG YOUR PARDON SIR, BUT, COULD YOU DIRECT ME TO
HARTFORD?"]

But he got there, finally. He made his way afoot to the north side of
town and hid out behind a gas station until he heard a motorist who had
pulled in for gasoline inquire the way to Hartford. And Mitkey was a
stowaway when the car started up.

The rest wasn't hard. The calculations of the Prxlians showed that
the starting point of the rocket was five Earth miles north-west of
what showed on their telescopomaps as a city, and which from the
Professor's conversation Mitkey knew would be Hartford.

He got there.


                                  VII

"Hello, Brofessor."

The Herr Professor Oberburger looked up, startled. There was no one in
sight. "Vot?" he asked, of the air. "Who iss?"

"It iss I, Brofessor. Mitkey, der mouse whom you sent to der moon. But
I vas not there. Insteadt, I--"

"Vot?? It iss imbossible. Somebody blays der choke. Budt--budt nobody
_knows_ about that rocket. Vhen it vailed, I didn't told nobody. Nobody
budt me knows--"

"And me, Brofessor."

The Herr Professor sighed heavily. "Offervork. I am going vhat they
call battly in der bel--"

"No, Brofessor. This is really me, Mitkey. I can talk now. Chust like
you."

"You say you can--I do not belief it. Vhy can I not see you, then.
Vhere are you? Vhy don't you--"

"I am hiding, Brofessor, in der valll chust behind der big hole. I
vanted to be sure efferything vas ogay before I showed myself. Then you
vould not get eggcited und throw something at me maybe."

"Vot? Vhy, Mitkey, if it iss really you und I am nodt asleep or
going--Vhy, Mitkey, you know better than to think I might do something
like that!"

"Ogay, Brofessor."

Mitkey stepped out of the hole in the wall, and the Professor looked at
him and rubbed his eyes and looked again and rubbed his eyes and--

"I _am_ grazy," he said finally. "Red bants he vears yet, und
yellow--It gannot be. I _am_ grazy."

"No, Brofessor. Listen, I'll tell you all aboudt."

And Mitkey told him.

Gray dawn, and a small gray mouse still talking earnestly.

"But, Mitkey--"

"Yess, Brofessor. I see your boint, that you think an intelligent race
of mices und an intelligent race of men couldt nodt get along side by
sides. But it vould not be side by sides; as I said, there are only a
ferry few beople in the smallest continent of Australia. Und it vould
cost little to bring them back und turn offer that continent to us
mices. Ve vould call it Moustralia instead Australia, und ve vould
instead of Sydney call der capital Dissney, in honor of--"

"But, Mitkey--"

"But, Brofessor, look vot ve offer for that continent. _All_ mices
vould go there. Ve civilize a few und the few help us catch others
und bring them in to put them under der ray machine, und the others
help catch more under build more machines und it grows like a snowball
rolling down hill. Und ve sign a non-aggression pact mitt humans und
stay on Moustralia und raise our own food und--"

"But, Mitkey--"

"Und look vot ve offer you in eggschange, Herr Brofessor! Ve vill
eggsterminate your vorst enemy--der _rats_. Ve do not like them either.
Und vun battalion of vun thousand mices, armed mitt gas masks und
small gas bombs could go right in effery hole after der rats und could
eggsterminate effery rat in a city in vun day or two. In der whole
vorld ve could eggsterminate effery last rat in a year, und at the same
time catch und civilize effery mouse und ship him to Moustralia, und--"

"But, Mitkey--"

"Vot, Brofessor?"

"It vould vork, but it voul dnot work. You could eggsterminate der
rats, yess. But how long vould it be before conflicts of interests
vould lead to der mices trying to eggsterminate der people or der
people trying to eggsterminate der--"

"They vould not dare, Brofessor! Ve could make veapons that vould--"

"You see, Mitkey?"

"But it vould not habben. If men vill honor our rights, ve vill honor--"

The Herr Professor sighed.

"I--I vill act as your intermediary, Mitkey, und offer your
broposition, und--Vell, it iss true that getting rid of rats vould be a
greadt boon to der human race. Budt--"

"Thank you, Brofessor."

"By der vay, Mitkey. I haff Minnie. Your vife, I guess it iss, unless
there vas other mices around. She iss in der other room; I put her
there chust before you arriffed, so she vould be in der dark und could
sleep. You vant to see her?"

"Vife?" said Mitkey. It had been so long that he had really forgotten
the family he had perforce abandoned. The memory returned slowly.

"Veil," he said "--ummm, yess. Ve vill get her und I shall construct
quvick a small X-19 prochector und--Yess, it vill help you in your
negotiations mitt der governments if there are sefferal of us already
so they can see I am not chust a freak like they might otherwise
suspegt."


                                 VIII

It wasn't deliberate. It couldn't have been, because the Professor
didn't know about Klarloth's warning to Mitkey about carelessness with
electricity--"Der new molecular rearrangement of your brain center--it
iss unstable, und--"

And the Professor was still back in the lighted room when Mitkey ran
into the room where Minnie was in her barless cage. She was asleep, and
the sight of her--Memory of his earlier days came back like a flash and
suddenly Mitkey knew how lonesome he had been.

"Minnie!" he called, forgetting that she could not understand.

And stepped up on the board where she lay. "Squeak!" The mild
electrical current between the two strips of tinfoil got him.

There was silence for a while.

Then: "Mitkey," called the Herr Professor. "Come on back und ve vill
discuss this--"

He stepped through the doorway and saw them, there in the gray light of
dawn, two small gray mice cuddled happily together. He couldn't tell
which was which, because Mitkey's teeth had torn off the red and yellow
garments which had suddenly been strange, confining and obnoxious
things.

"Vot on earth?" asked Professor Oberburger. Then he remembered the
current, and guessed.

"Mitkey! Can you no longer talk? Iss der--"

Silence.

Then the Professor smiled. "Mitkey," he said, "my little star-mouse. I
think you are more happier now."

[Illustration: "GOOTBYE, MITKEY"]

He watched them a moment, fondly, then reached down and flipped the
switch that broke the electrical barrier. Of course they didn't know
they were free, but when the Professor picked them up and placed them
carefully on the floor, one ran immediately for the hole in the wall.
The other followed, but turned around and looked back--still a trace of
puzzlement in the little black eyes, a puzzlement that faded.

"Gootbye, Mitkey. You vill be happier this vay. Und there vill always
be cheese."

"Squeak," said the little gray mouse, and it popped into the hole.

"Gootbye--" it might, or might not, have meant.
