
He strode into the woods. Fuller followed with the blankets and the
beer carton, and Ellen with the basket of food.

The glade proved easy enough to locate. It was smaller than Pearce
remembered, but the semi-circle of large stones along one side was
much the same. The trees that rose all around gave their old effect of
seclusion, of shutting out the world. Beyond the enclosure they made
were the shadows cast by inter-laced boughs, and through these came the
plaintive cries of birds, somehow like the sound of waves on an island
shore.

Pearce glanced around him slowly, relishing the familiarity of the
scene, his thoughts leaping a chasm of fifteen years. One memory in
particular was suddenly very vivid.

"So this is the place, Andy," Ellen said behind him. "Why, it's just
perfect!" She swung to Fuller. "Don't you think this is worth the
drive?"

"I refuse to give my opinion until I've had enough beer to put me in
the proper mood," Fuller growled.

"Start opening it, then," Ellen said. "I'll get the food ready."

They ate seated on the blankets, around the appetizingly laden
tablecloth Ellen had spread. Pearce was too intense to have much of
an interest in food, but he managed to consume what normally would
have been expected of him. He was sharply aware that the minutes
were running out, that the deadline was now swiftly approaching. The
knowledge strengthened the undercurrent of dread within him, brought a
pang of sadness.

But he did not want these last moments with Ellen and Dave to be
touched with melancholy, nor did he want them to sense his troubled
emotional state. He helped to keep a casual conversation going, and
whenever this threatened to lag, he started the record player.

Shadows deepened within the glade as the afternoon wore on. Pearce
helped Ellen to clean up the picnic remains, then sprawled beside
Fuller to finish what was left of the beer. From the record player came
the strains of a symphony. Ellen seated herself nearby, tapping one
slender foot in time to the music.

Distractedly Pearce thought of the fleeting, precious minutes. He
glanced at his watch.

Fuller abruptly sat up. "There you go again, Andy!"

"What?" Pearce was startled.

"Looking at that doggoned watch of yours." Fuller's expression was
accusing. "You aren't fooling anybody, Andy. You're up to some
thing--and it's about time you explained yourself. This beating around
the bush is no way to treat your friends. You drag us out here, to
the place where you grew up. You have a suitcase along that certainly
doesn't have bricks in it. You drop mysterious hints about something
special."

Fuller's voice softened, his blue eyes turned anxious. "Just what have
you got up your sleeve, Andy?"
