
Pearce looked away, pain, a sudden tightness in his chest. He said
slowly, "Well, I'm taking a sort of trip, Dave. I ... I'm afraid I'm
never going to see you and Ellen again."

"Andy!" Ellen's voice was a stricken whisper.

"Never see us again...." Fuller muttered blankly.

The symphony came to an end. There was a moment of strained quiet.

"What are you talking about, Andy?" Fuller demanded in hurt
bewilderment. "Where are you going that you'll never see me and Ellen
again?"

"It's a long story," Pearce said. He grinned faintly. "I mean that.
It's a story that begins fifteen years in the past and ends some
two thousand years in the future."

Fuller and Ellen were rigid, staring. Pearce drained the last of his
beer and lighted a cigarette.

"In another way," he went on, "the story really begins right where we
are now. This part of the woods always was a favorite spot of mine.
I'd sneak off here to read books and magazines that I borrowed from
a neighbor whose taste in literature was on the blood and thunder
side--lucky for me. My uncle didn't like to see me reading, thought it
a waste of time. But it was in the middle of the Depression, and there
wasn't much else to do. Uncle was an intolerant old bird, a widower,
and he wasn't happy about getting stuck with me. I didn't like it,
either, but there didn't seem anything a twelve-year-old kid could do
about it."

Pearce drew at his cigarette, his gray eyes squinting into distance.
"Uncle's chicken farm was a lonely place, and in self-defense I guess
I developed a lot more imagination than most kids my age. Most of the
time I wasn't on the farm at all--except when Uncle gave me a spanking
by way of a reminder. I was out on the deserts of Mars, or walking the
streets of a lost city in Africa, or tracking down an international
spy ring in London. This day-dreaming, as I can see now, was pretty
important."

Fuller said impatiently, "But Andy, what on earth does this build-up
have to do with the trip you're going to make?"

"Keep your shirt on," Pearce said. "You'll see."

He resumed. "What I've outlined was the general situation when I came
here one summer afternoon, to read a book. About a half-hour later
something happened that practically made me jump out of my skin. The
air in the glade seemed suddenly to thicken, and the trees all around
grew crazily twisted, as though seen through optical glass. I felt
oddly light, dizzy and sick at the same time. And from somewhere came a
deep, humming sound--the kind of sound that might have been made by a
string on a giant harp.

"The next thing I knew there was a sort of machine in the glade that
seemed to have popped right out of nowhere. It was a metal globe about
eight feet across, with tapering legs or supports on the bottom to keep
it upright. There was the outline of a door in the side turned toward
me.

"I was scared stiff, of course, but I had been reading about this kind
of thing happening in stories--and as far as I was concerned, there was
hardly any dividing line between stories and real life. So I stayed
put. I knew the machine was something special, because I'd never seen
anything like it outside of the illustrations in the more imaginative
type of magazines."
