
Pearce drew at his cigarette again. Fuller and Ellen were like store
window figures, arranged in attitudes of rapt attention.

"After several seconds the door in the side of the machine opened and a
woman stepped out. I thought she was the most beautiful creature I had
ever seen, a princess--or an angel. She looked the way ancient Egyptian
women must have looked. She made me think of a tropical flower, which
wasn't far from truth, considering that she came from a time when the
Earth was--or will be--a great deal warmer than it is now. She was
wearing a sort of thin dress that sparkled as though covered with
jewels, and over this she held a long cloak. It was summer, but I
suppose it was a bit too cool for her.

"She smiled at me--and I was glad I had stuck around. She said she
hoped I hadn't been frightened by the appearance of her machine, and I
guess I tried to sell her the idea that I strangled lions with my bare
hands just for exercise. Then she explained that her name was Nela, and
that she had come from two thousand years in the future especially to
see me. Her machine, of course, was a time machine."

"Good grief!" Fuller said explosively. "What kind of a gag are you
trying to put over, Andy?"

"I know just how it all sounds," Pearce returned. "But believe me,
for one of the few times in my life I'm dead serious. Keep quiet and
listen. I don't have much time left."

"Go on, Andy," Ellen said. "I'm fascinated."

Pearce took a final puff of his cigarette crushed it out in the grass,
and continued. "Nela explained how it was possible to travel in time,
but in the sort of terms a kid would understand. Even what I've figured
out up to now isn't specific enough to be worth detailing, except
to say that what we consider space and time are merely illusions
of sense perception. They are really one stationary system or
complex--stationary, yet dynamic and changing within itself--and under
certain conditions one can travel through this system, from future
to past, or the other way around, like through a museum--the biggest
museum that can possibly be imagined.

"Nela's machine operated on energy principles that won't be known
for a great many years yet, and it will be even longer before those
principles are put into application. She was, in effect, making a
round-trip from one part of the museum to another--a trip that took
her across two thousand years of what we call time, or across a couple
of hundred light years of what we call space. It's one and the same
thing. Actually, she was following a sort of huge orbit, and was,
so to speak, stopping off along the route. A trip between one point
and another can be made only once, because even that one trip brings
changes which affect the whole system, or complex. One point, it seems,
is always shifted so that it lies outside of any orbit which can be
plotted from the other.

"Nela told me about the kind of world she came from, too, and it
sounded--and still sounds--like a perfect place. There was, so she
said, practically no government, practically no laws, restrictions, or
penalties. In two thousand years enough had been learned about the mind
to make these unnecessary. Men at last were truly equal. There was no
longer any need to work for a living. Machines of all sorts attended to
every task and human requirement. Earth was one huge garden--and there
was plenty of room for everyone. Men had reached the stars and had
found new homes almost beyond number.

"An ideal picture--but there was a catch to it. The machines on which
Nela's people depended were breaking down, and it seemed nobody knew
even how to begin repairing them. The men of her time could take suns
apart and put them back together again, but the machines baffled them
in much the same way that our atomic scientists would be baffled
when it came to repairing a suit of Medieval armor. The answer to
the problem was to obtain the help of persons who understood the
construction and operation of the machines at least as well as Medieval
armorers understood their steel suits. And that answer--in both
cases--lay back in time."
