
Pearce changed position on the blanket under him and glanced at his
watch. He went on, "Time travel had been accomplished well before
Nela's period, but the process had proved too involved and tricky for
serious, large-scale use. The important thing, though, was that a
number of machines were immediately available for time travel, and Nela
was one of those chosen to operate them. She was, it seems, a gal of
parts. In addition to being one of the leaders of a world-wide group
which had been formed to deal with the machine break-down problem, she
was also an expert on time travel and an authority on Twentieth Century
life.

"Actually, you see, Nela's people were undergoing a cultural
renaissance, a reawakening of interest in every field of knowledge
and endeavor. For many hundreds of years there had been stagnation.
The machines had filled every human want, and there had been little
need for effort of any kind. Also, progress had been discouraged by a
hidebound government, which had remained in power through its control
of certain of the more important machines. The government had fallen
when realization came that it could do nothing to keep the machines in
repair, but the damage had been done. After centuries of a hands-off
attitude toward the machines, nobody else knew how to repair them,
either. Rapid progress was made everywhere except in this one direction.

"Nela and the others decided to travel to different points in time and
obtain specialists who would each be able to deal with some particular
repair job on the machines. The machines, of course, were not the
product of any one time period, but were the cumulative result of the
knowledge and skills of different periods. I was the specialist with
whom contact was made at this point in time. It was, I realize now,
quite a complicated business.

"When a beautiful girl appears in a time machine and tells some young
man she needs his help, he doesn't just drop whatever he happens to
be doing and go sailing blithely off into the mysterious future. Not
in real life. He has to consider his family and friends, the career
he was working on, all the things familiar and important to him, his
surroundings, interests and amusements, climate, customs, clothing--all
the rest. He has to consider that he might not be happy in the
future, that he might not fit, that he might not even be physically
comfortable, that the beautiful girl herself might very well turn out
to be disappointing.

"But if he is a young man of average intelligence, he most likely
wouldn't even bother to consider these things. He simply would refuse
to believe the beautiful girl from the future, would be certain it was
some sort of a hoax. Or he might even be scared stiff by the very idea
of traveling in time. All of which boils down to the fact that the girl
from the future would face a mighty tough job getting the right kind of
young man to help her."

"I get it now," Fuller broke in musingly. "So that's what your suitcase
is for, Andy." Then his voice sharpened with protest. "But it ... it's
ridiculous! I just can't believe it's possible."

"The young man of average intelligence speaking," Pearce murmured.

"Yeah?" Fuller swung to Ellen. "What do you think?"
