
Pearce gestured. "I've kept moving, all right. Fifteen years have
passed, and I know all I need to know about the particular technical
subject Nela chose me to handle. I'm ready to leave--and I'm leaving
very soon. Nela is coming here to pick me up, having meanwhile been
moving to this point along her orbit to make one last stop-off before
completing the swing back to her own point in time. There can be no
return, for once I leave, this point in time can never be reached
again. But then I've had fifteen years to get used to the idea.

"This picnic today was in the nature of a farewell party. You, Dave
and Ellen, have been the only friends I've allowed myself--and you've
both been fine friends. I wanted you both to know exactly where I
was going instead of doing a mysterious fade-out. I felt I owed you
that much. I've never told anyone about Nela before--not because the
information was likely to prove harmful, or anything of the sort, but
simply because it would have created doubts about my sanity. I know I
can trust you with it for the same reason."

Pearce spread his hands, grinning crookedly. "Well, I hope that leaves
me and my suitcase explained to the complete satisfaction of everyone."

Fuller ran his hand through his red hair in agitation and rose to his
feet. "It's the damnedest story I've ever heard, Andy. I wish I could
be dead certain it isn't a gag. I can't believe it--or maybe it's just
that I can't accept the idea of never seeing you again. If this hadn't
come all of a sudden--" He broke off, gesturing helplessly.

"Picnics," Ellen muttered to no one in particular, "are going to be
permanently spoiled for me."

"Hell!" Fuller growled. "I need a drink. I guess we all need a drink."
He reached out as though to detain Pearce. "Andy, I've got a bottle in
the car. For emergencies, you know--and this certainly is an emergency.
So stay right here, Andy. Don't go running off into the future until I
get back. Promise?"

"On my word of honor," Pearce said.

"Don't drop that bottle, Dave," Ellen put in.

With a last anxious glance at Pearce, Fuller turned and hurried away
through the trees. Pearce was abruptly, sharply aware that he was alone
with Ellen.

She seemed aware of it also. For a moment her dark eyes met his with a
kind of pensive directness, then dropped.

There was an uncomfortable silence.

"I'll never be quite the same again after today, Andy," Ellen murmured
at last.

He stared morosely at his hands. "I'm sorry. I guess I did spring the
story a bit too suddenly. Maybe I shouldn't have said anything at all,
done a quiet fade-out."

"I think I'd rather have known what happened to you than otherwise."
She traced a design on the blanket with one slim finger, then said,
"Andy, you made a remark in the car--about avoiding what you called
romantic complications. Were you avoiding them because you were
eventually going away with this Nela female?"

He nodded. "Something like that."

"Wasn't it because you were in love with her?"

"Why, I ... I don't think so." He was startled. "I guess it's true
that I had a crush on her as a kid, but I haven't seen her for fifteen
years. I hardly feel I ever knew her."

"Then even though you're going away with her, there is someone you care
for?"

He hesitated for an aching instant, finally managed a shrug. "It isn't
important. Not any more."

"It is--to me. Andy, this is no time for historical novel gallantry
or radio soap opera self-renunciation. This is the last chance we'll
ever have to be completely frank with each other." Her dark eyes were
intent. "Andy, do you love me?"

"I ... well--" He groped in confusion, with the feeling that he had
suddenly found himself on a tight-rope, hundreds of feet in the air.
Then he nodded miserably. "Yes."

"Then just why did you take it for granted that I was Dave's girl?"
Ellen demanded bitterly.

"I thought Dave was the one you were interested in. He was my best
friend, and I didn't want to--"

"You thought! Didn't it ever occur to you to find out?"
