
He made a helpless gesture. "I wanted to, Ellen--but I don't see what
good it could have done. I was going away, you know."

"Don't you think I could have changed your mind about that? Don't you
think I can change your mind--even now?" Abruptly she leaned toward
him, her small face lighted as though by some fierce inner fire, at
once pleading and demanding. "Andy--kiss me!"

Despite himself, that fire touched him, kindled to a blaze. His lips
met hers with a quickening pressure, his hands slipped from her
shoulders to draw her tightly against him. For long seconds nothing
else had reality or importance. The glade dissolved around him, and he
seemed to float in a dark sea that rose and fell with a wild rhythm.

Then awareness of his act exploded in him. He released the girl
abruptly and drew away.

"It's hopeless, Ellen! I can't back down now."

She shook her dark head in swift protest. "It isn't hopeless, Andy. It
isn't too late. I just proved that to you."

"But Nela is depending on me. I can't let her down."

"You owe her nothing! She took advantage of you at a time when you
weren't mature and experienced enough to exercise good judgment. Why
should you feel obligated to her now?"

"I agreed to go with her. If I let her down, she won't be able to
obtain a replacement with my particular type of training. She can visit
this point in time only once."

"That's her problem, Andy. You have your own life to live. Why
shouldn't you be able to live it as you choose? You don't know just
what sort of a life the future holds for you--but you do know what
you'll find here."

He gripped his knees hard, finally shook his head. "This is something
bigger than we are, Ellen--something more important than your personal
happiness, or mine. It isn't just that Nela is depending on me. Behind
her is a whole civilization. It's the greatest responsibility a man can
be given. If I backed down, I'd never feel right again. I'd always have
it on my conscience."

She slumped in despair. "Then there's nothing else I can do to change
your mind?"

"Nothing, Ellen. I'm sorry."

Silence closed down again. A painful, uneasy silence, the silence of
people between whom an unsurmountable barrier exists.

The silence added fuel to Pearce's inner turmoil. He wished that it had
been possible to leave without hurting Ellen, even without discovering
that she returned his own feelings. The knowledge that he would never
see her again had been difficult enough to face. For in these last
months the picture of her had come to haunt him--Ellen, with her
shining dark hair and her slim vital body, at once gaily humorous and
warmly sympathetic. He knew that he would never forget her, or cease
thinking of the happiness he might have found with her.

"It might be a good idea to wipe that lipstick off your face, Andy,"
Ellen murmured at last.

Pearce fumbled for a handkerchief and scrubbed at his mouth. The action
brought forward something that had been hovering at the back of his
mind.

"What about Dave?" he asked abruptly. "I hope I haven't spoiled
anything for him."
