
She shook her head with a grave seriousness. "Dave knows how I feel.
And it isn't much of a loss where he's concerned, because he's been
taking a growing interest in Susie. She has a terrific crush on him,
and that's the reason she wanted to come with us so badly today. But
you insisted on a three-sided party and as usual left Dave to nursemaid
me."

Pearce felt a dull amazement. Engrossed with his preparations for
leaving he had not sensed the emotional undercurrents beneath the
outwardly placid surface of Dave and Ellen.

Ellen, he thought suddenly. Dave was accounted for--but Ellen? He could
not voice the question, feeling himself too inextricably bound up in
it.

There was the sound of footsteps as Fuller returned, brandishing a
bottle. "Here it is!" he announced. "Get out the glasses, Ellen."

She produced three plastic tumblers from the basket, and Fuller poured
a generous drink in each. He raised his own tumbler in a solemn gesture.

"Here's to Andy. Bon voyage--and a high old time in the future!"

"Thanks," Pearce said in self-conscious acknowledgement. He swallowed
the whisky in a gulp, felt its raw warmth spread through him.

Bon voyage, he thought. The voyage part was true enough. But he doubted
if he would have a high old time. He would always think of Ellen. And
Dave. And all the other people he had known, who would continue to
move against the old familiar background of their existence, among all
the old familiar things, without sudden violent change, or pain, or
loss. He would think of movies and dances, baseball games and parties.
And restaurants and nightclubs and small quiet bars. And apple pie
and coffee, hamburgers and malted milk. And his favorite brand of
cigarettes, and two pants suits and straw hats in the summer. And beer
and sport pages and classical records on a drowsy Sunday afternoon. And
politics and elections and critical internal situations. And crowded
downtown streets and quiet suburban cottages--all the other things he
had known and liked, or had taken for granted and had not thought much
about. He would think of them because they wouldn't exist in the future
any more, because people would have changed, would have different
ideals, habits and tastes.

Fuller filled the tumblers again and made an effort at the sort of
artificially cheerful small talk that precedes the sailing of a troop
ship.

Pearce, who had surreptitiously been keeping check on his watch,
finally gestured. "It's almost time for Nela to pick me up--and I'd
like to be alone when she comes. The situation might be too complicated
if you and Ellen were present, Dave. I want things to be as easy as
possible all around."

Fuller looked disappointed. "I was kind of hoping to get a look at this
gal from the future, Andy. I still don't know whether to believe your
story or not."

"Give me the benefit of the doubt, anyway, will you?" Pearce pleaded.
He turned to Ellen. "You'll do this last favor for me?"

She nodded and leaned forward on tiptoe. "Good-bye, Andy--and good
luck." Her voice was little more than a whisper.
