
She caught breathlessly at his arm, steadying herself. "I made him go
without me. I ... I couldn't leave you, Andy." Her voice rose. "I'm
going with you!"

His mind whirled in dismayed confusion. He sent a swift glance at the
metal globe. Any moment now, the door would open--

"Ellen, you can't go!"

"Why not? I'm willing to take the risk. And I'll be happy, whatever the
future is like, as long as I'm with you."

He shook his head in despair. "It ... well, I'm afraid it's just
impossible, that's all. No provision has been made for you. I don't
know even if there would be room for you. I don't know if Nela can
allow you in her plans, or--"

He broke off. Glancing at the globe again, he saw that the door was
opening.

He waited for Nela to appear, wondering what her reaction would be when
she saw Ellen, wondering how this hopelessly tangled situation could
possibly be resolved.

The door of the globe stood fully open. Nothing else happened.

Pearce waited a moment longer, puzzled, then slowly looked into the
globe. Except for two padded seats and a myriad of instruments on the
curving walls, the interior of the machine was empty.

He turned in bewilderment to Ellen. "Something's wrong! Nela isn't
inside."

Ellen looked gravely thoughtful. "Andy, I think I know what happened
to her. She was an authority on Twentieth Century life, you know. She
no doubt had all sorts of records to help her. She could speak the
kind of English used here, she understood social customs, the economic
situation, knew how to dress and act. What she didn't know, she could
pick up by being careful and observing. In short, she could pass as an
ordinary Twentieth Century girl, and hardly anyone would guess she was
different."

Pearce's bewilderment grew. "What are you getting at?"

"Well, Andy, suppose this Nela wanted to make absolutely sure you'd be
happy in the future, that nothing would interfere with your efficiency
and general well-being. There was a big job ahead of you, and a lot
depended on your particular field of knowledge and type of skill. So
to make absolutely sure of you she stopped off along her route back to
spend your last several months here with you. It wouldn't be hard for
a clever girl like her to get acquainted with you and Dave. And you
hadn't seen her for fifteen years, Andy. You wouldn't recognize her
easily--especially if she'd had her hair cut short and wore Twentieth
Century clothes and make-up."

Pearce stared at her a moment longer, then caught at her arms. "Ellen!
You ... you're Nela!"

She nodded slowly, her smile uncertain and touched with shyness. "I
hope you aren't disappointed, Andy, or that you hate me for having
tricked you the way I did."

He laughed, a wild delight surging up in him. "Neither," he said. "And
I'm going to prove it!"

He proved it to her entire satisfaction. Finally, hand in hand, they
turned to the doorway of the globe.

"I suppose you brought the machine here by remote control or something
of the sort," Pearce told Nela.

"Yes. I had a special gadget in my purse. The machine was here all
along, you see, traveling a few minutes ahead in time."

"And Dave?" he said suddenly. "Did you tell him?"

"I told him I was going with you and hinted the reason why. He'll
figure it out presently--even if he never completely believes it.
Little has really changed for Dave. He'll marry Susie and lead a
perfectly normal life."

Pearce halted Nela as she was about to enter the globe. "There's a
little custom of this time that I'd like to observe. If you're as
much of an authority on Twentieth Century life as you claim, you'll
understand."

He gathered her up in his arms and carried her over the threshold. Her
smile and then the pressure of her lips indicated that she understood.

The door closed. The trees at the edge of the glade grew crazily
distorted, shimmering bands enclosed the globe like ripples in water,
there was a humming sound like a giant harp string--

And then the glade was empty.