
The boss slammed the file drawer shut in disgust.

The Martian, standing before his desk, shuffled his feet and rotated
his cap with his third hand. "Displeasing you?" he said. "Come back
other time do?"

"No!" Huber pointed to the chair. "You sit down. We're going to
straighten this whole thing out right now."

He reached across the desk and snapped on the intercom. "Davis!" he
said. "We're going to have a foremen's meeting. This minute!" Davis, at
the other end, was inclined to argue, but the boss stopped him. "Don't
tell me we're busy! I know our production schedule better than you do.
Get the foremen up here right away!"

The foremen shuffled in ten minutes later. They looked sheepish, like
small boys caught in the jam pot.

Huber got right to the point.

"Your boys have been picking on Chafnu again. _And I won't stand for
it!_" He slapped the desk with a board-like palm for emphasis.

Curly, the foreman, said: "Aw, gee, boss. Just a little rhubarb, that's
all. Just a little kiddin' around. Boys didn't mean any harm."

"Mean any _harm_?" Huber's eyes went so wide they threatened to pop out
on the desk. "Chafnu! Show it to 'em."

The Martian looked embarrassed. Then he slowly lifted his rope-like
foot and displayed the quarter-sized burn on the heel.

"Kidding around!" Huber looked dangerous. "That's what you call
kidding around? They could have burned Chafnu to a crisp! You know how
sensitive he is!"

Burke, the small parts man, said placatingly: "Well, the boys are kinda
edgy, Mr. Huber. It must be the weather or something. They need a
little what-do-you-call-it, outlet."

"Besides," said Curly, "the Goons kinda provoke 'em, you know what I
mean--"

"_Don't ever use that word to me!_"

The irritation that had been brewing in Huber all day now boiled over.
He walked around the desk and shoved his big-jawed face up close to
Curly's chin. His small stature made no difference; Curly trembled
nervously.

"They're Martians," the boss said. "Not Goons. Understand? _Martians!_
Isn't that right, Chafnu?"

Chafnu looked as if he wished Earth had never been born. He glanced up
guiltily at the assembled foremen.

"All right," said Huber. "Now let's get this straight. One more
incident like today, and I'll hold you guys responsible. Chafnu and all
the other Martians in this plant are doing good work--better, if you
want to know, than most of you Earth guys--"

"Sure," mumbled Curly. "If we had three hands, we could--"

"That's enough, I said!" shouted the boss. He swabbed his forehead
with his hand. "We got Oxco tanks to turn out, so let's get to it. The
meeting's over!"

The foremen left, more crestfallen than when they had entered the
office. Chafnu looked uncertain as to what he should do next. The
Martian simply sat and watched Huber go back to his desk.

The boss went over to the musaphone and flipped the switch.

"My nerves are shot," he told Chafnu.

He sat back in his swivel chair, sighed, and closed his eyes. The
haunting strains of _Melancholy_ drifted through the office, and Huber
listened and slowly relaxed.

The Martian just sat there, miserably.
