
Diana Huber tilted the decanter and held it over the glass a little
too long for her husband's liking.

"Easy, easy," he cried from his chair. "How much of that stuff do you
think I can take?"

"This one's mine," she said, starting to pour another.

Huber shifted in his seat. "Aren't you overdoing it, honey?" he asked
uneasily. "I mean, do you really think you should drink so much?"

"It kills time," she said. "It makes the hours a little shorter. What
else have I got to do? You've got your job. What have I got?"

"Well, I only meant--I mean, if the kids--"

"The kids are pasted to the screen," she replied, meaning that they
were at the TV set. She flopped on the overstuffed sofa and yanked
her skirt almost up to her thighs. She still had lovely legs, Huber
thought, but she used them like an old frump. And she wasn't even
fifty--just forty-seven. Why did she have to flop around that way?

"Well, let's have it," she said, twirling the amber fluid in her glass.
"My Hard Day at the Office. By George Huber, Age Eleven."

He looked up, almost shyly. "Oh, nothing new," he said in a low voice.
"Same old stuff."

Diana swallowed half her Scotch. She gave a little cough, blinked, and
said harshly: "You know that's not so. Something's up. Some kind of
labor trouble. And your tanks are blowing out all over space. Is that
the 'same old stuff,' George, dear?"

Huber put down his paper. "It's the men!" he said. "They've gone nuts
or something! Mopin' around all day, singin' the blues, snapping your
head off if you make one little suggestion--"

Diana closed her eyes. "I'm listening. Go on."

"Something's gone wrong with all of them," said Huber, eager to pour
out his overburdened heart. "They act like they just don't want to
work. Turning out plain junk on the assembly line. Even the Accuracy
Control boys are letting down on the job, and they're supposed to be
cracker-jacks! In fact, the only guys that are doing any kind of job
are the Martians. I hired myself fifteen more today. But that's only
gonna stir up _more_ fuss...."

"I hate them," said Diana, sipping slowly and looking down into her
glass moodily. "Ugly, slippery things. Ugh!"

"What?" said Huber blankly.

"Your Martian friends. Taking away good jobs from Earth people. Never
buying anything. And those awful arms! If you ask me, we ought to send
them right back where they--"

"You don't know them!" he interrupted loudly. "They're nice, quiet
folks. They work hard and they don't give you a hard time. They're ten
times as efficient as some of the bums in--"

"All right, all right! You don't have to shout at me." Diana stood
up and gulped the rest of her drink down. Then she went over to the
phonograph.

"Are you going to play that song again?" asked Huber.

"Do you mind?" she said sarcastically. "I happen to like it."

Huber said something under his breath and returned to his paper. But
when the record started, he put it down and just listened as the
strange, haunting Martian melody filled the room.
