
Curly was about to demolish a ham-and-swiss on rye. But when the
Martian moved across his line of vision, he paused and called out:

"Hey, Chafnu!"

The Martian stopped and swiveled his bulbous head around at the
foreman. "Yes?" he said.

"Want a bite of this?" He held up the sandwich.

"No, your thanks," said Chafnu.

"Go on, have a taste. It's good for you."

"Do not think this," said Chafnu, trying to solve the old riddle of how
to produce an engaging smile. He merely succeeded in looking like a
surprised beetle.

"Whatsamatter, Chafnu? Too good to eat with your foreman?" Curly
flushed. The hirings-and-firings of the last two months had unnerved
him, and the fact that he was handling his own job poorly only made the
situation worse.

"Have not required to food," said the Martian. "Best existence of
silicone substances. Understanding do? However, your thanks, and very."

He began to move on, but Curly was obviously in the mood for trouble.
He got up from the bench and put his beefy hand around one of Chafnu's
arms.

"It's pain," said Chafnu mildly. "Improvement if released, your thanks."

"You're a wise guy, Chafnu," said Curly. He knew that he was skirting
a dangerous edge, but he was just too irritated to care. "You're a
bug-eyed bastard. What do you say about that?"

"I have comment inward," the Martian answered, trying to pull away from
the foreman's grip.

"In fact," said Curly, now squeezing harder, "I got a good mind to kick
you right in the seat of the pants. And keep kickin' till you fly right
back to Mars."

"Pain," said Chafnu. "Can release do?"

"And what if I don't?"

"Am in power yours," said the Martian.

"You're goddam right. And I'm going to give you a little lesson in
manners, you--"

"_Curly!_"

Huber came striding over fast, and the look on his face was sufficient
to make the foreman drop both Martian and sandwich.

"Gee, boss, I--"

"Never mind!" Huber thundered. "You had the chance. Now you're getting
your walking papers! Get out of here, Curly! Get out of here now!"

"But Mr. Huber--"

"I said _beat it_! You're not the foreman around here any more. And in
case you want to know who your successor is, take a good look!"

Huber pointed a shaking finger at Chafnu, who bowed his head modestly.
