
It had been exciting at first. The long preparation over, training and
study and news interviews and final parties all dreamlike and part of
the past. Outside now, invisible but hearteningly present beyond the
ship's impermeable hull, the essential and privileged people waiting to
see them off. The ship's power plant was humming gently like a giant,
patient cat.

Captain Maxon passed out muscle-relaxant capsules. The total boneless
relaxation that was their defense against acceleration came quickly.

The ship was two hours out, beyond lunar orbit and still accelerating,
when, trained for months against the moment, set each about his task.
Readings occupied Maxon and Vaughn and Ragan while Walraven checked his
communications and telemetering gear.

It was not until the transmitter slot had licked up its first coded
tape--no plain text here, security before even safety--and reported all
well, the predicted borne out, that they became aware of the Feeling.

The four of them sat in their unsqueaking gimbaled seats and looked
at each other, sharing the Feeling and knowing that they shared it,
but not why. Vaughn, who was given to poetry and some degree of
soul-searching, made the first open recognition.

"There's something wrong," he said.

The others agreed and, agreeing, could add nothing of explanation to
the wrongness. Time passed while they sat, seeing within themselves for
the answer--and if not for answer, at least for identification--but
nothing came and nothing changed except that with time the steady
pressure of the Feeling grew stronger.

Vaughn, again, was first to react to the pressure. "We've got to
do something." He twisted out of his seat and wavered in the small
pseudogravity of the ship's continuing acceleration. "I've never in my
life felt so desolate, so--"

He stopped. "There aren't any words," he said helplessly.

Less articulate than Vaughn and knowing it, the others did not try to
help find the words. Only Ragan, professional soldier without family or
close tie anywhere in the world, had a suggestion.

"The ship's power plant is partly psionic," Ragan said. "I don't
understand the principle, but it's been drilled into us that no
other system can give a one-directional thrust without reaction. The
psi-drive is tied into our minds in the same way it's tied into the
atomic and electronic components. It's part of us and we're part of it."

Even Maxon, crew authority on the combination drive, missed his meaning
at first.

"If our atomic shielding fails," Ragan explained, "we're irradiated.
If our psionics bank fails, we may feel anything. Maybe the trouble is
there."

Privately they disagreed, certain that nothing so disquieting as the
Feeling that weighted them down could be induced even by so cryptic a
marriage of dissimilar principles as made up the ship's power plant.
Still it was a possible avenue of relief.

"It's worth trying," Maxon said, and they checked.

And checked, and checked.
