
"We worked for hours," Walraven said, "but nothing came of it. None
of us, even Maxon, knew enough about the psi-drive to be sure, but we
ended up certain that the trouble wasn't there. It was in us."

The drug was wearing thin, leaving him pale and shaken. His face had a
glisten of sweat under the lowered lights.

The lead psych man chose a hypodermic needle, looked to Erwin and
Costain for authority, and administered a second injection.

"You gave up searching," he said. "What then, Lieutenant?"

"We waited," Walraven said.

He relaxed, his face smoothing to impersonal detachment as his mind
slipped back to the ship and its crew. Watching, Costain felt a sudden
deep unease as if the man's mind had really winged back through time
and space and carried a part of his own with it.

"There was only one more possible check," Walraven said. "We had to
wait two days for that."

The check was Maxon's idea, simple of execution and unarguable of
result. At halfway point acceleration must cease, the ship rotate on
its gyros and deceleration set in. There would be a period of waiting
when the power plant must be shut off completely.

If the Feeling stemmed from the psi-drive, it would lift then.

It did not lift. They sat weightless and disoriented while the gyros
precessed and the ship swung end by end and the steady pressure of the
Feeling mounted up and up without relief.

"It gets worse every hour," Vaughn said raggedly.

"It's not a matter of time," Maxon said. "It's the distance. The
Feeling grows stronger as we get farther from home."

They sat for another time without talk, feeling the distance build up
behind them and sensing through the unwindowed hull of the ship what
the emptiness outside must be like. The ship was no longer an armored
projectile bearing them snugly and swiftly to a first planetfall. It
was a walnut shell without strength or direction.

In the end they talked out their problem because there was nothing else
they could do.

"We're men," Maxon said, not as if he must convince himself but as if
it were a premise that had to be made, a starting point for all logic.
"We're reasoning creatures. If the trouble lies in ourselves we can
find its source and its reason for being."

He picked Vaughn first because Vaughn had been first to sense the
wrongness and because the most sensitive link in a chain is also
predictably its weakest.

"Try," Maxon said. "I know there are no words to describe this thing,
but get as close as you can."
