
Vaughn tried. "It isn't home-sickness. It's a different thing
altogether from nostalgia. It's not just fear. I'm afraid--not of any
_thing_, just afraid in the way a child is afraid of falling in his
dreams, when he's really had no experience with falling because he's
never fallen more than a few inches in his life.... When I think of my
wife, it's not the same at all as if I were just in some far corner of
the Earth with only land and water between us. Even if I were marooned
on an uncharted island somewhere with no hope of seeing home again, I
wouldn't feel this way. There wouldn't be this awful _pulling_."

Ragan agreed with Vaughn that the Feeling was essentially a _pull_, but
beyond agreement could add nothing. Ragan had covered the world without
forming a tie to hold him; one place was as good as another and he
felt no loss for any particular spot on Earth.

"I only want to be back there," he said simply. "Anywhere but here."

"I was born on a farm in New England," Walraven said. "Out of the land,
like my father and his people before him. I'm part of that land, no
matter how far from it I go, because everything I am came from it. I
feel uprooted. I don't belong here."

_Uprooted_ was the key for which they had hunted.

Maxon said slowly, "There are wild animals on Earth that can't live
away from their natural homes. Insects--how does a termite feel, cut
off from its hive? Maybe that's our trouble. Something bigger than
individual men made the human race what it is. Maybe we've been a sort
of composite being all along, without knowing it, tied together by the
need of each other and not able to exist apart. Maybe no one knew it
before because no one was ever isolated in the way we are."

Walraven had more to say, almost defiant in his earnestness. "This is
going to sound wild, but I've been fighting inside myself ever since
Vaughn mentioned being pulled toward home. I have the feeling that if
I'd only let go, I'd be back where I belong." He snapped his fingers,
the sound loud in the room. "Like that."

No one laughed because each found in himself the same conviction
waiting to be recognized. Ragan said, "Walraven's right. There's no
place on Earth I care for more than another, but I feel I could be back
there in any one of them"--he snapped his fingers, as Walraven had
done--"as quickly as that."

"I know," Maxon said. "But we can't let go. We were sent out to put
this ship into orbit around Mars. We've got to take her there."
