
"Bet one thousand only," she said. She watched him sigh with relief.
Funny, she thought. The guy had a conscience, and in a place like this.
She watched him spin, watched the teleckto-spin whirr, slow, come to a
clicking stop.

"Ninety-nine thousand six hundred and four," he said. "To one."

"Uh huh. And now what does the chart say?"

The croupier checked. "One hundred and two thousand to one. It hasn't
changed. Sorry, Miss." He raked in the teels.

"That was fun," said the woman. "So much fun I'm getting bored stiff.
Rake in the rest of these teels, too. Stick 'em in your pocket."

"WHAT?" The croupier's eyebrows jumped.

"Yeah."

He blinked. Studied. Blinked again. His philosophic thoughts were going
out the space lock fast. He was trying to revise, trying to bring
himself up to date. He wasn't getting anywhere. That golden-modo-strap
_was_ phony. A child could see it was. And yet....

"I'm not so good on my telepathy tonight," he said coldly.

"Skip it. I'm like a guy named Slan you used to read about. Had shields
up around my brain."

That brought a cell of silence around the table. The croupier didn't
speak, didn't blink, didn't breathe, didn't do anything.

"Looking for a man," said the woman finally. "Space-happy guy named
Artie Sterling. Know him?"

The croupier caught a glint of something hard in the woman's eyes. He
still didn't say anything.

"Don't think you're selling a good joe down the canal," the woman went
on. "If you thought that, drop it. There isn't a creeping, crawling,
oozing thing on all Mars to compare with him. I know. Who would know
better than me?"

The croupier still didn't say anything. But his eyes said it for him;
they were asking a question as big as space itself.

"The guy's my husband," said the woman. She stopped. She studied the
worry lines that responsibility had embedded in the croupier's forehead.

She said: "You look like a nice hard-working man, to me. A good family
man. You probably got a nice wife, couple of nice kiddies at home. You
worry a little sometimes, though, because the money a croupier makes
isn't a hell of a lot. And growing youngsters need this and that and
the bills pile up and a man worries and the end isn't in sight because
you're young yet and there's years and years of struggle still coming
up."

The croupier swallowed. He took a breath. He looked down at the
thousands of teel credits on the table. He looked up again.

"Look at me," said the woman. "Look at what the guy did to me. You can
see it in my eyes."

The croupier did look. Then he took another breath and then he looked
down once more at the money on the table, and then he did something
that would probably make him spit for the rest of his life every time
he stared into a mirror. He whispered:

"Yeah. I know Artie Sterling. He was in here this evening early."

_Uh huh. And now the big one._ "Where'd he go?"

The croupier took a last long drowning breath and his rake started to
pull in the teels. "Okay, lady, okay. The guy's shacked up right now in
Residential, Number 327. With somebody else's wife. That what you want
to know? That what you wanted me to say?"

The woman didn't answer. She let her eyes slit contemptuously for an
instant before she turned, moved away from the table, and went quickly
toward the lock that led to the spacelators outside.
