
That evening, Torlyn Khy stepped out of his room and strolled over
toward the spaceship. It was surrounded by guards, and it was bathed
in the blaze of a battery of searchlights, but that did not bother
the Valdorian. Earthmen were such stupid fools! It would be a blessing
for them if the Valdorians took them over and showed them how to run
their lives efficiently. On Valdor, everyone had a job and he did it.
He obeyed his superiors without asking questions, and the society,
therefore, was efficient.

But these Earthmen! Such a lax, sloppy, inefficient society! They
needed more regimentation, more precision. They needed to learn to obey
orders. And they _would_ learn--after the Valdorian victory.

"Evening, Mr. Mitchell."

"Good evening, Captain. Nice night, isn't it?"

Torlyn Khy looked around warily and saw the lean, spare figure of
John Mitchell standing some distance away. He was talking to a man
in a military uniform, one of the guards posted on the project. The
Valdorian ducked away; he didn't care to be seen. Not tonight, of all
nights.

He walked all around the spaceship, studying it carefully from all
angles, keeping well out of sight of the guards that surrounded it.

The ship appeared to be ready to go; all he had to do was get inside
and take off. Simple. Very simple, Torlyn Khy thought. The greatest
victories are always simple.

The ship was supposed to be lifted above the atmosphere on her jets
before the hyperkinetic generator was used, but the generator could, in
an emergency, be used on the ground. Torlyn Khy smiled. As far as he
was concerned, this _would_ be an emergency. The Earthmen, he thought
pleasantly, would feel very foolish when their greatest ship simply
vanished from under their noses.

After making a thorough reconnaissance of the area, the Valdorian
decided he was ready. He switched on the tiny power pack at his waist,
and the invisibility belt he was wearing was energized. If anyone had
been watching the shadows where Torlyn Khy was standing, they would
have seen a faint blue glow as the Valdorian faded slowly from sight.

Then, boldly, the alien strode toward the _Skyjumper_. Nothing stood in
the way of success now.
