
He walked directly across the well-lighted safety area, and the guards
paid not the slightest attention.

At the airlock door, he paused to take stock of the situation. He had
to move fast now. The success of the whole mission depended on timing
from here on out. The guards, naturally, would see the airlock door
swing open; they would know something was wrong. It would take them, he
estimated, about four minutes to bring up heavy armament to blast the
door open.

Moistening his lips nervously, he decided to correct the estimate.
_Better make it three minutes for safety's sake_, he thought.

In that time, he would have to warm up the generator and punch the
co-ordinates for the planet Valdor into the big guiding computer. Doing
that would require, say, two minutes--giving him a minute's leeway.
Good!

He waited until the guards all seemed to be looking away from the
airlock door. Then he pressed the lock. The door swung open, and Torlyn
Khy stepped quickly inside.

There was a shout from one of the guards below, but they were too late
to do anything; the Valdorian had the airlock door closed before they
could see what had happened. He turned the master switch on the inside
of the door, which locked the door against any outside interference.

He grinned sardonically. The fool Earthmen would have a devil of a time
doing anything now!

The next thing was to switch off his invisibility belt. It was
difficult to do delicate work if you couldn't see your own arms and
fingers, and punching co-ordinates into a computer was a delicate job.

He turned toward the inner door--and, at that moment, the door opened!
An Earthman stepped out, an engineer named Harris who had apparently
been making some last-minute adjustments on the ship.

"Oh, hello, Blaine," Harris said. "I--"

Without a word, the Valdorian leaped forward, taking the Earthman by
surprise. He slammed his fist into Harris' abdomen, and he doubled up
in pain.

Torlyn Khy jumped back as the Earthman's foot suddenly sliced toward
him. The toe of the engineer's foot hit him stingingly alongside the
jaw, but the Valdorian managed to grasp the foot and twist.

Then he bent and picked Harris up, and knocked him down again with a
crashing blow to the chin.

He left the unconscious Earthman on the floor, locking him inside the
airlock. He would be no trouble there.

The real trouble was that the fight had delayed his timing; it must
have taken all of a minute, and in a split-second operation such as
this an interval of a minute could be fatal. Without wasting any more
time, he got moving. His jaw hurt where the Earthman had slugged him,
and his fingers felt stiff.

He ran down the corridor to the control room. The big automatic
computer was ready to go. Torlyn Khy switched it on, waited for a
moment, and then hastily began punching co-ordinates into the computer.
He had to hurry; the Earthmen might blast their way into the ship at
any moment. Still, he dared not make an error; if he did, the ship
might end up a thousand light-years from where it was supposed to
materialize--perhaps in the heart of a sun.

There was perspiration dripping from his brow by the time he was
finished. He turned on the hyperkinetic generator and waited for it to
warm up. Still there was no sound from the airlock.

A red indicator light on the control panel came on, telling him that
the generator was ready. With a triumphant smile, Torlyn Khy reached
out and pressed the activator stud.
