
They came in unescorted. He stood at attention until the burly general
waved a hand rather irritably, putting him at ease, then he sank down
again into his hard seat. Now it would start all over again. The
questions, the careful scrutinizing of the plates he'd taken, the hard
narrowed eyes, the disbelief--

"In your own words, again," the general was saying, "Will you repeat
to Mr. Saunders what you told me over the TV hookup last night?" The
general leaned forward and fumbled with the pile of color photographs
on his desk. "Are these--the shots you took?"

Colonel Martin nodded wearily, sighed, looked briefly out the window
and said in a soft even voice, "Captains Morelli, Ryan and Sayers and
I took off at 0800--"

"Who gave permission for the flight?" Saunders cut in crisply. "Is it
routine for your people to fly formations around here without some
special alert?"

Martin stiffened slightly. "No sir. It was an unauthorized flight. My
idea." He moistened his lips. "We are on twenty-four hours alert, of
course--"

"A fat lot of good that would do if every group leader took off when he
felt like it," the general sputtered, impaling Martin with eyes like
blue icicles.

"We are allowed twelve hours a month flight time," Martin said. "I will
admit I didn't file a plan or report my intention to take the group
up--but that, sirs, is important in view of what happened." He leaned
forward. "I believe--I'm certain, sirs, that we caught--_them_--off
guard." He chewed his lips at the sudden veiled look in Saunders' eyes.
It was plain they considered him mentally unhinged.

They waited, saying nothing, their faces as chill and immobile as
marble. Martin spread his big, raw-knuckled hands.

"We took off. I flew lead, as usual," Martin began. "We were up to
about twenty thousand and climbing when I ordered an attack pattern. We
were doing about six hundred ground speed when Ryan, I believe it was,
suddenly shouted over the radio, that something had just made a pass
at him. We all saw it at once, after that, a round platelike object,
about thirty inches in diameter, maybe ten inches thick and the color
of buffed aluminum. It moved sort of jerkily, wobbling back and forth
and occasionally dancing up and down--almost as though it were attached
to a string or something."

The two listeners exchanged glances. It was obvious what they were
thinking, but Martin went doggedly on.

"I ordered the men to break formation but to remain at thirty thousand
and keep it in sight. I put my ship on auto-pilot--I carry a camera
and I wanted to get some shots. I did, about twelve color pix, aiming
directly at the thing. I couldn't possibly have missed."
