
General Brereton snorted and handed the developed prints to Saunders.
Saunders examined each one, his brows lifting higher and higher.
Finally he handed the pictures to the general and turned to Martin.

"Those pictures are utterly blank," he said quietly. "They show nothing
but blue sky and a distant horizon. How do you account for that?"

"I can only say," Martin replied, "that the camera doesn't lie. I've
taken too many shots with that camera not to know that it's in top
condition. It couldn't--and didn't lie. _There was no flying disc in
front of us._"

"No!" The general frowned and sat up with a jerk. "First you tell us
this story of an object darting and weaving about your formation--an
object four men see and give chase. An object that led three good
pilots to their death--and now you say there was no object!"

"It's the only explanation I can give for the way in which Morelli,
Ryan and Sayers hit that peak," Martin said patiently. "As I say, my
ship was on auto-pilot. I was shooting away--and at all times, _that
disc was directly in front of me_." He stopped and looked at the two to
see if they caught the significance of what he'd just told them. They
hadn't.

"Don't you understand--the others kept up a running commentary, each
saying that the disc was directly in front of him--and all the time,
unknown to me--they were in a steep dive and simultaneously, they hit
that peak at nine-thousand feet."

There was another long silence, broken only by muffled sounds from the
field outside--the chugging of fuel trucks, shouts of mechanics, the
occasional crackling hum as a jet was fired up.

"Then it is your contention," Saunders said, "That each of you was
suffering from a hallucination--a mirage, in fact. A mirage which took
the form of a flying disc and which caused three trained pilots to fail
to notice that they were losing altitude and heading directly into a
mountain peak. Is that what you're trying to say?"

"It was not a mirage," Martin said. "It was a deliberately implanted
impression."

"Explain yourself," the general said hoarsely. He exchanged a swift
glance with Saunders.

"The disc suddenly wasn't there--after the others had hit, I imagine. I
don't know for sure--but suddenly, the thing just sort of--turned off.
It wasn't there. I looked around and saw the pillar of smoke far off to
my left and rear but no following ships. I swung around and tried to
contact my men. No result. I went over the spot where the fires were
and recognized them immediately as--the remains. I contacted the base.
While I was hanging around up there, I had a lot of time to think. I
realized then what I've already told you--that each of the men thought
the disc was directly before him. Each followed it--to his death. I
wasn't operating manually--my auto-pilot--" he smiled strangely--"isn't
susceptible to--hypnotic suggestions--so it flew a straight course--at
thirty-thousand."

"You believe that you--and the others--were hypnotized into thinking
you were seeing a flying disc. Is that it?" the general said dryly.

"I believe that we caught someone--some _thing_--off guard when we
took off on an unannounced flight," Martin said with firm conviction,
ignoring the sudden reaction they showed. "I'm sure we were heading in
a direction where some secret lay--without sufficient advance warning
for whatever holds that secret to cover up. I'm positive we were
hypnotized--lured away just like a mother quail pulls the broken wing
stunt to get a dog away from her nest."

"Doesn't that explanation strike you as unbalanced, to say the least,"
Saunders said slowly. "What person could possibly have such powers--or
devices, to hypnotize four men flying thirty-thousand feet above the
earth at eight-hundred miles an hour?"

"No power on earth," Martin said softly. "The Panamint Indians won't go
near those mountains." He gestured to the tinted window and beyond, to
where the great range of jagged mountains gleamed luridly orange and
purple under the slanting rays of the desert sun. "They have positive
beliefs--not legends--about beings from other worlds who dig in the
hills for shining metals.... Who have great ships that fly. Beings
who can make a man who comes too near die of thirst even though he
carries water at his belt. Beings who can control the minds of men." He
hesitated. "That's why they named those mountains--the Superstitions."

"I'm afraid you'll have to find a better explanation than that," the
general said stiffly.

"You have the written reports of the radio men on duty," Martin
said. "They all heard Ryan, Morelli and Sayers talking. They back
up every word I've said. You asked my opinion and I've told you.
Someone--something, didn't want us snooping around when they weren't
prepared for it--and they simply drew us away by means of delusion or
mind control of some kind."

"We've photographed every inch of this entire corner of the state," the
general said. "You have stated that the camera doesn't lie. We have
observed nothing unusual in any of the many excellent photographs made
of the area you flew over yesterday."
