
Me, I'm a publicity man, not a physicist. It was all a deep fog in my
mind, but MacDowell's eyes were bulging.

"Go on!" he ordered grimly.

"Lastwise," drawled Hank, "'Pears like whenever there's a movement one
way, there ought to be an equal kick-back 'tother way." He hesitated
for a long moment. Then he shrugged. "Reckon that's all I can think of
offhand."

MacDowell repeated numbly, "That's all he can think of--offhand!" and
staggered to his chair. He tottered for seconds, then dropped into it.
"The product of a genius' thoughts for years. And he solves it in five
minutes!"

Then he snapped out of it, and was he sore!

"You, Blakeson!" he yelled.

"Yeah?"

"This is one of your tricks! What do you mean by this outrageous
imposter? You can't deceive _me_! This man has studied physics. He
knows--"

"Physics?" interrupted Hank eagerly. "Say, you're darn tootin' I've
studied physics. An' take it from me, all these here now drugstore
things ain't no good. You get you a batch of fresh wild-cherry
saplings, bile 'em in water for a half hour, an' add--"

"Quiet," I pleaded, "is requested for the sake of those who are asleep.
Dr. MacDowell, I give you my word of honor Hank is just what he appears
to be. A man of the soil, gifted with great talents. Or rather, _one_
great talent--that of common sense."

"A--a moment!" MacDowell silenced me with an uplifted palm. "Mr.
Cleaver, are you acquainted with the principles of Mendel?"

"Nup!" acknowledged Hank cheerfully.

"Perhaps, then, you'd be kind enough to derive an answer for this
question? A man has a black dog and a white one. He mates them. The
female whelps four puppies. Of the four, how many will you expect to be
black, how many white?"

Horse-sense Hank cast a sidelong glance at Helen, and blushed. But he
didn't bat an eyelash.

"This here now black hound, what color was his old man an' woman?"

"They were also black."

"An' 'tother one's mammy an' pappy was white?"

"We will," said Dr. MacDowell weakly "assume that to be so." He knew he
had lost again. And so he had. For Hank's answer was bland simplicity.

"Why, then, them there pups would just natcherally hafta be all black."

"H-how do you know?" demanded MacDowell faintly.

"Just seems as if," said Hank. He scratched his head. "'Course," he
said cautiously, "them there wouldn't be good show dogs, them pups.
They wouldn't breed true wuth a damn. Next time they was mated,
their pups would be mixed colors. I'd say 'bout three to one for the
blacks."[1]

[Footnote 1: The two fundamental principles usually termed Mendelian
are: (1) that of alternative inheritance, viz., that of two
corresponding but contrasted pairs of characters of the parents, only
one appears in the offspring. This is known as the dominant character;
the character not appearing is the recessive character. (2) The law
of segregation of characters, according to which both dominant and
recessive characters reappear pure in 25% each of the offspring of
hybrids.--Ed.]

President MacDowell shuddered violently. He fell back into his chair,
covered his eyes with shaking fingers.

"Take him away!" he pleaded. "A lifetime of study, and--Get him out of
my sight, Jim Blakeson! _Oooooh!_"

The last I saw of him, he was ripping the diplomas off his office
walls, tearing them into shreds of despair.
