
Instead of solid ivory, I knew it would turn out to have a steel core,
responsive to magnetic influence. The only thing that could break down
the analytical perfection of Horse-sense Hank was a gimmick! A gimmick
is a polite way of describing a cheap gambling trick.

"The durned crook!" Hank was howling. "He gypped me! I knew the
nineteen was due! Just as sure as fate it was due!"

Those were the last intelligible words for quite a while. For at that
instant some resourceful employee jerked a switch, plunging the College
Clubbe into darkness. People began to scream and struggle and run. I
heard the meaty impact of flesh on flesh, then the clatter of ivory
tokens on the polished flooring.

I remember thinking sadly, "Good-bye, Mr. Chips!"

Then a more brilliant thought struck me. I remembered that those
ivories were cashable at any time. Tomorrow! After the excitement had
died down. I scrambled for the abandoned table, scooped up two double
handfuls, then two more. It was our money, rightly.

I hightailed it for the exit. It took me a little time to get away.
Everyone else had the same idea. But I finally made it. There was no
use looking for Hank in that mob, so I grabbed a taxi to town, hoping
he'd be able to come home under his own power.

But he was already home when I got there. He was just finishing a
financial census at my desk, dreamily counting crisp, crunchy bills
into piles before him.

"--and seventy-eight, eight hundred and seventy-nine--" He saw me and
grinned. "Hi, Jim! Got part of what I deserved, anyhow. See? 'Bout six
thousan' bucks!"

I sniffed. "Chicken feed! I've got the rest of it. The _real_ stuff!
Ten buck chips!"

With a calm, superior smile I began to unload my colorful cargo beside
his pile of green. But Hank didn't look enthusiastic. I waited for the
ooohs and aaahs, and when none came I snapped,

"Well, what's the matter? You sore because I made out better than you
did?"

He shifted uncomfortably and refused to meet my eye. He said,

"Well, it ain't exactly that, Jim. Only--"

"Only what?"

"Only," he gulped, "them chips ain't gonna do much good, way I figger.
'Pears to me like after what happened tonight, that there place ain't
never gonna open up no more."

He was right, of course. Hank was always right. I still have two
hatfuls of roulette chips; you can have them, parcel post collect.
The College Clubbe folded the next morning, but the story of why it
collapsed got around. And Hank became something of a celebrity.

That's how, in spite of Doc MacDowell's pigheadedness, the rest of
the Midland University faculty got to hear about my rural protégé. To
hear was to visit; to visit was to listen with awe. They handed him
stumpers; he up-rooted them and handed them back with Q.E.D.'s tacked
on them.

[Illustration: With calm nonchalance Hank Cleaver answered the
questions of the incredulous scientists.]

At first, Horse-sense Hank was a sort of perambulating parlor game to
the professoriat. They came and tried out on him the trick questions
to which they--and presumably only they--knew the answers. No soap!
They asked him about the variable nature of light waves; he derived,
alone and unaided, a formula which Professor Hallowell of the Physics
Department identified as the Lorentz-Fitzgerald contraction.
