
They asked him about electronic structures. First they had to tell
him what an electron was; after that, he did the talking. He confused
me and practically everyone else present. He kept talking about
a "whatchamaycallit." Finally Dr. Enderby of the Blair Research
Foundation pinned him down as to the exact nature of this mysterious
something.

Blair grayed visibly when he discovered that Hank's "whatchamaycallit"
was identical in meaning, value and structure with _h_--that abstruse
physical concept known as Planck's constant.

Hank offered apologetically, "They ain't no word to describe it
exactly. It--well, it just _is_, that's all. I reckon if you wanted
to, you could say it was the diff'rence in energy values in them there
light rays we been talkin' about. But that ain't all. It's more'n that.
It's also the amount of diff'rence in the way things are. I mean, when
you bet or gamble, the whatchamaycallit comes into the picture."

Blair wept. "Heisenberg! The uncertainty factor! Identical with
Planck's constant!" He went home gibbering.

Then the graybeards realized that Hank was not just a freak; he was the
Answer Man in person. They started digging up toughies that had stymied
them for years. They served them in simple language and Hank dished up
replies in homespun.

Me, I don't pretend to understand half the stuff I heard them talking
about. So you'll have to overlook it if I botch the job of retelling. I
recall hearing an astronomer ask one night,

"Mr. Cleaver, what in your opinion is the explanation of the observed
fact that celestial bodies apparently always move in conic sections of
elliptic or infinite orbits?"

Hank twiddled his fingers and said, "Why, 'pears to me that's on
account of nature is lazy."

Someone ejaculated, "Nature lazy?"

"Sure. Movin' things take the shortest path."

The astronomer, frankly dubious, said, "But, really! An ellipse could
hardly do that because a 'shortest path'--"

"No?" said Hank. "You take a flat piece of paper. The quickest way
acrost it is a straight line, ain't it?"

"Naturally."

"You take a globe of the world, though, an' things don't work the same.
You want to go from, say, Los Angeles to Japan, you wouldn't follow
straight across one of them lines of latitude, would you? You'd sort of
hump up by way of Alaska."

A listener nodded eagerly. "That's right. You'd take the arc of a great
circle. The Great Circle route."

"Well," said Hank, "same thing in the universe--which has got, near's I
can figger out, another right angle in it besides the ones we know an'
see."

"You mean another dimension? A fourth dimension?"

"Call it that. Anyhow, in this sort of super-globe which has four
dimensions, stands to reason that the shortest distance from one point
to another will be a closed figger. A sort of lopsided circle."
