
So grew the fame of Horse-sense Hank. And while all this was going on,
another thing was happening, too. Hank was seeing Helen MacDowell,
practically every night. And--well, if you've ever seen a supercharged
carton of honey and dynamite like Helen, you know the inevitable
results. Love, with a capital _boom_!

Old MacDowell had a fit--ee-eye-ee-eye-oh! But it did him no good.
His mood was one of kill and boo, but Helen's was one of bill and
coo. It got so every time I saw Hank and Helen together they looked a
reproduction of the Laocoön[2] group.

[Footnote 2: Laocoön (lay-ock-o-on) was a priest of Apollo who warned
the Trojans against the wooden horse of the Greeks. As a result he
and his two sons were destroyed by serpents sent by Athene, who'd
placed her bet on Greece. This mythological tragedy is portrayed in a
magnificent statue now in the Vatican at Rome.--Ed.]

And then the ripples in the path of true love began to straighten out.
The Isaminder Research Fund heard about Hank and granted him a five
thousand dollar fellowship, and Dr. MacDowell snorted,

"Preposterous! They must be crazy!"

Then the Lowell Observatory made him an honorary member for his great
help in unveiling the mystery of white dwarf stars, and MacDowell said,

"What do you think of that?"

Then the Advisory Council of Midwestern U. went over our prexy's
head and offered Hank the chair of General & Practical Sciences, and
MacDowell, bug-eyed, told me hopefully,

"You know, Jim, the first time I saw that young man I said he'd go
places!"

And when the Nobel Committee voted to Hank Cleaver the annual
awards for outstanding work in the fields of physics, astronomy and
psychology, MacDowell capitulated completely. He rubbed his hands
together, beamed like an April morning, and said,

"God bless you, my children! Would you like block letters or script on
the announcements? Anything at all to please your little hearts!"

So it was arranged. A big church wedding for Helen and Hank, and of
course I was to be best man. And Hank should have been the happiest guy
alive. But was he? No. As the days narrowed toward the fateful one, he
began to grow moody and thoughtful. Several times I caught him sitting
by himself, pondering and shaking his head. Once I heard him mutter in
a low under-tone,

"Mebbe it wouldn't exactly work like that--"

He was puzzling out some deep problem. Just what, I didn't know. I was
too busy to quiz him about it. And then came the day when wedding bells
were to peal.
