
The jeep was opposite the bridge entrance when he halted it
momentarily. Lieutenant Meyers was busy talking to a machine-gunner
named Morgan. As Lowary recalled, from what little he had seen during
the three weeks he had been commanding the outfit since his transfer
from the middle west, Morgan was a conscientious type of soldier.
Meyers was making a good choice for such a delicate position. He moved
on.

The tires made a low singing sound when he rolled on the bridge, heavy
tread pounding on steel grating.

A sign attached to an upright girder caught his eye. He smiled
sardonically and he wondered what the author had in mind when he
phrased it.

It said: IN EVENT OF AIR ATTACK--DRIVE OFF THE BRIDGE.

The Captain shook his head.

When he got to the center of the bridge he halted the jeep. He got out
and crossed over the lanes to the south railing and looked down at the
gray water. It looks muddy, he thought. A wide, muddy snake winding its
way down to the City. He looked at the horizon. He couldn't see the
City but he knew it was there. He wondered for how long!

It will light up like a torch, he thought. One huge sheet of red and
orange flame a mile high, like the gates of hell swinging open. Then
there would be nothing but a towering mushroom of black smoke to mark
the spot of the largest City in the world.

He found his hand clutching something in his pocket. He took it out and
looked at it. Then, bitterly, he put it away. It was the yellow sheet
of paper again. To read it would be torture.

Lowary ran the zipper up on his loose fitting green field jacket as
a sudden chill took him. He blamed it on the nonexistent wind as he
lighted another cigarette.

The sound of a motor caused him to look up. He narrowed his eyes,
looking at the far end of the bridge. It was Lieutenant Kastner; he
could tell by the foot resting carelessly on the outside fender.
Kastner drove as though he were resting in an easy chair with his feet
nestled on a hassock.

Kastner swung out of the jeep loosely, with the grace of a well
coordinated athlete. A wide grin split his face.

"Just on my way to report to you, Captain. Everything is set up on my
side."

Lowary smiled. He had been on his way to check Kastner. Lowary took in
the blond man's well proportioned body. Kastner looked like the recruit
ad on a "wild-blue-yonder" poster.

Kastner's eyes left Lowary's face. The Captain followed the other's
gaze upward. Two long, white vapor trails were cutting across the blue
sky.

"They're ours," Kastner said. "They're heading North by East, toward
the ocean." He looked at Lowary. "Maybe they can stop it before it
starts!"

"Maybe," the Captain said softly. In his heart he knew it was only a
faint hope. The Air Force never tried to conceal the fact that some of
the enemy could be expected to sneak through in the event of attack.

"I don't think we'll have much trouble at our end of the bridge,
Captain. I don't think anyone will be fighting to go in that
direction," he nodded down the river, in the direction of the City.

"I guess not," Lowary said absently.

"This waiting can be murder," Kastner said. "It just doesn't seem
right, waiting to be clobbered. Sitting here until they drop one down
our throats before we can fight back."

Lowary smiled bitterly. "It's always been that way, Kastner. I suppose
it always will be." Lowary squashed the cigarette butt with his heel.

"How's Meyers taking all this?" Kastner asked. Lowary raised his
eyebrows. "His sister works in the City," Kastner went on. "They're
pretty close."

"I didn't know," Lowary replied. He thought, perhaps I should change
assignments. Kastner wouldn't picture every woman who might try to
break through as his sister. It would make it easier on Meyers.

"You're from Dakota, aren't you, Captain?"

"I was stationed there for three years before this assignment. This is
my first trip East."

"Married?"

"Wife ... son and daughter. The girl is eight, the boy twelve." The
picture of blond, thin, lovable little Susan came to his mind. And
Ronnie, with the freshly found sense of humor, who wanted to be a
writer when he grew up ... if he grew up. He hadn't seen them or Dot
since the transfer came unexpectedly. He missed them, badly. He hadn't
realized how much until just this minute.

"Did you bring your family with you?" Kastner asked.

Lowary shook his head. "No. Dot stayed behind to sell some of the
furniture, and to let the children finish school. It's no good changing
schools in the middle of a semester."

"I guess it isn't. I wouldn't know though. I'm single."

The sound of rubber pounding on the steel grating caused them both to
turn. The Captain expected to see an Army 2-1/2 ton truck. The truck
wasn't olive-drab, it was white. BAKERY was stenciled on the side of
the closed cabin in red letters.

Kastner moved to the opposite lane on a fast run. He waved his arms.
"What are you doing on the bridge?" he shouted. "It's closed to
civilians."

The driver stuck his balding head out of the window. His face was dirty
and tired. "The Lieutenant back there said it was O.K." He looked at
Lowary. "I'm only going to Kingston, Captain."

Lowary turned to Kastner. "Check this guy. I'll be back." He jumped
into his jeep and wheeled it around. This time he kept the accelerator
to the floor. Meyers was a fool!

He found the tall, thin officer leaning on the rail, looking down the
river toward the City. He leaped from the jeep, reached Meyers with two
strides.

"If you have to do that, Lieutenant, do it where the troops can't see
you. It's bad for morale," he said bitterly.

Meyers spun around quickly.

"You had orders to keep this bridge closed, Lieutenant. Why didn't you?"

Meyers opened his mouth, then shut it without saying a word. "Speak
up," Lowary raised his voice. Meyers' eyes met his. "You wouldn't
understand, Captain," Meyers said evenly.

"Try me," Lowary fought to keep his voice down.

"You seem to forget that these are our people ... not the enemy. He was
just a poor working slob who wanted to get home to be with his wife
and kids. To him it might be his last day on earth. Who are we to deny
that?"

Lowary said nothing.

Meyers said, "You're not worrying, your family is safe out in the
Middle West. We know people around here. They aren't just shadows. We
should be helping them."

The Captain took off his helmet. He reached for another cigarette.
Finally he said, "Do you realize how important this bridge is if there
is an attack? It connects one of the routes designated for the relief
of the City if it is hit. You were too young for the last war so you
probably don't realize what happens when wanderers, escapees hit the
road. They can tie it up like a knot so that no one moves. They have
other routes they can use. This one is closed. We've got to keep it for
emergency use."

"What's one truck?" Meyers said.

"One truck, loaded with explosives could park in the middle of this
huge erector set and blow it sky high. All the Reds aren't in those
planes the Coastal Defense sighted. We have some right here, waiting."

"But he wasn't a Red. He lives in Kingston!" Meyers protested.

"How do you know?" Lowary said simply. He didn't wait for Meyers'
answer, he turned and began to walk away.

"Captain!"

Lowary turned at the sound of Tudor's heavy voice. The stocky officer
was waving at him from up the road, pumping his arm with clenched fist
up and down, the signal for double time. Lowary took off on the run. He
could hear Meyers' feet pounding behind him.

Tudor was standing beside a young corporal looking down the steep,
rocky embankment at one of the concrete piers supporting the bridge. A
small figure was making its way toward it.

"It looks like one of our boy's decided to go over the hill," Tudor
said tersely.

Lowary faced the young corporal. "Unsling that rifle, son, and see if
you can pick him off."

Lowary felt Tudor's hand on his arm. "There's no need for that,
Captain. I'll send a squad down to pick him up."

Lowary glanced down at the hand. Tudor removed it. He spoke directly
to the corporal, "I said see if you can pick him off!" The soldier
hesitated. Lowary knew why. The figure down there was in uniform,
probably a friend.

The Captain snatched the rifle from the corporal's frozen fingers. He
slapped the stock against his own shoulder.

"He's probably just a scared, bewildered kid," Meyers cut in quickly.

"If I'm wrong, I'll apologize," Lowary said as he sighted down the
barrel. He planted his feet firmly and squeezed. The stock slammed
him in the shoulder. He cursed, then he squeezed again. This time
he remembered to hold his breath. The figure slumped, fell off the
concrete, into the water.

Lowary juggled the gun once by its balance, then he handed it back to
the corporal who was staring dully at the small figure floating and
bobbing in the water. "You can send that squad down to get him now, if
you want, Lieutenant Tudor," he said before he turned away.
