
He walked slowly. He could have explained, but there wasn't time.
Decisions had to be made quickly, right or wrong. Perhaps the kid
down there _was_ afraid, just running away. But he couldn't take that
chance. There was no reason to believe that the military didn't have
some subversive elements within; the Reds had infiltered everywhere
else. And what better time for the rats to come out of their nests,
then now, when the country was on their target list! One man could be
as dangerous as a Red Division.

Lowary climbed into his jeep conscious of how tired he felt. I'm
getting old, he thought. He leaned back and took off his helmet and
looked up at the clear blue sky, letting the breeze fan his face. A
high, distant speck caught his eye. It was trailed by a four-forked
stream of white. He felt his stomach grow cold, as he stared in
fascination at the four vapor streams that could only be one thing; a
multi-engine bomber. It was coming in from the Northwest, heading for
the City. The enemy had slipped one through the defense.

He tore his eyes from the sky. Perhaps no one else had seen it. It
would be better if they never did.

And so it comes, he thought. The end of an age ... back to the sticks
and stones for good. He drew in on a new cigarette, thinking of Dorothy
and Susan and Ronnie. He became conscious of Meyers standing beside
him. He wished he would go away, there was so little time left to
daydream. He wanted to be alone.

"The guard down the road says there is a pile-up of civilian cars that
demand to go across."

Lowary looked up. "Send some of the reserve platoon down and force them
back. You know the orders!"

"Look, Captain. We've got maybe ten ... fifteen minutes left. What
harm will it do?"

Lowary felt weary. Meyers hadn't failed to see the bomber, neither had
the people in the cars. They knew it was the beginning of the end.
Meyers and Tudor, and the others were wearing him down. He felt like
giving them their damn bridge. It would be easy, so final.

He took the yellow paper out of his pocket and glanced at the pasted
letters again. When he was finished he knew what he had to do. He had
no choice.

Lowary handed the paper to Meyers. "I'll take care of things down the
road. Perhaps you might like to read this while I'm gone," he said. The
Lieutenant looked puzzled when Lowary drove away.
