
The traffic was jammed just as Meyers said it was. The Sergeant in
command of the squad had set up a small road block. A machine-gunner,
Morgan, was sitting behind a .50 Cal. looking down the barrel. Lowary
drove past them, up to the lead car.

As he threw his legs out over the side of the jeep he looked up
quickly. The single multi-engine bomber was overhead, still heading
South. In the distance he could see new vapor streams, much smaller,
much faster. The Interceptor Command was giving chase. Lowary could see
that they would be too late to save the City.

"Please let us through, Captain!" a woman near him asked. She was
slender, she had been crying.

Lowary felt so helpless. He said, "There is nothing I can do. This
bridge must be kept open for relief purposes. It is out of my hands."

"You're a murderer. You're keeping us here to be killed."

"There were other routes open. You should have taken--" The woman flung
herself at him, beating at his chest with her thin hands. "I want to go
home," she screamed.

Lowary took her by the wrists and held her off gently. God give me
strength, he prayed. It would be so easy to let her through, along
with the others. They would be safe, perhaps. But he would be running
the risk of losing the bridge. Everyone in the City wouldn't die,
some would survive the hell blast. They would need medical attention,
supplies, food and water. They deserved that chance.

A man's heavy voice carried above the shouts. "We can get through if we
all try it at the same time. He can't shoot us ... he's in the line of
fire."

Lowary hadn't realized it, but it was true. The machine-gunners were
sighting down his back. He shouted above the rising din, "It makes no
difference, they'll shoot if they have to."

"It's a lie," a woman shouted. Lowary heard the whine of a powerful
motor start up. "Well, I'm for giving it a try," he heard someone far
back say.

Lowary turned and faced the gunners. He could see Morgan's strained
face. The kid looked so young, yet he was the only one Lowary felt he
could depend on. "If anything moves down here I want you to open fire,"
he called to Morgan. "Understand?"

Morgan's helmet nodded slowly.

Lowary turned around. The woman seemed undecided. Lowary spoke softly.
"Why don't you get down off the road, into that gully? You'll be safe
there."

The woman's mouth worked up and down but no words came out. Her face
was white and haggard.

The radio in Lowary's jeep began a familiar crackling sound as someone
on the same frequency pressed a button on a handset.

Lowary was afraid to move. He could easily start a stampede if the
civilians thought he was making the move just to get out of the line of
sight of the machine gunners. Slowly, he raised his hand until it was
near the .45 resting in the holster clipped to his web belt.

He waited.

"LARGO ONE--THIS IS LARGO NINE--OVER."

Lowary edged backwards, still facing the crowd. The woman was crying
now. Down the line of cars he could hear the high powered motor being
gunned as it was being maneuvered out of the line. Soon it would make
the attempt of running down Morgan and the others. It wouldn't stand a
chance, but the others might succeed in the confusion that would follow.

He made the decision then. Deliberately, he turned his back on the
crowd and walked to the jeep.

"Don't let him turn on that radio," a man's voice called. "He will warn
the rest of the troops to be waiting for us."

Lowary picked up the hand-mike. "This is Largo One," he said.

"THIS IS LARGO NINE," the voice on the radio said. "ALL CLEAR. REPEAT.
ALL CLEAR. BOOGIES CLAIM THEY WERE ON A PEACEFUL TRAINING MANEUVER AND
GOT OFF COURSE," the sender's low laugh contained no humor. "RESUME
TRAFFIC ON THE BRIDGE."

Lowary's hand trembled as he laid the 'mike' on the seat. He looked up
at the sky. The jet bomber had veered left, was heading out to sea,
heavily escorted. Lowary took off his helmet and signaled Morgan to let
the civilians through. He knew Meyers and the others had heard on their
own sets.

The enemy had been testing the defenses, he knew. Another calculated
move in the cold war. They were probing, hitting hard with psychology.
While everyone was relaxing, enjoying the reprieve, they could very
well come back. That would be their way.

Lowary was lighting another cigarette when the soldier came up to him,
saluted. "Lieutenant Meyers said to give this to you, sir, and to say
that he was sorry if he didn't understand before." He handed Lowary the
yellow sheet of paper.

Lowary opened the wrinkled telegram and read it again for the tenth
time since that morning. CHILDREN AND I ARRIVED CITY THIS MORNING--WILL
SPEND DAY SHOPPING--SEE YOU TONIGHT DARLING--LOVE--DOT.

Lowary put the telegram in his pocket carefully. "Hop in, son. I'll
give you a lift," he said to the soldier. He looked over his shoulder,
down the river. Then his eyes settled on the bridge. Finally, he said
softly, "We're going home." His heart quickened when he said it.



