
He had stopped walking and was leaning against the door of the Inn of
Six Horses, which proudly displayed its name and namesakes in blue and
white neon.

He had recognized nothing.

He had tried getting to the doctor's by cab, but no driver would listen
to him without first seeing the fare, even though he assured them all
that he could get it from the doctor.

A policeman had told him to move along or suffer the consequences of a
thick nightstick.

A drugstore proprietor had answered his request to use the phone by
threatening to call the policeman with the thick nightstick.

A dime. One dime!

He remembered his Shakespeare.

My kingdom for a ... horse? Six horses. Maybe, just maybe, at the Inn
of Six Horses....

A short man at the bar, composing one half of the clientele, was
calling the bartender's attention to the fact that the six horses
outside outnumbered the customers.

"Go to blazes," the bartender commented on the short man's observation.

"I should," said the short one. "Then George here would be Uncas, the
last of the Mohicans, riding your six old white stallions."

"How do you know they're stallions?" George said. He was lean, mean and
weary, looking as if he had just returned from a hard day of peddling
vacuum cleaners.

The door banged shut and three pairs of eyes focused on a dirty man.

"Here comes a touch," said Pete.

"Please," said the man, his voice shaky and weak.

"Before you go into your act, pal," Pete said, "understand this: Nobody
gets nothing free here, this ain't no mission or nothing. This is a
business like any place else."

"A real thriving business," mocked Shorty.

"Please, a dime, I need a dime, that's all I--"

"A _dime_?" George laughed. "For what, a cup of coffee? This is a
high-class place. Beer costs fifteen cents here."

Shorty joined in with a snort. "Maybe he wants to call his girl."

"I _need_ the dime," the man said, leaning on the bar for support.

"A matter of real life and death, huh?" George said.

"Yes. Look ... here, I have two cents, you take them."

Pete looked suspiciously at the two coins. "We don't sell nothing that
costs two cents."

"You take the two cents, but give me a dime. _Please._"

"Sharp businessman," noted George.

"This is rich," said Pete. "Do you really expect to _buy_ a dime for
two cents?"

Shorty said, "He just noticed how well you're doing. He figures you can
afford the loss."

"Boy, it burns me up," said Pete. "These professional bums make more in
a week than I see in a month."

"You keep talking that way, and this clown will want to buy your
business for the two cents," Shorty said. "Ain't worth it," George said
and banged his glass down. "Fill it," he directed Pete.

As Pete turned, the man made a lunge for George's change on the bar.

"Watch him," warned Shorty.

George needed no warning. He had seen the man eying his money, and he
had hoped for just such a move. With a right fist to the side of the
man's head, George took revenge for a bad day's work.

The man lay very still on the floor.
