
                                       May 26, 1956

Dear Ben: Now, aren't you sorry you didn't take my advice?!!!! I'm
assuming you read the papers, and also, that too tight a censorship
hasn't clamped down on this thing yet. Maybe I'm assuming too much on
the latter. Anyhow, here's a detailed version from an actual eyewitness.

That's right! I was right there on the beach when the "saucer" landed.
Only it looked more like a king-size pokerchip. About six feet across
and eight inches thick with a little hemispherical dome dead center on
top. It hit offshore about seventy-five yards with a splash that sounded
like a whale's tail. Jenner and I dropped our seine, waded to shore and
started running along the beach to get opposite it. Cleveland came out
of the shade and helped us launch a small boat.

We got within twenty feet of the thing when it started moving out,
slowly, just fast enough to keep ahead of us. I was in the bow looking
right at it when the lid popped open with a sound like a cork coming out
of a wine bottle. The little dome had split. Sellers quit rowing and we
all hit the bottom of the boat. I peeked over the gunwale right away,
and it's a good thing. All that came out of the dome was a little cloud
of flies, maybe a hundred or so, and the breeze picked them up and blew
them over us inshore so fast that Cleveland and Sellers never did see
them.

I yelled at them to look, but by then the flies were in mingling with
the local varieties of sudden itch, and they figured I was seeing
things. Cleveland, though, listened with the most interest. It develops
that his specialty _is_ entomology. He took this job because he was out
of work. Don't know how he bluffed his way past the Foundation, but here
he is, and it looks like he might be useful after all.

He was all for going ashore, but Sellers and I rowed after the white
disk for awhile until it became apparent we couldn't catch it. It's a
good thing we didn't. A half hour later, Olafsen caught up to it in the
power launch. We were watching from shore. It was about a half mile out
when Ole cut his speed. Luckily he was alone. We had yelled at him to
pick us up and take us along, but he was too excited to stop. He passed
us up, went out there and boom!

It wasn't exactly an A-bomb, but the spray hit us a half mile away, and
the surface wave swamped us.

Sellers radioed the whole incident to Honolulu right away, and they are
sending out a plane with a diver, but we don't think he'll find
anything. Things really blew! So far we haven't even found any
identifiable driftwood from the launch, let alone Ole's body or traces
of the disk.

Meanwhile, Cleveland has come to believe my story, and he's out prowling
around with an insect net. Most energy he's shown in weeks.
