
Sellers and Sparks and I looked at each other. Cleve had vomited and
passed out. Sparks got out Cleve's whiskey, and we spilled half of it
trying to get drinks into us.

Sparks snapped out of it first. He didn't try to talk to us. He just
went to his gear, turned on the generator and warmed up the radio. He
told Honolulu what had happened as we had heard it.

When he finished, he keyed over for an acknowledgment. The operator said
to hold on for a minute. Then he said they would _try_ to dispatch an
air task force to get us off, but they couldn't be sure just when.

While this was coming in Cleve came to his senses and listened. He was
deadly calm now, and when Honolulu finished he grabbed the mike from
Sparks, cut in the TX and asked, "Are they landing discs on the
mainlands?"

The operator answered, "Sorry, that's classified."

"For God's sake," Cleve demanded, "if you are ready to write us off you
can at least answer our questions. Are there any of the green
sonsofbitches on the mainland?"

There was another little pause, and then, "Yes."

That was all. Sparks ran down the batteries trying to raise them again
for more answers, but no response. When the batteries went dead he
checked the generator that had kicked off. It was out of gasoline. The
drums were on the beach. Now we were without lights, power and juice for
our other radios.

We kept alive the first few days by staying half drunk. Then Cleve's
case of whiskey gave out and we began to get hungry. Sparks and Sellers
set fire to one of our straw-ticking mattresses and used it as a torch
to burn their way over to the supply tent about thirty feet away. It
worked fairly well. The silky webs flashed into nothing as the flames
hit them, but they wouldn't support the fire, and other webs streamed
down behind the two. They had to burn another mattress to get back with
a few cases of food.

Then we dug a well under the floor of our tent. Hit water within a few
feet. But when we cut through the screen floor it cost us sentry duty.
We had to have one person awake all night long to stamp on the spiders
that slipped in around the edge of the well.

Through all of this Cleveland has been out on his feet. He has just
stood and stared out through the screen all day. We had to force him to
eat. He didn't snap out of it until this morning.

Sparks couldn't stand our radio silence any longer, so he talked Sellers
into helping him make a dash for the gas drums on the beach. They set
fire to two mattresses and disappeared into the tunnel of burned webs
that tangled and caved in behind them.

When they were gone, Cleveland suddenly came out of his trance and put a
hand on my shoulder. I thought for a moment he was going to jump me, but
his eyes were calm. He said, "Well, Fred, are you convinced now that
we've been attacked?"

I said, "It makes no sense to me at all. Why these little flies?"

Cleve said, "They couldn't have done better so easily. They studied our
ecology well. They saw that our greatest potential enemy was the insect
population, and the most vicious part of it was the spider. _Tabanidae
viridis_ was not sent just to plague us with horsefly bites. Tabby was
sent to multiply and feed the arachnids. There are durable species in
all climates. And if our botanist were still alive he could explain in
detail how long our plant life can last under this spider infestation.

"Look for yourself," he said pointing outside. "Not only are the regular
pollenizing insects doomed, but the density of those webs will choke out
even wind pollinated grains."

He stared down our shallow well hole and stamped on a small, black, flat
spider that had slithered under the screening. "I suppose you realize
the spiders got the others. Down here in the tropics the big varieties
could do it by working together. Sellers and Sparks won't return. Sounds
like they got through all right, but they'll be bitten so badly they
won't try to get back."

And even as he spoke we heard one of the aircraft engines start up. The
sound was muffled as under a bed quilt.

Cleve said, "I don't blame them. I'd rather die in the sun, too. The
beach should be fairly clear of webs. We've got one mattress left. What
do you say?"

He's standing there now holding the mattress with the ticking sticking
out. I don't think one torch will get us through. But it will be worth a
try for one more look at the sun.



