
The Major and his party were already gassed and crated when I arrived
at the space-deck for the big jump, so it wasn't until they pulled the
needle out of me on Daphne's planet at main base that I got a look at
his wife and _nieces_.

From that moment until we put down on Tigursh II, the shuttle trip was
one continuous party. Beside Daphne, there were Annellica, his legal
wife, and six variously-hued, large-breasted, slender-hipped young
women, each of different planetary origin and talents.

When we were gathered in the cushion-lined salon of the Major's "cosy",
200-foot hunting craft, he introduced them in two sections.

"My wife, Annellica," he said with a casual bow in her direction, "and
my nieces." His face brightened with pleasure as he regarded them
tumbled around on the billowing underfoot. Although their costumes were
of different colors, they were all of singularly identical design. They
wore one-piece dresses, demurely high-necked, puffed at the shoulders,
belted at the narrow waists--and that was all. The flounced skirts
stood out as if heavily starched, but they rippled and floated in the
diminished gravity with a most titivating effect.

Annellica wore pants.

I said I was charmed, but actually I was appalled, especially when the
Major explained. "I only brought along six nieces this trip. Three for
you and three for me."

Where, I wondered, did this leave Annellica? The ship lifted under us
without warning, and we tumbled about in a gay tangle of giggles and
heavy perfume--all but Annellica and me. We were thrown together, and
we lay on our sides motionless, nose to nose, staring into each other's
eyes.

"Hello," I said. She heaved herself up against the two-gee pressure
and leaned on an elbow regarding me with quiet, gray eyes. Her skin
was white, but it was still a relief when she answered in unaccented
Aminglish.

"Hello!" she answered. "Thank heavens you speak earth."

At our feet Daphne was tumbling up his galactic geishas with lusty
shouts of laughter and gabbling in six different dialects.

"Are you a linguist?" she asked. I shook my head, and she smiled for
the first time. "Good!" she exclaimed. "You'll get tired of that
bird-talk and pay some attention to me."

She sold herself short. Conversational boredom was the least likely
reason I would seek the company of this fabulous creature. Daphne was
completely engrossed with two wriggling, giggling extra-terrestrials at
the moment, so I rolled back and took in the rest of my hostess with an
indiscreet survey.

In gray slacks and high-neck T-shirt, she presented the ever pleasantly
mysterious enticement of the fully clothed female. Already my interest
in the nieces and their leggy displays faded in favor of the one
possibly forbidden morsel aboard.

I reached out to touch the unbelievable platinum hair, but she frowned
a warning. "Look, but don't touch," she said softly. I misunderstood,
but Daphne put me right on the subject. He was looking over at us.

"You're wasting your time," he called. "She's colder than a methane
popsickle. A real chip off of Jupiter. Let's eat, whadda ya say? Come,
Nelly, produce!"

Annellica sighed. "That belly of his! Life is one continuous
smorgasbord. Excuse me, Mr. Frost." She arose cautiously against the
double gravity, but even under these circumstances not a line of her
firm curves drooped excessively. She was, I guessed, early thirtyish,
judging from her mature manner, but she was firm and resilient as a
girl of 18.
