
She scraped some half-chewed food into a disposal unit and slipped
the plate into a slot: the wife of the wealthy Major Daphne, handling
garbage! Cook and gunbearer!

"You must love him very much," I said.

"Love?" She turned to face me. "What has love to do with--anything?"
That was cue enough for me.

I couldn't convince myself she was as frigid as the Major asserted. And
I was right. She came into my arms like a hungry tigress. After the
most interesting moment of its kind in my eventful bachelorhood, she
peeled herself away and went back to her chores.

I gasped, "Lady! What your husband doesn't know about you!"

"And he'll never find out," she said instantly. "He only holds
precious things he can't have. My love--passion--call it what you will,
is one thing he can't buy."

"I'm afraid I don't understand," I said. "Why did you marry him if--"

"It was that or die a spinster. Every young man who looked twice at me
disappeared. At first I thought Daffy would get tired of being married
to a perennial virgin, but I was wrong. It's the only thing that has
kept him interested in me."

I said, "I suppose it's a natural form of perversity for a man of his
wealth and power."

She wheeled, hands on hips. "Perverse? Yes, he's perverse. And
perverted and bestial and greedy, boorish, cruel, inhuman,
self-centered, insane, piggish--"

She glanced over my shoulder and stopped. "And a completely devoted
husband," Major Daphne slobbered behind me. He reeled through the
entry, loose-lipped, dishevelled and very drunk. He brushed me aside
and lurched past me, arms outstretched. "My li'l Nellie's only one
'preciates me."

For a second Annellica was a platinum-haired statue, then she moved to
meet him, bringing up an expert knee that struck too high to injure
him, but low enough to crush the breath from his lungs.

Daphne clomped down on all fours gasping. "He knows better than that,"
his wife said. It was such a cold-blooded blow that I reacted.

"Maybe if you'd give him half a chance--" I said.

"I'd wind up as a niece," she snapped at me. "_Wait until you see what
happens to them._"

"Shut up!" Daphne rolled to his side doubled up and glared at
Annellica. "Shut up, Nellie, before I kill you."
