
Before we arrived at Tigursh II I was quite fed up with my host, drunk
or sober. His indefatigable, sensual tastes wore on my nerves, but I
still had no conception of the Roman carnival this was to turn into.

We touched down a few hundred yards from my prospecting camp which was
located at the edge of the two-hundred-mile plain. Daphne stowed the
girls in their rooms like so many playthings, and the faceless captain
announced that the ramp was down.

At the first smell of the hot, humid, over-rich air, the Major rared
back his head and said, "I like it!"

I had forgotten the rather exhilarating effect of the high-oxygen
content. Coupled with the low-gravity, Tigursh II induced a mild
euphoria on its human visitors. My planet was small and dense, and the
rapid rotation--once every seven and a half hours--made for violent,
capricious air currents and weather.

"I'll hike over to the compound and check on my crew," I told Daphne as
the three of us bounced down the ramp.

"Don't bother," he said imperiously. "We passed them on the way in.
Meant to tell you. I've been checking on them. You've got a nice
thorium deposit, but it's a mile under that mud down there in the
jungle." He waved carelessly to the south.

"You what?" I said incredulously.

"They were dissatisfied," Daphne said. "I gave them a furlough with
pay. Like to have a place to myself, y'know."

"What goddam right did you have to--"

"Right?" He rolled the word around in his mouth as if it were a brand
new concept. Then he chuckled. "Quit crying. They wanted off. I sent my
ship after them. Saved you a hunk of cash. Hauled their samples back,
too."

When I failed to respond he continued, "Let's not spoil the trip over
it. Tell you what. I'll buy the mineral rights from you. How's that?"

"For a cold billion dollars," I said without thinking. He didn't bat a
lash.

"Throw in the exclusive hunting rights and it's a deal," he said.

"She's yours to the core," I said quickly, "minerals, animals and
vegetables." The cost of mining the thorium was completely beyond my
means and my previous efforts to sell the whole planet had met with
offers of less than a tenth of this amount.

He tilted his head back to glance at Annellica. "Get that? Easy to
remember. A round billy for the parcel." She nodded, and he turned back
to me. "Congratulations, Frost. Now you're a billionaire. Let's eat.
I'm hungry."

Annellica produced a small hamper and followed along behind us as we
strolled over toward the heavy greenery. I was still feeling weak.
Having your only planet jerked from beneath your feet was not an
experience I especially savored, in spite of the profit I realized. It
gave me a better insight to Annellica's answer to my question. "Love?
What has that to do with--anything?"

What Daphne wanted was his. He didn't need the minerals, and he
was here at my invitation for the hunting. But--let's not have any
unpleasantness. Spend a billion, and keep things friendly!
