
He spotted a herd of heavy animals grazing a quarter of a mile away.
Squatting, he waved us down in the deep grass. "We'll eat here," he
said. "Keep an eye on those herbivores. They're close to the trees. See
if anything comes after them."

Centaurus was a faint, golden ball above a high overcast. It was never
meridian in the summer season, so the orb hung well up from the murky
horizon to the south.

Daphne seemed unaffected by the oxygen, but I had a feeling of
well-being that approached intoxication. Annellica moved between us
spreading the lunch. For the first time on the trip I felt genuinely
hungry and began popping morsels into my mouth before she was finished
laying it out.

I ate alone, however. The Major said, "I think I see a wampus."

Without a word, Annellica departed and returned in a minute with two
rifles. Strapped to her side was one of the "nasty little nuclear
pistols" that her husband deplored. He took one of the rifles and lined
out the telescopic sight in the direction of the herd. I continued
eating until he ejaculated, "Blitzmachen!"

On my knees, I could see a brief commotion in the herd, and the gusty
wind brought the wavering sounds of grunts and a shrill neighing. A
flash of bright orange tore back for the jungle dragging one of the
smaller, lumpy herbivores that would have weighed half a ton on earth.

So I was right. There was interesting big game on Turgish II. Daphne
sank into a tense silence. Annellica dropped beside me but didn't eat.
She sat on her legs, hands folded in her lap while I rustled through
the edibles hungrily.

Finished, I stretched out in the dry grass that crackled under me,
intending to take a nap. Daphne turned his head and whispered with
irritation, "You people are making too much noise. Go on back to the
ship until I get a line on what we're after."

His wife shrugged, and we turned back, leaving the picnic debris with
Daphne.

When we reached the ship, she tossed her head and breathed deeply. "I
like it out here. The air--it's--wonderful."

We sought the shade on the far side, out of view of the crouching Major
and lay side by side facing each other. It was the first time we had
been alone since the moment in the galley. I was determined not to
upset her again, but she kept her gaze on my eyes, waiting, expectant.

This time I answered _her_ unasked question. "No. You're oxygen drunk.
Besides, there's no future in it," I said bluntly.

"I know him," she said softly. "He won't return until dark. This may be
our last chance to--to find out about each other."

"Find out what?"

Her lips drew into a faint pout. "Aren't you curious--about me?"

While I was strangling for an answer she went on, "And I must discover
whether you are worth doing now what I must do some day." Her lips were
tight now.

"What is that?"

She didn't answer, but she moved her head closely until her breath was
sweet in my nostrils. My discretion vanished and I reached for her. Our
lips met but she held our bodies apart with her hands.

It was quite different. The kiss was long and exploring and thoughtful
and when my pressure against her fending hands grew more than she could
bear she rolled free and jumped to her feet.

"It is worth it," she declared looking down at me with clenched fists
and wide eyes, and for the first time I understood why the Major
remained married to this lovely creature in spite of her rejection of
him.

Watching her graceful limbs as she mounted the ramp I felt sorry for
Daphne, an emotion I had thought impossible. But here was a man,
foolishly wealthy in every respect but the one which counted most.

My pity was short-lived.

The night was short, but we slept less than half of it. Daphne
chattered about the orange animal excitedly and made plans for the hunt.

"There are few of them around these parts," he said, "or else the herds
of herbivores would be wiped out. We'll have to stake out bait to draw
one, probably. Usually have to anyway."
