
He cleaned his rifle four times and paced the salon impatiently
awaiting dawn. Finally he glanced at his chronometer and told his wife,
"Get Suchane--the darkest one. See that she's scrubbed down, well. No
perfume, understand?"

It was the first time he had mentioned one of the girls to Annellica
by name and she paled. I wondered why taking a "niece" on the hunt with
us bothered her after the comportment I had witnessed on the trip.

In a half hour the four of us set out in the first pale light of a
dawn that exploded quickly into pink daylight. The Major wore a wicked
hunting-knife in his belt, carried only a pint flask in his right hand
and his left arm was wrapped intimately around Suchane's slender waist.
Annellica carried the rifles.

We had gone only a few yards when he stopped us. "You wait here," he
said. Then he sipped from the flask and offered it to the beautiful,
dark-haired girl. She drank deeply and handed it back. He waved it to
her with his satyr-like smirk, that she finish it. He watched until she
was through, then his left hand slid up to her neckline, grasped the
material of the dress and tore down with one powerful gesture.

She staggered back, nude and startled. Daphne roared with laughter,
clasped her around the waist again and held out his right hand.
"Nellie, my rifle. You wait here. Keep your heads down. No fair
peeking, eh, Suchane?"

Annellica threw one of the two rifles she was carrying at him,
muzzle up. He caught it with a slap of his huge paw and pulled the
girl forward with him. She was reassured, now, and giggling with
anticipation.

Somehow the lecherous display was more revolting out here in daylight.
I mistook Annellica's paleness for humiliation, and I didn't blame her.
Why did he have to drag one of his damned concubines out here?

We knelt down obediently, and before Daphne's head disappeared he
turned and shouted back, "If the wampus gets by me, remember, no gut
shots, Frost."

I muttered to Annellica, "The man has nerve, anyway."

"You confuse bravery with selfishness. He insists on the first
shot--won't trust another member of a hunting party to hold his fire.
He always stalks out ahead like this," Annellica explained tensely.

I had noticed that the niece carried no weapon. Which brought up
another question. "Does he always mix his pleasures?" I asked.

She was in the act of withdrawing a long telescopic sight which she
must have had bound to the inside of her thigh. As she mounted it to
her rifle with feverish haste she answered, "He is not mixing his
pleasures. _Suchane is bait._"

Before this could sink in completely a shrill, feminine scream tore
faintly into the gusty wind and found us. I leaped to my feet. Half way
to the edge of the jungle, some hundred yards from us, I watched Daphne
pushing the olive-skinned girl ahead of him with rough shoves. A deeper
color spread from her neck and swathed one shoulder and her side.

He stopped and raised the rifle threateningly. She turned and fled
toward the jungle.

"What in God's name--" I shouted.

"You can't help her," Annellica said hopelessly. "He's cut her jugular.
If there's an animal in there the blood scent will bring it out in
seconds. If there isn't--Suchane is gone, anyway."

I stared down at my companion in horror. She had warned me about the
"Fate of Daffy's nieces," but I couldn't have visualized anything this
bestial.

She looked up at me. "She will faint soon. There are worse ways to die.
You will see." She arose to stand beside me.
