
A week later, he got the crash program underway. Since the world's
scientists, like most of the world's intellectuals, were underpaid, it
was comparatively simple hiring them, especially since this was a time
of international calm. At first the physicists were dubious. Yes, the
theoreticians said, time travel was a possibility. No, the engineers
said, it couldn't be executed.

Execute it, he said. Here's money. Here are facilities. Here is
everything you will need. If what you need doesn't exist, make it, buy
it, steal it--but get it. Our time is limited. We have a year. One year
to make it possible for one man to travel back in time.

After three months, they were shaking their heads.

After six months--when the first terrible twinges of pain had
begun--they began to work feverishly.

Jason Wall went regularly to his physician at this time for the drugs
that could ease his terrible suffering. They spoke, the doctor with no
greater objectivity than Jason Wall himself, of his disease. It was
absolutely incurable. Even a crash program to find a cure wouldn't help
Jason Wall. The damage done to his body was irreversible. And, the
doctor mentioned in passing, it was hereditary. That is, the germ of the
disease, or a predilection for it, or both, were carried in the blood of
mankind like a scourge, had been so carried, as far as medical science
knew, from the dawn of history and before.

If the murder he had planned ever bothered Jason Wall, which is
doubtful, it certainly did not bother him now. What was killing
him--hereditary! Why, the First Man he sought might himself be
responsible. Killing him would almost be a pleasure....

After eight months something began to take shape. It was a little box.
"For hamsters," one of the scientists said.

"Fool! I want to go."

They made the box bigger.

Ten months from the day the crash program had been started, the job was
completed. Jason Wall had spent the last few days watching the world at
play. Happy children, contented people, folks who didn't have much, but
who did have happiness. They would go right on enjoying themselves,
after Jason Wall died. It wasn't fair, he told himself. And he would see
to it that they didn't--by destroying their first ancestor, and his, so
they would never be born, so the human race would never be....

"... all physical actions on the sub-microscopic level, on the level of
molecules and atoms and sub-atomic particles and quanta of energy--all
these actions," the chief physicist told Jason Wall, "are reversible. If
you can control the reversal, you can return matter, energy, and space
to its former state. Doing that, you travel through time. Therefore--"

"Never mind the details," Jason Wall snapped. "That's your department. I
only want to know this: will it work. Will it take a man back through
time."

"Yes, but--"

"Very well. I'll go."

"But we haven't figured out a way to return. If you go, you won't come
back. You'll have to spend the rest of your life back there."

The rest of his life. Jason Wall smiled. The rest of his life could be
measured in pain-wracked months, possibly only in weeks.

Fifteen minutes after his discussion with the chief physicist, he sat
down in the time chair. Anthropologists had been consulted for the final
stages of the project. There would be no mistakes. He would go where and
when he had to go....

"Ready, sir?"

"Ready," said Jason Wall. Ready to destroy the human race--

His vision flashed and blurred. Time moved backward for him.
