
A forest trail. Animals used it, had carved it out of the wall of
jungle. And the first man?

Armed with a revolver, Jason Wall left the now useless time-chair and
hid himself beside the trail. He waited three days, living on berries
and a small marsupial creature he had caught with his bare hands. If
First Man was around, he didn't want to frighten him off with gun-fire.

At last, First Man came.

He was, Jason Wall observed with objective detachment, a noble-looking
creature. The first true man. Over six feet tall, perfectly
proportioned. He looked quite the healthiest man Jason Wall had ever
seen. If looks meant anything, he had never known a day of disease in
his life, and never would. Jason Wall's determination to kill grew.

He did not have to wait long. When First Man came by his hiding place he
stood up, pointed the revolver, and fired it point-blank.

He was, naturally, ready for the end. The death of First Man ought to
mean the death of all men, the sudden blotting out, in all ages, of all
mankind and all traces of mankind.

First Man fell, mortally wounded. Blood gushed from his nostrils; he
died.

And Jason Wall went on existing. He didn't understand. It made no sense.
The death of First Man should have brought all humanity in all future
ages to an instant, painless end.

A woman, he thought.

There must be a woman. Already with child, perhaps, and therefore, the
mother of all the human race....

Jason Wall followed the forest trail, his revolver ready.

If the woman turned out to be as beautiful as the man had been handsome,
Jason Wall would not relish his job. He'd always had a soft-spot, the
one soft-spot in his makeup, for beautiful women.

He found her in a little clearing before a cave.

She was quite the loveliest creature he had ever seen. She was stark
naked, and showed no fear when she saw him. She showed, instead, a
lively curiosity. She jabbered and smiled at him and came to him,
open-handed, interested, friendly.

I'll kill her, he told himself, when the pain is too bad, when I can't
stand it any longer. She can't get away. She expects nothing, nothing.
Meanwhile, he decided to spend the last months of his life with this
woman....
