
Captain Shratt shrugged off all suggestion of getting a top Broadway
director to handle the second assignment, that of directing the
participants of the play. So Jules Barnes directed the military, the
industry, the sciences, in their performances which would take place
when the adversary would come face to face with the earth's genius.

Barnes and Shratt went from government to government by jet, meeting
the brains of each power, directing and coaching.

"Finished," Captain Shratt said, leaning back in his seat as the jet
took off for Washington.

"What if it doesn't come off?" Barnes said.

"Don't think about it."

Barnes felt his stomach jump toward his back as the ship hummed its way
towards the heavens. He still hadn't gotten used to the jets. When the
plane leveled off, he said: "We could always capture the Martians, hold
them as hostages."

"Do you possibly think they hold as great a price on life as we do?
Their philosophy is as different from ours as night and day."

"You seem to know an awful lot about them."

"Our men are listening in on every conversation that passes between
their ship and Mars. We've learned a lot."

"I'm beginning to think you're more advanced than you're letting on."

"In many matters, Mr. Barnes you're still an outsider. Security, you
must understand. Especially now. You've done the earth a great service
but I'm still under orders. There are many things I can't let you in
on. If you were a soldier, you'd readily understand. So a certain wall,
not too high, though, must always remain between us."

"I'm not a soldier, true, but I do understand."

"You may be interested to know that the ship will be landing within the
week."

"Really? I guess I'd better stay out of the way."

"Oh, you'll be on hand. In case something goes wrong and a new line
must be written into the script fast. There must be no blunders. If
there are then we must cover up. So you'll be close by, ready to write,
ready to coach."

"I wonder what they'll look like."

"You'll be finding out soon enough."
