
They took the liner to Gamma Tauri IV, the clearing point for the
system, then transferred to the interplanet shuttle for Three. Three
was an almost undeveloped planet; there were perhaps a hundred cities
near the equator, and some mines and plantations in the temperate
zones--the rest was nothing but scenery. Maxwell had heard about it
from people at the Ministry; he'd been warned to go within a year or
so if he went at all--after that it would be as full of tourists as
Proxima II.

The scenery was worth the trip. Sitting comfortably on their rented
airscooters, stripped to shorts and singlets, with the polarized
sunscreens moderating the blazing heat of Gamma Tauri, Maxwell and the
girl could look in any horizontal direction and see a thousand square
miles of exuberant blue-green foliage.

Two hundred feet below, the tops of gigantic tree-ferns waved
spasmodically in the breeze. They were following a chain of low
mountains that bisected this continent; the tree-tops sloped away
abruptly on either side, showing an occasional glimpse of reddish-brown
undergrowth, and merged into a sea of blue-green that became bluer
and mistier toward the horizon. A flying thing moved lazily across the
clear, cumulus-dotted sky, perhaps half a mile away. Maxwell trained
his binoculars on it: it was an absurd lozenge with six pairs of
wings--an insect, perhaps; he couldn't tell. He heard a raucous cry
down below, not far away, and glanced down hoping to see one of the
carnivores; but the rippling sea of foliage was unbroken.

He watched Alice breathing deeply. Maxwell grinned. Her face was shiny
with perspiration and pleasure. "Where to now?" he asked.

The girl peered to the right, where a glint of silver shone on the
horizon. "Is that the sea, over there?" she asked. "If it is, let's go
look for a nice beach and have our lunch."

There were no nice beaches; they were all covered with inch-thick
pebbles instead of sand; but Alice kept wanting to try the next place.
After each abortive approach, they went up to two thousand feet to
survey the shore-line. Alice pointed and said, "There's a nice looking
one. Oh! There's somebody on it."

Maxwell looked, and saw a tiny figure moving along the shore. "Might be
somebody I know," he said, and focused his binoculars. He saw a broad,
naked back, dark against the silvery sea. The man was stooping, looking
at something on the beach.

The figure straightened, and Maxwell saw a blazing crest of blond hair,
then a strongly modeled nose and chin as the man turned. "Oh-oh," he
said, lowering the binoculars.

Alice was staring intently through her binoculars. "Isn't he handsome,"
she breathed. "Do you know him?"

"Yeah," said Maxwell. "That's the Beachcomber. I interviewed him a
couple of times. We'd better leave him be."

Alice kept staring. "Honestly," she said. "I never saw such a--. Look,
Vernie, he's waving at us."

Maxwell looked again. The Beachcomber's face was turned up directly
toward them. As Maxwell watched, the man's lips moved unmistakably in
the syllables of his name.

Maxwell shortened the range, and saw that the Beachcomber was indeed
waving. He also saw something he had missed before: the man was stark
naked.

"He's recognized me," he said, with mingled emotions. "Now we will have
to go down."
