
The Beachcomber was standing motionless by the edge of the forest
as their scooters floated down to rest on the pebbly beach. He was
wearing a pair of stained, weathered duroplast shorts, but nothing
else; no hat to protect his great domed head, no sandals on his feet,
no equipment, not even a knife at his belt. Yet Maxwell knew that
there were flesh-eaters in the jungle that would gobble a man outside
the force-field of his scooter in about half a second. Knowing the
Beachcomber, none of this surprised him. Whether it occurred to Alice
to be surprised at any of it, he couldn't tell. She was eating the
Beachcomber with her eyes as he walked toward them.

Maxwell, swearing silently to himself, turned off his scooter's field
and stepped down. Alice did the same. _I only hope she can keep from
trying to flirt with him_, Maxwell thought. Aloud, he said, "How's it,
Dai?"

"All right," said the Beachcomber. Up close he ceased to be merely
impressive and became a little frightening. He stood over seven feet
tall, and there was an incredible strength in every line of him. His
clear skin looked resilient but _hard_; Maxwell privately doubted that
you could cut it with a knife. But it was the eyes that were really
impressive: they had the same disquieting, alien quality as an eagle's.
Dai never pulled his rank on anybody; he "went native" perfectly when
he had to, for social purposes; but he couldn't help making a normal
human adult feel like a backward child.

"Dai, I'd like you to meet Alice Zwerling."

The Beachcomber acknowledged the introduction with effortless courtesy;
Alice nearly beat herself to death with her eyelashes.

She managed to stumble very plausibly as they walked down to the
water's edge, and put a hand on the giant's arm for support. He righted
her casually with the flat of his hand on her back--at the same time
giving a slight push that put her a step or two in advance--and went on
talking to Maxwell.

They sat down by the water's edge, and Dai pumped Maxwell for the
latest news on Earth. He seemed genuinely interested; Maxwell didn't
know whether it was an act or not, but he talked willingly and well.
The Beachcomber threw an occasional question Alice's way, just enough
to keep her in the conversation. Maxwell saw her gathering her forces,
and grinned to himself.

There was a pause and Alice cleared her throat. Both men looked at her
politely. Alice said, "Dai, are there really man-eating animals in this
jungle? Vernon says so, but we haven't seen a one, all the time we've
been here. And--" Her gaze ran down the Beachcomber's smooth, naked
torso, and she blushed very prettily. "I mean--" she added, and stopped
again.

The Beachcomber said, "Sure, there are lots of them. They don't bother
me, though."

She said earnestly, "You mean--you walk around, like that, in the
jungle, and nothing can hurt you?"

"That's it."

Alice drove the point home. "Could you protect another person who was
with you, too?"

"I guess I could."

Alice smiled radiantly. "Why, that's too good to be true! I was just
telling Vernon, before we saw you down here, that I wished I could go
into the jungle without the scooter, to see all the wild animals and
things. Will you take me in for a little walk, Dai? Vernon can mind the
scooters--you wouldn't mind, would you, Vernie?"
