
Maxwell started to reply, but the Beachcomber forestalled him. "I
assure you, Miss Zwerling," he said slowly, "that it would be a waste
of your time and mine."

Alice blushed again, this time not so prettily. "Just what do you
mean?" she demanded.

Dai looked at her gravely. "I'm not quite such a wild man as I seem,"
he said. "I always wear trousers in mixed company." He repeated, with
emphasis. "_Always._"

Alice's lips grew hard and thin, and the skin whitened around them.
Her eyes glittered. She started to say something to the Beachcomber,
but the words stuck in her throat. She turned to Maxwell. "I think we'd
better go."

"We just got here," Maxwell said mildly. "Stick around."

She stood up. "Are you coming?"

"Nope," said Maxwell.

Without another word she turned, walked stiffly to her scooter, got
in and soared away. They watched the tiny shining speck dwindle and
disappear over the horizon.

Maxwell grinned and looked at the Beachcomber. "She had that coming,"
he said. "Not that she's out anything--she's got her return ticket." He
put a hand behind him to hoist himself to his feet. "I'll be going now,
Dai. Nice to have--"

"No, stay a while, Vern," said the giant. "I don't often see people."
He looked moodily off across the water. "I didn't spoil anything
special for you, I hope?"

"Nothing special," Maxwell said. "Only my current light o' love." The
giant turned and stared at him, half-frowning.

"What the hell!" said Maxwell disgustedly. "There are plenty of other
pebbles on the beach."

"Don't say that!" The Beachcomber's face contorted in a blaze of fury.
He made a chopping motion with his forearm. Violent as it was, the
motion came nowhere near Maxwell. Something else, something that
felt like the pure essence of wrath, struck him and bowled him over,
knocking the breath from him.

He sat up, a yard away from the giant, eyes popping foolishly.
"Whuhh--" he said.

There was pain and contrition in the Beachcomber's eyes. "I'm sorry,"
he said. He helped Maxwell up. "I don't often forget myself that way.
Will you forgive me?"

Maxwell's chest was still numb; it was hard to breathe. "Don't know,"
he said with difficulty. "What did you do it for?"

Sunlight gleamed dazzlingly on the Beachcomber's bare head. His eyes
were in deep shadow, and shadows sketched the bold outline of his nose,
marked the firm, bitter lines of his mouth. He said, "I've offended
you." He paused. "I'll explain, Vernon, but there's one condition--you
must never tell anybody else, ever."

He put his big hand on Maxwell's wrist, and Maxwell felt the power that
flowed from him. Almost hypnotically he knew he never would be able to.
He was aware his mind was being schooled in what to remember.

"All right," said Maxwell. A curious complexity of emotions boiled
inside him--anger and petulance, curiosity and something else, deeper
down: a vague, objectless fear. "Go ahead."

The Beachcomber talked. After a few minutes he seemed almost to forget
Maxwell; he stared out across the silver sea, and Maxwell, half
hypnotized by the deep, resonant voice, watched his hawklike profile in
silence.

Dimly, he saw the universe the Beachcomber spoke of: a universe of Men
set free. Over that inconceivable gap of time that stretched between
Maxwell's time and theirs, they had purged themselves of all their
frailties. Maxwell saw them striding among the stars, as much at home
in the pitiless void as on the verdant planets they loved. He saw them
tall and faultless and strong, handsome men and beautiful women, all
with the power that glowed in the Beachcomber, but without a hint of
his sadness.
