
He tried to imagine what the daily life of those people must be like,
and couldn't; it was three million years beyond his comprehension. But
when he looked at the Beachcomber's face, he knew that the last men
were human beings like himself, capable of love, hate, and despair.

"We had mating customs that would seem peculiar to you," said the
Beachcomber after a while. "Like elephants--because we were so
long-lived, you know. We--married--late, and it was for life. My
marriage was about to take place when we found the enemy."

"The enemy?" said Maxwell. "But--didn't you say you were the only
dominant life-form in the whole universe?"

"That's right." The Beachcomber outlined an egg-shaped figure with a
motion of his cupped hands, caressingly. "The universe; all of it.
Everything that existed in this space. It was all ours. But the enemy
didn't come from this universe."

"Another dimension?" Maxwell asked.

The Beachcomber looked puzzled. "Another--" he said, and stopped.
"I thought I could say it better than that in English, but I can't.
Dimension isn't right--call it another time-line; that's a little
closer."

"Another universe like ours, co-existent with this one, anyhow," said
Maxwell.

"No--not the same as ours, at all. Different laws, different--" he
stopped again.

"Well, can you describe the enemy?"

"Ugly," said the Beachcomber promptly. "We'd been searching
other--dimensions, if you want to use that word--for thousands of
years, and this was the first intelligent race we found. We hated them
on sight." He paused. "If I drew you a picture, it would look like
a little spiny cylinder. But a picture wouldn't convey it. I can't
explain." His mouth contracted with distaste.

"Go on," said Maxwell. "What happened? They invaded you?"

"No. We tried to destroy them. We broke up the crystal spiderwebs they
built between their worlds; we smashed their suns. But more than a
quarter of them survived our first attack, and then we knew we were
beaten. They were as powerful as we were, more so in some ways--"

"Wait, I don't get it," said Maxwell unbelievingly. "You--attacked
them--without provocation? Wiped out three-quarters of them, simply
because--"

"There was no possible peace between us and them," said the
Beachcomber. "And it was only a matter of time before they discovered
us; it was simply chance that we made the contact first."

What would an unspoiled South Sea Islander have made of the first
atomic war? Maxwell wondered. Morals of one society didn't apply to
another, he knew. Still--was it possible that the Beachcomber's people,
Maxwell's own descendants, still had a taint of the old Adam? And was
it accident that they were the only dominant life-form in the entire
universe, or had they eliminated all other contenders?
