
Not for him to judge, he decided; but he didn't like it. He said, "Then
what--they counterattacked?"

"Yes. We had time to prepare, and we knew what they were going to do.
The trouble was, there simply was no defense against it." He noticed
Maxwell's wry smile. "Not like the planet-busters; there is a defense
against those, you just haven't found it yet. But there actually was
no defense whatever against their weapon. They were going to destroy
our universe, down to the last quantum--wipe it right out of the
series, make a blank where it had been."

"And--?" said Maxwell. He was beginning to understand why the
Beachcomber had never told this story to anyone else; why the public at
large must never know it. There was a feeling of doom in it that would
color everything men did. It was possible, he supposed, to live with
the knowledge that the end of it all was death, but fatalism was the
mark of a dying culture.

"And there was just one thing we could do," said the Beachcomber. "Not
a defense, but a trick. At the instant before their weapon was due
to take effect, we planned to bring our universe back three million
years along its own time-line. It would vanish, just as if it had
been destroyed. Then, if it worked, we'd be able to return, but on a
different time-line--because, obviously, on our own line nothing like
this doubling-back had already happened. Changing the past changes the
future; you know the theory."

"Yeah. So--you were too late, is that it? You got away, but all the
rest were destroyed."

"The timing was perfect," said the Beachcomber. "All the calculations
were perfect. There's a natural limit to the distance in time any mass
can travel, and we managed to meet it exactly. Three million years. I
wish we hadn't. If we hadn't, I could go back again--" He stopped, and
his jaw hardened.

"There isn't much more to tell," he said. "I happened to be chosen to
execute the plan. It was a great honor, but not an easy one to accept.
Remember, I was about to be married. If anything went wrong it meant
that we'd be separated forever.... We couldn't even die together. But I
accepted. I had one day with her--one day; and then I set up the fields
and waited for the attack. Just one micro-second before it would have
reached us, I released the energy that was channeled through me--and
the next instant, I was falling into the ocean out there."

He turned a tormented face to Maxwell. "It was the worst possible
luck!" he said. "You can see for yourself, there was less chance of my
landing anywhere near a planet than of--finding one given pebble on all
the beaches of this planet."

Maxwell felt as if he had missed the point of a joke. "I still don't
understand," he said. "You say _you_ landed--but what about the
universe? Where did it--?"

The Beachcomber made an impatient gesture. "You don't think we could
bring it back into a space it already occupied, do you? It was in
stasis, all but a fraction out of this time-line. Just a miniature
left, so that it could be controlled. A model of the universe, so big."
He spread his thumb and forefinger an inch apart--"Just a pebble."

Maxwell's jaw dropped open. He stared at the giant. "You don't
mean--you--"

"Oh, yes," said the Beachcomber, "I landed about twenty miles out from
shore--five years ago." He stared out across the sea, while his fingers
groped nervously among the pebbles at his feet.

"And when I hit the water," he said, "I dropped it."