
There in the street almost below him stood Zuldi and six other of the
hated creatures, their scaly, bloated bodies smeared with a green
substance as protection against the rigors of light. Thick-lensed
glasses shaded their eyes.

Zuldi, croaking loudly to attract attention, was waving his arms and
pointing downward at the broken body of Captain Simms that lay at his
feet. Beside the dead man lay the tangled mass of what might once have
been a radio, a radio that would never send its message to distant
Earth.

Zuldi stopped his shouting, and spat upon the man in the dust and sent
a heavily-clawed foot raking over the already lacerated chest. He was
using Captain Simms as an example to all other Earthians in the city.

Guyard felt a hot bitterness rising uncontrollably within him. He flung
the window open, jerked the gun from his belt and centered the sights
upon the center of Zuldi's bone-crested forehead.

"Damn him!" he breathed. "I'll...."

It was Marene who knocked the gun down before he had a chance to
fire. A great fear was in her eyes as she wrested the weapon from his
fingers. "You can't do it, Father! You can't do it!" She thrust the gun
into a pocket beneath her short coat.

"Putting Zuldi out of the way would not help us," she reminded him.
"The other Earthians had guns. They would discover that you had a gun
and guess that others would only kill you. They would end our chances
to fight the black ship when it comes."

A semblance of reason came back to Guyard. For the past two years, he
had, when not training Zurk's mind, been turning out gun after gun in
his small, electric furnace. Those guns had been secretly distributed
to the men of the city to use when the right moment came. And now he
had come very nearly to ruining those chances.

He began speaking, as if thinking aloud. "They have dismantled our
spaceship, broken our radios and killed every man who has tried to get
a message through to Earth. They have taken our youth, searched out our
secret laboratories and killed our scientists."

His eyes were blazing. "But this time we are going to fight!"

Guyard knew that a fight with the powerful creatures from the Land of
Darkness would mean annihilation for the Earthians. But there was no
other apparent way.

He turned again to the steel giant, his eyes misty. "Had Zurk not
failed us," he said, "I should have built a hundred more like him.
Insulated against the shock of the voltage guns, a hundred men of
steel could have marched into the Land of Darkness and crushed our
captors--wiped them out!"

Marene, too, had turned to look at the giant. She went forward now,
raised one of the huge hands and let it fall with a metallic, squeaking
"z-zzurk." Long ago, as a small child, she had done that same thing,
and because of the sound had named the giant "Zurk."

She stood looking up into the expressionless eyes. When she spoke, her
voice was like that of a small girl talking to a disobedient doll. "You
must not fail us now, Zurk. We need you. You must help us!"

Guyard went to her and put an arm about her shoulders. "It's no use,"
he said. "I've tried day after day. He makes no move."

"But I'm certain he understands you," insisted the girl. "Sometimes I
am certain I have caught a glow in his eyes. A glow of understanding."

"He _does_ understand me!" Guyard was staring into the eyes again,
tense with emotion. "His brain is a part of my very own! I have
nurtured that brain with my own thoughts. I have trained it."

Then he shook his head slowly. "But it's no use. It is too late. One of
him would not be enough. There is no time to build more."

Guyard was so busy with his own thoughts that he did not hear the scaly
sound of feet upon the ladder leading up into the laboratory. He did
not see the bone-crested head that came slowly up above the level of
the floor behind him.

His first indication of danger was a green-smeared arm that whipped
about Marene and jerked her roughly away from him.

Guyard's hand raked at his belt as he wheeled about. But the gun was
not in his belt. Marene had taken it from him, had placed it beneath
her own short coat. He was unarmed.

Four of the creatures were already in the room, Zuldi among them. More
were coming up through the trap door.

Guyard knew that he was facing death, a hideous death. Zuldi and his
monsters would gleefully claw him to pieces, throw him into the street.

One of the creatures charged him suddenly with huge arms and clawed
hands outstretched.
