
Desperation and a sense of his own helplessness surged through Guyard.
It gave him a mad strength beyond all reason. His balled fist lashed
out with all the fury that twelve horrible years of hatred could give
it. The flesh and bone of the beast's face fairly exploded into gory
pulp as the blow landed.

At almost the same instant, another clawed hand grasped Guyard by the
shoulder and sent him spinning backward to land with a crash against
the table at the far side of the room. It was Zuldi.

Guyard stood leaning against the table, dazed and shaken.

He heard Marene's scream and saw the two creatures forcing her down
through the trap door. They would not harm her. They would let her live
for a worse fate. The black ship would be coming in less than two weeks.

"We saw you open the window a while ago. That's what brought us up."
Zuldi was standing before him, his huge, round mouth with its yellow
teeth hanging open in pleasure. "I'm so glad we came. Two examples in
the same morning is more than I had hoped for."

Guyard's hand closed over a heavy wrench upon the table behind him. He
had no hope of winning through; his only desire was to take Zuldi with
him in death.

One of the guards saw the act, shouted a warning and hastily drew his
voltage gun.

With a mad cry upon his lips, Guyard sprang forward with wrench
swinging. Zuldi's evil face was before him. Guyard wanted to smash it,
obliterate it.

But the wrench never reached its mark. A crackling flame filled the
room. Guyard was spun half way around as the full charge of the
voltage gun caught him high in the right side of his chest and filled
his whole body with a burning agony.

The wrench dropped to the floor. His arms became leaden things that
hung heavily at his sides. He stood there gasping for air. Completely
burned out inside, he had but a few seconds left. Only his brain seemed
to be alive.

Zuldi was before him, his hideous face black with anger beneath its
smeared green. "So!" he hissed. "You would dare to strike!" His clawed
hand flashed out to rake down the face and chest of the helpless man.

Guyard felt no pain. His whole body was numb, dying. He stood there
while Zuldi tore at him, stood there staring straight into the eyes of
the great steel giant.

"Zurk!" The thought-wave went out with all the power of his brain.
"_Zurk! You've ... you've got to save ... Marene!_"

For some reason, he felt closer to that steel-cased brain than he had
ever felt before. He saw the light in the giant's eyes change almost
imperceptibly. And he felt thought-waves hammering at his own brain.
Zurk, even at the last moment, was trying to tell him something. But
the message was garbled, incoherent.

Then his tortured lungs could breathe no longer. His legs crumpled
painlessly beneath him and he went sprawling forward to come to rest
with one arm flung out across a steel foot.

The next instant was a frightful one. It was filled with agony,
bewilderment and awful blackness. It seemed to Guyard that something
was reaching out for him, something that was struggling to wrest him
away from the void of nothingness.

Then there was a sudden peace--and silence.
