
The dim walls of the laboratory slowly took form. They seemed to
grow out of nothingness. Gradually they began to take on a definite
shape and brightness. Other objects in the room became clear-cut and
distinct. And sound vibrations floated in.

Guyard was puzzled. He thought he must be awakening from some
nightmare. Perhaps, after all, Zuldi and his men had been but a bad
dream.

No! There was blood upon the floor of the laboratory! The electric
furnace that had once been upon the table was gone, had been torn away!
The wrench still lay where it had fallen from his nerveless fingers!

He was dead! His body had been thrown into the street! And yet....

Guyard was more bewildered than ever. His body was dead! And yet he
could see! His consciousness was still alive!

For a long moment, he wondered. Then the realization of what had
happened came to him with a startling clearness. During his last moment
of life, he had been sending a message to Zurk's brain, had been in
the closest harmony with it. And during that last moment, his own
consciousness, released by the death of his body, had leaped the gap
between those two closely related brains!

_He was now occupying Zurk's brain! He was now Zurk!_

The thought of it thrilled him. He saw his barrel-like chest of steel,
his huge arms, his extended, powerful legs.

He would kill Zuldi now!

But first he would go to Marene. He would tell her that he was still
alive. He would explain to her the transformation that had taken place.

He would go ... now....

His thoughts broke off suddenly. Something was wrong. He had willed to
rise. But his great body had not responded.

Half frightened, he tried again with all the force of his new-found
brain.

A tiny vibration at the back of his neck became increasingly painful.
The vibration grew quickly in intensity until it became a searing flame
of agony, a searing flame that robbed him of his strength and sent the
walls of the laboratory floating away into darkness.

It seemed to Zurk--or Guyard--that it was hours before the energy
rebuilt itself within the steel frame.

He knew now where the trouble was. One of the hundred tiny wires at the
back of his neck was loose; it was shorting his energy through the huge
body.

That was the message Zurk had been trying to get through to him even
at the last moment! That was what had kept the man of steel immobile
through the years!

One tiny, thread-like wire had cheated a thousand Earthians from their
freedom! And there was nothing to be done!

The trap door opened slowly some time later, and Marene came up into
the room. Her eyes were hollow and sad, but she seemed even more
beautiful.

Zurk could not feel the hot tears that coursed down over the steel hand
that Marene was holding against her soft cheek; but he could hear the
sweet vibrations of her voice.

"Zurk. Oh, Zurk!" She was sobbing quietly against the hand she held.
"You're ... you're the only one I have left now."

She raised her head and choked back the tears. "Forgive me, Zurk," she
pleaded, "and please understand...."

The transformed Zurk would have given anything to let her know that he
understood. As it was, he struggled with all his might to give her some
sign of understanding, struggled until the small flame at the back of
his neck grew white hot and sent him reeling into an oblivion filled
with blackness.

When light rays and sound vibrations again began streaming into his
consciousness, Marene had gone.

He didn't know how much time had elapsed since Zuldi's visit. Maybe a
day. Maybe a week. Soon the black ship would be coming....

The thought of that black ship and what it meant sent Zurk into another
frantic struggle against the thing at the back of his neck. Time and
time again he struggled until blackness overcame him.
