
Once, when consciousness returned to him, he became aware of two people
standing before him looking up at him.

One was Marene. The other was a slim youth a year or two older than she.

"Too bad he doesn't work," the young man was saying. "He would be such
a help in the fight that is soon to come."

"Yes," said Marene. Her voice was hopeful. "Perhaps you could find out
what is wrong with him."

A ray of hope flashed through Zurk. If the young man could find the
loose wire at the back of his neck....

But the young man was shaking his head. "There is not time enough
for that," he said. "It would take weeks to go over that intricate
mechanism. As it is, I have only time enough to get the gun assembled
and placed."

Zurk watched Marene lead the young man to the table at the end of the
room near the window. She pressed a button, and a small door slid open
in the floor beneath the table to expose two neatly coiled electrodes.

The young man's face lighted. "Just the thing," he said. "With that
electrical power, my gun is bound to be a success!"

"But it's dangerous," warned Marene. "Zuldi knows of this laboratory."

"I doubt if he'll come back. He'll probably believe that no one would
dare to use this laboratory again." A shadow of doubt came across the
young man's face. "But I can't understand how it happened that Zuldi
tore out the electric furnace in which your father built the guns but
failed to molest Zurk."

Zurk could have told him. The answer was somewhere back in his
sub-conscious mind. Zuldi had considered the metal giant as being
but some Earthian god, a powerless entity. He had spat upon the god
contemptuously and had left it standing.

Marene's hand was upon the young man's arm and she was looking up into
his eyes. "Bob," she said earnestly, "your gun _must_ be a success!
It is not just for our own sakes; there are a thousand other lives
depending upon it."

Bob put his hand over hers. "It _will_ be a success!" he promised.
Then, "But we've got to hurry. If they come a day earlier.... If they
should happen to come tomorrow...."

He left the sentence unfinished, gave Marene's hand a reassuring
squeeze and hurried to the trap door that led down from the attic
laboratory.

Guyard was shocked to find that the two weeks was nearly up, was
surprised to learn that his struggles against the thing at the back
of his neck had sent him into such long periods of blackness. But the
passing of time made one thing clear to him: it explained why he now
constantly thought of himself not as Guyard, the man, but as Zurk, the
giant of steel!

The bustle of work in the laboratory made Zurk almost forget his
helplessness. Time and time again, the young man hurried into the room
to take molded pieces of steel from beneath his coat and to pile them
upon the table before Marene.

"Now!" he said finally. "Now if we can get them assembled in time!"

He took off his coat and set to work with the hopeful energy of youth.

"It's one of the blast rockets from the spaceship that brought us
here," he explained. "The rockets get their power by disintegrating the
atoms of fuel within their chambers. If we can change the procedure a
bit, if we can get the disintegrating principle to work at long range
instead of being confined merely to the fuel chamber."

Zurk got the idea instantly. A disintegrator! The youth was
constructing a long-range disintegrator with which to blow the black
ship out of the sky! The thrill of it coursed through his brain. The
Earthians were going to fight! They were going to make a last stand
against the Creatures of Darkness.

But he, Zurk, would be powerless to help.
