
Through the long hours of the day and night, Zurk sat there watching
the two youngsters at their toil. They were working against time now,
struggling for the right of freedom and happiness.

But Zuldi might come. He might come before the gun was finished. Or he
might come before the arrival of the black ship.

Hours later, Bob made the final adjustments on the machine and stepped
back to look at it. His face was pale and his hands trembled slightly
with excitement.

"Now to test it!" he told Marene. "And ... and I hope it works!"

He turned the long snout of the gun toward the open window, connected
the electrodes and made final adjustments.

"Wait!" Marene placed a hand upon his arm. A sudden fear had come into
her sparkling eyes. "If the gun makes a flash or a vibration of any
kind, Zuldi will be sure to know. He will come here immediately!"

Bob paused. "That's right," he said finally. Then, "But we've _got_ to
test it! We can't wait until the black ship comes! We've got to be
_sure_!"

They stood there for a moment gazing into each other's eyes. Then Bob
put his arm about her and drew her to him. "It doesn't matter so much
about us," he told her. "We are doomed anyway. It's your father and my
father and all the others in the city that we must think about! It is
they...."

He broke off short, his lips tight and his eyes blazing out of the
window toward the far-away, dark horizon from whence the black ship
would come. Several giant birds were soaring lazily through the pale
sky.

The young man seemed much older as he stood there. Zurk saw the lines
of care in the cleanly cut face. And, at last, he recognized the youth.
Bob Simms. The son of Captain Simms whose dead body had been dragged
through the dusty streets by Zuldi and his men.

"We've got to test it!" the young man said again.

Zurk saw him put his shoulder determinedly against the piece and wheel
the snout of it toward one of the soaring birds just outside the window.

Zurk's photo-electric eyes saw the vibration of the charge slit through
the pale sky scant inches from the bird as the youth pressed the
release.

But Bob had not seen that tell-tale vibration. He had seen only that
the bird before him remained unharmed. The bitterness of defeat showed
in his face.

"Try again," urged Marene.

Once again, the youth aimed the gun and pressed the release with
trembling fingers.

And once again Zurk's eyes saw the vibration miss its mark by inches.
But he saw something else. He saw something no human eyes could see.
Miles away on the far horizon, he saw another giant bird caught
squarely by the charge. The bird disolved instantly into a smoky haze
as every atom within it suddenly lost its valence.

Zurk could have cried out with satisfaction had it not been for the
tiny wire that shorted itself with white heat at the back of his neck.

It made him realize once more his complete helplessness.

Marene and the young man were standing there looking dejectedly at the
gun. "It won't work," Bob groaned. "I've got to take it apart. I've got
to try again."

Zurk tried with all his might to tell the young man that the gun was a
success. He tried until blackness sought to engulf him.

Then his delicate ears picked up a sound vibration that sent a chill
through his brain. He could hear the hurried scrape of many clawed feet
in the street below.

Zuldi and his men! They had detected the vibration of the gun! They
were hurrying to investigate!

And there was something else. Far above the distant horizon was a black
speck that grew suddenly larger as it leaped forward through the pale
sky.

The black ship! It was coming a day ahead of schedule!
