
Zurk struggled desperately to warn the two who stood there in the attic
laboratory. He tried to warn them of the black ship and of Zuldi and
his guards who were even now within the house.

But his struggles were in vain. The hot pain stabbed deep into the back
of his neck, robbing him of his strength. The walls of the room reeled
and faded before his waning eyes.

He knew that further struggle was useless. It would only send him
plunging deeper into that awful blackness. Anyway, he seemed not to
have the strength to struggle more.

He sat there motionless and terror stricken while the scene unfolded
before his eyes.

Bob and Marene had caught sight of the ship. It had come to a hovering
stop just outside the window, its black hull seeming to fill the whole
sky. A long ladder had been let down from one of its open ports and
Creatures of Darkness were filing down into the city.

Soon those evil monsters would be ferreting out the healthy youth of
the city.

Zurk, powerless to stop them or to shout a warning, watched Zuldi and
his men come quickly up into the laboratory through the trap door.

Neither Bob nor Marene saw their danger. Marene was staring fearfully
out at the black ship and Bob was working frantically with the gun.

"If we can blast the ship out of the sky," Bob was saying. "If we can
kill the creatures already in the city, get their voltage guns...."

Bob never finished his hopes. A giant, clawed hand clutched him by the
shoulder at that moment and spun him back and away from the gun, spun
him back and away until he nearly collided with Zurk's steel frame.

Zurk felt the strain and horror of it all driving him deeper into
blackness.

Zuldi's hideous face was twisted into an anticipatory smirk. He took a
slow, deliberate step closer to the young man.

"You Earthians will never learn," he hissed. His clawed fingers were
writhing nervously. "But one more example will not hurt. You know the
penalty."

Bob's jaws were clamped tightly. His whole body was trembling with pent
rage and hate. He stood there looking steadily into the beast's eyes,
waiting.

"One less youth in the shipment to the other side will make little
difference," Zuldi smirked. "The blood we have taken in the past is
nearly enough for our needs. The transfusions have rendered my people
almost immune from the ravages of heat and light rays."

His red eyes were glowing behind their protective glasses. His heavy
lips were twisting gloatingly. "Soon we shall be able to leave the Land
of Darkness. Soon we shall conquer new lands."

His eyes narrowed and he took a sudden step forward, clawed hands
extended. "And we shall have no further use for Earthians!"

"Damn you!" Bob's set face was livid with emotion. "Damn you!" he
shouted again. "You'll never live to kill another Earthian!"

His hand swept into the open front of his shirt and came out again with
one of the hand guns Zurk--or Guyard--had made in the secret furnace.
In one swift motion, he leveled the gun at Zuldi's huge chest and
squeezed the trigger.

The crash of the explosion jarred against Zurk's ears with a shattering
force that drove some of the blackness from his brain. He saw
immediately that the charge had not reached its intended mark.

One of the other creatures, at sight of the gun, had leaped suddenly
forward--to receive the heavy slug in his own chest.

The bullet did not stop him. His momentum carried his dead body forward
to crash into Bob, to knock the gun from his hand and to send him
spinning and stumbling backward.

Zuldi laughed, and drew his voltage gun.

During that split second, a thousand other vibrations smashed into
Zurk's hot brain. He heard bedlam break loose in the streets below. The
Earthians were fighting!

Mingled with the crash of the hand guns and the slithering vibrations
of the voltage weapons were cries, groans, shouts and curses. And over
it all came the sudden, high-pitched whine of the black ship's radio, a
whine to the far side of the moon for help.

Soon there would be other black ships.

Marene was standing there looking at him, her eyes staring into his
own, pleading with him! Then she turned and made a dash for the
long-snouted gun upon the table, only to be dragged away from it by two
of the monsters.

Zurk knew that the last, insane episode had come. This was to be the
last of the Earthians! And if he were ever going to come to their aid,
he must do it now.
