
He threw all the power of his giant frame into the will to stand, into
the will to rise up and to slay these evil creatures about him.

He tried to ignore the stabbing pain at his back, tried to believe it
did not exist. He hurled forth his energy in wave after wave until the
flame became a consuming thing that ate deep within him and filled his
brain with the shadows of dark despair.

Through that creeping blackness, he saw Bob Simms frantically try to
evade the sweep of Zuldi's weapon. He felt the young man stumble over
one of his helpless, steel feet, felt him stagger against his metal
knee and fall.

And at almost the same instant the blast from Zuldi's voltage gun went
crashing through the room.

Zurk saw the streak of the charge as it passed just above the fallen
youth and felt the full, deadly shock of it strike squarely into his
own huge chest of steel with a force that quaked the whole of his giant
frame.

Then came deep silence. It seemed that all time had suddenly stopped.

Zuldi and the other creatures were standing there staring at him, their
bulging eyes terror-stricken.

The vibration of Marene's sudden cry swept against his ears. "_Zurk!
You are free!_"

He realized then what had happened. His steel frame had taken the full
stock of Zuldi's voltage gun. And that shock had burned off the wire
that had been shorting his energy at the back of his neck!

He was standing there on his own two feet! He was moving his head! He
was free!

Withering blasts from a half dozen voltage guns tore suddenly into his
steel body, rocking him on his feet. But he didn't care. He was free!

A savage cry came from his steel throat as he brushed aside the
creatures and their guns. He went directly to the opening in the floor,
put his heavy foot against the trap door and kicked it shut with a
splintering crash that wedged it tightly home.

Then he turned slowly about to face Zuldi and the creatures. There was
no escape for them now!

From outside, came the sound of successive, powerful blasts. The black
ship was bringing its heavy guns into action, was bombarding the city.

Zurk caught two of the creatures as a great cat would catch mice. Their
gibbering death-cries filled his ears with pleasure as he smashed their
heads together and flung their lifeless bodies against the wall.

"The disintegrator!" he shouted to Bob. "Knock that ship out of the
sky! This will be a fight they will remember!"

His steel fist crashed into the evil brain of another.

Then came a roaring bolt of destruction more powerful than all the
others. It struck the corner of the attic, quaked the building to its
foundations and sent one wall of the laboratory swirling away in a
burst of flying debris.

Two of the trapped creatures sprang out of the opening, screaming.
Zuldi would have followed had not Zurk clutched him up in his huge
hands. Slowly, the man of steel twisted the evil creature's head about
in a complete circle. Then he raised the lifeless body high into the
air and cast it down into the dust of the street below.

[Illustration: _His great steel hand shot out and seized Zuldi's scaly
neck._]

He turned to find Marene and Bob standing beside the gun. Marene was
sobbing quietly. Bob was staring bewilderedly at the dangling end of
one of the electrodes he held in his hands.

"The blast from the ship!" he cried. "The blast from the ship carried
away one of the electrodes! We are without power for the disintegrator!"

Zurk took the severed cable into his own hands. He saw immediately
that repairs were out of the question. A long section had been blasted
away between the floor and the gun. And the disintegrator was useless
without power!

Another blast from the black ship shuddered the laboratory and brought
answering sparks from Zurk's steel shell.

Then he knew! The solution came startlingly clear to his brain. He
would make the connection with his own metal body!
