
I finished my beer and clapped my hands for Mouley. "How do you mean,
_where we're going_?"

"Well, take half the countries in the world today. They're trying to
industrialize, modernize, catch up with the advanced countries. Look at
Egypt, and Israel, and India and China, and Yugoslavia and Brazil, and
all the rest. Trying to drag themselves up to the level of the advanced
countries, and all using different methods of doing it. But look at the
so-called advanced countries. Up to their bottoms in problems. Juvenile
delinquents, climbing crime and suicide rates, the loony-bins full of
the balmy, unemployed, threat of war, spending all their money on
armaments instead of things like schools. All the bloody mess of it.
Why, a man from Mars would be fascinated, like."

Mouley came shuffling up in his babouche slippers and we both ordered
another schooner of beer.

Paul said seriously, "You know, there's only one big snag in this sort
of talk. I've sorted the whole thing out before, and you always come up
against this brick wall. Where are they, these observers, or scholars,
or spies or whatever they are? Sooner or later we'd nab one of them.
You know, Scotland Yard, or the F.B.I., or Russia's secret police, or
the French Surete, or Interpol. This world is so deep in police,
counter-espionage outfits and security agents that an alien would slip
up in time, no matter how much he'd been trained. Sooner or later, he'd
slip up, and they'd nab him."

I shook my head. "Not necessarily. The first time I ever considered this
possibility, it seemed to me that such an alien would base himself in
London or New York. Somewhere where he could use the libraries for
research, get the daily newspapers and the magazines. Be right in the
center of things. But now I don't think so. I think he'd be right here
in Tangier."

"Why Tangier?"

"It's the one town in the world where anything goes. Nobody gives a damn
about you or your affairs. For instance, I've known you a year or more
now, and I haven't the slightest idea of how you make your living."

"That's right," Paul admitted. "In this town you seldom even ask a man
where's he's from. He can be British, a White Russian, a Basque or a
Sikh and nobody could care less. Where are _you_ from, Rupert?"

"California," I told him.

"No, you're not," he grinned.

I was taken aback. "What do you mean?"

"I felt your mind probe back a few minutes ago when I was talking about
Scotland Yard or the F.B.I. possibly flushing an alien. Telepathy is a
sense not trained by the humanoids. If they had it, your job--and
mine--would be considerably more difficult. Let's face it, in spite of
these human bodies we're disguised in, neither of us is humanoid. Where
are you really from, Rupert?"

"Aldebaran," I said. "How about you?"

"Deneb," he told me, shaking.

We had a laugh and ordered another beer.

"What're you doing here on Earth?" I asked him.

"Researching for one of our meat trusts. We're protein eaters. Humanoid
flesh is considered quite a delicacy. How about you?"

"Scouting the place for thrill tourists. My job is to go around to these
backward cultures and help stir up inter-tribal, or international,
conflicts--all according to how advanced they are. Then our tourists
come in--well shielded, of course--and get their kicks watching it."

Paul frowned. "That sort of practice could spoil an awful lot of good
meat."


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ December 1960.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



