
Stryker looked dubious. "What if the issue is forced before the ZIT unit
is repaired? Suppose they come up after us?"

"I doubt that they can. Any installation crudely enough equipped to
trust in guided missiles is hardly likely to have developed efficient
space craft."

Stryker was not reassured.

"That torpedo of theirs was deadly enough," he said. "And its nature
reflects the nature of the people who made it. Any race vicious enough
to use atomic charges is too dangerous to trifle with." Worry made
comical creases in his fat, good-humored face. "We'll have to find out
who they are and why they're here, you know."

"They can't be Hymenops," Gibson said promptly. "First, because the Bees
pinned their faith on Ringwave energy fields, as we did, rather than on
missiles. Second, because there's no dome on Six."

"There were three empty domes on Five, which is a desert planet,"
Farrell pointed out. "Why didn't they settle Six? It's a more habitable
world."

Gibson shrugged. "I know the Bees always erected domes on every planet
they colonized, Arthur, but precedent is a fallible tool. And it's even
more firmly established that there's no possibility of our rationalizing
the motivations of a culture as alien as the Hymenops'--we've been over
that argument a hundred times on other reclaimed worlds."

"But this was never an unreclaimed world," Farrell said with the faint
malice of one too recently caught in the wrong. "Alphard Six was
surveyed and seeded with Terran bacteria around the year 3000, but the
Bees invaded before we could colonize. And that means we'll have to rule
out any resurgent colonial group down there, because Six never had a
colony in the beginning."

"The Bees have been gone for over a hundred years," Stryker said.
"Colonists might have migrated from another Terran-occupied planet."

Gibson disagreed.

"We've touched at every inhabited world in this sector, Lee, and not one
surviving colony has developed space travel on its own. The Hymenops had
a hundred years to condition their human slaves to ignorance of
everything beyond their immediate environment--the motives behind that
conditioning usually escape us, but that's beside the point--and they
did a thorough job of it. The colonists have had no more than a century
of freedom since the Bees pulled out, and four generations simply isn't
enough time for any subjugated culture to climb from slavery to
interstellar flight."

Stryker made a padding turn about the control room, tugging unhappily at
the scanty fringe of hair the years had left him.

"If they're neither Hymenops nor resurgent colonists," he said, "then
there's only one choice remaining--they're aliens from a system we
haven't reached yet, beyond the old sphere of Terran exploration. We
always assumed that we'd find other races out here someday, and that
they'd be as different from us in form and motivation as the Hymenops.
Why not now?"

Gibson said seriously, "Not probable, Lee. The same objection that rules
out the Bees applies to any trans-Alphardian culture--they'd have to be
beyond the atomic fission stage, else they'd never have attempted
interstellar flight. The Ringwave with its Zero Interval Transfer
principle and instantaneous communications applications is the only
answer to long-range travel, and if they'd had that they wouldn't have
bothered with atomics."

Stryker turned on him almost angrily. "If they're not Hymenops or humans
or aliens, then what in God's name _are_ they?"
