
Farrell could not have said, later, whether his next move was planned or
reflexive. The whole desperate issue seemed to hang suspended for a
breathless moment upon a hair-fine edge of decision, and in that instant
he made his bid.

Without pausing in his stride he sprang out and through the port and
down the steep plane of the ramp. The rough stone pavement of the square
drummed underfoot; sore muscles tore at him, and weakness was like a
weight about his neck. He expected momentarily to be blasted out of
existence.

He reached the _Marco Four_ with the startled shouts of his guide
ringing unintelligibly in his ears. The port yawned; he plunged inside
and stabbed at controls without waiting to seat himself. The ports swung
shut. The ship darted up under his manipulation and arrowed into space
with an acceleration that sprung his knees and made his vision swim
blackly.

He was so weak with strain and with the success of his coup that he all
but fainted when Stryker, his scanty hair tousled and his fat face
comical with bewilderment, stumbled out of his sleeping cubicle and
bellowed at him.

"What the hell are you doing, Arthur? Take us down!"

Farrell gaped at him, speechless.

Stryker lumbered past him and took the controls, spiraling the _Marco
Four_ down. Men swarmed outside the ports when the Reclamations craft
settled gently to the square again. Gibson and Xavier reached the ship
first; Gibson came inside quickly, leaving the mechanical outside making
patient explanations to an excited group of Alphardians.

Gibson put a reassuring hand on Farrell's arm. "It's all right, Arthur.
There's no trouble."

Farrell said dumbly, "I don't understand. They didn't shoot you and Xav
down too?"

It was Gibson's turn to stare.

"No one shot you down! These people are primitive enough to use metallic
power lines to carry electricity to their hamlets, an anachronism you
forgot last night. You piloted the helihopper into one of those lines,
and the crash put you out for the rest of the night and most of today.
These Alphardians are friendly, so desperately happy to be found again
that it's really pathetic."

"_Friendly?_ That torpedo--"

"It wasn't a torpedo at all," Stryker put in. Understanding of the error
under which Farrell had labored erased his earlier irritation, and he
chuckled commiseratingly. "They had one small boat left for emergency
missions, and sent it up to contact us in the fear that we might
overlook their settlement and move on. The boat was atomic powered, and
our shield screens set off its engines."

Farrell dropped into a chair at the chart table, limp with reaction. He
was suddenly exhausted, and his head ached dully.

"We cracked the communications problem early last night," Gibson said.
"These people use an ancient system of electromagnetic wave propagation
called frequency modulation, and once Lee and I rigged up a suitable
transceiver the rest was simple. Both Xav and I recognized the old
language; the natives reported your accident, and we came down at once."

"They really came from Terra? They lived through a thousand years of
flight?"

"The ship left Terra for Sirius in 2171," Gibson said. "But not with
these people aboard, or their ancestors. That expedition perished after
less than a light-year when its hydroponics system failed. The Hymenops
found the ship derelict when they invaded us, and brought it to Alphard
Six in what was probably their first experiment with human subjects. The
ship's log shows clearly what happened to the original complement. The
rest is deducible from the situation here."

Farrell put his hands to his temples and groaned. "The crash must have
scrambled my wits. Gib, where _did_ they come from?"

"From one of the first peripheral colonies conquered by the Bees,"
Gibson said patiently. "The Hymenops were long-range planners,
remember, and masters of hypnotic conditioning. They stocked the ship
with a captive crew of Terrans conditioned to believe themselves
descendants of the original crew, and grounded it here in disabled
condition. They left for Alphard Five then, to watch developments.

"Succeeding generations of colonists grew up accepting the fact that
their ship had missed Sirius and made planetfall here--they still don't
know where they really are--by luck. They never knew about the Hymenops,
and they've struggled along with an inadequate technology in the hope
that a later expedition would find them. They found the truth hard to
take, but they're eager to enjoy the fruits of Terran assimilation."

Stryker, grinning, brought Farrell a frosted drink that tinkled
invitingly. "An unusually fortunate ending to a Hymenop experiment," he
said. "These people progressed normally because they've been let alone.
Reorienting them will be a simple matter; they'll be properly spoiled
colonists within another generation."

Farrell sipped his drink appreciatively.

"But I don't see why the Bees should go to such trouble to deceive these
people. Why did they sit back and let them grow as they pleased, Gib? It
doesn't make sense!"

"But it does, for once," Gibson said. "The Bees set up this colony as a
control unit to study the species they were invading, and they had to
give their specimens a normal--if obsolete--background in order to
determine their capabilities. The fact that their experiment didn't tell
them what they wanted to know may have had a direct bearing on their
decision to pull out."

Farrell shook his head. "It's a reverse application, isn't it of the old
saw about Terrans being incapable of understanding an alien culture?"

"Of course," said Gibson, surprised. "It's obvious enough, surely--hard
as they tried, the Bees never understood us either."


THE END

[Illustration]




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Science Fiction Stories_
    January 1960. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.



