
He'd landed blind, in dust so thick he didn't know he was down till he
got there. For forty-eight hours he'd lain where he fell, waiting for a
lull in the storm so he could see the ship.

When the wind finally quit, the ship was already half buried. Thirsty,
hungry, stinking in the hot suit, George had staggered over windrow
after windrow of dust to reach it.

He'd broken out an emergency-jug of water, found some uncontaminated
food, erected within the hull a small gas-proof tent, and then passed
out before he could crawl in the tent to eat and drink.

Later he'd gone out while the lull continued, to search for bodies.
Like the hull itself, they were scattered over a wide area. Some were
already buried in dust. The wind had buried them.

The wind--the murdering wind. The wind of formaldehyde that poisoned
every drop of water it touched, every bit of food. The wind that
limited George's supplies to unbroken containers--of which there were
tragically few.

The wind mocked him, then and thereafter. It mocked his efforts to find
the ship's log and continue it. It mocked his efforts to live.

He tried to fight back. He lay prone and relaxed because that took less
oxygen. He lay in the suit and not in the tent because that took less
oxygen. He ate and drank but once a day because that took less oxygen.

So he had run out of water while there were still some potassium oxides
left to refresh his thrice-breathed air, some oxygen for the tent.

George Main wanted to live, knew he would die. And was enraged at the
thought that he would die without having accomplished anything. He and
his friends, and the pioneering scientists back of them, had put too
much effort into trans-System travel to have it all come to nothing
like this.

Stubbornly he noted in the log that he was now dehydrated to the point
of occasional delirium. And that he hated the wind.

As if that wind had not already done enough, it now sought to destroy
his last remaining moments of sanity. It brought a horde of odd shapes
to haunt him.

The shapes literally rolled into the dust-filled metal cavity where he
lay writing. The wind rolled them. But when they got into shelter--had
rolled to one side or the other of the holes through which they'd
come--the shapes began to move, slowly, under their own power.

They all looked alike. There were a couple of dozen, maybe--George
counted ten and gave up because counting was too much like work. They
were teardrops--eight-inch yellow teardrops with the point down.
And each point rested on an extensible foot that looked like a blue
starfish, about four inches across its seven points.

They came in, rolling along the ground as the wind took them, and then
extended their stars from some hidden place and moved on them when out
of the wind.

That is, they seemed to. But whether they were in the hull or in his
mind, George was by no means sure.

Nothing could live in this wind. Nothing could live on a planet with
no water, where the air was full of formaldehyde ready to react with
proteins, the basis of life.

He lay motionless, watching idly. There was no sound but the wind. The
yellow teardrops scattered out. They could have been exploring--or
seeking shelter--or nonexistent.

When he got tired of watching them, George put the log aside and slept.
