
He awoke to find a small congregation of teardrops surrounding the
watch strapped outside the suit on his left wrist. The watch was
going--wound through habit every twenty-four hours, though that was but
a third of a day, here on Venus. The teardrops were curious about it.

How he got the idea they were curious, George didn't quite know. They
seemed attracted to it, was all. There were no eyes, so far as he
could tell--no ears. If these things had senses, they were not like
terrestrial senses. But the teardrops did have an attitude of attention.

George removed his watch, laid it before them. Two teardrops detached
themselves from the group to examine his right hand, with which he'd
slipped off the wrist-band. Three others perched on the dust-covered
deck, the watch between them and him.

George flexed his right hand, twiddled his fingers. The teardrops
seemed unafraid. He chose one and lifted it. It seemed light in weight.
Its star-foot was slightly prehensile, and grasped his glove with tiny
claws arranged in rows on its bottom surface.

The claws seemed for clinging, not for seizing. George put down the
teardrop, turned it over, and found no opening anywhere on the surface.
If these things lived, he decided, they must be plants, synthesizing
their food--they had no way to eat as animals do.

Vaguely, George made up his wavering mind that the things existed
outside his imagination. They were alive. They felt curiosity about
him. Leathery, he found them--hard and smooth, except for the foot.

When he set down the teardrop he'd been examining, the three by his
watch took up a rhythmic motion. The center one stood in place,
swaying slowly above the watch like a bit of seaweed in a quiet lagoon.

Each of the other two had somehow obtained a pebble. They set their
pebbles down near the watch. Each then tapped with a star-point, first
at the pebble, then at the watch. Back and forth they swayed, their
motions synchronized--perhaps directed by the center one.

Interesting--but meaningless. It was equally meaningless when the two
teardrops at his right began to dance. They found an empty food-can
lid, pushed it near his hand, and began a concerted swaying and
pointing that took them between hand and can.

Idly, George led the dance with a waggled forefinger. The teardrops
promptly changed their motion. They stood in place, no longer pointing
alternately at lid and finger, but swaying between them in time with
George.

[Illustration: _Idly, George led the dance with a waggled
forefinger...._]

They were slow, though--he could easily have left them behind. But if
he moved his finger slowly enough, they kept perfect time.

The dance at the watch had stopped. Many teardrops gathered around the
pair that followed the beat of his right index finger.

It must have amused them. But it soon tired George. He stopped.

He needed all his remaining energy to think with. He knew these
teardrops were sentient. They were curious, they communicated with each
other, and they danced. They had minds, therefore.
