
George remembered hearing that Man had danced even before he learned
to speak, in a primitive effort to express his feelings. He knew some
birds dance, too--as a courtship procedure. Insects, even.

But why did the teardrops dance?

What was the significance of rhythmic motion between a pebble and a
watch? A tin lid and a man's hand? What did the pebbles mean?

The pebble was a native object, known to be lifeless, inanimate. The
watch was a strange something that moved. The can-lid did not move.
The hand--gloved, though they could not know that--was an object that
moved.

The dance was a question, therefore. Alive, or dead? The teardrops
wanted to know. Is the watch that moves by itself alive? The strangely
symmetrical lid of a can, is it alive? The oddshaped hand?

These teardrops had good minds--could grasp abstractions. In a sense,
George felt, the difference between animate and inanimate objects is an
abstraction. In his dying state, the notion amused him.

Smiling, he placed a pebble on the watch, another on the lid. He sat
up, moved his weakened body so they could perhaps tell it was a unit.
He picked up a teardrop in each hand, held them at his visor, rolled
his eyes, and opened and shut his mouth. He spoke to them. He sang to
them. He swayed with them to show he too could dance.

They made no sign of reply. None that he could recognize, at any rate.

Carefully he felt and looked at the entire surface of a teardrop,
putting one down to devote both hands to the other. He thought perhaps
the lack of organs and openings might simply mean they were clothed or
armored in some way. But the thing was apparently naked. The surfaces
he touched were probably skin. He didn't know.

And they, would they know what a man was? Were they even certain he was
alive?

One of them was behind him, dancing before the tent. Seeing that, he
was certain the teardrops hadn't yet distinguished the animate from the
inanimate in the objects around them here.

And George had little time to teach them. Already he was dull and
listless. His vision was playing tricks on him.

Like as not he'd be dead before they knew for certain he'd been alive.
Dead in the grotesque space-suit. Preserved in an atmosphere of
formaldehyde. His body would seem like a machine that had run down.
There would be no discernable difference between himself and his watch.

But if they knew he'd been alive? They might remember, then. They were
intelligent, could communicate with one another. By rights they should
have some kind of legends or traditions or history. If they did, if
they knew they'd seen alien life, they'd keep the memory alive.

They'd recognize the next man to land on Venus, might find means
to tell of this first expedition. Might lead a man to the buried
space-ship, the bodies, the ship's log.

At least they could defeat the wind. The teardrops could keep his life
and the lives of his mates from going utterly to waste. Whether men
ever found out or not, the teardrops themselves would know that the
expedition had reached Venus.

But first, George had to prove he was alive, like them--not some
strangely mobile meteorite, nor oddly contrived machine.

His very lack of strength, his real nearness to death, provided George
with the means he sought. Already he was half anesthetized by weakness
and shock. He didn't have to worry about pain.

Holding his breath, he took off his helmet. He picked up a teardrop
with each hand, held them to his hot cheeks. Then he let himself
breathe.

He knew the physical changes to follow would be obvious to the
intelligent little dancers he held in his hands. He hoped they wouldn't
get hurt, when they fell.

Hurt or not, they'd soon figure out he'd been alive--once he was
dead....