
Young Blake returned to Providence in the winter of 1934-5, taking
the upper floor of a venerable dwelling in a grassy court off
College Street--on the crest of the great eastward hill near the
Brown University campus and behind the marble John Hay Library.
It was a cozy and fascinating place, in a little garden oasis of
village-like antiquity where huge, friendly cats sunned themselves
atop a convenient shed. The square Georgian house had a monitor roof,
classic doorway with fan carving, small-paned windows, and all the
other earmarks of early Nineteenth Century workmanship. Inside were
six-paneled doors, wide floor-boards, a curving colonial staircase,
white Adam-period mantels, and a rear set of rooms three steps below
the general level.

Blake's study, a large southwest chamber, overlooked the front garden
on one side, while its west windows--before one of which he had his
desk--faced off from the brow of the hill and commanded a splendid view
of the lower town's out-spread roofs and of the mystical sunsets that
flamed behind them. On the far horizon were the open countryside's
purple slopes. Against these, some two miles away, rose the spectral
hump of Federal Hill, bristling with huddled roofs and steeples whose
remote outlines wavered mysteriously, taking fantastic forms as the
smoke of the city swirled up and enmeshed them. Blake had a curious
sense that he was looking upon some unknown, ethereal world which might
or might not vanish in dream if ever he tried to seek it out and enter
it in person.

Having sent home for most of his books, Blake bought some antique
furniture suitable to his quarters and settled down to write and
paint--living alone, and attending to the simple housework himself. His
studio was in a north attic room, where the panes of the monitor roof
furnished admirable lighting. During that first winter he produced five
of his best-known short stories--_The Burrower Beneath_, _The Stairs in
the Crypt_, _Shaggai_, _In the Vale of Pnath_, and _The Feaster from
the Stars_--and painted seven canvases; studies of nameless, unhuman
monsters, and profoundly alien, non-terrestrial landscapes.

At sunset he would often sit at his desk and gaze dreamily off at
the out-spread west--the dark towers of Memorial Hall just below,
the Georgian court-house belfry, the lofty pinnacles of the downtown
section, and that shimmering, spire-crowned mound in the distance whose
unknown streets and labyrinthine gables so potently provoked his fancy.
From his few local acquaintances he learned that the far-off slope
was a vast Italian quarter, though most of the houses were remnants
of older Yankee and Irish days. Now and then he would train his
field-glasses on that spectral, unreachable world beyond the curling
smoke; picking out individual roofs and chimneys and steeples, and
speculating upon the bizarre and curious mysteries they might house.
Even with optical aid Federal Hill seemed somehow alien, half fabulous,
and linked to the unreal, intangible marvels of Blake's own tales and
pictures. The feeling would persist long after the hill had faded into
the violet, lamp-starred twilight, and the court-house floodlights
and the red Industrial Trust beacon had blazed up to make the night
grotesque.

Of all the distant objects on Federal Hill, a certain huge, dark church
most fascinated Blake. It stood out with especial distinctness at
certain hours of the day, and at sunset the great tower and tapering
steeple loomed blackly against the flaming sky. It seemed to rest
on especially high ground; for the grimy façade, and the obliquely
seen north side with sloping roof and the tops of great pointed
windows, rose boldly above the tangle of surrounding ridgepoles and
chimney-pots. Peculiarly grim and austere, it appeared to be built of
stone, stained and weathered with the smoke and storms of a century
and more. The style, so far as the glass could show, was that earliest
experimental form of Gothic revival which preceded the stately Upjohn
period and held over some of the outlines and proportions of the
Georgian age. Perhaps it was reared around 1810 or 1815.

As the months passed, Blake watched the far-off, forbidding structure
with an oddly mounting interest. Since the vast windows were never
lighted, he knew that it must be vacant. The longer he watched, the
more his imagination worked, till at length he began to fancy curious
things. He believed that a vague, singular aura of desolation hovered
over the place, so that even the pigeons and swallows shunned its smoky
eaves. Around other towers and belfries his glass would reveal great
flocks of birds, but here they never rested. At least, that is what he
thought and set down in his diary. He pointed the place out to several
friends, but none of them had even been on Federal Hill or possessed
the faintest notion of what the church was or had been.
