
There were very few people in the square, but Blake saw a policeman
at the northerly end and approached him with questions about the
church. He was a great wholesome Irishman, and it seemed odd that he
would do little more than make the sign of the cross and mutter that
people never spoke of that building. When Blake pressed him he said
very hurriedly that the Italian priests warned everybody against it,
vowing that a monstrous evil had once dwelt there and left its mark.
He himself had heard dark whispers of it from his father, who recalled
certain sounds and rumors from his boyhood.

There had been a bad sect there in the ould days--an outlaw sect that
called up awful things from some unknown gulf of night. It had taken
a good priest to exorcise what had come, though there did be those
who said that merely the light could do it. If Father O'Malley were
alive there would be many the thing he could tell. But now there was
nothing to do but let it alone. It hurt nobody now, and those that
owned it were dead or far away. They had run away like rats after
the threatening talk in '77, when people began to mind the way folks
vanished now and then in the neighborhood. Some day the city would
step in and take the property for lack of heirs, but little good would
come of anybody's touching it. Better it be left alone for the years
to topple, lest things be stirred that ought to rest for ever in their
black abyss.

After the policeman had gone Blake stood staring at the sullen steepled
pile. It excited him to find that the structure seemed as sinister
to others as to him, and he wondered what grain of truth might lie
behind the old tales the bluecoat had repeated. Probably they were mere
legends evoked by the evil look of the place, but even so, they were
like a strange coming to life of one of his own stories.

The afternoon sun came out from behind dispersing clouds, but seemed
unable to light up the stained, sooty walls of the old temple that
towered on its high plateau. It was odd that the green of spring had
not touched the brown, withered growths in the raised, iron-fenced
yard. Blake found himself edging nearer the raised area and examining
the bank wall and rusted fence for possible avenues of ingress. There
was a terrible lure about the blackened fane which was not to be
resisted. The fence had no opening near the steps, but around on the
north side were some missing bars. He could go up the steps and walk
around on the narrow coping outside the fence till he came to the
gap. If the people feared the place so wildly, he would encounter no
interference.

He was on the embankment and almost inside the fence before anyone
noticed him. Then, looking down, he saw the few people in the square
edging away and making the same sign with their right hands that the
shopkeeper in the avenue had made. Several windows were slammed down,
and a fat woman darted into the street and pulled some small children
inside a rickety, unpainted house. The gap in the fence was very easy
to pass through, and before long Blake found himself wading amidst
the rotting, tangled growths of the deserted yard. Here and there the
worn stump of a headstone told him that there had once been burials
in this field; but that, he saw, must have been very long ago. The
sheer bulk of the church was oppressive now that he was close to it,
but he conquered his mood and approached to try the three great doors
in the façade. All were securely locked, so he began a circuit of the
Cyclopean building in quest of some minor and more penetrable opening.
Even then he could not be sure that he wished to enter that haunt of
desertion and shadow, yet the pull of its strangeness dragged him on
automatically.

A yawning and unprotected cellar window in the rear furnished the
needed aperture. Peering in, Blake saw a subterrene gulf of cobwebs
and dust faintly litten by the western sun's filtered rays. Debris,
old barrels, and ruined boxes and furniture of numerous sorts met his
eye, though over everything lay a shroud of dust which softened all
sharp outlines. The rusted remains of a hot-air furnace showed that the
building had been used and kept in shape as late as mid-Victorian times.

Acting almost without conscious initiative, Blake crawled through the
window and let himself down to the dust-carpeted and debris-strewn
concrete floor. The vaulted cellar was a vast one, without partitions;
and in a corner far to the right, amid dense shadows, he saw a black
archway evidently leading upstairs. He felt a peculiar sense of
oppression at being actually within the great spectral building,
but kept it in check as he cautiously scouted about--finding a
still-intact barrel amid the dust, and rolling it over to the open
window to provide for his exit. Then, bracing himself, he crossed the
wide, cobweb-festooned space toward the arch. Half choked with the
omnipresent dust, and covered with ghostly gossamer fibers, he reached
and began to climb the worn stone steps which rose into the darkness.
He had no light, but groped carefully with his hands. After a sharp
turn he felt a closed door ahead, and a little fumbling revealed its
ancient latch. It opened inward, and beyond it he saw a dimly illumined
corridor lined with worm-eaten paneling.
