
From this point onward Blake's diary shows a mounting tide of
insidious horror and nervous apprehension. He upbraids himself for
not doing something, and speculates wildly on the consequences of
another electrical breakdown. It has been verified that on three
occasions--during thunderstorms--he telephoned the electric light
company in a frantic vein and asked that desperate precautions against
a lapse of power be taken. Now and then his entries show concern over
the failure of the reporters to find the metal box and stone, and the
strangely marred old skeleton, when they explored the shadowy tower
room. He assumed that these things had been removed--whither, and
by whom or what, he could only guess. But his worst fears concerned
himself, and the kind of unholy rapport he felt to exist between his
mind and that lurking horror in the distant steeple--that monstrous
thing of night which his rashness had called out of the ultimate black
spaces. He seemed to feel a constant tugging at his will, and callers
of that period remember how he would sit abstractedly at his desk and
stare out the west window at that far-off, spire-bristling mound beyond
the swirling smoke of the city. His entries dwell monotonously on
certain terrible dreams, and of a strengthening of the unholy rapport
in his sleep. There is mention of a night when he awaked to find
himself fully dressed, outdoors, and headed automatically down College
Hill toward the west. Again and again he dwells on the fact that the
thing in the steeple knows where to find him.

The week following July 30 is recalled as the time of Blake's partial
breakdown. He did not dress, and ordered all his food by telephone.
Visitors remarked the cords he kept near his bed, and he said that
sleep-walking had forced him to bind his ankles every night with knots
which would probably hold or else waken him with the labor of untying.

In his diary he told of the hideous experience which had brought the
collapse. After retiring on the night of the 30th he had suddenly found
himself groping about in an almost black space. All he could see were
short, faint, horizontal streaks of bluish light, but he could smell an
overpowering fetor and hear a curious jumble of soft, furtive sounds
above him. Whenever he moved he stumbled over something, and at each
noise there would come a sort of answering sound from above--a vague
stirring, mixed with the cautious sliding of wood on wood.

Once his groping hands encountered a pillar of stone with a vacant top,
whilst later he found himself clutching the rungs of a ladder built
into the wall, and fumbling his uncertain way upward toward some region
of intenser stench where a hot, searing blast beat down against him.
Before his eyes a kaleidoscopic range of fantasmal images played, all
of them dissolving at intervals into the picture of a vast, unplumbed
abyss of night wherein whirled suns and worlds of an even profounder
blackness. He thought of the ancient legends of Ultimate Chaos, at
whose center sprawls the blind idiot god Azathoth, Lord of All Things,
encircled by his flopping horde of mindless and amorphous dancers,
and lulled by the thin monotonous piping of a demoniac flute held in
nameless paws.

Then a sharp report from the outer world broke through his stupor and
roused him to the unutterable horror of his position. What it was, he
never knew--perhaps it was some belated peal from the fireworks heard
all summer on Federal Hill as the dwellers hail their various patron
saints, or the saints of their native villages in Italy. In any event
he shrieked aloud, dropped frantically from the ladder, and stumbled
blindly across the obstructed floor of the almost lightless chamber
that encompassed him.

He knew instantly where he was, and plunged recklessly down the
narrow spiral staircase, tripping and bruising himself at every turn.
There was a nightmare flight through a vast cobwebbed nave whose
ghostly arches reached up to realms of leering shadow, a sightless
scramble through a littered basement, a climb to regions of air and
street-lights outside, and a mad racing down a spectral hill of
gibbering gables, across a grim, silent city of tall black towers, and
up the steep eastward precipice to his own ancient door.

On regaining consciousness in the morning he found himself lying on
his study floor fully dressed. Dirt and cobwebs covered him, and every
inch of his body seemed sore and bruised. When he faced the mirror he
saw that his hair was badly scorched, while a trace of strange, evil
odor seemed to cling to his upper outer clothing. It was then that
his nerves broke down. Thereafter, lounging exhaustedly about in a
dressing-gown, he did little but stare from his west window, shiver at
the threat of thunder, and make wild entries in his diary.
