
The great storm broke just before midnight on August 8th. Lightning
struck repeatedly in all parts of the city, and two remarkable
fireballs were reported. The rain was torrential, while a constant
fusillade of thunder brought sleeplessness to thousands. Blake was
utterly frantic in his fear for the lighting system, and tried to
telephone the company around one a.m., though by that time service
had been temporarily cut off in the interest of safety. He recorded
everything in his diary--the large, nervous, and often undecipherable
hieroglyphs telling their own story of growing frenzy and despair, and
of entries scrawled blindly in the dark.

He had to keep the house dark in order to see out the window, and it
appears that most of his time was spent at his desk, peering anxiously
through the rain across the glistening miles of downtown roofs at the
constellation of distant lights marking Federal Hill. Now and then he
would fumblingly make an entry in his diary, so that detached phrases
such as "The lights must not go"; "It knows where I am"; "I must
destroy it"; and "It is calling to me, but perhaps it means no injury
this time"; are found scattered down two of the pages.

Then the lights went out all over the city. It happened at 2:12 a.m.
according to power-house records, but Blake's diary gives no indication
of the time. The entry is merely, "Lights out--God help me." On
Federal Hill there were watchers as anxious as he, and rain-soaked
knots of men paraded the square and alleys around the evil church
with umbrella-shaded candles, electric flashlights, oil lanterns,
crucifixes, and obscure charms of the many sorts common to southern
Italy. They blessed each flash of lightning, and made cryptical signs
of fear with their right hands when a turn in the storm caused the
flashes to lessen and finally to cease altogether. A rising wind
blew out most of the candles, so that the scene grew threateningly
dark. Someone roused Father Merluzzo of Spirito Santo Church, and he
hastened to the dismal square to pronounce whatever helpful syllables
he could. Of the restless and curious sounds in the blackened tower,
there could be no doubt whatever.

For what happened at 2:35 we have the testimony of the priest, a
young, intelligent, and well-educated person; of Patrolman William J.
Monahan of the Central Station, an officer of the highest reliability
who had paused at that part of his beat to inspect the crowd; and of
most of the seventy-eight men who had gathered around the church's
high bank wall--especially those in the square where the eastward
façade was visible. Of course there was nothing which can be proved
as being outside the order of nature. The possible causes of such an
event are many. No one can speak with certainty of the obscure chemical
processes arising in a vast, ancient, ill-aired, and long-deserted
building of heterogeneous contents. Mephitic vapors--spontaneous
combustion--pressure of gases born of long decay--any one of numberless
phenomena might be responsible. And then, of course, the factor of
conscious charlatanry can by no means be excluded. The thing was really
quite simple in itself, and covered less than three minutes of actual
time. Father Merluzzo, always a precise man, looked at his watch
repeatedly.

It started with a definite swelling of the dull fumbling sounds inside
the black tower. There had for some time been a vague exhalation of
strange, evil odors from the church, and this had now become emphatic
and offensive. Then at last there was a sound of splintering wood, and
a large, heavy object crashed down in the yard beneath the frowning
easterly façade. The tower was invisible now that the candles would not
burn, but as the object neared the ground the people knew that it was
the smoke-grimed louver-boarding of that tower's east window.

Immediately afterward an utterly unbearable fetor welled forth from
the unseen heights, choking and sickening the trembling watchers,
and almost prostrating those in the square. At the same time the
air trembled with a vibration as of flapping wings, and a sudden
east-blowing wind more violent than any previous blast snatched off the
hats and wrenched the dripping umbrellas of the crowd. Nothing definite
could be seen in the candleless night, though some upward-looking
spectators thought they glimpsed a great spreading blur of denser
blackness against the inky sky--something like a formless cloud of
smoke that shot with meteor-like speed toward the east.

That was all. The watchers were half numbed with fright, awe, and
discomfort, and scarcely knew what to do, or whether to do anything at
all. Not knowing what had happened, they did not relax their vigil;
and a moment later they sent up a prayer as a sharp flash of belated
lightning, followed by an ear-splitting crash of sound, rent the
flooded heavens. Half an hour later the rain stopped, and in fifteen
minutes more the street lights sprang on again, sending the weary,
bedraggled watchers relievedly back to their homes.
