
The next day's papers gave these matters minor mention in connection
with the general storm reports. It seems that the great lightning flash
and deafening explosion which followed the Federal Hill occurrence
were even more tremendous farther east, where a burst of the singular
fetor was likewise noticed. The phenomenon was most marked over College
Hill, where the crash awaked all the sleeping inhabitants and led to a
bewildered round of speculations. Of those who were already awake only
a few saw the anomalous blaze of light near the top of the hill, or
noticed the inexplicable upward rush of air which almost stripped the
leaves from the trees and blasted the plants in the gardens. It was
agreed that the lone, sudden lightning-bolt must have struck somewhere
in this neighborhood, though no trace of its striking could afterward
be found. A youth in the Tau Omega fraternity house thought he saw a
grotesque and hideous mass of smoke in the air just as the preliminary
flash burst, but his observation has not been verified. All of the few
observers, however, agree as to the violent gust from the west and the
flood of intolerable stench which preceded the belated stroke; whilst
evidence concerning the momentary burned odor after the stroke is
equally general.

These points were discussed very carefully because of their probable
connection with the death of Robert Blake. Students in the Psi Delta
house, whose upper rear windows looked into Blake's study, noticed the
blurred white face at the westward window on the morning of the 9th,
and wondered what was wrong with the expression. When they saw the same
face in the same position that evening, they felt worried, and watched
for the lights to come up in his apartment. Later they rang the bell of
the darkened flat, and finally had a policeman force the door.

The rigid body sat bolt upright at the desk by the window, and when
the intruders saw the glassy, bulging eyes, and the marks of stark,
convulsive fright on the twisted features, they turned away in sickened
dismay. Shortly afterward the coroner's physician made an examination,
and despite the unbroken window reported electrical shock, or nervous
tension induced by an electrical discharge, as the cause of death.
The hideous expression he ignored altogether, deeming it a not
improbable result of the profound shock as experienced by a person of
such abnormal imagination and unbalanced emotions. He deduced these
latter qualities from the books, paintings, and manuscripts found in
the apartment, and from the blindly scrawled entries in the diary on
the desk. Blake had prolonged his frenzied jottings to the last, and
the broken-pointed pencil was found clutched in his spasmodically
contracted right hand.
