
The entries after the failure of the lights were highly disjointed,
and legible only in part. From them certain investigators have
drawn conclusions differing greatly from the materialistic official
verdict, but such speculations have little chance for belief among
the conservative. The case of these imaginative theorists has not
been helped by the action of superstitious Doctor Dexter, who threw
the curious box and angled stone--an object certainly self-luminous
as seen in the black windowless steeple where it was found--into
the deepest channel of Narragansett Bay. Excessive imagination and
neurotic unbalance on Blake's part, aggravated by knowledge of the evil
bygone cult whose startling traces he had uncovered, form the dominant
interpretation given those final frenzied jottings. These are the
entries--or all that can be made of them.

"Lights still out--must be five minutes now. Everything depends on
lightning. Yaddith grant it will keep up!... Some influence seems
beating through it.... Rain and thunder and wind deafen.... The thing
is taking hold of my mind....

"Trouble with memory. I see things I never knew before. Other worlds
and other galaxies.... Dark.... The lightning seems dark and the
darkness seems light....

"It cannot be the real hill and church that I see in the
pitch-darkness. Must be retinal impression left by flashes. Heaven
grant the Italians are out with their candles if the lightning stops!

"What am I afraid of? Is it not an avatar of Nyarlathotep, who in
antique and shadowy Khem even took the form of man? I remember Yuggoth,
and more distant Shaggai, and the ultimate void of the black planets....

"The long, winging flight through the void ... cannot cross the
universe of light ... re-created by the thoughts caught in the Shining
Trapezohedron ... send it through the horrible abysses of radiance....

"My name is Blake--Robert Harrison Blake of 620 East Knapp Street,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.... I am on this planet....

"Azathoth have mercy!--the lightning no longer flashes--horrible--I can
see everything with a monstrous sense that is not sight--light is dark
and dark is light ... those people on the hill ... guard ... candles
and charms ... their priests....

"Sense of distance gone--far is near and near is far. No light--no
glass--see that steeple--that tower--window--can hear--Roderick
Usher--am mad or going mad--the thing is stirring and fumbling in the
tower--I am it and it is I--I want to get out ... must get out and
unify the forces.... It knows where I am....

"I am Robert Blake, but I see the tower in the dark. There is a
monstrous odor ... senses transfigured ... boarding at that tower
window cracking and giving way.... Iä ... ngai ... ygg....

"I see it--coming here--hell-wind--titan blur--black wings--Yog-Sothoth
save me--the three-lobed burning eye...."

