
On Earth, at the listening post on Long Island, Joe Weber sat before
his recorder, intent on the noise from space.

The chief anthropologist studied the star map on the wall as he asked
his question. "Have you got anything at all, Joe?"

The technician shook his head. "Nothing but noise. I've only been
beaming them for four days, and our schedule calls for a week on each
sector. I'll keep on as planned, but I'm positive that the star systems
in the Lyra sector are not inhabited in any sense we would recognize,
or, if there is life there, it hasn't developed enough of a science for
them to know they're being signalled."

The anthropologist sighed. "It may be a hopeless task. It may be
several lifetimes before we locate systems similar to ours. I had hoped
to find some in my day."

"Don't be discouraged, professor. I'll start hitting Cygnus for you,
and maybe we can find something there. Yesterday, for a minute,
I thought I had something in Lyra. In the middle of the random
noise, suddenly I came across what looked like 'dot dot, dot dot,
dot-dot-dot-dot, dot dot dot, dot dot dot--' It was clear as crystal,
and much louder than the noise, but then it lapsed into the usual
nonsense. Pure chance at work, of course, but for a minute there, my
hair stood on end. Well, it's all in the day's work. I'll just keep
sending our stuff--"

"Of course," said the anthropologist, "there might be intelligent
people in the sector you're working right now, but they might be like
the Zuni."

"The Zuni?" asked Weber.

"The Zuni are a large village of American Indians who live in New
Mexico. Right next to what used to be a big Indian reservation for the
Navahos. A typical inward-looking culture. Now the Navahos, although
they still keep their own language and religion, are an outward-looking
culture, interested in the rest of the world. The Zuni are not. For
them the boundaries of the world are the walls of Zuni village. They
wouldn't bother to listen to a message from outer space, much less
reply."

"Can't be very bright," said Joe.

"On the contrary. Some of them have made the highest scores on the
Tromovich intelligence test that have ever been recorded. It's not a
matter of intelligence, but the attitude of the culture."

"Well," said Joe, "let's hope most of the worlds of space have
outward-looking cultures." He turned back to his transmitter.
