
Pehn found himself lying on a couch. He tried to get up, and felt his
father's hands at his shoulders restraining him.

"Don't move, Pehn," said his mother. "You fainted, and they brought you
home." She lifted his head, and let him sip a cup of the hot _akhlai_.

After a time his father addressed him with unusual kindness.

"We cannot delay any longer, Pehn. Your mother and sister and I are all
agreed. You must undergo Ceremony. What is proper thing to do for you,
I don't know, but Bidagha believes he can help you. This crisis in our
world is making us all ill, and it is no wonder that you, being young,
should suffer more acutely than rest of us."

Pehn tried to laugh. "Would you trust me to Bidagha?"

"Yes, I would. Although his views on world affairs are perverse and
dangerous he is good Healer, and he has your best interests at heart."

"Your son is very ill, Lord Karn. If I am able to help him, would you
be willing to consider possibility, at least, that wisdom of Healer is
not confined to human body alone?"

Premier Karn brushed his hand across his eyes. In the last few days he
had suddenly become an old man, and his mouth was drawn and tense. "I
cannot tell, Bidagha. I am tired, and confused. I no longer seem to be
sure what is true, and what is right."

Pehn opened his eyes to speak to Bidagha. "Do you think you can cure
me, by Ceremony alone?"

"I have cured people who were much more ill than you are, but your case
is serious because you have delayed so long. It may be that we should
not rely on ritual alone, and that it would be wiser to use knife."

Lord Karn gasped with horror. "Never! Have you lost faith in your own
art?"

"Of course none of us like to use knife, since very few minds are
skilled enough to control infection likely to follow. No, first we
shall hold Ceremony just as our traditions counsel us. Tonight."

The muted chime of the visiphone interrupted them. The Premier touched
his wrist and the gaunt face of Nautunal appeared in the dial.

"Signals have entered new stage, sir. Message coming at present states
that Topaz planet wishes to visit any planet inhabited by intelligent
race. They say they have phase space drive for spaceships, but in all
their searching have not found even one inhabited world. They say they
want to know that they are not alone in universe."

The Premier's face worked. "I cannot say what is right. Later. I will
decide after Ceremony. Are you ready, Pehn?"

Pehn covered his face with his folded arms.

"All right," he whispered. "Sooner, better."
