
Glancing swiftly over the page, Bernard saw that fifty panthers had
entered this sector of the jungle overnight, with a herd of fifteen
giraffes headed well toward the south. But he also noted that there
had been three deaths from polar bears in the past week in his sector
alone. Fortunately, the frequency readjustment from panthers to polar
bears was an easy one, three clicks clockwise with the thumb. He would
have to remember about the water hole, though it was either that or
going above the rapids. The sharks below the rapids were pretty thick
during the summer.

"Thanks, bud," he told the tipster. Then he strode, still calm, to
the wall. Expertly he clambered up its handholds, till he reached the
top, thirty feet from the ground. On the other side lay the jungle,
its lush tropical growth hiding from his alert eyes the danger that
lurked within. He popped a Verve pill into his mouth and chewed on it
thoughtfully.

Far in the distance, some five miles at the narrowest point, rose the
outer wall. Between the two prowled a variety of ambivalent robot
beasts, now ready to dismember him, but on weekends adjusted to
take small boys and girls for short rides or simply to stalk about
picturesquely.

Drawing his pistol and placing it between his teeth, Bernard leaped to
the ground between the wall and a large low palm. At once the pistol
was again in his hand. But nothing moved. Now he could see clearly the
path he must take.

Bending low, he trotted along through the undergrowth. It soon began
to clear, and still no danger in sight. He holstered the pistol and
advanced, half-walking, half-running, till he could hear the hiss of
the rapids. Enough noise to mask the sounds of a dozen panthers, he
thought. But it covered his own footsteps, too, and panthers were more
phonotropic than polar bears, the latter having a preference for radar
spotting.

Coyotes were the worst, of course, with their damned infrared
thermo-sensors. They could spot a runner even when he was in cover.
Fortunately they were scarce and getting more so. Bernard had only
encountered a coyote twice, deactivating it both times. But he had been
lucky. He recalled the story about that city councilman....

An hour later he arrived at the river, a half-mile above the rapids
and well away from the water hole. He had seen only one beast in the
first three miles of his trek, a giraffe hobbling along in olfactory
pursuit of another runner far to the right. Giraffes were mainly a
nuisance, though they could kick and trample a man. Bernard had heard
of such a thing happening, but it was a rarity. They were too easy to
elude.

He crossed the river on a log raft he found, which had evidently been
rigged to dump him in about halfway across. At least he had got that
far on it he told himself, as he struck out for the shore. For one
horrible moment he thought he detected a shark upstream, but it was
merely the shadow of a large palm leaf. He had a strong and sensible
fear of sharks.

A mile farther found him crawling over the rocky ground as the growls
of panthers reached his acute ears from behind a ridge of brush. If
they heard him, they ignored him, perhaps more interested in other
quarry. His knees and arms were scraped but not bleeding, and at last
he was able to get to his feet to make better time.

It was then that he heard the girl's scream.
