
No regulation in the rule book discriminated against women becoming
runners, but only a few of the millions who worked at offices and
plants in the city did so. Also there was nothing in the code about
helping other runners. Each was entirely on his own, free to help or
be helped, or not helped, if he chose.

Bernard would never have called for help for himself. But the sound of
the woman's cry appealed to another side of his nature. He changed his
direction, but moved with great caution now. Soon he saw her, and froze.

She was clad as he, different sector emblem, but the same proudly borne
"U-F" on her sweater. Her face and body were young and attractive, but
her long dark hair was tangled and wet, and her limbs mud-spattered.
She had screamed only once, and now her small lipsticked mouth hung
open with terror.

Backed against a tree, she gaped in horror, waiting, as three panthers
approached from as many directions. Her sonic lay on the ground outside
the circle. It was obvious that she was finished if Bernard did not
assist her.

Raising his hand till the pistol sight was where he wanted it, he
modified the angle adjustment till all of the animals were within
its range. Then he depressed the trigger several times. Two fell and
the third animal leaped at the girl. But she twisted around the tree
and Bernard picked off the panther as it readied itself for a second
spring. At once the girl dived for her pistol. Proper response, Bernard
thought approvingly. Then she ran toward him and threw herself against
him, breathing deeply in that position for several moments.

Bernard felt strongly the strength and zest of youth as he held the
girl in his arms. Then they turned and walked together to the outer
wall, which was less than half a mile away. There was no danger from
the deactivated panthers, which would remain out of commission for half
an hour. So they had no reason to hurry.

Bernard helped her climb the wall, though she seemed quite adept at it
herself. On the other side they emerged upon the street. Across the
street lay the acres and acres of homes which were the city's eastern
suburbia.

"Oh, it was just horrible!" the girl finally cried. "All at once they
sprang. From nowhere. I tripped and my sonic fell out of the holster.
I'd be _dead_ if it weren't for you!"

"Very true," Bernard agreed. "You'll be more careful in the future, I
hope."

"If only I could thank you in some way. I owe you so much. My apartment
is just up the next street. Only a few blocks. Wouldn't you like to
stop in for a drink? I'm sure you're as tired as I."

But Bernard declined. He walked her home, then continued on, unaware of
the envious glances of young children as he passed. Unaware of other
runners, early-runners, middle-aged men like himself, also walking the
streets, wearily but not stooping, not frowning.

How good a warm shower would be, thought Bernard, as he entered the
last mile. His wife would probably want a drink, so there would be that
too. And dinner. He was _hungry_.

Ulcer-free and happy, he walked the last mile in contentment. The
office was something that had happened long ago, would happen again
tomorrow, but could never invade his thoughts that night. And he knew
exactly how his wife would greet him at the door.
