
Bill was in no condition to appreciate the next few days. He sensed
the wallowing of the IWP Cruiser as it hit difficult gravs and felt
his ears dulled by the hollow drumming of the rocket pumps. Sometimes
a mess-boy brought in food but more often, icepacks. Between icepacks,
Bill figured a dozen ways of evening the score with Commissioner
Castlebottom.

The plans were all very good, but with one exception. The next day,
the Patrol Cruiser hovered over a planetoid surface described by
astronomers as Uva. Castlebottom was back on Earth.

A Junior Officer ferried Bill from the Cruiser to the planetoid in a
small auxiliary plane.

"We'll pick you up in fifty hours," said the officer.

"Why will it be that long?" asked Bill.

"It'll take that long. You don't know the Uvans."

Bill made a wry face. "Why don't you come down and wait?"

"Can't," replied the officer noncommittally. "There's only one
Interworld Government pass for landing on Uva. You've got it now. Even
the Patrol is only allowed to land in cases of extreme emergency.
They're strict about that. No visitors allowed."

The tiny plane settled quietly in what appeared to be the suburb of the
only city on Uva. Bill dropped to the ground and breathed deeply of the
somewhat muggy, compressed atmosphere of the little planetoid.

"The American Commissioner's place is straight up this street," said
the officer. "So long!" He waved good-by and gunned the plane away.
Bill watched it climb for a second, then turned, marching briskly up
the street.

The germ of an idea--perhaps two ideas--chased around in his brain.
"Maybe I'll get the Uvans to figure out a way for me to head a
monopoly. Something quick," he thought. "If not, I can always hi-jack
the synthetic etheroel formula they'll give me. Castlebottom will give
plenty for it."

He quickened his pace. The Uvan city closed about him. Bill wasn't
paying much attention to it. He gave half-hearted notice to the rather
wild, idiotic arrangement of buildings and streets. Almost everything
was done in amber. Streets stemmed off from the main drag, then
suddenly stopped flush against a building as though some absent-minded
architect had laid the city out.

Something jerked Bill's arm. He turned and found himself staring.
Then he gulped enormously. The _thing_ was undoubtedly a native. It
stood about four feet high and had a salt-cellar body, thick at the
bottom and slim at the top, made of what appeared to be a translucent
amber plastic. Then there was the head. It was bright purple and lumpy
all over, like a cluster of lush grapes. It had ears on each side, a
pointed mouth and a pair of eyes right under the lower lip.

A pair of tenuous arms waved before Bill. The eyes scrutinized him from
under the lip with a vague sort of intelligence. "Caviar," demanded
the _thing_. It stretched one blade-like hand greedily forward.

Bill gasped. He felt dazed. Good Lord, these were the Uvans.

"Caviar?"

One of the grapes on the grape-cluster head of the Uvan flashed a
yellow light. It blinked on and off like a busy signal on a telephone
operator's switchboard. For an instant, the Uvan tried to look menacing.

Bill whipped out his credentials. The pass seemed to strike a
responsive chord in the Uvan for the latter's two eyes saddened. "No
caviar," he murmured. "No caviar. A sadness. Up revolution."

The last phrase had some sort of magical effect for no sooner had
it been uttered, than the streets were filled with more Uvans. They
crowded around, muttering, taking up the refrain--"Up revolution. No
caviar. Up revolution."

Bill backed away cautiously. There was a sudden empty feeling at the
pit of his stomach. Why hadn't Castlebottom or the Patrol told him
about this business of caviar? Why hadn't they warned him the Uvans
were touchy about revolution?

Some fifty of them gathered in the street now. The individual grape
cells on their heads flashing brilliant lights. They were a motley
array, like nothing Bill had ever seen. Somehow, they didn't attempt to
attack. They just strung along behind him, muttering "revolution" left
and right with amazing persistence.

Then Bill spied the Interworld Government flag, bright gold on crimson,
fluttering above a rambling low building--the American Commissioner's
residence. He moved cautiously toward the doorway, afraid to excite the
Uvans by too sudden a motion. At last he looked back. That was strange!
The Uvans stood at a respectful distance.

Bill let out a sigh of relief and pushed the doorbell buzzer. He let
out a wild yell. A fiery something grabbed his finger. Knives seemed to
jab up his arm and slid down his spine. He reeled back among the Uvans
who watched him as though this were all a very lively experiment.

"What the devil happened?" Bill gasped.

"Electric," answered one of the Uvans.

"Electric," Bill murmured. Then the light dawned. The electric buzzer
on the door wasn't insulated. He had punched a live wire.

The cumulative strain of being followed by the grape-headed natives,
then the shock from the buzzer had its effects on Bill. His legs sagged
uncertainly and a cold sweat broke out, bathing his brow. He reached
in one pocket, bringing forth a handy flask of super-potent Venusian
brandy and unscrewed the cap.

Raising the flask, he felt the searing warmth trickle down his throat.
What happened an instant later couldn't have come from the brandy.
Bill felt something hit him from all four sides. It had the composite
solidness of an avalanche, a few battering rams and a dozen Uvans.

A second before his consciousness keeled over backward into a depthless
funnel of darkness he was under the distinct impression of seeing his
brandy flask spin upward, spilling liquor over an orange-eyed Uvan. But
that wasn't all. The Uvan simply dissolved before his eyes like a sugar
man soaked by water!
