
With his eyes still shut, his neck and wrists clamped in the pillory,
these last thoughts flashed through Bill's mind. Was it a crime to
drink on Uva? What about the caviar? Why had the Uvans jumped on him
without explaining? What were they going to do now?

A bustle of excitement in the market-place caused him to open his eyes
again. He saw the stubby bodied Uvans pushing two new pillories into
place, one on each side of Bill's.

It was then that Bill gasped. His eyes blinked in incredible wonder.
"It's not possible!" he murmured. The head thrust through the pillory
on the right was familiarly dainty--yes, Kitty Carlton!

Bill's astonished eyes swerved to the left.

"Castlebottom!" he shouted.

Castlebottom, with his pudgy neck uncomfortably pinched in the tight
pillory slot, fussed and fumed with impotent rage. "Get me out of
here!" he cried. "Someone will suffer. I say, there!"

Bill grinned, highly pleased. He twisted his head around as far as it
would go, looking toward Kitty Carlton. "You hardly look put out,"
he commented. The girl did look rather pleased with the situation,
despite the unyielding wooden collar.

Kitty smiled. "I'm not," she said.

"How'd you get here?"

"Very simple," said Kitty, her eyes flashing from Bill to Castlebottom.
"Tubby wanted to marry me. I agreed to elope. It's so romantic you
know. I thought Uva would be just the place."

"You mean Tubby ... ah ... Castlebottom agreed to elope and be married
on Uva?"

"Well, he didn't know about that part of it!"

Bill grinned widely. "Something tells me you knew all along you'd
be arrested the minute you brought a ship down here without entry
credentials."

The outer fringe of the market-place crowd surged suddenly. Bill
quickly swerved his glance, for a minute half expecting the Uvans to
froth over and charge the pillories. This, however, seemed to be a wild
surmise for the Uvans stood around, for all the world looking like a
peaceful, deeply preoccupied convention of scientists and professors.
Many of them carried umbrellas, some open, others closed. Many appeared
to be puzzled as to why they were in the market-place at all.

Then Bill saw the cause of the disturbance. A lean, thatch-haired
earthman moved through the crowd. He was dressed in a _mono_, the
belted, coverall uniform strictly reserved for Interworld Government
officials. The Uvans moved respectfully aside, opening a channel to the
pillories.

He stopped directly before Bill and gazed up in a half bewildered
fashion. "I'm Webster," he said. "Interworld Government representative
on Uva. There's going to be a trial. I suppose you're the people up for
trial?"

"A trail for what?" Bill asked.

Webster flashed Bill a disconcerted look, then turned and conferred
with three official looking Uvans, some of whose eyes were at the backs
of their heads. A low, earnest conversation ensued. Finally Webster
fastened his eyes on Bill, appealingly.

"Do you mind telling me who's responsible?" he asked.

"What do you mean?" Bill demanded, impatiently.

"Look here," said Webster, "you don't understand. There's going to
be a trial. That's certain. But I might tell you for your own good,
the Uvans are most absent-minded. They can't remember the charges
against more than one person so I'd like to know which one of you is
responsible. All of you can't be responsible. It just won't do. Now,
which one of you caused the trouble?"

Bill glanced at Kitty, then at Castlebottom. Uva began to exhibit signs
of unlimited promise for an alert freebooter. Bill twisted his pinioned
left hand, crooking an accusing finger at Castlebottom.

"He's the trouble," said Bill. "Miss Carlton and I came together. I'll
show you my credentials. We're here to get an _equals_ for the Fuel
Monopoly. This tubby chap stowed away on our ship. He's trying to
smuggle liquor into Uva."

"Liquor?" A curious, tense note entered Webster's voice. "Liquor, did
you say?"

"It's a bald lie. I did no such thing," Castlebottom protested
chokingly. "You know who I am? Ask Miss Carlton. She'll tell you who I
am."

Commissioner Webster stared appreciatively at Kitty Carlton who, even
though her head was caught in a pillory, would still be the toast of
three planets.

"I never saw the fat man in my life," Kitty protested.

"That settles it then," said Webster. "Liquor. Hmm, a sadness, too.
It could have been something else." He conferred again with the Uvan
officials.

A moment later the pillory holding Castlebottom was carted away to
the local courthouse, the entire population of Uva following it. The
stocks, holding Bill and Kitty were released, freeing them.

"That's nice," said Bill as he rubbed his neck and dropped to the
ground beside Kitty and the Commissioner. "But what's going to happen
to Castlebottom?"

Webster shook his head forlornly. "Oh, by the time they get him to the
court and ready for trial they'll have forgotten the charges again. The
Uvans are terribly absent-minded about little things like that. They'll
bring him back to the market and put him in the stocks again. It's the
stock punishment. But now, let's get along and find you an office."

"An office?" Kitty Carlton interrupted.

Webster took her arm in colonial gentleman fashion and began walking.

"Yes, my dear," he said. "You'll both need an office. Everyone needs a
place to think in. An office is best. You understand, Uva's principal
industry is thinking. If you're to be here for any length of time
you'll need an office."

Webster halted, let his eyes scan the oddly shaped buildings bordering
the market-place, then he set off toward an empty stall in a nearby
building. As he entered, followed by Bill and Kitty, he waved his hand
elegantly. "This should do. Everything you'll need: umbrella stand,
chairs and a do-not-disturb sign ... ah.... What's your name?"

"Petrie, Fuel Monopoly," said Bill.

Webster took a scrap of chalk from his pocket and scrawled a hasty,
uneven sign on the amber sidewalk before the little office.

                      PETRIE OFFICE FUEL MONOPOLY

"Now, let's go in," continued Webster. He hung out the do-not-disturb
sign and pulled all the shades so that nothing could be seen of the
street. Then, with exaggerated caution resulting only from life in a
prohibition era, he brought forth a personal flask and three folding
cups. "Got to be careful here," he added. "The Uvans are made mostly of
resin. It's soluble in alcohol."

"Hah, so that's why the door buzzer on your residence gave me such a
jump," Bill laughed. "Resin is a non-conductor of electricity. They
don't need any insulation here, eh?"

"They're awfully absent-minded," smiled Kitty. "Has that anything to do
with their brightness?"

Webster sipped his brandy slowly and discreetly.

"You don't know about the segmentation?" he asked.

"No," replied Kitty. "All that we know about Uva is what we're supposed
to know. In fact, the outside world has the general impression that the
Uvan _brain-register_ is just one big puddle of brains. You push a
button and out comes an answer."

"Ah, such a sadness. Such misconception," Webster murmured.

"What about the segmentation?" asked Bill.
