
"I say, what are you going to do about this, freebooter?" Kitty asked.
She seemed to thoroughly enjoy the entire situation. She stood with her
back to Webster, staring at the two younger men.

Bill grinned wryly. "You asked for it," he said. "Come on!" His arm
swept around her slim, belted waist, urging her toward the door and out
in the market-place.

"What are you doing?" cried Kitty.

"I'm doing a stitch in time, gal. I never run short of ideas. We're
heading for the _Uvan Thought Clinic_. If I can get the right etheroel
formula before the Patrol comes, I'll have Castlebottom where I want
him. That formula means his job and I have an idea the Uvans don't give
out duplicates."

"So that's freebooting?" The look that Kitty flashed Bill had something
more in it than mere admiration.

"Hey, she's my girl!" Castlebottom bleated from the doorway. He stood
there powerless for the Uvan guard's radium gun was poking a little
valley in his stomach.

"Keep a sharp eye on him, Webster," Bill shouted back. "Dangerous
type!"

A preposterous gurgle choked up Castlebottom's throat as Bill Petrie
and Kitty Carlton disappeared, hand in hand, beyond the square.

The _Uvan Thought Clinic_ was housed in a pale amber building. It
contained twelve main halls, one dedicated to each of the major
sciences. In an outer-reception room, an ancient Uvan whose resin-hard
body was rapidly flaking away, fastened a pair of pearl gray eyes on
Bill Petrie as he presented his credentials.

"Chemistry," said the oldster.

"Fuel," answered Bill.

The old Uvan led the way to a circular chamber. There, after elaborate
preparations, he sat himself on a sort of throne that floated in a bed
of pure mercury.

Kitty gripped Bill's hand, excitedly. "What's that for?" she asked.

"Don't know," Bill replied. "Maybe it insulates him from contact with
matter. He can think better in the abstract."

The old Uvan nodded and sat rigidly upon the throne. Suddenly the
lights dimmed within the chamber, leaving only a suspended glow that
was like the infinite apartness and silence of the distant universe.

"I am suitable for thought," the old Uvan spoke in a vague tone. "Give
me your _equals_."

Bill squeezed Kitty's arm, whispering, "I'm going to try something just
to see how this works." He faced the Uvan and spoke aloud. "I have two
_equals_. The first is something that my Boss needs. The second is for
the Fuel Monopoly. Here's the first."

Bill handed the Uvan a prepared slip. It asked for a chemical formula
which would react on the physical body of Castlebottom in a certain
manner, producing a specified result. For a second the Uvan considered
the slip, absorbing the requirements. Sudden lights glowed in the
segmented grape-cells composing the Uvan's head. The lights shifted
from one cell to another, flickering here and there.

Abruptly, all the lights went out but a small purplish glow in the
grape-cell over the Uvan's right ear. "He's got the answer," Bill
whispered.

"MgSO_{4},7N_{2}O equals your problem," said the Uvan.

"Good!" Bill gasped. "Great Comets, these fellows never miss."

"But what's it the formula for?" Kitty asked.

"Epsom salts!"

"And the second equals?" demanded the vague-voiced Uvan.

Bill thrust a second slip forward. The one requiring a formula for
synthetic etheroel. Again the lights, blinking like bulbs in a bank of
electric lights, hopped from segment to segment in the Uvan's head,
feeling around, searching for the cell that contained the correct
answer.

But now something queer happened. The lights began popping madly
in all the cells. They blinked on and off and ran the gamut of
colors. Instantly, the old Uvan leaped from his throne, clutched his
grape-cluster head and began swearing a blue streak.

Bill jerked Kitty to one side, and just in time. The Uvan charged past
her, grabbed a hammer and began beating out a wild clangor upon a brass
gong near the doorway.

"Bill, what is it?" Kitty cried in alarm.

"Don't know and it doesn't sound comfortable," he grunted. "We'd better
get out, quick!" With Kitty at his side, he raced toward the door, past
the hammer-wielding Uvan and into the reception room of the building.

"Look! Bill!" There was a note of terror in Kitty's voice.

Through the numerous doorways that debouched into the reception room,
dozens of angry eyed Uvans charged. Some of them carried radium-guns
which, somehow, they forgot to use. Bill glanced around hastily, then
ducked into an unblocked doorway with Kitty.

"A passageway," he hissed. "It leads out. Hurry."

Racing through the dim passageway, they came to another door. This
opened upon a curving Uvan street. As Bill stepped through the doorway,
he saw another mob of Uvans hurrying toward the building. By now, gongs
were ringing wildly throughout the entire city.

"Something went very wrong," Bill muttered. "We're going to put a lot
of space between us and town."

Both he and Kitty ran as fast as their legs could carry them, following
the long bed of the street. Behind them the pursuing crowd gathered in
size and more natives came in from side streets.

"We're making it," gasped Kitty.

Bill glanced at the girl appreciatively. She wasn't only pretty but she
was an athlete. She could run. Her face flushed with a clear golden
healthiness as she matched strides with him.
