
A half mile more and they had cleared the limits of the Uvan
metropolis. Bill's lungs burned for air. He had never done this much
running in his life. He looked back, and thankfully, saw that the Uvans
had been outdistanced and were giving up the chase. But--no!

There was still one Uvan following. Bill swore and tried to urge his
feet on. Then, suddenly, the lone Uvan whizzed past them and came to a
stop a short distance ahead. He stared back at Bill and Kitty, looking
bewildered.

"Wait a second," murmured Bill, breathing heavily. "This may be a
trick. Have you got your gun, Kitty?"

The girl shook her head.

The Uvan approached slowly, staring at Bill and the girl in friendly,
though puzzled fashion. He was about an inch shorter than the average
Uvan, sort of important looking and with his lavender eyes set close to
the top of his head.

When he had come within ten feet, he halted again. "Please," he asked.
"Who are we chasing?"

Bill's jaw sagged with surprise.

"You mean you don't know why you were running?" he demanded.

The Uvan shook his grape-clustered head. "I did know when I started,
but I forgot," he answered apologetically. "I suppose you're
Earthfolks. That's nice. My name's Olé. I'm chief editor of the _Uvan
Clarion_."

"So you publish a paper here?" Kitty smiled.

"Yes, when we remember. How about letting me show you around?"

Bill stared at Kitty and Kitty stared at Bill. Both smiled.

"The first thing to see on Uva is...." The little Uvan named Olé
pointed toward a structure which looked to Bill like a capped artesian
well. It was then that Olé hurriedly changed his mind. "No, I really
can't show you that," he said.

"Why?" asked Bill.

"Why? Well, because the gongs would ring again. Then I'd have to run.
So would you."

"Run?" Bill muttered. He looked at the well more carefully. The
super-structure stood above a shack constructed of some amber
substance. It was quiet. He could neither hear nor see any signs of
activity. Somehow it gave him an idea. "Voices are telling me there's
a guard inside there and I ought to have a look around," he said to
himself.

Turning toward Kitty, he saw her blushing in deep embarrassment. Olé,
the Uvan, was indulging in a bit of scientific research. He was poking
his resin-hard finger into the soft flesh of Kitty's arm and marveling
at the sight of the skin yielding to his touch.

"Soft, eh?" he announced in a high-pitched voice. "Are all you people
soft like that?"

Bill shot the girl a warning glance and quickly disappeared in the
direction of the well while Olé wasn't looking. If it had been
Castlebottom touching Kitty, it would have been a different matter.

As he cut around to the far side of the amber well-shack, Bill abruptly
came to a halt. He stood there for a second, motionless, barely daring
to breathe. A Uvan guard, with an eye in front of his head and another
in the back, crouched in the doorway. Bill waited another minute. The
eye in front didn't move.

"Asleep," he murmured at last.

He moved silently, edging around the Uvan, finally gaining entry into
the shack. His eyes swept around swiftly, taking in the jumble of
motionless, rusted machinery, the pumps and the well-collar.

"They drilled here for something, and pumped something out," he thought
aloud. He crossed to the well-collar where his gaze dropped upon a hand
shut-off valve. The valve had been sealed.

Bill's eyes widened as he noted the date stamped on the seal. It was
dated 2201 A.D. That was the year the Planetoid had been taken under
the protective wing of the Interworld Government.

Curious, Bill fumbled with the seal. Then he made up his mind. "I'm
in trouble now. May as well go the whole hog." He jerked his arm,
breaking the seal off. Then he twisted the valve, the rust flaking away
as he forced it open.

Suddenly a gong thundered behind him. He pivoted in time to see the
door guard bang an alarm gong with the butt of his radium-plate gun,
then reverse the gun. Bill froze in his tracks, his hand tight upon the
well valve, as he started into the muzzle of the leveled gun.

"Hey wait a second," he shouted at the guard.

The Uvan's head was ablaze with violently popping colored cell-lights.
He banged the gong once more and then started to trigger his gun.

"Be reasonable!" Bill shouted. He lunged to one side, taking the
shut-off valve handle with him. A liquid hissing burst in his ears. He
glimpsed a stream of strong-smelling liquid shoot from the well valve,
over his head, spearing the Uvan guard with a tremendous splash. Then
he shook himself. He could hardly believe what his eyes saw. _The
Uvan simply melted under the liquid!_ In less than a minute there was
nothing but a lump of resinous substance on the floor and a radium gun
in the middle of it.

Bill shook his head as though he were suffering from a fantastic form
of nightmare generally known as "space jitters." He jammed the shut-off
valve back into place without actually accounting for his actions and
stumbled out of the shack.

"Bill, where have you been?" It was Kitty.

"Where have I been? Great Comets, I know the ropes now! Let's get
Webster before the Patrol comes."
