
"Oh," said Uvan Commissioner Webster as he saw Bill, Kitty and
Olé stumble into the parlor of his residence, "I thought you were
the Tubby person. Made so much noise. He claims he's an important
man--Commissioner of the Fuel Monopoly. Is that right?"

"Forget Tubby Castlebottom a moment," said Kitty. "Bill's made a
discovery."

"A discovery? On Uva? That's impossible," said Webster.

"Impossible--nothing!" Bill cut in excitedly. He pushed Webster into a
chair. "You know what? There's etheroel on this planetoid. The real
stuff. It's drilled and ready to take off. Come on now, give me the
lowdown on why those wells are sealed? Why didn't you tell me?"

Commissioner Webster stiffened in his chair. His sunny features turned
dead white. For a second he gaped at his three visitors, then he
noticed that little Olé looked more scared than himself.

"Y-Y-You shouldn't have found the wells," he finally stuttered. "Oh,
Lord, it's the taboo."

"Taboo? You mean you knew about the etheroel wells all this time?" Bill
demanded in exasperation.

Webster nodded timidly. "Certainly. But I thought you came here merely
to get a formula for the synthetic fuel."

"They wouldn't give it to me."

"No. I didn't imagine they would. But trying didn't hurt," explained
Webster. "You see, it's the taboo. The undersurface of Uva is
fantastically rich in etheroel reservoirs. When the Spaniards first
controlled Uva they exploited the etheroel hand over fist because it
was worth its weight in gold. But they were ruthless about it for
etheroel, like everything that has an ether-alcohol base, is death to
the Uvans."

"Dissolves them, eh?" said Bill.

Webster shot back a frightened glance. "Yes, the alcohol just tears
down their resin bodies. The Spaniards made the mistake of forcing
the Uvans to operate the wells. Cheap labor, you know. That's why
the government sealed the wells. The Uvans were more valuable as
_brain-registers_ for the universe. Alcohol and caviar are the two
things these people are never absent-minded about."

"Well, we've got to have that etheroel," Bill spoke firmly. "They won't
give us a formula."

Webster began pacing the floor in small circles, glancing from Bill
to Olé in a distraught manner. "It's a vicious circle," he muttered.
"Indeed, a very vicious circle! It's up to the Interworld Government to
choose between slaughtering all the Uvans if they uncap the wells, or
not having the etheroel."

"It is tough, isn't it?" Bill nodded thoughtfully.

"Oh, that isn't all," replied Webster. "Don't you see what'll happen?
No one in the outside world is capable of making an independent
decision of this magnitude. They've gotten in the habit of referring
all major problems to the _Uvan Thought Clinic_. They'll refer this one
back to the Uvans and you know how the Uvans stand on the question of
etheroel. What we need is a good old fashioned freebooter to take up
the matter."

"Freebooter!" A thoughtful frown creased Bill Petrie's handsome brow.
He glanced at Olé, the Uvan editor, who blinked his top-side eyes
worriedly. If Bill had had a grape-cell head, a few lights would have
popped off and on in it at this instant for the shape of an idea was
forming in his brain.

Suddenly he took Kitty's two hands in his own and, staring into her
deep blue eyes, said: "Kitty, you're a very wealthy gal. I need some
cash. Are you, or aren't you going to radio your bank and have them
open your account unconditionally to a company I'm floating right now?"

The girl stared at him, startled. Perhaps the way he held her hands, or
the look of earnestness in his gaze, did something to her. She suddenly
smiled, murmuring, "Yes, Bill. I'm with you. What's the company?"

"I'll sound crazy," Bill grinned. He turned to Olé and collared the
little man. "Listen, Olé," he explained quickly. "You go back to the
square and find my office. Open it up. Put a sign in front--Uvan Caviar
Import Company. You'll be sales manager."

"Caviar!" The little Uvan's face brightened.

Bill tied a couple of strings to Ole's fingers and shoved him out the
door. "Those strings are to remind you what to do when you get to the
office. I'll be over there in a minute. I've got work to do now." He
faced Webster. "Where's your transmitter?"

"Bill, have you gone mad?" Kitty demanded.

"Not yet, honey!" He kissed Kitty briefly but effectively, adding, "Get
the money transferred to my Import Company. Then you go out to the
square and keep Castlebottom happy for a half hour. He's on the pillory
again. I'll see you at the office."
