
Pardeau sat silent now, seeming to enjoy the fear he had engendered in
his colleagues--sat silent until Leiderman said, "You've arrested him of
course."

"No. I have not."

"Then get at it, man--get at it."

"I have no intention of arresting Hillerman."

Leiderman's eyes widened as did those of the rest of the company. But
Blanchard, even under the impact of such a bombshell had the presence of
mind to glance at his watch. Immediately he snapped on the loudspeaker.
The voice of Professor Cargill blared forth:

"--and upon this anniversary of the New State, we can look with pride
upon a clean and wholesome land--"

It was the rebroadcast, from recordings, of Cargill's speech and no man
in his right mind would have refrained from tuning it in because
everyone wanted to hear it at least twice.

Leiderman, almost apoplectic, ignored the speech. "Not arresting him!
Are you mad?"

"I'm quite sane, and the situation is well in hand." Pardeau grinned and
there was wickedness in the grin--wickedness and intelligence. "As I
said before, Hillerman was not a smart man. His job was too much for
him and I would have been faced, soon, with the necessity of replacing
him regardless. Lenster, on the other hand, is of grade-A intellect.
But, gentlemen, he is frightened--badly frightened in his new
environment--and, in order to insure his own safety, is doing an
excellent job. Ever since the transformation, that department has gained
in efficiency until it now ranks as one of the highest in our entire
government."

Slowly, Pardeau's strategy dawned on the group. Blanchard suddenly
smiled. Then Pardeau scowled and went on with a new and sudden ferocity.
"I have the proof, and I have Lenster-Hillerman under my palm. So he
stays--continues to do a good job for us. But he'll be watched,
gentlemen. He won't be able to go to the bathroom without being under
surveillance. We will learn a great deal from him. All we need to know."

"Then you'll arrest him?" the boss of the state larder wanted to know.

Pardeau came to his feet. His fist slammed down on the table. "I shall
_not_ arrest him--ever. When the time comes, I shall personally shoot
him down in the street like a dog. There will come a day, gentlemen,
when you will witness this act of vengeance--when I shall make such an
example of Lenster-Hillerman as the resistance will not forget--a
morale-crumbling example, I promise you."

"--in which Lenster and his ilk are forever crushed and beaten," the
speaker said.

Blanchard took the floor. "Gentlemen--I move a vote of thanks and
confidence for our colleague, Neal Pardeau."

The Director of Public Security stood at attention and assayed a sharp,
military bow. It was a moment of rare triumph. "Thank you, gentlemen,"
he said.
