
The Launch Control Officer wasn't going nuts. Anyone who went nuts under
stress simply didn't pass the psychological tests required of
prospective Launch Control Officers. However, he was decidedly unhappy.
He sat in a dimly-lighted room, facing three oscilloscope screens. On
each of them a pie-wedge section was illuminated by a white line which
swept back and forth like a windshield wiper. Unlike a windshield wiper,
however, it put little white blobs on the screen, instead of removing
them. Each blob represented something which had returned a radar echo.
The center screen was his own radar. The outer two were televised images
of the radar screens at the stations a hundred miles on either side of
him, part of a chain of stations extending from Alaska to Greenland. In
the room, behind him, and facing sets of screens similar to his, sat his
assistants. They located the incoming objects on the screen and set
automatic computers to determining velocity, trajectory, and probable
impact point.

This information appeared as coded symbols beside the tracks on the
center screen of the Launch Control Officer, as well as all duplicate
screens. The Launch Control Officer, and he alone, had the
responsibility to determine whether the parameters for a given track
were compatible with an invading Intercontinental Ballistic Missile, or
whether the track represented something harmless. If he failed to launch
an interceptor at a track that turned out to be hostile, it meant the
death of an American city. However, if he made a habit of launching
interceptors at false targets, he would soon run out of interceptors.
And only under the pressure of actual war would the incredible cost of
shipping in more interceptors during the winter be paid without a second
thought. Normally, no more could be shipped in until spring. That would
mean a gap in the chain that could not be covered adequately by
interceptors from the adjacent stations.

His screens were never completely clear. And to complicate things, the
Quadrantids, which start every New Year's Day and last four days, were
giving him additional trouble. Each track had to be analyzed, and the
presence of the meteor shower greatly increased the number of tracks he
had to worry about. However, the worst was past. One more day and they
would be over. The clutter on his screens would drop back to normal.

Even under the best of circumstances, his problem was bad. He was hemmed
in on one side by physics, and on the other by arithmetic. The most
probable direction for an attack was from over the Pole. His radar beam
bent only slightly to follow the curve of the Earth. At great range, the
lower edge of the beam was too far above the Earth's surface to detect
anything of military significance. On a minimum altitude trajectory, an
ICBM aimed for North America would not be visible until it reached 83 deg.
North Latitude on the other side of the Pole. One of his interceptors
took three hundred eighty-five seconds to match trajectories with such a
missile, and the match occurred only two degrees of latitude south of
the station. The invading missile traveled one degree of latitude in
fourteen seconds. Thus he had to launch the interceptor when the missile
was twenty-seven degrees from intercept. This turned out to be 85 deg. North
Latitude on the other side of the Pole. This left him at most thirty
seconds to decide whether or not to intercept a track crossing the
Pole. And if several tracks were present, he had to split that time
among them. If too many tracks appeared, he would have to turn over
portions of the sky to his assistants, and let them make the decisions
about launching. This would happen only if he felt an attack was in
progress, however.

Low-altitude satellites presented him with a serious problem, since
there is not a whole lot of difference between the orbit of such a
satellite and the trajectory of an ICBM. Fortunately most satellite
orbits were catalogued and available for comparison with incoming
tracks. However, once in a while an unannounced satellite was launched,
and these could cause trouble. Only the previous week, at a station down
the line, an interceptor had been launched at an unannounced satellite.
Had the pilot not realized what he was chasing and held his fire, the
international complications could have been serious. It was hard to
imagine World War III being started by an erroneous interceptor
launching, but the State Department would be hard put to soothe the
feelings of some intensely nationalistic country whose expensive new
satellite had been shot down. Such mistakes were bound to occur, but the
Launch Control Officer preferred that they be made when someone else,
not he, was on watch. For this reason he attempted to anticipate all
known satellites, so they would be recognized as soon as they appeared.

According to the notes he had made before coming on watch, one of the
UN's weather satellites was due over shortly. A blip appeared on the
screen just beyond the 83 deg. latitude line, across the Pole. He checked
the time with the satellite ephemeris. If this were the satellite, it
was ninety seconds early. That was too much error in the predicted orbit
of a well-known satellite. Symbols sprang into existence beside the
track. It was not quite high enough for the satellite, and the velocity
was too low. As the white line swept across the screen again, more
symbols appeared beside the track. Probable impact point was about 40 deg.
Latitude. It certainly wasn't the satellite. Two more blips appeared on
the screen, at velocities and altitudes similar to the first. Each swipe
of the white line left more new tracks on the screen. And the screens
for the adjacent stations were showing similar behavior. These couldn't
be meteors.

The Launch Control Officer slapped his hand down on a red push-button
set into the arm of his chair, and spoke into his mike. "Red Alert.
Attack is in progress." Then switching to another channel, he spoke to
his assistants: "Take your preassigned sectors. Launch one interceptor
at each track identified as hostile." He hadn't enough interceptors to
double up on an attack of this size, and a quick glance at the screens
for the adjacent stations showed he could expect no help from them. They
would have their hands full. In theory, one interceptor could handle a
missile all by itself. But the theory had never been tried in combat.
That lack was about to be supplied.
