
Harry Lightfoot heard the alarm over the intercom. He vaguely understood
what would happen before his launch order came. As each track was
identified as hostile, a computer would be assigned to it. It would
compute the correct time of launch, select an interceptor, and order it
off the ground at the correct time. During the climb to intercept, the
computer would radio steering signals to the interceptor, to assure that
the intercept took place in the most efficient fashion. He knew RI 276
had been selected when a green light on the instrument panel flashed on,
and a clock dial started indicating the seconds until launch. Just as
the clock reached zero, a relay closed behind the instrument panel. The
solid-fuel booster ignited with a roar. He was squashed back into his
couch under four gees' acceleration.

Gyroscopes and acceleration-measuring instruments determined the actual
trajectory of the ship; the navigation computer compared the actual
trajectory with the trajectory set in before take-off; when a deviation
from the pre-set trajectory occurred, the autopilot steered the ship
back to the proper trajectory. As the computer on the ground obtained
better velocity and position information about the missile from the
ground radar, it sent course corrections to the ship, which were
accepted in the computer as changes to the pre-set trajectory. The
navigation computer hummed and buzzed; lights flickered on and off on
the instrument panel; relays clicked behind the panel. The ship steered
itself toward the correct intercept point. All this automatic operation
was required because no merely human pilot had reflexes fast enough to
carry out an intercept at twenty-six thousand feet per second. And even
had his reflexes been fast enough, he could not have done the precise
piloting required while being pummeled by this acceleration.

As it was, Major Harry Lightfoot, fighter pilot, lay motionless in his
acceleration couch. His face was distorted by the acceleration. His
breathing was labored. Compressed-air bladders in the legs of his
gee-suit alternately expanded and contracted, squeezing him like the
obscene embrace of some giant snake, as the gee-suit tried to keep his
blood from pooling in his legs. Without the gee-suit, he would have
blacked out, and eventually his brain would have been permanently
damaged from the lack of blood to carry oxygen to it.

A red light on the instrument panel blinked balefully at him as it
measured out the oxygen he required. Other instruments on the panel
informed him of the amount of cooling air flowing through his suit to
keep his temperature within the tolerable range, and the amount of
moisture the dehumidifier had to carry away from him so that his suit
didn't become a steam-bath. He was surrounded by hundreds of pounds of
equipment which added nothing to the performance of the ship; which
couldn't be counted as payload; which cut down on the speed and altitude
the ship might have reached without them. Their sole purpose was to keep
this magnificent high-performance, self-steering machine from killing
its load of fragile human flesh.

At one hundred twenty-eight seconds after launch, the acceleration
suddenly dropped to zero. He breathed deeply again, and swallowed
repeatedly to get the salty taste out of his throat. His stomach was
uneasy, but he wasn't spacesick. Had he been prone to spacesickness, he
would never have been accepted as a Rocket Interceptor pilot. Rocket
Interceptor pilots had to be capable of taking all the punishment their
ships could dish out.

He knew there would be fifty seconds of free-fall before the rockets
fired again. One solid-fuel stage had imparted to the ship a velocity
which would carry it to the altitude of the missile it was to intercept.
A second solid-fuel stage would match trajectories with the missile.
Final corrections would be made with the liquid-fuel rockets in the
third stage. The third stage would then become a glider which eventually
would carry him back to Earth.

Before the second stage was fired, however, the ship had to be oriented
properly. The autopilot consulted its gyros, took some star sights, and
asked the navigation computer some questions. The answers came back in
seconds, an interval which was several hours shorter than a human pilot
would have required. Using the answers, the autopilot started to swing
the ship about, using small compressed-gas jets for the purpose.
Finally, satisfied with the ship's orientation, the autopilot rested. It
patiently awaited the moment, precisely calculated by the computer on
the ground, when it would fire the second stage.

Major Harry Lightfoot, fighter pilot, waited idly for the next move of
his ship. He could only fume inwardly. This was no way for an Apache
warrior to ride into battle. What would his grandfather think of a steed
which directed itself into battle and which could kill its rider, not by
accident, but in its normal operation? He should be actively hunting for
that missile, instead of lying here, strapped into his couch so he
wouldn't hurt himself, while the ship did all the work.

As for the missile, it was far to the north and slightly above the ship.
Without purpose of its own, but obedient to the laws of Mr. Newton and
to the wishes of its makers, it came on inexorably. It was a sleek
aluminum cylinder, glinting in the sunlight it had just recently
entered. On one end was a rocket-motor, now silent but still warm with
the memory of flaming gas that had poured forth from it only minutes
ago. On the other end was a sleek aerodynamic shape, the product of
thousands of hours of design work. It was designed to enter the
atmosphere at meteoric speed, but without burning up. It was intended to
survive the passage through the air and convey its contents intact to
the ground. The contents might have been virulent bacteria or toxic gas,
according to the intentions of its makers. Among its brothers elsewhere
in the sky this morning, there were such noxious loads. This one,
however, was carrying the complex mechanism of a hydrogen bomb. Its
destination was an American city; its object to replace that city with
an expanding cloud of star-hot gas.
