
He switched on a radar transmitter. The screen blanked out almost
completely. The missile had included a micro-wave transmitter, to act as
a jammer. It must have been triggered on by his approach. It obviously
hadn't been operating while the ship was maneuvering into position. Had
it been transmitting then, the autopilot would simply have homed on it.
He switched the radar to a different frequency. That didn't work. The
screen was still blank, indicating that the jammer was sweeping in
frequency. He next tried to synchronize his radar pulses with the
jammer, in order to be looking when it was quiet. The enemy,
anticipating him, had given the jammer a variable pulse repetition rate.
He switched off the transmitter, and scanned the radar antenna manually.
He slowly swung it back and forth, attempting to fix the direction of
the jammer by finding the direction of maximum signal strength. He found
that the enemy had anticipated him again, and the jammer's signal
strength varied. However, he finally stopped the antenna, satisfied that
he had it pointed at the jammer. The infrared detector confirmed that
there was something in the direction the antenna pointed, but it
appeared too small to be the warhead.

He then activated the manual piloting controls. He started the fuel
pumps winding up, and swung the ship to point normal to the
line-of-sight to the jammer. A quick blast from the rockets sent the
image of the jammer moving sideways across the screen. But, of greater
importance, two other objects moved across the screen faster than the
jammer, indicating they were nearer the ship than was the jammer. He
picked the one which appeared the nearest to him, and with a series of
maneuvers and blasts from the rockets placed the object between himself
and the jammer. He switched the radar on again. Some of the jammer
signal was still leaking through, but the object, whatever it was, made
an effective shield. The radar images were quite sharp and clear.

He glanced at the clock. Nullifying the jammer had cost him seventy-five
seconds. He'd have to hurry, in order to make up for that time. The
infrared detector showed two targets which the radar insisted weren't
there. He shifted radar frequency. They still weren't there. He decided
they were small fragments which didn't reflect much radar energy, and
rejected them. He set the radar to a linearly polarized mode. Eight of
the targets showed a definite amplitude modulation on the echo. That
meant they were rotating slowly. He switched to circular polarization,
to see if they presented a constant area to the radar beam. He compared
the echoes for both modes of polarization. Five of the targets were skin
fragments, spinning about an axis skewed with respect to the radar beam.
These he rejected. Two more were structural spars. They couldn't conceal
a warhead. He rejected them. After careful examination of the fine
structure of the echo from the last object, he was able to classify it
as a large irregular mass, probably a section of computer, waving some
cables about. Its irregularity weighed against its containing the
warhead. Even if it didn't burn up in the atmosphere, its trajectory
would be too unpredictable.

He turned to the rest of the targets. Time was getting short. He
extracted every conceivable bit of information out of what his detectors
told him. He checked each fragment for resonant frequencies, getting an
idea of the size and shape of each. He checked the radiated infrared
spectrum. He checked the decrement of the reflected radar pulse. Each
scrap of information was an indication about the identity of the
fragments. With frequent glances at the clock, constantly reminding him
of how rapidly his time was running out, he checked and cross-checked
the data coming in to him. Fighting to keep his mind calm and his
thoughts clear, he deduced, inferred, and decided. One fragment after
another, he sorted, discarded, rejected, eliminated, excluded. Until the
screen was empty.

Now what? Had the enemy camouflaged the warhead so that it looked like a
section of the missile's skin? Not likely. Had he made a mistake in his
identification of the fragments? Possibly, but there wasn't time to
recheck every fragment. He decided that the most likely event was that
the warhead was hidden by one of the other fragments. He swung the ship;
headed it straight for the object shielding him from the jammer, which
had turned out to be a section from the fuel tank. A short blast from
the rockets sent him drifting toward the object. One image on the screen
broadened; split in two. A hidden fragment emerged from behind one of
the ones he had examined. He rejected it immediately. Its temperature
was too low. He was almost upon the fragment shielding him from the
jammer. If he turned to avoid it, the jammer would blank-out his radar
again. He thought back to his first look at the cloud of fragments.
There had been nothing between his shield and the jammer. The only
remaining possibility, then, was that the warhead was being hidden from
him by the jammer itself. He would have to look on the other side of the
jammer, using the ship itself as a shield.

He swung out from behind the shielding fragment, and saw his radar
images blotted out. He switched off the radar, and aimed the ship
slightly to one side of the infrared image of the jammer. Another blast
from the rockets sent him towards the jammer. Without range information
from the radar, he would have to guess its distance by noting the rate
at which it swept across the screen. The image of the jammer started to
expand as he approached it. Then it became dumbbell shaped and split in
two.

As he passed by the jammer, he switched the radar back on. That second
image was something which had been hidden by the jammer. He looked
around. No other new objects appeared on the screen. This had to be the
warhead. He checked it anyway. Temperature was minus 40 deg. F. A smile
flickered on his lips as he caught the significance of the temperature.
He hoped the launching crew had gotten their fingers frozen off while
they were going through the countdown. The object showed no anomalous
radar behavior. Beyond doubt, it was the warhead.

Then he noted the range. A mere thirteen hundred yards! His own missile
carried a small atomic warhead. At that range it would present no danger
to him. But what if it triggered the enemy warhead? He and the ship
would be converted into vapor within microseconds. Even a partial,
low-efficiency explosion might leave the ship so weakened that it could
not stand the stresses of return through the atmosphere. Firing on the
enemy warhead at this range was not much different from playing Russian
Roulette with a fully-loaded revolver.

Could he move out of range of the explosion and then fire? No. There
were only twelve seconds left before he had to start the pull-out. It
would take him longer than that to get to a safe range, get into
position, and fire. He'd be dead anyway, as the ship plunged into the
atmosphere and burned up. And to pull out without firing would be saving
his own life at the cost of the lives he was under oath to defend. That
would be sheer cowardice.
