
He hesitated briefly, shrugged his shoulders as well as he could inside
his flying suit, and snapped a switch on the instrument panel. A set of
cross hairs sprang into existence on the screen. He gripped a small
lever which projected up from his right armrest; curled his thumb over
the firing button on top of it. Moving the lever, he caused the cross
hairs to center on the warhead. He flicked the firing button, to tell
the fire control system that _this_ was the target. A red light blinked
on, informing him that the missile guidance system was tracking the
indicated target.

He hesitated again. His body tautened against the straps holding it in
the acceleration couch. His right arm became rigid; his fingers
petrified. Then, with a convulsive twitch of his thumb, he closed the
firing circuit. He stared at the screen, unable to tear his eyes from
the streak of light that leaped away from his ship and toward the
target. The missile reached the target, and there was a small flare of
light. His radiation counter burped briefly. The target vanished from
the radar, but the infrared detector insisted there was a nebulous fog
of hot gas, shot through with a rain of molten droplets, where the
target had been. That was all. He had destroyed the enemy warhead
without setting it off. He stabbed the MISSION ACCOMPLISHED button, and
flicked the red-handled toggle switch, resigning his status as pilot.
Then he collapsed, nerveless, into the couch.

The autopilot returned to control. It signaled the Air Defense network
that this hostile track was no longer dangerous. It received
instructions about a safe corridor to return to the ground, where it
would not be shot at. As soon as the air was thick enough for the
control surfaces to bite, the autopilot steered into the safe corridor.
It began the slow, tedious process of landing safely. The ground was
still a long way down. The kinetic and potential energy of the ship, if
instantly transformed into heat, was enough to flash the entire ship
into vapor. This tremendous store of energy had to be dissipated without
harm to the ship and its occupant.

Major Harry Lightfoot, fighter pilot, lay collapsed in his couch,
exhibiting somewhat less ambition than a sack of meal. He relaxed to the
gentle massage of his gee-suit. The oxygen control winked reassuringly
at him as it maintained a steady flow. The cabin temperature soared, but
he was aware of it only from a glance at a thermometer; the air
conditioning in his suit automatically stepped up its pace to keep him
comfortable. He reflected that this might not be so bad after all.
Certainly none of his ancestors had ever had this comfortable a ride
home from battle.

After a while, the ship had reduced its speed and altitude to reasonable
values. The autopilot requested, and received, clearance to land at its
preassigned base. It lined itself up with the runway, precisely followed
the correct glide-path, and flared out just over the end of the runway.
The smoothness of the touchdown was broken only by the jerk of the drag
parachute popping open. The ship came to a halt near the other end of
the runway. Harry Lightfoot disconnected himself from the ship and
opened the hatch. Carefully avoiding contact with the still-hot metal
skin of the ship, he jumped the short distance to the ground. The low
purr of a motor behind him announced the arrival of a tractor to tow the
ship off the runway.

"You'll have to ride the tractor back with me, sir. We're a bit short of
transportation now."

"O.K., sergeant. Be careful hooking up. She's still hot."

"How was the flight, sir?"

"No sweat. She flies herself most of the time."


THE END



