
Perhaps thirty people were sitting on the floor of the Arena, where
once there had been a stage. They sat quietly in chairs not so
different from mine, strapped for the moment into a kind of passive
conformity. I looked at them with interest. Strangeness has as much
attraction as the familiar at times. As usual, most of them were
young--from about ten to the early twenties. But at whatever age,
they were rebels. They were potential enemies of society. Criminals.
Probably some of them hadn't yet realized it. But they were on the
verge of anti-social insanity, and the brain-scanners had singled them
out.

They were so young.... How long does it take a boy to become neurotic,
psychotic, dangerous?

A flurry of movement at the gates caught my eye. Apparently at least
one of them was a full-fledged Rebel. He struggled furiously, and the
three proctors were having an awkward time carrying him into the Arena
without hurting him.

Then, as they moved into the floodlights, I saw with a faint shock that
it was a girl.

She was dressed in man's clothing, but betrayed by her neurotic and
unsanitary long hair.

Long, blonde hair. For a moment I forgot where I was, and allowed
myself to revel in this nearly forbidden sight. The soft waves fell
halfway down her neck, disarrayed now. The floodlights shined on it, a
strangely gentle mockery of sunlight. Something within me stirred, and
I almost remembered....

Then they were strapping her into one of the chairs, carefully pulling
the soft leather straps with their attached metal electrodes around
her, pinioning her. One set joined her arms to the armrests, another
her legs to the specially devised footrests. Her tunic was opened, and
a third set was passed around her chest, the metal plate fastened just
under her left breast.

And then she was alone.

I stared at her, drawn at first to her hair, and then, as my vision
focused across the distance, to her eyes.

Strange eyes; light blue irises, surrounded by a ring of dark blue, and
flecked with gold. They were shining. She had been crying. Her eyes
seemed to melt, like a pool of clear water growing deeper; I could
almost see into them, into the darkness beneath. I was no longer aware
of the chair in which I sat ... only of her, alone before me, so close.

Her eyes widened for just an instant when she recognized me.

"_Bob._"

"_Hello, Rosebud._"

"_I knew you'd be here. I knew._"

"_It's been a long time.... I think I was trying to forget._"

"_Don't,_" she said. "_Don't ever forget._"
