
When I came to, I was being carried by three proctors through a door
and down a hall. My head was fuzzy and throbbing. I caught a glimpse
of a stenciled sign in the corridor, lettered neatly over an arrow
pointing in the direction we were going. The words leaped out at me:
_Execution Arena Floor_.

One of the proctors saw that I was conscious and looked down at me
pleasantly. "No sense struggling now," he said. "It'll be over soon."

I stared back at him for a moment, not understanding. But then the
kindness in his face became clear. He pitied me! The proctors were
carrying me as gently as possible, as though I were a dog with a broken
leg.

I felt incredibly sad, and so tired that I was sure I must suddenly
weigh twice as much. But they carried me through the door and out onto
the floor of the Arena, and there were a thousand people up in the dark
waiting for me. There were floodlights on the chairs where the others
of the Condemned were strapped. They sat quietly, dully, as though they
were the Executioners and the people above were waiting for _them_ to
press the buttons.

But it was insane! How could they take it so calmly----were they dead
already? Did they _want_ to die?

Or was I really insane? Where _was_ the sanity in this Arena?

I couldn't lie still while they carried me to that chair. I was
frightened. I was terrified! They were all so silent, so calm, so
kindly. As though nothing at all were happening--nothing at all!

I struggled, trying to fight my way free. I kicked and screamed; I
had to make some noise in that black silence. But they held me, and
strapped me into the chair. And still there was no sound in the Arena.

I felt a shock, a tension, and I looked up.

There, in the audience, sitting before his little panel with the blue
light and the red Executioner's button, was a young man staring at me.

I could feel his stare, like a cool hand touching me. It drew me up,
into the dimness....

I felt my eyes widen with recognition.

"_Bob_," I said.

His reply sounded deep inside my mind, "_Hello, Rosebud._"

"_I knew you'd be here_," I said, and then I drew him close to me.

"_It's been a long time._"

"_Don't ever forget_," I said, and opened myself to him at last.
