
The lights in the Arena dimmed, rose, dimmed again. The first signal
I pressed against the straps, but they were firm and unmoving. Yet
I--we--leaned forward, and watched the panel with its blue light. Our
stomach was knotted like tight leather cords.

The blue light flashed. I reached out a hand to the small red button.
The straps bit into our flesh. The panel was dim, ghostly beneath the
glaring lights from the dark above.

A thousand hands touched a thousand red buttons.

One of them was the first to touch the button, the first to complete
the circuit. No one knew who he was. No one even knew if every button
was connected, but someone touched a button and somewhere the circuit
was completed.

_Shock!_ Pain jerked our body rigid! We _screamed_; our skin blistered
as hair singed and fell away. And there was a greater shock, a pain
somewhere else, as our images cleaved and I fell away from her. I
reached out my hand to her, and almost felt her touch ... but my hand
was on the button, and she was slumped in her chair on the floor of the
Arena.

I jerked my hand away from the button as though it were hot
electricity. My whole body was moist with perspiration.

I stared about me, suddenly and deeply frightened. Which of us had
screamed? I'd felt it surging up in me, felt it tearing at my throat,
bursting from my mouth--but next to me the others were unconcernedly
waiting for me to rise from my seat so that we could file in an
orderly fashion from our places in the Arena. They had noticed nothing.

When I stood up my legs were trembling. I could still feel where the
leather straps had bitten into them. I stepped carefully up the stairs
and went out into the morning sunshine. Though the floodlights had been
bright in the Arena, still the sunlight hurt my eyes. I paused at the
door, and looked at my ring-watch. It was nine-thirty. Only half an
hour had passed.

How long does it take to destroy a few spoiled lives?

It was over. I forced my breathing into a more normal rate and stepped
onto the sidewalk. Don't think about it, I told myself. After all, it
had been years earlier that I had really lost her....

I had almost made it to the corner when I felt the tap on my shoulder,
began to turn, saw the green-sleeved arm extending toward me a familiar
black indicator, and heard the proctor say:

"This is the one. Definite case: schizoid condition, latent telepath."

"We're all sorry," said another of them.

And they led me away to face it again.



