
I do not feel responsible for these things. If I had not sold them the
Moon Glow, someone else would have done so. Besides, I am only a
wholesaler. Benny buys everything that I am able to produce in my
little laboratory hidden out in the Dumps.

Just now, by Benny's attitude, I knew that something was very wrong.
"What is the matter?" I said. "Is it the revenue agents?"

"I do not know," said BNE-96 in that curious, flat voice of his that
is incapable of inflection. "I do not know, but there are visitors of
importance from Earth. It could mean anything, but I have a
premonition of disaster. Jon tipped me off."

He meant Jon Rogeson, of course, who was the peace officer here in
Argon City, and the only one of the Builders I had ever met who did
not look down upon a metal person. When sober he was a clever person
who always looked out for our interests here.

"What are they like?" I asked in some fear, for I had six vials of
Moon Glow with me at the moment.

"I have not seen them, but there is one who is high in the government,
and his wife. There are half a dozen others of the Builder race, and
one of the new type metal persons."

I had met the she who must have been the wife. "They hate us," I said.
"We can expect only evil from these persons."

"You may be right. If you have any merchandise with you, I will take
it, but do not risk bringing more here until they have gone."

I produced the vials of Moon Glow, and he paid me in Phobos credits,
which are good for a specified number of refuelings at the Central
fueling station.

Benny put the vials away and he went into the bar. There was the usual
jostling crowd of hard-bitten Earth miners, and of the metal people
who come to lose their loneliness. I recognized many, though I spend
very little time in these places, preferring solitary pursuits, such
as the distillation of Moon Glow, and improving my mind by study and
contemplation out in the barrens.

Jon Rogeson and I saw each other at the same time, and I did not like
the expression in his eye as he crooked a finger at me. I went over to
his table. He was pleasant looking, as Builders go, with blue eyes
less dull than most, and a brown, unruly topknot of hair such as is
universally affected by them.

"Sit down," he invited, revealing his white incisors in greeting.

I never sit, but this time I did so, to be polite. I was wary; ready
for anything. I knew that there was something unpleasant in the air. I
wondered if he had seen me passing the Moon Glow to Benny somehow.
Perhaps he had barrier-penetrating vision, like the Z group of metal
people ... but I had never heard of a Builder like that. I knew that
he had long suspected that I made Moon Glow.

"What do you want?" I asked cautiously.

"Come on now," he said, "loosen up! Limber those stainless steel
hinges of yours and be friendly."

That made me feel good. Actually, I am somewhat pitted with rust, but
he never seems to notice, for he is like that. I felt young, as if I
had partaken of my own product.

"The fact is, B-12," he said, "I want you to do me a favor, old pal."

"And what is that?"

"Perhaps you have heard that there is some big brass from Earth
visiting Phobos this week."

"I have heard nothing," I said. It is often helpful to appear ignorant
when questioned by the Builders, for they believe us to be incapable
of misrepresenting the truth. The fact is, though it is an acquired
trait, and not built into us, we General Purposes can lie as well as
anyone.

"Well, there is. A Federation Senator, no less. Simon F. Langley. It's
my job to keep them entertained; that's where you come in."

I was mystified. I had never heard of this Langley, but I know what
entertainment is. I had a mental image of myself singing or dancing
before the Senator's party. But I can not sing very well, for three of
my voice reeds are broken and have never been replaced, and lateral
motion, for me, is almost impossible these days. "I do not know what
you mean," I said. "There is J-66. He was once an Entertainment--"

"No, no!" he interrupted, "you don't get it. What the Senator wants is
a guide. They're making a survey of the Dumps, though I'll be damned
if I can find out why. And you know the Dumps better than any metal
person--or human--on Phobos."

So that was it. I felt a vague dread, a premonition of disaster. I had
such feelings before, and usually with reason. This too, was an
acquired sensibility, I am sure. For many years I have studied the
Builders, and there is much to be learned of their mobile faces and
their eyes. In Jon's eyes, however, I read no trickery--nothing.

Yet, I say, I had the sensation of evil. It was just for a moment; no
longer.

I said I would think it over.
