
Senator Langley was distinguished. Jon said so. And yet he was
cumbersomely round, and he rattled incessantly of things into which I
could interpret no meaning. The she who was his wife was much younger,
and sullen, and unpleasantly I sensed great rapport between her and
Jon Rogeson from the very first.

There were several other humans in the group--I will not call them
Builders, for I did not hold them to be, in any way, superior to my
own people. They all wore spectacles, and they gravitated about the
round body of the Senator like minor moons, and I could tell that they
were some kind of servitors.

I will not describe them further.

MS-33 I will describe. I felt an unconscionable hatred for him at
once. I can not say why, except that he hung about his master
obsequiously, power pack smoothly purring, and he was slim limbed,
nickel-plated, and wore, I thought, a smug expression on his
viziplate. He represented the new order; the ones who had displaced us
on Earth. He knew too much, and showed it at every opportunity.

We did not go far that first morning. The half-track was driven to the
edge of the Dumps. Within the Dumps one walks--or does not go. Phobos
is an airless world, and yet so small that rockets are impractical.
The terrain is broken and littered with the refuse of half a dozen
worlds, but the Dumps themselves--that is different.

Imagine, if you can, an endless vista of death, a sea of rusting
corpses of space ships, and worn-out mining machinery, and of those of
my race whose power packs burned out, or who simply gave up, retiring
into this endless, corroding limbo of the barrens. A more sombre sight
was never seen.

But this fat ghoul, Langley, sickened me. This shame of the Builder
race, this atavism--this beast--rubbed his fat, impractical hands
together with an ungod-like glee. "Excellent," he said. "Far, far
better, in fact, than I had hoped." He did not elucidate.

I looked at Jon Rogeson. He shook his head slowly.

"You there--robot!" said Langley, looking at me. "How far across this
place?" The word was like a blow. I could not answer.

MS-33, glistening in the dying light of Mars, strode over to me,
clanking heavily up on the black rocks. He seized me with his grapples
and shook me until my wiring was in danger of shorting out. "Speak up
when you are spoken to, archaic mechanism!" he grated.

I would have struck out at him, but what use except to warp my own
aging limbs.

Jon Rogeson came to my rescue. "On Phobos," he explained to Langley,
"we don't use that word 'robot.' These folk have been free a long
time. They've quite a culture of their own nowadays, and they like to
be called 'metal people.' As a return courtesy, they refer to us
humans as 'builders.' Just a custom, Senator, but if you want to get
along with them--"

"Can they vote?" said Langley, grinning at his own sour humor.

"Nonsense," said MS-33. "I am a robot, and proud of it. This rusty
piece has no call to put on airs."

"Release him," Langley said. "Droll fellows, these discarded robots.
Really nothing but mechanical dolls, you know, but I think the old
scientists made a mistake, giving them such human appearance, and such
obstinate traits."

Oh, it was true enough, from his point of view. We had been mechanical
dolls at first, I suppose, but fifty years can change one. All I know
is this: we are people; we think and feel, and are happy and sad, and
quite often we are bored stiff with this dreary moon of Phobos.

It seared me. My selenium cells throbbed white hot within the shell of
my frame, and I made up my mind that I would learn more about the
mission of this Langley, and I would get even with MS-33 even if they
had me dismantled for it.

Of the rest of that week I recall few pleasant moments. We went out
every day, and the quick-eyed servants of Langley measured the areas
with their instruments, and exchanged significant looks from behind
their spectacles, smug in their thin air helmets. It was all very
mysterious. And disturbing.

But I could discover nothing about their mission. And when I
questioned MS-33, he would look important and say nothing. Somehow it
seemed vital that I find out what was going on before it was too late.

On the third day there was a strange occurrence. My friend, Jon
Rogeson had been taking pictures of the Dumps. Langley and his wife
had withdrawn to one side and were talking in low tomes to one
another. Quite thoughtlessly Jon turned the lens on them and clicked
the shutter.

Langley became rust-red throughout the vast expanse of his neck and
face. "Here!" he said, "what are you doing?"

"Nothing," said Jon.

"You took a picture of me," snarled Langley. "Give me the plate at
once."

Jon Rogeson got a bit red himself. He was not used to being ordered
around. "I'll be damned if I will," he said.

Langley growled something I couldn't understand, and turned his back
on us. The she who was called his wife looked startled and worried.
Her eyes were beseeching as she looked at Jon. A message there, but I
could not read it. Jon looked away.

Langley started walking back to the half-track alone. He turned once
and there was evil in his gaze as he looked at Jon. "You will lose
your job for this impertinence," he said with quiet savagery, and
added, enigmatically, "not that there will be a job after this week
anyway."

Builders may appear to act without reason, but there is always a
motivation somewhere in their complex brains, if one can only find it,
either in the seat of reason, or in the labyrinthine inhibitions from
their childhood. I knew this, because I had studied them, and now
there were certain notions that came into my brain which, even if I
could not prove them, were no less interesting for that.
