
The time had come to act. I could scarcely wait for darkness to come.
There were things in my brain that appalled me, but I was now certain
that I had been right. Something was about to happen to Phobos, to all
of us here--I knew not what, but I must prevent it somehow.

I kept in the shadows of the shabby buildings of Argon City, and I
found the window without effort. The place where I had spied upon the
wife of Langley to my sorrow the other night. There was no one there;
there was darkness within, but that did not deter me.

Within the airdrome which covers Argon City the buildings are loosely
constructed, even as they are on Earth. I had no trouble, therefore,
opening the window. I swung a leg up and was presently within the
darkened room. I found the door I sought and entered cautiously. In
this adjacent compartment I made a thorough search but I did not find
what I primarily sought--namely the elusive reason for Langley's visit
to Phobos. It was in a metallic overnight bag that I did find
something else which made my power pack hum so loudly that I was
afraid of being heard. The thing which explained the strangeness of
the pompous Senator's attitude today--which explained, in short, many
things, and caused my brain to race with new ideas.

I put the thing in my chest container, and left as stealthily as I had
come. There had been progress, but since I had not found what I hoped
to find, I must now try my alternate plan.

Two hours later I found the one I sought, and made sure that I was
seen by him. Then I left Argon City by the South lock, furtively, as a
thief, always glancing over my shoulder, and when I made certain that
I was being followed, I went swiftly, and it was not long before I was
clambering over the first heaps of debris at the edge of the Dumps.

Once I thought I heard footsteps behind me, but when I looked back
there was no one in sight. Just the tiny disk of Deimos peering over
the sharp peak of the nearest ridge, the black velvet sky outlining
the curvature of this airless moon.

Presently I was in sight of home, the time-eaten hull of an ancient
star freighter resting near the top of a heap of junked equipment from
some old strip mining operation. It would never rise again, but its
shell remained strong enough to shelter my distillery and scant
furnishings from any chance meteorite that might fall.

I greeted it with the usual warmth of feeling which one has for the
safe and the familiar. I stumbled over tin fuel cans, wires and other
tangled metal in my haste to get there.

It was just as I had left it. The heating element under the network of
coils and pressure chambers still glowed with white heat, and the Moon
Glow was dripping with musical sound into the retort.

I felt good. No one ever bothered me here. This was my fortress, with
all that I cared for inside. My tools, my work, my micro-library. And
yet I had deliberately--

Something--a heavy foot--clanked upon the first step of the manport
through which I had entered.

I turned quickly. The form shimmered in the pale Deimoslight that
silhouetted it.

MS-33.

He had followed me here.

"What do you want?" I said. "What are you doing here?"

"A simple question," said MS-33. "Tonight you looked very suspicious
when you left Argon City. I saw you and followed you here. You may as
well know that I have never trusted you. All the old ones were
unreliable. That is why you were replaced."

He came in, boldly, without being invited, and looked around. I
detected a sneer in his voice as he said, "So this is where you hide."

"I do not hide. I live here, it is true."

"A robot does not live. A robot exists. We newer models do not require
shelter like an animal. We are rust-proof and invulnerable." He strode
over to my micro-library, several racks of carefully arranged spools,
and fingered them irreverently. "What is this?"

"My library."

"So! _Our_ memories are built into us. We have no need to refresh
them."

"So is mine," I said. "But I would learn more than I know." I was
stalling for time, waiting until he made the right opening.

"Nonsense," he said. "I know why you stay out here in the Dumps,
masterless. I have heard of the forbidden drug that is sold in the
mining camps such as Argon City. Is this the mechanism?" He pointed at
the still.

Now was the time. I mustered all my cunning, but I could not speak.
Not yet.

"Never mind," he said. "I can see that it is. I shall report you, of
course. It will give me great pleasure to see you dismantled. Not that
it really matters, of course--now."

_There it was again. The same frightening allusion that Langley had
made today._ I must succeed!
