
I knew that MS-33, for all his brilliance, and newness, and vaunted
superiority, was only a Secretarial. For the age of specialism was
upon Earth, and General Purpose models were no longer made. That was
why we were different here on Phobos. It was why we had survived. The
old ones had given us something special which the new metal people did
not have. Moreover, MS-33 had his weakness. He was larger, stronger,
faster than me, but I doubted that he could be devious.

"You are right," I said, pretending resignation. "This is my
distillery. It is where I make the fluid which is called Moon Glow by
the metal people of Phobos. Doubtless you are interested in learning
how it works."

"Not even remotely interested," he said. "I am interested only in
taking you back and turning you over to the authorities."

"It works much like the conventional distilling plants of Earth," I
said, "except that the basic ingredient, a silicon compound, is
irradiated as it passes through zirconium tubes to the heating pile,
where it is activated and broken down into the droplets of the elixir
called Moon Glow. You see the golden drops falling there.

"It has the excellent flavor of fine petroleum, as I make it. Perhaps
you'd care to taste it. Then you could understand that it is not
really bad at all. Perhaps you could persuade yourself to be more
lenient with me."

"Certainly not," said MS-33.

"Perhaps you are right," I said after a moment of reflection. I took a
syringe, drew up several drops of the stuff and squirted it into my
carapace, where it would do the most good. I felt much better.

"Yes," I continued, "certainly you are quite correct, now that I think
of it. You newer models would never bear it. You weren't built to
stand such things. Nor, for that matter, could you comprehend the
exquisite joys that are derived from Moon Glow. Not only would you
derive no pleasure from it, but it would corrode your parts, I
imagine, until you could scarcely crawl back to your master for
repairs." I helped myself to another liberal portion.

"That is the silliest thing I've ever heard," he said.

"What?"

"I said, it's silly. We are constructed to withstand a hundred times
greater stress, and twice as many chemical actions as you were.
Nothing could hurt us. Besides, it looks harmless enough. I doubt that
it is hardly anything at all."

"For me it is not," I admitted. "But you--"

"Give me the syringe, fool!"

"I dare not."

"Give it here!"

I allowed him to wrest it from my grasp. In any case I could not have
prevented him. He shoved me backwards against the rusty bulkhead with
a clang. He pushed the nozzle of the syringe down into the retort and
withdrew it filled with Moon Glow. He opened an inspection plate in
his ventral region and squirted himself generously.

It was quite a dose. He waited for a moment. "I feel nothing," he said
finally. "I do not believe it is anything more than common lubricating
oil." He was silent for another moment. "There _is_ an ease of
movement," he said.

"No paralysis?" I asked.

"Paral--? You stupid, rusty old robot!" He helped himself to another
syringeful of Moon Glow. The stuff brought twenty credits an ounce,
but I did not begrudge it him.

He flexed his superbly articulated joints in three directions, and I
could hear his power unit building up within him to a whining pitch.
He took a shuffling sidestep, and then another, gazing down at his
feet, with arms akimbo.

"The light gravity here is superb, superb, superb, superb, superb," he
said, skipping a bit.

"Isn't it?" I said.

"Almost negligible," he said.

"True."

"You have been very kind to me," MS-33 said. "Extremely,
extraordinarily, incomparably, incalculably kind." He used up all the
adjectives in his memory pack. "I wonder if you would mind awfully
much if--"

"Not at all," I said. "Help yourself. By the way, friend, would you
mind telling me what your real mission of your party is here on
Phobos. The Senator forgot to say."

"Secret," he said. "Horribly top secret. As a dutiful subject--I mean
servant--of Earth, I could not, of course, divulge it to anyone. If I
could--" his neon eyes glistened, "if I could, you would, of course,
be the first to know. The very first." He threw one nickel-plated arm
about my shoulder.

"I see," I said, "and just what is it that you are not allowed to tell
me?"

"Why, that we are making a preliminary survey here on Phobos, of
course, to determine whether or not it is worthwhile to send salvage
for scrap. Earth is short of metals, and it depends upon what the old
ma--the master says in his report."

"You mean they'll take all the derelict spaceships, such as this one,
and all the abandoned equipment?"

"And the r-robots," MS-33 said, "They're metal too, you know."

"They're going to take the dismantled robots?"

MS-33 made a sweeping gesture. "They're going to take _all_ the
r-robots, dismantled or not. They're not good for anything anyway. The
bill is up before the Federation Congress right now. And it will pass
if my master, Langley says so." He patted my helmet, consolingly, his
grapples clanking. "If you were worth a damn, you know--" he concluded
sorrowfully.

"That's murder," I said. And I meant it. Man's inhumanity to metal
people, I thought. Yes--to man, even if we were made of metal.

"How's that?" said MS-33 foggily.

"Have another drop of Moon Glow," I said. "I've got to get back to
Argon City."
