
I made it back to Benny's place without incident. I had never moved so
swiftly. I sent Benny out to find Jon Rogeson, and presently he
brought him back.

I told Rogeson what MS-33 had said, watching his reaction carefully. I
could not forget that though he had been our friend, he was still one
of the Builders, a human who thought as humans.

"You comprehend," I said grimly, "that one word of this will bring an
uprising of fifty-thousand metal people which can be put down only at
much expense and with great destruction. We are free people. The
Builders exiled us here, and therefore lost their claim to us. We have
as much right to life as anyone, and we do not wish to be melted up
and made into printing presses and space ships and the like."

"The damn fools," Jon said softly. "Listen, B-12, you've got to
believe me. I didn't know a thing about this, though I've suspected
something was up. I'm on your side, but what are we going to do? Maybe
they'll listen to reason. Vera--"

"That is the name of the she? No, they will not listen to reason. They
hate us." I recalled with bitterness the episode of alarm clock.
"There is a chance, however. I have not been idle this night. If you
will go get Langley and meet me in the back room here at Benny's, we
will talk."

"But he'll be asleep."

"Awaken him," I said. "Get him here. Your own job is at stake as well,
remember."

"I'll get him," Jon said grimly. "Wait here."

I went over to the bar where Benny was serving the miners. Benny had
always been my friend. Jon was my friend, too, but he was a Builder. I
wanted one of my own people to know what was going on, just in case
something happened to me.

We were talking there, in low tones, when I saw MS-33. He came in
through the front door, and there was purposefulness in his stride
that had not been there when I left him back at the old hulk. The
effects of the Moon Glow had worn off much quicker than I had
expected. He had come for vengeance. He would tell about my
distillery, and that would be the end of me. There was only one thing
to do and I must do it fast.

"Quick," I ordered Benny. "Douse the lights." He complied. The place
was plunged into darkness. I knew that it was darkness and yet, you
comprehend, I still sensed everything in the place, for I had the
special visual sensory system bequeathed only to the General Purposes
of a bygone age. I could see, but hardly anyone else could. I worked
swiftly, and I got what I was after in a very short time. I ducked out
of the front door with it and threw it in a silvery arc as far as I
could hurl it. It was an intricate little thing which could not, I am
sure, have been duplicated on the entire moon of Phobos.

When I returned, someone had put the lights back on, but it didn't
matter now. MS-33 was sitting at one of the tables, staring fixedly at
me. He said nothing. Benny was motioning for me to come into the back
room. I went to him.

Jon Rogeson and Langley were there. Langley looked irritated. He was
mumbling strangled curses and rubbing his eyes.

Rogeson laughed. "You may be interested in knowing, B-12, that I had
to arrest him to get him here. This had better be good."

"It is all bad," I said, "very bad--but necessary." I turned to
Langley. "It is said that your present survey is being made with the
purpose of condemning all of Phobos, the dead and the living alike, to
the blast furnaces and the metal shops of Earth. Is this true?"

"Why you impudent, miserable piece of tin! What if I am making a scrap
survey? What are you going to do about it. You're nothing but a ro--"

"So it is true! But you will tell the salvage ships not to come. It is
yours to decide, and you will decide that we are not worth bothering
with here on Phobos. You will save us."

"I?" blustered Langley.

"You will." I took the thing out of my breastplate container and
showed it to him. He grew pale.

Jon said, "Well, I'll be damned!"

It was a picture of Langley and another. I gave it to Jon. "His wife,"
I said. "His real wife. I am sure of it, for you will note the
inscription on the bottom."

"Then Vera--?"

"Is not his wife. You wonder that he was camera shy?"

"Housebreaker!" roared Langley. "It's a plot; a dirty, reactionary
plot!"

"It is what is called blackmail," I said. I turned to Jon. "I am
correct about this?"

"You are." Jon said.

"You are instructed to leave Phobos," I said to Langley, "and you will
allow my friend here to keep his job as peace officer, for without it
he would be lost. I have observed that in these things the Builders
are hardly more adaptable than their children, the metal people. You
will do all this, and in return, we will not send the picture that Jon
took today to your wife, nor otherwise inform her of your
transgression. For I am told that this is a transgression."

"It is indeed," agreed Jon gravely. "Right, Langley?"

"All right," Langley snarled. "You win. And the sooner I get out of
this hole the better." He got up to go, squeezing his fat form through
the door into the bar, past the gaping miners and the metal people,
heedless of the metal people. We watched him go with some
satisfaction.

"It is no business of mine," I said to Jon, "but I have seen you look
with longing upon the she that was not Langley's wife. Since she does
not belong to him, there is nothing to prevent you from having her.
Should not that make you happy?"

"Are you kidding?" he snarled.

Which proves that I have still much to learn about his race.

Out front, Langley spied his metal servant, MS-33, just as he was
going out the door. He turned to him. "What are you doing here?" he
asked suspiciously.

MS-33 made no answer. He stared malevolently at the bar, ignoring
Langley.

"Come on here, damn you!" Langley said. MS-33 said nothing. Langley
went over to him and roared foul things into his earphones that would
corrode one's soul, if one had one. I shall never forget that moment.
The screaming, red-faced Langley, the laughing miners.

But he got no reply from MS-33. Not then or ever. And this was
scarcely strange, for I had removed his fuse.



