
The gasp broke unbidden from his lips. In the din and confusion of
Xuerl's Cosmobar it went unnoticed, even as had gone unnoticed by
everyone else the momentary byplay he had glimpsed.

As the newcomer slipped his arm about the drunken man's shoulder, the
first Earthman, turning suddenly, dropped from his hand to the floor
a previously concealed _something_. A silvery, glistening, round
_something_ that hit the floor--and bounced!

Four figures reacted immediately, violently, eagerly. The Venusian, the
Uranian, the Jovian--like four minds with but a single thought they
formed a wall of flesh around the drunken one. The other Earthman's
hand leaped out greedily to catch the bouncing blob on the rebound. But
in vain. The drunk had retrieved the object, shoved it into a pocket.

But Chip Warren knew what the object was. It was a ball of ekalastron!

Ekalastron! Most recently discovered, rarest, and most precious of
all metals known to man! A metal so unique that up to the time of its
discovery there had been no place for it in man's supposedly "complete"
periodic table.

A metal that, defying man's previous deliberations on the habits of
metals, supplied man with the most valuable servant he had ever known.
A metal so light that a child could carry enough in one hand to coat
the entire hull of a space-cruiser--yet so adamant that a gossamer
film of it would deflect the impact of a meteoride or the battering
crush of a rotor-gun shell! A metal strong enough to grind diamonds to
powder--but so resilient that, when molded and properly treated, it
would bounce like a rubber ball!

In all the wide universe, hungry mankind had found less than two tons
of this vitally precious new metal. An ounce was worth a prince's
ransom; so jealously was each gram weighed, guarded and distributed
that the U.S.C.--Universal Science Council--could account for every
known ounce of it. Yet here, in the noisy bar of Mars' most infamous
refuge for scoundrels, a drunken miner toyed with a chunk the size of a
billiard ball!

If Chip Warren's attention had previously been attracted by the
oddly-assorted quintet, it was riveted now. Fierce curiosity hunched
him forward. Abandoning all shame at eavesdropping, he strained eyes
and ears upon the group.

It was well that he did so. Otherwise he would not have seen the
sober Earthman's gesture to the bartender, the bartender's furtive
acquiescence, the tentacular hand opening a colorless phial, pouring
its contents into the miner's bottle of _lisk_. There would have been
no one to protect the drunken man from the drug that would swiftly have
left him at the mercy of his companions.

But Chip was watching. And moving on raw instinct, without a thought
for the consequences, he surged forward. His arm brushed the surprised
Uranian aside, his hand thrust just in time to sweep the doped drink
from the miner's lips. Glass shattered on the floor, singing a shrill
song. Chip's challenging voice echoed its brittle crispness.

"Hold course a minute, buckoes!" he ordered. "What in space goes on
around here?"
