
Chip thought afterward that never in his life had he ever looked upon
such stark, forbidding coldness as that which, in the next moment,
flamed upon him from the eyes of the newly arrived Earthman.

Everything about the man was cold, bitter and bleak as the hostile
depths of space. His eyes were glacier-gray, his lips thin and
bloodless as hoarfrost; the hand he shoved forward to grip Chip's wrist
in steely grasp was like ice.

The coldness of death was in his voice, although he spoke with infinite
quietude.

"I might ask the same of you, sailor." The man had raven-black hair
save where, from a widow's peak, one single swatch of pure white sprang
startlingly to lie like a stream of ice between dark banks. "By what
right do you intrude on a private party?"

Chip shook the man's hand from his wrist. His eyes parried with hot
defiance the stranger's frigid calm.

"By the right of any man," he growled, "to see fair play! I saw--"

"A moment, sailor!" The man's voice was like a low note struck in
warning. "Before you tell what you saw, you might like to know who I
am. My name is Blaze Amborg."

"I don't give a portside blast," snarled Chip, "if your name is Lucifer
himself. I saw--"

"You haven't been out here long, have you, sailor? Well--that's your
misfortune, I fear. Torth!"

He inclined his head gently toward the giant Venusian. The big man
rolled forward. His hamlike paws reached for Chip. But fast as he
moved, Chip moved faster still; in the split of a second his hand had
found his belt. The dull lights of the Cosmobar glinted sallowly on
metal that prodded Amborg's middle.

"So that's the way it is, eh?" gritted Chip. "Your bullies do your
fighting for you? Well, maybe you're right. I haven't been out here
long. But where I come from, men do their own scrapping. Now--tell
these scum of yours to keep their distance, or by the Seven Sacred
Stars, I'll let ether through you!"

A man could not tell by studying Amborg's features if his lips were
white with fear or what. But the ice in his eyes was deeper, more
shadowy. And he said, "Back, Torth!"

"That's better!" approved Chip. "And now--come out of it, you!" The
drunken man had finally slipped out of the picture. Blissfully unaware
of what was going on about him, his head had slumped to the bar.
He was asleep, lips loosely agape, breath coming in sodden grunts.
Chip grasped the nape of his neck, shook him roughly. "Pull yourself
together!" he commanded. "We're getting out of here!"

The man came to with a start, stared at Chip Warren blearily.
"W-whuzzup? Whuzzmatter? Don' shake me like that, ole boy. All pals
t'gether. All good ole pals...."

His head dropped forward again, and Chip sighed. It was like kicking
a pup, he thought, but it had to be done. His rousing slap jarred the
drunk to grieved awareness.

"Hey! _Don'_ do that! We're pals, ain't we? All--"

"I wouldn't know about that," snorted Chip. "But I _do_ know these
other 'pals' of yours are getting ready to dig you for that--that stuff
in your pocket."
