
That did it. The warning drove its way through the miner's stupor. His
head jerked up, his eyes widened, and a hand clawed at his pocket.

"_What?_ My ekalastron? The filthy thieves--!"

His loud voice carried throughout the room clearly. Too clearly. For
with a sudden fear, Chip could feel a tension tighten through the hard
habitues of the bar. Nervous scrapings of feet, the _frou-frou_ of
suddenly intense voices. "Ekalastron! Eka--"

For a moment, Chip's guard relaxed. He twisted his head to survey a new
and potent danger. And as he did so, a sharp cry burst from Amborg's
lips. "Raat 'Aran! Torth!"

Chip whirled back to face immediate trouble. Shapes were plunging
down upon him. He wheeled, slipped, tumbled to one side even as
the scorching burst of a needle gun seared a hissing path past his
shoulder. Someone behind screamed a high, thin scream that died in a
choked gurgle....

Then all was madness! The magic word "ekalastron" had wakened the
riches-lust of the mob; now the presence of death had roused its
blood-lust. In the space of a moment's time, a score of guns were
drawn and wildly flaming as the throng charged the bar.

Chip only lived in that moment because he lay helplessly asprawl upon
the floor. The hobnailed boots of miners kicked and trampled him, thick
bodies struggled, cursed and groaned above him. Once as he tried to
scramble to his feet his hand slipped nauseatingly in a pool of freshly
spilled and steaming blood.

He was aware that somewhere in the howling mob that fought, not knowing
why, and fighting died, the glacier-eyed Amborg strained for sight of
him. But the tide of conflict, sweeping over and about them, separated
them.

There came a reedy cry in the voice of the Martian barman; the lights
went out suddenly, and the room was alive and spiteful with the flames
of criss-crossing fire-needles. A questing hand found Chip's throat
in the darkness, fingers tightened. But in a flash of fire, Chip saw
the figure atop him suddenly crumple, steel clattered aimlessly beside
him as his assailant choked and died. Thus close to him walked mad,
unreasoning Death.

But he was on his feet again, now, and armed! Chip forced his way
toward that spot at the bar where last he had glimpsed the drunken
miner. No figure stood there, but his feet stumbled against a yielding
body. He stooped--then he blinked as the lights suddenly flared on
again.

He looked upon a frightful scene of carnage. Where men had fought, a
dozen bodies lay upon the floor like broken things; elsewhere about the
room a dozen struggling piles of life, human and humanoid, white, coral
and green, Earthborn and spawn of a dozen globes, still fought their
purposeless battle. And at the far side of the room--

Amborg!

But Amborg had seen him first. Even as he raised his needle-gun, Chip
realized the dousing of the lights, the sudden return of them, had been
a trick of Amborg's to gain advantage. The other man had the drop on
him ... even now his hand was tightening on the press.

And then, miraculously--

"Hold!" cried a thunderous voice. "'Stay now thine hand from the sword,
yea, loose not thine arrow from the bow--else by My might shall I crush
thee to the dust, truly My lightnings shall wither thee with fire!'
Thus saith my Lord God which is Jehovah!"

A vast, awed silence fell suddenly upon the room, a paralysis seized
all forms and held them motionless. Amborg stayed his finger. All eyes
sought the doorway. And there, covering the whole of the Cosmobar with
the ugliest but most efficient looking piece of private ordnance Chip
had seen in his life, stood a man. A tall, gangling scarecrow garbed in
rusty black; a lean-jawed, hawk-eyed man with tumbling locks of silver
and blazing eyes.

A whisper arose from men's lips. A whisper at once respectful
and--fearful.

"It's Salvation! Salvation Smith!"
