
For a long, dramatic moment the ol man stood there in the doorway;
then, satisfied that all motion had stopped, he stepped forward into
the room. Chip knew, now, who--and what--he was. "Salvation" Smith,
sin-driving missionary of the Wastelands, was a legendary, almost
fabulous, figure of the Martian scene.

A devoutly religious man with the heart and soul of a pioneer, he had
taken upon himself the mission of carrying to the savage outland tribes
the story of the God he worshipped. That this God was Him of the Old
Testament, a God of wrath and vengeance, fire and flame, was evidenced
by those methods Salvation sometimes employed to make his message
acceptable to uncivilized breasts. In addition to being the most pious
man on Mars, Salvation was also reputed to be the best shot!

Earth's softhanded ecclesiastics did not altogether approve of their
wayward missionary's reputation, but had to concede that he, working
unaided and alone, had done more to bring the light to Mars than the
rest of their emissaries as a group.

Thus Salvation Smith, who stared now at the corpses on the floor and
muttered beneath his breath a prayer so hot and violent as to be almost
blasphemous.

There came a shrill bleat, and Xuerl, proprietor of the infamous
Cosmobar, minced across the floor, grotesque in the rigid habiliments
that lent him a humanoid shape.

"Sssalvation," he pleaded, "Thisss wasss none of my doing, sssir! I
have kept the peace, as I promisssed--"

"Silence!" roared the old man, and frowned. "Your foul den is a stench
in the nostrils of Heaven. I am tiring swiftly of your iniquitous ways,
Xuerl! One day I--shall--who started this, anyway?" he demanded.

"Thisss man!" Xuerl pointed a quavering tentacle at Chip. Salvation
gazed at the young man sternly.

"You are new around here. What is your name?"

"Chip Warren. I'm just out from Earth a week or so ago. Free-lance
prospector. But--but I didn't start this, sir. I merely interfered when
that man and his thugs tried to steal a ball of ekalastron from this
dead miner--"

Chip paused suddenly, staring at the drunken miner.

"But he's still alive! I thought--"
