
Salvation was at his side in an instant. They both kneeled beside the
miner, whose eyes had flickered open. He was no longer influenced by
drink. His eyes were clear with prevision of a longer flight than
he had ever known. For a moment he struggled for breath. There was
recognition in his feeble tones.

"S-salvation--"

"Peace, my son. We will take you to a hospital."

"N-never mind that, Padre. It's too late. But the ekalastron--"

"You stole it, my son? You wish to confess?"

"N-no, Padre! Not stolen. I found it. A mine--" His breath was coming
in tiny, tortured gasps; he spoke more swiftly as if aware that he must
tell his secret ere silence claim him. "Danger ... on Titania! The
caves ... natives ... and the furnace of flame ... beware!"

"But _he_ survived!" Chip burst in. "He got some and returned. Ask him
how, Padre!"

The miner's head moved slightly as if to signify he understood the
query, but even as his lips moved to frame an answer, a swift, cold
shadow frosted his eyes with glaze. A moment later his breath stopped.
Then it shuddered back as with a violent effort the dying man dragged
himself back from death itself. A convulsion shook him. He cried weakly
the single word:

"_Shadrach!_"

Then a blood-specked spume gushed from his lips and he lay still. "May
the Lord have mercy on his soul!" begged Salvation Smith. He pushed
Chip gently away, fumbled at the dead man's clothing, arranging it more
neatly, then rose.

"He is gone," he told the spellbound assembly. "He is gone, bearing
with him to the world beyond the secret for which you jackals strove.
Thus be it, O Lord God of Hosts!"

But one man did not accept this as final. That man was Blaze Amborg
who, bolstered now by his hard-bitten group of outlaws, strode forward
belligerently.

"Not so fast, psalm-singer! He and I were partners. Anything he had
belongs to _me_ now!" He bent over and with a jerk disarranged the
clothing Salvation had smoothed. "And by the Comet, I'm going to have
it--" His hands moved with deft assurance, then with tense, hardening
suspicion. "It's gone!" He wheeled to face Chip. "You stole it! You--"

But the old missionary barred his rush with a steel forearm. "Slowly,
my friend! What is gone?"

"The ball of ekalastron! It's worth a fortune, and it's mine! This
snoopy young thief--"

Salvation turned to Chip sternly. "Well, young man--is this true? Did
you steal it? If so--"

"I didn't. I swear I didn't!"

"He was bending over Jenkins," Amborg raged, "when the lights went on.
He's got it! Let me at him!"

"There has been sufficient violence!" snapped Salvation Smith. He
turned to Chip. "Young man, I order you to let your accuser search
you. If you are truly innocent, you will not demur. If you refuse--"
He shifted his rifle from one horny palm to another significantly.
"Justice shall prevail!"

"Very well!" said Chip. He submitted himself to Amborg's triumphant
search. His flesh ran cold at the feel of the man's icy fingers, and
a dull resentment suffused him--but he got his reward in the look of
bafflement that grew on Amborg's face as it became clear that the
missing sphere was not on his person. "Are you satisfied now?" he
demanded.

Amborg's normally pale face was whiter still with impotent fury; his
eyes flamed with hatred. "It's not _on_ you," he admitted. "But I know
you took it. You've hidden it somewhere. I'm not through with you yet,
sailor! I'll have that metal or--"

"There will be no 'or'!" proclaimed Salvation Smith stridently. "The
lad has passed the test and proven himself guiltless; the case is
closed. He will walk from this place unharmed--in my company! 'The true
man shall suffer no hurt, neither shall the righteous fail.' Come, my
son!"

And he lifted his gun. Blaze Amborg's lips thinned to a hard, white
line. But he made no reckless move as the two men stalked silently
from the room....


                                  II

The Martian night was clear and cold. Its thin air was sweetly welcome
to Chip's nostrils. When they gained the street outside, Salvation
spoke to him suddenly. "Where is your ship, my son?"

"Ship, sir?" queried Warren. "But why--?"

"Don't waste time!" snapped the old man. "We're in grave danger. Blaze
Amborg is a man of violence. In a few minutes he'll figure out what
happened to the ekalastron and be out looking for us."

Chip stared at him. "The ekalastron? But what _did_ happen to it? It
disappeared--"

"Into," grunted Salvation, "my pocket! While I was arranging Jenkins'
clothing. 'He who taketh in the cause of righteousness hath done the
will of the Lord!' Amborg is an evil, wilful man. He would have used
the ekalastron for his own wicked purposes. In our hands, all mankind
shall profit of its beneficence. But, come! Where?"

"C-churchill Field," stammered Chip. "Dock 31, Bin A. T-this way,
Padre."

They moved at quickened stride through the darkened streets. As they
neared the cradles wherein lay the vessels of a thousand diverse ports,
Salvation questioned Chip still further.

"What type of ship is it, lad?"

"Not a very new one, sir. A Challenger 7-jet, four berth explorer. But
in good shape. My friend and I managed to get it cheap, reconditioned
it--"

"Then you have a companion?"

"Yes, Padre. Syd Palmer. He's waiting aboard. We had planned to lift
gravs tomorrow for a prospecting tour of the planetoids. I visited the
Cosmobar because I thought I might run into some old space-dodger who
would give me a tip on a lode-rock--"

"And you ran into," said the missionary, "something which may turn out
to be the greatest discovery ever made by man. Murder ... thievery ...
wealth ... is this the ship?"

They had stopped before one of the smaller cradles. Chip pressed a
signal button, a buzzer responded, there came from within the familiar
wheeze of an air-lock generator.

"This is it, sir. Please step in. 'Lo, Syd. This is Doctor--Mister--"

"Call me 'Salvation'," said the old man. "I'm used to it. Palmer, I
take it you're the chief engineer of this jaloppy?"

Syd Palmer was short and chubby; his hair was a tow colored bristle
that stood up like a cock's-comb when he was excited or annoyed. It
stood up now, and his pale blue eyes danced with tiny, indignant sparks.

"I'm the engineer of this _ship_!"

"Call it what you will," grunted Salvation. "Is it fast?"

Palmer grinned. "Puh-lenty! I've hepped the hypos to super-max. The
_Chickadee_ can outrun anything its size in space, and a lot of bigger
ones, besides!"

"Good! And have you got clearance papers?"

"Why, yes, but--"

"Excellent: 'Verily, He taketh care of His own nor faileth them in time
of need.'" Salvation nodded to Warren. "We'll lift gravs," he said,
"immediately!"

Palmer stared at him, then at his companion.

"What is this, Chip? Old boy off his jets?"

"Far from it," said Chip seriously. "Can't explain everything now, Syd;
time's too short. But you like a good, old-fashioned fight, don't you?"

"Fight? Sa-a-ay, now--"

"Then warm the hypos," ordered Chip, "while I plot a course. We're
lifting gravs immediately--for Titania."
