
During the long days that followed, there was time and to spare
in which to clarify the situation to Syd. When he heard of Chip's
adventure at the Cosmobar, his pale eyes gleamed and fists less chubby
than they appeared tightened at his sides. "Wish I'd been there--" he
muttered. Salvation glared at him and snorted, "'Verily they are fools
who do not rejoice that they have escaped woe!'"

And when Chip showed him the ball of ekalastron--

"Glory be!" exclaimed Syd. "There's enough to dip a whole battle unit
in that one ball! What are we going to Titania for? Why not fly this to
Earth immediately and let the Council know--"

"Because Amborg knows," replied Chip grimly, "that this came from
Titania. He was nearby when Jenkins said so in his dying breath. That
was probably the secret Amborg's thugs had been trying to probe from
the miner all night. I have a hunch that Amborg is out there somewhere
right now!"

He nodded toward the quartzite view-pane. Outside lay space--the long,
dreary reaches of space between Mars and Uranus. But it didn't look
like space. Not like space as navigators a short ten years ago had
known it, an eternal pall of blackness spangled with the livid dots of
a myriad stars.

This was a blotched, striped, crazy-quilt of color. Crimson, ochre,
emerald--all the hues of the rainbow merged into a faery, magic
loveliness. This was space as seen when Man traveled at the terrific
speed attainable only through the use of the recently developed
V-I unit, velocity intensifier, invented by that mad genius of the
spaceways, Lancelot Biggs of the lugger, _Saturn_.

Five years ago, in the year 2210, the fastest craft in the ether
had had a top speed of approximately 200,000 miles per hour. Now
almost every ship was equipped with the V-I adapter that gave it a
flight-potential limited only by the critical velocity of light. Where
once it would have required almost ten months to reach Titania, second
satellite of far Uranus, the trio could now expect to gain their
destination, traveling at a speed of more than 650,000,000 mph., in
something less than half that many _days_!

"I have a hunch," repeated Chip, "that Amborg and his crew are
somewhere out there right now, speeding, as we are, to Titania. Of
course we can't tell. We're not equipped with a magno-tector, and we
couldn't see them unless by sheer chance they should approach within
our visibility parellax.

"But when we get to Titania and slow down, we must go on the alert.
Salvation has told me about Amborg. He's a hard, brilliant man with a
dangerously criminal mind. Let him find Jenkins' ore-deposit and the
Federation of Planets would pay through the nose for his discovery.
Jenkins said there was a whole mine of ekalastron. With that at his
disposal, Amborg could make himself a robber baron. An Emperor of the
outlaw world."

"Which is why," Salvation offered gravely, "we must get there before he
does. Lay claim to the deposit, somehow secure its safety against the
arrival of I.P.S. troops. Can we but find the mine, soldiers will come
in jigtime from New Oslo on Uranus. But--"

Syd nodded.

"I see. But we couldn't walk into the garrison and hand them a line
about a "mine" of ekalastron. They'd shove us into the nearest
looney-bin. And I wouldn't blame them a bit. If I didn't know Chip
Warren like I know my own lovely pan--but suppose we meet Amborg?"

"'The Lord,'" said Salvation, "'is my strength and my salvation. In His
hands do I place my guidance.'" His lean hands flexed powerfully. "We
destroy them," he said gently, "like the rats they are...."

Thus four days sped by in plan and conjecture. And on the fifth day Syd
Palmer cut the velocity-intensifiers to normal, and a scant thousand
miles beneath them, so accurate had been Chip's astrogation, gleamed
the silvery mote which was Titania, second child of the mother planet,
Uranus.

"Well done, my son!" approved Salvation. "The best landcast I've ever
seen!"

Palmer was less exuberant. He stared at Titania, scratched his yellow
crest morbidly.

"A damn snowball!" he mourned. "A damned snowball, eight hundred miles
in diameter! Sweet crimes of Beelzebub, Chip, how do you ever expect
to find a pinpoint of a mine on that huge hunk of ice? It will take us
ages!"

"We'll cruise at low elevation," said Chip, "until we see something.
There must be a dark spot showing against that sheen of white
somewhere. Jenkins spoke of caverns and natives and flame. We have
plenty of supplies--_look out!_"

He leaped even as he shouted. Leaped to the panels and jammed the full
strength of his six foot plus frame to a deflecting lever. The control
room of the _Chickadee_ whirled giddily as the little ship spun into
a crazy spiral; Palmer yelped, skidding helplessly across the floor.
Salvation let loose a roar and clung ardently to a stanchion, his
silvery locks whipping straight out from his head with the force of the
drive.

Chip threw himself into the bucket-shaped pilot's-chair, gained
possession of the controls. An instant later, the _Chickadee_ was
tossing through the maddest gyrations Chip could devise. Fore, loft
and jet, with hypos throbbing, the little craft was blasting, shaking,
quivering like a leaf in a cyclone.

And above the tumult of racing hypos came the sound of Syd's voice:
"What is it, Chip? Amborg?"

Chip nodded tightly, his hands gripping the control levers, his eyes
glued to the perilens through which he saw the enemy craft. A larger
ship, with a red fang darting from its prow, slashing viciously at
the bobbing _Chickadee_. "It's Blaze Amborg, all right! And he means
business! He's got an Ingermann ray-rotor on that crate of his; he's
trying to burn us clean out of the ether!"
