
Chip Warren and Syd Palmer were the co-owners of the _Chickadee_; it
was Chip whose alertness had saved them in that first, terrifying
moment, Chip it was who still held the controls. But it was Salvation
Smith who usurped the mastership during the crisis.

"Hell's flaming damnation!" he cried, and there rang in his voice a
rage above weak need of profanity. "Lend now Thy servant strength, O
Lord, to smite these sons of Hurkan!" He whirled on Palmer, snarling.
"Break out bulgers for us in case they should pierce the hull! Chip,
son, do the controls answer well? Good! Keep dodging. Swing aft; the
beam can't nip you there! You've armament aboard this heap?"

Syd, tugging three spacesuits from the store-closet, puffed over his
shoulder, "Only a low-cycle heat-gun. There! Under that tarp. Press the
green stud to clear the nose from the hull-plates. It's retractable--"

"You're telling me," bellowed Salvation, "how to rig a cannon? I was
teethed on a lanyard, praise be to Jehovah!" He had the tarpaulin off
in a jiffy, the fore-irons open, and shot an experimental burst from
the small weapon. He smiled. "Good! But you've got to get closer to
him, Chip; this thing is only effective at short range."

Chip said dubiously, "I don't know, Padre. Perhaps we should cut and
run for it. If that beam hits us--"

"Are we mice," bellowed Salvation, "or men? You've got to get closer!
The Lord is our right hand. 'Surely the evil shall fail, yea, the way
of the transgressor shall perish!'" He loosed another blast from the
small gun, breathed a sigh of satisfaction. "Aaah! that's better!
Closer!"

"You're the skipper!" decided Chip suddenly. A jab of the finger, the
stern-jets crackled and the _Chickadee_ cut suddenly to starboard,
swinging straight toward the craft of Blaze Amborg.

So unexpected was the move that it caught the enemy gunner napping.
For an instant he had a clear target before him. But he had not been
expecting such luck, and before he could center his sights on the
_Chickadee_, the smaller vessel was streaking down upon and over his
own.

And Salvation Smith's voice shouted triumph through the room.
"'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord!'" he intoned, "'I shall repay!'"
His hand jerked the release-stud.

And as though the metal skin of the enemy boat were tinfoil held above
a flame, there appeared suddenly upon its hull a leprous spot of black,
from the curling edges of which silvery alloy sloughed off in rolling,
sluggish waves. From within the ship small motes poured forth, sucked
out by the frigid vacuum of space to explode and die frightfully; sore,
raw, pressured clots of matter that had been men. The other ship reeled
for a moment like a stricken hart, then crumpled upon itself, a wildly
spinning boomerang of death.

"You got 'em!" squealed Syd Palmer from his vantage spot at the
perilens. "Got 'em all, Padre! No--there goes a life-skiff from the
wreck!" His voice rose in sharp fear. "_Omigod!_ Swing out, Chip!
Swing--"

But Chip had seen the new danger as quickly as his comrade. Here was
peril beyond Amborg's fondest devising. As the stricken ship, folding
upon itself, spun aimlessly in space, its forejet wheeled like a
flaming spiral--and from the prow still flamed the withering, crimson
ray now untended by living hands!

Like a gigantic scythe it flailed the ether, swinging a huge curve
directly toward the _Chickadee_. Vainly Chip jammed the studs before
him, striving to escape above, below or beyond that sword of doom.

There came the ear-splitting crash of impact, metal screamed thin
agony, rending itself to shreds somewhere aft; the _Chickadee_
shuddered like a pole-felled steer under its mortal wound.

Instinct shot Chip's hands to the lock-stud which sealed the control
chamber airtight from the rest of the ship; that action alone spared
them for a few minutes. But each of them knew the ship was doomed to
crash. Syd croaked, "Here! The bulgers! Get in them--_quick_!"

Split seconds later, they were three grotesque figures huddled before
the control board, staring through quartzite globular headpanes at
Chip's last, frenzied efforts to break the fall of the _Chickadee_.
The studs beneath his fingers were unresponsive as the inarticulate
phalanges of a broken limb. In vain and desperately he struggled to
gain a modicum of control over the falling craft, now firmly gripped by
Titania's gravitational field. They had fallen into the high atmosphere
of the little globe, now; thin winds howled and bansheed about their
sharded hull, and the walls of the room began to heat.

The aft jets were dead, the anti-gravs broken, helpless. There remained
but one possible way in which to keep them from being crushed to bits.
A prow landing, braked by the fore jets. It was dangerous, but--

"There!" cried Syd. "Look there, Chip! Below us!"

Chip risked a brief glance, saw that the smooth and icy surface of
Titania was broken by a long, ragged swatch of black. Ironic laughter
curled the corners of his tight-set lips. What a quirk of fate that
here, with death but a hair's-breadth removed, they should unwittingly
find that for which under happier circumstances they might have sought
endlessly and in vain. The promised spot of habitation on the bleak
little moon of Uranus.

"I'm fore-jetting!" he crisped. "Stand by for--a fadeout!"

Salvation's hand was on his shoulder, reassuringly, somehow warm
despite its casement of rubberoid fabric. "Be of strong heart, my son,"
he said simply, "He who watcheth the fall of the smallest sparrow, He
shall not fail His own in their hour of need."

Then Chip pressed the necessary, the only remaining responsive keys.
And the control room trembled like a hurt thing, seemed to stop
stock-still in space, shake itself for a moment--then plunge on.
Forejets flamed blast upon roaring blast. Chip felt the gravitational
force seem to lessen as the flares beat stubbornly against the adamant
breast of the globe below. Drop ... stagger ... drop again ... the
shocking concussion of brakes ... then a swift, dizzy, headlong fall....

Wild winds howled, and the din of metals tortured beyond endurance
slashed at Chip's eardrums. He was aware of the last cry of Syd Palmer,
his life-long friend. "Luck, Chip, old pal--!" And the remembered ghost
of Salvation's promise. "He shall not fail His own--"

Then a horrendous crash jarred his head back on the seat. A smashing
veil of crimson settled before his eyes ... then there was darkness.
And silence.
