
That some form of ritual was in progress was immediately apparent.
From hillside, rock, cranny and hovel had come the Titanians; there
were more of them than Chip would have believed could subsist in this
hostile environment. A solid phalanx of them walled the avenue up which
they were led. As they walked, the Titanians chanted a slow and ominous
threnody. There was a dirgelike quality to the chant; despite the
surface courage with which Chip bolstered himself he felt the chill of
nervous apprehension upon him. Palmer must have felt the same way. He
edged closer to Chip, spoke from the corner of his mouth in a tone that
belied the forced gaiety of his words.

"Swell end to our trip, pal. _Piece de resistance_ for a gang of green
choristers!"

Salvation overheard him. "We have not yet come to the end of our
journey," he said. "The line stretches up the side of yonder hill. To
those caves." He lifted his voice sonorously, drawing curious stares
from the green-skinned Titanian guards. "I shall lift up mine eyes unto
the hills," he cried, "whence cometh my strength and my salvation--"

"Caves!" Sudden memory flashed back upon Chip Warren. "Jenkins said
something about caves, Padre, remember? Caves and flame--"

"There's Amborg," interrupted Syd. His plump face was tightly pale
behind his globular mask. "I don't care so much about checking out," he
said, "but I wish I could get my hands on that rat just for a minute
before--"

His words dwindled into silence. It was, Chip believed, an impressed
silence. For they had reached the foot of the hill, now, and were
climbing between two chanting rows of natives toward a huge, ornate,
altarlike structure placed before the largest of the cave-mouths.

The dirge rose and soared, filling their ears with numbing fear; they
moved upward inexorably, monotonously, almost mechanically. And finally
they stood before the high altar.

Chip saw, then, what he would never have credited if it had been told
him by another; what he could not have believed had he not seen it with
his own eyes. He saw into the cave-mouth--and what he viewed there was
so incredible that it brought a gasp unbidden to his lips.

This cave, deepset in the mouths of icy Titania--this cave, which by
all laws of nature, of logic and reason, should be a dank, forbidding
gateway to frightful cold--was bright-gleaming with orange, crimson,
ochre tongues of flame! Within it, high-rising to the very lofted
vaults, roared a staggering, tremendous holocaust of fire!

And beyond the altar was a precipice overlooking a sunken vale. This
vale, like the interior of the cave, was shimmering like the plains of
Abaddon with coruscating fingers, sheets, spires of red.

He was aware that he had gasped, for he detected a similar gasp
from Syd, and he heard Salvation Smith say a single, incredulous
word. "Sheol!" Then the chieftain, or high priest--Chip did not know
which--spoke from the altar. Shortly he spoke, but with strident
emphasis, jabbing his fingers at the two groups of captives in turn.

"What is he saying?" demanded Chip.

Salvation interpreted hastily. "We have violated their land. We have
been brought to the Place of Destruction to meet judgment for our
crime. The test of fire will prove our guilt--" Then he raised his
voice, spoke to the Titanian ruler.

The outland ruler heard him through, then answered. Salvation turned to
Chip and Syd. "I told him," he explained, "that we were friends, come
in amity. That we intended them no harm or offense--"

"And what did he say?"

"He said," relayed Salvation grudgingly, "that they were forced to
distrust us because our 'companions' were men of sin and violence--"

"Companions!" interjected Syd angrily.

"--and he said, also, that he realized we might be gods. He says there
are two types of white creatures, those who are mortals and evil, and
those who are Masters of Fire. We must be tested to see which we are."

"Two types?" cried Chip. "Masters of Fire? Padre, what does he mean?"

Salvation shrugged helplessly. "I don't know. But wait--he is talking
again."
