
This time the green chieftain's speech was longer, more dramatic. He
postured, gestured; once he strode to the edge of his raised platform
and pointed majestically down into the chasm below. Then, concluding
his words with a tone of finality, he folded his arms across his chest.

Chip noticed that a few rods away Amborg's Uranian companion was
interpreting his decision to Blaze. Salvation performed the same
function.

"He says," explained Salvation, "we must walk into this cave of fearful
flame. It leads through burning corridors to the valley below. In that
valley is the life-skiff which brought Amborg and his men here.

"If we are good men, gods, and guiltless, the flame will not destroy
us. There was one not long ago who walked unscathed through the fires,
he says. That man was surely a god."

"Jenkins!" broke in Chip. "It must have been--"

Salvation nodded. "That is what I thought, too, my son. But--but
how? How could Jenkins survive the flames?" And he stared sombrely,
questioningly, at the sheet of ruddy fire filling the cave from base
to arch. He shook himself. "Well--that is a problem we must solve, and
soon. For the ceremony has begun. _Amborg!_" he cried.

The dark man turned. Chip saw that his face was set in granite lines.
Nearest to the cavern mouth, his men were being prodded toward the
awful test they must endure.

Even in this critical moment, Salvation was the man of god. "Amborg,"
he said, "you have been ever an evil man, living and thinking the
thoughts of Satan. But there is yet time for you to repent and
confess your sins. As a fellow man, I loathe and despise you. But as
His emissary, I offer you even in this hour of trial the peace that
surpasseth all human understanding--"

Amborg laughed at him. His voice crackled harshly, metallically, in the
audio-phones of Chip's space-helmet.

"Save that stuff for the suckers, old man. You and your pals are
just worried because we get first chance to go down into the valley.
Well--you'd better worry! There's a rotor-gun mounted in that
life-skiff. If we hadn't all been jarred cold when we landed, we'd have
given these greenies a sweet greeting. We're going to lift the ship out
of that ditch and bring it back over here. Save your prayers; you'll
need them when we come over!"

Salvation reminded him stonily, "The flames--"

"Flames be damned! Superstitious poppycock! Spacesuits will protect us
from heat or cold alike. Well--come on!"

He gestured his mates to him. The wailing chant of the Titanian natives
increased in tone and volume as the four outlaws left their guards and
boldly strode the last few rods up the hill, past the dais--and into
the roaring hell-mouth of the cave!

And as they entered, Chip Warren knew a swift sinking of heart. His
apprehensions had been unfounded, Amborg's claim that the lethal power
of the flame was "superstitious poppycock" was true. The spacesuits
_were_ adequate protection, and in short moments, Amborg would be
soaring back across the plateau, the jets of his rotor-gun spewing
death and destruction upon them all....

Then, "My God!" gasped Syd Palmer, his voice awed.

Chip looked, and shuddered to see, the last judgment of Blaze Amborg
and his men. A scant dozen yards they strode into the cavern. Vast
spirals of fire played about them, but they did not falter. Their
suits, ingeniously woven of metal, rubber, asbesto-quartz, defied
the combustive powers of fire. But despite this--one of the figures
staggered. The stunted Jovian was first to succumb. He had just pitched
forward to his face when the second figure reeled. Raat 'Aran, the
Uranian. He reeled and clutched at the tall Venusian, Torth--but the
Venusian, too, had dropped to his knees; his hands clawed frenziedly at
his breast.

Then the mysterious death struck Amborg. His voice rang out in a
piercing scream; Chip saw him stare wildly at the three now-motionless
bodies of his comrades, whirl, race back toward the safety of the
hillside.

But he never reached it. He had taken no more than a dozen strides when
he fell. A moment his incoherent cries babbled sickening delirium into
his watchers' ear-phones....

Then all was still, save for the inexorable chanting of the natives.
And the grave, judicial voice of the Titanian on the altar.

"They have been tested in the flame," interpreted Salvation Smith
soberly, "and found guilty. Now it is our turn...."
