
Chip Warren was not a religious man. He lived by a simple code: do good
and keep your sidearms primed. But now there faced him the inevitable
finality of death; he felt an urge to meet that last, great mystery in
comfort. He turned to his friends gravely.

"Now," he said, "it is our turn. So I guess this is goodbye, Syd. And
Padre--it might help if you could say a few words for us ... just
something...."

"So be it, my son!" said Salvation, understandingly. He lifted his
head; his fine old eyes sought the murky gray skies of Titania, so
different from the sweet blue Earthly skies for which all space-farers'
hearts yearned when their journey's end was reached.

"If this be the way," he said quietly, "thy servants must depart, then
so be it, O Lord. Yet even now in extremis we do not forget Thee and
Thy might. We remember even yet--" He looked at the flaming cave-mouth
toward which they must in a moment walk. "Even yet we remember a
fellowship like ours who met and defied the dread embrace of fire.

"'And in those days,'" he said, "'there were three children of Israel
which the king Nebuchadnezzar ordered to be cast without raiment
into the fiery furnace. And their names were Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego--'"

"_Shadrach!_" cried Chip. There was no intentional irreverence in his
interruption. Understanding had burst upon him so suddenly that the
words hurtled from his lips.

"Peace, my son!" counseled the old man. "Let not your heart be
troubled--"

"It's not! We're all right, Padre! If my hunch is right--and it must
be! Look, they are bidding us walk into the caves. We haven't a moment
to spare. Hurry, _get off your spacesuits_!"

There was biting cold upon Chip Warren's limbs and body as he cast the
limp shell of his bulger behind him. But as he neared the cavern's
mouth, the cold grew less intense. Less intense! That in itself was
final, convincing proof he had been right! He was barely two yards from
the writhing gouts of flame now. Were that the true fire it _appeared_
to be, its searing blasts would already be parching his skin to black
flakes--

But it was not! It was merely--pleasantly warm!

"I was right!" he cried exultantly. "Syd ... Padre! Come on in!" His
voice was almost hysterical with relief as he stepped gingerly over the
prostrate bodies of those who had gone into the fiery furnace garbed in
suits of metallic substance. "Come on in--the fire's fine!"

And together the three new Children of Israel walked unharmed into the
fiery furnace of Titania....
