
The corridors led, as the Titanian chieftain said, downward, winding,
through the hill to the vale below, where rested Amborg's navigable
life-skiff. The small cruiser in which they were to fly to neighboring
Uranus, there find aid and eager ears into which to pour their story.

And it did not surprise Chip Warren in the least to discover, about
halfway down the flickering tunnel, a ledge of brightly gleaming ore
that was resilient to the touch but broke the keen edge of the knife
with which Chip attempted to scratch it.

"Ekalastron!" he cried. "See--a whole mountain of it! Not just a mine;
a mountain! Enough to fill Man's needs for centuries!"

Syd's eyes, behind the quartzite globe, were big as saucers. He gulped,
"C-chip--are you sure we're alive? Do you think maybe we died back
there in the first cave, maybe? And this is all some wild illusion--?"

"It is not illusion," proclaimed Salvation serenely. "I understand,
now, what Chip divined in time to save us from a dreadful fate." And he
looked at the young man affectionately. "Radiation was what killed the
others, my boy?"

Chip nodded. "Must have been, Padre. The 'flames' were not true flames
at all. Not as we Earthlings, children of a warm Sun, masters of
combustive fire, understand flame.

"Different elements have different combustive temperatures. On
bitter-cold Uranus and Titania, the kindling point of certain rare
gases is necessarily in ratio to the outer cold. The kindling point of
the gases in this tunnel is a temperature which--though fiery-hot and
deadly to the Titanians--is only pleasantly _warm_ to us!"

"So Amborg," continued Syd, "walked into the flaming tunnel wearing a
space-suit--"

"A _metallic_ space-suit," reminded Chip, "which was a transmitter for
certain lethal radiations inherent to this 'cold heat.' Blaze Amborg
did not die of flame. He died of--electrocution."

Then a strange thought struck him and he turned suddenly to Salvation
Smith. "Padre--?"

"Yes, my son?"

"The story you started to tell. The one that gave me my inspiration.
About Shadrach. I wonder if some time long ago in the past, that legend
may not have sprung from an adventure such as ours?"

Salvation smiled and shook his head.

"That is not mine to say, my boy, not yet thine to question. Perhaps
some day the truth shall be known to you and me. But meanwhile--"

But meanwhile, the life-skiff was theirs for the taking. This was no
question to long plague Chip Warren or any other space-adventurer,
before whom stretched a whole, wide universe of wonder.



