
Men like O'Hara, who controlled mushrooms, Levney, the blackberry
tycoon, Sorgasso, the packaged-worm monopolist--would black marketeers
of their tremendous stature so much as waste a glance on someone like
Alben ordinarily, let alone confer a lifetime pension on his wife and
five children of a full spoonful each of non-synthetic sugar a day?

Even if he didn't come back, his family was provided for like almost no
other family on Earth. This was a damn good job and he was lucky.

Alben noticed that Abd Sadha had risen from the straight chair at
the far side of the room and was approaching him with a sealed metal
cylinder in one hand.

"We've decided to add a further precaution at the last moment," the old
man said. "That is, the scientists have suggested it and I have--er--I
have given my approval."

The last remark was added with a slight questioning note as the
Secretary-General of the United Nations looked back rapidly at the
black market princes on the couches behind him. Since they stared back
stonily, but offered no objection, he coughed in relief and returned to
Alben.

"I am sure, young man, that I don't have to go into the details of your
instructions once more. You enter the time machine and go back the
duration for which it has been preset, a hundred and thirteen years, to
the moment after the Guided Missile of 1976 was launched. It _is_ 1976,
isn't it?" he asked, suddenly uncertain.

"Yes, sir," one of the technicians standing by the time machine said
respectfully. "The experiment with an atomic warhead guided missile
that resulted in the Blight was conducted on this site on April 18,
1976." He glanced proudly at the unemotional men on the couches, very
much like a small boy after completing a recitation before visiting
dignitaries from the Board of Education.

"Just so." Abd Sadha nodded. "April 18, 1976. And on this site. You
see, young man, you will materialize at the very moment and on the
very spot where the remote-control station handling the missile
was--er--handling the missile. You will be in a superb position, a
superb position, to deflect the missile in its downward course and
alter human history for the better. Very much for the better. Yes."

He paused, having evidently stumbled out of his thought sequence.

"And he pulls the red switch toward him," Gomez, the dandelion-root
magnate, reminded him sharply, impatiently.

"Ah, yes, the red switch. He pulls the little red switch toward him.
Thank you, Mr. Gomez, thank you very much, sir. He pulls the little
red switch on the green instrument panel toward him, thus preventing
the error that caused the missile to explode in the Brazilian jungle
and causing it, instead, to explode somewhere in the mid-Pacific, as
originally planned."

The Secretary-General of the United Nations beamed. "Thus preventing
the Blight, making it nonexistent, as it were, producing a present-day
world in which the Blight never occurred. That is correct, is it not,
gentlemen?" he asked, turning anxiously again.
