
It was a good job and Mac Albin knew whom he had to thank for it--his
great-grandfather.

"Good old Giovanni Albeni," he laughed as he looked at the morose faces
of his two colleagues. Bob Skeat and Hugo Honek had done as much as he
to build the tiny time machine in the secret lab under the helicopter
garage, and they were fully as eager to go, but--unfortunately for
them--they were not descended from the right ancestor.

Leisurely, he unzipped the richly embroidered garment that, as the
father of two children, he was privileged to wear, and wriggled into
the housing of the complex little mechanism. This was hardly the
first time he had seen it, since he'd been helping to build the device
from the moment Honek had nodded and risen from the drafting board,
and now he barely wasted a glance on the thumb-size translucent coils
growing out of the almost microscopic energy bubbles which powered them.

This machine was the last hope, of 2089, even if the world of 2089, as
a whole, did not know of its existence and would try to prevent its
being put into operation. But it meant a lot more to Mac Albin than
merely saving a world. It meant an adventurous mission with the risk of
death.

"Good old Giovanni Albeni," he laughed again happily.

If his great-grandfather had not volunteered for the earliest
time-travel experiments way back in the nineteen-seventies, back even
before the Epidemic, it would never have been discovered that he and
his seed possessed a great deal of immunity to extra-temporal blackout.

And if that had not been discovered, the Albins would not have become
physicists upon the passage of the United Nations law that everyone
on Earth--absolutely without exception--had to choose a branch of
research science in which to specialize. In the flabby, careful,
life-guarding world the Earth had become, Mac Albin would never have
been reluctantly selected by his two co-workers as the one to carry the
forbidden banner of dangerous experiment.

No, if his great-grandfather had not demonstrated long ago his unique
capacity for remaining conscious during time travel, Mac Albin would
probably be a biologist today like almost everyone else on Earth,
laboriously working out dreary gene problems instead of embarking on
the greatest adventure Man had known to date.

Even if he didn't come back, he had at last found a socially useful
escape from genetic responsibility to humanity in general and his own
family in particular. This was a damn good job and he was lucky.

"Wait a minute, Mac," Skeat said and crossed to the other side of the
narrow laboratory.
