
Albin and Honek watched him stuff several sheets of paper into a small
metal box which he closed without locking.

"You will take care of yourself, won't you, Mac?" Hugo Honek pleaded.
"Any time you feel like taking an unnecessary risk, remember that Bob
and I will have to stand trial if you don't come back. We might be
sentenced to complete loss of professional status and spend the rest of
our lives supervising robot factories."

"Oh, it won't be that bad," Albin reassured him absent-mindedly from
where he lay contorted inside the time machine. He watched Skeat coming
toward him with the box.

Honek shrugged his shoulders. "It might be a lot worse than even that
and you know it. The disappearance of a two-time father is going to
leave an awful big vacancy in the world. One-timers, like Bob and
me, are all over the place; if either of us dropped out of sight, it
wouldn't cause nearly as much uproar."

"But Bob and you both tried to operate the machine," Albin reminded
him. "And you blacked out after a fifteen-second temporal displacement.
So I'm the only chance, the only way to stop the human race from
dwindling and dwindling till it hits absolute zero, like that fat old
Security Council seems willing for it to do."

"Take it easy, Mac," Bob Skeat said as he handed the metal box to
Albin. "The Security Council is just trying to solve the problem in
their way, the conservative way: a worldwide concentration on genetics
research coupled with the maximum preservation of existing human lives,
especially those that have a high reproductive potential. We three
disagree with them; we've been skulking down here nights to solve it
_our_ way, and ours is a radical approach and plenty risky. That's
the reason for the metal box--trying to cover one more explosive
possibility."

Albin turned it around curiously. "How?"

"I sat up all last night writing the manuscript that's inside it. Look,
Mac, when you go back to the Guided Missile Experiment of 1976 and
push that red switch away from you, a lot of other things are going to
happen than just deflecting the missile so that it will explode in the
Brazilian jungle instead of the Pacific Ocean."

"Sure. I know. If it explodes in the jungle, the Epidemic doesn't
occur. No Shapiro's Mumps."

Skeat jiggled his pudgy little face impatiently. "That's not what I
mean. The Epidemic doesn't occur, but something else does. A new world,
a different 2089, an alternate time sequence. It'll be a world in which
humanity has a better chance to survive, but it'll be one with problems
of its own. Maybe tough problems. Maybe the problems will be tough
enough so that they'll get the same idea we did and try to go back to
the same point in time to change them."
