
It was strange, Max Alben reflected, that this time travel business,
which knocked unconscious everyone who tried it, only made him feel
slightly dizzy. That was because he was descended from Giovanni Albeni,
he had been told. There must be some complicated scientific explanation
for it, he decided--and that would make it none of his business. Better
forget about it.

All around the time machine, there was a heavy gray murk in which
objects were hinted at rather than stated definitely. It reminded him
of patrolling his beat at the North American Chicken Reservation in a
thick fog.

According to his gauges, he was now in 1976. He cut speed until he hit
the last day of April, then cut speed again, drifting slowly backward
to the eighteenth, the day of the infamous Guided Missile Experiment.
Carefully, carefully, like a man handling a strange bomb made on a
strange planet, he watched the center gauge until the needle came to
rest against the thin etched line that indicated the exactly crucial
moment. Then he pulled the brake and stopped the machine dead.

All he had to do now was materialize in the right spot, flash out and
pull the red switch toward him. Then his well-paid assignment would be
done.

But....

He stopped and scratched his dirt-matted hair. Wasn't there something
he was supposed to do a second before materialization? Yes, that
useless old windbag, Sadha, had given him a last instruction.

He picked up the sealed metal cylinder, walked to the entrance of the
time machine and tossed it into the gray murk. A solid object floating
near the entrance caught his eye. He put his arm out--whew, it was
cold!--and pulled it inside.

A small metal box. Funny. What was it doing out there? Curiously,
he opened it, hoping to find something valuable. Nothing but a few
sheets of paper, Alben noted disappointedly. He began to read them
slowly, very slowly, for the manuscript was full of a lot of long and
complicated words, like a letter from one bookworm scientist to another.

The problems all began with the Guided Missile Experiment of 1976,
he read. There had been a number of such experiments, but it was
the one of 1976 that finally did the damage the biologists had been
warning about. The missile with its deadly warhead exploded in the
Pacific Ocean as planned, the physicists and the military men went
home to study their notes, and the world shivered once more over the
approaching war and tried to forget about it.

But there was fallout, a radioactive rain several hundred miles to
the north, and a small fishing fleet got thoroughly soaked by it.
Fortunately, the radioactivity in the rain was sufficiently low to do
little obvious physical damage: All it did was cause a mutation in the
mumps virus that several of the men in the fleet were incubating at the
time, having caught it from the children of the fishing town, among
whom a minor epidemic was raging.
