
The fleet returned to its home town, which promptly came down with the
new kind of mumps. Dr. Llewellyn Shapiro, the only physician in town,
was the first man to note that, while the symptoms of this disease were
substantially milder than those of its unmutated parent, practically no
one was immune to it and its effects on human reproductivity were truly
terrible. Most people were completely sterilized by it. The rest were
rendered much less capable of fathering or bearing offspring.

Shapiro's Mumps spread over the entire planet in the next few decades.
It leaped across every quarantine erected; for a long time, it
successfully defied all the vaccines and serums attempted against
it. Then, when a vaccine was finally perfected, humanity discovered
to its dismay that its generative powers had been permanently and
fundamentally impaired.

Something had happened to the germ plasm. A large percentage of
individuals were born sterile, and, of those who were not, one child
was usually the most that could be expected, a two-child parent being
quite rare and a three-child parent almost unknown.

Strict eugenic control was instituted by the Security Council of the
United Nations so that fertile men and women would not be wasted upon
non-fertile mates. Fertility was the most important avenue to social
status, and right after it came successful genetic research.

Genetic research had the very best minds prodded into it; the lesser
ones went into the other sciences. Everyone on Earth was engaged in
some form of scientific research to some extent. Since the population
was now so limited in proportion to the great resources available, all
physical labor had long been done by robots. The government saw to it
that everybody had an ample supply of goods and, in return, asked only
that they experiment without any risk to their own lives--every human
being was now a much-prized, highly guarded rarity.

There were less than a hundred thousand of them, well below the danger
point, it had been estimated, where a species might be wiped out by a
new calamity. Not that another calamity would be needed. Since the end
of the Epidemic, the birth rate had been moving further and further
behind the death rate. In another century....

That was why a desperate and secret attempt to alter the past was being
made. This kind of world was evidently impossible.

Max Alben finished the manuscript and sighed. What a wonderful world!
What a comfortable place to live!

He walked to the rear dials and began the process of materializing at
the crucial moment on April 18, 1976.

     _flick!_
