
It was odd, Mac Albin reflected, that these temporal journeys, which
induced coma in everyone who tried it, only made him feel slightly
dizzy. That was because he was descended from Giovanni Albeni, he
knew. Maybe there was some genetic relationship with his above-average
fertility--might be a good idea to mention the idea to a biologist or
two when he returned. _If_ he returned.

All around the time machine, there was a soupy gray murk in which
objects were hinted at rather than stated definitely. It reminded him
of the problems of landing a helicopter in a thick fog when the robot
butler had not been told to turn on the ground lights.

According to the insulated register, he was now in 1976. He lowered
speed until he registered April, then maneuvered slowly backward
through time to the eighteenth, the day of the infamous Guided Missile
Experiment. Carefully, carefully, like an obstetrician supervising
surgical robots at an unusually difficult birth, he watched the
register until it rolled to rest against the notch that indicated the
exactly crucial moment. Then he pushed a button and froze the machine
where it was.

All he had to do now was materialize in the right spot, flash out and
push the red switch from him. Then his exciting adventure would be over.

But....

He paused and tapped at his sleek chin. He was supposed to do something
a second before materialization. Yes, that nervous theoretician, Bob
Skeat, had given him a last suggestion.

He picked up the small metal box, twisted around to face the opening
of the time machine and dropped it into the gray murk. A solid object
floating near the opening attracted his attention. He shot his arm
out--it was _cold_, as cold as they had figured--and pulled the object
inside.

A sealed metal cylinder. Strange. What was it doing out there?
Anxiously, he opened it, not daring to believe he'd find a document
inside. Yes, that was exactly what it was, he saw excitedly. He began
to read it rapidly, very rapidly, as if it were a newly published paper
on neutrinos. Besides, the manuscript was written with almost painful
simplicity, like a textbook composed by a stuffy pedagogue for the use
of morons.

The problems all began with the Guided Missile Experiment of 1976, he
read. There had been a number of such experiments, but it was the one
of 1976 that finally did the damage the biologists had been warning
about. The missile with its deadly warhead exploded in the Brazilian
jungle through some absolutely unforgivable error in the remote-control
station, the officer in charge of the station was reprimanded and the
men under him court-martialed, and the Brazilian government was paid a
handsome compensation for the damage.
