
But there had been more damage than anyone knew at the time. A plant
virus, similar to the tobacco mosaic, had mutated under the impact
of radioactivity. Five years later, it burst out of the jungle and
completely wiped out every last rice plant on Earth. Japan and a large
part of Asia became semi-deserts inhabited by a few struggling nomads.

Then the virus adjusted to wheat and corn--and famine howled in every
street of the planet. All attempts by botanists to control the Blight
failed because of the swiftness of its onslaught. And after it had fed,
it hit again at a new plant and another and another.

Most of the world's non-human mammals had been slaughtered for food
long before they could starve to death. Many insects, too, before they
became extinct at the loss of their edible plants, served to assuage
hunger to some small extent.

But the nutritive potential of Earth was steadily diminishing in a
horrifying geometric progression. Recently, it had been observed,
plankton--the tiny organism on which most of the sea's ecology was
based--had started to disappear, and with its diminution, dead fish had
begun to pile up on the beaches.

Mankind had lunged out desperately in all directions in an effort to
survive, but nothing had worked for any length of time. Even the other
planets of the Solar System, which had been reached and explored
at a tremendous cost in remaining resources, had yielded no edible
vegetation. Synthetics had failed to fill the prodigious gap.

In the midst of the sharply increasing hunger, social controls had
pretty much dissolved. Pathetic attempts at rationing still continued,
but black markets became the only markets, and black marketeers the
barons of life. Starvation took the hindmost, and only the most agile
economically lived in comparative comfort. Law and order were had only
by those who could afford to pay for them and children of impoverished
families were sold on the open market for a bit of food.

But the Blight was still adjusting to new plants and the food supply
kept shrinking. In another century....

That was why the planet's powerful individuals had been persuaded to
pool their wealth in a desperate attempt to alter the past. This kind
of world was manifestly impossible.

Mac Albin finished the document and sighed. What a magnificent world!
What an exciting place to live!

He dropped his hand on the side levers and began the process of
materializing at the crucial moment on April 18, 1976.

     _flick!_
