
Matters had not always been so. The Relict retained a few tattered
recollections of the old days, before system and logic had been
rendered obsolete. Man had dominated Earth by virtue of a single
assumption: that an effect could be traced to a cause, itself the
effect of a previous cause.

Manipulation of this basic law yielded rich results; there seemed no
need for any other tool or instrumentality. Man congratulated himself
on his generalized structure. He could live on desert, on plain or
ice, in forest or in city; Nature had not shaped him to a special
environment.

He was unaware of his vulnerability. Logic was the special environment;
the brain was the special tool.

Then came the terrible hour when Earth swam into a pocket of
non-causality, and all the ordered tensions of cause-effect dissolved.
The special tool was useless; it had no purchase on reality. From the
two billions of men, only a few survived--the mad. They were now the
Organisms, lords of the era, their discords so exactly equivalent to
the vagaries of the land as to constitute a peculiar wild wisdom.
Or perhaps the disorganized matter of the world, loose from the old
organization, was peculiarly sensitive to psycho-kinesis.

A handful of others, the Relicts, managed to exist, but only through a
delicate set of circumstances. They were the ones most strongly charged
with the old causal dynamic. It persisted sufficiently to control the
metabolism of their bodies, but could extend no further. They were fast
dying out, for sanity provided no leverage against the environment.
Sometimes their own minds sputtered and jangled, and they would go
raving and leaping out across the plain.

The Organisms observed with neither surprise nor curiosity; how could
surprise exist? The mad Relict might pause by an Organism, and try to
duplicate the creature's existence. The Organism ate a mouthful of
plant; so did the Relict. The Organism rubbed his feet with crushed
water; so did the Relict. Presently the Relict would die of poison
or rent bowels or skin lesions, while the Organism relaxed in the
dank black grass. Or the Organism might seek to eat the Relict; and
the Relict would run off in terror, unable to abide any part of the
world--running, bounding, breasting the thick air; eyes wide, mouth
open, calling and gasping until finally he floundered in a pool of
black iron or blundered into a vacuum pocket, to bat around like a fly
in a bottle.

The Relicts now numbered very few. Finn, he who crouched on the rock
overlooking the plain, lived with four others. Two of these were old
men and soon would die. Finn likewise would die unless he found food.
