
Out on the plain one of the Organisms, Alpha, sat down, caught
a handful of air, a globe of blue liquid, a rock, kneaded them
together, pulled the mixture like taffy, gave it a great heave. It
uncoiled from his hand like rope. The Relict crouched low. No telling
what devilry would occur to the creature. He and all the rest of
them--unpredictable! The Relict valued their flesh as food; but they
also would eat him if opportunity offered. In the competition he was
at a great disadvantage. Their random acts baffled him. If, seeking
to escape, he ran, the worst terror would begin. The direction he set
his face was seldom the direction the varying frictions of the ground
let him move. But the Organisms were as random and uncommitted as the
environment, and the double set of vagaries sometimes compounded,
sometimes canceled each other. In the latter case the Organisms might
catch him....

It was inexplicable. But then, what was not? The word "explanation" had
no meaning.

They were moving toward him; had they seen him? He flattened himself
against the sullen yellow rock.

The two Organisms paused not far away. He could hear their sounds, and
crouched, sick from conflicting pangs of hunger and fear.

Alpha sank to his knees, lay flat on his back, arms and legs flung out
at random, addressing the sky in a series of musical cries, sibilants,
guttural groans. It was a personal language he had only now improvised,
but Beta understood him well.

"A vision," cried Alpha, "I see past the sky. I see knots, spinning
circles. They tighten into hard points; they will never come undone."

Beta perched on a pyramid, glanced over this shoulder at the mottled
sky.

"An intuition," chanted Alpha, "a picture out of the other time. It is
hard, merciless, inflexible."

Beta poised on the pyramid, dove through the glassy surface, swam under
Alpha, emerged, lay flat beside him.

"Observe the Relict on the hillside. In his blood is the whole of the
old race--the narrow men with minds like cracks. He has exuded the
intuition. Clumsy thing--a blunderer," said Alpha.

"They are all dead, all of them," said Beta. "Although three or
four remain." (When _past_, _present_ and _future_ are no more than
ideas left over from another era, like boats on a dry lake--then the
completion of a process can never be defined.)

Alpha said, "This is the vision. I see the Relicts swarming the Earth;
then whisking off to nowhere, like gnats in the wind. This is behind
us."

The Organisms lay quiet, considering the vision.

A rock, or perhaps a meteor, fell from the sky, struck into the surface
of the pond. It left a circular hole which slowly closed. From another
part of the pool a gout of fluid splashed into the air, floated away.

Alpha spoke: "Again--the intuition comes strong! There will be lights
in the sky."

The fever died in him. He hooked a finger into the air, hoisted himself
to his feet.

Beta lay quiet. Slugs, ants, flies, beetles were crawling on him,
boring, breeding. Alpha knew that Beta could arise, shake off the
insects, stride off. But Beta seemed to prefer passivity. That was well
enough. He could produce another Beta should he choose, or a dozen
of him. Sometimes the world swarmed with Organisms, all sorts, all
colors, tall as steeples, short and squat as flower-pots.

"I feel a lack," said Alpha. "I will eat the Relict." He set forth, and
sheer chance brought him near to the ledge of yellow rock. Finn the
Relict sprang to his feet in panic.
