
Temporarily his belly was full. He started back up the crag, and
presently found the camp, where the four other Relicts waited--two
ancient males, two females. The females, Gisa and Reak, like Finn, had
been out foraging. Gisa had brought in a slab of lichen; Reak a bit of
nameless carrion.

The old men, Boad and Tagart, sat quietly waiting either for food or
for death.

The women greeted Finn sullenly. "Where is the food you went forth to
find?"

"I had a whole carcass," said Finn. "I could not carry it."

Boad had slyly stolen the slab of lichen and was cramming it into his
mouth. It came alive, quivered and exuded a red ichor which was poison,
and the old man died.

"Now there is food," said Finn. "Let us eat."

But the poison created a putrescence; the body seethed with blue foam,
flowed away of its own energy.

The women turned to look at the other old man, who said in a quavering
voice, "Eat me if you must--but why not choose Reak, who is younger
than I?"

Reak, the younger of the women, gnawing on the bit of carrion, made no
reply.

Finn said hollowly, "Why do we worry ourselves? Food is ever more
difficult, and we are the last of all men."

"No, no," spoke Reak. "Not the last. We saw others on the green mound."

"That was long ago," said Gisa. "Now they are surely dead."

"Perhaps they have found a source of food," suggested Reak.

Finn rose to his feet, looked across the plain. "Who knows? Perhaps
there is a more pleasant land beyond the horizon."

"There is nothing anywhere but waste and evil creatures," snapped Gisa.

"What could be worse than here?" Finn argued calmly.

No one could find grounds for disagreement.

"Here is what I propose," said Finn. "Notice this tall peak. Notice
the layers of hard air. They bump into the peak, they bounce off, they
float in and out and disappear past the edge of sight. Let us all
climb this peak, and when a sufficiently large bank of air passes, we
will throw ourselves on top, and allow it to carry us to the beautiful
regions which may exist just out of sight."

There was argument. The old man Tagart protested his feebleness; the
women derided the possibility of the bountiful regions Finn envisioned,
but presently, grumbling and arguing, they began to clamber up the
pinnacle.
