
It took a long time; the obsidian was soft as jelly, and Tagart several
times professed himself at the limit of his endurance. But still they
climbed, and at last reached the pinnacle. There was barely room to
stand. They could see in all directions, far out over the landscape,
till vision was lost in the watery gray.

The women bickered and pointed in various directions, but there was
small sign of happier territory. In one direction blue-green hills
shivered like bladders full of oil. In another direction lay a
streak of black--a gorge or a lake of clay. In another direction were
blue-green hills--the same they had seen in the first direction;
somehow there had been a shift. Below was the plain, gleaming like
an iridescent beetle, here and there pocked with black velvet spots,
overgrown with questionable vegetation.

They saw Organisms, a dozen shapes loitering by ponds, munching
vegetable pods or small rocks or insects. There came Alpha. He moved
slowly, still awed by his vision, ignoring the other Organisms. Their
play went on, but presently they stood quiet, sharing the oppression.

On the obsidian peak, Finn caught hold of a passing filament of air,
drew it in. "Now--all on, and we sail away to the Land of Plenty."

"No," protested Gisa, "there is no room, and who knows if it will fly
in the right direction?"

"Where is the right direction?" asked Finn. "Does anyone know?"

No one knew, but the women still refused to climb aboard the filament.
Finn turned to Tagart. "Here, old one, show these women how it is;
climb on!"

"No, no," he cried. "I fear the air; this is not for me."

"Climb on, old man, then we follow."

Wheezing and fearful, clenching his hands deep into the spongy mass,
Tagart pulled himself out onto the air, spindly shanks hanging over
into nothing. "Now," spoke Finn, "who next?"

The women still refused. "You go then, yourself," cried Gisa.

"And leave you, my last guarantee against hunger? Aboard now!"

"No. The air is too small; let the old one go and we will follow on a
larger."

"Very well." Finn released his grip. The air floated off over the
plain, Tagart straddling and clutching for dear life.

They watched him curiously. "Observe," said Finn, "how fast and easily
moves the air. Above the Organisms, over all the slime and uncertainty."

But the air itself was uncertain, and the old man's raft dissolved.
Clutching at the departing wisps, Tagart sought to hold his cushion
together. It fled from under him, and he fell.
