
Terrified, Jan dug his heels in the turf and pulled. Slowly inch by
inch, the stick reappeared. But with it appeared a fat, pale hand,
followed by a sleeved arm.

Jan slapped at the hand and pulled harder. The hand hung on grimly.
Another hand appeared, gripping the slowly emerging arm. It fingered its
way up the sleeve until it too gripped the stick.

Jan let go and sprang back several feet. He hesitated, ready to flee.

When he let go of the stick the hands dropped to the ground. The fat
fingers dug into the sod and hung on. A bloated face came into sight and
drew back into nothing once more.

The face appeared again and stayed, flushed with exertion. Little by
little the face was followed by a neck, shoulders, and a thick torso.
The last to appear was two short legs.

The figure stood up shakily. It was covered by a brown uniform. Although
Jan did not know it, this was the uniform of a field marshal.

The pig like eyes in the fat face blinked at him stupidly, then turned
to survey the ruined city.

Jan recognized the newcomer for a man, though he had never seen one with
such a shape. Vaguely he wondered how such a man could catch wild
animals,--and if he couldn't, how he could eat enough to have grown up.

The man was even more of an enigma to Jan than the glistening square.
And he might be dangerous.

Jan had wandered far in his brief lifetime. Nowhere had he found more
than a handful of other wandering nomads, all like him in build; long of
limb, lithe and powerful of shoulder, able to run swiftly all day
without tiring.

This man, if man it was, came no higher than Jan's heart. He obviously
wouldn't be able to run faster than the exceedingly rare, short-legged
pig that became so fat when it grew up.

The man turned his fat face back toward Jan. The look in the small eyes
made Jan's hand steal toward his sheathed knife. The eyes saw that
movement. They narrowed cruelly. A sneer appeared on the bloated lips.

Suddenly a fat hand darted down to a lumpy object on the man's hip and
drew out a squat blue object. It came up. Jan could see a dark hole in
it. He stared curiously.

Unconsciously he had drawn his knife as the man drew the strange object.
His keen nostrils brought him the smell of sweat that has the odor of a
tense body. His hunting instinct told him this creature was going to
charge.
