
Jan felt something hot touch his left shoulder. With it came the sound
of a sharp report. The strange thing in the man's hand buckled queerly.

Jan looked at his shoulder. There was a gaping, angry wound in it. In
some way this man had hurt him. He didn't stop to analyze how or why.
The fact was there. He could either turn to run or advance to
fight,--and he had never yet turned to run.

He had learned the trick of weaving in and slashing, and withdrawing
quickly. This stood him in good stead. The queer thing in the man's hand
barked at him, but missed hurting him each time.

Jan's knife reached in unerringly and slashed the wrist of the hand
holding the spitting thing. The blood gushed out in a pulsating stream.

The man dropped the gun and tried to stem the flow. Jan took this
opportunity to dart in again and slide his blade across the fat neck.

A look of horrible realization appeared in the man's eyes. He turned,
stumbled forward, and fell headlong into the space above the
mysteriously glistening square slab. The soles of his shoes seemed to
hang in the air briefly before they followed the rest of him into
nothingness.

Jan touched his hand gingerly to the raw wound in his shoulder. It was a
day's journey to the healing spring where he could bathe the wound and
plaster it with healing mud.

His eyes surveyed the scene for a last time, taking in the strange slab
flush with the ground, the skeleton of girders that jutted out from each
side of the gorge, and the strange heaps of steel and masonry on the
other side. Then he turned and started back the way he had come. By the
time he vanished over the rise he had settled into the long, easy trot
that would carry him a good fifteen miles an hour all the way to the
healing spring.

Behind him the glistening square slab rested, oblivious of his
departure. The two halves of the wrecked bridge still reached yearning,
torn arms toward one another; and across the gap the ruins of the huge
city squatted in silence, coldly aloof.

A wind born leaf dipped down in coy flight to investigate the slab--and
slipped past the veil. The fresh cut end of the stick Jan had cut formed
a white dot on the green carpet of stunted grass. Bright red stained a
large spot on the green and formed a ribbon that led to the edge of the
square of cold luminescence;--the red trail of blood left by the strange
visitor from out of the square. And in the clean blue sky a bright sun
beamed benignly over all, ignoring--
