
"My leader!" Carl Grinch clicked his heels softly, and bowed stiffly
from the waist. His high, intellectual forehead, clear blue eyes and
finely cut features, together with his civilian garb, indicated that he
was a scientist. He was, in fact, much more than a scientist. He was THE
scientist of Aleme.

"At ease." The leader waved a gloved hand carelessly, a cruel smile
twisting the harsh face of the dictator of Aleme and avowed leader of
downtrodden masses in every country on Amba.

His eyes held a gleam of satisfaction as he watched the uneasy tenseness
of the scientist. He gloried in a sadistic satisfaction at his power to
snuff out the life of one so great,--or let him live to serve his
Leader.

"I told you not to come to me until you had succeeded in the task I set
you," Generalissimo Hute Hitle said coldly. "Your presence means that
you have, no doubt?"

"Yes, my Leader," Carl Grinch smiled. "Everything is in readiness."

"Good," Hitle said. He rubbed his chin slowly, a smile of triumph
creasing his face into unaccustomed wrinkles. "Now we can't lose. We
will let loose the destruction and let it take its course. After it is
over we will return to rule an unresisting planet. Explain again to me
the theory of the device."

"The theory of operation of the devise is, of course, understandable
only by a highly trained specialist," Carl Grinch said placatingly.

"You know what I mean," Hute Hitle snarled. "I'm not interested in what
makes it work. Only in what it does."

"To begin with," Carl Grinch said. "Space has three dimensions. We live
in those three dimensions of length, breadth, and thickness. This is
called the space continuum.

"There is also a three dimensional time continuum. This also has length,
which is past-present-future. In addition it has width and breadth,
which are approximated by the idea of simultaneity to a certain extent.
This is not, however, the simultaneity of events co-existent in our one,
three-dimensional space. All events we can be aware of are in one point
in the time continuum, which moves along a single time line.

"Since there are only three dimensions of space, all things must be in
our space. It is the time co-ordinates that determine whether we are
aware of something or not. At this very moment there is an infinity of
universes all occupying the same space, but each in a different position
in time. They are existing now, but separated from us in a direction at
right angles to the universal time stream.

"Mathematically, these other universes are expressed in co-ordinates
that have the square root of a minus one as a coefficient. Also
mathematically, these universes are imaginary, but not in the
non-mathematical, mythical sense. They are just as real as ours, but
relatively imaginary or relatively non-existent.

"All this has been known by others. They have also known that to make an
imaginary value real it is only necessary to multiply it by the square
root of a minus one. Then it becomes real. This fact became the entering
wedge into the principal that enabled me to succeed in bridging the
abyss of right angle time travel.

"As you know, many years ago the secret of single dimension time travel
was solved. However, it would not answer our problem. Though it is true
time travel, it amounts to nothing more than perfect stasis for
controlled periods, and if destruction hits the space the time traveller
is in, he is as vulnerable as he would be if not travelling. In order to
escape that it is necessary to step over, so to speak, into one of the
imaginary universes at right angles to us in the time continuum and
travel forward there.

"So, all I had to do was discover some principal for multiplying a
sector of space by the square root of a minus one. As you know, I did
that. Then I discovered that there are gaps, so that it was impossible
to discover another universe co-existent in space, without determining
the basic equation of the time curve.

"As everyone knows, both time and space are curved, due to the
distortion of mass on surrounding space and time. The exact equation for
this curvature had to be determined.

"We knew beforehand that it had to be a cubic equation. Each cubic
equation has three roots for every value of the independent variable,
which is in space. It also has three roots for every value of the time.
Basically, that means that if any primal unit exists in our space, it
exists in three forms, the positive, the negative and the neutral. These
units are the positron, the negatron, and the neutron. Those three are
the three solutions in space to the co-ordinates of the existential
primal point.

"But also there must be two other universes co-existent with ours in
space, but separated sideways in time. They would be impossible to find
with the machine without solving the cubic equation of the curvature of
our time line."

"So you have solved that and contacted one of the other two universes,"
Hute Hitle broke in impatiently.

"Exactly," Carl Grinch said.

"Take me to it," Hute ordered. "I want to see for myself."

"Yes, my Leader," Carl said, clicking his heels again and bowing. The
bow was lower than usual to hide the gleam of triumph that rose unbidden
in the scientist's eyes.
