
The thought of what would happen,--the war crimes trial, the ignomy of
death as a war criminal at the hands of fools who couldn't understand
the noble, selfless motives that governed his life and caused him to
sacrifice the comforts of home and normalcy as a public servant and the
purpose,--the goal toward which he strove, gave him the courage to press
the first button. With that simple act the fate of Tranx-Yrhl was
directly sealed, and with it the retaliation against his own country.
That knowledge made easy the pressing of the other buttons.

When it was finished he walked stiffly from the room and took the
elevator to the surface. His general staff awaited him. They stood
awkwardly, faces pale, in this historic moment.

He nodded imperceptibly to signify that the deed was done. A few dry
throats swallowed loudly in the hush of imminent death.

Hute Hitle marched stiffly through the passive group. One after another
fell in behind him. The procession marched down to waiting cars.

The cars crossed the bridge. There they stopped. As one man the Leader
and his general staff looked back at the great city they loved so well.
The Sacrifice they were making for the good of humanity pressed heavily
on their hearts.

With bowed heads they turned back and went down the path to the research
building.

Carl Grinch and his science aides were waiting. They paled at the
knowledge that the deed was done and there was no turning back now.

Hute placed a fond hand on Carl's shoulder.

"Are you sure you don't want to come with me?" he asked, his voice
choked with emotion.

"The success of the Plan depends on my staying," Carl replied, his voice
shaken with the emotion of the moment. "The time machine is constructed
in connection with the tri-matter block so that nothing in either of the
other two universes can enter it. After you enter, it must be sealed
from this side for the period of time travel, so that nothing can enter
from this side until it is time for you to come back. I, and my aides,
must remain to do that."

"Your sacrifice is greater than mine," Hute said simply.

"It is very little compared to what <i>you</i> are sacrificing," Carl said,
smiling, with a trace of amused contempt carefully hidden in the back of
his eyes.

Hute took his hand from Carl's shoulder and gravely shook hands with
Carl's aides. It was his simple gesture of reward for their great
sacrifice. They would die with the gratifying knowledge that the Leader
himself had taken their hand and shaken it in gratitude at a service
well performed.

Then he squared his massive shoulders and stepped onto the tri-matter
slab--and vanished. One by one the members of his general staff
followed.

When the last of them stepped into thin air above the softly glowing
square, Carl walked over to a switch board and pulled the disconnects
that broke the surge of power playing over the room.

His pale assistants watched, hypnotized.

Carl smiled at them encouragingly. He glanced at his watch and estimated
the time left.

"Another hour at the most now," he said quietly. "It could come any
second."

The wooden walls of the room closed them in with brooding foreboding. A
heavily barred window brought a view of the steel bridge that led to the
city.

A large clock on the wall became the center of attention. A red second
hand moved with slowly deliberate swiftness around the dial.

And in the center of the waiting group the luminous square built flush
with the wooden floor waited too, its face inscrutible, its substance
anchored in three roots of Being.

An electrical tension was building up around the hushed group of
scientists. Vague stirrings of cold light rippled the surface of the
square block of tri-matter.

"The cleavage is beginning," Carl said quietly. "When I say the word
step through. The entropy shift must be just right or we'll find
ourselves with Hitle and his gang. Now!"

As one man the group stepped onto the block and vanished. An instant
later the holocaust broke loose.
