
Carl Grinch stood before the tribunal of the United Nations of the
planet Amba. Video cameras pointed at him from every direction. The
audience room was filled to overflowing with officials, and over the
whole planet people had paused in their work to watch him and listen to
his words.

"We, of Aleme," he was saying. "Dared not openly defy Hute Hitle. He was
too strongly entrenched. Unless we obeyed his orders to the letter we
were executed; and a dead man cannot serve the interests of all Amba. My
researches gave me the plan I had been looking for.

"As you all know, time travel was discovered many centuries ago. It
amounted to nothing more than perfect stasis. A person could travel
forward in time to any period, but not backward. The time machine in
marching forward existed at every instant, and was therefore always
present to the view of outsiders.

"My researches made possible sideways travel in time. By means of a
device that used fabulous amounts of power, I was able to gather matter
from two other universes existing in the same space as our own, but with
different time co-ordinates. I proved to Hitle that in one of these
other universes he could escape the destruction he planned, and then
return to a torn world and fulfill his destiny as ruler of the planet.

"I told him nothing but the truth. Because of that he believed me. If I
had told him one lie he would have seen through the whole thing.

"In order for you to understand just what happened, and why Amba was not
destroyed when he pressed the buttons that started the atom bombs on
their journeys of destruction, I must tell you a little of the basic
nature of reality. Our universe is at all times and in every respect a
root of a cubic equation. It has long been known that space is curved.
Being curved, it is not the expression of linear equations, but of
equations of some higher order. It had never been determined if that
order was quadratic, cubic or higher. I determined that it was cubic.

"To tell you how I solved the constants of the equation would be to go
into material too complicated for any but the expert, so I'll skip that.
When I solved that, though, I was able to calculate the field necessary
to create a bridge from this root of the equation to the other two,
gather substances from those two, blend the substances, and create a
natural bridge. I did that. BUT instead of blending substance from our
own universe with the other two, I kept the field going. The field acted
as a bridge, and when the disconnects were broken that bridge vanished,
leaving only a bridge between the other two universes.

"Now while the field lasted, all three roots were blended into the
Whole, or cubic equation. In plain language, all three universes within
the limits of the field were identical. So it was a simple matter to get
Hute and his general staff to carry out their plans in one of the other
universes rather than this one, and then escape into a time machine in
the third universe.

"After they did that I merely pulled the disconnects and destroyed the
field that linked our universe temporarily with the one where the
destruction went on according to plan. When Hitle and his men wake up a
few centuries from now they will find that things went according to
plan. They will find their destruction and their bands of savages to
rule, if they can rule them. But their threat to us is gone. We are rid
of them for good."

The chairman cleared his throat importantly as Carl paused.

"But what of the people in this other universe,--the ones who were
destroyed by the bombs let loose there? And their descendents who will
survive until the day Hitle returns to force his will on them?"

Carl smiled broadly.

"They were destroyed, sir," he answered. "According to plan. That is the
truth. But is isn't ALL of the truth. You see, the cubic equation that
connects this universe of ours with the other two has only ONE real
root. The other two are imaginary. That is what I didn't tell Hitle. The
number one is a cube root of itself, and represents our own universe.
The field set up by the machine was literally another cube root of one
acting on our universe as a factor, transposing its forms into an
imaginary universe. There Hitle succeeded in his conquest of all Amba.
It was not the conquest he figured on however, because events are merely
single values that fit the cubic equation,--never the equation itself.
What Hitle did not know was that no one can ever succeed at conquest,
but only at what might more accurately be termed the cube root of
conquest.

"And in his case that cube root of conquest was imaginary, represented
by the number, (a minus one half, plus the square root of a minus three
fourths.) Cube that quantity yourself! You will get one for the answer.
Square that quantity and you will get the third cube root of unity.
Blend or multiply the two together and you get unity, which is reality
in our plane of the omniverse. Multiply unity by one of the two
imaginary cube roots of one, and you transform the one, or our reality,
into an imaginary plane. Try it. Get a piece of paper and work it for
yourself! And study the metaphysical applications of the relationships
of the three cube roots of unity,--the relationship of mind,
imagination, and reality, the relationships of the positive, the
negative, and the neutral units of matter;--and wonder!"



