
The mechanic stared. Here was no hell-for-leather freighter pilot, no
be-whiskered roamer of the outer orbits. Meek's hair was white and
stuck out in uncombed tufts in a dozen directions. His skin was pale.
His blue eyes looked watery behind the thick lenses that rode his nose.
Even the bulky spacesuit failed to hide his stooped shoulders and
slight frame.

The mechanic said nothing.

Meek tried again. "I saw the sign. It said you could fix anything. So
I...."

The mechanic shook himself.

"Sure," he agreed, still slightly dazed. "Sure I can fix you up. What
you got?"

He swung his feet off the desk.

"I ran into a swarm of pebbles," Meek confessed. "Not much more than
dust, really, but the screen couldn't stop it all."

He fumbled his hands self-consciously. "Awkward of me," he said.

"It happens to the best of them," the mechanic consoled. "Saturn sweeps
in clouds of the stuff. Thicker than hell when you reach the Rings.
Lots of ships pull in with punctures. Won't take no time."

Meek cleared his throat uneasily. "I'm afraid it's more than a
puncture. A pebble got into the instruments. Washed out some of them."

The mechanic clucked sympathetically. "You're lucky. Tough job to
bring in a ship without all the instruments. Must have a honey of a
navigator."

"I haven't got a navigator," Meek said, quietly.

The mechanic stared at him, eyes popping. "You mean you brought it in
alone? No one with you?"

Meek gulped and nodded. "Dead reckoning," he said.

The mechanic glowed with sudden admiration. "I don't know who you are,
mister," he declared, "but whoever you are, you're the best damn pilot
that ever took to space."

"Really I'm not," said Meek. "I haven't done much piloting, you see. Up
until just a while ago, I never had left Earth. Bookkeeper for Lunar
Exports."

"Bookkeeper!" yelped the mechanic. "How come a bookkeeper can handle a
ship like that?"

"I learned it," said Meek.

"You learned it?"

"Sure, from a book. I saved my money and I studied. I always wanted to
see the Solar System and here I am."

Dazedly, the mechanic took off his greasy cap, laid it carefully on the
desk, reached out for a spacesuit that hung from a wall hook.

"Afraid this job might take a while," he said. "Especially if we have
to wait for parts. Have to get them in from Titan City. Why don't you
go over to the _Inn_. Tell Moe I sent you. They'll treat you right."

"Thank you," said Meek, "but there's something else I'm wondering
about. There was another sign out there. Something about educated bugs."

"Oh, them," said the mechanic. "They belong to Gus Hamilton. Maybe
belong ain't the right word because they were on the rock before Gus
took over. Anyhow, Gus is mighty proud of them, although at times they
sure run him ragged. First year they almost drove him loopy trying to
figure out what kind of game they were playing."

"Game?" asked Meek, wondering if he was being hoaxed.

"Sure, game. Like checkers. Only it ain't. Not chess, neither. Even
worse than that. Bugs dig themselves a batch of holes, then choose up
sides and play for hours. About the time Gus would think he had it
figured out, they'd change the rules and throw him off again."

"That doesn't make sense," protested Meek.

"Stranger," declared the mechanic, solemnly, "there ain't nothing
about them bugs that make sense. Gus' rock is the only one they're on.
Gus thinks maybe the rock don't even belong to the Solar system. Thinks
maybe it's a hunk of stone from some other solar system. Figures maybe
it crossed space somehow and was captured by Saturn, sucked into the
Ring. That would explain why it's the only one that has the bugs. They
come along with it, see."

"This Gus Hamilton," said Meek. "I'd like to see him. Where could I
find him?"

"Go over to the _Inn_ and wait around," advised the mechanic. "He'll
come in sooner or later. Drops around regular, except when his
rheumatism bothers him, to pick up a bundle of papers. Subscribes to a
daily paper, he does. Only man out here that does any reading. But all
he reads is the sports section. Nuts about sports, Gus is."


                                  II

Moe, bartender at Saturn Inn, leaned his elbow on the bar and braced
his chin in an outspread palm. His face wore a melancholy, hang-dog
look. Moe liked things fairly peaceable, but now he saw trouble coming
in big batches.

"Lady," he declared mournfully, "you sure picked yourself a job. The
boys around here don't take to being uplifted and improved. They ain't
worth it, either. Just ring-rats, that's all they are."

Henrietta Perkins, representative for the public health and welfare
department of the Solar government, shuddered at his suggestion of
anything so low it didn't yearn for betterment.

"But those terrible feuds," she protested. "Fighting just because they
live in different parts of the Ring. It's natural they might feel some
rivalry, but all this killing! Surely they don't enjoy getting killed."

"Sure they enjoy it," declared Moe. "Not being killed, maybe ...
although they're willing to take a chance on that. Not many of them
get killed, in fact. Just a few that get sort of careless. But even if
some of them are killed, you can't go messing around with that feud
of theirs. If them boys out in sectors Twenty-Three and Thirty-Seven
didn't have their feud they'd plain die of boredom. They just got to
have somebody to fight with. They been fighting, off and on, for years."

"But they could fight with something besides guns," said the welfare
lady, a-smirk with righteousness. "That's why I'm here. To try to get
them to turn their natural feelings of rivalry into less deadly and
disturbing channels. Direct their energies into other activities."

"Like what?" asked Moe, fearing the worst.

"Athletic events," said Miss Perkins.

"Tin shinny, maybe," suggested Moe, trying to be sarcastic.

She missed the sarcasm. "Or spelling contests," she said.

"Them fellow can't spell," insisted Moe.

"Games of some sort, then. Competitive games."

"Now you're talking," Moe enthused. "They take to games. Seven-toed
Pete with the deuces wild."

The inner door of the entrance lock grated open and a spacesuited
figure limped into the room. The spacesuit visor snapped up and a brush
of grey whiskers spouted into view.

It was Gus Hamilton.

He glared at Moe. "What in tarnation is all this foolishness?" he
demanded. "Got your message, I did, and here I am. But it better be
important."

He hobbled to the bar. Moe reached for a bottle and shoved it toward
him, keeping out of reach.

"Have some trouble?" he asked, trying to be casual.

"Trouble! Hell, yes!" blustered Gus. "But I ain't the only one that's
going to have trouble. Somebody sneaked over and stole the injector out
of my space crate. Had to borrow Hank's to get over here. But I know
who it was. There ain't but one other ring-rat got a rocket my injector
will fit."

"Bud Craney," said Moe. It was no secret. Every man in the two sectors
of the Ring knew just exactly what kind of spacecraft the other had.

"That's right," said Gus, "and I'm fixing to go over into Thirty-seven
and yank Bud up by the roots."

He took a jolt of liquor. "Yes, sir, I sure aim to crucify him."

His eyes lighted on Miss Henrietta Perkins.

"Visitor?" he asked.

"She's from the government," said Moe.

"Revenuer?"

"Nope. From the welfare outfit. Aims to help you fellows out. Says
there ain't no sense in you boys in Twenty-three all the time fighting
with the gang from Thirty-seven."

Gus stared in disbelief.

Moe tried to be helpful. "She wants you to play games."

Gus strangled on his drink, clawed for air, wiped his eyes.

"So that's why you asked me over here. Another of your danged peace
parleys. Come and talk things over, you said. So I came."

"There's something in what she says," defended Moe. "You ring-rats been
ripping up space for a long time now. Time you growed up and settled
down. You're aiming on going over right now and pulverizing Bud. It
won't do you any good."

"I'll get a heap of satisfaction out of it," insisted Gus. "And,
besides, I'll get my injector back. Might even take a few things off
Bud's ship. Some of the parts on mine are wearing kind of thin."

Gus took another drink, glowering at Miss Perkins.

"So the government sent you out to make us respectable," he said.

"Merely to help you, Mr. Hamilton," she declared. "To turn your hatreds
into healthy competition."

"Games, eh?" said Gus. "Maybe you got something, after all. Maybe we
could fix up some kind of game...."

"Forget it, Gus," warned Moe. "If you're thinking of energy guns at
fifty paces, it's out. Miss Perkins won't stand for anything like that."
