
Gus wiped his whiskers and looked hurt. "Nothing of the sort," he
denied. "Dang it, you must think I ain't got no sportsmanship at all. I
was thinking of a real sport. A game they play back on Earth and Mars.
Read about it in my papers. Follow the teams, I do. Always wanted to
see a game, but never did."

Miss Perkins beamed. "What game is it, Mr. Hamilton?"

"Space polo," said Gus.

"Why, how wonderful," simpered Miss Perkins. "And you boys have the
spaceships to play it with."

Moe looked alarmed. "Miss Perkins," he warned, "don't let him talk you
into it."

"You shut your trap," snapped Gus. "She wants us to play games, don't
she. Well, polo is a game. A nice, respectable game. Played in the best
society."

"It wouldn't be no nice, respectable game the way you fellows would
play it," predicted Moe. "It would turn into mass murder. Wouldn't be
one of you who wouldn't be planning on getting even with someone else,
once you got him in the open."

Miss Perkins gasped. "Why, I'm sure they wouldn't!"

"Of course we wouldn't," declared Gus, solemn as an owl.

"And that ain't all," said Moe, warming to the subject. "Those crates
you guys got wouldn't last out the first chukker. Most of them would
just naturally fall apart the first sharp turn they made. You can't
play polo in ships tied up with haywire. Those broomsticks you
ring-rats ride around on are so used to second rate fuel they'd split
wide open first squirt of high test stuff you gave them."

The inner locks grated open and a man stepped through into the room.

"You're prejudiced," Gus told Moe. "You just don't like space polo,
that is all. You ain't got no blueblood in you. We'll leave it up to
this man here. We'll ask his opinion of it."

The man flipped back his helmet, revealing a head thatched by white
hair and dominated by a pair of outsize spectacles.

"My opinion, sir," said Oliver Meek, "seldom amounts to much."

"All we want to know," Gus told him, "is what you think of space polo."

"Space polo," declared Meek, "is a noble game. It requires expert
piloting, a fine sense of timing and...."

"There, you see!" whooped Gus, triumphantly.

"I saw a game once," Meek volunteered.

"Swell," bellowed Gus. "We'll have you coach our team."

"But," protested Meek, "but ... but."

"Oh, Mr. Hamilton," exulted Miss Perkins, "you are so wonderful. You
think of everything."

"Hamilton!" squeaked Meek.

"Sure," said Gus. "Old Gus Hamilton. Grow the finest dog-gone radiation
moss you ever clapped your eyes on."

"Then you're the gentleman who has bugs," said Meek.

"Now, look here," warned Gus, "you watch what you say or I'll hang one
on you."

"He means your rock bugs," Moe explained, hastily.

"Oh, them," said Gus.

"Yes," said Meek, "I'm interested in them. I'd like to see them."

"See them," said Gus. "Mister, you can have them if you want them.
Drove me out of house and home, they did. They're dippy over metal. Any
kind of metal, but alloys especially. Eat the stuff. They'll tromp you
to death heading for a spaceship. Got so I had to move over to another
rock to live. Tried to fight it out with them, but they whipped me pure
and simple. Moved out and let them have the place after they started to
eat my shack right out from underneath my feet."

Meek looked crestfallen.

"Can't get near them, then," he said.

"Sure you can," said Gus. "Why not?"

"Well, a spacesuit's metal and...."

"Got that all fixed up," said Gus. "You come back with me and I'll let
you have a pair of stilts."

"Stilts?"

"Yeah. Wooden stilts. Them danged fool bugs don't know what wood is.
Seem to be scared of it, sort of. You can walk right among them if you
want to, long as you're walking on the stilts."

Meek gulped. He could imagine what stilt walking would be like in a
place where gravity was no more than the faintest whisper.


                                  III

The bugs had dug a new set of holes, much after the manner of a Chinese
checker board, and now were settling down into their respective places
preparatory to the start of another game.

For a mile or more across the flat surface of the rock that was Gus
Hamilton's moss garden, ran a string of such game-boards, each one
different, each one having served as the scene of a now-completed game.

Oliver Meek cautiously wedged his stilts into two pitted pockets of
rock, eased himself slowly and warily against the face of a knob of
stone that jutted from the surface.

Even in his youth, Meek remembered, he never had been any great shakes
on stilts. Here, on this bucking, weaving rock, with slick surfaces and
practically no gravity, a man had to be an expert to handle them. Meek
knew now he was no expert. A half-dozen dents in his space armor was
ample proof of that.

Comfortably braced against the upjutting of stone, Meek dug into the
pouch of his space gear, brought out a notebook and stylus. Flipping
the pages, he stared, frowning, at the diagrams that covered them.

None of the diagrams made sense. They showed the patterns of three
other boards and the moves that had been made by the bugs in playing
out the game. Apparently, in each case, the game had been finished.
Which, Meek knew, should have meant that some solution had been
reached, some point won, some advantage gained.

But so far as Meek could see from study of the diagrams there was not
even a purpose or a problem, let alone a solution or a point.

The whole thing was squirrely. But, Meek told himself, it fitted in.
The whole Saturnian system was wacky. The rings, for example. Debris of
a moon smashed up by Saturn's pull? Sweepings of space? No one knew.

Saturn itself, for that matter. A planet that kept Man at bay with
deadly radiations. But radiations that, while they kept Man at a
distance, at the same time served Man. For here, on the Inner Ring,
where they had become so diluted that ordinary space armor filtered
them out, they made possible the medical magic of the famous radiation
moss.

One of the few forms of plant life found in the cold of space, the
moss was nurtured by those mysterious radiations. Planted elsewhere,
on kindlier worlds, it wilted and refused to grow. The radiations had
been analyzed, Meek knew, and reproduced under laboratory conditions,
but there still was something missing, some vital, elusive factor that
could not be analyzed. Under the artificial radiation, the moss still
wilted and died.

And because Earth needed the moss to cure a dozen maladies and because
it would grow nowhere else but here on the Inner Ring, men squatted
on the crazy swirl of spacial boulders that made up the ring. Men
like Hamilton, living on rocks that bucked and heaved along their
orbits like chips riding the crest of a raging flood. Men who endured
loneliness, dared death when crunching orbits intersected or, when
rickety spacecraft flared, who went mad with nothing to do, with the
mockery of space before them.

Meek shrugged his shoulders, almost upsetting himself.
