
Gus shook the small wooden box thoughtfully, listening to the frantic
scurrying within it.

"By rights," he declared, judiciously, "I should take this over and
dump it in Bud's ship. Get even with him for swiping my injector."

"But you got the injector back," Meek pointed out.

"Oh, sure, I got it back," admitted Gus. "But it wasn't orthodox, it
wasn't. Just getting your property back ain't getting even. I never did
have a chance to smack Bud in the snoot the way I should of smacked
him. Moe talked me into it. He was the one that had the idea the
welfare lady should go over and talk to Bud. She must of laid it on
thick, too, about how we should settle down and behave ourselves and
all that. Otherwise Bud never would have given her that injector."

He shook his head dolefully. "This here Ring ain't ever going to be
the same again. If we don't watch out, we'll find ourselves being
polite to one another."

"That would be awful," agreed Meek.

"Wouldn't it, though," declared Gus.

Meek squinted his eyes and pounced on the floor, scrabbling on hands
and knees after a scurrying thing that twinkled in the lamplight.

"Got him," yelped Meek, scooping the shining mote up in his hand.

Gus inched the lid of the wooden box open. Meek rose and popped the bug
inside.

"That makes twenty-eight of them," said Meek.

"I told you," Gus accused him, "that we hadn't got them all. You better
take another good look at your suit. The danged things burrow right
into solid metal and pull the hole in after them, seems like. Sneakiest
cusses in the whole dang system. Just like chiggers back on Earth."

"Chiggers," Meek told him, "burrow into a person to lay eggs."

"Maybe these things do, too," Gus contended.

The radio on the mantel blared a warning signal, automatically tuning
in on one of the regular newscasts from Titan City out on Saturn's
biggest moon.

The syrupy, chamber of commerce voice of the announcer was shaky with
excitement and pride.

"Next week," he said, "the annual Martian-Earth football game will be
played at Greater New York on Earth. But in the Earth's newspapers
tonight another story has pushed even that famous classic of the
sporting world down into secondary place."

He paused and took a deep breath and his voice practically yodeled with
delight.

"The sporting event, ladies and gentlemen, that is being talked up and
down the streets of Earth tonight, is one that will be played here
in our own Saturnian system. A space polo game. To be played by two
unknown, pick-up, amateur teams down in the Inner Ring. Most of the
men have never played polo before. Few if any of them have even seen a
game. There may have been some of them who didn't, at first, know what
it was.

"But they're going to play it. The men who ride those bucking rocks
that make up the Inner Ring will go out into space in their rickety
ships and fight it out. And ladies and gentlemen, when I say fight it
out, I really mean fight it out. For the game, it seems, will be a sort
of tournament, the final battle in a feud that has been going on in
the Ring for years. No one knows what started the feud. It has gotten
so it really doesn't matter. The only thing that matters is that when
men from sector Twenty-three meet those from sector Thirty-seven, the
feud is taken up again. But that is at an end now. In a few days the
feud will be played out to its bitter end when the ships from the Inner
Ring go out into space to play that most dangerous of all sports, space
polo. For the outcome of that game will decide, forever, the supremacy
of one of the two sectors."
