
Meek rose from his chair, opened his mouth as if to speak, but sank
back again when Gus hissed at him and held a finger to his lips for
silence.

"The teams are now in training," went on the newscaster, the happy
lilt in his voice still undimmed, "and it is understood that sector
Twenty-three has the advantage, at the start at least, of having a polo
expert as its coach. Just who this expert is no one can say. Several
names have been mentioned, but...."

"No, no," yelped Meek, struggling to his feet, but Gus shushed him,
poking a finger toward him and grinning like a bearded imp.

"... Bets are mounting high throughout the entire Saturnian system,"
the announcer was saying, "but since little is known about the teams,
the odds still are even. It is likely, however, that odds will be
demanded on the sector of Thirty-seven team on the basis of the story
about the expert coach.

"The very audacity of such a game has attracted solar-wide attention
and special fleets of ships will leave both Earth and Mars within the
next few days to bring spectators to the game. Newsmen from the inner
worlds, among them some of the system's most famous sports writers, are
already on their way.

"Originally intended to be no more than a recreation project under the
supervision of the department of health and welfare, the game has
suddenly become a solar attraction. The _Daily Rocket_ back on Earth is
offering a gigantic loving cup for the winning team, while the _Morning
Spaceways_ has provided another loving cup, only slightly smaller, to
be presented the player adjudged the most valuable to his team. We may
have more to tell you about the game before the newscast is over, but
in the meantime we shall go on to other news of Solar int...."

Meek leaped up. "He meant me," he whooped. "That was me he meant when
he was talking about a famous coach!"

"Sure," said Gus. "He couldn't have meant anyone else but you."

"But I'm not a famous coach," protested Meek. "I'm not even a coach at
all. I never saw but one space polo game in all my life. I hardly know
how it's played. I just know you go up there in space and bat a ball
around. I'm going to...."

"You ain't going to do a blessed thing," said Gus. "You ain't skipping
out on us. You're staying right here and give us all the fine pointers
of the game. Maybe you ain't as hot as the newscaster made out, but
you're a dang sight better than anyone else around here. At least you
seen a game once and that's more than any of the rest of us have."

"But I...."

"I don't know what's the matter with you," declared Gus. "You're just
pretending you don't know anything about polo, that's all. Maybe you're
a fugitive from justice. Maybe that's why you're so anxious to make
a getaway. Only reason you stopped at all was because your ship got
stoved up."

"I'm no fugitive," declared Meek, drawing himself up. "I'm just a
bookkeeper out to see the system."

"Forget it," said Gus. "Forget it. Nobody around here's going to give
you away. If they even so much as peep, I'll plain paralyze them. So
you're a bookkeeper. That's good enough for me. Just let anyone say you
ain't a bookkeeper and see what happens to him."

Meek opened his mouth to speak, closed it again. What was the use?
Here he was, stuck again. Just like back on Juno when that preacher
had thought he was a gunman and talked him into taking over the job of
cleaning up the town. Only this time it was a space polo game and he
knew even less about space polo than he did about being a lawman.

Gus rose and limped slowly across the room. Ponderously, he hauled a
red bandanna out of his back pocket and carefully dusted off the one
uncrowded space on the mantel shelf, between the alarm clock and the
tarnished silver model of a rocket ship.

"Yes, sir," he said, "she'll look right pretty there."

He backed away and stared at the place on the shelf.

"I can almost see her now," he said. "Glinting in the lamplight.
Something to keep me company. Something to look at when I get lonesome."

"What are you talking about?" demanded Meek.

"That there cup the radio was talking about," said Gus. "The one for
the most valuable team member."

Meek stammered. "But ... but...."

"I'm going to win her," Gus declared.


                                  IV

Saturn Inn bulged. Every room was crowded, with half a dozen to the
cubicle, sleeping in relays. Those who couldn't find anywhere else to
sleep spread blankets in the narrow corridors or dozed off in chairs or
slept on the barroom floor. A few of them got stepped on.

Titan City's Junior Chamber of Commerce had done what it could to help
the situation out, but the notice had been short. A half-dozen nearby
rocks which had been hastily leveled off for parking space, now were
jammed with hundreds of space vehicles, ranging from the nifty two man
job owned by Billy Jones, sports editor of the _Daily Rocket_, to the
huge excursion liners sent out by the three big transport companies.
A few hastily-erected shelters helped out to some extent, but none of
these shelters had a bar and were mostly untenanted.

Moe, the bartender at the Inn, harried with too many customers, droopy
with lack of sleep, saw Oliver Meek bobbing around in the crowd that
surged against the bar, much after the manner of a cork caught in a
raging whirlpool. He reached out a hand and dragged Meek against the
bar.

"Can't you do something to stop it?"

Meek blinked at him. "Stop what?"

"This game," said Moe. "It's awful, Mr. Meek. Honestly. The crowd has
got the fellers so worked up, it's apt to be mass murder."

"I know it," Meek agreed, "but you can't stop it now. The Junior
Chamber of Commerce would take the hide off anyone who even said he
would like to see it stopped. It's more publicity than Saturn has
gotten since the first expeditions were lost here."

"I don't like it," declared Moe, stolidly.

"I don't like it either," Meek confessed. "Gus and those other fellows
on his team think I'm an expert. I told them what I knew about space
polo, but it wasn't much. Trouble is they think it's everything
there is to know. They figure they're a cinch to win and they got
their shirts bet on the game. If they lose, they'll more than likely
space-walk me."

Fingers tapped Meek's shoulders and he twisted around. A red face
loomed above him, a cigarette drooping from the corner of its lips.

"Hear you say you was coaching the Twenty-three bunch?"

Meek gulped.

"Billy Jones, that's me," said the lips with the cigarette. "Best damn
sports writer ever pounded keys. Been trying to find out who you was.
Nobody else knows. Treat you right."

"You must be wrong," said Meek.

"Never wrong," insisted Jones. "Nose for news. Smell it out. Like this.
_Sniff. Sniff._"

His nose crinkled in imitation of a bloodhound, but his face didn't
change otherwise. The cigarette still dangled, pouring smoke into a
watery left eye.

"Heard the guy call you Meek," said Jones. "Name sounds familiar.
Something about Juno, wasn't it? Rounded up a bunch of crooks. Found a
space monster of some sort."

Another hand gripped Meek by the shoulder and literally jerked him
around.

"So you're the guy!" yelped the owner of the hand. "I been looking for
you. I've a good notion to smack you in the puss."

"Now, Bud," yelled Moe, in mounting fear, "you leave him alone. He
ain't done a thing."

Meek gaped at the angry face of the hulking man, who still had his
shoulder in the grip of a monstrous paw.

Bud Craney! The ring-rat that had stolen Gus' injector! The captain of
the Thirty-seven team.

"If there was room," Craney grated, "I'd wipe up the floor with you.
But since there ain't, I'm just plain going to hammer you down about
halfway into it."

"But he ain't done nothing!" shrilled Moe.

"He's an outsider, ain't he?" demanded Craney. "What business he got
coming in here and messing around with things?"

"I'm not messing around with things, Mr. Craney," Meek declared, trying
to be dignified about it. But it was hard to be dignified with someone
lifting one by the shoulder so one's toes just barely touched the floor.

[Illustration: _"Ulp!" ulped Mr. Meek shakily._]

"All that's the matter with you," insisted the dangling Meek, "is that
you know Gus and his men will give you a whipping. They'd done it,
anyhow. I haven't helped them much. I haven't helped them hardly at
all."

Craney howled in rage. "Why ... you ... you...."

And then Oliver Meek did one of those things no one ever expected him
to do, least of all himself.

"I'll bet you my spaceship," he said, "against anything you got."

Astonished, Craney opened his hand and let him down on the floor.

"You'll what?" he roared.

"I'll bet you my spaceship," said Meek, the madness still upon him,
"that Twenty-three will beat you."

He rubbed it in. "I'll even give you odds."

Craney gasped and sputtered. "I don't want any odds," he yelped. "I'll
take it even. My moss patch against your ship."

Someone was calling Meek's name in the crowd.

"Mr. Meek! Mr. Meek!"

"Here," said Meek.

"What about that story?" demanded Billy Jones, but Meek didn't hear him.

A man was tearing his way through the crowd. It was one of the men from
Twenty-three.

"Mr. Meek," he panted, "you got to come right away. It's Gus. He's all
tangled up with rheumatiz!"
