
Gus stared up with anguished eyes at Meek.

"It sneaked up on me while I slept," he squeaked. "Laid off of me for
years until just now. Limped once in a while, of course, and got a few
twinges now and then, but that was all. Never had me tied up like this
since I left Earth. One of the reasons I never did go back to Earth.
Space is good climate for rheumatiz. Cold but dry. No moisture to get
into your bones."

Meek looked around at the huddled men, saw the worry that was etched
upon their faces.

"Get a hot water bottle," he told one of them.

"Hell," said Russ Jensen, a hulking framed spaceman, "there ain't no
such a thing as a hot water bottle nearer than Titan City."

"An electric pad, then."

Jensen shook his head. "No pads, neither. Only thing we can do is pour
whiskey down him and if we pour enough down him to cure the rheumatiz,
we'll get him drunk and he won't be no more able to play in that game
than he is right now."

Meek's weak eyes blinked behind his glasses, staring at Gus.

"We'll lose sure if Gus can't play," said Jensen, "and me with
everything I got bet on our team."

Another man spoke up. "Meek could play in Gus' place."

"Nope, he couldn't," declared Jensen. "The rats from Thirty-seven
wouldn't stand for it."

"They couldn't do a thing about it," declared the other man. "Meek's
been here six weeks today. That makes him a resident. Six Earth weeks,
the law says. And all that time he's been in sector Twenty-three. They
wouldn't have a leg to stand on. They might squawk but they couldn't
make it stick."

"You're certain of that?" demanded Jensen.

"Dead certain," said the other.

Meek saw them looking at him, felt a queasy feeling steal into his
stomach.

"I couldn't," he told them. "I couldn't do it. I ... I...."

"You go right ahead, Oliver," said Gus. "I wanted to play, of course.
Sort of set my heart on that cup. Had the mantel piece all dusted off
for it. But if I can't play, there ain't another soul I'd rather have
play in my place than you."

"But I don't know a thing about polo," protested Meek.

"You taught it to us, didn't you?" bellowed Jensen. "You pretended like
you knew everything there was to know."

"But I don't," insisted Meek. "You wouldn't let me explain. You kept
telling me all the time what a swell coach I was and when I tried to
argue with you and tell you that I wasn't you yelled me down. I never
saw more than one game in all my life and the only reason I saw it then
was because I found the ticket. It was on the sidewalk and I picked it
up. Somebody had dropped it."

"So you been stringing us along," yelped Jensen. "You been making fools
of us! How do we know but you showed us wrong. You been giving us the
wrong dope."

He advanced on Meek and Meek backed against the wall.

Jensen lifted his fist, held it in front of him as if he were weighing
it.

"I ought to bop you one," he decided. "All of us had ought to bop you
one. Every danged man in this here room has got his shirt bet on the
game because we figured we couldn't lose with a coach like you."

"So have I," said Meek. But it wasn't until he said it that he really
realized he did have his shirt bet on Twenty-three. His spaceship. It
wasn't all he had, of course, but it was the thing that was nearest to
his heart ... the thing he had slaved for thirty years to buy.

He suddenly remembered those years now. Years of bending over account
books in the dingy office back on Earth, watching other men go out in
space, longing to go himself. Counting pennies so that he could go.
Spending only a dime for lunch and eating crackers and cheese instead
of going out for dinner in the evening. Piling up the dollars, slowly
through the years ... dollars to buy the ship that now stood out on
the field, all damage repaired. Sitting, poised for space.

But if Thirty-seven won it wouldn't be his any longer. It would be
Craney's. He'd just made a bet with Craney and there were plenty of
witnesses to back it up.

"Well?" demanded Jensen.

"I will play," said Meek.

"And you really know about the game? You wasn't kidding us?"

Meek looked at the men before him and the expression on their faces
shaped his answer.

He gulped ... gulped again. Then slowly nodded.

"Sure, I know about it," he lied.

They didn't look quite satisfied.

He glanced around, but there was no way of escape. He faced them again,
back pressed against the wall.

He tried to make his voice light and breezy, but he couldn't quite keep
out the croak.

"Haven't played it much in the last few years," he said, "but back when
I was a kid I was a ten-goal man."

They were satisfied at that.


                                   V

Hunched behind the controls, Meek slowly circled Gus' crate, waiting
for the signal, half fearful of what would happen when it came.

Glancing to left and right, he could see the other ships of Sector
Twenty-three, slowly circling too, red identification lights strung
along their hulls.

Ten miles away a gigantic glowing ball danced in the middle of the
space-field, bobbing around like a jigging lantern. And beyond it were
the circling blue lights of the Thirty-seven team. And beyond them the
glowing green space-buoys that marked the Thirty-seven goal line.

Meek bent an attentive ear to the ticking of the motor, listening
intently for the alien click he had detected a moment before. Gus'
ship, to tell the truth, was none too good. It might have been a good
ship once, but now it was worn out. It was sluggish and slow to respond
to the controls, it had a dozen little tricks that kept one on the
jump. It had followed space trails too long, had plumped down to too
many bumpy landings in the maelstrom of the Belt.

Meek sighed gustily. It would have been different if they had let him
take his own ship, but it was only on the condition that he use Gus'
ship that Thirty-seven had agreed to let him play at all. They had
raised a fuss about it, but Twenty-three had the law squarely on its
side.

He stole a glance toward the sidelines and saw hundreds of slowly
cruising ships. Ships crammed with spectators out to watch the game.
Radio ships that would beam a play by play description to be channeled
to every radio station throughout the Solar system. Newsreel ships that
would film the clash of opposing craft. Ships filled with newsmen who
would transmit reams of copy back to Earth and Mars.

Looking at them, Meek shuddered.

How in the world had he ever let himself get into a thing like this? He
was out to see the solar system, not to play a polo game ... especially
a polo game he didn't want to play.

It had been the bugs, of course. If it hadn't been for the bugs, Gus
never would have had the chance to talk him into that coaching business.

He should have spoken out, of course. Told them, flat out, that he
didn't know a thing about polo. Made them understand he wasn't going to
have a thing to do with this silly scheme. But they had shouted at him
and laughed at him and bullied him. Been nice to him, too. That was the
biggest trouble. He was a sucker, he knew, for anyone who was nice to
him. Not many people had been.

Maybe he should have gone to Miss Henrietta Perkins and explained. She
might have listened and understood. Although he wasn't any too sure
about that. She probably had plenty to do with starting the publicity
rolling. After all, it was her job to make a showing on the jobs she
did.

If it hadn't been for Gus dusting off the place on the mantelpiece. If
it hadn't been for the Titan City Junior Chamber of Commerce. If it
hadn't been for all the ballyhoo about the mystery coach.

But more especially, if he'd kept his fool mouth shut and not made that
bet with Craney.
