
Meek groaned and tried to remember the few things he did know about
polo. And he couldn't think of a single thing, not even some of the
things he had made up and told the boys.

Suddenly a rocket flared from the referee's ship and with a jerk Meek
hauled back the throttle. The ship gurgled and stuttered and for a
moment, heart in his throat, Meek thought it was going to blow up right
then and there.

But it didn't. It gathered itself together and leaped, forcing Meek
hard against the chair, snapping back his head. Dazed, he reached out
for the repulsor trigger.

Ahead the glowing ball bounced and quivered, jumped this way and that
as the ships spun in a mad melee with repulsor beams whipping out like
stabbing knives.

Two of the ships crashed and fell apart like matchboxes. A third,
trying a sharp turn above the field of play, came unstuck and strewed
itself across fifty miles of space.

Substitute ships dashed in from the sidelines, signalled by the
referee's blinking light. Rescue ships streaked out to pick up the
players, salvage ships to clear away the pieces.

For a fleeting moment, Meek got the bobbing sphere in the cross-hairs
and squeezed the trigger. The ball jumped as if someone had smacked it
with his fist, sailed across the field.

Fighting to bring the ship around, Meek yelled in fury at its
slowness. Desperately pouring on the juice, he watched with agony as a
blue-lighted ship streamed down across the void, heading for the ball.

The ship groaned in every joint, protesting and twisting as if in
agony, as Meek forced it around. Suddenly there was a snap and the
sudden swoosh of escaping air. Startled, Meek looked up. Bare ribs
stood out against star-spangled space. A plate had been ripped off!

Face strained behind the visor of his spacesuit, hunched over the
controls, he waited for the rest of the plates to go. By some miracle
they hung on. One worked loose and flapped weirdly as the ship shivered
in the turn.

But the turn had taken too long and Meek was too late. The blue-lamped
ship already had the ball, was streaking for the goal line. Jensen
somehow had had sense enough to refuse to be sucked out of goalie
position, and now he charged in to intercept.

But he muffed his chance. He dived in too fast and missed with his
repulsor beam by a mile at least. The ball sailed over the lighted
buoys and the first chukker was over with Thirty-seven leading by one
score.

The ships lined up again.

The rocket flared from the starter's ship and the ships plunged out.
One of Thirty-seven's ships began to lose things. Plates broke loose
and fell away, a rocket snapped its moorings and sailed off at a
tangent, spouting gouts of flame, the structural ribs came off and
strewed themselves along like spilling toothpicks.

Battered by repulsor beams, the ball suddenly bounced upward and Meek,
trailing the field, waiting for just such a chance, played a savage
tune on the tube controls.

The ship responded with a snap, executing a half roll and a hairpin
turn that shook the breath from Meek. Two more plates tore off in the
turn, but the ship plowed on. Now the ball was dead ahead and Meek gave
it the works. The beam hit squarely and Meek followed through. The
second chukker was over and the score was tied.

Not until he was curving back above the Thirty-seven goal line, did
Meek have time to wonder what had happened to the ship. It was sluggish
no longer. It was full of zip. Almost like driving his own sleek craft.
Almost as if, the ship knew where he wanted it to go and went there.

A hint of motion on the instrument panel caught his eye and he bent
close to see what it was. He stiffened. The panel seemed to be alive.
Seemed to be crawling.

He bent closer and froze. It was crawling. There was no doubt of that.
Crawling with rock-bugs.
