
Breath whistling between his teeth, Meek ducked his head under the
panel. Every wire, every control was oozing bugs!

For a moment he sat paralyzed by the thoughts that flickered through
his brain.

Gus, he knew, would have his scalp for this. Because he was the one
that had brought the bugs over to the rock where Gus lived and kept the
ship. They thought, of course, they had caught all of them that were
on his suit, but now it was clear they hadn't. Some of them must have
gotten away and found the ship. They would have made straight for it,
of course, because of the alloys that were in it. Why bother with a
spacesuit or anything else when there was a ship around.

Only there were too many of them. There were thousands in the
instrument panel and other thousands in the controls and he couldn't
have brought back that many. Not if he'd hauled them back in pails.

What was it Gus had said about them burrowing into metal just like
chiggers burrow into human flesh?

Chiggers attacked humans to lay their eggs. Maybe ... maybe....

A battalion of the bugs trooped across the face of an indicator and
Meek saw they were smaller than the ones he had seen back on Gus' rock.

There was no doubt about it. They were young bugs. Bugs that has just
hatched out. Thousands of them ... millions of them, maybe! And they
wouldn't be in the instruments and controls alone, but all through the
ship. They'd be in the motors and the firing mechanisms ... all the
places where the best alloys were used.

Meek wrung his hands, watching them play tag across the panel. If
they'd had to hatch, why couldn't they have waited. Just until the game
was over, anyhow. That would have been all he'd asked. But they hadn't
and here he was, with a couple of million bugs or so right smack in his
lap.

The rocket flared again and the ships shot out.

Bitterness chewing at him, Meek flung the ship out savagely. What
did it matter what happened now. Gus would take the hide off him,
rheumatism or no rheumatism, as soon as he found out about the bugs.

For a wild moment, he hoped he would crack up. Maybe the ship would
fall apart like some of the others had. Like the old one hoss shay the
poet had written about centuries ago. The ship had lost so many plates
that even now it was like flying a space-going box-kite.

Suddenly a ship loomed directly ahead, diving from the zenith. Meek,
forgetting his half-formed hope of a crackup a second before, froze
in terror, but his fingers acted by pure instinct, stabbing at keys.
Although in the petrified second that seemed half an eternity, Meek
knew the ships would crash before he even touched the keys. And even as
he thought it, the ship ducked in a nerve-rending jerk and they were
skinning past, hulls almost touching. Another jerk and more plates gone
and there was the ball, directly ahead, with the repulsor beam already
licking out.

Meek's jaw fell and a chill ran through his body and he couldn't move
a muscle. For he hadn't even touched the trigger and yet the repulsor
beam was flaring out, driving the ball ahead of it while the ship
twisted and squirmed its way through a mass of fighting craft.

Hands dangling limply at his side, Meek gaped in terror and disbelief.
He wasn't touching the controls, and yet the ship was like a thing
bewitched. A split second later the ball was over the goal and the ship
was curving back, repulsor beam snapped off.

"It's the bugs!" Meek whispered to himself, lips scarcely moving. "The
bugs have taken over!"

The craft he was riding, he knew, was no longer just a ship, but
a collection of rock-bugs. Bugs that could work out mathematical
equations. And now were playing polo!

For what was polo, anyhow, except a mathematical equation, a problem of
using certain points of force at certain points in space to arrive at
a predetermined end? Back on Gus' rock the bugs had worked as a unit
to solve equations ... and the new hatch in the ship was working as a
unit, too, to solve another kind of problem ... the problem of taking
a certain ball to a certain point despite certain variable and random
factors in the form of opposing spaceships.

Tentatively, half fearfully, Meek stabbed cautiously at a key which
should have turned the ship. The ship didn't turn. Meek snatched his
hand away as if the key had burned his finger.
