
Back on the line the ship wheeled into position of its own accord and a
moment later was off again. Meek clung to his chair with shaking hands.
There was, he knew, no use of even pretending he was trying to operate
the ship. There was just one thing that he was glad of. No one could
see him sitting there, doing nothing.

But the time would come ... and soon ... when he would have to do
something. For he couldn't let the ship return to the Ring. To do
that would be to infest the other ships parked there, spread the bugs
throughout the solar system. And those bugs definitely were something
the solar system cold get along without.

The ship shuddered and twisted, weaving its way through the pack of
players. More plates ripped loose. Glancing up, Meek could see the
glory of Saturn through the gleaming ribs.

Then the ball was over the line and Meek's team mates were shrieking
at him over the radio in his spacesuit ... happy, glee-filled yells
of triumph. He didn't answer. He was too busy ripping out the control
wires. But it didn't help. Even while he was doing it the ship went on
unhampered and piled up another score.

Apparently the bugs didn't need the controls to make the ship do what
they wanted. More than likely they were in control of the firing
mechanism at its very source. Maybe, and the thought curled the hair on
Meek's neck, they were the firing mechanism. Maybe they had integrated
themselves with the very structure of the entire mechanism of the ship.
That would make the ship alive. A living chunk of machinery that paid
no attention to the man who sat at the controls.

Meanwhile, the ship made another goal....

There was a way to stop the bugs ... only one way ... but it was
dangerous.

But probably not half as dangerous, Meek told himself, as Gus or the
Junior Chamber or the Thirty-seven team ... especially the Thirty-seven
team ... if any of them found out what was going on.

He found a wrench and crawled back along the shivering ship.

Working in a frenzy of fear and need for haste, Meek took off the plate
that sealed the housing of the rear rocket assembly. Breath hissing in
his throat, he fought the burrs that anchored the tubes. There were a
lot of them and they didn't come off easily. Rockets had to be anchored
securely ... securely enough so the blast of atomic fire within their
chambers wouldn't rip them free.

Meanwhile, the ship piled up the score.

Loose burrs rolled and danced along the floor and Meek knew the ship
was in the thick of play again. Then they were curving back. Another
goal!

Suddenly the rocket assembly shook a little, began to vibrate. Wielding
the wrench like a madman, knowing he had seconds at the most, Meek spun
two or three more bolts, then dropped the wrench and ran. Leaping for
a hole from which a plate had been torn, he caught a rib, swung with
every ounce of power he had, launching himself into space.

His right hand fumbled for the switch of the suit's rocket motor, found
it, snapped it on to full acceleration. Something seemed to hit him on
the head and he sailed into the depths of blackness.


                                  VI

Billy Jones sat in the office of the repair shop, cigarette dangling
from his lip, pouring smoke into his watery eye.

"Never saw anything like it in my life," he declared. "How he made that
ship go at all with half the plates ripped off is way beyond me."

The dungareed mechanic sighted along the toes of his shoes, planted
comfortably on the desk.

"Let me tell you, mister," he declared, "the solar system never has
known a pilot like him ... never will again. He brought his ship down
here with the instruments knocked out. Dead reckoning."

"Wrote a great piece about him," Billy said. "How he died in the best
tradition of space. Stuff like that. The readers will eat it up. The
way that ship let go he didn't have a chance. Seemed to go out of
control all at once and went weaving and bucking almost into Saturn.
Then blooey ... that's the end of it. One big splash of flame."

The mechanic squinted carefully at his toes. "They're still out there,
messing around," he said, "But they'll never find him. When that ship
blew up he was scattered halfway out to Pluto."

The inner lock swung open ponderously and a spacesuited figure stepped
in.

They waited while he snapped back his helmet.

"Good evening, gentlemen," said Oliver Meek.

They stared, slack-jawed.

Jones was the first to recover. "But it can't be you! Your ship ... it
exploded!"

"I know," said Meek. "I got out just before it went. Turned on my suit
rocket full blast. Knocked me out. By the time I come to I was halfway
out to the second Ring. Took me awhile to get back."

He turned to the mechanic. "Maybe you have a second hand suit you would
sell me. I have to get rid of this one. Has some bugs in it."

"Bugs? Oh, yes, I see. You mean something's wrong with it."

"That's it," said Meek. "Something's wrong with it."

"I got one I'll let you have, free for nothing," said the mechanic.
"Boy, that was a swell game you played!"

"Could I have the suit now?" asked Meek. "I'm in a hurry to get away."

Jones bounced to his feet. "But you can't leave. Why, they think you're
dead. They're out looking for you. And you won the cup ... the cup as
the most valuable team member."

"I just can't stay," said Meek. He shuffled his feet uneasily. "Got
places to go. Things to see. Stayed too long already."

"But the cup...."

"Tell Gus I won the cup for him. Tell him to put it on that
mantelpiece. In the place he dusted off for it."

Meek's blue eyes shone queerly behind his glasses. "Tell him maybe
he'll think of me sometimes when he looks at it."

The mechanic brought the suit. Meek bundled it under his arm, started
for the lock.

Then turned back.

"Maybe you gentlemen...."

"Yes," said Jones.

"Maybe you can tell me how many goals I made. I lost count, you see."

"You made nine," said Jones.

Meek shook his head. "Must be getting old," he said. "When I was a kid
I was a _ten goal_ man."

Then he was gone, the lock swinging shut behind him.



