
Zack didn't remember his return to the farmhouse, or incoherently trying
to explain to his wife the scene he had witnessed. A stiff jolt of
elderberry wine drove off the jitters and reasoning returned. His wife
sat patiently, eyeing him oddly, as Zack muttered over and over again,
"It's unbelievable! It's unbelievable!"

Mrs. Stewart rose. "I'm going out and see fer myself. And, Zack, if yer
lying to me--"

Zack jumped from the chair, barring her way.

"Believe me, maw, it's true. Don't go out there. It might be too much
fer ya."

"It's the craziest thing I ever heard," Mrs. Stewart scoffed. "A cow
that shines like the sun!"

"Look, maw, will ya jest come with me as fer as the pasture, you can see
the glow from there, and mebbe that might convince ya."

"Yes, yes, I will." Mrs. Stewart jerked off her apron. "I declare, Zack,
I think these chores are getting the best of ya."

They walked to the pasture, their eyes on the treetops of the north
woods. A faint glow began to appear.

"See! See!" Zack pointed, laughing crazily.

"Let's get closer, looks like a fire," Mrs. Stewart said.

"Ain't no fire." Zack's tone was angry. "It's Junius and she's all lit
up like a Christmas tree."

"Zack, now you stop that kinda crazy talk. There's a reason behind
everything, and I'm sure there's one fer this."

"There is a reason, maw. Junius. She's got the whole clearing lit up
like the noonday sun. Lord only knows how she got that way, but she's
shining out there like a great big light bulb, only brighter."

Mrs. Stewart quickened her pace towards the clearing.

"I'm going to see fer myself," she said determinedly, "and put an end
to this foolish nonsense."

"Alright, maw," Zack spoke resignedly, "if yer mind's set. But I'm
warning ya, ya better squint yer eyes tight. She's too bright to look
at. Poor Robbie must have got too good a look at her."

Mrs. Stewart approached the clearing ahead of her husband, and moved the
same bush aside that had obstructed her husband's view. Her gaze caught
the brightly radiating figure of Junius, and Mrs. Stewart screamed,
clasping her face with her hands. Zack had his head turned, but he
groped for his wife, grasped her arm and led her from the clearing.

"It's too crazy to believe, Zack," she whispered in awe; "What are we
going to do? What has happened to poor Junius?"

"I don't know what happened to her," Zack answered, "but I know what I'm
going to do about it. I'm going to call the University and git them
scientist fellas down here."

"You suppose they can git close enough to milk the poor thing?" Mrs.
Stewart clasped her hands in frustration. "She's probably in misery."

Zack shook his head. "Ain't no tellin' what they're liable to do after
they seen her. Most likely they'll want to ship her to the University to
examine her and see how she got that way."

"Why don't we call the Vet'nar'n?" Mrs. Stewart asked. "It might be some
kind of new disease."

"It ain't no disease, maw. It's something nobody in the whole world ever
seen or heard of before. I jest hope I can convince them University
fellas to come down here."

"Don't you think you better tie Junius so she won't stray?"

"Better wait and see what them scientists say. Besides, if she strays,
all we gotta do is follow the light!"
