
He had no sooner replaced the phone when there was a pounding on the
door. He opened it and saw six state troopers and four important-looking
gentlemen in civilian dress. A trooper who looked as though he might be
in charge, spoke to Zack.

"Sir, we don't want you or your wife to get panicky, but we have reason
to believe that something strange is going on in your woods. These men
are from the atomic research laboratory at the University and they are
convinced that a flying saucer has landed out there."

"It ain't no flying saucer," Zack spoke wearily.

"It isn't?" one of the gentlemen asked, disappointed, "then what is it?"

"It's Junius, my cow."

"Your--WHAT?" the state trooper exclaimed incredulously. "Are you nuts?"

Angrily, Zack jerked his thumb in the direction of the north woods.

"Jest go out there and see fer yourself and then tell me I'm nuts."

They hurriedly left the house, looking back skeptically at Zack.

Zack and his wife stood in the doorway, watching them until they were
out of sight in the woods.

"You watch 'em come busting back here in a minute, maw."

In a few moments they saw the men scrambling out of the woods, rushing
madly for the house, holding their eyes.

"Now I don't have to convince anybody," Zack smirked.

By the time they reached the porch, they were all talking excitedly and
rubbing their eyes. The state trooper in charge pulled Zack aside.

"Mister," he asked ominously, "what the hell happened to that cow?"

"I don't know," Zack spoke with sarcasm, "jest the way I found her."

The important-looking civilian bustled past the patrolman and confronted
Zack.

"I'd like to use your phone," his hands moved nervously, "where is it?"

Zack showed him and the man rushed to it and hastily dialed a number.

"This is Professor Jonathon Sims, Nuclear Physicist at State University.
Put me through immediately to the Governor. It's very important."

There was a slight pause as Sims drummed impatiently on the phone.

"Hello! Hello, Governor? Professor Sims. I'd like a contingent of
National Guardsmen around the farm of Zack Stewart on the old Canal
Road. A most astounding thing has happened out here. For the welfare of
the Public, I urgently request this farm be placed under tight security
check at once and the Federal Government notified immediately."

"Hey now, wait a minute, Mister--" Zack protested.

Sims motioned him into silence, his ear glued to the phone.

"Sir," he hesitated, glancing at the group sideways, "you won't believe
this until you see it. But we have positive proof a saucer has landed
here. Mr. Stewart's cow is radiating intense blue and white light, the
kind that has been associated with the glow of flying saucers."

Sims paused, listening to the Governor. Zack saw him fidget and stick a
forefinger in his collar.

"Honestly, Sir! I am not drunk! The cow is radiating light."

"See?" Zack grinned at him. "Now ya know how I felt."

Sims ignored him, concentrating on the phone.

"Yessir, there is a state trooper here." He turned to the one in charge.
"He wants to speak to you." The trooper took the receiver.

"Hello, Governor. Sgt. Les Johnson of the Highway Patrol." Pause.
"That's right, sir. There's a number of people here who can swear to
it. Yessir." This time the trooper fidgeted. "I seen it too. Blue-white
light, yessir. Nossir, we are not having a drinking party. The light was
reported by the pilot of the Continental Airways early this morning and
we investigated. Yessir." He held the receiver towards Sims. "He wants
to talk to you again."

The Governor was finally convinced something indeed strange was
happening at the Stewart place, but being a solid citizen and faithful
servant of the people who elected him, he couldn't believe the fantastic
story the professor and the trooper told him. He decided to see for
himself and rang for his chauffeur after his telephone conversation with
Professor Sims.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Stewart turned to Sims.

"Will you please tell us if Junius can be milked?"

"I really don't know yet, Mrs. Stewart. I'll have to investigate the
area for harmful radio-activity first, then I'll have to check the cow,
herself. Pardon me." He turned to the phone again.

Trying to keep his voice and emotion under control, Professor Sims
called his laboratory at the University and ordered among other
technical equipment, a Geiger counter, a gamma-ray detector, a portable
lead shield, body and temperature thermometers, a portable X-ray
machine, and a dozen pairs of smoked glasses.

The equipment arrived within the hour, and Professor Sims distributed it
among his assistants with his instructions. It was understood that he
alone would approach Junius, wearing his smoked glasses and carrying the
protective lead shield, to make the initial test. If his tests proved
that Junius could be safely approached, he would go back for the others.

"You look like one of them flying saucer fellas, yerself," Zack laughed,
seeing Professor Sims donned in the lead shield and the dark glasses.

Sims waved at the crowd in the farmyard and walked awkwardly toward the
glow in the north wood, less pronounced now in the daylight. They
watched until his retreating figure disappeared into the woods, and they
were still watching the spot for what seemed a long time afterward. One
of the assistants fidgeted and looked at his watch.

"He's been in there twenty minutes. Wonder what he's doing?"

"I hope he's milking her," Mrs. Stewart said hopefully.

Zack chuckled as a thought struck him.

"What's so funny, Zack?" his wife asked.

"Junius," Zack's chuckle bubbled into laughter, "will be the first cow
to give radiated milk."
