
Crownwall lifted one eyebrow quizzically, but remained silent. He didn't
expect his facial gesture to be interpreted correctly, but he assumed
that his silence would be. He was correct.

"Of course," His Effulgence said, "we will give you any assurances that
your people may desire in order to feel safe, and we will guarantee them
an equal share in the government of the Galaxy."

"Bunk," said Crownwall.

His Effulgence lifted a tentacle swiftly, before Ggaran, lunging angrily
forward, could speak. "Then what do you want of us?"

"It seems to me that we need no wordy assurances from each other," said
Crownwall, and he puffed a cigarette aglow. "We can arrange something a
little more trustworthy, I believe. On your side, you have the power to
destroy our only planet at any time. That is certainly adequate security
for our own good behavior and sincerity.

"It is impossible for us of Earth to destroy all of your planets. As you
have said, there are more planets that belong to you than there are
human beings on Earth. But there is a way for us to be reasonably sure
that you will behave yourselves. You will transfer to us, at once, a
hundred of your planet-destroying bombs. That will be a sufficient
supply to let us test some of them, to see that they are in good working
order. Then, if you try any kind of double-cross, we will be able to use
our own methods--which you cannot prevent--to send one of those bombs
here to destroy this planet.

"And if you try to move anywhere else, by your clumsy distorter drive,
we can follow you, and destroy any planet you choose to land on. You
would not get away from us. We can track you without any difficulty.

"We wouldn't use the bombs lightly, to be sure, because of what would
happen to Earth. And don't think that blowing up our planet would save
you, because we naturally wouldn't keep the bombs on Earth. How does
that sound to you?"

"Ridiculous," snorted Ggaran. "Impossible."

After several minutes of silent consideration, "It is an excellent
plan," said His Effulgence. "It is worthy of the thinking of The People
ourselves. You Earthlings will make very satisfactory allies. What you
request will be provided without delay. Meanwhile, I see no reason why
we cannot proceed with our discussions."

"Nor do I," consented Crownwall. "But your stooge here doesn't seem very
happy about it all."

His Effulgence wiggled his tentacles. "I'm afraid that Ggaran had
expected to take what you Earthlings have to offer without giving
anything in return. I never had any such ideas. I have not
underestimated you, you see."

"That's nice," said Crownwall graciously.

"And now," Ggaran put in, "I think it's time for you to tell us
something about how you get across light-years of space in a few hours,
without leaving any traces for us to detect." He raised a tentacle to
still Crownwall's immediate exclamation of protest. "Oh, nothing that
would give us a chance to duplicate it--just enough to _indicate_ how we
can make use of it, along with you--enough to allow us to _begin_ to
make intelligent plans to beat the claws off the Master Race."
