
Refreshments were served to His Effulgence and to Crownwall during the
trip, without interrupting the smooth progress of the sedan. The
soldiers of the cohort, the bearers and Ggaran continued to run--without
food, drink or, except for Ggaran, evidence of fatigue.

After several hours of travel, following Crownwall's directions, the
procession arrived at the copse in which he had concealed his small
transportation machine. The machine, for spatial mobility, was equipped
with the heavy and grossly inefficient anti-gravity field generator
developed by Kowalsky. It occupied ten times the space of the temporal
translation and coordination selection systems combined, but it had the
great advantage of being almost undetectable in use. It emitted no mass
or radiation.

After elaborate and lengthy farewells, Crownwall climbed into his
machine and fell gently up until he was out of the atmosphere, before
starting his enormous journey through time back to Earth. More quickly
than it had taken him to reach his ship from the palace of His
Effulgence, he was in the Council Chamber of the Confederation
Government of Earth, making a full report on his trip to Vega.

When he had finished, the President sighed deeply. "Well," he said, "we
gave you full plenipotentiary powers, so I suppose we'll have to stand
behind your agreements--especially in view of the fact that we'll
undoubtedly be blown into atoms if we don't. But from what you say, I'd
rather be in bed with a rattler than have a treaty with a Vegan. They
sound ungodly murderous to me. There are too many holes in that
protection plan of yours. It's only a question of time before they'll
find some way around it, and then--poof--we'll all be dust."

"Things may not be as bad as they seem," answered Crownwall
complacently. "After I got back a few million years, I'm afraid I got a
little careless and let my ship dip down into Vega III's atmosphere for
a while. I was back so far that the Vegans hadn't appeared yet. Now, I
didn't land--or _deliberately_ kill anything--but I'd be mighty
surprised if we didn't find a change or two. Before I came in here, I
asked Marshall to take the ship out and check on things. He should be
back with his report before long. Why don't we wait and see what he has
to say?"
