
Meyerhoff watched the man's pale face, and shook his head. In a way, he
thought, it was a pity to see such a change in the rosy-cheeked, dapper,
cocksure little man who had talked his way glibly in and out of more
jams than Meyerhoff could count. Trading brought scalpers; it was almost
inevitable that where rich and unexploited trading ground was uncovered,
it would first fall prey to the fast-trading boys. They spread out from
Terra with the first wave of exploration--the slick, fast-talking
con-men who could work new territories unfettered by the legal
restrictions that soon closed down the more established planets. The
first men in were the richest out, and through some curious quirk of the
Terrestrial mind, they knew they could count on Terran protection,
however crooked and underhand their methods.

But occasionally a situation arose where the civilization and social
practices of the alien victims made it unwise to tamper with them.
Altair I had been recognized at once by the Trading Commission as a
commercial prize of tremendous value, but early reports had warned of
the danger of wildcat trading on the little, musty, jungle-like planet
with its shaggy, three-eyed inhabitants--warned specifically against the
confidence tactics so frequently used--but there was always somebody,
Meyerhoff reflected sourly, who just didn't get the word.

Zeckler puffed nervously on his cigarette, his narrow face a study in
troubled concentration. "But I didn't _do_ anything!" he exploded
finally. "So I pulled an old con game. So what? Why should they get so
excited? So I clipped a few thousand credits, pulled a little fast
business." He shrugged eloquently, spreading his hands. "Everybody's
doing it. They do it to each other without batting an eye. You should
_see_ these critters operate on each other. Why, my little scheme was
peanuts by comparison."

Meyerhoff pulled a pipe from his pocket, and began stuffing the bowl
with infinite patience. "And precisely what sort of con game was it?" he
asked quietly.

Zeckler shrugged again. "The simplest, tiredest, moldiest old racket
that ever made a quick nickel. Remember the old Terran gag about the
Brooklyn Bridge? The same thing. Only these critters didn't want
bridges. They wanted land--this gooey, slimy swamp they call 'farm
land.' So I gave them what they wanted. I just sold them some land."

Meyerhoff nodded fiercely. "You sure did. A hundred square kilos at a
swipe. Only you sold the same hundred square kilos to a dozen different
natives." Suddenly he threw back his hands and roared. "Of all the
things you _shouldn't_ have done--"

"But what's a chunk of land?"

Meyerhoff shook his head hopelessly. "If you hadn't been so greedy,
you'd have found out what a chunk of land was to these natives before
you started peddling it. You'd have found out other things about them,
too. You'd have learned that in spite of all their bumbling and fussing
and squabbling they're not so dull. You'd have found out that they're
marsupials, and that two out of five of them get thrown out of their
mother's pouch before they're old enough to survive. You'd have realized
that they have to start fighting for individual rights almost as soon as
they're born. Anything goes, as long as it benefits them as
individuals."

Meyerhoff grinned at the little man's horrified face. "Never heard of
that, had you? And you've never heard of other things, too. You've
probably never heard that there are just too many Altairians here for
the food their planet can supply, and their diet is so finicky that
they just can't live on anything that doesn't grow here. And
consequently, land is the key factor in their economy, not money;
nothing but land. To get land, it's every man for himself, and the loser
starves, and their entire legal and monetary system revolves on that
principle. They've built up the most confusing and impossible system of
barter and trade imaginable, aimed at individual survival, with land as
the value behind the credit. That explains the lying--of course they're
liars, with an economy like that. They've completely missed the concept
of truth. Pathological? You bet they're pathological! Only a fool would
tell the truth when his life depended on his being a better liar than
the next guy! Lying is the time-honored tradition, with their entire
legal system built around it."

Zeckler snorted. "But how could they _possibly_ have a legal system? I
mean, if they don't recognize the truth when it slaps them in the face?"

Meyerhoff shrugged. "As we understand legal systems, I suppose they
don't have one. They have only the haziest idea what truth represents,
and they've shrugged off the idea as impossible and useless." He
chuckled maliciously. "So you went out and found a chunk of ground in
the uplands, and sold it to a dozen separate, self-centered,
half-starved natives! Encroachment on private property is legal grounds
for murder on this planet, and twelve of them descended on the same
chunk of land at the same time, all armed with title-deeds." Meyerhoff
sighed. "You've got twelve mad Altairians in your hair. You've got a mad
planet in your hair. And in the meantime, Terra's most valuable uranium
source in five centuries is threatening to cut off supply unless they
see your blood splattered liberally all the way from here to the
equator."

Zeckler was visibly shaken. "Look," he said weakly, "so I wasn't so
smart. What am I going to do? I mean, are you going to sit quietly by
and let them butcher me? How could I defend myself in a legal setup like
_this_?"

Meyerhoff smiled coolly. "You're going to get your sly little con-man
brain to working, I think," he said softly. "By Interplanetary Rules,
they have to give you a trial in Terran legal form--judge, jury, court
procedure, all that folderol. They think it's a big joke--after all,
what could a judicial oath mean to them?--but they agreed. Only thing
is, they're going to hang you, if they die trying. So you'd better get
those stunted little wits of yours clicking--and if you try to implicate
_me_, even a little bit, I'll be out of there so fast you won't know
what happened."

With that Meyerhoff walked to the door. He jerked it inward sharply, and
spilled two guards over on their faces. "Privacy," he grunted, and
started back up the slippery corridor.
