
It certainly _looked_ like a courtroom, at any rate. In the front of the
long, damp stone room was a bench, with a seat behind it, and a small
straight chair to the right. To the left was a stand with twelve
chairs--larger chairs, with a railing running along the front. The rest
of the room was filled almost to the door with seats facing the bench.
Zeckler followed the shaggy-haired guard into the room, nodding
approvingly. "Not such a bad arrangement," he said. "They must have
gotten the idea fast."

Meyerhoff wiped the perspiration from his forehead, and shot the little
con-man a stony glance. "At least you've got a courtroom, a judge, and a
jury for this mess. Beyond that--" He shrugged eloquently. "I can't make
any promises."

In the back of the room a door burst open with a bang. Loud, harsh
voices were heard as half a dozen of the huge Altairians attempted to
push through the door at once. Zeckler clamped on the headset to his
translator unit, and watched the hubbub in the anteroom with growing
alarm. Finally the question of precedent seemed to be settled, and a
group of the Altairians filed in, in order of stature, stalking across
the room in flowing black robes, pug-nosed faces glowering with
self-importance. They descended upon the jury box, grunting and
scrapping with each other for the first-row seats, and the judge took
his place with obvious satisfaction behind the heavy wooden bench.
Finally, the prosecuting attorney appeared, flanked by two clerks, who
took their places beside him. The prosecutor eyed Zeckler with cold
malevolence, then turned and delivered a sly wink at the judge.

In a moment the room was a hubbub as it filled with the huge, bumbling,
bear-like creatures, jostling each other and fighting for seats,
growling and complaining. Two small fights broke out in the rear, but
were quickly subdued by the group of gendarmes guarding the entrance.
Finally the judge glared down at Zeckler with all three eyes, and
pounded the bench top with a wooden mallet until the roar of activity
subsided. The jurymen wriggled uncomfortably in their seats, exchanging
winks, and finally turned their attention to the front of the court.

"We are reading the case of the people of Altair I," the judge's voice
roared out, "against one Harry Zeckler--" he paused for a long,
impressive moment--"Terran." The courtroom immediately burst into an
angry growl, until the judge pounded the bench five or six times more.
"This--creature--is hereby accused of the following crimes," the judge
bellowed. "Conspiracy to overthrow the government of Altair I. Brutal
murder of seventeen law-abiding citizens of the village of Karzan at the
third hour before dawn in the second period after his arrival.
Desecration of the Temple of our beloved Goddess Zermat, Queen of the
Harvest. Conspiracy with the lesser gods to cause the unprecedented
drought in the Dermatti section of our fair globe. Obscene exposure of
his pouch-marks in a public square. Four separate and distinct charges
of jail-break and bribery--" The judge pounded the bench for
order--"Espionage with the accursed scum of Altair II in preparation for
interplanetary invasion."

The little con-man's jaw sagged lower and lower, the color draining from
his face. He turned, wide-eyed, to Meyerhoff, then back to the judge.

"The Chairman of the Jury," said the Judge succinctly, "will read the
verdict."

The little native in the front of the jury-box popped up like a puppet
on a string. "Defendant found guilty on all counts," he said.

"Defendant is guilty! The court will pronounce sentence--"

"_Now wait a minute!_" Zeckler was on his feet, wild-eyed. "What kind of
railroad job--"

The judge blinked disappointedly at Paul Meyerhoff. "Not yet?" he asked,
unhappily.

"No." Meyerhoff's hands twitched nervously. "Not yet, Your Honor. Later,
Your Honor. The trial comes _first_."

The judge looked as if his candy had been stolen. "But you _said_ I
should call for the verdict."

"Later. You have to have the trial before you can have the verdict."

The Altairian shrugged indifferently. "Now--later--" he muttered.

"Have the prosecutor call his first witness," said Meyerhoff.

Zeckler leaned over, his face ashen. "These charges," he whispered.
"They're insane!"

"Of course they are," Meyerhoff whispered back.

"But what am I going to--"

"Sit tight. Let _them_ set things up."

"But those _lies_. They're liars, the whole pack of them--" He broke off
as the prosecutor roared a name.

The shaggy brute who took the stand was wearing a bright purple hat
which sat rakishly over one ear. He grinned the Altairian equivalent of
a hungry grin at the prosecutor. Then he cleared his throat and started.
"This Terran riffraff--"

"The oath," muttered the judge. "We've got to have the oath."

The prosecutor nodded, and four natives moved forward, carrying huge
inscribed marble slabs to the front of the court. One by one the chunks
were reverently piled in a heap at the witness's feet. The witness
placed a huge, hairy paw on the cairn, and the prosecutor said, "Do you
swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so
help you--" he paused to squint at the paper in his hand, and finished
on a puzzled note, "--Goddess?"

The witness removed the paw from the rock pile long enough to scratch
his ear. Then he replaced it, and replied, "Of course," in an injured
tone.

"Then tell this court what you have seen of the activities of this
abominable wretch."

The witness settled back into the chair, fixing one eye on Zeckler's
face, another on the prosecutor, and closing the third as if in
meditation. "I think it happened on the fourth night of the seventh
crossing of Altair II (may the Goddess cast a drought upon it)--or was
it the seventh night of the fourth crossing?--" he grinned
apologetically at the judge--"when I was making my way back through town
toward my blessed land-plot, minding my own business, Your Honor, after
weeks of bargaining for the crop I was harvesting. Suddenly from the
shadow of the building, this creature--" he waved a paw at
Zeckler--"stopped me in my tracks with a vicious cry. He had a weapon
I'd never seen before, and before I could find my voice he forced me
back against the wall. I could see by the cruel glint in his eyes that
there was no warmth, no sympathy in his heart, that I was--"

"Objection!" Zeckler squealed plaintively, jumping to his feet. "This
witness can't even remember what night he's talking about!"

The judge looked startled. Then he pawed feverishly through his bundle
of notes. "Overruled," he said abruptly. "Continue, please."

The witness glowered at Zeckler. "As I was saying before this loutish
interruption," he muttered, "I could see that I was face to face with
the most desperate of criminal types, even for Terrans. Note the shape
of his head, the flabbiness of his ears. I was petrified with fear. And
then, helpless as I was, this two-legged abomination began to shower me
with threats of evil to my blessed home, dark threats of poisoning my
land unless I would tell him where he could find the resting place of
our blessed Goddess--"

"I never saw him before in my life," Zeckler moaned to Meyerhoff.
"Listen to him! Why should I care where their Goddess--"

Meyerhoff gave him a stony look. "The Goddess runs things around here.
She makes it rain. If it doesn't rain, somebody's insulted her. It's
very simple."

"But how can I fight testimony like that?"

"I doubt if you _can_ fight it."

"But they can't prove a word of it--" He looked at the jury, who were
listening enraptured to the second witness on the stand. This one was
testifying regarding the butcherous slaughter of eighteen (or was it
twenty-three? Oh, yes, twenty-three) women and children in the suburban
village of Karzan. The pogrom, it seemed, had been accomplished by an
energy weapon which ate great, gaping holes in the sides of buildings. A
third witness took the stand, continuing the drone as the room grew
hotter and muggier. Zeckler grew paler and paler, his eyes turning
glassy as the testimony piled up. "But it's not _true_," he whispered to
Meyerhoff.

"Of course it isn't! Can't you understand? _These people have no regard
for truth._ It's stupid, to them, silly, a mark of low intelligence. The
only thing in the world they have any respect for is a liar bigger and
more skillful than they are."

Zeckler jerked around abruptly as he heard his name bellowed out. "Does
the defendant have anything to say before the jury delivers the
verdict?"

"Do I have--" Zeckler was across the room in a flash, his pale cheeks
suddenly taking on a feverish glow. He sat down gingerly on the witness
chair, facing the judge, his eyes bright with fear and excitement.
"Your--Your Honor, I--I have a statement to make which will have a most
important bearing on this case. You must listen with the greatest care."
He glanced quickly at Meyerhoff, and back to the judge. "Your Honor," he
said in a hushed voice. "You are in gravest of danger. All of you. Your
lives--your very land is at stake."

The judge blinked, and shuffled through his notes hurriedly as a murmur
arose in the court. "Our land?"

"Your lives, your land, everything you hold dear," Zeckler said quickly,
licking his lips nervously. "You must try to understand me--" he glanced
apprehensively over his shoulder "now, because I may not live long
enough to repeat what I am about to tell you--"

The murmur quieted down, all ears straining in their headsets to hear
his words. "These charges," he continued, "all of them--they're
perfectly true. At least, they _seem_ to be perfectly true. But in every
instance, I was working with heart and soul, risking my life, for the
welfare of your beautiful planet."

There was a loud hiss from the back of the court. Zeckler frowned and
rubbed his hands together. "It was my misfortune," he said, "to go to
the wrong planet when I first came to Altair from my homeland on Terra.
I--I landed on Altair II, a grave mistake, but as it turned out, a very
fortunate error. Because in attempting to arrange trading in that
frightful place, I made certain contacts." His voice trembled, and sank
lower. "I learned the horrible thing which is about to happen to this
planet, at the hands of those barbarians. The conspiracy is theirs, not
mine. They have bribed your Goddess, flattered her and lied to her,
coerced her all-powerful goodness to their own evil interests, preparing
for the day when they could persuade her to cast your land into the
fiery furnace of a ten-year-drought--"

Somebody in the middle of the court burst out laughing. One by one the
natives nudged one another, and booed, and guffawed, until the rising
tide of racket drowned out Zeckler's words. "The defendant is obviously
lying," roared the prosecutor over the pandemonium. "Any fool knows that
the Goddess can't be bribed. How could she be a Goddess if she could?"

Zeckler grew paler. "But--perhaps they were very clever--"

"And how could they flatter her, when she knows, beyond doubt, that she
is the most exquisitely radiant creature in all the Universe? And _you_
dare to insult her, drag her name in the dirt."

The hisses grew louder, more belligerent. Cries of "Butcher him!" and
"Scald his bowels!" rose from the courtroom. The judge banged for
silence, his eyes angry.

"Unless the defendant wishes to take up more of our precious time with
these ridiculous lies, the jury--"

"Wait! Your Honor, I request a short recess before I present my final
plea."

"Recess?"

"A few moments to collect my thoughts, to arrange my case."

The judge settled back with a disgusted snarl. "Do I have to?" he asked
Meyerhoff.

Meyerhoff nodded. The judge shrugged, pointing over his shoulder to the
anteroom. "You can go in there," he said.

Somehow, Zeckler managed to stumble from the witness stand, amid riotous
boos and hisses, and tottered into the anteroom.
