
Hey, was I imagining things or was my orbit changing? And was Gladys
smiling more warmly?

Oh, oh! The air-vents were doing it, the air currents from them
pressing me into a more curving trajectory which would probably graze
Gladys' orbit.

I was passing the chitchat bench. I flailed out for it, missed, and my
movement seemed to twist my trajectory even more. I looked at Gladys
and she was smiling warmly, welcomingly. I thought of Helene and felt
like a louse. An airborne louse. Without wings, like a louse should
be. You need wings to fly. If I'd had them I think I'd have flown.
Elsewhere.

Sure, you can let your conscience be your guide but what can you do
when you're helplessly warped into a collision orbit with one of the
loveliest women in the world, a welcoming planet in a closed system of
your own peculiar manufacture?

The visio started buzzing then and I wondered agonizingly if it were
Helene. On the other hand, it might be Jim O'Brien wondering why Gladys
hadn't come back. With no answer, he might come over, but I doubted it.
Jim's a bachelor and somewhat of a hermit.

Ah, missed on this go-round, but it was close. Gladys' smile told me
she was paying no heed to the buzzing visio at all.

The sun-chandelier--I could reach it! I caught at one of its sunburst's
rays. It promptly snapped off, but the action had changed my orbit.

Changed it--and how! Now I was in precisely the same orbit as Gladys
and gaining! She smiled back over her nicely rounded shoulder. It
wasn't fair!

I hadn't heard a sound outside, what with the visio buzzing away like
mad, but the front door was suddenly opened and there was Helene
starting to come in, a big package in her arms.

"Stay out!" I cried. "Don't come in, Helene!"

I was a split second too late; her foot hit the null-grav area and she
was suddenly orbiting, her package tumbling off on a trajectory of its
own, her pocketbook a satellite beside her.

Helene was startled, certainly, but not beyond speech. "Bill Wright,"
she cried, "you're a beast! You bring me home on our wedding night and
leave me for your silly machine and without a single solitary drop
to drink in the servomech and I go out for something and come back
to find you flying after that blonde hussy!" She swept up around the
chandelier, her orbit grazing it at perihelion but apparently destined
to be far remote at aphelion.

"But, dear--" I started.

"Don't dear me!" she cried, and went out of my range of vision just as
I overtook Gladys and her outflung arms caught me painfully by the
neck.

Which is when Helene's orbit mercifully turned out to be a collision
orbit with Gladys'--and she took Gladys away from me like a super-Nike
taking out a stratojet-bomber. They bounced against the ceiling. Gladys
took the impact. Rearward. Fortunately Mother Nature had been kind.

Helene bounced away from Gladys. Strands of blonde hair went with her.

"Dark roots!" Helene cried triumphantly.

Gladys said a bad word.

I conjectured.

"Say," I said, but the girls were shouting. I yelled, "Hey!"

They quieted but kept glaring balefully at each other and circled like
a couple of female wrestlers waiting--but wholly unable--to pounce.

"We're in a pickle," I started.

"_You're_ in a pickle," Helene corrected me.

"Oh, stop it!" I said.

"I didn't start it," Helene said.

Logic!

"Now, look," I said, "we've got to get down. If one of us could only
manage to grasp something that's fastened--the carpet, a window, a
doorknob--"

I didn't finish; it was too painfully obvious that none of our orbits
took us that close to the finite boundaries of my null-grav living
room. Helene's, I noticed, was the closest. A germ of an idea came into
my mind as I observed that Helene's handbag was still in a tight orbit
around her.

"Honey," I said.

She raged at that and made futile fluttering motions as though she
thought she just might be able to fly.

Perhaps formality was indicated.

"Mrs. Wright," I tried.

Gladys laughed and the irate Mrs. Wright, sweeping close to Gladys'
orbit at perihelion, made a vicious swipe which neatly tore away a
considerable portion of the upper part of Gladys' sunsuit, which
portion went fluttering away on a bat-like trajectory of its own. I
forgot the portion; the point of departure was more absorbing.

Helene gasped and told me to concentrate on getting us down; but my
powers of concentration were rather difficult to influence since I was
in a fixed orbit and, like Mercury or old Luna, my face was turned
inward and Gladys' orbit was now considerably tighter than mine.

"Well, do something, will you!" Helene cried. "At least, stop leering!"

Now I'm a reasonable man even when befuddled by null-grav, so I tried
to forget about orbiting hemispheres and to attack the problem of
reaching terra firma.

I closed my eyes, but promptly became so unoriented that I almost
became ill; so I opened them again and concentrated on my primary, the
sun-chandelier.

The visio had stopped buzzing. I hoped that meant that Jim O'Brien--if
it had been Jim--had figured that something was amiss and was now
hurrying over in his Caddicopter. He could throw us a line and haul us
out. Then I threw that hope away. Jim's severely practical; and this
_was_ to have been my wedding night.

Oh, well....
