
Could one of us somehow reach the sun-chandelier and short it, thereby
shorting the machine downstairs? Mentally reconstructing the house's
electrical circuitry, I concluded that my lab was on a separate circuit.

_Hey! I am confused_, I thought. Helene's handbag! I'd thought of it
before. Of course! Women carry all sorts of things.

"Helene," I said, "do you have a squeeze bottle in your bag? Perfume or
hair spray or deodorant, maybe?"

"Bill Wright, if you think for one minute that I'm going to--"

"Have you?" I cut in.

She spluttered. "Perfume," she finally said grudgingly. "Though with
that eau-de-whatever Gladys is wearing, I should think--"

"Oh, stop it! Now will you please get the perfume out!"

She did; then she went wandering off to aphelion in her orbit and
momentarily out of my line of sight. When she came back toward
perihelion with the chandelier, I said, "Now, look, wriggle around a
little axially if you can--"

That did it. Helene exploded into a verbal nova. "You lecherous beast!"
she cried. "It isn't enough for you to dally with this shameless blonde
hussy on our wedding night. Not enough for you to float along looking
like a blissful ogling ogre, making mental mockery of your wedding
vows. No, you--you BEM!--you have to ask your meek and retiring, your
quiet and unassuming, your defenseless and self-effacing wife to act
like a bumping and grinding burlesque queen!"

And my meek, retiring, quiet, unassuming, etc., wife went on
etcetera-ing ad practically infinitum.

When swiftly trajecting Helene's tirade paused for lack of words and/or
breath, I said meekly above the gently orbiting blonde's chuckles, "But
I was only trying to get us out of this mess. I wanted you to perform
a slight axial rotation so that you could aim your--er--posterior
at the cellar door when you next reach aphelion near it. Do you
understand?"

"No," she said, but did manage by some completely feminine and to me
quite incomprehensible maneuvers (girdle girding procedure, maybe?) to
twist ninety degrees axially.

"When I say 'go,' squeeze the spray bottle," I directed, "and keep
squeezing it hard and keep it pointing straight away from your
longitudinal axis."

"My _what_? Now, look, what do you think you'll accom--"

"Wait!" I cut her off. "For every action there's an equal and opposite
reaction, right? I hope you'll widen your orbit when the reaction sets
in."

She was nearing aphelion. "Go!" I cried.

She did squeeze the spray bottle, and kept squeezing it quickly and
strongly, but so far as I could judge her orbit wasn't effected one
whit. Something was accomplished, however, that made our situation more
desperate: those little droplets of potent perfume proceeded to bounce,
scatter, splatter and ricochet all over the place. The scent spread.
Overpoweringly.

"And _you_ talked about _my_ perfume!" Gladys cried and began to giggle
again.

My gaze wandered toward the lovely albeit space-happy blonde.

"Bill!" Helene cried as she swept across my line of sight. She looked
like an avenging angel, a very lovely one. She made me feel humble and
contrite; I went dutifully back to the problem.
