
It seemed rather hopeless. Both Gladys and I were orbiting nearly
parallel to the floor in what I was calling the plane of the ecliptic.
My brief encounter with the chandelier had twisted me into the plane as
had Gladys' unfortunate but exhilarating encounter with my irate bride.

Helene's orbit was still tilted from the plane, like Pluto's, and was
curiously elliptical like a comet's. Currents created by the allegedly
draftless air-conditioning system must have caused and must be
maintaining the ellipse. Being a newcomer to our tight little system,
Helene also still had considerable orbital speed whereas air resistance
would soon bring Gladys and me to a midair stop, probably in inferior
opposition. I knew what Helene would think of that.

I decided we couldn't do anything individually or jointly unless an
outside agent were introduced or full advantage taken of something
already present.

We had cosmic debris, for sure: the flipflopping chaise longue which
was in a tight orbit near the peak of the cathedral ceiling; the
framed picture of the Viking rocket (could I ever use a little of
_its_ thrust now!) fluttering close to the flapping torn part-away of
the sunsuit down below the plane of the ecliptic; and the big package
Helene had brought. The last suddenly proved to be on a collision orbit
with Gladys, curving in then to bump against her derriere. Reaching
back swiftly she caught it like an errant salesman's hand. I waited
expectantly.

"Wonderful!" she commented. "Wonderful!" And pulled out a bottle of
Scotch. I watched in fascinated, gleeful anticipation as she unscrewed
the cap, and moved the bottle up toward celestial north to reach a
normal drinking position. Naturally the contents promptly departed;
then splashed against the arch of the ceiling and went into a thousand
odd orbits, of which many made moist contact with my own. The
perfume-Scotch combination--_yoicks!_

"Glad," I said.

"Oh, it's _Glad_ now!" Helene burst.

I ignored her.

"Glad, get the package in your hands like a basketball--"

"Yes, conceal your shame!" Helene cut in acidly.

"Will you stop it?" I cried. "Now, Glad, listen, aim it toward my
orbit. Lead me a little--there, that ought to do it. Now when I count
down to zero give it a shove. Ready? Three, two, one--_zero_!"

It was dead on!

I looked in the bag, hoping to find a newly charged carbonation unit
for the servomech bar. I didn't, but I found something else!

"Helene," I said, "I love you!"--and I drew forth the loveliest magnum
of champagne you'd ever hope to see.

"But, Bill," Helene cried, "that's to celebrate our wedding night!"

I appreciated the present tense but said nothing, working on the wire
which bound the cork.

"Bill, remember what happened to the Scotch," Gladys warned me.

I ignored them both, thinking furiously. It _had_ to be Helene! She
would sweep to the apogee of her cometlike orbit near the cellar door
again in seconds. I shook the magnum as violently as I could. Its cork
went whooshing off on a ricochet romance with the Scotch cap. The freed
and deeply disturbed champagne blasted off straight for the most remote
point in Helene's orbit--and Helene was there! On target!

I went whirling backward with the reacting magnum against my chest,
bounced against a wall, smacked against the chandelier, flipflopped
a few times and found myself orbiting directly below Gladys. I
re-oriented myself with some effort and found by twisting my head
sharply that I could see the results of the improvised jet blast:
Helene, drenched with champagne, stood in gravity on the cellar stairs.

"Dear," I ventured, "just go down and ease off on the rheostat; that'll
cancel this out gradually and let us down easily."

She made a spluttering noise and went downstairs.

I made a quick survey for a possible safe touchdown area just in case
Helene inadvertently cut the power too fast; chances were good that
we'd hit one of the several sofas.

Gladys and I were celestially north of the chitchat bench when Helene
completely killed the null-grav. The bench, with visio, suffered
complete collapse; it wasn't meant for sitting down on from twelve feet
up. Especially with a blonde dropping immediately into one's lap. Lucky
for me both were nicely padded.

"I'm sorry, Bill," Gladys said, _September Morn_-ing, and hurrying,
dishevelled and forlorn, out the front door. I heard her car start up
as Helene came up from the basement.

I ruefully surveyed the shattered visio amid the other debris.

"Null-grav," I said. "Real null-grav. Jim's got to know--but the
visio's ruined. I've got to go out and call him."

"Oh, no, you don't!" Helene burst. "Null-grav _and_ Jim O'Brien can
wait until tomorrow!"

She kissed me tenderly then.

"How right you are," I said, getting re-oriented fast.
