
John Stevens was irritable. He'd been that way for weeks now, or was it
months? Anyway, life was getting to be a foul-blooded pain!

He saw the empty can, kicked it, watched it bounce along the cracked
pavement. When it stopped bouncing, he was again faced with his
problem: What to do on a hot July afternoon?

He considered going down to Frank's Vizio Palace, but decided against
it. Not that he was afraid of the Sinais, but it was too hot to invade
enemy territory alone. Besides, he had brained all this month's vizios
and new ones wouldn't be in for at least a week. So he leaned against
the tenement's warped wall and looked for more cans to kick. On a day
like this, he thought, a kid could almost wish vacation was over and
school back in operation.

Then he saw Pete Smith and waved a languid hand. "How's the
pure-blood?" he asked.

"Living," Pete answered. "And I can see Mr. Aryan's doing all right
for--"

Both froze as the patrol bubble turned the corner on racing treads and
pulled up short. John considered making a run for it, but saw it was
too late. Pete had arrived at the same conclusion.

"They picked our lips on the vocal-box," Pete whispered. "We're in
trouble."

John didn't have a chance to answer. The two Blasts were out of
their bubble and coming toward them. The tall one said mechanically,
"Section twenty-seven, Earth Ordinances, using profane language on
public lanes. Subsection twelve, covering classification of terms of
racial-superiority as profanity due to its negation of established fact
and the harmful effects--"

"Oh, shove it, Blast," Pete muttered. "We know the public scroll. So
you picked us up on the box. So what?"

The CPCNC officer looked at him. "You people never will learn. Why
don't you accept the status quo, learn to live like human beings?"

"That's what I always say," John murmured sarcastically.

The Blast stepped in and slapped him, hard. John rocked back on his
heels, clenched his fists, but did nothing. The Blast slapped him
again, not quite so hard but with a great deal more deliberation. John
bit his lip and dropped his eyes.

"Yeah," he said. "Why don't _we_ act like human beings!"

The second Blast, a shorter, heavier man, waved his companion away.
"Easy, Farn. Don't let this Yorker get you." He turned to the two
adolescents, something like pity in his brown eyes. "We'll let it pass,
this time. But we've got you down on our photopads. The next offense
means Re-education House."

Neither boy said a word, but John's cheek burned and something in his
chest burned even more.

The conciliatory Blast hesitated; then said, "Why don't you boys come
down to Composite Youth Center? We've got the latest vizios, athletic--"

"We're members of Race-Through-God," John said, a quiet satisfaction
in his voice. "The scroll says we can't be forced to attend CYC. Our
master told us that. We go to meetings regularly."

Farn, the Blast who had slapped John, whirled around and stamped back
to the bubble. "C'mon, Stan!" he called. "This filthy slum sickens me!"

Stan nodded, but lowered his voice to a confidential murmur. "You'll
never get out of York, be issued a space visa, or do anything worth
while if you stick to the race-church stuff, boys. You don't know what
the Galaxy is like--the planets, the beautiful cities. It's really
something. Just sign up for CYC. After that, you can qualify for
Integration and meet some really beautiful ladies."

"We got our own ladies," John said, sullen and irritated. And his
emotions bothered him. He should be enraged, after the slaps and
sacriligeous lecture; not irritated. "We don't want Integration."

Stan shrugged wearily. "All right. So you'll stick in this archaic
hole, and eventually try to kill one of us, and end up on a euthanasia
table. And one day the Galactic Council will get fed up and clean out
the lot of you." He turned to the bubble, speaking over his shoulder.
"Watch your steps. Any gang fights, stealing, or profanity will get you
six months. The Blasts in Re-education won't slap--they'll use electros
on your fannies!"

When the bubble went down the street and around the corner, Pete spat
eloquently. John was still fighting his irritation, his vast sense of
dissatisfaction, but he spat too, and said, "Man, I'd love to do a
carve on all Outsiders!"

"John!" a shrill voice called. "John, you getting into trouble again?"

John turned light blue eyes to the left and looked at the ground floor
window. "Oh, ease up, Ma! Can't an Aryan stand up to a foul-blood
Outsider?"

"John!" the gray-haired, prematurely-old woman screeched. Her eyes
darted up and down the street and her voice dropped to an intense
whisper. "Don't you use those words in public! A profanity charge is
all we need, what with your father drinking--"

John tried to interrupt, but she raised her voice again and shouted him
down.

"Don't you go getting into trouble, bringing those Blasts around
bothering God-fearing folk who want to be left alone! It's you kids
that make it tough for the rest of us. That rabble would let us be if
you--"

John rubbed his short-cropped blond hair in exasperation, and stalked
to the corner. Pete followed, and they paused near the curb, ignoring
the tirade which continued behind them. Finally, the woman stopped
speaking and drew her head back inside the window.

The street was old, cracked in many places. But it didn't matter.
The only traffic was the ramshackle public snake which ran once
every half-hour, and an occasional transport, and the Blast bubbles
which were constantly on the prowl for profanity, theft, attacks on
Outsiders, and juvenile delinquency.

"For once in a foul-blood lifetime," John exploded, "let's cut a
different caper! I'm sick of fighting the Sinais and Albines and Sons
of Musso. I want Upper City, where we can pick up some high loot."

Pete's thick jaw fell open and he stared at his blond, slender
companion. "Upper City! But the Blasts--"

"It's a free Galaxy, ain't it?" John snapped. "We're allowed anywhere
our disks take us, ain't we? So I want to travel Upper City."

"They'll watch us," Pete muttered. "Even if we could grab some loot, I
don't like it there. My old man works as custodian in a food vendro.
I went with him a few times and I didn't like it. The Outsiders look
at us as if we smelled bad, and they don't sit near when we're on the
snake. I tell you it's tough, John. Let's get a few of the boys and
raid the Sons of Musso."

John hesitated, and then decided that as leader of the Adolphs he had
to follow through on what he'd said. He moved into the street and
walked casually to the snake stop. "If you're jetting out, okay. But I
don't operate that way."

Pete didn't move. "You been there lately?" he jeered. "You know what
it's like?"

John acted as if he were too disgusted to answer. He'd been to Upper
City several times, but that was years ago, when he was a baby and his
mother had gone against the Divine-Angel-Church master's wishes and had
him inoculated against cancer. Everyone was doing it on the sly anyway,
so she took him for his three shots. Then she'd switched to the
Race-Through-God sect, and it was like the other, only there the master
let it be known he'd taken his anti-cancer shots like everyone else.
But John didn't remember much of Upper City, except that the people had
looked at them with amusement and some contempt. He'd wondered why they
did, but when he asked his mother she'd said he'd find out for himself.

He had. The foul-blood trash! They had no pride. And they were all
alike!

He searched for a disk as the snake appeared at the corner. The jointed
series of cars moved slowly on its tractor-like treads, turbo exhaust
filtering through the block-tube high on the engine. Each year it
seemed to get slower, noisier, shabbier.
