
John stepped into car three as the snake stopped. He placed his disk
in the slot, waited a moment, then moved inside as the Clear buzzer
sounded. He'd tried to fake his disk a few times, cutting imitations
from plastic cans, but the auto-guard was too damn smart. It always
rang for the Blast each snake carried in a little booth hinged to the
last car.

He found a seat near a window and glanced around. Not half-filled this
early in the day. Later, when four o'clock came, it would be jammed. He
turned to the window and watched the familiar shabby streets flow by.
As they entered Sinai territory, he felt a tightening of the stomach
muscles. But then he laughed and remembered he was on the snake, not
invading. Nevertheless, when two big kids got on and took seats across
the aisle, he knew a moment of fear. They were Sinais, all right. He'd
seen the muscular one in a caper last winter. And they knew him for an
Adolph.

They exchanged glares, and John kept his face tough. The muscular Sinai
took out a knife, holding it low so no one but John could see and began
to run his finger over the blade. John reached for his own sticker;
then stopped. He grinned and whistled ONE GALAXY, ONE PEOPLE. The
Sinais didn't like it. It was equivalent to calling them Outsiders. But
their corner came along and they had to hop it. John turned back to the
window. He'd get his sticker into that muscular one; see if he didn't!

"Your sister sleeps with Outsiders," a soft voice murmured.

John jerked around, and saw the three kids shuffling past his seat.
They grinned at him and the soft-spoken one said, "You don't like it,
Adolph? Step off at Benito Street and we'll have it out."

John controlled his rage. "Some other time," he said, voice calm. "I'm
capering Upper City today. Maybe you boys would like to declare a truce
and come along?"

They all stared at him. Then the one who did all the talking said,
"Hell, he's a foul-blood liar!"

"Sure," John said as they slumped into seats. "Follow me to the Split
and see."

"Okay," another Son of Musso said. "We will." And the three of them
grinned at him.

John grinned back, but he felt far from Aryan inside. Now he wouldn't
be able to jet out. Now he'd really have to cross the Split.

He began to sweat, hoping the snake would break down along the route,
that a Blast would stop him from crossing, that the Earth would blow
up! Anything to keep from having to cross the Split. He knew now that
he'd never meant to do it--just take a ride, kill some time, and bluff
Pete when he got back.

Ten minutes later, the Last Corner sign lit up at car end. The three
Sons of Musso strolled out into the street and waited, standing quietly
under the eyes of the Blasts who were always around the dry river bed
which separated York from Upper City.

This was the Split, and John had to leave the car. He came out, walked
past the three kids toward the span, and stopped at the gate. "One to
Upper City," he said, throat dry.

The Blast gave him a sharp look. "Why do you want to go there, boy?"

"Free Galaxy, ain't it?" John muttered.

The Blast shrugged, handed him a transfer disk, lifted the gate. John
had a momentary surge of satisfaction as he heard the Sons of Musso
talking excitedly behind him. It wasn't every day that a kid from York
invaded Upper City. Then he was at the shiny new snake and his stomach
tightened and he was sweating.

He kept walking, got on the fifth car, took a seat in the last row. He
was the only passenger, but he'd seen others waiting in the cars he'd
passed. Older folks. People who worked in Upper City, doing various
menial tasks for the Outsiders.

When the Blast walked through on his way to the back-box, John ran to
the port and looked out across the one-piece duralume span. The Sons
of Musso were still there. Before he could make a decision, the snake
eased forward fluidly and then hit high speed.

John Stevens was frightened, but he composed his features and returned
to his seat. He sat straight and tried to remember what the master had
said about maintaining dignity in front of Outsiders, showing them the
stuff pure-bloods were made of. But the words fled his mind as he gazed
out of the window.

Upper City was really something. Wide thoroughfares lacing over and
under each other in stop-free throughways. Thousands--no, _millions_
of private bubbles rolling along with gaily-dressed passengers!
Low, square, bright-looking buildings. Trees and grass and flowers
everywhere. And then, for one glorious moment, they were in Bunche
Spaceport, the greatest on Earth!

John drank in the huge, upright needles that stood gleaming in the July
sun, waiting to blast off for planets where even greater cities and
spaceports were established. If only he, John Stevens of York, could
get inside one of those ships and go--

Deep bitterness hit him, and all the irritation he'd felt for the past
weeks was back. They don't let us do anything! he thought. They keep
us poor; in dirt and ignorance! That's what the master had said. And
he'd added that the Outsiders were afraid of Aryans. That's why they
persecuted them.

John was seeing the full majesty of Upper City now, the spacious
walks and busy drives and sun-filled buildings. And he couldn't help
wondering why his people refused Integration.

He suddenly realized that the car had filled with passengers, with
Outsiders. He also realized that the twin seat next to his was just
about the only one left in the jammed car. He felt his face stiffen,
felt the hatred rise in his blood; and then the girl flounced up the
aisle and hesitated, looking at him. She sat down.

Not more than sixteen, John thought. Just right for him. And she sure
was cute. Lovely golden skin--

He stopped the thoughts there.

It wasn't right to think that way. The master at Race-Through-God
wouldn't approve. Not that John attended church regularly, as he'd told
the Blast back in York. But still, such thoughts weren't right. They
smacked of Integration.

He kept his head still, but flicked his eyes around the crowded car.
They'd made another stop, and now Outsiders were standing. They didn't
seem to resent him, or, for that matter, pay him any particular
attention. It was just that _he_ felt different, and that made him
angry, and that led to his standing up and moving to the port and
getting off at the next corner--all this instead of being sensible and
staying on the snake until it returned to the span and York.

But even as he stepped into the street, he was remembering how that
girl had looked, with her big brown eyes and dark hair and golden skin.

He muttered, "Damned, non-Aryan, foul-blood Outsiders!" Then
walked quickly down the street when he realized he'd used terms of
racial-superiority. Getting picked up here for profanity wouldn't be
fun. He'd get six months in Re-education House for sure.
