
Acceleration pressure abated, and Cressey's face resumed its normal
shape. The red haze in front of his eyes cleared, and he could see
out through his canopy again. The thick blanket of stars remained
motionless, though he knew he was moving with tremendous speed toward
the Outspace ship.

In front of him behind the instrument panel, he could hear the
insect-like buzzing as his course computer was fed information from his
Base Satellite. With both the outer D-Post and the Satellite tracking
the enemy, fairly precise positioning was possible. Unfortunately,
because of the enormous distances involved, not precise enough to
pinpoint the Stingers themselves. You had to be closer to do that, and
the way to get closer was in a Hornet.

For a few minutes now, Cressey had only to watch his own scope for
the first pip, and consider his insane position. It was his third
mission. Of nearly a thousand Hornetmen, forty-three had more than one
mission. If he got out of this one, he had two more before compulsory
retirement. He was not sure he could go two more missions, even if he
survived physically.

Five missions, then retirement. It had looked good to him, a year ago.
When he left college for Primary Interceptors, it had seemed the very
best kind of an idea. Five missions as a Hornetman, then home. Home as
a hero, as a king. At twenty-one he would never have to worry about
anything again. The pension Mackley had mentioned was so high as to be
inconceivable. And that was just from the government. Being a hero had
other, less official compensations. A shack in Beverly Hills, worth a
hundred thousand or so? Hell, they'd force it on him, just for being a
hero. A woman? What woman could resist a five-mission Hornetman? Every
daydream he'd ever had, and a hundred he'd not thought of, free for
nothing. Or free for running five intercepts.

It had looked good to him until his first mission. Then it had suddenly
lost its charm. He had learned why, so far, there were no five-mission
Hornetmen.

Abruptly he heard the "ping" telling him his radar was tracking. The
Satellite had guided him true enough. He was within the limited range
of his own radar.

"Radar contact made," he said into the lip mike. "503 going on manual
control. Out." He clicked the Com switch and settled down to fixing on
his target.

From the size of the blip on the screen, he could see the Outspace ship
was huge, as all of them were. Funny, there had not even been enough
contact to know how many different sorts of ship the Alien had. They
were not battleships, nor cruisers, nor anything else specific. They
were simply Outspace, and he had to seek them out and destroy them.

A single ship, as usual. He wondered why they had never sent more than
one ship at a time. Perhaps their thinking was so completely foreign
it had never occurred to them. No one knew anything about how they
thought, except that they retaliated when attacked.

Cressey wondered how the conflict looked through Outspacer eyes.
Perhaps they were completely bewildered by attack. Perhaps those
god-awful disruptor beams were meant for some other, more peaceful
purpose, and were being pressed into use as an emergency weapon by
frightened beings. It was even possible the aliens did not know they
were under attack by sentient creatures, and wrote off the loss of
their ships to natural calamity of some unknown nature.

There were a thousand maybes. It was useless to speculate in the total
absence of data. You couldn't be sure of anything, so you couldn't
take any chances. You had to act as though they were hostile just to be
on the safe side. The malignant neurosis of humanity, making it behave
as though all things unknown were dangerous. Or perhaps just realistic
thinking. You couldn't know, unless you knew all about the universe.
Perhaps the idea of conscious animosity was incomprehensible to the
Outspacers, but there was no way to tell. He reached between his legs
to the cockpit floor and threw the switches there, arming the Stinger
warheads.

On his first mission he had actually gotten within visual range of the
Outspace ship, launching the Stingers at not more than three miles
range. The ship had been bulky, almost grotesque by his own standards,
covered with lumps and bulges of indeterminate purpose. There had been
no lights visible, no ports. Perhaps the Aliens did not see in our
spectrum, or perhaps they had radiation screens across the ports, there
was no way to tell.

Cressey smiled ruefully. This miserable war was turning him into a
philosopher.

On his second mission he had not seen his target. He had launched at
six miles, out of fear, trusting to the followers in the Stingers'
noses to track. He did not know what the result had been either time.
He had turned and run for home at full acceleration, and he fully
intended to do the same on this mission. There was such a thing as
pushing your luck too far, and he needed all he had.

The pip on his screen drifted to the left, and he gave a short burst
to center it. He begrudged having to use his infinitesimal fuel on
tracking when he needed it so desperately to go home. He looked through
the canopy, but saw nothing, and returned his eyes to the screen. The
telltale pip had drifted slightly to the right. He had overcorrected.
Cursing, he fired another burst, shorter this time, with the left bank,
and watched the pip center. That was good enough.

His ranging said only twelve miles, his speed two mps, relative to
target. One second, two seconds, three--there it was, occulting a tiny
area of star patched sky.

Out of the corner of his eye he saw a bright flare as some other Hornet
disappeared in the wave of energy released by its molecular disruption.
Then another, in another quadrant. The Alien was fighting back. He
jabbed violently at the Stinger release, and saw the two pencils
roar fiercely out ahead of him on their own power. He cut his flimsy
launching rack into as tight a turn as it would take. The familiar red
haze clouded his vision, and just before blacking out he fired another
last long burst on the rockets to head him toward home.
