
_"You understand," said Mackley, "that the amount of fuel we can pack
into a Hornet is severely limited by the size of the craft. There is
not enough to perform the complicated braking maneuvers necessary to
return to the Satellite._

_"Therefore, the Hornets make no attempt to return to the Satellite
from which they were launched. Instead, they return directly to Earth.
This may sound contradictory, but remember that the planet has a heavy
envelope of air, which the Satellite Bases, of course, have not. We use
that air to brake the ships, through friction."_

_"But Captain, wouldn't the Hornet burn as soon as it touched
atmosphere?"_

_"Ordinarily, if it plunged directly in, yes. But there are techniques
for slowing your flight through friction without heating excessively.
Basically, the operation is the same as skipping a flat stone on a
lake. The Hornet actually only skims the atmosphere, entering at a very
shallow angle. The entire delta-wing of the ship is a control surface.
That much area, even at such extreme heights, gives a certain amount of
control, and the pilot can pull up out of the atmosphere again before
heating has become too extreme. He has also been considerably slowed by
the same friction which causes the heating. Do you follow me?"_

_"Yes, I suppose so, but it seems pretty tricky."_

_"It is tricky, Cressey, and you never want to forget it. It takes a
very considerable amount of piloting skill, but it can be done."_

_"Captain, how many Hornets do you lose trying to get in like that?"_

_Mackley hesitated momentarily. "Our losses are right around
thirty-seven percent. That's due to enemy fire. It's high, but under
the circumstances, it isn't extreme. We're fighting at a disadvantage,
and combat is not a gentle affair. Men's lives are lost. That's been
true ever since two cave men took after each other with stone axes.
It was true with bows and arrows and muzzle loaders. It was true with
tanks and machine guns, and it is true now._

_"It is expected in a combat situation that men will die. One of the
aims of military strategy has always been to keep as many of your own
men alive as possible. This has not changed either. But combat is,
after all, combat; and there are some unavoidable risks."_

_"What's the total loss, Captain? I mean from enemy action and from the
hazards of this skip approach you were talking about?"_

_The Information Officer stared at Cressey for what seemed like a long
time before he answered. "Our total losses, Mr. Cressey, are roughly
ninety-three percent."_
