
When Cressey regained consciousness, the Earth was a great globe,
filling his entire field of vision. He could not estimate his distance,
though he thought he was within the Satellite ring. His speed would
plunge him into atmosphere shortly, too shortly.

Within seconds he began to feel the warmth as he entered the region
where a few air molecules began to brush over the surfaces of his ship.
He rotated the delta-wings full, but there was no response. He was not
yet deep enough into the sea of air for the control surfaces to react.
He watched the tips of the wings, so ridiculously close to him, though
he knew he would not be able to see anything. Soon he began to feel a
gentle bucking motion as the wings met resistance. He flattened them
out, horizontal, and began to draw them up again slowly, so they would
move the tiny ship upward instead of simply tearing off at the roots.

The heat was already uncomfortable, and he was slowing. Now he was
pressed forward against the seat belt as deceleration increased. The
control surfaces bit into the thin air more solidly now, and Cressey
thought the nose had come up a bit, but it was so slight he couldn't be
sure. The bucking motion was more pronounced, but there was nothing he
could do about that.

Slowly, slowly. The wings had to tilt so very slowly, or they would be
ripped from the pod-like hull, leaving it to plummet into thick air and
glow briefly like a cigarette in the dark before it plunged down to
earth. His face was wet behind the fish-bowl, but he could not reach it
to wipe the sweat away. Nor could he have taken his hands away from the
controls in any case.

The nose had come up, he was certain of that now. He was definitely
rising, but the heat was becoming unbearable. Imperceptibly, a thin
shrieking had arisen in the cabin, almost out of sonic range, just
enough to make a man's nerves feel as if they had been dragged across a
rough file. The heat transmitted through the body of the pod and into
the bucket was beginning to burn his legs. He was being held out of
the seat itself by the force of his deceleration, but the backs of his
calves still touched metal. He thought he could smell the fabric of his
suit burning, but realized it was probably his overwrought imagination.

His cheeks felt too large, puffed out, as though strong, implacable
hands were pulling all his loose flesh forward. His eyes strained
forward, threatening to come out of their sockets. The red haze
began, and he had a sudden frightening thought that he might lose
consciousness before the Hornet had well begun its rise out of
atmosphere. The red darkened into black.

He regained consciousness. The first skip had been made. The ship began
to settle back into atmosphere again, and now its speed was lower.
With each pass the heat would become more intense, as the plane would
not have a chance to cool completely before it began to heat again. He
had to maintain a delicate balance between going deep enough to slow
him, but not so deep he couldn't bring the ship up before it burned,
cherry-red. His body was drenched as by a shower, and the inner lining
of his suit felt soggy from sweat.

The second skip was worse than the first, and he lost consciousness
almost too soon. The third was worse than the second. After the fourth,
he could not lift high enough to clear atmosphere. He had gone too
deep, and was now bound by the great mass of Earth below.

He was still at a shallow angle, relative to the ground. He estimated
he would make at least one complete orbit, perhaps two, before his
spiralling trajectory brought him to the contact point on the surface.
If he were still conscious, he would leave the aircraft at 30,000
feet, and hope. He knew his speed was still too high, well over Mach 2,
higher than it had been on either of his other approaches. The ship was
threatening to tear apart under the furious pounding it was taking from
air and shock waves.

Hobson's choice. Bail out high, and suffocate because the automatic
chute release would not allow him to make a delayed opening. Bail out
low, and the thick air would pound his body to a pulp, and below the
steel webbed chute would hang nothing but a suit, full of a still, red
messiness.

The timing had to be precision itself, but it had to be done by
guesswork. There was no training that could prepare a man for this. It
was all new. He uncoupled the air hose leading to his suit, and placed
his hand on the ejector lever. He knew he was too high, but the wings
showed quivering signs of buckling under the strain.

He pulled the lever, releasing the canopy and arming the seat
cartridge. The canopy disappeared miraculously from over his head.
He was deafened by the thunderous roar of air that entered the
cramped cockpit, like an explosion peak that remained constant, not
diminishing. Instinctively, he ducked his head, recoiling at the sound.
He did not remember triggering the seat ejector.

Cressey fell. The seat dropped away from him, the incredibly strong
parachute opened, all automatically. He fell forty-five thousand
feet into the Pacific Ocean, unconscious. His face was battered by
windblast almost beyond recognition, and his body equally so. When
the rescue team pulled him from the water, three hours later, they
thought he was an old man. His eyes were a mass of red, from dozens of
sub-conjunctival hemorrhages. He would see again, but not until after
weeks of near blindness.

But he was alive. When he woke up in the California hospital four days
later, he considered ruefully that that was about the best one could
expect in his business.
