
"Sit down, Major," Berin was saying. "Commander Edder told me you'd be
around, but he only hinted at the trouble."

"Is this room sealed, Mr. Klythe?" the major asked calmly.

Klythe reached across his desk and touched a panel. "It is now."

The major nodded. "We don't want any of this to leak out; it might
cause panic." He paused for a moment. "You're a Sirian by birth, aren't
you, Mr. Klythe?"

Klythe nodded. "My grandparents were among the first colonists on New
Brooklyn."

"Then you probably know first hand how tough it is to tame an
extra-solar planet, no matter how closely it approaches Earth-type."

Klythe nodded, narrowing his eyes.

"So when a colony disappears, we don't think anything of it--"
Stratford stopped, frowning. "No, I don't mean that. What I mean is, we
usually attribute it to another loss in our fight against the natural
forces of the planet. The colony's gone; you blame disease, the flora,
the fauna, the storms, everything else. Then you try to re-establish
the colony.

"But lately things have been happening in a certain sector. I'm not
at liberty to say where, nor what happened. Whole colonies were gone
when the five-year check came. The pattern was only in one area, but
we're pretty sure of what's happening. Something out there, something
intelligent in its own way, is erasing those colonies. Our analysts
suspect that whoever or whatever is doing it doesn't know we're
intelligent. What it boils down to is this: we have an interstellar war
on our hands."

Klythe nodded slowly after a moment. "I get it. That's why you asked
for this funny modification of the drive generator--the new J-233. It
isn't supposed to be a drive generator at all."

"That's right," said Major Stratford, "it's a weapon."

"Why tell us now?" Crayley asked softly. "I mean, you've ordered the
thing; we've practically got it ready. Why not leave us in the dark?"

"We don't want you to build it now. We've got a better one--much
better. But it calls for a gadget that you'd immediately know was not a
driver. We decided to tell you rather than have you asking embarrassing
questions.

"And we have neither the facilities nor the capacity to build it
ourselves."

Crayley said slowly, "You mean the J-233 is obsolete? We scrap it
without ever putting it in production?"

"That's right," said the major. He grinned. "You were just telling me
how adaptable your production machinery is to--ah--re-tooling, I think
you called it. I was glad to hear it."

_Damn!_ Crayley thought. _Damdamdamdamdamn!_

His mind whirled for a moment, hopping frantically from one point to
another. Then he forced it to be calm. Everything wasn't lost--just
delayed.

"--in the strictest confidence," the major was saying. "Nothing must
leak out. We don't want to throw a scare into the world population just
now."

Klythe looked as though he had a good case of goosebumps himself.

Crayley felt nothing. He said, "How soon can you get the original down
here?"

The major spread his hands. "I'm not prepared to say. You'll have to
take that up with our technicians. Out of my field, you understand.

"I am also to ask you how soon you can get this into production. We'll
need five thousand units."

Klythe looked thoughtful. "It'll depend on the breakdown, of course;
these things take time. Five thousand units. Hmmmm. Assuming increasing
complexity--figure twice the time for a regular model and extra time
for analysis--mmmm." He appeared to be figuring deeply.

_Five days_, thought Crayley contemptuously.

"It'll take all of a week to set up for it," Klythe said. "If we get
three tunnels running, you can have your five thousand units in--say
twelve weeks."

"Fine," said Stratford. "I am also informed that our own technicians
will be on hand for the recording. I have no idea what that may mean,
but--"

"I see. Very well, tell them we'll expect them to be here with the
original!" Klythe said sharply.
