
The major raised his eyebrows at Klythe's voice. "Is there something
wrong, Mr. Klythe?"

"There is," Klythe said blandly. "But I'm not blaming you, of course. A
question of the specialty."

"I see," said the major. One did not question another's work too
closely. Get nosy with other people, and they get nosy with you.

"It's rather as though I hired you to take a cargo to Sirius for me
and then insisted that you use my crew instead of your own," Klythe
explained. "Perhaps the parallel isn't too good--I know nothing of
interstellar commerce--but that may get the idea across."

"I sympathize," said Stratford. "If there's anything I can do--?"

"Nothing," said Klythe, smiling. "It isn't fatal. Now--" He rubbed his
hands briskly. "Unless there's further business, perhaps you'd like a
little something? I know I do; I have a cold kink in my guts."

The major grinned. "Liaison officers are permitted to drink on duty.
Pour away."

Klythe poured. As he studiously watched the stream of liquor flow into
one of the cups, he said: "Major, may I ask--ah--just how much danger
there is to Earth?"

The major appeared to consider this for a moment before answering. "At
the moment, none. We know that they can not trace us back here, and
they're quite a long distance away. Without violation of confidence, I
can say that the distance is several thousand light years."

"Thank you." Klythe passed the cups around.

Crayley eyed the major suspiciously. He had answered the question too
readily. Was he lying? No. What, then? The major ran the tip of his
tongue over his lips, and Crayley understood. He was going to trade
information for information.

Stratford swirled his drink around in his cup and looked at the
whirlpool it made. "Mr. Klythe, may I ask you a--a question?" It was
properly worded, hesitation and all.

"I shall not be offended by your question," Klythe replied with the
standard friendly acceptance of the gambit, "If you will not be
offended by my reply."

The major whirled his cup once more, then downed its contents quickly.
"I--uh--understand you took the Big Gamble." He paused to see how his
opening would be accepted.

Klythe nodded. "I was honored to be chosen; how could I refuse?"

Crayley was enjoying the scene immensely. Both of the men were
distinctly uncomfortable.

"I'm afraid I would have been--uh, well--afraid."

"Perhaps I was," Klythe said softly. "But I don't know. That whole year
of my life is gone. That's why they call it the Big Gamble, you know;
you bet one year of your life against the chance that you'll get an
additional century or two. I don't know whether I was frightened or
not."

"I'm very happy for you," said the major, closing the subject.

Crayley held out his cup for another drink.

The Big Gamble had paid off for Berin Klythe. The year-long physical
reconstruction had not resulted in his death, as it had for so many.
But Klythe's gamble hadn't paid off for Lewis Crayley.

Klythe held the Directorship. Crayley was in line for the position.
Klythe would never leave of his own accord. It came out as a simple
equation in symbolic logic.

Before Klythe had been offered the chance for the Big Gamble, Crayley
had been content to wait. At sixty, Klythe had been thirty years
older than Crayley. Normally, he would have retired at seventy-five.
He would have another forty years of life to go, but they would not
be productive years. But if you survived the Big Gamble, you were in
better health, both physically and mentally, than you had been at
twenty-five. By the time Klythe was ready to retire, Crayley would be
dead.

Therefore, Klythe had to go.
