
The three men finished their drinks; the major shook hands all around,
and left quietly.

Klythe's eyes narrowed as he looked at the door through which the Space
Force officer had departed. "Running in their own recording technicians
on us, eh, Lew? Well, by God, we'll see about that! They'll be working
under me; I'll make 'em jump!"

"Jump it is, Berin." Crayley's voice was quiet, but his blood was
singing.

The Space Force Research Command team delivered the original two days
later. It was obvious that the thing was not a drive generator. The
sub-nucleonic converter had been elongated along the acceleration axis
and reduced a bit in diameter. Evidently the Space Force wanted a
high-velocity beam without much actual volume of energy.

The thing looked like an over-decorated length of sewer pipe instead of
having the normal converter's barrel shape.

Crayley himself had accepted delivery of the original. He wanted to
have a good look at it before Klythe did. He prowled around it, a
handful of schematic prints in his hand, checking the symbols on the
schematic against the reality of the converter before him.

For the first time in his life, he wished he knew the theory behind a
converter. That wasn't his job, of course, but he had a hunch it would
be useful knowledge.

He knew _what_ a standard converter did, but he didn't know _how_.
Therefore, he only knew approximately what this new modification would
do.

The Space Force technicians stood off to one side, waiting respectfully
for Crayley to finish his examination. Crayley could feel their eyes
on him, and he knew full well that the respectful attitude was only
superficial; a Space Force man has respect only for the officers above
him.

When he was thoroughly satisfied that he could learn nothing more from
a superficial examination of the machine, he turned to the technicians.
"All right, let's go upstairs. Mr. Klythe wants to talk to you."

It was the incident in the hall of the executive offices that decided
Lewis Crayley once and for all that he now had not only a motive but a
method for murdering Berin Klythe.

As the recording technicians were filing into the briefing room, Berin
stepped out of the lift tube and headed toward the door. Several other
engineering executives of North American Sub-nucleonics followed him.

Klythe started to walk in through the door of the conference room, and
one of the Space Force techs stepped on his toe. It wasn't painful,
and it wasn't done on purpose; the tech was quite polite when he said,
"Excuse me, sonny."

Klythe said nothing, but his eyes blazed with sudden anger, and his
face grew crimson as he tried successfully to suppress it.

Behind his face, Crayley grinned gleefully. He rubbed his nose with a
concealing hand.

Inside the room, as they all seated themselves in the chairs, Crayley
watched the face of the man who had done the toe-mashing. He was
solidly-built, young, good-looking in an ugly sort of way, sensitive
and intelligent, as a waldo recorder had to be. When Klythe walked up
behind the desk and said: "Good morning, gentlemen: I'm Berin Klythe,"
the tech's eyes opened a little wider for a fraction of a second, but
there was no further reaction. Crayley was satisfied; he turned to
watch Klythe.

Klythe was furious, but there was nothing he could do about it. The
crimson in his face had died, to be replaced by the faint pallor of
anger.

"You may ask me questions later," he said bluntly. "Right now, I'd like
to ask you one. Which one of you is co-ordinator here?" One of the men
stood. "Your name? Russ? Mr. Russ, may I ask why the Space Force felt
that our recording men were not capable of doing this job?"

Russ fumbled uncomfortably. Finally: "Well, sir, this gadget is
of--uh--rather radically new design. Since we, as a team, had built
the various designs that led up to this one, our superiors felt that
we would have a better working knowledge of the piece. They felt it
would save time if we made the recording. I'm sure there was no slight
intended to your own recording staff."

"I see," Klythe said coldly. "Very well." He turned his head a fraction
and looked directly at Crayley. "Lew, what do you think the Space Force
will do next time? Send over their own Director?"

The Space Force men looked embarrassed, and Crayley smiled one-sidedly.
Nobody but Klythe could have gotten away with that crack. Berin Klythe
had been trained by, and had worked under, no less a person than the
great Fenwick Greene, acknowledged Grand Old Man of the profession.
Crayley recalled that Fenwick Greene, too, had been offered and had
survived the Big Gamble.

Klythe began asking questions about the new unit. His tone was
sarcastic, and his manner biting. He spent better than an hour singling
each man out for some remark about his ability or lack of it.

When he was finally through, he leaned forward on his desk, his
knuckles white. "All right, let's get busy and build this thing! But
we'll build it my way, understand?"

None of the technicians said a word.
