
Klythe turned and headed for the door, followed by Crayley and the
other engineers. Silently, the technicians followed after.

The original model of the generator lay on a work table in one of the
recording rooms. Around it were the recording stations, the seats and
controls each of the techs would occupy.

Klythe waved at the seats. "All right, men--to begin with, each of you
occupy your regular team position. Let's get this thing disassembled. I
want to see how it goes."

The model was just that--a model. It had been built with ordinary
metal and plastic; it could never be energized. The wiring was copper,
the casing of steel. But it had been built as carefully and with as
great precision as if it had actually been constructed of the fiercely
radioactive materials that would go into the production models.

The recorders seated themselves around the hulking object, checking and
rechecking the intricate controls of the waldoes they were to operate.
Finally, they fitted their hands into the glove pickups and waited,
watching Klythe.

"Set?" Klythe asked.

"Set!" they said in one voice.

Klythe tapped his finger on the control board at which he had seated
himself. The technicians began to disassemble the model, stripping it
down to its last essential part, as Klythe watched with a critical eye.

Klythe had tapped the board, but he hadn't actually energized the
gloves. This was to be a dry run; there was no need to record a
disassembly; it was the assembly that would go down on tape.

It took an hour to complete the job, and all that time Klythe said
nothing. He watched the men work, eying each move, each nut removed,
each wire unwound.

When it was over, the men folded their hands in their laps, and Klythe
tapped the control board once more.

"Let's see if we can't assemble it a little faster than that," he said
coldly. He pressed the recording button, and the technicians began
rebuilding the model.

Crayley stepped over to the monitor screen set in one wall of the
recording room and switched it on. Then he cut in the experimental
secondaries, connecting them to the recording primaries. They went
through the same motions, their arms waving and gesticulating oddly in
the air, since there was nothing for them to work on.

Klythe wasn't silent during the rebuilding. The disassembly had taught
him everything he needed to know about the new unit; that was his job
and his genius.

"Seven! Move that plate in straight next time! And you, Four, keep your
guides straighter!" His voice rang clearly and concisely in the huge
room. "Eighty-four! Don't wait so long before you hit that welder! As
soon as Nine moves his left away from the shell, hit it!"

Little things, small savings of time, but they added up to greater
efficiency in the long run. Klythe watched for every wasted motion,
every fumble, every tiny error in timing or spacing, and corrected it
with a whiplash voice.

When they had put the model completely back together, they folded their
hands and looked at Klythe. Klythe jammed his finger down on the stop
button and set the machine to erase the tape they had just made.

He scowled at the men. "I have seen more fumble-fingered recorders," he
said acidly, "but they were trainees." He sighed as though his burden
was too much. "All right. Rip her down and let's try it again."

The next time through, he was even more vituperative. If a man made an
error the second time, Klythe was not above insults--personal ones.

An emergency call came in for Crayley. Something wrong on the second
level. He stepped out the door in the middle of one of Klythe's
high-tension blasts at a technician.

All the way down to the second level, Crayley was happy.
