
It took three days of hard work to pound all the kinks out of the
recorders' technique. Not all, actually; Klythe still expressed
dissatisfaction.

Crayley was in Klythe's office on the morning of the fourth day,
sitting on Klythe's desk and smoking one of Klythe's cigarettes.

"The whole damned crew are butterfingers," Klythe was complaining. "I
think they've all got arthritis. Why, oh, why couldn't they let me use
my own crew?"

"Speed things up, I suppose," Crayley said cautiously.

"Oh, hell yes! Speed things up! Sure, I'll admit that it would have
taken my boys a little time in disassembly to get the hang of this new
generator, but we'd have made it up in recording time. That's the way
the goddam military mind works! Nuts!"

Crayley rubbed the tip of his nose with a finger. "Is the team ready
for recording today?"

Klythe grinned. "As close as they'll ever be. It takes time to get a
team accustomed to my way of doing things. They hate my guts for the
way I've yelled at them. But it's as much my fault as theirs. If their
own engineer were to take over one of my crews, he wouldn't have any
better results. The military just has to do things differently, that's
all."

They recorded that afternoon. This time, when Klythe pressed the
starter, he said nothing. Only his hands and eyes directed the men
through their tasks. And every motion of the men's fingers and arms
sent their special impulses to the recording tape that hummed through
the machinery.

Crayley looked out from behind his face and smiled secretly.

When the recording was finished, Klythe nodded with satisfaction. "I
think we could have shaved a few more seconds off that," he said, "but
it'll do. Now disassemble it and we'll run her through on the tape."

They took the model down below to the radiation-proofed assembly tables
for the test. The thing was pulled to pieces and each piece positioned.
Then Klythe threw the switch that started the waldoes.

The tape purred through the pickup head, transmitting the little bits
of information it had received, squirting little pulses of energy
to the steel-and-plastic arms that jutted out of the domes atop the
pillars. In exact duplication of the men's motions, the waldoes picked
up the pieces and put them in their proper places.

It was like a great four-dimensional jigsaw puzzle. Each piece not only
had to be located properly in space, but placed there at just exactly
the right time. If there were any bugs in the recording, now was the
time to find out. When the real thing was assembled, mistakes could be
costly.

But there were no flaws in the recording. The model was rebuilt exactly
as the men themselves had rebuilt it. That was Klythe's genius; he
worked for perfection and got it.

Klythe looked at the model after the last pair of hands had fallen
inert, and nodded slowly. Then he climbed all over the model, checking
for errors. The interior circuits were tested electrically, one by one
and in co-ordination with each other. The test machines showed it clear.

Finally, Klythe said: "I think it'll do. But now we'll disassemble it
again by hand--slowly, this time--and see if we've screwed up anywhere."

That night, Crayley went out and got drunk. He sat by himself, grinning
and thinking secret thoughts in a booth at the _Peg & Wassail_,
dropping coins in the slot and dialing one beer after another. He
managed to maneuver himself home at three o'clock in the morning,
singing softly to himself.

He woke up with a horrible headache, but he felt wonderful inside.
