
It was. Crayley took a quick look up and down the corridor and stepped
inside. He locked the door behind him. If anyone tried to come in, he'd
be able to cover. It was better to have someone wonder why the door was
locked than to be caught messing with the tapes when he shouldn't be.
Of course, if someone did try the door, it would mean that his chance
of getting Klythe this time would be gone. But there would always be
another time.

First, the tape. He flipped open the cover to the receiving reel. Sure
enough, it was still there from yesterday's trial run, a huge reel of
foot-wide blue plastic ribbon. Good enough.

He punched the "fast" button and ran it through to the last few minutes
of the recording. He glanced at the monitor screen. The model was still
on the assembly table in the tunnel deep underground.

He cut off the current to the secondaries and switched on the manual
controls. Then he put his hands into one set of gloves and wiggled his
fingers. The secondaries in the room below remained motionless.

Number Nineteen Experimental ought to be empty. He withdrew his hand
and turned the selector knob on the monitor screen to Nineteen. No one
there. He switched on the power, letting the last few minutes of the
taped recording feed into the secondaries in Nineteen.

The waldoes in the screen went through the motions of finishing the
assembly--meaningless gestures in the empty air--then fell into the
"ready" position. Crayley hit the stop button, then switched back to
the tunnel where the model lay.

He took a deep breath. Now came the touchy part. He hadn't handled a
pair of primary waldoes for years, and this thing had to be done just
right.

He had already decided which of the positions he would have to use and
what he would have to do. Now, if only his timing was good. It didn't
have to be perfect; that was the beauty of the plan. But it did have to
be pretty close.

He turned on the waldoes without turning on the recorder and slipped
his hands into the gloves. Then, using the foot switch, he kicked on
the close-up screen for the position he was occupying. The screen
showed the secondaries of the hands he was using. He wiggled his
fingers. The secondaries wiggled theirs.

Then he reached out and gingerly touched the model. The secondaries
touched the steel plate, and the feedbacks sent back a signal.
Crayley's gloves felt the resistance just as though the model were
right there in the room.

Several times, he reached out his right hand to one particular spot on
the model, practicing to make sure he could hit it every time. Fine,
fine.

Then he took his left hand out of the glove, eyed the wall clock, and
turned on the recorder. The tape began to move through the recording
heads. For five minutes he waited.

Then, suddenly, he reached out with his right hand and grabbed the
regulator coil housing on the side of the model. As soon as his fingers
touched it, he hit the cut-off for the secondaries, knowing the
primaries would continue to record. He didn't want to ruin the model.
Simultaneously, he punched the high-power switch.

His right hand, in the primary, grasped at mid-air and jerked down
violently.

The thing was done. Had he forgotten anything? He thought for a moment.
No. All was well.

He cut off the recorder and started to shut off the primaries when his
eyes went to the screen. The secondary arm was still frozen where he
had left it, grasping the regulator coil housing!

He shuddered. If he'd missed that....

Quickly, he lowered the secondary to the "ready" position.

Had he forgotten anything? Anything at all?

He thought not, but he went over the whole thing in his mind again,
step by step, to make sure.

Nothing wrong, nothing missing. Fine. He wiped out the inside of the
primary gloves and walked to the door. No need to worry about any other
prints; he had been in that room often, and it might look funny if the
whole place was wiped clean. As a matter of fact, he really didn't need
to worry about the primaries; the grid inside them probably wouldn't
take a print anyway. Still, there was nothing like being cautious.

He opened the door and stepped out as if he had every right to be
there. No use peeking around corners; that would only rouse suspicion.

He strolled on down the corridor to the tube lift. He felt wonderful.
He actually grinned with his face. There was no one around to see it.
