
The job he had to do in Number Two kept him busy until well after
fourteen hundred, as he intended it should. He didn't want to get
there early, but he wanted to have a good excuse for being late.

He actually walked into the monitor room for Number Nine Production
Tunnel at fifteen-twenty. The Space Force officers were gathered around
the screen watching the unit take shape under the deft, mindless
fingers of the waldoes. The weird blue glow of radioactivity obscured
the finer details a little, but the operation was worth watching.

Major Stratford turned as he came in. "Hello, Mr. Crayley. I thought
you were down below with Mr. Klythe."

Crayley stroked his mustache and smiled a little. "I had some work to
do," he said apologetically. "I didn't get through until a few minutes
ago. I figured this would be as good a place to watch from as down
below."

Stratford grinned. "I suppose so. One screen is as good as another."

They watched. Stratford introduced him around to the other Space Force
officers, including a short little man with nervous eyes named Colonel
Green who was evidently Stratford's superior. Then everything became
silent as they watched the generator being built.

Crayley smiled inwardly as he saw that the hulking generator had
already blocked off the view of the one waldo he'd gimmicked. No one
would be able to see what happened on the screen, and those who saw it
directly wouldn't tell anyone.

Exultant, Crayley watched the screen through the mask of his face. Very
shortly, he would again be Director. When Klythe had gone to Denver to
take the Big Gamble, he'd left Crayley as Acting Director, with the
stipulation that he was to become Permanent Director if Klythe failed
to live through the grueling torture of the Rejuvenation chambers.
Naturally, Crayley had had every right to feel that the position was
already his. He had never considered that Klythe might be one of those
few who would live through the Big Gamble.

Even when Klythe had come back, Crayley hadn't immediately considered
him as a block in his path; there was always the chance of the
Breakdown.

Sometimes something went wrong with Rejuvenation, even when the patient
lived through the year. Instead of being better than normal, the body
went out of kilter. Some little thing, probably--they hadn't pinpointed
it yet. A gland that malfunctioned, a nerve blockage, something.
Whatever it was, the rejuvenee suddenly began to age rapidly after a
few months, dying of acute senility within the year.

But when a year had passed and Berin Klythe was as healthy as ever,
Lewis Crayley had begun to plot murder. And now the plans had matured;
soon they would bear fruit. Soon he would be Director--_Permanent_
Director. As Director, it would be easy to erase the end of that tape
before anyone else got their hands on it. He, himself, would be the one
to head the investigation of the accident.

Crayley watched the assembly impatiently from behind his face.

The hands and arms and fingers of the waldoes in the screen worked
together with precision as they put the last finishing touches to
the generator unit. Finally they were finished; the arms assumed the
"ready" position.

Crayley almost held his breath. Everything depended on Klythe now.
Klythe, with his impatience, his pride in a piece of work well done,
his eagerness to be sure of perfection; Klythe himself was the only
weak link in the chain that led to his own death.

The tunnel was still flooded with radioactivity. In production, that
wouldn't matter; the next set would slide into place and the hands
would begin again. But this was a test run; the record would be allowed
to run to the end instead of recycling, while the huge pumps replaced
the argon atmosphere with air suitable for breathing. The radioactive
stuff was pumped to a cooling chamber, where its silent violence would
be allowed to expend itself below the danger point.

Five minutes. Crayley could see in his mind's eye that tape running
through the pickup head, running through five minutes of nothing. Then
a light flashed above the door to the tunnel as the detectors signalled
the all-clear. It was safe to enter the tunnel now.

Crayley found himself clenching his teeth for a fraction of a second
before Klythe opened the door and stepped through. There was a long,
almost timeless instant as Crayley watched Klythe's face on the screen.
Then there was a sudden sound, a brilliant light, and the screen went
dead.
