
Crayley smiled inside himself as he yelled and sprinted out to the tube
lift. The hidden hand of the secondary had reached up and ripped off
the regulator coil--housing, innards, and all. The resulting explosion
had been felt, even up here, as a dull rumble.

The lower level was a mess. The emergency door had slammed down to
prevent the spread of contaminated air, and the huge pumps were going
full blast to clear the area. At the first door, Lesker, one of the
safety engineers, stopped him.

"You can't go in there, Lew. One whiff of that stuff, and you'd be
gone."

"What happened?" Crayley asked briskly.

Lesker shrugged. "Who knows? That new generator blew, somehow. Not much
harm done, really; as far as we can tell, the only real damage was in
the tunnel itself. The temperature must have averaged better than a
thousand Centigrade for a few seconds, though it was a lot hotter than
that at the center of the blaze. It's cooled down a little now, but
that generator must still be burning." He stopped for a second, then:
"Nobody got out of it alive. We're sending in the mobiles now. The
secondaries in there won't work. It's going to be a rough job because
we'll have to use cables; we couldn't possibly get a UHF beam through
that static."

The safety men were setting up a monitor screen bank for the mobile
waldoes. Two of them, four-foot wheeled robots with TV cameras mounted
where human heads would be, rolled up to the closed door.

"It's safe in that first section," Lesker said. "Roll 'em in." He
turned back to Crayley. "You'd better get on a radiation suit if you
want to watch this. We've got to seal off this section from the rest
and open up the corridor all the way down to let the cables through.
There's still a lot of hot air in there in spite of the pumps."

Crayley climbed into a suit and adjusted the air flow. Then he walked
over to where the safety technicians were putting on the primary gloves
for the mobile waldoes. From each control board, a long snake of cable
ran to the mobile it controlled. The safety men switched on the power
and the mobiles rolled down the corridor out of sight.

Crayley watched their progress over the shoulder of one of the safety
techs. The screen showed the walls of the corridor sliding by. Then
there was a shifting as the camera panned to the left. After several
more turns, the robot came to the door of Tunnel Nine. The door itself
lay crumpled against the far wall. Two bodies lay near it. The robot
glided into the tunnel itself.

The inside of the tunnel was still fiercely hot; the new generator
glowed a yellow orange, and the waldo secondaries had been warped and
ruined by the heat.

And on the floor, human in shape only, lay what had once been Berin
Klythe.

The mobiles went to work to take care of the glowing hulk of the ruined
generator.

Crayley looked at the safety engineer. "There's not much I can do down
here," he said. "You take care of the bodies, will you?"

Lesker nodded. He seemed suddenly to realize that he was speaking to
the new Director. "You can shuck your suit in the next section. I'll
let you know how things are going."

Crayley felt quite light-hearted by the time he reached the upper
levels again. In fact, he was almost ready to sing. It had been so
easy, so simple! They had called Berin Klythe a genius and given him a
chance at the Big Gamble; well, let them see who was the genius now!
The plan itself had been a stroke of genius.

There was only one thing left to do; slip into the control room and
erase the tail end of that tape. The explosion would go down as
"unexplained." Berin Klythe had died in an industrial accident--and
Lewis Crayley would replace him.
