
When he opened the control room door, only his mask of a face saved
him. The room was full of men.

"What's going on here?" he asked softly.

One of the younger engineers turned toward him. "These men say they're
going to confiscate the tape, Mr. Crayley." He waved in the direction
of the uniformed Space Force men.

Crayley looked mildly at Major Stratford. "I'm Acting Director here,
Major. I'm afraid I can't let you take our property."

The major turned to the smaller man standing nearby. "Colonel, perhaps
you'd better--"

"I'll take care of it," the smaller man said choppily. "We're not
confiscating it, exactly, Mr. Crayley. The tape will remain where it
is. Immediately after the accident, I phoned the Executive Secretary at
the capital. He is sending down an investigating board by special jet."

"May I ask why this rather high-handed action, Colonel Green?"

The colonel patted the air with a nervous hand. "Calm yourself, Mr.
Crayley. I am Fenwick Greene; the 'colonel' is merely a military title
I have to put up with."

"_Fenwick_ Greene!" It was one of the few times in his life that
Crayley's screen, his wall, his defense, collapsed. "My--my apologies,
sir! I didn't realize--I mean, I had no idea it was you--in the Space
Force!"

He had never seen Fenwick Greene's picture, of course. No newspaper
would dare commit such a flagrant violation of privacy.

Greene accepted Crayley's hand for a few seconds, then withdrew his own
hand. "I was--ah--drafted," he explained.

Major Stratford smiled. "When the Space Force needs men, they pick the
best."

Crayley nodded dumbly. Fenwick Greene was undoubtedly the greatest
co-ordination engineer who had ever lived. The late Berin Klythe
couldn't hold a candle to him. His waldo recordings were like
symphonies of precision and speed. Someone had once said that, given
enough recording technicians and enough time to train them his way,
Fenwick Greene could build a spaceship faster than parts could be made
for it. It was an exaggeration, of course, but it showed what the trade
thought of Fenwick Greene.

Greene tapped his teeth with his thumbnail. "We aren't confiscating the
tape; we simply want it run. We're guarding it."

"Why?" Crayley asked bluntly.

Greene pulled a folded sheet of paper from his pocket. "This is a
communication from Berin Klythe to the Construction Command of the
Space Force. In it, he notified us that the test would be run today.
He also says--" Greene held up the paper. "Quote: 'due to the fact
that the Space Force has insisted that I use their technicians for the
recording of this unit, I hardly feel I can claim that the recording is
up to my usual standards. Had I been permitted to use my own men, I am
sure better construction would have been obtained.'" Greene replaced
the paper in his pocket.

"Naturally," he continued, "we don't think there is anything really
wrong with the recording. Klythe, like myself, was a perfectionist.
However, we would like to have the tape played before an examining
board in order to clear ourselves and possibly clear Berin's own name.
I watched the construction from beginning to end, and I could find
no fault with it. However, we want a qualified board to check it.
You see--" He coughed apologetically. "--I trained those technicians
myself."

Crayley nodded. "I see."

There was nothing he could do. If he objected, they'd know who
gimmicked the tape. Well, no matter. They'd know how Berin Klythe had
died, but they wouldn't know who had done it.

He was in hot water, and he knew it, but he wasn't licked yet.
