
I shuddered as Derby paused. Surely, I _had_ known the difference--yet
could I accept an explanation as insane as this? But my distracted
caller was growing even wilder.

"I had to save myself--I had to, Dan! She'd have got me for good at
Hallowmass--they hold a Sabbat up there beyond Chesuncook, and the
sacrifice would have clinched things. She'd have got me for good--she'd
have been I, and I'd have been she--for ever--too late--My body'd have
been hers for good--She'd have been a man, and fully human, just as she
wanted to be--I suppose she'd have put me out of the way--killed her
own ex-body with me in it, damn her, _just as she did before_--just as
she, he, or it did before----"

Edward's face was now atrociously distorted, and he bent it
uncomfortably close to mine as his voice fell to a whisper.

"You must know what I hinted in the car--_that she isn't Asenath at
all, but really old Ephraim himself_. I suspected it a year and a half
ago, and I know it now. Her handwriting shows it when she goes off
guard--sometimes she jots down a note in writing that's just like her
father's manuscripts, stroke for stroke--and sometimes she says things
that nobody but an old man like Ephraim could say. He changed forms
with her when he felt death coming--she was the only one he could find
with the right kind of brain and a weak enough will--he got her body
permanently, just as she almost got mine, and then poisoned the old
body he'd put her into. Haven't you seen old Ephraim's soul glaring out
of that she-devil's eyes dozens of times--and out of mine when she has
control of my body?"

The whisperer was panting, and paused for breath. I said nothing, and
when he resumed, his voice was nearer normal. This, I reflected, was
a case for the asylum, but I would not be the one to send him there.
Perhaps time and freedom from Asenath would do its work. I could see
that he would never wish to dabble in morbid occultism again.

"I'll tell you more later--I must have a long rest now. I'll tell you
something of the forbidden horrors she led me into--something of the
age-old horrors that even now are festering in out-of-the-way corners
with a few monstrous priests to keep them alive. Some people know
things about the universe that nobody ought to know, and can do things
that nobody ought to be able to do. I've been in it up to my neck, but
that's the end. Today I'd burn that damned _Necronomicon_ and all the
rest if I were librarian at Miskatonic.

"But she can't get me now. I must get out of that accursed house as
soon as I can, and settle down at home. You'll help me, I know, if I
need help. Those devilish servants, you know--and if people should
get too inquisitive about Asenath. You see, I can't give them her
address.... Then there are certain groups of searchers--certain cults,
you know--that might misunderstand our breaking up ... some of them
have damnably curious ideas and methods. I know you'll stand by me if
anything happens--even if I have to tell you a lot that will shock
you...."
