
Quietly a cavalcade formed, converged in Solomon's front yard and parked
facing the road ready for quick departure. Some dozen civilians muddied
shoes and trousers circling the junk yard, taking stations so they could
watch all approaches. Once they were in position, a Highway patrolman
and two civilians went to Solomon's door.

His last cup of coffee was almost gone as Solomon heard the noise of
their shoes, followed by knuckles thumping his front door. Wondering
who could be in such a hurry, so early in the morning, he pulled on
boots and buttoned a denim jacket as he went to answer. "Hello," said
Solomon to the patrolman, while opening the door. "Why you bother me so
early? You know I only buy cars from owners."

"No, Mr. Solomon, we're not worried about your car buying. This man,
from Washington, wants to ask you a few questions."

"Sure, come in," Solomon replied.

The questions were odd: Do you have explosives here? Can you weld metal
tanks? What is your education? Were you ever an engineer? What were you
doing last night? To these, and bewildering others, Solomon told the
truth. He had no explosives, couldn't weld, didn't finish school and was
here, in bed, all night.

Then they wanted to see his cars. Through the back door, so he'd not
have to open the office, Solomon led the three men into his yard. Once
inside, and without asking permission, they began searching like a
hungry hound trailing a fat rabbit. Solomon's eyes, blinking in the
glare of early morning sun, watched invasion of his privacy. "What they
want?" he wondered. He'd broken no laws in all the years he'd been in
the United States. "For what do they bother a wrecking yard?" he asked
himself.

His depressing thoughts were rudely shattered by a hail from the larger
civilian, standing at the back of Solomon's yard. There, three old cars
stood in an isolated row. "Solomon, come here a moment," he shouted.
Solomon trudged back, followed by the short civilian and patrolman who
left their curious searching to follow Solomon's lead. When he neared,
the tall stranger asked, "I see where weeds grew under other cars which,
from the tracks, have been moved out in the past few weeks. How many did
you have?"

"Twenty; but these are all I have left," Solomon eagerly replied, hoping
at last he'd a customer for the best of his old cars. "They make classic
cars, if you'd take the time to fix them up. That one, the Hupmobile, is
the last--"

"Who bought the others?" the big man interrupted.

"No one," quavered Solomon, terror gripping his throat with a nervous
hand. Had he done wrong to send cars into the sky? Everyone else was
sending things up. Newspapers said Russians and Americans were racing to
send things into the air. What had he done that was wrong? Surely there
was no law he'd broken. Wasn't the air free, like the seas? People
dumped things into the ocean.

"Then where did they go?" snapped his questioner.

"Up there," pointed Solomon. "I needed the space. They were too good to
cut up. No one would buy them. So I sent them up. The newspapers--"

"You did what?"

"I sent them into the sky," quavered Solomon. So this is what he did
wrong. Would they lock him up? What would happen to his cars? And his
business?

"How did you ... no! Wait a minute. Don't say a word. Officer, go and
tell my men to prevent anyone from approaching or leaving this place."
The patrolman almost saluted, thought better of it, and left grumbling
about being left out of what must be something big.

Solomon told the civilians of matching vacuum in intake manifolds to
pressure from exhaust manifolds. A logical way to make an engine that
would run on pressure, like satellite engines he'd read about in
newspapers. It worked on a cracked engine block, so he'd used scrap
manifolds to get rid of old cars no one would buy. It hadn't hurt
anything, had it?

       *       *       *

Well, no, it hadn't. But as you can imagine, things happened rather
fast. They let Solomon get clean denims and his razor. Then without a
bye-your-leave, hustled him to the Ontario airport where an unmarked jet
flew him to Washington and a hurriedly arranged meeting with the
President. They left guards posted inside the fence of Solomon's yard,
so they'll cause no attention while protecting his property. A rugged
individual sits in the office and tells buyers and sellers alike, that
he is Solomon's nephew. "The old man had to take a trip in a hurry."
Because he knows nothing of the business, they'll have to wait until
Solomon returns.

Where's Solomon now? Newspaper stories have him in Nevada showing the
Air Force how to build gigantic intake and exhaust manifolds, which the
Strategic Air Command is planning to attach to a stratospheric
decompression test chamber. They figure if they can throw it into the
sky, they can move anything up to what astronomers now call Solomon's
Orbit, where at last count, sixteen of the seventeen cars are still
merrily circling the earth. As you know, one recently hit the Russian
television satellite.

The Russians? We're told they're still burning their fingers trying to
orbit a car. They can't figure how to control vacuum and pressure from
the manifolds. Solomon didn't tell many people about the shingles he
uses for control panels, and the Russians think control is somehow
related to kitchen matches a newspaper reporter found scattered behind a
station wagon in Solomon's junk yard.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Analog Science Fact Science Fiction_
    November 1962. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.



