
He sat down suddenly. He stared up at the man.

"Say it again," he muttered.

He knew what the answer would be even before the man repeated it in
that quiet voice.

"This is June 3, 2054."

The fellow wasn't kidding him. He was serious enough. But a couple
of minutes ago it had been May 15, 1954. He looked at his watch and
grunted. Less than four minutes ago it had been 1954. Reality. Now it
was June 3, 2054. There were four steel walls. There was a steel chair.
There were no windows.

He tried to take it calmly. But the unbelievable horror of being
_where_ he was and _when_ he was and the man calmly repeating, "This
is June 3, 2054," screamed for release.

"No! No! You're lying! It's impossible!" He grabbed the man's tunic and
drew back a doubled fist. His chair went over behind him.

Then a stiff thumb jabbed him in the short ribs and he grunted and went
down.

"This is June 3, 2054. You are still in Louisville, Kentucky. You are
standing in a room adjoining the laboratory in the Time Building on
3rd Street at Eastern Parkway. This is the receiving room. My name is
Kevin Ilaria. You've come through time. Is that so impossible to grasp?
You're a thinking man. Educated!"

He looked up from the floor.

"Well?"

"So I'm a thinking man and an educated man. And what happens? I'm
sapped. I'm shanghaied. I'm walking down Confederate Place to my old
fraternity house at 1:00 in the morning. I've just had a row with
my girl. I'm heading for the fraternity house to see who'll go down
to Herman's and get good and drunk with me. And somebody clobbers
me. The next thing I remember I'm sitting in a steel chair in a
steel room without any windows. Just like this one. There's a man
standing there. A man with watery, myopic eyes under bushy brows and
his hair parted in the middle. He's Doctor Borley, of the University
of Louisville Chemistry Department. There's another man with him. A
little fellow with thick glasses and a crew cut and eyes like the slits
between closed Venetian blinds. He's Doctor Schink, of the Psychology
Department. They're talking about me."

"Umn hmn. Now you're beginning to sound normal. Doctors Borley and
Schink are our agents in 1954. Do you know where you were?"

"I told you. In some sort of steel room without win--"

The man made an impatient gesture with his hand. "No, I mean _where_.
You were in a steel chamber in the Daynolds Metals Plant. It stood on
this spot in 1954. Two people knew--know--about that room."

"Doctor Borley and Doctor Schink?"

"I'm glad you've calmed down. Now we can talk."

Jay wasn't quite ready to calm down. "You stand there in that Roman
outfit and talk about being calm. To me. To me, Jay Welch, a history
major who took his AB from the University of Louisville in 1950. Jay
Welch, average guy, who got into an average argument with the girl he
pinned in 1950 and went for a walk to drown his sorrows and wound up
one hundred years from where--when--he started. I--"

"Then you admit you've come through Time?"

"I may as well."

Ilaria cursed quietly. "But you're not an average guy. You have a
working knowledge of chemistry and biology and physics and history
and a few arts and sociology and psychology and geopolitics and
literature and the English language as spoken in AD 1954. You hope to
be successful as a writer. You're Public Relations Consultant with
Duo-Point, one of the biggest corporations in your nation in 1954."

"Yes," Jay Welch said. "And I make good money. Even better than a bus
driver or a steam-fitter. So?"

"So here you are. 1954's representative to 2054." Ilaria was only a
man. He could not keep the flourish and the Hollywood grandeur out of
his voice.

"Yes! And what happens tomorrow when I don't show up for work? What
happens in a few days when people find out I've disappeared? What
happens when they find out Julie was the last person I was with? What--"

"You're getting yourself worked up again, Jay Welch. Don't you think
we have thought of those things? We've brought you across one hundred
years, Jay Welch."

"Yes," Jay said quietly, flatly. "Yes." Then just as flatly, just as
quietly he said, "Why?"

"So you've remembered to wonder about that at last." Ilaria smiled.
Jay noticed that the smile was one-sided and pulled back the left
corner of Ilaria's mouth. He stood there and looked down at Jay Welch,
who had forgotten that he was sitting on the floor. His tunic was
white and there were three diamond-shaped silver pieces in a vertical
line on each elbow-length sleeve. There was a wide blue stripe and a
narrow silver stripe at the hem of his tunic and at his sleeves. He
wore sandals. His belt was leather and there was a holstered pistol of
some sort hanging at his left hip. In tiny blue script above his left
breast pocket were the words 'Trib. Ilaria'. On the pocket was a red
disk with the letters PR. A silver-worked blue cloak was flung over
his shoulders. Except for the identification and the odd fabric of his
clothes and the holstered gun he looked very like a young Roman of the
first century.

Ilaria's slow smile pulled back the left corner of his mouth. "Because
you are who you are and what you are. Because you attended the
University of Louisville and Doctors Borley and Schink knew you.
Because they chose you. Merely because they chose you. They might've
chosen anyone else.

"We've your personality pretty well mapped out. We expected violence.
That's why I'm here. I'm a psychologist and an anthropologist. I'm a
fast-talker and I can convince people and place them at ease. I'm also
big enough to handle you, Jay Welch."

From his position on the floor Jay looked up at Ilaria and decided the
man from 2054 was big enough. Jay Welch was six feet one inch tall. He
weighed one seventy-three and wore a 40-long suit. Kevin Ilaria was
bigger.

Jay was forced to grin. The tall blond man was a likeable guy, at that.
A human being.

"Who are you?"

"Kevin Ilaria. Doctor of Psychology. That entitles me to the silver
band on my tunic. Also a Tribune. That entitles me to the blue stripe
and the three silver diamonds and the gun."

"A Tribune? In what? Of what?"

"In the Forces. In the actual ranks, a Tribune commands 7,000 men, 250
planes or a base, or 40 tanks. But I've never had a chance to go into
the field. There has been no cause to fight. Meantime I'm stationed at
Standiford Field as second-in-command. A friend of mine named Rinaldi
fills in for me. He's a Sub-Tribune.

"I've been specializing in the study of Time."

"The way you say Time it sounds as though it were capitalized. Where I
come from Time with a capital T is a magazine."

Kevin Ilaria laughed. He reached down a hand. "Get up," he said, and,
taking Jay's forearm, helped him to his feet.

"Let's go," he said.

Jay didn't bother to ask where they were going. He followed the Tribune
out the door and into the hall. On the wall just outside the door, was
a black box. Two squares cut into it shone with a faint white light.
Ilaria paused and shielded the lighted areas a moment with his hand,
and Jay saw the light go out in the room they had just left. Ilaria
closed the door. As he turned, Jay saw the white letters PR emblazoned
on the back of his cloak.

"This way," he said. Jay noticed that Ilaria walked on his right, so
that the Tribune's gun was between them.

"The way I said Time, it _is_ capitalized. It means all the Time since
the beginning. It's a corporation, like your Duo-Point. Only much
larger, and much less known. Our job is to learn."

"That's a big order," Jay commented. "You learn
by--borrowing--emissaries?"

Ilaria laughed again. "Thanks for the phraseology, but it wouldn't
worry me if you called it 'kidnaping' or 'shanghaiing.' You're right,
of course. We learn by sending men from this age to other ones, and by
pulling men from other ages to this one. Doctor Schink is our Emissary
to 1954. His real name is Clyde Gabrinaldi. Borley is our contact
there ... rather, then."

"Well I'll be damned! I've gone to Clyde a lot of times for advice."

The left corner of Ilaria's mouth pulled back as his grin widened. "Umn
hmn. He's married, too. With a child. He's there for good."

Jay was afraid to ask if emissaries from the past to 2054 were "there
for good" too. He changed the subject.

"You started to tell me before--"

"Oh, yes. I'm to be your teacher and companion. But I'll try to give
you a quick fill-in. Our world of 2054 is quite different from yours.
And, we hope, in better shape. We've proved that the only way to
maintain world peace is by world government. And the only successful
type of government is a dictatorship."

Jay gasped. "You mean the entire world--has reverted to _dictatorship_?"

Ilaria laughed. "Not _reverted_. We finally accepted it as the only
logical form of government for an entire world."

"What happens when the dictator goes wild? He always has."

The smile was there again. "You're not quite ready for that," Ilaria
told him. "But, it has been taken into consideration."

Out of the corner of his eye, Jay saw the slight puff of Ilaria's
chest, the self-satisfied square of his shoulders, the quick set of his
jaw. He wondered what part Tribune Kevin Ilaria played in the 'dictator
control' this world had provided.

"The system has worked and is working. See this?"

They turned a corner in the corridor and faced a great domed room.
On the far wall hung a white tapestry of something like 40 x 40 foot
dimensions. On it, emblazoned in letters of red and yellow made to look
like flame, were the characters PPB. In the lower right-hand corner, in
white outlined with blue, was the same PR that Ilaria wore. Jay waited
for the Tribune's explanation.

"PpB stands for Pax per Bello," Ilaria explained. "Peace through War.
That slogan was written in 1967 by Julius and adapted in 1971 as
official."

"Julius?"

"Yes. The first Dictator."

Things were beginning to click in Jay's mind.

"I think I know what PR stands for," he said. "Pax Romana."

As always, Ilaria smiled. "That's right," he said.
