
And in the more peaceful city of Louisville, Jay Welch was introduced
to Kevin Ilaria's best friend, his adjutant at Standiford Field.

Jay took a liking to Sub-Tribune Jason Rinaldi the moment he felt the
fellow's firm grip.

"Jason is adjutant," Ilaria explained. "And one of the few 'field
soldiers' who manages to get along with Caesar's Pretorian Prefect,
Lamberti. How he does it, I don't know. Lamberti's absolutely
unbearable."

"Prejudice. Middle-class prejudices," Rinaldi grinned. He was short and
very dark with a lot of black hair.

Ilaria's left cheek cracked into a long dimple as he smiled. "He picks
on me because I'm a serious psychologist."

Rinaldi laughed. "As a psychologist, Kevin, you're an excellent bridge
player. As a soldier--"

"Just remember who's got three bars and who has two."

Rinaldi waved his hand and shrugged. "They pass 'em out to psych boys
wholesale," he said, and ducked Ilaria's swing. "Slow reflexes, too,"
he added as he turned to go.

Ilaria stopped him at the door and murmured a few sentences.

Jay caught something about sabotage at Standiford. Rinaldi seemed to be
attributing it to the Commanding Officer there.

"Nice guy," Jay said as the door closed behind Rinaldi.

"You said it. Good officer, too. He'll root out the bird who's playing
around out there. Can't figure out why it's being done."

"Factions," Jay said, "--within factions."

"Little ones always exist, I guess. Have you finished with the history
films?"

"I've seen them, yes. I'm still trying to digest them."

"The language give you much trouble?"

"Quite a bit, but I think I got most of it.

"One man," Jay went on wonderingly. "One man. A Captain in the Italian
Army.

"The Communist forces in Indo-China had been driven back and
Captain--then Major--Lollabrigida went in after them.

"The defeat was becoming so terrible that the Kremlin dealt itself a
playing hand rather than the dummy it had been playing. Red forces came
piling in. Lollabrigida and his Italian troops stopped them cold. Then
he seemed to sway. And, when the Commies pounced for the kill, they
were trapped, pocketed, and annihilated.

"American newspapers and commentators began to call Major Julius
Lollabrigida 'Julius Caesar.' Italy became big overnight. The Big Three
became Russia, the United States, and Italy. Lollabrigida appealed to
America--sometime in there they made him a Colonel, but he was actually
telling the Generals and the Italian government what to do--for aid in
going ahead aggressively.

"And America turned him down. They were still playing 'wait and see.'
They waited. They waited too long. The Commies got tired of waiting
around and sent a couple of jet bombers with A-bombs."

"Now you're telling me things," Ilaria interrupted. "I'm pretty shady
on that period myself."

Jay shrugged. "It was after my time. All I know is what the films show.
Two planes, each with a seven-man crew, and each carrying one atomic
bomb, were dispatched from an airbase somewhere near Juneau." Jay
stopped.

"And?"

The man from 1954 choked. It was hard to be objective about this. It
wasn't so easy for him to pass off as the film had done.

"And--" he hesitated.

"It's over, Jay. It's done with. It doesn't even concern you anymore.
It belongs to a past era."

"One was headed for New York. The other struck farther inland ... for
Washington. The first one was shot down by an F-117 border patrol
plane. The other one got through. It--it levelled the capitol. Almost
completely. The White House and the Pentagon were destroyed."

Ilaria sat quietly and waited. Jay didn't go on.

"Thus removing the United States of America, as such, from a prominent
position in the world picture," Ilaria said.

"Yes. I can't understand it. Everything just folded up. SAC
didn't even get off the ground. And Colonel Lollabrigida, by then
Commander-in-Chief of the UN forces, sent fifty planes, each with
one A-bomb, over the Kremlin. One was shot down over Vladivostok,
but the bombardier pulled the firing pin as the ship crashed and
most of Vladivostok was destroyed. Six other planes made it to their
destinations and dropped their loads. I can't remember the cities ...
one was a new super airbase near Moscow. Five of the planes returned.
None had managed to reach Moscow. Half the world was in ruins. The Pope
begged that the War be stopped."

Ilaria snorted. "He knew they'd hit Rome!"

Jay looked at him. "Is that what you think?"

Ilaria shrugged and flashed that quick, winning smile. "There are no
other motives, are there?"

Jay stared. What changes had taken place in religious philosophy in
this hard-bitten world of 2054?

Kevin Ilaria shrugged, smiling. "That's unimportant. Let's go on with
the history lesson. Then what?"

"Uh--oh, yes. As I remember Julius Lollabrigida, to be trite, launched
an 'all-out offensive' against Communist forces everywhere. People were
afraid of Russia, but they were afraid of Lollabrigida and Rome, too.
So they joined him. Aid poured into the UN. Czechoslovakia was taken
and Poland and Hungary and finally only the old Russia of pre World War
II days was left. And in they went.

"Then Lollabrigida's saboteurs exploded an atomic bomb in the heart of
Moscow. After that it was pretty easy sledding."

"Astounding how a nation seems to fall apart when its capitol and its
leaders are gone," Ilaria remarked.

"Everybody and everything folds," Jay said. "Morale dies.

"After the demolition of Moscow and other parts of the USSR, Italy
stood at the top. General of the Armies Julius Lollabrigida marched
back into Italy and into Rome and into the capitol and up on a
pedestal. He stood as Italy's utter ruler. His last name was lost and
replaced by 'Caesar II.' He was named Dictator.

"From mighty Rome, Caesar sent out linguists and anthropologists and
ethnologists and psychologists and military men and others. In twenty
years, twenty peaceful years, Italian had become the language of the
world. A few minor uprisings in America and in Japan were smashed.
Julius Caesar II was World Dictator of the Republic of Earth. Someone
in America denied him and was torn to pieces by the people. Someone
in Italy spread literature of dissension and was hunted down and
liquidated by Caesar's personal police, the Pretoriani. And so it went.

"Caesar adopted a prominent Air Force Colonel who became Caesar III on
Lollabrigida's death. Each year on his birthday men were silent. No
business was transacted. No one left his home. Except blue-and-silver
clad soldiers, wearing PR armbands. Caesar's Pretorians. No one _dared_
venture out.

"During the reign of Caesar III, every person in the world changed his
last name to an Italian one. The Ali bens and the Chicos and the Andres
and the Fritzes and the Johns became Marianos and Roccos and Caldinis
and Campisanos and diManos."

There was silence for a moment.

"The thing I can't understand," Jay mused, "is why in all these years
there hasn't been a 'bad' Caesar, or an uprising."

"What do you mean by 'bad' Caesar?"

Jay shrugged. "In the first Pax Romana there was Caligula, who was
insane. Nero, who preferred artistic diversions to politics. There was
Galba, who didn't know what was going on. And so on. And on and on.
Your three dictators so far seem to have done excellent jobs. They seem
to be damned conscientious leaders."

"When you re-create something," Ilaria told him, "you try to eliminate
its faults."

"Of course. But what if Caesar's son or a Caesar's adopted son goes
bad?" Jay elucidated.

"So far we haven't had that problem to deal with. But we're ready. Each
time a new Dictator comes to power, one thousand top military men draw
folded pieces of plastipaper from a 'bowl.' On twenty of these are X's.
The others contain O's. The twenty X's are a secret organization, sworn
to kill the Dictator if it should become necessary. When Caesar, as you
say, 'goes bad'."

"Brilliant!" Jay breathed. "And he--Caesar--never knows who they are?"

"_No_ one ever knows," Ilaria said. "Not even the members. They remain
in contact, but none ever knows who the others are."

Jay remembered Ilaria's previous mention of the system, and the
unconscious swelling of the Tribune's chest at the time. "You're one,"
he said.

Ilaria was caught off guard. "I--yes," he said. "I won't ask how you
knew."

"A guess. Then you've been a--whatever it's called--for nine years,
during Caesar V's reign."

"That's right."

"And you don't know any of the others?"

"Only one. I found out accidentally. He--" Ilaria stopped.

Jay shrugged. "I won't ask any more questions along that line," he
promised. "But I still can't believe there haven't been any uprisings!"

"None. Caesar II died of a heart attack. Caesar III had a brain tumor
which we learned about too late. His son never had a chance to prove
himself, other than that he was brave and foolish. He swam the Rubicon
at its widest point, then walked to Rome in his shorts in the dead of
winter. He died of pneumonia. Caesar V, our Dictator today, is strong
and quiet. He holds the Empire firmly unified. But he does nothing
extraordinary. And he is too lenient."

"I just can't conceive of such perfection!"

Kevin Ilaria smiled. He walked over to the window and peered out.
"_You_ couldn't. But this _is_ the perfect government. Everyone
is satisfied. One ruler. One capitol. One army. One language. One
nationality. One world. One religion."

"I realize--" Jay halted. "One religion?" he demanded.

"Yes."

"What is it?" He found himself afraid of the answer. The indications
were there, in plain sight. He guessed it before Kevin Ilaria turned
from the window and said:

"Caesarism."
