
The man called Gaius Julius Caesar Imperator V turned from the window
and rubbed his hand over his graying hair.

"This is the first time I've ever run into anything of this sort."

The President of the Senate shrugged. He was an old man who had been
placed in the Senate by his father in 1980. So long ago that people
wondered when he would die. They were tired of these old men dictating
to their ruler, as many people before them had been tired. The rise of
the President of the Senate to leadership of that revered group had not
been meteoric by any means. But his maintenance of the position had
been tenacious. He was a careful man.

The President of the Senate shrugged. "It is. It is the first time
anything of this sort has ever come up, Julius. Therefore it is up to
you to set an example."

Caesar glanced over at General Bonadella. The General nodded in
agreement with Senator Chianti.

"This sort of business can break up the Empire if it's allowed to
continue, Caesar," he said, in his pompous military way. "I say death."

Major DeCosta nodded quietly.

"Thumbs down all around, is it?" Caesar sat down behind his desk and
picked up the speaker of his private cable to London. He looked at the
three men.

"Commander in charge of Garrison C," he said.

There was a silent moment.

They looked up as Prefect Lamberti of the Pretorians, the Imperial
personal bodyguard (it had progressed far beyond that. Its enrollment
was tremendous; its power second only to the Dictator's) came in. The
Senator nodded. The two field soldiers turned quickly away. The men of
the field did not get along with the Pretorian dandies.

"Commander? This is the Dictator," Caesar said unnecessarily. The
garrison commander knew that only one person could call him on that
line. The phone would react to no voice other than Caesar's.

"Have you the fellow who was preaching dissension? I say one year in
prison. You heard me. Yes, one year. What? No! No torture!" He severed
connections and looked up at his advisers.

Prefect Lamberti shook his head. Senator Chianti turned and stalked
out. After a moment General Bonadella followed. The Major turned away
to stare out the window. He shook his head.

"del Ponta? This is the Dictator," that quiet, flat voice said behind
him. Caesar was calling the under-chief of the Pretoriani. "I will
speak tomorrow from the balcony. Yes. 1400. Of course. World-wide.
That's right. Oh, I suppose about a quarter 'til."

The man who ruled the world stood up and stared at Major DeCosta's
back. At forty-one, Caesar was a gaunt man with stooped shoulders and
sad lines running from his nostrils to the corners of his mouth. His
forehead was lined and re-lined, and the keen brown eyes were dulled
with years of decisions and hard work.

He was tired.

They called him the Hound because his face bore the same sad, quiet
look worn by those dogs. And they called him weak because he let
offenders off too easily.

DeCosta turned around. The young Major met his Chief's gaze.

"Well?" The voice of the Dictator was quiet and calm.

DeCosta's eyes flickered. He straightened militarily. He shrugged.

"It is not for me to say, Sir."

A slow smile spread over those weary features. "And you, Farouk?"

Lamberti stretched out his arm and balled his fist with the thumb
extended and pointing down. "You know me, Caesar."

"I do. Even my best friend disagrees with my decisions now, after all
these years of elbow-rubbing.

"You are usually more out-spoken, Major DeCosta. Have you nothing more
to say?"

DeCosta's reply was slow in coming but rapid in delivery. "I am around
Caesar much of late," he rapped out. His back was stiff and military as
he strode out of the Dictator's office.

Prefect Lamberti's gloved hand dropped to the butt of his gun, but
Caesar shook his head in gentle negation.

Julius Caesar Imperator V gazed sadly at the closed door.
