
Half across the world a door swung open and a tall dark man with
piercing black eyes and a twin-tufted beard came in. His dark-green
garment, faintly resembling a trench-coat, was double-breasted and
belted and military cut. His feet were encased in plastileather boots
which clicked as he came to attention before the desk.

The plate on the desk read "Praefectus Praetoriani."

"Major del Ponta, Sir."

The man behind the desk looked up. "At ease, Major."

Major Ali ben del Ponta relaxed and waited.

The man behind the desk finished scanning the sheet of micro-paper,
marked something on it with a stylo, stuck it in the pneumatube on the
corner of his desk, and pushed the button to close his desk drawer. He
looked up at Major Ali ben del Ponta.

"Well?" He put his hands together, fingers touching.

"It has begun, Prefect Lamberti. All over the world our local men are
leading their followers in attack. Captain Abram Mazzoli has sent in
his report from Tel Aviv. The city is in his hands. Captain Mahomet
DiSanto's 'Raiders' have complete control of the Sahara. Captain
Arnaldi's forces are firmly entrenched in the old Washington area of
America. He will move northward to meet Colonel Magnani's forces from
Canada and Commander Campisano. They--"

"Campisano's airborne ready to roll?"

"Yes, Sir. Arrangements have been made. The drop will be just outside
New York."

"Alright. Then everything has gone off as scheduled?"

"Yes, Sir."

Prefect Farouk Lamberti regarded his deskchron thoughtfully.

"And Caesar will make his speech in twenty-five hours and thirty-three
minutes?"

Major del Ponta glanced at his own chron, which was strapped to the
third finger of his left hand. "Yes, Sir. At 1400, tomorrow."

"Have the twenty-foot 'visor screen activated for public showing. Mount
it outside as we'd planned."

"It's being taken care of, Sir. The screen is on its way to the Square.
There will be a crowd."

"Good. We all want to hear noble Caesar."

Del Ponta grinned. "Yes, Sir. We all do. Especially tomorrow."

"He doesn't know?--or suspect?"

"He shouldn't Sir. Our men took over and began covering up at once.
You know the atrocious condition of world communications systems. The
Empire could fall and Rome might not hear of it for days."

"That's what I was counting on ... that and the Disturber. The
degeneracy of the field military is terrible. They are allowing
themselves to get lazy and fat and careless."

"Yes, Sir."

"Have my car ready to drive to the Square behind Caesar's tomorrow.
See that the covermen in the houses around the Square are doubled and
double-checked. But when we go to the show, let's not have too great an
exhibition of Imperial power. We don't want this thing to backfire and
cut our own throats."

"Yes, Sir." Del Ponta's grin widened.

"Dismissed."

Del Ponta came to attention, saluted and about-faced and left.

Prefect Lamberti opened his desk drawer and took out his old service
pistol. It was a gamma gun. He had not released any of the deadly,
slow-acting rays from its chamber in seven years. But it was ready.

He opened another drawer and took out a white cloak, marked across the
back with a blue dove and the single word 'Liberacione.'

He checked the pistol.
