
When Tribune Kevin Ilaria stormed in twelve hours later, Jay noticed
his friend was wearing his gun again. The cyanide pistol had not swung
at his hip since the day of Jay's arrival. He was also surprised to
note that Ilaria wore boots and carried a steel helmet under his arm.

There was a new quality in his voice. Brittle, static. The soft tones
of the psychologist were gone.

Jay realized that this was Tribune Ilaria of the Forces, not Dr. Ilaria
the psychologist.

"You sure you want to leave here tomorrow?" he demanded curtly.

Instantly Jay was on the defence. "I am," he said coldly.

Ilaria's smile looked forced. "I've been authorized to offer you a
Sub-Tribunate in the Forces."

"What?"

"You've had experience. None of us have. You've been in actual combat,
in the Air Force."

"Why? I don't--"

"War," Ilaria said simply. "Rebellion."

Jay stared at him. He couldn't think of anything to say.

Ilaria turned away. "Paradise. The Iron Hand. One religion and one
language and all that. Utterly cock-sure. But ... we were wrong.
They've been getting ready. Training and planning. Collecting men and
arms. They began even before the empire was established."--Jay noticed
he said empire rather than republic--"All this time they've been
preparing and planning and ... waiting."

Jay was dumbfounded. "How big is it?"

Kevin Ilaria spread his hands. "Big enough. Their attack seems to
have been simultaneous all over the world. Something like commando or
guerrilla tactics. Quick, quiet attacks on a small scale."

He told Jay about the Tel Aviv incident and about Captain Spagnoletti
and a half-track disappearing in the rubble in the Washington area and
about intercontinental communication being shut off.

"Bomb 'em out," Jay said, without thinking.

"You don't bomb out fifth columnists, Jay.

"Last night they captured London and Tokyo and two-thirds of New York
and they captured Lollabrigida airbase in Madrid. They're wearing PR
uniforms and some kind of new uniform they've dreamed up. Most of them
aren't even uniformed. It's a hell of a mess."

"How long do you think it'll take to quell the thing?"

"I have no idea. I'm to take command at Standiford Field. Rinaldi
solved the saboteur problem ... it was Colonel Di Orio. Rinaldi and
some of his boys caught the Colonel and a few of _his_ men in the Radio
Room on the special 'Liberacione' wave length."

"In irons?" Jay wanted to know.

"No. They put up a fight. They were killed."

"You're flying?"

"Doubt it. I'll be one of those behind-the-scenes men. Supposed to be
valuable. Only in a mess like this you can't tell what's behind the
scenes and what's front line. They're liable to start on Louisville
next."

Ilaria hitched self-consciously at his gun-belt. He twisted his helmet
around a couple of times before he set it gingerly on his head. He
turned and opened the door and went out. His head came back in and said:

"I'm not sure it's the sort of thing you quell, Jay."

"Kevin! Wait! What'm I supposed to--"

He was gone.

Jay thought only a moment. Then he switched on the phone. At least
intercom systems were still in operation. The clerk at the desk
upstairs looked at him from the screen.

"This is the Man From 1954," Jay said, using the name by which everyone
called him. "Stop Tribune Ilaria as he goes out."

In an instant Kevin's head appeared.

"I'll go with you. Shall I get my uniform before we go to Standiford or
after?"

Ilaria grinned. "After," he said. "Grab the elevator and come on up."

This isn't your fight, Jay Welch, a voice told him as he opened the
door. You don't even belong here, Jay Welch, the voice told him as he
ran out into the hall. You're crazy to go to bat for these monsters,
Jay Welch, the voice told him as he pushed the elevator button. You
fought before for a bunch of people who didn't appreciate it one
damned bit, Jay Welch. Remember about the Iron Hand and the Negroes,
the voice told him as the doors opened and he stepped in. Remember you
were shanghaied, it said, as the car shot upward and the bottom of his
stomach felt as if it had been left behind. Remember you were going
back to Duo Point and Herman's and Joe Scaccia's restaurant and Julie
and tie and suit and Julie and the tight shoes and Julie and personal
freedom and Julie and Jerry, the black guy you worked with and liked
so well and Julie and the new Olds and Julie. Tomorrow you were going
back.

The doors shot back. He stepped out on the roof.

"Mister Welcci?" said the clerk. "That's Tribune Ilaria's plane over
there."

He pointed to the little PR ship marked with the three silver diamonds
of a Tribune and the staff of psychology. Jay ran. Wind was whipping
across the roof and their cloaks streamed out and fluttered. The three
men came together.

"This is Commander DeVito, Jay. Commander, Jay Welch, The Man From
1954." The way Ilaria said it always made it sound capitalized.

They shook hands. They got into the plane and shot straight up and the
city was a blur beneath them. In less than a minute the little flier
dropped down faster than any elevator and landed at Standiford.

"Sergeant, Sub-Tribune Welcci needs a uniform. A--"

"Forty long," Jay suggested, then colored. Tunic and a hundred years
made a difference in his size. He went with the supply-sergeant, who
gave him a correct fit the first time--times _have_ changed, Jay
grunted--and fitted him with a helmet on the second try. He felt a
tremor as he buckled on the pellet gun. With the cloak flapping about
his heels and the gun banging his leg and the helmet biting his ear
he ran to the elevator and down to the room Kevin had designated.
The Tribune and Commander DeVito and five or six other officers were
standing around a table in the steel-walled underground room.

Before them was a gigantic map. They looked up as Jay burst in.

"This is The Man From 1954," Ilaria said. There were hand-shakes all
around that reminded Jay of fraternity rush. DeVito and one of the
others wore wings. Jay wondered if that were still a pilot's insignia.

The red X's on the map, they told him, were places under attack. The
blue ones were areas taken by the fast-moving rebels. He learned that
the messenger-jet they'd sent to Rome--they were lost without their
instantaneous push-button communications system--hadn't made it. More
had been sent. Meanwhile they were on their own.

The nearest major battle was at Chicago, where Cocuzzi Flight Base was
located. Ilaria despatched Commander DeVito and something like fifty
jet fighters to Chicago. The other man was in charge of a group of B-90
Stratosonic bombers. They lifted their fists in stiff-armed salute and
left.

"The rest of the ships will remain here, ready for instant take-off.
I'll command interception. Sub-Tribune Rinaldi will command the base in
case I have to go up.

"I can't understand why we haven't been jumped yet. We must assume
they'll attack Louisville because of Standiford and the Time Building.
They'll also be interested in you, Jay."
