
By 2:00 that afternoon Louisville had not yet been attacked. Abruptly
at 1:59 world communications went into operation. Everyone turned on
his television set, wondering if Caesar's talk would go on as scheduled.

It did. There was a screaming crowd before the Capitol. On the high
balcony stood the Dictator. At his side stood Senator Chianti and
around them were ringed Caesar's Pretorian Guards. The city was nearly
empty of field soldiers. They had gone out to meet the insurgents.

"People of the Republic of Rome." The noise subsided as Caesar raised
his hands and spoke.

"You have all heard of the revolt now in progress against us throughout
the Empire."

Ilaria nodded at the Caesar's psychologically clever use of the word us.

"With your aid, my people, we can put a quick end to this treason.
You have seen better than half a century of peaceful, successful
government. These traitors and conspirators would attempt to overthrow
our government and put an end to this peace ... this Peace of Rome.

"The world is now in a state of emergency. If you, my people, will bear
with me through this period of crisis we will return to our world of
peace and serenity once more."

Cheers. Wild applause.

"They believe him," Jay murmured.

Ilaria looked at him. "Of course," he said.

"For a long time our Empire has remained ..."

Caesar's face stiffened. The deep-set, weary eyes blazed and widened.
His hand reached out for the railing. Then he stiffened again and was
limp as the bursting pellet of sulphuric acid and potassium cyanide
took effect.

Gaius Julius Caesar Imperator V fell.

There was uproar and clamor and shrieking.

Jay and Ilaria stood, staring, as the Pretorian Guards levelled their
guns and became a solid, surrounding wall. The T-V cameramen were
getting the scene of the century.

"Lamberti!" Ilaria bit out.

The Pretorian Prefect, his hands outspread, stood on the balcony over
Caesar's body. The white cloak with Liberacione on it fluttered about
him. A couple of Pretorians came out with an amplifier.

"Friends, Romans, Countrymen," said Farouk Lamberti.

"--every available long-range ship to Rome," Ilaria's brittle voice
was hacking out orders. "Every one. Contact every other base while
communications are still working!"

"... a noble man. But not the man to govern Earth. No, not he nor his
government. I bring you a new government. I, Farouk Lamberti, long his
best friend, have done this not to him, but for him. For you. The Earth
was not meant to be governed by a system of--"

"Yes, I said bomb Rome."

Sub-Tribune Rinaldi smiled. "But Kevin, my friend, we can't bomb
Lamberti just when he's getting a good start."

Jay looked up. Kevin Ilaria spun around. "What?"

"Never trust old friends, Kevin. Colonel Di Orio didn't. He surprised
us in the Radio Room and we were forced to put him out of the way. Also
remember this: all members of the Liberacione carry gamma pistols."

Rinaldi pulled out his gamma gun and shot Ilaria through the middle.

Jay was horrified. He forgot where he was and when he was and what he
was doing. All he knew was that there was a cyanide gun at his hip and
that this man had shot Ilaria. His gun came up and sputtered.

The pellet caught Rinaldi just under the chin and burst. Rinaldi
collapsed.

"Had a--gamma gun--not ... deadly. Slow-acting ... radio-activity.
Hardly ... burned me. Come on--we've got to ... get back to the--Time
building."

"Oh, no we won't. You're hurt. We--"

"Don't argue. Sergeant! Saaarguunt!" Ilaria gasped at the exertion of
shouting. The Centurion ran in.

"We've got to--get to the--Time building."

"Rinaldi shot the Tribune. Rinaldi was a traitor," Jay explained
rapidly.

Ilaria's gun clicked and the Centurion shuddered back and fell through
the door. The gamma burst from his pistol hit the wall.

"God! Is everyone a traitor?" Jay demanded of the Universe.
