
People are easily swayed. It didn't take them long to espouse the new
cause. They were helped along in their decision by the Liberacione
planes hovering overhead with loads of KCN-H2SO4 bombs. The whispering
campaign Lamberti had carefully started about germ warfare helped, too.
Those who didn't switch over rapidly were jumped by the new forces.
Tribune Ilaria in Louisville, Kentucky, in America held out as long
as he could. Then the bombers came. And the Tribune fled to the Time
building.

The building shook. A table shivered and a lamp shattered. A jet
fighter flew close by the window and the Centurion watched fearfully as
it flipped on one delta wing and fired a tracer burst into a PR ship.
The defender exploded in mid-air.

Ilaria looked twenty years older than the man who had smiled and
welcomed Jay Welch to 2054. He and a young scientist were preparing the
machine to send the man from 1954 back to his own time.

"You'll have to leave the gun here, Jay." Ilaria winced as he bent over
a set of dials.

"I'd like to keep the uniform."

"All right. Does that do it, Doctor?"

The scientist nodded. He looked at Jay. "It's ready," he said.

"This switch sets everything in motion, doesn't it?" Ilaria asked.

"Yes. That's the final control."

"Then ... I'll do it. I'd like ... to say something to Jay before he
leaves."

The scientist hesitated a moment, then shrugged and left. The Centurion
went to the door. He was a young man and fanatically loyal.

"You all right, Tribune?"

Ilaria smiled. "I'm ... all right, Sergeant."

The Centurion nodded and left.

"Sit ... sit down in that chair, Jay, and do your best to relax."

Jay sat down. A bomber roared overhead. There was a blast nearby.

"What will you do now, Kevin?"

Ilaria shrugged. "Fight 'em 'til they come in and we're sunk. Then
I'll join 'em. Why--why die a martyr's death?"

Of course, Jay told himself. Logical. But Kevin had been so convinced.
So utterly sure. Now he looked and sounded like a disillusioned old man.

"Kevin, I'm not trying to rub it in. But--"

"I know what you're going to say. I was so sure. Paradise. I was a firm
disciple. Convinced. I believed in all of it. I--thought it would last
forever. The perfect government. A permanently _workable_ government."

Jay sat quietly. Ilaria reached for the switch.

"For God's sake," came the voice of 1954, "what _is_ the perfect
workable government?"

Ilaria closed the switch and the light blinded Jay. He felt as if
someone had slugged him in the stomach. Slowly the machine prepared to
send him back one-hundred years. It warmed up like a jet on a runway.

The light faded and Jay opened his eyes. The building rocked. There was
a terrific explosion and part of the steel wall buckled. Somewhere a
woman screamed. A squadron of fighters hurtled past, spitting fire and
death. A bomber fell, exploding as it crashed into a tall apartment
building. Jay's stomach twisted and he knew he was on his way. Ilaria
took his gun from his holster and calmly placed its ugly snout against
his own face.

"... the perfect workable government?" Jay's question of a moment ago
reached his ears as he began to slip back, minute by minute, picking up
momentum. Ilaria's reply came dimly.

"There is none."



