
It was strictly a take-your-pick name, Lloyd saw. He took his pick.
"Ulkay, tell me, are you the last of your race, or are there others of
your kind still left alive on Mars?"

Ulkay just stared, friendly but lost.

Lloyd tried again. "I--" he pointed to himself--"am here with more like
me--" he pointed to himself, held up one finger to Ulkay, then pointed
in a long sweep behind himself toward the end of the street and held
up four fingers. His only success was an envious look from Ulkay at
Lloyd's extra finger.

"Hoo boy!" said Lloyd, smacking his brow in chagrin. "This is a rough
one. Look, Ulkay, you hold on and don't be scared." He laid a hand
upon Ulkay's shoulder for assurance, then turned his head and shouted,
"_Here! This way, men!_"

The sound of heavy booted feet began, far up the cluttered street.
Lloyd felt Ulkay grow tense. "It's all right," he said slowly,
soothingly, as one talks to a horse or dog, knowing the tone conveys
what the words cannot. Ulkay seemed to sense the assurance and relaxed
a little.

In another minute, Kroner, Harrison, Tandy and Craig were beside their
commanding officer, gaping with unconcealed glee at the slightly under
five-foot form of Ulkay, who stared right back, steadily if not boldly.

"Our first contact with a Martian!" Kroner exulted, his voice metallic
through the oxygen helmet.

"Does he talk?" Harrison wanted to know immediately.

"Where are his friends?" asked Tandy, frowning.

Craig, unable to think of a question, was silent. But it was to Craig
that Lloyd addressed his first statement. "He speaks a language. His
name is Ulkay Blet. Think you can rig a written or oral Rosetta Stone
for us, Craig?"

Craig shuffled his feet bashfully. "I can try."

"Is he _alone_, though?" said Tandy, irked that his question had gone
unanswered. "His buddies might be around here waiting to pick us off.
This is their city, after all, and we're trespassers."

Lloyd shook his head dubiously. "I think you're wrong, Tandy. Ulkay's
got some sort of weapon with him and he put it away without trying to
use it. If there are others, they're probably intelligent and friendly,
too."

"Unless I'm mistaken," Kroner remarked dryly, "we're about to put your
statement to the test."

"What--?" said Lloyd, and looked where Kroner was now facing.

Seven creatures like Ulkay were on their way toward the group, each
bearing one of those long crystal rods. At first glance, they all
looked alike to Lloyd. Then, as they drew nearer, he saw that they were
as different from one another as he from his own men.

"Ulkay," he said softly, "would you tell _your_ friends that we're
_their_ friends? They look kind of trigger-happy and...."

Ulkay, catching Lloyd's meaning from the way he looked toward the
approaching squad, turned and babbled something at them. They
hesitated. Then all put their crystal rods into short scabbards hanging
from their belts.
