
Behind him, Lloyd heard Tandy's sigh of relief. He turned to Craig.
"You and Ulkay see if you can set up something to bridge the language
barrier, while Kroner and I go back to the ship and radio the news back
to Earth."

"Okay," said Craig. He was the expedition's linguist, but extremely
shy, considering he was the liaison man with any aliens they
encountered. "I'll start them with numbers; that's usually a good
kicking-off place, and then I can work into body parts, relationships,
and--"

"Whoa," said Lloyd. Craig could be talkative on his professional
topics. "I don't want the details, just some results. Kroner and I
should be back in about an hour. I'll talk with Ulkay then, if you can
show me how to reach him."

He and Kroner strode off to their ship, set onto the cold red sands a
mile away.

It would take nearly three minutes for a message to reach Earth,
and another three, at least, before the reply came back, so Lloyd,
dispensing with formality, sent, "This is Lieutenant Lloyd of the
_Sherlock II_. We have landed successfully on Mars, discovered a
decaying Martian city, and eight inhabitants, so far. If you read me,
set up a recorder and signal me when you are ready to tape my report."

He sat back in the chair with a sigh. "There, that cuts out a lot of
fuss," he remarked to Kroner.

"And the less time spent away from our men, the better."

"Yes," said Lloyd. "How does this thing--well, how does it _feel_ to
you?"

"Too easy," said Kroner without hesitation. "Of course, there's no
reason why it should feel at all _hard_, is there?"

"No," Lloyd admitted reluctantly. "No reason at all why we shouldn't
establish contact with these Martians, find them friendly, get our
information about their city, way of life, and so on, and go back
safely to Earth and home. But--"

"Yeah," said Kroner. "'_But!_'"

"They _act_ friendly."

"Maybe that's all it is, an act. But if they're not going to be chums,
why go to all this trouble? You know what I mean, sir?"

Lloyd leaned back in the padded chair and scratched his short-cropped
head. "Beats me. And yet I can't help feeling uncomfortable
about--There's the blinker. Earth's ready to record." He dropped the
conversation and set himself to telling Earth of developments so far.
