
"Is it some sort of taboo or what?" Lloyd demanded irritably of Craig.
It was three hours since he and Kroner had returned from the ship, and
communication with Ulkay and his bunch had been established--but with
one annoying and unexpected feature.

"I can't seem to find out, sir," Craig said miserably. "He's responsive
on almost every other topic, but when I ask him about the city here, he
says he can't tell me. I've asked him why, but his answer escapes me."

"When he says he 'can't' tell you, does he mean he is physically unable
to, or forbidden to?"

"I'm not even sure if it's '_can't_.' It might just be '_won't_.' But I
_am_ sure it's a negative of some sort. They shake their heads and nod
same as we do for yes and no."

"Let's see that list," Lloyd said, his voice tired.

Craig held it out, but Kroner took it. "You've looked at it ten times
in the past hour, sir," he apologized. "Let me have a whack at it."

Lloyd started to argue the point, then gave it up. "Okay, Sergeant. See
what you can make of it. If you can ask a clear question of Ulkay and
Company with those choice bits of language, I'll put in your name for a
decoration."

Kroner scanned the list, noting with fading hope the vocabulary he had
to work with. "Wish we had more verbs!" he said.

"They're the hardest, always," said Craig. "Active ones are easy
enough, though the tenses and irregularities can be tough, but the
non-active--the intransitive--can't be demonstrated the way actions and
things can."

"Well, we've got _Mars_, and _city_, and--that's a good one--_men_.
That's them?"

Craig nodded.

"Hey, weren't there _eight_ of those guys a while back? We're two
short!"

"What?" said Lloyd, looking over at the aliens. "You're right, Kroner!
Ulkay's gone, and--let me see--that heavy-set one with the big
shoulder-span. Where the hell--?"

Tandy and Harrison came up at that moment.

"Sir," Tandy looked disgusted, "we can't find out a thing from the
rubble. No heavy radiation present, so it kind of discounts an atomic
war, although--"

"Never mind the surmises for now," said Lloyd. "Tell me just what you
know for sure."

One side of Tandy's mouth twisted. "Yes, sir. Very little of the rubble
seems to be due to any _heavy_ damage. I mean, no buildings have
collapsed or anything like that. It's just as though time had crumbled
off a brick hole here and there, and nobody bothered sweeping the
street."

"The city gates were knocked down," Lloyd protested.
