
Tandy shook his head. "Not knocked down, sir--fallen. It's my opinion
this place is just obsolete, a sort of last-year's model that needs a
new coat of paint and an engine overhaul. Except for all the dust, sand
and crumbled material, it's in pretty good shape."

"You mean it's unfashionable but serviceable?" said Kroner. "Like a
spring-driven phonograph?"

"That's about it, Sergeant," Tandy nodded. "Anything else, you're going
to have to ask the Martians themselves."

"Which brings me back to my earlier apprehension," said Kroner. "I
don't like the idea of two of those guys being missing. Hold on--there
they come! And with a small cannon, unless I miss my guess!"

The Earthmen were all on their feet now, facing the pair of aliens who
lugged a heavy contraption with a tubular nozzle on the front of it up
the street toward the waiting group.

"It can't be a cannon," said Lloyd, puzzled. "Why would they bother,
when hand-weapons would do?"

By that time, Ulkay and his crony had the gadget set down on a tripod
base and were turning dials on its side. The Earthmen, every one of
them, loosened pistols in their holsters, but only Tandy actually
brought his out.

Then they jumped as a metallic voice came out through the gadget's
nozzle. "Men!" said the voice. "Do not possess fear."

"A miracle!" gasped Craig. "It's a translating machine!" He rushed
forward to view this thing, his face glowing with delight.

Lloyd, recovering from his start, saw that Ulkay was speaking into a
tube at the side of the machine, and realized that his translated voice
had been the one heard.

"Ulkay," he said, going toward the machine, "does this work both ways?"

Ulkay nodded and pointed to the nozzle on the front. "This," said his
voice from the nozzle, "picks up as well as recepts."

"_Receives_," said Craig automatically.

"--as receives," said the nozzle automatically. "There will exist some
few ungrammatics but it will mostly make sensible."

"Man, this simplifies everything!" Lloyd exclaimed. "Ulkay, do you mind
if we ask you some questions?"

Ulkay, via the nozzle, replied with dignity, "You and your Craig have
questioned with relentless of us. Can we be allowed the similar luck?"

"I beg your pardon," Lloyd said sincerely. "Go ahead and ask."

"These transparents you wear upon your faces, why?" asked the nozzle,
in a mechanical monotone.

"The air." Lloyd gestured with a sweep of his arm. "It is too thin to
support our kind of life without these masks."

"Strange," said the nozzle. "And where are your women?"

"We did not bring them with us," said Lloyd. "We made this trip
strictly to find you."

Ulkay stared at Lloyd a long moment. Then the nozzle asked, "What trip?"

"To your city," said Lloyd. "To your planet."
