
Ulkay frowned, then fiddled a moment with a dial on the side of the
machine. The nozzle spoke slowly this time. "Repeat your response. It
was not a sensible."

"We came here. To Mars. To find you." Lloyd said it carefully and
distinctly, feeling very uneasy.

"But this is Earth," said the nozzle loudly.

"To _you_ it is Earth," said Lloyd, with a tolerant smile. "I think
we're having a semantic problem, Ulkay. Each planet's self-name would
translate as 'Earth.' This machine cannot make the proper distinction."

"No, no, no!" came the nozzle's voice. "You say your planet is called
'Earth'. Why do you now call it 'Mars'?"

"We don't," said Lloyd, bewildered. "We call _this_ planet Mars. _Our_
planet is called Earth--"

"Sir!" Kroner grasped his arm tightly. "Wait a minute! I think I get
it!... Ulkay! Is this _your_ planet?"

"No," said the nozzle. "Is it not _yours_?"

"Numbers!" said Craig. "Ask him by the _number_ of the planet from the
sun."

"We are from Earth, the third planet from the sun," said Lloyd, holding
up three fingers for emphasis. "Where are you from?"

"We are from Earth," said the nozzle, "the second planet from the sun."
Ulkay held up two digits.

"Venusians?" Tandy squawked, while Harrison doubled up in a fit of
laughter as the idea sank in. In another moment, both groups--Ulkay's
and Lloyd's--had joined him in a tension-breaking paroxysm of mirth.

"Where are _you_ parked?" asked Kroner, the first to recover some
semblance of control.

Ulkay, still chuckling, pointed in the opposite direction to that in
which the _Sherlock II_ was standing. "Outside the west gate of the
city," said the nozzle. "Where are you?"

"Outside the east gate. We thought you were Martians--people of this,
the fourth planet."

"And we in turn thought you were Martians," said Ulkay, through the
nozzle. There was more laughter in both groups.

"For Pete's sake!" muttered Lloyd. "For Pete's sake! Look, Ulkay, why
don't both our groups get some rest and we'll make our inspection tour
of the city tomorrow, the two groups together?"

Ulkay, after a babble of discussion with his men, was in agreement with
this plan, and they and the Earthmen shared a large room within one of
the old abandoned buildings.

"Will your air supply not run out?" Ulkay queried.

"Not on these," Lloyd explained. "They're not tank masks; they're
compression masks. A hydraulic system inside the suit keeps a
compressor running in this gadget on our backs, as long as we're
moving about. Martian air is thin but non-poisonous."

"But if you sleep?"

"The air runs low, which makes us fidget, which pumps more air through
the compressors," Lloyd explained.

Ulkay expressed admiration at the cleverness of Earth scientists, and
then joined his men in slumber. The Earthmen, tired and happy, fell
soundly asleep.
