
It was still dark, the chill purple dark of Mars at night, when Lloyd
awakened abruptly. His body was tense and his mind keenly alert.
Something was wrong. He felt it, but couldn't place the source of his
uneasiness.

He sat up and looked about him. Starlight, coming in bright pinpoints
through a high arched window, glinted reassuringly off the helmets of
his men, lying in pools of deep shadow all about him. He looked for
Ulkay and his group, and saw their smaller silhouettes huddled on the
stone flooring. Feeling a little better, he lay down once more and
tried to fall back to sleep. But there was a gnawing, nagging something
in his mind that would not allow sleep to come.

"What's bothering me?" he asked himself. "Is it something about Ulkay
and his bunch? The only really odd thing about them is that they
don't wear any breathing equipment in this thin air, right? And didn't
Ulkay explain that the atmosphere on Venus is just as thin? It didn't
jibe with Harrison's opinion about atmospheres, but Harrison hasn't
actually _been_ to Venus, after all, and the cloudiness still keeps its
atmosphere a secret from Earth's spectroscopes, right?"

His mind assured him that this was right and he felt a little better,
but not much.

"So what's eating me? A hunch? Intuition? Or just alien-planet nerves?"
he went on. "Why should I wake up in the middle of the night feeling
scared? Aren't my men all present and accounted for? Aren't they
sleeping quietly, just as they should be?"

Feeling annoyed with his own nebulous fears, Lloyd sat up again and
looked over the groups, Ulkay's and his own. As he watched, Kroner
grunted in his sleep and rolled over. Tandy's helmet emitted gentle
snoring noises. Harrison and Craig lay more quietly, but their chests
could be seen, even in that dim light, rising and falling normally.
Lloyd excoriated his imagination for worrying him--it had fed him a
quick suggestion that perhaps his companions' masks had been slit,
suffocating them silently to death.

"I _must_ trust Ulkay; it's necessary," said Lloyd to himself. "I
can't let these groundless fears spoil future relations between Earth
and Venus. The Venusians are friendly and intelligent, and not really
odd-looking, once you discount the number of digits on their hands and
a few unearthly color schemes on their torsos. So what am I scared of?"

Cold touched his spine, shocking him into alertness, as he isolated his
fear. He rolled over and shook Kroner awake with barbaric callousness.

"Huh? Wha?" said Kroner, sitting up.

"Sergeant," said Lloyd, trying to confide his fear to the other man,
"when we got here, we were nervous about making contact with aliens,
right?"

"Yeah," Kroner said sleepily. "But it turned out okay, sir, didn't it?"
He shook his groggy head. "I mean, Ulkay and his bunch are okay, aren't
they?"

"Yeah," said Lloyd shakily. "_They_ are fine--but, Kroner, they're not
the right aliens!"

It took Kroner a moment to get it. When he did, he came awake with a
jolt. "And we haven't even posted a guard!"

Lloyd, his worries abetted by Kroner's response, got to his feet,
shouting, "_Mayday! Mayday!_"

His men--and Ulkay's a few seconds later--were up, everybody snapping
on portable torches and setting the chamber alive with flashing lights.

"Ulkay!" Lloyd said, rushing to the Venusian. "If _you're_ not the
Martians, and _we're_ not the Martians, then there is still a chance
that someone _else_ is the Martians!"

Ulkay yelled something to his men, and Lloyd watched with horror as
each Venusian fumbled at an empty scabbard upon his belt. Lloyd's hand
shot to his holster and found there just what his men were finding in
their own holsters: nothing.

"Do you think we've discovered the Martians?" said Kroner, his voice
hoarse with fright.

Then the glaring overhead lights of the room came on, revealing the
surrounding phalanx of hard-eyed, armed creatures.

"Unless I'm mistaken," Lloyd said, "the Martians have discovered us."

An instant later, there was nothing in the center of the alien room
but half-molten air compressors and the charred, smoking remains of a
funny-looking little nozzle, still echoing a bilingual chorus of agony.



