
Sergeant Cleaver shrugged his khaki service tunic up on wide shoulders,
staring across the inlet at the precipitous coastline beyond. Already
the brown hillsides were showing red where the lichens were commencing
to take on their summer hue. There was a faint hint of green at the
blue white glacier’s foot. A brilliant sun shone down out of an
amazingly blue sky.

“Spring, all right,” he mumbled to himself as gray eyes roved over the
ice pans and bergs tinkling together in the bay. “Another eight months’
winter over, and I ought to be tickled pink. Damn Scarth and his dogs,
anyhow!”

The supply ship would probably be coming in another month or so, but he
couldn’t go out on leave with all these sick and starving Eskimos on
his hands, the sergeant ruminated, when his gaze swung about to the
huddle of _tupiks_. Had to look after the poor devils somehow.

“I’ll make him feed those dogs, at any rate,” he said with sudden
decision.

Quick fingers fastened the glinting brass buttons of the faded tunic,
as soft stepping sealskin boots carried him downward in long strides.

A sudden chorus of expectant howls broke out from the watching huskies
when Cleaver passed Scarth’s fish cache, and swung in at the trader’s
open door.

The sergeant’s keen ears picked up a low whistle when he stepped into
the post’s dim interior and stood, motionless, waiting for his eyes to
become accustomed to the gloom.

“That you, Uluk?” he queried, blundering forward.

Twin grunts answered and, following the direction, he made out two
lounging blurs behind the wood heater’s rounded shape.

“Look here, Scarth, you’ll have to feed those dogs,” Cleaver announced,
pushing forward until he was looking down at the trader’s narrow face
and flickering eyes.

“Huh—huh,” Scarth grunted, giving the faintly grinning Uluk a soft kick
on the leg with his sealskin mukluks. “What the heck am I goin’ to feed
’em on, eh? You Arctic angels goin’ to tumble down a bunch of manna,
eh?”

The trader’s narrow shoulders quivered slightly. To cover the motion he
jumped erect, pulling up his ever slipping and dirty mackinaw shirt. A
yellow hand waved toward his empty shelves.

“Yes, I know you’re traded out,” Sergeant Cleaver agreed, ignoring the
tone as he followed the gesture. “No grub left. You can fish though,
can’t you?”

“Nothin’ doin’,” Scarth laughed. “That’s a native’s job. Think I’m
goin’ to have the Esks see me an’ lose my white man’s rep? Not so’s
you’d notice it.”

“Well, what about Uluk?”

“Uluk?” Scarth replied, a note of feigned astonishment in his tone.
“Why, the lad’s half white, ain’t he? Got to look after his rep too.
Don’t want to have the Esks see him workin’. No, sir.”

The halfbreed grinned faintly in response to the trader’s nudge.

“Well if it wasn’t for the fact that you’d report it and I’d be
replying to fool questions from headquarters for the next two years,
I’d shoot your blasted huskies,” Cleaver rumbled.

He wheeled away, pacing up and down the post’s earthen floor, followed
by two pairs of amused eyes. Only just enough dog feed left to keep the
police huskies going until the supply ship got in, the Mountie
reflected. Out of the question to feed Scarth’s animals on his team
rations. And the hungry Eskimos had eaten their sled dogs long since.

“Hey!” Scarth’s thin voice came suddenly. “Lookit, Cleaver. That skin
boat of your’n is the only thing left in Kannequoq that’ll float.
There’s walrus out there on the floes. Red meat. Why don’t you go out
an’ belt one down for the Esks? I’ll buy the scraps for the dogs. How’s
that?”

Again Cleaver sensed thinly covered insult in the little man’s tones
and again he ignored it. Under other conditions he would have quickly
removed the sneer from that weasel face, but now only one thought
pulsed through his brain—how to feed the Eskimos and those yowling
brutes up on the rocks.
