
Followed by twin grins of satisfaction, the Mountie padded to the door
to stare out across the ice filled inlet. Yes, there were walrus out on
the float ice; he had seen them through the glasses. It was as much as
a man’s life was worth, though, to venture out among those razor edged
pans in a frail skin boat.

Cleaver clenched brown fists, swung away from the post and, padding
across the ice polished rocks, reached the first of the _tupiks_.

For a moment he stood with one hand on the caribou skin that served for
a door, his sunburned face wrinkled in disgust. Abominable odors
floated out on the crisp air from the _tupik_; the stench of unwashed
humans, half tanned deerskins, moldy furs.

Cleaver pulled out a handkerchief and, holding it across his mouth and
nostrils, ducked his long body and came upright in the _tupik_. The
foul smelling interior was littered with the Eskimos’ priceless
possessions; they were too far gone now with the coast sickness to
care. Wooden pans sewn with rawhide, and stone cooking pots were thrown
about in confusion. The floor was a wild jumble of feverish natives
rolling about on bearskins, sealing spears, snowshoes and mukluks.

“By Christopher, they’ve got to have red meat or they’ll all kick out,”
the Mountie said to himself, staring down on the emaciated, yellow
faces. “Guess I’ve got to do it.”

“Oh, Kanneyok,” Cleaver called in the Innuit tongue. “I come bearing a
message. Listen well, O you people of the ice.”

Three tousled heads were elevated for a moment above the skins; a thin
arm waved to signify that the message had been heard.

“Thus and thus,” the sergeant called in Innuit through his
handkerchief. “There must be red meat or you will all pass to the
shadow hills. Therefore, because the great white king does not forget
his people, I and the fat one go to hunt walrus. With the new sun we
bring meat. I have spoken.”

Faint clucking sounded when the Eskimos passed this satisfying
information along. A chorus of grunts.

“That’s the way to shoot it to ’em,” Scarth’s nasal tones came suddenly
from the doorway. “You police sure knows your onions. Fall for this
white king stuff, don’t they? But, by cripes, you’d better make good,
Cleaver, or the Esks’ll give you the hee-haw from Alaska to Greenland—”

“_Anumlatciaq tamna oomiak!_” a laughing voice broke in on Scarth in
the Eskimo tongue.

There followed a crisp oath from the trader, the sound of a blow, and a
yelp from Uluk.

“_Anumlatciaq tamna oomiak!_ The skin boat it never goes out!”

Cleaver translated the halfbreed’s phrase slowly, subconsciously aware
that the sick Eskimos had heard and understood the words. Several of
them were sitting upright, bony faces staring over at the door flap.

“By God, I’ve stood all I’m going to take from you and that grinning
breed of yours!” the Mountie roared, gripped by long suppressed
passion.

One leap carried him across the littered _tupik_. Two hard hands
fastened on Scarth’s scrawny throat. The sergeant dragged the little
man out into the glaring sunshine, shook him viciously for a long
moment, and then sent him spinning with a well placed kick.

The trader was on his feet again in a moment, close set eyes darting
fire. He opened his slit of a mouth; then thinking better of it, he
wheeled away and padded off for the post, mumbling to himself.

Cleaver watched him pass out of sight; then once more he ducked back
into the _tupik_, calling:

“Oh, Kanneyok, I have made a true talk; I am a redcoat and you are the
children of the great white king. The skin boat goes out. There will be
red meat before the sun comes again. I have spoken.”

“_Ai! Ai!_”

A chorus of grunts answered him, but Cleaver sensed that the natives’
tones lacked conviction. Swearing softly to himself, the Mountie
plunged out into the clean air and made his way up to the detachment
building.
