
“Ain’t no way for a buck to talk to his superior, but that was a damn’
fool play,” Constable Noonan offered from his perch on the bunk. “You
got us in dutch, Sergeant dear. We’ll never be able to handle the Esks
again if we falls down on this job, an’ I got a hunch that’s what Mr.
Scarth is after. Suit his tradin’ fine if the natives go wild an’
woolly. I ain’t no Sherlock Holmes, but if this ain’t a plant I’m a
Hindoo philosopher.”

“Oh, shut up!” Cleaver put in irritably. “I’ve got enough on my hands
without scrapping with you. We’re going out in the skin boat in the
morning, ice or no ice, and we’re going to bring back a walrus. I’ve
given the king’s word for that. It’s getting dark. Any intention of
feeding the dogs tonight?”

“Thought you said I weren’t no dog man—”

“You’ve got enough brains to feed them some tallow, at any rate,” the
sergeant cut in on him. “Go out, Timothy Noonan, or I’ll throw you
out!”

Constable Noonan dodged about the heater, grabbed his parka off a peg
and slid through the door. Once outside he listened for a moment to the
ice pans’ tinkling and the mournful wailing of Scarth’s huskies. Then
with an expressive shoulder shrug, Noonan made his way up to the little
storehouse.

The key grated in the lock, and with that well known sound eager whines
burst from the dogs penned in the corral. Scarth’s starving brutes
heard those expectant whimpers and filled the night air with agonized
howling.

It was a good three hours later when Noonan pushed in the door of the
detachment building and grinned over at his chief. Cleaver was
stretched on his bunk, khaki shirted, body bathed in yellow lamplight,
and deep in “Soldiers Three”. The sergeant threw the book down and
glared at the rubicund face.

“Look here, you nighthawk,” he called. “Haven’t you got any savvy at
all? You stay away from that girl, or I’ll—”

“Nix on the gentle sentiment tonight,” the constable broke in. “Love’s
off; murder’s on. Been prowlin’. We won’t possess any skin boat in the
mornin’; the Esks will have it that the great white king ain’t the
caribou’s chin whiskers no longer, an’ Scarth will be known as the very
strong man from here to Hoboken.”

“What’s the matter with you?” Cleaver boomed, jerking bolt upright.
“Scarth wouldn’t dare break up that boat; not after that three months I
got him for monkeying with our schooner last year.”

“Oh, you’d be surprised!” Noonan mocked his superior. “There’s more
ways of killin’ a polar bear than choking it with chocolate eclairs.
Climb into your parka an’ mukluks an’ we’ll take in the movie. It’s a
real fifty cent show. Come on.”
