
Mumbling uncomplimentary things regarding his companion’s mentality,
Cleaver vaulted off the bunk, pulled on his sealskin boots and parka,
and followed Noonan’s squat figure out into the night.

A bright moon bathed Kannequoq Inlet, flooding the open spaces with
soft radiance, softening the rugged coast’s raw contours. The two men
stood motionless, ears filled with the subdued tinkling of the ice pans
and the distant honking of some migrant geese seeking open water.

Noonan caught the other man’s sleeve and pointed down to Scarth’s
trading post. Cleaver nodded. Yes, the lights were out—and for the
first time in a month the unfortunate huskies had ceased howling. He
turned to peer down at the constable, but Tim avoided the glance,
padding off and beckoning his comrade to follow.

Swinging wide of the settlement below, the little man made his way over
the moonlight bathed ridges until at length he arrived at one of the
giant boulders that studded the beach. Beyond him, and less than a
dozen yards away, the police skin boat lay overturned on the white
sands.

“Well?” the sergeant’s glance read as he lowered himself to the cold
shingle alongside his comrade.

Noonan made no offer to enlighten him, signaling for silence.

The sergeant and the constable lay motionless, staring up at the stars.

All at once the constable twisted over on his face, when Cleaver’s hard
hand gripped his thick arm.

A new sound had been added to the faint night noises. Both Mounties
knew what it was; the soft slithering of sealskin boots over the rocks.

Then suddenly two upright figures were blurred against the ice filled
waters when Scarth and the halfbreed stepped down from the rocks and
padded over to the skin boat. Each man was leading a number of the
trader’s huskies.

“_Pst!_”

Noonan pulled Cleaver’s head down to him, whispering:

“You’ve seen hungry dogs up here chewin’ the rawhide lashings off
sleds, ain’t you? You’ve seen ’em eatin’ the sides outa skin houses,
an’ gnawin’ old sealskin boots? Sure. Well, now they’re changin’ the
diet; goin’ to scoff our old skin boat.”

Cleaver’s right hand jerked back toward his revolver holster, but
before it reached the weapon Tim’s fingers fastened on his wrist.

“Not yet! Not yet!” Tim Noonan urged. “See the whole show. Comic’s
comin’. Savvy what it is, Dick? We’ve given the king’s word that
there’ll be red meat for the sick Esks in the mornin’ an’ Scarth has
passed the talk around that there won’t be any. If there ain’t no meat
our name is mud, frozen mud at that. An’ how the heck can we get walrus
without a boat?”

Cleaver glared down at the constable’s grinning face. What was he
repeating that for, and why the blazes was he so happy about it?

The sergeant wrenched his hand free, thrusting the revolver forward. At
the same moment a low oath sounded from one of the two men, and
Cleaver’s trigger finger relaxed.
