
Scarth tugged the lines off the dogs he was leading, kicking one of the
starving brutes toward the walrus hide covering the _oomiak_. But
instead of rushing forward and tearing at the skin the dog squatted on
the shingle, staring up at its master. Three more of the released
huskies lay down and curled up for immediate sleep. Some of the others
commenced to wander along the beach. None of the animals took the least
notice of the skin boat.

Scarth’s rumbled cursing and the halfbreed’s clucking sounded dimly in
the sergeant’s ears as he rolled over to stare in amazement at the
bursting Noonan.

“Oh, my fat sides,” Tim groaned. “Seventeen dried fish, eleven tins of
bully beef, five lumps of tallow, an’ a chunk of pemmican as big as a
battleship. An’ they polished off the whole works. An’ now Scarth’s
offerin’ ’em a dried up old walrus skin for dessert. A dog’s life,
that’s what it is.”

Sudden realization stabbed Cleaver’s mind. Tim had sneaked out and fed
Scarth’s starving huskies so that they would not attack the skin boat!

“Listen,” Noonan’s voice came again. “Yesterday a big floe grounded
beyond the point. There was a walrus on it as big as the side of a
house. Uluk shot it. Get the idea? With the skin boat gone we couldn’t
pull the Arctic angel stuff, and when we fell down on the job Scarth
would lug in his walrus an’ get the glad hand from the Esks. Cripes,
you’re in a hurry, eh?”

Cleaver had vaulted from the icy ground with a catlike leap. As Noonan
lumbered to his feet he heard Scarth’s surprised cry and the
halfbreed’s yelp of dismay.

The trader threw himself face down on the beach when the white faced
sergeant raced across the slippery shingle. A single lunge brought
Scarth to his feet.

Then sounded the slithering of Noonan’s mukluks on the shingle as the
little man raced after the grunting halfbreed.

“I take it all back about the dogs, Timsy,” Cleaver yelled at the
flying figure. “Damn it, I’ll recommend you for corporal’s stripes for
this!”

“Keep ’em!” Noonan’s voice panted. “I’m the detective sergeant of this
man’s army, an’ that’s good enough for me. All right, you blubber
chewer, try a taste of that!”

_Whug! Whug!_

Cleaver laughed softly, turning back to the squirming Scarth.

“Look here, you insignificant fragment of decayed whale meat,” he
growled at the trader. “You’re too small to pound, but I have something
nice in store for you. It’ll be daylight in an hour. You and the breed
will cut up that walrus and bring it down here. Then you’ll keep on
making soup for the Esks until they’re well again. On top of that
you’re going to wash all their clothes and clean up the _tupiks_.
That’s slow motion death, if you ask me. Not a word, you rat. Move!”

As he shoved Scarth forward, Cleaver saw his comrade come upright and
fan himself vigorously. Surrounding him were four of the satiated
huskies. They sniffed gratefully at Noonan’s legs.

                              THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the November 15, 1928 issue
of Adventure magazine.]


