
As if to prove me wrong, he drove very carefully over the special
road the Newtaneans had laid out overnight from our landing area
to the highway a mile or so away. The three carloads of scowling
plenipotentiaries up ahead looked appealingly funny. While the
Newtaneans were remarkably, even handsomely, like us (except for a
certain closeness of the eyes and a reversed ordering of their fingers)
their facial muscles carried different emotional convictions. On our
landing ten hours before those officials had thought our smiling faces
indicated angry aggressiveness and we had been equally uncertain about
their intentions. But their Semanticizer had eventually made the true
state of affairs clear. Evolution had determined that an upward set of
Newtanean facial muscles meant a bad situation, a downward set pleasure
and cordiality. The more they scowled the more we smiled and everybody
was very happy about the potential flowering of transgalactic culture
that we were instituting.

When we turned onto the magnificent superhighway, however, Hacker
became furious. He kept trying to pull over to the right but a steady
stream of scarab-shaped cars, filled with curious sightseers, kept
getting in his way.

"This is crazy," he cried.

"I think they drive on the left here," Dr. Barnes tried to explain.

"That's what I mean--they're crazy!"

"They did it that way in England for centuries," I said. "It took a
long time to get them to change."

"Fine, fine." Suddenly he laughed, as if pleased with his capacity
for tolerance. "If it's good enough for them it's good enough for us
visitors. They sure know how to build beautiful roads!"

I suppose I should have been pleased with this shift toward good
humor but I wasn't. I just could not like the youngster. He had been
forgivably cocky for his age before, but now something nasty had been
added.

Still, he remained on his best behavior as we approached Crona, the
capital city. Its golden towers gleamed in the sun and everywhere there
were crowds of beautiful tan people, waving to us and happily scowling
their welcome.

The lead cars stopped before a particularly elegant skyscraper that was
set in the middle of vast, symmetrical gardens. We got out and were
greeted by dignitaries accompanied by technicians with Semanticizing
equipment. (If this equipment worked slowly, it was still faster than
any we'd developed.) The men who came toward us were puzzled when we
extended our hands but, once the translation came through and they
understood it was an Earth custom, they copied our gesture. Only they
all put out their left hands. It took a while before reasonable contact
could be made.

"Interesting," said Dr. Barnes. "They all seem to be left-handed."

"I don't see what's so interesting about that," Hacker snorted through
his puggish nose. "I've seen left-handed people on Earth."

"Good for you," the doctor answered drily.

Hacker looked a little annoyed but for once managed to keep quiet.

I explained to the receiving delegation how hyper-radio contact could
be established with our system for information exchanges and then told
them tomorrow's group from _Terra I_ would be much larger. It would
be in a position to set out the technical arrangements in all the
necessary detail.

The dialogue crept along as translations were made, but finally an
especially regal figure stepped forward and told us the rest of the
proceedings would take place within the building. We followed the
Newtaneans into a hall so vast that we still seemed to be outdoors.
Subtle colors were playing free-form patterns on the walls and the
synesthetic reaction was that of hearing a music too beautiful, too
perfect, for the relative crudity of the human ear to grasp alone.
"This," Hacker laughed, "is my idea of heaven!"
