
I wasn't about to unbend and openly agree with him on anything. But
celestial it really was. And then the subtly rich smells of the food
began to play on our nostrils. It was brought out on great automatic
servers and robot arms set heaping, steaming plates before the fifty
Newtaneans. We, of course, had to refuse, taking out our compacted
rations and setting them before us.

All the Newtaneans were still meat-eaters. The main course was a small
fowl, thoroughly browned in gravy. For me the most interesting thing
about it was that four drumstick legs stuck out of each torso rather
than the regulation two found on all earth-based birds. For Hacker,
though, a more practical matter was involved.

"I'd sure like to try a helping of that bird," he said.

The two of us, naturally, were shocked. "That must have been a living
creature once," said Barnes.

"So what?"

"Well, our civilization is essentially vegetarian. They just haven't
reached our level as yet in that respect."

"Nuts loaf to you!" Hacker snapped. "And synthetic yeast pie too! I've
eaten flesh."

That _really_ upset me. I know there's still a little surreptitious
meat-consumption on Earth--genetics shows we must get a few throwbacks
in every generation--but I'd never before met anyone who openly boasted
about it. Synthetic foods meet gourmet needs better than traditional
ones do anyway. (Of course, I don't mean the dull compacted stuff
we get on long space hops but the food served on Terran planets
themselves.) Any Earthman eating flesh back home is deliberately trying
to taste the atavistic sensations of savagery.

"You know how immoral that is," I told him.

"Hacker, let's forget the moral issue," Barnes said, considering him
with disgust. "Let's just be sensible. We don't know enough about
Newtane yet to eat _anything_."

Hacker laughed. "Why, it smells just like our own food, only better."
He picked at his vita-concentrate. "Oh, let's forget about the whole
thing."

We tried to. Several dignitaries rose to their full seven feet and
spoke slowly into Semanticizers, flinging their queer hands out for
emphasis with their thumbs waving where our pinkies do. Suddenly,
though, Hacker got up from his seat and hurried down the long table to
the place where the leading spokesman was eating. He leaned over him,
speaking into the nearest translator, and I could see the Newtanean
smiling broadly, as if trying to refuse something, while Hacker
frowned. Finally the smile faded into a friendly scowl. Nothing good
could be coming out of this.

A minute later a robot arm proffered a loaded plate to Hacker and he
started back to us with it. Barnes rose to stop him, but before Hacker
reached us he had taken two mouthfuls of the meat.

I have never seen such sheer self-satisfied delight on a human face as
after those first bites.

"You shouldn't be doing that," Barnes said when he sat down next to us
again.

"You're just old fogies," Hacker grunted through a meat-stuffed mouth.
"This is the best food I've ever eaten."

He somehow shoveled another load of meat between his lips.

Thirty seconds later his face twisted into a caricature of the human
physiognomy, all writhing lines, as if every muscle were breaking loose
from its neighbors. The last unswallowed portion of food erupted from
his mouth and he fell forward into the vile mess.

He was dead.
