
Pandemonium spread through the hall. Everywhere wildly smiling faces
expressed despair at such an end for an honored guest. Barnes sprang
into action, pulling the portable medical kit from his belt and
immediately starting blood tests while some native doctors joined him
with their emergency equipment. "Must start revitalizing immediately,"
he said, then stopped, ashen-faced, as he studied an analyzer tube.
"Fantastic! No, it can't be!"

The Newtaneans were equally bewildered. They rushed Hacker to a nearby
treatment chamber. All I could do was wait, while the Newtanean leader
explained that Hacker had told him we had authorized his trying the
food. There was no need to doubt his story. It was just what the
kid would have done. I did my best to assure him that we knew his
intentions had been honorable.

A half-hour later Barnes returned, a robot platform following with
Hacker, body covered by a preservative glaze, on it.

"Nothing can be done," he said. "I've tried everything. Hacker's too
thoroughly dead for anything ever to bring him back. We'll just have to
take his body home for further study."

"But what killed him?" I demanded.

"A dozen or so things out of a thousand possibilities."

"You mean you don't have any idea?"

"Oh, I have _some_ idea. Too many ideas in fact. Look, Johnson,
chemistry's not your specialty but this is fairly elementary. All life
contains protein, right?"

"Right."

"And all protein consists of amino acids. _Every_ natural protein
back home is built on levo--left turn--amino acids. Here it is just
the opposite, the mirror image of what we know. Every amino acid is
dextro--to the right!"

"But how can it be different here?"

"Johnson, they could ask the same question about us with equal
justification--or, rather, equal lack of justification."

I was trying to feel my way through the confusion. "Barnes, I know a
world could be made of anti-matter but--"

"No, no. Anti-matter is a reversal of changes within the atom.
These atoms are the same as ours. It's the organization that is
different--regular molecules with a different twist."

"But why should it have killed him then? We absorb starch and reject
cellulose which is closely related. But the body just refuses to accept
the cellulose. It doesn't necessarily go ahead and die."

"Starch and cellulose are both dextro, old man. This is a more
fundamental difference. Maybe the body just throws off some of these
compounds too. But there were some--plenty, I suspect--it couldn't
throw off." He glanced toward the stiffening corpse, sympathetically.

"The poor kid couldn't leave well enough alone."
