
He remembered mostly the long agonizing nights in his dark apartment
alone in Central City, suffering the intense agony of increasing
anxiety and fear.

He had thought from the start that it was only a matter of time until
someone found out that he had gotten THE CALL.

Incredible that a Corpsman should get THE CALL. To the illiterate
masses, sure. But that didn't matter. They didn't know what THE CALL
was, nor what happened when they got it.

But Bronson knew, only too well, what happened. It wasn't what they
thought. To them it was the culmination of an intensely religious
experience, an ecstasy of realization. THE CALL entitled them to leave
their routine, mindless work and play, and follow THE CALL to some
Earthly paradise or other. None of them had seen it, or rather no one
had ever returned to tell of it.

Bronson had seen it. A little white room. A chair in the middle. You
sat there. You were strapped down. A little gas pellet dropped from the
ceiling. You didn't know what hit you, but you never worried anymore.
From there a conveyor belt carried you into an incinerator.

They didn't know what hit them, so it didn't matter. But Bronson knew!
That made all the difference. He had been lucky to have gotten THE CALL
alone in his apartment. When he had looked at Mars, that's when it had
hit him. An indescribable experience bordering on dope dreaming, but
not the same. An odd tingling, a feeling of marvelous detachment from
anything Earthly, and after a while it seemed there were voices in his
mind, and the touch of an alien thought pattern, perhaps. He didn't
know.

The association of THE CALL with Mars grew until there was nothing
else, except his fear of discovery. He didn't want to die. Living
wasn't so bad for a Corpsman. One lived pretty high above the menial
masses with their happy, idiot faces. There were many privileges,
and though a Corpsman couldn't marry, one was allowed to develop
interesting friendships with the women Corps members.

That was another thing. Marie Thurston. What if, as a result of long
intimacy, she should suspect?

He paced in his apartment, perspiration streaming down his throat, his
muscles tense. He didn't want the little white room. Sometime THE CALL
would strike him out there where people were, and he'd act like any of
the others. Raise his arms. Raise them to sky, walk blindly, oblivious
to anything else, his head raised, his mouth gaping, his eyes closed,
feet slogging, stumbling. Mumbling--

But it seemed that Bronson was wrong about that. The masses wanted it
and they didn't know what THE CALL was, so no inhibitory factors. But
Bronson knew, and as a result, he found he didn't get THE CALL unless
he asked for it.

He could look at Mars from his darkened quarters at night alone, and
get THE CALL, and no one knew. And what surprised Bronson was that he
_did_ ask for it. THE CALL became an obsession, with even the Pleasure
Marts, and Marie, sliding into unimportance.

He had to deal with an enigma. He had two choices. Assume he was
insane, the most logical, perhaps. Or that he wasn't insane, in which
case THE CALL was a phenomenon with some material basis in fact outside
of himself.

He decided on the latter as a working hypothesis. He tried to find out
what might really be back of THE CALL. There were the files in the
Corps headquarters at Central City. He questioned some sources subtly.
Studied people who got THE CALL. He even managed to talk with Jacson,
one of the higher echelon Psychologists. The Psychologists had taken
over, established the New System, above them was a small Elite Ruling
class no one ever contacted. They lived apart with very very special
privileges. The Psychologists kept things as they were. They were the
Pavlovians, the reflex boys. Something to do with dogs and ringing
bells.

Jacson gave the usual answer. "Regression. But only a few get THE CALL
each year. It can never cause social disorganization or dissociation.
The last symptom of the old escape drive away from unpleasant reality,
inherent in the germ cells no doubt. But now there's no escape.
Everybody has fun. No troubles. No conflicts. Someday there'll be no
one getting THE CALL."

Who was he kidding, Bronson thought? More got the call each year. That
was hush-hush. Jacson said other things, too. He talked a little about
the pre-New System era. It was schizophrenic, reality and fantasy all
mixed up, and everyone wanting to escape. But the Pavlovians fixed
that. There were bells everywhere in the world. And everyone was happy,
and having fun all the time. Why should I be skeptical, Bronson thought?

He found out a few bits of information in the files, but nothing that
meant anything to him. The stuff about Mars, and the penalty for going
there. No reasons. It was Marie who gave him the idea, a solid course
of action. They were taking a small private monorail car to the ocean
for an under-sea trip. Bronson admired Marie's beauty for a while, but
then he began thinking about THE CALL. Marie had a good build where it
counted. The big brown eyes and the face a little on the pert side, and
always so sweet and smiling. And always full of fun. One seldom saw a
face that wasn't full of fun.

But he didn't react much to her beauty tonight. He stared down through
the falling dusk at the ruins of old cities like bones piled in the
moonlight. Monoliths, leaning and cracked, to a former age no one
remembered. And about which all records had been destroyed.

Bronson said softly, "Sure, there was a big war. Because everybody was
crazy, it's said. But what happened? Who fought who for what and why
and how? The New System is supposed to be sane. But if we don't really
know what the other was like, what's the basis for comparison?"

"You think too much," Marie said, and grinned and kissed the lobe
of his ear. "The idea is to have fun. What's really troubling you,
darling? You can tell me."

If I want to go into the little white room, I can.

"And anyway," she said, "what better proof of insanity do you need than
the fact that they almost blew themselves and the whole world into an
asteroid belt?"

"They?" he whispered. "Who were _they_? Everybody didn't do it. I know
all the stock answers. They weren't sane, socialized, didn't know how
to live together. Big weapons ahead of social science. Imbalance blew
up the world. The war came off in 2037. Economic problems were solved.
Production-consumption balance figured out. Industry producing more
than enough for all, no wants. _Who fought who, for what?_"
