
She frowned. He irritated her these days. He interfered with her love
of living and that was a Number One Sin. Having fun was a twenty-four
hour a day job. And unless you thought about proscribed subjects, even
thinking wasn't considered fun.

"Darling," she said. "If you don't snap out of it, we'll have to find
other companions. Life's too short to bother with questions that have
no important answers."

He shrugged. Until the situation between himself and THE CALL cleared
up, there wouldn't be any room for any other problems, Marie included.
He said, "I wonder what's really behind those poor devils who get THE
CALL?"

She gasped. "Why should you be bothered about--oh, well, they regress
that's all. The psychologists let them believe they're having
visions of paradise and that makes it easier for them. But it's
regressive aberration and they have to be eliminated to prevent social
disorganization." She sounded like a parrot, he thought. "What's so
mysterious about it?"

"I don't know," Bronson said. "But the past's dead, buried, the tomb
markings burned. The psychologists are the only ones who're really
supposed to know. They're not talking. We're the disciplinary boys who
keep things turning their way. But I'd sure like to know some things."

"You'd better snap out of it. I'd hate to think of you getting that
pellet in your lap."

Bronson laughed. "I wonder if it would make any difference to you
at all? The sea is full of fish, all about the same general shape
and efficiency as I am. I have curiosity. An interest in what no
one seems to know. A dissatisfaction, and those are my only unique
qualities--those you reject me for. Otherwise I'd be like everyone
else. Drop me for those few unique qualities, and you'd find
millions of others equally satisfying to your basic demands for male
companionship."

She frowned harder. The moonlight streaming through the duralex windows
into the lonely, hurtling car gave her blonde hair an eery shine.
"Darling, I've liked you because you're a 'man'. I didn't know you were
secretly the un-fun type. Here it is then, straight. Either climb down
to my level and act like a Good Joe, or I'll be selecting one of those
other few million."

Bronson didn't care much now. He didn't say it to her especially. He
murmured it to--the stars maybe--but he was afraid to look up there.
This would be a very bad time to get THE CALL!

"All those who get THE CALL," he said, "are always looking at the
Stars."

She didn't say anything.

He said, "I wonder if there's something connecting THE CALL with the
stars? Something out of Space. Maybe there's something real about THE
CALL."

She jumped up, leaned over him. Her eyes seemed hard now and distant.
"Darling. Why the devil don't you go up there among the Stars and find
out for yourself?"

He sat there staring at her, scarcely seeing her. At the moment, he
didn't think about it logically. But the suggestion hit him hard and
deep and he knew then, though he didn't think about it anymore that
night, that that was exactly what he would try to do.

He didn't see Marie again, but once. At that time she was hanging on
the crooked elbow of one of the other few million. It didn't really
matter who. A big blond lad with a constant glittering smile. A Good
Joe who would always be having a good time, and who never never would
ask any questions.

There was a slight tinge of jealousy for a moment, and when that
passed he didn't seem to care much at all. It was the System that
made everybody seem so much like everyone else so that it became
so difficult to see anything special in a lover. Everything was
for convenience, strictly, and any irritation was an unnecessary
unpleasantness that seldom occurred.

Curiosity was irritating in the New System. A person who got THE CALL
was so irritating he was eliminated. They would find out sooner or
later about him, and then they would kill him. So he volunteered for
duty on an Earth-Venus cargo three-man rocket.

He had nothing to lose but his life in attempting to grab the rocket
and take it to Mars. And almost any other imaginable way of losing it
would be preferable to being taken into the little white room--knowing
what to expect instead of Paradise.
