
Bronson stopped talking. Morrow leaned forward. "What do you expect to
find on Mars?"

"What? But--you mean you'll let me--?"

Morrow nodded slowly. "Maybe. I've been curious too at times. We have
that much in common. Maybe the new blood has been conditioned more
thoroughly than I have, but I've been in a long time, and I get bored
with routine. Now here's a situation that is stimulating, and I say to
myself, why not exploit it? However, I've never gotten THE CALL, and
that puts up a wall between us. Otherwise, I feel a certain rapport."

"Well, are you making a deal or something?"

"Yes, you might say, a kind of deal. Curious, this idea of yours that
THE CALL comes from Mars, added to the fact that it's forbidden to go
to Mars. In the period immediately following the beginning of the New
System, I understand a few rockets went to Mars. None of them ever came
back. No one ever heard of them again."

Morrow sat there, apparently thinking. "So I'm curious, Bronson. You've
already flaunted the law by taking this ship, killing Orlan. You've
admitted you have THE CALL. Certainly you'd be no worse off if you went
to Mars. You might find out something interesting. So there could be a
chance for you. Go on to Mars if you like. I'll wait here five days.
I'll fix the log and the reports, and arrange it so it will appear that
there was an accident on Venus. If you're not back in five days, I'll
stop off at Venus, load a cargo, return to Earth."

Bronson stared, then said, "And if I do come back, what then?"

"I'll rig up a story about Orlan. Too much radiation on Venus. That's
happened a few times before. Officially you'll not be responsible for
Orlan's death. And if you get away from Mars, you can do as you like.
Stay if you want to. Or return to Earth with the rocket, and take a
chance on it being discovered that you have THE CALL, or being able to
conceal it. That's your business. All I ask of you, Bronson, is your
word that you'll come back here in five days if you can. And satisfy my
curiosity."

Later Morrow said, "Good luck, Bronson. Whatever good luck will mean to
you."

Bronson thought about that as he dropped the small grav-sled toward
Mars' surface. Anticipation became anxiety, fear mixed with excitement,
as the sled circled the planet a number of times for purposes of
observation.

_What will good luck mean to me?_

The memory of his experience during THE CALL came back after he spotted
the big metal dome in the deep valley and landed behind a low rise of
red hills. He lay there bottled up inside the narrow, gun-like barrel
of the sled, his helmeted head tight up against the instrument panel.

A metal dome, like the monstrous bald head of a giant buried to the
eyebrows. He had seen no other sign of habitation, no structures of
anything, only barren sea-bottoms and high naked crags. The dome might
be all that was left of what the traders had built here before the
Blowup.

Funny, he didn't feel anything like THE CALL now. He felt nothing but
fear.

Red dust sprayed up around as he crawled out of the sled. He readjusted
his oxygen mask, threw the electronic rifle over his shoulder, and
finally reached the top of the ridge and looked down at the dome. It
had a gray quiet quality. His throat was tense and his chest ached as
he got down on his stomach to watch.

No movement. No sound. A kind of panic hit him, and impulsively,
he started to twist around, not wanting to return to the sled
particularly, but just wanting to see it, feel a comfort with it.

The sled was gone.

Sweat ran down his face. It loosened a nervous flush along his back
which prickled painfully. No sled. He blinked several times, still no
sled. There hadn't been any sound. He would have heard it take off.

He jerked himself back toward the dome. He felt the thought fingers,
then, like tendrils of outside force subtly probing. Something,
something greater than before, stirred incredibly through his body. The
old feeling of change, of unutterable newness, of an unguessed sense,
opened within him like nothing before. Then ... nothing.

He crawled down. The dome was still. No openings in it. The red dust
drifting was the only movement anywhere except his own. He glanced
back, hoping to see the sled. He didn't and then when he turned back
toward the--

The dome wasn't there.

His fingers dug into the red dust at his sides. Sweat turned it to
reddish mud on his fingers. He felt as though an immense cyst of
suppuration and purulence had burst inside him. All the water in
his body seemed to rush to the surface. Sweat dripped steadily,
automatically from the top of his nose, over his mask. His heart
pounded like a fist beating against a wall.

Just dust down there. No dome. He dropped his forehead on his arms,
closed his eyes. Surely he was being influenced by outside force.
Negative hallucination.

He raised his head, opened his eyes. Around him was a small island of
red dust, a small oasis large enough to support him. Nothing more.
Nothing else at all.

The painful tension in his chest grew until he could scarcely breathe.
His jowls darkened, his mouth pressed thin by the powerful clamp of his
jaw.

No--not nothing at all. Grayness, though no form, or sound or movement.
Meaninglessness within nothingness surrounded by a terrible infinitude
of quiet. He felt a kind of final helplessness, an utter isolation.

He glanced down then at himself as the small red oasis around him
drifted as though to merge with grayness. He was going too. Even I, I,
I, am going too. His feet, his legs. He brought his arms around before
his face and as he did that his arms went away. He didn't feel anything.

He closed his eyes as he began, seemingly, to fall. Sensations washed
through him, through fibers of seeming delirium. A vortex of nausea
then, resolving in his stomach.

Somewhere, somehow, there seemed to be the promise of some kind of
solidity. Of being. Bright light from within, the bright splinters of
brain light lancing outward through the tender flesh of his eyeballs,
dancing back and around the base of his brain in reddened choleric
circles. He had a brain, a mind, yet, somewhere.

Desperately he felt his mind scurrying about inside his body. Or
perhaps a retentive memory of that body, like a rodent in a maze,
concentrating frantically on first the nothingness that had been a
limb, then on the tingling aftermath of where his fingers had once
moved.

He fought. He fought to grasp something, to see, to feel, to
comprehend. He fought wildly against nothing so that it all circled
around and round and exploded inside, bursting, bathing him with fire
as though he were inside an air-tight container boiling himself in his
own accumulating heat.

He gave up. He gave in to an overpowering drawing force. Immediately
there was no fear. It was as though he had stopped struggling against
a strong current in a vast ocean, and was now floating serenely away,
buoyed without effort, drifting forever.

He seemed to glimpse the cloudy, shapeless motion of shadows, like
storm clouds boiling and driven before a gale. Familiarity grew,
impressions, inchoate mental patterns. Shadows and shapes appeared
in the cloudy whiteness, ghostly and strange, and wavering outlines
darkened and altered.

And then he became a part of IT, of something else. And he knew. He
had been tested, and there had been the madness of shock as he was
being investigated, and finally accepted and absorbed. None of it
was incredible to Bronson after he had been taken in. The truth came
through then--clear and bright.

IT was far greater than Bronson, but he was part of IT, and IT was part
of him. And he knew.

Morrow was waiting for him. As Bronson came into the control room,
Morrow's face paled and he slowly licked his lips then plunged his
hand toward the neurogun. His hand froze, then crept back guiltily. He
tried to speak, but his lips moved wordlessly. Sweat began pocking his
face.

Bronson sat down facing Morrow. He could see Morrow now for what he
was. A disease. Rather a symptom of long forgotten sickness. Maybe he
could be cured.
