
Bronson said, "You were curious, but you would never have gotten THE
CALL. You were curious and you helped me and the world, Morrow, so I'm
going to explain it to you. You want to hear about it?"

"What?" Morrow said hoarsely. His eyes were sharp with fear. "Three
hours--back in three hours. You look--different, so different--your
eyes and--"

"I found out things, Morrow. About the War, about the Plan. Some
scientists calling themselves Freedom Unlimited, bio-chemists,
physicists and geneticists, organized and said they were going to bring
about the realization of man's unlimited potentialities. Create a
Paradise on Earth. An old dream. Those who get THE CALL haven't been so
far wrong, basically. But the Psychologists reconditioned them so the
real nature of THE CALL was distorted."

Morrow shook his head.

"No, and you probably won't understand after I tell you," Bronson said.
"But so what? I promised to tell you. Freedom Unlimited took hold,
wiped out national barriers, started to sweep the world. They had found
the secret of the human mind and nervous system, adopting the methods
of atomic physicists. X-rays tear an electron from an atom. They did
the same thing with genes, with the cells of the nervous system. Genes
and cells, the roots of life. The rock-bottom of life. The problem of
the gene and that of the atom were the same. Anyway, they learned the
secret of the human brain, that it was a perfect calculating machine."

Morrow was struggling with himself, not moving.

Bronson went on. "I'm controlling you some now, Morrow. You can't move.
We're in a hurry so I'll make it brief; there's a job to do. A perfect
calculating machine, maybe the most perfect one in the Universe,
limitless, inexhaustible. Secretly, Freedom Unlimited started releasing
people, clearing them of aberrations, clearing their nervous systems
of sludge, fusing emotion with analytical power, so the perfect
calculating machine could operate. The movement spread so fast, it
threatened various governments, including those in power. The status
quo would rather maintain power and be ignorant and blind than to give
up their power to the final step of progress. There was a pogrom. The
real reason couldn't be revealed of course, so the big powers cooked up
a war to cover up the purge. It got out of hand. The result was that
civilization was about wiped out. The world burned. Freedom Unlimited
had learned the power of the human brain, but they were too few, and
the Psychologists managed to fight them long enough to carry through
the war. Freedom Unlimited fled to Mars. They couldn't engage in
wholesale slaughter. But they had to survive."

It was so clear now in Bronson's mind, as though he were experiencing
it.

"Many of the scientists had been killed, only a few reached Mars.
But they had launched a Plan. They planted basic undying commands,
responses, in the reactive primitive cells of individuals whom they
knew would reproduce in kind. They knew how to treat genes like
chemical formulae. They knew the genes and cells would carry these
commands from generation to generation. The commands led to THE CALL. A
call to come to Mars, that's all. Once they got to Mars, they would be
free."

Bronson leaned forward. "But Freedom Unlimited didn't anticipate the
utter nihilism, the complete inhuman attitude of those who had defeated
them. There were variables. Freedom Unlimited couldn't anticipate the
utter power and suppression put into effect by the Psychologists,
the reflex boys. That they would condition every bit of imaginative,
creative, original thought and action out of everyone but a small elite
who, because of their own destructive nihilistic attitudes, were never
human in the first place, but only aberrated monsters. And all the rest
of humanity became little more than robots, zombies, mechanicals, their
analytical power chopped off, short-circuited completely. They can
only have fun like well-trained moronic children. With bells ringing
everywhere, the Pavlovians turned humans into dogs."

Morrow didn't say anything. His face was pinched and afraid, confused
and helpless.

"The Psychologists suspected the basis of the Plan. They converted
it by conditioning into a kind of religion. Then it wasn't dangerous
anymore. Meanwhile, they had also learned they could never reach Mars.
There's a final step to releasing the pure analytical power of the
human mind. Synthesis. Similarization. There's a dome down there shaped
like the skull of a giant. Inside that metal skull is a synthesis of
human intellect and machinery, pure analytical power. The brain, at
its optimum, is a perfect thinking machine. No five perfect thinking
machines would solve a problem differently. The result is synthesis.
With synthesis came an ultimate thinking machine because it gives off
energy, electrical let us say for convenience, in the form of thought.

"And that master brain down there has the will to radiate and control
this great energy. It's a kind of final perfection of the unguessed
power of the brain. It goes beyond the human, for them at least. They
can send out beams, or rather it, sends out beams of sheer power, solid
thought, by dipping into nine million brain cells plus a hundred. That
brain can stop any enemy's approach to Mars, but it couldn't reach
Earth. Yet.

"You follow me, Morrow?"

Morrow nodded slowly. He slumped a little. His face was shabby now and
old. "Some of it," he whispered. "I don't understand. But I believe. I
have to believe. You--power--"
