
Baker was allowed to disembark on Ignatz XI so that he might be traced
to his alien fellow-conspirators.

The heavy-jowled biped who greeted him at the smoky tavern was joyous.
"You have done the next best thing for us to enabling us to tell your
busybody missionaries to go home. We look upon you as one of our own
and are hungry for the sight of you. May you remain with us long."

"Too much work," Baker said, gagging over the native beer. "But I must
ask you a favor. You implied you'd give me your right arm."

"Anything we have is yours. But would not a cadaver's limb suit you as
well as mine?"

"I must escape from this world. You can give a private citizen like me
something only a sovereign government can. I want the jump drive."

"Not that!"

"Yes! I've earned it, haven't I?"

The swinoid nodded wearily. "You have. The device will be put in your
spacer. Use it only in deep space."

He was now in orbit. That was far enough out. Earth patrols could still
pick him up easily. The ETI spy pickup observed him as he reached out
and put a finger to the button of the device given him by the Swinoids,
as Earth ships closed rapidly. He pressed the button.

_In a crisping flash of flame, he lit with incredible speed._


                                  II

"Naturally, we lost contact after the ship went up in flames. If that
man was the true Baker, he was undoubtedly destroyed. Of course, we
have a report from our spies on Klondike II of events running just
about concurrently."

"If you'll allow one interruption," Street interjected. "As a competent
xenological ethnologist, I can assure you that Baker was, at least, not
completely destroyed by the fire. His somewhat roasted remains would
have been appropriated by the swinoids."

"How so?"

"These people are as similar to pigs as we are to apes. When one of
their own wishes to die, as they thought Baker did, in their typical
alien literal-mindedness, they dispose of his body in a special way.
Remember how they said they thought of Baker as one of their own and
were hungry even for the sight of him?"


                                  III

Baker had been walking for two weeks across the primitive surface of
the mining planet, Klondike II, to reach the shack in the gray shadow
of the granite mountain. It wasn't gold he was after but escape. Unlike
others seeking it, he had headed away from the saloons. But the
peepbug's lens of air had followed him.

Minutes later, he was knocking on the door. He _had_ to have a means
of transportation at least as good as government ships to do his work
of helping the aliens, and make his escapes. At least as good, and
preferably better.

The door was cracked by a kind-looking old man. "You got five seconds
to get, before thirty thousand volts of electricity go through those
floorboards you're standing on," the old man said kindly.

"Professor Gentle," Baker said hastily, "I have many friends. One
of them has told me you have established a major breakthrough in
electronics, that you have in fact invented a machine to transmit
matter as radio and television transmit sound and sight."

"Some loose-lipped electronics jobber found that out, did he? Step
right in."

"Do you suppose _I_ might be teleported?" Baker asked tentatively.

"Of course you can, my boy. But first perhaps you'd like to take a look
at some of the things I have teleported so far."

Baker looked at the animals--they _were_ animals?--in the cages lining
the laboratory. He had been hungry a minute before. Now he had trouble
just swallowing.

"Like making the original adjustments on a video set," the old man
explained. "Hard to get your focus, your horizontal and vertical
interlineation just right. There's some distortion sometimes. Sort
of--messy."

"On soul-searching consideration--" Baker began.

"Don't take another step toward that door. I've got the floor
checkerboarded with electric grids where I can turn on the juice
wherever you set your foot. Control's in my upper plate. Step in that
coffin, boy. Just my little pet name for it; don't worry."
