
With some degree of reluctance, Baker stepped into the left of twin
vertical boxes. The lid closed in his face and locked.

Before he could have time to begin worrying about his air supply, the
cover sprang open, and he stepped out. "Test over?" There was an echo.

A man stood in front of the second coffin. Baker had entered the one on
the left and he was still in front of the left box.

But he was also now in front of the cabinet on the right. He had been
completely duplicated.

"That damned feedback again," Gentle grumbled.

In the first shock of this duplication and therefore seeming negation
of his individual ego, Baker almost went mad.

"You did this to me!" said Baker and Baker to Gentle, each drawing a
concealed weapon and shooting the old man in the heart.

"You two fellers drop your guns and stand still," the voice behind them
said. "The professor was always saying I was the most simple-minded
assistant he ever had, but I've got brains enough to pull this trigger
on this old shotgun if you move."

(The ETI chief explained: "The rest is hearsay. Those miners spyproof
their towns.")

The trial was short with Jeb, the assistant's, testimony, but the
jury deliberation was unaccountably long on the primitive world where
justice ran fast for a blind woman.

"We waited long enough," Jeb said to the other men in the saloon.
"Let's break them out of the cellar and hang 'em."

The miners didn't let the jury set a precedent. They hoisted a few
inside the bar and went out of Lone Splyg Hill and hoisted two more.

"What have you idiots done?" the sheriff yelled as they trooped back
into Klondike City.

"Anticipated the verdict a mite," Jeb admitted.

"That's just it," the sheriff groaned. "It was ruled justifiable
homicide. Temporary insanity. At the time of the crime, each of the
defendants was beside himself!"


                                  IV

"Obviously," Street said, "this is no more than a folk legend."

"Are you sure?" the director of the ETI asked, fingering the report.

"It can't be anything else. Granted that all the other events were
true, I would know Baker was still alive--only one, because neither
could stand the threat of the other, to his ego. You see, the case
would never have come to trial. It would have been immediately
dismissed."

"Why?"

"My dear fellow, both Bakers could not have been put on trial for the
same murder, as any student of law would know. This would have violated
the basic protection of double jeopardy."


                                   V

A fast spaceship to put him well ahead of the law, and a place to hide
out until things simmered down, that was all Baker wanted and it was
what he had. He was too hot for more. ("This is how we reconstruct it
from our informant's version," the ETI chief said.)

For the hundredth time, he located Wister VI on the star map. It had
been discovered by the Gordon-Poul expedition half a century before.
Few people ever knew about it, and most of those had forgotten it.
He would never have known about it himself if it hadn't been on the
credentials of that bank official.

With those papers he was set to spend several profitable years in the
Great National Bank. He would be an alien, but somehow aliens always
seemed to have more money than natives on any given planet.

As blastdown time approached, he read the characteristics of Wister
IV and found his greatest inconvenience would be the intense sunlight
from the double suns, not bright enough to burn but brilliant enough to
dazzle. He searched the ship for sunglasses, but all he could find were
snow goggles--a visor of black plastic with twin slits to look through.
He put them on, resolving never to steal an improperly equipped
spaceship again....

"Howdy, pardner." The humanoid at the spaceport was bald and green. He
wore a wide-brimmed hat, chaps, and a large gun. Nothing else at all.
"Forgive my informal dress. Forgot my kerchief, boots and spurs this
morning. Who might you be?"

Baker gave the title of his position at the bank, explaining it would
be his job to help arrange for loans to the local ranchers.

"You'll find this a friendly place. Tumbleweed is an _adult_ Western
town--we know the banker ain't always the head of the gang of rustlers."
