
As the weeks passed, Baker learned to live with the aliens' strange
obsession with the things and persons of the Old West. They were even
more fanatic than terrestrial Frenchmen over the American Frontier. It
was not exaggerating to say that they regarded the men in the old films
they got from Earth as gods.

They had appropriated appropriate Western given and surnames, but while
there were plenty of Wills and Davys, and Rogerses and Crocketts, it
was always Will Crockett and Davy Rogers. Anything other than that
would be sacrilege.

Baker's biggest problem was getting a good mixed martini. Everybody on
Wister VI drank their rotgut straight. But by becoming friendly with
the bartender, Gene Gibson, at the Golden Slipper, he managed to get
his mixed drinks.

"Which do you think was faster on the draw, Matt Dillon or William S.
Hart?" Tom asked Baker early one evening.

"I don't give a hoot, Gibson," Baker snarled, reaching for his martini.

Shocked faces along the bar turned toward him, and hands moved toward
loaded guns.

"I meant pictures," Baker said hastily. "I wouldn't give one of my
pictures of Hoot Gibson for two each of Ken Maynard and Tim McCoy."

"Everybody to his own taste," Gibson said agreeably.

Baker exhaled and gulped his drink. It had been a close one.

But as time wore on, the habits of the West-loving aliens grated more
and more on Baker's soul. He was particularly irritated by the weekly
ritual every male had of riding into the sunset. Since there were
two sunsets in opposite directions, it was a long and involved and
thoroughly annoying process.

Tom Wayne had kept Baker waiting an hour at the Golden Slipper to
discuss his loan. Baker was exasperated and dry. Local custom regarded
it as friendly to not begin your drinking before your companion arrived.

Gibson laid out the ingredients of the martini on the bar. "You going
to wait any longer for Tom to finish riding into the sunset before I
start mixing?"

Baker whirled angrily. "Nuts to Tom! _Mix!_"

Before the blasphemous words died on his lips, Baker saw death in the
rising barrels of the vengeful six-shooters.


                                  VI

"I doubt this story very much," Street said to the director.

"The planet and its conditions have been verified," the director
replied.

"Even better reason to doubt that Baker died there. He probably was
worshipped as one of the gods."

"Why do you think that?" the director asked the xenologist.

"Think it out for yourself. Imagine the reception that would be given
to a man who stepped out of a spaceship, wearing what would appear to
be a black mask, and who told these people he was the loan arranger."


                                  VII

Baker jammed the accelerator of the groundcar down until his thumbnail
turned white. The eye of the ETI peepbug observed the police car of the
native authorities behind Baker's vehicle, closing fast.

This is how it happens, he subvocalized. A great career in
interplanetary crime ends with an arrest by hick cops for selling dirty
books. Why had he ever sunk so low? That was easy--it took a stake to
do anything big and he had to get a pile by selling books, after _that_
had happened to him on Wellington I.

_The Decameron_, _Forever Amber_, _Pierre Louys_, all the old classics
like that still went over with some of the humanoid and biped races.
(He had none of the newer stuff, only titles in the public domain--he
couldn't force himself to fall to the level of a _literary_ pirate.)
But here on Lintz III he was slaying braces of fowl with a single
stone. Lintzians were highly stimulated by intricate philosophy and
mathematics. This allowed him to sell banned copies of Korzybski at
outrageous prices, while at the same time introducing the native
intellectuals to human semantics, a definite aid to the natives in
throwing off the verbal domination by Earthmen.
