
As soon as he lifted the curtain of his own modest dwelling in the
native quarter, Ryshid knew there was someone in the darkness, waiting
for him.

"I hope you don't mind, old boy," Baker said. "Didn't know where else
to go to escape being hunted down."

"I am overjoyed to find you well, _Sahib_. How did you escape?"

Baker told him about his escape, but somehow his talk kept coming back
to Malissa, his wife. "I tell you it would take Kathleen Windsor to
describe her. She's--but I'm a bore, Ryshid."

Ryshid drew the gun with a graceful movement. "As you say, _Sahib_. I
have read of our traditional life in India, and as a Hindu I know what
I must do when I find my home has been invaded by a hunted boar."

Ryshid squeezed the trigger.


                                 VIII

"The shot," the chief said to Street, "unfortunately destroyed our
peepbug."

"You were taken there," Street replied. "There is only one way to
describe verbally Baker's attitude toward his man, proving this was all
an act. A good Hindu would never harm Baker. His wife is built like a
cow."


                                  IX

Thorsen checked his gun inside his cummerbund. That was about the only
place a man or woman had to hide a weapon in these times of relatively
tight fashions on Earth. The gun was still there, safety off, as he
firmly expected.

He settled back in his chair and glanced across the restaurant at
Hastings, the traitor. An infamous outlaw such as Baker could count on
few friends--one less than even he expected. The reward on the criminal
had grown sizable. Not that Thorsen was going to get any of it. All he
had to do was kill the poor devil on sight. It would be foolish to say
that he didn't like killing; it was his job in the ETI, but sometimes
he wearied of his work.

What did Baker look like?

It was a good question and it would give him something to think about
while he waited. On the face of the existing evidence, it was obvious
that Baker had somewhere discovered some means of superlative disguise.
He could so change himself with stretching, shrinking, fattening, and
slenderizing that if a man knew _he_ wasn't Baker, he had to doubt
everybody and anybody else.

Orders were to kill the first man who came up to Hastings at his table.
He would have to shoot if it were his own father, or the director of
the ETI, and there wasn't too much difference, he reflected.
