
He was seated where he could see both the entrance and the door to the
men's room. Other agents were covering the back way. Baker would have
to come from the tiered front.

Would Thorsen be able to kill Baker? If he got off the first shot, he
would. Evening fashions were too tight for meteor shields. If he were
wearing an electronic cuirass, he could tell it immediately by the
twin spheres that gave that football-shoulder effect. Moreover, had
anyone entered wearing such obvious armor, it would have been flashed
to him. In that case, a hand bomb would have to be used, which would be
unfortunate for Hastings, and possibly Thorsen.

Hastings wasn't showing his fear--he had been doped to hide that--but
he was growing more alert. Baker must be coming!

Thorsen forced himself not to give things away by reaching for his
weapon yet. He fastened his attention on the two doors into the cafe.

The shot blew most of Thorsen's lungs away, but the electronic wiring
in his muscles kept the shock from killing him outright. He turned and
managed to get off one shot before death started climbing up his arms
from his fingers, and the weapon fell.

He should have kept in mind that no one had ever seen Baker and lived
to tell it. Now he had seen Baker and he was not going to live either.
But then Baker was dead even now, in spite of Thorsen's mistake.

Before he died, Thorsen took one last look at the figure with the long
golden hair lying on the threshold of the ladies' room.


                                   X

"This story is absolutely authentic," the director said. "Several ETI
agents saw the whole thing. But somehow in the confusion somebody stole
Baker's body."

"Really, Director!" Street said. "You don't actually believe Baker was
a woman."

"Are you suggesting a disguise?"

"It _had_ to be. Baker's body disappeared by getting up and walking
away. The only way it could do that was for it to be armored. The only
way Baker could get into that building was for his armor to be hidden.
There was only one way he could hide the two spheres of electronic
equipment necessary to project the cuirass field, and he couldn't do it
if he _really_ had been a woman."


                                  XI

The director leveled his gun at Street.

"I am at last convinced that there is only one way in which you could
be so certain that Baker is not dead. You know he is alive, and you
know it because you are Baker."

"You are correct," Street said. "I am the celebrated Robin Hood of
space. It is too great an honor to deny."

"I will go into confinement for many years because of what I am about
to do, but I must see the Galaxy rid of you."

The director fired the lethal charge at point-blank range and the tall
man tumbled to the floor.

"I had to do it," the director said over the body. "It was well enough
to frame you for Baker's crimes due to your suspicious knowledge of
him, but I didn't know you were going to fail to protest, that you were
going to go along with the lie. I couldn't stand another man living to
take the honor for being Baker. There can be no living Baker but _me_."


                                  XII

The tall man rolled over on the floor and sat up. "Then you admit that
you are Baker? No, never mind firing again. I am wearing meteor armor
under my clothes. It's sufficient to stop a gun blast."

"You are a clever devil," the director snarled.

"A man has to be clever to be Baker."

"You are NOT Baker!" the director shrieked. "I am!"

"Are you?" the tall man said superciliously. "Think why you came here.
You've been working too hard, Director. You received too many stories
about Baker. You began envying him his freedom of movement. Soon you
began thinking you _were_ Baker. Your analyst sent you to me, to make
you see through this legend of Baker. It was to my advantage to do so."

The director wavered. "If I'm not Baker, who is?"

"I told you," the tall man said, drawing a gun and shooting the
director in the head. "I am."

He smiled down at the body. "You weren't wearing armor, were you?"
