
Street reversed the dial on his gun and shot the director a second
time. Quickly, he stirred from his paralysis.

"Sorry I had to do that, Director," Street said, "but I could see you
were about to strangle me with naked hands. The important thing was to
fix the idea firmly in your mind that I was Baker. If you thought I
was, you would have to realize that you couldn't be."

"I do," the director said miserably as he climbed to his feet and
dusted off his breeches. "But if I'm not Baker and you're not Baker,
who is Baker?"

"Director, just as telling your stories and hearing my answers to them
cured you of believing you were Baker, the events of this story are
designed to make someone remember the true identity of Baker--that very
person who now believes in a different personality of his own."

"Who is this person who is really Baker?" the director asked.

"_The person who is now reading this story_," Street said.


                                 XIII

"I'm afraid it won't do, Mr. Street," the editor of _Man's True Space_
said across his desk. "It's fiction. There can be only one Baker and
tens of thousands would read the story in my magazine."

"You are missing the point, Mr. Trent," Street said. "There is only one
manuscript and it is in your hands. _You_ are Baker."

"No," Trent said. "No."

"Yes," Street said relentlessly. "Just as the director realized that
_he_ was not Baker, you must realize _you_ are."

Trent lay back in his swivel, gasping. "All right, all right, I admit
it. I am Baker."

"But you aren't really, Mr. Trent," Street said calmly. "I know you
thought at one time you were Baker and then repressed the idea. But I
knew at some future time the delusion might return and you would begin
claiming to be Baker once more. As you said, there can only be one
Baker. _I_ am Baker."

"You lie," Trent snarled. "I know the truth now. I am Baker, and there
_can_ only be one."

The editor jerked the gun up from his desk drawer. The shots crashed at
the same instant. Trent ran the letter spindle through his chest as he
fell across the desk. Street settled back into his chair comfortably,
death in his lungs from the gas bullet that had exploded against his
armor.


                                  XIV

The director of Extraterrestrial Investigations opened the closet door
and stepped into the office. "The fools," Baker said to himself.

He had no doubt that _he_ was the true, the original Baker. He
remembered clearly that he had stepped out of the left cabinet of
Gentle's transmatter, the one which he had first entered. (He did
remember that, didn't he? Yes! Doubting himself was the first stride
down the road these two had taken.) His act to shock "Street" into
realizing they were _both_ Baker had been elaborate, but "Street" had
gone schizoid.

He was no copy, but there were copies of Baker, dozens of them, all
helping the downtrodden aliens from terrestrial exploitation and making
fortunes for themselves. There were fat ones, thin ones, tall ones,
short ones, all kinds of Bakers, thanks to the refinement of Gentle's
distortion factors in matter-duplicating to an exact science, a desired
result, not an accident like the duplication itself. Unfortunately, in
a few, physical distortion meant mental disorientation. These no longer
had to merely pretend to be other people than Baker.

It was too bad about them--and about all the other Bakers who had
died. He really had died in all those ways on all those worlds in all
those bodies, despite "Street's" clever excuses. Still it wasn't a bad
life--helping the helpless and himself to all they could get.

Yes, Baker decided, dying was a good way to make a living.



