
The Chancellor of the Exchequer peered around the edge of the door into
the cabinet meeting room. He saw the rest of the cabinet of Eire
assembled. Relieved, he entered. Something stirred in his pocket and he
pulled out a reproachful snake. He said:

"Don't be indignant, now! You were walkin' on the public street. If
Sean O'Donohue had seen you----" He added to the other members of the
cabinet: "The other two members of the Dail Committee seem to be good,
honest, drinkin' men. One of them now--the shipbuilder I think it
was--wanted a change of scenery from lookin' at the bottom of a glass.
I took him for a walk. I showed him a bunch of dinies playin' leapfrog
tryin' to get one of their number up to a rain spout so he could bite
off pieces and drop 'em down to the rest. They were all colors and it
was quite somethin' to look at. The committeeman--good man that he
is!--staggered a bit and looked again and said grave that whatever of
evil might be said of Eire, nobody could deny that its whisky had
imagination!"

He looked about the cabinet room. There was a hole in the baseboard
underneath the sculptured coat of arms of the colony world. He put the
snake down on the floor beside the hole. With an air of offended
dignity, the snake slithered into the dark opening.

"Now--what's the meeting for?" he demanded. "I'll tell you immediate
that if money's required it's impractical."

President O'Hanrahan said morbidly:

"'Twas called, it seems, to put the curse o' Cromwell on whoever let
the black snakes loose. But they'd been cooped up, and they knew they
were not keepin' the dinies down, and they got worried over the work
they were neglectin'. So they took turns diggin', like prisoners in a
penitentiary, and presently they broke out and like the faithful
creatures they are they set anxious to work on their backlog of
diny-catchin'. Which they're doin'. They've ruined us entirely, but
they meant well."

The minister of Information asked apprehensively: "What will O'Donohue
do when he finds out they're here?"

"He's not found out--yet," said the president without elation. "Moira
didn't tell him. She's an angel! But he's bound to learn. And then if
he doesn't detonate with the rage in him, he'll see to it that all of
us are murdered--slowly, for treason to the Erse and blasphemy directed
at St. Patrick." Then the president said with a sort of yearning pride:
"D'ye know what Moira offered to do? She said she'd taken biology at
college, and she'd try to solve the problem of the dinies. The
darlin'!"

"Bein' gathered together," observed the chief justice, "we might as
well try again to think of somethin' plausible."

"We need a good shenanigan," agreed the president unhappily. "But what
could it be? Has anybody the trace of an idea?"

The cabinet went into session. The trouble was, of course, that the
Erse colony on Eire was a bust. The first colonists built houses, broke
ground, planted crops--and encountered dinies. Large ones, fifty and
sixty feet long, with growing families. They had thick bodies with
unlikely bony excrescences, they had long necks which ended in very
improbable small heads, and they had long tapering tails which would
knock over a man or a fence post or the corner of a house, impartially,
if they happened to swing that way. They were not bright.

That they ate the growing crops might be expected, though cursed. But
they ate wire fences. The colonists at first waited for them to die of
indigestion. But they digested the fences. Then between bales of more
normal foodstuffs they browsed on the corrugated-iron roofs of houses.
Again the colonists vengefully expected dyspepsia. They digested the
roofs, too. Presently the lumbering creatures nibbled at axes--the
heads, not the handles. They went on to the plows. When they gathered
sluggishly about a ground-car and began to lunch on it, the colonists
did not believe. But it was true.

The dinies' teeth weren't mere calcium phosphate, like other beasts. An
amateur chemist found out that they were an organically deposited boron
carbide, which is harder than any other substance but crystallized
carbon--diamond. In fact, diny teeth, being organic, seemed to be an
especially hard form of boron carbide. Dinies could chew iron. They
could masticate steel. They could grind up and swallow anything but
tool-steel reinforced with diamond chips. The same amateur chemist
worked it out that the surface soil of the planet Eire was deficient in
iron and ferrous compounds. The dinies needed iron. They got it.
