
The big dinies were routed by burning torches in the hands of angry
colonists. When scorched often enough, their feeble brains gathered the
idea that they were unwelcome. They went lumbering away.

They were replaced by lesser dinies, approximately the size of
kangaroos. They also ate crops. They also hungered for iron. To them
steel cables were the equivalent of celery, and they ate iron pipe as
if it were spaghetti. The industrial installations of the colony were
their special targets. The colonists unlimbered guns. They shot the
dinies. Ultimately they seemed to thin out. But once a month was
shoot-a-diny day on Eire, and the populace turned out to clear the
environs of their city of Tara.

Then came the little dinies. Some were as small as two inches in
length. Some were larger. All were cute. Colonists' children wanted to
make pets of them until it was discovered that miniature they might be,
but harmless they were not. Tiny diny-teeth, smaller than the heads of
pins, were still authentic boron carbide. Dinies kept as pets cheerily
gnawed away wood and got at the nails of which their boxes were made.
They ate the nails.

Then, being free, they extended their activities. They and their
friends tunneled busily through the colonists' houses. They ate nails.
They ate screws. They ate bolts, nuts, the nails out of shoes, pocket
knives and pants buttons, zippers, wire staples and the tacks out of
upholstery. Gnawing even threads and filings of metal away, they made
visible gaps in the frames and moving parts of farm tractors.

Moreover, it appeared that their numbers previously had been held down
by the paucity of ferrous compounds in their regular diet. The lack led
to a low birth rate. Now, supplied with great quantities of iron by
their unremitting industry, they were moved to prodigies of
multiplication.

The chairman of the Dail Committee on the Condition of the Planet Eire
had spoken of them scornfully as equal to mice. They were much worse.
The planetary government needed at least a pied piper or two, but it
tried other measures. It imported cats. Descendants of the felines of
Earth still survived, but one had only to look at their frustrated,
neurotic expressions to know that they were failures. The government
set traps. The dinies ate their springs and metal parts. It offered
bounties for dead dinies. But the supply of dinies was inexhaustible,
and the supply of money was not. It had to be stopped.

Then upon the spaceport of Eire a certain Captain Patrick Brannicut, of
Boston, Earth, descended. It was his second visit to Eire. On the first
he'd learned of the trouble. On his second he brought what still seemed
the most probable solution. He landed eighteen hundred adult black
snakes, two thousand teen-agers of the same species, and two crates of
soft-shelled eggs he guaranteed to hatch into fauna of the same kind.
He took away all the cash on the planet. The government was desperate.

But the snakes chased dinies with enthusiasm. They pounced upon
dinies while the public watched. They lay in wait for dinies, they
publicly digested dinies, and they went pouring down into any small
hole in the ground from which a diny had appeared or into which one
vanished. They were superior to traps. They did not have to be set or
emptied. They did not need bait. They were self-maintaining and even
self-reproducing--except that snakes when overfed tend to be less
romantic than when hungry. In ten years a story began--encouraged by
the Ministry of Information--to the effect that St. Patrick had
brought the snakes to Eire, and it was certain that if they didn't
wipe out the dinies, they assuredly kept the dinies from wiping out
the colony. And the one hope of making Eire into a splendid new
center of Erse culture and tradition--including a reverence for St.
Patrick--lay in the belief that some day the snakes would gain a
permanent upper hand.

Out near the spaceport there was an imported monument to St. Patrick.
It showed him pointing somewhere with his bishop's staff, while looking
down at a group of snakes near his feet. The sculptor intended to
portray St. Patrick telling the snakes to get the hell out of Eire. But
on Eire it was sentimentally regarded as St. Patrick telling the snakes
to go increase and multiply.

But nobody dared tell that to Sean O'Donohue! It was past history, in a
way, but also it was present fact. On the day of the emergency cabinet
meeting it was appalling fact. Without snakes the planet Eire could not
continue to be inhabited, because of the little dinies. But the
Republic of Eire on Earth would indignantly disown any colony that had
snakes in it. And the colony wasn't ready yet to be self-supporting.
The cabinet discussed the matter gloomily. They were too dispirited to
do more. But Moira--the darlin'--did research.

It was strictly college-freshman-biology-lab research. It didn't
promise much, even to her. But it gave her an excuse to talk anxiously
and hopefully to the president when he took the Dail Committee to
McGillicuddy Island to look at the big dinies there, while the populace
tried to get the snakes out of sight again.
