
President O'Hanrahan held himself with some dignity in the tumble-down
reception hall of the presidential mansion. Moira gazed proudly at him.
The two still-active members of the Dail Committee looked uncomfortably
around them. The cabinet of Eire was assembled.

"It's sorry I am," said the President of Eire, "to have to issue a
defiance to the Eire on Earth we owe so much to. But it can't be
helped. We had to have the black creatures to keep the dinies from
eating us out of house and home altogether. We've been fightin' a
rear-guard battle, and we needed them. In time we'd have won with their
help, but time we did not have. So this mornin' Moira told me what
she'd done yesterday. The darlin' had used the brains God gave her, and
maybe holy St. Patrick put a flea in her ear. She figured out that
dinies must find metal by its smell, and if its smell was made stronger
by simple heatin' they'd be unable to resist it. And it was so. Ye saw
the chief justice runnin' down the street with all the dinies after
him."

The two members of the committee nodded.

"He was headin," said the president, "for the cold-storage plant that
Sean O'Donohue had twitted me was empty of the provisions we'd had to
eat up because of the dinies. It's no matter that it's empty now
though. We can grow victuals in the fields from now on, because now the
cold rooms are packed solid with dinies that ran heedless into a
climate they are not used to an' fell--what was the word, Moira
darlin'?"

"Torpid," said Moira, gazing at him.

"Torpid," agreed the president. "From now on when there's too many
dinies we can send somebody runnin' through the streets with a hot
plate to call them into cold storage. We've pied pipers at will, to
help out the black creatures that've done so much for us. If we've
offended Eire on Earth, by havin' the black creatures to help us, we're
sorry. But we had to--till Moira and doubtless St. Patrick gave us the
answer ye saw today. If we're disowned, bedamned if we don't hang on!
We can feed ourselves now. We can feed some extra mouths. There'll be a
ship droppin' by out of curiosity now and then, and we'll trade with
'em. If were disowned--we'll be poor. But when were the Irish ever
rich?"

The committeeman who was a manufacturer of precision machinery mopped
his forehead.

"We're rich now," he said resignedly. "You'd be bound to learn it.
D'you know what the dinies' teeth are made of?"

"It's been said," said President O'Hanrahan, "that it's bor ... boron
carbide in organic form. What that means I wouldn't know, but we've got
a fine crop of it!"

"It's the next hardest substance to diamond," said the committeeman
dourly. "It's even been guessed that an organic type might be harder.
It's used for the tools for lathes and precision machinery, and it
sells at close to the price of diamonds of industrial quality--and I'll
make a deal to handle all we've got. What Earth don't need, other
planets will. You're rich."

The president stared. Then he gazed at Moira.

"It's a pity we're bein' disowned," he said mournfully. "It would be a
fine thing to be able to tell the grandfather Eire's rich and can feed
more colonists and even maybe pay back what it's cost to keep us here
so long. It would be a fine thing to hire colonists to build the houses
they'll be given free when they're finished. But since Sean O'Donohue
is a stern man----"

The ship owner scratched his head. He'd paused on the way to the
presidential mansion. He'd had restoratives for his distress. He'd
looked at the bottom of a bottle and seen the facts.

"I'll tell yea," he said warmly. "It's the O'Donohue's been battlin' to
keep the colony goin' against the politicians that wanted to economize.
He's made a career of believin' in this world. He's ruined if he stops.
So it might be that a little bit of blarneyin'--with him desperate to
find reason to stay friends, black creature or no black creatures----"

The president took Moira's hand.

"Come, my darlin'," he said sadly. "We'll reason with him."
