
Long, long minutes later he shook his head as Sean O'Donohue stormed at
him.

"The back o' my hand to you!" said Sean O'Donohue in the very
quintessence of bitterness. "And to Moira, too, if she has more to do
with you! I'll have naught to do with shenanigannin' renegades and
blasphemers that actually import snakes into a world St. Patrick had
set off for the Erse from ancient days!"

It was dark in the old man's room. He was a small and pathetic figure
under the covers. He was utterly defiant. He was irreconcilable, to all
seeming.

"Renegades!" he said indignantly. "Snakes, yea say? The devil a snake
there is on Eire! I'll admit that we've some good black creatures that
in a bad light and with prejudice yea might mistake. But snakes? Ye
might as well call the dinies lizards--those same dinies that are
native Erin porcupines--bad luck to them!"

There was an astounded silence from the bed.

"It's a matter of terminology," said the president sternly. "And it's
not the name that makes a thing, but what it does! _Actio sequitur
esse_, as the sayin' goes. You'll not be denyin' that! Now, a diny
hangs around a man's house and it eats his food and his tools and it's
no sort of good to anybody while it's alive. Is that the action of a
lizard? It is not! But it's notorious that porcupines hang around men's
houses and eat the handles of their tools for the salt in them,
ignoring' the poor man whose sweat had the salt in it when he was
laborin' to earn a livin' for his family. And when a thing acts like a
porcupine, a porcupine it is and nothing else! So a diny is a Eirean
porcupine, native to the planet, and no man can deny it!

"And what, then, is a snake?" demanded President O'Hanrahan oratorically.
"It's a creature that sneaks about upon the ground and poisons by its
bite when it's not blarneyin' unwise females into tasting' apples. Do
the black creatures here do anything of that sort? They do not! They go
about their business plain and open, givin' a half of the road and a
how'd'y-do to those they meet. They're sober and they're industrious.
They mind their own business, which is killin' the Eirean porcupines we
inaccurate call by the name of dinies. It's their profession! Did yea
ever hear of a snake with a profession? I'll not have it said that
there's snakes on Eire! And I'll denounce yea as a conscienceless
politician if yea dare to put such a name on the honest, friendly,
industrious Eirean porcupine eaters that up to this moment have been
the savin' of the colony! I'll not have it!"

There was a long silence. Then Sean O'Donohue spoke dryly: "Porcupine
eaters, you say? Not snakes?"

"Not snakes!" repeated the president defiantly. "Porcupine eaters!"

"Hm-m-m," said Sean O'Donohue. "That's better. The Dail's not immune to
blarney when it's needful to accept it--and Eire back on Earth is hard
put for breathin' room you say can be had from now on. What would be
the reason for Moira standin' so close to you?"

"She's marryin' me," said President O'Hanrahan firmly.

Sean O'Donohue's voice was waspish.

"But I forbid it!" it said sharply. "Until I'm up and about and able to
be givin' her in marriage as her grandfather ought to be doin'! Ye'll
wait the few days till I'm able! Understand?"

"Yes, sir," said the president. Meekness seemed called for.

"Then begone!" snapped Sean O'Donohue. Then he added sternly:
"Remember--no shenanigans!"

The solicitor general watched them depart on a wedding journey to a
cottage in Ballyhanninch, which was on Donegal Peninsular, fronting on
the Emmett Sea. He waved, like the assembled populace. But when they
were out of sight he said darkly to the chief justice and the
Chancellor of the Exchequer:

"I didn't have the heart to bring it up before, but there's the devil
of a problem buildin' up against the time he comes back."

"Which problem?" asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, warily.

"It's the sn ... the porcupine killers," said the solicitor general.
"Things look bad for them. They're out of work. Even Timothy. There's
no dinies to speak of for them to earn a livin' by killin'. It's
technological unemployment. They earned their way faithful, doin' work
they knew an' loved. Now they're jobless. There's no work for them.
What's to be done? Put 'em on re [remainder of text is missing]

There was a pause. The solicitor general said firmly:

"I mean it! They've a claim on us! A claim of the highest order! They
can't starve, it's sure! But would you have them have to hold mass
meetin's and set up picket lines and the like, to get justice done
them?"

"Ah," said the chief justice. "Some way will turn up to handle the
matter. Like Sean O'Donohue was sayin' to me yesterday, at the very
bottom of a bottle, we Erse can always depend on St. Patrick to take
care of things!"


THE END



