



Committing a perfect murder is a simple matter. Drive out some night
to a lonely road, find a single person walking along out of sight of
anyone else, offer him a ride, knife him, and go home. In such a
crime, there's no reason to connect killer and victim--no motive, no
clue, no suspect.

To achieve the perfect murder of a man's own wife, however, is a
different matter. For obvious reasons, husbands are always high on the
suspect list. Who has a better reason for such a crime?

Henry Aimsworth had been pondering the problem with more than academic
interest for some time. It wasn't that he hated his wife. He simply
couldn't stand the sight or sound of her; even thinking about her made
his flesh crawl. If she had been willing to give him a divorce, he'd
have been content to wish her all the happiness she was capable of
discovering. But Emma, unfortunately, was fond of being his wife;
perhaps she was even fond of him. Worse, she was too rigidly bound to
trite morality to give him grounds to sue.

There was no hope of her straying. What had been good enough for her
mother was good enough for her, and saved all need of thinking; a
woman needed a husband, her place was in the home, marriage was
forever, and what would the neighbors think? Anyhow, she'd have had
difficulty being unfaithful, even if she tried. She'd been gaining
some ten pounds every year for the eleven years they had been married,
and she'd long since stopped worrying about taking care of her
appearance.

He looked up at her now, letting the book drop to his lap. She sat
watching the television screen with a vacant look on her face, while
some comic went through a tired routine. If she enjoyed it, there was
no sign, though she spent half her life in front of the screen. Then
the comic went off, and dancers came on. She went back to darning a
pair of his socks, as seriously as if she didn't know that he had
always refused to wear the lumpy results. Her stockings had runs, and
she still wore the faded apron in which she'd cooked supper.

He contrasted her with Shirley unconsciously, and shuddered. In the
year since Shirley Bates had come to work in his rare book store, he'd
done a lot of such shuddering, and never because of the slim blonde
warmth of his assistant. Since that hot day in August when they'd
closed the shop early and he'd suggested a ride in the country to cool
off, he and Shirley....

He was interrupted in his more pleasant thoughts by the crash of
scissors onto the floor, and his eyes focussed on the deepening folds
of fat as Emma bent to retrieve them. "Company coming," she said,
before he could think of anything to prevent the mistaken cliche. Then
she became aware that he was staring at her. "Did you take the garbage
out, Henry?"

"Yes, dear," he answered woodenly. Then, because he knew it was coming
anyhow, he filled in the inevitable. "Cleanliness is next to
godliness."

She nodded solemnly, and began putting aside her darning. "That's
finished. Mama always said a stitch in time saves nine. If you'd cut
your toenails, Henry...."

He could feel his skin begin to tingle with irritation. But there was
no escape. If he went upstairs to his bedroom, she'd be up at once,
puttering about. If he went to the basement, she'd find the canned
food needed checking. A woman's place was with her husband, as she'd
repeatedly told him. Probably she couldn't stand her own company,
either.

Then he remembered something he'd stored away. "There's a new picture
at the Metro," he said as quietly as he could. "Taylor's starred, I
think. I was going to take you, before this extra work came up."

He could see her take the bait and nibble at it. She had some vague
crush left for Taylor. She stared at the television set, shifted her
bulk, and then shook her head reluctantly. "It'd be nice, Henry. But
going at night costs so much, and--well, a penny saved is a penny
earned."

"Exactly. That's what I meant to say." He even relaxed enough to
overlook the platitude, now that there was some hope. "I saved the
price of lunch today. The nut who wanted _King in Yellow_ was so
tickled to get the copy finally, he insisted on treating. You can even
take a cab home afterwards."

"That's nice. It'll probably rain, the way my bunion's been aching."
She considered it a second more, before cutting off the television. He
watched as she drew off the apron and went for her coat and hat,
making a pretense of dabbing on make-up. She might as well have worn
the apron, he decided, as she came over to kiss him a damp good-bye.
