
Henry swallowed thickly, feeling the sweat trickle down his nose. The
book had warned against summoning the demon without the protective
devices! But the thing seemed peaceful enough for the moment. He
cleared his voice. "You mean--you mean magic works?"

"Magic--shmagic!" the creature snorted. He jerked his thumb toward the
television. "To old Ephriam--the crackpot who wrote the book before he
went completely crazy--that set would have been more magic than I am.
I thought this age knew about dimensions, planes of vibrations, and
simultaneous universes. You humans always were a backward race, but
you seemed to be learning the basic facts. Hell, I suppose that means
you'll lay a geas on me, after I was hoping it was just an
experimental summons!"

Henry puzzled it over, with some of the fright leaving him. The
scientific sounding terms somehow took some of the magic off the
appearance of the thing. "You mean those passes and words set up some
sort of vibrational pattern...."

The hairless fellow snorted again, and began attacking the grapes.
"Bunk, Henry! Oh, my name's Alfear, by the way. I mean I was a fool. I
should have gone to my psychiatrist and taken the fifty year course,
as he advised. But I thought the books were all burned and nobody knew
the summons. So here I am, stuck with the habit. Because that's all it
is--a conditioned reflex. Pure compulsory behavior. I'm sensitized to
receive the summons, and when it comes, I teleport into your plane
just the way you pull your hand off a hot stove. You read the whole
book, I suppose? Yeah, just my luck. Then you know I'm stuck with any
job you give me--practically your slave. I can't even get back without
dismissal or finishing your task! That's what comes of saving money
by not going to my psychiatrist."

He muttered unhappily, reaching for more grapes, while Henry began to
decide nothing was going to happen to him, at least physically. Souls
were things he wasn't quite sure of, but he couldn't see how just
talking to Alfear could endanger his.

"Still," the creature said thoughtfully, "it could be worse. No
pentagram. I never did get mixed up with some of the foul odors and
messes some of my friends had to take. And I've developed quite a
taste for sugar; tobacco, too." He reached out and plucked a cigarette
out of Henry's pack, then a book of matches. He lighted it, inhaled,
and rubbed the flame out on his other palm. "Kind of weak tobacco, but
not bad. Any more questions while I smoke this? There's no free oxygen
where I come from, so I can't smoke there."

"But if you demons answer such--such summons, why don't people know
about it now?" Henry asked. "I'd think more and more people would be
going in for this sort of thing. If the wizards were right all
along...."

"They weren't, and we're not demons. It didn't get started until your
Middle Ages. And if it hadn't been for old Apalon...." Alfear lighted
another cigarette off the butt, which he proceeded to extinguish on
the tip of his sharp tongue. He scratched his head thoughtfully, and
then went on.

"Apalon was studying your worship. You see, we've been studying your
race the way you study white rats, using lower races to explain our
own behavior. Anyhow, he got curious and figured out a way to
mentalize himself into your plane. He was sort of a practical joker,
you might say. So he picked a time when some half-crazy witch was
trying to call up the being you worship as Satan to make some kind of
a deal. Just as she finished, he popped up in front of her, spitting
out a bunch of phosphorus to make a nice smoke and fire effect, and
agreed with all her mumbo-jumbo about having to do what she wanted.
She wanted her heart fixed up then, so he showed her how to use
belladonna and went back, figuring it was a fine joke.

"Only he made a mistake. There's something about moving between planes
that lowers the resistance to conditioning. Some of our people can
take five or six trips, but Apalon was one of those who was so
conditioning-prone that he had the habit fixed after the first trip.
The next time she did the rigamarole, back he popped. He had to dig up
gold for her, hypnotize a local baron into marrying her, and generally
keep on the constant _qui vive_, until she got sloppy and forgot the
pentagram she thought protected her and which he was conditioned to.
But after he disintegrated her, he found she'd passed on the word to a
couple of other witches. And he knew somebody at the Institute was
bound to find what a fool he'd made of himself.

"So he began taking members aside and telling them about the trick of
getting into your world. Excellent chance for study. Have to humor the
humans by sticking to their superstitions, of course. One by one,
they went over on little trips. It wasn't hard to find some
superstitious dolt trying to summon something, since word had got
around in your world. One of us would pop up, and that spread the word
further. Anyhow, when Apalon was sure each member had made enough
trips to be conditioned, he'd tell him the sad truth, and swear him to
secrecy on penalty of being laughed out of the Institute. The old
blaggard wound up with all of us conditioned. There was quite a flurry
of witchcraft here, until we finally found a psychiatrist who could
break the habit for us. Even then, it was tough going. We'd never have
made it without the inquisitions and witch-burnings one of our
experimental sociologists managed to stir up."

Alfear put out the third cigarette butt and stood up slowly. "Look, I
don't mind a chat now and then, but my wives are waiting dinner. How
about dismissing me?"

"Umm." Henry had been thinking while he listened. It had sounded like
a reasonable explanation on the whole, except for the bit about
Apalon's disintegrating the witch. Apparently as long as a man wasn't
too unreasonable, there was a certain usefulness to having such
friends on call. "What about the price for your help? I mean--well,
about souls...."

Alfear twitched his ears disgustedly. "What the deuce would I do with
your soul, Henry? Eat it? Wear it? Don't be a shnook!"

"Well, then--well, I've heard about wishes that were granted, but they
all had a trick attached. If I asked for immortality, you'd give it,
say; but then I'd get some horrible disease and beg and plead for
death. Or ask for money, and then find the money was recorded as being
paid to a kidnapper, or something."

"In the first place, I couldn't give you immortality," Alfear said, as
patiently as he apparently could. "Your metabolism's not like ours. In
the second place, why should I look for tainted money? It's enough
nuisance doing what you ask, without looking for tricks to pull.
Anyhow, I told you I half-enjoy visiting here. As long as you're
reasonable about it, I don't mind keeping my end of the compulsion
going. If you've got something to ask, ask away. There are no strings
attached."

The creature seemed to be quite sincere. Henry considered it briefly,
staring at a large tinted picture of Emma, and took the plunge.
"Suppose I asked you to kill my wife for me--say by what looked like a
stroke, so nobody would blame me?"

"That seems reasonable enough," Alfear agreed easily. "I could break a
few blood vessels inside her skull.... Sure, why not? Only the picture
in your mind is so distorted, I wouldn't know her. If she's like that,
why'd you ever marry her?"

"Because she seemed different from other women, I guess," Henry
admitted. "When I tipped the canoe over, and I figured she'd be mad
because her dress was ruined, all she said was something about not
being sugar, so she wouldn't melt." He shuddered, remembering all the
times she'd said it since. "You won't have any trouble. Look, can you
really read my mind?"

"Naturally. But it's all disorganized."

"Umm. Well." It gave him a queasy feeling to think of anyone seeing
his secret thoughts. But this fellow apparently didn't work by human
attitudes, anyhow. He groped about, and then smiled grimly. "All
right, then. You can tell I think of her as my wife. And just to make
sure, she'll be sure to say something about early to bed and early to
rise; she says that every single damned night, Alfear! She never
misses."

Alfear grunted. "Sounds more reasonable every minute, Henry. All
right, when your wife says that, I pop out and give her a stroke that
will kill her. How about dismissing me now?"

"No strings?" Henry asked. He watched carefully as Alfear nodded
assent, and he could see no sign of cunning or trickery. He caught his
breath, nodded, and closed his eyes. Seeing something vanish was
nothing he wanted. "Dismissed."
