
The fruit was still gone when he opened his eyes, but there was no
other sign of the thing. He found some fruit still in the refrigerator
and restocked the bowl. Then he closed the strange book and put it
away. He'd have to buy it himself, and burn it to make sure no one
else found the trick, of course. For a moment, uneasiness pricked at
him. Yet he was sure Alfear hadn't been lying, and the story the
creature had told made more sense than the older superstitions. Henry
adjusted his mind to having a well-conditioned demon on tap and then
began the harder job of bracing himself for Emma's incoherent but
detailed account of the movie when she came back.

Unfortunately, it was a more complicated plot than usual, and she went
on and on, from the moment she entered the door. He tried to close his
ears, but he'd never succeeded in that. He yawned, and she yawned
back, but went on until the last final morsel was covered for the
second or third time.

"He was wonderful," she finally concluded. "Just wonderful. Only I
wished you'd come with me. You'd have liked it. Henry, did you take
the garbage out?"

"Yes, dear," he answered. "Hours ago."

He yawned elaborately again. She mumbled something about having to
keep the kitchen clean because cleanliness was next to godliness, but
her automatic yawn muffled the words. Then she glanced at the clock.
"Heavens, it's almost one! And early to bed and early to rise...."

Henry jerked his eyes away, just as he caught the first glimpse of
Alfear popping into existence beside her. He heard the beginning of a
shriek change to a horrible gargling and then become a dying moan.
Something soft and heavy hit the floor with a dull thud. Henry turned
around slowly.

"Dead," Alfear said calmly, rubbing one of his fingers. "This business
of getting just one finger through the planes into her head cuts off
the circulation. There, that's better. Satisfied?"

Henry dropped beside the corpse. She was dead, according to the mirror
test, and there wasn't a mark on her. He stared at the puffy, relaxed
features; he'd expected an expression of horror, but she seemed simply
asleep. His initial feeling of pity and contrition vanished; after
all, it had been quick and nearly painless. Now he was free!

"Thanks, Alfear," he said. "It's fine--fine. Do I dismiss you now?"

"No need this time. I'm free as soon as the job's done. Unless you'd
like to talk awhile...."

Henry shook his head quickly. He had to telephone a doctor. Then he
could call Shirley--her mother would be gone by now. "Not now. Maybe
I'll summon you sometime for a smoke or something. But not now!"

"Okay," Alfear said, and vanished. Surprisingly, seeing him disappear
wasn't unpleasant, after all. He just wasn't there.

Waiting for the doctor was the worst part of it. All the legends Henry
knew ran through his mind. Alfear could have given her a stroke and
then added some violent poison that would show up in an autopsy. He
could be sitting wherever he was, chuckling because Henry hadn't
restricted his wish enough to be safe. Or any of a hundred things
could happen. There was the first witch, who had thought she had
Apalon under control, only to be turned to dust.

But the doctor took it calmly enough. "Stroke, all right," he decided.
"I warned her last year that she was putting on too much weight and
getting high blood pressure. Too bad, Mr. Aimsworth, but there was
nothing you could do. I'll turn in a certificate. Want me to contact a
mortician for you?"

Henry nodded, trying to appear properly grief-stricken. "I--I'd
appreciate it."

"Too late now," the doctor said. "But I'll be glad to send Mr. Glazier
around in the morning." He pulled the sheet up over Emma's body,
leaving it on the backroom couch to which they had carried it. "You'd
better go to a hotel for the night. And I'll give you something that
will make you sleep."

"I'd rather not," Henry said quickly. "I mean, I'd feel better here.
You know...."

"Certainly, certainly." The doctor nodded sympathetically, but as if
it were an old story to him. He left the pills with instructions, said
the proper things again, and finally went out.
