
Shirley's voice was sleepy and cross when she answered, but it grew
alert as soon as he told her about Emma's stroke. He was almost
beginning to believe the simple version of the story himself.

"Poor Henry," she murmured. Her voice sharpened again. "It _was_ a
stroke? The doctor was sure?"

"Positive," he assured her, cursing himself for having let her guess
some of the thoughts that had been on his mind. "The doctor said she'd
had hypertension and such before."

She considered it a second, and then a faint laugh sounded. "Then I
guess there's no use in crying over spilled milk, is there, Henry? If
it had to happen, it just had to. And I mean, it's like fate,
almost!"

"It _is_ fate!" he agreed happily. Then he dropped his voice. "And now
I'm all alone here, baby lamb, and I had to call you up...."

She caught on at once, as she always did. "You can't stay there now!
It's so morbid. Henry, you come right over here!"

Demons, Henry thought as he drove the car through the quiet
residential streets toward her apartment, had their uses. They were a
much maligned breed. Probably the people who had summoned them before
had been ignorant, stupid people; they'd messed up their chances and
brought trouble on themselves by not finding out the facts and putting
it all down to superstitious magic. The fellows were almost
people--maybe even a little superior to humans. If a man would just
try to understand them, they could help him, and with no danger at
all.

"No strings attached," he said to himself, and then chuckled softly.
It fitted perfectly; now there were no strings attached to him. Emma
was at peace, and he was free. He'd have to wait a few months to marry
Shirley legally, of course. But already, she was as good as his wife.
And if he played up the shock angle just enough, this could be a
wonderful evening again....

Shirley was unusually lovely when she met him at the door. Her soft
golden hair made a halo for her face--a face that said she'd already
anticipated his ideas, and had decided he was a man who needed
sympathy and understanding for what had happened.

There was even time for the idea that he was free to be brought up,
tentatively at first, and then eventually as a matter of course. And
the plans expanded as he considered them. There was no need to worry
about things now. The quiet marriage became a trip around the world as
he confessed to having money that no one knew about. They could close
the shop. He could leave town almost at once, and she could follow
later. Nobody would know, and they wouldn't have to wait to avoid any
scandal. They could be married in two weeks!

Henry was just realizing the values of a friendly demon. With proper
handling, a lot of purely friendly summoning, and a reasonable
attitude, there was no reason why Alfear couldn't provide him with
every worldly comfort to share with Shirley.

He caught her to him again. "My own little wife! That's what you are,
lambkins! What's a mere piece of paper? I already think of you as my
wife. I feel you're my wife. That's what counts, isn't it?"

"That's all that counts," she agreed with a warmth that set fire to
his blood. Then she gasped. "Henry, darling, it's getting light
already! You'll have to get back. What will the neighbors say if they
see you coming from here now?"

He tore away reluctantly, swearing at the neighbors. But she was
right, of course. He had to go back and take the sleeping medicine to
be ready for the arrival of the mortician in the morning.

"It's still early," he protested, automatically trying to squeeze out
a few more minutes. "Nobody's up yet."

"I'll heat up the coffee, and then you'll have to go," Shirley said
firmly, heading for the kitchen. "Plenty of people get up early around
here. And besides, you need some sleep. Early to bed and early to
rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and--"

From the kitchen came the beginning of a shriek. It changed to a
horrible gasp, and died away in a failing moan. There was the sound of
a body hitting the floor.

Alfear stood over Shirley's body, rubbing one finger tenderly. His
ears twitched uncertainly as he studied Henry's horror-frozen face. "I
told you," he said. "I warned you some of us get conditioned to a
habit the first time. And you thought of her as your wife and she
said...."

Abruptly, he vanished. Henry's screams were the only sound in the
apartment.

THE END
