
Blake nodded. "I remember I was on the crew of the ship that landed
first on Phobos. You know what the Phobonians turned out to be like, of
course. They had about everything we had, and damned if we could do a
lick of trading until the captain of our ship put something back in a
box and happened to put a rubber band around the box. They went nuts;
they'd never seen anything that had _elasticity_. Rubber or anything
like it simply wasn't known on Phobos. We managed to find a few dozen
rubber bands in the ship's office and practically bought out Phobos
with them.

"One of the crew was wearing old-fashioned suspenders with elastic in
them, and he traded them for a bucket of Phobonian sele-stones. Had to
hold up his pants with a piece of rope for the rest of the trip, but
when he got back to Earth he was rich. Me, I was wearing a belt. I've
worn suspenders ever since, but I never got back to Phobos. Not that it
would matter if I did; Interplanet's doing a regular trade in rubber
there now, and it's down to twenty credits a pound or thereabouts."

Blake shook his head gloomily and then turned to me. He said, "Hank,
what went on Ganymede? You were on that ship that went out there a few
months ago, weren't you--the first one that got through? I've never
read or heard much about that trip."

"Me either," Charlie said. "Except that the Ganymedeans turned out to
be humanoid beings about four feet tall and didn't wear a thing except
earrings. Kind of immodest, wasn't it?"

I grinned. "You wouldn't have thought so if you'd seen the Ganymedeans.
With them, it didn't matter. Anyway, they didn't wear earrings."

"You're crazy," Charlie said. "Sure, I know you were on that expedition
and I wasn't, but you're still crazy, because I had a quick look at
some of the pictures they brought back. The natives wore earrings."

"No," I said. "Earrings wore _them_."

Blake sighed deeply. "I knew it, I knew it," he said. "There was
something wrong with this trip from the start. Charlie pops off the
first day with a yarn that should have been worked up to gradually. And
now you say--Or is there something wrong with my _sense of earring_?"

I chuckled. "Not a thing, Skipper."

Charlie said, "I've heard of men biting dogs, but earrings wearing
people is a new one. Hank, I hate to say it--but just consider it said."

Anyway, I had their attention. And now was as good a time as any.

I said, "If you read about the trip, you know we left Earth about
eight months ago, for a six-months' round trip. There were six of us
in the M-94; me and two others made up the crew and there were three
specialists to do the studying and exploring. Not the really top-flight
specialists, though, because the trip was too risky to send them. That
was the third ship to try for Ganymede and the other two had cracked
up on outer Jovian satellites that the observatories hadn't spotted
from Earth because they are too small to show up in the scopes at that
distance.

"When you get there you find there's practically an asteroid belt
around Jupiter, most of them so black they don't reflect light to speak
of and you can't see them till they hit you or you hit them. But most
of them--"

"Skip the satellites," Blake interrupted, "unless they wore earrings."

"Or unless earrings wore _them_," said Charlie.

"Neither," I admitted. "All right, so we were lucky and got through
the belt. And landed. Like I said, there were six of us. Lecky, the
biologist. Haynes geologist and mineralogist. And Hilda Race, who loved
little flowers and was a botanist, egad! You'd have loved Hilda--at a
distance. Somebody must have wanted to get rid of her, and sent her on
that trip. She gushed; you know the type.

"And then there was Art Willis and Dick Carney. They gave Dick
skipper's rating for the trip; he knew enough astrogation to get us
through. So Dick was skipper and Art and I were flunkies and gunmen.
Our main job was to go along with the specialists whenever they left
the ship and stand guard over them against whatever dangers might pop
up."

"And did anything pop?" Charlie demanded.

"I'm coming to that," I told him. "We found Ganymede not so bad, as
places go. Gravity low, of course, but you could get around easily and
keep your balance once you got used to it. And the air was breathable
for a couple of hours; after that you found yourself panting like a dog.

"Lot of funny animals, but none of them were very dangerous. No
reptilian life; all of it mammalian, but a funny kind of mammalian if
you know what I mean."
