
"They'd heard us land and a bunch of them--about forty, I guess--met
us half-way between the ship and the village. And they were friendly.
Funny people. Quiet and dignified and acting not at all like you'd
expect savages to act toward people landing out of the sky. You know
how most primitives react--either they practically worship you or else
they try to kill you.

"We went to the village with them--and there were about forty more
of them there; they'd split forces just as we did, for the reception
committee. Another sign of intelligence. They recognized Lecky as
leader, and started jabbering to him in a lingo that sounded more like
a pig grunting than a man talking. And pretty soon Lecky was making an
experimental grunt or two in return.

"Everything seemed on the up and up, and no danger. And they weren't
paying much attention to Art and me, so we decided to wander off for a
stroll around outside of the village to see what the country in general
was like and whether there were any dangerous beasties or what-not.
We didn't see any animals, but we did see another native. He acted
different from the others--very different. He threw a spear at us and
then ran. And it was Art who noticed that this native didn't wear an
earring.

"And then breathing began to get a bit hard for us--we'd been away from
the ship over an hour--so we went back to the village to collect Lecky
and take him to the ship. He was getting along so well that he hated to
leave, but he was starting to pant, too, so we talked him into it. He
was wearing one of the earrings, and said they'd given it to him as a
present, and he'd made them a return present of a pocket slide-rule he
happened to have with him.

"'Why a slide-rule?' I asked him. 'Those things cost money and we've
got plenty of junk that would make them happier.'

"'That's what you think,' he said. 'They figured out how to multiply
and divide with it almost as soon as I showed it to them. I showed them
how to extract square roots, and I was starting on cube roots when you
fellows came back.'

"I whistled and took a close look to see if maybe he was kidding me.
He didn't seem to be. But I noticed that he was walking strangely
and--well, acting just a bit strangely, somehow, although I couldn't
put my finger on what it was. I decided finally that he was just a
bit over-excited. This was Lecky's first trip off Earth, so that was
natural enough.

"Inside the ship, as soon as Lecky got his breath back--the last
hundred yards pretty well winded us--he started in to tell Haynes
and Hilda Race about the Ganymedeans. Most of it was too technical
for me, but I got that they had some strange contradictions in them.
As far as their way of life was concerned, they were more primitive
than Australian bushmen. But they had brains and a philosophy and a
knowledge of mathematics and pure science. They'd told him some things
about atomic structure that excited hell out of him. He was in a dither
to get back to Earth where he could get at equipment to check some of
those things.

"And he said the earring was a sign of membership in the tribe--they'd
acknowledged him as a friend and compatriot and what-not by giving it
to him."

Blake asked, "Was it gold?"

"I'm coming to that," I told him. I was feeling cramped from sitting so
long in one position on the bunk, and I stood up and stretched.

There isn't much room to stretch in an asteroid tug and my hand hit
against the pistol resting in the clips on the wall. I said, "What's
the pistol for, Blake?"

He shrugged. "Rules. Has to be one hand weapon on every space-craft.
Heaven knows why, on an asteroid ship. Unless the council thinks some
day an asteroid may get mad at us when we tow it out of orbit so it
cracks up another. Say, did I ever tell you about the time we had a
little twenty-ton rock in tow and--"

"Shut up Blake," Charlie said. "He's just getting to those damn
earrings."

"Yeah, the earrings," I said. I took the pistol down from the wall
and looked at it. It was an old-fashioned metal project weapon,
twenty-shot, circa 2000. It was loaded and usable, but dirty. It hurts
me to see a dirty gun.

I went on talking, but I sat back down on the bunk, took an old
handkerchief out of my duffle-box and started to clean and polish the
hand-gun while I talked.

I said, "He wouldn't let us take the earring off. Acted just a little
funny about it when Haynes wanted to analyze the metal. Told Haynes he
could get one of his own if he wanted to mess with it. And then he went
back to rhapsodizing over the superior knowledge the Ganymedeans had
shown.

"Next day all of them wanted to go to the village, but we'd made the
rule that not more than three of the six of us would be outside the
ship at once, and they'd have to take turns. Since Lecky could talk
their grunt-lingo, he and Hilda went first, and Art went along to guard
them. Looked safe enough to work that proportion now--two scientists
to one guard. Outside of that one native that had thrown a spear at
Art and me, there hadn't been a sign of danger. And he'd looked like a
half-wit and missed us by twenty feet anyway. We hadn't even bothered
to shoot at him.

"They were back, panting for breath, in less than two hours. Hilda
Race's eyes were shining and she was wearing one of the rings in her
left ear. She looked as proud as though it was a royal crown making her
queen of Mars or something. She gushed about it, as soon as she got her
wind back and stopped panting.

"I went on the next trip, with Lecky and Haynes.

"Haynes was kind of grumpy, for some reason, and said they weren't
going to put one of those rings in his ear, even if he did want one for
analysis. They could just hand it to him, or else.

"Again nobody paid much attention to me after we got there, and I
wandered around the village. I was on the outskirts of it when I heard
a yell--and I ran back to the center of town but fast, because it
sounded like Haynes.

"There was a crowd around a spot in the middle of--well, call it the
compound. Took me a minute to wedge my way through, scattering natives
to all sides as I went. And when I got to the middle of things, Haynes
was just getting up, and there was a big stain of red on the front of
his white linen coat.

"I grabbed him to help him up, and said, 'Haynes, what's the matter?
You hurt?'

"He shook his head slowly, as though he was kind of dazed, and then he
said, 'I'm all right, Hank. I'm all right. I just stumbled and fell.'
Then he saw me looking at that red stain, and smiled. I guess it was a
smile, but it didn't look natural. He said, 'That's not blood, Hank.
Some native red wine I happened to spill. Part of the ceremony.'
