
"I started to ask what ceremony, and then I saw he was wearing one
of the gold earrings. I thought that was damn funny, but he started
talking to Lecky, and he looked and acted all right--well, fairly all
right. Lecky was telling him what a few of the grunts meant, and he
acted awful interested--but somehow I got the idea he was pretending
most of that interest so he wouldn't have to talk to me. He acted as
though he was thinking hard, inside, and maybe he was making up a
better story to cover that stain on his clothes and the fact that he'd
changed his mind so quick about the earring.

"I was getting the notion that something was rotten in the state of
Ganymede, but I didn't know what. I decided to keep my yap shut and my
eyes open till I found out.

"I'd have plenty of time to study Haynes later, though, so I wandered
off again to the edge of the village and just outside it. And it
occurred to me that if there was anything I wasn't supposed to see, I
might stand a better chance of seeing it if I got under cover. There
were plenty of bushes around and I picked out a good clump of them and
hid. From the way my lungs worked, I figured I had maybe a half hour
before we'd have to start back for the ship.

"And less than half that time had gone by before I saw something."

I stopped talking to hold the pistol up to the light and squint through
the barrel. It was getting pretty clean, but there were a couple of
spots left up near the muzzle end.

Blake said, "Let me guess. You saw a Martian traag-hound standing on
his tail, singing Annie Laurie."

"Worse than that," I said "I saw one of those Ganymede natives get his
legs bit off. And it annoyed him."

"It would annoy anyone," said Blake. "Even me, and I'm a pretty
mild-tempered guy. What bit them off?"

"I never found out," I told him. "It was something under water. There
was a stream there, going by the village, and there must have been
something like crocodiles in it. Two natives came out of the village
and started to wade across the stream. About half-way over one of them
gave a yelp and went down.

"The other grabbed him and pulled him up on the other bank. And both
his legs were gone just above the knees.

"And the damnedest thing happened. The native with his legs off stood
up on the stumps of them and started talking--or grunting--quite
calmly to his companion, who grunted back. And if tone of voice meant
anything, he was annoyed. Nothing more. He tried walking on the stumps
of his legs, and found he couldn't go very fast.

"And then he gave a gesture that looked for all the world like a shrug,
and reached up and took off his earring and held it out to the other
native. And then came the strangest part.

"The other native took it--_and the very instant the ring left the hand
of the first one_--the one with his legs off--_he fell down dead_. The
other one picked up the corpse and threw it in the water, and went on.

"And as soon as he was out of sight I went back to get Lecky and
Haynes and take them to the ship. They were ready to leave when I got
there.

"I thought I was worried a bit, but I hadn't seen anything yet. Not
till I started back to the ship with Lecky and Haynes. Haynes, first
thing I noticed, had the stain gone from the front of his coat. Wine
or--whatever it was--somebody'd managed to get it out for him, and the
coat wasn't even wet. But it was torn, pierced. I hadn't noticed that
before. But there was a place there that looked like a spear had gone
through his coat.

"And then he happened to get in front of me, and I saw that there was
another tear or rip just like it _in back_ of his coat. Taken together,
it was like somebody'd pushed a spear through him, from front to back.
When he'd yelled.

"But if a spear'd gone through him like that, then he was dead. And
there he was walking ahead of me back to the ship. With one of those
earrings in his left ear--and I couldn't help but remember about that
native and the thing in the river. That native was sure enough dead,
too, with his legs off like that, but he hadn't found it out until he'd
handed that earring away.
