
"I can tell you I was plenty thoughtful that evening, watching
everybody, and it seemed to me that they were all acting strange.
Especially Hilda--you'd have to watch a hippopotamus acting kittenish
to get an idea. Haynes and Lecky seemed thoughtful and subdued, like
they were planning something, maybe. After a while Art came up from the
glory hole and he was wearing one of those rings.

"Gave me a kind of shiver to realize that--if what I was thinking
could possibly be true--then there was only me and Dick left. And I'd
better start comparing notes with Dick pretty soon. He was working on
a report, but I knew pretty soon he'd make his routine inspection trip
through the storerooms before turning in, and I'd corner him then.

"Meanwhile, I watched the other four and I got surer and surer.
And more and more scared. They were trying their darndest to act
natural, but once in a while one of them would slip. For one thing,
they'd _forget to talk_. I mean, one of them would turn to another as
though he was saying something, but he wouldn't. And then, as though
remembering, he'd start in the middle of it--like he'd been talking
without words before, telepathically.

"And pretty soon Dick gets up and goes out, and I followed him. We got
to one of the side storerooms and I closed the door. 'Dick,' I asked,
'have you noticed it?' And he wanted to know what I was talking about.

"So I told him. I said, 'Those four people out there--they _aren't the
ones we started with_. What happened to Art and Hilda and Lecky and
Haynes? What the hell goes on here? Haven't you noticed _anything_ out
of the ordinary?'

"And Dick sighed, kind of, and said, 'Well, it didn't work. We need
more practice, then. Come on and we'll tell you all about it.' And
he opened the door and held out his hand to me--and the sleeve of
his shirt pulled back a little from the wrist and he was wearing one
of those gold things, like the others, only he was wearing it as a
bracelet instead of an earring.

"I--well, I was too dumbfounded to say anything. I didn't take the
hand he held out, but I followed him back into the main room. And
then--while Lecky, who seemed to be the leader, I think--held a gun on
me, they told me about it.

"And it was even screwier, and worse, than I'd dare guess.

"They didn't have any name for themselves, because they had no
language--what you'd really call a spoken or written language--of their
own. You see, they were telepathic, and you don't need a language for
that. If you tried to translate their thought for themselves, the
nearest word you could find for it would be "we"--the first person
plural pronoun. Individually, they identified themselves to one another
by numbers rather than names.

"And just as they had no language of their own, they had no real bodies
of their own, nor active minds of their own. They were parasitic in
a sense that earthmen can't conceive. They were _entities_, apart
from--Well, it's difficult to explain, but in a way they had no real
existence when not attached to a body they could animate and _think
with_. The easiest way to put it is that a detached--uh--_earring god_,
which is what the Ganymedean natives called them--was asleep, dormant,
ineffective. Had no power of thought or motion in itself."

Charlie and Blake were looking bewildered. Charlie said, "You're trying
to say, Hank, that when one of them came in contact with a person,
they took over that person and ran him and thought with his mind
but--uh--kept their own identity? And what happened to the person they
took over?"

I said, "As near as I could make out, he stayed there, too, as it
were, but was dominated by the entity. I mean, there remained all his
memories, and his individuality, but something else was in the driver's
seat. Running him. Didn't matter whether he was alive or dead, either,
as long as his body wasn't in too bad shape. Like Haynes--they'd had to
kill him to put an earring on him. He was dead, in that if that ring
was removed, he'd have fallen flat and never got up again, unless it
was put back.

"Like the native whose legs had been cut off. The entity running him
had decided the body was no longer practicable for use, so he handed
himself back to the other native, see? And they'd find another body in
better shape for him to use.

"They didn't tell me where they came from, except that it was outside
the solar system, nor just how they got to Ganymede. Not by themselves,
though, because they couldn't even exist by themselves. They must have
got as far as Ganymede as parasites of visitors that had landed there
at some time or other. Maybe millions of years ago. And they couldn't
get off Ganymede, of course, till we landed there. Space travel hadn't
developed on Ganymede--"
