
Charlie interrupted me again, "But if they were so smart, why didn't
they develop it themselves?"

"They couldn't," I told him. "They weren't any smarter than the minds
they occupied. Well, a little smarter, in a way, because they could
use those minds to their full capacity and people--Terrestrial or
Ganymedean--don't do that. But even the full capacity of the mind of a
Ganymedean savage wasn't sufficient to develop a space-ship.

"But now they had _us_--I mean, they had Lecky and Haynes and Hilda
and Art and Dick--and they had our space-ship, and they were going to
Earth, because they knew all about it and about conditions there from
our minds. They planned, simply, to take over Earth and--uh--_run_ it.
They didn't explain the details of how they propagate, but I gathered
that there wouldn't be any shortage of earrings to go around, on Earth.
Earrings or bracelets or, however, they'd attach themselves.

"Bracelets, probably, or arm or leg bands, because wearing earrings
like that would be too conspicuous on Earth, and they'd have to work in
secret for a while. Take over a few people at a time, without letting
the others know what was going on.

"And Lecky--or the thing that was running Lecky--told me they'd been
using me as a guinea pig, that they could have put a ring on me, taken
me over, at any time. But they wanted a check on how they were doing
at imitating normal people. They wanted to know whether or not I got
suspicious and guessed the truth.

"So Dick--or the thing that was running him--had kept himself out of
sight under Dick's sleeve, so if I got suspicious of the others, I'd
talk it over with Dick--just as I really did do. And that let them know
they needed a lot more practice animating those bodies before they took
the ship back to Earth to start their campaign there.

"And, well, that was the whole story and they told it to me to watch
my reactions, as a normal human. And then Lecky took a ring out of his
pocket and held it out toward me with one hand, keeping the pistol on
me with the other hand.

"He told me I might as well put it on because if I didn't, he could
shoot me first and then put it on me--but that they greatly preferred
to take over undamaged bodies and that it would be better for me, too,
if I--that is, my body--didn't die first.

"But naturally, I didn't see it that way. I pretended to reach out for
the ring, hesitantly, but instead I batted the gun out of his hand, and
made a dive for it as it hit the floor.

"I got it, too, just as they all came for me. And I fired three shots
into them before I saw that it wasn't even annoying them. Damn it, the
only way you can stop a body animated by one of those rings is to make
it fix it so it can't move, like cutting off the legs or something. A
bullet in the heart doesn't worry it.

"But I'd backed to the door and got out of it--out into the Ganymedean
night, without even a coat on. It was colder than hell, too. And after
I got out there, there just wasn't any place to go. Except back in the
ship, and I wasn't going there.

"They didn't come out after me--didn't bother to. They knew that within
three hours--four at the outside--I'd be unconscious from insufficient
oxygen. If the cold, or something else, didn't get me first.

"Maybe there was some way out, but I didn't see one. I just sat down
on a stone about a hundred yards from the ship and tried to think of
something I could do. But--"
