
I didn't go anywhere with the "but--" and there was a moment's silence,
and then Charlie said, "Well?"

And Blake said, "What did you do?"

"Nothing," I said. "I couldn't think of a thing to do. I just sat
there."

"Till morning?"

"No. I lost consciousness before morning. I came to while it was still
dark, in the ship."

Blake was looking at me with a puzzled frown. He said, "The hell. You
mean--"

And then Charlie let out a sudden yip and dived head-first out of the
bunk he'd been lying on, and grabbed the gun out of my hand. I'd just
finished cleaning it and slipped the cartridge-clip back in.

And then, with it in his hand, he stood there staring at me as though
he'd never seen me before.

Blake said, "Sit down, Charlie. Don't you know when you're being
ribbed? But--uh--better keep the gun, just the same."

Charlie kept the gun all right, and turned it around to point at me. He
said, "I'm making a damn fool out of myself all right, but--Hank, _roll
up your sleeves_."

I grinned and stood up. I said, "Don't forget my ankles, too."

But there was something dead serious in his face, and I didn't push
him too far. Blake said, "He could even have it on him somewhere else,
with adhesive tape. I mean on the million-to-one chance that he wasn't
kidding...."

Charlie nodded without turning to look at Blake. He said, "Hank, I hate
to ask it, but--"

I sighed, and then chuckled. I said, "Well, I was just going to take a
shower anyway."

It was hot in the ship, and I was wearing only shoes and a pair of
coveralls. Paying no attention to Blake and Charlie, I slipped them off
and stepped through the oilsilk curtains of the little shower cubicle.
And turned on the water.

Over the sound of the shower, I could hear Blake laughing and Charlie
cursing softly to himself.

And when I came out of the shower, drying myself, even Charlie was
grinning. Blake said, "And I thought that yarn Charlie just told was a
dilly. This trip is backwards; we'll end up having to tell each other
the truth."

There was a sharp rapping on the hull beside the airlock, and Charlie
Dean went to open it. He growled, "If you tell Zeb and Ray what chumps
you made out of us, I'll beat your damn ears in. You and your earring
gods...."
