
You see, I could have done it in the winter, only I was worried about
the cold. I might not have been able to get back at all. But it was too
warm when I chose to do it. I should have known better. I've read a
lot about keeping things. You can't preserve them in the hot weather;
that's why the doctors put those dead soldiers in ice chests, but I
didn't think about it enough. I made some other mistakes, too, but I
couldn't have known.

I guess what started it all was something I read a long time ago,
perhaps in a story, or an agricultural bulletin, or maybe in an
encyclopedia. Anyhow, it was something about pigs being able to just
die if they want to.

That always stuck in my mind. It's a pretty wonderful thing, you know.
Imagine just being able to die if life didn't seem worth living, or if
you were lonely, or maybe just because you wanted to.

Oh, I told lots of people about it. You know how sometimes a lull comes
in a conversation. Then I'd say, "Pigs are able to just up and die if
they want to."

But nobody ever paid any attention to me at all. They seemed to ignore
the remark. One man did say once, "What the hell are you talking
about?" but even he wouldn't listen when I tried to explain.

Perhaps it was just too improbable. Besides, people don't like to think
about death. They talk about it sometimes and sometimes they brood
about it, but they never really think. It has always been too unknown
and that frightens them. Then they only fear and stop thinking.

It always did seem sad to me that no one had ever tried to help people
out about death. Yes, I know one did. He died and came back--but then
He wasn't just a man like you or me. And even He never said exactly
what it was like.

I wondered if anyone really ever _had_ said. So I began to read with
only a single purpose in mind. I had to know so I could tell people. If
they could only know, then they wouldn't have that fear and we could
talk of death and still be able to laugh.

But I had read it all when I read of Jacob's dream, for that's all
there was--dreams, visions, hopes. No one had ever seen and come back
to tell the others.

The question then was _why_, not _what_. It couldn't be that all who
died had no whole being to return to. Not every death is marked by a
body completely uninhabitable. I myself had heard a doctor say, "There
is nothing organically wrong now. The patient will recover if only he
has the will to live."

_The will to live!_ Suddenly I knew I had found the way. I myself would
go and see and return to tell them all.
