
I answered all the requirements. I had a healthy body to return to. I
had the will to live, for I enjoy my reading and acquaintances. And I
alone had thought it wonderful that pigs can die when they merely want
to.

I knew that I could, too, and I was not afraid. Very carefully, I began
what seemed almost too simple preparations.

Drawing some money from an account I kept for medical expenses (at the
time I thought this very amusing), I bought an electric clock which
registered the hour and the day of the month on cylinders like those on
a tachometer. I felt I would want to know exactly how long I had been
deceased when I came back.

Next I secured a small round mirror with a concave face, the type
some use for shaving. This I was to hang directly above my face. It
was merely vanity on my part, for I wished to say that I as well as
Lazarus's friends had seen a dead man rise. I had assumed that at first
my vision might be blurred and thus the magnifying effect of this
particular glass would, I thought, help me focus on my face.

On my study floor, I prepared a pallet. It was neither soft nor hard,
just a comfortable support for the body I was to leave. Beside it I
arranged a basin of water and some soft cloths, for I would want to
wash right after coming back.

You see, I did not fear the obvious. My power lay in thought and I
proceeded systematically.

Drawn blinds and two small night-lights spread a gray cast over the
room, a cast that I was to know too well.

Everything was ready now. No, wait! Quickly I placed a tumbler and a
decanter of brandy within easy reach and by them laid a pencil and
a pad of paper. It was when I straightened up that I first felt the
pounding in my body. My heart pulsed as if it were smashing waves of
blood through my veins. In my throat, the large arteries swelled with
pressure until I thought I would strangle.

I had to have some physical exertion to relieve the tension. I felt
I might faint or have a stroke unless I moved about. My father had
been stricken with an embolism at about my age, and I've read such
weaknesses are inherited.

So I walked about the house rechecking the locks of windows and
doors. Perhaps it was just to keep busy for a few more moments that
I even rechecked the pads of cardboard with which I had muffled the
bell-clappers on both telephone and door chime. I don't seem to have
had many callers for several years now, but I had to avoid any chance
of being disturbed.
