
Somewhat calmed by my exertion, I prepared to lie down, but a
sentimental whim moved me like an automaton toward the window. It was
the only really unreasoning thing I did.

Like a prisoner denied the light on penalty of torture, I knelt down
and looked under the blind. Never was the Sun so dazzling. This
slightest lifting of the shade poured onto me a warmth that I had never
known before.

An old saying, invading my mind, destroyed the illusion, and laughing a
bit nervously at "seeking his place in the Sun," I turned away and lay
down.

The dials on my new calendar clock registered 3:15, July 12. Reaching
for my pad and pencil, I recorded this and then, refolding my hands
across my chest, I lay quite still.

The heat of the day had begun to saturate the closed room. Outside, all
was quiet, as if the Sun had mesmerized the world. The insect hum of
the electric clock was the only clue of life around me.

Looming large above me in the mirror, the magnified reflection of my
face calmed my mind with its placidity. Great-lidded Buddha eyes gazed
down, holding in their glow my first understanding of Nirvana.

I knew that it had come. I had reached the boundary where the fear of
returnless going stopped the psyche just this side.

My only body consciousness was the heavy _thud_ ... _thud_ ... _thud_
of blood being driven through my veins. I toyed with stopping the
thudding, feeling and savoring the pause between those sledge-hammer
strokes on my brain--knowing that any one of those pauses lengthened to
eternity was death.

Suddenly I shrieked and sat upright. For an instant, my body had
completely stopped and I had known it. Only a nameless grasping fear
had snatched me back.

My heart beat wildly as I gasped for air. With shaking hands, I poured
a drink and gulped it down. It had been close.

Still trembling, I arose and slumped into a chair. I had to organize
myself, to think my way along this thing.

What had happened to me?

This one thing I knew: I _could_ do it. I could stop my body at will
and I had done it, if only for a second.

This thought reassured me or perhaps the brandy opened my reserve of
courage, for I had been sitting in the chair some time.
