
With caution, I approached the pallet. I regarded it with suspicion, as
though there were a deadly scorpion in its folds. Then, jeering at my
hesitation, I lay down and composed myself as before. The clock said
5:05. I stirred again only to record this on the pad.

Despite my nervousness, things proceeded faster this time. A morbid
excitement carried me along the path I now already knew. And at its
end, I flirted with the _stopping_. Going over and stepping back, going
over and stepping back.

It was a pleasure exquisite and unique. Once felt, it was unresistable.

I was no longer afraid. I did not have to be. I could stop my body and
start it at will. So I let it slip away from me. The thuddings ceased
and only the pauses remained--silent, shapeless things in endless
procession. And then the great silence. It flowed over me and I was
lost.

The silence was too heavy and my thoughts were not my own; they floated
up away from me in the silence. I could feel them go, but there was
nothing to bring them back. Each thought of protest winged its way
into a void with all the rest.

And nothing else remained but the will to live. As the silence lapped
around this will, it grew until it alone was I. The silence washed
about it, but it stood.

Then the little rippings and the slicings and the tearings and the
softening of things were there--heard without sound, felt without
feeling, like the pulling of a tooth from a novocaine-deadened jaw.

It was then I saw the face.

Have you ever felt the terror of suddenly waking with a face--a face
of eyes--staring into your unguarded and bewildered first glance? One
feels as if this face would look into one's very life and wrest it from
him. Perhaps it is a nascent fear of one's own mask of death.

But I could not escape the mask. It loomed above me with gaping maw
and staring eyes; eyes that seemed more dead and deadly as my vision
cleared. The mirror enlarged the horror that lay below it.

It was the wrench of nausea that pulled me from this nightmare. In the
violence of the retching, I rolled from beneath the mirror and raised
myself to hands and knees. I had knocked over the clock and it shouted
up at me--10:05, July 15. Three days! Too long! Too horribly long!
