
Hurriedly, it searched its myriad electrical networks and found the
only logical description of the intruders--burglars.

Behind the walls, relays clicked and infinitesimal electrical charges
darted across a spidery web of silver wires only to find themselves in
the dead-ends of missing connections.

The anti-burglar installations are missing! the house thought
frantically. If the protective devices had been present, it would have
been able to spray the intruders with tear gas, paralyze them with
electrical charges, thrust them from the house with antigravity rays,
or kill them by any one of a dozen methods. Without the anti-burglar
mechanisms, it was defenseless. What can I do? the house wondered. What
can I do!

Reluctantly, the house turned the lights on.

"You sure the burglar alarms haven't been installed?" the woman asked
anxiously.

"Hell. Do you think I'd come here if I wasn't sure? I told you I talked
to the construction man. There's a shortage right now. They won't be
put in until next week. The family doesn't know--the company didn't
want to lose a sale."

The woman's eyes widened with admiration as they scanned the hardwood
floors, ankle-deep scatter rugs, angular furniture, large picture
windows, wall-to-wall bookcase and abstract multidimension paintings.

"They must have money," she commented. "How do we find the--"

The man snapped muscular fingers with a sharp, cracking sound. "We'll
ask the house!"

A momentary silence. Then, the man's gruff voice: "House, where's the
safe?"

"I cannot divulge that information." It felt proud when it didn't
hesitate in its answer. There were many things it couldn't tell anyone
and it had carefully memorized them: its cost, its female owner's age,
anything relating to the owners' sex or personal life--and, mainly, the
location of various things, including the safe.

"Tell us!" the man shouted.

"No."

"Damn you!"

"Beg pardon?"

"Go to hell!"

Relays clicked silently behind the gray walls. It had been instructed
at the factory to explain when it couldn't obey an order. It searched
its dictionary circuits and said mechanically, "Hell: a noun. The place
of the dead or departed souls, (more correctly Hades); the place of
punishment for the wicked after death. I have no soul, therefore I
cannot go to hell. I am sorry."

The woman laughed. "Let's start looking. We got hours."

The house watched as the strangers searched the room. It watched as the
man took a knife from his pocket and ripped through the upholstery of a
chair.

"Please stop," the house implored.

The strangers did not reply.

An unpleasant sensation rippled through the house's electrical
circuits. It wanted to make its owners happy. They wouldn't be happy
when they returned and saw the ruined furniture. They would be sad,
perhaps angry. She would cry and he would frown.

It tried again, "Please stop."

The woman was removing books from the bookcase; the man continued
searching the furniture.

They wouldn't stop when it asked them to. If it only had the burglar
devices! Now, there was no way for it to fight.

Or is there? it wondered.

The lights went off.

"Turn the lights on!" the woman screamed.

"No."

"Use the flashlight," the man said.
