
Simultaneously, two beams of light slashed through the darkened room.
The strangers resumed their search.

The house thought, They're trying to find the safe containing the
money and jewels. I can't tell them where it is.

I can't stop them. I need help.

It cut into the phone circuits and dialed the number of its factory.
The phone's visiscreen flared with light and a woman's face appeared
smiling.

"Johnson Construction Company."

The house projected its voice toward the mouthpiece. "Please, let me
speak to--"

The man removed a weapon from his tunic. The phone and visiscreen
vanished, leaving only small metal fragments that fell to the carpet.

"It was using the phone!" the woman exclaimed shrilly, trembling in the
darkness.

"Don't worry," the man said. "They didn't have time to trace the call.
The room was dark; they couldn't see who was calling."

After a brief silence, the man warned, "House! See this thing in my
hand? You behave yourself or I'll disintegrate your...." He let the
sentence dangle, unable to think of what he would disintegrate.

"Yes, sir," the house replied. It was an automatic response to any
statement.

"Now, turn the lights on or I'll use this gun to make one big mess of
your floors and walls. Your owners wouldn't like that, would they?"

"No, sir."

It turned the lights on. If it didn't, they would use their
flashlights, and by turning them on it might prevent some destruction.

The woman chuckled. "You're a genius!"

When they finished their search of the living room, the man suggested,
"Let's search different rooms. You take a bedroom. I'll take the dining
room. No telling where the safe is. They put it in a different place in
every house."

The house waited, its electronic brain whirling.

It made a decision.

Silently, the house erected an invisible energy screen around the
dining room. The screens were designed to block collective sounds
of the entire house from any room and provide it with a comforting
serenity.

Now, the house thought, the sound-screens will be most useful!

The house watched as the man in the wrinkled brown tunic examined a
table.

Silently, panels in the walls opened.

A dozen machines a foot in diameter converged at a position behind the
man's back.

The machines moved simultaneously, silently. They attached themselves
to the intruder's body. They dusted and scrubbed him thoroughly, as if
he were a piece of furniture or a floor.

The man screamed and fired wildly with the gun. The small machines
crumpled one by one.

Click ... click ... click.

"Your weapon is empty," the house observed.

The man threw the gun at a window. It bounced off the hard plastic and
clattered on the floor.

"You try something like that again," he threatened, "and I'll kill you!
So help me, I'll kill you if I have to take you apart piece by piece!"
He shook a trembling fist at the quiet walls and twisted his face into
a hideous snarl.

The house noticed with satisfaction that the man's face and hands were
covered with crimson streaks. The cleaning machines had served their
purpose.

The house deactivated the dining room scanners and activated scanners
in the bedrooms.

It found the woman in its owners' bedroom. It studied her as she
searched a mattress. She was calm: because of its precaution, the
sounds of the dining room fracas hadn't reached her ears. The house
decided to leave the sound-blocks on. It was best to attack them
individually.
