
A closet door slid into a wall. A slender machine, five feet tall and
with sixteen long metal tentacles rolled across the room on soft rubber
wheels.

It looked like a mechanical monster from another world, but it was
merely a very efficient machine to undress the house's masters--a
mechavalet.

The mechavalet paused behind the woman's back. Sixteen rubber-tipped
metal tentacles reached out.

The machine normally undressed a person with smoothness and gentleness.
This time the house made it operate as roughly as possible.

The sixteen tentacles moved swiftly and the machine tore the woman's
dress to shreds before she could even scream. By the time she turned
around, it had removed her slip and brassiere.

[Illustration: Her dress was torn to shreds.]

The woman screamed even more shrilly as the weird machine tugged at her
panties. Frantically, she grabbed the slender tentacles and twisted
them until rewarded by the crunch of delicate mechanisms not meant for
such rough treatment.

The machine served its purpose until its last metal arm was broken.

The house watched as the woman cried for a few minutes and then, clad
only in high-heel shoes and wristwatch, continued her search of the
bedroom.

She is different, the house thought. She does not scream threats at me
like the man does. Still, I do not like her because she wants to steal
from my masters and does not care what happens to me.

The house switched its attention to the man.

He had concluded his search of the dining room and was now searching a
guest room. He found the gun the house's master had hidden there.

The man waved the gun at the motionless walls. "See what I found,
house! You try any more funny stuff and I'll kill you!"

"You do not frighten me," the house replied via one of its many hidden
microphones. To verify the statement, it turned on the heating units
full blast.

A few minutes later, the man stopped his search of a closet when he
noticed that sweat was rolling off his body as if he were standing at
the gates of hell itself.

He left the closet and shouted at an open door, "Stop it! Do you hear,
stop it!" He shook his head from side to side, violently, as if to
impress the house with the necessity of obeying.

"You can't stop me with the gun," the house informed him. "There are
one hundred and two air-conditioning vents in the house. If you took
time to find and destroy all of them, you could never leave here before
my masters return."

The man's jaw sagged, and with an equal sag of his shoulders he
returned to his search of the closet.

The house deducted, They are burglars, only burglars. They want to
escape before my masters return because they would have to kill them
and they are not murderers.

The man grunted with satisfaction when he stopped sweating. And
grunted with anger when, a few minutes later, the room became so cold
he was shivering and his breath was like smoke.

The house established automatic circuits to give the room a continuous
fluctuation of temperature from extreme heat to extreme coldness every
two minutes and turned its attention to the woman.
