
Still attired only in shoes and wristwatch, the woman was now searching
the bathroom.

Quite by accident, she touched a certain spot of the medicine cabinet
and stared with fascination as the cabinet swung completely around to
display its back which was--the safe. It was unlocked.

She grabbed the large metal box inside, opened it, and glanced at the
few glittering jewels and small bundle of bills.

"It's here!" she cried. She whirled and took a step toward the door.

That was as far as she got for several minutes.

The bathroom was equipped with automatic dispensers of temporary and
permanent depilatories. The house's male master used the temporary
depilatory to shave with every morning and the house was well
acquainted with their use.

It selected the _permanent_ depilatory, and nozzles set in the tile
walls squirted large gobs of it on the woman's head. Slender rubber
tentacles reached out and massaged the depilatory into the hair.
Faucets swung and sprayed jets of warm water.

In a few seconds, the woman was completely hairless. She stared with
horror at the blond hair in the pool of water at her feet. "Was it
permanent?" she wondered aloud.

"Yes," the house replied.

She screamed and picked up a small weighing machine. With
uncontrollable anger, she smashed the machine against the medicine
cabinet.

With an equal but emotionless anger, the house squirted soap into her
eyes and sprayed her naked body with alternate jets of hot and cold
water.

The house won the battle.

The woman groped blindly for the jewel box and staggered from the
bathroom. The house turned its attention to the man again.

He had searched the kitchen without incident, but as he walked toward
the door a nearby food-dispenser opened. Prunes, waffles, bacon, eggs
and toast left the machine with abnormal speed and struck him.

He turned just in time to receive cherry pie, spaghetti and meat balls,
butter, vegetable soup, and ice cream in his face.

He shouted something unprintable at the house, wiped the mess from his
face and took another step toward the door.

Half of a watermelon hurtled from the food-dispenser and squashed
against his skull. He stumbled, fell and slid.

He heard the woman cry, "I found it!" He pulled himself to his feet. He
ran into the hall and froze when he saw the naked, hairless apparition
that stumbled from the bathroom.
