
The clatter of a hundred tongues mingled with the clink of glasses and
floated through strata of smoke from the burning weeds of a hundred
planets. From one of the tables, voices rise in mild disagreement. There
is a jeering laugh from one side and a roar of anger from the other. Two
men rise and face one another ready to follow their insults with
violence. Before the eruption can start, a mercenary steps forward on
lithe feet and lightly catches the back-swung arm, a quick hand removes
the poised glass before it can be thrown into the adversary's face.

"Sit!" says the mercenary in a cold voice, and they sit still glaring at
one another.

"Now," says the mercenary, "settle your differences by talk. Or depart
in opposite directions. This is Xanabar!"

"He lies! He brags!"

"I do not lie. They _are_ barbarians. I do not brag. I _can_ bring you
one."

"You--"

"A wager," said the mercenary. "A wager. Xanabar can take no tax in
blood." He faces one. "You claim you can do that which he says you can
not." Then not waiting for a reply he faces the other, "And if he does,
how much are you willing to pay?"

"How much is his life worth?"

"How much are you willing to pay?" demands the mercenary coldly.

"Five hundredweight in crystal-cut."

"An honorable sum. Do you agree?"

"Not enough--"

"For a task as easy as you claim it to be," said the mercenary, "Five
hundredweight of crystal-cut seems honorable."

"But it means--"

"We in Xanabar are not interested in the details. Only in the tax. An
honest wager-contract, outlanders. Otherwise I rule that your eruption
here disturbed the peace."

The two outlanders look at one another; schoolboys caught fighting in
the alley by a monitor who demands a bite of their apple in lieu of a
visit to the principal. As if loath to touch one another they reach
forward hesitantly and handshake in a quick light grip.

"Good!" glows the mercenary. He waves a hand and his fellows converge
with contract-platen and etching stylus. "Now, gentlemen, please state
the terms for Xanabar."
