
Then, as his mind searched for some factor common to all the disasters,
a startled look came over Doug Norris' lean, earnest face.

"There _were_ always some of those clouds of radon or whatever they
are around, each time!" he thought. "I wonder if--" A red-hot thought
brought him to his feet. "Holy cats! Maybe I've got the answer!"

He jumped away from the Proxy-board without a further glance at that
bank of intricate controls, and hurried down a corridor.

Through the glass doors he passed, Norris could see the other operators
at work. Each sat in front of his control-board, wearing his television
helmet, flipping the switches with expert precision. Each was operating
a mechanical Proxy somewhere on Mercury.

Norris and all these other operators had been trained together when
Kincaid started the Proxy Project. They had been proud of their
positions, until recently. It _was_ a vitally important job, searching
out the uranium so sorely needed for Earth's atomic power supply.

The uranium and allied metals of Earth had years ago been ransacked
and used up. There was little on Venus or Mars. Mercury had much of
the precious metal in its cavernous interior. But no man, no matter
how ingenious his protection, could live long enough on the terrible,
semi-molten Hot Side of Mercury to conduct mining operations.

That was why Kincaid had invented the Proxies. They were machines
that could mine uranium where men couldn't go. Crewless ships guided
by radar took the Proxies to the Base on Mercury's sunward side. From
Base, each Proxy was guided by an Earth operator down into the hot
fissures to find and mine the vital radioactive element. The scheme had
worked well, until--

"Until we got into those deeper fissures with the Proxies," Doug Norris
thought. "Seven wrecked since then! This _must_ be the answer!"

Martin Kincaid looked up sharply as Norris entered his office. A look
of faint dismay came on Kincaid's square, patient face. He knew that
a Proxy operator wouldn't leave his board in the middle of a shift,
unless there was trouble.

"Go ahead and give me the bad news, Doug," he said wearily.

"Proxy M-Fifty just blacked out on me, down in Fissure Four," Norris
admitted. "Just like the others. But I think I know why, now!" He
continued excitedly: "Mart, seven Proxies blacking out in two weeks
wasn't just accident. It was done deliberately!"

Kincaid stared. "You mean that Hurriman's bunch is somehow sabotaging
our Project?"

Doug Norris interrupted with a denial. "Not that. Hurriman and his
fellow politicians merely want to get their hands on the Proxy Project,
not to destroy it."

"Then who did wreck our Proxies?" Kincaid demanded.

Norris answered excitedly. "I believe we've run into living creatures
in those depths, and they're attacking us."

Kincaid grunted. "The temperature in those fissures is about four
hundred degrees Centigrade, the same as Mercury's sunward side. Life
can't exist in heat like that. I suggest you take a rest."

"I know all that," Norris said impatiently. "But suppose we've run into
a new kind of life there--one based on radioactive matter? Biologists
have speculated on it more than once. Theoretically, creatures of
radioactive matter could exist, drawing their energies not from
chemical metabolism as we do, but from the continuous process of
radioactive disintegration."

"Theoretically, the sky is a big roof with holes in it that are stars,"
growled Kincaid. "It depends on whose theory you believe."

"Every time a Proxy has blacked out down there, there's been little
clouds of heavy radioactive gas near," argued Doug Norris. "Each seems
to have a denser core. Suppose that core is an unknown radium compound,
evolved into some kind of neuronic structure that is able to receive
and remember stimuli? A sort of queer, radioactive brain?

"If that's so, and biologists have said it's possible, the _body_ of
the creature consists of radon gas emanated from the radium core. You
remember the half-life of radon exactly equals the rate of its emission
from radium, so there'd be a constant equilibrium of the thing's
gaseous body, analogous to our blood circulation. Given Mercury's
conditions, it's no more impossible than a jellyfish or a man here on
Earth!"
