
Kincaid looked skeptical.

"And you think these hypothetical living Raddies of yours are attacking
our Proxies? Why would they?"

"If they have cognition and correlation faculties they might be
irritated by the tube emanations from the control-boxes of our
Proxies," Norris suggested. "They get into those control-boxes and
wreck the tube circuits by overloading the electron flow with their own
Beta radiation!"

"It's all pretty far-fetched," muttered his superior. "Radioactive
life! But all those Proxies blowing can't be just chance." He paused,
then added gloomily, "But I can just see myself telling a World Council
committee that your hypothetical living Raddies are what keep us from
delivering uranium! Hurriman would like that. It would convince the
Council that I'm as incompetent as he claims."

"He'll convince the Council of that anyway unless we deliver uranium
from Mercury quickly," retorted Norris. "And we'll never do it till
we get these Raddies licked. They're basically just complex clouds of
radioactive gas. A Proxy armed with a high-pressure gas hose should be
able to blow them to rags. Can't we try it, Mart?"

Kincaid sighed, and stood up.

"I was a practical man once," he said wearily, "and would have booted
you out of here if you'd suggested such stuff. But I'm a drowning man
right now, so I'll buy your straw. We'll send down a couple of Proxies
armed with gas hoses and see how they make out."

Doug Norris eagerly went with his superior into the adjoining room
where the operators of the Base Proxies were on duty.

"Norris and I will take over two Proxies at base," Kincaid told the
sub-chief there.

Two operators took off their helmets and got out of their chairs.
Norris took the place of one, donning the television helmet.

The control and television beams were on. The compact kinescope tubes
in his helmet gave him a clear vision of the Base on Mercury, as seen
through his Proxy's iconoscope "eyes".

There were no buildings, for Proxies didn't need shelter. The seared
black rocks stretched under a brazen sky, beneath a stupendous Sun
whose blaze even the iconoscope filters couldn't cut down much. The
Base was just a flat area here beside the low rock hills. A crewless
ship lay to one side, its hatches open. Near it were the supply-dumps
of Proxy parts, the repair shops, the power plant.

"We'll get a couple of oxygen tanks from the supply dump and use them
for your gas hose weapons," Kincaid was saying.

The Proxies they were guiding did not look like men. They looked like
what they were--machines devised for special purposes. They were like
baby tanks, mounted on caterpillar drives, each with two big jointed
arms ending in claws, and a control-box with iconoscope eyes. They
clamped on the high-pressure oxygen tanks, clutched the nozzles of the
attached hoses, and rolled out of Base across the seared plain toward
the black rock hills. In a few minutes, they entered the narrow cleft
of Fissure Four.

Norris knew the way down here. He led, switching on his searchlight
even though he didn't really need it. The Proxy's iconoscope eyes could
see by the infra-red radiation from the superheated rock walls.

They finally reached the spot deep down in the fissure where his
disabled former Proxy still stood. Doug Norris reached his jointed arms
and quickly unclamped the shield of its control-box.

"Look there, Mart! The whole control's shot! They do it by overloading
the tubes with their own Beta emanations, all right."

Kincaid's Proxy had elbowed close, its big iconoscope eyes peering
closely. Here in the office, Kincaid uttered a grunt.

"That still doesn't prove the gas that did it was living. Instead of
your hypothetical Raddies, it could be--"

"Look there!" yelled Doug Norris suddenly. "There they come again!"

Three of the glowing gaseous things were flowing toward them along the
fissure. They poised for a moment in a lifelike way, and then swept
forward.

"Your gas hose!" yelled Norris to the man beside him. "Don't let them
get near you!"

The Raddies were advancing in a deliberate way. In spite of the
time-lag, Norris tried to raise his gas hose and trigger it. There
wasn't time. The eight-minute lag between his action and the result out
there on Mercury was fatally long. The glowing Raddies were flowing up
around the Proxies.

Doug Norris was momentarily dazzled by the brilliance of the Raddy that
enveloped his Proxy's control-box. It was like looking into a star to
look into the glowing, pulsing core of the thing.

His senses reeled queerly as he stared, hypnotized by the swirling
bright gas and the starlike, throbbing core. He sensed dimly that
that core was a kind of life possible on no terrestrial planet,
a crystalized gaseous neurone structure that used its own radon
emanations as a body.
