
He felt his senses staggering, darkening. It was as though he were
hypnotized by the brilliance of that pulsing core of light, as though
it were probing excruciatingly into his brain.

Then Doug Norris came out of his queer daze to find himself sitting
there with his helmet dead. He could see nothing. His movements of the
Proxy controls yielded no response.

"Blacked out, both our Proxies!" Kincaid exclaimed, dazedly taking off
his own helmet. "And we got some kind of kick-back shock."

Norris, still badly shaken, nodded unsteadily. "There must have been a
kick-back along the control beam when they blew the control-boxes. The
circuit breakers may have been slow." He added quickly, "But you know
now I was right! Those Raddies are living things, that instinctively
attack our Proxies!"

Kincaid frowned. "It looks like it. But no gas hose or any other
weapon will work against the brutes. The time-lag makes it impossible
to use weapons. Our only chance is to seal and ray-proof the Proxies'
control-boxes against them. That'll take time. But it's our only chance
to get uranium out of there, and it's got to be done before Hurriman's
clique gets the Council on our tail. I'll have the boys bring the
Proxies all back to Base at once."

Norris followed his chief back to his office. Winters, the office
clerk, was waiting there for them, and looking anxious.

"A bulletin just came over the news tape, Chief," he told Kincaid.
"Here it is."

Mart Kincaid read the tape, and his square shoulders seemed to sag a
little. He looked at them heavily.

"We won't need to worry any more about your Raddies, Doug. World
Council has just passed Hurriman's motion requesting an immediate
investigation of Proxy Project. It will begin tomorrow." He added
tonelessly, "You know what that means. When they find we've lost nine
valuable Proxies out there on Mercury without getting any uranium at
all yet, we'll be thrown out."

"Blast Hurriman!" Doug Norris raged. "The Proxy Project has been your
work from the start! You sweated to develop the things. Now because
there's a hitch, a bunch of bumbling politicians take it over!"

"It's all in a lifetime," Kincaid shrugged. "Winters, you tell the
boys. Have them pull their Proxies back to Base, and go home." He sat
down slowly in his chair then, and stared at the wall. "So it's over.
Well, right now I'm too tired to care."

Norris felt heartsick. "Isn't there any chance of stalling them long
enough to try our idea of rayproofing the Proxies?"

"You know there isn't," said his superior. "It'd take days to do that
job. Even if it worked against the Raddies, it'd take weeks more to
get out uranium. And Hurriman's bunch won't wait weeks."

He looked at the sick face of the younger man, then opened a desk
drawer and took out a bottle of Scotch and glasses.

"Here, have a drink," he ordered. "You're a little young yet, and you
take these things too seriously."

Norris unhappily drank the Scotch. But his nerves, still shaken by that
queer kick-back shock from the beam, didn't relax much.

"Mart, your calmness isn't fooling me," he said. "I know how much the
Proxies meant to you, the dreams you had of operating Proxies on every
planet man couldn't visit, even on worlds of distant stars."

Kincaid shrugged as he poured himself a drink. "Sure, I wanted
all that. But since when have scientists ever been able to buck
politicians?"

Darkness pressed the windows as night gathered. They sat silently in
the darkening office drinking the Scotch and looking at the tall,
lighted stacks of the distant New York Power Station.

Doug Norris found no comfort in the liquor's sting. His sense of
injustice deepened. The Proxies were Kincaid's, but just because he
couldn't produce uranium fast enough, they would be taken away from him.

He said so, bitterly and at length. Kincaid only shrugged wearily again.

"Forget it, Doug. Have another drink."

Norris discovered with mild surprise that the bottle was empty.

"We must have spilled some of it," he said a little thickly.

"There's another bottle in the drawer," Kincaid grunted. "They were for
the Project party next week, but that's all off now."
