
Norris opened the other bottle and generously refilled their glasses.
He sat down beside Kincaid, who was looking broodingly from the window
at the distant atomic power plant. Despite the warm physical glow he
felt, Doug Norris was unhappier than before. A new, poignant sorrow had
risen in him.

"You know, Mart, it isn't only what Hurriman's doing to the Project
that's got me down," he said sorrowfully. "It's what happened to old
M-Fifty today."

"M-Fifty?" Kincaid inquired. "You mean that Proxy you lost this
afternoon?"

"Yes, he was my special Proxy for all these months," Doug Norris said.
"I got to know him. He was always dependable, never jumped his control
beam, never acted cranky in a tight place." His voice choked a little.
"I loved that Proxy like a brother. And I let him down. I let those
Raddies wreck him."

"They'll fix him up, Doug," said Kincaid, a rich sympathy in his
slightly thickened voice. "They'll make him as good as new when they
get him back up to Base."

"Yes, but what good will that do if I'm not here to operate him?" cried
Norris. "I tell you, that Proxy was sensitive. He knew my touch on the
controls. That Proxy would have died for me."

"Sure he would." Kincaid nodded with owlish understanding. "Here, have
another drink, Doug."

"I've had enough," Norris said gloomily, refilling their glasses as
he spoke. "But as I was saying, that Proxy won't run for a bunch of
politicians and their ham-handed operators like he ran for me. He'll
know that I'm gone, and he won't be the same. He'll pine."

"That's the way it goes, Doug," Kincaid said sadly. "You lose your best
friend--I mean, your best Proxy--and I lose my Project, just because we
can't furnish enough uranium for power over there."

He gestured bitterly toward the distant stacks of New York Power
Station that soared like towers of light in the distant darkness.

"You know, I've got an idea in my mind about that," Kincaid added
slowly, as he stared at those towers.

Doug Norris nodded emphatically. "You're dead right, Mart. You're
absolutely right."

"Now wait, you didn't hear my idea yet," Kincaid protested a little
foggily. "It's this--we're losing the Project because we can't furnish
enough uranium for power. But suppose they didn't need uranium for
power any longer? Then they'd let us keep the Proxy Project!"

"Exactly what _I_ say!" Norris declared firmly. "There's just one thing
for us to do. That's to find a way to produce atomic power from some
commoner substance than uranium. That'd solve our whole problem."

"I thought I was the one who said that," Kincaid said, puzzled. "But
look--what fairly common metal could be used to replace uranium in the
atomic piles?"

"Bismuth, of course," Norris replied promptly. "Its atomic number is
closest to the radioactive series of elements."

"You took the words right out of my mouth!" Kincaid declared. "Bismuth
it is. All we have to do is to make bismuth work in an atomic pile,
then we can run the Proxy Project without this everlasting nagging
about supplying uranium."

Doug Norris felt a warm, happy relief. "Why, it's simple! We should
have thought of it before! Let's get some bismuth out of the supply
room and go over to the Power Station right now!" He leaped to his
feet, eagerly, if a trifle unsteadily. "No time to waste, if the
Council committee's to be on our necks tomorrow!"

Doug Norris felt like singing in his wonderful relief, as he and
Kincaid went down through the now deserted Project building to the
supply room. In fact, he started to raise his voice in a ribald ballad
about a Proxy's adventure with a lady automaton.

"You mus' have had a trifle too much Scotch, Doug," Kincaid reproved
him, with owlish dignity. "Such levity isn't becoming to two scientists
about to make the mos' wonderful invention of the century."

They got one of the heavy leaden cylinders used for transport of
uranium and filled it carefully with powdered bismuth. Then, in
Kincaid's car, they drove happily toward the big Power Station.

The guards at the barrier gate knew them both, for it was nothing new
for Proxy Project men to bring uranium over to the Station. They let
them through, and the car eased along the straight cement road.

The huge, windowless buildings that housed the massive uranium piles
were a mile beyond. But no one went near those tremendous atomic piles.
Everything in them had to be handled by remote control by the few
technicians in Headquarters Building who kept them operating.

"Mart, isn't it queer nobody ever thought of usin' bismuth instead of
uranium, before now?" Norris asked, out of his roseate glow.

"Scientists too c'nservative, that's the trouble," Kincaid answered
wisely. His voice soared. "We're about to launch a new epoch! No more
uranium shortage to worry 'bout! No more politicians botherin' the
Project!"

"And I'll be able to fix up old M-Fifty and run him myself again,"
added Doug Norris. He choked up once more. "When I think of that Proxy
that was like a brother to me, lyin' down in that lonely fissure with
the Raddies gloatin' over him--"

"Don't think about it, Doug," begged Kincaid, with tender sympathy.
"Soon's we get these atomic piles changed around, we'll go back and get
good old M-Fifty up again and fix him good as new."
