
That promise cheered Norris' grieving mind. He got out and helped
Kincaid carry the heavy lead cylinder into Headquarters Building.

The technicians they passed in the lower rooms saw nothing surprising
in the two Project men staggering along under the weight of the
cylinder. Nor did Petersen and Thorpe, at first.

Petersen and Thorpe were the two technicians on duty in the big, sacred
inmost chamber of controls. Visors here gave view of every part of the
distant, mighty atomic piles--the massive lead towers that enclosed
the graphite and uranium lattices, the gas penstocks that led to giant
heat turbines, the gauges and meters. And the banks of heavy levers
here could switch those lattices, make any desired change in the piles,
without the necessity of a man entering the zone of dangerous radiation.

Petersen had surprise on his spectacled, scholarly face as he greeted
the two scientists.

"I didn't know you had another uranium consignment for us," he said.

Kincaid helped Norris place the lead cylinder in the breech of the tube
that would carry it mechanically to the distant pile.

"This isn't uranium--it's better than uranium," Kincaid announced
impressively.

"What do you mean, better than uranium?" Petersen asked in a puzzled
tone. He opened the end of the lead cylinder. "Why, this stuff is
bismuth! What is this, a crazy joke?"

Young Thorpe had been staring closely at Kincaid and Norris.

"They're both plastered!" he burst out.

Kincaid drew himself up in an unsteady attitude of outraged dignity.

"Tha's what thanks we get," he accused thickly. "We come here to make
a won'erful improvement in your blasted old atomic piles, and we get
insulted."

"Thorpe," Petersen said disgustedly, "get them out of here, and ...
_Look out!_"

Doug Norris had casually taken the heavy metal handle off one of the
big levers. He tapped Thorpe on the head with it just as Petersen
uttered his warning cry. The young technician slumped.

Petersen, suddenly pale, darted toward an alarm button on his desk. But
before he reached it, Norris' improvised blackjack tapped his skull.
And Petersen also sagged to the floor.

[Illustration: Before Petersen could reach the alarm button, the
blackjack hit him.]

Norris looked triumphantly at Kincaid, with a warm feeling of righteous
virtue.

"They won't bother us now, Mart. I just put them out for a little while
without hurting 'em."

"Quick thinking, Doug!" Kincaid approved warmly. "Can't let
reactionaries obstruc' course of scientific progress. We'd better tie
'em up in case they come around too soon."

Norris helped tie the two unconscious men with lengths of spare cable.
Then he and Kincaid stood swaying a little as they owlishly inspected
the controls of the mighty atomic piles.

Norris knew a good bit about those controls. He had been here many
times, and Petersen and the other technicians had liked to talk. The
trouble was, that right now his thoughts all seemed a little foggy.

"What we got to do," Kincaid said ponderously, "is change 'round the
atomic pile setup so it'll handle bismuth instead of uranium. Right?"

"Right!" Norris approved enthusiastically. "That's going right to the
heart of the problem, old pal!"

Kincaid seemed to blush in deprecation. "Oh, I jus' got an orderly
mind. First thing now, is to shift the uranium lattices out of the
piles."

He laid his hands on several of the levers, one after another. There
was a low humming of machinery somewhere.

In the distant, towering structure, lattices loaded with uranium were
being mechanically withdrawn to the pits beneath. But there was nothing
happening here except on the panel of indicators.

Petersen came back to consciousness at that moment. Tied to a wall
stanchion, he stiffened and his eyes bugged at them.

"What are you two doing?" he cried. "You're cutting off the power by
pulling out those lattices!"

"Only temp'rarily," Norris assured him. "We'll shift empty lattices
back in, and then load the bismuth into them."

Petersen uttered a howl of agony. "You maniacs will wreck the whole
pile if you try a stunt like that! For heaven's sake, sober up and
think what you're doing!"

"We're tryin' to think," Kincaid said sternly. "But how can we
co'centrate, with you yelling at us?"

Petersen went from raging orders to agonized pleadings to tearful
entreaty. The two ignored him completely.

"Le's see, now," Kincaid said, blinking. "We'll leave in the Number
One uranium lattice after all. We'll need its neutrons to trigger the
expanding series of graphite and bismuth lattices."

"We'll need _two_ uranium lattices," Doug Norris corrected thickly.
"One to trigger the first action, the other to pr'vide neutrons for
the continuous shuttle that'll run the bismuth's atomic number up from
eighty-three to ninety-four, right up through neptunium to plutonium."

"You're right," Kincaid agreed, hiccuping slightly. "I forgot 'bout
that second lattice for a minute. Mus' be because of all the noise in
here."
