
Petersen was still producing that noise, indeed. He had become louder
and more frantic as he saw them shifting out the uranium lattices and
replacing them clumsily with empty lattice-frames.

"Ten thousand scientists have been working ever since
Nineteen-forty-five to find a way to use common elements instead of
uranium in a pile!" he choked. "They can't do it. But two drunken Proxy
men are going to try it!"

Norris hardly heard that stream of agonized accusation and entreaty, as
he helped Kincaid shift in the empty lattices. He was mildly sorry that
Petersen felt so disturbed. There was no reason for it. He and Kincaid
knew just what they were doing.

Or did they? For a moment, a dim doubt crossed Norris' foggy mind.
After all, he and Kincaid weren't physicists. Then he dismissed that
doubt. He was _sure_ of what they were doing, wasn't he?

Kincaid sat down unsteadily when they had the lattices changed.

"I feel a li'l shaky. 'S emotional reaction from great scientific
achievement."

"Emotional reaction nothing--you're so plastered you're nearly out!"
raged Petersen.

Kincaid dignifiedly ignored that. "Switch on the loader and shoot the
ol' bismuth in there, Doug."

"Norris, _don't_ do it!" begged Petersen hoarsely. "It means wrecking
the pile, and maybe blowing up the whole Station!"

Again, Doug Norris' dim doubt bothered him. But then again he dismissed
it. Everything was so beautifully clear in his mind. It had to work.

He switched on the loader. The lead cylinder of bismuth slid away
into the tube that would carry it to the pile, where it would be
automatically loaded into the new empty lattices.

"You fools!" choked Petersen. "I hope they hang you both for this! When
that pile starts up, and blows--"

The operation of the great atomic pile was automatic from this point
on. Minutes later, a bell rang and indicators clicked on.

"First uranium lattice has triggered off," said Kincaid, and nodded,
pleased. "Now we'll get power--lotsa power."

"You'll get nothing but maybe an atomic explosion, in ten seconds!"
cried Petersen, his face deathly white.

Doug Norris suddenly felt his doubt rise again and this time it
overwhelmed him! All his former foggy confidence seemed to have left
him as they completed their operations.

He was suddenly aware of the mad and ghastly thing that he and Kincaid
had done. Why in heaven's name had they done it? What crazy quirk in
their minds had made them do it?

Kincaid too was suddenly looking pale and queer.

"Doug, maybe we shouldn't have tried it."

"Look at those meters!" yelled Petersen, in a wild voice.

The technician's eyes were protruding as he stared at the big bank of
ammeters that registered the output of the great turbines. The needles
were jumping across the dials with swiftly increasing amperage.

"The pile is _working_!" yelled Petersen hoarsely. "That bismuth is
actually producing atomic power!"

Doug Norris suddenly felt cold sober, and a little sick. He sat down
shakily, and put his head in his hands.

Kincaid was staring blankly at the ammeters, while Petersen and Thorpe
seemed to have gone crazy with excitement. When Petersen was untied,
he grabbed Kincaid fiercely.

"How did you do it?" he cried. "Just what did you do to the pile?"

Kincaid stared at him blankly. "I don't know, now."

"You don't know?" Petersen almost screeched. "Man, you've stumbled on
what the scientists have been hunting all these years--the hookup to
use common elements in an atomic pile! You must have had something
figured out beforehand!"

"We didn't!" Norris denied weakly. "We got a little plastered, and got
this idea. We didn't know what we were doing."

Suddenly, Doug Norris stiffened. Remembrance that brought him jumping
unsteadily to his feet had come to him.

"You couldn't have done a thing like this by sheer crazy accident!"
Petersen was insisting. "You must have known how!"

"By heaven, I believe now that we _did_ know what we were doing, in a
queer sort of way!" Norris exclaimed shakily. He grabbed Kincaid's arm.
"Mart, come with me! We're going back over to the Project!"

Petersen's dazed amazement was changing to exultation.

"Whatever you did, it's still working and looks like it'll work
indefinitely! And we can study the hookup and learn how to duplicate
it, even if we never completely understand it. You two maniacs are
going to be famous!"

But Norris had already led the stupefied Kincaid out of the room.
