
Hohmann was no fool. The dictator knew that he was bucking the combined
resources of the world, and it worried him somewhat, even though he
put up a brave front and daily told his people that the United Nations
would not act against him.

The espionage that went on reported that little was being done. Hohmann
trebled the external espionage, and multiplied the internal agencies
tenfold. He was taking no chances. Materials shipped into his country
were followed to the addressee, who was then investigated. Every mail
carrier and delivery boy was a member of Hohmann's Intelligence Group.
Shipments of manufactured articles were stopped or diverted; Hohmann
knew that the plating on a cigar lighter might contain fissionable
material.

But there were no moves on the part of the United Nations that
Hohmann's Intelligence Group could detect.

And it was the lack of action--even lack of anything other than
denunciation--that worried him into calling a Security Meeting.

His hall filled to overflowing with higher-ups, Robert Hohmann faced
them and said:

"We are here because of a singular lack of activity on the part of
those who have reason to fear us. Reprisals may come in many ways,
some of them must be new and terrible, even though they are now
undetectable. The problem of the pushbutton war is known to all--why
drop bombs when bombs may be shipped in among the incoming merchandise,
assembled in a tall tower, and touched off by radio. We, therefore,
must locate the manner of the reprisals."

Worried faces nodded.

"This is no war of nerves," thundered Hohmann. "It is possible to
cause mental confusion in someone by merely ignoring his overt act--he
eventually spends more time worrying about what you intend to do about
it than he does in preparation. This will not work. Admittedly we
have multiplied our Intelligence Group in an effort along this same
reasoning. The lack of action on the part of the United Nations has
caused some concern. But we are not an individual, and we can divert a
carefully calculated number of workers to investigate while the rest of
us can prepare for war. The problem, again I must admit, has achieved a
rather overrated proportion, hence this meeting."

Professor Haldrick looked up at Hohmann and said, quietly, "In other
words, F端hrer Hohmann, even though you state that the so-called war of
nerves cannot succeed, we are meeting to solve that very problem?"

Hohmann hissed at Haldrick and snarled for the professor to be quiet.

"Now," said Hohmann, "what has been occurring lately that might
possibly be construed as being out of the line of ordinary happenings?"

General Friedrice shrugged. "I must admit that the mail has increased
markedly since Hammond's incarceration. Letters pour in from all over
the world to this government bureau and that government agency. They
plead, they cajole, and they call names."

"I can imagine your fear at being called names," laughed Hohmann.

"Indeed, we are cringing abjectly," replied General Friedrice, who
would have had to reduce his figure by at least seventy pounds before
he could possibly cringe without hurting himself. "We find ourselves in
a rather strange circumstance, however. These letters are, of course,
saved. This makes for too much paper work."

"We can take care of that," said Hohmann idly.

"I know. But that is the only thing I know of," said Friedrice.

"Enough," said Hohmann. "This is another example of the
confusion-method. Our enemies hope to worry us by doing nothing--which
is expected to make us fear something ultra-secret. Well, to a certain
extent they have worried us. Not to any dangerous point, however,
for we are too strong to be defeated by a mental condition. This
overbearing arrival of letters is another thing. All letters must be
opened and read, for some of them do contain much valuable information.
They must all be saved and filed, for unless we have previous letters
from some correspondent, we cannot know by comparison, whether a
future letter containing information is false or true. A letter giving
information that comes from a known correspondent who is helpful in
the past will be treated with more respect than the same information
coming from someone who has written reams of misdirection, falsity, and
ranting notes depicting dire results if we do not release Hammond and
behave ourselves."

Hohmann shrugged.

"Even so, we cannot be shunted aside," he added. "We have plenty
of people who can take care of the misdirection, just to see that
something isn't happening to us. The rest of us can continue preparing.
Which brings me to another point."

Hohmann paused dramatically.

"When I press this key," he said, indicating the diamond-studded
telegraph-style key, "the uranium pile will start to go. The key is
connected to the restrainer-rod controls of the pile; when pressed,
the rods leave the pre-set positions of no-reaction and fall under the
automatic controlling circuits. The pile will then start functioning at
approximately ten kilowatts. After checking, it will be advanced to
a more productive power, and we are making the first step toward our
glorious future."
