
F端hrer Hohmann faced General Unger with fury. "You must be more
careful!" exploded Hohmann.

"But I am careful," returned the general.

"Then why do I receive a letter that is radioactive?" demanded Hohmann
angrily. "Feel it--it is warm!"

Unger felt the letter but felt nothing untoward. "I feel nothing," he
said.

Hohmann opened a cabinet and removed a counter. He held the letter to
it and the counter clicked in rapid succession.

"See?" stormed Hohmann. "Now, before you find yourself removed from
public--and private--life, tell me how and why this must happen?"

"If it actually happened, it is an error, and some underling will be
treated severely--"

"The head will be treated severely as a warning," shouted Hohmann.
"Pass no buck, Unger. Your men are responsible to you--but you are
equally responsible for them. Me--I think I will kill you myself! You
might have deprived our people of a leader!"

Hohmann advanced toward the general, who faded back away from him.
Across the vast office went the two of them, slowly and stalking,
catlike. The general backed up, his face contorted with fear.

"Yesterday I start our pile," stormed Hohmann, "and this morning I get
a radioactive letter! Twenty-four hours! Have you no shielding around
that pile?" Hohmann grinned wolfishly. "Seems to me that I should lock
you up in your own office over at the laboratory. Then you'd find that
shielding is desirable, you idiot. Radiating like this--to render hot a
letter, or pile of paper from which this letter came. Bah!"

He went forward again, and General Unger felt the dilemma he was in.
He could not strike back; to kill this leader would bring about his
own very slow and very painful death. To submit was death, but Hohmann
was a good pistol shot and it would be quick. Yet to prolong life for
another few precious moments, Unger retreated before the blazing eyes
of his leader.

He backed, and felt the filing cabinets block his further retreat. He
had crossed the vast office, backwards.

He pressed back against the cabinets and felt a warm wave of fear flush
up through him. It rose and rose, and he pressed harder and harder back
against the cabinets--

His yell of pain shattered the air. Hohmann startled, and the pistol
went off with a loud racket. It missed, but General Unger was facing
away from him, looking at the cabinets and rubbing his elbow.

Tentatively, Unger reached forward and touched a finger to the handle
of the nearest file drawer.

He jerked it back, and blew upon it.

"Hohmann," he said. "They're hot!"

"Hot, you idiot?" screamed Hohmann. He wet his forefinger and touched
the metal of the drawer. There was a faint sizzle and Hohmann jerked
his hand back too.

"Fire!" he yelled, racing for an extinguisher. With a hook, he hurled
the drawer open and hit it with the spray. It exploded into a cloud,
a cloud that choked them and sent them from the room in a hurry. Hot
carbon tetrachloride vapor is not attractive.

Men piled into the room, followed shortly by the official palace
firemen. Shortly the head man emerged.

"F端hrer," he said apologetically, "the cabinets are hot, but there has
been no fire."

"No fire? Then how--"

The alarm rang again, and they raced to the office of General
Friedrice, who was standing outside with a look of fear on his face.

"The file cabinets?" asked Hohmann.

The general nodded dumbly.

"Fire?"

"No--just hot."

"But there must be some reason--?"

General Unger looked up nervously. "Radioactivity?" he said.

"But to collect that much radioactivity," said Hohmann, "would take
time. And why was it not noticed sooner?"

"That I do not know."

"Come--we'll read the Intelligence News Report," said Hohmann, leaving
on a dead run.

He had the tape in his hand as they came up with him; they listened to
his voice read the words from the tape.

"... mail carriers resign as mailboxes are hot to touch. Minor fire in
business offices of Greggham & Son, no damage done. Fire departments in
all cities are rushed to danger points. Conference called to discuss
the outbreak of spontaneous fires in government offices. Professor
Haldrick claims all fires not dangerous--"

Hohmann turned to Unger. "You're the head of Nuclear Physics," he
stormed. "I want a complete report in twenty-four hours!"
