
The hours passed. The fires grew. No longer were they merely hotboxes,
but in some important cases open flames broke out and consumed the
paper. The charred ash continued to be too hot to the touch, and there
was panic in the country.

Unger came at last. Dejected and pale with fear.

"Well," stormed Hohmann, "what is it?"

"I'm not certain other than its effect," said Unger shakily. "All paper
is artificially radioactive, and it heats up when the radioelements
approach the critical mass--"

"Get Hammond!" screamed the dictator.

The United Nations representative was brought. He came with a smile.

"What is this?" stormed Hohmann.

"Your own decision," replied the representative. "You should not have
started the pile."

"Go on," gritted Hohmann.

Greg Hammond smiled. "Plutonium has a characteristics radiation that we
do not quite understand," he explained. "However, this radiation will
cause fission in certain types of medium-long lived radioelements. The
range of the plutonium radiation is unknown, but it is great enough to
bathe the entire country. You will find that most government offices
are bulging with reams and reams of correspondence, many of which
are over the critical mass. Nothing happens until someone turns on a
plutonium-producing uranium pile, lets it run for a few hours, and the
accumulation of plutonium starts. Right now, Hohmann, you have about
four hours before most of your government offices go sky-high--from
their own red tape." Greg Hammond smiled. "The United Nations only
advises," he said. "And many millions of letters of advice arrived,
all written on radioelemental paper. Had you taken that advice, the
paper would have been innocuous inside of about thirty or forty years.
You did not. Now you have lost completely, Hohmann, for the radiation
from that paper when bombarded with the plutonium radiation, produces a
whole string of secondary radioelements in your offices, in your desks,
in your bodies, and in your air. The ash from burning is still hot,
Hohmann, and the trucks that will carry the deadly paper will be as
deadly. Your very country will be subject to slow fission if you start
another uranium pile for several hundred years. I'd advise you to stop
the one that is now running, Hohmann."

"I'll let the world go up with me," screamed the dictator.

"That it will not do," said Hammond. "You see; if you do not shut it
off by yourself, we'll all be dead in an hour, after which my cohorts
can locate the pile with neither difficulty nor interference. Make your
choice, dictator. And remember, the United Nations only advises, never
demands. Our advice, however, may be said to be written with letters of
fire."


                               THE END.