

It was the _Carême de l'Assomption_,[C] and consequently no one was
surprised at my commencing a season of devotion.

During this whole week Sergius Mikaïlovitch did not once come to see us,
and far from being surprised, alarmed, or angry with him, I was content,
and did not expect him before my birthday. Throughout this week I rose
very early every day, and while the horses were being harnessed I walked
in the garden, alone, meditating upon the past, and thinking what I must
do in order that the evening should find me satisfied with my day, and
proud of having committed no faults.

When the horses were ready, I entered the droschky, accompanied by Macha
or a maid-servant, and drove about three versts to church. In entering
the church, I never failed to remember that we pray there for all those
"who enter this place in the fear of God," and I strove to rise to the
level of this thought, above all when my feet first touched the two
grass-grown steps of the porch. At this hour there were not usually in
the church more than ten or a dozen persons, peasants and droroviés,
preparing to make their devotions; I returned their salutations with
marked humility, and went myself, (which I regarded as an act of
superior merit,) to the drawer where the wax tapers were kept, received
a few from the hand of the old soldier who performed the office of
staroste,[D] and placed them before the images. Through the door of the
sanctuary I could see the altar-cloth Mamma had embroidered, and above
the iconstase[E] two angels spangled with stars, which I had considered
magnificent when I was a little girl; and a dove surrounded by a gilded
aureole which, at that same period, often used to absorb my attention.
Behind the choir I caught a glimpse of the embossed fonts near which I
had so often held the children of our droroviés, and where I myself had
received baptism. The old priest appeared, wearing a chasuble cut from
cloth which had been the pall of my father's coffin, and he intoned the
service in the same voice which, as far back as I could remember, had
chanted the offices of the Church at our house, at Sonia's baptism, at
my father's funeral service, at my mother's burial. In the choir I heard
the familiar cracked voice of the precentor; I saw, as I had always seen
her, a certain old woman, almost bent double, who came to every service,
leaned her back against the wall, and, holding her faded handkerchief in
her tightly clasped hands, gazed with eyes full of tears at one of the
images in the choir, mumbling I knew not what prayers with her toothless
mouth. And all these objects, all these beings,--it was not mere
curiosity or reminiscence which brought them so near to me; all seemed
in my eyes great and holy, all were full of profound meaning.

I lent an attentive ear to every word of the prayers I heard read, I
endeavored to bring my feelings into accord with them, and if I did not
comprehend them, I mentally besought God to enlighten me, or substituted
a petition of my own for that which I had not understood. When the
penitential prayers were read, I recalled my past, and this past of my
innocent childhood appeared to me so black in comparison with the state
of serenity in which my soul was, at this time, that I wept over myself,
terrified; yet I felt that all was forgiven me, and that even if I had
had many more faults to reproach myself with, repentance would only have
been all the sweeter to me.

At the conclusion of the service, at the moment when the priest
pronounced the words: "May the blessing of the Lord our God be upon
you," I seemed to feel within me, instantaneously communicated to all my
being, a sense of even, as it were, physical comfort, as if a current of
light and warmth had suddenly poured into my very heart.

When the service was over, if the priest approached me to ask if he
should come to our house to celebrate vespers, and what hour would suit
me, I thanked him with emotion for his offer, but told him that I would
come myself to the church either on foot or in the carriage.

"So you will yourself take that trouble?" he asked.

I could not answer, for fear of sinning from pride. Unless Macha was
with me, I sent the carriage home from the church, and returned on foot,
alone, saluting humbly all whom I met, seeking occasion to assist them,
to advise them, to sacrifice myself for them in some way; helping to
lift a load or carry a child, or stepping aside into the mud to yield a
passage.

One evening I heard our intendant, in making his report to Macha, say
that a peasant, Simon, had come to beg for some wood to make a coffin
for his daughter, and for a silver rouble to pay for the mortuary
service, and that his request had been complied with.

"Are they so poor?" I enquired.

"Very poor, my lady; they live without salt,"[F] replied the intendant.

I was distressed, yet, at the same time, in a manner rejoiced to hear
this. Making Macha believe that I was going for a walk, I ran upstairs,
took all my money (it was very little, but it was all I had,) and,
having made the sign of the cross, hurried off, across the terrace and
garden, to Simon's cottage in the village. It was at the end of the
little cluster of houses, and, unseen by anyone, I approached the
window, laid the money upon the sill and tapped gently. The door opened,
some one came out of the cottage and called to me; but I, cold and
trembling with fear like a criminal, ran away home. Macha asked where I
had been, what was the matter with me? But I did not even understand
what she was saying, and made no reply.

Everything at this moment appeared to me so small, and of so little
consequence! I shut myself up in my chamber, and walked up and down
there alone, for a long time, not feeling disposed to do anything, to
think anything, and incapable of analyzing my own sensations. I imagined
the delight of the whole family, and what they would all say about the
person who had placed the money upon their window, and I began to regret
that I had not given it to them myself. I wondered what Sergius
Mikaïlovitch would have said, if he had known what I had done, and I was
delighted to think that he never would know it. And I was so seized with
joy, so filled with a sense of the imperfection in myself and in all,
yet so inclined to view with gentleness all these others, as well as
myself, that the thought of death offered itself to me as a vision of
bliss. I smiled, I prayed, I wept, and at this instant I suddenly loved
every creature in the world, and I loved myself with a strange ardor.
Searching my prayer-book, I read many passages from the Gospel, and all
that I read in this volume became more and more intelligible; the story
of that divine life, appeared to me more touching and simple, while the
depth of feeling and of thought revealed to me, in this reading, became
more terrible and impenetrable. And how clear and easy everything
seemed, when, on laying aside the book, I looked at my life and
meditated upon it. It seemed impossible not to live aright, and very
simple to love every one and to be loved by every one. Besides, every
one was good and gentle to me, even Sonia, whom I continued to teach,
and who had become totally different, who really made an effort to
understand, and to satisfy me, and give me no annoyance. What I was
trying to be to others, others were to me.

Passing then to my enemies, from whom I must obtain forgiveness before
the great day, I could not think of any except one young lady in the
neighborhood, whom I had laughed at before some company, about a year
before, and who had ceased to visit at our house. I wrote a letter to
her, acknowledging my fault, and begging her pardon. She responded by
fully granting it, and asking mine in return. I shed tears of pleasure
while reading these frank lines, which seemed to me full of deep and
touching sentiment. My maid wept when I asked her pardon also. Why were
they all so good to me? How had I deserved so much affection? I asked
myself. Involuntarily I began to think about Sergius Mikaïlovitch. I
could not help it, and besides I did not consider it a light or
frivolous diversion. True I was not thinking about him at all as I had
done on that night when, for the first time, I found out that I loved
him; I was thinking of him just as of myself, linking him, in spite of
myself, with every plan and idea of my future. The dominating influence
which his presence had exercised over me, faded away completely in my
imagination. I felt myself to-day his equal, and, from the summit of the
ideal edifice whence I was looking down, I had full comprehension of
him. Whatever in him had previously appeared strange to me was now
intelligible. To-day, for the first time, I could appreciate the thought
he had expressed to me, that happiness consists in living for others,
and to-day I felt in perfect unison with him. It appeared to me that we
two were to enjoy a calm and illimitable happiness. No thought entered
my mind of journeys to foreign lands, guests at home, excitement, stir,
and gayety; it was to be a peaceful existence, a home life in the
country, perpetual abnegation of one's own will, perpetual love for
each other, perpetual and absolute thankfulness to a loving and helpful
Providence.

I concluded my devotions, as I had purposed, upon the anniversary of my
birth. My heart was so overflowing with happiness, that day, when I
returned from church, that there resulted all kinds of dread of life,
fear of every feeling, terrors of whatever might disturb this happiness.
But we had scarcely descended from the droschky to the steps before the
house, when I heard the well-known sound of his cabriolet upon the
bridge, and in a moment Sergius Mikaïlovitch was with us. He offered me
his congratulations, and we went into the drawing-room together. Never
since I had known him, had I found myself so calm, so independent in his
presence, as upon this morning. I felt that I bore within myself an
entire new world, which he did not comprehend and which was superior to
him. I did not feel the least agitation in his society. He may, however,
have understood what was passing within me, for his gentleness to me was
peculiarly delicate, almost, as it were, a religious deference. I was
going towards the piano, but he locked it and put the key in his pocket,
saying:

"Do not spoil the state of mind I see you are in; there is sounding, at
this moment, in the depths of your soul, a music which no harmony of
this earth can approach!"

I was grateful to him for this thought, yet, at the same time, it was a
little displeasing to me that he should thus understand, too easily, and
too clearly, what was to remain secret from all, in the kingdom of my
soul.

After dinner he said that he had come to bring me his congratulations
and to say farewell, as he was going to Moscow on the following day. He
was looking at Macha when he said this, but he gave me a quick
side-glance as if he was afraid of noticing some emotion upon my
countenance. But I showed neither surprise nor agitation, and did not
even ask if his absence would be long. I knew that he said so, but I
knew that he was not going. How? I cannot, now, explain it in the least;
but on this memorable day it appeared to me that I knew all that had
been, and all that would be. I was in a mood akin to one of those happy
dreams, where one has a kind of luminous vision of both the future and
the past.

He had intended going immediately after dinner, but Macha had left the
table, to take her siesta, and he was obliged to wait until she awoke in
order to take leave of her.

The sun was shining full into the drawing-room, and we went out upon the
terrace. We were scarcely seated, when I entered upon the conversation
which was to decide the fate of my love. I began to speak, neither
sooner nor later, but at the first moment that found us face to face
alone, when nothing else had been said, when nothing had stolen into the
tone and general character of the conversation which might hinder or
embarrass what I wished to say. I cannot myself comprehend whence came
the calmness, the resolution, the precision of my words. One would have
said that it was not I who was talking, and that something--I know not
what--independent of my own volition, was making me speak. He was
seated opposite to me, and, having drawn down to him a branch of lilac,
began to pluck off its leaves. When I opened my lips, he let go the
little branch, and covered his face with his hand. This might be the
attitude of a man who was perfectly calm, or that of a man yielding to
great agitation.

"Why are you going away?" I began, in a resolute tone; then stopped, and
looked him straight in the eyes.

He did not reply at once.

"Business!" he articulated, looking down on the ground.

I saw that it was difficult for him to dissemble in answering a question
I put so frankly.

"Listen," said I, "you know what this day is to me. In many ways it is a
great day. If I question you, it is not only to show my interest in you
(you know I am used to you, and fond of you), I question you because I
must know. Why are you going away?"

"It is excessively difficult to tell you the truth, to tell you why I am
going away. During this week I have thought a great deal of you and of
myself, and I have decided that it is necessary for me to go. You
understand ... why? And if you love me, do not question me!"

He passed his hand across his brow, and, covering his eyes again with
the same hand, he added:

"This is painful to me.... But you understand, Katia!"

My heart began to beat hard in my breast.

"I cannot understand," said I, "_I cannot do it_; but _you_, speak to
me, in the name of God, in the name of this day, speak to me, I can hear
everything calmly."

He changed his attitude, looked at me, and caught the branch of lilac
again.

"Well," he resumed, after a moment's silence, in a voice which vainly
struggled to appear firm, "though it may be absurd, and almost
impossible to translate into words, and though it will cost me much, I
will try to explain to you;"--and as he uttered the words there were
lines on his brow, as if he was suffering physical pain.

"Go on," I said.

"You must suppose there is a gentleman,--A. we will call him,--old,
weary of existence; and a lady,--Madame B. we will say,--young, happy,
and as yet knowing neither the world nor life. In consequence of family
relations A. loved B. like a daughter, with no fear of coming to love
her differently."

He was silent, and I did not interrupt him.

"But," he suddenly pursued, in a brief, resolute voice, without looking
at me, "he had forgotten that B. was young, that for her life was still
but a game, that it might easily happen that he might love her, and that
B. might amuse herself with him. He deceived himself, and one fine day
he found that another feeling, weighty to bear as remorse, had stolen
into his soul, and he was startled. He dreaded to see their old friendly
relations thus compromised, and he decided to go away before these had
time to change their nature."

As he spoke, he again with seeming carelessness passed his hand across
his eyes, and covered them.

"And why did he fear to love differently?" I said, presently, in a
steady voice, controlling my emotion; but no doubt this seemed to him
mere playful banter, for he answered with the air of a deeply wounded
man:

"You are young; I am no longer so. Playing may please you, for me more
is necessary. Only, do not play with me, for I assure you it will do me
no good,--and you might find it weigh on your conscience! That is what
A. said," he added,--"but all this is nonsense; you understand, now, why
I am going; let us say no more about it, I beg you...."

"Yes, yes, let us speak of it!" said I, and tears made my voice tremble.
"Did she love him or not?"

He did not reply.

"And if he did not love her," I continued, "why did he play with her as
if she were a child?"

"Yes, yes, A. had been culpable," he replied interrupting me; "but all
that is over, and they have parted from each other ... good friends!"

"But this is frightful! And is there no other end?" I exclaimed,
terrified at what I was saying.

"Yes, there is one." And he uncovered his agitated face, and looked at
me steadily. "There are even two other ends, quite different. But, for
the love of God, do not interrupt me, and listen to me quietly. Some
say," he went on, rising, and giving a forced, sad smile, "some say that
A. went mad, that he loved B. with an insane love, and that he told her
so.... But that she only laughed at him. For her the matter had been but
a jest, a trifle; for him,--the one thing in his life!"

I shivered, and would have broken in, to tell him that he should not
dare to speak for me; but he stopped me, and, laying his hand upon mine:

"Wait!" he said, in a shaking voice: "others say that she was sorry for
him, that she fancied--poor little girl, knowing nothing of the
world--that she might actually love him, and that she consented to be
his wife. And he--madman--he believed,--believed that all his life was
beginning again; but she herself became conscious that she was
deceiving him and that he was deceiving her.... Let us talk no more
about it!" he concluded, indeed evidently incapable of farther speech,
and he silently sat down again opposite me.

He had said, "Let us talk no more about it," but it was manifest that
with all the strength of his soul he was waiting for a word from me.
Indeed I tried to speak, and could not; something stopped my breath. I
looked at him, he was pale, and his lower lip was trembling. I was very
sorry for him. I made another effort, and suddenly succeeding in
breaking the silence which paralyzed me. I said, in a slow, concentrated
voice, fearing every moment it would fail me:

"There is a third end to the story" (I stopped, but he remained silent),
"and this other end is that he did not love her, that he hurt her, hurt
her cruelly, that he believed he was right to do it, that he ... that he
went away, and that, moreover, moreover, he was proud of it. It is not
on my side, but on yours, that the trifling has been, from the first day
I loved you; I loved you," I repeated, and at the word "loved" my voice
involuntarily changed from its tone of slow concentration to a kind of
wild cry which appalled myself.

He was standing up before me, very pale, his lip trembled more and more,
and I saw two heavy tears making their way down his cheeks.

"This is dreadful!"--I could barely get out the words, choked with anger
and unshed tears.--"And why?..." I jumped up hastily, to run away.

But he sprang towards me. In a moment his head was upon my knees, my
trembling hands were pressed again and again to his lips, and I felt hot
drops falling upon them.

"My God, if I had known!" he was murmuring.

"Why? why?" I repeated mechanically, my soul in the grasp of that
transport which seizes, possesses, and flies forever, that rapture which
returns no more.

Five minutes afterwards, Sonia went dashing upstairs to Macha, and all
over the house, crying out that Katia was going to marry Sergius
Mikaïlovitch.



