
At the word "girl," Robie broke off. Rather ponderously, he said, "I'll
bet you read _Gee-Gee Jones, Space Stripper_. Now I have here the
latest issue of that thrilling comic, not yet in the stationary vending
machines. Just give me fifty cents and within five--"

"Please let me through. I'm her mother."

A young woman in the front rank drawled over her powder-sprayed
shoulder, "I'll get her for you," and slithered out on six-inch
platform shoes. "Run away, children," she said nonchalantly. Lifting
her arms behind her head, she pirouetted slowly before Robie to show
how much she did for her bolero half-jacket and her form-fitting slacks
that melted into skylon just above the knees. The little girl glared at
her. She ended the pirouette in profile.

At this age-level, Robie's reference silhouettes permitted him to
distinguish sex, though with occasional amusing and embarrassing
miscalls. He whistled admiringly. The crowd cheered.

Someone remarked critically to a friend, "It would go over better if he
was built more like a real robot. You know, like a man."

The friend shook his head. "This way it's subtler."

No one in the crowd was watching the newscript overhead as it
scribbled, "Ice Pack for Hot Truce? Vanadin hints Russ may yield on
Pakistan."

Robie was saying, "... in the savage new glamor-tint we have christened
Mars Blood, complete with spray applicator and fit-all fingerstalls
that mask each finger completely except for the nail. Just give me five
dollars--uncrumpled bills may be fed into the revolving rollers you see
beside my arm--and within five seconds--"

"No, thanks, Robie," the young woman yawned.

"Remember," Robie persisted, "for three more weeks, seductivizing Mars
Blood will be unobtainable from any other robot or human vendor."

"No, thanks."

Robie scanned the crowd resourcefully. "Is there any gentleman
here ..." he began just as a woman elbowed her way through the front
rank.

"I told you to come back!" she snapped at the little girl.

"But I didn't get my polly-lop!"

"... who would care to...."

"Rita!"

"Robie cheated. Ow!"
