
Jed Grey knew precisely how bad it was. Habitually en rapport with his
Canopan partner, he sensed in every nerve the hostile atmosphere of the
street, tearing at the hard shell of defense which he had learned to
erect.

The Arcturians, habitually suspicious of strange planetary types, were
sufficiently unpleasant in their thought patterns. However, it was from
the native earthmen, whose blue uniforms vastly outnumbered all others,
that the bulk of the torment arose.

Grey could sense it even though he avoided observing their faces. He
could feel the alcoholic thoughts of the mechanic across the street:
"An earthman holding hands with a snake! Damned snake man!"

It was now months since Grey had learned what that meant. The pain with
which he had learned that was by now gone. He did not think that Joe's
tentacles looked like snakes, and he cared nothing for the opinions of
the others. Yet it was difficult to keep out of his mind the intruding
thoughts of the Fleetmen who glared at him with disgust on their faces.

"I have found the others," Joe thought to Grey. "They are in a small
bar at the other end of town called the Purple Claw. It seems to be an
interesting place."

There was no need for Joe to ask, "Shall we go there?" For there was
no place else to go. This was a repetition of the problem which always
occurred when the pair arrived at a new base or a new town. Where could
they spend an evening?

It never occurred to Grey that he might go off by himself.

Making their way through the crowded street was no longer the ordeal
which it had been when Jed Grey and Joe had first been assigned to
work together. By this time it no longer turned Grey sick when a
highly-painted female hysterically turned around and whined: "It's
reading my mind! The damn snake's reading my mind!"

"I see that the Arcturians hang out at the Zig Zag," Joe observed.
The Zig Zag's brilliant mercury-vapor sign made Grey's complexion a
virulent blue as they passed beneath it.

"And extra police floating around," Grey noticed. "This is a bad town.
Many transients here--on their way in or out. Coming to town for a big
time--either the last one or the first one in months."
