
The Purple Claw was housed in a ramshackle building of ancient
vintage, and sported as publicity a modest violet lobster which glowed
erratically above the door.

Within, the air reeked of tobacco smoke, beer, tekla. It heaved
with the beat of something which was part American jazz, part
Sirian drum-music, with a flavor of strains from half a dozen other
star-systems.

Behind the bar was a monstrously fat character whose hair was white
as the clouds of Venus, and whose face was as black as space itself.
Elby Jones had a love for wine and women which was matched only by his
addiction to the music which the small band in the corner emitted.

He nodded to the pair as they entered, and waddled over to the small
table where they seated themselves.

"Evenin', Joe and Mister Grey," he greeted them. "You'll have Space
Punch and smokes?"

This, casually--even though never before had they been in this place.

Just as casual was Grey's reply, "Sure enough, Elby. Nice place you've
got."

No need to show surprise at the fact that Jones was, himself, a
telepath. The very fact that his place was the congregating point for
the Canopan crowd attested to that probability.

With a goblet of warm Space Punch between his hands, Grey leaned back
and absorbed the peace and relaxation which he had sensed within these
walls the moment he had stepped through the door. Joe, immune to
alcohol, took the first ecstatic drag from a long white cigarette--a
cigarette of very ordinary tobacco.

Through the dimly-lit, smoke-laden atmosphere of the room, Grey could
see the musicians at the far end, the small tables at which the Terrans
sat with their Canopan partners, the few Sirians who sat alone with
their tekla glasses.

Joe, performing an indescribable feat of mental recognition, happily
greeted a Sirian who sat across the room. To Grey the Sirians all
appeared identical, but he received the impression that this was the
one they'd gone on a tear with last month in Joplin. It had been a most
memorable occasion. He suddenly laughed uproariously as he recalled the
picture they'd made marching down Joplin's main thoroughfare singing
the Sirian national anthem in harmony--with Joe taking two of the parts
simultaneously--both mentally.

Joe, having no vocal apparatus, performed his music telepathically.
At times it was indescribable, and at other times it
was--well--magnificent.

Within the Purple Claw there was music permeating the smoky air,
coursing through the nerve channels of the listeners. It was slow and
hot, loose and tight at the same time.

Grey slipped down farther into his chair. A horn took a high passage,
and the chill began to pass up and down Grey's spine. He knew, then,
that he was in--that the night was good and the music right.
