
Joe's antennae swayed quietly, in time with the beat, in time with
the antennae of the other Canopans who sat there, spreading a net
of rapport through the room. Imperceptibly there was produced an
augmentation of the music, a heightened receptivity, as though the
entire audience was in itself a musical instrument, guided by the band,
and in return leading the band ahead.

"Lawdy, that was good," Grey sighed when the spell finally broke and
the audience shuffled feet, scraped chairs, ordered fresh drinks, and
relit forgotten smokes.

These moments of complete retreat had become more and more rare during
the past few months.

The mobilization had been accelerating, and the training periods had
become more and more intense, in preparation for this day when they
were now assigned to a ship and were about to push off for a training
run, followed by the long trip to the battle sector.

It had been slightly more than a year ago that the first enigmatic
events had been noticed in a corner of the galaxy which was just newly
being explored and developed. Ships had failed to return--colonies had
ceased communicating with their prime bases.

To Jed Grey, a young man still in school on Terra, far within the
borders of the civilized galaxy, these events had seemed distant
and impersonal. They had been words in the newspapers, on the news
broadcasts. They had been vague events taking place on just another
of the many hundreds of habitable planets which by that time had been
discovered.

Then the knowledge had grown that the events taking place thousands of
light years distant were to have an impact on the life of Jed Grey and
the others living on Terra. Gradually it developed that the civilized
galaxy was rapidly becoming immersed in a struggle for existence
against an enemy whose character was initially somewhat obscure, but
whose unfriendly aims were quite definite.

Overnight, it seemed to Grey, Terra flew into a turmoil of
mobilization, manufacture of spaceships and weapons, research for the
creation of new weapons and new defenses against the strange attack
methods of the enemy. In the tiny circle of existence in which he
walked, that which he observed was the increased crowds of people on
their way to work in the factories, the increased difficulty of buying
various items, and inevitably the card which had ordered him to the
mobilization center.

Among the many classification tests which they gave Grey was a curious
one which seemed nonsensical until later on in the course of his
training its purpose became quite obvious. It was given by a young man
with very large and quiet eyes, who was seated beside an individual
with soft, silky fur that changed color from moment to moment, and
whose antennae had a fascinating, restless mobility. The four tentacles
were brown and graceful, while the total attitude of the creature was
one of repose and dignity.
