
Grey stared at this personage with curiosity, and with a slight chill.
From photographs he knew the form of the natives of the fourth planet
of Canopus, and from rumors and bar-room tales he had heard sufficient
concerning them to ring a note of alarm in his brain.

Yet, as he sat there for a moment, the alarm died away for although to
his untrained eyes the Canopan was practically featureless, there was
an aura of pleasantness about it appearing from a source which at that
time he was not able to identify.

Into his mind the thought came, "What if they _can_ read my mind, like
everybody says? He doesn't look like he would hurt me. But...."

The voice of the examiner cut his thoughts short.

"Here are ten cards lying face down on the table. Tell me what markings
are on the front of these cards."

"But how can I tell you if the cards are face down?"

The man smiled. "Just try, anyway."

Grey wanted to snort and laugh in the man's face; but then suddenly he
shivered, for actually he knew....

"Why there's a circle, a square, a triangle, another circle...."

Then there was a sealed box in which he identified a cube, a sphere, a
cylinder, and a more difficult object which turned out to be a key.

The examiner grinned at him and said, "That's fine. Welcome to the
fraternity of telepaths and perceptors."

And, amazingly, there came a thought of congratulation which was
unmistakably from the Canopan, who extended a tentacle and laid it for
a moment upon his arm.

A gate in his mind swung open. A flood of memories crowded into his
consciousness. Small items. Incidents in which he had known things
before he had seen them. Incidents so unaccountable that he had put
them out of his mind, had refused to consider them. Now they jigsawed
together into a pattern which revolved about the important fact that he
possessed the rare skill of perception coupled with telepathy.

How rudimentary this skill was he realized later when his training
began.

In a month, feeling drab in his work uniform and exhausted from the
preliminary training, he was brought face to face with the Canopan whom
he soon learned to call Joe, and who was to become his partner for as
long as should be necessary.
