
The first meeting was stilted and formal. They sat in the small room
together with the Terran and Canopan training officers, and within Grey
there was the nervous sensation that the Canopans recognized every
one of his thoughts. There was the embarrassing realization that his
dislike of Canopans was as plain to them as the expression on his face,
and the embarrassment was intensified by the fact that he had not the
slightest idea why the dislike was there.

"Sure, Grey," the officer said, abruptly. "We know you don't like
Canopans. Nobody on earth does--except the people who actually know
them. We know the whole story. But you'll get over that. You're
going to spend the rest of this war working together with this fellow
here--since he doesn't talk a language, he doesn't have a verbal name.
You won't have trouble conversing with him, however, because he knows
what you think, and you will know what he thinks when he wants you to."

"Then they do read minds," Grey said.

"Sure. What of it? You can almost do it, yourself. Why do you think we
picked you for this job? Out of the thousands that we test, a few here
and there have the right kind of sensitivity. When the professors learn
more about the science of psychomechanics maybe we'll learn how it
works. Now all we know is that it works."

"What's wrong with them, then?" The question was involuntary, dropping
suddenly from Grey's mouth. Confused by his own frankness, he
stammered, "I--I mean, why don't people like them?"

"This is a question with many angles," the officer said, gravely.
"It's an old story. We had barely obtained a world government when
interstellar travel was on hand and we came into contact with strange
types of intelligent beings. Man was still trying to overcome distrust
between the slightly different groups within his own species. When he
came to deal with species of such strange shapes and psychologies as
those on the other planets, the distrust was intensified many times.

"Particularly, people fear the telepathic powers of the Canopans.
They fear the mysterious and the supernatural. Telepathy still seems
a supernatural thing to the ignorant and--I'm afraid--to some who are
not so ignorant. People are afraid of their minds being invaded. Their
sense of privacy is outraged.

"They cannot visualize the fact that the Canopans are completely
uninterested in what thoughts a Terran may have. The Canopan psychology
is sufficiently different from ours that our private thoughts may
be interesting, perhaps curious, but never the sort of thing upon
which they would put a moral judgment. Their sense of morality is too
different from ours for moral judgments to have meaning.

"You may accept this intellectually at the moment without absorbing
it into your system. In a short time you will really be convinced that
this is so. In the meantime, the two of you must become friendly enough
so that you can perform your jobs."
