
Grey looked from the officer to his Canopan partner, and clearly
received the verification that all of this was really so. Inside Grey
there was an impression of relief, a loosening of tensions.

From that moment on, Grey and Joe were inseparable. They lived
together, ate together, and in their training they were as one
mentality.

"Doggone if you wouldn't think we were married," Grey kept saying.

Surely the extreme rapport, and the warm feeling of relaxation and
mental capability which Grey felt when in the presence of Joe,
indicated an intimacy which was the equal of any physical attraction.

With the extreme complexity of the control and communication equipment
in the great space vessels, there had arisen the need for something
radically different in maintenance technicians. The delay of testing
circuits for faults and breakdowns had to be eliminated. For this
purpose the peculiarly suited Canopans had been brought to Earth by the
thousands.

Even in the specialized branch of computing-machines to which Grey had
been assigned, the magnitude of the knowledge to be absorbed in a few
hasty months would ordinarily have made the task impossible. With the
two nervous systems of Grey and Joe acting as one, however, they were
able to absorb huge chunks of knowledge at one gulp, assort it, store
it away, and go on to the next item.

Carefully supervised by psychiatrists to ensure that no breakdowns
would occur from overloading of nervous connections, Grey advanced
from the status of an untrained youngster to that of a highly skilled
electro-technician.

"Joe, with all the brains that you fellows have," Grey remarked one
day, "it's a wonder that you haven't advanced any farther than you
have, as far as technical things are concerned. I don't know why you
need me around. You know all the stuff that I know, and maybe a lot
more. Why don't you Canopans just take over the whole works?"

"We're really not very interested in electronics and such things,"
Joe replied. "We put up with this as a rather unhappy necessity,
but our creative instincts do not lie in that direction. Since we
have developed without hands, and with a brain of capabilities which
are strange to you, our culture has become more introspective--more
interested in the being within than in the things without--more
interested in creating things of beauty to perceive rather than
machines of complexity for the control of nature."

"Very pretty," Grey sighed. "And just as well, for otherwise I would be
out of a job."

Even so, Grey felt little more useful than a soldering-iron or a
screw-driver in the hands of a master mechanic. For Joe, with his
ability to perceive without sight, with his capability of feeling
the very electric currents flowing through a machine--he was the
diagnostician, the one who squatted before a defunct piece of equipment
and without hesitation unerringly decided what was wrong with it and
directed Grey to the point where the repair had to be made. From that
point on Grey wielded the tools.

But there was no room for false pride. The two of them together
constituted a working team. The two of them made one mechanic.

In addition to learning the technical things required for maintenance
of machinery, both Jed Grey and the Canopan had to learn many other
things which inevitably went with their partnership.

They had to learn how it was to walk down a city street and feel the
ebb and flow of thoughts about them--thoughts concerning the race of
Canopans in general and concerning the type of Terran who would walk
down a street arm in arm with a Canopan.

They learned this quickly. Gradually the psychic hurts healed over
and in their place was a hard defense-mechanism compounded of wisdom,
mental toughness, and a contempt for the opinions of the others.

Actually, to Joe, the opinions of the Terrans were of no interest.
But as he once remarked to Grey: "It's an impersonal sort of
unpleasantness--like walking through a street filled with a bad odor,
like walking through a room filled with buzz-saws. It jars the nerves."

Grey presently came to feel in the same manner.

"I'm not quite a Terran any more," he said.

Joe assented. "You are a real cosmopolitan. You have the real
interstellar attitude. In time everybody will see it that way."
