
Time--time. It went so rapidly. It swept them along through the several
stages of their training, and now it was their last night out before
stepping into the great battlewagon for the final and irrevocable
journey across space to the war, which up to now had been a hazy
background to their work.

Elby Jones brought Grey another drink. "It's a good night here tonight."

"I'm glad it is," said Grey.

Yes, it had to be a good night, because the last one had to be good.
There had to be that much to remember out there a thousand light-years
away.

The music started once more, and it brought to Grey the thought that it
was curious how the Canopans had taken to American Jazz and cigarettes
and had intensified their effects to a degree previously unknown. What
a group of characters they were. They could go on an intellectual jag
from a Bach Fugue as quickly as they could go on a nicotine binge.
Their entire psychology was geared to the obtaining of pleasure from
sensations of many different kinds.

"The Terrans do likewise, you know," Joe transmitted to him.

Grey grinned back at Joe. You couldn't keep a stray thought-wave away
from the guy.

"It's different the way you do it," he replied. "You don't get blind
stinkin' drunk when you go on a jag. You do it for exhilaration, for an
uplift."

"The process of getting stinking is ..." Joe broke off suddenly.

Simultaneously, Grey could sense that the other Canopans had shifted
their attentions, that the music, although it kept playing, echoed
hollowly between the walls, unsupported by the listeners.

Grey caught the faint jar of a commotion outside the door. A roar
of voices and heavy footsteps crescendoed suddenly as a mob in blue
uniforms burst into the place. As it seemed to Grey in the first
violent moment, each had a bottle in one hand and a brightly-painted
female in the other. There seemed to be a squadron of them. It turned
out, finally, that there were perhaps ten altogether.

From the insignia on their uniforms, Grey guessed that these were
combat men on their way back from the battle sector, ready to tear up
the first town that they hit on the first night out.

"Cripes! The place is full of snakes!" one of them shouted. "What're
snakes doing here when there's some good ol' earthmen lookin' for a
place to sit down?"

One of the girls pulled back. "Let's get out of here, Jack," she
whispered, nervously. "I'm afraid of them snakes."

"They ain't gonna hurt you, honey," Jack told her, hoarsely. "I always
wondered if them snakes grew together if you pulled them apart."

He walked a few paces inside the door. "If you snakes can read my mind,
you know what I'm gonna do if you don't clear outta here pronto. An'
readin' my mind ain't gonna help you against my good right arm."
