
Grey felt sick. A brawl on the last night.... There was a stray thought
in his mind that he and Joe would make a good fighting team if the two
of them could coordinate fast enough.

"No," Joe's reply came to him instantly. "This isn't your fight. We'll
handle this."

"The hell you say!" Grey attempted to stand--found himself limp as a
rag. He could suddenly smell his own perspiration as he strained to
move, and as he looked about the room he saw that the other Terrans at
the tables were remaining there, their expressions startled and anxious.

The Canopans had risen, and were slowly making their way between the
tables to the front of the room. The band was still playing a slightly
mad background to the picture which consisted of the smoky room with
the dim lights, the Terrans sitting paralyzed at their tables, the
Canopans moving in on the Fleetmen at the door ... who stared in
disbelief, began to swing their bottles, and collapsed quietly on the
floor.

The girls, without time to shriek, collapsed just as quietly, and lay
there in an unmoving heap.

Grey abruptly was stone cold sober. He wanted out, as fast as possible.
The idea of going up for murder appealed to him not at all.

"Forget it," Joe flashed at him. "They're not dead. But we'll have to
get rid of them. We'll be back in a minute."

The Canopans silently carried the bodies outside the door, leaving Grey
sitting still at his table, performing a great quantity of furious
thinking.

[Illustration: _The Canopans silently carried the bodies outside._]

Joe was back quickly. He anticipated Grey's questions.

"They'll wake up, and they'll think somebody slipped them a Mickey. But
they won't remember what happened."

He hesitated, sat down, and lit another smoke. "You're okay, now, by
the way."

Grey tried, and found that the nervous impulses now went where they
were supposed to go. He stood up, shakily. Then he sat down again.
While he was searching for words to say something, Joe interrupted.

"Look," he transmitted. "This has to be kept under cover. Things are
bad enough for us without this sort of thing getting around. I didn't
even want you to know, but that couldn't be helped. I didn't feel like
getting bashed."

Grey accepted another glass gratefully from Elby Jones.

"Sure," he said. "I don't talk to anybody, anyway. But you have to tell
me. How much _can_ you do?"

Joe considered for a moment before replying.

"I don't know, really. Terran nervous systems are not like ours. We
have had only a short time to discover what we can do and what we
can't do. We don't have real control--although there are certain
possibilities with a modified hypnotic suggestion. At present we are
only able to introduce resistances temporarily in certain nerve paths,
so that inhibitions are produced."

"So for a while I was just inhibited against standing up, and they were
inhibited against being conscious. It that it?"

"Approximately."

Grey sipped from his glass, peering over the edge of it at Joe.
Precisely how much was there, he thought, hidden within the recesses of
that brain? Just how much did this innocent little character have on
the ball?
