
Joe chose this moment to become taciturn. The music was riding once
more, and the place was settling down after the sudden disturbance. It
took Jed Grey several more minutes and another glass to throw off the
nervous tension which sat like a blanket over his shoulders. Gradually
he began to relax, and the warm spot within his belly proceeded to
creep up into his head.

"Tomorrow," he thought drowsily, "we will be taking off, and there will
be no more of this. No more music except from cans. No more...."

Abruptly he realized that the rapport had been broken off again by the
Canopans, and that at the other end of town there was the faint howl of
the police siren.

"There's a brawl down the street," Joe informed Grey. "Some of our
heroes back from the battle sector feel that they haven't had enough
fighting."

"I bet you a pack of smokes that the guys in the fight haven't been
within a light year of an actual battle," said Grey, dryly. "They're
the ones who always try to make like tough heroes when they get back."

Through the Canopan's sense of perception Jed Grey could catch faint
impulses of the tumult which filled the street a hundred yards away.
There was a violence in the thoughts projected from that area which
caused the colors of Joe's fur to shift erratically, nervously. In Grey
they caused a tightening of the stomach and a heavy feeling in the
chest.

"It hurts almost as much to listen in to a fight as it does to be right
in the middle of it," he remarked. "Why don't you just shut it off if
you can't take it?"

"As well try to shut off your sense of hearing," Joe snapped back.

The sirens down the street had wailed to a halt. Grey lit another
cigarette and tried what was left in his glass. It was flat. The warm
glow which had diffused through his body was gone, and in its place
there was a bitter taste and a burning sensation around the eyes.

Abruptly he mashed out his cigarette and stood up.

"The night's washed up," he growled. "Let's get out of here."

Joe, with a thought of regret, assented, and the two of them left.

It was bitter to end the last night upon such an uncompleted note.
