
The two of them strolled back in the direction of the bus station. The
fresh night, bright with the blaze of stars and saloon signs, should
have exhilarated them; but the mental tension which filled the street
pressed hard on Joe's receptors, and, through him, against Grey.

A pair of police cars squatted at the corner. Fleet Police milled
through the crowds, shock sticks in hand. An ambulance helicopter
roaring in from the Fleet Base settled down in the center of the street.

The fight was over, but so keyed up were the Fleetmen in town that for
Grey and the Canopan to walk through the street was to walk through a
sticky, obscene glue of malevolence.

Joe's fur colors had faded to a dismal blue. Grey glanced at this with
alarm.

The thoughts in the crowd around them had been impersonal ones--fight
thoughts, pleasure thoughts, passion thoughts--violent and unnerving
to the pair who had to thread their way through this tumult, but yet
impersonal.

It began to change.

They began again with the snake thoughts and the thoughts about the
Terran who walked with the damn snake. They looked at the pair who
walked in their midst, and in their state of excitement with violence
not yet out of their minds, there was a redirection of passion from
the recent fight to the new center of attention.

Grey gasped as the force of this new agitation struck them.

The pair of Fleet Police ahead of them changed their direction of
motion and started walking towards them. Grey's face twitched as he
felt the increased tension within Joe's nervous system.

"Hold it, son," he cautioned. "Remember we're supposed to be tough.
Remember the nerves of steel we're supposed to have, like it says in
the books."

Joe's grip on Grey's arm tightened, and then relaxed.

"I thought I could take anything. Tonight has been almost too much."

The Fleet Police were directly in front of them. The one on the right
pointed at Grey with his stick and began to say something.

The door of the adjacent saloon swung open and a giant of a bearded
Fleetman roared out. The girl hanging to his arm caught a sudden sight
of Joe, and a burst of fright exploded in her empty little head,
shocking Joe with its intensity.

She screamed, "It's thinking about me!"

The big Fleetman clapped his hand to his hip. There was no gun
holstered there, but Joe reared back in a dismayed reflex.... In the
next moment the Fleetman slumped to the pavement, where he lay quite
still.

That was all--for a moment.

The Fleet Police looked at Joe and they looked down at the Fleetman.
Then they looked back at Joe. One of them stooped down and remained
there for a long minute. He rose, and his face was white.

"The guy's dead," he said, and his shock stick came up, pointing at
Joe. "You do that?" he snapped.

"He didn't touch the guy," Grey said.

"Maybe yes and maybe no. Guys don't just drop and die. I think both of
you'd better come."
