
Her boy friend turned out to be her girl friend, and her girl friend
turned out to be a tall and lissome, lovely with a Helenesque air of
her own. From the vantage point of a strategically located reading
table, where he was keeping company with his favorite little magazine,
_The Zeitgeist_, Quidley watched her take a seemingly haphazard route
to the shelf where Taine's _History_ reposed, take the volume down,
surreptitiously slip a folded sheet of yellow paper between its pages
and return it to the shelf.

After she left he wasted no time in acquainting himself with the second
message. It was as unintelligible as the first:

    _asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj Cai:
    Habe wotnid ig ist ending ifedererer te. T'lide sid Fieu Dayol po
    jestig toseo knwo, bijk weil en snoll doper entling--Yoolna. asdf
    ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj asdf ;lkj_

Well, perhaps not quite as unintelligible. He knew, at least, who Cai
was, and he knew--from the reappearance of the words _wotnid_, _Fieu
Dayol_ and _snoll doper_--that the two communications were in the
same code. And certainly it was reasonable to assume that the last
word--_Yoolna_--was the name of the girl he had just seen, and that
she was a different person from the _Klio_ whose name had appended the
first message.

He refolded the paper, replaced it between the pages, returned the book
to the shelf and went back to the reading table and _The Zeitgeist_.

Kay didn't show up till almost closing time, and he was beginning
to think that perhaps she wouldn't come around for the pickup till
tomorrow when she finally walked in the door. She employed the same
tactics she had employed the previous night, arriving, as though by
chance, at the T-section and transferring the message with the same
undetectable legerdemain to her purse. This time, when she walked out
the door, he was not far behind her.

She climbed into a sleek convertible and pulled into the street. It
took him but a moment to gain his hardtop and start out after her.
When, several blocks later, she pulled to the curb in front of an
all-night coffee bar, he followed suit. After that, it was merely a
matter of following her inside.

He decided on Operation Spill-the-sugar. It had stood him in good stead
before, and he was rather fond of it. The procedure was quite simple.
First you took note of the position of the sugar dispensers, then you
situated yourself so that your intended victim was between you and the
nearest one, then you ordered coffee without sugar in a low voice, and
after the counterman or countergirl had served you, you waited till
he/she was out of earshot and asked your i.v. to please pass the sugar.
When she did so you let the dispenser slip from your fingers in such a
way that some of its contents spilled on her lap--

"I'm terribly sorry," he said, righting it. "Here, let me brush it off."
