
"It's all right, it's only sugar," she said, laughing.

"I'm hopelessly clumsy," he continued smoothly, brushing the gleaming
crystals from her pleated skirt, noting the clean sweep of her thighs.
"I beseech you to forgive me."

"You're forgiven," she said, and he noticed then that she spoke with a
slight accent.

"If you like, you can send it to the cleaners and have them send the
bill to me. My address is 61 Park Place." He pulled out his wallet,
chose an appropriate card, and handed it to her--

                     Herbert Quidley: _Profiliste_

Her forehead crinkled. "_Profiliste?_"

"I paint profiles with words," he said. "You may have run across some
of my pieces in the Better Magazines. I employ a variety of pseudonyms,
of course."

"How interesting." She pronounced it "anteresting."

"Not famous profiles, you understand. Just profiles that strike my
fancy." He paused. She had raised her cup to her lips and was taking a
dainty sip. "You have a rather striking profile yourself, Miss--"

"Smith. Kay Smith." She set the cup back on the counter and turned and
faced him. For a second her eyes seemed to expand till they preoccupied
his entire vision, till he could see nothing but their disturbingly
clear--and suddenly cold--blueness. Panic touched him, then vanished
when she said, "Would you really consider word-painting _my_ profile,
Mr. Quidley?"

_Would_ he! "When can I call?"

She hesitated for a moment. Then: "I think it will be better if I call
on you. There are quite a number of people living in our--our house.
I'm afraid the quarters would be much too cramped for an artist like
yourself to concentrate."

Quidley glowed. Usually it required two or three days, and sometimes a
week, to reach the apartment phase. "Fine," he said. "When can I expect
you?"

She stood up and he got to his feet beside her. She was even taller
than he had thought. In fact, if he hadn't been wearing Cuban heels,
she'd have been taller than he was. "I'll be in town night after next,"
she said. "Will nine o'clock be convenient for you?"

"Perfectly."

"Good-by for now then, Mr. Quidley."

He was so elated that when he arrived at his apartment he actually
did try to write a profile. His own, of course. He sat down at his
custom-built chrome-trimmed desk, inserted a blank sheet of paper in
his custom-built typewriter and tried to arrange his thoughts. But as
usual his mind raced ahead of the moment, and he saw the title, _Self
Profile_, nestling noticeably on the contents page of one of the Better
Magazines, and presently he saw the piece itself in all its splendid
array of colorful rhetoric, sparkling imagery and scintillating wit,
occupying a two-page spread.

It was some time before he returned to reality, and when he did the
first thing that met his eyes was the uncompromisingly blank sheet of
paper. Hurriedly he typed out a letter to his father, requesting an
advance on his allowance, then, after a tall glass of vintage wine, he
went to bed.
