
In telling him that she would be in town two nights hence, Kay had
unwittingly apprised him that there would be no exchange of messages
until that time, so the next evening he skipped his vigil at the
library. The following evening, however, after readying his apartment
for the forthcoming assignation, he hied himself to his reading-table
post and took up _The Zeitgeist_ once again.

He had not thought it possible that there could be a third such woman.

And yet there she was, walking in the door, tall and blue-eyed and
graceful; dark of hair and noble of mien; browsing in the philosophy
section now, now the fiction section, now moving leisurely into the
literature aisle and toward the T's....

The camouflage had varied, but the message was typical enough:

    _fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl;
    Cai: Gind en snoll doper nckli! Wotnid antwaterer Fieu Dayol hid
    jestig snoll doper ifedererer te. Dep gogensplo snoll dopers
    ensing!--Gorka. fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl; fdsa jkl;_

Judging from the repeated use of the words, _snoll dopers_ were the
topic of the day. Annoyed, Quidley replaced the message and put the
book back on the shelf. Then he returned to his apartment to await Kay.

He wondered what her reaction would be if he asked her point-blank what
a _snoll doper_ was; whether she would reveal the nature of the amateur
secret society to which she and Klio and Yoolna and Gorka belonged.
It virtually had to be an amateur secret society. Unless, of course,
they were foreigners. But what on earth foreign organization would be
quixotic enough to employ Taine's _History of English Literature_ as a
communications medium when there was a telephone in every drugstore and
a mailbox on every corner?

Somehow the words "what on earth foreign organization" got turned
around in his mind and became "what foreign organization on earth" and
before he could summon his common sense to succor him, he experienced
a rather bad moment. By the time the door chimes sounded he was his
normal self again.

He straightened his tie with nervous fingers, checked to see if his
shirt cuffs protruded the proper length from his coat sleeves, and
looked around the room to see if everything was in place. Everything
was--the typewriter uncovered and centered on the chrome-trimmed desk,
with the sheaf of crinkly first-sheets beside it; the reference books
stacked imposingly nearby; _Harper's_, _The Atlantic_ and _The Saturday
Review_ showing conspicuously in the magazine rack; the newly opened
bottle of bourbon and the two snifter glasses on the sideboard; the
small table set cozily for two--
