
The following evening found Quidley on tenter-hooks. The _snoll-doper_
mystery had acquired a new tang. He could hardly wait till the next
message transfer took place.

He decided to spend the evening plotting the epic novel which he
intended to write someday. He set to work immediately. He plotted
mentally, of course--notes were for the hacks and the other commercial
non-geniuses who infested the modern literary world. Closing his eyes,
he saw the whole vivid panorama of epic action and grand adventure
flowing like a mighty and majestic river before his literary vision:
the authentic and awe-inspiring background; the hordes of colorful
characters; the handsome virile hero, the compelling Helenesque
heroine.... God, it was going to be great! The best thing he'd ever
done! See, already there was a crowd of book lovers in front of the
bookstore, staring into the window where the new Herbert Quidley was
on display, trying to force its way into the jammed interior.... _Cut
to interior._ FIRST EAGER CUSTOMER: Tell me quickly, are there any
more copies of the new Herbert Quidley left? BOOK CLERK: A few. You
don't know how lucky you are to get here before the first printing ran
out. FIRST EAGER CUSTOMER: Give me a dozen. I want to make sure that
my children and my children's children have a plentiful supply. BOOK
CLERK: Sorry. Only one to a customer. Next? SECOND EAGER CUSTOMER: Tell
me quickly, are ... there ... any ... more ... copies ... of--

ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ....

Message no. 4, except for a slight variation in camouflage, ran true to
form:

    _a;sldkfj a;sldkfj a;sldkfj a;sldkfj Cai: Habe te snoll dopers
    ensing? Wotnid ne Fieu Dayol ist ifederereret, hid jestig snoll
    doper. Gind ed, olro--Jilka. a;sldkfj a;sldkfj a;sldkfj a;sldkfj_

Quidley sighed. What, he asked himself, standing in the library aisle
and staring at the indecipherable words, was a normal girl like Kay
doing in such a childish secret society? From the way she and her
correspondents carried on you'd almost think they were Martian girl
scouts on an interplanetary camping trip, trying for their merit badges
in communications!

You could hardly call Kay a girl scout, though.

Nevertheless, she was the key figure in the _snoll-doper_ enigma. The
fact annoyed him, especially when he considered that a _snoll doper_,
for all he knew, could be anything from a Chinese fortune cooky to an
H-bomb.

He remembered Kay's odd accent. Was that the way a person would speak
English if her own language ran something like "_ist ifedereret, hid
jestig snoll doper adwo_?"

He remembered the way she had looked at him in the coffee bar.

He remembered the material of her dress.

He remembered how she had come to his room.

"I didn't know you had a taste for Taine."
