
A station wagon came up behind them, slowed, and matched its speed
with theirs. "Someone's following us," Quidley said.

"Probably Jilka."

Five minutes later the station wagon turned down a side street and
disappeared. "She's no longer with us," Quidley said.

"She's got to pick someone up. She'll meet us later."

"At your folks'?"

"At the ship."

The city was thinning out around them now, and a few stars were visible
in the night sky. Quidley watched them thoughtfully for a while. Then:
"What ship?" he said.

"The one we're going to _Fieu Dayol_ on."

"_Fieu Dayol?_"

"Persei 17 to you. I said I was going to take you home to meet my
folks, didn't I?"

"In other words, you're kidnapping me."

She shook her head vehemently. "I most certainly am not! Neither
according to interstellar law or your own. When you compromised me, you
made yourself liable in the eyes of both."

"But why pick on me? There must be plenty of men on _Fieu Dayol_. Why
don't you marry one of them?"

"For two reasons: one, you're the particular man who compromised
me. Two, there are _not_ plenty of men on _Fieu Dayol_. Our race is
identical to yours in everything except population-balance between the
sexes. At periodic intervals the women on _Fieu Dayol_ so greatly
outnumber the men that those of us who are temperamentally and
emotionally unfitted to become spinsters have to look for _wotnids_--or
mates--on other worlds. It's quite legal and quite respectable. As a
matter of fact, we even have schools specializing in alien cultures
to expedite our activities. Our biggest problem is the Interstellar
statute forbidding us the use of local communications services and
forbidding us to appear in public places. It was devised to facilitate
the prosecution of interstellar black marketeers, but we're subject to
it, too, and have to contrive communications systems of our own."

"But why were all the messages addressed to you?"

"They weren't messages. They were requisitions. I'm the ship's stock
girl."
