
MacVickers dropped into a circular room thirty feet across, floored and
walled with metal and badly lighted. The roof was of thick glassite
plates. Through them, very clearly, MacVickers could see four Europan
guards, watching.

"They're always there," said the Venusian softly. "You'll come to love
them, stranger."

There were men standing around the ladder foot, thirteen of them, with
the Venusian. Earthmen, Martians, Venusians, pale, stark naked, smeared
with a blue-green stain. Their muscles stood out sharp on their gaunt
bodies, their silver collars a mocking note of richness.

Deep, deep, inside himself, MacVickers shivered. His nostrils wrinkled.
There was fear in the room. The smell of it, the shudder of it in the
air. Fear that was familiar and accustomed, lying in uneasy sleep, but
ready to awake.

There were other men, four or five of them, back in the shadows by
the wall bunks. They didn't speak, nor come out.

He took a deep breath and said steadily, "I'm Chris MacVickers.
Deep-space trader out of Terra. They caught me trying to get through
the Asteroid lines."

Their eyes glistened at him, looking from him to something behind
them that he couldn't see. They were waiting, and there was something
ghoulish in it.

The Venusian said sharply, "Tough luck, MacVickers. I'm Loris, late of
the Venusian Guard. Introduce yourselves, boys."

They did, in jerky detached voices, their eyes sliding from him to the
hidden something. Loris drew a little closer, and one of the Earthmen
in the group came toward him.

"I'm Pendleton," he said. "The _Starfish_. Remember?"

MacVickers stared at him. The furrows deepened in his craggy face. He
said, "My God!" very softly, and not as a curse. "Pendleton!"

The man grinned wryly. He was English, the ravaged ghost of the big,
ruddy, jovial spaceman MacVickers remembered.

"Quite a change, eh? Well, perhaps we're lucky, MacVickers. We shan't
have to see the smash."

MacVickers' head dropped forward. "Then you saw it coming, too?"

Loris made a little bitter laugh that was almost a sob. All the
desperate boyish humor was gone from his face, leaving it old and grim.

"Who hasn't? I've been here--God knows. An eternity. But even before my
ship was taken, we knew it. We can't build spaceships as fast as their
Jovium destroys them. When they break through the Asteroid line...."

Pendleton's quiet voice was grave. "Mars is old and tired and torn
with famine. Venus is young, but her courage is undisciplined. Her
barbarians aren't suited to mechanized warfare. And Earth...." He
sighed. "Perhaps if we hadn't fought so much among ourselves...."

MacVickers said harshly, "It wouldn't make much difference. When a man
has a weapon that causes metal to explode its own atoms, it doesn't
make any difference what you stack up against him."

He shook his craggy head impatiently. "What is this place? What are you
doing here? The Jovies just brought me here and dumped me in without a
word of explanation."

Pendleton shrugged. "We, too. There's a pit below, full of machinery.
We work it, but we're not told why. Of course, we do a lot of guessing."

"Guessing!" The word rose sharp on the thick hot air. A man burst out
of the group and stood swaying with the restless motion of the floor.
He was a swart Low-Canal Martian. His yellow cat-eyes glittered in his
hatch-face, and his thin ropy muscles twitched.

"I'll tell you what this place is, Earthman. It's a hell! And we're
caught in it. Trapped, for the rest of our lives." He turned on
Pendleton. "It's your fault. We were in a neutral port. We might have
been safe. But you had to get back...."

"Janu!" Pendleton's voice cracked like a whip. The Martian went silent,
watching him. There was more than hate in his yellow eyes. _Dando_,
the beginning of the trap-madness. MacVickers had seen it in men who
couldn't stand the confinement of a deep-space voyage.

The Englishman said quietly, "Janu was my glory-hole foreman. He rather
holds this against me."

The Martian snarled, and then coughed. The cough became a paroxysm. He
stumbled away, grey-faced and twitching, bent almost double.

"It's the heat," said Loris, "and the damp. Poor devil."
