
MacVickers thought of the air of Mars, cold and dry and pure. The floor
rocked under him. Eyes, with the queer waiting shine to them, slid
furtively to the hidden thing behind the standing men.

The hot wet air lay on his lungs. He sweated. There was a stir of
nausea in him and the lights swirled. He shut his jaw hard.

He said, "What did Janu mean, the rest of our natural lives? They'll
let us go when the war's over--if there's anything left to go to."

There was a tight little silence. And then, from the shadows against
the wall, there came a brittle, whispering laugh.

"The war? They let us go before that!"

The group parted. MacVickers had a brief glimpse of a huge man crouched
in a strange position on the floor. Then he couldn't see anything but
the shape that came slowly out into the light.

It moved with a stiff, tottering gait, and its naked feet made a dry
clicking sound on the metal floor. MacVickers' hand closed hard on the
ladder behind him.

It had been a man, an Earthman. His body was still tall, his features
still fine. But there was a film over him, a pale blue-green sheathe
that glistened dully.

He thrust out an arm, with a hand on it like a hand carved in
aquamarine. "Touch it," he whispered.

MacVickers touched it. It was quite hard, and warm only with the heat
of the air. MacVickers' grey-green eyes met the sunken, sheathed eyes
of the Earthman. His body hurt with the effort to control it.

"When we can no longer move," the whispering voice said, "they take
us up the shaft and throw us over, into the mud. That's why you're
here--because we were one man short."

MacVickers put his hand back on the ladder rung. "How long?"

"About three Earth months."

He looked at the blue-green stain that smeared them all. The color of
the mud. His hands sweated on the ladder rung. "What is it?"

"Something in the mud. A radioactivity, I think. It seems to turn the
carbon in human flesh to a crystalline form. You become a living jewel.
It's painless. But it's...." He didn't finish.

Beads of sweat stood on MacVickers' forehead. The men standing watching
him smiled a little. There was motion behind them. Loris and Pendleton
stiffened, and their eyes met.

MacVickers said steadily, "I don't understand. The mud's outside."

Loris said, with a queer, hurried urgency, "You will. It's almost time
for the other shift...."

He broke off. Men scattered suddenly, crouching back in a rough circle,
grinning with feral nervousness. The room was suddenly quiet.

The crouching man had risen. He stood with his huge corded legs wide
apart, swaying with the swaying of the floor, his round head sunk
between ridges of muscle, studying the Earthman out of pale, flat eyes.

Loris put his old, bitter boy's face close to MacVickers. His whisper
was almost inaudible.

"Birek. He's boss here. He's mad. Don't fight him."


                                  II

MacVickers' grey-green eyes narrowed. He didn't move. Birek breathed in
slow, deep sighs. He was a Venusian, a coal-swamper from his size and
pallor and the filthy-white hair clubbed in his neck.

He shimmered, very faintly in the dim light. The first jewel-crust was
forming across his skin.

Knife-sharp and startling across the silence, a round hatch-cover in
the floor clashed open. Sweat broke cold on MacVickers. Men began to
come out of the hole, just at the edge of his vision. Naked, dirty men
with silver collars.

They had been talking, cursing, jostling. The first ones saw Birek and
stopped, and the silence trickled back down the shaft. It was utterly
quiet again, except for the harsh straining of lungs against the hot,
wet air and the soft sounds of naked men climbing the ladder.

The cords ridged on MacVickers' jaw. He shifted his balance slightly,
away from the ladder. He could see the faces thrust forward in the dim
light, eager, waiting.

Shining eyes, shining teeth, cheek-bones shining with sweat.
Frightened, suffering men, watching another man fear and suffer, and
being glad about it.

Birek moved forward, slowly. His eyes held a pale glitter, like distant
ice, and his lips smiled.

"I prayed," he said softly. "I was answered. You, new man! Get down on
your belly."

Loris grinned at Birek, but there was no humor in his eyes. He had
drawn a little away from MacVickers. He said carelessly:

"There's no time for that now, Birek. It's our shift. They'll be
burning us if we don't go."

Birek repeated, "Down on your belly," not looking at Loris.

A vein began to throb on MacVickers' forehead. He looked slight, almost
small against the Venusian's huge bulk.

He said quietly, "I'm not looking for trouble.

"Then get down."

"Sorry," said MacVickers. "Not today."

Pendleton's voice cracked out sharply. "Let him alone, Birek! You men,
down the ladder! They're going for the shockers."

MacVickers was aware of movement overhead, beyond the glass roof. Men
began to drop slowly, reluctantly, down the ladder. There was sweat on
Pendleton's forehead and Loris' face was as grey as his eyes.

Birek said hoarsely, "Down! Grovel! Then you can go."

"No." The ladder was beyond Birek. There was no way past him.

Loris said, in a swift harsh whisper, "Get down, MacVickers. For God's
sake get down, and then come on!"

MacVickers shook his head stubbornly. The giant smiled. There was
something horribly wrong about that smile. It was the smile of a man in
agony when he feels the anaesthetic taking hold. Peaceful, and happy.

He struck out, startlingly fast for such a big man. MacVickers shrank
aside. The fist grazed past his head, tearing his ear. He crouched and
went in, trying for a fast body-blow and a sidestep.

He'd forgotten the glimmering sheathe. His fist struck Birek on the
mark, and it was like striking glass that didn't shatter. The pain shot
up his arm, numbing, slowing, sickening. Blood spattered out from his
knuckles.

Birek's right swept in, across the side of his head.

MacVickers went down, on his right side. Birek put a foot in the small
of his back. "Down," he said. "Grovel."

MacVickers twisted under the foot, snarling. He brought up his own
feet, viciously, with all his strength. The pain of impact made him
whimper, but Birek staggered back, thrown off balance.

There was no sign of hurt in his face. He stood there, looking down at
MacVickers. Suddenly, shockingly, he was crying. He made no sound. He
didn't move. But the tears ran out of his eyes.

A deep, slow shudder shook MacVickers. He said softly, "There's no
pain, is there?"

Birek didn't speak. The tears glistened over the faint, hard film on
his cheeks. MacVickers got up slowly. The furrows were deep and harsh
in his face and his lips were white.

Loris pulled at him. Somewhere Pendleton's voice was yelling, "Hurry!
Hurry, _please_!"
