
The guards were doing something overhead. There was a faint crackling
sound, a flicker of sparks in a circle around the top of the wall.
Shivering, tingling pain swept through MacVickers from the silver
collar at his throat.

Men began to whisper and curse. Loris clawed at him, shoved him down
the ladder, kicked his face to make him hurry. The pain abated.

MacVickers looked up. The great corded legs of Birek were coming down,
the soles of the feet making a faint, hard sound on the rungs.

The hatch closed overhead. The voice of the dying Earthman came dry and
soft over his shoulder.

"Here's where you'll work until you die. How do you like it?"

MacVickers turned, scowling. It was hot. The room above was cool by
comparison. The air was thick and sluggish with the reek of heated oil
and metal. It was a big space, running clear to the curving wall, but
the effect was of stifling, cramped confinement.

Machinery crammed the place, roaring and hissing and clattering,
running in a circuit from huge intake pumps through meaningless bulking
shapes to a forced-air outlet, with oil-pumps between them.

The pumps brought mud into a broad sluice, and the blue-green stain of
it was everywhere.

There were two glassite control boxes high on the walls, each with a
black, tentacled Europan. About five feet overhead was a system of
metal catwalks giving complete coverage of the floor area. There were
Europans on the walks, too, eight of them, patrolling steadily.

Their sleek, featureless bodies were safe from contact with the mud.
They carried heavy plastic tubes in their tentacles, and there were
heavy-duty shockers mounted at every intersection.

MacVickers grinned dourly. "Trustful lot."

"Very." Pendleton nudged him over toward a drive motor attached to some
kind of a centrifugal separator. Loris and the blue-sheathed Earthman
followed, with Birek coming slowly behind him.

MacVickers said, "What's all this for?"

Pendleton shook his head. "We don't know. But we have an idea that
Jovium comes from the mud."

"Jovium!" MacVickers' grey-green eyes began to grow hot. "The stuff
that's winning this war for them. The metal destroyer!"

"We're not sure, of course." Pendleton's infinitely weary eyes turned
across the stretch of greasy metal deck to the end of the circuit. "But
look there. What does that suggest to you?"

The huge pipe of the forced-air ejector ran along the deck there behind
a screen of heavy metal mesh. Just above it, enclosed behind three
thicknesses of glassite, was a duct leading upward. The duct, from the
inordinate size of its supports and its color, was pure lead.

Lead. Lead pipe, lead armor. Radiations that changed living men into
half-living diamonds. Nobody knew what Jovium was or where it came
from--only it did.

But scientists on the three besieged worlds thought it was probably an
isotope of some powerful radioactive metal, perhaps uranium, capable of
setting up a violent progressive breakdown in metallic atoms.

"If," said MacVickers softly, "the pipe were lined with plastic....
Blue mud! I've traded through these moons, and the only other deposit
of that mud is a saucepanful on J-XI! This must be their only source."

Loris shoved an oil can at him. "What difference does it make?" he said
savagely.

MacVickers took the can without seeing it. "They store it up there,
then, in the space between the inner wall and the outer. If somebody
could get up there and set the stuff off...."

Pendleton's mouth twisted. "Can you see any way?"

He looked. Guards and shockers, charged ladders and metal screens. No
weapons, no place to conceal them anyway. He said doggedly:

"But if someone could escape and get word back.... This contraption
is a potential bomb big enough to blow Io out of space! The experts
think it only takes a fraction of a gram of the pure stuff to power a
disintegrator shell."

There was a pulse beating hard under his jaw and his grey-green eyes
were bright.

Loris said, "Escape." He said it as though it were the most infinitely
beautiful word in existence, and as though it burned his mouth.

"Escape," whispered the man with the shimmering, deadly sheathe of
aquamarine. "There is no escape but--this."
