
He had no clear memories of that shift. Heat and motion and strangling
air, and Janu coughing with a terrible, steady rhythm, his own hands
trying to guide the oil can. Toward the end of the time he fainted, and
it was Birek who carried him up the ladder.

He had no way of knowing how long after that he came to. There was
no time in that little hell. The first thing he noticed, with the
hair-trigger senses of a man trained to ships, that the motion of the
room was different.

He sat up straight on the bunk where Birek had laid him. "The tidal
wave," he said, over a quick stab of fear. "What...."

"We ride it out," said Loris bitterly. "We always have."

MacVickers knew the Jovian Moons pretty well. Remembering the
tremendous tides and winds caused by the gravitational pull of Jupiter,
he shuddered. There was no solid earth on Io, nothing but mud. And the
extraction plant, from the feel of it, was a hollow bell sunk under it,
perfectly free.

It had to be free. No mooring cable made could stand the pull of a
Jupiter-tide.

"One thing about it," said Pendleton with quiet viciousness. "It makes
the bloody Jovies seasick."

Janu the Martian made a cracked, harsh laugh. "So they keep a weak
current on us all the time." His hatchet-face was drawn, his yellow
cat-eyes lambent in the dim light.

The men sprawled on their bunks, not talking much. Birek sat on the
end of his, watching MacVickers with his pale still eyes. There was a
tightness in the room.

It was coming. They were going to break him now, before he hurt them.
Break him, or kill him.

MacVickers wiped the sweat from his face and said, "I'm thirsty."

Pendleton pointed to a thing like a horse-trough against the bulkhead.
His eyes were tired and very sad. Loris was scowling at his stained and
faintly filmed feet.

There wasn't much water in the trough. What there was was brackish and
greasy. MacVickers drank and splashed some on his face and body. He saw
that he was already stained with the mud. It wouldn't wash off.

The dying Earthman whispered, "There is food also."

MacVickers looked at the basket of spongy synthetic food, and shook his
head.

The floor dipped and swung. There was a frightening, playful violence
about it, like the first soft taps of a tiger's paw. Loris looked up at
the glass roof with the black shapes beyond.

"They get the pure air," he said. "Our ventilator pipes are only a few
inches wide, lest we crawl up through them."

Pendleton said, rather loudly, "The swine breathe through the skin, you
know. All their sense organs, sight and hearing...."

"Shut up," snarled Janu. "Stop talking for time."

The sprawled men on the bunks drew themselves slowly tight, breathing
hard and deep in anticipation. And Birek rose.

MacVickers faced them, Birek and the rest. There was no lift in his
heart. He was cold and sodden, like a chuted ox watching the pole-axe
fall. He said, with a bitter, savage quiet,

"You're a lot of bloody cowards. You, Birek. You're scared of the death
creeping over you, and the only way you can forget the fear is to make
someone else suffer.

"It's the same with all of you. You have to trample me down to your own
level, break me for the sake of your souls as much as your bodies."

He looked at the numbers of them, at Birek's huge impervious bulk and
his great fists. He touched his silver collar, remembering the agony of
the shock through it.

"And I will break. You know that, damn you."

He gave back three paces and set his feet. "All right. Come on, Birek.
Let's get it over with."
