
The Venusian came toward him across the heaving floor. Loris still
looked at his feet and Pendleton's eyes were agonized. MacVickers wiped
his hands across his buttocks. The palms were filmed and slick with oil
from the can he had handled.

There was no use to fight. Birek was twice his size, and he couldn't
be hurt anyway. The diamond-sheathe even screened off the worst of the
electric current, being a non-conductor.

That gave the dying men an advantage. But even if they had spirit
enough left by that time to try anything, the hatches were still locked
tight by air-pressure and the sheer numbers of their suffering mates
would pull them down. Also, the Jovies were as strong as four men.

Non-conductor. Sheathed skin. Birek's shoulders tensing for the first
blow. Sweat trying to break through the film of oil on his palms, the
slippery feel of his hands as he clenched them.

Birek's fist lashed out. MacVickers dodged under it, looking for an
opening, dreading the useless agony of impact. The bell lurched wildly.

A guard moved abruptly overhead. The motion caught MacVickers' eye.
Something screamed sharply in his head: Pendleton's voice saying, "They
breathe through the skin. All their sense organs...."

He sensed rather than saw Birek's fist coming. He twisted, enough to
take the worst of it on his shoulder. It knocked him halfway across the
deck. And then the current came on.

It was weak, but it made him jerk and twitch. He scrambled up on
the pitching deck and started to speak. Birek was coming again,
leisurely, smiling. Then, quite suddenly, the hatch cover clanged
open, signalling the change of the shifts. MacVickers stood still for
a second. Then he laughed, a queer little chuckle, and made a rush for
the hatch.


                                  III

He went down it with Birek's hand brushing past his head. Men yelled
and cursed. He trampled on them ruthlessly. The ones lower down fell
off the ladder to avoid his feet.

There was a clamor up above. Hands grabbed at him. He lashed out,
kicking and butting. His rush carried him through and out across the
pit, toward the space between the end points of the horseshoe circuit.

He slowed down, then. The guards had noticed the scuffle. But it seemed
to be only the shift changing, and MacVickers looked like a man going
peacefully for oil.

Peacefully. The blood thundered in his head, he was cold, and the skin
of his back crawled. Men shoved and swore back by the ladder. He went
on, not too fast, fighting the electric shiver in his brain.

Fuel and lubricating oils were brought up, presumably from tanks in
a still lower level, by big pressure pumps. All three sets of pumps,
intake, outlet, and oil, worked off the same compressed-air unit.

He set the lubricating-oil pump going and rattled cans into place. The
men of his shift were straggling out from the ladder, twitching from
the light current, scared, angry, but uncertain.

There was a subtle change in the attitude of the Europan guards.
Their movements were sluggish, faintly uncertain. MacVickers grinned
viciously. Seasick. They'd be sicker--if they didn't get him too soon.

The surging pitch of the bell was getting worse. The tide was rising,
and the mud was playing with the bell like a child throwing a ball.
Nausea began to clutch at MacVickers' stomach.

The pressure-gage on the pump was rising. He let it rise, praying, his
grey-green eyes hot and bright. Going with the motion of the deck, he
sprawled over against the intake pumps.

He spun the wheel on the pressure-control as far as it would go. A
light wrench, chained so that it could not be thrown, lay at his feet.
He picked it up, his hand jerking and tingling, and began to work at
the air-pipe coupling.

Hands gripped his shoulder suddenly, slewing him around. The yellow
eyes of Janu the Martian glared into his.

"What are you doing here, Earthman? This is my station."

Then he saw the pressure gauge. He let out a keening wail, cut short
by the crunch of MacVickers' fist on his mouth. MacVickers whirled and
swung the wrench.

The loose coupling gave. Air burst whistling from the pipe, and the
rhythm of the pumps began to break.

But Janu's cry had done it. Men were pelting toward him, and the guards
were closing in overhead.

MacVickers flung himself bodily on the short hose of the oil-pump.

Birek, Loris, Pendleton, the dying Earthman, the hard faces behind
them. The guards were manning the shockers. Up in the control boxes
black tentacles were flashing across banks of switches. He had to work
fast, before they cut the pressure.

Birek was ahead of the others, very close. MacVickers gave him the
oil-stream full in the face. It blinded him. Then the nearest shocker
came on, focussed expertly on MacVickers.

He shut his teeth hard, whimpering through them, and turned the hard
forced stream of oil into the hoarsely shrieking blast from the open
pipe.

Oil sprayed up in a heavy, blinding fog. Burning, shuddering agony
shook MacVickers, but he held his hose, his feet braced wide, praying
to stand up long enough.

The catwalks were hidden in the oily mist. The ventilating blowers
caught it, thrusting it across the whole space. MacVickers yelled
through it, his voice hardly recognizable as human.

"You, out there! All of you. This is your chance. Are you going to take
it?"

Something fell, close by, with a heavy thrashing thud. Something black
and tentacled and writhing, covered with a dull film.

MacVickers laughed, and the laughter was less human than the voice.

"Cowards!" he cried. "All right. I'll do it all myself."

Somebody yelled, "They're dying. Look!" There was another heavy thud.
The hot strangling fog roiled with hidden motion. MacVickers gasped and
retched and shuddered helplessly. He was going to drop the hose in a
minute. He was going to fall down and scream.

If they stepped the power up one more notch, he was going to fall down
and die. Only they were dying too, and forgetting about power.

It seemed a static eternity to MacVickers, but it had all happened in
the space of a dozen heartbeats. There were yells and shouts and a sort
of animal tumult in the thick haze. Suddenly Pendleton's voice rang out
of it.

"MacVickers! I'm with you, man! You others, listen. He's giving us the
break we needed. Don't let him down!"

And Janu screamed, "No! He's killed the guards, but there are more.
They'll fry us from the control boxes if we help him."

The pressure was dropping in the pipe as the power cut out. There was a
last hiss, a spurt of oily spray, then silence. MacVickers dropped the
hose.

Janu's voice went on, sharp and harsh with fear. "They'll fry us, I
tell you. We'll lie here and jerk and scream until we're crazy. I'm
going to die. I know it. But I won't go through that, for nothing! I'm
going back by the ladder and pray they won't notice me."

More sounds, more tumult. Men suddenly torn between hope and abject
terror. MacVickers said wearily into the fog,

"If you help me, we can win the war for our worlds. Destroy this bell,
start the Jovium working, destroy Io--victory for us. And if you don't,
I hope you fry here and in Hell afterward."

They wavered. MacVickers could hear their painful breathing, ragged
with the emotion in them. Some of them started toward the sound of
Pendleton's voice.

Janu made an eerie wauling sound, like a hurt cat, and went for him.
