
MacVickers started to help, but the current froze him to the metal
floor. He strained, feeling his nerves, his brain dissolving in a
shuddering fire. He knew why the others had broken so soon. The current
did things to you, inside.

He couldn't see what was happening. The heavy mist choked his eyes, his
throat, his nostrils. The pitching of the bell was a nightmare thing.
Men thrashed and struggled and cursed.

So he had killed the guards. So what. There were still the control
boxes. If they didn't rush them before the oil settled, they wouldn't
have a chance.

Why not give up? Let himself dissolve into the blackness he was
fighting off?

A great pale shape came striding through the mist toward him. Birek.
This was it, then. Well, he'd had his moment of fun. His fists came up
in a bland, instinctive gesture.

Birek laughed. The current made him jerk only a little, in his thin
diamond sheathe. He bunched his shoulders and reached out.

MacVickers felt himself ripped clear of the floor. In a second he was
out of focus of the shocker and the pain was gone. He came nearest to
fainting then, but Birek's huge hand shook him by the hair and Birek's
voice shouted,

"Tell 'em, little man! Tell 'em it's better to die quick, now, than go
mad with fear."

"Come on!" yelled Pendleton. "Here's our chance to show we're still
men. Hurry up, you sons!"

MacVickers looked at the Venusian's face. The terrible frozen fear
was gone from his eyes. He wanted to die, now, quickly, fighting for
vengeance.

The gray, pinched face of Loris loomed abruptly out of the fog. It was
suddenly young again, and the smile was genuine. He said,

"Let's teach 'em to mind, Birek. MacVickers, I...." He shook his head,
looking away. "You know."

"I know. Hurry up with it."

Pendleton's voice burst out of the fog, triumphantly. Janu crouched on
the heaving deck, bleeding and whimpering. MacVickers yelled,

"Who's with me? We're going to take the control boxes. Who wants to be
a hero?"

Birek laughed and threw him bodily up onto the catwalk overhead. Most
of the men came forward then. The three or four that were left looked
at the Martian and followed.

Birek helped them up onto the catwalk. They were moving, now. It took
only a few seconds. MacVickers divided them into two groups.

"You men that are sheathed go first, to help block the charge. It'll
be your job to take the Jovies out of the way. Quick, before this fog
settles enough so they can see to focus on us."

They split up, running along the walk that connected with the control
boxes, hurdling the bodies of Jovians suffocated in oil. Presently the
glassite door loomed before them.

Birek and the dying Earthman led MacVickers' party. The Venusian
wrenched open the door. And MacVickers felt his heart stop.

There were three Europans instead of one. The guards had come down from
above.

"Get them out here," he said. "Out into the oil."

A wave of shuddering agony tossed through him. The Jovies were using
their powerful hand-tubes. Only the glassite walls partially protected
them.

The fog began to whip past him. He groaned, thinking that it was going.
And then he put his head in his hands and wept with incredulous,
thankful joy.

The oily mist was being sucked into the box by powerful ventilators.
MacVickers remembered Loris saying, "They get the pure air. Our
ventilator tubes are only a few inches wide."

He laughed. The bell swooped sickeningly. Somewhere off in the fog he
heard screams and shouts and Pendleton's voice roaring triumph.

He thought, "We never could have done it if the tide hadn't come and
made the Jovies seasick."

He laughed again. It tickled him that seasickness should lose a war.


                                  IV

They went in and up the ladders into the sealed storage space next the
convict quarters. There was a huge cylinder of lead suspended over the
mouth of the duct from the extractor.

"They must collect the stuff when they bring oil and supplies," said
Loris. "Well, MacVickers, what happens to us now?"

MacVickers looked at them, the lines deep in his face. "We all
agree, don't we, that there's no hope of escape? If we wait until
the next supply ship comes and try to take it, we lose the chance of
doing--well, call it our duty if you want to. That is, to wreck their
only source of the explosive that's winning the war for them.

"I think you know," he added, "what our chances of taking that ship
would be, without offensive weapons or any protection against theirs.
It would only mean a return to this slavery, if they didn't kill us all
outright."

His grey-green eyes were somber, deeply bright.

"It comes down to this. Shall we turn this bell into a disintegrator
bomb, setting the Jovium free to destroy its own and every other
metallic atom in the mud, or shall we gamble our worlds on the slim
chance of saving our necks?"

Loris looked down at the deck and said softly, "Why should we worry
about our necks, MacVickers? You've saved our souls."

"Agreed, then, all you men?"

Birek looked them over. "The man who refuses will have no neck to
save," he said.

There was no disagreement.

MacVickers turned to the leaden cylinder. It was fixed to the duct by a
plastic-lined, lead-sheathed collar. There was an arrangement whereby a
plug could be driven into the open mouth of the filled cylinder without
spilling a grain of the stuff.

MacVickers reached up and loosed the apparatus that held the cylinder
upright. It fell over with a shattering crash. A palely glowing powder
puffed out, settling over the adjacent metal.

MacVickers had one second of terror. An eerie bluish light grew,
throwing faces into strong relief. Pendleton, praying silently. Loris,
smiling. The blue-sheathed Earthman with closed eyes, his face a mask
of peace. The others, facing a death they understood and welcomed. All
of them, thinking of three little worlds that could go on living their
own lives.

Birek grinned at him. "I'm glad you ran away," he whispered.

MacVickers grinned back.



