
Holding his glass, the man in the brown suit nodded reluctantly.

“Then you ought to be taking it all down on a piece of folded paper. I
want everybody to know. The whole world. It’s important. Terribly
important. It explains everything. My life won’t be safe unless I can
pass along the information and make people believe it.”

“Why won’t your life be safe?”

“Because of the Martians, you fool. They own the world.”

The brown man sighed. “Then they own my newspaper, too,” he objected,
“so I can’t print anything they don’t like.”

“I never thought of that,” Lyman said, considering the bottom of his
glass, where two ice-cubes had fused into a cold, immutable union.
“They’re not omnipotent, though. I’m sure they’re vulnerable, or why
have they always kept under cover? They’re afraid of being found out. If
the world had convincing evidence—look, people always believe what they
read in the newspapers. Couldn’t you—”

“Ha,” said the brown man with deep significance.

Lyman drummed sadly on the bar and murmured, “There must be some way.
Perhaps if I had another drink....”

The brown suited man tasted his collins, which seemed to stimulate him.
“Just what is all this about Martians?” he asked Lyman. “Suppose you
start at the beginning and tell me again. Or can’t you remember?”

“Of course I can remember. I’ve got practically total recall. It’s
something new. Very new. I never could do it before. I can even remember
my last conversation with the Martians.” Lyman favored the brown man
with a glance of triumph.

“When was that?”

“This morning.”

“I can even remember conversations I had last week,” the brown man said
mildly. “So what?”

“You don’t understand. They make us forget, you see. They tell us what
to do and we forget about the conversation—it’s post-hypnotic
suggestion, I expect—but we follow their orders just the same. There’s
the compulsion, though we think we’re making our own decisions. Oh, they
own the world, all right, but nobody knows it except me.”

“And how did you find out?”

“Well, I got my brain scrambled, in a way. I’ve been fooling around with
supersonic detergents, trying to work out something marketable, you
know. The gadget went wrong—from some standpoints. High-frequency
waves, it was. They went through and through me. Should have been
inaudible, but I could hear them, or rather—well, actually I could see
them. That’s what I mean about my brain being scrambled. And after that,
I could see and hear the Martians. They’ve geared themselves so they
work efficiently on ordinary brains, and mine isn’t ordinary any more.
They can’t hypnotize me, either. They can command me, but I needn’t
obey—now. I hope they don’t suspect. Maybe they do. Yes, I guess they
do.”

“How can you tell?”

“The way they look at me.”

“How do they look at you?” asked the brown man, as he began to reach for
a pencil and then changed his mind. He took a drink instead. “Well? What
are they like?”

“I’m not sure. I can see them, all right, but only when they’re dressed
up.”

“Okay, okay,” the brown man said patiently. “How do they look, dressed
up?”

“Just like anybody, almost. They dress up in—in human skins. Oh, not
real ones, imitations. Like the Katzenjammer Kids zipped into crocodile
suits. Undressed—I don’t know. I’ve never seen one. Maybe they’re
invisible even to me, then, or maybe they’re just camouflaged. Ants or
owls or rats or bats or—”

“Or anything,” the brown man said hastily.

“Thanks. Or anything, of course. But when they’re dressed up like
humans—like that one who was sitting next to you awhile ago, when I
told you not to look—”

“That one was invisible, I gather?”

“Most of the time they are, to everybody. But once in a while, for some
reason, they—”

“Wait,” the brown man objected. “Make sense, will you? They dress up in
human skins and then sit around invisible?”

“Only now and then. The human skins are perfectly good imitations.
Nobody can tell the difference. It’s that third eye that gives them
away. When they keep it closed, you’d never guess it was there. When
they want to open it, they go invisible—like _that_. Fast. When I see
somebody with a third eye, right in the middle of his forehead, I know
he’s a Martian and invisible, and I pretend not to notice him.”

“Uh-huh,” the brown man said. “Then for all you know, I’m one of your
visible Martians.”

“Oh, I hope not!” Lyman regarded him anxiously. “Drunk as I am, I don’t
think so. I’ve been trailing you all day, making sure. It’s a risk I
have to take, of course. They’ll go to any length—any length at all—to
make a man give himself away. I realize that. I can’t really trust
anybody. But I had to find someone to talk to, and I—” He paused. There
was a brief silence. “I could be wrong,” Lyman said presently. “When the
third eye’s closed, I can’t tell if it’s there. Would you mind opening
your third eye for me?” He fixed a dim gaze on the brown man’s forehead.

“Sorry,” the reporter said. “Some other time. Besides, I don’t know you.
So you want me to splash this across the front page, I gather? Why
didn’t you go to see the managing editor? My stories have to get past
the desk and rewrite.”

“I want to give my secret to the world,” Lyman said stubbornly. “The
question is, how far will I get? You’d expect they’d have killed me the
minute I opened my mouth to you—except that I didn’t say anything while
they were here. I don’t believe they take us very seriously, you know.
This must have been going on since the dawn of history, and by now
they’ve had time to get careless. They let Fort go pretty far before
they cracked down on him. But you notice they were careful never to let
Fort get hold of genuine proof that would convince people.”

The brown man said something under his breath about a human interest
story in a box. He asked, “What do the Martians do, besides hang around
bars all dressed up?”

“I’m still working on that,” Lyman said. “It isn’t easy to understand.
They run the world, of course, but why?” He wrinkled his brow and stared
appealingly at the brown man. “Why?”

“If they do run it, they’ve got a lot to explain.”

“That’s what I mean. From our viewpoint, there’s no sense to it. We do
things illogically, but only because they tell us to. Everything we do,
almost, is pure illogic. Poe’s _Imp of the Perverse_—you could give it
another name beginning with M. Martian, I mean. It’s all very well for
psychologists to explain why a murderer wants to confess, but it’s still
an illogical reaction. Unless a Martian commands him to.”

“You can’t be hypnotized into doing anything that violates your moral
sense,” the brown man said triumphantly.
