
Lyman frowned. “Not by another human, but you can by a Martian. I expect
they got the upper hand when we didn’t have more than ape-brains, and
they’ve kept it ever since. They evolved as we did, and kept a step
ahead. Like the sparrow on the eagle’s back who hitch-hiked till the
eagle reached his ceiling, and then took off and broke the altitude
record. They conquered the world, but nobody ever knew it. And they’ve
been ruling ever since.”

“But—”

“Take houses, for example. Uncomfortable things. Ugly, inconvenient,
dirty, everything wrong with them. But when men like Frank Lloyd Wright
slip out from under the Martians’ thumb long enough to suggest something
better, look how the people react. They hate the thought. That’s their
Martians, giving them orders.”

“Look. Why should the Martians care what kind of houses we live in? Tell
me that.”

Lyman frowned. “I don’t like the note of skepticism I detect creeping
into this conversation,” he announced. “They care, all right. No doubt
about it. They _live_ in our houses. We don’t build for our convenience,
we build, under order, for the Martians, the way they want it. They’re
very much concerned with everything we do. And the more senseless, the
more concern.

“Take wars. Wars don’t make sense from any human viewpoint. Nobody
really wants wars. But we go right on having them. From the Martian
viewpoint, they’re useful. They give us a spurt in technology, and they
reduce the excess population. And there are lots of other results, too.
Colonization, for one thing. But mainly technology. In peace time, if a
guy invents jet-propulsion, it’s too expensive to develop commercially.
In war-time, though, it’s got to be developed. Then the Martians can use
it whenever they want. They use us the way they’d use tools or—or
limbs. And nobody ever really wins a war—except the Martians.”

The man in the brown suit chuckled. “That makes sense,” he said. “It
must be nice to be a Martian.”

“Why not? Up till now, no race ever successfully conquered and ruled
another. The underdog could revolt or absorb. If you know you’re being
ruled, then the ruler’s vulnerable. But if the world doesn’t know—and
it doesn’t—

“Take radios,” Lyman continued, going off at a tangent. “There’s no
earthly reason why a sane human should listen to a radio. But the
Martians make us do it. They like it. Take bathtubs. Nobody contends
bathtubs are comfortable—for us. But they’re fine for Martians. All the
impractical things we keep on using, even though we know they’re
impractical—”

“Typewriter ribbons,” the brown man said, struck by the thought. “But
not even a Martian could enjoy changing a typewriter ribbon.”

Lyman seemed to find that flippant. He said that he knew all about the
Martians except for one thing—their psychology.

“I don’t know _why_ they act as they do. It looks illogical sometimes,
but I feel perfectly sure they’ve got sound motives for every move they
make. Until I get that worked out I’m pretty much at a standstill. Until
I get evidence—proof—and help. I’ve got to stay under cover till then.
And I’ve been doing that. I do what they tell me, so they won’t suspect,
and I pretend to forget what they tell me to forget.”

“Then you’ve got nothing much to worry about.”

Lyman paid no attention. He was off again on a list of his grievances.

“When I hear the water running in the tub and a Martian splashing
around, I pretend I don’t hear a thing. My bed’s too short and I tried
last week to order a special length, but the Martian that sleeps there
told me not to. He’s a runt, like most of them. That is, I think they’re
runts. I have to deduce, because you never see them undressed. But it
goes on like that constantly. By the way, how’s your Martian?”

The man in the brown suit set down his glass rather suddenly.

“My Martian?”

“Now listen. I may be just a little bit drunk, but my logic remains
unimpaired. I can still put two and two together. Either you know about
the Martians, or you don’t. If you do, there’s no point in giving me
that, ‘What, _my_ Martian?’ routine. I know you have a Martian. Your
Martian knows you have a Martian. My Martian knows. The point is, do
_you_ know? Think hard,” Lyman urged solicitously.
