
Squirming on his stool, Lyman scowled. “It was the way you looked at
things,” he murmured. “On the subway this morning—I’d never seen you
before in my life, but I kept noticing the way you looked at things—the
wrong things, things that weren’t there, the way a cat does—and then
you’d always look away—I got the idea you could see the Martians too.”

“Go on,” the brown man said quietly.

“I followed you. All day. I kept hoping you’d turn out to be—somebody I
could talk to. Because if I could _know_ that I wasn’t the only one who
could see them, then I’d know there was still some hope left. It’s been
worse than solitary confinement. I’ve been able to see them for three
years now. Three years. And I’ve managed to keep my power a secret even
from them. And, somehow, I’ve managed to keep from killing myself, too.”

“Three years?” the brown man said. He shivered.

“There was always a little hope. I knew nobody would believe—not
without proof. And how can you get proof? It was only that I—I kept
telling myself that maybe you could see them too, and if you could,
maybe there were others—lots of others—enough so we might get together
and work out some way of proving to the world—”

The brown man’s fingers were moving. In silence he pushed a photograph
across the mahogany. Lyman picked it up unsteadily.

“Moonlight?” he asked after a moment. It was a landscape under a deep,
dark sky with white clouds in it. Trees stood white and lacy against the
darkness. The grass was white as if with moonlight, and the shadows
blurry.

“No, not moonlight,” the brown man said. “Infra-red. I’m strictly an
amateur, but lately I’ve been experimenting with infra-red film. And I
got some very odd results.”

Lyman stared at the film.

“You see, I live near—” The brown man’s finger tapped a certain quite
common object that appeared in the photograph. “—and something funny
keeps showing up now and then against it. But only with infra-red film.
Now I know chlorophyll reflects so much infra-red light that grass and
leaves photograph white. The sky comes out black, like this. There are
tricks to using this kind of film. Photograph a tree against a cloud,
and you can’t tell them apart in the print. But you can photograph
through a haze and pick out distant objects the ordinary film wouldn’t
catch. And sometimes, when you focus on something like this—” He tapped
the image of the very common object again, “you get a very odd image on
the film. Like that. A man with three eyes.”

Lyman held the print up to the light. In silence he took the other one
from the bar and studied it. When he laid them down he was smiling.

“You know,” Lyman said in a conversational whisper, “a professor of
astrophysics at one of the more important universities had a very
interesting little item in the _Times_ the other Sunday. Name of
Spitzer, I think. He said that, if there were life on Mars, and if
Martians had ever visited earth, there’d be no way to prove it. Nobody
would believe the few men who saw them. Not, he said, unless the
Martians happened to be photographed....”

Lyman looked at the brown man thoughtfully.

“Well,” he said, “it’s happened. You’ve photographed them.”

The brown man nodded. He took up the prints and returned them to his
watch-case. “I thought so, too. Only until tonight I couldn’t be sure.
I’d never seen one—fully—as you have. It isn’t so much a matter of
what you call getting your brain scrambled with supersonics as it is of
just knowing where to look. But I’ve been seeing _part_ of them all my
life, and so has everybody. It’s that little suggestion of movement you
never catch except just at the edge of your vision, just out of the
corner of your eye. Something that’s _almost_ there—and when you look
fully at it, there’s nothing. These photographs showed me the way. It’s
not easy to learn, but it can be done. We’re conditioned to look
directly at a thing—the particular thing we want to see clearly,
whatever it is. Perhaps the Martians gave us that conditioning. When we
see a movement at the edge of our range of vision, it’s almost
irresistible not to look directly at it. So it vanishes.”

“Then they can be seen—by anybody?”
