
There was nothing for me to do but go to my apartments and look for
other treasures to show her. My thoughts were exceedingly bitter as I
gathered the coveted articles one by one in my arms.

"Here." I displayed it to her when I had arrived back at her father's
abode. "It is the steering wheel from the lifeboat. Feel its smooth
texture, see its ebony luster. It is the only lifeboat steering wheel
aboard ship. I had a terrible struggle with it until I broke off the
shaft."

She seemed interested. I passed hurriedly on to another object. "Here
is the handle of the atomic-pile damping rod. It was threaded inside.
However, I have managed to grind the interior smooth."

She seemed definitely interested, but I did not linger. I unrolled the
last treasure I had brought with me. At the sight of it her father
burst into merry chuckles.

"Yes," I said, smiling with a hint of sadness. "It is the inscrutable
message we found protruding from the mouth of a machine some years ago.
The machine has the name Teletype engraved upon it. We cannot imagine
who put the message inside the machine--if indeed it is a message.
But listen to the poetry of its words! I shall read it to you as
though it were properly set out on paper instead of being cramped into
continuous, senseless lines:

    "Colony ship, colony ship,
    Turn around before it is too late.
    You have left the Galaxy.
    We are the last planetary system
    You will encounter,
    For ten thousand years."

Then, seeing her puzzlement, I said hastily, "But, of course, it is
too adult for you, Lisa. Its mystery is for the scholar, its abstract
beauty for the man of mature years. Come, let us turn back to these
other treasures...."

It was not easy for her to choose, seemingly, with so much wealth about
her. The control knob, the painting, the lifeboat steering wheel, the
atomic-pile damping-rod handle, the inscrutable poetry--all claimed her
interest. But in the end she chose as I wanted her to, and the bargain
was struck.

Lisa went to live in the compartment of my concubines that day, and at
maturity became a concubine of exotic beauty. She bore her dark-haired
children well.
