
The visi-screen flickered once, cleared, and exposed an outside street.
At the far end the alien--John Wilson, as he called himself--walked
slowly, with his head down, and his hands in the pockets of the
outlandish jacket he had brought with him. He proceeded aimlessly, with
a peculiar, jerky, movement of his limbs. Perhaps he was lonesome for
his home world, and uncertain of what awaited him.

A party of Zade men left a drinking place just ahead of him. They were
quarreling--without any particular rancor--and one of them was loudly
keening a verse of hunting song. At their forefront strode a burly Zade
with a bush of red-orange hair.

"The big one is the crewman I mentioned," Srtes pointed out.

The burly Zade spied the alien and a pleased burst of laughter rumbled
up from his chest. "Our unwinged friend from Earth!" he shouted. It was
a deadly insult.

As the alien stopped uncertainly, Ctvar and his friends crowded around
him. "Are all Earthlings wingless freaks?" one of them asked in a loud
voice. The others laughed.

I expected the alien to show some fight, but he only stood silently.

The party of Zades showed their contempt by increasing the tempo of
their insults. Still the Earthling did nothing.

Finally Ctvar became disgusted with the other's spinelessness and spat
in his face, at the same time reaching out to grab him.

I heard several gasps from those around me as the alien moved. His
actions the next moment were almost too swift for us to follow. He
spread his legs slightly, as Ctvar reached for him, and swung his
right fist. An instant later Ctvar lay on the ground. One leg made a
continuous kicking motion, but it was only a reflex action. Ctvar had
been knocked unconscious!

The shouting of the other Zades quieted to an ugly murmur, and they
surged forward. The Earthling set his back against the building behind
him and struck out at his attackers, but they overwhelmed him by sheer
numbers and dragged him to the ground.

They beat him and stamped several times on his body before a squad of
sentinels appeared and broke them up.

"A fine start," Srtes said.

"Unless he is already dead."

"I don't believe he is," Srtes answered. "But if he is no more hardy
than that, there will be no necessity for us to learn more."
