
Srtes' visitor surprised us by making no complaint against Ctvar, and
requesting no protection.

He declined the hassocks Srtes offered him, and stood with his hands
clasped behind his back. "I've heard nothing from you for some time
now," he said. "Does that mean your examiners are finished with me?"

"That is correct," Srtes answered courteously.

"What comes next?" he asked.

"Next?" Srtes repeated. "Why, that is your own decision. My interest in
you ceased the day our study was complete. You are free now to do as
you wish."

The alien thought that over for a time. "You do not intend to return me
to Earth?" he asked.

"Is there any reason why you should expect us to?" Srtes replied.

"To me it seems there is," he said. "I fulfilled my part of the
contract. Shouldn't I expect you, as a fair return, to see that I got
back to Earth?"

Srtes' expression betrayed a mild irritation. "We had no contract," he
said. "You were given to us to do with as we wished. Now that our study
is completed, we owe you nothing."

"I expected as much," the alien said, almost without interest. "Will
you tell me then, what I can do to help myself? I presume you do not
intend to furnish me with food and shelter indefinitely."

"You will be permitted to keep your room until you find new quarters.
The rest is your own responsibility."

He considered that for a long moment. "Do you have any suggestions as
to how I might go about earning my living?" he asked.

"If you have any serviceable skill, you will probably be able to find
employment for it. If not--" Sites shrugged.

"How would I know what skills would be useful here? I know practically
nothing about you."

"I'm afraid that's your own problem," Srtes said. "If you are unable to
adapt, you will not survive. It is the natural law."

The alien's eyes narrowed. He seemed to be holding in check a cold
anger. "Tell me," he said. "Do you consider yourselves just?"

Srtes' hair bristled until his head appeared twice its normal size. He
half rose from his hassock, then slowly resumed his seat. I admired his
self-restraint.

"We consider ourselves extremely fair," he said carefully. "Only the
strong have the right to survive, and the fact that they do survive
proves their strength. What you are determines your end. We are
demanding nothing more from you than we expect from our own citizens.
Weaklings and inefficients are perishing every day on the ragged
confines of our civilization. In simple justice I can offer you nothing
more."

The Earthling's shoulders had gradually drooped as Srtes spoke. "Yours
is a harsh philosophy," he mumbled at the end.

"It is our means of being certain that we maintain our race's fitness,"
Srtes explained patiently. "On this world only the strong and their
progeny survive. As long as that natural struggle continues the
strength of each generation will become greater."

The alien seemed to recognize Srtes' sincerity. He rose tiredly.
"Thanks, for the explanation at least," he said, as he left the office.
