
I found him still leaning against the same wooden building. He looked
up at me from under his heavy brows as I neared him. I kept a safe
distance between us. I remembered Ctvar. "Will you allow me to buy you
something to eat?" I asked, deciding to use a direct approach.

I liked the way he did not ask any questions. He merely regarded me for
a moment longer, then made his nodding motion.

All through the meal in the public eating place he remained silent. He
ate hungrily but without haste and only when he'd finished did he speak
again. "Why?" he asked.

"I do not understand what you mean," I evaded.

"I haven't learned much about you Zades since I've been here," he said,
"but I have learned that you do nothing out of kindness. What do you
want from me?"

I forced myself to smile. "You are right, of course," I said. "I do
want something from you. Information about your world. In return for
your cooperation I will see that you continue to be well fed."

"I thought Srtes was through with me," he said.

"My interest is strictly personal," I answered. "I am what you would
call a reporter. We give out our news on disseminators similar to your
television."

I had caught his interest. I suppose he was eager to learn anything
that he might use to make his way. "I've seen no signs of television,"
he said.

"This is one of our smaller cities," I improvised quickly. "There are
only a few receiving sets here. Most of them are in the main halls of
the various clans."

The explanation satisfied him. "Just what do you want to know?" he
asked.

"Anything about your Earth that you think might be of interest to my
listeners."

"Couldn't you get that from Srtes and his staff?"

"Their supply of information is limited. You should be able to give me
much more."

He was actually eager to talk. It probably relieved his homesickness.
We returned to his room, and our conversation took up most of the rest
of the night. Toward morning he began questioning me.

"I've given you all the information you asked for," he said. "Now I'd
like some in return. Can you suggest any way I can make a living on
this world of yours?"

I thought for a moment. "You might be able to introduce some product of
your civilization's technology that would be useful here. Not knowing
your world, I couldn't suggest just what."

"I should be able to come up with something," he said thoughtfully.
"Would I be allowed to manufacture and sell it if I did?"

"If you can demonstrate that you can do it better than anyone else, you
will be given an exclusive right to control both its construction and
distribution."

"Does that apply to every function of your society?" he asked.

"This world belongs to those who can prove their strength," I answered.

"That's a bit different than on Earth," he said. "We have always held
that competition makes for the best results."

I had become quite interested in the discussion, and found myself
giving a rather lengthy explanation of that part of our society's
functioning. "Competition is very real here, even though it is less
tangible than yours. The fact that a producer of a product or service
may be displaced by anyone demonstrating a better or more efficient
product or method, acts as a spur to best efforts. The price is set
by the state, with the prices of competing bidders in mind. Under our
system time and energy is not wasted making inferior goods, or those
already in adequate supply. The purchasers, also, are never exposed to
an inferior article."

I was becoming quite drowsy by this time and left after I'd answered a
few more of his questions. I felt affection toward the Earthling. He
was direct and honest. Beneath his placid manner he had a pride as
fierce as any Zade. Tomorrow would be the crucial day for him.
