
Late the next afternoon I bought a packet of food and brought it to the
outworlder's room. "Did you have trouble with a Zade named Ctvar?" I
asked him, immediately on entering.

"Yes, I did," he answered. "Why?"

"His clansmen have been pouring into the city all day. I just learned
that they are looking for you."

His eyes widened slightly. "Isn't Ctvar able to handle his own trouble?"

"Ctvar is dead."

He seemed unable at first to find the words to speak. At last he said,
"It happened in a fight that he started. Why should they seek revenge?"

"They would be poor clan brothers if they did not avenge him," I
answered.

"Won't your sentinels do anything to stop them?" he asked.

"They won't help you," I answered. "You make no contribution to the
state that would entitle you to their protection."

"Don't you have laws against this sort of thing?"

"An undetermined number of persons wish you dead. You, and perhaps I,
want you to live. The majority is against us."

"But I'm at least entitled to a trial."

I puzzled over his meaning of the word, but could find no sure answer.
"I don't know what the purpose of a trial would be," I said. "But it
could change nothing. You have the ill will of many citizens."

He stared at the floor without any further questions.

Against the strong logic of my reasoning I felt a strong empathy toward
him. He had conducted himself well on this world that must seem very
strange to him. I offered what consolation I could. "There is this
possibility," I said. "A majority is not always reckoned by numbers.
If you can collect superior strength to your side--either by getting
others to help you, or by your own ingenuity--and whip Ctvar's clan,
the law will do nothing to punish you. You may even kill them with
impunity, except for the revenge of the other clansmen."

"That's a small hope."

"It is," I agreed, belatedly recalling to mind my mission. I was
probably this minute under disapproving observation. "You can't hope to
fight them all," I continued. "That is why I would earnestly suggest
that you run."

"To where would I run?"

"I gave that a good deal of thought on my way here," I said. "There's
a space ship--on a meadow outside the walls, on the far side of the
city--that you might be able to reach. You could take it and flee to
your own world, probably the only place where you'd be safe."

"I wouldn't know how to operate it."

"The ship is very nearly automatic. Look," I said. I took a sheet of
velum, and a stylus, and drew three circles with smaller circles
beneath them. "These represent the dials on the ship's control panel.
The bubbles in the first dial must be set in this order--you'd better
memorize them--blue-blue-yellow-blue-yellow. That's the range for
your Earth. You'll have to shrink the last yellow bubble to about
three-quarter size. That will give you a safety leeway. The ship will
take itself in on motors from there.

"This second dial starts the ship. You merely squeeze the knob beneath
it. The third dial is for stopping. As you are about to land, the
tighter you grip the knob, the slower the ship will settle. You
shouldn't have any trouble manipulating it."

His spirits seemed to revive somewhat. "It's worth a try," he said. "I
have nothing to lose."

"It's only a few hours to night-fall," I told him. "That will be the
best time to try getting through the city. I'd suggest you eat a good
meal, and fix yourself a lunch to take along. Then nap if you can."
