
The alien stayed beneath the ramp only until his pursuers ran past.
Immediately after, he reappeared and strode without hesitation toward
the nearest air vent. The screen stuck when he gripped its spokes and
tried to turn it, but he exerted his strength and it gave slowly. He
pulled it from its frame and let it rest on the floor.

Pushing his feet through the vent opening, still clutching the screen,
he let himself down. Soon his feet came to rest on the inside ledge of
the air tunnel and he balanced there as he screwed the screen back into
place. He had vanished by the time the sentinels came running back.

"By the great hound of Hagras!" a councilor exclaimed. "Is there no end
to the creature's ingenuity?"

None of us paid any attention to him; we were too busy watching the
scene below. Only Srtes spoke. "Will the fools have brains enough to
look for him down there?" he muttered. The excitement of the chase had
obviously gripped him also. He clicked on a control button that split
the screen into two scenes, and we were able to watch the activity
above, as well as in the tunnels below.

We had no trouble following the flight of the alien. The lining of the
tunnels had been prepared with a luminous coating that gave enough
light for us to see the inside clearly.

As we watched, the alien stumbled and fell to the floor. He lay for a
long moment, too weary to rise. By this time he must be exhausted. His
stamina had already proven greater than we had anticipated.

He rose again and walked doggedly on, searching absent-mindedly in
his pockets as he went. I knew he must be hungry and thirsty. He was
probably only now remembering the packet he had lost early in his
flight. But he did not slow his steady progress forward.

On the right half of the screen we noted that the captain of the
sentinels had evidently figured out what had happened. Up ahead his men
were hurrying into the numerous branches of the air tunnel and blocking
every passage. As they had probably been ordered, they began walking
slowly back. We kept our attention on the one who would intercept the
fugitive.

The alien stopped occasionally and stood listening. Once he paused
longer than usual. Was his hearing that good, I wondered, or was he
just being cautious? After a minute he moved forward again, until only
a fairly long bend in the tunnel branch separated him from the oncoming
sentinel.

This time he did hear his interceptor. He ran quickly back, keeping a
close observation on the wall to his left as he went. Soon he found the
hiding place he sought. Probably he had noted it in passing before, and
had kept it in mind for an emergency of this kind.

Where he stopped a connection in the sheet metal lining the tunnel had
come loose and a dark space gaped open. He crawled inside.

The man was stupid, I thought, if he expected the sentinel to pass
without noticing the hiding place.

The sentinel was not stupid. But then, we soon found out, neither was
the alien.

When the sentinel came to the opening he paused and jabbed tentatively
into the dark cavity with the long sword that he carried in his hand.
An instant later he stumbled forward, his knees gave beneath him, and
he sagged to the floor.

After a moment the alien emerged. A portion of his cloak was wrapped
around one hand, his sword in the other. We understood then what had
happened. He had grasped the sentinel's sword in his padded hand and
jerked him forward, at the same time thrusting out with his own weapon.
The sentinel had been wounded critically.

However, the alien himself had not escaped unscathed. As he unbuttoned
his jacket we could see a large spot of blood on the lighter surface of
his blouse. He took a white cloth from a rear pocket of his trousers
and pressed it between his jacket and the wound. When he went on this
time he was very weary, obviously dredging up the last dregs of his
strength.
