
In the short pause from action on the screen I looked around me. I was
the only one in the room still sitting. The others had been unable to
keep their seats during the excitement of watching the flight of the
fighting alien. Some stood tensely or leaned against the walls, others
paced restlessly, and one knelt on his hassock.

I returned my attention to the outside half of the screen. The captain
of the sentinels was letting gas into the tunnel!

I felt a pang of regret. This was the beginning of the end. I wondered
then if the alien did not have some inkling by this time that there was
more to this than a mere seeking of revenge by Ctvar's kinsmen.

He went on only a few strides farther before he detected the gas.
Even then his ingenuity did not desert him. As he stood with his
nostrils spread a noise above him caused him to look up. He spied a
metal covered opening into the tunnel directly over his head. A dozen
sentinels, I saw with a side glance, were grouped around it.

After only a brief hesitation the alien returned to the Zade he had
wounded a few minutes before. The man had ceased to move. Evidently he
was dead.

The alien tossed the dead sentinel across his shoulders and carried
him to the spot beneath the metal cover. Here he reached up and tapped
sharply. The cover moved back cautiously, and the alien rammed the
corpse upward, head foremost.

The body struck the cover and knocked it aside. The alien shoved it a
bit higher, and it quivered as the swords above pierced it.

He dropped the dead carcass and sprinted forward. He had bought all
the time he could, and there was nothing for him to do now except
try to reach the end of the tunnel before the gas overcame him. His
head was held high as he ran--he had deduced that they had to use a
heavier-than-air gas. He did not have far to go.

He reached the end of the tunnel and stumbled onto a conduit leading
from the main air compressor. For a short time he lay sprawled across
the metal duct, too exhausted to move. Finally he raised his head and
looked wearily about him. He spied a vent opening on a level with his
head, and with a determined effort he removed the screen and climbed
through. Utter fatigue showed in line of his body.

Outside he stood for several minutes, drawing clean air deep into his
lungs. There were no sentries here. They had not expected him to get
this far. But they would come, soon after they failed to flush him from
the tunnel.

The alien looked about, then headed unerringly toward the sand banked
against the wall of the pumping station. He dug until he had made a
long hollow then let his weary body fall into the shallow place and
began piling sand over his legs. When he had covered all of himself
except one arm, he burrowed it down until he was completely hidden from
sight.

"How can such a man be stopped?" Srtes asked. His face was drawn and
gray, as though he had suffered some great defeat.
