
The alien must have dropped off to sleep for he stayed in the sand
for several hours, and did not emerge until shortly before day-light.
Evidently he had first made an opening through which to observe, for
there were no guards about when he stood up and shook the sand from his
body.

He must also have studied all his surroundings. He had reached the
city's end. The wall ahead of him was without a gate. He had been sent
on a foredoomed errand. Though I had been acting under orders, I felt a
kind of shame at the part I had played in the deception.

Even then, however, he was not defeated. He struck out without delay to
his right where there were few sentries, using his rooftop technique
when needed, and reached a side gate within an hour. He dispatched
the final sentry by dropping on him from a convenient balcony--he was
probably too exhausted to risk a fight--and let himself out through the
gate.

He walked with jaded steps back the way he had come, skirting the
outside wall closely. At last he reached the meadow for which he had
started seven hours earlier.

He must have guessed before this that the story of the waiting space
ship was a hoax. But, giving the last of his strength, and hoping
against hope, he had fought his way there. When the first rays of the
morning sun showed him that the meadow was bare and empty his raw
courage deserted him. He fell face forward on the red sand.

"I suggest we conclude our project with a final vote before we leave,"
Srtes said, a few minutes after we watched the alien come to the end of
his resources. "I am certain no one of you can have any doubts as to
what our decision must be." His passive face betrayed no emotion.

"Our plan, decided on soon after we learned of the Humans' existence,"
Srtes' voice droned on, "was to make an early contact. If the Humans
proved a race whose physical and mental strength equaled or surpassed
our own, prudence would indicate that we seek peace. If we found
them weak, we would exterminate them, and take over their world. The
dominant factor in our decision was to be our study of the specimen we
brought back, and how he conducted himself in the Big Run. We have all
seen the results of that experiment."

Srtes looked about the room. "Are we all agreed that the only wise
course--in view of our observations--is to do everything in our power
to establish peaceful relations with the Earthmen?"

There was no dissenting vote.

"When our envoys leave for Earth an honored place will be made for our
visitor," Srtes added.
