
A grey dusky afternoon was dying when Jon crawled out of the small hall
between rocks and started writhing down the hill. His eyes stayed open
in fearful wonderment until tears rolled down his cheeks. The soft
greens and browns of the great forest that thinned up into the hills.
There was not the slightest hint that beneath this vast silent beauty,
stretched the enormous grotesque underworld of Mammoth Hole.

Nor that in those nameless caverns and corridors along the cold and
rushing and naked rivers a few unkempt savages clung to dim memories of
centuries-lost power and surface civilization.

Jon stopped. An intangible yet powerful emotion surged in him. "I'm
crawlin'," he gritted as he sat up. "I said I was sick a' crawlin.' I
ain't a grub. I'm not crawlin' anymore. Not for them damn machines, not
for anything. They can't do nothing but kill me, an' what's life down
in that hole?"

He stood up. He stood up straight and started walking down the rocky
trail, and finally along the smooth greenness beside the river. His
strides were long and unhesitating, but inside him was a deep growing
horror, as he remembered those shiny silver giants that had stood so
silently on the hill against the red sunset. The huge attentive waiting
stillness, and the sudden terrible sweep of the red beamed eye and the
reaching of the metal arms.

He stopped and looked down at his thin white legs, starved of the sun,
knotted and scarred from crawling over the harsh underground paths. He
looked at his gnarled pallid fingers quivering in the cold.

He looked up at the sky. A few stars were showing dimly, palely. "Oh
God, give me a quick ending when my time comes, that's all I ask. Don't
let me crawl anymore on my belly. Give me the guts to keep walkin',
straight up, like I'm walkin' now."

There was no answer. There was no sound except the cry of birds in the
forest, the drone of insects and other louder noises from the river. He
was alone. He walked faster.

But he soon tired, because he had never walked far at a time.
Underground, people crawled a lot of the time through narrow holes. And
under there no one could walk far unless they went in circles.

He sat down to rest beneath the canopy of stars. He lay back and looked
up at them, a feeling of frightful awe pressing down upon him. The
night around him was colder now, and the sounds of the night had risen
to a hungry song. And then he rolled over with a quick, terrible cry,
leaped crouching to his feet.

There were at least a dozen of them. Great shiny angular and
cubed monsters sliding noiseless down the hill. A peculiar bluish
radiance pushed out around them, bathing the surrounding night in a
deadly-seeming pall.

With a pathetic defiance, Jon picked up the heavy stone, stood with
legs wide apart, holding the rock in front of him. Every nerve in him
shrieked, pulling his muscles away. But he couldn't run. He couldn't
run, nor crawl anymore. A kind of dark resigned courage replaced the
first impulses of flight, and he hurled the rock. There was a futile
thud, and the rock bounded from the great unruffled wall of metal.

Then--for an instant he didn't think the thoughts, the voices, were
anything but his own, strange, alien, terrifying, inspired by his own
fears.

And then he realized it was the _Mechs_!

"_A grub!_"

"_Yes. I thought they were all gone._"

"_No. There are some remaining, deep in the soil. Central File says
they are no longer of any danger. But File also retains orders to kill
all organic things._"

Jon moved toward them. He moved stiffly, a strange and intangible
bulwark of purpose shielding him from the screaming horror.

Something of the awful indignity of his position shook him, sent a hot
rage throbbing blindly past his temples. He heard his breath coming
hard from tightened throat. These great nameless things--machines,
intelligent metal, it didn't matter what. They had no idea of what he
was, that he had a brain, that he could think. And yet, their gigantic
thoughts were plain to him.

Some time, some time so very long ago, he--his kind--humans--had made
these things. Had built them up from molten stuff, had put intricate
interlocking machinery within them so that they could move, think for
themselves, repair themselves. And then--humans had launched the Big
War, had released seething seas of basic energy, and somehow these
gigantic shiny silvery things had begun to--_live_.

But to them, Jon, a human, a descendant of the humans that had made
them and had given them life, was less than the dirt under their
towering, invulnerable radiance. Less than the dust beneath their
sweeping red-death eyes. They had no conception that he was anything
but a pale, crawling, cave-worm.
