
Jon walked closer. He was not so much afraid for himself now. There was
more of a sweeping terror of the whole situation, the terrible futility
and irony. He wasn't afraid to die, and he knew that he had to die now,
that there was no escape, no defiance.

He shook his fist at the silent, towering forms. "Damn you! It's me.
Man. Man. I'm human. I'm not crawlin'. See, I'm not crawlin', I'm
talkin' to you. I'm talkin' and I'm thinkin', too. See."

"_It's making noises._"

"_Yes. All the various species of organic life make noises peculiar to
their type. Have you not seen a grub before?_"

"_No. Let us kill it now. We must report back to Central File. How long
will it take to kill all organic life?_"

"_Central File says it will take many more years, even though now
most organic life has been destroyed. We must complete the task soon,
you know. Man will return. Glorious Mangod. Mighty Mangod. Mangod the
Creator. Mangod the Eternal!_"

"_Ah yes. Mighty Mangod. How long will it be before the Mangod's
coming?_"

Jon shivered, reached out a shaking hand as though to support himself
against the air. He tried to speak, but his facial muscles seemed
frozen. He wanted to say, "I'm Man. I'm your Creator. I made you, long
ago." But he could say nothing. Nothing at all.

"_That is not known. Mangod made us in his own image, then departed,
promising to return. Return to bring us glory and eternity._"

"_May the Great Mangod who created us from the lifeless stuff of the
dirt return soon, for only then may our destiny be fulfilled._"

"_Yes. May Mangod return soon. Meanwhile, Central File demands
immediate action in preparation for that Day. Kill this grub. Soon all
organic life that stands in the way of the Mangod's coming will be
eradicated._"

The thunderous impact of telepathic power roared in Jon's head as he
staggered forward, fists clenched.

"FOR THEE, GREAT MANGOD. FOR WHOM WE WAIT."

[Illustration: "_Return, oh Mangod, to bring us glory._"]

Jon laughed. Hot tears scalded his face as he laughed. He was still
laughing as the red-death eye brightened, leaped out, and silently
swept him away.



