
Hardy grinned his sour grin and stepped out, giving Mr. Firrel but the
curtest nod in passing. Firrel came in, and not being invited to sit,
stood awkwardly before the desk. Maizie felt sorry for the man. He was
so earnest, so sincere, such a hard worker--yet he had been with them
more than a month and the few commissions he had received could hardly
have done more than pay his carfare. It was pathetic.

"Well?" asked Chisholm, hard and cross, as if annoyed at the intrusion.

"I'm quitting," said Firrel. "That's all."

"Suit yourself," said Chisholm, indifferently. "I never begged a man to
work for me and I can't see myself starting now. Check out with Miss
Delmar. Give her your kit and turn over the list of prospects you have
been working on--not that I think they are any good. It's the rule, you
know."

"You can go to hell," said Mr. Firrel, very quietly. Maizie noticed
that his knuckles were white and his hands tense. "I called in to
see Mr. Fentress this afternoon. He told me to. That was a week ago.
He said that they had to await the authorization of their Board of
Directors before signing an order. I found out what had happened."

"So what?" roared Chisholm savagely. "Do you think we could keep
open if we ran on a sometime, if and when basis? Alibis are all
you ever have ... at the end of the quarter ... when they take the
inventory ... when Mr. Goofus gets back from the West Coast. We want
business _now_. That's why I sent Hardy when they called up this
morning and wanted to know why our man hadn't been around. _He_ doesn't
stall and make alibis for himself. He gets 'em on the dotted line. I
couldn't let you muff a big order like this one."

Chisholm waved the order under his nose, then laid it face down so the
amount on the check would not show.

"Of course," the sales manager went on, in that
I-lean-over-backward-being-a-good-fellow manner he assumed at times,
"if you really feel that you have anything coming to you for what
preliminary work you did, I'm sure I can make Hardy see it that way.
He'll cut you in. That's a promise. Would a twenty, say, help out?"

He pulled out his wallet and opened it. Maizie took one glance at the
smoldering hatred and contempt in the weary eyes of the man before the
desk and then hastily dropped her own to the notebook on her knee. If
only someone would sock the porcine jowl of her detested employer!

"You heard me," said Firrel with a cold distinctness that cut. "You can
go to hell."

He turned abruptly and walked out. A moment later the outer door
slammed.

"Never mind trying to piece out his torn prospect cards, Maizie," said
POHAC's eminently successful sales manager. "We have a file of his
daily reports. Hardy can work just as well from those."

"Yes, sir," said Maizie. Her rent was over-due, and the doctor had
said--

She swept out of the office and down the hall to the washroom. Her
nails were biting into her palms and her eyes were brimming.

"Oh, the louse," she moaned over and over again, "the louse, the dirty,
dirty louse! If I were only a man--"

Then those lines of Burns came to mind again:

    "O, wad some power the giftie gie us--"

"That would do," she cried fervently. "Hang himself! If he only saw
himself as I see him, he'd be lucky if he _could_ hang himself."

Seven o'clock came. Mr. Chisholm took one final snort before putting on
his hat and turning out the lights. He must be in fine form when he met
Mr. Lonigan. Lonigan was an important buyer and he was coming in on the
_Rocket_ at seven thirty. The evening was already planned. He was
to meet the buyer, take him to dinner, then meet the McKittricks in the
lobby of the Palace Theater. Mr. McKittrick was the president of POHAC
and had six box seats for the show. With him would be Mrs. McKittrick,
Mrs. Chisholm, and a certain very personable young woman whom the
company employed from time to time to fill in on just such occasions.
It promised to be a gay evening, and as soon as he had a chance to
whisper to the big boss about the order he had topped the day off with,
even McKittrick would concede that he had the best sales manager ever.

Chisholm jabbed the elevator button, whistling merrily as he stood back
to watch the oscillations of the telltale above the door.

"Nice night, Jerry," he said cheerily to the elevator man.

"A very nice night, sir," agreed Jerry. But he never took his eyes off
the column of blinking ruby lights before his nose. Mr. Chisholm was to
be the most mistrusted when he was in a benign mood. It was usually the
come-on for some probing and tricky questions. Like, "I saw Mr. Naylor
get in your car awhile ago. What a card! He's higher'n a kite tonight.
_Ha, ha._" _Any_ response to a remark of that sort was sure
to mean trouble for somebody.

Chisholm was in an expansive mood and strode along as if he owned the
earth. He felt fine. It did not matter that ten of his men had quit
that week, and not all of them had been as restrained as old man Firrel
in their good-bys. What did he care for the weak sisters? An ad in
tomorrow's papers would fill up the anteroom with forty more. If they
clicked--weeks from now--so much the better; if not, how could he lose?
POHAC's sales department was strictly a straight commission outfit.

He turned through the park. It was not only a short cut but pleasanter
walking, except for the beggars. One met him and whined for a cup of
coffee, but Chisholm growled at him and stalked on by. Farther on he
came to a place where the path passed through some heavy shrubbery.
There were deep shadows there and he hesitated a moment. He would have
felt better if a policeman were in sight. Then he reminded himself of
what puny creatures most of the panhandlers were and of his own brawn.
He walked on.

A man was coming toward him. Just as he supposed, the man was another
beggar. He asked for a dime. Chisholm realized it was dark where he was
and thought perhaps a dime was cheap insurance against an argument. He
stopped and groped in his change pocket for the coin. At that moment
something happened. The beggar suddenly grasped his right arm, while
another man stepped out of the bushes and grabbed his left. At the
same instant someone from the rear locked an arm about his throat and
lifted. He was off his feet and choking--skilled hands were exploring
his pockets--he kicked and squirmed only to feel the viselike grip
on his neck tighten maddeningly. There was an inward _plop_ and
something cracked just under his skull with a sharp detonation and a
blinding flare of light. Mr. Chisholm had been brutally mugged. Mr.
Chisholm was quite dead.
