
Two hours and a quarter later a group of four were still waiting
impatiently in the foyer of the Palace. An angry man from St. Louis
sat in the back of a cafeteria eating his supper. He had not been met
at the station as promised; neither the office phone, nor McKittrick's
or Chisholm's home phones had answered. Not that he minded missing
Chisholm particularly--he had always thought him a phony--but he did
like the McKittricks. The party at the theater were equally angry,
though they showed it less.

"Well," remarked Mrs. McKittrick acidly to her husband in a moment when
the others were occupied, "how much longer are you going to wait for
that stuffed-shirt of a head salesman of yours?"

"One minute--no more," said McKittrick, glaring at his watch. "If it's
any comfort to you, he's being canned as of coming Monday. The office
turnover since he's been in charge is something scandalous."

In the other corner of the foyer the smartly gowned creature brought
along for the delectation of Mr. Lonigan was growing restive also. She
turned to Mrs. Chisholm.

"Whatever could have happened to your husband?" she asked sweetly.

"Drunk, I suppose," answered Mrs. Chisholm calmly. "I hope so. I hear
this is a good show and I want to enjoy it, even if we have missed half
the first act. My husband, you know, fancies himself as a dramatic
critic. He is quite unbearable, I assure you."

"Oh, really?" said the fair young thing. It was best to be
noncommittal, she thought, though she had been secretly wondering for
some time how long Mrs. Chisholm No. 3 was going to stick it out. No
other Mrs. Chisholm had ever finished out the first year, despite the
Chisholm legend of what a "way" he had with the gals.

"Let's go on in," said Mr. McKittrick, pocketing his watch.

It was about then that the park police stumbled across the defunct
sales manager's broken form. It was already a long time after Mr.
Chisholm had temporarily forgotten all about Hardy and Firrel and
Maizie and Lonigan and the theater party. For in some places a matter
of a couple of hours or so seems longer. It was that way where Mr.
Chisholm was.
