
First, there was all that tiresome marching. Chisholm found himself
on a vast gray plain under a dull leaden sky, marching, marching,
marching. It was odd that it tired him so, for it was effortless and
timeless and the distances, though interminable, seemed meaningless.
It must have been the monotony of it. And then, also, he found those
marching with him strangely disturbing. Some were healthy-looking men
like himself, except that most of them were gashed or mangled in some
way, as if hurled through plate glass or smashed by bombs. Others were
haggard and pallid, as if coming from sickbeds. But it was the soldiers
that got him most. He had forgotten about the war. It had touched
him but slightly, though his impressions of it had been irritating,
but not in a flesh and blood way. The silly business of priorities,
price controls and sales taxes had annoyed him exceedingly, and the
outrageous income-tax boosts had infuriated him. Now he was getting
another slant on the conflict, for hordes--armies--of soldiers were
marching along with him. They were of every kind--Russians, Japs,
Tommies, Nazis, even American bluejackets and soldiers--and mingled
with them were miserable-looking civilians of every race. A pair of
wretched-looking Polish Jews walking near him had obviously been hanged
but a short time before. Chisholm edged away from them in horrified
disgust.

He was beginning to tumble to the fact that he was dead, and was
getting restive with the monotonous tramping across the plain. He
had never been a devout man, or even a philosophical one, so he had
little idea of what to expect, except that certain childhood memories
or notions kept intruding themselves upon his consciousness. Wasn't
there some sort of trial coming to him? Not that the prospect worried
him much. At least, not very much. For he had always dealt justly with
people according to his lights, he insisted to himself. He couldn't
help it if there were venal people, or weaklings, or would-be tough
eggs that had to be pushed around. Nobody could be expected to get
through life without handling such types in the most appropriate way.
But where, oh where, was the judge that would pass judgment?

After a time the crowd grew thinner. At length the shade of Chisholm
noted that he was virtually alone and treading a narrow path that led
upward over a shadowy hill. There was no one ahead of him or alongside,
but following him at a distance was a considerable multitude of
other shades of his own kind. He supposed that shortly after his own
unfortunate encounter with the thugs a catastrophe of some sort had
developed locally. He could not resist the malicious half hope that it
might have been a theater fire. Somehow it irked him that his latest
wife should still be alive and fattening on his property while he was
tramping these gray wilds. Nor would it have upset him to know that
McKittrick had been caught in the same disaster. McKittrick, in his
estimation, was a pompous ass whom he would have shown up if he could
have lived just a little longer. As far as that went, he could also
have viewed with equanimity the decease of the girl that was brought
along for Lonigan. He hadn't forgotten the smart of her recent rebuff
of him, the little cat!

With such thoughts in mind, he topped the rise and saw a wall with a
gate in it before him. The gate was open, so he went on in. He halfway
expected to be stopped, or at least greeted by an angel, but things
were just the same inside the gate as out--except that there was a
voice. The voice cried out in the manner of a train announcer, deep and
booming.

"The prototype of Jerome Chester Chisholm!"

Just that. That was all.

Then a demon materialized directly in front of the shade of Chisholm.

"This way, Jerome," he said very politely. He was not bad-looking--for
a demon--though he was unmistakably one, having the expected stock
properties: a reddish, glistening skin, stubby horns, and shiny
jet-black eyes.

"'J.C.' is what people call me," corrected Chisholm. He had never
dealt with a demon before, but since the demon appeared to be friendly
he thought he might as well respond with a gesture of his own.

"Better stick to Jerome," advised the demon. "I'll admit it's not
pretty, but it's safe. When you start being known by what people
_call_ you--well!"

Mr. Chisholm sniffed. The demon's words had the faint odor of a dirty
crack. He was beginning not to like the demon. Also the import of
the unseen aërial announcement was puzzling him. What did it mean by
calling him the "prototype" of himself? It didn't make sense.
