
Chisholm turned his gaze back at the oncoming file of shades. They were
ghastly cartoons of himself, and malicious ones at that. Many of them
were unintelligible.

"Hey," he said, "what's that thing coming up--that slender wisp of
smoke with the lumpy feet? If that is a conception of me, the guy that
thought it up has gone surrealistic."

The demon looked.

"Oh, that. Yes, it's weak. It is offered by a fellow named Percy
Hilyer. He roomed with you at school and has almost forgotten you. He
does remember that you were lean and lanky then and used to swipe his
socks and wear holes in them."

"That's a hell of a thing to hold against a guy," complained Chisholm.

The demon shrugged.

"That is the way reputations are made. How do you like this one?"

"This one" was the rambunctious shade who had tried to take charge of
the meeting at the outset. He was egregiously repulsive.

"That," announced the demon blandly, "is the contribution of one Maizie
Delmar. Judging from its robustness and solidity, she knew you recently
and well."

Chisholm's jaw had dropped and his eyes bulged. The thing was
incredible. Not Maizie's. Maizie was regular; dumb, maybe, but they got
along.

"I take it Maizie was the tactful sort," remarked the demon with a sly
drawl, noting the amazement on Chisholm's loose face. Then, "Here comes
one that might suit you better."

It was a fat, squally baby, drooling and flapping its pudgy arms.

"One of your mother's contributions. Her favorite of many. You might
admire some, but they are all on the helpless side--not at all in
keeping with your hardboiled idea of the way to do things."

Chisholm stood aghast and watched the endless procession. On they came,
one vile caricature after another. Nobody seemed to have forgotten him.
He expected the specter furnished by Firrel to be bad. It was. Malice
was not its creator, but sheer contempt. Chisholm had to turn his
face when it clambered up onto the stage. The office girls' offering
differed little from Maizie's except in intensity. The one held by
Hardy was a cruel surprise. He had done so much for Hardy. But he had
forgotten how he had made Hardy pay through the nose for favors.

The greatest shocks were to follow. He steeled himself for whatever
opinions those first two wives held, but the current one had done a
devastating job of analysis. Even the demon whistled. Interspersed
between the major blows were minor ones, and not always shadowy.
Bootblacks, waiters, taxi drivers--on almost every casual contact he
had left a mark. Out of the lot there was only one that was glowingly
heroic. He could not refrain from asking the demon about it. The demon
bent his insight onto the wraith and pronounced:

"A girl you met once--a pick-up. You kissed her on the Drive that
night, and then lost her phone number, you lucky dog."

"Lucky?"

"Yes. She never had a chance to know you better."

Mr. Chisholm was glum. It wasn't right to be pilloried that way. They
simply couldn't do that to him. To hell with what all those people
thought. Who were they, anyhow? A lot of nitwit salesmen and office
help, gold-diggers and climbers! He knew he was all right. He had got
along. They were jealous and envious, that's what. He nudged the demon.

"Hey," he called, "this is a democracy, ain't it? If these soreheads
have a vote, so do I. Don't _I_ come in?"

"Sure, sure. It ought to help a lot, too. All these figures are
weighted, you have noticed, by degree of intimacy and one thing or
another. Since you have probably thought more about yourself than
anybody else has, even if you've been wrong most of the time, your
opinion counts."

Chisholm looked down at himself confidently, and then his confidence
began to ooze. His own personality, it appeared, even when viewed from
his own standpoint, was more nebulous than he thought. He had never
taken himself apart with the critical fury employed by such persons as
Maizie, his wives and some others. It looked as if the almost-finished
monstrosity standing in the center of the stage was going to be the
image handed down to posterity.

"It's not fair," he wailed. "What do all those yapping people really
know about me--motives, and all that? I never did anything I didn't
think was right, I never--"

"Neither did Nero," said the demon calmly, "nor Torquemada, nor your
estimable contemporary, Hitler. Nevertheless, we cannot take an Ego at
its own valuation. Not where others are involved."

Chisholm took a shuddering look at the hideous thing that was the
summation of all his world thought of him. It was intolerable. That,
then, was the verdict the demon had spoken of.

"Your sentence," said the demon, as if he knew the thought, "is to
contemplate it from now on. It is all yours--your life's work. At least
it's definite, if that is any consolation."

"I can't, I can't," moaned Mr. Chisholm.

"Don't make things worse," warned the demon.

The composite spook had just turned a bright, lemon yellow.


                               THE END.