
Like I figured, Hanson was practically meat for the looney-bin by the
time we reached the bridge. He manhandled Biggs avidly and propelled
him to the plot-table. "Where've you been, Biggs?" he demanded. "No,
don't tell me now. Get going on them figgers. They don't make sense to
me, nowise! And when do we turn on that thingamajigger of your'n? Bert,
where'd you find him? Shut up, you blabbermouth! Don't you know better
than to talk when a space officer is cogitating? Can I help, Biggs?"

The one-man wordstorm was deafening. But it didn't seem to phase Biggs.
He plunked himself down at the pilot's desk, scribbled for awhile, and
came up with an orbit chart for Second Mate Dick Todd, seated at the
control-board.

Then he heaved a volley of orders over the audio to Chief Engineer
Garrity, and that was that. He relaxed. The skipper said nervously,
"Is--is that all?"

"That's all, sir," said Biggs.

The Old Man looked dubious.

"I don't hear nothing unusual," he said.

"You will in a minute," said Biggs. "Ah! There it goes now!"

And darned if it didn't! One minute my ears hummed with the familiar
drone of the hypatomics, the next, a weird and piercing whine rose in
high, shrill crescendo, torturing our ear-drums for a brief instant
until it lost itself in an oblivion of super-sonic inaudibility.

That was all. No moment of oppressive weight as if we were lifting
gravs at extra gees, no thunderous bellow of rockets, no anything. The
ship rode easily, freely. I must have looked disappointed. To Biggs I
said, "Too bad, sir."

"Eh, Sparks?"

"Too bad it didn't work," I said.

Biggs chuckled.

"But it did work, Sparks. We're now traveling at a speed in excess of
five hundred million miles per hour!"

Cap Hanson gulped and looked green. "F-five--?"

"That's right, sir. If you don't believe me take a peek through the
viewpanes."

I moved to the fore-wall, slid back the metal slide that covered
the quartzite viewpane. Space lay before us--but _what_ space!
Not the dark, velvety pall, brightly agleam with an infinitude of
starry jewels, that all spacemen know. This was a blotched, striped
crazy-quilt of color! Crimson, ochre, emerald--all the hues of the
rainbow, of the Aurora. It was beautiful in a mad, fantastic way;
there was a faery, magic loveliness to that swift-streaming space that
fascinated and at the same time chilled me with dread.

Hanson's eyes bulged, and his voice was fearful.

"We--we've done it again, Biggs! Busted clean out of our universe into
something else!"

"No, sir. This is our universe. But we are seeing it as no man has
ever seen it before. Our speed is so great that we are seeing the
'landmarks' of space with a distorted viewpoint. Our relationship--or
I should say relativity--is no longer to Earth, or any of its sister
planets, but to the Greater Constant, the fundamental motion of the
universe itself.

"Thus, at one and the same time, we see the planets as they _are_ and
as they _were_; they are no longer mere points in space, they are
streaks of color." And he grinned. "The stars, too. Pretty, aren't
they?"

Cap Hanson made weak motions at the viewpane.

"Close it, Sparks! It's giving me the meemies! So if you're right,
Biggs--then what? How do we know when we get to Uranus, or near it? If
it's just a streak of color?"

"You must reconcile yourself to an entirely new system of astrogation.
Up to this time, pilots have just jetted along until they found
their goal, then set course for a landing. But with the V-I unit in
operation, we 'fly blind' and set our course by strict, mathematical
figuring. I have given Mr. Todd a plot-chart. Four days hence when I
cut out the V-I unit and return to normal operation on the hypos, we
will find Uranus immediately beneath us. And now, if you'll excuse me--"

"Wait a minute!" said the skipper. "Suppose we was to meet up with
something in space? Like a rogue asteroid?"

Biggs shrugged.

"That hazard is neither heightened nor decreased," he said. "Our
monitor-beams will still shunt off the smaller ones. As for the
larger--well, you know as well as I that we have never yet found a
method of overcoming that danger. It is one of the chances we take when
we don space blues. As far as I'm concerned, I'd just as soon not see
it coming as to watch it grow larger and larger in the _perilens_--"

Well, he was right there. So since Hanson was fresh out of questions,
Biggs hoisted hips back to his quarters. My guess is that he went back
to billy-dooing with Diane's picture. What's yours?
