
Because Biggs had turned, suddenly, and raced from the room! Fled,
still clutching the space-chart. Fled, and not a word of advice, regret
or hope. And with him went our last dwindling hope of salvation.

Dick Todd's voice was thin.

"Maybe he has an idea, sir?"

Hanson grasped at the thought as a drowning man.

"That's it, Todd. He'll pull us out of this. He's never failed us in
the past--"

But even this wishful expression was doomed to swift contradiction.
For at that moment the bridge audio flashed, and the voice of a sailor
clacked from somewhere below.

"Captain Hanson, sir? There--there's trouble down here! Lieutenant
Biggs has violated regulations, sir! He knocked down two men and forced
his way into the auxiliary lifeboat! He--he's locked the door, sir.
What shall we do?"

In the moment of silence that followed, I saw something I hope I shall
never be forced to look upon again. I saw a proud man wilt before my
eyes; I saw a strong man age ten years in as many seconds.

The man was Captain Hanson. The strength sloughed from his shoulders;
pain burned deep furrows in his eyes; I could barely hear the whisper
that crept from his lips.

"A coward!" he husked. "The man my daughter loves--a coward!"

And there was nothing I could say to refute the accusation. Lancelot
Biggs' action had branded him more damningly than any mere words. A
crisis had come--and it had found him wanting. He had deserted his
comrades, his ship, and had fled to a lifeboat. Perhaps even now he was
getting ready to cast off.

In a swift burst of comprehension, I thought I could understand the
reason for this last, unreasonable defection. Lancelot Biggs had met
difficulties before and without flinching.

But that was an old, a different, Biggs. Love had come into his life
now. Love, and a woman, and all the dreams that happy men dare wish
upon.

And these things, staunch and noble in themselves, had weakened the
moral fibre of Biggs. Weakened it to the point where, in the face of
danger, nothing was important except that he live to return to the arms
of his loved one.

These things I could understand. But I could not forgive them. Because
love or no love, fear or no fear, a spaceman has a tradition to live up
to. And Lancelot Biggs had tossed into the discard the very tradition
now upheld by Dick Todd as he said, quietly, "Shall I advise the men,
sir?"

And by Captain Hanson who said, "Yes, Todd. And--and order Garrity to
cut off Mr. Biggs' intensifier. We may die, but we can die trying to
escape. And a slower speed will give us more time--"

"Yes, sir," said Todd, and moved toward the audio. But he had barely
reached out his hand toward it when sharp speech rasped from its black
throat in remembered tones.

"Stop, Todd! Don't give that order, Skipper!"

It was the voice of Lancelot Biggs!
