
Captain Hanson had subdued his rage once. But now his face crimsoned,
his great hands clenched, and fury was a ponderable vigor in his voice.

"_You!_ Where are you, sir!"

"In the life-skiff," replied Biggs imperturbably.

Almost insolently, I thought. As if he knew he were speaking from the
only place of possible security in a doomed ship. "Todd, do as I say
and do it fast! There's no time to lose! Tell Chief Garrity to turn the
verniers of my V-I unit _all the way_ to the red line on the extreme
right! Understand?"

Once again Hanson's roar interrupted.

"Come back here, you coward, and die with your fellow-officers like
the man you once pretended to be! What do you mean by skulking in a
hideaway, giving orders aboard _my_ ship?"

"Shut up!" bellowed Biggs. And it was not just his audacity in speaking
thus to a space commander that shocked me, it was the razor-edged
intensity of his voice. "Todd--give that order immediately! For God's
sake, act! We've no time to lose!"

Todd's eyes sought mine. He knew, as well as I did, that the skipper
was too furious to give an intelligent command.

"That--that's the limiting velocity, Sparks!" Todd choked. "Biggs must
be insane. We'll be translated again into the negative universe. And no
way to get back--_ever_!"

I didn't have to answer. Biggs answered.

"I've taken care of that, Todd! Now, do as I say! Hurry, hurry!"

And--well, am I a fool? After all, Lancelot Biggs and I are old
buddies. Once we were bunkmates, even. There came back to me a measure
of the confidence I had once had in him. And I nodded to Todd.

"Try it, Dick. We've got nothing to lose and everything to gain. Give
the order."

He did. Chief Garrity must have been startled but he was too good a
spaceman to argue an order from the bridge. He said, succinctly, "Aye,
sirr!" And then--

I felt the rocking plunge. The moment of brief, incredible dizziness of
frightful speed being intensified to the limiting velocity of light.
My head whirled, but somehow I managed to turn, stare at that ominous
viewpane. And what I saw there brought a shocked cry from my lips!

White--white--dazzling white--then grayness! No other scene than dim
and vacant void, gray, infinite, impenetrable. A glimpse of the lost
universe--the matrix negative wherein are flung such mad things as
attain a speed beyond that of the limiting velocity.

Then crackling across the room agonizedly, "We're clear, Todd? We're
through?"

And Todd replying dazedly, "I--I don't know what you mean."

"The chronometer, man! Has it touched 9.14?"

"Yes, sir. But--but we're slipping into the negative, Lanse! We've
escaped one death to find another!"

But there was infinite sadness to Lancelot Biggs' denial.

"No you're not, Todd. You're going back to your own universe--now. When
you feel the ship lurch, turn the V-I unit dial back to where it was
before. Ready? _Now!_"

And there came, inexplicably, a swift unsteadiness, a lurching halt of
the ship. At that instant Todd spoke to Garrity, Garrity obeyed, and--

We were once again traveling smoothly on our proper course. But
Jupiter--monstrous missile of solid, terrible death--was no longer
before us! _It was behind us!_
