
Later, I told them. My explanation was short, for the solution was
simple. Simple, once you grant that a man can possess infinite loyalty,
infinite courage, in one lean and gangling frame.

"Biggs saw," I said, "that there was only one way to save us all from
death. Oh, he had blundered, yes, but we all blunder sometimes. But not
all of us pay the penalty as willingly, as bravely, as he did.

"Jupiter was upon us. Within minutes we would have crashed into the
greatest of the solar planets. Only Biggs saw a way out. And that
was--to make the speed of our ship _exactly_ approximate the speed of
light at the moment of impact!"

Dick said, "But how--"

"He told us the answer. Mass-energy relationships. You know the
fundamental theory of the Lorentz-Fitzgerald contraction. Objects
moving in space are contracted along their major axis in direct
proportion to their speed, with the limiting velocity, the speed of
light, as their ultimate limit. In other words, at the precise speed of
light, this ship existed in only a _unilateral_ dimension!"

Hanson said, "You mean we--hurled over Jupiter?"

"No, sir. _We went right through it!_ At that tremendous speed, our
dimension-extension was zero. Hence it did not affect, nor was it
affected in any way by, the bulk and mass of Jupiter.

"It's as though an exceedingly fine wire, moving at lightning speed,
were to be propelled through a cake of ice. Only in our case, the
'wire' was of zero dimension, and the cake of ice--Jupiter--did not
even recognize that it had been penetrated.

"But--" I shook my head. "But Mr. Biggs realized what this daring
scheme meant. It meant that in addition to our size being reduced to
the infinitesimal, our mass would be raised to the infinite--for that
is the corollary of the contraction theory.

"There had to be some way of getting us back to our normal shape and
size. The only possible method was by the forcible alteration of
our mass. And--Biggs adopted this method. He placed himself in the
life-skiff, gave the necessary orders from there. Then, after the
danger had been averted, he deliberately cast off from the _Saturn_,
tossed himself away from us, a living sacrifice to the mathematical
gods, that we might be safe."

Todd said, "Our mass, for a moment, was infinite--but when he, however
briefly, broke clear, it became _less_ than infinite, giving us a
chance to cut the motors--"

"That's right."

Hanson's eyes were round and wild and fearful.

"But then--where is he! We've got to turn around right away. Find him!
We can't go back without--"

I shook my head.

"It's no use, Skipper. He may be in this universe, infinitely small,
traveling at infinite speed; he may be in some other universe undreamed
by man. He may be living, he may be dead. But wherever he is--he is
gone forever from the ken of man. Lancelot Biggs is--dead. So far as
man is concerned, he is dead."

Dick Todd said something then. His words were not clear. They were
choked, and he didn't finish the quotation. But I caught the first part.

"'Greater love hath no man'," he said.

And the skipper coughed, and his eyes were red, and he turned away
like a broken, aged man.

"Amen," he said. "Amen!"
