
Two hours later a golden-voiced bell chimed, softly, musically. The
lights slowly brightened to no more than the lambent glow which was all
that Ninon permitted. She ran her fingers through the young spaceman's
tousled hair and shook him gently.

"It's time to go, Robert," she said.

Robert fought back from the stubborn grasp of sleep. "So soon?" he
mumbled.

"And I'm going with you," Ninon said.

This brought him fully awake. "I'm sorry, Ninon. You can't!" He sat up
and yawned, stretched, the healthy stretch of resilient youth. Then he
reached for the jacket he had tossed over on a chair.

Ninon watched him with envious eyes, waiting until he was fully alert.

"Robert!" she said, and the youth paused at the sharpness of her voice.
"How old are you?"

"I've told you before, darling--twenty-four."

"How old do you think I am?"

He gazed at her in silent curiosity for a moment, then said, "Come to
think of it, you've never told me. About twenty-two or -three, I'd say."

"Tomorrow is my birthday. I'll be fifty-two."

He stared at her in shocked amazement. Then, as his gaze went over the
smooth lines of her body, the amazement gave way to disbelief, and he
chuckled. "The way you said it, Ninon, almost had me believing you. You
can't possibly be that old, or anywhere near it. You're joking."

Ninon's voice was cold. She repeated it: "I am fifty-two years old. I
knew your father, before you were born."

This time she could see that he believed it. The horror he felt was easy
to read on his face while he struggled to speak. "Then ... God help
me ... I've been making love to ... an old woman!" His voice was low,
bitter, accusing.

Ninon slapped him.

He swayed slightly, then his features froze as the red marks of her
fingers traced across his left cheek. At last he bowed, mockingly, and
said, "Your pardon, Madame. I forgot myself. My father taught me to be
respectful to my elders."

For that Ninon could have killed him. As he turned to leave, her hand
sought the tiny, feather-light beta-gun cunningly concealed in the folds
of her gown. But the driving force of her desire made her stay her hand.

"Robert!" she said in peremptory tones.

The youth paused at the door and glanced back, making no effort to
conceal the loathing she had aroused in him. "What do you want?"

Ninon said, "You'll never make that flight without me.... Watch!"

Swiftly she pushed buttons again. The room darkened, as before. Curtains
at one end divided and rustled back, and a glowing screen sprang to life
on the wall revealed behind them. And there, in life and movement and
color and sound and dimension, she--and Robert--projected themselves,
together on the couch, beginning at the moment Ninon had pressed the
three buttons earlier. Robert's arms were around her, his face buried in
the hair falling over her shoulders....

The spaceman's voice was doubly bitter in the darkened room. "So that's
it," he said. "A recording! Another one for your collection, I suppose.
But of what use is it to you? I have neither money nor power. I'll be
gone from this Earth in an hour. And you'll be gone from it,
permanently--at your age--before I get back. I have nothing to lose, and
you have nothing to gain."

Venomous with triumph, Ninon's voice was harsh even to her ears. "On the
contrary, my proud and impetuous young spaceman, I have much to gain,
more than you could ever understand. When it was announced that you were
to be trained to command this experimental flight I made it my business
to find out everything possible about you. One other man is going. He
too has had the same training, and could take over in your place. A
third man has also been trained, to stand by in reserve. You are
supposed to have rested and slept the entire night. If the Commandant of
Space Research knew that you had not...."

"I see. That's why you recorded my visit tonight. But I leave in less
than an hour. You'd never be able to tell Commander Pritchard in time to
make any difference, and he'd never come here to see...."

Ninon laughed mirthlessly, and pressed buttons again. The screen
changed, went blank for a moment, then figures appeared again. On the
couch were she and a man, middle-aged, dignified in appearance,
uniformed. Blane Pritchard, Commandant of Space Research. His arms were
around her, and his face was buried in her hair. She let the recording
run for a moment, then shut it off and turned up the lights.

To Robert, she said, "I think Commander Pritchard would be here in five
minutes if I called and told him that I have information which seriously
affects the success of the flight."

The young spaceman's face was white and stricken as he stared for long
moments, wordless, at Ninon. Then in defeated tones he said, "You
scheming witch! What do you want?"

There was no time to gloat over her victory. That would come later.
Right now minutes counted. She snatched up a cloak, pushed Robert out
through the door and hurried him along the hall and out into the street
where his car waited.

"We must hurry," she said breathlessly. "We can get to the spaceship
ahead of schedule, before your flight partner arrives, and be gone from
Earth before anyone knows what is happening. I'll be with you, in his
place."

Robert did not offer to help her into the car, but got in first and
waited until she closed the door behind her, then sped away from the
curb and through the streets to the spaceport.

Ninon said, "Tell me, Robert, isn't it true that if a clock recedes from
Earth at the speed of light, and if we could watch it as it did so, it
would still be running but it would never show later time?"

The young man said gruffly, "Roughly so, according to theory."

"And if the clock went away from Earth faster than the speed of light,
wouldn't it run backwards?"

The answer was curtly cautious. "It might appear to."

"Then if people travel at the speed of light they won't get any older?"

Robert flicked a curious glance at her. "If you could watch them from
Earth they appear not to. But it's a matter of relativity...."

Ninon rushed on. She had studied that book carefully. "And if people
travel faster than light, a lot faster, they'll grow younger, won't
they?"

Robert said, "So that's what's in your mind." He busied himself with
parking the car at the spaceport, then went on: "You want to go back in
the past thirty years, and be a girl again. While I grow younger, too,
into a boy, then a child, a baby, at last nothing...."

"I'll try to be sorry for you, Robert."

Ninon felt again for her beta-gun as he stared at her for a long minute,
his gaze a curious mixture of amusement and pity. Then, "Come on," he
said flatly, turning to lead the way to the gleaming space ship which
poised, towering like a spire, in the center of the blast-off basin. And
added, "I think I shall enjoy this trip, Madame, more than you will."

The young man's words seemed to imply a secret knowledge that Ninon did
not possess. A sudden chill of apprehension rippled through her, and
almost she turned back. But no ... there was the ship! There was youth;
and beauty; and the admiration of men, real admiration. Suppleness in
her muscles and joints again. No more diets. No more transfusions. No
more transplantations. No more the bio-knife. She could smile again, or
frown again. And after a few years she could make the trip again ... and
again....
