
The space ship stood on fiery tiptoes and leaped from Earth, high into
the heavens, and out and away. Past rusted Mars. Past the busy
asteroids. Past the sleeping giants, Jupiter and Saturn. Past pale
Uranus and Neptune; and frigid, shivering Pluto. Past a senseless,
flaming comet rushing inward towards its rendezvous with the Sun. And on
out of the System into the steely blackness of space where the stars
were hard, burnished points of light, unwinking, motionless; eyes--eyes
staring at the ship, staring through the ports at Ninon where she lay,
stiff and bruised and sore, in the contoured acceleration sling.

The yammering rockets cut off, and the ship seemed to poise on the ebon
lip of a vast Stygian abyss.

Joints creaking, muscles protesting, Ninon pushed herself up and out of
the sling against the artificial gravity of the ship. Robert was already
seated at the controls.

"How fast are we going?" she asked; and her voice was rusty and harsh.

"Barely crawling, astronomically," he said shortly. "About forty-six
thousand miles a minute."

"Is that as fast as the speed of light?"

"Hardly, Madame," he said, with a condescending chuckle.

"Then make it go faster!" she screamed. "And faster and faster--hurry!
What are we waiting for?"

The young spaceman swivelled about in his seat. He looked haggard and
drawn from the strain of the long acceleration. Despite herself, Ninon
could feel the sagging in her own face; the sunkenness of her eyes. She
felt tired, hating herself for it--hating having this young man see
her.

He said, "The ship is on automatic control throughout. The course is
plotted in advance; all operations are plotted. There is nothing we can
do but wait. The light drive will cut in at the planned time."

"Time! Wait! That's all I hear!" Ninon shrieked. "Do something!"

Then she heard it. A low moan, starting from below the limit of
audibility, then climbing, up and up and up and up, until it was a
nerve-plucking whine that tore into her brain like a white-hot tuning
fork. And still it climbed, up beyond the range of hearing, and up and
up still more, till it could no longer be felt. But Ninon, as she
stumbled back into the acceleration sling, sick and shaken, knew it was
still there. The light drive!

She watched through the ports. The motionless, silent stars were moving
now, coming toward them, faster and faster, as the ship swept out of the
galaxy, shooting into her face like blazing pebbles from a giant
slingshot.

She asked, "How fast are we going now?"

Robert's voice sounded far off as he replied, "We are approaching the
speed of light."

"Make it go faster!" she cried. "Faster! Faster!"

She looked out the ports again; looked back behind them--and saw shining
specks of glittering blackness falling away to melt into the sootiness
of space. She shuddered, and knew without asking that these were stars
dropping behind at a rate greater than light speed.

"Now how fast are we going?" she asked. She was sure that her voice was
stronger; that strength was flowing back into her muscles and bones.

"Nearly twice light speed."

"Faster!" she cried. "We must go much faster! I must be young again.
Youthful, and gay, and alive and happy.... Tell me, Robert, do you feel
younger yet?"

He did not answer.
