
Under ordinary conditions, he would have settled down where he was and
waited for rescue. He was not more than fifteen or twenty miles from
the Advance Base, and in this storm they would waste no time waiting
for him to come in, before starting out to search for him. No sailplane
could survive in such a blow. Standing now, with the wind pushing at
him and the rain stinging against his face and hands, he found time
for a moment's wry humor at his own bad luck. On any civilized world,
such a storm would have been charted and predicted, if not controlled
entirely. Well, the more fool he, for venturing this far from Base.

It was in his favor that this world of Mersey happened to be so
Earthlike that the differences between the two planets were mostly
unimportant. Unfortunately, it was the one unimportant difference that
made his present position on the island a death trap. The gulf into
which his river emptied was merely a twentieth the area of the Gulf of
Mexico--but in this section it was extremely shallow, having an overall
average depth of around seventy-five feet. When one of these flash
storms formed suddenly out over its waters, the wind could either drain
huge tidal areas around the mouths of the Adze, or else raise the river
level within hours a matter of thirty feet.

With the onshore wind whistling about his ears right now, it was only
too obvious to Calvin that the river was rising. This rocky little bit
sticking some twelve or fifteen feet above the waves could expect to be
overwhelmed in the next few hours.

He looked about him. The island was bare except for a few straggly
bushes. He reached out for a shoot from a bush beside him. It came up
easily from the thin layer of soil that overlaid the rocks, and the
wind snatched it out of his hand. He saw it go skipping over the tops
of the waves in the direction of the shore, until a wave-slope caught
it and carried it into the next trough and out of sight. It at least,
he thought, would reach the safety of the river bank. But it would take
a thousand such slender stems, plaited into a raft, to do him any good;
and there were not that many stems, and not that much time.

Calvin turned and climbed in toward the center high point of the
island. It was only a few steps over the damp soil and rocks, but when
he stood upright on a little crown of rock and looked about him, it
seemed that the island was smaller than ever, and might be drowned at
any second by the wind-lashed waves. Moreover, there was nothing to be
seen which offered him any more help or hope of escape.

Even then, he was not moved to despair. He saw no way out, but this
simply reinforced his conviction that the way out was hiding about him
somewhere, and he must look that much harder for it.

He was going to step down out of the full force of the wind, when he
happened to notice a rounded object nestling in a little hollow of the
rock below him, about a dozen or so feet away.
