
He went and stood over it, seeing that his first guess as to its nature
had been correct. It was one of the intelligent traveling plants
that wandered around the oceans of this world. It should have been at
home in this situation. Evidently, however, it had made the mistake
of coming ashore here to seed. It was now rooted in the soil of the
island, facing death as surely as he; if the wind or the waves tore it
from its own helplessly anchored roots.

"Can you understand me?" he asked it.

There was an odd sort of croaking from it, which seemed to shape itself
into words, though the how of it remained baffling to the ear. It was
a sort of supplemental telepathy at work, over and above the rough
attempts to imitate human speech. Some of these intelligent plants
they had got to know in this area could communicate with them in this
fashion, though most could not.

"I know you, man," said the plant. "I have seen your gathering." It was
referring to the Advance Base, which had attracted a steady stream of
the plant visitors at first.

"Know any way to get ashore?" Calvin asked.

"There is none," said the plant.

"I can't see any, either."

"There is none," repeated the plant.

"Everyone to his own opinion," said Calvin. Almost he sneered a little.
He turned his gaze once more about the island. "In my book, them that
_won't_ be beat _can't_ be beat. That's maybe where we're different,
plant."

He left the plant and went for a walk about the island. It had been
in his mind that possibly a drifting log or some such could have
been caught by the island and he could use this to get ashore. He
found nothing. For a few minutes, at one end of the island, he stood
fascinated, watching a long sloping black rock with a crack in it,
reaching down into the water. There was a small tuft of moss growing
in the crack about five inches above where the waves were slapping. As
he watched, the waves slapped higher and higher, until he turned away
abruptly, shivering, before he could see the water actually reach and
cover the little clump of green.

For the first time a realization that he might not get off the island
touched him. It was not yet fear, this realization, but it reached
deep into him and he felt it, suddenly, like a pressure against his
heart. As the moss was being covered, so could he be covered, by the
far-reaching inexorable advance of the water.

And then this was wiped away by an abrupt outburst of anger and
self-ridicule that he--who had been through so many dangers--should
find himself pinned by so commonplace a threat. A man, he told
himself, could die of drowning anywhere. There was no need to go
light-years from his place of birth to find such a death. It made all
dying--and all living--seem small and futile and insignificant, and he
did not like that feeling.
