
Calvin went back to the plant in its little hollow, tight-hugging to
the ground and half-sheltered from the wind, and looked down on its
dusky basketball-sized shape, the tough hide swollen and ready to burst
with seeds.

"So you think there's no way out," he said roughly.

"There is none," said the plant.

"Why don't you just let yourself go if you think like that?" Calvin
said. "Why try to keep down out of the wind, if the waves'll get you
anyway, later?"

The plant did not answer for a while.

"I do not want to die," it said then. "As long as I am alive, there is
the possibility of some great improbable chance saving me."

"Oh," said Calvin, and he himself was silent in turn. "I thought you'd
given up."

"I cannot give up," said the plant. "I am still alive. But I know there
is no way to safety."

"You make a lot of sense." Calvin straightened up to squint through the
rain at the dark and distant line of the shore. "How much more time
would you say we had before the water covers this rock?"

"The eighth part of a daylight period, perhaps more, perhaps less. The
water can rise either faster or more slowly."

"Any chance of it cresting and going down?"

"That would be a great improbable chance such as that of which I
spoke," said the plant.

Calvin rotated slowly, surveying the water around them. Bits and pieces
of flotsam were streaming by them on their way before the wind, now
angling toward the near bank. But none were close enough or large
enough to do Calvin any good.

"Look," said Calvin abruptly, "there's a fisheries survey station
upriver here, not too far. Now, I could dig up the soil holding your
roots. If I did that, would you get to the survey station as fast as
you could and tell them I'm stranded here?"

"I would be glad to," said the plant. "But you cannot dig me up. My
roots have penetrated into the rock. If you tried to dig me up, they
would break off--and I would die that much sooner."

"You would, would you?" grunted Calvin. But the question was
rhetorical. Already his mind was busy searching for some other way out.
For the first time in his life, he felt the touch of cold about his
heart. Could this be fear, he wondered. But he had never been afraid of
death.

Crouching down again to be out of the wind and rain, he told himself
that knowledge still remained a tool he could use. The plant must know
something that was, perhaps, useless to it, but that could be twisted
to a human's advantage.

"What made you come to a place like this to seed?" he asked.

"Twenty nights and days ago, when I first took root here," said the
plant, "this land was safe. The signs were good for fair weather. And
this place was easy of access from the water. I am not built to travel
far on land."

"How would you manage in a storm like this, if you were not rooted
down?"

"I would go with the wind until I found shelter," said the plant. "The
wind and waves would not harm me then. They hurt only whatever stands
firm and opposes them."

"You can't communicate with others of your people from here, can you?"
asked Calvin.

"There are none close," said the plant. "Anyway, what could they do?"

"They could get a message to the fisheries station, to get help out
here for us."

"What help could help me?" said the plant. "And in any case they could
not go against the wind. They would have to be upwind of the station,
even to help you."

"We could try it."

"We could try it," agreed the plant. "But first one of my kind must
come into speaking range. We still hunt our great improbable chance."
