
He crouched, wrung with impatience, as the tree drifted swiftly through
the water toward him, too ponderous to rise and fall more than a little
with the waves and presenting a galleonlike appearance of mass and
invincibility. As it came closer, a fear that it would, in spite of the
plant's assurances, miss the island, crept into his heart and chilled
it.

It seemed to Calvin that it was veering--that it would pass to windward
of the island, between him and the dimly seen shore. The thought of
losing it was more than he could bear to consider; and with a sudden
burst of panic, he threw himself into the waves, beating clumsily and
frantically for it.

The river took him into its massive fury. He had forgotten the strength
of it. His first dive took him under an incoming wave, and he emerged,
gasping, into the trough behind, with water exploding in his face.
He kicked and threw his arms about, but the slow and futile-seeming
beatings of his limbs appeared helpless as the fluttering of a
butterfly in a collector's net. He choked for air, and, rising on the
crest of one wave, found himself turned backward to face the island,
and being swept past it.

Fear came home to him then. He lashed out, fighting only for the
solid ground of the island and his life. His world became a place of
foam and fury. He strained for air. He dug for the island. And then,
suddenly, he felt himself flung upon hard rock and gasping, crawling,
he emerged onto safety.

He hung there on hands and knees, battered and panting. Then the
remembrance of the tree cut like a knife to the core of his fear-soaked
being. He staggered up, and, looking about, saw that he was almost to
the far end of the island. He turned. Above him, at the windward point,
the tree itself was just now grounding, branches first, and swinging
about as the long trunk, caught by the waves, pulled it around and
onward.

With an inarticulate cry, he ran toward it. But the mass of water
against the heavy tree trunk was already pulling the branches from
their tanglings with the rock. It floated free. Taking the wind once
more in its sail of leaves, it moved slowly--and then more swiftly on
past the far side of the island.

He scrambled up his side of the island's crest. But when he reached its
top and could see the tree again, it was already moving past and out
from the island, too swiftly for him to catch it, even if he had been
the swimmer he had just proved himself not to be.

He dropped on his knees, there on the island's rocky spine, and
watched it fade in the grayness of the rain, until the green of its
branches was lost in a grayish blob, and this in the general welter of
storm and waves. And suddenly a dark horror of death closed over him,
blotting out all the scene.
