
A voice roused him. "That is too bad," said the plant.

He turned his head numbly. He was kneeling less than half a dozen feet
from the little hollow where the plant still sheltered. He looked at it
now, dazed, as if he could not remember what it was, nor how it came to
talk to him. Then his eyes cleared a little of their shock and he crept
over to it on hands and knees and crouched in the shelter of the hollow.

"The water is rising more swiftly," said the plant. "It will be not
long now."

"No!" said Calvin. The word was lost in the sound of the waves and
wind, as though it had never been. Nor, the minute it was spoken,
could he remember what he had meant to deny by it. It had been only a
response without thought, an instinctive negation.

"You make me wonder," said the plant, after a little, "why it hurts you
so--this thought of dying. Since you first became alive, you have faced
ultimate death. And you have not faced it alone. All things die. This
storm must die. This rock on which we lie will not exist forever. Even
worlds and suns come at last to their ends, and galaxies, perhaps even
the Universe."

Calvin shook his head. He did not answer.

"You are a fighting people," said the plant, almost as if to itself.
"Well and good. Perhaps a life like mine, yielding, giving to the
forces of nature, traveling before the wind, sees less than you see, of
a reason for clawing hold on existence. But still it seems to me that
even a fighter would be glad at last to quit the struggle, when there
is no other choice."

"Not here," said Calvin thickly. "Not now."

"Why not here, why not now," said the plant, "when it has to be
somewhere and sometime?"

Calvin did not answer.

"I feel sorry for you," said the plant. "I do not like to see things
suffer."

Raising his head a little and looking around him, Calvin could see the
water, risen high around them, so that waves were splashing on all
sides, less than the length of his own body away.

"It wouldn't make sense to you," said Calvin then, raising his rain-wet
face toward the plant. "You're old by your standards. I'm young. I've
got things to do. You don't understand."

"No," the plant agreed. "I do not understand."
