
Calvin crawled a little closer to the plant, into the hollow, until
he could see the vibrating air-sac that produced the voice of the
plant. "Don't you see? I've got to do something--I've got to feel I've
accomplished something--before I quit."

"What something?" asked the plant.

"I don't _know_!" cried Calvin. "I just know I haven't! I feel thrown
away!"

"What is living? It is feeling and thinking. It is seeding and trying
to understand. It is companionship of your own people. What more is
there?"

"You have to do something."

"Do what?"

"Something important. Something to feel satisfied about." A wave,
higher than the rest, slapped the rock a bare couple of feet below them
and sent spray stinging in against them. "You have to say, 'Look, maybe
it wasn't much, but I did this.'"

"What kind of this?"

"How do I know?" shouted Calvin. "Something--maybe something nobody
else did--maybe something that hasn't been done before!"

"For yourself?" said the plant. A higher wave slapped at the very rim
of their hollow, and a little water ran over and down to pool around
them. Calvin felt it cold around his knees and wrists. "Or for the
doing?"

"For the doing! For the doing!"

"If it is for the doing, can you take no comfort from the fact there
are others of your own kind to do it?"

Another wave came in on them. Calvin moved spasmodically right up
against the plant and put his arms around it, holding on.

"I have seeded ten times and done much thinking," said the
plant--rather muffledly, for Calvin's body was pressing against its
air-sac. "I have not thought of anything really new, or startling, or
great, but I am satisfied." It paused a moment as a new wave drenched
them and receded. They were half awash in the hollow now, and the
waves came regularly. "I do not see how this is so different from what
you have done. But I am content." Another and stronger wave rocked
them. The plant made a sound that might have been of pain at its roots
tearing. "Have you seeded?"

"No," said Calvin, and all at once, like light breaking at last into
the dark cave of his being, in this twelfth hour, it came to him--all
of what he had robbed himself in his search for a victory. Choking on a
wave, he clung to the plant with frenzied strength. "Nothing!" The word
came torn from him as if by some ruthless hand. "I've got nothing!"

"Then I understand at last," said the plant. "For of all things, the
most terrible is to die unfruitful. It is no good to say we _will_
not be beaten, because there is always waiting, somewhere, that which
can beat us. And then a life that is seedless goes down to defeat
finally and forever. But when one has seeded, there is no ending of the
battle, and life mounts on life until the light is reached by those far
generations in which we have had our own small but necessary part. Then
our personal defeat has been nothing, for though we died, we are still
living, and though we fell, we conquered."

But Calvin, clinging to the plant with both arms, saw only the water
closing over him.

"Too late--" he choked. "Too late--too late--"

"No," bubbled the plant. "Not too late yet. This changes things. For
I have seeded ten times and passed on my life. But you--I did not
understand. I did not realize your need."
