



I inflated a rubber balloon and set it adrift. The idea was that in
free fall the balloon would drift slowly in the direction of the leak.
This was the first thing I did after I had discovered the trouble. I
mean it was the first action I took. I had been thinking about it for
some time. I had been thinking about what a great distance it was from
Pacific Grove, California to Mars, and how I would never breathe the
odor of eucalyptus again.

I watched the white balloon floating in the middle of the cabin. Light
reflected from a spot on its surface, and it made me think of a
Moonglobe I used to keep on my desk when I was in college. I had
turned off the fan, and tried to hold my breath to keep from
disturbing the air. The balloon drifted slowly a few feet aft, wobbled
there for a minute or two, then began to drift forward again. I
decided to indulge in the rare luxury of a cigarette. I lighted one,
reached over, and popped the balloon. The piece of rubber hung in the
air, limp and twisted. I had not expected that trick to work.

The rate of leakage was very low. It had been some thirty-six hours
since I'd first noticed it. This was one of those things, of course,
that were not supposed to happen in space, and often did. Every
precaution had been taken against it. The outer shell of the ship was
tough enough to stop medium-velocity meteoroids, and inside the shell
was a self-sealing goo, like a tubeless tire. Evidently the goo hadn't
worked. Something had got through the hull and made a pinhole leak. In
fact the hole was so small that it had taken me nearly thirty-five
hours to compute the rate of leakage exactly. But it was big enough,
it would do.

I had held the clipboard in my hand for a long time, rechecking the
little black numbers on it again and again. Then I had warmed up the
transmitter, raised Lunar Base, and reported what had happened. I had
not reported before because I had not even been sure I had a leak.
There's a normal seepage rate, of course; a certain amount of air will
seep right through the molecular structure of the hull. That's what
the reserve tanks are for. But I had been out a long time, and there
wasn't enough left in the tanks to compensate for this. Not quite.

So I reported to Base. The operator on the other end told me to stand
by for instructions. That was for my morale. Then I spent some time
thinking about Pacific Grove, and the white house there, and the stand
of eucalyptus. Then I blew up the balloon and popped it. As I was
watching the piece of rubber hang motionless in the air the receiver
began clicking. I waited till it stopped, then pulled out the tape and
read it. It said, HAVE YOU INSPECTED HULL? I switched on the send key
and tapped out, JUST GOING TO. STAND BY.

I opened the locker and broke out my spacesuit. This was the first
time I had put it on since lift-off. Without help, it took me nearly
half an hour to get it on and then check it out. I always did hate
wearing a spacesuit, it's like a straitjacket. In theory I could have
kept it on, plugged directly into the ship's oxygen supply, and ridden
all the way back to Earth that way. The trouble with that idea was
that the suit wasn't designed for it. You couldn't eat or drink
through the helmet, and no one had ever thought up a satisfactory
method of removing body wastes. That would be the worst way to go, I
thought, poisoned slowly in my own juices.

When I finally did get the thing on, I went out the air lock. If the
leak had been bad enough, I would have been able to see the air
spurting out through the hole, a miniature geyser. But I found no more
than what I expected. I crawled around the entire circumference of the
hull and found only a thin silvery haze. The air as it leaked out
formed a thin atmosphere around the hull, held there by the faint
gravity of the ship's mass. Dust motes in the air, reflecting
sunlight, were enough to hide any microscopic geyser spout. Before I
re-entered the air lock I looked out into space, in the direction away
from the sun. Out there, trailing far away, the air had formed a
silver tail, I saw it faintly shimmering in the night. I was going to
make a good comet.

I got back inside and stripped off the suit. Then I raised Lunar Base
again and tapped out, HAVE INSPECTED HULL. RESULTS NEGATIVE. A few
minutes later the reply came back, STAND BY FOR INSTRUCTIONS. For my
morale.
