
The receiver began clicking again. They're still worried about my
morale, I thought. I went over and pulled out the tape. It said:

BRONSON HERE. SUGGEST YOU TRY LAST RESORT.

Dr. Bronson was the project director. It was a moment before I
realized what he meant. When I did I hesitated for several minutes.
Then I shrugged and tapped out, O.K.

I knew what had been happening down there. They had fed all the data I
could give them through a computer, and the computer had said no dice.
There was no solution to the problem, at least none that a computer
could think of with the data available. There was still the Last
Resort.

I wondered if cyanide might not be more pleasant. Well, the exects
would have scientific interest anyway. The Last Resort was still Top
Secret. And highly experimental. It was a new drug with a name a foot
long, called LRXD for short. It had come out of the old experiments
with lysergic acid and mescalin. I had never heard of its existence
until a few hours before lift-off from Lunar Base. Then Dr. Bronson
had given me a single ampule of the stuff. He had held it up to the
light, looking through it. He said, "This is called LRXD. No one knows
exactly what it will do. The lab boys say the 'LR' stands for Last
Resort."

What it was _supposed_ to do was increase mental efficiency in human
beings. Sometimes it did. They had given it to one volunteer and then
shown him an equation which it had taken a computer ten minutes to
solve. He wrote down the answer at once, apparently having gone
through the entire process in his head instantaneously.

Dr. Bronson told me, "It isn't just a matter of I.Q. It increases the
total level of consciousness. Ordinarily the human brain screens out
thousands of irrelevant stimuli. You're not aware of your watch
ticking, or the fly on the wall, or your own body odor. You just don't
_notice_ them. But under LRXD, the brain becomes aware of everything
simultaneously. Nothing is screened out. Furthermore, the subject is
capable of correlating everything. The human brain becomes as
efficient as a Mark 60 computer, with the advantage of imagination and
intuition. We don't know how it works yet, or exactly what it does. I
hate to say this. But there's even some evidence that the drug
increases telepathic ability."

But then again, three of the volunteers had gone insane after taking
the drug. Two had died. On some of the others there was no apparent
effect at all.

"We don't even know whether the effects are permanent or temporary,"
Bronson had added.

So now I was supposed to take this Last Resort and then try to think
of a way out of my predicament, with my I.Q. boosted up to a thousand
or so. It made me think of my college days, when I had stayed up all
night on benzedrine, writing term papers. I remembered Bronson's
description of one of the volunteers who had gone insane, and
shuddered. Well, I had nothing to lose.

"It is what its name implies," Bronson had said. "To be used only in
extreme emergency. Only when you have nothing to lose."

I had put the ampule away in the medicine locker and deliberately
forgotten about it. Now I got it out again and held it up to the light
as Bronson had done. Milky, white. I strapped myself to the
acceleration couch, filled a syringe, and swabbed my arm. I looked at
the letter I had started and probably would never finish. I rammed the
needle in.
