
Letting go of the boy, Slick dealt Dr. Porter a vicious slap. "That'll
learn you not to pull none of your high-brow stuff. Is it my fault I
had to quit school to keep the family from starvin' when my old man got
sent up? If Slick Tennant says it's a time-travel machine, that's what
you call it, see?"

"Yes, I see," Dr. Porter said faintly. The mention of gangland's most
dreaded name had more effect on him than the blow.

"Now let's get something else straight. Once, on TV, they said a couple
of guys came back. Another time, the news program said they couldn't
come back and give tips on the ponies. Which is right? Can you bring me
back any time you want to?"

"Absolutely not. The decision is irrevocable. The public's impression
that the future can be altered or predicted is incorrect."

"Fine. I don't want to come back. And I don't need to change the
future, neither. Things may be different, but a smart cookie can always
get along. Now, according to the news, you only sent these guys ahead a
year. That ain't enough. What's the most you could send me ahead?"

"Theoretically, we could send a subject ahead as much as twenty years,
if we could find anyone who would consent to that, and undoubtedly we
could learn a great deal more by so doing."

"But you did find out that the boys come through okay?"

"Yes. We sent these two men ahead in 1961. When they returned to
awareness, it was 1962. Physically and mentally they were as fit as
before."

"Did they know what happened to them?"

"Well, the year had no apparent duration for them, but they had
normal speed memories of the intervening year when they returned to
awareness. Evidently their fore-memories for the entire year must have
been condensed into the brief period they were in the field. From this
phenomenon, we derive the term 'sending the subjects ahead' which
has so often been misinterpreted. But it's important to note that
these condensed fore-memories were not available until twenty-four to
forty-eight hours after the events, which means the future cannot be
effectively predicted by present techniques."

That sounded like plain English; it sounded as if it meant something,
but Slick wasn't quite sure what. He seized on the last remark, which
he understood.

"What did you build this gadget for, if you can't tell fortunes with
it?" he asked.

"The layman thinks in terms of immediate practical application. But our
primary objective was knowledge of the human mind. We confirmed the
existence of mental capacities that have been suspected for centuries.
We formulated the axiom that awareness is a function of subconscious
fore-memories becoming currently available. We experimentally
suspended awareness without inducing unconsciousness, by causing
the fore-memories to condense. I hope the process will develop into
a useful tool for my profession, that we learn how to superimpose
conditioning on the blank area to produce rational, socially acceptable
action, rather than the literal and irrational compulsion which is a
drawback to implanting post-hypnotic commands. But I can't tell you at
this point where our research will lead."
