
This double-talk had Slick going around in circles. But he had a strong
hunch that taking a trip in the machine was the right thing to do, and
he wasn't going to let Porter divert him from that.

"Let's get down to cases, Doc. Just exactly what's going to happen to
me when I get in this machine?"

"It's difficult to explain the process in lay terms, particularly under
stress. But this may help you to understand it. Have you ever had the
experience of going back to sleep for a few moments after you awoke in
the morning, and dreaming a long, involved dream?"

"Sure. I get some good hunches that way."

"Then you know the dream may cover a period of hours, days, or even
years. People in the dream move and speak at a normal speed. Yet when
you awaken again and look at the clock, you see that only a few
minutes or even seconds have elapsed. A motion picture of the events
in the dream would be nothing but a gabble and a blur, if projected at
such terrific speed."

"Yeah, that's right. I had that happen plenty of times, and I always
thought it was kind of funny."

"It demonstrates the capacity of the human mind to function
independently of the limitations of chronological time. And premonitory
experiences--what you call hunches--give us an inkling of the
fore-memory phenomenon. In our dreams, the past, future, literal and
symbolical material mingles. But by subjecting the physical brain
to a certain type of electro-magnetic field, we can isolate the
fore-memories, condensed as in the dream, while the subject acts as if
in a waking state."

"Does it hurt when a guy's brain goes into this field?"

"Not at all. Awareness and physical sensations are totally suspended.
The elapsing time has no apparent duration. That means you can't feel
anything at all, you don't know what has happened until later, and
twenty hours or even twenty years pass in a second, as far as your mind
is concerned."

"Why in the hell didn't you give me that straight, instead of dragging
in all this dream business? That's just what I'm looking for, just what
I figured it would be from the news stories. Do you throw this here
field ahead or does the time machine travel along with the guy inside?"

Dr. Porter sighed slightly. The man had a preconceived idea, and
nothing Porter had said had altered it in the slightest. "The machine
doesn't actually travel," he explained patiently. "That's why I
objected to calling it a time-travel machine. It exists here and now
and it will exist in the future, I suppose."

"You mean it'll be there when I come out of the field?"

"I said I suppose so. Why should that concern you, particularly?"

"Well, I'll tell you. Slick Tennant pays off two ways. Maybe you only
heard about the times he paid off guys for crossing him, but he pays
off guys that help him, too. I'm paying for your help by giving you a
chance to save your skin. I got a hand grenade in this briefcase. When
I get through with that machine, I'm going to blow her to little, bitty
pieces. Maybe you can't bring me back, but I don't want you to have the
machine to send the cops after me, neither. By the time you get a new
machine built, my trail will be cold."

Intellectually, Dr. Porter accepted the concept of the inevitability
of events. If Slick was going to blow up the machine, he was going to
blow it up. Still the old, old human habit of trying to control the
future kept obstinately insinuating itself.

"But you don't need to destroy the machine," he protested. "Look, let
me try to explain--"

"I thought you'd try to talk me out of it," Slick said ominously. "I
know that a lot of money and work went into that gadget, but I got to
blow her up. You should be glad you're not on my list or you'd get
blown up with her. And I got no time for any more talkin'. I found out
all I want to know. Now, get up and get dressed, and make it snappy.
You're going to drive me over to the University."

Porter had been careful not to make any moves that might alarm his
unbidden guest; he swung his feet obediently over the side of the bed.
"Is Dickie going with us?" he asked.

"You're damned right he is. I don't want you high-signing any cops on
the way, and the kid might even be sharp enough to phone the station
himself, if we left him here." He didn't add that he had an even better
reason for taking the boy.

"Then let him get some clothes on, too. It's cold outside." To his son,
Dr. Porter added, "Don't be afraid, Dickie. Everything is going to be
all right."

"Sure, Daddy," the boy said sturdily. "You just do like he says. He's
like the bad guys on TV."

"You got a smart kid, Porter," Slick said, grinning. "Knows when to
keep his trap shut and what to say when he opens it. That's more than
some of the hoods in this town know."
