
Driving down the freeway toward the University campus, Slick and the
boy sat in the back seat of Dr. Porter's car. Slick tried the kid on
his lap for size; it was a nice fit. The papers said the time machine
was a two-passenger job, but if that wasn't the straight dope, Slick
could hold the kid on his lap, like this.

The gangster squeezed Dickie's small hand. "You're all right, boy.
Plenty of guys a lot bigger than you would be bawlin' if Slick Tennant
invited them to take a little ride. If I ever have a kid of my own, I'd
want one just like you." He tucked a bill in the pocket of Dickie's
jacket. "This is to buy you a play gat or something."

"Thank you, Mr. Slick," the boy said gravely.

Though business compelled him to do things like rubbing out the
competition, Slick was really soft-hearted. Some of the proceeds of his
illicit activities were devoted each year to buying Christmas trees,
turkeys, and toys for poor children. He kind of hated to separate
Dickie Porter from his father, but it was the only way he could see to
insure a safe passage through time.

And then, Slick reflected, he _would_ have a kid of his own, or at
least one he was responsible for. Slick decided then and there that
he would send the boy to the fanciest high-class boarding school they
had in the future, the kind the millionaire kids went to. Dickie would
have a pony, a bike, a dog, plenty of fried chicken and strawberry
shortcake, all the things Slick had yearned for in his own slum
childhood. He would live in the country, where there were miles of
fresh green grass to play on, and he would wear a silver-studded cowboy
suit with real spurs. Unless the kids where they were going would be
wearing space-pilot suits instead. By gosh, that would be something.
Maybe Slick could take the kid on a luxury cruise to the Moon.

To provide these things, Slick would have to follow the only trade he
knew, move in on the local mobs. But he wouldn't let Dickie mix with
hoods and racketeers. Dickie would study to be something respectable,
a mouthpiece or maybe a doctor like his old man. Dickie would have all
the advantages a kid could ask for--everything except a real father.

He might even have that, come to think of it. Dr. Porter might easily
live another twenty years, now that Slick had warned him to get away
from the machine before it was blown up. First, Slick would get some
plastic surgery, so Porter and any other old ducks who were still
alive wouldn't recognize him. There ought to be a lot of improvements
in plastic surgery in twenty years. Probably a guy could even get his
fingerprints changed. Then he would hire a private dick to look up
Porter.

Slick pictured the aged father being reunited with the son he'd lost
twenty years before, seeing the child just as he'd been at the moment
of parting, with Slick playing Santa Claus in the background, sending
the kid a roll of thousand-dollar bills with a pink ribbon around it
for a present. It was such a touching thought that tears came to the
gangster's eyes, as they did when he watched a sad movie.

He was sorry he couldn't let Porter and the boy in on his plans right
now, but he wasn't ready to tip his hand.
