
He submitted, without letting go of either his gun or brief case.

"You seem to be in good shape, as nearly as I can tell from a
superficial examination. But don't you want to reconsider this
twenty-year arrangement? I can't change the setting once you're in
the chair, you know. Are you sure you understand that the only thing
affected will be your own subjective experience, that time will go on
just as it always has, but that you won't be aware of anything between
now and twenty years from now?"

"Sure. You told me that three-four times already. What are you trying
to do? Stall till help gets here?" Slick asked suspiciously.

"I'm not stalling," the doctor said. "In fact, I'm only too glad to
find someone to whom the present means so little that he's willing to
go into a twenty-year blank. But ethics insist that I warn you."

He turned the switch to the twenty-year mark.

"I'm ready," he said.

"Whaddya mean, warn me?" Slick snapped. "Is this thing booby trapped?"

"Certainly not. I have merely tried to explain that it is not exactly
what you anticipated--"

"You know what I'm drivin' at. Have you got the machine set to
electrocute me or explode the grenade? A lot of you respectable
citizens don't figure a guy like me is exactly human. You wouldn't call
it murder to rub me out. You'd think you was doin' the town a favor."

"Some people would, perhaps, but I'm a doctor, not a judge. I've spent
my life trying to find out what makes men like you act as they do, not
in devising means of punishing them. But even if I wanted to do you
bodily harm, I couldn't. The machine has a built-in safety factor."

This was where Slick sprang a little surprise.

"You willing to bet your kid's life on that?" he asked, picking up the
boy.

He took two steps toward the platform, watching Porter's reactions. If
the father made a lunge toward the panel, Slick would know the setting
was wrong. But Porter only stood stunned. The setting was safe, then,
but Slick had only Porter's word that it couldn't be changed after
contact. Maybe a change would be fatal to the passenger. So he would
make sure there would be no changes.

"I always take out travel insurance. Doc," Slick said, and, stepping
onto the platform, he put the boy gently into one of the chairs and
reclined in the other himself.

"Dickie!" Dr. Porter cried.

It was the last thing Slick or the boy heard him say.
