
Slick came back to awareness of where he was and what he was doing. He
was in one of the radial corridors, but at what compass point, at which
level, and how many miles inside the outer walls of the city, he didn't
know. He ran his fingers in a puzzled manner through his hair. He had
never quite figured out the lettering system of the "circles" which
weren't actually circles, but multagons.

He didn't even know what time it was. In this perpetual mock daylight,
there was no change; there were no variations of seasons in this
sterilized, irradiated, humidified, filtered, deodorized, oxygenated,
constantly circulating seventy-five degrees. He remembered when
streets used to have names, when you needed a street guide instead of
a course in geometry to find your way around the city. He remembered
when a city was many buildings, not one immense pyramid, when you wore
dark glasses against the sun's glare on the pavements, when a Santa Ana
blew dust over everything or smog stung your eyes, when people drove
their cars into the downtown congestion instead of leaving them on the
outskirts, when they said to each other, "There hasn't been enough rain
this year," because there was no weather control and water for the
lawns came all the way from the Colorado instead of from the nearby
Pacific.

That was the trouble--his mind slipped back to the old days, his
memories got out of sequence, and he wandered away from Recidivist
Gardens, the only place he felt comfortable and at home. Dr. Tyson said
it was because he had been in the field so long that time, twenty years
ago.

A young man was staring at him, and Slick looked down at himself. No
wonder the young man was staring! To his shame, Slick saw that he
was wearing some kind of clothes, and worst of all, he was wearing
them inside the city! Where had he found them? The only possible
explanation was that he had drawn them out on his museum card. These
scrambled-sequence attacks were becoming more embarrassing each time!

"Don't act so flustered, Pop," the young man said. "Nobody saw you but
me. Take 'em off and I'll put 'em in the lost-and-found chute for you.
Or are you on your way to a costume ball?"

Slick looked over the railing of the balcony. There were several people
waiting for elevators and radial cars on the level below, all decently
naked, of course, but the young man was right. Nobody else had seen
Slick's shame. Hurriedly, he stepped out of the uncomfortable clothes
and rolled them into a bundle. The young man took it from him.

"You're very kind--thank you so much," Slick said.

"Think nothing of it," the young man said. "What address should I put
on this stuff?"

"Just Recidivist Gardens. They'll take care of it in the office. I
hope you don't think all of us at the Gardens do peculiar things like
this. It's just that--well, it's a long story, but they didn't start my
conditioning until I'd been in the blank five years. I'm not capable of
anything really anti-social, you understand, but I get what they call
sequence scrambles. Sometimes I act as if I were living in the past.
I'm not crazy, though. The doctors at the Gardens assure me I'm not
crazy."

"Of course you're not," the young man said soothingly. "But that's a
long blank--five years."

"I went the limit, really. Twenty years."

"Then you must be the man they call Slick!"

"You've heard of my case?"

"I was with you the night you made my father put us in the field."

"Dickie Porter! How you have grown! I've always told your father I
didn't want to meet you. He said if it was going to happen, it would,
whether he introduced us or not. But I hate to face you, after taking
such a large slice out of your life--"

"But I'm still young. You're the one who's had the worst of it,
because when you come out of the blank, you won't have so many years
left. But you have the comfort of knowing you really did something
worth while. Your case and mine have been invaluable to the research,
particularly yours, because it was with you that my father developed
the conditioning techniques. If it hadn't been for you, it would have
been very difficult to find anyone willing to draw a twenty-year blank."

"No. Not even a lifer would want that. But I don't take any credit for
it. I did it only because I was so bull-headed I wouldn't listen to
what Dr. Porter was trying to tell me."

"I came out of it six months ago," the young man said. "Now I can
consciously hear, and feel, and smell, just like other people. I don't
have to wait till tomorrow to remember what I said to somebody today,
or what tonight's dinner tasted like."
