
"I'm so glad to hear that!" Slick said. "Dr. Tyson says I should be
coming out of it soon, too. Say, wait a minute--I heard what you said
just now--I'm hearing what I said myself--why, I've had full sensory
impressions for several minutes now, but it kind of sneaked up on me--"

The young man seized Slick's hand and pumped it vigorously.
"Congratulations! You're out of it!"

"Oh, this is wonderful, wonderful! It's like--like coming back to life.
I must go home and tell Dr. Tyson at once! Please go with me. It'll do
you good to get out of the city. We're the only two people who've drawn
such a long blank--we have so much in common. I'll fix you a chicken
dinner. I raise my own. Just think, to taste my own fried chicken!"

"I wish I could go, but it'll have to be some other time. I have a date
for the opera. When you see it on the Tri-di-cast you'll know my girl
and I are in the studio audience."

"Oh, a girl!" Slick said. "Of course there'd be a girl, now that
you're out of the blank. I won't keep you. But there's just one thing I
must ask you--do you ever remember ahead? Consciously, that is?"

"A few times. But the conscious fore-memories are mixed with
post-memories and impossible to place according to dates. It's the same
objection that applies when people remember ahead in dreams--you don't
know which part of the dream is a fore-memory until it happens."

"Maybe some day they'll learn to sort those conscious fore-memories
out. If I could do it, I would know whether you are ever coming to see
me."

"I will come," the young man promised. "Believe me, I will."

Absorbed in his newly found sensations, Slick took the elevator a
hundred and thirty-three floors to ground level, reminding himself not
to go too far and wind up in one of the sixty levels below ground. Then
he stopped the North-by-Northwest radial car and punched the button for
city limits, thus avoiding the necessity of dealing with the circle
lettering system.

He sat in the speeding little car, watching the faces of the other
passengers, until each, in turn, got off at their respective stops. Got
off to go to luxurious apartments that were nothing more than cells,
with four-sided soundproofing separating neighbor from neighbor,
with air, newspapers, prepared meals and all other deliveries coming
by chute. How could they bury themselves in the ugly angularity of
masonry and steel? How could they, who had always had full senses, deny
themselves the sting of wind, the scent of soil and grass, the sound
and sight of ocean breakers? How the world had changed in his lifetime,
with people who had never committed anti-social acts imprisoning
themselves, while those who had needed conditioning enjoyed the therapy
of freedom.

When the car reached city limits, the door opened automatically and
Slick, the only passenger left, passed through the shower that sprayed
his skin with a porous, temporary plastic coating against the chill
outside air. He walked across the thick ground-cover, exquisitely aware
of the sensation of softness under his feet, leaving the awesome bulk
of the city behind.

Before him swept the expanse of Recidivist Gardens, on gently rolling
hills, bordering the sea. Clearly though he remembered it, this was the
first time he had seen it with full and immediate sensory impact. The
moon silvered the foliage, cast a path upon the water. Here and there,
lights were on in the cottages nestled among the foliage, the domed,
transparent cottages that combined the psychological effect of living
outdoors with the comfort of shelter. The sweet note of a bell buoy
clove the night.

The beauty was almost unbearable, coming so sharply to long blanked-out
senses. The return of immediate awareness, and the knowledge that
Dickie Porter, the only human being with whom he had a kinship of
experience, did not hate him, was too much happiness for one day. Slick
breathed deeply of the salt air, and felt a catch in his heart. He
raised a thin hand to his chest.
