
The young man who had spoken to Slick in the radial corridor found
the obituary item in the newspaper he took from the chute with his
breakfast next morning.

    Louis G. Tennant, 65, known to his friends as "Slick," a resident
    of Recidivist Gardens, died of a heart attack about 2200 last
    night, while returning to his home after a visit to central Ellay.

    Tennant was one of the first recidivists to benefit from the Porter
    socio-legal conditioning techniques, and was noted for his valuable
    contribution to science in volunteering in 1963 for a twenty-year
    blank. He was one of two men who have gone this far ahead, the
    other being Dr. Porter's son, Richard S. Porter, Jr., level 72,
    SSE, circle NA, apt. 1722.

    The Tennant case did much to direct public attention to the Porter
    techniques, helping to pave the way for a drastic revision of the
    criminal statutes, and to establish the concept that punishment
    rather than treatment for anti-social acts is as barbarous as
    punishment rather than treatment for the insane.

    When informed of the death, and asked whether subconscious
    fore-memories of these developments motivated Tennant to volunteer
    as a research subject, Dr. Richard Porter, U.C.L.A., said that the
    effect of subconscious fore-memories as a compulsion to action is
    as yet imperfectly understood. He stated, however, that in certain
    individuals, the fore-memory compulsive factor appears to operate
    closer to the conscious level than in others. He said that, before
    going into the blank, Tennant was noted for the strength and
    reliability of his "hunches." He also recalled that Tennant and
    Richard Porter, Jr., were the last two subjects treated in the
    original Metachronoscope, which was destroyed shortly thereafter in
    an explosion. Subsequent models have been modified and improved.
    Tennant's estate was willed to the Recidivists' Christmas Fund for
    Dependent Children. According to Dr. Claude Tyson of Recidivist
    Hospital, Tennant was still in the blank when he died.

The closing sentence of the item was wrong, Dick Porter thought. In his
last hours, Slick had known how it felt to be alive again, after twenty
years.

Dick Porter was the only human being who fully appreciated what that
meant.



