
He reentered his room, closed and locked the door carefully, and walked
over to his bed. His dazed eyes wandered to the window, to the dirty
brick wall of the apartment house next door, to the shaft of blazing
afternoon sunlight that struck the grimy windowpane. In broad daylight!
_It had happened in broad daylight!_

He sat on the bed, staring at the package in his lap. It was a light,
bulky package, wrapped in some silvery gray substance that felt colder
and smoother than rubber--more like metal. On one side of the package
was an inscription in large, bold script:

                         To: Mr. Joseph Linger
                   June 27th, 1951, Dark Ages Earth
                   24 Kens Street, Jersey City, N.J.
                     United States, North America

He wondered if it was a gag. But the little old man with four arms
hadn't been a gag!

Finally, Joe opened the package. He merely inserted his thumb into a
conspicuous slot at the corner and pushed it around the top edges. The
silver-gray material parted easily and the lid came off the package. As
it fell aside, he saw that the interior was filled with what resembled
a rubber sponge soaked in black lacquer. It was dry, springy, and
blackly glistening. He clutched at it and pulled it out.

Only a top layer came out. Beneath that, surrounded with layers of the
cushioning substance, was--_something_--and a folded sheet of glossy,
white paper.

Joe took out the paper and read it.

    Mr. Joseph Linger
    June 27th, 1951, U.S.A.
    Dark Ages Earth

    _Dear Mr. Linger_:

    _We have chosen you to assist us in an important research project,
    because our investigation has found you to be a science fiction
    enthusiast. We believe you have a better chance of comprehending
    the scope of our research than would most people of your time._

    _As you may have suspected, time involves a countless number of
    varying probability universes, all coexisting in the same time
    dimension. It is much like a giant tree, with branches sprouting
    from the root--the very beginning of time--and subsequent branches
    sprouting from others; and so, on and on._

    _Our research teams have travelled successfully into the past.
    However, in attempting to return, they have been faced with
    innumerable branches in time-probability, with no way of
    determining which branch led to our universe!_

    _Only a few have succeeded in returning--by recording the complete
    facts of history as they went into the past, then stopping and
    checking those facts every few years on their return. When the
    facts didn't check, they knew they were off on another branch
    leading to another universe; they would back-track, try again,
    and check until they were on the right branch._

    _Even so, many members of our research teams died before they could
    return--and our average life-span is five thousand years! You may
    understand, then, that this is an intolerable situation that needs
    correcting._

    _The purpose of this project is to determine the amount of
    probability stress which causes a branch in time, this allowing us
    to check back and spot every moment that such branches occur! With
    that, we can compute the moments of stress and the number of
    branches in all time-probability! Consequently, our research teams
    may then travel safely to any time-era, in any probability
    universe, with a yard-stick which can always lead them back to our
    own universe._

    _And so, in order to measure the probability stress which causes
    time-branching, we have decided to introduce such stress ourselves.
    Enclosed is a product of our civilization. You would probably call
    it a robot. It should never have existed in your time; therefore,
    it will induce considerable stress upon probability. A branch in
    time should result, if not when the robot arrives, certainly when
    you make use of it. That, of course, is where you come in._

    _We have sent this robot because it will repay you many times over
    for your assistance in our project. We have scanners focused on
    your time, ready to record the branching and probability stress
    when it occurs. We ask only your cooperation. You may keep the
    robot, of course._

    _It will fashion any object you desire from surrounding
    matter--solid objects, air molecules, anything within a thousand
    yards of it--if you but type out the name and description of the
    desired object on its keyboard. Thus, if you wish an automobile,
    take the robot to a deserted road and type on its keyboard the
    word, "automobile." By influencing the sub-atomic forces of the
    dirt in the road, the empty air over the road, perhaps the grass
    along the side of the road, the robot will make you an automobile._

    _You may desire objects which do not exist in your time. If you
    type the word, spaceship, for example, be sure to include a
    description of its performance, range, amount of supplies,
    etc.--and be on a large, open field when you do so._

    _In conclusion, it might be wise to remember that illegal
    possession of wealth in your time is punishable by law. I trust,
    for your own sake, you will exercise the utmost discretion._

                                                             Sincerely,
                                                         Myytnor Skurle
                                           Director, Historial Research
                                          Galactic Renaissance, Sol III
