
He dialed the number.

"Hello?" a soft, feminine voice answered.

"Is this Barbara?" he asked.

"Yes. Who're you?"

"Joe Linger," he said. "Are you beautiful?"

"Why--I suppose so," came the modest answer. "What--"

"Can I trust you?" Joe persisted.

"Well, really!" she exclaimed. "Mr. Linger, I'm afraid I don't know
you--"

Joe groaned inwardly. Of course they were strangers! The robot couldn't
help that!

"Just--just what is it you want?" the girl's voice stammered from the
receiver.

"Nothing," Joe replied wearily. "Nothing, now. Maybe I'll call you
back."

He hung up and sat staring into space.

Anything he wanted--anything! Money? What use was money when he didn't
have to buy anything? Food? What about food? Meat and vegetables
weren't inanimate objects, either.

He set the bright globe in his lap and placed his fingertips on its
keyboard. Swiftly, he typed: SIRLOIN STEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS, GRAVY,
MASHED POTATOES, ASPARAGUS, TOAST, COFFEE, APPLE PIE A LA MODE.

There came the shimmering blue radiance, the faint click, the sharp
crack, and the smell of ozone.

Across the room, there was a battered writing table with a glass and a
chipped china pitcher half-filled with stale water. Glass and pitcher
vanished; instead, there sat the complete dinner, not only as he had
ordered it but cooked to perfection. Complete with dishes, silverware,
salt-and-pepper shakers, coffee cream, sugar bowl--everything.

After he had eaten, Joe settled back and surveyed the dishes. How to
get them washed? Furthermore, how to explain to Mrs. Haggerty, the
landlady, that he had not been cooking in his room and what happened to
her pitcher and glass?

He picked up the robot again and typed out: ONE PITCHER, ONE GLASS,
BELONGING TO MRS. HAGGERTY.

With swirling blue radiance, faint click, sharp crack, and smell of
ozone, the battered writing table resumed its former appearance.

Then he had his shoes changed into a cat. Afterwards, he had the cat
changed back into new shoes. His two suits, brought out of the musty
closet, were changed to brilliant, cloth-of-gold togas: then, because
togas were hardly practical, he changed them back into new, expensive
suits. With that beginning, he proceeded to rejuvenate his entire
wardrobe. He began adding to it, acquiring some much-needed extra linen
and some much-desired sportsclothes, but the process had to be reversed
when he noticed the wallpaper was disappearing from the walls, the
closet was minus its door, and the air in the room was beginning to
reek with ozone. Mrs. Haggerty would never stand for that!

And by sheer accident, he learned how to control the robot's influence
on surrounding matter. When he had concluded that shoes were a more
practical possession than a cat, he had accidentally typed the phrase:
SHOES FROM THE CAT.

And--with the glow, click, crack, and ozone smell--the cat had become a
new pair of shoes. If he hadn't mentioned the cat, the robot might have
jerked out one of the dresser drawers and made it into a pair of new
shoes....

He sat at the writing table, staring at the metal globe set before him.
_It's like the Midas touch_, he mused reflectively. Old King Midas,
sitting in his treasure rooms, watching gold coins dribble through his
fingers; the old King had thought it would be wonderful if he could
turn everything he touched into gold--until he could, and finally
touched his young daughter--
