
Joe pushed back his chair, and walked over to the bed. He sat down and
lifted the telephone receiver. Swiftly, he dialed the Delaware number.

"Hello?" It was the soft, feminine voice again.

"Barbara?" His tone was uncertain.

"Yes. Who's this?"

"Joe Linger," he said. "Barbara, I know you've never met me, but
I don't know anyone else who can help me. I've got to talk to
someone--maybe if I could talk to you, I'd be able to work things out?
Could--could I come over to see you?"

"Well-l-l-l," she replied doubtfully, "I really don't--"

"Is someone else there?" he asked anxiously. "Someone else in the
family?"

"Do you want to speak to father?"

"Yes--please!"

"Just a minute--"

As he waited, Joe laid down the receiver and returned to the table for
the robot. He brought it back to the bed, sat down, placed it in his
lap, and swiftly typed out: BARBARA'S ADDRESS.

A gruff voice rattled faintly from the receiver. "Hello? Hello, who's
this?"

There was a swirling blue glow and a click. Beneath the lens, at the
top of the keyboard, was Barbara's address.

Joe picked up the receiver. "My name is Joe Linger," he said. "Sir,
I don't know your name, but I thought I ought to see you. It's about
something your daughter has become involved in without her knowledge. I
thought you ought to know--"

"What?" The voice spoke sharply. "What're you talking about?"

"I'd rather not discuss it over the 'phone," Joe replied nervously.
"Could I come over to see you, personally?"

"Why--um, ah--why, yes!" A hard edge crept into the voice. "Perhaps
you'd _better_!"

Joe felt a wave of relief. "I'll be there in fifteen minutes," he
promised.

He was five minutes early. He parked the sleek, yellow convertible in
the driveway and climbed out. He looked dapper and well-groomed in
his dark, expensive suit as he went up the front steps and rang the
doorbell. The round, gleaming globe of the robot was tucked under his
arm.

The door was opened by a tall, stocky man with iron-gray hair. He raked
Joe with a sharp, piercing gaze. "You're Mr. Linger?"

Joe nodded. "That's right. But I don't know your name."

"James Bowen," the man said stiffly. "Come in, Mr. Linger."

Joe hesitated, shook his head. "First, Mr. Bowen, I want to explain,"
he said. "I'm a stranger--your daughter has never met me--and yet, I
was able to get her first name and telephone number. I thought you
might like to know how I did that."

Bowen scowled darkly. "Well, please come in, Mr. Linger," he insisted
stiffly. "We'll sit down and discuss the matter--"

"No," Joe refused, shaking his head again. "I want to show you
something, first. I want you to see exactly what this is all about--"
He cradled the robot in his arm and began typing on its keyboard,
turning to face the driveway as he did so.

Bowen stepped out the door and stared at Joe's yellow convertible. Then
he jerked back, startled.

There was a swirling blue glow from the bright globe, a faint click.
And then--

_Crack!_
