
Bowen grabbed at the door, his eyes bulging as he stared out at the
driveway. Air currents swirled and eddied across the front lawn. The
convertible had vanished.

"This globe is a robot mechanism," Joe said hastily. "It transmuted the
metal atoms of that car into molecules of air. It can change any matter
into any shape, form, or object desired! Watch!" Swiftly, he began
typing again.

The swirling glow and sound effects were repeated.

And in the driveway, poised gracefully on its tricycle landing gear,
was a small, gleaming light plane!

"I made that out of air molecules, too," Joe explained. "That is, the
robot made it."

"Get--get that airplane off my driveway!" Bowen stammered hoarsely.
"The neighbors will--"

Joe typed busily. The glow and noise repeated. The plane disappeared.

"Now you've seen it," Joe said quietly, gazing up at the tall, dazed
man. "This is what I want to talk to you about. I--I need help, Mr.
Bowen--"

"Come in," Bowen said weakly. "Come in--but turn that god-forsaken
thing off!" He turned and walked back into the house. "Atomic bombs,
hydrogen bombs--and now, _this_! And I'd always thought they'd have
rocket ships first--"

Joe followed him in through a short foyer to a small, comfortable
living room. Then, in the living room doorway, he stopped. He felt the
breath go out of him in a long sigh, and an excited fluttering in his
chest.

Barbara Bowen stood across the room, beside the front window. She had
heard the noises, had seen what happened. She was pale and frightened.
And she was beautiful. Soft, dark hair framed a peach oval of a face
with large gray eyes, short nose, and perfect lips. A soft blue
housecoat draped over a smoothly curved, long-limbed figure.

Bowen had crossed the room and settled into a comfortable chair, taking
out his pipe and tobacco pouch. "Sit down, Mr. Linger," he offered,
with a gesture to a nearby chair. "This is my daughter, Barbara."

"Hello," Barbara said simply. Her voice was a soft, husky sound.

Joe merely swallowed and nodded, then crossed hurriedly to the
proffered chair. Barbara sat down on the couch.

Then, haltingly at first, but with a constantly growing familiarity,
Joe told them everything that had happened. He took the letter from
Myytnor Skurle out of his pocket and showed it to them.

For several minutes after he finished, Mr. Bowen sat smoking his pipe
and staring into space.

"Have you tried making money with it, Mr. Linger?" he asked, pensively.

"No," Joe admitted. "There doesn't seem to be any need for me to have
money."

Bowen rose with sudden decision and crossed to a low writing desk. He
got a piece of paper and, after some searching, a small magnifying
glass. Then he returned and laid the paper on the small coffee table.
"There," he said. "Change that into some five-dollar bills."

Joe stared at the paper, frowning, then cradled the bright globe in his
lap, and began typing. The usual effects followed.

The paper changed into four five-dollar bills.

Bowen picked them up and returned to the writing desk. He took out
his wallet, extracted a five-dollar bill, and sat down. Carefully, he
examined the robot's bills against his own.
