
Minutes dragged past. Joe licked his lips nervously, noticed that
Barbara was doing the same thing, and they stared at each other. Then
Barbara smiled, and he smiled, and--

"Mr. Linger," Bowen spoke sharply, "I want you to do something
else--no, wait!" He rose and walked back to them. "Mr. Linger, let me
try that robot thing!"

Joe glanced at Barbara, then mutely handed the globe to Bowen.

"Now," Bowen said, turning, "Barbara, get off the couch, will you?"

"Yes, father!" Barbara rose hurriedly.

"Um," said Mr. Bowen. He cradled the globe on his arm and pecked at the
keyboard.

There was the swirling blue glow, the faint click--and a loud _crack_
that rattled the windows. The air swirled about the room, reeking with
ozone--

And where the couch had been was now an ugly, anti-tank cannon,
squatting heavily on its rubber tires.

"Holy cow!" Joe exclaimed, jumping to his feet.

"Uh _huh_!" Bowen grunted, satisfied. He handed back the robot. "Now,
if you please, Mr. Linger--give us back our couch! Can you?"

"Why--why, yes--" Joe stammered. He took the robot and changed Bowen's
cannon back into the couch it had been.

"Uh _huh_!" Bowen grunted again. He settled into his chair and resumed
smoking his pipe, calmly.

Joe returned to his seat, frowning perplexedly. Barbara moved back
toward the couch--then hesitated, staring at it uncertainly, and moved
over toward Joe's chair. Almost without thinking, she perched herself
on the arm of his chair. Joe slipped his arm around her hips to steady
her, and neither of them seemed to notice their nearness. They sat
staring at her father.

Bowen stared into space, nodded, and grunted a few times. Finally, he
cleared his throat and began speaking.

"Mr. Linger, the bills that robot made are perfect. You couldn't
spot one of 'em for a counterfeit in a million years! And we've just
discovered that not only will the robot make weapons, but anyone
can work it--not just you! That puts a pretty serious light on the
business. I'm thoroughly convinced, young man, that with that robot of
yours, any man could become the ruler of the world!"

Joe gasped faintly. "That--that hadn't occurred to me!" he stammered
weakly.

Bowen smiled at him with warm friendliness. "I didn't think it had," he
said quietly. "But I'm afraid we're going to have to face facts. Joe,
your life isn't going to be worth a plugged nickel if this ever gets
out. Why, the moment you handed me that robot, I could've committed the
perfect murder--by _changing you into a statue_!"

Joe shook his head. "The robot can't influence animate objects," he
protested.

"Didn't you make a cat?" Bowen asked sharply.

Joe gulped nervously. _Yes, he had!_ And he'd changed the cat back into
new shoes--

"You mustn't deny the danger for a minute, Joe," Bowen went on,
gravely. "If ever the wrong people hear about that robot and get their
hands on it, you're as good as dead! And the rest of the world will
shortly be under the killer's thumb--"

"Father--" Barbara blurted impulsively. "Father, can't we--help him,
somehow?"

Bowen raised his brows and grinned at his daughter. "Maybe for your
sake, we'd better!" he exclaimed, chuckling.

Barbara fidgeted with embarrassment.

"I've been wondering about the people who sent the robot to you," Bowen
resumed seriously. "But it seems that they weren't interested so much
in what the robot might do to our world as they were in getting their
experiment done. So this seems to be left entirely in your hands,
Joe." He glanced up, his gray eyes boring into Joe's face. "Do you
want to make your own decision about it, or do you want us to make a
suggestion?"

Joe ran his fingers through his hair, nervously. "I'd--I'd appreciate
anything you say, Mr. Bowen! Anything!"

But in the back of his mind--even as Bowen began speaking again--Joe
felt the beginnings of an idea, a decision that formed and grew and
flooded into his whole being with the exhilaration of a drug! Even as
Bowen began speaking, Joe knew what he was going to do--what he _had_
to do--
