
The yellow convertible swung up over a shoulder and down the winding
dirt road into a narrow valley. Ahead lay a small lake.

"Your summer cabin's on the south shore, you say?" Joe asked, tooling
the big car down into the cool, tree-shaded lowland.

Bowen nodded, beside him. "I still think you ought to let me put my
oxygen torch to that thing."

Joe grinned and slowed the car, whipping it off the road into a small
clearing. A small, weatherbeaten cabin stood back among the pines.
Beyond the clearing was the sandy shore and the lake.

"There's our cabin," Barbara acknowledged, as Joe headed the car toward
it. He parked under the trees and they got out. He carried the bright
globe under his arm.

"Well," Bowen said, facing him, "We're here, now. What is it you plan
to do, Joe?"

Joe nodded toward the clearing. "I think I'd better do it out there,"
he said.

"It's wonderful up here on weekends," Barbara remarked, matching stride
with them as they started toward the clearing. She was wearing brief
shorts and a sweater, with a bright kerchief tied around her head.
"There's swimming and fishing and no one to bother us. Father's always
wished he could build a home up here--"

Joe stopped, turning to her father. "Have you?"

Bowen nodded, frowning. "Always wanted a quiet, little place for the
day I retire--"

"Just a minute, then!" Joe faced back toward the cabin and steadied the
robot. Deftly, he began typing: SMALL HOUSE FROM CABIN FOR MR. BOWEN,
ALL CONVENIENCES, FURNISHED.

There was the blue glow and faint click from the globe--then, a
thunderous crash from the trees! A strong gust of wind whipped waves
across the mirror-surface of the lake.

It was a small, white stucco house, with a low, rock wall extending
around a garden in front. Bright flowers bloomed in the garden, vines
climbed the trellises at the little windows. The roof was bright red
tile. Bowen stared back at it, his face tight, his gray eyes misting.

"There," Joe said kindly. "That should fix you up."

"I--I didn't ask for it!" Bowen protested stubbornly. "I didn't earn
it!"

"Oh, but you will!" Joe grinned brightly. "You're going to earn it by
not telling anyone about what I'm going to do out here!" Chuckling
softly, he turned and trudged on out toward the clearing.

Barbara caught up with him and tugged at his arm. "Joe," she pleaded.
"Please, Joe! Don't do anything you'll be sorry for--"

Then they stopped at the clearing's edge. Joe cradled the robot on
his arm, touched his fingers to the keyboard--and paused, silent for
a moment. "I'll never be sorry for doing this!" he said, finally, and
began typing.
