
I don’t remember how the idea of stealing a ride first came up, but it
grew to be our most absorbing topic of conversation. Frank and I had
hooked rides on the big army trucks that lumbered up and down the road.
We had hooked rides on freight-trains down in the railroad yards.
Hooking a ride on an airplane, while it was a hundred times more daring,
didn’t seem utterly impossible to us.

One hot, dazzlingly bright July afternoon, Frank and I decided to visit
the field. Coming around the corner of the hangars we saw there was
something of special interest going on. A group of officers and cadets
was gathered about a trim little monoplane standing headed out toward
the field with its engine throttled down and running smoothly.

As no one stopped us, we soon brazenly pressed in closer. It was a new
ship, a Vicker-Vimy pursuit plane imported from England which was about
to receive a tryout. Two of the field’s best flyers were in the cockpit,
coats buttoned and helmets strapped on, all ready to start.

We slipped around to the other side of the plane where nobody happened
to be at that moment and crouched down under the trailing edge of the
wing. The wheels and axle of the landing-gear were only a few feet away.
No one was paying any attention to us.

“Now’s your chance to steal a ride,” said Frank, pointing to the axle.
This was a stream-shaped wooden strut, flatly oval, about ten inches
wide and six feet from wheel to wheel. There were bracing wires and
struts crisscrossing above it that looked like good hand-holds.

“No,” I objected, faced with the actual chance to put my wild talk into
action. “I’m scared to.”

“Dare you to,” Frank taunted me. “Double-dare you to!”

Trembling with excitement, I crawled under the fuselage and up onto the
axle strut. I don’t know to this day whether I really meant to stay
there or not--for the choice was taken out of my hands. That very moment
the pilot in his seat above me opened up the engine with a deafening
roar, and the plane commenced rolling down the field. Taken by surprise,
I clutched the axle tightly and by the time I had my wits collected
again, we were moving along at an alarming speed.

Beneath me the ground was flowing away in a dusty gray stream. I wanted
to drop off, but I could see the tail skid bumping along behind, and I
was afraid I might not be able to roll out of its way. While I was
mustering up the courage to chance it, the plane took the air, and when
I looked down again, a hundred-foot gap had suddenly opened between me
and the earth’s surface.

The plane banked over, tilting sharply; I slid down on the axle until I
could feel the toe of my shoe scrape on one of the wheels, which were
still spinning. I got hold of a wire and pulled myself back, clamping
the strut between my legs like a vise. I felt dizzy and horribly
frightened. Then the plane straightened out and sailed over the hangars,
at a height now of several hundred feet, and I forgot my fears in the
spectacle which spread itself out below me.
