
The ring of the horizon had widened magically. I could see all of San
Antonio, with the river winding through it like a green watersnake, and
the Plaza and the old Alamo in the center. I could see Kelly Field two
miles away and Camp Travers and Fort Sam Houston. Directly beneath me
the group of men we had just left was scattered, running about excitedly
like ants stirred up with a stick. My escapade had been discovered. They
were trying in vain to draw the attention of the pilots, who were, of
course, quite ignorant of the fact that they had a stowaway on board.
The white canvases used to signal from the ground to the air were being
dragged out,--radio communication was undeveloped then,--but the flyers
were so interested in the performance of their new ship that they never
looked back.

Just as the plane banked again, I saw my brother legging it for home at
top speed, but for the next few seconds I was too busy holding on to
notice anything else. I discovered my arms were beginning to ache
severely from the strain I was placing upon them.

The next time we passed above the field, the scurrying figures on the
ground were so tiny it was hard to believe they were men. The hangars
and barracks were about the size of a kid’s building-blocks. The
countryside reminded me for all the world of a big relief-map I had to
study in school one time.

Ever so often the map would tip itself gradually up on edge until it was
steeper than the steepest mountainside and it seemed a wonder to me that
the houses didn’t slide off. I knew the plane was banking in another
turn then, and held on tighter than ever, waiting for the ground to
change back into level prairie again. We were climbing higher all the
time. Hot as it had been on the field, I grew chilly from the wind which
whipped through my thin clothing like a hurricane.

The queerest thing, though, was that the feeling of fear had left me
completely. I felt exhilarated and happy, and immensely proud of myself.
I began to sing and shout at the top of my lungs, while the engine
thundered above me and the vibrating wires whistled and whined.

But with every passing minute my arms and legs were growing more tired
from the task of keeping a stationary position on the axle. I remember
thinking that soon I would be too tired to hold on any longer, and then
I would go tumbling head over heels down through a few thousand feet of
empty space. However, it seemed too fantastic for me to be frightened.
Falling off the roof of our barn would be every bit as scary, I thought.
