
Our scientists knew how to resonate crystals; but the Martians could
resonate the atmosphere. And when they resonated our atmosphere, every
Earthman dug them, no matter where he was. That's the way their first
signal reached us--a resonant voice sounded clearly everywhere on
Earth, speaking in the language of the area in which it was heard. It
was all a matter of resonant pitch. A thought has a basic wave, and
it can be keyed to any pitch. When you say something, you express a
thought by resonating the atmosphere. No matter if you speak English,
or German, or Brooklyn--it's all the same thought. Well, when the
Martians talked, we, each of us, were our own wave converter, and the
vibrations that hit our eardrums came out whatever language we talked.

How did they do it? Well, how do you explain electronic knowledge as
advanced as that? You're right, they didn't. They didn't even try. They
said we wouldn't get it anyway, so why waste air-time?

A few of our big-domes were incensed, but the Martians let them smoke.
They said they'd been watching our rocket efforts, and had figured we
were pretty stupid, since everybody in the Solar System (and outside it
for that matter) knew you couldn't lick the EMF with rockets. But then
we'd started our electronic probing of outer space, and they lifted
their mental eyebrows. It, they said, gave them the itch to give us a
few pointers.

You can imagine the fuss there was in the Pentagon; and in the Kremlin
for that matter. Here was a chance to load up on classified stuff of
the highest order, and something called an RMF was the biggest leak the
world had ever known.

Well, the Martians deep-froze that kind of idea right away. They
weren't going to have any truck with secrets, especially secret
weapons. They gave us quite a ribbing about weapons, and there were
a lot of red faces on Earth. They were civilized, they said, and
even their plows had been beaten into resonators. They had a highly
developed moral sense, and the word war appeared in their dictionaries
only in the archaic section.

They were going to tell us a lot of things, to be sure, but they were
going to elevate us. They were going to make real ladies and gentlemen
out of us, like they were. And as a beginning, they said they were
going to put on a pageant. They were going to depict life on Mars for
us as it was today, in all its glory and perfection, and they were
going to do it in the form of a play.

You can picture the Broadway producers perking up their ears at this,
and right away they began thinking of the whole thing in the terms of
a "production." Naturally, when the Martians said it would be done via
world-wide television, the big networks immediately sensed a big deal,
and they jumped almost as high as Vulcan.

But the Martians said the broadcast didn't need receivers, but that
the sky itself would be the TV screen. This was going to be exactly
the opposite of closed-circuit TV. This was wide open--as wide open as
Minsky's in the Twenties.
