
Actually the Big Show idea was a good one. Their psychologists had
studied us, and had decided that the best way to educate us was the
painless way--by entertaining us. They knew how TV fascinated us. They
noted our bowed shoulders, our kinked necks, our TV squint. What more
natural thing than to put on the biggest TV show of all, and at the
same time take the bow out of our shoulders, the kink out of our necks,
and restore the focus of our eyes to the natural one of infinity?
The whole sky was going to become one gigantic television screen, in
perfect focus, in full (how full we never imagined until we saw it!)
color, and in Three-D.

This Big Show, they said, was going to come in like cosmic rays, from
every direction, but seeming to focus directly overhead. Every seat
in the house would be the best seat in the house. You were the entire
audience, sitting in the one seat, surrounded from horizon to zenith
by the entire stage. The Earth's EMF, they said, was a perfect lens
shape--and it formed a perfect focus on the center of the Earth. The
atmosphere was a perfect lens also, because it was governed by, and in
fact owed its existence, as did the entire Earth, to the EMF.

Ever stop to think that it's the EMF that makes the direction exactly
opposite to your feet the direction we call up, no matter where we
stand on Earth? To a Chinese, up is the other way. It's the EMF does
that. The EMF, expressing itself as gravity. There really isn't
anything called gravity, as an entity. The EMF is the entity, and
gravity is one of its legs. Magnetism is the other. Maybe the only way
you could describe the EMF would be to call it the body. And nobody
knows what the head is!

The egotist who thinks he is the center of the universe may be right
after all. Except that he's not alone. Everybody else is at the center
too!

Not that Edith Miller was ego-centric. She was beautiful, yes, but not
ego-centric. She was not only beautiful, but she was private secretary
to Herman Fendler, head of the new NBC-CBS Big Show Merger. It was
quite true that she would not have been secretary had she not been
beautiful. After all, it's what you see on TV that counts, and the
bosses never let that fact get very far out of their minds. Anything
that couldn't go before a camera, didn't go in TV, _anywhere_. Edith
went _everywhere_. She was the kind of a girl who, when you saw her,
you wanted to see more--and you cursed the "things as they are" that
made it impossible. It just wasn't fair, was the thought that instantly
suggested itself as you saw enough to realize there was much more.
