
The Big Show opened with a commercial. Roy and Edith were sitting atop
the roof of the central studio, relaxing in contour chairs. Roy's chair
adjusted to his figure comfortably as he leaned back, but Edith's found
the task impossible. She squirmed about until Roy glanced at her and
remarked: "Why don't you give up? The chair isn't made that can fit
those curves. You've just got too much of a good thing, that's all."

"It isn't the chair," she said, "it's that commercial. Just look at it!"

Roy stared at the huge box of breakfast food that loomed across the
entire sky.

"The sponsor is probably delirious with joy," he said. "Did you ever
see such color, and such sharpness of focus? It's so vivid you can
almost reach right up and touch it. It's _really_ there, not a picture!"

"But what a thing to open the most important historical event of all
time--the establishment of visual communication with another planet!"

"I get what you mean," said Roy. "But if you don't stop squirming, I'll
find myself unable to concentrate on the Big Show."

Footsteps behind them announced the late arrival of Herman Fendler,
and he literally hurled himself into his contour chair as he puffed:
"Stupendous! Utterly stupendous! And to think that we've got the
contract for these commercials!"

Now the scene changed, and it was Fendler himself, announcing the
Big Show. Fendler beamed as his own voice rolled out of the sky,
sonorous and dignified and with the clarity of a golden bell, slightly
amalgamated with bronze.

"Ladies and gentlemen of the world. We bring you now the Big Show. The
sensational Martian television broadcast of the Pageant of Life as it
is lived on Mars. It is with great pride that we announce that through
the combined efforts of NBC-CBS we bring you the most historic event in
television history, or in the Earth's history, for that matter.

"You all know how the Martians first communicated with us from space.
You all heard the voice that came to us so unexpectedly. But now, at
last, we can see as well as hear! For the first time you will see
our fellow men and women from Mars, enacting before you the glorious
pageant of their 35,000 year history.

"It is through this history that they hope to acquaint you with
themselves, so that we can go on through the future as brother worlds,
understanding each other, respecting each other, loving each other.
It is true that our Martian brothers are far advanced over us, in the
mechanics of civilization as well as the moral values. It is also
true that as we watch, we will be forced to revise many of our own
standards, but all for the better. It is the fond hope of the Martians,
and of the many among us who are concerned with our future development,
the governments, the churches, the universities, that we will be
speeded up along the path of civilization upon which the Martians have
so long trod.

"Let us pray that what we see now, and in the days to follow, nay, the
weeks and months, for it will be a pageant of tremendous length to show
the history of 35,000 years, will be as a leaven to enlarge our lives,
and catapult us into a higher development that can enrich us beyond our
dreams.

"My fellow men, I give you--the Martians!"
