
Roy Mallory, visiting his office to remove some of his personal
belongings, found her emptying her own desk.

"Oh," he said. "Another casualty?"

"You read the papers, don't you?" she asked.

"Yes, I heard of the FCC closing the networks up. But it hasn't stopped
the show. Tonight, you know, is the Martian version of what they do
for entertainment. I suppose we'll be watching that happy young couple
going out on the town and doing it up brown, or buff, as you might
say...."

"_You_ will be watching," Edith cut in acidly. "I have no doubt at all.
As for me...."

"Certainly I'll be watching. That doll is almost as beautiful as you
are, and I keep thinking how nice it would be if we were on Mars."

"We're not," she said. "And we won't ever be."

"Alas!" he said glumly. "And alack!"

"You're as funny as a crutch," she said, stuffing the last of her
belongings into her bag. "You ought to get yourself a job as a
comedian."

"Oh, I've already got a job," he said airily.

"Oh?"

"Yes."

She stood there, poised as if to leave, but not actually translating
the poise into action.

"Where?" she asked, setting down her bag with a defiant slam.

"I could use a good secretary," he said.

"Tell me where you're working," she demanded impatiently.

"I'm starting my own business in television producing," he said. "And
I'll never make it go without a competent secretary, and ..." he put
his hands behind his back, "... look, no hands."

"I'll take the job," she said. "And what are you doing for your first
show?"

"Give me time," he grinned. "I just this minute started the new
company."

"I thought so," she said calmly. "Well, how about the Big Show?"

"The Big Show!"

"Why not?"

"Who'll we get for a sponsor?" he asked sarcastically.

"How about Sunbathing Magazine?" she suggested.

He looked at her wide-eyed. "Sunbathing Magazine!" he gasped.

"Of course. With all this publicity, their circulation will zoom to the
moon, if they just grab it--and it's up to you to see that they do!"

"Baby," he said wonderingly, "I just don't know how to take you."

"Don't try it," she said, picking up a letter-knife and toying with it.
