
Exactly one week later the Martians dropped all their previously
scheduled commercials, and put on the first of the new commercials. As
Roy Mallory reclined in the contour chair atop the roof of his newly
rented office, Edith Miller suddenly appeared at his side and looked
around.

"Where's my chair?" she asked.

He leaped to his feet. "I didn't think you cared to watch the Big
Show," he said. "I only ordered one chair. You're always yelling about
extravagance...."

"All right," she said. "I'll sit on the parapet."

"You'll get a stiff neck."

"I've already got one," she said.

"I'll say you have," he said disgustedly. "But why not forget all that?
This chair is big enough for two."

"I don't need this job that bad."

He grunted and sat down in the chair again. "Okay. But tell me if your
neck does get stiff--I'll change off with you, fifty-fifty."

"Fair enough," she said.

The show began, and there was silence on the roof. Edith watched
calmly, and Roy divided his attention between watching her and the
show. As the show progressed, it became obvious that the script was
perfect for the new sponsor.

"We'll make a million on that percentage agreement," said Edith.

"Two million," said Roy. "I think I'll make you a partner for that bit
of masterminding."

"Keep it," she said. "And by the way, isn't that the roof of the
Sunbathing Magazine building over there?"

"Yes."

"And isn't that the editorial staff of Sunbathing Magazine out on the
roof watching the show?"

"Yes."

"And aren't they in the buff, as you so crudely put it, in spite of the
fact the sun isn't out?"

Roy sat up in his chair and looked sharply at the roof in question. In
the vivid light from the sky-pictures, which now were showing a happy
couple soaring fantastically in a Martian equivalent of the aerial
gadgets of Coney Island, still unimpeded by the briefest of entangling
garments, it was quite obvious that the editorial staff of Sunbathing
Magazine was indeed buffing it.

"They're pretty modern over there," he said. "You can't blame them for
practicing what they preach."

"But isn't this an innovation?"

"I believe so. Usually they limit their activities to private camps."

"I heard today that there were new teenage clubs being formed,
patterned after the Big Show," said Edith.

"Clubs?"

"Yes. The police arrested a whole group of them in Sandusky, Ohio, for
stripping off their clothes during a local hop."

"That's not so good," said Roy.

"Oh, I don't know. They weren't really doing anything wrong."

Roy almost choked. "Nothing wrong...."

"No. They were conducting the whole affair on a highly moral plane. The
police let them go, and dismissed the case when their parents showed
up and suggested that it was all rather natural, and that they felt no
harm had been done."

"The parents said that?" asked Roy incredulously.
