

ARIZONA

_Lost Borders_, Mary Austin.
_Arizona Nights_, Stewart Edward White.


ALASKA

_Love of Life_; _Son of the Wolf_, Jack London.


CALIFORNIA

_The Cat and the Cherub_, Chester B. Fernald.
_The Luck of Roaring Camp_; _Tales of the Argonauts_, Bret Harte.
_The Splendid Idle Forties_, Gertrude Atherton.


NEW MEXICO

_The King of the Broncos_, Charles F. Lummis.
_Santa Fe's Partner_, Thomas A. Janvier.


WYOMING

_Red Men and White_; _The Virginian_; _Members of the Family_,
  Owen Wister.
_Teepee Tales_, Grace Coolidge.


PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

_Caybigan_, James N. Hopper.




NOTES AND QUESTIONS FOR STUDY


THE RIGHT PROMETHEAN FIRE

In Greek mythology, the work of creating living things was entrusted to
two of the gods, Epimetheus and Prometheus. Epimetheus gave to the
different animals various powers, to the lion strength, to the bird
swiftness, to the fox sagacity, and so on until all the good gifts had
been bestowed, and there was nothing left for man. Then Prometheus
ascended to heaven and brought down fire, as his gift to man. With this,
man could protect himself, could forge iron to make weapons, and so in
time develop the arts of civilization. In this story the "Promethean
Fire" of love is the means of giving little Emmy Lou her first lesson in
reading.

     1. A test that may be applied to any story is, Does it read as if
     it were true? Would the persons in the story do the things they are
     represented as doing? Test the acts of Billy Traver in this way,
     and see if they are probable.

     2. In writing stories about children, a writer must have the power
     to present life as a child sees it. Point out places in this story
     where school life is described as it appears to a new pupil.

     3. One thing we ought to gain from our reading is a larger
     vocabulary. In this story there are a number of words worth adding
     to our stock. Define these exactly: inquisitorial; lachrymose;
     laconic; surreptitious; contumely.

     Get the habit of looking up new words and writing down their
     meanings.

     4. Can you write a story about a school experience?

     5. Other books containing stories of school life are:

     _Little Aliens_, Myra Kelly; _May Iverson Tackles Life_, Elizabeth
     Jordan; _Ten to Seventeen_, Josephine Daskam Bacon; _Closed Doors_,
     Margaret P. Montague. Read a story from one of these books, and
     compare it with this story.


THE LAND OF HEART'S DESIRE

Central Park, New York, covers an era of more than eight hundred acres,
with a zoo and several small lakes. On one of the lakes there are large
boats with a huge wooden swan on each side. Richard Harding Davis
located one of his stories here: See "Van Bibber and the Swan Boats,"
in the volume called _Van Bibber and Others_.

     1. How is this story like the preceding one? What difference in the
     characters? What difference in their homes?

     2. How does Myra Kelly make you feel sympathy for the little folks?
     In what ways have their lives been less fortunate than the lives of
     children in your town?

     3. What is peculiar about the talk of these children? Do they all
     speak the same dialect? Many of the children of the East Side never
     hear English spoken at home.

     4. What touches of humor are there in this story?

     5. What new words do you find? Define garrulous, pedagogically,
     cicerone.

     6. Where did Miss Kelly get her materials for this story? See the
     life on page 37.

     7. What other stories by this author have you read? This is from
     _Little Citizens_; other books telling about the same characters
     are _Little Aliens_, and _Wards of Liberty_.

     8. Other books of short stories dealing with children are:
     _Whilomville Stories_, by Stephen Crane; _The Golden Age_, by
     Kenneth Grahame; _The Madness of Philip_, by Josephine Daskam
     Bacon; _The King of Boyville_, by William Allen White; _New
     Chronicles of Rebecca_, by Kate Douglas Wiggin. Read one of these,
     and compare it with Myra Kelly's story.


THE TENOR

     1. Point out the humorous touches in this story.

     2. Is the story probable? To answer this, consider two points:
     would Louise have undertaken such a thing as answering the
     advertisement? and would she have had the spirit to act as she did
     at the close? Note the touches of description and characterization
     of Louise, and show how they prepare for the events that follow.

     3. One of the most effective devices in art is the use of contrast;
     that is, bringing together two things or persons or ideas that are
     very different, perhaps the exact opposite of each other. Show that
     the main effect of this story depends on the use of contrast.

     4. Read the paragraph on page 43 beginning, "It happened to be a
     French tenor." Give in your own words the thought of this
     paragraph. Is it true? Can you give examples of it?

     5. Compare the length of this story with that of others in the
     book. Which authors get their effects in a small compass? Could any
     parts of this story be omitted?

     6. Other stories by H. C. Bunner that you will enjoy are "The Love
     Letters of Smith" and "A Sisterly Scheme" in _Short Sixes_.


THE PASSING OF PRISCILLA WINTHROP

     1. Does the title fit the story well? Why?

     2. Notice the familiar, almost conversational style. Is it suited
     to the story? Why?

     3. Show how the opening paragraph introduces the main idea of the
     story.

     4. To make a story there must be a conflict of some sort. What is
     the conflict here?

     5. How does the account of Julia Neal's career as a teacher (page
     64) prepare for the ending of the story?

     6. Do you have a clear picture in your mind of Mrs. Winthrop? Of
     Mrs. Worthington? Why did not the author tell about their personal
     appearance?

     7. Point out humorous touches in the next to the last paragraph.

     8. Is this story true to life? Who is the Priscilla Winthrop of
     your town?

     9. What impression do you get of the man behind this story? Do you
     think he knew the people of his town well? Did he like them even
     while he laughed at them? What else can you say about him?

     10. Other books of short stories dealing with life in a small town
     are: _Pratt Portraits_, by Anna Fuller; _Old Chester Tales_, by
     Margaret Deland; _Stories of a Western Town_, by Octave Thanet; _In
     a Little Town_, by Rupert Hughes; _Folks Back Home_, by Eugene
     Wood; _Friendship Village_, by Zona Gale; _Bodbank_, by Richard W.
     Child. Read one of these books, or a story from one, and compare it
     with this story.

     11. In what ways does life in a small town differ from life in a
     large city?


THE GIFT OF THE MAGI

This story, taken from the volume called _The Four Million_, is a good
example of O. Henry's method as a short-story writer. It is notable for
its brevity. The average length of the modern short story is about five
thousand words; O. Henry uses a little over one thousand words. This
conciseness is gained in several ways. In his descriptions, he has the
art of selecting significant detail. When Della looks out of the window,
instead of describing fully the view that met her eyes, he says: "She
looked out dully at a grey cat walking a grey fence in a grey backyard."
A paragraph could do no more. Again, the beginning of the story is
quick, abrupt. There is no introduction. The style is often elliptical;
in the first paragraph half the sentences are not sentences at all. But
the main reason for the shortness of the story lies in the fact that the
author has included only such incidents and details as are necessary to
the unfolding of the plot. There is no superfluous matter.

Another characteristic of O. Henry is found in the unexpected turns of
his plots. There is almost always a surprise in his stories, usually at
the end. And yet this has been so artfully prepared for that we accept
it as probable. Our pleasure in reading his stories is further
heightened by the constant flashes of humor that light up his pages. And
beyond this, he has the power to touch deeper emotions. When Della heard
Jim's step on the stairs, "she turned white just for a moment. She had a
habit of saying little silent prayers about the simplest things, and now
she whispered, 'Please God, make him think I am still pretty.'" One
reads that with a little catch in the throat.

In his plots, O. Henry is romantic; in his settings he is a realist.
Della and Jim are romantic lovers, they are not prudent nor calculating,
but act upon impulse. In his descriptions, however, he is a realist. The
eight-dollar-a-week flat, the frying pan on the back of the stove, the
description of Della "flopping down on the couch for a cry," and
afterwards "attending to her cheeks with the powder-rag,"--all these are
in the manner of realism.

And finally, the tone of his stories is brave and cheerful. He finds the
world a most interesting place, and its people, even its commonplace
people, its rogues, its adventurers, are drawn with a broad sympathy
that makes us more tolerant of the people we meet outside the books.

     1. Compare the beginning of this story with the beginning of
     "Bitter-Sweet." What difference do you note?

     2. Select a description of a person that shows the author's power
     of concise portraiture.

     3. What is the turn of surprise in this story? What other stories
     in this book have a similar twist at the end?

     4. What is the central thought of this story?

     5. Other stories of O. Henry's that ought not to be missed are "An
     Unfinished Story" and "The Furnished Room" in _The Four Million_;
     "A Blackjack Bargainer" in _Whirligigs_; "Best Seller" and "The
     Rose of Dixie" in _Options_; "A Municipal Report" in _Strictly
     Business_; "A Retrieved Reformation" in _Roads of Destiny_; and
     "Hearts and Crosses" in _Hearts of the West_.


THE GOLD BRICK

This story, first published in the _American Magazine_, was reprinted in
a volume called _The Gold Brick_, published in 1910. The quotation "chip
at crusts like Hindus" is from Robert Browning's poem "Youth and Art."
The reference to "Old Walt" at the end of the story is to Walt Whitman,
one of the great poets of democracy.

     1. To make a story interesting, there must be a conflict. In this
     the conflict is double: the outer conflict, between the two
     political factions, and the inner conflict, in the soul of the
     artist. Note how skilfully this inner struggle is introduced: at
     the moment when Kittrell is first rejoicing over his new position,
     he feels a pang at leaving the _Post_, and what it stood for. This
     feeling is deepened by his wife's tacit disapproval; it grows
     stronger as the campaign progresses, until the climax is reached in
     the scene where he resigns his position.

     2. If you knew nothing about the author, what could you infer from
     this story about his political ideals? Did he believe in democracy?
     Did he have faith in the good sense of the common people? Did he
     think it was worth while to make sacrifices for them? What is your
     evidence for this?

     3. How far is this story true to life, as you know it? Do any
     newspapers in your city correspond to the _Post_? To the
     _Telegraph_? Can you recall a campaign in which the contest was
     between two such groups as are described here?

     4. Does Whitlock have the art of making his characters real? Is
     this true of the minor characters? The girl in the flower shop, for
     instance, who appears but for a moment,--is she individualized?
     How?

     5. Is there a lesson in this story? State it in your own words.

     6. What experiences in Whitlock's life gave him the background for
     this story?

     7. What new words did you gain from this? Define meritricious;
     prognathic; banal; vulpine; camaraderie; vilification; ennui;
     quixotic; naive; pharisaism. What can you say of Whitlock's
     vocabulary?

     8. Other good stories dealing with politics are found in
     _Stratagems and Spoils_, by William Allen White.


HIS MOTHER'S SON

     1. Note the quick beginning of the story; no introduction, action
     from the start. Why is this suitable to this story?

     2. Why is slang used so frequently?

     3. Point out examples of humor in the story.

     4. In your writing, do you ever have trouble in finding just the
     right word? Note on page 123 how Edna Ferber tries one expression
     after another, and how on page 122 she finally coins a
     word--"unadjectivable." What does the word mean?

     5. Do you have a clear picture of Emma McChesney? Of Ed Meyers?
     Note that the description of Meyers in the office is not given all
     at once, but a touch here and then. Point out all these bits of
     description of this person, and note how complete the portrait is.

     6. What have you learned in this story about the life of a
     traveling salesman?

     7. What qualities must a good salesman possess?

     8. Was Emma McChesney a lady? Was Ed Meyers a gentleman? Why do you
     think so?

     9. This story is taken from the book called _Roast Beef, Medium_.
     Other good books of short stories by this author are _Personality
     Plus_, and _Cheerful--by Request_.


BITTER-SWEET

     1. Note the introduction, a characteristic of all of Fannie Hurst's
     stories. What purpose does it serve here? What trait of Gertie's is
     brought out? Is this important to the story?

     2. From the paragraph on page 139 beginning "It was into the
     trickle of the last----" select examples that show the author's
     skill in the use of words. What other instances of this do you note
     in the story?

     3. Read the sketch of the author. What episode in her life gave her
     material for parts of this story?

     4. Notice how skillfully the conversation is handled. The opening
     situation developes itself entirely through dialogue, yet in a
     perfectly natural way. It is almost like a play rather than a
     story. If it were dramatized, how many scenes would it make?

     5. What does the title mean? Does the author give us the key to its
     meaning?

     6. What do you think of Gertie as you read the first part of the
     conversation in the restaurant? Does your opinion of her change at
     the end of the story? Has her character changed?

     7. Is the ending of the story artistic? Why mention the time-clock?
     What had Gertie said about it?

     8. State in three or four words the central idea of the story. Is
     it true to life?

     9. What is the meaning of these words: atavism; penumbra;
     semaphore; astigmatic; insouciance; mise-en-scene; kinetic?

     10. Other books of stories dealing with life in New York City are
     _The Four Million_, and _The Voice of the City_, by O. Henry; _Van
     Bibber and Others_, by Richard Harding Davis; _Every Soul Hath Its
     Song_, by Fannie Hurst; _Doctor Rast_, by James Oppenheim.


THE RIVERMAN

     1. In how many scenes is this story told? What is the connection
     between them?

     2. Is there anything in the first description of Dicky Darrell that
     gives you a slight prejudice against him?

     3. Why was the sympathy of the crowd with Jimmy Powers in the
     birling match?

     4. Comment on Jimmy's remark at the end of the story. Did he mean
     it, or is he just trying to turn away the praise?

     5. What are the characteristics of a lumberman, as seen in Jimmy
     Powers?

     6. Read the sketch of Stewart Edward White, and decide which one of
     his books you would like to read.


FLINT AND FIRE

     1. What does the title mean?

     2. How does the author strike the keynote of the story in the
     opening paragraph?

     3. Where is the first hint of the real theme of the story?

     4. Point out some of the dialect expressions. Why is dialect used?

     5. What turn of surprise comes at the end of the story? Is it
     probable?

     6. What characteristics of New England country people are brought
     out in this story? How does the author contrast them with "city
     people"?

     7. Does this story read as if the author knew the scenes she
     describes? Read the description of Niram plowing (page 191), and
     point out touches in it that could not have been written by one who
     had always lived in the city.

     8. Read the account of how this story was written, (page 210). What
     first suggested the idea? What work remained after the story was
     first written? How did the author feel while writing it? Compare
     what William Allen White says about his work, (page 75).

     9. Other stories of New England life that you will enjoy reading
     are found in the following books: _New England Nun_, Mary E.
     Wilkins; _Cape Cod Folks_, S. P. McLean Greene; _Pratt Portraits_,
     Anna Fuller; _The Country Road_, Alice Brown; _Tales of New
     England_, Sarah Orne Jewett.


THE ORDEAL AT MT. HOPE

     1. This story contains three characters who are typical of many
     colored people, and as such are worth study. Howard Dokesbury is
     the educated colored man of the North. What are the chief traits of
     this character?

     2. Aunt Caroline is the old-fashioned darky who suggests slavery
     days. What are her chief characteristics?

     3. 'Lias is the new generation of the Southern negro of the towns.
     What are his characteristics?

     4. Is the colored American given the same rights as others? Read
     carefully the opening paragraph of the story.

     5. What were the weaknesses of the colored people of Mt. Hope? How
     far are they true of the race? How were they overcome in this case?

     6. There are two theories about the proper solution of what is
     called "The Negro Problem." One is, that the hope of the race lies
     in industrial training; the other theory, that they should have
     higher intellectual training, so as to develope great leaders.
     Which theory do you think Dunbar held? Why do you think so?

     7. Other stories dealing with the life of the colored people are:
     _Free Joe_, and _Tales of the Home Folks_, by Joel Chandler Harris;
     _Polished Ebony_, by Octavius R. Cohen; _Aunt Amity's Silver
     Wedding_, by Ruth McEnery Stuart; _In Ole Virginia_, by Thomas
     Nelson Page.


ISRAEL DRAKE

The Pennsylvania State Police have made a wonderful record for
maintaining law and order in the rural sections of the state. The
history of this organization was told by Katherine Mayo in a book called
_Justice to All_. In a later book, _The Standard Bearers_, she tells
various incidents which show how these men do their work. The book is
not fiction--the story here told happened just as it is set down, even
the names of the troopers are their real names.

     1. Do you get a clear picture of Drake from the description? Why
     are several pages given to telling his past career?

     2. Where does the real story begin?

     3. Who was the tramp at the Carlisle Station? When did you guess
     it?

     4. What are the principles of the State Police, as you see them in
     this story?

     5. Why was such an organization necessary? Is there one in your
     state?

     6. What new words did you find in this story? Define aura,
     primeval, grisly.


THE STRUGGLES AND TRIUMPH OF ISIDRO

In this story the author introduces a number of unfamiliar words,
chiefly of Spanish origin, which are current in the Philippines. The
meanings are given below.

     _baguio_, hurricane.
     _barrio_, ward; district.
     _carabao_, a kind of buffalo, used as a work animal.
     _cabo_, head officer.
     _cibay_, a boys' game.
     _daledale_, hurry up!
     _de los Reyes_, of the King.
     _de la Cruz_, of the cross.
     _hacienda_, a large plantation.
     _ladrones_, robbers.
     _maestro_, teacher.
     _nipa_, a palm tree or the thatch made from it.
     _palay_, rice.
     _pronto_, quickly.
     _pueblo_, town.
     _que barbaridad!_--what an atrocious thing!
     _volador_, kite.

     1. Why does the story end with Isidro's crying? What did this
     signify? What is the relation of this to the beginning of the
     story?

     2. Has this story a central idea? What is it?

     3. This might be called a story of local color, in that it gives in
     some detail the atmosphere of an unfamiliar locality. What are the
     best descriptive passages in the story?

     4. Judging from this story, what are some of the difficulties a
     school teacher meets with in the Philippines? What must he be
     besides a teacher?

     5. What other school stories are there in this book? The pupils in
     Emmy Lou's school, (in Louisville, Ky.) are those with several
     generations of American ancestry behind them; in Myra Kelly's
     story, they are the children of foreign parents; in this story they
     are still in a foreign land--that is, a land where they are not
     surrounded by American influences. The public school is the one
     experience that is common to them all, and therefore the greatest
     single force in bringing them all to share in a common ideal, to
     reverence the great men of our country's history, and to comprehend
     the meaning of democracy. How does it do these things?


THE CITIZEN

     1. During the war, President Wilson delivered an address at
     Philadelphia to an audience of men who had just been made citizens.
     The quoted passages in this story are taken from this speech. Read
     these passages, and select the one which probably gave the author
     the idea for this story.

     2. Starting with the idea, that he would write a story about
     someone who followed a dream to America, why should the author
     choose Russia as the country of departure?

     3. Having chosen Russia, why does he make Ivan a resident of a
     village far in the interior? Why not at Libau?

     4. Two incidents are told as occurring on the journey: the charge
     of the police at Bobrinsk, and the coming on board of the apple
     woman at Queenstown. Why was each of these introduced? What is the
     purpose of telling the incident on Fifth Avenue?

     5. What have you learned about the manner in which this story was
     written? Compare it with the account given by Dorothy Canfield as
     to how she wrote her story.

     6. What is the main idea in this story? Why do you think it was
     written? Edward Everett Hale wrote a story called "A Man without a
     Country." Suggest another title for "The Citizen."

     7. Has this story in any way changed your opinion of immigrants? Is
     Big Ivan likely to meet any treatment in America that will change
     his opinion of the country?

     8. The part of this story that deals with Russia affords a good
     example of the use of local color. This is given partly through the
     descriptions, partly through the names of the villagers--Poborino,
     Yanansk, Dankov; partly through the Russian words, such as verst
     (about three quarters of a mile), ruble (a coin worth fifty cents),
     kopeck (a half cent), muzhik (a peasant). How is local color given
     in the conversations?

     9. For a treatment of the theme of this story in poetry, read "Scum
     o' the Earth," by Robert Haven Schauffler, in Rittenhouse's _Little
     Book of Modern Verse_. This is the closing stanza:


     "Newcomers all from the eastern seas,
     Help us incarnate dreams like these.
     Forget, and forgive, that we did you wrong.
     Help us to father a nation, strong
     In the comradeship of an equal birth,
     In the wealth of the richest bloods of earth."



