
"Very well," assented the older man. "Perhaps the best place to
begin is with their name. When we first occupied this planet, a
bare twenty years ago, we called them wolfhawk-whirlybirds and
tigerhawk-whirlybirds because they preyed on vicious animals. The
whirlybirds were our best friends in those days. The only trouble is
that they ran out of tigers and wolves to eat."

"Presumed they are now called peoplehawk-whirlybirds?" DeCrabbe
frowningly asked in his clipped speech.

"Exactly!" answered the older man. "Although that isn't their full
name. From the way they attack--"

"Most important," interrupted Five-gun. "Give to me in detail."

"They prefer to attack strollers, although they have attacked on city
streets when there is little traffic. They fly with amazing speed,
considering they are an untidy ball forty feet in diameter, and they
are on top of their victims before the unlucky ones are aware of the
menace. Blowing their victims down with a rush of air from their
feathers, they grab them up by the heels, carry them high aloft and
drop them on piles of rock outside of town."

"They are _downdraft_-peoplehawk-whirlybirds then?" asked DeCrabbe.

"That's almost it," agreed the mayor. "I have not yet told
you of their cries. As they rise in the air with the victim
dangling from their talons by his heels, they utter a pleased
'Coo! Coo!' like a gentle dove. That is why they are called
Coocoo-downdraft-peoplehawk-whirlybirds."

"Approve of adequate names," nodded Five-gun, unbending a trifle.
"First step toward efficiency. Only one thing haven't made clear.
Presumably have shotguns and rifles. Why unable drive off these
predators yourselves?"

The mayor laughed bitterly. "It would be easy to tell you'd just
arrived on this planet--although the birds are not well known in the
other cities either; they are all concentrated in this area. Yes, our
sportsmen tried to shoot down the whirlybirds. No luck, of course.
Imagine the problems you have when one of these forty-foot balls of
commotion comes at you: You try to aim but you can't hold your arm
still because of the swirling wind they raise; and then the dust clouds
thicken and you're firing wildly, and you can't begin to tell which is
body and which is feathers anyway."

"Very well," accepted Charles DeCrabbe mercifully. "You've made
attempt. My first step therefore the attachment of high explosives to
boobytrapped mannequins. Brought these with me."
