
"Great winds of catastrophe. I'm glad you mentioned it before you did
it!" exclaimed the mayor. "We tried that once. The city was six weeks
digging out from under the feathers--and it didn't kill the whirlybird!"

"Aren't you exaggerating difficulties encountered in picking up few
feathers?" loftily inquired DeCrabbe.

"How do you think we got the name of Featherton? Before the deluge we
were called West Applebury!"

"Then why haven't you attempted lure them into boobytraps outside town?
Could detonate them there without even slight inconvenience of picking
up feathers."

"Believe me, if there were only a _few_ feathers," insisted Mayor
Prince, "few enough for you to pick up by yourself, we wouldn't mind
you blowing up a whirlybird."

"Wasn't considering picking up _any_ feathers," replied Five-gun with
dignity. "Had supposed a menial or two could be supplied for that."

The mayor shook his head. "It would take everybody in town to clean
up. And as for blowing one up outside the city, one of our orchardists
tried it. He blew it to bits all right, but eighty acres of his apple
trees were smothered under the debris!"

"Now anticipate that the extermination of the whirlybirds will almost
certainly take me up to two days," conceded Five-gun DeCrabbe calmly.
"However will be all the more interesting to defeat them without
recourse large explosives."

"Gee, what a man!" admired the mayor's son. "Only two days!"

"If you will now lead me to your city park will begin campaign of
extermination at once."

"It's down that way," said the mayor, pointing. Plainly he had no
intention of leaving the shelter of the marquee. "You can't miss it."

As Five-gun Charles DeCrabbe leaped back into his craft and started
off, the mayor's son called after him, "Aren't you scared, going out
exposed like that?"

DeCrabbe turned. "Am armed, young man," he retorted severely.

"Yeah, but those whirlybirds don't pay any attention to guns."

"Soon will," DeCrabbe replied, unruffled.

Slowly he drove down the center of the empty street, receiving more
cheers from heads thrust out of windows. He arrived at the city park
and turned in. He unloaded most of his equipment under the roof of the
bandstand.

A few minutes later one of his robot mannequins moved slowly around
the clearing before the bandstand, its control set for slow walking to
conserve its atomic battery. The predator hunter unlimbered all his
guns as he sat under the bandstand roof waiting.

It was an hour before the first whirlybird attacked.

His first warning was the rising wind. His gaze moved around the sky
until he found the rapidly growing black spot. A few seconds later
it became a universe-engulfing blackness as it spotted the mannequin
and came down for it. As soon as the wind-screaming blackness reached
the mannequin, the needle guns in his hands emptied their hundreds of
anesthetizing needles into the turbulence. But it was as the mayor had
said. Where did the bird's body end and the feathers begin? When the
needle pistols were empty he dropped them and snatched up the rocket
powered stun-gas weapon; its immense flare poured into the blackness
without visible result. He dropped it and grabbed the N-ray flashburn
gun. The forty-foot ball of fury was beginning to rise high with its
prey now, as the gun stuttered fifty bolts of burning lethal radiation
into it. He smelled feathers that time. Finally as the giant bird,
without faltering, rose above the range of the N-ray gun, he took to
the explosive pellet rifle. It had only ten shots; all of these went
into the center of the blackness well before the whirlybird had flown
beyond range. And as it neared the horizon with its mannequin prey, he
heard its sweet song:

"Coo! Coo!"

"How _dare_ it coo after all I did to it?" muttered DeCrabbe grimly.
"Shall not coo next time!"
