
"Ferris?"

"Ferris was your astrogeologer-navigator. He died when you crashed."

"Harrison ... _Janes_?"

"Harrison and Janes are not due for nine more days. But you are in no
danger."

There was darkness and warmth; his throat was dry and it burned. It was
hard to talk, and Ferris was dead. Harrison and Janes were not due for
nine more days. Somebody said so. Nine more days and then everything
would be--

Panic shook him, sent blood throbbing to his head and brought
consciousness back hard. His eyes opened and he was suddenly sitting
bolt upright.

"But Lamson, you were twenty days behind--" And the racing thought froze
solid in his fumbling brain. Then there was a torrent of thoughts and
memory overran them, buried them, and red desert was rushing up to
engulf him. He screamed and fell back with his hands clawing at his
eyes.

"You are in no danger. You had thought our planet lifeless; it was an
error. We live underground, John Love. That is why you did not see us,
or surface indications of our existence. A group of us speak your
language, because for eleven days we have been studying your brain and
analyzing your thought-patterns."

Johnny was bolt upright again, and now his eyes were wide and his hands
were knotted, and where there had been only light and shadow before
there was full sight now. Swiftly he was off the low cot and on his feet
looking for the speaker, arms ready to lash out and hit.

But he was alone in the small, sterile-looking chamber, and his muscles
were so much excess baggage. He tried to recover his balance: he had
forgotten about the slight gravity. He tried too hard, and his body
crashed, confused, into a wall. A--damn them, a _padded_ wall!

He regained his feet. Stood still, and raced his eyes about him. There
it was--above the cot. A small round, shuttered opening--some sort of
two-way communication system. He wondered if they could see him, too. If
they could, that part of it worked only one way.

"All right, whoever you are, so you've analyzed me!" He had to direct
his sudden anger at something, so he shouted at the shuttered aperture.
"Now what...."

There was silence for a tiny eternity, and he could feel them probing,
evaluating him, as a human scientist would study a rare species in a
cage. The feeling ignited a new anger in him, and made him want to curse
the teachings that had conditioned his lifetime of thinking to the
belief that Man _was_ more than an animal.

He'd been sold short....

"Damn you! God damn you, what are you going to do to me?"

In a corner of his mind he was aware of a gentle hissing sound, but he
did not listen. The fear and terror had to be broken. Make them tell,
_make_ them tell....

His muscles grew heavy and his face was feverish with his effort, and
his eyes stung. Something ... like roses. But there were no roses on
dead planets--

"Earthman, can you still hear?"

"I can hear," Johnny said. It was suddenly easier to talk. Even easier
to understand. They had done something....

"We are surprised that your state of shock was not more severe. In the
process of analyzing you, we discovered that you were totally unprepared
for Space-flight, and therefore--"

"Unprepared? What do you think all those months of physical conditioning
were for? Yeah, and all those damned textbooks? You think that barrel I
cracked up was built in a Kindergarten class--"

"Space-flight requires but a relative minimum of those things, Earthman.
Required most is psychological and philosophical conditioning."

"To what?"

"To all things unreal. Because they are the most real; infinity applies
to probability and possibility far more directly than to simple Space
and Time. But--are you calm now?" The voice was growing deeper, and
seemed almost friendly. Johnny tried his muscles; they weren't
paralyzed--he could move easily, and his head was clear. And there was
no anger, now. No "shock."

"Go ahead," he said.

"Our examination of you has indicated that your race is a potentially
effective one, with a superior survival factor. We feel that, properly
instructed and assisted, such a race might be of great value as a friend
and ally. In short, we receive you in peace and friendship, Earthman.
Will you accept us in like manner?"

Johnny tried to think. Hard thoughts, the way men were supposed
to think. What kind of game was it? What were the strings? The
angles ... the gimmicks. What did they really want?

His lips were dry and barely moved over his teeth, but the words came
easily. "Who says you're a friend?"

"We would have learned as much about you by examining your corpse,
Earthman."

So he was alive, and that had to prove something. And it might have been
a lot of trouble to keep him that way. The hell of it was you couldn't
_know_ ... _Anything_ ... you couldn't know anything when you were
tossed into the middle of the impossible. He felt the skin on the back
of his neck chill and tighten.

But who held out their hand like this?

Whoever did anything like that?

No.

"We wish to help you, Earthman, and your race. We have observed your
kind at close quarters, yet we have never landed among you nor attempted
communication because of fear for ourselves. But with proper help, there
need be no fear between us. We offer you friendship and progress."

"You keep talking about what _we_ get out of it." Johnny stared upward
at the ceiling, got his eyes off the little shuttered aperture. He
wished he had a cigarette. "You sound too damned much like a
politician."

"Perhaps at this point you should be informed that your ship is
completely repaired, and ready for your return to Earth whenever you
desire."

"So, it's--You said Harrison and Janis would be here in nine days! That
means I've been out for nearly two weeks! For a nap that's a long time,
but nobody could get that bucket back in one piece in eleven days! Not
after what I did to it--"

"Your ship is completely repaired, Earthman."

Johnny knew somehow that the voice wasn't lying. So maybe when you got
off of Earth miracles did happen. He just didn't _know_ enough.

"We wish to give you data to take back to your Earth which will banish
disease for you--_all_ disease. Data which will give you spacecraft that
match our own in technical perfection. Data that will make you the
undisputed masters of your environment. We offer you the stars,
Earthman."

He shut a thousand racing thoughts out of his head. "Maybe I'll believe
this fairy tale of yours on one condition," Johnny said, "because I
can't intelligently do otherwise."

"And that--condition?"

"Tell me _why_."

There was a pause, and it was as though something forever unknowable to
men hung in the silence.

"Picture, if you can, Earthman," the answer came at last, "several small
islands in the center of a great sea; all without life, save two. The
men on one have learned to build boats which can successfully sail the
sea within certain limits--they can visit the other islands, but are too
frail and too limited in power to venture past the horizon. It is
infinitely frustrating to them. The only places to which they may go are
dead places. Save for one--only one, and it becomes magnified in
importance--it becomes an entire _raison d'etre_ in itself. For without
it, the men with the boats sail uselessly....

"We are old, Earthman. We have watched you--waited for you for a long
time. And now you have grown up. You have burst your tiny bubble of
human experience. You have set out upon the sea yourselves...."

"You guys should give graduation talks. I didn't ask for a scaled-down
philosophy. You tell me that you want to give us every trick in your
hat--for free, no questions asked. So I asked why. And the question
isn't changing any."

"The answer should be self-evident, Earthman. We are old. And we are
lonely."
