
Brandon took in his breath. Numbly he realized it was not his son.
Every time a new body was found he feared and yet hoped it would be
Richard. Richard of the easy laughter and good smile and dark curly
hair. Richard who was now floating off somewhere toward some far
eternity.

Brandon's eyes dilated. He went to his knees and with efficient darts
of his eyes, he covered the vital points of this strange uniform with
the young body inside it. His heart pounded briefly, and when he got
up again he acted like he had been struck in the face. He walked
unsteadily to the rungs.

"Logan," he called down the hole in a numbed voice. "Logan, come up
here. Quick."

Logan climbed lazily up, emitting grunts and smoke.

"Look here," said Brandon, kneeling again by the body.

Logan looked and didn't believe it. "Where in hell'd you get that?"

Lying there, the face of the body was like snow framed by the
ebon-black of the hair. The eyes were blue jewels caught in the snow.
There were slender fingers reclining against the hips. But, most
important of all, was the cut of the silver metal uniform, the grey
leather belt and the bronze triangle over the silent heart with the
numerals 51 on it.

Logan held onto the rungs. "Three hundred years old," he whispered it.
"Three hundred years old," he said.

"Yes." The Numerals 51 were enough for Brandon. "After all these
centuries, and in perfect condition. Look how calm he is. Most corpse
faces aren't--pretty. Something happened, three hundred years ago, and
he's been drifting, alone, ever since. I--" Brandon caught his breath.

"What's wrong?" snapped Logan.

"This man," said Brandon, wonderingly, "committed suicide."

"How do you figure?"

"There's not a mark of decompression, centrifugal force, disintegrator
or ray-burn on him. He simply _stepped_ out of a ship. Why should a
Scientist of the 51 Circle commit suicide?"

"They had wars back there, too," said Logan. "But this is the first
time I ever seen a stiff from one of them. It can't happen. He shoulda
been messed up by meteors."

A strange prickling crept over Brandon. "When I was a kid, I remember
thumbing through history books, reading about those famous 51
Scientists of the Circle who were doing experimental work on Pluto back
in the year 2100. I memorized their uniforms, and this bronze badge.
I couldn't mistake it. There was a rumor that they were experimenting
with some new universal power weapon."

"A myth," said Logan.

"Who knows? Maybe. Maybe not. But before that super weapon was
completed, Earth fell beneath Mar's assault. The 51 Scientists
destroyed themselves and their Base when the Martians came.
The--myth--says that if the Martians had been only a month later--the
weapon would have been out of blueprint and into metal."

Brandon stopped talking and looked at the long-boned, easily slumbering
Scientist.

"And now he shows up. One of the original 51. I wonder what happened?
Maybe he tried to reach Earth and had to leap into space to escape the
Martians. Logan, we've got history with us, pulled in out of space,
cold and stark under our hands."

Logan laughed uneasily. "Yeah. Now, if we only had that weapon. Baby,
that'd be something to sing about, by God."

Brandon jerked.

Logan looked at him. "What's eating you?"

Brandon laid his fingers on the dead Scientist's skull.

"Maybe--just maybe--we _have_ got the weapon," he said.

His hand trembled.
