
The coroner pumps throbbed warmly under the table, while manipulating
tendrils darted swiftly, effectively over the dead Scientist's body.
Brandon moved, too, like a machine. In a regular fury he had forced
Logan to hurry the body down into the preparations room, inject
adrenalin, thermal units, apply the blood pump and accomplish a
thousand other demanding and instantaneous tasks.

"Now, out of the way, Logan. You're more trouble than help!"

Logan stumbled back. "Okay, okay. Don't get snotty. It won't work. I
keep telling you. All these years."

Brandon could see nothing. Logan's voice was muffled, far away. There
was only the surge of pumps, the sweating heat of the little cubicle,
and niche number 12 waiting to receive this body if he failed. Brandon
swallowed, tightly. Niche number 12 waiting, cold, ready, waiting for a
body to fill it. He'd have to fight to keep it empty.

He began to sing-song words over and over as he injected stimulants
into the body. He didn't know where the words came from, from
childhood, maybe, from his old religious memories:

"Lazarus come forth," Brandon said softly, bending close, adjusting the
manipulatory tendrils. "Lazarus, come forth."

Logan snorted. "Lazarus! Will you can that!"

Brandon had to talk to himself. "Inside his brain he's got that energy
weapon that Earth can use to end the war. It's been frozen in there
three hundred years. If we can thaw it out--"

"Who ever heard of reviving a body after that long?"

"He's perfectly preserved. Perfectly frozen. Oh, God, this is Fate. I
know it. I feel it. Came to find Richard and I found something bigger!
Lazarus! Lazarus, come forth from the tomb!"

The machines thrummed louder, beating into his ears. Brandon listened,
watched for just one pulse, just one beat, one word, one moment of life.

"Air for the lungs," and Brandon attached oxygen cones over the fine
nose and relaxed lips. "Pressure on the ribs." Metal plates pressuring
the rib case slowly out and in. "Circulation." Brandon touched the
control at the foot of the table and the whole table tilted back and
forth in a whining teeter-tauter.

A report clipped through on the audio:

"Morgue Ship. Battle Unit 766 calling Morgue Ship. Off orbit of Pluto
234CC, point zero-two, off 32, one by seven, follow up. Battle just
terminated. Six Martian ships destroyed. One Earth ship blasted apart
and bodies thrown into space. Please recover. 79 men. Bodies in orbit
heading toward sun at 23456 an hour. Check."

Logan flipped his cigarette away. "That's us. We got work to do. Come
on. Let that stiff cool. He'll be here when we come back."

"No!" Brandon fairly shouted it, eyes wild. "He's more important than
all those men out there. We can help them later. He can help us now!"

The table came to a halt, bringing absolute silence.

Brandon bent forward to press his ear against the warmed rib-casing.

"Wait."

There it was. Unbelievably, there it was. A tiny pulse stirring like
a termite down under, softly and sluggishly moving through the body,
jabbing the heart and--NOW! Brandon cried out. He was shaking all over.
He was setting the machine in operation again, and talking and laughing
and going crazy with it.

"He's alive! He's alive! Lazarus has come from the tomb! Lazarus
reborn again! Notify Earth immediately!"
