
At the end of an hour, the pulse was timing normal, the temperature was
lowering down from a fever, and Brandon moved about the preparations'
room watching every quiver of the body's internal organs through the
tubular-fluoroscope.

He exulted. This was having Richard alive again. It was compensation.
You roared into space looking somewhere for your lost self-respect,
your pride, looking for your son who is shooting on some soundless
orbit into nothing, and now the biggest child of Fate is deposited in
your arms to warm and bring to life. It was impossible. It was good.
Brandon almost laughed. He almost forgot he had ever known fear of
death. This was conquering it. This was like bringing Richard back to
life, but even more. It meant things to earth and humanity; things
about weapons and power and peace.

Logan interrupted Brandon's exultant thinking by blowing smoke in
his face. "You know something, Brandy? This is damn good! You done
something, Mister. Yeah."

"I thought I told you to notify Earth."

"Ah, I been watching you. Like a mama hen and her chick. I been
thinking, too. Yeah." Logan shook ashes off his smoke. "Ever since you
pulled in this prize fish, I been turning it over in my mind."

"Go up to the radio room and call Earth. We've got to rush the
Scientist to Moon Base immediately. We can talk later."

There was that hard green shine to Logan's narrow eyes again. He poked
a finger at Brandon. "Here's the way I get it. Do we get rewarded for
finding this guy? Hell, no. It's our routine work. We're _supposed_ to
pick up bodies. Here we got a guy who's the key to the whole damn war."

Brandon's lips hardly moved. "Call Earth."

"Now, hold on a moment, Brandy. Let me finish this. I been thinking,
maybe the Martians'd like to own him, too. Maybe they'd like to be
around when he starts talking."

Brandon made a fist. "You heard what I said."

Logan put his hand behind him. "I just want to talk peaceable with you,
Brandy. I don't want trouble. But all we'll get for finding this stiff
is a kiss on the cheek and a medal on the chest. Hell!"

Brandon was going to hit him hard, before he saw the gun in Logan's
fingers, whipped out and pointing.

"Take a look at this, Brandy, and don't lose your supper."

In spite of himself, Brandon quailed. It was almost an involuntary
action. His whole body plunged back, aching, pulling with it.

"Now, let's march up to the radio room. I got a little calling to do.
Get on with you. Hup!"

In the radio-room, Logan touched studs, raised a mike to his lips and
said:

"Beam to Mars. Beam to Mars. Morgue Ship of Earth calling. Mars Beam
answer."

After an interval, Mars gave answer. Logan said:

"I've just picked up the body of a 51 Circle Scientist. He's been
resuscitated. Give me your fleet commander. I got things to talk over
with him." Logan smiled. "Oh, _hello_, commander!"
