
Half an hour later, the discussions were over, the plans made. Logan
hung up, satisfied. Brandon looked at him as if he couldn't believe he
was serious.

Back down in the control room, Logan set a course, and then forced
Brandon to get the body ready. He bragged about the deal. "A half ton
of radium, Brandy. Not bad, eh? Good pay. More than Earth'd ever give
me for my routine duty."

Brandon shuddered. "You fool. The Martians will kill us."

"Uh-uh." Logan pantomimed him into moving the body onto a rollered
table and taking it to the emergency life-craft air-lock. "I'm not that
dumb. I'm having you wire this emergency life-boat with explosive. We
collect the minerals first. We blow up the body if the Martians act
funny. We make them wait until we've collected our half and gotten five
hours' start toward Earth before we allow them to pick up the body.
Nice, huh?"

Brandon swayed over the task of wiring the life-boat with explosive.
"You're cutting your own throat. Handing over a weapon like that to
the Martian enemy."

It was no again from Logan. "After the Martians pick up the body and
we're safely on our way home to Earth, I press a button and the whole
damn thing blows up. They call it double-crossing."

"Destroy the body?"

"Hell, yes. Think I want a weapon like that turned over to the enemy?
Guh!"

"The war'll go on for years."

"So Earth'll wind up winning, anyhow. We're getting along, slow but
sure. And when the war's over, I got a load of radium to set myself up
in business and a big future in front of me."

"So you kill millions of men, for that."

"What'd they do for me? Ruined my guts in the last war!"

There had to be some argument, something to say, quick, something to
do to a man like Logan. Brandon thought, quickly. "Look, Logan, we can
work this, but save the body."

"Don't be funny."

"Put one of the _other_ bodies in the ship we send out. Save Lazarus'
body and run back to Earth with it!" insisted Brandon.

The little assistant shook his head. "The Martians'll have an
intra-material beam focused on the emergency ship when they get within
one hundred thousand miles of her. They'll be able to tell then if the
body's dead or alive. No dice, Brandy."

It was hardly like leaping himself, thought Brandon. It was just
frustration and rage and unthinking action. Brandon jumped. Logan
hardly flicked an eyelid as he pressed the trigger of his paragun. It
paralyzed the legs from under Brandon and he collapsed. The gun sprayed
over his groin and chest and face, too, in a withering shower of
red-hot needles. The lights went out.
