
There was a loose sensation of empty space, and acceleration minus
power. Pure soundless momentum. Brandon forced his eyes open painfully,
and found himself alone in the preparations' room, lying stretched upon
one of the coroner tables, bound with metal fibre.

"Logan!" he bellowed it up through the ship. He waited. He did it
again. "Logan!"

He fought the metal fibre, knotting his fists, twisting his arms. He
yanked himself back and forth. It pretty well held, except for a
looseness in the right hand binding. He worked on that. Upstairs, a
queer, detached Martian bass voice intoned itself.

"500,000 miles. Prepare your emergency craft with the body of the
Scientist inside of it, Morgue Ship. At 300,000 miles, release the
emergency craft. We'll release _our_ mineral payment ship now, giving
you a half hour leeway to pick it up. It contains the exact amount you
asked for."

Logan's voice next:

"Good. The Scientist is alive, still, and doing well. You're getting a
bargain."

Brandon's face whitened, bringing out all the hard, scared bones of
it, the cheeks and brow and chin bones. He jerked against the binding
and it only jumped the air from his lungs so he sobbed. Breathing
deeply, he lay back. They were taking his child back out into space.
Lazarus, his second son, whom he had birthed out of space with a metal
retriever, they were taking back out and away from him. You can't
have your real son; so you take the second best and you slap him into
breathing life, into breathing consciousness, and before he is a day
old they try to tear him away from you again. Brandon fairly yelled
against his manacles of wire. Sweat came down his face, and the stuff
from his eyes wasn't all sweat.

Logan tiptoed down the hard rungs, grinning.

"Awake, Sleeping Beauty?"

Brandon said nothing. His right hand was loosened. It was wet and
loosened, working like a small white animal at his side, slipping from
its wire trap.

"You can't go ahead with it, Logan."

"Why not?"

"The Earth Tribunal will find out."

"You won't tell them." Logan was doing something across the room.
He was the only moving thing in front of a hundred cold shelves of
sleeping warriors.

Brandon gasped, tried to get up, fell back. "How'll you fake my death?"

"With an injection of sulfacardium. Heart failure. Too much pulse on a
too old heart. Simple." Logan turned and there was a hypodermic in his
hand.

Brandon lay there. The ship went on and on. The body was upstairs,
lying breathing in its metal cradle, mothered by him and jerked to
life by him, and now going away. Brandon managed to say:

"Do me a favor?"

"What?"

"Give me the drug now. I don't want to be awake when you send Lazarus
out. I don't want that."

"Sure." Logan came walking across the deck, raising the hypodermic. It
glittered hard and silver fine, and sharp.

"One more thing, Logan."

"Hurry it up!"

Only one arm free, one leg able to move slightly. Logan was pressing
against the table, now. The hypodermic hesitated in his fingers.

"This!" said Brandon.
