
With one foot, Brandon kicked the teeter-tauter control at the base
of the board. The board, whining, began to elevate swiftly. With his
free arm, instantly pulling the last way free from the wire, Brandon
clutched Logan's screaming head and jammed it down under the table,
under the descending board. Board and metal base ground together and
kept on going three inches. Logan screamed only once. The sounds after
that were so horrible that Brandon retched. Logan's body slumped and
hung, arms slack, hypo dropped and shattered on the deck.

The whole table kept going up and down, up and down.

It made Brandon sicker with each movement. The whole room revolved,
tipped, spun sickishly. The corpses in all their niches seemed to
shiver with it.

He managed to kick the control to neutral and the table poised,
elevated at the heels, so blood pounded hotly into Brandon's pale
face, lighting, coloring it. His heart was pounding furiously and the
chronometer upon the hull-wall clicked out time passing, time passing
and miles with it, and Martians coming so much the closer....

He fought the remaining wires continuously, cursing, bringing threads
and beads of blood from raw wrist, ankle and hips. Red lights buzzed
like insects on the ceiling, spelling out:

"ROCKET COMING ... UNKNOWN CRAFT ... ROCKET APPROACHING...."

Hold on, Lazarus. Don't let them wake you all the way up. Don't let
them take you. Better for you to go on slumbering forever.

The wire on his left wrist sprang open. It took another five minutes to
bleed himself out of the ankle wires. The ship spun on, all too quickly.

Not looking at Logan's body, Brandon sprang from the table and with
an infinite weariness tried to speed himself up the rungs. His mind
raced ahead, but his body could only sludge rung after rung upward into
the radio room. The door to the emergency rocket boat was wide and
inside, living quietly, cheeks pink, pulse beating softly in throat,
Lazarus lay unthinking, unknowing that his new father had come into his
presence.

Brandon glanced at his wrist chronometer. Almost time to slam that
door, shoving Lazarus out into space to meet the Martians. Five minutes.

He stood there, sweating. Then, decided, he put a tight audio beam
straight on through to green Earth. Earth.

"_Morgue Ship coming home. Morgue Ship coming home! Important cargo.
Important cargo. Please meet us off the Moon!_"

Setting the ship controls into an automatic mesh, he felt the
thundering jets explode to life under him. It was not alone their
shaking that pulsed through his body. It was something of himself, too.
He was sick. He wanted to get back to Earth so badly he was violently
ill with the desire. To forget all of war and death.

He could give Lazarus to the enemy and then turn homeward. Yes, he
supposed he could do that. But, give up a second son where you already
have given up one? No. No. Or, destroy the body now? Brandon fingered
a ray-gun momentarily. Then he threw it away from him, eyes closed,
swaying. No.

And if he should try to run away to Earth now? The Martians would
pursue and capture him. There was no speed in a Morgue Ship to
outdistance superior craft.

Brandon walked unsteadily to the side of the sleeping Scientist. He
watched him a moment, touching him, looking at him with a lost light in
his eyes.

Then, he began the final preparations, lifting the Scientist, going
toward the life rocket.
