
The house shook with dull sound. There were other explosions in other
yards on other streets.

Involuntarily, Mrs. Morris screamed. "Up this way!" she cried,
senselessly, knowing no sense, no reason. Perhaps she saw something
from the corners of her eyes, perhaps she smelled a new odor or heard
a new noise. There was no time to argue with Henry to convince him.
Let him think her insane. Yes, insane! Shrieking, she ran upstairs. He
ran after her to see what she was up to. "In the attic!" she screamed.
"That's where it is!" It was only a poor excuse to get him in the attic
in time--oh God, in time!

Another explosion outside. The children screamed with delight, as if at
a great fireworks display.

"It's not in the attic!" cried Henry. "It's outside!"

"No, no!" Wheezing, gasping, she fumbled at the attic door. "I'll show
you. Hurry! I'll show you!"

They tumbled into the attic. She slammed the door, locked it, took the
key, threw it into a far, cluttered corner.

She was babbling wild stuff now. It came out of her. All the
subconscious suspicion and fear that had gathered secretly all
afternoon and fermented like a wine in her. All the little revelations
and knowledges and sense that had bothered her all day and which she
had logically and carefully and sensibly rejected and censored. Now it
exploded in her and shook her to bits.

"There, there," she said, sobbing against the door. "We're safe until
tonight. Maybe we can sneak out, maybe we can escape!"

Henry blew up, too, but for another reason. "Are you crazy? Why'd you
throw that key away! Damn it, honey!"

"Yes, yes, I'm crazy, if it helps, but stay here with me!"

"I don't know how in hell I _can_ get out!"

"Quiet. They'll hear us. Oh, God, they'll find us soon enough--"

Below them, Mink's voice. The husband stopped. There was a great
universal humming and sizzling, a screaming and giggling. Downstairs,
the audio-televisor buzzed and buzzed insistently, alarmingly,
violently. _Is that Helen calling?_ thought Mrs. Morris. _And is she
calling about what I_ think _she's calling about_?

Footsteps came into the house. Heavy footsteps.

"Who's coming in my house?" demanded Henry, angrily. "Who's tramping
around down there?"

Heavy feet. Twenty, thirty, forty, fifty of them. Fifty persons
crowding into the house. The humming. The giggling of the children.
"This way!" cried Mink, below.

"Who's downstairs?" roared Henry. "Who's there!"

"Hush, oh, nonononono!" said his wife, weakly, holding him. "Please, be
quiet. They might go away."

"Mom?" called Mink, "Dad?" A pause. "Where are you?"

Heavy footsteps, heavy, heavy, _very_ HEAVY footsteps came up the
stairs. Mink leading them.

"Mom?" A hesitation. "Dad?" A waiting, a silence.

Humming. Footsteps toward the attic. Mink's first.

They trembled together in silence in the attic, Mr. and Mrs. Morris.
For some reason the electric humming, the queer cold light suddenly
visible under the door crack, the strange odor and the alien sound of
eagerness in Mink's voice, finally got through to Henry Morris, too. He
stood, shivering, in the dark silence, his wife beside him.

"Mom! Dad!"

Footsteps. A little humming sound. The attic lock melted. The door
opened. Mink peered inside, tall blue shadows behind her.

"Peek-a-boo," said Mink.