
SEN. LARCH: Will you describe Spaceship X for us, Colonel Greaves?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Yes. It was roughly cylindrical in shape, and
constructed of a dead-black, nonreflective metal. Only one viewport
was visible to us--a small one just aft of the lock--and this viewport
proved to be the only one the ship possessed. Perk and I estimated
the vessel's length at about five hundred feet, its breadth at about
eighty-five feet, and its depth--as I said, it was only roughly
cylindrical--at about fifty feet. In view of later developments,
I think it safe to say that these estimates were close to being
one-hundred percent correct.

SEN. LARCH: Are you positive that they are your original estimates,
colonel? Are you certain that you did not revise them in order to
substantiate the conclusion you arrived at after boarding the vessel?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Those are our original estimates.

SEN. KUELL: Senator, may I have a word?

SEN. LARCH: Please proceed, Senator Kuell.

SEN. KUELL: Colonel Greaves, I'm sure you realize what a grave bearing
yours and Commander Perkins' discovery can have upon religious beliefs
throughout the world should the conclusion you arrived at prove to be
correct. Therefore, I'm sure that you won't take it amiss if I press
this matter of dimensions a bit further. Now a cubit, as all of us
present are well aware of, represents the length of the human arm from
the end of the middle finger to the elbow--a matter of from eighteen to
twenty-two inches. We have, in other words, a variation of five inches.
Hence three hundred cubits, broken down into feet, varies from four
hundred and fifty feet to five hundred and fifty feet; fifty cubits,
broken down into feet, varies from seventy-five feet to ninety-one and
one half feet; and thirty cubits, broken down into feet, varies from
forty-five feet to fifty-five feet. Now, if we calculate the average of
each of these sets of figures, we arrive at the following dimensions:
length--five hundred feet; breadth--eighty-three and one fourth feet;
and depth or height--fifty feet. Does it not strike you as being
highly significant, Colonel Greaves, that yours and Commander Perkins'
estimates should have thus fortuitously approximated--and two cases
actually have coincided with--these figures, and isn't it reasonable to
assume that you revised your true original estimates so that they would
accord with your subsequent theory as to the nature of Spaceship X, and
that the actual dimensions of Spaceship X may be altogether different
from those which you ascribe to it?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Again, I can only say that the estimates I gave you
were our original estimates. We had no need to revise them and we would
not have revised them even if the need had arisen.

SEN. KUELL: Then why weren't they radioed back to central control
coincidentally with your announcement that you had sighted--and I
use your own words--'what appears to be a spaceship of stupendous
proportions'? Why were they withheld until after you had re-boarded the
_Camaraderie 17_?

LT. COL. GREAVES: They were not withheld in the sense that you
imply. Perk and I simply decided that it would be better to wait
until we approached Spaceship X more closely before radioing in a
detailed description, but when the time came, we were so busy making
preparations for boarding that we forgot the matter completely.

SEN. KUELL: Thank you, colonel. Please proceed with your questioning,
Senator Larch.
