
SEN. LARCH: During your press interview, you referred to one of these
entry points as a 'boat bay'. Will you elaborate further?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Yes. It was a large recessed area in the hull where
the auxiliary craft used by the passengers and the crew when they
disembarked had been moored. A lock gave onto this area, and I was
reasonably certain that I could burn my way into the ship with the
small acetylene torch that was part of the _Camaraderie 17's_ hardware.
This seems a rather naive assumption on my part in the light of the
analysis of the fragment of metal I brought back, but I had no way of
knowing at the time that the hull, however susceptible it might be
to meteors, was utterly impervious in a number of other respects. In
any event, as matters turned out I didn't have to use the torch, for
the boat-bay lock had been improperly sealed by the last person to
disembark.

SEN. NICHOLSON: Senator Larch, I would like to have the floor for a few
moments.

SEN. LARCH: Very well, Senator Nicholson.

SEN. NICHOLSON: To return to this sample piece of metal you brought
back with you, Colonel Greaves: During your press interview you
described it as 'a fragment of gopherwood'. In all honesty, colonel,
don't you think that this was a rather flippant and ill-considered
remark, and that by making it, you lent undue credence to what was--and
is--at best, an exceedingly tenuous theory?

LT. COL. GREAVES: I do not consider the remark to have been either
flippant or ill-considered. I was asked what I thought the metal was,
and I gave an honest answer. Furthermore, my immediate superiors agree
with me. Gopherwood has never been identified, and the term could very
well refer to the alloy that went into the construction of Spaceship X.

SEN. NICHOLSON: I shudder to think of the blow our international
prestige will receive should the scrolls you brought back with you
fail to validate your conclusions. Our space program will become the
laughingstock of the entire world. I simply cannot understand why
greater secrecy was not employed in this matter.

LT. COL. GREAVES: Too much of the story had already been made public
through radio and television coverage to make denying it practicable.
In any event, I'm certain that the scrolls will provide the necessary
proof. According to Dr. Noyes, they contain similarities to one of the
early Mediterranean alphabets, and this certainly suggests that the
descendants of whoever wrote them must have had something to do with
the development of that alphabet.

SEN. LARCH: Do you have any further questions, Senator Nicholson?

SEN. NICHOLSON: Not for the moment--no.

SEN. LARCH: I will proceed then. You and Commander Perkins are of equal
rank, Colonel Greaves. May I ask how you ascertained which of you would
do the boarding after authorization to do so came through?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Flipping a coin was out of the question of course,
and we had no straws or matches. Finally we agreed that since our wives
were of similar build and height, each of us would write down his
wife's weight on a slip of paper, and that the one of us whose wife
weighed the most would do the boarding. We promised to be completely
honest about this. I won by a margin of three pounds.

SEN. LARCH: I see. And have you apprised your wife of this ... ah ...
_modus operandi_?

LT. COL. GREAVES: As a matter of fact, I have not.

SEN. LARCH: A wise decision indeed. And now, colonel, will you tell us
what you did and what you found after boarding Spaceship X?
