
LT. COL. GREAVES: As I mentioned earlier, the boat-bay lock had
been improperly sealed. Consequently I had no trouble opening it.
The inner boat-bay lock proved to have been improperly sealed also,
and I concluded from this that the action in both cases had been
deliberate--that Spaceship X had not only been abandoned, but that
it had been abandoned in such a way as to make future use of it
impossible. After entering the ship proper, I found myself in a short
passageway. I floated along it, pulling myself forward by means of
this protuberance and that and propelling myself, whenever possible,
by pushing against the bulkheads with my feet. There was no light
save for an occasional ray of starlight seeping through the meteor
perforations, and my only effective means of illumination was the
electric torch I had brought with me from the _Camaraderie 17_. It
left much to be desired. Presently the passageway gave into a large
chamber which, judging from its rows of bolted-down benches and its
centrally located dais, was a meeting hall of some kind. I did not
linger there--Perk and I had estimated that at most I had only fifteen
minutes to carry out my explorations--but turned, and proceeded aft,
entering another passageway, this one much higher and longer than the
first. On either side, compartments were arranged in tiers, and each
of the tiers above deck-level was fronted by a catwalk. I entered
several of the compartments and looked around, but I saw nothing in
each case but a bunk-like bed and a small chest. The beds were bare,
and the chests were empty. Continuing on down the passageway, I came
to another chamber, this one, judging from its bolted-down tables and
benches, and the utensils drifting about, a combination dining room
and galley. Again, I did not linger. My primary interest was the power
source that had once propelled, illuminated and heated the ship, and
had provided it with artificial gravity, and I reasoned that I would
find this source in the stern. I was right, but before I located it I
came to still another chamber. This one was huge, and it was filled
with cages. All of them were empty, but they set me to thinking. For
one thing, there were hundreds of them. For another, they ranged in
size from tiny to titanic. For another, each of them struck me as
having been built to accommodate not one animal, but two or more. I
remembered the innumerable meteor penetrations, and the great age they
implied. I remembered that in the vacuum and in the absolute zero of
space, corrosion and decay are unknown and that under such conditions
objects can be preserved for millennia. I remembered the dimensions of
the ship. It couldn't be, and yet--

SEN. LARCH: Please confine your account to what you saw and what you
did, Colonel Greaves.

LT. COL. GREAVES: Very well. The chamber housing the power source, when
I finally located it, proved to be quite small. The source itself was
an ion motor. It had been thoroughly and deliberately smashed, and both
its condition and its advanced design prevented me from being able to
tell very much about it, but I _could_ tell, nevertheless, that while
it had been capable of powering the ship in space, it could never have
launched the ship from a planet, assuming that said planet's gravity
approximated Earth's. Launching a ship the size of that one took some
doing, and I take off my hat to the technicians who accomplished it.

SEN. LARCH: They just might have built the ship in space, you know.

LT. COL. GREAVES: I have reason to believe otherwise, but if they had,
I'd still take my hat off to them.
