
SEN. LARCH: Wouldn't you say that you're indulging in some rather wild
surmises, Colonel Greaves?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Not at all. I think that the find I made shortly
after returning to the forward part of the ship justifies everything
I've said.

SEN. LARCH: You're referring, no doubt, to the 'dove'. Very well--go
on, Colonel Greaves.

LT. COL. GREAVES: I had some five minutes remaining when I got back
to the large hall from which I had begun my explorations, and I knew
that I would have to hurry if I expected to see the rest of the ship.
Crossing the hall, I passed through a wide entrance and found myself
at the base of a spiral companionway. I propelled myself up the metal
stairs, and a few minutes later, found myself on the bridge. The first
object my torch beam picked up was a huge viewscreen. When activated,
it must have provided a splendid view of space, but now of course the
screen was blank. Next to the screen stood a long desk, and on this
desk lay the ship's log--the metallic scrolls which had been left
behind (deliberately, I believe) and which are now being deciphered
by Dr. Noyes and his staff. In addition to the viewscreen and the
desk, the bridge contained a complex sextant, and an instrument panel
so intricate that compared to it, our panel on the _Camaraderie 17_
seemed like a primitive abacus. To the right of the panel, a doorway
opened into another sequence of compartments. As there were only four
of them and as they were obviously much more spacious than the previous
compartments I had found, I concluded that I had blundered into
officers' country. One of the compartments appeared to be considerably
larger than the other three, and believing it to be the captain's,
I looked into it first. I learned nothing beyond the fact that two
people, not one, had occupied it. I found this to be the case with the
three remaining compartments, and concluded that the four officers had
had their wives with them. Finally I returned to the bridge. I had
only two minutes to go now, and I probably would have propelled myself
straight back down the companionway (I had already taken possession of
the scrolls) if the 'dove' hadn't caught my eye. That's exactly what
I thought of when my torch beam picked up the object bracketed to the
bulkhead--a dove. A dove in flight. Investigating, I learned that it
was a streamlined telescopic camera the lens of which were probably
located somewhere in the ventral region of the hull. The 'wings' were
merely a device for centering the image and focusing the lens, while
the 'body' provided the housing for the automatic developing unit
and served as a receptacle for the finished photograph. The final
photograph to have been taken and never been removed, and it stood out
vividly in the beam of my torch. It was a photograph of an olive grove.
By now, my time had just about run out, and I removed the photograph
from the 'dove', returned to the boat-bay area, picking up a fragment
of meteor-dislodged metal on my way, and regained the _Camaraderie 17_.

SEN. KUELL: It is imperative that I interpose a few words at this
point, Senator Larch.

SEN. LARCH: Please go ahead, Senator Kuell.
