
SEN. KUELL: Colonel Greaves, I am of course familiar with this
photograph you brought back, but, while the general trend of your
reasoning is apparent to me, I cannot comprehend how so insignificant
a discovery could have set so unorthodox a train of thought in motion.
The fact that the photograph depicts an olive grove means absolutely
nothing, even when brought into juxtaposition with the concomitant fact
that the camera used in taking and developing it was shaped like a
dove. How could you possibly have arrived at the conclusion you did?

LT. COL. GREAVES: Because my 'train of thought', as you call it, was
already in motion and had been in motion for some time. The camera
and the photograph were merely the final clues in a whole series of
clues: the ship's dimensions, its obvious age, the cages, the large
compartment in the officers' section, and the three smaller ones....
With the discovery of the camera and the photograph, everything fell
into place.

SEN. KUELL: _Everything_, colonel? I can think of any number of
details that your theory does not explain. What of Xithuthros, Prithu,
and Ut-napishtim? What of Deucalion and Pyrrha? Would you have me
believe that _they_ were aboard this streamlined space-scow of yours?

LT. COL. GREAVES: In a sense they were. All versions of the legend
are based on handed-down memories of the voyage of Spaceship X from
Planet X to Earth, but the concept of space being beyond the scope of
primitive minds, the two planets were made into one, and the survivors
of the disaster were pictured not as fleeing from one planet to
another, but as sweating out the debacle in a craft that never left
Earth. The religious cosmogony which the survivors reverted to after
spreading out among the early civilized sectors of the world was
adapted in various ways, but the most authentic version, I believe,
comes down to us through Genesis, since it was in the region that later
became known as Judea that the captain of Spaceship X and his three
officers settled down.

SEN. KUELL: All of this is pure conjecture, colonel. You haven't so
much as a single fact to go on.

LT. COL. GREAVES: You're forgetting--are you not, senator?--that a
blow-up of the photograph of the olive grove revealed several pieces
of pottery in _good_ condition that the experts agreed dated from the
late Neolithic Period.

SEN. KUELL: You're forgetting--are you not, colonel?--that a vast
difference exists between an olive _grove_ and an olive _leaf_. And how
do you explain why these ancient voyageurs of yours brought animals
with them? More important, how do you explain what became of these
animals? Surely if they had been landed, some evidence of them would
remain, and just as surely, that evidence would have come to light by
now.

LT. COL. GREAVES: Maybe they were brought along out of compassion.
More probably, they were brought along because the survivors were
flesh-eaters. In either case, you can be certain that they were
transported from the mother-ship to Earth. As to why no evidence of
their existence has ever been found, isn't it reasonable to assume that
Planet X paralleled Earth in lower, as well as higher, forms of life?

SEN. KUELL: Only if you're trying to shore up a theory that is about
to collapse. But it will do you no good, Colonel Greaves: the text of
Genesis confutes your entire contention.

LT. COL. GREAVES: On the contrary, the text of Genesis substantiates my
contention. Let me quote one or two passages by way of illustration.
'--the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up,
and the windows of heaven were opened.' This is race memory coming
to the fore in the form of an imagery so strong that it survives
translation, and with the aid of a little imagination, the passage can
be interpreted to mean that all is in readiness for the launching.
'And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth: and all the
high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered'. If you
will substitute 'distances' for 'waters' and 'over' for 'upon', you
will obtain a fairly clear mental picture of a planet fading from
sight in the viewscreen of a departing spaceship. And how about the
'stories' referred to in the building specification? '--with lower,
second, and third stories shalt thou make it'? Those weren't 'stories',
senator--they were stages. Rocket stages. The number of rocket stages
that would be required to launch a ship the size of Spaceship X into
space.
