
High jungle surrounded the ship. Deep-red stringers of climbing vine
meshed with the purple and green and blue of exotic tree-forms. From
the edge of the dead path the Wallower had burned in settling, the
patchwork melange of colored growth reared and spread.

The analyzers were just completing their spore-counts when the
Diamoraii burst from the jungle, thundered onto the charred ground of
the clearing.

They rode tall on the backs of their mounts, whooping and wailing in
a minor key. The outside receivers, which had been left on in various
parts of the _Wallower_, rattled tinnily at the noise. Men clasped
hands to their ears and hurried to depress studs to shut out the
din. Shreve and Teller whirled from their calculations and stared
fascinated at the sight in the plates.

The Diamoraii's huge, loping animals closely resembled Terrestrial
giraffes. The beasts were pitch-black and ran with a gait beautifully
adapted to the jungle. They came on with a liquid, side-stepping
motion. They neatly leaped the twisted tree-trunks, swayed out of the
path to avoid a cluster of high-pile blossoms, and trampled to a stop
fifty yards in front of the _Wallower_.

"Stations!" Shreve yelled into the p-a mike. He turned back to the
view-plate, staring at the black beasts.

There were twelve of them, each with a depression in its back in which
a Diamorai sat, clutching the flanks of the thin, black animal with
his knees. Twists of pliant material looped through the beast's noses
served both as bridle and reins.

The twelve Diamoraii leaped agilely from their mount's backs, began
looking at each other with indecision. They milled about the stomping
animals for a minute, then each went to a bulky pouch slung across his
beast's back-depression. They fumbled in the pouches.

Shreve turned the plates up to higher magnification, whistling through
his teeth. "Wheeew! What magnificent creatures! Did you see the way
they ran that jungle like broken-field quarterbacks?"

From beside him the agreeing mutter of the pudgy psych officer blended
with the busy clicking of the analyzers, totaling their counts.

"Those look to be the people we have to contact, Karl," Shreve added,
motioning toward the Diamoraii who were dragging objects from their
pouches.

"A young people," Teller mused, his face flushed. "A young and a virile
people. Shouldn't have any trouble getting through to them." He turned
a plate knob to sharper register.

The Diamoraii had advanced on the ship. They were almost humanoid.
Tall--almost six and a half feet each with very long legs and boney,
knobbed knees. Their legs seemed to represent almost half their bodies.
Wide-shouldered, V-shaped chests; obviously large-lunged. Otherwise,
despite the wide-spaced, large-irised eyes, they were almost humanoid.

As Shreve and Teller watched, they each donned a hideous devil-mask.
