
"Ugh!" Shreve blurted, his face drawing up into a picture of agony.
"What ghastly greeting cards _those_ are! If that's a sample of their
demonology, I'd hate to see them exorcising one of the poor devils:
probably frighten the thing to life!"

Teller was leaning closer to the screen, his small eyes watching the
twelve with undisguised fascination. He was talking more to himself
than his superior. "Must be religious symbols of some sort. Must have
put on their Prayer-day best just to come see us."

Shreve looked at Teller sharply. "You don't suppose they think we're
gods or something?"

Shaking his head in annoyance, Teller replied, "No, no, certainly not.
You can tell they don't! They haven't prostrated themselves or offered
up sacrifices or such, as the typical superstitious aborigine would.
No, I'm quite certain they don't deify us. Probably just insuring that
evil spirits don't try to interfere with their mission--whatever that
might be. But," he added, "it doesn't appear to be dangerous, whatever
it is."

The twelve were now capering and turning handsprings directly under the
plate's hull-pickups. Shaking their masks into the cameras. They seemed
unaware that anyone might be watching.

"Ritual," murmured Teller.

As though his identification of it had tired them of their actions,
they sat--almost as one. Cross-legged, arms akimbo, expressions
stolidly hidden by the grotesque shapes of their devil-masks, they
waited. Again, almost to the second, they removed their hands from
their hips and folded them across their massive chests.

Shreve looked at the tight semi-circle of aliens, then at Teller. He
licked his lips anxiously. It was apparent he was happier, now that he
had landed and felt he could help the Diamoraii.

"Well, what should we do, Karl? This is more in your line. Should we
go out and talk to them, or bring them inside? Do you think they're
aware of the coming eruptions?" The questions had come out on top of
one another, with an almost childlike anxiety.

It was odd to hear such a tone from the otherwise stolid Shreve. Teller
looked up in surprise. He smiled slowly.

The psych officer flipped his plate off, turned, crossing his arms as
the aliens had done, and sat on the dead console.

"I don't think they know what's happening down there, Luther. At
least," he amended, "they didn't appear to be preparing for evacuation
in the threatened areas when we went over them. So I rather suspect
they're waiting for us to come out and chat." He shrugged his
shoulders, staring at Shreve. "And that, my Captain, is it."

Shreve looked back at the aliens in his plate. He nodded his head
with determination, and his face lit up with purpose. Teller had seen
the look once or twice before--never on routine commercial ventures,
however. He had labeled it missionary zeal.

The Diamoraii were still sitting in cross-legged squats, their knees up
about their mask's pointed ears and horned temples.

"Well, then I suppose we'd better go out and chat. The sooner we set up
the Stress Rectifiers, the better." He got up, stepped toward the shaft.

"Oh," he said, stopping and turning back to the psych officer, "I'd
like you to come out with me, Karl. No orders, you understand, but I'd
appreciate it."

The short psychologist looked at him for a moment, nodded his head
in acceptance. Shreve stepped into the shaft and sank down through
the floor as the tube glowed. Teller looked at the empty shaft for a
moment. As the platform slipped back into place he flipped Shreve's
plate off.

Stepping onto the platform he threw a glance over his shoulder at the
now-grey plate.

"You're a very young race," he whispered, disappearing through the
floor.
