
Finally, he took a step forward, extended his hands in peace to the
aliens. "Friends. We've come to help you. Friends."

He was certain they couldn't understand the spoken words. Whether or
not they could decipher the thoughts--that was something else. Later,
the Earthmen could bring out the communicators if the need arose. But
for now, he wanted only the soothing good will in his voice to win them.

If they knew the Earthmen were protected by stat-fields, and that a
dozen gun-blisters were trained on them, they gave no indication.

_We don't want your help._

There was a tone of anger, a driving odor of fear, in the feel of
the thoughts. The Earthmen felt their teeth jump as the thoughts
materialized. Shreve realized suddenly that the toothaches must be a
by-product of the psi power.

Shreve turned to Teller. The psych officer was staring back at him,
his eyes wide, his hands still clutching his jaw. They both recognized
something they had missed when the telepathy first became known to them.

It was not an entering of the mind; they could not reach into the
deepest recesses of the Diamoraii's minds and get whole pictures. It
was like a mental radio transmission.

They could send and receive, with inflection and depth, but they had to
do it in darkness.

Teller said nothing, but he stepped closer to the aliens. Shreve could
tell he was thinking at them, but _what_ he was thinking was impossible
to guess. If the aliens understood, they gave no indication. The
transmission did not work between the Earthmen, obviously.

When Teller had fallen back, Shreve asked, "What did you say?"

"I told them we were here because volcanic eruptions were going to
rip up their planet within five months. I told them the quakes and
volcanos would kill off ninety-five percent of their people. I told
them we could help them to--"

The aliens rose slowly, and one stepped forward. He looked down at the
two Earthmen.

_Hear this you are not the first strangers to come here once before
strange men came to us from the sky they called themselves the Kyben
and they told us they wanted to trade but they did not trade they ate
away our land and burned our jungle and took our women and killed our
young warriors._

It came as a blast of pure thought. All at once, as though spurted out
whole from the mind. The inflection was there--the meaning--the depth
of bitterness. Shreve felt his mouth dry out at the calibre of agony in
the thoughts.

Teller shrugged his shoulders as though he wanted no more part in the
matter, and retreated a few steps, massaging his throbbing jaws.

The alien stream ceased, and the Diamorai drew back. He seemed to rise
up on his toes, as though he wanted to strike the Earthman, but was
restraining himself through the movement.
