
Luther Shreve felt as though he were being dragged down into a
whirlpool. He didn't know why it was suddenly so important to him that
he help the Diamoraii. There was certainly no sense of brotherhood with
the aliens. But he knew, on a level that defied all doubt, that he must
save these people, or never feel at peace with himself again.

Behind him, Shreve heard Teller snort in disgust. The psych officer
took two quick steps forward, jerked his head toward the massive bulk
of the _Wallower_. "Children! That's all they are. They think those
masks protect them from evil, they think their blind arrogance will
protect them if trouble comes! They think they know better than us!
They don't know when they need help. Come on, Luther, leave them if
that's what they want!" He turned to go, his face flushed in anger.

Shreve looked back at the aliens. He searched the blank and grotesque
masks for some evidence of willingness to reason. There was none.
Shreve gritted his teeth in frustration; he _wanted_ to help, he
_wanted_ to save them--but they wouldn't _let_ themselves accept his
help. The aliens didn't _want_ to be saved. They stood there, tall,
impassive, the thought radiating unendingly:

_Go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go._

Luther Shreve stepped toward them, anger boiling hot in his brain. "All
right, damn you! If you're too stupid, or too swollen up with your own
importance to realize you need help, we'll help you despite yourselves!"

_Why do you think the Kyben left Diamore?_

Shreve's words stopped before they could be spoken. His fury checked
itself. He hadn't considered that. Why _had_ another race, one that
could decimate a planet as the blood pits indicated they could, leave
when they seemed to be on the verge of getting what they wanted?

_We are not defenseless we can stop you we will hurt you go._

Teller's sharp laugh interrupted before Shreve could get an answer
out. "Fools! Pompous adolescents! What makes you think your primitive
warriors with their bogey masks can harm us? Look!" He stepped toward
the alien. The Diamorai backed up. Teller stepped quickly, coming into
sharp contact with the alien's body. The Diamorai leaped back, the
short hairs on his body standing straight out. He thought something at
his brothers. It was incomprehensible to the Earthmen.

"That's a stat-field. And there are a dozen guns pointed at you from
the ship. We'll set up the machines and save you whether you like it or
not." He turned away with a low chuckle, adding ruefully, "Though why
you want to bother with such a bunch of arrogant children is beyond me,
Luther." He walked toward the ship.

Casting nervous glances at one another, the aliens leaped to the backs
of their mounts, reined in and turned to leave. Shreve stood and
watched them as they loped to the jungle's edge.

The ebony giraffe-things drew up short, and the leader's reared up as
the alien turned to stare at Shreve.

_Go or we will hurt you._

In an instant they were gone, melting into the colored riot of the
jungle, the beasts' hoofs beating ever more faintly as they moved away.

Shreve turned back to the ship. He should have felt no temperature
changes within his stat-field, yet somehow he had grown chilled in a
few seconds.
