
Night had descended quickly, dropping like a sea of ink over Diamore.
The robomechs had set out the floodlamps, almost to the edges of the
jungle, and the _Wallower_ was bathed in white light, sharply outlining
her plate construction, and the clean transparency of the conning
bubbles.

Paul Jukovsky, Roboexec, jg, stood behind his control console in the
construction bubble, watching the thirty ton robomech carrying its
burden. The sixteen-wheeled robomech rolled off the extended cargo
hatch ramp, sinking just a bit into the springy ground of Diamore.
Jukovsky grinned at his foresight in spreading a primary hardener over
the surface before the big boys went to work.

He two-fingered a cigarette out of his lapel pocket, stifling a belch.
"Damn that cookie," he muttered. "If he doesn't stop putting cayenne
in the salad...." He stuck the cigarette in his mouth, lipping it
irritably for a second. He withdrew it, spitting out a loose bit of
tobacco. Satisfied, he inserted it again, began to scratch it alight
with his fingertip.

He moved a calibrated knob on the board three clicks. The lumbering
monster outside revolved its head, the huge drilling plate it carried
on its flattened and magnetized top moving also. "Like an old woman
carrying a water urn on her head," he chuckled, puffing the cigarette.

The robomech neared phosphorescent markings laid out on the ground,
where the fibreglass base plate should be planted. Stress Rectifiers
would be magno-clamped to the base plate, then would begin their
search-position-drilling.

He moved to press the release button that would cause the robomech to
set its burden down lightly.

Paul Jukovsky's teeth suddenly began to ache with terrible intensity.
He clutched at his face wildly, burning the palm of his hand on the
cigarette.

A strangled sob began to form, ended in a gurgling half-scream. His
eyes rolled upwards and a trickle of blood emerged from the corner of
his mouth.

Stone-dead he fell across the control console, depressing all studs.

The thirty ton robomech whirled twice and burst toward the edge of
the jungle. It struck the boles of three huge intertwined trees with
a resounding clang; the base plate bounced from its head and crashed,
shattering, onto a projecting rock spear. The robot struggled for a
moment more, driving into the jungle, knocking trees from its path in
blind fury.

The smell of cordite soaked through the clearing, and a wisp of smoke
issued from the service box. An instant later its chambers fused their
baffles and the robomech exploded with a terrifying burst of heat,
impossible light, and the scream of ripping metal.
