
"His brains were fused," Teller said.

The psych officer looked Shreve directly in the eyes, trying to
find meaning in the captain's closed expression. Teller's face was
unnaturally white, his usually drooping lips thinned to a black line.
"The autopsymen were shaking like loose bolts when they reported to me,
Luther. They swore they'd never seen anything like it before. It was as
if someone had taken that boy's brains in his red-hot hands and molded
them like clay."

Shreve's jaw muscles worked in a strange rhythm. His voice was cold and
determined. "We are going to get those Rectifiers set up. Better stay
in your cabin, Karl; I've got to put men on it."

When Teller had left, the odd stare he had cast still haunting Shreve,
the captain sank onto his couch. He pressed the p-a stud and crisped
his orders, naming men and leaving no room for argument.

He felt the tremors through the soles of his boots as the men began
unchocking their mechs. His balled fist found its way into his mouth.

He was not aware his hand was bleeding till several minutes after the
teeth had pierced the skin.

After the sixth death--all of them with their brain-pans charred and
their grey matter stuck together--Shreve broke down.

He threw a blanker over the shaft and sat there swearing. His body
shook and heaved as he mumbled into his hands. In one stride he was off
the couch and had smashed his fist full into the reflecting metal of
the console face. It left a shallow dent, and he didn't seem to notice
the angry inflammation of his knuckles. Teller stood across the room,
keeping very still, shaking his head slowly, and thinking soft sounds.

After a while Shreve stopped, and collapsed onto the couch, his face
red and swollen. "Sorry, Karl," he said.

"Why don't you try crying, it's easier on the metabolism," he suggested.

Shreve gave a bitter laugh, thin and short. "Last time I cried I was
eating cream cheese and jelly sandwiches and didn't know where little
babies come from." Teller didn't smile. He knew Shreve was covering
up. He had never seen the man break as he had today, and he knew the
knowledge should go no further.

"But why? _Why?_" Shreve pounded his fist into the yielding couch. "We
came to help them, why won't they let us?"

"Luther, Luther," Teller soothed him, sitting down beside him on the
couch, "don't you see? They're adolescents. They don't know when to
call for help. They've been hurt, and with the single-minded purpose of
the immature they're bound not to let it happen again. You can't blame
yourself for what's happened.

"You had no way of knowing about this power of theirs. Why don't we
leave right now. If we lay on all power we can make the schedule still
pretty close."

Shreve stood up, flicked on the view-plates. He stared into them a
moment, seeing nothing but tangled jungle. He drew up a bit, laid his
hands flat on the console. "I've got to talk to them once more. To beg
them again."
