
In a few minutes the One Way Thru Saloon was crowded to overflowing,
every one waiting expectantly. Cock Eye Baer did not return in ten
minutes, nor in half an hour. In an hour or two men went scouting
cautiously around in the alleys. But it was dawn before any one learned
anything of importance. Then on the shortcut path down to the strollers’
camp ground City Marshal Pete Culder found Cock Eye lying dead with a
bullet buried in his thick chest, driven in the direction of his heart.
In Cock Eye’s hand, held in _rigor mortis_ was his heavy revolver, with
one bullet gone from its cylinder.

“Doggone! I knowed that Hesbern’s bad!” Culder gasped. “I’ll go down to
find ’im, ’f I can!”

He hurried to the strollers’ campground, where the strangers usually
stopped. He saw Hesbern’s wagon and his two heavy draft horses staked in
the grass on the creek bottom; but Hesbern’s saddlehorse, a beauty, was
nowhere in sight.

The city marshal went over to the outfit where the strangers had been
delayed by a baby and by the sickness of a man.

“Where’s Hesbern?” the city marshal demanded of the weak but
convalescent man.

“Why, Marshal--” the man shook his head--“I don’t know. Las’ night my
wife’s mother broke a bottle we had to put on the baby’s stomach to keep
it warm, an’ Mr. Hesbern went uptown to git another. My wife figured a
two quart’n ’d be better, and so he brought one back, a big ’n. He
seemed kinda excited, nervous, swearin’ to himself. Same time he didn’t
say anythin’, exceptin’ he kissed the baby. My lan’! He sure favored
we’ns! I don’t know what we’d done, me sickly, my wife took bad an’ that
new baby, ’thout him. Him never married, too--an’ he saddled his horse
to ride away down the branch. He ast if we’d get along right, ’fore he
went. Course, I c’n git around, now. He left this order to look after
his outfit, account of him gettin’ important news.”

City Marshal Culder returned to Boxelder Court House Square. He told the
sheriff, coroner and prosecutor what he knew. They had a jury sit over
Cock Eye Baer’s remains, and they rather side-stepped the question of
who, why and whence the killing. That night in the One Way Thru Saloon
the boys gathered sorrowfully along the bar, staring at Cock Eye’s
apron, spotted, large and limp, hanging right where Cock Eye himself had
hung it, just the other night.

“Poor Cock Eye!” City Marshal Culder shook his head. “We’re goin’ to
miss that boy, yes, indeedy!”

“That’s so-- Don’t seem possible, does it!”

Another shook his head.

“My lan’, he was funny, too, the way he talked!” another sighed. “I tell
you, he was awfully bright, that old boy!”

“Yeh! ’Member that one he got off the night Frank Hesbern come in?
Hesbern, he wanted an empty bottle, an’ Cock Eye he said afterwards what
Hesbern needed was a nipple on to it; yes, sir, that’s what he said! My
golly, but the way he said it was comical. No sir! Long’s I live I’ll
never forget it!”

“Well, boys! Le’s drink to Cock Eye Baer,” the proprietor said. “It’s on
the house. Bright of tongue; everybody’s friend; always all there; big
hearted and square dealing. He could crack a joke an’ handle a
situation. A man’s man, old Cock Eye! He lived on the level an’ he died
in his boots. Here’s how, old boy! May you rest easy where you lie
tonight! It’s a deep sleep ye’re in. Here’s hoping you’ll awaken with a
smile on yer lips an’ a joke on yer tongue!”

“Doggone!” somebody choked. “I can’t believe Cock Eye’s daid! It don’t
seem possible!”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 1, 1928 issue of
_Adventure_ magazine.]

