
We managed to reach Playplace without incident, except for a man who
called me an obscenity. The children and I, however, called him a
great, big alligator head and on the whole, I think, we won. After all,
how can a man possibly be right when faced with a woman and eight tiny
children?

I herded the children through the Germ Detection Booth and Gail was
returned to me with an incipient streptococcus infection.

"Couldn't you give her the shot here?" I asked. "I've _just_ got her in
a good mood, and if I have to turn around and take her back home ...
and besides, her mother works. There won't be anyone there."

"Verne, dear, we can't risk giving the shot until the child is
perfectly adjusted to Playplace. You see, she'd connect the pain of
the shot with coming to school and then she might never adjust."
Mrs. Baden managed to give me her entire attention and hold a
two-and-a-half-year-old child on one shoulder and greet each entering
child and break up a fight between two ill-matched four-year-olds, all
at the same time.

"Me stay at school," Gail said resolutely.

There was a scream from the other side of the booth. That was Billy's
best friend. I waited for the other scream. That was Billy.

"Normal aggression," Mrs. Baden said with a smile.

I picked up Gail. Act first, talk later.

"Oh, _there_ she is," Mrs. Baden said, taking my elbow with what could
only be a third hand.

Having heard we'd have a Hiserean child in Billy's group, I managed not
to look surprised.

"Mrs. His-tara, this is Verne Barrat. Her Billy will be in Hi-nin's
group."

I was immediately frozen with indecision. Should I shake hands? Merely
smile? Nod? Her hands looked wavery and boneless. I might injure them
inadvertently.

I settled on a really good smile, all the way back to my bridge. "I am
so delighted to meet you," I said. I felt as though the good will of
the entire World Conference rested on my shoulders.

Her face lighted up with the most sincere look of pleasure I've ever
seen. "I am glad to furnish you this delight," she said, with a good
deal of lisping over the dentals, because Hisereans have fore-shortened
teeth. She embraced me wholeheartedly and gave me a scaly kiss on the
cheek.

My first thought was that I was a success and my second thought
was, Oh, God, what'll happen when Billy gets hold of little Hi-nin?
Hisereans, as I understood it, simply didn't have this "normal
aggression." Indeed, I sometimes have trouble believing it's really
normal.

"I was thinking," Mrs. Baden said, putting down the
two-and-a-half-year-old and plucking a venturesome little girl in Human
Fly Shoes from the side of the building, "that you all might enjoy
having Hi-nin in your car pool."

"Oh, we'd love to," I said eagerly. "We've got five mamas and eight
children already, of course, but I'm sure everyone--"

"It would trouble you!" Mrs. His-tara exclaimed. Her eye stalks
retracted and tears poured down her cheeks. "I do not want to be of
difficulty," she said.
