
Since she had no apparent handkerchief and wore some sort of
permanent-looking native dress, I tore a square out of my paper morning
dress for her.

"You are too good!" she sobbed, fresh tears pouring out.

"No, no. I already tore out two for the children. I always get my
skirts longer in cold weather because children are so careless about
carrying--"

"Then we'll consider the car pool settled?" Mrs. Baden asked, coming in
tactfully.

"Naturally," I said, mentally shredding my previous sentence. "We would
feel so honored to have Hi-nin--"

"Do not _think_ of putting yourself out. We do not have a helicopter,
of course, but Hi-nin and I can so easily walk."

I was rapidly becoming unable to think of anything at all because Gail
was trying to use me for a merry-go-round and I kept switching her from
hand to hand and I could hear her beginning to build up the ba-bas.

"My car pool," I said, "would be terribly sad to think of Hi-nin
walking."

"You would?"

"_Terribly._"

"In such a case--if it will give you pleasure for me to accept?"

"It would," I said fervently, holding Gail under one arm as she was
beginning to kick.

And on the way home all the second thoughts began.

_I_ would be glad to have Hi-nin in the car pool. Four of the other
mamas were like me, amazed that anyone was willing to put up with
her child all the way to and from Playplace. I could count on them to
cooperate. But Gail's mama.... I'd gone to Western State Preparation
for Living with Regina Raymond Crowley.

I landed on the Crowley home and tooted for five minutes before I
remembered that Regina was at work.

"_Ma_-ma!" Gail began.

"Wouldn't you like to come to Verne's house," I asked, "and we can call
up your mama?"

"No." Well, I asked, didn't I?

I was carrying Gail down the steps from my roof when I bumped
unexpectedly into Clay.

"What is that!" he exclaimed, and Gail became again flying blonde hair
and kicking feet.

"Regina's child," I said. "What are you doing home?"

"Accountant sent me back. Twenty-five and a half hours is the maximum
this week. Good thing, too. I've got a headache." He eyed Gail
meaningfully. She was obviously not the sort of thing the doctor orders
for a headache.

"I can't help it, honey," I said, sitting down on a step to tear
another handkerchief square from my skirt. "I'm going to call Regina at
work now."

"Don't you have a chairman to take care of things like that?"

"I am the chairman," I said proudly.

"Why in heaven's name did you let yourself get roped into something
like that?"

"I was _selected_ by Mrs. Baden!"

"Obscenity," said Clay. It is his privilege, of course, to use this
word.
