
The arty little store where Regina works has a telephane as well as a
telephone, and in color, at that. So I could see Regina in full color,
taking her own good time about switching on the sound. She switched on
as a sort of afterthought and tilted her nose at me. I don't suppose
she can really tilt her nose up and down, but she always gives that
impression.

"Gail has an incipient streptococcus infection," I said. "They sent her
home."

"_Ma_-ma!" Gail cried.

"Why didn't they give her a shot there? That's what they did with my
niece last year."

I explained why not.

Regina sighed resignedly. "Verne, people can talk you into anything.
There are times when you have to be firm. I work, girl. That's why I
put Gail in Playplace. I can't leave here until twelve o'clock."

"But what'll I do with Gail?"

"Take her back. Or you keep her until I get home. Sorry, Verne, but you
got yourself into this."

I switched off, furious.

Then I remembered Hi-nin. I couldn't be furious. I was going to have to
get Regina's cooperation.

I picked up Gail and went into the bedroom. "I do not dislike Regina
Crowley," I wrote with black crayola on a piece of note paper. I
stuck it into a crevice of my mirror and gave Gail my bare-shoulder
decorations to play with while I concentrated on thinking up reasons
why I should not dislike Regina Crowley.

"I do," Clay said, sneaking up so quietly I jumped two feet.

"So do I," I said, gazing wearily at my note. "But I have to have her
in a good mood. You see, there's this Hiserean child and since I'm
chairman of the car pool, I have to--"

"_Don't_ tell me about it," Clay said. "My advice to you is get
elephantiasis of your steering foot and give the whole thing up now."
He glanced meaningfully at Gail, who couldn't possibly be bothering
him. She was playing quietly on the floor, pulling the suction disks
off my jewelry and sticking them on her legs.

When I finally got Gail home, she sped into her mother's arms and I
couldn't help being a little irritated because I had been practically
swinging from the ceiling dust controls to ingratiate myself, and her
mama just said, "Oh, hi," and Gail was satisfied.

"By the way," I said, watching Regina hang up her dark blue hand-woven
jacket, "you wouldn't mind picking up an extra child tomorrow, would
you?"

"Mind! Certainly I mind. I've got as much as I can do with my job and
Gail and eight children in the heli already."

"It's a Hiserean child," I said. "The mother is so lovely, Regina. She
didn't want us to go to any trouble."

"That's fine. Because I'm not going to go to any trouble."

I put my fists behind my back. "Of course I understand, Regina. I think
it's remarkable that you manage to do so much. And keep up with your
art things as you do. But don't you think it would be an interesting
experience to have a Hiserean child in the pool?"
