
About nine o'clock the next morning I heard a heli landing on the roof
and I thought, Now who? There was much tooting, and when I went up,
Regina practically threw Hi-nin at me.

"I told you so," she snapped at me. Her face was burning red and she
wasn't bothering to tilt her nose.

"What happened? Why did you bring him back to _me_?"

"His hand," she said, and took off.

Hand? He was holding one hand over the other. No! I grabbed his hands
to see what it was.

One hand had obviously been bitten off at the wrist. He was holding the
wound with the tentacles of his other little boneless hand. There was
very little blood.

"It is as nothing," he said, but when I cradled him in my arms, I could
feel him shaking all over.

"It will grow back," he said.

Would it?

I took him in the heli and held him while I drove. I could feel him
trying to stop himself from shaking, but he couldn't.

"Does it hurt very much?" I asked.

"The pain is small," he said. "It is the fear. The fear is terrible. I
am unable to swallow it."

I was unable to swallow it, too.

"The hand," said Mrs. His-tara without concern, "will grow back. But
the things within my son...." She, too, began to tremble involuntarily.

"Billy," I began, feeling the blood come through my lower lip, "Billy
and I are...." It was too inadequate to say it.

"It was not Billy," Hi-nin said without rancor. "It was Gail."

"Gail! Gail doesn't bite!" But she had, and I broke down and plain
cried.

"Do not trouble yourself," said Mrs. His-tara. "My son receives from
this a wound that does not heal. On Hiserea he would be forever sick,
you understand. On your world, where everyone is born with this open
wound, it will be his protection. So Mrs. Baden warned me and I think
she is wise."

As soon as I got home, I called up Regina. She looked pale and lifeless
against the gaudy, irresponsible objects in the art shop.

"It wasn't my fault," she said quickly. "I can't drive and watch the
children at the same time. I told you the children would eat...." She
stopped, and for the first time I saw Regina really horrified with
herself.

"Nobody said it was your fault. But don't you think you could have
taken Hi-nin home yourself? To show Mrs. His-tara that--I don't know
what it would show."

It reminded me, somehow, of the time Regina stepped on a lizard and
left it in great pain, pulling itself along by its tiny front paws, and
I had said, "Regina, you can't leave that poor thing suffering," and
she had said, "Well, I didn't step on it on purpose," and I had said,
"Somebody's got to kill it now," and she had said, "I've got a class."
I could still feel the crunch of it under my foot as its tiny life went
out.

"Sorry, Verne," she said, "you got yourself into this," and hung up.
