
I hurried on to find the room where Gail was. She was not pale, as I
had expected, but pink-cheeked and bright-eyed. They were probably
putting in more blood than they were taking out. There were two of the
other mamas from our car pool, waiting their turns.

Regina was sitting by the bed, her face ugly and swollen from crying.

"She looks just fine!" I exclaimed.

"Only in the last fifteen minutes," she said. "When I called you, she
was like ice. Her eyes didn't move."

"We're lucky with Gail. Did you know about Hi-nin?"

"The little animal!" she said. "He's the one that did it."

"He didn't do anything, Regina, and you know it."

"He shouldn't have been in the car pool. He shouldn't be with human
children at all."

"He's going to die," I said quickly, before she had time to say things
she'd have nightmares about later on.

"Sorry," Regina said, because we were all looking at her and because
her child was pink and beautiful and healthy while Hi-nin....

"Regina," I said, "what did you do after it happened?"

"_Do!_ It scared the hell out of me--that creature shaking all over and
Gail screaming. At first I didn't know what had happened. Then I saw
that _thing_ flopping around on the front seat and I screamed and threw
it out of the window. And then I noticed Hi-nin's wrist, or whatever
you call it. I said, 'Oh, God, I _knew_ you'd get us in trouble!' But
the creature didn't say anything. He just sat there. And I let the
other children off and brought Hi-nin to you because I didn't want to
get involved with that Mrs. Baden."

"And Gail?"

"She seemed all right. She just climbed in the back with the other
children and pretty soon they were all laughing."

"And all that time little Hi-nin.... Regina, didn't you even pat him or
hold him or kiss it for him or anything?"

"_Kiss_ it!"

At that moment Mrs. His-tara came in, with Mrs. Baden and a doctor
behind her. I should have known. Mrs. Baden didn't leave people to
fight battles alone.

Mrs. His-tara looked at Mrs. Baden, but Mrs. Baden only nodded and
smiled encouragingly at her.
