
The doctor was gently pulling the needle out of Gail's vein. The room
was silent. Even Gail sat large-eyed and solemn.

"Mrs. Crowley," Mrs. His-tara began, obviously dragging each word up
with great effort, "would it be accurate to tell my son that Gail has
received no hurt from him? We must, you see, prepare him for the Return
Home."

Regina looked around at us and at Gail. She hadn't dared let herself
look at Mrs. His-tara yet.

"Doctor!" Regina called suddenly. "Look at Gail's mouth!"

Even from where I was, I could see it. A scaly growth along both lips.

"That's a temporary effect of the serum," the doctor said. "We tried an
antitoxin before we decided to change the blood. It is nothing to worry
about."

"Oh."

"Mrs. Crowley," Mrs. His-tara began again, "it is much to ask, but at
such a moment, much is required. If you could come yourself, and if
Gail could endure to be carried...."

But Gail did, indeed, look queer, and she stretched out her arms not to
her mother but to Mrs. His-tara.

"The tides," Mrs. His-tara said, "have cast us up a miracle."

She gathered Gail into the boneless cradle of her curved arms.

Regina took her sunglasses out of her purse and hid her eyes. "Mind
your own damned business," she told Mrs. Baden and me.

"It _is_ our damned business," I whispered to Mrs. Baden, and she held
my arm as we followed Regina down the hall.

Mrs. His-tara threaded her way through a cordon of other Hisereans who
must have been flown in for the occasion. I couldn't see the children,
but I could hear them.

"Him cold!" said Gail. "Him scared!"

"He's scared of you," Regina said. "We're sorry, Gail. Tell him we're
sorry. We didn't understand."

Gail laughed. A loud and healthy laugh.

"Gail sorry," she said. "Me thought you was to eat."

There was a small sound. I thought it was from Hi-nin and I held Mrs.
Baden's hand as though it were my only link to a sane world.

"Dat a joke," Gail said. "Hi-nin 'posed to laugh!"

Then there was a silence and Regina started to say something but Mrs.
His-tara whispered, "Please! It is a thought between the children."

Then there was a small, quiet laugh from Hi-nin. "In truth," he said
with that oh, so familiar lisp, "it is funny."

"Me don't do it again," Gail said, solemn now.
