
A half-mile from Smith's I overtook the raiders and went through them
like drifting smoke. The workers at Smith's place were startled by a
wild-riding horseman charging headlong into the stockade, shouting,
"Masai! Masai! A raid, you fools!" snatching a gun and flying out again.

So when the savages arrived they found everybody ready for them, and
they got such a warm reception that after one attempt they turned tail
and fled back across the veldt.

And I was riding as I never rode before. The mare was almost exhausted,
but I pushed her mercilessly. On, on!

I aimed for the only place I knew likely. The hut among the trees. I
assumed that the fetish-man would return there.

And long before the hut came into sight, a horseman dashed from the
grass, going at right angles to my course, and our horses, colliding,
sent both tired animals to the ground.

"Steve!" It was a cry of joy mingled with fear. Ellen lay, tied hand
and foot, gazing up at me wildly as I regained my feet.

Senecoza came with a rush, his long knife flashing in the sunlight.
Back and forth we fought--slash, ward and parry, my ferocity and
agility matching his savagery and skill.

A terrific lunge which he aimed at me, I caught on my point, laying
his arm open, and then with a quick engage and wrench, disarmed him.
But before I could use my advantage, he sprang away into the grass and
vanished.

I caught up the girl, slashing her bonds, and she clung to me, poor
child, until I lifted her and carried her toward the horses. But we
were not yet through with Senecoza. He must have had a rifle cached
away somewhere in the bush, for the first I knew of him was when a
bullet spat within a foot above my head.

I caught at the bridles, and then I saw that the mare had done all she
could, temporarily. She was exhausted. I swung Ellen up on the horse.

"Ride for our ranch," I ordered her. "The raiders are out, but you can
get through. Ride low and ride fast!"

"But you, Steve!"

"Go, go!" I ordered, swinging her horse around and starting it. She
dashed away, looking at me wistfully over her shoulder. Then I snatched
the rifle and a handful of cartridges I had gotten at Smith's, and
took to the bush. And through that hot African day, Senecoza and I
played a game of hide-and-seek. Crawling, slipping in and out of the
scanty veldt-bushes, crouching in the tall grass, we traded shots
back and forth. A movement of the grass, a snapping twig, the rasp of
grass-blades, and a bullet came questing, another answering it.
