
I had but a few cartridges and I fired carefully, but presently I
pushed my one remaining cartridge into the rifle--a big, six-bore,
single-barrel breech-loader, for I had not had time to pick when I
snatched it up.

I crouched in my covert and watched for the black to betray himself
by a careless movement. Not a sound, not a whisper among the grasses.
Away off over the veldt a hyena sounded his fiendish laugh and another
answered, closer at hand. The cold sweat broke out on my brow.

What was that? A drumming of many horses' hoofs! Raiders returning? I
ventured a look and could have shouted for joy. At least twenty men
were sweeping toward me, white men and ranch-boys, and ahead of them
all rode Ellen! They were still some distance away. I darted behind a
tall bush and rose, waving my hand to attract their attention.

They shouted and pointed to something beyond me. I whirled and saw,
some thirty yards away, a huge hyena slinking toward me, rapidly. I
glanced carefully across the veldt. Somewhere out there, hidden by
the billowing grasses, lurked Senecoza. A shot would betray to him my
position--and I had but one cartridge. The rescue party was still out
of range.

I looked again at the hyena. He was still rushing toward me. There was
no doubt as to his intentions. His eyes glittered like a fiend's from
hell, and a scar on his shoulder showed him to be the same beast that
had once before attacked me. Then a kind of horror took hold of me, and
resting the old elephant rifle over my elbow, I sent my last bullet
crashing through the bestial thing. With a scream that seemed to have
a horribly human note in it, the hyena turned and fled back into the
bush, reeling as it ran.

And the rescue party swept up around me.

A fusillade of bullets crashed through the bush from which Senecoza had
sent his last shot. There was no reply.

"Ve hunt ter snake down," quoth Cousin Ludtvik, his Boer accent
increasing with his excitement. And we scattered through the veldt in a
skirmish line, combing every inch of it warily.

Not a trace of the fetish-man did we find. A rifle we found, empty,
with empty shells scattered about, and (which was very strange) _hyena
tracks leading away from the rifle_.

I felt the short hairs of my neck bristle with intangible horror. We
looked at each other, and said not a word, as with a tacit agreement we
took up the trail of the hyena.

We followed it as it wound in and out in the shoulder-high grass,
showing how it had slipped up on me, stalking me as a tiger stalks its
victim. We struck the trail the thing had made, returning to the bush
after I had shot it. Splashes of blood marked the way it had taken. We
followed.

"It leads toward the fetish-hut," muttered an Englishman. "Here, sirs,
is a damnable mystery."

And Cousin Ludtvik ordered Ellen to stay back, leaving two men with her.

We followed the trail over the kopje and into the clump of trees.
Straight to the door of the hut it led. We circled the hut cautiously,
but no tracks led away. It was inside the hut. Rifles ready, we forced
the rude door.

_No tracks led away from the hut and no tracks led to it except the
tracks of the hyena. Yet there was no hyena within that hut; and on
the dirt floor, a bullet through his black breast, lay Senecoza, the
fetish-man._