
A mounted warrior waited for the king just without the garden and Kull
was slightly surprized to see that it was the same that had brought
Ka-nu's invitation. No word was spoken as Kull swung into the saddle
nor as they clattered along the empty streets.

The color and the gayety of the day had given away to the eery
stillness of night. The city's antiquity was more than ever apparent
beneath the bent, silver moon. The huge pillars of the mansions and
palaces towered up into the stars. The broad stairways, silent and
deserted, seemed to climb endlessly until they vanished in the shadowy
darkness of the upper realms. Stairs to the stars, thought Kull, his
imaginative mind inspired by the weird grandeur of the scene.

Clang! clang! clang! sounded the silver hoofs on the broad,
moon-flooded streets, but otherwise there was no sound. The age of the
city, its incredible antiquity, was almost oppressive to the king; it
was as if the great silent buildings laughed at him, noiselessly, with
unguessable mockery. And what secrets did they hold?

"You are young," said the palaces and the temples and the shrines,
"but we are old. The world was wild with youth when we were reared.
You and your tribe shall pass, but we are invincible, indestructible.
We towered above a strange world, ere Atlantis and Lemuria rose from
the sea; we still shall reign when the green waters sigh for many a
restless fathom above the spires of Lemuria and the hills of Atlantis
and when the isles of the Western Men are the mountains of a strange
land.

"How many kings have we watched ride down these streets before Kull of
Atlantis was even a dream in the mind of Ka, bird of Creation? Ride on,
Kull of Atlantis; greater shall follow you; greater came before you.
They are dust; they are forgotten; we stand; we know; we are. Ride,
ride on, Kull of Atlantis; Kull the king, Kull the fool!"

And it seemed to Kull that the clashing hoofs took up the silent
refrain to beat it into the night with hollow re-echoing mockery:

"Kull--the--king! Kull--the--fool!"

Glow, moon; you light a king's way! Gleam, stars; you are torches in
the train of an emperor! And clang, silver-shod hoofs; you herald that
Kull rides through Valusia.

Ho! Awake, Valusia! It is Kull that rides, Kull the king!

"We have known many kings," said the silent halls of Valusia.

And so in a brooding mood Kull came to the palace, where his bodyguard,
men of the Red Slayers, came to take the rein of the great stallion and
escort Kull to his rest. There the Pict, still sullenly speechless,
wheeled his steed with a savage wrench of the rein and fled away in
the dark like a phantom; Kull's heightened imagination pictured him
speeding through the silent streets like a goblin out of the Elder
World.

There was no sleep for Kull that night, for it was nearly dawn and he
spent the rest of the night hours pacing the throneroom, and pondering
over what had passed. Ka-nu had told him nothing, yet he had put
himself in Kull's complete power. At what had he hinted when he had
said the baron of Blaal was naught but a figurehead? And who was this
Brule who was to come to him by night, wearing the mystic armlet of
the dragon? And why? Above all, why had Ka-nu shown him the green gem
of terror, stolen long ago from the temple of the Serpent, for which
the world would rock in wars were it known to the weird and terrible
keepers of that temple, and from whose vengeance not even Ka-nu's
ferocious tribesmen might be able to save him? But Ka-nu knew he was
safe, reflected Kull, for the statesman was too shrewd to expose
himself to risk without profit. But was it to throw the king off his
guard and pave the way to treachery? Would Ka-nu dare let him live now?
Kull shrugged his shoulders.




                     _3. They That Walk the Night_


The moon had not risen when Kull, hand to hilt, stepped to a window.
The windows opened upon the great inner gardens of the royal palace,
and the breezes of the night, bearing the scents of spice trees, blew
the filmy curtains about. The king looked out. The walks and groves
were deserted; carefully trimmed trees were bulky shadows; fountains
near by flung their slender sheen of silver in the starlight and
distant fountains rippled steadily. No guards walked those gardens, for
so closely were the outer walls guarded that it seemed impossible for
any invader to gain access to them.

Vines curled up the walls of the palace, and even as Kull mused upon
the ease with which they might be climbed, a segment of shadow detached
itself from the darkness below the window and a bare, brown arm curved
up over the sill. Kull's great sword hissed half-way from the sheath;
then the king halted. Upon the muscular forearm gleamed the dragon
armlet shown him by Ka-nu the night before.

The possessor of the arm pulled himself up over the sill and into the
room with the swift, easy motion of a climbing leopard.

"You are Brule?" asked Kull, and then stopped in surprize not unmingled
with annoyance and suspicion; for the man was he whom Kull had taunted
in the hall of Society; the same who had escorted him from the Pictish
embassy.

"I am Brule, the Spear-slayer," answered the Pict in a guarded voice;
then swiftly, gazing closely in Kull's face, he said, barely above a
whisper:

"_Ka nama kaa lajerama!_"

Kull started. "Ha! What mean you?"

"Know you not?"

"Nay, the words are unfamiliar; they are of no language I ever
heard--and yet, by Valka!--somewhere--I have heard----"

"Aye," was the Pict's only comment. His eyes swept the room, the study
room of the palace. Except for a few tables, a divan or two and great
shelves of books of parchment, the room was barren compared to the
grandeur of the rest of the palace.

"Tell me, king, who guards the door?"

"Eighteen of the Red Slayers. But how come you, stealing through the
gardens by night and scaling the walls of the palace?"

Brule sneered. "The guards of Valusia are blind buffaloes. I could
steal their girls from under their noses. I stole amid them and they
saw me not nor heard me. And the walls--I could scale them without
the aid of vines. I have hunted tigers on the foggy beaches when the
sharp east breezes blew the mist in from seaward and I have climbed the
steeps of the western sea mountain. But come--nay, touch this armlet."

He held out his arm and, as Kull complied wonderingly, gave an apparent
sigh of relief.

"So. Now throw off those kingly robes; for there are ahead of you this
night such deeds as no Atlantean ever dreamed of."

Brule himself was clad only in a scanty loin-cloth through which was
thrust a short, curved sword.

"And who are you to give me orders?" asked Kull, slightly resentful.

"Did not Ka-nu bid you follow me in all things?" asked the Pict
irritably, his eyes flashing momentarily. "I have no love for you,
lord, but for the moment I have put the thought of feuds from my mind.
Do you likewise. But come."

Walking noiselessly, he led the way across the room to the door. A
slide in the door allowed a view of the outer corridor, unseen from
without, and the Pict bade Kull look.

"What see you?"

"Naught but the eighteen guardsmen."

The Pict nodded, motioned Kull to follow him across the room. At a
panel in the opposite wall Brule stopped and fumbled there a moment.
Then with a light movement he stepped back, drawing his sword as he
did so. Kull gave an exclamation as the panel swung silently open,
revealing a dimly lighted passageway.

"A secret passage!" swore Kull softly. "And I knew nothing of it! By
Valka, someone shall dance for this!"

"Silence!" hissed the Pict.

Brule was standing like a bronze statue as if straining every nerve
for the slightest sound; something about his attitude made Kull's hair
prickle slightly, not from fear but from some eery anticipation. Then
beckoning, Brule stepped through the secret doorway which stood open
behind them. The passage was bare, but not dust-covered as should have
been the case with an unused secret corridor. A vague, gray light
filtered through somewhere, but the source of it was not apparent.
Every few feet Kull saw doors, invisible, as he knew, from the outside,
but easily apparent from within.

"The palace is a very honeycomb," he muttered.

"Aye. Night and day you are watched, king, by many eyes."

The king was impressed by Brule's manner. The Pict went forward slowly,
warily, half crouching, blade held low and thrust forward. When he
spoke it was in a whisper and he continually flung glances from side to
side.

The corridor turned sharply and Brule warily gazed past the turn.

"Look!" he whispered. "But remember! No word! No sound--on your life!"

Kull cautiously gazed past him. The corridor changed just at the bend
to a flight of steps. And then Kull recoiled. At the foot of those
stairs lay the eighteen Red Slayers who were that night stationed to
watch the king's study room. Brule's grip upon his mighty arm and
Brule's fierce whisper at his shoulder alone kept Kull from leaping
down those stairs.

"Silent, Kull! Silent, in Valka's name!" hissed the Pict. "These
corridors are empty now, but I risked much in showing you, that you
might then believe what I had to say. Back now to the room of study."
And he retraced his steps, Kull following; his mind in a turmoil of
bewilderment.

"This is treachery," muttered the king, his steel-gray eyes a-smolder,
"foul and swift! Mere minutes have passed since those men stood at
guard."

Again in the room of study Brule carefully closed the secret panel and
motioned Kull to look again through the slit of the outer door. Kull
gasped audibly. _For without stood the eighteen guardsmen!_

"This is sorcery!" he whispered, half-drawing his sword. "Do dead men
guard the king?"

"_Aye!_" came Brule's scarcely audible reply; there was a strange
expression in the Pict's scintillant eyes. They looked squarely into
each other's eyes for an instant, Kull's brow wrinkled in a puzzled
scowl as he strove to read the Pict's inscrutable face. Then Brule's
lips, barely moving, formed the words:

"_The--snake--that--speaks!_"

"Silent!" whispered Kull, laying his hand over Brule's mouth. "That is
death to speak! That is a name accursed!"

The Pict's fearless eyes regarded him steadily.

"Look again, King Kull. Perchance the guard was changed."

"Nay, those are the same men. In Valka's name, this is sorcery--this
is insanity! I saw with my own eyes the bodies of those men, not eight
minutes agone. Yet there they stand."

Brule stepped back, away from the door, Kull mechanically following.

"Kull, what know ye of the traditions of this race ye rule?"

"Much--and yet, little. Valusia is so old----"

"Aye," Brule's eyes lighted strangely, "we are but barbarians--infants
compared to the Seven Empires. Not even they themselves know how old
they are. Neither the memory of man nor the annals of the historians
reach back far enough to tell us when the first men came up from the
sea and built cities on the shore. But Kull, _men were not always ruled
by men_!"

The king started. Their eyes met.

"Aye, there is a legend of my people----"

"And mine!" broke in Brule. "That was before we of the isles were
allied with Valusia. Aye, in the reign of Lion-fang, seventh war chief
of the Picts, so many years ago no man remembers how many. Across the
sea we came, from the isles of the sunset, skirting the shores of
Atlantis, and falling upon the beaches of Valusia with fire and sword.
Aye, the long white beaches resounded with the clash of spears, and the
night was like day from the flame of the burning castles. And the king,
the king of Valusia, who died on the red sea sands that dim day----"
His voice trailed off; the two stared at each other, neither speaking;
then each nodded.

"Ancient is Valusia!" whispered Kull. "The hills of Atlantis and Mu
were isles of the sea when Valusia was young."

The night breeze whispered through the open window. Not the free, crisp
sea air such as Brule and Kull knew and reveled in, in their land,
but a breath like a whisper from the past, laden with musk, scents of
forgotten things, breathing secrets that were hoary when the world was
young.

The tapestries rustled, and suddenly Kull felt like a naked child
before the inscrutable wisdom of the mystic past. Again the sense of
unreality swept upon him. At the back of his soul stole dim, gigantic
phantoms, whispering monstrous things. He sensed that Brule experienced
similar thoughts. The Pict's eyes were fixed upon his face with a
fierce intensity. Their glances met. Kull felt warmly a sense of
comradeship with this member of an enemy tribe. Like rival leopards
turning at bay against hunters, these two savages made common cause
against the inhuman powers of antiquity.
