
Brule again led the way back to the secret door. Silently they entered
and silently they proceeded down the dim corridor, taking the opposite
direction from that in which they had previously traversed it. After a
while the Pict stopped and pressed close to one of the secret doors,
bidding Kull look with him through the hidden slot.

"This opens upon a little-used stair which leads to a corridor running
past the study-room door."

They gazed, and presently, mounting the stair silently, came a silent
shape.

"Tu! Chief councilor!" exclaimed Kull. "By night and with bared dagger!
How, what means this, Brule?"

"Murder! And foulest treachery!" hissed Brule. "Nay"--as Kull would
have flung the door aside and leaped forth--"we are lost if you meet
him here, for more lurk at the foot of those stairs. Come!"

Half running, they darted back along the passage. Back through the
secret door Brule led, shutting it carefully behind them, then across
the chamber to an opening into a room seldom used. There he swept
aside some tapestries in a dim corner nook and, drawing Kull with him,
stepped behind them. Minutes dragged. Kull could hear the breeze in the
other room blowing the window curtains about, and it seemed to him like
the murmur of ghosts. Then through the door, stealthily, came Tu, chief
councilor of the king. Evidently he had come through the study room
and, finding it empty, sought his victim where he was most likely to be.

He came with upraised dagger, walking silently. A moment he halted,
gazing about the apparently empty room, which was lighted dimly by
a single candle. Then he advanced cautiously, apparently at a loss
to understand the absence of the king. He stood before the hiding
place--and--

"Slay!" hissed the Pict.

Kull with a single mighty leap hurled himself into the room. Tu spun,
but the blinding, tigerish speed of the attack gave him no chance
for defense or counter-attack. Sword steel flashed in the dim light
and grated on bone as Tu toppled backward, Kull's sword standing out
between his shoulders.

Kull leaned above him, teeth bared in the killer's snarl, heavy brows
a-scowl above eyes that were like the gray ice of the cold sea. Then he
released the hilt and recoiled, shaken, dizzy, the hand of death at his
spine.

For as he watched, Tu's face became strangely dim and unreal; the
features mingled and merged in a seemingly impossible manner. Then,
like a fading mask of fog, the face suddenly vanished and in its stead
gaped and leered _a monstrous serpent's head_!

"Valka!" gasped Kull, sweat beading his forehead, and again: "Valka!"

Brule leaned forward, face immobile. Yet his glittering eyes mirrored
something of Kull's horror.

"Regain your sword, lord king," said he. "There are yet deeds to be
done."

Hesitantly Kull set his hand to the hilt. His flesh crawled as he set
his foot upon the terror which lay at their feet, and as some jerk
of muscular reaction caused the frightful mouth to gape suddenly, he
recoiled, weak with nausea. Then, wrathful at himself, he plucked forth
his sword and gazed more closely at the nameless thing that had been
known as Tu, chief councilor. Save for the reptilian head, the thing
was the exact counterpart of a man.

"A man with the head of a snake!" Kull murmured. "This, then, is a
priest of the serpent god?"

"Aye. Tu sleeps unknowing. These fiends can take any form they will.
That is, they can, by a magic charm or the like, fling a web of sorcery
about their faces, as an actor dons a mask, so that they resemble
anyone they wish to."

"Then the old legends were true," mused the king; "the grim old tales
few dare even whisper, lest they die as blasphemers, are no fantasies.
By Valka, I had thought--I had guessed--but it seems beyond the bounds
of reality. Ha! The guardsmen outside the door----"

"They too are snake-men. Hold! What would you do?"

"Slay them!" said Kull between his teeth.

"Strike at the skull if at all," said Brule. "Eighteen wait without the
door and perhaps a score more in the corridors. Hark ye, king, Ka-nu
learned of this plot. His spies have pierced the inmost fastnesses
of the snake priests and they brought hints of a plot. Long ago he
discovered the secret passageways of the palace, and at his command I
studied the map thereof and came here by night to aid you, lest you die
as other kings of Valusia have died. I came alone for the reason that
to send more would have roused suspicion. Many could not steal into the
palace as I did. Some of the foul conspiracy you have seen. Snake-men
guard your door, and that one, as Tu, could pass anywhere else in the
palace; in the morning, if the priests failed, the real guards would be
holding their places again, nothing knowing, nothing remembering; there
to take the blame if the priests succeeded. But stay you here while I
dispose of this carrion."

So saying, the Pict shouldered the frightful thing stolidly and
vanished with it through another secret panel. Kull stood alone,
his mind a-whirl. Neophytes of the mighty serpent, how many lurked
among his cities? How might he tell the false from the true? Aye, how
many of his trusted councilors, his generals, were men? He could be
certain--of whom?
