
The secret panel swung inward and Brule entered.

"You were swift."

"Aye!" The warrior stepped forward, eyeing the floor. "There is gore
upon the rug. See?"

Kull bent forward; from the corner of his eye he saw a blur of
movement, a glint of steel. Like a loosened bow he whipped erect,
thrusting upward. The warrior sagged upon the sword, his own clattering
to the floor. Even at that instant Kull reflected grimly that it was
appropriate that the traitor should meet his death upon the sliding,
upward thrust used so much by his race. Then, as Brule slid from the
sword to sprawl motionless on the floor, the face began to merge and
fade, and as Kull caught his breath, his hair a-prickle, the human
features vanished and there the jaws of a great snake gaped hideously,
the terrible beady eyes venomous even in death.

"He was a snake priest all the time!" gasped the king. "Valka! what an
elaborate plan to throw me off my guard! Ka-nu there, is he a man? Was
it Ka-nu to whom I talked in the gardens? Almighty Valka!" as his flesh
crawled with a horrid thought; "are the people of Valusia men or are
they _all_ serpents?"

Undecided he stood, idly seeing that the thing named Brule no longer
wore the dragon armlet. A sound made him wheel.

_Brule was coming through the secret door._

"Hold!" upon the arm upthrown to halt the king's hovering sword gleamed
the dragon armlet. "Valka!" The Pict stopped short. Then a grim smile
curled his lips.

"By the gods of the seas! These demons are crafty past reckoning. For
it must be that that one lurked in the corridors, and seeing me go
carrying the carcass of that other, took my appearance. So. I have
another to do away with."

"Hold!" there was the menace of death in Kull's voice; "I have seen two
men turn to serpents before my eyes. How may I know if you are a true
man?"

Brule laughed. "For two reasons, King Kull. No snake-man wears
this"--he indicated the dragon armlet--"nor can any say these words,"
and again Kull heard the strange phrase: "_Ka nama kaa lajerama._"

"_Ka nama kaa lajerama_," Kull repeated mechanically. "Now where, in
Valka's name, have I heard that? I have not! And yet--and yet----"

"Aye, you remember, Kull," said Brule. "Through the dim corridors of
memory those words lurk; though you never heard them in this life,
yet in the bygone ages they were so terribly impressed upon the soul
mind that never dies, that they will always strike dim chords in your
memory, though you be reincarnated for a million years to come. For
that phrase has come secretly down the grim and bloody eons, since
when, uncounted centuries ago, those words were watch-words for the
race of men who battled with the grisly beings of the Elder Universe.
For none but a real man of men may speak them, whose jaws and mouth
are shaped different from any other creature. Their meaning has been
forgotten but not the words themselves."

"True," said Kull. "I remember the legends--Valka!" He stopped short,
staring, for suddenly, like the silent swinging wide of a mystic door,
misty, unfathomed reaches opened in the recesses of his consciousness
and for an instant he seemed to gaze back through the vastnesses
that spanned life and life; seeing through the vague and ghostly
fogs dim shapes reliving dead centuries--men in combat with hideous
monsters, vanquishing a planet of frightful terrors. Against a gray,
ever-shifting background moved strange nightmare forms, fantasies of
lunacy and fear; and man, the jest of the gods, the blind, wisdomless
striver from dust to dust, following the long bloody trail of his
destiny, knowing not why, bestial, blundering, like a great murderous
child, yet feeling somewhere a spark of divine fire.... Kull drew a
hand across his brow, shaken; these sudden glimpses into the abysses of
memory always startled him.

"They are gone," said Brule, as if scanning his secret mind; "the
bird-women, the harpies, the bat-men, the flying fiends, the
wolf-people, the demons, the goblins--all save such as this being that
lies at our feet, and a few of the wolf-men. Long and terrible was the
war, lasting through the bloody centuries, since first the first men,
risen from the mire of apedom, turned upon those who then ruled the
world. And at last mankind conquered, so long ago that naught but dim
legends come to us through the ages. The snake-people were the last
to go, yet at last men conquered even them and drove them forth into
the waste lands of the world, there to mate with true snakes until
some day, say the sages, the horrid breed shall vanish utterly. Yet
the Things returned in crafty guise as men grew soft and degenerate,
forgetting ancient wars. Ah, that was a grim and secret war! Among the
men of the Younger Earth stole the frightful monsters of the Elder
Planet, safeguarded by their horrid wisdom and mysticisms, taking all
forms and shapes, doing deeds of horror secretly. No man knew who was
true man and who false. No man could trust any man. Yet by means of
their own craft they formed ways by which the false might be known from
the true. Men took for a sign and a standard the figure of the flying
dragon, the winged dinosaur, a monster of past ages, which was the
greatest foe of the serpent. And men used those words which I spoke
to you as a sign and symbol, for as I said, none but a true man can
repeat them. So mankind triumphed. Yet again the fiends came after the
years of forgetfulness had gone by--for man is still an ape in that he
forgets what is not ever before his eyes. As priests they came; and for
that men in their luxury and might had by then lost faith in the old
religions and worships, the snake-men, in the guise of teachers of a
new and truer cult, built a monstrous religion about the worship of the
serpent god. Such is their power that it is now death to repeat the old
legends of the snake-people, and people bow again to the serpent god in
new form; and blind fools that they are, the great hosts of men see no
connection between this power and the power men overthrew eons ago. As
priests the snake-men are content to rule--and yet----" He stopped.

"Go on." Kull felt an unaccountable stirring of the short hair at the
base of his scalp.

"Kings have reigned as true men in Valusia," the Pict whispered, "and
yet, slain in battle, have died serpents--as died he who fell beneath
the spear of Lion-fang on the red beaches when we of the isles harried
the Seven Empires. And how can this be, Lord Kull? These kings were
born of women and lived as men! This--the true kings died in secret--as
you would have died tonight--and priests of the Serpent reigned in
their stead, no man knowing."

Kull cursed between his teeth. "Aye, it must be. No one has ever seen
a priest of the Serpent and lived, that is known. They live in utmost
secrecy."

"The statecraft of the Seven Empires is a mazy, monstrous thing," said
Brule. "There the true men know that among them glide the spies of the
serpent, and the men who are the Serpent's allies--such as Kaanuub,
baron of Blaal--yet no man dares seek to unmask a suspect lest
vengeance befall him. No man trusts his fellow and the true statesmen
dare not speak to each other what is in the minds of all. Could they be
sure, could a snake-man or plot be unmasked before them all, then would
the power of the Serpent be more than half broken; for all would then
ally and make common cause, sifting out the traitors. Ka-nu alone is
of sufficient shrewdness and courage to cope with them, and even Ka-nu
learned only enough of their plot to tell me what would happen--what
has happened up to this time. Thus far I was prepared; from now on we
must trust to our luck and our craft. Here and now I think we are safe;
those snake-men without the door dare not leave their post lest true
men come here unexpectedly. But tomorrow they will try something else,
you may be sure. Just what they will do, none can say, not even Ka-nu;
but we must stay at each other's sides, King Kull, until we conquer
or both be dead. Now come with me while I take this carcass to the
hiding-place where I took the other being."
