
Kull followed the Pict with his grisly burden through the secret panel
and down the dim corridor. Their feet, trained to the silence of the
wilderness, made no noise. Like phantoms they glided through the
ghostly light, Kull wondering that the corridors should be deserted;
at every turn he expected to run full upon some frightful apparition.
Suspicion surged back upon him; was this Pict leading him into ambush?
He fell back a pace or two behind Brule, his ready sword hovering
at the Pict's unheeding back. Brule should die first if he meant
treachery. But if the Pict was aware of the king's suspicion, he showed
no sign. Stolidly he tramped along, until they came to a room, dusty
and long unused, where moldy tapestries hung heavy. Brule drew aside
some of these and concealed the corpse behind them.

Then they turned to retrace their steps, when suddenly Brule halted
with such abruptness that he was closer to death than he knew; for
Kull's nerves were on edge.

"Something moving in the corridor," hissed the Pict. "Ka-nu said these
ways would be empty, yet----"

He drew his sword and stole into the corridor, Kull following warily.

A short way down the corridor a strange, vague glow appeared that came
toward them. Nerves a-leap, they waited, backs to the corridor wall;
for what they knew not, but Kull heard Brule's breath hiss through his
teeth and was reassured as to Brule's loyalty.

The glow merged into a shadowy form. A shape vaguely like a man it was,
but misty and illusive, like a wisp of fog, that grew more tangible
as it approached, but never fully material. A face looked at them, a
pair of luminous great eyes, that seemed to hold all the tortures of a
million centuries. There was no menace in that face, with its dim, worn
features, but only a great pity--and that face--that face----

"Almighty gods!" breathed Kull, an icy hand at his soul; "Eallal, king
of Valusia, who died a thousand years ago!"

Brule shrank back as far as he could, his narrow eyes widened in
a blaze of pure horror, the sword shaking in his grip, unnerved
for the first time that weird night. Erect and defiant stood Kull,
instinctively holding his useless sword at the ready; flesh a-crawl,
hair a-prickle, yet still a king of kings, as ready to challenge the
powers of the unknown dead as the powers of the living.

The phantom came straight on, giving them no heed; Kull shrank back as
it passed them, feeling an icy breath like a breeze from the arctic
snow. Straight on went the shape with slow, silent footsteps, as if the
chains of all the ages were upon those vague feet; vanishing about a
bend of the corridor.

"Valka!" muttered the Pict, wiping the cold beads from his brow; "that
was no man! That was a ghost!"

"Aye!" Kull shook his head wonderingly. "Did you not recognize the
face? That was Eallal, who reigned in Valusia a thousand years ago and
who was found hideously murdered in his throneroom--the room now known
as the Accursed Room. Have you not seen his statue in the Fame Room of
Kings?"

"Yes, I remember the tale now. Gods, Kull! that is another sign of the
frightful and foul power of the snake priests--that king was slain by
snake-people and thus his soul became their slave, to do their bidding
throughout eternity! For the sages have ever maintained that if a man
is slain by a snake-man his ghost becomes their slave."

A shudder shook Kull's gigantic frame. "Valka! But what a fate! Hark
ye"--his fingers closed upon Brule's sinewy arm like steel--"hark ye!
If I am wounded unto death by these foul monsters, swear that ye will
smite your sword through my breast lest my soul be enslaved."

"I swear," answered Brule, his fierce eyes lighting. "And do ye the
same by me, Kull."

Their strong right hands met in a silent sealing of their bloody
bargain.




                              _4. Masks_


Kull sat upon his throne and gazed broodingly out upon the sea of faces
turned toward him. A courtier was speaking in evenly modulated tones,
but the king scarcely heard him. Close by, Tu, chief councilor, stood
ready at Kull's command, and each time the king looked at him, Kull
shuddered inwardly. The surface of court life was as the unrippled
surface of the sea between tide and tide. To the musing king the
affairs of the night before seemed as a dream, until his eyes dropped
to the arm of his throne. A brown, sinewy hand rested there, upon the
wrist of which gleamed a dragon armlet; Brule stood beside his throne
and ever the Pict's fierce secret whisper brought him back from the
realm of unreality in which he moved.

No, that was no dream, that monstrous interlude. As he sat upon his
throne in the Hall of Society and gazed upon the courtiers, the ladies,
the lords, the statesmen, he seemed to see their faces as things of
illusion, things unreal, existent only as shadows and mockeries of
substance. Always he had seen their faces as masks but before he had
looked on them with contemptuous tolerance, thinking to see beneath the
masks shallow, puny souls, avaricious, lustful, deceitful; now there
was a grim undertone, a sinister meaning, a vague horror that lurked
beneath the smooth masks. While he exchanged courtesies with some
nobleman or councilor he seemed to see the smiling face fade like smoke
and the frightful jaws of a serpent gaping there. How many of those he
looked upon were horrid, inhuman monsters, plotting his death, beneath
the smooth mesmeric illusion of a human face?

Valusia--land of dreams and nightmares--a kingdom of the shadows, ruled
by phantoms who glided back and forth behind the painted curtains,
mocking the futile king who sat upon the throne--himself a shadow.

And like a comrade shadow Brule stood by his side, dark eyes glittering
from immobile face. A real man, Brule! And Kull felt his friendship
for the savage become a thing of reality and sensed that Brule felt a
friendship for him beyond the mere necessity of statecraft.

And what, mused Kull, were the realities of life? Ambition, power,
pride? The friendship of man, the love of women--which Kull had never
known--battle, plunder, what? Was it the real Kull who sat upon the
throne or was it the real Kull who had scaled the hills of Atlantis,
harried the far isles of the sunset, and laughed upon the green roaring
tides of the Atlantean sea? How could a man be so many different men in
a lifetime? For Kull knew that there were many Kulls and he wondered
which was the real Kull. After all, the priests of the Serpent merely
went a step further in their magic, for all men wore masks, and many a
different mask with each different man or woman; and Kull wondered if a
serpent did not lurk under every mask.

So he sat and brooded in strange, mazy thought-ways, and the courtiers
came and went and the minor affairs of the day were completed, until at
last the king and Brule sat alone in the Hall of Society save for the
drowsy attendants.

Kull felt a weariness. Neither he nor Brule had slept the night before,
nor had Kull slept the night before that, when in the gardens of Ka-nu
he had had his first hint of the weird things to be. Last night nothing
further had occurred after they had returned to the study room from the
secret corridors, but they had neither dared nor cared to sleep. Kull,
with the incredible vitality of a wolf, had aforetime gone for days
upon days without sleep, in his wild savage days, but now his mind was
edged from constant thinking and from the nerve-breaking eeriness of
the past night. He needed sleep, but sleep was furthest from his mind.

And he would not have dared sleep if he had thought of it. Another
thing that had shaken him was the fact that though he and Brule had
kept a close watch to see if, or when, the study-room guard was
changed, yet it was changed without their knowledge; for the next
morning those who stood on guard were able to repeat the magic words of
Brule, but they remembered nothing out of the ordinary. They thought
that they had stood at guard all night, as usual, and Kull said nothing
to the contrary. He believed them true men, but Brule had advised
absolute secrecy, and Kull also thought it best.

Now Brule leaned over the throne, lowering his voice so not even a lazy
attendant could hear: "They will strike soon, I think, Kull. A while
ago Ka-nu gave me a secret sign. The priests know that we know of their
plot, of course, but they know not how much we know. We must be ready
for any sort of action. Ka-nu and the Pictish chiefs will remain within
hailing distance now until this is settled one way or another. Ha,
Kull, if it comes to a pitched battle, the streets and the castles of
Valusia will run red!"

Kull smiled grimly. He would greet any sort of action with a ferocious
joy. This wandering in a labyrinth of illusion and magic was extremely
irksome to his nature. He longed for the leap and clang of swords, for
the joyous freedom of battle.

Then into the Hall of Society came Tu again, and the rest of the
councilors.

"Lord king, the hour of the council is at hand and we stand ready to
escort you to the council room."
