
Kull rose, and the councilors bent the knee as he passed through the
way opened by them for his passage, rising behind him and following.
Eyebrows were raised as the Pict strode defiantly behind the king, but
no one dissented. Brule's challenging gaze swept the smooth faces of
the councilors with the defiance of an intruding savage.

The group passed through the halls and came at last to the council
chamber. The door was closed, as usual, and the councilors arranged
themselves in the order of their rank before the dais upon which stood
the king. Like a bronze statue Brule took up his stand behind Kull.

Kull swept the room with a swift stare. Surely no chance of treachery
here. Seventeen councilors there were, all known to him; all of them
had espoused his cause when he ascended the throne.

"Men of Valusia----" he began in the conventional manner, then halted,
perplexed. The councilors had risen as a man and were moving toward
him. There was no hostility in their looks, but their actions were
strange for a council room. The foremost was close to him when Brule
sprang forward, crouched like a leopard.

"_Ka nama kaa lajerama!_" his voice crackled through the sinister
silence of the room and the foremost councilor recoiled, hand flashing
to his robes; and like a spring released Brule moved and the man
pitched headlong to the glint of his sword--headlong he pitched and lay
still while his face faded and became the head of a mighty snake.

"Slay, Kull!" rasped the Pict's voice. "They be all serpent-men!"

The rest was a scarlet maze. Kull saw the familiar faces dim like
fading fog and in their places gaped horrid reptilian visages as the
whole band rushed forward. His mind was dazed but his giant body
faltered not.

The singing of his sword filled the room, and the onrushing flood broke
in a red wave. But they surged forward again, seemingly willing to
fling their lives away in order to drag down the king. Hideous jaws
gaped at him; terrible eyes blazed into his unblinkingly; a frightful
fetid scent pervaded the atmosphere--the serpent scent that Kull had
known in southern jungles. Swords and daggers leaped at him and he was
dimly aware that they wounded him. But Kull was in his element; never
before had he faced such grim foes but it mattered little; they lived,
their veins held blood that could be spilt and they died when his great
sword cleft their skulls or drove through their bodies. Slash, thrust,
thrust and swing. Yet had Kull died there but for the man who crouched
at his side, parrying and thrusting. For the king was clear berserk,
fighting in the terrible Atlantean way, that seeks death to deal death;
he made no effort to avoid thrusts and slashes, standing straight up
and ever plunging forward, no thought in his frenzied mind but to slay.
Not often did Kull forget his fighting craft in his primitive fury,
but now some chain had broken in his soul, flooding his mind with
a red wave of slaughter-lust. He slew a foe at each blow, but they
surged about him, and time and again Brule turned a thrust that would
have slain, as he crouched beside Kull, parrying and warding with cold
skill, slaying not as Kull slew with long slashes and plunges, but with
short overhand blows and upward thrusts.

[Illustration: "Some chain had broken in his soul, flooding his mind
with a red wave of slaughter-lust."]

Kull laughed, a laugh of insanity. The frightful faces swirled about
him in a scarlet blaze. He felt steel sink into his arm and dropped his
sword in a flashing arc that cleft his foe to the breast-bone. Then
the mists faded and the king saw that he and Brule stood alone above a
sprawl of hideous crimson figures who lay still upon the floor.

"Valka! what a killing!" said Brule, shaking the blood from his eyes.
"Kull, had these been warriors who knew how to use the steel, we had
died here. These serpent priests know naught of swordcraft and die
easier than any men I ever slew. Yet had there been a few more, I think
the matter had ended otherwise."

Kull nodded. The wild berserker blaze had passed, leaving a mazed
feeling of great weariness. Blood seeped from wounds on breast,
shoulder, arm and leg. Brule, himself bleeding from a score of flesh
wounds, glanced at him in some concern.

"Lord Kull, let us hasten to have your wounds dressed by the women."

Kull thrust him aside with a drunken sweep of his mighty arm.

"Nay, we'll see this through ere we cease. Go you, though, and have
your wounds seen to--I command it."

The Pict laughed grimly. "Your wounds are more than mine, lord
king----" he began, then stopped as a sudden thought struck him. "By
Valka, Kull, this is not the council room!"

Kull looked about and suddenly other fogs seemed to fade. "Nay, this is
the room where Eallal died a thousand years ago--since unused and named
'Accursed'."

"Then by the gods, they tricked us after all!" exclaimed Brule in a
fury, kicking the corpses at their feet. "They caused us to walk like
fools into their ambush! By their magic they changed the appearance of
all----"

"Then there is further deviltry afoot," said Kull, "for if there be
true men in the councils of Valusia they should be in the real council
room now. Come swiftly."

And leaving the room with its ghastly keepers they hastened through
halls that seemed deserted until they came to the real council room.
Then Kull halted with a ghastly shudder. _From the council room sounded
a voice speaking, and the voice was his!_
