
With a hand that shook he parted the tapestries and gazed into the
room. There sat the councilors, counterparts of the men he and Brule
had just slain, and upon the dais stood Kull, king of Valusia.

He stepped back, his mind reeling.

"This is insanity!" he whispered. "Am I Kull? Do I stand here or is
that Kull yonder in very truth and am I but a shadow, a figment of
thought?"

Brule's hand clutching his shoulder, shaking him fiercely, brought him
to his senses.

"Valka's name, be not a fool! Can you yet be astounded after all we
have seen? See you not that those are true men bewitched by a snake-man
who has taken your form, as those others took their forms? By now you
should have been slain and yon monster reigning in your stead, unknown
by those who bowed to you. Leap and slay swiftly or else we are undone.
The Red Slayers, true men, stand close on each hand and none but you
can reach and slay him. Be swift!"

Kull shook off the onrushing dizziness, flung back his head in the old,
defiant gesture. He took a long, deep breath as does a strong swimmer
before diving into the sea; then, sweeping back the tapestries, made
the dais in a single lionlike bound. Brule had spoken truly. There
stood men of the Red Slayers, guardsmen trained to move quick as the
striking leopard; any but Kull had died ere he could reach the usurper.
But the sight of Kull, identical with the man upon the dais, held
them in their tracks, their minds stunned for an instant, and that
was long enough. He upon the dais snatched for his sword, but even as
his fingers closed upon the hilt, Kull's sword stood out behind his
shoulders and the thing that men had thought the king pitched forward
from the dais to lie silent upon the floor.

"Hold!" Kull's lifted hand and kingly voice stopped the rush that had
started, and while they stood astounded he pointed to the thing which
lay before them--whose face was fading into that of a snake. They
recoiled, and from one door came Brule and from another came Ka-nu.

These grasped the king's bloody hand and Ka-nu spoke: "Men of Valusia,
you have seen with your own eyes. This is the true Kull, the mightiest
king to whom Valusia has ever bowed. The power of the Serpent is broken
and ye be all true men. King Kull, have you commands?"

"Lift that carrion," said Kull, and men of the guard took up the thing.

"Now follow me," said the king, and he made his way to the Accursed
Room. Brule, with a look of concern, offered the support of his arm but
Kull shook him off.

The distance seemed endless to the bleeding king, but at last he stood
at the door and laughed fiercely and grimly when he heard the horrified
ejaculations of the councilors.

At his orders the guardsmen flung the corpse they carried beside the
others, and motioning all from the room Kull stepped out last and
closed the door.

A wave of dizziness left him shaken. The faces turned to him, pallid
and wonderingly, swirled and mingled in a ghostly fog. He felt the
blood from his wound trickling down his limbs and he knew that what he
was to do, he must do quickly or not at all.

His sword rasped from its sheath.

"Brule, are you there?"

"Aye!" Brule's face looked at him through the mist, close to his
shoulder, but Brule's voice sounded leagues and eons away.

"Remember our vow, Brule. And now, bid them stand back."

His left arm cleared a space as he flung up his sword. Then with all
his waning power he drove it through the door into the jamb, driving
the great sword to the hilt and sealing the room forever.

Legs braced wide, he swayed drunkenly, facing the horrified
councilors. "Let this room be doubly accursed. And let those
rotting skeletons lie there forever as a sign of the dying might of
the serpent. Here I swear that I shall hunt the serpent-men from
land to land, from sea to sea, giving no rest until all be slain,
that good triumph and the power of Hell be broken. This thing I
swear--I--Kull--king--of--Valusia."

His knees buckled as the faces swayed and swirled. The councilors
leaped forward, but ere they could reach him, Kull slumped to the
floor, and lay still, face upward.

The councilors surged about the fallen king, chattering and shrieking.
Ka-nu beat them back with his clenched fists, cursing savagely.

"Back, you fools! Would you stifle the little life that is yet in him?
How, Brule, is he dead or will he live?"--to the warrior who bent above
the prostrate Kull.

"Dead?" sneered Brule irritably. "Such a man as this is not so easily
killed. Lack of sleep and loss of blood have weakened him--by Valka,
he has a score of deep wounds, but none of them mortal. Yet have those
gibbering fools bring the court women here at once."

Brule's eyes lighted with a fierce, proud light.

"Valka, Ka-nu, but here is such a man as I knew not existed in these
degenerate days. He will be in the saddle in a few scant days and then
may the serpent-men of the world beware of Kull of Valusia. Valka! but
that will be a rare hunt! Ah, I see long years of prosperity for the
world with such a king upon the throne of Valusia."