



Mr. Jonathon Chambers left his house on Maple Street at exactly
seven o'clock in the evening and set out on the daily walk he had
taken, at the same time, come rain or snow, for twenty solid
years.

The walk never varied. He paced two blocks down Maple Street,
stopped at the Red Star confectionery to buy a Rose Trofero
perfecto, then walked to the end of the fourth block on Maple.
There he turned right on Lexington, followed Lexington to Oak,
down Oak and so by way of Lincoln back to Maple again and to his
home.

He didn't walk fast. He took his time. He always returned to his
front door at exactly 7:45. No one ever stopped to talk with
him. Even the man at the Red Star confectionery, where he bought
his cigar, remained silent while the purchase was being made. Mr.
Chambers merely tapped on the glass top of the counter with a
coin, the man reached in and brought forth the box, and Mr.
Chambers took his cigar. That was all.

For people long ago had gathered that Mr. Chambers desired to be
left alone. The newer generation of townsfolk called it
eccentricity. Certain uncouth persons had a different word for
it. The oldsters remembered that this queer looking individual
with his black silk muffler, rosewood cane and bowler hat once
had been a professor at State University.

A professor of metaphysics, they seemed to recall, or some such
outlandish subject. At any rate a furore of some sort was
connected with his name ... at the time an academic scandal. He
had written a book, and he had taught the subject matter of that
volume to his classes. What that subject matter was, had long been
forgotten, but whatever it was had been considered sufficiently
revolutionary to cost Mr. Chambers his post at the university.

A silver moon shone over the chimney tops and a chill, impish
October wind was rustling the dead leaves when Mr. Chambers
started out at seven o'clock.

It was a good night, he told himself, smelling the clean, crisp
air of autumn and the faint pungence of distant wood smoke.

He walked unhurriedly, swinging his cane a bit less jauntily than
twenty years ago. He tucked the muffler more securely under the
rusty old topcoat and pulled his bowler hat more firmly on his
head.

He noticed that the street light at the corner of Maple and
Jefferson was out and he grumbled a little to himself when he was
forced to step off the walk to circle a boarded-off section of
newly-laid concrete work before the driveway of 816.

It seemed that he reached the corner of Lexington and Maple just
a bit too quickly, but he told himself that this couldn't be. For
he never did that. For twenty years, since the year following his
expulsion from the university, he had lived by the clock.

The same thing, at the same time, day after day. He had not
deliberately set upon such a life of routine. A bachelor, living
alone with sufficient money to supply his humble needs, the timed
existence had grown on him gradually.

So he turned on Lexington and back on Oak. The dog at the corner
of Oak and Jefferson was waiting for him once again and came out
snarling and growling, snapping at his heels. But Mr. Chambers
pretended not to notice and the beast gave up the chase.

A radio was blaring down the street and faint wisps of what it
was blurting floated to Mr. Chambers.

"... still taking place ... Empire State building disappeared ...
thin air ... famed scientist, Dr. Edmund Harcourt...."

The wind whipped the muted words away and Mr. Chambers grumbled
to himself. Another one of those fantastic radio dramas,
probably. He remembered one from many years before, something
about the Martians. And Harcourt! What did Harcourt have to do
with it? He was one of the men who had ridiculed the book
Mr. Chambers had written.

But he pushed speculation away, sniffed the clean, crisp air again,
looked at the familiar things that materialized out of the late
autumn darkness as he walked along. For there was nothing ...
absolutely nothing in the world ... that he would let upset him.
That was a tenet he had laid down twenty years ago.
