
All next day he was uneasy and as he left the house that evening,
at precisely seven o'clock, he kept saying to himself: "You must
not forget tonight! You must remember to stop and get your
cigar!"

The street light at the corner of Jefferson was still out and in
front of 816 the cemented driveway was still boarded off.
Everything was the same as the night before.

And now, he told himself, the Red Star confectionery is in the
next block. I must not forget tonight. To forget twice in a row
would be just too much.

He grasped that thought firmly in his mind, strode just a bit
more rapidly down the street.

But at the corner he stopped in consternation. Bewildered, he
stared down the next block. There was no neon sign, no splash of
friendly light upon the sidewalk to mark the little store tucked
away in this residential section.

He stared at the street marker and read the word slowly: GRANT. He
read it again, unbelieving, for this shouldn't be Grant Street, but
Marshall. He had walked two blocks and the confectionery was between
Marshall and Grant. He hadn't come to Marshall yet ... and here was
Grant.

Or had he, absent-mindedly, come one block farther than he
thought, passed the store as on the night before?

For the first time in twenty years, Mr. Chambers retraced his
steps. He walked back to Jefferson, then turned around and went
back to Grant again and on to Lexington. Then back to Grant
again, where he stood astounded while a single, incredible fact
grew slowly in his brain:

_There wasn't any confectionery! The block from Marshall to Grant
had disappeared!_

Now he understood why he had missed the store on the night
before, why he had arrived home fifteen minutes early.

On legs that were dead things he stumbled back to his home. He
slammed and locked the door behind him and made his way
unsteadily to his chair in the corner.

What was this? What did it mean? By what inconceivable
necromancy could a paved street with houses, trees and buildings
be spirited away and the space it had occupied be closed up?

Was something happening in the world which he, in his secluded
life, knew nothing about?

Mr. Chambers shivered, reached to turn up the collar of his coat,
then stopped as he realized the room must be warm. A fire blazed
merrily in the grate. The cold he felt came from something ...
somewhere else. The cold of fear and horror, the chill of a half
whispered thought.

A deathly silence had fallen, a silence still measured by the
pendulum clock. And yet a silence that held a different tenor than
he had ever sensed before. Not a homey, comfortable silence ... but
a silence that hinted at emptiness and nothingness.

There was something back of this, Mr. Chambers told himself.
Something that reached far back into one corner of his brain and
demanded recognition. Something tied up with the fragments of
talk he had heard on the drugstore corner, bits of news
broadcasts he had heard as he walked along the street, the
shrieking of the newsboy calling his papers. Something to do with
the happenings in the world from which he had excluded himself.
