
The morning before the robots walked, Johnny Malone, the Mayor's son,
bounced out of bed with a burst of energy. Skinning out of his pajamas
and into a pair of trousers, he hurried, barefooted, into his mother's
bedroom. She was sleeping soundly, and he touched one shoulder
hesitantly.

"Mother!"

The sleeping figure stirred. His mother's face, still faintly shiny with
hormone cream, turned toward him. She opened her eyes. Her voice was
irritated.

"What is it, Johnny?"

"Today's the day, mommy. Remember?"

"The day?" Eyebrows raised.

"The new school opens. Now we'll have roboteachers like everyone else.
Will you fix my breakfast, mother?"

"Amelia will fix you something."

"Aw, mother. Amelia's just a robot. This is a special day. And I want my
daddy to help me with my arithmetic before I go. I don't want the
roboteacher to think I'm dumb."

His mother frowned in deepening irritation. "Now, there's no reason why
Amelia can't get your breakfast like she always does. And I doubt if it
would be wise to wake your father. You know he likes to sleep in the
morning. Now, you go on out of here and let me sleep."

Johnny Malone turned away, fighting himself for a moment, for he knew he
was too big to cry. He walked more slowly now and entered his father's
room. He had to shake his father to awaken him.

"Daddy! Wake up, daddy!"

"What in the devil? Oh, Johnny." His father's eyes were sleepily bleak.
"What in thunder do you want?"

"Today's the first day of roboteachers. I can't work my arithmetic.
Will you help me before I go to school?"

His father stared at him in amazement. "Just what in the devil do you
think roboteachers are for? They're supposed to teach you. If you knew
arithmetic we wouldn't need roboteachers."

"But the roboteachers may be angry if I don't have my lesson."

Johnny Malone's father turned on one elbow. "Listen, son," he said. "If
those roboteachers give you any trouble you just tell them you're the
Mayor's son. See. Now get the devil out of here. What's her name--that
servorobot--Amelia will get your breakfast and get you off to school.
Now suppose you beat it out of here and let me go back to sleep."

"Yes, Sir." Eyes smarting, Johnny Malone went down the stairs to the
kitchen. It wasn't that his parents were different. All the kids were
fed and sent to school by robots. It was just that--well today seemed
sort of special. Downstairs Amelia, the roboservant, placed hot cereal
on the table before him. After he had forced a few bites past the
tightness in his throat, Amelia checked the temperature and his clothing
and let him out the door. The newest school was only a few blocks from
his home, and Johnny could walk to school.
