
The newest school stood on the edge of this large, middlewestern city.
Off to the back of the school were the towers of the town, great
monolithic skyscrapers of pre-stressed concrete and plastic. To the
front of the school the plains stretched out to meet a cloudy horizon.

A helio car swung down in front of the school. Two men and a woman got
out.

"This is it, Senator." Doctor Wilson, the speaker, was with the
government bureau of schools. He lifted his arm and gestured, a lean,
tweed-suited man.

The second man, addressed as Senator, was bulkier, grey suited and
pompous. He turned to the woman with professional deference.

"This is the last one, my dear. This is what Doctor Wilson calls the
greatest milestone in man's education."

"With the establishing of this school the last human teacher is gone.
Gone are all the human weaknesses, the temper fits of teachers, their
ignorance and prejudices. The roboteachers are without flaw."

The woman lifted a lorgnette to her eyes. "_Haow_ interesting. But after
all, we've had roboteachers for years, haven't we--or have we--?" She
made a vague gesture toward the school, and looked at the brown-suited
man.

"Yes, of course. Years ago your women's clubs fought against
roboteachers. That was before they were proven."

"I seem to recall something of that. Oh well, it doesn't matter." The
lorgnette gestured idly.

"Shall we go in?" the lean man urged.

The woman hesitated. Senator said tactfully, "After all, Doctor Wilson
would like you to see his project."

The brown-suited man nodded. His face took on a sharp intensity. "We're
making a great mistake. No one is interested in educating the children
any more. They leave it to the robots. And they neglect the children's
training at home."

The woman turned toward him with surprise in her eyes. "But really,
aren't the robots the best teachers?"

"Of course they are. But confound it, we ought to be interested in what
they teach and how they teach. What's happened to the old PTA? What's
happened to parental discipline, what's happened to--"

He stopped suddenly and smiled, a rueful tired smile. "I suppose I'm a
fanatic on this. Come on inside."

They passed through an antiseptic corridor built from dull green
plastic. The brown-suited man pressed a button outside one of the
classrooms. A door slid noiselessly into the hall. A robot stood before
them, gesturing gently. They followed the robot into the classroom. At
the head of the classroom another robot was lecturing. There were
drawings on a sort of plastic blackboard. There were wire models on the
desk in front of the robot. They listened for a moment, and for a moment
it seemed that the woman could be intrigued in spite of herself.

"Mathematics," Doctor Wilson murmured in her ear. "Euclidean Geometry
and Aristotelean reasoning. We start them young on these old schools of
thought, then use Aristotle and Euclid as a point of departure for our
intermediate classes in mathematics and logic."

"REAHLLY!" The lorgnette studied Doctor Wilson. "You mean there are
several kinds of geometry?"

Doctor Wilson nodded. A dull flush crept into his cheeks. The Senator
caught his eyes and winked. The woman moved toward the door. At the door
the robot bowed.

The lorgnette waved in appreciation. "It's reahlly been most charming!"

Wilson said desperately, "If your women's clubs would just visit our
schools and see this work we are carrying on ..."

"Reahlly, I'm sure the robots are doing a marvelous job. After all,
that's what they were built for."

Wilson called, "Socrates! Come here!" The robot approached from his
position outside the classroom door.

"Why were you built, Socrates? Tell the lady why you were built."

A metal throat cleared, a metal voice said resonantly, "We were made to
serve the children. The children are the heart of a society. As the
children are raised, so will the future be assured. I will do everything
for the children's good, this is my prime law. All other laws are
secondary to the children's good."

"Thank you, Socrates. You may go."

Metal footsteps retreated. The lorgnette waved again. "Very impressive.
Very efficient. And now, Senator, if we can go. We are to have tea at
the women's club. Varden is reviewing his newest musical comedy."

The Senator said firmly, "Thank you, Doctor Wilson."

His smile was faintly apologetic. It seemed to say that the women's
clubs had many votes, but that Wilson should understand, Wilson's own
vote would be appreciated too. Wilson watched the two re-enter the
helicopter and rise into the morning sunshine. He kicked the dirt with
his shoe and turned to find Socrates behind him. The metallic voice
spoke.

"You are tired. I suggest you go home and rest."

"I'm not tired. Why can they be so blind, so uninterested in the
children?"

"It is our job to teach the children. You are tired. I suggest you go
home and rest."

How can you argue with metal? What can you add to a perfect mechanism,
designed for its job, and integrated with a hundred other perfect
mechanisms? What can you do when a thousand schools are so perfect they
have a life of their own, with no need for human guidance, and, most
significant, no failures from human weakness?

Wilson stared soberly at this school, at the colossus he had helped to
create. He had the feeling that it was wrong somehow, that if people
would only think about it they could find that something was wrong.

"You are tired."

He nodded at Socrates. "Yes, I am tired. I will go home."

Once, on the way home, he stared back toward the school with strange
unease.
