



My Aunt Mattie, Matthewa H. Tombs, is President of the Daughters of
Terra. I am her nephew, the one who didn't turn out well. Christened
Hapland Graves, after Earth President Hapland, a cousin by marriage,
the fellows at school naturally called me Happy Graves.

"Haphazard Graves, it should be," Aunt Mattie commented acidly the
first time she heard it. It was her not very subtle way of reminding
me of the way I lived my life and did things, or didn't do them. She
shuddered at anything disorderly, which of course included me, and it
was her beholden duty to right anything which to her appeared wrong.

"There won't be any evil to march on after you get through, Aunt
Mattie," I once said when I was a child. I like now to think that even
at the age of six I must have mastered the straight face, but I'm
afraid I was so awed by her that I was sincere.

"That will do, Hapland!" she said sternly. But I think she knew I
meant it--then--and I think that was the day I became her favorite
nephew. For some reason, never quite clear to me, she was my favorite
aunt. I think she liked me most because I was the cross she had to
bear. I liked her most, I'm sure, because it was such a comfortable
ride.

A few billions spent around the house can make things quite
comfortable.

She had need of her billions to carry out her hobbies, or, as she
called it, her "life's work." Aunt Mattie always spoke in cliches
because people could understand what you meant. One of these hobbies
was her collection of flora of the universe. It was begun by her
maternal grandfather, one of the wealthier Plots, and increased as the
family fortunes were increased by her father, one of the more ruthless
Tombs, but it was under Aunt Mattie's supervision that it came, so to
speak, into full flower.

"Love," she would say, "means more to a flower than all the
scientific knowledge in the world." Apparently she felt that the small
army of gardeners, each a graduate specialist in duplicating the right
planetary conditions, hardly mattered.

The collection covered some two hundred acres in our grounds at the
west side of the house. Small, perhaps, as some of the more vulgar
displays by others go, but very, very choice.

The other hobby, which she combines with the first, is equally
expensive. She and her club members, the Daughters of Terra (D.T.s for
short), often find it necessary to take junkets on the family space
yacht out to some distant planet--to straighten out reprehensible
conditions which have come to her attention. I usually went along to
take care of--symbolically, at least--the bags and (their) baggage.

My psychiatrist would say that expressing it in this way shows I have
never outgrown my juvenile attitudes. He says I am simply a case of
arrested development, mental, caused through too much over-shadowing
by the rest of the family. He says that, like the rest of them, I have
inherited the family compulsion to make the universe over to my own
liking so I can pass it on to posterity with a clear conscience, and
my negative attitude toward this is simply a defense mechanism because
I haven't had a chance to do it. He says I really hate my aunt's flora
collection because I see it as a rival for her affection. I tell him
if I have any resentments toward it at all it is for the long hours
spent in getting the latinized names of things drilled into me. I ask
him why gardeners always insist on forcing long meaningless names upon
non-gardeners who simply don't care. He ignores that, and says that
subconsciously I hate my Aunt Mattie because I secretly recognize that
she is a challenge too great for me to overcome. I ask him why, if I
subconsciously hate Aunt Mattie, why I would care about how much
affection she gives to her flora collection. He says, ahah! We are
making progress.

He says he can't cure me--of what, I'm never clear--until I find the
means to cut down and destroy my Aunt Mattie.

This is all patent nonsense because Aunt Mattie is the rock, the firm
foundation in a universe of shifting values. Even her cliches are
precious to me because they are unchanging. On her, I can depend.

He tells Aunt Mattie his diagnoses and conclusions, too. Unethical?
Well now! Between a mere psychiatrist and my Aunt Mattie is there any
doubt about who shall say what is ethical?

After one of their long conferences about me she calls me into her
study, looks at me wordlessly, sadly, shakes her head, sighs--then
squares her shoulders until the shelf of her broad, although maiden,
bosom becomes huge enough to carry any burden, even the burden of my
alleged hate. This she bears bravely, even gratefully. I might resent
this needless pain the psychiatrist gives her, except that it really
seems to make her happier in some obscure way.

Perhaps she has some kind of guilt complex, and I am her deserved
punishment? Aunt Mattie with a guilt complex? Never! Aunt Mattie knows
she is right, and goes ahead.

So all his nonsense is completely ridiculous. I love my Aunt Mattie. I
adore my Aunt Mattie. I would never do anything to hurt my Aunt
Mattie.

Or, well, I didn't mean to hurt her, anyway. All I did was wink. I
only meant....
