
I had hardly more than--ah--freshened up a bit myself in my hotel
room, when I heard a discreet knock on my door. I opened it and saw
Johnny McCabe.

"May I come in, Hap?" he asked. As if against his will, he glanced
quickly down the hall toward the suite where aunt and her committee
had been put.

"Sure, Johnny," I said, and opened the door wide. I pointed to an
aluminum tube torture rack, government issue's idea of a chair. "You
can have the chair," I said. "I'll sit on the edge of the bed."

"I'm sorry about the furnishings," he said apologetically as he sat
down and I closed the door. "It's the best government will issue us in
this hole."

"Aunt Mattie would be disappointed if it were better," I said as I sat
on the edge of the bed, which was little softer than the chair. "She
expects to rough it, and finds special virtue in doing her duty as
uncomfortably as possible."

He looked sharply at me, but I had merely stated an accepted fact, not
an opinion, and was therefore emotionless about it.

"I'm in trouble, Hap," he said desperately. He leaned forward with
his clasped hands held between his knees.

"Well, old man," I answered. "You know me."

"Yes," he said. "But there isn't anybody else I can turn to."

"Then we understand each other," I agreed. He looked both resentful
and puzzled.

"No, I never did understand you," he disagreed. "I suppose it's all
those billions that act as shock insulation for you. You never had to
plan, and scheme, and stand alert indefinitely like a terrier at a rat
hole waiting for opportunity to stick out its nose so you could pounce
on it. So I don't see how you can appreciate my problem now."

"I might try," I said humbly.

"This job," he said. "It's not much, and I know it. But it was a
start. The department doesn't expect anything from me but patience.
It's not so much ability, you know, just a matter of who can hang on
the longest without getting into trouble. I've been hanging on, and
keeping out of trouble."

"But you're in trouble now."

"I will be when your aunt fails to put mother hubbards on the
natives."

"She won't fail," I said confidently.

"And when she storms into the State Department with fire in her eye
and starts turning things upside down, it'll be my fault--somehow," he
said miserably.

"So let her put some clothes on some natives," I said. "She'll go away
happy and then, for all you care, they can take 'em off and burn 'em
if they insist on going around naked. Just swing with the punch, man.
Don't stand up and let 'em knock your block off. Surely you have some
influence with the natives. I don't hear any war drums, any tom-toms.
I don't see them trying to tear holes in the sides of your bubble to
let the air out. You must be at peace with them. You must have some
kind of mutual cooperation. So just get a tribe or so to go along with
the idea for a while."

He looked at me and shook his head sadly. Sort of the way Aunt Mattie
shook her head after a conference with my psychiatrist. But Johnny
didn't seem somehow happier. He had a pretty good chest, but it didn't
look enormous enough to carry any burden.

"I've been pretty proud of myself," he said. "After five years of
daily attempts, and after using everything I ever learned in school
courses on extraterrestrial psychology, plus some things I've made up
myself, I established a kind of communication with the natives--if you
could call it communication. I'd go out in my spacesuit into their
chlorinated atmosphere, I'd stand in front of one of them and talk a
blue streak, think a blue streak. After about five years of it, one of
them slowly closed his eye and then opened it again. I invited one of
them to come inside the bubble. I told him about the difference in
atmosphere, that it might be dangerous. I got one of them to come in.
It made no difference to him."

"Well, fine, then," I said. "Just get some of them to come in again,
let Aunt Mattie put some clothes on them, and everybody's happy."

He stood up suddenly.

"Take a walk with me, Hap," he said. It was more of a command than an
invitation. "Over to the edge of the bubble. I want to show you some
natives."

I was willing.

On the way around to the back of the building, over the crunching
salt, I had a thought.

"If all he did was close an eye," I said. "How did you learn their
language, so you could invite him inside, explain about the
atmosphere?"

"I don't even know they have a language," he said. "Maybe he learned
mine. I used to draw pictures in the salt, the way they taught us at
school, and say words. Maybe it took him five years to put the
thoughts together, maybe they don't have any concept of language at
all, or need it. Maybe he was thinking about something else all those
five years, and just got around to noticing me. I don't know, Hap."

We came around the edge of an outbuilding then to an unobstructed view
of the bubble edge. Even through dark glasses he'd cautioned me to
wear with a gesture, as he put on another pair for himself, the scene
through the clear plastic was blinding white. Scattered here and there
on the glistening salt were blobs of black.

"Why," I exclaimed. "Those are octopi. I suppose that's what the
natives use for food? I've wondered."

"Those _are_ the natives," he answered, drily.

By now we were up to the plastic barrier of our bubble and stood
looking out at the scene.

"Well," I said after some long moments of staring. "It will be a
challenge to the D.T.'s, won't it?"

He looked at me with disgust.

"What do they eat?" I asked. "Salt?"

"I don't know if they eat," he said. "Can't you get it through your
thick skull, man, that these things are alien? Completely alien? How
do I know?"

"Well you must know some things after five years of study. You must
have observed them. They must get food somehow, they must sleep and
wake, they must procreate. You must have observed something."

"I've observed the process of procreation," he answered cautiously.

"Well fine, then," I said. "That's what's going to concern Aunt Mattie
the most."

"Here's something that may help you understand them," he said, and I
felt a bit of the sardonic in his voice, a grimness. "When that one
visited me inside here," he said. "I took him into my office, so I
could photograph him better with all the equipment. I was explaining
everything, not knowing how much he understood. I happened to pick up
a cigarette and a lighter. Soon as I flipped the lighter on, he shot
up a tentacle and took it out of my hand. I let him keep it, of
course. Next day, when I went outside, everyone of them, as far as I
could see in the distance, had a lighter, exactly like the one I'd
given him. Furthermore, in a chlorinated atmosphere, without oxygen,
those lighters burned normally. Does that help you to understand them
better?" he asked with no attempt to hide the heavy irony.

I didn't have a chance to answer because we both heard a crunching in
the salt behind us. We turned about and there was Aunt Mattie and her
two committee women behind her also now in dark glasses. I waited
until the ladies had come up to us, then I waved my arm grandly at the
scene beyond the plastic.

"Behold the natives in all their nakedness, Aunt Mattie," I said.
Then, to soften the blow it must have been, "I'm afraid somebody was
pulling your leg when they reported it to the D.T.'s."

Miss Point gasped audibly.

Mrs. Waddle said, "Shocking!"

I couldn't tell whether it was the sight of the natives, or my remark
which indicated I knew they had legs to pull.

For the first time in my life I saw uncertainty in Aunt Mattie's eyes
as she looked, startled, at me, and then at Johnny. Then her chin
squared, her back straightened still more, the shelf of her bosom
firmed.

"It really won't be too much of a problem, girls," she said. "Actually
simpler than some we've solved. Take a square of cloth, cut a hole in
the center for that headlike pouch to come through where its eye is,
put in a draw string to cinch it up tight, above those--ah--those
protuberances, and let it flow out over those--ah--legs. Simple, and
quite attractive, don't you think?"

The girls nodded happily, and Johnny just stood there gasping for
breath.
