
It was simpler than any of us had thought.

Johnny looked at me desperately when Aunt Mattie told him to have one
of the natives come in so she could fit a pattern on it, to see if any
gussets would be needed for fullness--whatever gussets might be.

"One of them came inside before," I said in answer to Johnny's
pleading look. "Ask him again. If he refuses, Mohammed will go to the
mountain. I'm sure you have extra space suits. I'm sure the ladies
won't mind going out to the natives if the natives won't come to
them."

"I don't know," Johnny said miserably. "He may have had sufficient
curiosity to come inside once, but not sufficient to bring him in
again. You see, ladies," he turned to them desperately. "They don't
seem to care about us, one way or the other."

The two committee women looked apprehensively at Aunt Mattie. Not to
care about her, one way or the other? This was beyond comprehension.
But Aunt Mattie was equal to it.

"Very well," she said crisply. "We shall not ask them to come to us.
We shall go to them. It is our duty to carry enlightenment to the
ignorant, wherever they may be, so that they can be taught to care. In
the performance of our duty, we have no room for pride. We shall go
to them, humbly, happily."

We did, too.

By the time we'd got into space suits and through the bubble lock out
into the ordinary landscape of Capella IV, Capella, the sun, was
sinking rapidly.

"We will just have time," Aunt Mattie said crisply, through the
intercom of our suits, "To set the pattern and get some idea of the
sizes needed. Then tomorrow we can begin our work."

Through his face plate I got a look at Johnny's wide, apprehensive
eyes.

"Ladies," he said desperately. "I must warn you again. I've never
tried to touch one of them. I don't know what will happen. I can't be
held responsible."

"You have been most remiss, young man," Aunt Mattie said sternly. "But
then," she added, as if remembering that he had gone to a proper
school, "you're young. No doubt overburdened by nonsensical red tape
in your administrative duties. And--if you had done this already,
there'd be no reason for my being here. I am always willing to help
wherever I'm needed."

All five of us marched silently, and bravely, on after that. A hundred
yards brought us to the first native. It lay there, spread eagled in
eight directions, on the salt. In the center of the tentacles there
arose a column of black rubbery flesh, topped by a rounded dome in the
center of which was one huge liquid black eye. There was not a twitch
of a tentacle as we came to a halt beside it.

"Is this the one you talked to, Johnny?" I asked.

"How should I know?" he asked bitterly. "I never knew if I talked to
the same one twice."

"They're much bigger than I thought," Miss Point said with a little
dismay in her voice.

"Some of them are ten feet in diameter," Johnny said, I thought with a
bit of vindictiveness in his tone.

"Never mind," Aunt Mattie said. "We'll simply sew three lengths of
cloth together to get our square. I'm sure they won't mind a neatly
done seam."

She had a length of cloth in one arm of her space suit, and a pair of
scissors in the mechanical claw of the other hand. With her eye she
seemed to measure the diameter of the dome and, manipulating the
scissors with the claw like an expert space mechanic, she cut a
sizable hole in the center of the cloth.

Entirely without fear or hesitation, she stepped into the triangle
between two long black tentacles that lay on the salt and walked up to
the erect column at the center. Expertly, she flipped the cloth so
that the hole settled over the creature's head, or whatever it was.
Fore and aft, the cloth rippled out to cover the tentacles. The
creature did not move.

With an amazing speed, she took some bundles of cloth from the arms of
Mrs. Waddle, and with even more amazing dexterity of the space claw,
which showed she was no amateur, she basted a length of cloth on
either side of the first strip. Then with her scissors, careful not to
gouge his hide, she cut off the corners so that the eight tentacles
barely peeped out from underneath the cloth.

Somehow, it reminded me of a huge red flower with a black pistil
laying there on the white salt.

"There, sir," my aunt said with satisfaction to the monster. "This
will hide your nakedness, instill in you a sense of true modesty." She
turned to Johnny. "They must not only know what," she instructed.
"They must also know why." She turned back and faced the monster
again. "It is not your fault," she said to it, "That you have been
living in a state of sin. On Earth, where I come from, we have a code
which must be followed. Do unto others as you would have them do unto
you. I'm sure that if I lived in a state of ignorant sin, I would
humbly appreciate the kindness of someone letting me know. I'm sure
that, in time, you will also come to appreciate it."

It was quite a noble speech, and her two companions bowed their space
suit helmets in acknowledgement. Johnny's mouth and eyes were wide,
and desperate. She stepped back then and we all stood there looking at
the monster.

The dome of its head began to tilt until the eye was fastened upon us.
It swept over the three ladies, hesitated on Johnny as if recognizing
him, but came to rest upon me. It stared at me for a full minute. I
stared back. In some strange way I felt as if my psychiatrist were
staring at me, as he often did.

Then the great eye slowly closed, and opened again. As slowly, and
somewhat to my amazement, I felt one of my eyes close and open. I
winked at it.

"That's all for this evening," Aunt Mattie said crisply. "Let it have
its clothes, get used to them. I have the pattern in my mind. Tomorrow
we will get out our sewing machines, and really get busy, girls."

All the way back to the entrance of the bubble, I felt that huge eye
upon me, following me.

Why me?
