
The girls did not need to get busy the next morning.

I was awakened by a shout, there was the sound of running feet in the
hall, and a pounding on my door. Sleepy eyed, for I had dreamed of the
monster's eye all night long, I opened the door as soon as I had found
a robe to cover my own nakedness. It was Johnny, of course.

"Most amazing thing," he rushed in and collapsed into a sitting
position on the side of my bed. "Absolutely amazing. You should see
them."

"What?" I asked.

The rumpus must have disturbed the ladies, too, for there came another
knock on my door, and when I opened it all three of them stood there
fully dressed. Apparently they had arisen at the crack of dawn to get
busy with their sewing. Miss Point and Mrs. Waddle averted their eyes
modestly from the V neck of my robe and my bare legs. Aunt Mattie was
used to my shameless ways.

"What is it?" Aunt Mattie asked crisply.

Johnny leaped to his feet again.

"Amazing," he said again. "I'll have to show you. You'll never believe
it."

"Young man," Aunt Mattie said sharply. "No one has accused you of
untruthfulness, and you are hardly a judge of what we are capable of
believing."

He stood looking at her with his mouth open.

"Now ladies," I said, and started closing the door. "If you'll excuse
me for two minutes I'll dress and we'll go see what Mr. McCabe wants
to show us."

The door clicked on my last words, and I hastily doffed the robe and
slid into pants and a shirt. Oddly enough, I knew what he was going to
show us. I just knew. I slipped on some shoes without bothering about
socks.

"All right," I said. "I'm ready."

They had started down the hall, and we quickly overtook them. Johnny
went ahead, led us out of the hotel, around its side, and when we came
around the corner of the outbuilding which obscured the view, there
before us, through the bubble wall, we saw what I had expected.

As far as the eye could see, dotted here and there like poppies on
snow, the natives lay in the early sun, each dressed in flaring cloth
like that Aunt Mattie had designed the night before.

"You see?" Johnny cried out. "It's the same as with the lighter. One
liked it, so they all have it!"

By now we were up against the plastic barrier. The two subordinates
were gasping such words as "Fantastic, amazing, astounding,
incredible, wondrous, weird".

Aunt Mattie took it all in, and her face lit into a beatific smile.

"You see, young man," she said to Johnny. "They needed only to be
shown right from wrong. Let this be a lesson to you."

"But how did they do it?" Mrs. Waddle gasped.

"Give them some credit for diligence and ingenuity," Aunt Mattie
almost snapped at her assistant. "I always say we underrate the
intelligence and ingenuity of the lesser orders, and that it saps
their strengths if we are overprotective. I admire self-reliance, and
these have shown they have it. So we will not have to do the sewing
after all. Come girls, we must pack and be on our way back to Earth.
Our mission here is accomplished."

The two ladies obeyed their leader without question. The three of
them, in their sturdy walking shoes and their tweed suits, crunched
off across the salt back to their rooms to start packing.

Johnny and I walked along more slowly behind.

"The incredible Matthewa H. Tombs!" he breathed. "She's a legend, you
know, Hap. But I never believed it before." Then, in a complete and
sudden change of mood he snickered. Or, at least, it was the nearest
thing to a small boy snicker I'd heard since prep school. The snicker
turned into a roar of laughter, a grown man's laughter. "If they only
knew!" he shouted, apparently feeling secure because they'd turned the
corner and gone out of sight.

"Knew what?" I asked.

"Why," he said, and doubled up with laughter again. "They've covered
up all the innocent parts and left the reprehensible part, which is
right behind the eye, fully exposed."

"Johnny, my boy," I said with a chuckle. "Do you really believe there
are innocent parts and reprehensible parts of any creature in the
universe?"

He stood stock still and stared at me.

"It takes a nasty, salacious mind to make that kind of separation," I
said.

"But your aun ... the Daughters of...."

"I know my aunt and the Daughters of Terra," I said. "I've lived with
them for years. I know their kind of mind. Who would know it better?"

"But you...."

"The human race," I said, "is very young. It's only in the last few
thousand years that it has discovered sex as a concept. So like little
kids in kindergarten it goes around being embarrassed and snickering.
But we'll grow up. Give us time."

"But you...." he said again. "But they.... That's the kind of
organization that keeps us from growing up, Hap. Don't you see that?
They've kept us mentally retarded for generations, centuries. How can
we make progress when...."

"What's the hurry, Johnny? We've got millions of years, billions,
eternity."

He looked at me again, sharply, shrewdly.

"I've underestimated you, Hap," he said. "I'm afraid I always did. I
had no idea you...."

I shrugged and passed it off. I'd had no idea either, not until this
morning, last night, yesterday evening when that eye had turned on
me--and I'd winked back.

I didn't know how to tell him, or any reason why I should, that there
couldn't be anything right or wrong, good or bad; that nothing could
happen, nothing at all, excepting through the working of the law of
nature. Could one say that water running down hill is good, and water
being pumped up hill is bad? Both are operating within known physical
laws. With millions of years to go, wasn't it likely we would go on
discovering the laws governing how things worked? Until one by one we
had to give up all notion of good and bad happenings? Understood them
as only the operation of natural law? In all the universe, how could
there be any such thing as unnatural happenings?

"Don't worry about it, Johnny," I said as we started walking again.
"And don't worry about your career, either. Aunt Mattie likes you, and
she's mighty pleased with the results of her work out here. Certain
people in the State Department may consider her a bit of a meddlesome
pest, but make no mistake about it, every politician in the universe
trembles in his boots at the very mention of the D.T.'s. And she likes
you, Johnny."

"Thanks, Hap," he said as we came to a stop before the doorway of the
hotel. "I'll see you before your ship takes off. Oh--ah--you won't
tell her she covered up the wrong--well what she would think was the
wrong part?"

"I could have told her that last night," I said.

He walked away with that startled, incredulous look he'd worn ever
since our arrival.
