
On Earth Aunt Mattie had to rush off to a convention of D.T.'s, where
I had no doubt her latest exploit in combating ignorance and sin would
be the main topic of conversation and add to the triumph of her
lionization. To give her credit, I think this lionization bothered
her, embarrassed her a little, and she probably wondered at times if
it were all sincere. But I also think she would have been lonely and
disappointed without it. When one is doing all he can to make the
universe we have inherited a better place for our posterity to inherit
one likes it to be appreciated.

For two or three weeks after she came back home, she was immersed in
administrative duties for the D.T., setting wheels in motion to carry
out all the promises she'd made at the convention.

I spent the time in my own suite in the south wing of our house.
Mostly, I just sat. No one bothered me except the servants necessary
to eating, dressing, sleeping, and they were all but mute about it. My
psychiatrist called once, but I sent word that I didn't need any
today. I called none of my regular friends and did not answer their
messages.

I did send to the Library of Science in Washington for the original
science survey report on Capella IV. It told me little, but allowed me
to surmise some things. Apparently the original scientists were
singularly uncurious about the octopoids, perhaps because they didn't
have five years to hang around and wait for one to blink an eye, as
Johnny had. As always, they were overworked and understaffed, they did
their quick survey and rushed on to some new planet job. If one hoped
that someday somebody might go back and take another look at the
octopoids I found no burning yearning for it in the dry reports.

As far as they went, their surmise was accurate. Some millions, many
millions of years ago, the planet had lost the last of its ocean
water. Apparently, as they failed to adapt to the increasing salinity
of the little left, one by one the original life forms died out.
Something in the octopoid metabolism (or mentality?) allowed them to
survive, to become land instead of water animals. Something in their
metabolism (or mentality?) allowed them to subsist on the air and
sunlight. (Really now? Did they even need these?) That was as far as
the reports went.

They did not draw the picture of highly developed mentalities who lay
there for millions of years and thought about the nature of being.
Such things as how mental manipulation of force fields can provide
each of them with a cigarette lighter that burns without any fluid in
it and any oxygen around its wick, or such things as mother hubbards
which had caught their fancy, or perhaps gave them some kind of
sensual kick caused by heat filtering through red cloth.

But mostly I just sat.

I went to see Aunt Mattie when she came back from the convention, of
course. She had the west wing where her sitting room looked out upon
her flora collection--and the gardeners who were supposed to keep
busy. Our greeting was fond, but brief. She did look at me rather
quizzically, rather shrewdly, but she made no comment. She did not
return my visit.

This was not unusual. She never visited my suite. When I was
twenty-one she took me into the south wing and said, "Choose your own
suite, Hapland. You are a man now, and I understand about young men."
If she had in mind what I thought she had it was a mighty big
concession to reality, although, of course, she was five years late in
coming around to it.

This older generation--so wise, so naive. She probably resolutely
refrained from imagining far worse things than really went on.

About two weeks after she'd come back from the convention, a month
since we returned from Capella IV, there was an interruption, an
excited one. For once in his life the butler forgot to touch my door
with feather fingertips and cough discreetly. Instead he knocked two
sharp raps, and opened the door without invitation.

"Come quickly, Master Hapland," he chittered urgently. "There are
creatures on our private landing field."

There were, too.

When I got there in my garden scooter, and pushed my way through the
crowd of gardeners who were clustered on the path and around the gate
to the landing field, I saw them. At least a dozen of the Capella IV
octopoids were spread eagled, their tentacles out flat on the hot
cement of the runway. Their eye stared unblinking into the sun. Over
their spread of tentacles, like inverted hibiscus blossoms, they wore
their mother hubbards.

Behind them, over at the far edge of the field, was an exact duplicate
of our own space yacht. I wondered, rather hysterically perhaps, if
each of them on Capella IV now had one. I suspected the yacht was
simply there for show, that they hadn't needed it, not any more than
they needed the mother hubbards.

There was the hiss of another scooter, and I turned around to see Aunt
Mattie come to a stop. She stepped out and came over to me.

"Our social call on Capella IV is being returned," I said with a grin
and twinkle at her.

She took in the sight with only one blink.

"Very well," she answered. "I shall receive them, of course." Somebody
once said that the most snobbish thing about the whole tribe of Tombs
was that they'd never learned the meaning of the word, or had to. But
I did wonder what the servants would think when the creatures started
slithering into our drawing room.

There was a gasp and a low rumble of protesting voices from the
gardeners as Aunt Mattie opened the gate and walked through it. I
followed, of course. We walked up to the nearest monster and came to
stop at the edge of its skirt.

"I'm deeply honored," Aunt Mattie said with more cordiality than I'd
seen her use on a Secretary of State. "What can I do to make your
visit to Earth more comfortable?"

There was no reply, not even the flicker of a tentacle.

They were even more unusual than one might expect. Aunt Mattie
resolutely went to each of the dozen and gave the same greeting. She
felt her duty as a hostess required it, although I knew that a
greeting to one was a greeting to all. Not one of them responded. It
seemed rather ridiculous. They'd come all this way to see us, then
didn't bother to acknowledge that we were there.

We spent more than an hour waiting for some kind of a response. None
came. Aunt Mattie showed no sign of impatience, which I thought was
rather praiseworthy, all things considered. But finally we left. She
didn't show what she felt, perhaps felt only that one had to be
patient with the lack of manners in the lower orders.

I was more interested in another kind of feeling, the one we left
behind. What was it? I couldn't put my finger on it. Sadness? Regret?
Distaste? Pity? Magnanimity? Give a basket of goodies to the poor at
Christmas? Give them some clothes to cover their nakedness? Teach them
a sense of shame?

No, I couldn't put my finger on it.

Hilarity?

I found myself regretting that back there on Capella IV, when Aunt
Mattie put clothes on him, and the monster had looked at me, I winked.

I wondered why I should regret that.
