

It must not be supposed that Miss Sally did not feel some contrition
over the ineffective part she had played in this last episode.
But Joseph Corbin had committed the unpardonable sin to a woman of
destroying her own illogical ideas of him, which was worse than if he
had affronted the preconceived ideas of others, in which case she might
still defend him. Then, too, she was no longer religious, and had no
"call" to act as peacemaker. Nevertheless she resented Julia Jeffcourt's
insinuations bitterly, and the cousins quarreled--not the first time in
their intercourse--and it was reserved for the latter to break the news
of Corbin's arrival with the body to Mrs. Jeffcourt.

How this was done and what occurred at that interview has not been
recorded. But it was known the next day that, while Mrs. Jeffcourt
accepted the body at Corbin's hands,--and it is presumed the funeral
expenses also,--he was positively forbidden to appear either at the
services at the house or at the church. There had been some wild talk
among the younger and many of the lower members of the community,
notably the "poor" non-slave-holding whites, of tarring and feathering
Joseph Corbin, and riding him on a rail out of the town on the day
of the funeral, as a propitiatory sacrifice to the manes of Thomas
Jeffcourt; but it being pointed out by the undertaker that it might
involve some uncertainty in the settlement of his bill, together with
some reasonable doubt of the thorough resignation of Corbin, whose
previous momentary aberration in that respect they were celebrating, the
project was postponed until AFTER THE FUNERAL. And here an unlooked-for
incident occurred.

There was to be a political meeting at Kirby on that day, when certain
distinguished Southern leaders had gathered from the remoter Southern
States. At the instigation of Captain Dows it was adjourned at the hour
of the funeral to enable members to attend, and it was even rumored,
to the great delight of Pineville, that a distinguished speaker or two
might come over to "improve the occasion" with some slight allusion to
the engrossing topic of "Southern Rights." This combined appeal to
the domestic and political emotions of Pineville was irresistible. The
Second Baptist Church was crowded. After the religious service there
was a pause, and Judge Reed, stepping forward amid a breathless silence,
said that they were peculiarly honored by the unexpected presence in
their midst "of that famous son of the South, Colonel Starbottle,"
who had lately returned to his native soil from his adopted home in
California. Every eye was fixed on the distinguished stranger as he
rose.

Jaunty and gallant as ever, femininely smooth-faced, yet polished and
high colored as a youthful mask; pectorally expansive, and unfolding the
white petals of his waistcoat through the swollen lapels of his coat,
like a bursting magnolia bud, Colonel Starbottle began. The present
associations were, he might say, singularly hallowed to him; not only
was Pineville--a Southern centre--the recognized nursery of Southern
chivalry, Southern beauty (a stately inclination to the pew in which
Miss Sally and Julia Jeffcourt sat), Southern intelligence, and Southern
independence, but it was the home of the lamented dead who had been,
like himself and another he should refer to later, an adopted citizen of
the Golden State, a seeker of the Golden Fleece, a companion of Jason.
It was the home, fellow-citizens and friends, of the sorrowing sister of
the deceased, a young lady whom he, the speaker, had as yet known only
through the chivalrous blazon of her virtues and graces by her attendant
knights (a courteous wave towards the gallery where Joyce Masterton,
Chester Brooks, Calhoun Bungstarter, and the embattled youth generally
of Pineville became empurpled and idiotic); it was the home of the
afflicted widowed mother, also personally unknown to him, but with whom
he might say he had had--er--er--professional correspondence. But it
was not this alone that hallowed the occasion, it was a sentiment that
should speak in trumpet-like tones throughout the South in this uprising
of an united section. It was the forgetfulness of petty strife, of
family feud, of personal wrongs in the claims of party! It might not be
known that he, the speaker, was professionally cognizant of one of
these regrettable--should he say accidents?--arising from the chivalrous
challenge and equally chivalrous response of two fiery Southern spirits,
to which they primarily owe their coming here that day. And he should
take it as his duty, his solemn duty, in that sacred edifice to proclaim
to the world that in his knowledge as a professional man--as a man of
honor, as a Southerner, as a gentleman, that the--er--circumstances
which three years ago led to the early demise of our lamented friend
and brother, reflected only the highest credit equally on both of the
parties. He said this on his own responsibility--in or out of this
sacred edifice--and in or out of that sacred edifice he was personally
responsible, and prepared to give the fullest satisfaction for it. He
was also aware that it might not be known--or understood--that since
that boyish episode the survivor had taken the place of the departed
in the bereaved family and ministered to their needs with counsel
and--er--er--pecuniary aid, and had followed the body afoot across the
continent that it might rest with its kindred dust. He was aware that
an unchristian--he would say but for that sacred edifice--a DASTARDLY
attempt had been made to impugn the survivor's motives--to suggest an
unseemly discord between him and the family, but he, the speaker, would
never forget the letter breathing with Christian forgiveness and replete
with angelic simplicity sent by a member of that family to his client,
which came under his professional eye (here the professional eye for a
moment lingered on the hysteric face of Miss Sally); he did not envy the
head or heart of a man who could peruse these lines--of which the mere
recollection--er--er--choked the utterance of even a professional
man like--er--himself--without emotion. "And what, my friends and
fellow-citizens," suddenly continued the Colonel, replacing his white
handkerchief in his coat-tail, "was the reason why my client, Mr.
Joseph Corbin--whose delicacy keeps him from appearing among these
mourners--comes here to bury all differences, all animosities, all petty
passions? Because he is a son of the South; because as a son of the
South, as the representative, and a distant connection, I believe, of
my old political friend, Major Corbin, of Nashville, he wishes here
and everywhere, at this momentous crisis, to sink everything in the one
all-pervading, all-absorbing, one and indivisible UNITY of the South in
its resistance to the Northern Usurper! That, my friends, is the great,
the solemn, the Christian lesson of this most remarkable occasion in my
professional, political, and social experience."

Whatever might have been the calmer opinion, there was no doubt that
the gallant Colonel had changed the prevailing illogical emotion of
Pineville by the substitution of another equally illogical, and Miss
Sally was not surprised when her father, touched by the Colonel's
allusion to his daughter's epistolary powers, insisted upon bringing
Joseph Corbin home with him, and offering him the hospitality of the
Dows mansion. Although the stranger seemed to yield rather from the fact
that the Dows were relations of the Jeffcourts than from any personal
preference, when he was fairly installed in one of the appropriately
gloomy guest chambers, Miss Sally set about the delayed work of
reconciliation--theoretically accepted by her father, and cynically
tolerated by her Aunt Miranda. But here a difficulty arose which she had
not foreseen. Although Corbin had evidently forgiven her defection on
that memorable evening, he had not apparently got over the revelation of
her giddy worldliness, and was resignedly apathetic and distrustful of
her endeavors. She was at first amused, and then angry. And her patience
was exhausted when she discovered that he actually seemed more anxious
to conciliate Julia Jeffcourt than her mother.

"But she spat in your face," she said, indignantly.

"That's so," he replied, gloomily; "but I reckoned you said something in
one of your letters about turning the other cheek when you were smitten.
Of course, as you don't believe it now," he added with his upward
glance, "I suppose THAT'S been played on me, too."

But here Miss Sally's spirit lazily rebelled.

"Look here, Mr. Joseph JEREMIAH Corbin," she returned with languid
impertinence, "if instead of cavortin' round on yo' knees trying to
conciliate an old woman who never had a stroke of luck till you killed
her son, and a young girl who won't be above letting on afore you think
it that your conciliatin' her means SPARKIN' her; if instead of that
foolishness you'd turn your hand to trying to conciliate the folks here
and keep 'em from going into that fool's act of breaking up these United
States; if instead of digging up second-hand corpses that's already been
put out of sight once you'd set to work to try and prevent the folks
about here from digging up their old cranks and their old whims, and
their old women fancies, you'd be doing something like a Christian and
a man! What's yo' blood-guiltiness--I'd like to know--alongside of the
blood-guiltiness of those fools who are just wild to rush into it, led
by such turkey-cocks as yo' friend Colonel Starbottle? And you've been
five years in California--a free State--and that's all yo' 've toted out
of it--a dead body! There now, don't sit there and swing yo' hat under
that chyar, but rouse out and come along with me to the pawty if you can
shake a foot, and show Miss Pinkney and the gyrls yo' fit for something
mo' than to skirmish round as a black japanned spittoon for Julia
Jeffcourt!" It is not recorded that Corbin accepted this cheerful
invitation, but for a few days afterwards he was more darkly observant
of, and respectful to, Miss Sally. Strange indeed if he had not
noticed--although always in his resigned fashion--the dull green
stagnation of the life around him, or when not accepting it as part
of his trouble he had not chafed at the arrested youth and senile
childishness of the people. Stranger still if he had not at times been
startled to hear the outgrown superstitions and follies of his youth
voiced again by grown-up men, and perhaps strangest of all if he had not
vaguely accepted it all as the hereditary curse of that barbarism under
which he himself had survived and suffered.

The reconciliation between himself and Mrs. Jeffcourt was superficially
effected, so far as a daily visit by him to the house indicated it to
the community, but it was also known that Julia was invariably absent
on these occasions. What happened at those interviews did not transpire,
but it may be surmised that Mrs. Jeffcourt, perhaps recognizing the fact
that Corbin was really giving her all that he had to give, or possibly
having some lurking fear of Colonel Starbottle, was so far placated as
to exhibit only the average ingratitude of her species towards a regular
benefactor. She consented to the erection of a small obelisk over her
son's grave, and permitted Corbin to plant a few flowering shrubs,
which he daily visited and took care of. It is said that on one of these
pilgrimages he encountered Miss Julia, apparently on the same errand,
who haughtily retired. It was further alleged, on the authority of one
of Mammy Judy's little niggers, that those two black mourning figures
had been seen at nightfall sitting opposite to each other at the head
and foot of the grave, and "glowerin'" at one another "like two hants."
But when it was asserted on the same authority that their voices had
been later overheard uplifted in some vehement discussion over the grave
of the impassive dead, great curiosity was aroused. Being pressed by
the eager Miss Sally to repeat some words or any words he had heard them
say, the little witness glibly replied, "Marse Linkum" (Lincoln), and
"The Souf," and so, for the time, shipwrecked his testimony. But it was
recalled six months afterwards. It was then that a pleasant spring day
brought madness and enthusiasm to a majority of Pineville, and bated
breath and awe to a few, and it was known with the tidings that the
South had appealed to arms, that among those who had first responded to
the call was Joseph Corbin, an alleged "Union man," who had, however,
volunteered to take that place in her ranks which might HAVE BEEN FILLED
BY THE MAN HE HAD KILLED. And then people forgot all about him.

*****

A year passed. It was the same place; the old familiar outlines of home
and garden and landscape. But seen now, in the choking breathlessness of
haste, in the fitful changing flashes of life and motion around it,
in intervals of sharp suspense or dazed bewilderment, it seemed to be
recognized no longer. Men who had known it all their lives, hurrying to
the front in compact masses, scurrying to the rear in straggling line,
or opening their ranks to let artillery gallop by, stared at it vaguely,
and clattered or scrambled on again. The smoke of a masked battery
in the woods struggled and writhed to free itself from the clinging
treetops behind it, and sank back into a gray encompassing cloud. The
dust thrown up by a column of passing horse poured over the wall in one
long wave, and whitened the garden with its ashes. Throughout the
dim empty house one no longer heard the sound of cannon, only a dull
intermittent concussion was felt, silently bringing flakes of plaster
from the walls, or sliding fragments of glass from the shattered
windows. A shell, lifted from the ominous distance, hung uncertain in
the air and then descended swiftly through the roof; the whole house
dilated with flame for an instant, smoke rolled slowly from the windows,
and even the desolate chimneys started into a hideous mockery of life,
and then all was still again. At such awful intervals the sun shone out
brightly, touched the green of the still sleeping woods and the red and
white of a flower in the garden, and something in a gray uniform writhed
out of the dust of the road, staggered to the wall, and died.

A mile down this road, growing more and more obscure with those rising
and falling apparitions or the shapeless and rugged heaps terrible in
their helpless inertia by hedge and fence, arose the cemetery hill.
Taken and retaken thrice that afternoon, the dead above it far
outnumbered the dead below; and when at last the tide of battle swept
around its base into the dull, reverberating woods, and it emerged from
the smoke, silenced and abandoned, only a few stragglers remained. One
of them, leaning on his musket, was still gloomily facing the woods.

"Joseph Corbin," said a low, hurried voice.

He started and glanced quickly at the tombs around him. Perhaps it was
because he had been thinking of the dead,--but the voice sounded like
HIS. Yet it was only the SISTER, who had glided, pale and haggard, from
the thicket.

"They are coming through the woods," she said quickly. "Run, or you'll
be taken. Why do you linger?"

"You know why," he said gloomily.

"Yes, but you have done yo' duty. You have done his work. The task is
finished now, and yo' free."

He did not reply, but remained gazing at the woods.

"Joseph," she said more gently, laying her trembling hand on his arm,
"Joseph, fly--and--take me with you. For I was wrong, and I want you to
forgive me. I knew your heart was not in this, and I ought not to have
asked you. Joseph--listen! I never wanted to avenge myself nor HIM when
I spat on your face. I wanted to avenge myself on HER. I hated her,
because I thought she wanted to work upon you and use you for herself."

"Your mother," he said, looking at her.

"No," she said, with widely opened eyes, "you know who I mean--Miss
Sally."

He looked at her wonderingly for a moment, but quickly bent his
head again in the direction of the road. "They are coming," he said,
starting. "YOU must go. This is no place for you. Stop! it's too
late; you cannot go now until they have passed. Come here--crouch down
here--over this grave--so."

He almost forced her--kneeling down--upon the mound below the level of
the shrubs, and then ran quickly himself a few paces lower down the
hill to a more exposed position. She understood it. He wished to attract
attention to himself. He was successful--a few hurried shots followed
from the road, but struck above him.

He clambered back quickly to where she was still crouching.

"They were the vedettes," he said, "but they have fallen back on the
main skirmish line and will be here in force in a moment. Go--while you
can." She had not moved. He tried to raise her--her hat fell off---he
saw blood oozing from where the vedette's bullet that had missed him had
pierced her brain.

And yet he saw in that pale dead face only the other face which he
remembered now had been turned like this towards his own. It was very
strange. And this was the end, and this was his expiation! He raised his
own face humbly, blindly, despairingly to the inscrutable sky; it looked
back upon him from above as coldly as the dead face had from below.

Yet out of this he struck a faint idea that he voiced aloud in nearly
the same words which he had used to Colonel Starbottle only three years
ago. "It was with his own pistol too," he said, and took up his musket.

He walked deliberately down the hill, occasionally trying the stock of
his musket in the loose earth, and at last suddenly remained motionless,
in the attitude of leaning over it. At the same moment there was a
distant shout; two thin parallel streams of blue and steel came issuing
through the woods like a river, appeared to join tumultuously in the
open before the hill, and out of the tumult a mounted officer called
upon him to surrender.

He did not reply.

"Come down from there, Johnny Reb, I want to speak to you," called a
young corporal.

He did not move.

"It's time to go home, Johnny."

No response.

The officer, who had been holding down his men with an unsworded but
masterful hand, raised it suddenly. A dozen shots followed. The men
leaped forward, and dashing Corbin contemptuously aside streamed up the
hill past him.

But he had neither heard nor cared. For they found he had already
deliberately transfixed himself through the heart on his own bayonet.




THE POSTMISTRESS OF LAUREL RUN.

