

Once within the friendly shadows of the long belt of pines, Mrs. Baker
kept them until she had left the limited settlement of Laurel Run far to
the right, and came upon an open slope of Burnt Ridge, where she knew
Jo Simmons' mustang, Blue Lightning, would be quietly feeding. She had
often ridden him before, and when she had detached the fifty-foot reata
from his head-stall, he permitted her the further recognized familiarity
of twining her fingers in his bluish mane and climbing on his back. The
tool-shed of Burnt Ridge Tunnel, where Jo's saddle and bridle always
hung, was but a canter farther on. She reached it unperceived,
and--another trick of the old days--quickly extemporized a side-saddle
from Simmons' Mexican tree, with its high cantle and horn bow, and the
aid of a blanket. Then leaping to her seat, she rapidly threw off her
mantle, tied it by its sleeves around her waist, tucked it under
one knee, and let it fall over her horse's flanks. By this time Blue
Lightning was also struck with a flash of equine recollection and
pricked up his ears. Mrs. Baker uttered a little chirping cry which he
remembered, and the next moment they were both careering over the Ridge.

The trail that she had taken, though precipitate, difficult, and
dangerous in places, was a clear gain of two miles on the stage road.
There was less chance of her being followed or meeting any one. The
greater canyons were already in shadow; the pines on the farther ridges
were separating their masses, and showing individual silhouettes against
the sky, but the air was still warm, and the cool breath of night, as
she well knew it, had not yet begun to flow down the mountain. The lower
range of Burnt Ridge was still uneclipsed by the creeping shadow of
the mountain ahead of her. Without a watch, but with this familiar
and slowly changing dial spread out before her, she knew the time to a
minute. Heavy Tree Hill, a lesser height in the distance, was already
wiped out by that shadowy index finger--half past seven! The stage would
be at Hickory Hill just before half past eight; she ought to anticipate
it, if possible,--it would stay ten minutes to change horses,--she MUST
arrive before it left!

There was a good two-mile level before the rise of the next range. Now,
Blue Lightning! all you know! And that was much,--for with the little
chip hat and fluttering ribbons well bent down over the bluish mane, and
the streaming gauze of her mantle almost level with the horse's back,
she swept down across the long tableland like a skimming blue-jay. A few
more bird-like dips up and down the undulations, and then came the long,
cruel ascent of the Divide.

Acrid with perspiration, caking with dust, slithering in the slippery,
impalpable powder of the road, groggily staggering in a red dusty dream,
coughing, snorting, head-tossing; becoming suddenly dejected, with
slouching haunch and limp legs on easy slopes, or wildly spasmodic
and agile on sharp acclivities, Blue Lightning began to have ideas and
recollections! Ah! she was a devil for a lark--this lightly-clinging,
caressing, blarneying, cooing creature--up there! He remembered her now.
Ha! very well then. Hoop-la! And suddenly leaping out like a rabbit,
bucking, trotting hard, ambling lightly, "loping" on three legs and
recreating himself,--as only a California mustang could,--the invincible
Blue Lightning at last stood triumphantly upon the summit. The evening
star had just pricked itself through the golden mist of the horizon
line,--eight o'clock! She could do it now! But here, suddenly, her first
hesitation seized her. She knew her horse, she knew the trail, she knew
herself,--but did she know THE MAN to whom she was riding? A cold chill
crept over her, and then she shivered in a sudden blast; it was Night at
last swooping down from the now invisible Sierras, and possessing all it
touched. But it was only one long descent to Hickory Hill now, and she
swept down securely on its wings. Half-past eight! The lights of the
settlement were just ahead of her--but so, too, were the two lamps of
the waiting stage before the post-office and hotel.

Happily the lounging crowd were gathered around the hotel, and she
slipped into the post-office from the rear, unperceived. As she stepped
behind the partition, its only occupant--a good-looking young fellow
with a reddish mustache--turned towards her with a flush of delighted
surprise. But it changed at the sight of the white, determined face
and the brilliant eyes that had never looked once towards him, but were
fixed upon a large bag, whose yawning mouth was still open and propped
up beside his desk.

"Where is the through money letter that came in that bag?" she said
quickly.

"What--do--you--mean?" he stammered, with a face that had suddenly grown
whiter than her own.

"I mean that it's a DECOY, checked at Heavy Tree Crossing, and that Mr.
Home, of San Francisco, is now waiting at my office to know if you have
taken it!"

The laugh and lie that he had at first tried to summon to mouth and lips
never reached them. For, under the spell of her rigid, truthful face, he
turned almost mechanically to his desk, and took out a package.

"Good God! you've opened it already!" she cried, pointing to the broken
seal.

The expression on her face, more than anything she had said, convinced
him that she knew all. He stammered under the new alarm that her
despairing tone suggested. "Yes!--I was owing some bills--the collector
was waiting here for the money, and I took something from the packet.
But I was going to make it up by next mail--I swear it."

"How much have you taken?"

"Only a trifle. I"--

"How much?"

"A hundred dollars!"

She dragged the money she had brought from Laurel Run from her pocket,
and counting out the sum, replaced it in the open package. He ran
quickly to get the sealing wax, but she motioned him away as she dropped
the package back into the mail-bag. "No; as long as the money is found
in the bag the package may have been broken ACCIDENTALLY. Now burst open
one or two of those other packages a little--so;" she took out a packet
of letters and bruised their official wrappings under her little foot
until the tape fastening was loosened. "Now give me something heavy."
She caught up a brass two-pound weight, and in the same feverish
but collected haste wrapped it in paper, sealed it, stamped it, and,
addressing it in a large printed hand to herself at Laurel Hill, dropped
it in the bag. Then she closed it and locked it; he would have assisted
her, but she again waved him away. "Send for the expressman, and keep
yourself out of the way for a moment," she said curtly.

An attitude of weak admiration and foolish passion had taken the place
of his former tremulous fear. He obeyed excitedly, but without a word.
Mrs. Baker wiped her moist forehead and parched lips, and shook out
her skirt. Well might the young expressman start at the unexpected
revelation of those sparkling eyes and that demurely smiling mouth at
the little window.

"Mrs. Baker!"

She put her finger quickly to her lips, and threw a world of unutterable
and enigmatical meaning into her mischievous face.

"There's a big San Francisco swell takin' my place at Laurel to-night,
Charley."

"Yes, ma'am."

"And it's a pity that the Omnibus Way Bag happened to get such a shaking
up and banging round already, coming here."

"Eh?"

"I say," continued Mrs. Baker, with great gravity and dancing eyes,
"that it would be just AWFUL if that keerful city clerk found things
kinder mixed up inside when he comes to open it. I wouldn't give him
trouble for the world, Charley."

"No, ma'am, it ain't like you."

"So you'll be particularly careful on MY account."

"Mrs. Baker," said Charley, with infinite gravity, "if that bag SHOULD
TUMBLE OFF A DOZEN TIMES between this and Laurel Hill, I'll hop down and
pick it up myself."

"Thank you! shake!"

They shook hands gravely across the window-ledge.

"And you ain't going down with us, Mrs. Baker?"

"Of course not; it wouldn't do,--for I AIN'T HERE,--don't you see?"

"Of course!"

She handed him the bag through the door. He took it carefully, but in
spite of his great precaution fell over it twice on his way to the
road, where from certain exclamations and shouts it seemed that a like
miserable mischance attended its elevation to the boot. Then Mrs. Baker
came back into the office, and, as the wheels rolled away, threw herself
into a chair, and inconsistently gave way for the first time to an
outburst of tears. Then her hand was grasped suddenly and she found
Green on his knees before her. She started to her feet.

"Don't move," he said, with weak hysteric passion, "but listen to me,
for God's sake! I am ruined, I know, even though you have just saved me
from detection and disgrace. I have been mad!--a fool, to do what I have
done, I know, but you do not know all--you do not know why I did it--you
cannot think of the temptation that has driven me to it. Listen, Mrs.
Baker. I have been striving to get money, honestly, dishonestly--any
way, to look well in YOUR eyes--to make myself worthy of you--to make
myself rich, and to be able to offer you a home and take you away from
Laurel Run. It was all for YOU, it was all for love of YOU, Betsy, my
darling. Listen to me!"

In the fury, outraged sensibility, indignation, and infinite disgust
that filled her little body at that moment, she should have been large,
imperious, goddess-like, and commanding. But God is at times ironical
with suffering womanhood. She could only writhe her hand from his grasp
with childish contortions; she could only glare at him with eyes that
were prettily and piquantly brilliant; she could only slap at his
detaining hand with a plump and velvety palm, and when she found her
voice it was high falsetto. And all she could say was, "Leave me be,
looney, or I'll scream!"

He rose, with a weak, confused laugh, half of miserable affectation and
half of real anger and shame.

"What did you come riding over here for, then? What did you take all
this risk for? Why did you rush over here to share my disgrace--for YOU
are as much mixed up with this now as I am--if you didn't calculate to
share EVERYTHING ELSE with me? What did you come here for, then, if not
for ME?"

"What did I come here for?" said Mrs. Baker, with every drop of red
blood gone from her cheek and trembling lip. "What--did--I--come here
for? Well!--I came here for JOHN BAKER'S sake! John Baker, who stood
between you and death at Burnt Ridge, as I stand between you and
damnation at Laurel Run, Mr. Green! Yes, John Baker, lying under half of
Burnt Ridge, but more to me this day than any living man crawling over
it--in--in"--oh, fatal climax!--"in a month o' Sundays! What did I come
here for? I came here as John Baker's livin' wife to carry on dead John
Baker's work. Yes, dirty work this time, may be, Mr. Green! but his work
and for HIM only--precious! That's what I came here for; that's what
I LIVE for; that's what I'm waiting for--to be up to HIM and his work
always! That's me--Betsy Baker!"

She walked up and down rapidly, tying her chip hat under her chin again.
Then she stopped, and taking her chamois purse from her pocket, laid it
sharply on the desk.

"Stanton Green, don't be a fool! Rise up out of this, and be a man
again. Take enough out o' that bag to pay what you owe Gov'ment, send
in your resignation, and keep the rest to start you in an honest life
elsewhere. But light out o' Hickory Hill afore this time to-morrow."

She pulled her mantle from the wall and opened the door.

"You are going?" he said bitterly.

"Yes." Either she could not hold seriousness long in her capricious
little fancy, or, with feminine tact, she sought to make the parting
less difficult for him, for she broke into a dazzling smile. "Yes, I'm
goin' to run Blue Lightning agin Charley and that way bag back to Laurel
Run, and break the record."

*****

It is said that she did! Perhaps owing to the fact that the grade of the
return journey to Laurel Run was in her favor, and that she could avoid
the long, circuitous ascent to the summit taken by the stage, or that,
owing to the extraordinary difficulties in the carriage of the way
bag,--which had to be twice rescued from under the wheels of the
stage,--she entered the Laurel Run post-office as the coach leaders came
trotting up the hill. Mr. Home was already on the platform.

"You'll have to ballast your next way bag, boss," said Charley, gravely,
as it escaped his clutches once more in the dust of the road, "or you'll
have to make a new contract with the company. We've lost ten minutes in
five miles over that bucking thing."

Home did not reply, but quickly dragged his prize into the office,
scarcely noticing Mrs. Baker, who stood beside him pale and breathless.
As the bolt of the bag was drawn, revealing its chaotic interior, Mrs.
Baker gave a little sigh. Home glanced quickly at her, emptied the bag
upon the floor, and picked up the broken and half-filled money parcel.
Then he collected the scattered coins and counted them. "It's all right,
Mrs. Baker," he said gravely. "HE'S safe this time."

"I'm so glad!" said little Mrs. Baker, with a hypocritical gasp.

"So am I," returned Home, with increasing gravity, as he took the coin,
"for, from all I have gathered this afternoon, it seems he was an old
pioneer of Laurel Run, a friend of your husband's, and, I think, more
fool than knave!" He was silent for a moment, clicking the coins against
each other; then he said carelessly: "Did he get quite away, Mrs.
Baker?"

"I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about," said Mrs. Baker, with
a lofty air of dignity, but a somewhat debasing color. "I don't see why
I should know anything about it, or why he should go away at all."

"Well," said Mr. Home, laying his hand gently on the widow's shoulder,
"well, you see, it might have occurred to his friends that the COINS
WERE MARKED! That is, no doubt, the reason why he would take their good
advice and go. But, as I said before, Mrs. Baker, YOU'RE all right,
whatever happens,--the Government stands by YOU!"




A NIGHT AT "HAYS."

