

The girl stood looking at the ingenious forger with an odd, breathless
smile. It was difficult to determine, however, if gratified curiosity
were not its most dominant expression.

"And you've got a wife--and THAT'S her?" she resumed.

"Yes."

"Where did you first meet her? Who is she?"

"She's an actress--mighty popular in 'Frisco--I mean New York. Lot o'
chaps tried to get her--I cut 'em out. For all dad's trying to keep me
at Dawson's--I ain't such a fool, eh?"

Nevertheless, as he stood there stroking his fair mustache, his
astuteness did not seem to impress his sister to enthusiastic assent.
Yet she did not relax her breathless, inquisitive smile as she went
on:--

"And what are you going to do about dad?"

He turned upon her querulously.

"Well, that's what I want to talk about."

"You'll catch it!" she said impressively. But here her brother's
nervousness broke out into a weak, impotent fury. It was evident, too,
that in spite of its apparent spontaneous irritation its intent was
studied. Catch it! Would he? Oh, yes! Well, she'd see WHO'D catch it!
Not him. No, he'd had enough of this meanness, and wanted it ended! He
wasn't a woman to be treated like his sister,--like their mother--like
their brother, if it came to that, for he knew how he was to be brought
back to take Bijah's place in the spring; he'd heard the whole story.
No, he was going to stand up for his rights,--he was going to be treated
as the son of a man who was worth half a million ought to be treated! He
wasn't going to be skimped, while his father was wallowing in money that
he didn't know what to do with,--money that by rights ought to have
been given to their mother and their sister. Why, even the law wouldn't
permit such meanness--if he was dead. No, he'd come back with Lottie,
his wife, to show his father that there was one of the family that
couldn't be fooled and bullied, and wouldn't put up with it any longer.
There was going to be a fair division of the property, and his sister
Annie's property, and hers--Zuleika's--too, if she'd have the pluck to
speak up for herself. All this and much more he said. Yet even while
his small fury was genuine and characteristic, there was such an evident
incongruity between himself and his speech that it seemed to fit
him loosely, and in a measure flapped in his gestures like another's
garment. Zuleika, who had exhibited neither disgust nor sympathy with
his rebellion, but had rather appeared to enjoy it as a novel domestic
performance, the morality of which devolved solely upon the performer,
retained her curious smile. And then a knock at the door startled them.

It was the stranger,--slightly apologetic and still humorous, but firm
and self-confident withal. She was sorry to interrupt their family
council, but the fire was going out where she sat, and she would like
a cup of tea or some refreshment. She did not look at Jack, but,
completely ignoring him, addressed herself to Zuleika with what seemed
to be a direct challenge; in that feminine eye-grapple there was a
quick, instinctive, and final struggle between the two women. The
stranger triumphed. Zuleika's vacant smile changed to one of submission,
and then, equally ignoring her brother in this double defeat, she
hastened to the kitchen to do the visitor's bidding. The woman closed
the door behind her, and took Zuleika's place before the fire.

"Well?" she said, in a half-contemptuous toleration.

"Well?" said Jack, in an equally ill-disguised discontent, but an
evident desire to placate the woman before him. "It's all right, you
know. I've had my say. It'll come right, Lottie, you'll see."

The woman smiled again, and glanced around the bare walls of the room.

"And I suppose," she said, drily, "when it comes right I'm to take the
place of your sister in the charge of this workhouse and succeed to the
keys of that safe in the other room?"

"It'll come all right, I tell you; you can fix things up here any way
you'll like when we get the old man straight," said Jack, with the
iteration of feebleness. "And as to that safe, I've seen it chock full
of securities."

"It'll hold one less to-night," she said, looking at the fire.

"What are you talking about?" he asked, in querulous suspicion.

She drew a paper from her pocket.

"It's that draft of yours that you were crazy enough to sign Dawson's
name to. It was lying out there on the desk. I reckon it isn't a thing
you care to have kept as evidence, even by your father."

She held it in the flames until it was consumed.

"By Jove, your head is level, Lottie!" he said, with an admiration that
was not, however, without a weak reserve of suspicion.

"No, it isn't, or I wouldn't be here," she said, curtly. Then she added,
as if dismissing the subject, "Well, what did you tell her?"

"Oh, I said I met you in New York. You see I thought she might think it
queer if she knew I only met you in San Francisco three weeks ago. Of
course I said we were married."

She looked at him with weary astonishment.

"And of course, whether things go right or not, she'll find out that
I've got a husband living, that I never met you in New York, but on the
steamer, and that you've lied. I don't see the USE of it. You said
you were going to tell the whole thing squarely and say the truth, and
that's why I came to help you."

"Yes; but don't you see, hang it all!" he stammered, in the irritation
of weak confusion, "I had to tell her SOMETHING. Father won't dare to
tell her the truth, no more than he will the neighbors. He'll hush it
up, you bet; and when we get this thing fixed you'll go and get your
divorce, you know, and we'll be married privately on the square."

He looked so vague, so immature, yet so fatuously self-confident, that
the woman extended her hand with a laugh and tapped him on the back as
she might have patted a dog. Then she disappeared to follow Zuleika in
the kitchen.

When the two women returned together they were evidently on the best
of terms. So much so that the man, with the easy reaction of a shallow
nature, became sanguine and exalted, even to an ostentatious exhibition
of those New York graces on which the paternal Hays had set such store.
He complacently explained the methods by which he had deceived Dr.
Dawson; how he had himself written a letter from his father commanding
him to return to take his brother's place, and how he had shown it to
the Doctor and been three months in San Francisco looking for work and
assisting Lottie at the theatre, until a conviction of the righteousness
of his cause, perhaps combined with the fact that they were also short
of money and she had no engagement, impelled him to his present heroic
step. All of which Zuleika listened to with childish interest, but
superior appreciation of his companion. The fact that this woman was an
actress, an abomination vaguely alluded to by her father as being even
more mysteriously wicked than her sister and mother, and correspondingly
exciting, as offering a possible permanent relief to the monotony of her
home life, seemed to excuse her brother's weakness. She was almost ready
to become his partisan--AFTER she had seen her father.

They had talked largely of their plans; they had settled small details
of the future and the arrangement of the property; they had agreed that
Zuleika should be relieved of her household drudgery, and sent to
a fashionable school in San Francisco with a music teacher and a
dressmaker. They had discussed everything but the precise manner in
which the revelation should be conveyed to Hays. There was still plenty
of time for that, for he would not return until to-morrow at noon,
and it was already tacitly understood that the vehicle of transmission
should be a letter from the Summit Hotel. The possible contingency of
a sudden outburst of human passion not entirely controlled by religious
feeling was to be guarded against.

They were sitting comfortably before the replenished fire; the wind was
still moaning in the chimney, when, suddenly, in a lull of the storm
the sound of sleigh-bells seemed to fill the room. It was followed by a
voice from without, and, with a hysterical cry, Zuleika started to her
feet. The same breathless smile with which she had greeted her brother
an hour ago was upon her lips as she gasped:--

"Lord, save us!--but it's dad come back!"

I grieve to say that here the doughty redresser of domestic wrongs and
retriever of the family honor lapsed white-faced in his chair idealess
and tremulous. It was his frailer companion who rose to the occasion
and even partly dragged him with her. "Go back to the hotel," she said
quickly, "and take the sled with you,--you are not fit to face him now!
But he does not know ME, and I will stay!" To the staring Zuleika: "I am
a stranger stopped by a broken sleigh on my way to the hotel. Leave the
rest to me. Now clear out, both of you. I'll let him in."

She looked so confident, self-contained, and superior, that the thought
of opposition never entered their minds, and as an impatient rapping
rose from the door they let her, with a half-impatient, half-laughing
gesture, drive them before her from the room. When they had disappeared
in the distance, she turned to the front door, unbolted and opened it.
Hays blundered in out of the snow with a muttered exclamation, and then,
as the light from the open office door revealed a stranger, started and
fell back.

"Miss Hays is busy," said the woman quietly, "I am afraid, on my
account. But my sleigh broke down on the way to the hotel and I was
forced to get out here. I suppose this is Mr. Hays?"

A strange woman--by her dress and appearance a very worldling--and even
braver in looks and apparel than many he had seen in the cities--seemed,
in spite of all his precautions, to have fallen short of the hotel
and been precipitated upon him! Yet under the influence of some odd
abstraction he was affected by it less than he could have believed. He
even achieved a rude bow as he bolted the door and ushered her into
the office. More than that, he found himself explaining to the fair
trespasser the reasons of his return to his own home. For, like a direct
man, he had a consciousness of some inconsistency in his return--or
in the circumstances that induced a change of plans which might
conscientiously require an explanation.

"You see, ma'am, a rather singular thing happened to me after I passed
the summit. Three times I lost the track, got off it somehow, and found
myself traveling in a circle. The third time, when I struck my own
tracks again, I concluded I'd just follow them back here. I suppose
I might have got the road again by tryin' and fightin' the snow--but
ther's some things not worth the fightin'. This was a matter of
business, and, after all, ma'am, business ain't everythin', is it?"

He was evidently in some unusual mood, the mood that with certain
reticent natures often compels them to make their brief confidences to
utter strangers rather than impart them to those intimate friends who
might remind them of their weakness. She agreed with him pleasantly, but
not so obviously as to excite suspicion. "And you preferred to let your
business go, and come back to the comfort of your own home and family."

"The comfort of my home and family?" he repeated in a dry, deliberate
voice. "Well, I reckon I ain't been tempted much by THAT. That isn't
what I meant." But he went back to the phrase, repeating it grimly, as
if it were some mandatory text. "The comfort of my OWN HOME AND FAMILY!
Well, Satan hasn't set THAT trap for my feet yet, ma'am. No; ye saw my
daughter? well, that's all my family; ye see this room? that's all my
home. My wife ran away from me; my daughter cleared out too, my eldest
son as was with me here has quo'lled with me and reckons to set up
a rival business agin me. No," he said, still more meditatively and
deliberately; "it wasn't to come back to the comforts of my own home and
family that I faced round on Heavy Tree Hill, I reckon."

As the woman, for certain reasons, had no desire to check this
auspicious and unlooked for confidence, she waited patiently. Hays
remained silent for an instant, warming his hands before the fire, and
then looked up interrogatively.

"A professor of religion, ma'am, or under conviction?"

"Not exactly," said the lady smiling.

"Excuse me, but in spite of your fine clothes I reckoned you had a
serious look just now. A reader of Scripture, may be?"

"I know the Bible."

"You remember when the angel with the flamin' sword appeared unto Saul
on the road to Damascus?"

"Yes."

"It mout hev been suthin' in that style that stopped me," he said slowly
and tentatively. "Though nat'rally I didn't SEE anything, and only had
the queer feelin'. It might hev been THAT shied my mare off the track."

"But Saul was up to some wickedness, wasn't he?" said the lady
smilingly, "while YOU were simply going somewhere on business?"

"Yes," said Hays thoughtfully, "but my BUSINESS might hev seemed like
persecution. I don't mind tellin' you what it was if you'd care to
listen. But mebbe you're tired. Mebbe you want to retire. You know," he
went on with a sudden hospitable outburst, "you needn't be in any
hurry to go; we kin take care of you here to-night, and it'll cost you
nothin'. And I'll send you on with my sleigh in the mornin'. Per'aps
you'd like suthin' to eat--a cup of tea--or--I'll call Zuleika;" and he
rose with an expression of awkward courtesy.

But the lady, albeit with a self-satisfied sparkle in her dark
eyes, here carelessly assured him that Zuleika had already given her
refreshment, and, indeed, was at that moment preparing her own room for
her. She begged he would not interrupt his interesting story.

Hays looked relieved.

"Well, I reckon I won't call her, for what I was goin' to say ain't
exackly the sort o' thin' for an innocent, simple sort o' thing like her
to hear--I mean," he interrupted himself hastily--"that folks of more
experience of the world like you and me don't mind speakin' of--I'm
sorter takin' it for granted that you're a married woman, ma'am."

The lady, who had regarded him with a sudden rigidity, here relaxed her
expression and nodded.

"Well," continued Hays, resuming his place by the fire, "you see this
yer man I was goin' to see lives about four miles beyond the summit on
a ranch that furnishes most of the hay for the stock that side of the
Divide. He's bin holdin' off his next year's contracts with me, hopin'
to make better terms from the prospects of a late spring and higher
prices. He held his head mighty high and talked big of waitin' his own
time. I happened to know he couldn't do it."

He put his hands on his knees and stared at the fire, and then went
on:--

"Ye see this man had had crosses and family trials. He had a wife that
left him to jine a lot of bally dancers and painted women in the 'Frisco
playhouses when he was livin' in the southern country. You'll say that
was like MY own case,--and mebbe that was why it came to him to tell
me about it,--but the difference betwixt HIM and ME was that instead
of restin' unto the Lord and findin' Him, and pluckin' out the eye
that offended him 'cordin' to Scripter, as I did, HE followed after HER
tryin' to get her back, until, findin' that wasn't no use, he took a
big disgust and came up here to hide hisself, where there wasn't no
playhouse nor play-actors, and no wimmen but Injin squaws. He pre-empted
the land, and nat'rally, there bein' no one ez cared to live there but
himself, he had it all his own way, made it pay, and, as I was sayin'
before, held his head high for prices. Well--you ain't gettin' tired,
ma'am?"

"No," said the lady, resting her cheek on her hand and gazing on the
fire, "it's all very interesting; and so odd that you two men, with
nearly the same experiences, should be neighbors."

"Say buyer and seller, ma'am, not neighbors--at least Scriptoorily--nor
friends. Well,--now this is where the Speshal Providence comes in,--only
this afternoon Jim Briggs, hearin' me speak of Horseley's offishness"--

"WHOSE offishness?" asked the lady.

"Horseley's offishness,--Horseley's the name of the man I'm talkin'
about. Well, hearin' that, he says: 'You hold on, Hays, and he'll
climb down. That wife of his has left the stage--got sick of it--and is
driftin' round in 'Frisco with some fellow. When Horseley gets to hear
that, you can't keep him here,--he'll settle up, sell out, and realize
on everything he's got to go after her agin,--you bet.' That's what
Briggs said. Well, that's what sent me up to Horseley's to-night--to get
there, drop the news, and then pin him down to that contract."

"It looked like a good stroke of business and a fair one," said the lady
in an odd voice. It was so odd that Hays looked up. But she had somewhat
altered her position, and was gazing at the ceiling, and with her hand
to her face seemed to have just recovered from a slight yawn, at which
he hesitated with a new and timid sense of politeness.

"You're gettin' tired, ma'am?"

"Oh dear, no!" she said in the same voice, but clearing her throat with
a little cough. "And why didn't you see this Mr. Horseley after all? Oh,
I forgot!--you said you changed your mind from something you'd heard."

He had turned his eyes to the fire again, but without noticing as he
did so that she slowly moved her face, still half hidden by her hand,
towards him and was watching him intently.

"No," he said, slowly, "nothin' I heard, somethin' I felt. It mout hev
been that that set me off the track. It kem to me all of a sudden that
he might be sittin' thar calm and peaceful like ez I might be here,
hevin' forgot all about her and his trouble, and here was me goin' to
drop down upon him and start it all fresh agin. It looked a little like
persecution--yes, like persecution. I got rid of it, sayin' to myself
it was business. But I'd got off the road meantime, and had to find
it again, and whenever I got back to the track and was pointed for his
house, it all seemed to come back on me and set me off agin. When that
had happened three times, I turned round and started for home."

"And do you mean to say," said the lady, with a discordant laugh, "that
you believe, because YOU didn't go there and break the news, that nobody
else will? That he won't hear of it from the first man he meets?"

"He don't meet any one up where he lives, and only Briggs and myself
know it, and I'll see that Briggs don't tell. But it was mighty queer
this whole thing comin' upon me suddenly,--wasn't it?"

"Very queer," replied the lady; "for"--with the same metallic
laugh--"you don't seem to be given to this kind of weakness with your
own family."

If there was any doubt as to the sarcastic suggestion of her voice,
there certainly could be none in the wicked glitter of her eyes fixed
upon his face under her shading hand. But haply he seemed unconscious of
both, and even accepted her statement without an ulterior significance.

"Yes," he said, communingly, to the glaring embers of the hearth, "it
must have been a special revelation."

There was something so fatuous and one-idea'd in his attitude and
expression, so monstrously inconsistent and inadequate to what was going
on around him, and so hopelessly stupid--if a mere simulation--that the
angry suspicion that he was acting a part slowly faded from her eyes,
and a hysterical smile began to twitch her set lips. She still gazed
at him. The wind howled drearily in the chimney; all that was economic,
grim, and cheerless in the room seemed to gather as flitting shadows
around that central figure. Suddenly she arose with such a quick
rustling of her skirts that he lifted his eyes with a start; for she
was standing immediately before him, her hands behind her, her handsome,
audacious face bent smilingly forward, and her bold, brilliant eyes
within a foot of his own.

"Now, Mr. Hays, do you want to know what this warning or special
revelation of yours REALLY meant? Well, it had nothing whatever to do
with that man on the summit. No. The whole interest, gist, and meaning
of it was simply this, that you should turn round and come straight
back here and"--she drew back and made him an exaggerated theatrical
curtsey--"have the supreme pleasure of making MY acquaintance! That was
all. And now, as you've HAD IT, in five minutes I must be off. You've
offered me already your horse and sleigh to go to the summit. I accept
it and go! Good-by!"

He knew nothing of a woman's coquettish humor; he knew still less of
that mimic stage from which her present voice, gesture, and expression
were borrowed; he had no knowledge of the burlesque emotions which that
voice, gesture, and expression were supposed to portray, and finally and
fatally he was unable to detect the feminine hysteric jar and discord
that underlay it all. He thought it was strong, characteristic, and
real, and accepted it literally. He rose.

"Ef you allow you can't stay, why I'll go and get the horse. I reckon he
ain't bin put up yet."

"Do, please."

He grimly resumed his coat and hat and disappeared through the passage
into the kitchen, whence, a moment later, Zuleika came flying.

"Well, what has happened?" she said eagerly.

"It's all right," said the woman quickly, "though he knows nothing yet.
But I've got things fixed generally, so that he'll be quite ready to
have it broken to him by this time to-morrow. But don't you say anything
till I've seen Jack and you hear from HIM. Remember."

She spoke rapidly; her cheeks were quite glowing from some sudden
energy; so were Zuleika's with the excitement of curiosity. Presently
the sound of sleigh-bells again filled the room. It was Hays leading the
horse and sleigh to the door, beneath a sky now starlit and crisp
under a northeast wind. The fair stranger cast a significant glance at
Zuleika, and whispered hurriedly, "You know he must not come with me.
You must keep him here."

She ran to the door muffled and hooded, leaped into the sleigh, and
gathered up the reins.

"But you cannot go alone," said Hays, with awkward courtesy. "I was
kalkilatin'"--

"You're too tired to go out again, dad," broke in Zuleika's voice
quickly. "You ain't fit; you're all gray and krinkly now, like as when
you had one of your last spells. She'll send the sleigh back to-morrow."

"I can find my way," said the lady briskly; "there's only one turn off,
I believe, and that"--

"Leads to the stage station three miles west. You needn't be afraid of
gettin' off on that, for you'll likely see the down stage crossin' your
road ez soon ez you get clear of the ranch."

"Good-night," said the lady. An arc of white spray sprang before the
forward runner, and the sleigh vanished in the road.

Father and daughter returned to the office.

"You didn't get to know her, dad, did ye?" queried Zuleika.

"No," responded Hays gravely, "except to see she wasn't no backwoods or
mountaineering sort. Now, there's the kind of woman, Zuly, as knows her
own mind and yours too; that a man like your brother Jack oughter pick
out when he marries."

Zuleika's face beamed behind her father. "You ain't goin' to sit up any
longer, dad?" she said, as she noticed him resume his seat by the fire.
"It's gettin' late, and you look mighty tuckered out with your night's
work."

"Do you know what she said, Zuly?" returned her father, after a pause,
which turned out to have been a long, silent laugh.

"No."

"She said," he repeated slowly, "that she reckoned I came back here
to-night to have the pleasure of her acquaintance!" He brought his
two hands heavily down upon his knees, rubbing them down deliberately
towards his ankles, and leaning forward with his face to the fire and a
long-sustained smile of complete though tardy appreciation.

He was still in this attitude when Zuleika left him. The wind crooned
over him confidentially, but he still sat there, given up apparently to
some posthumous enjoyment of his visitor's departing witticism.

It was scarcely daylight when Zuleika, while dressing, heard a quick
tapping upon her shutter. She opened it to the scared and bewildered
face of her brother.

"What happened with her and father last night?" he said hoarsely.

"Nothing--why?"

"Read that. It was brought to me half an hour ago by a man in dad's
sleigh, from the stage station."

He handed her a crumpled note with trembling fingers. She took it and
read:--

"The game's up and I'm out of it! Take my advice and clear out of it
too, until you can come back in better shape. Don't be such a fool as
to try and follow me. Your father isn't one, and that's where you've
slipped up."

"He shall pay for it, whatever he's done," said her brother with an
access of wild passion. "Where is he?"

"Why, Jack, you wouldn't dare to see him now?"

"Wouldn't I?" He turned and ran, convulsed with passion, before the
windows towards the front of the house. Zuleika slipped out of her
bedroom and ran to her father's room. He was not there. Already she
could hear her brother hammering frantically against the locked front
door.

The door of the office was partly open. Her father was still there.
Asleep? Yes, for he had apparently sunk forward before the cold hearth.
But the hands that he had always been trying to warm were colder than
the hearth or ashes, and he himself never again spoke nor stirred.

*****

It was deemed providential by the neighbors that his youngest and
favorite son, alarmed by news of his father's failing health, had
arrived from the Atlantic States just at the last moment. But it was
thought singular that after the division of the property he entirely
abandoned the Ranch, and that even pending the division his beautiful
but fastidious Eastern bride declined to visit it with her husband.




JOHNSON'S "OLD WOMAN."


It was growing dark, and the Sonora trail was becoming more indistinct
before me at every step. The difficulty had increased over the grassy
slope, where the overflow from some smaller watercourse above had worn a
number of diverging gullies so like the trail as to be undistinguishable
from it. Unable to determine which was the right one, I threw the reins
over the mule's neck and resolved to trust to that superior animal's
sagacity, of which I had heard so much. But I had not taken into account
the equally well-known weaknesses of sex and species, and Chu Chu had
already shown uncontrollable signs of wanting her own way. Without a
moment's hesitation, feeling the relaxed bridle, she lay down and rolled
over.

In this perplexity the sound of horse's hoofs ringing out of the rocky
canyon beyond was a relief, even if momentarily embarrassing. An instant
afterwards a horse and rider appeared cantering round the hill on what
was evidently the lost trail, and pulled up as I succeeded in forcing
Chu Chu to her legs again.

"Is that the trail from Sonora?" I asked.

"Yes;" but with a critical glance at the mule, "I reckon you ain't going
thar tonight."

"Why not?"

"It's a matter of eighteen miles, and most of it a blind trail through
the woods after you take the valley."

"Is it worse than this?"

"What's the matter with this trail? Ye ain't expecting a racecourse or a
shell road over the foothills--are ye?"

"No. Is there any hotel where I can stop?"

"Nary."

"Nor any house?"

"No."

"Thank you. Good-night."

He had already passed on, when he halted again and turned in his saddle.
"Look yer. Just a spell over yon canyon ye'll find a patch o' buckeyes;
turn to the right and ye'll see a trail. That'll take ye to a shanty.
You ask if it's Johnson's."

"Who's Johnson?"

"I am. You ain't lookin' for Vanderbilt or God Almighty up here, are
you? Well, then, you hark to me, will you? You say to my old woman to
give you supper and a shakedown somewhar to-night. Say I sent you. So
long."

He was gone before I could accept or decline. An extraordinary noise
proceeded from Chu Chu, not unlike a suppressed chuckle. I looked
sharply at her; she coughed affectedly, and, with her head and neck
stretched to their greatest length, appeared to contemplate her neat
little off fore shoe with admiring abstraction. But as soon as I had
mounted she set off abruptly, crossed the rocky canyon, apparently
sighted the patch of buckeyes of her own volition, and without the
slightest hesitation found the trail to the right, and in half an hour
stood before the shanty.

It was a log cabin with an additional "lean-to" of the same material,
roofed with bark, and on the other side a larger and more ambitious
"extension" built of rough, unplaned, and unpainted redwood boards,
lightly shingled. The "lean-to" was evidently used as a kitchen, and
the central cabin as a living-room. The barking of a dog as I approached
called four children of different sizes to the open door, where already
an enterprising baby was feebly essaying to crawl over a bar of wood
laid across the threshold to restrain it.

"Is this Johnson's house?"

My remark was really addressed to the eldest, a boy of apparently nine
or ten, but I felt that my attention was unduly fascinated by the baby,
who at that moment had toppled over the bar, and was calmly eyeing
me upside down, while silently and heroically suffocating in its
petticoats. The boy disappeared without replying, but presently returned
with a taller girl of fourteen or fifteen. I was struck with the way
that, as she reached the door, she passed her hands rapidly over the
heads of the others as if counting them, picked up the baby, reversed
it, shook out its clothes, and returned it to the inside, without even
looking at it. The act was evidently automatic and habitual.

I repeated my question timidly.

Yes, it WAS Johnson's, but he had just gone to King's Mills. I replied,
hurriedly, that I knew it,--that I had met him beyond the canyon. As I
had lost my way and couldn't get to Sonora to-night, he had been good
enough to say that I might stay there until morning. My voice was
slightly raised for the benefit of Mr. Johnson's "old woman," who, I had
no doubt, was inspecting me furtively from some corner.

The girl drew the children away, except the boy. To him she said
simply, "Show the stranger whar to stake out his mule, 'Dolphus," and
disappeared in the "extension" without another word. I followed my
little guide, who was perhaps more actively curious, but equally
unresponsive. To my various questions he simply returned a smile of
exasperating vacuity. But he never took his eager eyes from me, and I
was satisfied that not a detail of my appearance escaped him. Leading
the way behind the house to a little wood, whose only "clearing"
had been effected by decay or storm, he stood silently apart while
I picketed Chu Chu, neither offering to assist me nor opposing any
interruption to my survey of the locality. There was no trace of human
cultivation in the surroundings of the cabin; the wilderness still trod
sharply on the heels of the pioneer's fresh footprints, and even seemed
to obliterate them. For a few yards around the actual dwelling there
was an unsavory fringe of civilization in the shape of cast-off clothes,
empty bottles, and tin cans, and the adjacent thorn and elder bushes
blossomed unwholesomely with bits of torn white paper and bleaching
dish-cloths. This hideous circle never widened; Nature always appeared
to roll back the intruding debris; no bird nor beast carried it away; no
animal ever forced the uncleanly barrier; civilization remained grimly
trenched in its own exuvia. The old terrifying girdle of fire around the
hunter's camp was not more deterring to curious night prowlers than this
coarse and accidental outwork.

When I regained the cabin I found it empty, the doors of the lean-to and
extension closed, but there was a stool set before a rude table, upon
which smoked a tin cup of coffee, a tin dish of hot saleratus biscuit,
and a plate of fried beef. There was something odd and depressing in
this silent exclusion of my presence. Had Johnson's "old woman" from
some dark post of observation taken a dislike to my appearance, or was
this churlish withdrawal a peculiarity of Sierran hospitality? Or was
Mrs. Johnson young and pretty, and hidden under the restricting ban of
Johnson's jealousy, or was she a deformed cripple, or even a bedridden
crone? From the extension at times came a murmur of voices, but never
the accents of adult womanhood. The gathering darkness, relieved only by
a dull glow from the smouldering logs in the adobe chimney, added to my
loneliness. In the circumstances I knew I ought to have put aside the
repast and given myself up to gloomy and pessimistic reflection; but
Nature is often inconsistent, and in that keen mountain air, I grieve
to say, my physical and moral condition was not in that perfect accord
always indicated by romancers. I had an appetite and I gratified it;
dyspepsia and ethical reflections might come later. I ate the saleratus
biscuit cheerfully, and was meditatively finishing my coffee when a
gurgling sound from the rafters above attracted my attention. I looked
up; under the overhang of the bark roof three pairs of round eyes were
fixed upon me. They belonged to the children I had previously seen,
who, in the attitude of Raphael's cherubs, had evidently been deeply
interested spectators of my repast. As our eyes met an inarticulate
giggle escaped the lips of the youngest.

I never could understand why the shy amusement of children over their
elders is not accepted as philosophically by its object as when it
proceeds from an equal. We fondly believe that when Jones or Brown
laughs at us it is from malice, ignorance, or a desire to show his
superiority, but there is always a haunting suspicion in our minds that
these little critics REALLY see something in us to laugh at. I, however,
smiled affably in return, ignoring any possible grotesqueness in my
manner of eating in private.

"Come here, Johnny," I said blandly.

The two elder ones, a girl and a boy, disappeared instantly, as if the
crowning joke of this remark was too much for them. From a scraping and
kicking against the log wall I judged that they had quickly dropped to
the ground outside. The younger one, the giggler, remained fascinated,
but ready to fly at a moment's warning.

"Come here, Johnny, boy," I repeated gently. "I want you to go to your
mother, please, and tell her"--

But here the child, who had been working its face convulsively, suddenly
uttered a lugubrious howl and disappeared also. I ran to the front door
and looked out in time to see the tallest girl, who had received me,
walking away with it under her arm, pushing the boy ahead of her
and looking back over her shoulder, not unlike a youthful she-bear
conducting her cubs from danger. She disappeared at the end of the
extension, where there was evidently another door.

It was very extraordinary. It was not strange that I turned back to
the cabin with a chagrin and mortification which for a moment made me
entertain the wild idea of saddling Chu Chu, and shaking the dust of
that taciturn house from my feet. But the ridiculousness of such an act,
to say nothing of its ingratitude, as quickly presented itself to me.
Johnson had offered me only food and shelter; I could have claimed no
more from the inn I had asked him to direct me to. I did not re-enter
the house, but, lighting my last cigar, began to walk gloomily up and
down the trail. With the outcoming of the stars it had grown lighter;
through a wind opening in the trees I could see the heavy bulk of the
opposite mountain, and beyond it a superior crest defined by a red line
of forest fire, which, however, cast no reflection on the surrounding
earth or sky. Faint woodland currents of air, still warm from the
afternoon sun, stirred the leaves around me with long-drawn aromatic
breaths. But these in time gave way to the steady Sierran night wind
sweeping down from the higher summits, and rocking the tops of the
tallest pines, yet leaving the tranquillity of the dark lower aisles
unshaken. It was very quiet; there was no cry nor call of beast or bird
in the darkness; the long rustle of the tree-tops sounded as faint as
the far-off wash of distant seas. Nor did the resemblance cease there;
the close-set files of the pines and cedars, stretching in illimitable
ranks to the horizon, were filled with the immeasurable loneliness of
an ocean shore. In this vast silence I began to think I understood the
taciturnity of the dwellers in the solitary cabin.

When I returned, however, I was surprised to find the tallest girl
standing by the door. As I approached she retreated before me, and
pointing to the corner where a common cot bed had been evidently just
put up, said, "Ye can turn in thar, only ye'll have to rouse out early
when 'Dolphus does the chores," and was turning towards the extension
again, when I stopped her almost appealingly.

"One moment, please. Can I see your mother?"

She stopped and looked at me with a singular expression. Then she said
sharply:--

"You know, fust rate, she's dead."

She was turning away again, but I think she must have seen my concern
in my face, for she hesitated. "But," I said quickly, "I certainly
understood your father, that is, Mr. Johnson," I added, interrogatively,
"to say that--that I was to speak to"--I didn't like to repeat the exact
phrase--"his WIFE."

"I don't know what he was playin' ye for," she said shortly. "Mar has
been dead mor'n a year."

"But," I persisted, "is there no grown-up woman here?"

"No."

"Then who takes care of you and the children?"

"I do."

"Yourself and your father--eh?"

"Dad ain't here two days running, and then on'y to sleep."

"And you take the entire charge of the house?"

"Yes, and the log tallies."

"The log tallies?"

"Yes; keep count and measure the logs that go by the slide."

It flashed upon me that I had passed the slide or declivity on the
hillside, where logs were slipped down into the valley, and I inferred
that Johnson's business was cutting timber for the mill.

"But you're rather young for all this work," I suggested.

"I'm goin' on sixteen," she said gravely.

Indeed, for the matter of that, she might have been any age. Her face,
on which sunburn took the place of complexion, was already hard and set.
But on a nearer view I was struck with the fact that her eyes, which
were not large, were almost indistinguishable from the presence of the
most singular eyelashes I had ever seen. Intensely black, intensely
thick, and even tangled in their profusion, they bristled rather than
fringed her eyelids, obliterating everything but the shining black
pupils beneath, which were like certain lustrous hairy mountain berries.
It was this woodland suggestion that seemed to uncannily connect her
with the locality. I went on playfully:--

"That's not VERY old--but tell me--does your father, or DID your father,
ever speak of you as his 'old woman?'"

She nodded. "Then you thought I was mar?" she said, smiling.

It was such a relief to see her worn face relax its expression of
pathetic gravity--although this operation quite buried her eyes in their
black thickest hedge again--that I continued cheerfully: "It wasn't much
of a mistake, considering all you do for the house and family."

"Then you didn't tell Billy 'to go and be dead in the ground with mar,'
as he 'lows you did?" she said half suspiciously, yet trembling on the
edge of a smile.

No, I had not, but I admitted that my asking him to go to his mother
might have been open to this dismal construction by a sensitive infant
mind. She seemed mollified, and again turned to go.

"Good-night, Miss--you know your father didn't tell me your real name,"
I said.

"Karline!"

"Good-night, Miss Karline."

I held out my hand.

She looked at it and then at me through her intricate eyelashes. Then
she struck it aside briskly, but not unkindly, said "Quit foolin', now,"
as she might have said to one of the children, and disappeared through
the inner door. Not knowing whether to be amused or indignant, I
remained silent a moment. Then I took a turn outside in the increasing
darkness, listened to the now hurrying wind over the tree-tops,
re-entered the cabin, closed the door, and went to bed.

But not to sleep. Perhaps the responsibility towards these solitary
children, which Johnson had so lightly shaken off, devolved upon me as
I lay there, for I found myself imagining a dozen emergencies of their
unprotected state, with which the elder girl could scarcely grapple.
There was little to fear from depredatory man or beast--desperadoes of
the mountain trail never stooped to ignoble burglary, bear or panther
seldom approached a cabin--but there was the chance of sudden illness,
fire, the accidents that beset childhood, to say nothing of the
narrowing moral and mental effect of their isolation at that tender age.
It was scandalous in Johnson to leave them alone.

In the silence I found I could hear quite distinctly the sound of their
voices in the extension, and it was evident that Caroline was putting
them to bed. Suddenly a voice was uplifted--her own! She began to sing
and the others to join her. It was the repetition of a single verse of
a well-known lugubrious negro melody. "All the world am sad and
dreary," wailed Caroline, in a high head-note, "everywhere I roam." "Oh,
darkieth," lisped the younger girl in response, "how my heart growth
weary, far from the old folkth at h-o-o-me." This was repeated two or
three times before the others seemed to get the full swing of it, and
then the lines rose and fell sadly and monotonously in the darkness. I
don't know why, but I at once got the impression that those motherless
little creatures were under a vague belief that their performance was
devotional, and was really filling the place of an evening hymn. A brief
and indistinct kind of recitation, followed by a dead silence, broken
only by the slow creaking of new timber, as if the house were stretching
itself to sleep too, confirmed my impression. Then all became quiet
again.

But I was more wide awake than before. Finally I rose, dressed myself,
and dragging my stool to the fire, took a book from my knapsack, and by
the light of a guttering candle, which I discovered in a bottle in the
corner of the hearth, began to read. Presently I fell into a doze.
How long I slept I could not tell, for it seemed to me that a dreamy
consciousness of a dog barking at last forced itself upon me so strongly
that I awoke. The barking appeared to come from behind the cabin in the
direction of the clearing where I had tethered Chu Chu. I opened the
door hurriedly, ran round the cabin towards the hollow, and was almost
at once met by the bulk of the frightened Chu Chu, plunging out of the
darkness towards me, kept only in check by her reata in the hand of a
blanketed shape slowly advancing with a gun over its shoulder out of the
hollow. Before I had time to recover from my astonishment I was thrown
into greater confusion by recognizing the shape as none other than
Caroline!

Without the least embarrassment or even self-consciousness of her
appearance, she tossed the end of the reata to me with the curtest
explanation as she passed by. Some prowling bear or catamount had
frightened the mule. I had better tether it before the cabin away from
the wind.

"But I thought wild beasts never came so near," I said quickly.

"Mule meat's mighty temptin'," said the girl sententiously and passed
on. I wanted to thank her; I wanted to say how sorry I was that she
had been disturbed; I wanted to compliment her on her quiet midnight
courage, and yet warn her against recklessness; I wanted to know whether
she had been accustomed to such alarms; and if the gun she carried was
really a necessity. But I could only respect her reticence, and I was
turning away when I was struck by a more inexplicable spectacle. As she
neared the end of the extension I distinctly saw the tall figure of
a man, moving with a certain diffidence and hesitation that did not,
however, suggest any intention of concealment, among the trees; the girl
apparently saw him at the same moment and slightly slackened her pace.
Not more than a dozen feet separated them. He said something that was
inaudible to my ears,--but whether from his hesitation or the distance
I could not determine. There was no such uncertainty in her reply,
however, which was given in her usual curt fashion: "All right. You can
trapse along home now and turn in."

She turned the corner of the extension and disappeared. The tall figure
of the man wavered hesitatingly for a moment, and then vanished also.
But I was too much excited by curiosity to accept this unsatisfactory
conclusion, and, hastily picketing Chu Chu a few rods from the front
door, I ran after him, with an instinctive feeling that he had not gone
far. I was right. A few paces distant he had halted in the same dubious,
lingering way. "Hallo!" I said.

He turned towards me in the like awkward fashion, but with neither
astonishment nor concern.

"Come up and take a drink with me before you go," I said, "if you're not
in a hurry. I'm alone here, and since I HAVE turned out I don't see why
we mightn't have a smoke and a talk together."

"I dursn't."

I looked up at the six feet of strength before me and repeated
wonderingly, "Dare not?"

"SHE wouldn't like it." He made a movement with his right shoulder
towards the extension.

"Who?"

"Miss Karline."

"Nonsense!" I said. "She isn't in the cabin,--you won't see HER. Come
along." He hesitated, although from what I could discern of his bearded
face it was weakly smiling.

"Come."

He obeyed, following me not unlike Chu Chu, I fancied, with the same
sense of superior size and strength and a slight whitening of the eye,
as if ready to shy at any moment. At the door he "backed." Then he
entered sideways. I noticed that he cleared the doorway at the top and
the sides only by a hair's breadth.

By the light of the fire I could see that, in spite of his full first
growth of beard, he was young,--even younger than myself,--and that he
was by no means bad-looking. As he still showed signs of retreating at
any moment, I took my flask and tobacco from my saddle-bags, handed them
to him, pointed to the stool, and sat down myself upon the bed.

"You live near here?"

"Yes," he said a little abstractedly, as if listening for some
interruption, "at Ten Mile Crossing."

"Why, that's two miles away."

"I reckon."

"Then you don't live here--on the clearing?"

"No. I b'long to the mill at 'Ten Mile.'"

"You were on your way home?"

"No," he hesitated, looking at his pipe; "I kinder meander round here at
this time, when Johnson's away, to see if everything's goin' straight."

"I see--you're a friend of the family."

"'Deed no!" He stopped, laughed, looked confused, and added, apparently
to his pipe, "That is, a sorter friend. Not much. SHE"--he lowered his
voice as if that potential personality filled the whole cabin--"wouldn't
like it."

"Then at night, when Johnson's away, you do sentry duty round the
house?"

"Yes, 'sentry dooty,' that's it,"--he seemed impressed with the
suggestion--"that's it! Sentry dooty. You've struck it, pardner."

"And how often is Johnson away?"

"'Bout two or three times a week on an average."

"But Miss Caroline appears to be able to take care of herself. She has
no fear."

"Fear! Fear wasn't hangin' round when SHE was born!" He paused. "No,
sir. Did ye ever look into them eyes?"

I hadn't, on account of the lashes. But I didn't care to say this, and
only nodded.

"There ain't the created thing livin' or dead, that she can't stand
straight up to and look at."

I wondered if he had fancied she experienced any difficulty in standing
up before that innocently good-humored face, but I could not resist
saying:--

"Then I don't see the use of your walking four miles to look after her."

I was sorry for it the next minute, for he seemed to have awkwardly
broken his pipe, and had to bend down for a long time afterwards to
laboriously pick up the smallest fragments of it. At last he said,
cautiously:

"Ye noticed them bits o' flannin' round the chillern's throats?"

I remembered that I had, but was uncertain whether it was intended as a
preventive of cold or a child's idea of decoration. I nodded.

"That's their trouble. One night, when old Johnson had been off for
three days to Coulterville, I was prowling round here and I didn't git
to see no one, though there was a light burnin' in the shanty all night.
The next night I was here again,--the same light twinklin', but no one
about. I reckoned that was mighty queer, and I jess crep' up to the
house an' listened. I heard suthin' like a little cough oncet in a
while, and at times suthin' like a little moan. I didn't durst to sing
out for I knew SHE wouldn't like it, but whistled keerless like, to let
the chillern know I was there. But it didn't seem to take. I was jess
goin' off, when--darn my skin!--if I didn't come across the bucket of
water I'd fetched up from the spring THAT MORNIN', standin' there full,
and NEVER TAKEN IN! When I saw that I reckoned I'd jess wade in, anyhow,
and I knocked. Pooty soon the door was half opened, and I saw her eyes
blazin' at me like them coals. Then SHE 'lowed I'd better 'git up and
git,' and shet the door to! Then I 'lowed she might tell me what was
up--through the door. Then she said, through the door, as how the
chillern lay all sick with that hoss-distemper, diphthery. Then she
'lowed she'd use a doctor ef I'd fetch him. Then she 'lowed again I'd
better take the baby that hadn't ketched it yet along with me, and leave
it where it was safe. Then she passed out the baby through the door all
wrapped up in a blankit like a papoose, and you bet I made tracks with
it. I knowed thar wasn't no good going to the mill, so I let out for
White's, four miles beyond, whar there was White's old mother. I told
her how things were pointin', and she lent me a hoss, and I jess rounded
on Doctor Green at Mountain Jim's, and had him back here afore sun-up!
And then I heard she wilted,--regularly played out, you see,--for she
had it all along wuss than the lot, and never let on or whimpered!"

"It was well you persisted in seeing her that night," I said, watching
the rapt expression of his face. He looked up quickly, became conscious
of my scrutiny, and dropped his eyes again, smiled feebly, and drawing a
circle in the ashes with the broken pipe-stem, said:--

"But SHE didn't like it, though."

I suggested, a little warmly, that if she allowed her father to leave
her alone at night with delicate children, she had no right to choose
WHO should assist her in an emergency. It struck me afterwards that this
was not very complimentary to him, and I added hastily that I wondered
if she expected some young lady to be passing along the trail at
midnight! But this reminded me of Johnson's style of argument, and I
stopped.

"Yes," he said meekly, "and ef she didn't keer enough for herself and
her brothers and sisters, she orter remember them Beazeley chillern."

"Beazeley children?" I repeated wonderingly.

"Yes; them two little ones, the size of Mirandy; they're Beazeley's."

"Who is Beazeley, and what are his children doing here?"

"Beazeley up and died at the mill, and she bedevilled her father to let
her take his two young 'uns here."

"You don't mean to say that with her other work she's taking care of
other people's children too?"

"Yes, and eddicatin' them."

"Educating them?"

"Yes; teachin' them to read and write and do sums. One of our loggers
ketched her at it when she was keepin' tally."

We were both silent for some moments.

"I suppose you know Johnson?" I said finally.

"Not much."

"But you call here at other times than when you're helping her?"

"Never been in the house before."

He looked slowly around him as he spoke, raising his eyes to the bare
rafters above, and drawing a few long breaths, as if he were inhaling
the aura of some unseen presence. He appeared so perfectly gratified and
contented, and I was so impressed with this humble and silent absorption
of the sacred interior, that I felt vaguely conscious that any
interruption of it was a profanation, and I sat still, gazing at the
dying fire. Presently he arose, stretched out his hand, shook mine
warmly, said, "I reckon I'll meander along," took another long breath,
this time secretly, as if conscious of my eyes, and then slouched
sideways out of the house into the darkness again, where he seemed
suddenly to attain his full height, and so looming, disappeared. I shut
the door, went to bed, and slept soundly.

So soundly that when I awoke the sun was streaming on my bed from the
open door. On the table before me my breakfast was already laid. When I
had dressed and eaten it, struck by the silence, I went to the door and
looked out. 'Dolphus was holding Chu Chu by the reata a few paces from
the cabin.

"Where's Caroline?" I asked.

He pointed to the woods and said: "Over yon: keeping tally."

"Did she leave any message?"

"Said I was to git your mule for you."

"Anything else?"

"Yes; said you was to go."

I went, but not until I had scrawled a few words of thanks on a leaf of
my notebook, which I wrapped about my last Spanish dollar, addressed it
to "Miss Johnson," and laid it upon the table.

*****

It was more than a year later that in the bar-room of the Mariposa Hotel
a hand was laid upon my sleeve. I looked up. It was Johnson.

He drew from his pocket a Spanish dollar. "I reckoned," he said,
cheerfully, "I'd run again ye somewhar some time. My old woman told me
to give ye that when I did, and say that she 'didn't keep no hotel.'
But she allowed she'd keep the letter, and has spelled it out to the
chillern."

Here was the opportunity I had longed for to touch Johnson's pride and
affection in the brave but unprotected girl. "I want to talk to you
about Miss Johnson," I said, eagerly.

"I reckon so," he said, with an exasperating smile. "Most fellers do.
But she ain't Miss Johnson no more. She's married."

"Not to that big chap over from Ten Mile Mills?" I said breathlessly.

"What's the matter with HIM," said Johnson. "Ye didn't expect her to
marry a nobleman, did ye?"

I said I didn't see why she shouldn't--and believed that she HAD.




THE NEW ASSISTANT AT PINE CLEARING SCHOOL.

