

Even the practical Mr. Sperry was taken aback. The young man before him
was squarely built, with broad shoulders, and a certain air of muscular
activity. But his face, although good-humored, was remarkable for
offering not the slightest indication of studious preoccupation or
mental training. A large mouth, light blue eyes, a square jaw, the other
features being indistinctive--were immobile as a mask--except that,
unlike a mask, they seemed to actually reflect the vacuity of the mood
within, instead of concealing it. But as he saluted the trustees they
each had the same feeling that even this expression was imported and not
instinctive. His face was clean-shaven, and his hair cut so short as to
suggest that a wig of some kind was necessary to give it characteristic
or even ordinary human semblance. His manner, self-assured yet lacking
reality, and his dress of respectable cut and material, yet worn as if
it did not belong to him, completed a picture as unlike a student or
schoolmaster as could be possibly conceived.

Yet there was the letter in Mr. Peaseley's hands from Barstow,
introducing Mr. Charles Twing as the first assistant teacher in the Pine
Clearing Free Academy!

The three men looked hopelessly at each other. An air of fatigued
righteousness and a desire to be spiritually at rest from other trials
pervaded Mr. Peaseley. Whether or not the young man felt the evident
objection he had raised, he assumed a careless position, with his back
and elbows against the bar; but even the attitude was clearly not his
own.

"Are you personally known to Mr. Barstow?" asked Sperry, with a slight
business asperity.

"Yes."

"That is--you are quite well acquainted with him?"

"If you'd heard me gag his style a minute ago, so that everybody here
knew who it was, you'd say so."

Mr. Peaseley's eyes sought the ceiling, and rested on the hanging lamp,
as if nothing short of direct providential interference could meet the
occasion. Yet, as the eyes of his brother trustees were bent on him
expectantly, he nerved himself to say something.

"I suppose, Mr.--Mr. Twing, you have properly understood the great--I
may say, very grave, intellectual, and moral responsibilities of the
work you seek to undertake--and the necessity of supporting it by
EXAMPLE, by practice, by personal influence both in the school and OUT
OF IT. Sir, I presume, sir, you feel that you are fully competent to
undertake this?"

"I reckon HE does!"

"WHO does?"

"Sam Barstow, or he wouldn't have selected me. I presume" (with the
slightest possible and almost instinctive imitation of the reverend
gentleman's manner) "his head is considered level."

Mr. Peaseley withdrew his eyes from the ceiling. "I have," he said to
his companions, with a pained smile, "an important choir meeting to
attend this afternoon. I fear I must be excused." As he moved towards
the door, the others formally following him, until out of the stranger's
hearing, he added: "I wash my hands of this. After so wanton and
unseemly an exhibition of utter incompetency, and even of understanding
of the trust imposed upon him--upon US--MY conscience forbids me to
interfere further. But the real arbiter in this matter will be--thank
Heaven!--the mistress herself. You have only to confront her at once
with this man. HER decision will be speedy and final. For even Mr.
Barstow will not dare to force so outrageous a character upon a
delicate, refined woman, in a familiar and confidential capacity."

"That's so," said Sperry eagerly; "she'll settle it. And, of course,"
added the mill-owner, "that will leave us out of any difficulty with
Sam."

The two men returned to the hapless stranger, relieved, yet constrained
by the sacrifice to which they felt they were leading him. It would be
necessary, they said, to introduce him to his principal, Mrs. Martin,
at once. They might still find her at the schoolhouse, distant but a few
steps. They said little else, the stranger keeping up an ostentatious
whistling, and becoming more and more incongruous, they thought, as they
neared the pretty schoolhouse. Here they DID find Mrs. Martin, who had,
naturally, lingered after the interview with Sperry.

She came forward to meet them, with the nervous shyness and slightly
fastidious hesitation that was her nature. They saw, or fancied
they saw, the same surprise and disappointment they had themselves
experienced pass over her sensitive face, as she looked at him; they
felt that their vulgar charge appeared still more outrageous by contrast
with this delicate woman and her pretty, refined surroundings; but they
saw that HE enjoyed it, and was even--if such a word could be applied to
so self-conscious a man--more at ease in her presence!

"I reckon you and me will pull together very well, ma'am," he said
confidently.

They looked to see her turn her back upon him; faint, or burst out
crying; but she did neither, and only gazed at him quietly.

"It's a mighty pretty place you've got here--and I like it, and if WE
can't run it, I don't know who can. Only just let me know WHAT you want,
ma'am, and you can count on me every time."

To their profound consternation Mrs. Martin smiled faintly.

"It rests with YOU only, Mrs. Martin," said Sperry quickly and
significantly. "It's YOUR say, you know; you're the only one to be
considered or consulted here."

"Only just say what you want me to do," continued Twing, apparently
ignoring the trustees; "pick out the style of job; give me a hint or
two how to work it, or what you'd think would be the proper gag to fetch
'em, and I'm there, ma'am. It may be new at first, but I'll get at the
business of it quick enough."

Mrs. Martin smiled--this time quite perceptibly--with the least
little color in her cheeks and eyes. "Then you've had no experience in
teaching?" she said.

"Well no."

"You are not a graduate of any college?"

"Not much."

The two trustees looked at each other. Even Mr. Peaseley had not
conceived such a damning revelation.

"Well," said Mrs. Martin slowly, "perhaps Mr. Twing had better COME
EARLY TOMORROW MORNING AND BEGIN."

"Begin?" gasped Mr. Sperry in breathless astonishment.

"Certainly," said Mrs. Martin in timid explanation. "If he is new to the
work the sooner the better."

Mr. Sperry could only gaze blankly at his brother official. Had they
heard aright? Was this the recklessness of nervous excitement in a woman
of delicate health, or had the impostor cast some glamour upon her? Or
was she frightened of Sam Barstow and afraid to reject his candidate?
The last thought was an inspiration. He drew her quickly aside. "One
moment, Mrs. Martin! You said to me an hour ago that you didn't intend
to have asked Mr. Barstow to send you an assistant. I hope that, merely
because he HAS done so, you don't feel obliged to accept this man
against your better judgment?"

"Oh no," said Mrs. Martin quietly.

The case seemed hopeless. And Sperry had the miserable conviction that
by having insisted upon Mrs. Martin's judgment being final they had
estopped their own right to object. But how could they have foreseen her
extraordinary taste? He, however, roused himself for a last appeal.

"Mrs. Martin," he said in a lower voice, "I ought to tell you that the
Reverend Mr. Peaseley strongly doubts the competency of that young man."

"Didn't Mr. Barstow make a selection at your request?" asked Mrs.
Martin, with a faint little nervous cough.

"Yes--but"--

"Then his competency only concerns ME--and I don't see what Mr. Peaseley
has to say about it."

Could he believe his senses? There was a decided flush in the woman's
pale face, and the first note of independence and asperity in her voice.

That night, in the privacy of his conjugal chamber, Mr. Sperry relieved
his mind to another of the enigmatical sex,--the stout Southwestern
partner of his joys and troubles. But the result was equally
unsatisfactory. "Well, Abner," said the lady, "I never could see, for
all your men's praises of Mrs. Martin, what that feller can see in HER
to like!"

