

Before a month had passed, Mr. Twing's success was secure and
established. So were a few of the changes he had quietly instituted.
The devotional singing and Scripture reading which had excited the
discontent of the Pike County children and their parents was not
discontinued, but half an hour before recess was given up to some
secular choruses, patriotic or topical, in which the little ones under
Twing's really wonderful practical tuition exhibited such quick and
pleasing proficiency, that a certain negro minstrel camp-meeting
song attained sufficient popularity to be lifted by general accord to
promotion to the devotional exercises, where it eventually ousted the
objectionable "Hebrew children" on the question of melody alone. Grammar
was still taught at Pine Clearing School in spite of the Hardees and
Mackinnons, but Twing had managed to import into the cognate exercises
of recitation a wonderful degree of enthusiasm and excellence.
Dialectical Pike County, that had refused to recognize the governing
powers of the nominative case, nevertheless came out strong in classical
elocution, and Tom Hardee, who had delivered his ungrammatical protest
on behalf of Pike County, was no less strong, if more elegant, in his
impeachment of Warren Hastings as Edmund Burke, with the equal sanction
of his parents. The trustees, Sperry and Jackson, had marveled, but
were glad enough to accept the popular verdict--only Mr. Peaseley still
retained an attitude of martyr-like forbearance and fatigued toleration
towards the new assistant and his changes. As to Mrs. Martin, she seemed
to accept the work of Mr. Twing after his own definition of it--as of a
masculine quality ill-suited to a lady's tastes and inclinations; but it
was noticeable that while she had at first repelled any criticism of him
whatever, she had lately been given to explaining his position to her
friends, and had spoken of him with somewhat labored and ostentatious
patronage. Yet when they were alone together she frankly found him very
amusing, and his presumption and vulgarity so clearly unintentional that
it no longer offended her. They were good friends without having any
confidences beyond the duties of the school; she had asked no further
explanation of the fact that he had been selected by Mr. Barstow
without reference to any special antecedent training. What his actual
antecedents were she had never cared to know, nor he apparently to
reveal; that he had been engaged in some other occupations of superior
or inferior quality would not have been remarkable in a community where
the principal lawyer had been a soldier, and the miller a doctor. The
fact that he admired her was plain enough to HER; that it pleased her,
but carried with it no ulterior thought or responsibility, might have
been equally clear to others. Perhaps it was so to HIM.

Howbeit, this easy mutual intercourse was one day interrupted by what
seemed a trifling incident. The piano, which Mr. Barstow had promised,
duly made its appearance in the schoolhouse, to the delight of the
scholars and the gentle satisfaction of Mrs. Martin, who, in addition to
the rudimentary musical instruction of the younger girls, occasionally
played upon it herself in a prim, refined, and conscientious fashion.
To this, when she was alone after school hours, she sometimes added a
faint, colorless voice of limited range and gentlewomanly expression. It
was on one of these occasions that Twing, becoming an accidental auditor
of this chaste, sad piping, was not only permitted to remain to hear the
end of a love song of strictly guarded passion in the subjunctive
mood, but at the close was invited to try his hand--a quick, if not a
cultivated one--at the instrument. He did so. Like her, he added his
voice. Like hers, it was a love song. But there the similitude ended.
Negro in dialect, illiterate in construction, idiotic in passion, and
presumably addressed to the "Rose of Alabama," in the very extravagance
of its childish infatuation it might have been a mockery of the
schoolmistress's song but for one tremendous fact! In unrestrained
feeling, pathetic yearning, and exquisite tenderness of expression, it
was unmistakably and appallingly personal and sincere. It was true the
lips spoken of were "lubly," the eyes alluded to were like "lightenin'
bugs," but from the voice and gestures of the singer Mrs. Martin
confusedly felt that they were intended for HERS, and even the refrain
that "she dressed so neat and looked so sweet" was glaringly allusive
to her own modish mourning. Alternately flushing and paling, with a
hysteric smile hovering round her small reserved mouth, the unfortunate
gentlewoman was fain to turn to the window to keep her countenance until
it was concluded. She did not ask him to repeat it, nor did she again
subject herself to this palpable serenade, but a few days afterwards, as
she was idly striking the keys in the interval of a music lesson, one
of her little pupils broke out, "Why, Mrs. Martin, if yo ain't a pickin'
out that pow'ful pretty tune that Mr. Twing sings!"

Nevertheless, when Twing, a week or two later, suggested that he might
sing the same song as a solo at a certain performance to be given by the
school children in aid of a local charity, she drily intimated that it
was hardly of a character to suit the entertainment. "But," she added,
more gently, "you recite so well; why not give a recitation?"

He looked at her with questioning and troubled eyes,--the one expression
he seemed to have lately acquired. "But that would be IN PUBLIC!
There'll be a lot of people there," he said doubtfully.

A little amused at this first apparent sign of a want of confidence in
himself, she said, with a reassuring smile, "So much the better,--you do
it really too well to have it thrown away entirely on children."

"Do YOU wish it?" he said suddenly.

Somewhat confused, but more irritated by his abruptness, she replied,
"Why not?" But when the day came, and before a crowded audience, in
which there was a fair sprinkling of strangers, she regretted her rash
suggestion. For when the pupils had gone through certain calisthenic
exercises--admirably taught and arranged by him--and "spoken their
pieces," he arose, and, fixing his eyes on her, began Othello's defense
before the Duke and Council. Here, as on the previous occasion, she felt
herself personally alluded to in his account of his wooing.
Desdemona, for some occult reason, vicariously appeared for her in the
unwarrantable picture of his passion, and to this was added the absurd
consciousness which she could not put aside that the audience, following
with enthusiasm his really strong declamation, was also following his
suggestion and adopting it. Yet she was also conscious, and, as she
thought, as inconsistently, of being pleased and even proud of his
success. At the conclusion the applause was general, and a voice added
with husky admiration and familiarity:--

"Brayvo, Johnny Walker!"

Twing's face became suddenly white as a Pierrot mask. There was a dead
silence, in which the voice continued, "Give us 'Sugar in the Gourd,'
Johnny."

A few hisses, and cries of "Hush!" "Put him out!" followed. Mrs. Martin
raised her eyes quickly to where her assistant had stood bowing his
thanks a moment before. He was gone!

More concerned than she cared to confess, vaguely fearful that she was
in some way connected with his abrupt withdrawal, and perhaps a little
remorseful that she had allowed her personal feelings to interfere with
her frank recognition of his triumph, she turned back to the schoolroom,
after the little performers and their audience had departed, in the hope
that he might return. It was getting late, the nearly level rays of the
sun were lying on the empty benches at the lower end of the room, but
the desk where she sat with its lid raised was in deep shadow.
Suddenly she heard his voice in a rear hall, but it was accompanied by
another's,--the same voice which had interrupted the applause. Before
she could either withdraw, or make herself known, the two men had
entered the room, and were passing slowly through it. She understood at
once that Twing had slipped out into a janitor's room in the rear,
where he had evidently forced an interview and explanation from his
interrupter, and now had been waiting for the audience to disperse
before emerging by the front door. They had evidently overlooked her in
the shadow.

"But," said the stranger, as if following an aggrieved line of apology,
"if Barstow knew who you were, and what you'd done, and still thought
you good enough to rastle round here and square up them Pike County
fellers and them kids--what in thunder do you care if the others DO find
you out, as long as Barstow sticks to you?"

"I've told you why, Dick," returned Twing gloomily.

"Oh, the schoolma'am!"

"Yes, she's a saint, an angel. More than that--she's a lady, Dick,
to the tip of her fingers, who knows nothing of the world outside a
parson's study. She took me on trust--without a word--when the trustees
hung back and stared. She's never asked me about myself, and now when
she knows who and what I have been--she'll loathe me!"

"But look here, Jim," said the stranger anxiously. "I'll say it's all a
lie. I'll come here and apologize to you afore HER, and say I took you
for somebody else. I'll"--

"It's too late," said Twing moodily.

"And what'll you do?"

"Leave here."

They had reached the door together. To Mrs. Martin's terror, as the
stranger passed out, Twing, instead of following him as she expected,
said "Good-night," and gloomily re-entered the schoolroom. Here he
paused a moment, and then throwing himself on one of the benches,
dropped his head upon a desk with his face buried in his hands--like a
very schoolboy.

What passed through Mrs. Martin's mind I know not. For a moment she sat
erect and rigid at her desk. Then she slipped quietly down, and, softly
as one of the last shadows cast by the dying sun, glided across the
floor to where he sat.

"Mrs. Martin," he said, starting to his feet.

"I have heard all," she said faintly. "I couldn't help it. I was here
when you came in. But I want to tell you that I am content to know you
only as you seem to be,--as I have always found you here,--strong and
loyal to a duty laid upon you by those who had a full knowledge of all
you had been."

"Did you? Do you know what I have been?"

Mrs. Martin looked frightened, trembled a moment, and, recovering
herself with an effort, said gently, "I know nothing of your past."

"Nothing?" he repeated, with a mirthless attempt at laughter, and a
quick breath. "Not that I've been a--a--mountebank, a variety actor--a
clown, you know, for the amusement of the lowest, at twenty-five cents a
ticket. That I'm 'Johnny Walker,' the song and dance man--the all-round
man--selected by Mr. Barstow to teach these boors a lesson as to what
they wanted!"

She looked at him a moment--timidly, yet thoughtfully. "Then you are an
actor--a person who simulates what he does not feel?"

"Yes."

"And all the time you have been here you have been acting the
schoolmaster--playing a part--for--for Mr. Barstow?"

"Yes."

"Always?"

"Yes."

The color came softly to her face again, and her voice was very low.
"And when you sang to me that day, and when you looked at me--as
you did--an hour or two ago--while you were entertaining--you
were--only--acting?"

Mr. Twing's answer was not known, but it must have been a full and
complete one, for it was quite dark when he left the schoolroom--NOT for
the last time--with its mistress on his arm.




IN A PIONEER RESTAURANT.

