

The fact that Tom did not happen to be on duty at the next Club dinner
gave me an opportunity to repeat his mysterious remark to Manners, and
to jokingly warn that rising young lawyer against the indiscretion of
vague counsel. Manners, however, only shrugged his shoulders. "I don't
know what he meant," he said carelessly; "but since he chooses to talk
of his own affairs publicly, I don't mind saying that they are neither
very weighty nor very dangerous. It's only the old story: the usual
matrimonial infidelities that are mixed up with the Californian
emigration. He leaves the regular wife behind,--fairly or unfairly, I
can't say. She gets tired waiting, after the usual style, and elopes
with somebody else. The Western Penelope isn't built for waiting. But
she seems to have converted some of his property into cash when she
skipped from St. Louis, and that's where his chief concern comes in.
That's what he wanted to see me for; that's why he inveigled me into
that infernal pantry of his one day to show me a plan of his property,
as if that was any good."

He paused disgustedly. We all felt, I think, that Tom was some kind of
an impostor, claiming the sympathies of the Club on false pretenses.
Nevertheless, the Quartermaster said, "Then you didn't do anything for
him--give him any advice, eh?"

"No; for the property's as much hers as his, and he hasn't got a
divorce; and, as it's doubtful whether he didn't desert her first, he
can't get one. He was surprised," he added, with a grim smile, "when I
told him that he was obliged to support her, and was even liable for
her debts. But people who are always talking of invoking the law know
nothing about it." We were surprised too, although Manners was always
convincing us, in some cheerful but discomposing way, that we were all
daily and hourly, in our simplest acts, making ourself responsible
for all sorts of liabilities and actions, and even generally preparing
ourselves for arrest and imprisonment. The Quartermaster continued
lazily:--

"Then you didn't give him any points about shooting?"

"No; he doesn't even know the man she went off with. It was eighteen
months ago, and I don't believe he'd even know her again if he met
her. But, if he isn't much of a client, we shall miss him to-night as
a waiter, for the place is getting full, and there are not enough to
serve."

The restaurant was, indeed, unusually crowded that evening; the more so
that, the private rooms above being early occupied, some dinner parties
and exclusive couples had been obliged to content themselves with the
public dining saloon. A small table nearest us, usually left vacant to
insure a certain seclusion to the Club, was arranged, with a deprecatory
apology from the proprietor, for one of those couples, a man and
woman. The man was a well-known speculator,--cool, yet reckless and
pleasure-loving; the woman, good-looking, picturesquely attractive,
self-conscious, and self-possessed. Our propinquity was evidently
neither novel nor discomposing. As she settled her skirts in her place,
her bright, dark eyes swept our table with a frank, almost childish,
familiarity. The younger members of the Club quite unconsciously pulled
up their collars and settled their neckties; the elders as unconsciously
raised their voices slightly, and somewhat arranged their sentences.
Alas! the simplicity and unaffectedness of the Club were again invaded.

Suddenly there was a crash, the breaking of glass, and an exclamation.
Tournelli, no doubt disorganized by the unusual hurry, on his way to our
table had dropped his tray, impartially distributed a plate of
asparagus over an adjoining table, and, flushed and nervous, yet with
an affectation of studied calmness, was pouring the sauce into the young
Quartermaster's plate, in spite of his languid protests. At any other
time we would have laughed, but there was something in the exaggerated
agitation of the Italian that checked our mirth. Why should he be so
upset by a trifling accident? He could afford to pay for the breakage;
he would laugh at dismissal. Was it the sensitiveness of a refined
nature, or--he was young and good-looking--was he disconcerted by the
fact that our handsome neighbor had witnessed his awkwardness? But she
was not laughing, and, as far as I could see, was intently regarding the
bill of fare.

"Waiter!" called her companion, hailing Tournelli. "Here!" The Italian,
with a face now distinctly white, leaned over the table, adjusting the
glasses, but did not reply.

"Waiter!" repeated the stranger, sharply. Tournelli's face twitched,
then became set as a mask; but he did not move. The stranger leaned
forward and pulled his apron from behind. Tournelli started with
flashing eyes, and turned swiftly round. But the Quartermaster's hand
had closed on his wrist.

"That's my knife, Tournelli."

The knife dropped from the Italian's fingers.

"Better see WHAT he wants. It may not be THAT," said the young officer,
coolly but kindly.

Tournelli turned impatiently towards the stranger. We alone had
witnessed this incident, and were watching him breathlessly. Yet what
bade fair a moment ago to be a tragedy, seemed now to halt grotesquely.
For Tournelli, throwing open his linen jacket with a melodramatic
gesture, tapped his breast, and with flashing eyes and suppressed
accents said, "Sare; you wantah me? Look--I am herre!"

The speculator leaned back in his chair in good-humored astonishment.
The lady's black eyes, without looking at Tournelli, glanced backward
round the room, and slipped along our table, with half-defiant
unconcern; and then she uttered a short hysterical laugh.

"Ah! ze lady--madame--ze signora--eh--she wantah me?" continued
Tournelli, leaning on the table with compressed fingers, and glaring at
her. "Perhaps SHE wantah Tournelli--eh?"

"Well, you might bring some with the soup," blandly replied her escort,
who seemed to enjoy the Italian's excitement as a national eccentricity;
"but hurry up and set the table, will you?"

Then followed, on the authority of the Editor, who understood Italian, a
singular scene. Secure, apparently, in his belief that his language was
generally uncomprehended, Tournelli brought a decanter, and, setting
it on the table, said, "Traitress!" in an intense whisper. This
was followed by the cruets, which he put down with the exclamation,
"Perjured fiend!" Two glasses, placed on either side of her, carried the
word "Apostate!" to her ear; and three knives and forks, rattling
more than was necessary, and laid crosswise before her plate, were
accompanied with "Tremble, wanton!" Then, as he pulled the tablecloth
straight, and ostentatiously concealed a wine-stain with a clean napkin,
scarcely whiter than his lips, he articulated under his breath: "Let
him beware! he goes not hence alive! I will slice his craven
heart--thus--and thou shalt see it." He turned quickly to a side table
and brought back a spoon. "And THIS is why I have not found you;"
another spoon, "For THIS you have disappeared;" a purely perfunctory
polishing of her fork, "For HIM, bah!" an equally unnecessary wiping
of her glass, "Blood of God!"--more wiping--"It will end! Yes"--general
wiping and a final flourish over the whole table with a napkin--"I go,
but at the door I shall await you both."

She had not spoken yet, nor even lifted her eyes. When she did
so, however, she raised them level with his, showed all her white
teeth--they were small and cruel-looking--and said smilingly in his own
dialect:--

"Thief!"

Tournelli halted, rigid.

"You're talking his lingo, eh?" said her escort good-humoredly.

"Yes."

"Well--tell him to bustle around and be a little livelier with the
dinner, won't you? This is only skirmishing."

"You hear," she continued to Tournelli in a perfectly even voice; "or
shall it be a policeman, and a charge of stealing?"

"Stealing!" gasped Tournelli. "YOU say stealing!"

"Yes--ten thousand dollars. You are well disguised here, my little
fellow; it is a good business--yours. Keep it while you can."

I think he would have sprung upon her there and then, but that the
Quartermaster, who was nearest him, and had been intently watching his
face, made a scarcely perceptible movement as if ready to anticipate
him. He caught the officer's eye; caught, I think, in ours the
revelation that he had been understood, drew back with a sidelong,
sinuous movement, and disappeared in the passage to the kitchen.

I believe we all breathed more freely, although the situation was still
full enough of impending possibilities to prevent peaceful enjoyment
of our dinner. As the Editor finished his hurried translation, it was
suggested that we ought to warn the unsuspecting escort of Tournelli's
threats. But it was pointed out that this would be betraying the woman,
and that Jo Hays (her companion) was fully able to take care of himself.
"Besides," said the Editor, aggrievedly, "you fellows only think of
YOURSELVES, and you don't understand the first principles of journalism.
Do you suppose I'm going to do anything to spoil a half-column of leaded
brevier copy--from an eye-witness, too? No; it's a square enough fight
as it stands. We must look out for the woman, and not let Tournelli get
an unfair drop on Hays. That is, if the whole thing isn't a bluff."

But the Italian did not return. Whether he had incontinently fled, or
was nursing his wrath in the kitchen, or already fulfilling his threat
of waiting on the pavement outside the restaurant, we could not guess.
Another waiter appeared with the dinners they had ordered. A momentary
thrill of excitement passed over us at the possibility that Tournelli
had poisoned their soup; but it presently lapsed, as we saw the couple
partaking of it comfortably, and chatting with apparent unconcern. Was
the scene we had just witnessed only a piece of Southern exaggeration?
Was the woman a creature devoid of nerves or feeling of any kind; or was
she simply a consummate actress? Yet she was clearly not acting, for
in the intervals of conversation, and even while talking, her dark eyes
wandered carelessly around the room, with the easy self-confidence of
a pretty woman. We were beginning to talk of something else, when the
Editor said suddenly, in a suppressed voice:

"Hullo! What's the matter now?"

The woman had risen, and was hurriedly throwing her cloak over her
shoulders. But it was HER face that was now ashen and agitated, and we
could see that her hands were trembling. Her escort was assisting her,
but was evidently as astonished as ourselves. "Perhaps," he suggested
hopefully, "if you wait a minute it will pass off."

"No, no," she gasped, still hurriedly wrestling with her cloak. "Don't
you see I'm suffocating here--I want air. You can follow!" She began
to move off, her face turned fixedly in the direction of the door. We
instinctively looked there--perhaps for Tournelli. There was no one.
Nevertheless, the Editor and Quartermaster had half-risen from their
seats.

"Helloo!" said Manners suddenly. "There's Tom just come in. Call him!"

Tom, evidently recalled from his brief furlough by the proprietor on
account of the press of custom, had just made his appearance from the
kitchen.

"Tom, where's Tournelli?" asked the Lawyer hurriedly, but following the
retreating woman with his eyes.

"Skipped, they say. Somebody insulted him," said Tom curtly.

"You didn't see him hanging round outside, eh? Swearing vengeance?"
asked the Editor.

"No," said Tom scornfully.

The woman had reached the door, and darted out of it as her escort
paused a moment at the counter to throw down a coin. Yet in that moment
she had hurried before him through the passage into the street. I
turned breathlessly to the window. For an instant her face, white as a
phantom's, appeared pressed rigidly against the heavy plate-glass, her
eyes staring with a horrible fascination back into the room--I even
imagined at us. Perhaps, as it was evident that Tournelli was not with
her, she fancied he was still here; perhaps she had mistaken Tom for
him! However, her escort quickly rejoined her; their shadows passed the
window together--they were gone.

Then a pistol-shot broke the quiet of the street.

The Editor and Quartermaster rose and ran to the door. Manners rose
also, but lingered long enough to whisper to me, "Don't lose sight of
Tom," and followed them. But to my momentary surprise no one else
moved. I had forgotten, in the previous excitement, that in those days
a pistol-shot was not unusual enough to attract attention. A few raised
their heads at the sound of running feet on the pavement, and the
flitting of black shadows past the windows. Tom had not stirred, but,
napkin in hand, and eyes fixed on vacancy, was standing, as I had seen
him once before, in an attitude of listless expectation.

In a few minutes Manners returned. I thought he glanced oddly at Tom,
who was still lingering in attendance, and I even fancied he talked to
us ostentatiously for his benefit. "Yes, it was a row of Tournelli's. He
was waiting at the corner; had rushed at Hays with a knife, but had been
met with a derringer-shot through his hat. The lady, who, it seems, was
only a chance steamer acquaintance of Hays', thought the attack must
have been meant for HER, as she had recognized in the Italian a man who
had stolen from her divorced husband in the States, two years ago, and
was a fugitive from justice. At least that was the explanation given by
Hays, for the woman had fainted and been driven off to her hotel by
the Quartermaster, and Tournelli had escaped. But the Editor was on his
track. You didn't notice that lady, Tom, did you?"

Tom came out of an abstracted study, and said: "No, she had her back to
me all the time."

Manners regarded him steadily for a moment without speaking, but in a
way that I could not help thinking was much more embarrassing to the
bystanders than to him. When we rose to leave, as he placed his usual
gratuity into Tom's hand, he said carelessly, "You might drop into my
office to-morrow if you have anything to tell ME."

"I haven't," said Tom quietly.

"Then I may have something to tell YOU."

Tom nodded, and turned away to his duties. The Mining Secretary and
myself could scarcely wait to reach the street before we turned eagerly
on Manners.

"Well?"

"Well; the woman you saw was Tom's runaway wife, and Tournelli the man
she ran away with."

"And Tom knew it?"

"Can't say."

"And you mean to say that all this while Tom never suspected HIM, and
even did not recognize HER just now?"

Manners lifted his hat and passed his fingers through his hair
meditatively. "Ask me something easier, gentlemen."




A TREASURE OF THE GALLEON.


Her father's house was nearly a mile from the sea, but the breath of
it was always strong at the windows and doors in the early morning, and
when there were heavy "southwesters" blowing in the winter, the wind
brought the sharp sting of sand to her cheek, and the rain an odd taste
of salt to her lips. On this particular December afternoon, however, as
she stood in the doorway, it seemed to be singularly calm; the southwest
trades blew but faintly, and scarcely broke the crests of the long
Pacific swell that lazily rose and fell on the beach, which only
a slanting copse of scrub-oak and willow hid from the cottage.
Nevertheless, she knew this league-long strip of shining sand much
better, it is to be feared, than the scanty flower-garden, arid and
stunted by its contiguity. It had been her playground when she first
came there, a motherless girl of twelve, and she had helped her father
gather its scattered driftwood--as the fortunes of the Millers were not
above accepting these occasional offerings of their lordly neighbor.

"I wouldn't go far to-day, Jenny," said her father, as the girl stepped
from the threshold. "I don't trust the weather at this season; and
besides you had better be looking over your wardrobe for the Christmas
Eve party at Sol. Catlin's."

"Why, father, you don't intend to go to that man's?" said the girl,
looking up with a troubled face.

"Lawyer Miller," as he was called by his few neighbors, looked slightly
embarrassed. "Why not?" he asked in a faintly irritated tone.

"Why not? Why, father, you know how vulgar and conceited he is,--how
everybody here truckles to him!"

"Very likely; he's a very superior man of his kind,--a kind they
understand here, too,--a great trapper, hunter, and pioneer."

"But I don't believe in his trapping, hunting, and pioneering," said
the girl, petulantly. "I believe it's all as hollow and boisterous as
himself. It's no more real, or what one thinks it should be, than he
is. And he dares to patronize you--you, father, an educated man and a
gentleman!"

"Say rather an unsuccessful lawyer who was fool enough to believe that
buying a ranch could make him a farmer," returned her father, but half
jestingly. "I only wish I was as good at my trade as he is."

"But you never liked him,--you always used to ignore him; you've
changed, father"--She stopped suddenly, for her recollection of her
father's quiet superiority and easy independence when he first came
there was in such marked contrast to his late careless and weak
concession to the rude life around them, that she felt a pang of vague
degradation, which she feared her voice might betray.

"Very well! Do as you like," he replied, with affected carelessness;
"only I thought, as we cannot afford to go elsewhere this Christmas, it
might be well for us to take what we could find here."

"Take what we could find here!" It was so unlike him--he who had always
been so strong in preserving their little domestic refinements in their
rude surroundings, that their poverty had never seemed mean, nor their
seclusion ignoble. She turned away to conceal her indignant color. She
could share the household work with a squaw and Chinaman, she could
fetch wood and water. Catlin had patronizingly seen her doing it, but to
dance to his vulgar piping--never!

She was not long in reaching the sands that now lay before her,
warm, sweet-scented from short beach grass, stretching to a dim rocky
promontory, and absolutely untrod by any foot but her own. It was this
virginity of seclusion that had been charming to her girlhood; fenced
in between the impenetrable hedge of scrub-oaks on the one side, and the
lifting green walls of breakers tipped with chevaux de frise of white
foam on the other, she had known a perfect security for her sports
and fancies that had captivated her town-bred instincts and native
fastidiousness. A few white-winged sea-birds, as proud, reserved, and
maiden-like as herself, had been her only companions. And it was now
the custodian of her secret,--a secret as innocent and childlike as her
previous youthful fancies,--but still a secret known only to herself.

One day she had come upon the rotting ribs of a wreck on the beach. Its
distance from the tide line, its position, and its deep imbedding of
sand, showed that it was of ancient origin. An omnivorous reader of all
that pertained to the history of California, Jenny had in fancy often
sailed the seas in one of those mysterious treasure-ships that had
skirted the coast in bygone days, and she at once settled in her mind
that her discovery was none other than a castaway Philippine galleon.
Partly from her reserve, and partly from a suddenly conceived plan,
she determined to keep its existence unknown to her father, as careful
inquiry on her part had found it was equally unknown to the neighbors.
For this shy, imaginative young girl of eighteen had convinced herself
that it might still contain a part of its old treasure. She would dig
for it herself, without telling anybody. If she failed, no one would
know it; if she were successful, she would surprise her father and
perhaps retrieve their fortune by less vulgar means than their present
toil. Thanks to the secluded locality and the fact that she was known
to spend her leisure moments in wandering there, she could work without
suspicion. Secretly conveying a shovel and a few tools to the spot the
next day, she set about her prodigious task. As the upper works were
gone, and the galleon not large, in three weeks, working an hour or two
each day, she had made a deep excavation in the stern. She had found
many curious things,--the flotsam and jetsam of previous storms,--but as
yet, it is perhaps needless to say, not the treasure.

To-day she was filled with the vague hope of making her discovery before
Christmas Day. To have been able to take her father something on that
day--if only a few old coins--the fruit of her own unsuspected labor and
intuition--not the result of vulgar barter or menial wage--would have
been complete happiness. It was perhaps a somewhat visionary expectation
for an educated girl of eighteen, but I am writing of a young
Californian girl, who had lived in the fierce glamour of
treasure-hunting, and in whose sensitive individuality some of its
subtle poison had been instilled. Howbeit, to-day she found nothing.
She was sadly hiding her pick and shovel, as was her custom, when she
discovered the fresh track of an alien foot in the sand. Robinson Crusoe
was not more astounded at the savage footprint than Jenny Miller at this
damning proof of the invasion of her sacred territory. The footprints
came from and returned to the copse of shrubs. Some one might have seen
her at work!

But a singular change in the weather, overlooked in her excitement, here
forced itself upon her. A light film over sea and sky, lifted only by
fitful gusts of wind, seemed to have suddenly thickened until it became
an opaque vault, narrowing in circumference as the wind increased. The
promontory behind her disappeared, as if swallowed up, the distance
before her seemed to contract; the ocean at her side, the color of
dull pewter, vanished in a sheet of slanting rain, and by the time she
reached the house, half running, half carried along by the quartering
force of the wind, a full gale was blowing.

It blew all the evening, reaching a climax and fury at past midnight
that was remembered for many years along that coast. In the midst of it
they heard the booming of cannon, and then the voices of neighbors in
the road. "There was," said the voices, "a big steamer ashore just afore
the house." They dressed quickly and ran out.

Hugging the edge of the copse to breathe and evade the fury of the wind,
they struggled to the sands. At first, looking out to sea, the girl saw
nothing but foam. But, following the direction of a neighbor's arm, for
in that wild tumult man alone seemed speechless, she saw directly before
her, so close upon her that she could have thrown a pebble on board, the
high bows of a ship. Indeed, its very nearness gave her the feeling that
it was already saved, and its occasional heavy roll to leeward, drunken,
helpless, ludicrous, but never awful, brought a hysteric laugh to her
lips. But when a livid blue light, lit in the swinging top, showed a
number of black objects clinging to bulwarks and rigging, and the sea,
with languid, heavy cruelty, pushing rather than beating them away, one
by one, she knew that Death was there.

The neighbors, her father with the others, had been running hopelessly
to and fro, or cowering in groups against the copse, when suddenly they
uttered a cry--their first--of joyful welcome. And with that shout,
the man she most despised and hated, Sol. Catlin, mounted on a "calico"
mustang, as outrageous and bizarre as himself, dashed among them.

In another moment, what had been fear, bewilderment, and hesitation
was changed to courage, confidence, and action. The men pressed eagerly
around him, and as eagerly dispersed under his quick command. Galloping
at his heels was a team with the whale-boat, brought from the river,
miles away. He was here, there, and everywhere; catching the line thrown
by the rocket from the ship, marshaling the men to haul it in, answering
the hail from those on board above the tempest, pervading everything
and everybody with the fury of the storm; loud, imperious, domineering,
self-asserting, all-sufficient, and successful! And when the boat was
launched, the last mighty impulse came from his shoulder. He rode at the
helm into the first hanging wall of foam, erect and triumphant! Dazzled,
bewildered, crying and laughing, she hated him more than ever.

The boat made three trips, bringing off, with the aid of the hawser,
all but the sailors she had seen perish before her own eyes. The
passengers,--they were few,--the captain and officers, found refuge in
her father's house, and were loud in their praises of Sol. Catlin. But
in that grateful chorus a single gloomy voice arose, the voice of a
wealthy and troubled passenger. "I will give," he said, "five thousand
dollars to the man who brings me a box of securities I left in my
stateroom." Every eye turned instinctively to Sol.; he answered only
those of Jenny's. "Say ten thousand, and if the dod-blasted hulk holds
together two hours longer I'll do it, d--n me! You hear me! My name's
Sol. Catlin, and when I say a thing, by G-d, I do it." Jenny's disgust
here reached its climax. The hero of a night of undoubted energy and
courage had blotted it out in a single moment of native vanity and
vulgar avarice.

He was gone; not only two hours, but daylight had come and they
were eagerly seeking him, when he returned among them, dripping
and--empty-handed. He had reached the ship, he said, with another; found
the box, and trusted himself alone with it to the sea. But in the surf
he had to abandon it to save himself. It had perhaps drifted ashore, and
might be found; for himself, he abandoned his claim to the reward. Had
he looked abashed or mortified, Jenny felt that she might have relented,
but the braggart was as all-satisfied, as confident and boastful as
ever. Nevertheless, as his eye seemed to seek hers, she was constrained,
in mere politeness, to add her own to her father's condolences. "I
suppose," she hesitated, in passing him, "that this is a mere nothing
to you after all that you did last night that was really great and
unselfish."

"Were you never disappointed, Miss?" he said, with exasperating
abruptness.

A quick consciousness of her own thankless labor on the galleon, and
a terrible idea that he might have some suspicion of, and perhaps the
least suggestion that she might have been disappointed in him, brought a
faint color to her cheek. But she replied with dignity:--

"I really couldn't say. But certainly," she added, with a new-found
pertness, "you don't look it."

"Nor do you, Miss," was his idiotic answer.

A few hours later, alarmed at what she had heard of the inroads of the
sea, which had risen higher than ever known to the oldest settler, and
perhaps mindful of yesterday's footprints, she sought her old secluded
haunt. The wreck was still there, but the sea had reached it. The
excavation between its gaunt ribs was filled with drift and the seaweed
carried there by the surges and entrapped in its meshes. And there, too,
caught as in a net, lay the wooden box of securities Sol. Catlin had
abandoned to the sea.

This is the story as it was told to me. The singularity of coincidences
has challenged some speculation. Jenny insisted at the time upon sharing
the full reward with Catlin, but local critics have pointed out that
from subsequent events this proved nothing. For she had married him!




OUT OF A PIONEER'S TRUNK.


It was a slightly cynical, but fairly good-humored crowd that had
gathered before a warehouse on Long Wharf in San Francisco one afternoon
in the summer of '51. Although the occasion was an auction, the bidders'
chances more than usually hazardous, and the season and locality famous
for reckless speculation, there was scarcely any excitement among the
bystanders, and a lazy, half-humorous curiosity seemed to have taken the
place of any zeal for gain.

It was an auction of unclaimed trunks and boxes--the personal luggage of
early emigrants--which had been left on storage in hulk or warehouse at
San Francisco, while the owner was seeking his fortune in the mines. The
difficulty and expense of transport, often obliging the gold-seeker
to make part of his journey on foot, restricted him to the smallest
impedimenta, and that of a kind not often found in the luggage of
ordinary civilization. As a consequence, during the emigration of
'49, he was apt on landing to avail himself of the invitation usually
displayed on some of the doors of the rude hostelries on the shore:
"Rest for the Weary and Storage for Trunks." In a majority of cases
he never returned to claim his stored property. Enforced absence,
protracted equally by good or evil fortune, accumulated the high storage
charges until they usually far exceeded the actual value of the goods;
sickness, further emigration, or death also reduced the number of
possible claimants, and that more wonderful human frailty--absolute
forgetfulness of deposited possessions--combined together to leave
the bulk of the property in the custodian's hands. Under an understood
agreement they were always sold at public auction after a given time.
Although the contents of some of the trunks were exposed, it was found
more in keeping with the public sentiment to sell the trunks LOCKED and
UNOPENED. The element of curiosity was kept up from time to time by the
incautious disclosures of the lucky or unlucky purchaser, and general
bidding thus encouraged--except when the speculator, with the true
gambling instinct, gave no indication in his face of what was drawn in
this lottery. Generally, however, some suggestion in the exterior of
the trunk, a label or initials; some conjectural knowledge of its former
owner, or the idea that he might be secretly present in the hope of
getting his property back for less than the accumulated dues, kept up
the bidding and interest.

A modest-looking, well-worn portmanteau had been just put up at a
small opening bid, when Harry Flint joined the crowd. The young man had
arrived a week before at San Francisco friendless and penniless, and had
been forced to part with his own effects to procure necessary food
and lodging while looking for an employment. In the irony of fate that
morning the proprietors of a dry-goods store, struck with his good looks
and manners, had offered him a situation, if he could make himself
more presentable to their fair clients. Harry Flint was gazing half
abstractedly, half hopelessly, at the portmanteau without noticing the
auctioneer's persuasive challenge. In his abstraction he was not aware
that the auctioneer's assistant was also looking at him curiously, and
that possibly his dejected and half-clad appearance had excited the
attention of one of the cynical bystanders, who was exchanging a few
words with the assistant. He was, however, recalled to himself a moment
later when the portmanteau was knocked down at fifteen dollars, and
considerably startled when the assistant placed it at his feet with a
grim smile. "That's your property, Fowler, and I reckon you look as if
you wanted it back bad."

"But--there's some mistake," stammered Flint. "I didn't bid."

"No, but Tom Flynn did for you. You see, I spotted you from the first,
and told Flynn I reckoned you were one of those chaps who came back from
the mines dead broke. And he up and bought your things for you--like a
square man. That's Flynn's style, if he is a gambler."

"But," persisted Flint, "this never was my property. My name isn't
Fowler, and I never left anything here."

The assistant looked at him with a grim, half-credulous, half-scornful
smile. "Have it your own way," he said, "but I oughter tell ye, old
man, that I'm the warehouse clerk, and I remember YOU. I'm here for that
purpose. But as that thar valise is bought and paid for by somebody else
and given to you, it's nothing more to me. Take it or leave it."

The ridiculousness of quarreling over the mere form of his good fortune
here struck Flint, and, as his abrupt benefactor had as abruptly
disappeared, he hurried off with his prize. Reaching his cheap
lodging-house, he examined its contents. As he had surmised, it
contained a full suit of clothing of the better sort, and suitable to
his urban needs. There were a few articles of jewelry, which he put
religiously aside. There were some letters, which seemed to be of a
purely business character. There were a few daguerreotypes of pretty
faces, one of which was singularly fascinating to him. But there
was another, of a young man, which startled him with its marvelous
resemblance to HIMSELF! In a flash of intelligence he understood it all
now. It was the likeness of the former owner of the trunk, for whom
the assistant had actually mistaken him! He glanced hurriedly at the
envelopes of the letters. They were addressed to Shelby Fowler, the name
by which the assistant had just called him. The mystery was plain now.
And for the present he could fairly accept his good luck, and trust to
later fortune to justify himself.

Transformed in his new garb, he left his lodgings to present himself
once more to his possible employer. His way led past one of the large
gambling saloons. It was yet too early to find the dry-goods trader
disengaged; perhaps the consciousness of more decent, civilized garb
emboldened him to mingle more freely with strangers, and he entered the
saloon. He was scarcely abreast of one of the faro tables when a man
suddenly leaped up with an oath and discharged a revolver full in his
face. The shot missed. Before his unknown assailant could fire again
the astonished Flint had closed with him, and instinctively clutched
the weapon. A brief but violent struggle ensued. Flint felt his strength
failing him, when suddenly a look of astonishment came into the furious
eyes of his adversary, and the man's grasp mechanically relaxed. The
half-freed pistol, thrown upwards by this movement, was accidentally
discharged point blank into his temples, and he fell dead. No one in the
crowd had stirred or interfered.

"You've done for Australian Pete this time, Mr. Fowler," said a voice
at his elbow. He turned gaspingly and recognized his strange benefactor,
Flynn. "I call you all to witness, gentlemen," continued the gambler,
turning dictatorially to the crowd, "that this man was FIRST attacked
and was UNARMED." He lifted Flint's limp and empty hands and then
pointed to the dead man, who was still grasping the weapon. "Come!" He
caught the half-paralyzed arm of Flint and dragged him into the street.

"But," stammered the horrified Flint, as he was borne along, "what does
it all mean? What made that man attack me?"

"I reckon it was a case of shooting on sight, Mr. Fowler; but he missed
it by not waiting to see if you were armed. It wasn't the square thing,
and you're all right with the crowd now, whatever he might have had
agin' you."

"But," protested the unhappy Flint, "I never laid eyes on the man
before, and my name isn't Fowler."

Flynn halted, and dragged him in a door way. "Who the devil are you?" he
asked roughly.

Briefly, passionately, almost hysterically, Flint told him his scant
story. An odd expression came over the gambler's face.

"Look here," he said abruptly, "I have passed my word to the crowd
yonder that you are a dead-broke miner called Fowler. I allowed that you
might have had some row with that Sydney duck, Australian Pete, in the
mines. That satisfied them. If I go back now, and say it's a lie, that
your name ain't Fowler, and you never knew who Pete was, they'll jest
pass you over to the police to deal with you, and wash their hands of it
altogether. You may prove to the police who you are, and how that d---
clerk mistook you, but it will give you trouble. And who is there here
who knows who you really are?"

"No one," said Flint, with sudden hopelessness.

"And you say you're an orphan, and ain't got any relations livin' that
you're beholden to?"

"No one."

"Then, take my advice, and BE Fowler, and stick to it! Be Fowler until
Fowler turns up, and thanks you for it; for you've saved Fowler's life,
as Pete would never have funked and lost his grit over Fowler as he did
with you; and you've a right to his name."

He stopped, and the same odd, superstitious look came into his dark
eyes.

"Don't you see what all that means? Well, I'll tell you. You're in the
biggest streak of luck a man ever had. You've got the cards in your own
hand! They spell 'Fowler'! Play Fowler first, last, and all the time.
Good-night, and good luck, MR. FOWLER."

The next morning's journal contained an account of the justifiable
killing of the notorious desperado and ex-convict, Australian Pete, by
a courageous young miner by the name of Fowler. "An act of firmness
and daring," said the "Pioneer," "which will go far to counteract the
terrorism produced by those lawless ruffians."

In his new suit of clothes, and with this paper in his hand, Flint
sought the dry-goods proprietor--the latter was satisfied and convinced.
That morning Harry Flint began his career as salesman and as "Shelby
Fowler."


From that day Shelby Fowler's career was one of uninterrupted
prosperity. Within the year he became a partner. The same miraculous
fortune followed other ventures later. He was mill owner, mine owner,
bank director--a millionaire! He was popular, the reputation of his
brief achievement over the desperado kept him secure from the attack of
envy and rivalry. He never was confronted by the real Fowler. There was
no danger of exposure by others--the one custodian of his secret, Tom
Flynn, died in Nevada the year following. He had quite forgotten his
youthful past, and even the more recent lucky portmanteau; remembered
nothing, perhaps, but the pretty face of the daguerreotype that had
fascinated him. There seemed to be no reason why he should not live and
die as Shelby Fowler.

His business a year later took him to Europe. He was entering a train
at one of the great railway stations of London, when the porter, who
had just deposited his portmanteau in a compartment, reappeared at the
window followed by a young lady in mourning.

"Beg pardon, sir, but I handed you the wrong portmanteau. That belongs
to this young lady. This is yours."

Flint glanced at the portmanteau on the seat before him. It certainly
was not his, although it bore the initials "S. F." He was mechanically
handing it back to the porter, when his eyes fell on the young lady's
face. For an instant he stood petrified. It was the face of the
daguerreotype. "I beg pardon," he stammered, "but are these your
initials?" She hesitated, perhaps it was the abruptness of the question,
but he saw she looked confused.

"No. A friend's."

She disappeared into another carriage, but from that moment Harry Flint
knew that he had no other aim in life but to follow this clue and the
beautiful girl who had dropped it. He bribed the guard at the next
station, and discovered that she was going to York. On their arrival,
he was ready on the platform to respectfully assist her. A few words
disclosed the fact that she was a fellow-countrywoman, although residing
in England, and at present on her way to join some friends at Harrogate.
Her name was West. At the mention of his, he again fancied she looked
disturbed.

They met again and again; the informality of his introduction was
overlooked by her friends, as his assumed name was already respectably
and responsibly known beyond California. He thought no more of his
future. He was in love. He even dared to think it might be returned; but
he felt he had no right to seek that knowledge until he had told her his
real name and how he came to assume another's. He did so alone--scarcely
a month after their first meeting. To his alarm, she burst into a flood
of tears, and showed an agitation that seemed far beyond any apparent
cause. When she had partly recovered, she said, in a low, frightened
voice:--

"You are bearing MY BROTHER'S name. But it was a name that the unhappy
boy had so shamefully disgraced in Australia that he abandoned it, and,
as he lay upon his death-bed, the last act of his wasted life was
to write an imploring letter begging me to change mine too. For the
infamous companion of his crime who had first tempted, then betrayed
him, had possession of all his papers and letters, many of them from ME,
and was threatening to bring them to our Virginia home and expose him
to our neighbors. Maddened by desperation, the miserable boy twice
attempted the life of the scoundrel, and might have added that blood
guiltiness to his other sins had he lived. I DID change my name to my
mother's maiden one, left the country, and have lived here to escape the
revelations of that desperado, should he fulfill his threat."

In a flash of recollection Flint remembered the startled look that had
come into his assailant's eye after they had clinched. It was the same
man who had too late realized that his antagonist was not Fowler. "Thank
God! you are forever safe from any exposure from that man," he said,
gravely, "and the name of Fowler has never been known in San Francisco
save in all respect and honor. It is for you to take back--fearlessly
and alone!"

She did--but not alone, for she shared it with her husband.




THE GHOSTS OF STUKELEY CASTLE.


There should have been snow on the ground to make the picture seasonable
and complete, but the Western Barbarian had lived long enough in England
to know that, except in the pages of a holiday supplement, this was
rarely the accompaniment of a Christmas landscape, and he cheerfully
accepted, on the 24th of December, the background of a low, brooding
sky, on which the delicate tracery of leafless sprays and blacker
chevaux de frise of pine was faintly etched, as a consistent setting
to the turrets and peacefully stacked chimneys of Stukeley Castle. Yet,
even in this disastrous eclipse of color and distance, the harmonious
outlines of the long, gray, irregular pile seemed to him as wonderful
as ever. It still dominated the whole landscape, and, as he had often
fancied, carried this subjection even to the human beings who had
created it, lived in it, but which it seemed to have in some dull,
senile way dozed over and forgotten. He vividly recalled the previous
sunshine of an autumnal house party within its walls, where some
descendants of its old castellans, encountered in long galleries or at
the very door of their bedrooms, looked as alien to the house as the
Barbarian himself.

For the rest it may be found described in the local guide-books, with a
view of its "South Front," "West Front," and "Great Quadrangle." It
was alleged to be based on an encampment of the Romans--that highly
apocryphal race who seemed to have spent their time in getting up
picnics on tessellated pavements, where, after hilariously emptying
their pockets of their loose coin and throwing round their dishes, they
instantly built a road to escape by, leaving no other record of their
existence. Stow and Dugdale had recorded the date when a Norman favorite
obtained the royal license to "embattle it;" it had done duty on
Christmas cards with the questionable snow already referred to laid
on thickly in crystal; it had been lovingly portrayed by a fair
countrywoman--the vivacious correspondent of the "East Machias
Sentinel"--in a combination of the most delightful feminine disregard
of facts with the highest feminine respect for titles. It was rich in a
real and spiritual estate of tapestries, paintings, armor, legends, and
ghosts. Everything the poet could wish for, and indeed some things that
decent prose might have possibly wished out of it, were there.

Yet, from the day that it had been forcibly seized by a Parliamentary
General, until more recently, when it had passed by the no less
desperate conveyance of marriage into the hands of a Friendly Nobleman
known to the Western Barbarian, it had been supposed to suggest
something or other more remarkable than itself. "Few spectators," said
the guide-book, "even the most unimpassioned, can stand in the courtyard
and gaze upon those historic walls without feeling a thrill of awe,"
etc. The Western Barbarian had stood there, gazed, and felt no thrill.
"The privileged guest," said the grave historian, "passing in review the
lineaments of the illustrious owners of Stukeley, as he slowly paces the
sombre gallery, must be conscious of emotions of no ordinary character,"
etc., etc. The Barbarian had been conscious of no such emotions. And
it was for this reason, and believing he MIGHT experience them if left
there in solitude, with no distracting or extraneous humanity around
him, it had been agreed between him and the Friendly Nobleman, who had
fine Barbarian instincts, that as he--the Friendly Nobleman--and his
family were to spend their holidays abroad, the Barbarian should be
allowed, on the eve and day of Christmas, to stay at Stukeley alone.
"But," added his host, "you'll find it beastly lonely, and although I've
told the housekeeper to look after you--you'd better go over to dine at
Audley Friars, where there's a big party, and they know you, and it will
be a deuced deal more amusing. And--er--I say--you know--you're really
NOT looking out for ghosts, and that sort of thing, are you? You know
you fellows don't believe in them--over there." And the Barbarian,
assuring him that this was a part of his deficient emotions, it was
settled then and there that he should come. And that was why, on the
24th of December, the Barbarian found himself gazing hopefully on the
landscape with his portmanteau at his feet, as he drove up the avenue.

The ravens did NOT croak ominously from the battlements as he entered.
And the housekeeper, although neither "stately" nor "tall," nor full
of reminiscences of "his late lordship, the present Earl's father," was
very sensible and practical. The Barbarian could, of course, have his
choice of rooms--but--she had thought--remembering his tastes the last
time, that the long blue room? Exactly! The long, low-arched room,
with the faded blue tapestry, looking upon the gallery--capital! He
had always liked that room. From purely negative evidence he had every
reason to believe that it was the one formidable-looking room in England
that Queen Elizabeth had not slept in.

When the footman had laid out his clothes, and his step grew fainter
along the passage, until it was suddenly swallowed up with the
closing of a red baize door in the turret staircase, like a trap in an
oubliette, the whole building seemed to sink back into repose. Quiet it
certainly was, but not more so, he remembered, than when the chambers on
either side were filled with guests, and floating voices in the corridor
were lost in those all-absorbing walls. So far, certainly, this was no
new experience. It was past four. He waited for the shadows to gather.
Light thickened beyond his windows; gradually the outflanking wall and
part of a projecting terrace crumbled away in the darkness, as if Night
were slowly reducing the castle. The figures on the tapestry in his room
stood out faintly. The gallery, seen through his open door, barred
with black spaces between the mullioned windows, presently became
obliterated, as if invaded by a dull smoke from without. But nothing
moved, nothing glimmered. Really this might become in time very stupid.

He was startled, however, while dressing, to see from his windows that
the great banqueting hall was illuminated, but on coming down was amused
to find his dinner served on a small table in its oaken solitude lit
by the large electric chandelier--for Stukeley Castle under its present
lord had all the modern improvements--shining on the tattered banners
and glancing mail above him. It was evidently the housekeeper's reading
of some written suggestion of her noble master. The Barbarian, in a
flash of instinct, imagined the passage:--

"Humor him as a harmless lunatic; the plate is quite safe."

Declining the further offer of an illumination of the picture gallery,
grand drawing-room, ball-room, and chapel, a few hours later he found
himself wandering in the corridor with a single candle and a growing
conviction of the hopelessness of his experiment. The castle had as yet
yielded to him nothing that he had not seen before in the distraction of
company and the garishness of day. It was becoming a trifle monotonous.
Yet fine--exceedingly; and now that a change of wind had lifted the
fog, and the full moon shone on the lower half of the pictures of the
gallery, starting into the most artificial simulation of life a number
of Van Dyke legs, farthingales, and fingers that would have deceived
nobody, it seemed gracious, gentle, and innocent beyond expression.
Wandering down the gallery, conscious of being more like a ghost than
any of the painted figures, and that they might reasonably object to
him, he wished he could meet the original of one of those pictured
gallants and secretly compare his fingers with the copy. He remembered
an embroidered pair of gloves in a cabinet and a suit of armor on the
wall that, in measurement, did not seem to bear out the delicacy of the
one nor the majesty of the other. It occurred to him also to satisfy a
yearning he had once felt to try on a certain breastplate and steel cap
that hung over an oaken settle. It will be perceived that he was getting
a good deal bored. For thus caparisoned he listlessly, and, as will
be seen, imprudently, allowed himself to sink back into a very modern
chair, and give way to a dreamy cogitation.

What possible interest could the dead have in anything that was here?
Admitting that they had any, and that it was not the LIVING, whom the
Barbarian had always found most inclined to haunt the past, would not
a ghost of any decided convictions object to such a collection as his
descendant had gathered in this gallery? Yonder idiot in silk and steel
had blunderingly and cruelly persecuted his kinsman in leather and steel
only a few panels distant. Would they care to meet here? And if their
human weaknesses had died with them, what would bring them here at all?
And if not THEM--who then? He stopped short. The door at the lower end
of the gallery had opened! Not stealthily, not noiselessly, but in an
ordinary fashion, and a number of figures, dressed in the habiliments of
a bygone age, came trooping in. They did not glide in nor float in, but
trampled in awkwardly, clumsily, and unfamiliarly, gaping about them as
they walked. At the head was apparently a steward in a kind of livery,
who stopped once or twice and seemed to be pointing out and explaining
certain objects in the room. A flash of indignant intelligence filled
the brain of the Barbarian! It seemed absurd!--impossible!--but it
was true! It was a holiday excursion party of ghosts, being shown over
Stukeley Castle by a ghostly Cicerone! And as his measured, monotonous
voice rose on the Christmas morning air, it could be heard that he was
actually showing off, not the antiquities of the Castle, but the MODERN
IMPROVEMENTS!

"This 'ere, gossips,"--the Barbarian instantly detected the fallacy of
all the so-called mediaeval jargon he had read,--"is the Helectric
Bell, which does away with our hold, hordinary 'orn blowin', and the
hattendant waitin' in the 'all for the usual 'Without there, who waits?'
which all of us was accustomed to in mortal flesh. You hobserve this
button. I press it so, and it instantly rings a bell in the kitchen
'all, and shows in fair letters the name of this 'ere gallery--as we
will see later. Will hany good dame or gaffer press the button? Will
YOU, mistress?" said the Cicerone to a giggling, kerchief-coifed lass.

"Oi soy, Maudlin!--look out--will yer!--It's the soime old gag as them
bloomin' knobs you ketched hold of when yer was 'ere las' Whitsuntide,"
called out the mediaeval 'Arry of the party.

"It is NOT the Galvanic-Magnetic machine in 'is lordship's library,"
said the Cicerone, severely, "which is a mere toy for infants, and
hold-fashioned. And we have 'ere a much later invention. I open this
little door, I turn this 'andle--called a switch--and, has you perceive,
the gallery is hinstantly hilluminated."

There was a hoarse cry of astonishment from the assemblage. The
Barbarian felt an awful thrill as this searching, insufferable light
of the nineteenth century streamed suddenly upon the up-turned,
vacant-eyed, and dull faces of those sightseers of the past. But there
was no responsive gleam in their eyes.

"It be the sun," gasped an old woman in a gray cloak.

"Toime to rouse out, Myryan, and make the foire," said the mediaeval
'Arry. The custodian smiled with superior toleration.

"But what do 'ee want o' my old lanthorne," asked a yellow-jerkined
stable boy, pointing to an old-fashioned horned lantern, tempus Edward
III., "with this brave loight?"

"You know," said the custodian, with condescending familiarity, "these
mortals worship what they call 'curios' and the 'antique,' and 'is
lordship gave a matter of fifty pounds for that same lanthern. That's
what the modern folk come 'ere to see--like as ye."

"Oi've an old three-legged stool in Whitechapel oi'll let his lordship
'ave cheap--for five quid," suggested the humorist.

"The 'prentice wight knows not that he speaks truly. For 'ere is a
braver jest than 'is. Good folks, wilt please ye to examine yon coffer?"
pointing to an oaken chest.

"'Tis but poor stuff, marry," said Maudlin.

"'Tis a coffer--the same being made in Wardour Street last year--'is
lordship gave one hundred pounds for it. Look at these would-be
worm-holes,--but they were made with an AUGER. Marry, WE know what
worm-holes are!"

A ghastly grin spread over the faces of the spectral assembly as they
gathered around the chest with silent laughter.

"Wilt walk 'ere and see the phonograph in the libry, made by Hedison,
an Hamerican, which bottles up the voice and preserves it fresh for a
hundred years? 'Tis a rare new fancy."

"Rot," said 'Arry. Then turning to the giggling Maudlin, he whispered:
"Saw it las' toime. 'Is lordship got a piece o' moy moind that oi
reeled off into it about this 'ere swindle. Fawney that old bloke there
charging a tanner apiece to us for chaffin' a bit of a barrel."

"Have you no last new braveries to show us of the gallants and their
mistresses, as you were wont?" said Maudlin to the Cicerone. "'Twas
a rare show last time--the modish silk gowns and farthingales in the
closets."

"But there be no company this Christmas," said the custodian, "and 'is
lordship does not entertain, unless it be the new fool 'is lordship sent
down 'ere to-day, who has been mopin' and moonin' in the corridors, as
is ever the way of these wittol creatures when they are not heeded. He
was 'ere in a rare motley of his own choosing, with which he thinks to
raise a laugh, a moment ago. Ye see him not--not 'avin' the gift that
belongs by right to my dread office. 'Tis a weird privilege I have--and
may not be imparted to others--save"--

"Save what, good man steward? Prithee, speak?" said Marian earnestly.

"'Tis ever a shillin' extra."

There was no response. A few of the more bashful ghosts thrust their
hands in their pockets and looked awkwardly another way. The Barbarian
felt a momentary relief followed by a slight pang of mortified vanity.
He was a little afraid of them. The price was an extortion, certainly,
but surely he was worth the extra shilling!

"He has brought but little braveries of attire into the Castle,"
continued the Cicerone, "but I 'ave something 'ere which was found on
the top of his portmanteau. I wot ye know not the use of this." To the
Barbarian's intense indignation, the Cicerone produced, from under his,
his (the Barbarian's) own opera hat. "Marry, what should be this? Read
me this riddle! To it--and unyoke!"

A dozen vacant guesses were made as the showman held it aloft. Then
with a conjuror's gesture he suddenly placed his thumbs within the rim,
released the spring and extended the hat. The assembly laughed again
silently as before.

"'Tis a hat," said the Cicerone, with a superior air.

"Nay," said Maudlin, "give it here." She took it curiously, examined
it, and then with a sudden coquettish movement lifted it towards her own
coifed head, as if to try it on. The Cicerone suddenly sprang forward
with a despairing gesture to prevent her. And here the Barbarian was
conscious of a more startling revelation. How and why he could not tell,
but he KNEW that the putting on of that article of his own dress would
affect the young girl as the assumption of the steel cap and corselet
had evidently affected him, and that he would instantly become as
visible to her as she and her companions had been to him. He attempted
to rise, but was too late; she had evaded the Cicerone by ducking, and,
facing in the direction of the Barbarian, clapped the hat on her head.
He saw the swift light of consciousness, of astonishment, of sudden fear
spring into her eyes! She shrieked, he started, struggled, and awoke!

But what was this! He was alone in the moonlit gallery, certainly; the
ghastly figures in their outlandish garb were gone; he was awake and
in his senses, but, in this first flash of real consciousness, he could
have sworn that something remained! Something terror-stricken, and
retreating even then before him,--something of the world, modern,--and,
even as he gazed, vanishing through the gallery door with the material
flash and rustle of silk.

He walked quietly to the door. It was open. Ah! No doubt he had
forgotten to shut it fast; a current of air or a sudden draught had
opened it. That noise had awakened him. More than that, remembering the
lightning flash of dream consciousness, it had been the CAUSE of his
dream. Yet, for a few moments he listened attentively.

What might have been the dull reverberation of a closing door in the
direction of the housekeeper's room, on the lower story, was all he
heard. He smiled, for even that, natural as it might be, was less
distinct and real than his absurd vision.

Nevertheless the next afternoon he concluded to walk over to Audley
Friars for his Christmas dinner. Its hospitable master greeted him
cordially.

"But do you know, my dear fellow," he said, when they were alone for
a moment, "if you hadn't come by yourself I'd have sent over there for
you. The fact is that A--- wrote to us that you were down at Stukeley
alone, ghost-hunting or something of that sort, and I'm afraid it leaked
out among the young people of our party. Two of our girls--I shan't tell
you which--stole over there last night to give you a start of some kind.
They didn't see you at all, but, by Jove, it seems they got the biggest
kind of a fright THEMSELVES, for they declare that something dreadful in
armor, you know, was sitting in the gallery. Awfully good joke, wasn't
it? Of course YOU didn't see anything,--did you?"

"No," said the Barbarian, discreetly.



