

The Emir Alhaji Mohammadu, the Galadima Dawakin, Kudo of Kano, boiled
furiously within as his gold plated Rolls Royce progressed through the
Saba N'Gari section of town, the quarter outside the dirt walls of the
millennium old city. He rode seated alone in the middle of the rear seat
and his single counselor sat beside the chauffeur. Before them, a jeep
load of his bodyguard, dressed in their uniforms of red and green,
cleared the way. Another jeep followed similarly laden.

They entered through one of the ancient gates and swept up the principal
street. They stopped before the recently constructed luxury hotel in the
center of town and the bodyguard leapt from the jeeps and took positions
to each side of the entry. The counselor popped out from his side of the
car and beat the chauffeur to the task of opening the Emir's door.

Emir Alhaji Mohammadu was a tall man and a heavy one, his white robed
figure towered some six and a half feet and his scales put him over the
three hundred mark. He was in his mid fifties and almost a quarter
century of autocratic position had marked his face with permanent scowl.
He stomped now into the western style hotel.

His counselor, Ahmadu Abdullah, had already procured the information
necessary to locate the source of the Emir's ire and now scurried before
his chief, leading the way to the suite occupied by the mysterious
strangers. He banged heavily on the door, then stepped behind his master
as it opened.

One of the strangers, clad western style, opened the door and stepped
aside courteously motioning to the large inner room. The Emir strutted
arrogantly inside and stared in high irritation at the second and elder
stranger who sat there at a heavy table. This one came to his feet, but
there was no sign of acknowledgment of the Emir's rank. It was not too
long a time before that men prostrated themselves in Alhaji Mohammadu's
presence.

He looked at them. Though both were of dark complexion, there seemed no
manner of typing them. Certainly they were neither Hausa nor Fulani,
there being no signs of Hamitic features, but neither were they Ibo or
Yoruba from farther south. The Emir's eyes narrowed and he wondered if
these two were Nigerians at all!

He barked at them in Hausa and the older answered him in the same
language, though there seemed a certain awkwardness in its use.

Emir Alhaji Mohammadu blared, "You dare summon me, Kudo of this city?
You presume--"

They had resumed seats behind the table and the two of them looked at
him questioningly. The older one interrupted with a gently raised hand.
"Why did you come?"

Still glaring, the Emir turned to the cringing Ahmadu Abdullah and
motioned curtly for the counselor to speak. Meanwhile, the ruler's eyes
went around the room, decided that the couch was the only seat that
would accommodate his bulk, and descended upon it.

Ahmadu Abdullah brought a paper from the folds of his robes. "This lying
letter. This shameless attack upon the Galadima Dawakin!"

The younger stranger said mildly, "If the charges contained there are
incorrect, then why did you come?"

The Emir rumbled dangerously, ignoring the question. "What is your
purpose? I am not a patient man. There has never been need for my
patience."

The spokesman of the two, the older, leaned back in his chair and said
carefully, "We have come to demand your resignation and self-exile."

A vein beat suddenly and wildly at the gigantic Emir's temple and for a
full minute the potentate was speechless with outrage.

Ahmadu Abdullah said quickly, "Fantastic! Ridiculous! The Galadima
Dawakin is lawful ruler and religious potentate of three million devoted
followers. You are lying strangers come to cause dissention among the
people of Kano and--"

The spokesman for the newcomers took up a sheaf of papers from the table
and said, his voice emotionless, "The reason you came here at our
request is because the charges made in that letter you bear are valid
ones. For a quarter century, you, Alhaji Mohammadu, have milked your
people to your own profit. You have lived like a god on the wealth you
have extracted from them. You have gone far, far beyond the legal and
even traditional demands you have on the local population. Funds
supposedly to be devoted to education, sanitation, roads, hospitals and
a multitude of other developments that would improve this whole
benighted area, have gone into your private pocket. In short, you have
been a cancer on your people for the better part of your life."

"All lies!" roared the Kudo.

The other shook his head. "No. We have carefully gathered proof. We can
submit evidence to back every charge we have made. Above all, we can
prove the existence of large sums of money you have smuggled out of the
country to Switzerland, London and New York to create a reserve for
yourself in case of emergency. Needless to say, these funds, too, were
originally meant for the betterment of the area."

The Emir's eyes were narrow with hate. "Who are you? Whom do you
represent?"

"What difference does it make? This is of no importance."

"You represent my son, Alhaji Fodio! This is what comes of his studies
in England and America. This is what comes of his leaving Kano and
spending long years in Lagos among those unbeliever communists in the
south!"

The younger stranger chuckled easily. "That is about the last tag I
would hang on your son's associates," he said in English.

But the older stranger was nodding. "It is true that we hope your son
will take over the Emirate. He represents progress. Frankly, his plans
are to end the office as soon as the people are educated to the point
where they can accept such change."

"End the office!" the Emir snarled. "For a thousand years my
ancestors--"

       *       *       *       *       *

The spokesman of the strangers shook his head wearily. "Your ancestors
conquered this area less than two centuries ago in a jehad led by Othman
Dan. Since then, you Fulani have feudalistically dominated the Hausa,
but that is coming to an end."

The Emir had come to his feet again, in his rage, and now he towered
over the table behind which the two sat as though about to physically
attack them. "You speak as fools," he raged.

"Are you so stupid as to believe that these matters you have brought up
are understandable to my people? Have you ever seen my people?" He
sneered in a caricature of humor. "My people in their grass and bush
huts? With not one man in a whole village who can add sums higher than
those he can work out on his fingers? With not one man who can read the
English tongue, nor any other? Would you explain to these the matters of
transferring gold to the Zuerich banks? Would you explain to these what
is involved in accepting dash from road contractors and from politicians
in Lagos?"

He sneered at them again. "And do you realize that I am church as well
as state? That I represent their God to my people? Do you think they
would take your word against _mine_, their Kudo?"

In talking, he had brought a certain calm back to himself. Now he felt
reassured at his own words. He wound it up. "You are fools to believe my
people could understand such matters."

"Then actually, you don't deny them?"

"Why should I bother?" the Emir chuckled heavily.

"That you have taken for personal use the large sums granted this area
from a score of sources for roads, hospitals, schools, sanitation,
agricultural modernization?"

"Of course I don't deny it. This is my land. I am the Kudo, the Emir,
the Galadima Dawakin. Whatever I choose to do in Kano and to all my
people is right because I wish it. Schools? I don't want them corrupting
my people. Hospitals for these Hausa serfs? Nonsense! Roads? They are
bad for they allow the people to get about too easily and that leads to
their exchanging ideas and schemes and leads to their corruption. Have I
appropriated all such sums for my own use? Yes! I admit it. Yes! But you
cannot prove it to such as my people, you who represent my son. So
be-gone from Kano. If you are here tomorrow, you will be arrested by the
same men of my bodyguard who even now seek my son, Alhaji Fodio. When he
is captured, it will be of interest to revive some of the methods of
execution of my ancestors."

The Emir turned on his heel to stalk from the room but the older of the
two murmured, "One moment, please."

Alhaji Mohammadu paused, his face dark in scowl again.

The spokesman said agreeably, "It is true that your people, and
particularly your Hausa serfs, have no understanding of international
finance nor of national corruption methods such as the taking of _dash_.
However, they are susceptible to other proof." The other man raised his
voice. "John!"

From an inner room came another stranger, making their total number
three. He was grinning and in one hand held a contraption which boasted
a conglomeration of lenses, switches, microphones, wires and triggers.
"Got it perfectly," he said. You'd think it had all been rehearsed.

While the Emir and his counselor stared in amazement, the spokesman of
the strangers said, "How long before you can project?"

"Almost immediately."

The other young man left the room and returned with what was obviously a
movie projector. He set it up at one end of the table, pointed at a
white wall, and plugged it in to a convenient outlet.

Before the Emir had managed to control himself beyond the point of
saying any more than, "What is all this?" the cameraman had brought a
magazine of film from his instrument and inserted it in the projector.

The photographer said conversationally, to the hulking potentate, "You'd
be amazed at the advances in cinema these past few years. Film speed,
immediate development, portable sound equipment. You'd be amazed."

Someone flicked out the greater part of the room's light. The projector
buzzed and on the wall was thrown a re-enactment of everything that had
been said and done in the room for the past ten minutes.

When it was over, the lights went on again.

The spokesman said conversationally, "I assume that if this film were
shown throughout the villages, even your Hausa serfs would be convinced
that throughout your reign you have systematically robbed them."

Emir Alhaji Mohammadu, the Galadima Dawakin, Kudo of Kano, his face in
shock, turned and stumbled from the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

The gymkhana, or fantasia as it is called in nearby Morocco, was under
full swing before Abd-el-Kader and the camel- and horse-mounted warriors
of his Ouled Touameur clan came dashing in, rifles held high and with
great firing into the air. The Ouled Touameur were the noblest clan of
the Ouled Allouch tribe of the Berazga division of the Chaambra nomad
confederation--the noblest and the least disciplined. There were
whispered rumors going about the conference as to the identity of the
mysterious raiders who were preying upon the new oases, the oil and road
building camps and the endless other new projects springing up, all but
magically, throughout the northwestern Sahara.

The gymkhana was in full swing with racing and feasting, and
storytellers and conjurers, jugglers and marabouts. And in the air was
the acrid distinctive odor of _kif_, for though Mohammed forbade alcohol
to the faithful he had naught to say about the uses of _cannabis sativa_
and what is a great festival without the smoking of _kif_ and the eating
of _majoun_?

The tribes of the Chaambra were widely represented, Berazga and Mouadhi,
Bou Rouba and Ouled Fredj, and there was even a heavy sprinkling of the
sedentary Zenatas come down from the towns of Metlili, El Oued and El
Goleo. Then, of course, were the Haratin serfs, of mixed Arab-Negro
blood, and the Negroes themselves, until recently openly called slaves,
but now--amusingly--named servants.

The Chaambra were meeting for a great ceremonial gymkhanas, but also, as
was widely known, for a _djemaa el kebar_ council of elders and chiefs,
for there were many problems throughout the Western Erg and the areas of
Mzab and Bourara. Nor was it secret only to the inner councils that the
meeting had been called by Abd-el-Kader, of Shorfu blood, direct
descendent of the Prophet through his daughter Fatima, and symbol to the
young warriors of Chaambra spirit.

Of all the Ouled Touameur clan Abd-el-Kader alone refrained from
discharging his gun into the air as they dashed into the inner circle of
khaima tents which centered the gymkhana and provided council chambers,
dining hall and sleeping quarters for the tribal and clan heads.
Instead, and with head arrogantly high, he slipped from his stallion
tossing the reins to a nearby Zenata and strode briskly to the largest
of the tents and disappeared inside.

_Bismillah!_ but Adb-el-Kader was a figure of a man! From his turban,
white as the snows of the Atlas, to his yellow leather boots, he wore
the traditional clothing of the Chaambra and wore them with pride. Not
for Abd-el-Kader the new clothing from the Rouma cities to the north,
nor even the new manufactures from Dakar, Accra, Lagos and the other
mushrooming centers to the south.

His weapons alone paid homage to the new ways. And each fighting man
within eyesight noted that it was not a rifle slung over the shoulder of
Abd-el-Kader but a sub-machine gun. Bismillah! This could not have been
so back in the days when the French Camel Corps ruled the land with its
hand of iron.

The djemaa el kebar was already in session, seated in a great circle on
the rug and provided with glasses of mint tea and some with water pipes.
They looked up at the entrance of the warrior clan chieftain.

       *       *       *       *       *

El Aicha, who was of Maraboutic ancestry and hence a holy man as well as
elder of the Ouled Fredj, spoke first as senior member of the
conference. "We have heard reports that are disturbing of recent months,
Abd-el-Kader. Reports of activities amongst the Ouled Touameur. We would
know more of the truth of these. But also we have high interest in your
reason for summoning the djemaa el kebar at such a time of year."

Abd-el-Kader made a brief gesture of obeisance to the Chaambra leader, a
gesture so brief as to verge on disrespect. He said, his voice clear and
confident, as befits a warrior chief, "Disturbing only to the old and
unvaliant, O El Aicha."

The old man looked at him for a long, unblinking moment. As a youth, he
had fought at the Battle of Tit when the French Camel Corps had broken
forever the military power of the Ahaggar Tuareg. El Aicha was no
coward. There were murmurings about the circle of elders.

But when El Aicha spoke again, his voice was level. "Then speak to us,
Abd-el-Kader. It is well known that your voice is heard ever more by the
young men, particularly by the bolder of the young men."

The fighting man remained standing, his legs slightly spread. The Arab,
like the Amerind, likes to make speech in conference, and eloquence is
well held by the Chaambra.

"Long years ago, and only shortly after the death of the Prophet, the
Chaambra resided, so tell the scribes, in the hills of far away Syria.
But when the word of Islam was heard and the true believers began to
race their strength throughout all the world, the Chaambra came here to
the deserts of Africa and here we have remained. Long centuries it took
us to gain control of the wide areas of the northern and western desert
and many were the battles we fought with our traditional enemies the
Tuareg and the Moors before we controlled all the land between the Atlas
and the Niger and from what is now known as Tunisia to Mauritania."

All nodded. This was tribal history.

Abd-el-Kader held up four fingers on which to enumerate. "The Chaambra
were ever men. Warriors, bedouin; not for us the cities and villages of
the Zenatas, and the miserable Haratin serfs. We Chaambra have ever been
men of the tent, warriors, conquerors!"

El Aicha still nodded. "That was before," he murmured.

"That will always be!" Abd-el-Kader insisted. His four fingers were
spread and he touched the first one. "Our life was based upon, one, war
and the spoils of war." He touched the second finger. "Two, the toll we
extracted from the caravans that passed from Timbuktu to the north and
back again. Three, from our own caravans which covered the desert trails
from Tripoli to Dakar and from Marrakech to Kano. And fourth"--he
touched his last finger--"from our flocks which fed us in the
wilderness." He paused to let this sink in.

"All this is verily true," muttered one of the elders, a _so-what_
quality in his voice.

Abd-el-Kader's tone soured. "Then came the French with their weapons and
their multitudes of soldiers and their great wealth with which to pursue
the expenses of war. And one by one the Tuareg and the Teda to the south
and the Moors and Nemadi, yes, and even the Chaambra fell before the
onslaughts of the Camel Corps and their wild-dog Foreign Legion." He
held up his four fingers again and counted them off. "The four legs upon
which our life was based were broken. War and its spoils was prevented
us. The tolls we charged caravans to cross our land were forbidden. And
then, shortly after, came the motor trucks which crossed the desert in a
week, where formerly the journey took as much as a year. Our camel
caravans became meaningless."

Again all nodded. "Verily, the world changes," someone muttered.

The warrior leader's voice went dramatic. "We were left with naught but
our flocks, and now even they are fated to end."

The elderly nomads stirred and some scowled.

"At every water hole in the desert teams of the new irrigation
development dig their wells, install their pumps which bring power from
the sun, plant trees, bring in Haratin and former slaves--_our_
slaves--to cultivate the new oases. And we are forbidden the water for
the use of our goats and sheep and camels."

"Besides," one of the clan chiefs injected, "they tell us that the goat
is the curse of North Africa, nibbling as it does the bark of small
trees, and they attempt to purchase all goats until soon there will be
few, if any, in all the land."

"So our young people," Abd-el-Kader pressed on, "stripped of our former
way of life, go to the new projects, enroll in the schools, take work in
the new oases or on the roads, and disappear from the sight of their
kinsmen." He came to a sudden halt and all but glared at them,
maintaining his silence until El Aicha stirred.

"And--?" El Aicha said. This was all obviously but preliminary.

Abd-el-Kader spoke softly now, and there was a different drama in his
voice. "And now," he said, "the French are gone. All the Rouma, save a
handful, are gone. In the south the English are gone from the lands of
the blacks, such as Nigeria and Ghana, Sierra Leone and Gambia. The
Italians are gone from Libya and Somaliland and the Spanish from Rio de
Oro. Nor will they ever return for in the greatest council of all the
Rouma they have decided to leave Africa to the African."

They all stirred again and some muttered and Abd-el-Kader pushed his
point. "The Chaambra are warriors born. Never serfs! Never slaves! Never
have we worked for any man. Our ancestors carved great empires by the
sword." His voice lowered again. "And now, once more, it is possible to
carve such an empire."

He swept his eyes about their circle. "Chiefs of the Chaambra, there is
no force in all the Sahara to restrain us. Let others work on the roads,
planting the new trees in the new oases, damming the great Niger, and
all the rest of it. We will sweep over them, and dominate all. We, the
Chaambra, will rule, while those whom Allah intended to drudge, do so.
We, the Chosen of Allah, will fulfill our destiny!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Abd-el-Kader left it there and crossed his arms on his chest, staring at
them challengingly.

Finally El Aicha directed his eyes across the circle of listeners at two
who had sat silently through it all, their burnooses covering their
heads and well down over their eyes. He said, "And what do you say to
all this?"

"Time to go into your act, man," Abe Bakr muttered, under his breath.

Homer Crawford came to his feet and pushed back the hood of the
burnoose. He looked over at the headman of the Ouled Touameur warrior
clan, whose face was darkening.

In Arabic, Crawford said, "I have sought you for some time,
Abd-el-Kader. You are an illusive man."

"Who are you, Negro?" the fighting man snapped.

Crawford grinned at the other. "You look as though you have a bit of
Negro blood in your own veins. In fact, I doubt if there's a so-called
Arab in all North Africa, unless he's just recently arrived, whose
family hasn't down through the centuries mixed its blood with the local
people they conquered."

"You lie!"

Abe chuckled from the background. The Chaambra leader was at least as
dark of complexion as the American Negro. Not that it made any
difference one way or the other.

"We shall see who is the liar here," Homer Crawford said flatly. "You
asked who I am. I am known as Omar ben Crawf and I am headman of a team
of the African Development Project of the Reunited Nations. As you have
said, Abd-el-Kader, this great council of the headmen of all the nations
of the world--not just the Rouma--has decided that Africa must be left
to the Africans. But that does not mean it has lost all interest in
these lands. It has no intention, warrior of the Chaambra, to allow such
as you to disrupt the necessary progress Africa must make if it is not
to become a danger to the shaky peace of the world."

Abd-el-Kader's eyes darted about the tent. So far as he could see, the
other was backed only by his single henchman. The warrior chief gained
confidence. "Power is for those who can assert it. Some will rule. It
has always been so. Here in the Western Erg, the Chaambra will rule, and
I, Abd-el-Kader will lead them!"

Homer Crawford was shaking his head, almost sadly it seemed. "No," he
said. "The day of rule by the gun is over. It must be over because at
long last man's weapons have become so great that he must not trust
himself with them. In the new world which is still aborning so that half
the nations of earth are in the pains of labor, government must be by
the most wise and most capable."

In a deft move the sub-machine gun's sling slipped from the desert man's
shoulder and the short, vicious gun was in hand. "The strong will always
rule!" the Arab shouted. "Time was when the French conquered the
Chaambra, but the French have allowed their strength to ebb away, and
now, armed with such weapons as these, we of the Sahara will again
assert our birthright as the Chosen of Allah!"

Abe Baker chuckled. "That cat sure can lay on a speech, man." As though
magically, a snub-nosed hand weapon of unique design appeared in his
dark hand.

El Aicha's voice was suddenly strong and harsh. "There shall be no
violence at a djemaa el kebar."

Homer ignored the automatic weapon in the hands of the excited Arab. He
said, and there was still a sad quality in his voice. "The gun you carry
is a nothing-weapon, desert man. When the French conquered this land
more than a century ago they were armed with single-shot rifles which
were still far in advance of your own long barrelled flintlocks. Today,
you are proud of that tommy gun you carry, and, indeed, it has the fire
power of a company of the Foreign Legion of a century past. However,
believe me, Abd-el-Kader, it is a nothing-weapon compared to those that
will be brought against the Chaambra if they heed your words."

The desert leader put back his head and laughed his scorn.

He chopped his laughter short and snapped, more to the council of chiefs
than to the stranger. "Then we will seize such weapons and use them
against those who would oppose us. In the end it is the strong who win
in war, and the Rouma have gone soft, as all men know. I, Abd-el-Kader
will have these two killed and then I shall announce to the assembled
tribes the new jedah, a Holy War to bring the Chosen of Allah once again
to their rightful position in the Sahara."

"Man," Abe Baker murmured pleasantly, "you're going to be one awful
disappointed cat before long."

El Aicha said mildly, "Such decisions are for the djemaa el kebar to
make, O Abd-el-Kader, not for a single chief of the Ouled Touameur."

The desert warrior chief sneered openly at the old man. "Decisions are
made by those with the strength to enforce them. The young men of the
Chaambra support me, and my men surround this tent."

"So do mine," Homer Crawford said decisively. "And I have come to arrest
you and take you to Columb-Bechar where you will be tried for your
participation in recent raids on various development projects."

El Aicha repeated his earlier words. "There shall be no violence at a
djemaa el kebar."

The Ouled Touameur chief's eyes had narrowed. "You are not strong enough
to take me."

       *       *       *       *       *

In English, Abe Baker said, "Like maybe these young followers of this
cat need an example laid on them, man."

"I'm afraid you're right," Crawford growled disgustedly.

The younger American came to his feet. "I'll take him on," Abe said.

"No, he's nearer to my size," Crawford grunted. He turned to El Aicha,
and said in Arabic, "I demand the right of a stranger in your camp to a
trial by combat."

"On what grounds?" the old man scowled.

"That my manhood has been spat upon by this warrior who does his
fighting with his loud mouth."

The assembled chiefs looked to Abd-el-Kader, and a rustling sigh went
through them. A hundred times the wiry desert chieftain had proven
himself the most capable fighter in the tribes. A hundred times he had
proven it and there were dead and wounded in the path he had cut for
himself.

Abd-el-Kader laughed aloud again. "Swords, in the open before the
ascan."

Homer Crawford shrugged. "Swords, in the open before the assembled
Chaambra so that they may see how truly weak is the one who calls
himself so strong."

Abe said worriedly, in English, "Listen, man, you been checked out on
swords?"

"They're the traditional weapon in the Arab _code duello_," Homer said,
with a wry grin. "Nothing else would do."

"Man, you sound like you've been blasting pot and got yourself as high
as those cats out there with their _kif_. This Abd-el-Kader was probably
raised with a sword in his hand."

Abd-el-Kader smiling triumphantly, had spun on his heel and made his way
through the tent's entrance. Now they could hear him shouting orders.

El Aicha looked up at Homer Crawford from where he sat. His voice
without inflection, he said, "Hast thou a sword, Omar ben Crawf?"

"No," Crawford said.

The elderly tribal leader said, "Then I shall loan you mine." He
hesitated momentarily, before adding, "Never before has hand other than
mine wielded it." And finally, simply, "Never has it been drawn to
commit dishonor."

"I am honored."

Outside, the rumors had spread fast and already a great arena was
forming by the packed lines of Chaambra nomads. At the tent entrance,
Elmer Allen, his face worried, said, his English in characteristic
Jamaican accent, "What did you chaps do?"

"Duel," Abe growled apprehensively. "This joker here has challenged
their top swordsman to a fight."

Elmer said hurriedly, "See here, gentlemen, the hovercraft are parked
over behind that tent. We can be there in two minutes and away from--"

Crawford's eyes went from Elmer Allen to Abe Baker and then back again.
He chuckled, "I don't think you two think I'm going to win this fight,"
he said.

"What do you know about swordsmanship?" Elmer Allen said accusingly.

"Practically nothing. A little bayonet practice quite a few years ago."

"Oh, great," Abe muttered.

Elmer said hurriedly, "See here, Homer, I was on the college fencing
team and--"

Crawford grinned at him. "Too late, friend."

As they talked, they made their way to the large circle of men. In its
center, Abd-el-Kader was stripping to his waist, meanwhile laughingly
shouting his confidence to his Ouled Touameur tribesmen and to the other
Chaambra of fighting age. No one seemed to doubt the final issue.
Beneath his white burnoose he wore a gandoura of lightweight woolen
cloth and beneath that a longish undershirt of white cotton, similar to
that of the Tuareg but with shorter and less voluminous sleeves. This
the desert fighter retained.

Crawford stripped down too, nude to the waist. His body was in excellent
trim, muscles bunching under the ebony skin. A Haratin servant came up
bearing El Aicha's sword.

Homer Crawford pulled it from the scabbard. It was of scimitar type, the
weapon which had once conquered half the known world.

From within the huge circle of men, Abd-el-Kader swung his own blade in
flashing arcs and called out something undoubtedly insulting, but which
was lost in the babble of the multitude.

"Well, here we go," Crawford grunted. "You fellows better station
yourselves around just on the off chance that those Ouled Touameur
bully-boys don't like the decision."

"We'll worry about that," Abe said unhappily. "You just see you get out
of this in one piece. Anything happens to you and the head office'll
make me head of this team--and frankly, man I don't want the job."

Homer grinned at him, and began pushing his way through to the center.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Arab cut a last switch in the air, with his whistling blade and
started forward, in practiced posture. Homer awaited him, legs spread
slightly, his hands extended slightly, the sword held at the ready but
with point low.

Abe Baker growled, unhappily, "He said he didn't know anything about the
swords, and the way he holds it bears him out. That Arab'll cut Homer to
ribbons. Maybe we ought to do something about it." As usual, under
stress, he'd dropped his beatnik patter.

Elmer Allen looked at him. "Such as what? There are at least three
thousand of these tribesmen chaps here watching their favorite sport.
What did you have in mind doing?"

Abd-el-Kader hadn't remained the victor of a score of similar duels
through making such mistakes as underestimating his foe. In spite of the
black stranger's seeming ignorance of his weapon, the Arab had no
intention of being sucked into a trap. He advanced with care.

His sword darted forward, quickly, experimentally, and Homer Crawford
barely caught its razor edge on his own.

Save for his own four companions, the crowd laughed aloud. None among
them were so clumsy as this.

The Ouled Touameur chief was convinced. He stepped in fast, the blade
flicked in and out in a quick feint, then flicked in again. Homer
Crawford countered clumsily.

And then there was a roar as the American's blade left his hand and flew
high in the air to come to the ground again a score of feet behind the
desert swordsman.

For a brief moment Abd-el-Kader stepped back to observe his foe, and
there was mockery in his face. "So thy manhood has been spat upon by one
who fights only with his mouth! Almost, braggart, I am inclined to give
you your life so that you may spend the rest of it in shame. Now die,
unbeliever!"

Crawford stood hopelessly, in a semicrouch, his hands still slightly
forward. The Arab came in fast, his sword at the ready for the death
stroke.

[Illustration]

Suddenly, the American moved forward and then jumped a full yard into
the air, feet forward and into the belly of the advancing Arab. The
heavily shod right foot struck at the point in the abdomen immediately
below the sternum, the solar plexus, and the left was as low as the
groin. In a motion that was almost a bounce off the other's body,
Crawford came lithely back to his feet, jumped back two steps, crouched
again.

But Abd-el-Kader was through, his eyes popping agony, his body writhing
on the ground. The whole thing, from the time the Arab had advanced on
the disarmed man for the kill, hadn't taken five seconds.

His groans were the only sounds which broke the unbelieving silence of
the Chaambra tribesmen. Homer Crawford picked up the fallen leader's
sword and then strolled over and retrieved that of El Aicha. Ignoring
Abd-el-Kader, he crossed to where the tribal elders had assembled to
watch the fight and held out the borrowed sword to its owner.

El Aicha sheathed it while looking into Homer Crawford's face. "It has
still never been drawn to commit dishonor."

"My thanks," Crawford said.

Over the noise of the crowd which now was beginning to murmur its
incredulity at their champion's fantastic defeat, came the voice of Abe
Baker swearing in Arabic and yelling for a way to be cleared for him. He
was driving one of the hovercraft.

[Illustration]

He drew it up next to the still agonized Abd-el-Kader and got out
accompanied by Bey-ag-Akhamouk. Silently and without undue roughness
they picked up the fallen clan chief and put him into the back of the
hover-lorry, ignoring the crowd.

Homer Crawford came up and said in English, "All right, let's get out of
here. Don't hurry, but on the other hand don't let's prolong it. One of
those Ouled Touameur might collect himself to the point of deciding he
ought to rescue his leader."

Abe looked at him disgustedly. "Like, where'd you learn that little
party trick, man?"

Crawford yawned. "I said I didn't know anything about swords. You didn't
ask me about judo. I once taught judo in the Marines."

"Well, why didn't you take him sooner? He like to cut your head off with
that cheese knife before you landed on him."

"I couldn't do it sooner. Not until he knocked the sword out of my hand.
Until then it was a sword fight. But as soon as I had no sword then in
the eyes of every Chaambra present, I had the right to use any method
possible to save myself."

Bey-ag-Akhamouk looked up at the sun to check the time. "We better speed
it up if we want to get this man to Columb-Bechar and then get on down
over the desert to Timbuktu and that meeting."

"Let's go," Homer said. The second hovercraft joined them, driven by
Elmer Allen, and they made their way through the staring, but
motionless, crowds of Chaambra.



