

When Homer Crawford, Abe Baker, Kenny Ballalou, Elmer Allen and
Bey-ag-Akhamouk had laughed themselves out, Frederic Ostrander, the
C.I.A. operative stared at them in anger. "What's so funny?" he snapped.

From his seat in the middle of the hall, Pierre Dupaine, operative for
the French Community, said worriedly, "_Messieurs_, this El Hassan is
not amusing. I, too, have heard of him. His followers are evidently
sweeping through the Sahara. Everywhere I hear of him."

There was confirming murmur throughout the rest of the gathering.

Still chuckling, Homer Crawford said, a hand held up for quiet, "Please,
everyone. Pardon the amusement of my teammates and myself. You see,
there is no such person as El Hassan."

"To the contrary!" Ostrander snapped.

"No, please," Crawford said, grinning ruefully. "You see, my team
_invented_ him, some time ago."

Ostrander could only stare, and for once his position was backed by
everyone in the hall, Crawford's team excepted.

Crawford said doggedly, "It came about like this. These people need a
hero. It's in their nomad tradition. They need a leader to follow. Given
a leader, as history has often demonstrated, and the nomad will perform
miracles. We wished to spread the program of the African Development
Project. Such items as the need to unite, to break down the old
boundaries of clan and tribe and even nation, the freeing of the slave
and serf, the upgrading of women's position, the dropping of the veil
and haik, the need to educate the youth, the desirability of taking jobs
on the projects and to take up land on the new oases. But since we
usually go about disguised as Enaden itinerant smiths, a poorly thought
of caste, our ideas weren't worth much. So we invented El Hassan and
everything we said we ascribed to him, this mysterious hero who was
going to lead all North Africa to Utopia."

Jake Armstrong stood up and said, sheepishly, "I suppose that my team
unknowingly added to this. We heard about this mysterious El Hassan and
he seemed largely to be going in the same direction, and for the same
reason--to give the rumors we were spreading weight--we ascribed the
things we said to him."

Somebody farther back in the hall laughed and said, "So did I!"

Homer Crawford extended his hands in the direction of Ostrander, palms
upward. "I'm sorry, sir. But there seems to be your mysterious
subversive."

Angered, Ostrander snapped, "Then you admit that it was you, yourself,
who have been spreading these subversive ideas?"

"Now, wait a minute," Crawford snapped in return. "I admit only to those
slogans and ideas promulgated by the African Development Project. If any
so-called subversive ideas have been ascribed to El Hassan, it has not
been through my team. Frankly, I rather doubt that they have. These
people aren't at any ethnic period where the program of the Soviet
Complex would appeal. They're largely in a ritual-taboo tribal society
and no one alleging any alliance whatsoever to Marx would contend that
you can go from that primitive a culture to what the Soviets call
communism."

"I'll take this up with my department chief," Ostrander said angrily.
"You haven't heard the last of it, Crawford." He sat down abruptly.

Crawford looked out over the room. "Anybody else we haven't heard from?"

A middle-aged, heavy-set, Western dressed man came to his feet and
cleared his throat. "Dr. Warren Harding Smythe, American Medical Relief.
I assume that most of you have heard of us. An organization supported
partially by government grant, partially by contributions by private
citizens and institutions, as is that of Miss Isobel Cunningham's Africa
for Africans Association." He added grimly, "But there the resemblance
ends."

He looked at Homer Crawford. "I am to be added to the number not in
favor of this conference. In fact, I am opposed to the presence of most
of you here in Africa."

Crawford nodded. "You certainly have a right to your opinion, doctor.
Will you elucidate?"

Dr. Smythe had worked his way to the front of the room, now he looked
out over the assemblage defiantly. "I am not at all sure that the task
most of you work at is a desirable one. As you know, my own organization
is at work bringing medical care to Africa. We build hospitals, clinics,
above all medical schools. Not a single one of our hospitals but is a
school at the same time."

Abe Baker growled, "Everybody knows and values your work, Doc, but
what's this bit about being opposed to ours?"

Smythe looked at him distastefully. "You people are seeking to destroy
the culture of these people, and, overnight thrust them into the
pressures of Twentieth Century existence. As a medical doctor, I do not
think them capable of assimilating such rapid change and I fear for
their mental health."

There was a prolonged silence.

Crawford said finally, "What is the alternative to the problems I
presented in my summation of the situation that confronts the world due
to the backward conditions of such areas as Africa?"

"I don't know, it isn't my field."

There was another silence.

Elmer Allen said finally, uncomfortably, "It _is_ our field, Dr.
Smythe."

Smythe turned to him, his face still holding its distaste. "I understand
that the greater part of you are sociologists, political scientists and
such. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think of the social
sciences as exact ones."

He looked around the room and added, deliberately, "In view of the
condition of the world, I do not have a great deal of respect for the
product of your efforts."

There was an uncomfortable stirring throughout the audience.

Clifford Jackson said unhappily, "We do what we must do, doctor. We do
what we can."

Smythe eyed him. He said, "Some years ago I was impressed by a paragraph
by a British writer named Huxley. So impressed that I copied it and have
carried it with me. I'll read it now."

The heavy-set doctor took out his wallet, fumbled in it for a moment and
finally brought forth an aged, many times folded, piece of yellowed
paper.

He cleared his throat, then read:

"_To the question_ quis custodiet custodes?--_who will mount guard over
our guardians, who will engineer the engineers?--the answer is a bland
denial that they need any supervision. There seems to be a touching
belief among certain Ph.Ds in sociology that Ph.Ds in sociology will
never be corrupted by power. Like Sir Galahad's, their strength is the
strength of ten because their heart is pure--and their heart is pure
because they are scientists and have taken six thousand hours of social
studies. Alas, high education is not necessarily a guarantee of higher
virtue, or higher political wisdom._"

The doctor finished and returned to his seat, his face still
uncompromising.

       *       *       *       *       *

Homer Crawford chuckled ruefully. "The point is well taken, I suppose.
However, so was the one expressed by Mr. Jackson. We do what we must,
and what we can." His eyes went over the assembly. "Is there any other
group from which we haven't heard?"

When there was silence, he added, "No group from the Soviet Complex?"

Ostrander, the C.I.A. operative, snorted. "Do you think they would admit
it?"

"Or from the Arab Union?" Crawford pursued. "Whether or not the Soviet
Complex has agents in this part of Africa, we know that the Arab Union,
backed by Islam everywhere, has. Frankly, we of the African Development
Project seldom see eye to eye with them which results in considerable
discussion at Reunited Nations meetings."

There was continued silence.

Elmer Allen came to his feet and looked at Ostrander, his face surly. "I
am not an advocate of what the Soviets are currently calling communism,
however, I think a point should be made here."

Ostrander stared back at him unblinkingly.

Allen snorted, "I know what you're thinking. When I was a student I
signed a few peace petitions, that sort of thing. How--or why they
bothered--the C.I.A. got hold of that information, I don't know, but as
a Jamaican I am a bit ashamed of Her Majesty's Government. But all this
is beside the point."

"What is your point, Elmer?" Crawford said. "You speak, of course, as an
individual not as an employee of the Reunited Nations nor even as a
member of my team."

"Our team," Elmer Allen reminded him. He frowned at his chief, as though
surprised at Crawford's stand. But then he looked back at the rest. "I
don't like the fact that the C.I.A. is present at all. I grow
increasingly weary of the righteousness of the prying for what it calls
subversion. The latest definition of subversive seems to be any chap who
doesn't vote either Republican or Democrat in the States, or
Conservative in England."

Ostrander grunted scorn.

Allen looked at him again. "So far as this job is concerned--and by the
looks of things, most of us will be kept busy at it for the rest of our
lives--I am not particularly favorable to the position of either side in
this never-warming cold war between you and the Soviet Complex. I have
suspected for some time that neither of you actually want an ending of
it. For different reasons, possibly. So far as the States are concerned,
I suspect an end of your fantastic military budgets would mean a
collapse of your economy. So far as the Soviets are concerned, I suspect
they use the continual _threat_ of attack by the West to keep up their
military and police powers and suppress the freedom of their people.
Wasn't it an old adage of the Romans that if you feared trouble at home,
stir up war abroad? At any rate, I'd like to have it on the record that
I protest the Cold War being dragged into our work in Africa--by either
side."

"All right, Elmer," Crawford said, "you're on record. Is that all?"

"That's all," Elmer Allen said. He sat down abruptly.

"Any comment, Mr. Ostrander?" Crawford said.

Ostrander grunted, "Fuzzy thinking." Didn't bother with anything more.

The chairman looked out over the hall. "Any further discussion, any
motions?" He smiled and added, "Anything--period?"

Finally Jake Armstrong came to his feet. He said, "I don't agree with
everything Mr. Allen just said; however, there was one item where I'll
follow along. The fact that most of us will be busy at this job for the
rest of our lives--if we stick. With this in mind, the fact that we have
lots of time, I make the following proposal. This meeting was called to
see if there was any prospect of we field workers co-operating on a
field worker's level, if we could in any way help each other, avoid
duplication of effort, that sort of thing. I suggest now that this
meeting be adjourned and that all of us think it over and discuss it
with the other teams, the other field workers in our respective
organizations. I propose further that another meeting be held within the
year and that meanwhile Mr. Crawford be elected chairman of the group
until the next gathering, and that Miss Cunningham be elected secretary.
We can all correspond with Mr. Crawford, until the time of the next
meeting, giving him such suggestions as might come to us. When he sees
fit to call the next meeting, undoubtedly he will have some concrete
proposals to put before us."

Isobel said, _sotto voce_, "Secretaries invariably do all the work, why
is it that men always nominate a woman for the job?"

Jake grinned at her, "I'll never tell." He sat down.

"I'll make that a motion," Rex Donaldson clipped out.

"Second," someone else called.

Homer Crawford said, "All in favor?"

Those in favor predominated considerably.

       *       *       *       *       *

They broke up into small groups for a time, debating it out, and then
most left for various places for lunch.

Homer Crawford, separated from the other members of his team, in the
animated discussions that went on about him, finally left the
fascinating subject of what had happened to the Cuban group in Sudan,
and who had done it, and went looking for his own lunch.

He strolled down the sand-blown street in the general direction of the
smaller market, in the center of Timbuktu, passing the aged, wind
corroded house which had once sheltered Major Alexander Gordon Laing,
first white man to reach the forbidden city in the year 1826. Laing
remained only three days before being murdered by the Tuareg who
controlled the town at that time. There was a plaque on the door
revealing those basic facts. Crawford had read elsewhere that the city
was not captured until 1893 by a Major Joffre, later to become a Marshal
of France and a prominent Allied leader in the First World War.

By chance he met Isobel in front of the large community butcher shop,
still operated in the old tradition by the local Gabibi and Fulbe,
formerly Songhoi serfs. He knew of a Syrian operated restaurant nearby,
and since she hadn't eaten either they made their way there.

The menu was limited largely to local products. Timbuktu was still
remote enough to make transportation of frozen foodstuffs exorbitant.
While they looked at the bill of fare he told her a story about his
first trip to the city some years ago while he was still a student.

He had visited the local American missionary and had dinner with the
family in their home. They had canned plums for desert and Homer had
politely commented upon their quality. The missionary had said that they
should be good, he estimated the quart jar to be worth something like
one hundred dollars. It seems that some kindly old lady in Iowa,
figuring that missionaries in such places as Timbuktu must be in dire
need of her State Fair prize winning canned plums, shipped off a box of
twelve quarts to missionary headquarters in New York. At that time,
France still owned French Sudan, so it was necessary for the plums to be
sent to Paris, and thence, eventually to Dakar. At Dakar they were
shipped through Senegal to Bamako by narrow gauge railroad which ran
periodically. In Bamako they had to wait for an end to the rainy season
so roads would be passable. By this time, a few of the jars had
fermented and blown up, and a few others had been pilfered. When the
roads were dry enough, a desert freight truck took the plums to Mopti,
on the Niger River where they waited again until the river was high
enough that a tug pulling barges could navigate, by slow stages, down to
Kabara. By this time, one or two jars had been broken by inexpert
handling and more pilfered. In Kabara they were packed onto a camel and
taken to Timbuktu and delivered to the missionary. Total time elapsed
since leaving Iowa? Two years. Total number of jars that got through?
One.

Isobel looked at Homer Crawford when he finished the story, and laughed.
"Why in the world didn't that missionary society refuse the old lady's
gift?"

He laughed in return and shrugged. "They couldn't. She might get into a
huff and not mention them in her will. Missionary societies can't afford
to discourage gifts."

She made her selection from the menu, and told the waiter in French, and
then settled back. She resumed the conversation. "The cost of
maintaining a missionary in this sort of country must have been
fantastic."

"Um-m-m," Crawford growled. "I sometimes wonder how many millions upon
millions of dollars, pounds and francs have been plowed into this
continent on such projects. This particular missionary wasn't a medical
man and didn't even run a school and in the six years he was here didn't
make a single convert."

Isobel said, "Which brings us to our own pet projects. Homer--I can call
you Homer, I suppose, being your brand new secretary...."

He grinned at her. "I'll make that concession."

"... What's your own dream?"

He broke some bread, automatically doing it with his left hand, as
prescribed in the Koran. They both noticed it, and both laughed.

"I'm conditioned," he said.

"Me, too," Isobel admitted. "It's all I can do to use a knife and fork."

He went back to her question, scowling. "My dream? I don't know. Right
now I feel a little depressed about it all. When Elmer Allen spoke about
spending the rest of our lives on this job, I suddenly realized that was
about it. And, you know"--he looked up at her--"I don't particularly
like Africa. I'm an American."

She looked at him oddly. "Then why stay here?"

"Because there's so much that needs to be done."

"Yes, you're right and what Cliff Jackson said to the doctor was
correct, too. We all do what we must do and what we can do."

"Well, that brings us back to your question. What is my own dream? I'm
afraid I'm too far along in life to acquire new ones, and my basic dream
is an American one."

"And that is--?" Isobel prompted.

He shrugged again, slightly uncomfortable under the scrutiny of this
pretty girl. "I'm a sociologist, Isobel. I suppose I seek Utopia."

She frowned at him as though disappointed. "Is Utopia possible?"

"No, but there is always the search for it. It's a goal that recedes as
you approach, which is as it should be. Heaven help mankind if we ever
achieve it; we'll be through because there will be no place to go, and
man needs to strive."

They had finished their soup and the entree had arrived. Isobel picked
at it, her ordinarily smooth forehead wrinkled. "The way I see it,
Utopia is not heaven. Heaven is perfect, but Utopia is an engineering
optimum, the best-possible-human-techniques. Therefore we will not have
_perfect_ justice in Utopia, nor will _everyone_ get the exactly proper
treatment. We design for optimum--not perfection. But granting this,
then attainment is possible."

She took a bite of the food before going on thoughtfully. "In fact, I
wonder if, during man's history, he hasn't obtained his Utopias from
time to time. Have you ever heard the adage that any form of government
works fine and produces a Utopia provided it is managed by wise,
benevolent and competent rulers?" She laughed and said mischievously,
"Both Heaven and Hell are traditionally absolute monarchies--despotisms.
The form of government evidently makes no difference, it's who runs it
that determines."

Crawford was shaking his head. "I've heard the adage but I don't accept
it. Under certain socio-economic conditions the best of men, and the
wisest, could do little if they had the wrong form of government.
Suppose, for instance, you had a government which was a
military-theocracy which is more or less what existed in Mexico at the
time of the Cortez conquest. Can you imagine such a government working
efficiently if the socio-economic system had progressed to the point
where there were no longer wars and where practically everyone were
atheists, or, at least, agnostics?"

She had to laugh at his ludicrous example. "That's a rather silly
situation, isn't it? Such wise, benevolent men, would change the
governmental system."

Crawford pushed his point. "Not necessarily. Here's a better example.
Immediately following the American Revolution, some of the best, wisest
and most competent men the political world has ever seen were at the
head of the government of Virginia. Such men as Jefferson, Madison,
Monroe, Washington. Their society was based on chattel slavery and they
built a Utopia _for themselves_ but certainly not for the slaves who
out-numbered them. Not that they weren't kindly and good men. A man of
Jefferson's caliber, I am sure, would have done anything in the world
for those darkies of his--except get off their backs. Except to grant
them the liberty and the right to pursue happiness that he demanded for
himself. He was blinded by self interest, and the interests of his
class."

"Perhaps they didn't want liberty," Isobel mused. "Slavery isn't
necessarily an unhappy life."

"I never thought it was. And I'm the first to admit that at a certain
stage in the evolution of society, it was absolutely necessary. If
society was to progress, then there had to be a class that was freed
from daily drudgery of the type forced on primitive man if he was to
survive. They needed the leisure time to study, to develop, to invent.
With the products of their studies, they were able to advance all
society. However, so long as slavery is maintained, be it necessary or
not, you have no Utopia. There is no Utopia so long as one man denies
another his liberty be it under chattel slavery, feudalism, or
whatever."

Isobel said dryly, "I see why you say your Utopia will never be reached,
that it continually recedes."

He laughed, ruefully. "Don't misunderstand. I think that particular goal
can and will be reached. My point was that by the time we reach it,
there will be a new goal."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl, finished with her main dish, sat back in her chair, and looked
at him from the side of her eyes, as though wondering whether or not he
could take what she was about to say in the right way. She said, slowly,
"You know, with possibly a few exceptions, you can't enslave a man if he
doesn't want to be a slave. For instance, the white man was never able
to enslave the Amerind; he died before he would become a slave. The
majority of Jefferson's slaves _wanted to be slaves_. If there were
those among them that had the ability to revolt against slave
psychology, a Jefferson would quickly promote such. A valuable human
being will be treated in a manner proportionate to his value. A wise,
competent, trustworthy slave became the major domo of the master's
estate--with privileges and authority actually greater than that of free
employees of the master."

Crawford thought about that for a moment. "I'll take that," he said.
"What's the point you're trying to make?"

"I, too, was set a-thinking by some of the things said at the meeting,
Homer. In particular, what Dr. Smythe had to say. Homer, are we sure
these people _want_ the things we are trying to give them?"

He looked at her uncomfortably. "No they don't," he said bluntly.
"Otherwise we wouldn't be here, either your AFAA or my African
Development Project. We utilize persuasion, skullduggery, and even force
to subvert their institutions, to destroy their present culture. Yes.
I've known this a long time."

"Then how do you justify your being here?"

He grinned sourly. "Let's put it this way. Take the new government in
Egypt. They send the army into some of the small back-country towns with
bayoneted rifles, and orders to use them if necessary. The villagers are
forced to poison their ancient village wells--one of the highest of
imaginable crimes in such country, imposed on them ruthlessly. Then they
are forced to dig new ones in new places that are not intimately
entangled with their own sewage drainage. Naturally they hate the
government. In other towns, the army has gone in and, at gun point,
forced the parents to give up their children, taken the children away
in trucks and 'imprisoned' them in schools. Look, back in the States
we have trouble with the Amish, who don't want their children to
be taught modern ways. What sort of reaction do you think the
tradition-ritual-tabu-tribesmen of the six thousand year old Egyptian
culture have to having modern education imposed on their children?"

Isobel was frowning at him.

Crawford wound it up. "That's the position we're in. That's what we're
doing. Giving them things they need, in spite of the fact they don't
want them."

"But _why_?"

He said, "You know the answer to that as well as I do. It's like giving
medical care to Typhoid Mary, in spite of the fact that she didn't want
it and didn't believe such things as typhoid microbes existed. We had to
protect the community against her. In the world today, such backward
areas as Africa are potential volcanoes. We've got to deal with them
before they erupt."

The waiter came with the bill and Homer took it.

Isobel said, "Let's go Dutch on that."

He grinned at her. "Consider it a donation to the AFAA."

Out on the street again, they walked slowly in the direction of the old
administration buildings where both had left their means of
transportation.

Isobel, who was frowning thoughtfully, evidently over the things that
had been said, said, "Let's go this way. I'd like to see the old Great
Mosque, in the Dyingerey Ber section of town. It's always fascinated
me."

Crawford said, looking at her and appreciating her attractiveness, all
over again, "You know Timbuktu quite well, don't you?"

"I've just finished a job down in Kabara, and it's only a few miles
away."

"Just what sort of thing do you do?"

She shrugged and made a moue. "Our little team concentrates on breaking
down the traditional position of women in these cultures. To get them to
drop the veil, go to school. That sort of thing. It's a long story
and--"

Homer Crawford suddenly and violently pushed her to the side and to the
ground and at the same time dropped himself and rolled frantically to
the shelter of an adobe wall which had once been part of a house but now
was little more than waist high.

"Down!" he yelled at her.

She bug-eyed him as though he had gone suddenly mad.

There was a heavy, stub-nosed gun suddenly in his hand. He squirmed
forward on elbows and belly, until he reached the corner.

"What's the matter?" she blurted.

He said grimly, "See those three holes in the wall above you?"

She looked up, startled.

He said, grimly, "They weren't there a moment ago."

What he was saying, dawned upon her. "But ... but I heard no shots."

He cautiously peered around the wall, and was rewarded with a puff of
sand inches from his face. He pulled his head back and his lips thinned
over his teeth. He said to her, "Efficiently silenced guns have been
around for quite a spell. Whoever that is, is up there in the mosque.
Listen, beat your way around by the back streets and see if you can find
the members of my team, especially Abe Baker or Bey-ag-Akhamouk. Tell
them what happened and that I think I've got the guy pinned down. That
mosque is too much out in the open for him to get away without my seeing
him."

"But ... but who in the world would want to shoot you, Homer?"

"Search me," he growled. "My team has never operated in this immediate
area."

"But then, it must be someone who was at the meeting."



