

Driving into town over the dusty, pocked road, Homer gave the newcomers
to his group more background on the care and control of the genus _mob_.
He was obviously speaking through considerable experience.

"Using these quarterstaffs brings to mind some of the other supposedly
innoxious devices used by police authorities in controlling unruly
demonstrations," he said. "Some of them are beauties. For instance, I
was in Tangier when the Moroccans put on their revolution against the
French and for the return of the Sultan. The rumor went through town
that the mob was going to storm the French Consulate the next day.
During the night, the French brought in elements of the Foreign Legion
and entrenched the consulate grounds. But their commander had another
problem. Journalists were all over town and so were tourists. Tangier
was still supposedly an international zone and the French were in no
position to slaughter the citizens. So they brought in some special
equipment. One item was a vehicle that looked quite a bit like a
gasoline truck, but was filled with water and armored against thrown
cobblestones and such. On the roof of the cabin was what looked
something like a fifty caliber but which was actually a hose which shot
water at terrific pressure. When the mob came, the French unlimbered
this vehicle and all the journalists could say was that the mob was
dispersed by squirting water on it, which doesn't sound too bad after
all."

Isobel said, "Well, certainly that's preferable to firing on them."

Homer looked at her oddly. "Possibly. However, I was standing next to
the Moorish boy who was cut entirely in half by the pressure spray of
water."

The expression on the girl's face sickened.

Homer said, "They had another interesting device for dispersing mobs. It
was a noise bomb. The French set off several."

"A noise bomb?" Cliff said. "I don't get it."

"They make a tremendous noise, but do nothing else. However, members of
the mob who aren't really too interested in the whole thing--just sort
of along for the fun--figure that things are getting earnest and that
the troops are shelling them. So they remember some business they had
elsewhere and take off."

Isobel said suddenly, "You like this sort of work, don't you?"

Elmer Allen grunted bitterly.

"No," Homer Crawford said flatly. "I don't. But I like the goal."

"And the end justifies the means?"

Homer Crawford said slowly, "I've never answered that to my own
satisfaction. But I'll say this. I've never met a person, no matter how
idealistic, no matter how much he played lip service to the contention
that the ends do not justify the means, who did not himself use the
means he found available to reach the ends he believed correct. It seems
to be a matter of each man feeling the teaching applies to everyone
else, but that he is free to utilize any means to achieve his own noble
ends."

"Man, all that jazz is too much for me," Abe said.

They were entering the outskirts of Mopti. Small groups of obviously
excited Africans of various tribal groups, were heading for the center
of town.

"Abe, Jake," Crawford said. "We'll drop you here. Mingle around. We'll
hold the big meeting in front of the Great Mosque in an hour or so."

"Crazy," Abe said, dropping off the back of the truck which Kenny
Ballalou, who was driving, brought almost to a complete stop. The older
Jake followed him.

The rest went on a quarter of a mile and dropped Bey and Cliff.

Homer said to Kenny, "Park the truck somewhere near the spice market.
Preferably inside some building, if you can. For all we know, they're
already turning over vehicles and burning them."

Crawford and Isobel dropped off near the pottery market, on the banks of
the Niger. The milling throngs here were largely women. Elements of half
a dozen tribes and races were represented.

Homer Crawford stood a moment. He ran a hand back over his short hair
and looked at her. "I don't know," he muttered. "Now I'm sorry we
brought you along." He leaned on his staff and looked at her worriedly.
"You're not very ... ah, husky, are you?"

She laughed at him. "Get about your business, sir knight. I spent nearly
two weeks living with these people once. I know dozens of them by name.
Watch this cat operate, as Abe would say."

She darted to one of the over-turned pirogues which had been dragged up
on the bank from the river, and climbed atop it. She held her hands high
and began a stream of what was gibberish to Crawford who didn't
understand Wolof, the Senegalese lingua franca. Some elements of the
crowd began drifting in her direction. She spoke for a few moments, the
only words the surprised Homer Crawford could make out were _El Hassan_.
And she used them often.

She switched suddenly to Arabic, and he could follow her now. The drift
of her talk was that word had come through that El Hassan was to make a
great announcement in the near future and that meanwhile all his people
were to await his word. But that there was to be a great meeting before
the Mosque within the hour.

She switched again to Songhoi and repeated substantially what she'd said
before. By now she had every woman hanging on her words.

A man on the outskirts of the gathering called out in high irritation,
"But what of the storming of the administration buildings? Our leaders
have proclaimed the storming of the reactionaries!"

Crawford, leaning heavily on the pilgrim staff, drifted over to the
other. "Quiet, O young one," he said. "I wish to listen to the words of
the girl who tells of the teachings of the great El Hassan."

The other turned angrily on him. "Be silent thyself, old man!" He raised
a hand as though to cuff the American.

Homer Crawford neatly rapped him on the right shin bone with his
quarterstaff to the other's intense agony. The women who witnessed the
brief spat dissolved in laughter at the plight of the younger man. Homer
Crawford drifted away again before the heckler recovered.

He let Isobel handle the bulk of the reverse-rabble rousing. His bit was
to come later, and as yet he didn't want to reveal himself to the
throngs.

       *       *       *       *       *

They went from one gathering place of women to another. To the spice
market, to the fish and meat market, to the bathing and laundering
locations along the river. And everywhere they found animated groups of
women, Isobel went into her speech.

At one point, while Homer stood idly in the crowd, feeling its temper
and the extent to which the girl was dominating them, he felt someone
press next to him.

A voice said, "What is the plan of operation, Yank?"

Homer Crawford's eyebrows went up and he shot a quick glance at the
other. It was Rex Donaldson of the Commonwealth African Department. The
operative who worked as the witchman, Dolo Anah. Crawford was glad to
see him. This was Donaldson's area of operations, the man must have got
here almost as soon as Crawford's team, when he had heard of the
trouble.

Crawford said in English, "They've been gathering for an outbreak of
violence, evidently directed at the Reunited Nations projects
administration buildings. I've seen a few banners calling for El Hassan
to come to power, Africa for the Africans, that sort of thing."

The small Bahamian snorted. "You chaps certainly started something with
this El Hassan farce. What are your immediate plans? How can I
co-operate with you?"

A teenage boy who had been heckling Isobel, stooped now to pick up some
dried cow dung. Almost absently, Crawford put his staff between the
other's legs and tripped him up, when the lad sprawled on his face the
American rapped him smartly on the head.

Crawford said, "Thanks a lot, we can use you, especially since you speak
Dogon, I don't think any of my group does. We're going to hold a big
meeting in front of the square and give them a long monotonous talk,
saying little but sounding as though we're promising a great deal. When
we've taken most of the steam out of them, we'll locate the ringleaders
and have a big indoor meeting. My boys will be spotted throughout the
gang. They'll nominate me to be spokesman, and nominate each other to be
my committee and we'll be sent to find El Hassan and urge him to take
power. That should keep them quiet for a while. At least long enough for
headquarters in Dakar to decide what to do."

"Good Heavens," Donaldson said in admiration. "You Yanks are certainly
good at this sort of thing."

"Takes practice," Homer Crawford said. "If you want to help, ferret out
the groups who speak Dogon and give them the word."

Out of a sidestreet came running Abe Baker at the head of possibly two
or three hundred arm waving, shouting, stick brandishing Africans. A few
of them had banners which were being waved in such confusion that nobody
could read the words inscribed. Most of them seemed to be younger men,
even teen-agers.

"Good Heavens," Donaldson said again.

At first snap opinion, Crawford thought his assistant was being pursued
and started forward to the hopeless rescue, but then he realized that
Abe was heading the mob. Waving his staff, the New Yorker was shouting
slogans, most of which had something to do with "El Hassan" but
otherwise were difficult to make out.

The small mob charged out of the street and through the square, still
shouting. Abe began to drop back into the ranks, and then to the edge of
the charging, gesticulating crowd. Already, though, some of them seemed
to be slowing up, even stopping and drifting away, puzzlement or
frustration on their faces.

Those who were still at excitement's peak, charged up another street at
the other side of the square.

In a few moments, Abe Baker came up to them, breathing hard and wiping
sweat from his forehead. He grinned wryly. "Man, those cats are way out.
This is really Endsville." He looked up at where Isobel was haranguing
her own crowd, which hadn't been fazed by the men who'd charged through
the square going nowhere. "Look at old Isobel up there. Man, this whole
town's like a combination of Hyde Park and Union Square. You oughta hear
old Jake making with a speech."

"What just happened?" Homer asked, motioning with his head to where the
last elements of the mob Abe'd been leading were disappearing down a
dead-end street.

"Ah, nothing," Abe said, still watching Isobel and grinning at her.
"Those cats were the nucleus of a bunch wanted to start some action.
Burn a few cars, raid the library, that sort of jazz. So I took over for
a while, led them up one street and down the other. I feel like I just
been star at a track meet."

"Good Heavens," Donaldson said still again.

"They're all scattered around now," Abe explained to him. "Either that
or their tongues are hanging out to the point they'll have to take five
to have a beer. They're finished for a while."

Isobel finished her little talk and joined them. "What gives now?" she
asked.

Rex Donaldson said, "I'd like to stay around and watch you chaps
operate. It's fascinating. However, I'd better get over to the park.
That's probably where the greater number of the Dogon will be." He
grumbled sourly, "I'll roast those blokes with a half dozen bits of
magic and send them all back to Sangha. It'll be donkey's years before
they ever show face around here again." He left them.

Homer Crawford looked after him. "Good man," he said.

Abe had about caught his breath. "What gives now, man?" he said. "I
ought to get back to Jake. He's all alone up near the mosque."

"It's about time all of us got over there," Crawford said. He looked at
Isobel as they walked. "How does it feel being a sort of reverse agent
provocateur?"

Her forehead was wrinkled, characteristically. "I suppose it has to be
done, but frankly, I'm not too sure just what we are doing. Here we go
about pushing these supposed teachings of El Hassan and when we're taken
up by the people and they actually attempt to accomplish what we taught
them, we draw in on the reins."

"Man, you're right," Abe said unhappily. He looked at his chief. "What'd
you say, Homer?"

"Of course she's right," Crawford growled. "It's just premature, is all.
There's no program, no plan of action. If there was one, this thing here
in Mopti might be the spark that united all North Africa. As it is, we
have to put the damper on it until there is a definite program." He
added sourly, "I'm just wondering if the Reunited Nations is the
organization that can come up with one. And, if it isn't, where is there
one?"

The mosque loomed up before them. The square before it was jam packed
with milling Africans.

"Great guns," Isobel snorted, "there're more people here than the whole
population of Mopti. Where'd they all come from?"

"They've been filtering in from the country," Crawford said.

"Well, we'll filter 'em back," Abe promised.

       *       *       *       *       *

They spotted a ruckus and could see Elmer Allen in the middle of it, his
quarterstaff flailing.

"On the double," Homer bit out, and he and Abe broke into a trot for the
point of conflict. The idea was to get this sort of thing over as
quickly as possible before it had a chance to spread.

They arrived too late. Elmer was leaning on his staff, as though needing
it for support, and explaining mildly to two men who evidently were
friends of a third who was stretched out on the ground, dead to the
world and with a nasty lump on his shaven head.

Homer came up and said to Elmer, in Songhai, "What has transpired, O
Holy One?" He made a sign of obeisance to the Jamaican.

The two Africans were taken aback by the term of address. They were
unprepared to continue further debate, not to speak of physical action,
against a holy man.

Elmer said with dignity, "He spoke against El Hassan, our great leader."

For a moment the two Africans seemed to be willing to deny that, but Abe
Baker took up the cue and turned to the crowd that was beginning to
gather. He held his hands out, palms upward questioningly, "And why
should these young men beset a Holy One whose only crime is to love El
Hassan?"

The crowd began to murmur and the two hurriedly picked up their fallen
companion and took off with him.

Homer said in English, "What really happened?"

"Oh, this chap was one of the hot heads," Elmer explained. "Wanted some
immediate action. I gave it to him."

Abe chuckled, "Holy One, yet."

Spotted through the square, holding forth to various gatherings of the
mob were Jake Armstrong, Kenny Ballalou and Cliff Jackson. Even as Homer
Crawford sized up the situation and the temper of the throngs of
tribesmen, Bey entered the square from the far side at the head of two
or three thousand more, most of whom were already beginning to look
bored to death from talk, talk, talk.

Isobel came up and looked questioningly at Homer Crawford.

He said, "Abe, get the truck and drive it up before the entrance to the
mosque. We'll speak from that. Isobel can open the hoe down, get the
crowd over and then introduce me."

Abe left and Crawford said to Isobel, "Introduce me as Omar ben Crawf,
the great friend and assistant of El Hassan. Build it up."

"Right," she said.

Crawford said, "Elmer first round up the boys and get them spotted
through the audience. You're the cheerleaders and also the sergeants at
arms, of course. Nail the hecklers quickly, before they can get
organized among themselves. In short, the standard deal." He thought a
moment. "And see about getting a hall where we can hold a meeting of the
ringleaders, those are the ones we're going to have to cool out."

"Wizard," Elmer said and was gone on his mission.

Isobel and Homer stood for a moment, waiting for Abe and the truck.

She said, "You seem to have this all down pat."

"It's routine," he said absently. "The brain of a mob is no larger than
that of its minimum member. Any disciplined group, almost no matter how
small can model it to order."

"Just in case we don't have the opportunity to get together again, what
happens at the hall meeting of ringleaders? What do Jake, Cliff and I
do?"

"What comes naturally," Homer said. "We'll elect each other to the most
important positions. But everybody else that seems to have anything at
all on the ball will be elected to some committee or other. Give them
jobs compiling reports to El Hassan or something. Keep them busy. Give
Reunited Nations headquarters in Dakar time to come up with something."

She said worriedly, "Suppose some of these ringleaders are capable,
aggressive types and won't stand for us getting all the important
positions?"

Crawford grunted. "We're _more_ aggressive and more capable. Let my team
handle that. One of the boys will jump up and accuse the guy of being a
spy and an enemy of El Hassan, and one of the other boys will bear him
out, and a couple of others will hustle him out of the hall." Homer
yawned. "It's all routine, Isobel."

Abe was driving up the truck.

Crawford said, "O.K., let's go, gal."

"Roger," she said, climbing first into the back of the vehicle and then
up onto the roof of the cab.

Isobel held her hands high above her head and in the cab Abe bore down
on the horn for a long moment.

Isobel shrilled, "Hear what the messenger from El Hassan has come to
tell us! Hear the friend and devoted follower of El Hassan!"

At the same time, Jake, Kenny, and Cliff discontinued their own
harangues and themselves headed for the new speaker.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stayed for three days and had it well wrapped up in that time. The
tribesmen, bored when the excitement fell away and it became obvious
that there were to be no further riots, and certainly no violence,
drifted back to their villages. The city dwellers returned to the
routine of daily existence. And the police, who had mysteriously
disappeared from the streets at the height of the demonstrations, now
magically reappeared and began asserting their authority somewhat
truculently.

At the hall meetings, mighty slogans were drafted and endless committees
formed. The more articulate, the more educated and able of the
demonstrators were marked out for future reference, but for the moment
given meaningless tasks to keep them busy and out of trouble.

On the fourth day, Homer Crawford received orders to proceed to Dakar,
leaving the rest of the team behind to keep an eye on the situation.

Abe groaned, "There's luck for you. Dakar, nearest thing to a good old
sin city in a thousand miles. And who gets to go? Old sour puss, here.
Got no more interest in the hot spots--"

Homer said, "You can come along, Abe."

Kenny Ballalou said, "Orders were only you, Homer."

Crawford growled, "Yes, but I have a suspicion I'm being called on the
carpet for one of our recent escapades and I want backing if I need it."
He added, "Besides, nothing is going to happen here."

"Crazy man," Abe said appreciatively.

Jake said, "We three were planning to head for Dakar today ourselves.
Isobel, in particular, is exhausted and needs a prolonged rest before
going out among the natives any more. You might as well continue to let
us supply your transportation."

"Fine," Homer told him. "Come on Abe, let's get our things together."

"What do we do while you chaps are gone?" Elmer Allen said sourly. "I
wouldn't mind a period in a city myself."

"Read a book, man," Abe told him. "Improve your mind."

"I've read a book," Elmer said glumly. "Any other ideas?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dakar is a big, bustling, prosperous and modern city shockingly set down
in the middle of the poverty that is Africa. It should be, by its
appearance, on the French Riviera, on the California coast, or possibly
that of Florida, but it isn't. It's in Senegal, in the area once known
as French West Africa.

Their aircraft swept in and landed at the busy airport.

They were assigned an African Development Project air-cushion car and
drove into the city proper.

Dakar boasts some of the few skyscrapers in all Africa. The Reunited
Nations occupied one of these in its entirety. Dakar was the center of
activities for the whole Western Sahara and down into the Sudan. Across
the street from its offices, a street still named Rue des Resistance in
spite of the fact that the French were long gone, was the Hotel
Juan-les-Pins.

[Illustration]

Crawford and Abe Baker had radioed ahead and accommodations were ready
for them. Their western clothing and other gear had been brought up from
storage in the cellar.

At the desk, the clerk didn't blink at the Tuareg costume the two still
wore. This was commonplace. He probably wouldn't have blinked had Isobel
arrived in the costume of the Dogon. "Your suite is ready, Dr.
Crawford," he said.

The manager came up and shook hands with an old customer and Homer
Crawford introduced him to Isobel, Jake and Cliff, requesting he do his
best for them. He and Abe then made their excuses and headed for the
paradise of hot water, towels, western drink and the other amenities of
civilization.

On the way up in the elevator, Abe said happily, "Man, I can just
_taste_ that bath I'm going to take. Crazy!"

"Personally," Crawford said, trying to reflect some of the other's
typically lighthearted enthusiasm, "I have in mind a few belts out of a
bottle of stone-age cognac, then a steak yea big and a flock of French
fries, followed by vanilla ice cream."

Abe's eyes went round. "Man, you mean we can't get a good dish of cous
cous in this town?"

"Cous cous," Crawford said in agony.

Abe made his voice so soulful. "With a good dollop of rancid camel
butter right on top."

Homer laughed as they reached their floor and started for the suite.
"You make it sound so good, I almost believe you." Inside he said,
"Dibbers on the first bath. How about phoning down for a bottle of
Napoleon and some soda and ice? When it comes, just mix me one and bring
it in, that hand you see emerging from the soap bubbles in that tub,
will be mine."

"I hear and obey, O Bwana!" Abe said in a servile tone.

By the time they'd cleaned up and had eaten an enormous western style
meal in the dining room of the Juan-les-Pins, it was well past the hour
when they could have made contact with their Reunited Nations superiors.
They had a couple of cognacs in the bar, then, whistling happily, Abe
Baker went out on the town.

Homer Crawford looked up Isobel, Jake and Cliff who had, sure enough,
found accommodations in the same hotel.

Isobel stepped back in mock surprise when she saw Crawford in western
garb. "Heavens to Betsy," she said. "The man is absolutely extinguished
in a double-breasted charcoal gray."

He tried a scowl and couldn't manage it. "The word is _distinguished_,
not extinguished," he said. He looked down at the suit, critically. "You
know, I feel uncomfortable. I wonder if I'll be able to sit down in a
chair instead of squatting." He looked at her own evening frock. "Wow,"
he said.

Cliff Jackson said menacingly, "None of that stuff, Crawford. Isobel has
already been asked for, let's have no wolfing around."

Isobel said tartly, "Asked for but she didn't answer the summons." She
took Homer by the arm. "And I just adore extinguish--oops, I mean
distinguished looking men."

They trooped laughingly into the hotel cocktail lounge.

The time passed pleasantly. Jake and Cliff were good men in a field
close to Homer Crawford's heart. Isobel was possibly the most attractive
woman he'd ever met. They discussed in detail each other's work and all
had stories of wonder to describe.

Crawford wondered vaguely if there was ever going to be a time,
in this life of his, for a woman and all that one usually connects
with womanhood. What was it Elmer Allen had said at the Timbuktu
meeting? "... _most of us will be kept busy the rest of our lives at
this._"

In his present state of mind, it didn't seem too desirable a prospect.
But there was no way out for such as Homer Crawford. What had Cliff
Jackson said at the same meeting? "_We do what we must do._" Which, come
to think of it, didn't jibe too well with Cliff's claim at Mopti to be
in it solely for the job. Probably the man disguised his basic idealism
under a cloak of cynicism; if so, he wouldn't be the first.

They said their goodnights early. All of them were used to Sahara hours.
Up at dawn, to bed shortly after sunset; the desert has little fuel to
waste on illumination.

In the suite again, Homer Crawford noted that Abe hadn't returned as
yet. He snorted deprecation. The younger man would probably be out until
dawn. Dakar had much to offer in the way of civilization's fleshpots.

He took up the bottle of cognac and poured himself a healthy shot,
wishing that he'd remembered to pick up a paperback at the hotel's
newsstand before coming to bed.

He swirled the expensive brandy in the glass and brought it to his nose
to savor the bouquet.

But fifteen-year-old brandy from the cognac district of France should
not boast a bouquet involving elements of bitter almonds. With an
automatic startled gesture, Crawford jerked his face away from the
glass.

He scowled down at it for a long moment, then took up the bottle and
sniffed it. He wondered how a would-be murderer went about getting hold
of cyanide in Dakar.

Homer Crawford phoned the desk and got the manager. Somebody had been in
the suite during his absence. Was there any way of checking?

He didn't expect satisfaction and didn't receive any. The manager, after
finding that nothing seemed to be missing, seemed to think that perhaps
Dr. Crawford had made a mistake. Homer didn't bother to tell him about
the poisoned brandy. He hung up, took the bottle into the bathroom and
poured it away.

In the way of precautions, he checked the windows to see if there were
any possibilities of entrance by an intruder, locked the door securely,
put his handgun beneath his pillow and fell off to sleep. When and if
Abe returned, he could bang on the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning, clad in American business suits and frankly feeling a
trifle uncomfortable in them, Homer Crawford and Abraham Baker presented
themselves at the offices of the African Development Project, Sahara
Division, of the Reunited Nations. Uncharacteristically, there was no
waiting in anterooms, no dealing with subordinates. Dr. Crawford and his
lieutenant were ushered directly to the office of Sven Zetterberg.

Upon their entrance the Swede came to his feet, shook hands abruptly
with both of them and sat down again. He scowled at Abe and said to
Homer in excellent English, "It was requested that your team remain in
Mopti." Then he added, "Sit down, gentlemen."

They took chairs. Crawford said mildly, "Mr. Baker is my right-hand man.
I assume he'd take over the team if anything happened to me." He added
dryly, "Besides, there were a few things he felt he had to do about
town."

Abe cleared his throat but remained silent.

Zetterberg continued to frown but evidently for a different reason now.
He said, "There have been more complaints about your ... ah ... cavalier
tactics."

Homer looked at him but said nothing.

Zetterberg said in irritation, "It becomes necessary to warn you almost
every time you come in contact with this office, Dr. Crawford."

Homer said evenly, "My team and I work in the field Dr. Zetterberg. We
have to think on our feet and usually come to decisions in split
seconds. Sometimes our lives are at stake. We do what we think best
under the conditions. At any time your office feels my efforts are
misdirected, my resignation is available."

The Swede cleared his throat. "The Arab Union has made a full complaint
in the Reunited Nations of a group of our men massacring thirty-five of
their troopers."

Homer said, "They were well into the Ahaggar with a convoy of modern
weapons, obviously meant for adherents of theirs. Given the opportunity,
the Arab Union would take over North Africa."

"This is no reason to butcher thirty-five men."

"We were fired upon first," Crawford said.

"That is not the way they tell it. They claim you ambushed them."

Abe put in innocently, "How would the Arab Union know? We didn't leave
any survivors."

Zetterberg glared at him. "It is not easy, Mr. Baker, for we who do the
paper work involved in this operation, to account for the activities of
you hair-trigger men in the field."

"We appreciate your difficulties," Homer said evenly. "But we can only
continue to do what we think best on being confronted with an
emergency."

The Swede drummed his fingers on the desk top. "Perhaps I should remind
you that the policy of this project is to encourage amalgamation of the
peoples of the area. Possibly, the Arab Union will prove to be the best
force to accomplish such a union."

Abe grunted.

Homer Crawford was shaking his head. "You don't believe that Dr.
Zetterberg, and I doubt if there are many non-Moslems who do. Mohammed
sprung out of the deserts and his religion is one based on the
surroundings, both physical and socio-economic."

Zetterberg grumbled, argumentatively, though his voice lacked
conviction, "So did its two sister religions, Judaism and Christianity."

Crawford waggled a finger negatively. "Both of them adapted to changing
times, with considerable success. Islam has remained the same and in all
the world there is not one example of a highly developed socio-economic
system in a Moslem country. The reason is that in your country, and
mine, and in the other advanced countries of the West, we pay lip
service to our religions, but we don't let them interfere with our day
by day life. But the Moslem, like the rapidly disappearing
ultra-orthodox Jews, lives his religion every day and by the rules set
down by the Prophet fifteen centuries ago. Everything a Moslem does from
the moment he gets up in the morning is all mapped out in the Koran.
What fingers of the hand to eat with, what hand to break bread with--and
so on and so forth. It can get ludicrous. You should see the bathroom of
a wealthy Moslem in some modern city such as Tangier. Mohammed never
dreamed of such institutions as toilet paper. His followers still obey
the rules he set down as an alternative."

"What's your point?"

"That North Africa cannot be united under the banner of Islam if she is
going to progress rapidly. If it ever unites, it will be in spite of
local religions--Islam and pagan as well; they hold up the wheels of
progress."

Zetterberg stared at him. The truth of the matter was that he agreed
with the American and they both knew it.

He said, "This matter of physically assaulting and then arresting the
chieftain"--he looked down at a paper on his desk--"of the Ouled
Touameur clan of the Chaambra confederation, Abd-el-Kader. From your
report, the man was evidently attempting to unify the tribes."

Crawford was shaking his head impatiently. "No. He didn't have
the ... dream. He was a raider, a racketeer, not a leader of purposeful
men. Perhaps it's true that these people need a hero to act as a symbol
for them, but he can't be such as Abd-el-Kader."

"I suppose you're right," the Swede said grudgingly. "See here, have you
heard reports of a group of Cubans, in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan to help
with the new sugar refining there, being attacked?"

The eyes of both Crawford and Baker narrowed. There'd been talk about
this at Timbuktu. "Only a few rumors," Crawford said.

The Swede drummed his desk with his nervous fingers. "The rumors are
correct. The whole group was either killed or wounded." He said
suddenly, "You had nothing to do with this, I suppose?"

Crawford held his palms up, in surprise, "My team has never been within
a thousand miles of Khartoum."

Zetterberg said, "See here, we suspect the Cubans might have supported
Soviet Complex viewpoints."

Crawford shrugged, "I know nothing about them at all."

Zetterberg said, "Do you think this might be the work of El Hassan and
his followers?"

Abe started to chuckle something, but Homer shook his head slightly in
warning and said, "I don't know."

"How did that affair in Mopti turn out, these riots in favor of El
Hassan?"

Homer Crawford shrugged. "Routine. Must have been as many as ten
thousand of them at one point. We used standard tactics in gaining
control and then dispersing them. I'll have a complete written report to
you before the day is out."

Zetterberg said, "You've heard about this El Hassan before?"

"Quite a bit."

"From the rumors that have come into this office, he backs neither East
nor West in international politics. He also seems to agree with your
summation of the Islamic problem. He teaches separation of Church and
State."

"They're the same thing in Moslem countries," Abe muttered.

Zetterberg tossed his bombshell out of a clear sky. "Dr. Crawford," he
snapped, "in spite of the warnings we've had to issue to you repeatedly,
you are admittedly our best man in the field. We're giving you a new
assignment. Find this El Hassan and bring him here!"

Zetterberg leaned forward, an expression of somewhat anxious sincerity
in his whole demeanor.



