
When Annabella C. Flowers, that renowned writer of science fiction,
visiphoned me at Crater City, Mars, to meet her here, I had thought she
was crazy. But Miss Flowers, known to her friends as Grannie Annie,
had always been mildly crazy. If you haven't read her books, you've
missed something. She's the author of _Lady of the Green Flames_,
_Lady of the Runaway Planet_, _Lady of the Crimson Space-Beast_, and
other works of science fiction. Blood-and-thunder as these books are,
however, they have one redeeming feature--authenticity of background.
Grannie Annie was the original research digger-upper, and when she
laid the setting of a yarn on a star of the sixth magnitude, only a
transportation-velocity of less than light could prevent her from
visiting her "stage" in person.

Therefore when she asked me to meet her at the landing field of
_Interstellar Voice_ on Jupiter's Eighth Moon, I knew she had another
novel in the state of embryo.

What I didn't expect was Ezra Karn. He was an old prospector Grannie
had met, and he had become so attached to the authoress he now followed
her wherever she went. As for Xartal, he was a Martian and was slated
to do the illustrations for Grannie's new book.

Five minutes after my ship had blasted down, the four of us met in the
offices of _Interstellar Voice_. And then I was shaking hands with
Antlers Park, the manager of I. V. himself.

"Glad to meet you," he said cordially. "I've just been trying to
persuade Miss Flowers not to attempt a trip into the Baldric."

"What's the Baldric?" I had asked.

Antlers Park flicked the ash from his cheroot and shrugged.

"Will you believe me, sir," he said, "when I tell you I've been out
here on this forsaken moon five years and don't rightly know myself?"

I scowled at that; it didn't make sense.

"However, as you perhaps know, the only reason for colonial activities
here at all is because of the presence of an ore known as Acoustix.
It's no use to the people of Earth but of untold value on Mars. I'm
not up on the scientific reasons, but it seems that life on the red
planet has developed with a supersonic method of vocal communication.
The Martian speaks as the Earthman does, but he amplifies his thoughts'
transmission by way of wave lengths as high as three million vibrations
per second. The trouble is that by the time the average Martian reaches
middle age, his ability to produce those vibrations steadily decreases.
Then it was found that this ore, Acoustix, revitalized their sounding
apparatus, and the rush was on."

"What do you mean?"

Park leaned back. "The rush to find more of the ore," he explained.
"But up until now this moon is the only place where it can be found.

"There are two companies here," he continued, "_Interstellar Voice_
and _Larynx Incorporated_. Chap by the name of Jimmy Baker runs that.
However, the point is, between the properties of these two companies
stretches a band or belt which has become known as the Baldric.

"There are two principal forms of life in the Baldric; flagpole trees
and a species of ornithoid resembling cockatoos. So far no one has
crossed the Baldric without trouble."

"What sort of trouble?" Grannie Annie had demanded. And when Antlers
Park stuttered evasively, the old lady snorted, "Fiddlesticks, I never
saw trouble yet that couldn't be explained. We leave in an hour."
