
So now here we were at the outer reaches of the Baldric, four travelers
on foot with only the barest necessities in the way of equipment and
supplies.

I walked forward to get a closer view of one of the flagpole trees. And
then abruptly I saw something else.

A queer-looking bird squatted there in the sand, looking up at me.
Silver in plumage, it resembled a parrot with a crest; and yet it
didn't. In some strange way the thing was a hideous caricature.

"Look what I found," I yelled.

"What I found," said the cockatoo in a very human voice.

"Thunder, it talks," I said amazed.

"Talks," repeated the bird, blinking its eyes.

The cockatoo repeated my last statement again, then rose on its short
legs, flapped its wings once and soared off into the sky. Xartal,
the Martian illustrator, already had a notebook in his hands and was
sketching a likeness of the creature.

Ten minutes later we were on the move again. We saw more silver
cockatoos and more flagpole trees. Above us, the great disc of Jupiter
began to descend toward the horizon.

And then all at once Grannie stopped again, this time at the top of a
high ridge. She shielded her eyes and stared off into the plain we had
just crossed.

"Billy-boy," she said to me in a strange voice, "look down there and
tell me what you see."

I followed the direction of her hand and a shock went through me from
head to foot. Down there, slowly toiling across the sand, advanced a
party of four persons. In the lead was a little old lady in a black
dress. Behind her strode a grizzled Earth man in a flop-brimmed hat,
another Earth man, and a Martian.

_Detail for detail they were a duplicate of ourselves!_

"A mirage!" said Ezra Karn.

But it wasn't a mirage. As the party came closer, we could see that
their lips were moving, and their voices became audible. I listened in
awe. The duplicate of myself was talking to the duplicate of Grannie
Annie, and she was replying in the most natural way.

Steadily the four travelers approached. Then, when a dozen yards away,
they suddenly faded like a negative exposed to light and disappeared.

"What do you make of it?" I said in a hushed voice.

Grannie shook her head. "Might be a form of mass hypnosis superinduced
by some chemical radiations," she replied. "Whatever it is, we'd better
watch our step. There's no telling what might lie ahead."

We walked after that with taut nerves and watchful eyes, but we saw no
repetition of the "mirage." The wind continued to blow ceaselessly, and
the sand seemed to grow more and more powdery.

For some time I had fixed my gaze on a dot in the sky which I supposed
to be a high-flying cockatoo. As that dot continued to move across the
heavens in a single direction, I called Grannie's attention to it.

"It's a kite," she nodded. "There should be a car attached to it
somewhere."

She offered no further explanation, but a quarter of an hour later as
we topped another rise a curious elliptical car with a long slanting
windscreen came into view. Attached to its hood was a taut wire which
slanted up into the sky to connect with the kite.

A man was driving and when he saw us, he waved. Five minutes later
Grannie was shaking his hand vigorously and mumbling introductions.

"This is Jimmy Baker," she said. "He manages _Larynx Incorporated_, and
he's the real reason we're here."

I decided I liked Baker the moment I saw him. In his middle thirties,
he was tall and lean, with pleasant blue eyes which even his sand
goggles could not conceal.

"I can't tell you how glad I am you're here, Grannie," he said. "If
anybody can help me, you can."

Grannie's eyes glittered. "Trouble with the mine laborers?" she
questioned.
