
Not until they had vanished in the desert haze did I sense the
loneliness of this outpost. With that loneliness came a sudden sense of
foreboding. Had I been a fool to let Grannie go? I thought of her, an
old woman who should be in a rocking chair, knitting socks. If anything
happened to Annabella C. Flowers, I would never forgive myself and
neither would her millions of readers.

Ezra Karn and I went back into the office. The old prospector chuckled.

"Dang human dynamo. Got more energy than a runaway comet."

A connecting door on the far side of the office opened onto a long
corridor which ended at a staircase.

"Let's look around," I said.

We passed down the corridor and climbed the staircase to the second
floor. Here were the general offices of _Larynx Incorporated_, and
through glass doors I could see clerks busy with counting machines and
report tapes. In another chamber the extremely light Acoustix ore was
being packed into big cases and marked for shipment. At the far end a
door to a small room stood open. Inside a young man was tilted back in
a swivel chair before a complicated instrument panel.

"C'mon in," he said, seeing us. "If you want a look at your friends,
here they are."

He flicked a stud, and the entire wall above the panel underwent a
slow change of colors. Those colors whirled kaleidescopically, then
coalesced into a three-dimensional scene.

It was a scene of a rapidly unfolding desert country as seen from the
rear of a kite car. Directly behind the windscreen, backs turned to me,
were Jimmy Baker, Grannie, and Xartal. It was as if I were standing
directly behind them.

"It's Mr. Baker's own invention," the operator said. "An improvement on
the visiphone."

"Do you mean to say you can follow the movements of that car and its
passengers wherever it goes? Can you hear them talk too?"

"Sure." The operator turned another dial, and Grannie's falsetto voice
entered the room. It stopped abruptly. "The machine uses a lot of
power," the operator said, "and as yet we haven't got much."

The cloud of anxiety which had wrapped itself about me disappeared
somewhat as I viewed this device. At least I could now keep myself
posted of Grannie's movements.

Karn and I went down to the commissary where we ate our supper. When
we returned to Jimmy Baker's office, the visiphone bell was ringing.
I went over to it and turned it on, and to my surprise the face of
Antlers Park flashed on the screen.

"Hello," he said in his friendly way. "I see you arrived all right. Is
Miss Flowers there?"

"Miss Flowers left with Mr. Baker for Shaft Four," I said. "There's
trouble up there. Red spot fever."

"Fever, eh?" repeated Park. "That's a shame. Is there anything I can
do?"

"Tell me," I said, "has your company had any trouble with this plague?"

"A little. But up until yesterday the fever's been confined to the
other side of the Baldric. We had one partial case, but my chemists
gave the chap an antitoxin that seems to have worked. Come to think of
it, I might drive over to Shaft Four and give Jimmy Baker the formula.
I haven't been out in the Baldric for years, but if you didn't have any
trouble, I shouldn't either."

We exchanged a few more pleasantries, and then he rang off. In exactly
an hour I went upstairs to the visiscreen room.

Then once more I was directly behind my friends, listening in on their
conversation. The view through the windscreen showed an irregular array
of flagpole trees, with the sky dotted by high-flying cockatoos.

"There's an eyrie over there," Jimmy Baker was saying. "We might as
well camp beside it."
