
"Don't you see," the lady continued. "Everything that Xartal put on
paper has been seen by one or more of these cockatoos. The cockatoos
are like Earth parrots all right, but not only have they the power
of copying speech, they also have the ability to recreate a mental
image of what they have seen. In other words their brains form a
powerful photographic impression of the object. That impression is
then transmitted simultaneously in telepathic wavelengths to common
foci. That eyrie might be likened to a cinema screen, receiving brain
vibrations from a hundred different sources that blend into the light
field to form what are apparently three-dimensional images."

The Larynx manager nodded slowly. "I see," he said. "But why don't the
birds reconstruct images from the actual person. Why use drawings?"

"Probably because the drawings are exaggerated in certain details and
made a greater impression on their brains," Grannie replied.

Up on the eyrie a strange performance was taking place. The duplicate
of Grannie Annie was bowing to the duplicate of Jimmy Baker, and the
image of Ezra Karn was playing leap frog with the image of Antlers Park.

Then abruptly the screen before me blurred and went blank.

"Sorry," the operator said. "I've used too much power already. Have to
give the generators a chance to build it up again."

Nodding, I turned and motioned to Karn. We went back downstairs.

"That explains something at any rate," the old prospector said. "But
how about that Red spot fever?"

On Jimmy Baker's desk was a large file marked: FEVER VICTIMS. I opened
it and found it contained the case histories of those men who had been
attacked by the strange malady.

Reading them over, I was struck by one detail. Each patient had
received the first symptoms, not while working in the mines, but while
sleeping or lounging in the barracks.

Five minutes later Karn and I were striding down a white ramp that
led to the nearest barracks. The building came into sight, a low
rectangular structure, dome-roofed to withstand the violent winds.

Inside double tiers of bunks stretched along either wall. In those
bunks some thirty men lay sleeping.

The far wall was taken up by a huge window of denvo-quartz. As I stood
there, something suddenly caught Ezra Karn's eye. He began to walk
toward that window.

"Look here," he said.

Six feet up on that window a small almost imperceptible button of dull
metal had been wedged into an aperture cut in the quartz. The central
part of the button appeared to be a powerful lens of some kind, and as
I seized it and pulled it loose, I felt the hum of tiny clock work.

All at once I had it! Red spot fever. Heat fever from the infra-red
rays of Jupiter's great spot. Someone had constructed this lens to
concentrate and amplify the power of those rays. The internal clockwork
served a double purpose. It opened a shutter, and it rotated the lens
slowly so that it played for a time on each of the sleeping men.

I slid the metal button in my pocket and left the barracks at a run.
Back in the visiscreen room, I snapped to the operator:

"Turn it on!"

The kite car swam into view in the screen above the instrument panel.
I stared with open eyes. Jimmy Baker no longer was in the car, nor
was Xartal, the Martian. Grannie Annie was there, but seated at the
controls was Antlers Park, the manager of Interstellar Voice.
