
I leaped into the driver's seat and gave the kite its head. And now the
country began to undergo a subtle change. The trees seemed to group
themselves in a long flanking corridor in a northwesterly direction, as
if to hide some secret that lay beyond. Twice I attempted to penetrate
that wall, only to find my way blocked by those curious growths.

Then a corridor opened before me; a mile forward and the desert began
again. But it was a new desert this time: the sand packed hard as
granite, the way ahead utterly devoid of vegetation. In the distance
black bulging hills extended to right and left, with a narrow chasm or
doorway between.

I headed for that entrance, and when I reached it, I shut off power
with an exclamation of astonishment.

There was a huge chair-shaped rock there, and seated upon it was
Grannie Annie. She had a tablet in her hands, and she was writing.

"Grannie!" I yelled. "What're you doing here? Where's Mr. Baker?"

She rose to her feet and clambered down the rock.

"Getting back Jimmy's mine laborers," she said, a twinkle in her eyes.
"I see you've got Antlers Park. I'm glad of that. It saves me a lot of
trouble." She took off her spectacles and wiped them on her sleeve.
"Don't look so fuddled, Billy-boy. Come along, and I'll show you."

She led the way through the narrow passage into the valley. A deep
gorge, it was, with the black sheer cliffs on either side pressing
close. Ten feet forward, I stopped short, staring in amazement.

Advancing toward me like a column of infantry came a long line of
Larynx miners. They walked slowly, looking straight ahead, moving down
the center of the gorge toward the entrance.

But there was more! A kite car was drawn up to the side. The windscreen
had been removed, and mounted on the hood was a large bullet-like
contrivance that looked not unlike a search lamp. A blinding shaft of
bluish radiance spewed from its open end. Playing it back and forth
upon the marching men were Jimmy Baker and Xartal, the Martian.

"Ultra violet," Grannie Annie explained. "The opposite end of the
vibratory scale and the only thing that will combat the infra-red rays
that cause red spot fever. Those men won't stop walking until they've
reached Shaft Four."

Grannie Annie told her story during the long ride back to Shaft Four.
We drove slowly, keeping the line of marching Larynx miners always
ahead of us.

Jimmy Baker had struck a new big lode of Acoustix, a lode which if
worked successfully would see _Larynx Incorporated_ become a far more
powerful exporting concern than _Interstellar Voice_. Antlers Park
didn't want that.

It was he or his agents who placed those lens buttons in the Larynx
barracks. _For he knew that just as Jupiter's great spot was
responsible for a climate and atmosphere suitable for an Earthman on
this Eighth Moon, so also was that spot a deadly power in itself,
capable when its rays were concentrated of causing a fatal sickness._

Then suddenly becoming fearful of Grannie's prying, Antlers Park strove
to head her off before she reached Shaft Four.

He did head her off and managed to lure her and Baker and Xartal into
the Shaft barracks where they would be exposed to the rays from the
lens button. But Grannie only pretended to contract the plague.

Park then attempted to outwit Ezra Karn and me by returning in Jimmy
Baker's kite car with a cockatoo image of Grannie.
