
Leaving the sad monument of his baggage, Tommy sloughed through the mud
until he reached a pathway of duckboards which ran parallel to the row
of barracks. On one of these buildings was a sign, and as he approached
it, the latest addition to the great American flying field was able to
see that it read as follows:

          PERSONNEL OFFICE
              for
          OFFICERS
          FLYING OFFICERS
          FLYING CADETS
          CADETS

“And the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats,” thought Tommy as
he climbed a short flight of steps and entered the office. The shepherd,
a small, pot bellied man with captain’s bars but no wings on his serge
blouse, eyed the newest flying lieutenant, his whipcord uniform and his
papers with disfavor.

“All right,” he said in a querulous voice. “Find yourself a bunk in the
flying officers’ barrack. You will be assigned to a section for duty.
Look on the bulletin board in the operations office.”

Tommy saluted and went out. He saw his baggage still forming an island
in the sea of mud, but it seemed to have shrunk appreciably since he
left it. He had an idea that he must salvage it before it disappeared
entirely.

Walking along the duckboard, he heard a chorus of voices raised in
ribald song in one of the barracks and stopped, feeling that he had
reached a friendly haven.

    “When I joined the Army I was clean and neat, Now--”

The noise ceased abruptly as the flying officer entered.

“Attention!” shouted one voice.

“Ma-a-a-a-ah!” said another.

The place was full of irreverent and antagonistic cadets, and Tommy
retreated, feeling that it was not the time to stop and explain that the
only reason he was not among them was through the mistake of some
nodding Homer in Washington in giving him a commission as soon as he
enlisted, instead of when he got his pilot’s license. The song followed
him:

    “The officers live on the top of the hill,
    The flying cadets in the slush and the swill--
    I don’t want any more Army.
    Gee, how I want to go home.”

He came to the last barrack of all, which was only about three-fourths
built. Going inside, he found it empty of human life, but the contents
was reassuring. Under the neatly spread double-decker bunks were
officers’ boots, and the walls were covered with overcoats bearing the
single stripe of a first lieutenant, and with various flying clothes and
equipment. In what would be the middle of the long building was a single
large stove which feebly radiated its rays of heat against the blasts of
cold damp air from the open end. Near that end were several unoccupied
bunks, one of which Tommy decided must be for him.
