
It was commencing to get dark outside, and colder, too. The little flyer
huddled closer to the stove and smoked a cigaret. Somebody must come in
before long. Somebody did.

There was a clatter on the duckboards outside and a horde of flying
lieutenants trouped in, making loud noises and crowding around the
stove. Tommy scanned their faces anxiously, but there was nobody there
he knew. A tall, thin man eyed him in a friendly manner, and Tommy asked
him to help him with his baggage. The other assented readily, and they
excavated the large French trunk and fancy bed roll which marked a man
who had enlisted in Paris, and one by one dragged them inside.

“You might as well take this bunk next to me and Fat,” said the tall
man, who was known as Long John. “We got left behind for a day in Paris
by accident, and when we got here the barrack was almost full up, so we
had to take bunks near the end. What ground school did you go to?”

“I never went to ground school,” returned Tommy. “I was an ambulance
driver and enlisted in Paris.”

He looked around curiously at his companions in the barrack. They were
of an unfamiliar genus, men who had had their preliminary training and
got their commissions in the States.

There were various strange divisions in the early days of the Air
Service in France. At the French school at Tours there were, outwardly
at least, several different breeds of Americans. First the Foreign
Legion trained there, and then a lost or strayed detachment of American
gobs. Then the Army started enlisting men in Paris, mostly former
ambulance drivers, who continued the old feud between the American
Ambulance and Norton Harjes, but united in scorn for those whose service
had been confined to the Mexican Border.

Then one day a body of men marched into camp in column of fours, a
military evolution which the ambulance drivers regarded with pitying
contempt.

“Who are those men?” the question ran around.

“Ground school men,” was the reply, and the ex-ambulanciers immediately
joined together in one clique against the others.

Now Tommy was meeting a new division in the ranks of the flyers--those
who had not only been to ground school, but had had preliminary flying
training in the States.

He inquired after various of his friends, only to find that they had
been transferred to a more advanced field; and, realizing that more than
an hour still remained before supper, he started down the road toward a
house he had noticed when the truck brought him to the field. Perhaps he
might find a drink there, and possibly some one he knew. He was cold and
shivering and thought longingly of the woolen underwear sent him by an
aunt, which was buried in his trunk. For years he had worn nothing but
so-called athletic underwear, but the time had evidently come to change.

He approached the house, a solitary farm, but still somehow suggestive
of liquid refreshment. The door stood open hospitably, and he walked in.
His nose had not deceived him, for though there was no one in the room,
a small bar stood along one end, and when the gnarled, stooped lady of
the establishment came in, he ordered a glass of rum. The strong liquor
warmed him.

There was a puttering roar outside, and a motorcycle pulled up at the
door. Tommy observed the evident agitation of the Madame with surprise.
Then a man with a hard face came inside. He looked at Tommy
threateningly.

“Have a drink,” invited the little pilot in friendly tones.

He hated to drink alone, even if he was cold. The other, who wore a
brassard around his arm like a stretcher bearer in the French army,
agreed in a surly manner. Tommy wondered who the fellow was as he gulped
his drink, and waited to see if the other would return the compliment,
as was in vogue in those days. He didn’t, and Tommy turned to leave.

“Hey, feller,” said the surly one. “Guess I’ll have another one.”

“Sure, if you like,” answered Tommy, surprised.

He ordered and paid for another round. There was something peculiar here
that he didn’t understand. Just then there was the sound of another
motorcycle outside.

“The officer of the day!” exclaimed the tough man with the arm band,
rushing out. Tommy heard his voice raised placatingly.

“Yes, sir,” it said. “I just went in to see if there was anybody inside,
but there was no one there.”

“All right, get on with the patrol,” said another voice.

The two motorcycles roared away. Tommy was bewildered. He left the café
and walked back to the barrack. Perhaps he could find out there what it
all meant. Although he bore lieutenant’s bars on his shoulders, he was
as innocent of the Army and its ways as a baby.
