
It was dark by that time, but he could see them trouping into a brightly
lighted building, and he followed. There they had formed in line, and
were approaching a counter behind which stood cropheaded fat men who
were ladling out what Tommy’s nose told him was food.

As they were served the flyers hurried away to seat themselves on long
benches at bare wooden tables and wolf their meal. Tommy accosted the
large man whom Long John had addressed as Fat, whose bulk had evidently
cut down his speed so that he was near to the end of the line.

“Say,” he asked, “where do I get some of those things they eat out of?”

“What, ain’t you got no messkit?” queried Fat. “You’ll have to draw one
in the morning. For tonight you’d better borrow Long John’s. He’s always
in the head of the line when the doors open, and he eats faster than any
man in the outfit. But where have you been in the Army not to have a
messkit?”

“We always ate in the canteen at the French flying school until the
Y.M.C.A. came along and closed it up because they served wine there,”
answered Tommy. “They made a speech about the evils of drink and were
going to serve chocolate instead, but the chocolate never came. After
that we generally ate at the Greasy Spoon across the road, because they
didn’t serve anything but boiled beef and boiled potatoes at the mess
hall, but even there they furnished dishes.”

“Well, you’ll get no dishes furnished here,” said Fat. “But look, there
goes Long John already. Follow him out to the tubs, and get his messkit
when he gets through washing it.”

Tommy trailed the tall man out into the cold, dark night, where several
dim forms could be seen and heard slopping around near two large tubs on
the ground. As John rose from his task and shook his tools in lieu of
wiping them, Tommy accosted him and borrowed the messkit. Then he rushed
back into the mess hall just in time to get the last of the slum. He
eyed the German K. P.’s with some misgiving.

It occurred to him that it would be a fine opportunity for some
patriotic Boche to wash out the American Air Service by a judicious
application of ground glass or rough-on-rats, but he ate the slum, which
was fairly good, though Teutonically greasy.

Then he went outside to the tubs, where the late eaters were still
trying to wash their utensils. By this time the water was stone cold,
and full of fragments of food. Cries for more hot _Wasser_ rent the air,
but the German K. P.’s only stood in their warm kitchen and laughed, and
made guttural and doubtless insulting remarks in reply. After the iron
discipline of their own army, they were tickled pink at the opportunity
to insult any kind of officer, even an American aviator, who was the
lowest of the low. Tommy wiped most of the grease out of his dish with
his handkerchief and then returned the mess kit to Long John at the
barrack with an apology.

The tall man and Fat were about to start for the operations room to find
out the schedule for the next day, and invited Tommy to come along. On
the bulletin board he found that he had been assigned to Section 13.
Various other changes in sections were posted, but the last one took his
eye. It read:

    1st. Lieut. John Smith, A. S. S. O. R. C.
    Transferred from Section 3 to Death in Line of Duty.
    by order of
                   --HERMAN KRAUSE, MAJOR, SIGNAL CORPS.

“What’s the idea ordering some guy to ‘Death in Line of Duty’?” he asked
Long John.

“Huh? Oh, they always do that when some bird gets bumped,” answered the
tall man. “You’re in Section 13, same as me. We go to rotary motors in
the morning, and then machine gun.”

“What do you mean, rotary motors?” inquired Tommy.

“Oh, they’ve got one of these Le Rhone motors like they have in the
Nieuports mounted on a block over at the hangars, and some goof gives a
lecture about it, and then we practise twiddling the little
levers--‘manettes’, they call ’em--that make it go. We’ve had it four or
five times already. They always give it to us when they can’t think of
anything else for us to do.”

“But I’ve flown hundreds of miles with rotary motors,” Tommy exclaimed.
“I made all my _voyages_ and my altitude test for my brevet with them.”

“Never mind that,” returned Long John. “You’ll probably have all the
more lectures about ’em on that account.”

They returned to the barrack, and Tommy started to unpack his things.
From his bed roll he produced a pair of rubber boots, made in such a
close imitation of regulation officers’ boots that it took a close
inspection to see that they weren’t the real article.

“What a trick for roll call mornings,” exclaimed Fat, looking at them
enviously. “You know we have roll call at six o’clock, and then we have
to wait until seven for breakfast. Most of the fellows just put on boots
and overcoats to stand the call, and then come back to bed again. You
can pull those things on in a minute and get by with them.”

“A good idea,” proclaimed Tommy, and went to bed with that idea in mind.
He was going to dig out his heavy underwear that night, but decided that
it was too cold, and that he would do it in the morning.
