
Next morning Tommy woke with a start. He was cold and cramped from the
night on the narrow bunk with insufficient blankets, and for a moment he
thought that he was back in the ambulance sleeping on a stretcher. Then
he saw the other flyers rushing out of the barrack and realized where he
was. He rolled quickly out of his bunk, dragged on the rubber boots,
shuffled into his trench coat, which barely covered his bare knees,
grabbed his hat and ran out after them, only to slip and come tumbling
out of the barrack head first, amid hoarse guffaws from the other
sufferers lined up outside. It had snowed a couple of inches during the
night, and the sharp flakes bit into his tender knees. He scrambled to
his feet and lined up with the rest.

The short, fat captain to whom he had reported the day before called the
roll in his squeaky voice, and then at the top of his lungs cried--

“Squads right!”

A horrified look ran up and down the scantily clad ranks, but the
“March!” followed grimly and inevitably. The captain, who had been a
real estate broker two short months before, had forgotten to have them
call off, and they broke into a milling mob.

“As you were!” he howled.

The ranks formed again, after a considerable delay, during which several
men tried to sneak around the corner of the barrack, and the captain
finally got them marched away. To Tommy, as well as to the late realtor,
and most of the rest, it was a doleful hike. With every step, the man in
front scuffed snow and equally cold mud up against his bare, raw knees,
and soon his boots were full.

In other parts of the great field where they marched there were other
processions of unfortunates, one of flying cadets, one of cadets, and
also several companies of mechanics. They, however, had the advantage of
expecting the march, and were fully dressed. Most of the flying
lieutenants were not. But at last it came to an end, and in the doubtful
shelter of the barrack once more Tommy wiped the mud from his cold wet
knees with a towel.

“Where can I take a bath?” he asked Long John.

John cackled with raucous glee.

“Bath?” he snorted. “Hey, guys, here’s an _hombre_ wants to know where
he can take a bath.”

“Bath?” said Fat. “Why, Paris is the last place I had a bath, and I
don’t expect to have another one till I die and go back there. You’ll
get no baths here. There’s a bath-house in town, but you can’t go there,
for the post’s been quarantined ever since it was started. The M.P.’s
know that anybody that goes A. W. O. L. will want a bath, so they keep a
special guard over the bath-house to pick you up, just like at the
barrooms.”

They dressed, went to the mess hall for beans, washed their mess kits,
and then formed in sections to march to classes. First Section 13 spent
an hour standing around in the blast from the propeller of a rotary
motor, and then went to an unheated barrack to handle the icy parts of a
Lewis machine gun. After which they were allowed to escape to the Red
Cross hut and buy some hot coffee. Hardly had they reached this haven
when an orderly entered.

“Lieutenant Lang,” he bawled. “Is Lieutenant Lang here?”

Tommy took an envelope addressed to him, signed for it and opened it
with apprehension. This was well justified, for the letter told him to
assume command of the 946th Aero Squadron upon its arrival at the field.
He showed it to Fat and Long John, who once more burst into laughter.

“Can you imagine the lucky little stiff?” John inquired of the world in
general. “Here’s a guy knows so little about the Army that he doesn’t
even know an M.P. when he sees one, and here he gets command of a
squadron. You’ll get out of reveille and standing morning formation on
that, and have an orderly to shine your boots for you. You can have them
build off a separate room for you in their barrack with a stove in it.
Pretty soft for a squadron commander, I’ll say.”

“But what will I command them to do?” Tommy asked anxiously.

“Let Old Krause and the adjutant worry about that,” returned John.
“They’ll find plenty of commands for you. But turn everything over to
your top sergeant and make him do it. Tell him, ‘Look here, Sergeant, if
you won’t bother me, I won’t bother you.’ Then all you have to do is
look wise and sign the papers that the sergeant-major or staff sergeant
bring you, and keep out of Krause’s way.”
