
When the squadron arrived Tommy followed John’s half joking advice and
found that it succeeded admirably. The men partitioned off one end of
the barrack after they got it up, and there made an office for the
sergeant-major and one for Tommy, in which he set up a G. M. cot. Of
course, this office had to have a stove, and so it served splendidly for
quiet games of stud which continued long after lights were out in the
quarters of the flying lieutenants less fortunate than Tommy and his
cronies. And he got along well in his command by keeping out of sight,
and signing unquestioningly the morning reports, rosters, ration reports
and whatnots his sergeants brought him.

But one morning the sergeant-major approached him with a troubled face.

“I don’t know what to do about this, Lieutenant,” he said, holding out a
letter. “I sent it to the adjutant three times and he always sends it
back marked ‘Incorrect.’ You see, they have held up Corporal Letar’s pay
on account of a tailors’ bill against him for twenty-five cents for
repairing his breeches at Shenannigan Field, Texas. Now here is his
service record, and it shows a deduction of a quarter made there in July
for fixing his breeches, and he says that’s the only time he ever had it
done, but they’ve been holding up his pay for three months.”

“Holding up his pay, have they?” said Tommy angrily. “Sent the letter
back three times? We’ll see about that. I’ll take it up to the adjutant
myself.”

He entered the adjutant’s office and spoke loudly:

“Say, what’s all this, about Corporal Letar’s pants? Here’s the letter
all O. K.--just as his service record shows. ‘Twenty-five cents was
deducted from Corporal Letar’s pay in July at Shenannigan Field, Texas,
for repairing his pants.’”

“Ah, that’s what’s wrong,” replied the adjutant smoothly. “Where’s your
grammar? Haven’t you ever been to school? What you should say is:
‘Twenty-five cents were deducted from Corporal Letar’s pay at
Shenannigan Field, Texas--’”

“What’s this?” burst an angry roar from an inner office, as Major Krause
rushed out. “What’s all this about pants? Who’s this talking about
pants? Don’t you know there’s no such thing in the United States Army as
pants? Who are you, young man?”

Tommy stood speechless at the outburst. Why, oh why, hadn’t he kept on
following Long John’s advice about keeping out of sight?

“This is Lieutenant Lang, sir,” said the adjutant silkily, “the
commanding officer of the 946th Aero Squadron on this Post. We were
discussing a very serious error in one of his reports.”

“Oh, it is, is it?” said Major Krause angrily. “I was going to send for
you. I issued orders that all commanding officers of organizations on
this post should personally give their units an hour’s close order drill
every morning. Yesterday morning I saw a sergeant drilling your
squadron. Where were you, sir? Why weren’t you drilling them yourself?”

“Why,” blurted Tommy, “I don’t know how to drill ’em. I never drilled
anybody in my life!”

“What? You, a commissioned officer in the United States Army, stand
there and admit that you are not capable of drilling the men under your
command? Well, sir, you are hereby relieved from that command. Remove
yourself and your belongings from the 946th Squadron’s barrack at once,
to make room for your successor. And, young man, remember this: Never
give ‘You don’t know how’ as an excuse in the United States Army. If you
don’t know how, learn how! If you get an order, do it, and if you can’t
do it, do as near it as you can. That will do. You may go.”
