
Tommy dragged himself away disconsolately, and had a couple of men of
his late command carry his stuff back to the barrack with the open end.
It was colder than ever now, after the warm quarters from which he had
been ousted. But on the other hand, perhaps this was a blessing in
disguise. He had been flying lately, and had graduated from the penguins
whose wings were too short to fly, and from the gawky twenty-three meter
Nieuports, and now he was on the eighteens.

He ought to be finished with them soon, and then he would be due to move
away from the main field to Field 5 for the smaller, faster fifteen
meter machines. Perhaps there would have been some hitch about going if
he’d been hooked up with the squadron, but now he could leave as soon as
he was ready.

And he was ready to go somewhere, too. He’d now been quarantined at
Issy-la-Boue for over a month and hadn’t been able to leave the post for
a bath. If it wasn’t the measles or the mumps it was the chicken pox, or
somebody had a sore toe. There was a spreading line of red blotches
around his waist, and he knew only too well what it was. The scabies!
And from his experience with the French he knew there was only one
cure--hot sulphur baths with a scrubbing brush, and plenty of them. They
had them at the bath-house in town, but he couldn’t get away. However,
perhaps something would turn up; it always did, sooner or later.

It did the next day. He finished flying early, and returned to the
barrack. As he came in, the telephone rang and he answered. An excited
voiced called:

“Hello, is this the Main Field? This is Field 5. Tommy Lang just crashed
here in an eighteen.”

“Hah?” said Tommy.

“Yeah, deader’n a doornail, too. The whole top of his head’s gone above
the eyes. An awful mess. The only way we knew who it was by his
mustache.”

The spreader of bad news hung up, leaving Tommy dazed. He pinched
himself to make sure that he was alive. It must be Phil who had crashed.
He had a mustache like Tommy’s own, but he was about six feet tall,
while Tommy was nearer five. However, no doubt he had been crumpled up
like an accordion in the fall. Then Tommy had another thought. He seized
the telephone receiver and called the adjutant.
