
Later that evening when the orderly came to the operations office with
notices for the bulletin board Tommy was waiting for him. An hour later
found him luxuriating in a hot sulphur bath in the town of Issy-la-Boue.
He had caught a ride on a French truck from the field, and there had
been no M.P.’s on duty when he went in. When he came out there were two
near the door, but the night was pitch dark, and they were wrangling
about something--a girl, apparently--and he passed unnoticed. Then he
sought a hotel.

The madame in charge was cordial and voluble.

But yes, she had plenty of room. That _sale guerre_! There were hardly
any commercial travelers nowadays. And then that _salaud_ of a chief
American gendarme who spent nothing himself, and forbade her hotel to
other brave Americans who would! Indeed, he had closed all the cafés and
hotels in town to his countrymen, and opened a café of his own,
importing two _petites femmes_ from Paris to run it for him. But there
was another American officer--a man very distinguished--at her hotel who
appeared lonesome. Perhaps this worthy monsieur would like to join him.

She led Tommy to a small office of some sort, wherein a man in American
uniform was sitting gloomily alone before a bottle of wine. The little
pilot recoiled at sight of the gold leaves on his shoulders, but it
wasn’t Major Krause who sat there. On this major’s blouse were the
_Legion of Honor_, the _Medaille Militaire_, and the _Croix de Guerre_
with many palms, instead of the jingling hardware Krause carried to show
that he was a marksman or something; and this man’s face lit up with a
welcoming smile, instead of the congested dignity habitual with the
commanding officer of the flying field of Issy-la-Boue. Tommy gasped as
he realized that he was in the presence of the great ace himself!

He sat down at the other’s invitation and had a glass of wine. They
joined in lamenting the fact that they couldn’t hang all M.P.’s on the
meat-hooks in front of butcher shops as the _poilus_ did the gendarmes
at Verdun, and agreed that the French are a great people.

“Look at me,” said the ace gloomily. “When I took this commission I had
no idea that they were going to order me away from the front, but now
all the others are killing more Boches and getting ahead of me while I
rot in this hole. They sent me back here to help train you fellows, but
Major Krause wouldn’t pay any attention to what I said, so I left. I
heard some guy who had never flown over the front give you a lecture on
how to do it, and when he said that if you got lost over Germany the way
to find out where you were was to fly down and read the name on some
railway station, I couldn’t bear it any more. I don’t know what the
devil to do--I’m not doing any good around here.”

His gloom was justified. A few months later he was shot down in flames
in a machine condemned by the French.

They heard the voice of the madame raised in loud objurgations outside,
but there was a knock at the door, and immediately a man entered. He
wore the uniform of a first lieutenant, and on his arm the brassard of
an M.P. But his truculence subsided into oiliness at the sight of the
major’s leaves.

“Excuse me, Major,” he said, “but orders are very strict, you know.
Major Krause is very particular that no flying officer should leave the
post under any conditions. I beg your pardon, Lieutenant, but have you
got a pass?”

“He’s with me,” said the ace shortly.

“Oh,” said the M.P. uncertainly, and went out. He wasn’t sure exactly
what the ace’s status was, but his rank was plain enough, and the M.P.
was afraid of burning his fingers.

“Wait till that guy catches me alone,” said Tommy.

“Stick around with me,” said the ace. “Krause doesn’t quite know what to
do about me yet, for I’ve got a pull in Paris, and he’s let me alone
since I left the field.”
