
For three days Tommy did stick, and lived the life of Riley, sleeping in
a good bed, eating good meals, drinking good wine and taking sulphur
baths twice a day. At the end of that time his scabies was gone.

“I guess I’d better be getting back to the field,” he told the ace. “I
want to get through there and get to the front. I took an awful chance
going A. W. O. L, but maybe my little scheme will work on Krause. If it
doesn’t, and he takes me off flying I’ll be sunk. Think I might as well
go out and let that M.P. pick me up and give me a ride back to camp.”

He shook hands with the ace, and walked out and down the street alone.

He hadn’t gone far when a Ford drew up beside him and stopped. In the
front seat was the M.P. lieutenant, and behind a hard-boiled sergeant
with a .45.

“Hey,” said the lieutenant in rough tones, “let’s see your pass.”

“I ain’t got a pass,” the little man returned.

“All right, then, you’re under arrest. Get in here, and I’ll take you
out to the field.”

Tommy obeyed meekly, and they rode along without conversation. Presently
he was ushered into the presence of Major Krause.

“What?” growled the major. “In town without a pass, eh? What have you
got to say for yourself, young man?”

“Well,” Tommy replied, “the other day you told me never to question an
order in the Army, and if I couldn’t obey an order to come as near it as
I could.”

“What rigamarole is this?” asked Major Krause angrily. “Do you mean to
stand there and tell me I ordered you to go A. W. O. L?”

“Not exactly, sir,” answered Tommy respectfully, “but you see this order
here. I couldn’t see my way clear to carry it out, so I thought I’d
better leave here so as not to embarrass you.”

Major Krause looked at the paper Tommy extended and his eyes goggled.
His face became more congested than ever, and wrinkles corrugated his
brow. What could he do? If he court-martialed this young idiot this
order would undoubtedly be his defense, and Krause’s dignity, a
carefully tended hothouse plant of uncertain virility, could hardly
survive. So he waved his arms in a furious gesture of dismissal and
gurgled like an active volcano, and Tommy saluted and left discreetly.

The paper he had given Krause read:

    1st. Lieut. Thomas Lang, A. S. S. O. R. C.
    Transferred from Section 13 to Death in Line of Duty.
    by order of
                    --HERMAN KRAUSE, MAJOR, SIGNAL CORPS.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 1, 1928 issue
of Adventure magazine.]

