
Somehow she was down there before Grant. He saw her, huddled over
Tony's body, as he finally reached an open gate in the domed screen.
On the opposite edge of the court, Psycho-sport Commissioner Woods was
in conversation with the referee, Harmon. A flash bulb glowed. Three
reporters looked at the fallen player and spoke casually to each other.
Towering above the group was Slag, staring down as if surprised.

Grant went first to the Commissioner, who adopted a defensive attitude
immediately, throwing up his hands.

"Don't jump on _me_, now. It seems I am helpless. Ask Harmon yourself.
There was nothing wrong that he could see."

"That's nonsense," said Grant, "and you know it. No matter who it is,
a ball will not smash into an awake player. It simply cannot be done.
Even a novice can overcontrol his opponent at that range."

"Right. It couldn't have happened." Sarcasm indicated the worry felt by
Woods. "Damn it, Lane, that's the way it is. Harmon watched like a hawk
in his bubble. The dome was sealed; not a single leak. Slag's second
crouched behind the shield and never moved. I personally supervised
Anthony's examination. He was in perfect condition. The only thing yet
to check is the ball, but the ball...."

"You have it? Never mind, no ball invented could do that alone. Tony
could handle any ball, even without the new sensitive core. And in a
hundred games every day, they don't ever have this sort of accident."

"Just when Slag plays." The Commissioner touched Grant's arm
helplessly. "The force of the man's mind must be terrible, Lane. He
must be a superman. But what am I going to do? If I outlaw him without
legal grounds...." He stopped, gulped nervously.

"There may be no grounds from your point of view and theirs." Grant
gestured at the crowd struggling through the exits. "But there are from
mine. If I'm to remain Honorary President of the Association, Slag has
got to go. That's final!"

Woods said, "Lane, you could stop this another way. If you don't, and
you put Slag out, they will think...." But Grant was already hurrying
over to Bee Anthony.

More people joined the group and talk died away as uniformed men bent
down to the prone figure. Bee sobbed in Grant's arms. Her mind was
withdrawn, grieving, and he patted her awkwardly while he thought of
how much these young twins had come to mean to him in the years since
he began his research in metaphysics. Just children, they had seemed at
first. He had been young. Doctor Lane, graduate of '52 on fellowship,
and they were the kids he had worked with, who had shown remarkable
powers of the mind.

Tony and himself--they had formulated the methods which still governed
the cultivation of telekinesis. Grant had discovered--the principles,
but it was the successful results of the Anthony boy's training
which paved the way for others to learn. Yet Bee was different. No
amount of tutoring could help her influence an object with her mind.
Different, but not inferior, for Bee was a telepath. With intimates
her conversation was most strange--much of it understood, yet left
unspoken.

Grant was one of the intimates. Her silent sorrow would have found him
at any distance, but now he tried to evade it, because Tony was gone
and Woods had come over to face the reporters--and Slag.

"Mister Woods," began one of the men, but the Commissioner raised a
hand and turned to the giant player.

"You have had my personal warning, Slag. Do you think I will allow you
to carry on your ugly career? Why, man, you're lucky the courts have
not ruled you a murderer!"

"It's not my fault," Slag said. "I didn't _try_ to smash him, honest. I
don't know my own strength, I guess."

Bee's reddened eyes stared at the man, and Grant whispered, "Darling,
can you tell?"

"You know their minds are closed to me. I just feel ... something
_evil_. I must get out of here. Please, Grant, take me away."

Behind Slag the little blond man Teagle, manager and second of the
professional, spoke up. "Like Slag says, Commissioner, it isn't his
fault. These fast-thinking players match him, get him all excited in
the court, and then wonder why they get knocked down. They just don't
have the stuff to match a champ."

"Slag is the only man ever warned to pull his shots," agreed a
reporter who was taking notes.

"Gentlemen!" Woods turned to Grant. "All of us here respect the opinion
of Dr. Lane, who brought this sport into being and who is, in my
estimation, its greatest exponent. I have consulted with him. If he is
to retain any connection whatever with the game, he informs me, Slag
must get out."

There was silence. The men stared first at the florid-faced
Commissioner, then at Grant.

"More than personal considerations are involved," added Woods. "Slag's
brutal style of play, according to Dr. Lane, endangers the entire
future of this grand sport."

The black-robed player looked around for support. Little Teagle pushed
in front of the Commissioner. "You mean that has-been," he pointed at
Grant, "is trying to get rid of my boy? It ain't fair, I say. Even when
he tries to take it easy, Slag has it tough. They're scared, and won't
match us--even these amateurs. And yet look what we've done to pep the
game up!"

"You may be right, Mister Teagle. All things considered, however, I
feel the merit of Dr. Lane's suggest--"

"Who is this Lane?" The little man's face was fierce. "So he starts the
game, and invents the ball, so what? They used to call him a champ,
the _master_, but that's a long time ago. Now that he's out, he don't
like Slag coming up so strong. It kills him that he ain't the best any
more."

"That will be all for tonight. In the morning I'll have an official
release ready." The reporters were tense, anxious to miss nothing.
"And, gentlemen, you have a good idea of the nature of that statement."

"Wait! I'm telling you," said Teagle. "We've tried to get a match with
this Lane. Here it is, boys, the real truth. The guy wants Slag out
because he's scared to meet him. Right here and now we challenge him!
And I bet he hasn't got the guts to take us up."

"I feel," said Woods, "that a scientist like Dr. Lane should not be
subjected to this ... this insolence."

The reporters ran toward the exit, eager to call in this news break.

Grant said nothing. Aware of Bee's feelings, he shot a look of contempt
at Teagle and turned. Yet he knew, as they walked slowly away, that
behind him were no feelings of good will. At best, the men awaited his
next move--and until then suspended judgment.
