
In three days the city became for Grant Lane a savage jungle. The
papers shrieked at him Teagle's endless insults, Slag's boastful
challenge. Each statement by the Commissioner cleverly shifted more
responsibility from Woods to himself, and the tragic end of yet
another match was played down until it appeared that Slag, and not his
opponent, was the injured party.

After all, was his crowd-convincing argument, did they jail
professional fighters in the old days when one was killed? Just a
little accident in the heat of fair contest; it was no more than
that. Yet there _was_ more, this time. People appeared unsatisfied,
disapproving of Grant, as if he should offer himself as a sacrifice
to their sympathy with Slag. The one time he went restlessly into the
streets, they watched him sullenly, waiting....

He kept to his apartment after that, and studied furiously. No man
_could_ overcontrol an awake opponent in a direct shot--if the ball was
all right. As the ball closed in, the approached player's influence
grew proportionately stronger, while his opponent's lessened in inverse
ratio. That was the reason Grant had originally declared the sport to
be safe.

He interrupted his work only briefly for Tony's funeral, and felt an
obscure shame in facing Bee Anthony. Then the cellular organism of
the sphere used in the game absorbed his attention again. It was an
artificially nurtured nerve-center, a growth devised by himself, and
seemed to offer the only possible answer. _Perhaps this sub-life had
acquired learning ability--the ability to act independently._ It seemed
absurd, and yet how much was really known of this highly irritable
stuff called living matter?

Bee found him at his apartment the fourth morning. She seemed much more
relaxed. "Tony hated useless grief," she said. "I had to come here,
Granny. I had to know that we might see the end of all this."

"Yes." Grant still felt a vague shame. "We'll have to stop Slag short,
before he adds any more victims."

"Oh, it's more than that! It's the people, too, and the knowledge that
more Slags may appear. If all the matches suddenly...." She broke off,
frowning, as if uncertain whether to continue. "You see, Granny, Tony
decided to play because of that. It wasn't even the charities, really.
The people distrust you. Not just because you were wrong, but because
they are suspicious of any probing into the powers of mind. They prefer
fantasy to scientific hypothesis, and now Slag's triumphs...." She
faltered, and unhappily twisted her face away.

"But Tony could have crushed Slag, too."

"You know that was different. He had Slag hypnotized first. But Tony
was awake when the ball struck!"

"You're right, Bee. Frankly, I don't know what the answer could be. I'm
working on the core of the ball. There is a chance--"

"I'm sure it was something else! Granny, have you thought of the
screen? There must have been a leak, or a failure. Think of that crowd,
hoping for their hero. Suppose they subconsciously influenced the
sphere, directed it at Tony."

He thought of the mob's reaction when Slag was helpless, and kept
silent. It would be cruel to blast her one hope with nothing to offer
in exchange.

"You think I'm wrong, but what else would it be? The ball couldn't kill
Tony by itself." Then she was in tears. "I should have been there to
stop it. He wouldn't take a second--I begged him to let me--and I would
have _sensed_ any outside influence!"

Grant recognized the guilt feelings she was suffering from. He tried
to give comfort, but suddenly she was a woman, proud and independent,
and would not stay. Only at the door for one moment did she turn
appealingly to him.

"Granny, you're not going to play Slag!"

"Do you want me to? Should I obey the roar of the mob? And look!" He
gestured at one of the papers, where a center-page box proclaimed,
'Commissioner Rules Out Lane-Slag Match.' "At thirty-seven they say I'm
too old to play."

"Don't do it, Grant." He felt her conflicting, torn emotions. "Yet, the
funny thing is, I don't think I could live if they allow Slag to go on
and on."
