
Grant's apartment was ill-equipped for working with micro-organisms.
So, although preliminary study opened up no encouraging line of
experimentation, next day he transferred his work to the university
laboratories. He found his colleagues friendly--one had cheerfully
handled Grant's lectures during his absence--but reserved, as if they
suspected him to be guilty of some terrible sin, yet hoped he might
prove himself innocent.

Barker, the bio-chemist, listened to his theory of the probability of
change in the nerve center of the ball. "I have not worked with these
cultures," he said. "You claim they are artificially produced solely
to provide a focal receptor for the controlling minds. Are the cells
non-reproductive?"

"Yes. You see, the structure must be stable. Any mind can provide the
necessary power to move light objects short distances, but focusing
that power is the difficulty. Hence the sensitive core. The operator
can _sense_ where to direct his will."

Barker reflected a moment. "So the culture is purely static--doesn't
even amplify the influence. In that case, I can only visualize such
changes as natural radiation might bring about. No hope there for a
recurrent pattern of change."

"Learning ability--acquisition of power to act voluntarily--I thought
the answer might be in that."

"We'll see. Might as well begin there, anyway. Get us a few of the
balls, Lane, and I'm sure the staff will gladly try to help out."

That evening Grant walked onto the court of the Colliseum and was made
certain of the city's anger toward him. Bee's idea was worth testing,
and he had brought with him some student telepaths, but the instant
he appeared the crowd rose in a storm of fury. When the announcer
requested spectators to direct the ball at Grant, their wrath gave
way to cheers, and they concentrated hopefully on crushing him. But
the screen held, the telepaths sensed no invading influence as Grant
whirled the ball about the court, until in disgust he signaled for the
screen to be deactivated.

Instantly the will of the crowd took hold. The sphere jerked
erratically until concerted influence steadied it opposite Grant. Then
it flashed into motion, a heavy, deadly missile, with all the mind
power of a mob driving it murderously across the court at him.

He stopped it easily, six inches away.
