
Out on the court it was anger he felt, anger at Slag, who stood
opposite and bowed to the noisy throng, anger at Teagle, who chanted
insults until ordered behind the second's shield, at the spectators,
packing the Colliseum in hopes of seeing a player maimed or killed--and
Bee Anthony, even at Bee.

She had defied him, bribed her way in to act as his second, and had
slipped behind the shield at his side of the court. In front of those
jeering faces, it was out of the question to make her leave.

There was a roar as the ball dropped from the referee's overhead
bubble. Grant left it to Slag, let the man shoot crudely several times,
and fought to calm himself. The shots were forceful, but easily stopped
and returned. It was like Tony's match, almost too slow at first. Until
the players became absorbed, it was hopeless to attempt any kind of
hypnotic effects with the ball.

Slag swung the sphere into rapid circles about the court. The crowd
watched silently, as if impressed by the player's control. To Grant
it was absurd--he knew that any trained child could execute the
movements. And yet, Tony must have felt so, too. But that was before--

The ball dropped on him like a hawk, and he almost laughed. To give
the gasping crowd a thrill, he barely deflected the shot, and feigned
amazement. Slag retrieved control.

Beneath the sudden amusement, Grant was uneasy. Slag had never won a
_real_ victory--never dazed or hypnotized an opponent before striking.
All his triumphs rested on single, smashing thrusts. How was it
possible? With such clumsy control, the professional could never set up
a victory--yet the record stood. Grant could not fathom the problem. If
the match went on forever, he could see no way for Slag to drop him.
And if he quickly whirled Slag into dazed defeat, the real mystery
might never be solved. His opponent would merely have suffered defeat
in a match not even recognized by the Commission.

Now he could guess why Tony had played carelessly. It was not only
victory that was sought. He had deluded himself in accepting such an
irresponsible way out. The whole affair depressed him, knotted itself
into mind-snaring tangles. The ball blurred again and he hardly cared,
only ducking to let it splat against the shield behind him. A spurt of
rage sent the sphere spinning back at Slag, but the other diverted it
easily into a screen-hugging orbit.

Tony, Slag, Woods and Teagle--they seemed to merge confusedly in his
mind. They stood, each in turn, at the door of an iron-barred cell. For
Grant, there was no way out. Win or lose, live or die, he was doomed.
The light dimmed in the cell. Just for an instant Bee appeared, her
hair throwing off sparks of brilliance. She, too, faded out. Neither
Bee the child, whom he did not love, nor Bee the woman, who did not
love him, could save him. Before him gaped the bottomless pit of shame
and penance. He had unloosed a monster on the world. He had to pay for
that.

But first Grant had another debt to pay. He tried to throw off the
depression, imagining as he did so a sob of joy in the disembodied Bee.
He wrested the sweeping ball from Slag, even from the opposite end of
the court. He spun it in wild orbits and compensated for the other's
furious thrusts. Faster and faster he circled it. Slag's mind could not
keep up the pace. The even swings acquired a jogging pattern, edged
farther out--to within ten feet of Slag. A quick break lanced behind
the man, out again, and then the sphere fell into helical loops, thrice
differentiated by harmonic variations, and swept wide around the court.

Somehow Slag's distress gave Grant no pleasure. Defeat seemed to face
him everywhere; he read it in his opponent's twisted features, even in
the futile effort to withdraw attention from the ball. _It's no good_,
he thought. _I have failed all along._

Savagely he worked the sphere. He would do it quickly. There was no
use expecting Tony's fate. The ball darted again for Slag and this
time there could be no interference. It became pure mathematics, the
motion, complicated far beyond Tony's simple _corondo_, a flashing
three-dimensional blur of color. He could not keep it up. The
concentration brought an invading blackness to his mind. Somewhere
there was a dull roar, and he felt as if his own mind were cracking.
His nerves quivered to put an end to it, to touch Slag with the ball.
Slowly, cautiously, he brought the sphere down....

Slag was not there!

He gaped. His eyes suddenly found the crumpled heap across the court,
and relief swept ever him. The man was beaten, in a state of collapse,
and there was nothing more Grant could do.

"Grant!" Bee screamed. "Oh, no! Grant darling, look up!"

Her radiance was almost blinding. He half-twisted to reach her, and
then his eyes caught it--the ugly sheen of the fast-growing ball.
Desperately he turned, and it shifted in unison. Then she shrieked
once more, despairingly, and he threw himself flat, arms outstretched,
toward her.

The ball's speed was so great that it shattered to pieces against the
shield behind him.

From back of the barrier ran Bee. She crouched beside him, and her
enveloping warmth lifted the evil spell from his mind. The loud
confusion of the crowd burst upon him, he saw the referee's swiftly
lowering bubble. He was in control of himself, thanks to Bee's
interference, and could act on the knowledge so dangerously gained.

"The murderer!" Grant pulled Bee up with him. "We've got him!"

Opposite them, Slag still lay on the court.

"I don't see how he did it," Grant said bewilderedly.

"Not Slag--_him_!" She pointed out the small, running figure.

Teagle battered vainly at a gate. The still-active screen held him
back, and the man's face was a despairing white grimace. Then Grant was
upon him, and took him by the throat.
