
And then he found himself toying with the thought of murdering Cahill.

With the other out of the way, the entire proceeds from the sale of
furs would be his. There would be no necessity to split. He could
start the fur ranch at once. He wouldn't have to spend another winter
in this vicious cold. He--

A dozen fascinating new possibilities opened up to Hager. It was as
though he had been blind and was able to see only now. Breath-taking
vistas blossomed before his awakened eyes. There was music in what he
visioned, music and the voices of women, bright lights, color,
movement, and the warmth of gentler climes.

The brightest part of the picture was that Cahill's death need not be
outright murder. The man was sick. His life depended on getting him
into the hands of the doctor in Moose Gulch as quickly as possible.

If Hager were simply to delay in reaching the settlement, Cahill would
die as surely as though from the thrust of a knife or the impact of a
bullet. Exposure to the biting cold would finish him. And nobody would
know. Hager could always claim that he had hurried as best he could
under the difficult, hampering circumstances of the storm, but that
Cahill had died on the way. As easy as that. If Marshal Art Maddox
stuck his long nose into the matter, Cahill's unmarked body would be
proof that there had been no foul play.

Hager felt satisfied that his scheme was without loopholes. The idea
had become a definite plan. And now his square lips hardened with
determination behind the scarf. He looked at Cahill, dozing feverishly
on the sled, with deep-set gray eyes that were bleak and implacable.

Cahill would never reach Moose Gulch alive.

With his grim purpose giving new drive to his actions, Hager glanced
about him. It was difficult to see through the curtain of snow that
hung between him and the landscape, but by squinting steadily through
momentary rifts made by the frigid, lashing wind, he was able
presently to discern that they were near the pass leading out of the
valley. Beyond the pass, he knew, was a forest, dipping down to the
banks of a frozen stream. The stream ran for several miles until it
branched into a river, which in turn led directly into Moose Gulch.
With these landmarks to guide him, a traveler through the snow-bound
wilderness could reach the settlement easily and quickly. But Hager
didn't intend to do that. He now had time to kill. He chuckled darkly
over the accuracy of the phrase.

Plodding toward the pass, he deliberately slowed his steps. He no
longer used the whip or shouted at the dogs for greater speed. The
animals were grateful for the respite. They slackened their pace,
tongues lolling and bushy tails waving as they bobbed in their plowed
path through the white drifts.

Cahill dozed on. Once or twice he moved restlessly amid the furs piled
about him. It was as though some deep, vague instinct warned him that
something was wrong.

Hager watched the other sharply for a time, then desisted to give his
attention to maneuvering the sled through the pass. The forest
appeared, the trees wraith-like under their thick, white mantles of
snow. Hager didn't follow the dip in the land that led toward the
frozen stream. He guided the dogs in the opposite direction and began
watching Cahill again. He hoped that the man would not awake until
less familiar territory surrounded them.

Cahill didn't awake. He dozed and tossed, his lips moving occasionally
in a soundless mutter. His gaunt, leathery face was pale under its
growth of grizzled whiskers.

The snow-covered land rose, became rocky and difficult. The dogs began
laboring with increasing weariness in their efforts to keep pulling
the heavy sled. Hager realized he couldn't go in this direction much
longer. When a ravine suddenly presented itself, relatively free of
snow, he decided to call a halt.
