
Hager made a generous gesture. "No bother at all." He watched as
Maddox left the room, grinning inwardly. Maddox apparently suspected
something in his snooping, suspicious way, but the only point of
attack he'd been able to find was one for which Hager had a
satisfactory explanation. Hager felt certain that he wouldn't be
questioned again. And with the snow blotting out the erratic trail the
sled had left, he was confident that he had nothing to fear from
Maddox any longer.

The grin crept out around his square lips. He was safe. He had
committed the perfect crime.

Hager checked in at the hotel, and after a pleasant evening spent at
one of Moose Gulch's two saloons, he returned and went to bed. He had
a restless night. The hotel was warm enough, and the covers on the bed
thick, but a strange feeling of cold seemed to envelop him. And though
he emptied the bottle of whisky he had brought with him, the cold
persisted.

He slept fitfully. Once he dreamed that he was tied, naked, to the
sled and being driven by Cahill through a terrific snow storm. The
cold was so intense it seared him like fire. He awoke, shivering, a
vivid recollection of Cahill's gaunt, accusing features in his mind.
Again he seemed to hear Cahill's dying promise.

"_You aren't going to get away with this, Matt. I'm going to get you.
I'm going to make you pay._"

And now, shuddering with that weird cold that seemed to enclose him
like a huge, vengeful fist, Hager wondered.

The cold remained with him in the days that followed. It not only
remained. It grew more unbearable.

Hager began to have a persecuted feeling. The cold stayed with him
wherever he went. Even near hot stoves, or in heated rooms, he felt
chilled. No one else seemed to notice it. The cold seemed intended for
him alone. More and more, he wondered about Cahill's threat.

He was materialistic. He didn't believe in ghosts. But he knew that
he was being haunted by an unnatural cold that nobody else seemed
able to feel.

He cast about for a method of escaping the cold. The obvious solution
was to leave Moose Gulch, as he had intended all along. In his mind
the cold was somehow connected with the settlement, through Cahill,
who was buried there. A trip to one of the warm, southern regions in
the States, he decided, should bring relief.

He sold the furs and with the money took passage on a plane that
operated between the settlement and a large town some distance away.
Continuing to travel by plane, he presently arrived in Seattle.

Still the cold remained with him. The miles he had put between Moose
Gulch and himself hadn't done any good.

Nothing seemed to help. Heavy clothes, nourishing foods, whisky,
vigorous exercise--nothing brought him the warmth he was beginning to
crave as an addict craves dope.

Desperately, he resumed his trip, traveling by air and then by train,
and finally grasping at any means of transportation that happened to
be most convenient. The cold traveled with him. It enveloped him like
a shell. It was an invisible prison, shutting him away from the world
of warmth.

The climate grew increasingly mild and balmy as he progressed
southward. But the chill that always surrounded him grew worse.

More often, now, he thought of Cahill's grim promise. "_I'm going to
get you. I'm going to make you pay._" It repeated itself over and over
in his mind. It was emphasized by the invisible blanket of cold
wrapped inescapably about him.

Once, in a hotel room where he had been drinking steadily, Hager's
despair rose in him to the point of madness. He leaped from the bed,
hurling an empty whisky bottle against the wall, screaming mingled
curses and entreaties.

"Damn you, Cahill, leave me alone! Haven't you had enough? How much
longer are you going to keep torturing me? Leave me alone, do you
hear? Leave me alone!"

Cahill didn't seem to hear. Or if he did, he paid no attention. The
cold stayed.
