
Spokesman Dorn, the Machine's executive officer, sitting beside
Administrator Bradshaw at a transparent desk on the raised platform to
Menesee's left, had enclosed the area about the prisoner with a sound
block and was giving a brief verbal resume of the background of the
situation. Few of the directors in the Tribunal Hall would have needed
such information; but the matter was being carried on the Grand
Assembly Circuit, and in hundreds of auditoriums on Earth the first
and second echelons of the officials of the Machine had gathered to
witness the interrogation of the Mars Convict spy.

The penal settlements on Mars had been established almost a century
earlier, for the dual purpose of mining the mineral riches of the
Fourth Planet and of utilizing the talents of political dissidents
with a scientific background too valuable to be wasted in research and
experimental work considered either too dangerous to be conducted on
Earth or requiring more space than could easily be made available
there. One of these projects had been precisely the development of
more efficient spacedrives to do away with the costly and tedious
manoeuverings required for travel even among the inner planets.

Work of such importance, of course, was supposed to be carried out
only under close guard and under the direct supervision of reliable
upper-echelon scientists of the Machine. Even allowing for criminal
negligence, the fact that the Mars Convicts were able to develop and
test their stardrive under such circumstances without being detected
suggested that it could not be a complicated device. They did, at any
rate, develop it, armed themselves and the miners of the other penal
settlements and overwhelmed their guards in surprise attack. When the
next ship arrived from Earth, two giant ore carriers and a number of
smaller guard ships had been outfitted with the drive, and the Mars
Convicts had disappeared in them. Their speed was such that only the
faintest and briefest of disturbances had been registered on the
tracking screens of space stations near Mars, the cause of which
remained unsuspected until the news came out.

Anything which could have thrown any light on the nature of the drive
naturally had been destroyed by the deserters before they left; and
the few Machine scientists who had survived the fighting were unable
to provide information though they were questioned intensively for
several years before being executed. What it added up to was that some
eighteen thousand sworn enemies of the Machine had disappeared into
space, equipped with an instrument of unknown type which plainly could
be turned into one of the deadliest of all known weapons.

The superb organization of the Machine swung into action instantly to
meet the threat, though the situation became complicated by the fact
that rumors of the manner in which the Mars Convicts had disappeared
filtered out to the politically dissatisfied on Earth and set off an
unprecedented series of local uprisings which took over a decade to
quell. In spite of such difficulties, the planet's economy was geared
over to the new task; and presently defenses were devised and being
constructed which would stop missiles arriving at speeds greater than
that of light. Simultaneously, the greatest research project in
history had begun to investigate the possibilities of either
duplicating the fantastic drive some scientific minds on Mars had come
upon--chiefly, it was concluded, by an improbable stroke of good
luck--or of matching its effects through a different approach. Since
it had been demonstrated that it could be done, there was no question
that in time the trained men of the Machine would achieve their goal.
Then the armed might of the Machine would move into space to take
control of any colony established by the Mars Convicts and their
descendants.

That was the basic plan. The task of developing a stardrive remained a
huge one because of the complete lack of information about the
direction organized research should take. That difficulty would be
overcome easily only by a second unpredictable twist of
fortune--unless one of the Mars Convicts' FTL ships ventured close
enough to Earth to be captured.

The last had now happened. The ship had been destroyed before it could
be investigated, so that advantage was again lost. The ship's pilot,
however, remained in their hands. The fact that he disclaimed having
information pertinent to the drive meant nothing. So far as he knew,
he might very well be speaking the truth. But he had piloted a ship
that employed the stardrive, was familiar with instruments which
controlled it, had been schooled in their use. A detailed
investigation of his memories could not fail to provide literally
hundreds of meaningful clues. And the Machine's scientists, in their
superficially still fruitless search for the nature of the drive, had,
in fact, covered basic possibilities with such comprehensive
thoroughness that a few indisputably valid clues would show them now
what it _must_ be.
