
Menesee felt pain surge through his left arm. It was not nearly as
acute a sensation as the previous pulse had been, but it lasted
longer--a good ten seconds. Menesee let his breath out carefully as it
again ebbed away.

He heard the spokesman saying, "Rainbolt's claim appears to be
verified. I've received a report that the pulse was being experienced
in one of the auditoriums ... and, yes ... now in several."

Rainbolt nodded. "It was a valid claim, believe me, sir!" he said
earnestly. "The applications of our principles have been very
thoroughly explored, and the effects are invariable. Naturally, our
strategem would have been useless if I'd been able to maintain contact
only long enough to provide you with a demonstration of Oneness. Such
a contact can be broken again, of course. But until I act deliberately
to break it, it maintains itself automatically.

"To make that clear, I should explain that distance, direction and
intervening shielding materials do not change the strength of the
contact. Distance at least does not until it is extended to
approximately fifty thousand miles."

"And what happens then?" the spokesman asked, watching him.

"At that point," Rainbolt acknowledged, "Oneness contacts do become
tenuous and begin to dissolve." He added, almost apologetically,
"However, that offers you no practical solution to your problem."

"Why not?" Dorn asked. He smiled faintly. "Why shouldn't we simply
lock you into a spaceship and direct the ship through the defense
fields and out into the solar system on automatic control?"

"I sincerely hope you don't try it, sir! Experiments in dissolving
contacts in that manner have been invariably fatal to all connected
individuals."

The spokesman hesitated. "You and every member of the Machine with
whom you are now in contact would die together if that were done?"

"Yes, sir. That is certain what the results of those experiments
show."

Administrator Bradshaw, who had been staring coldly at Rainbolt, asked
in a hard, flat voice, "If you do nothing to break the contact, how
long will this situation continue?"

Rainbolt looked at him. "Indefinitely, sir," he said. "There is
nothing I need to do about it. It is a static condition."

"In that case," Bradshaw said icily, "_this_ should serve to break the
contact through you!"

As his hand came up, leveling a gun, Menesee was half out of his
chair, hands raised in alarmed protest. "Stop him!" Menesee shouted.

But Administrator Bradshaw already was sagging sideways over the
armrest of this chair, head lolling backwards. The gun slid from his
hand, dropped to the platform.

"Director Menesee," Dorn said coolly from beside Bradshaw, "I thank
you for your intended warning! Since the administrator and the
spokesman are the only persons permitted to bear arms in the Tribunal
Hall, I was naturally prepared to paralyze Administrator Bradshaw if
he showed intentions of resorting to thoughtless action." He looked
down at Rainbolt. "Are Director Menesee and I correct in assuming that
if you died violently the persons with whom you are in contact would
again suffer the same experience?"

"Yes, sir," Rainbolt said. "That is implicit in the principles of
Oneness." He shrugged. "Under most circumstances, it is a very
undesirable effect. But here we have made use of it--"
