
"The situation," Spokesman Dorn told the directors in the Tribunal
Hall some minutes later, "is then this. There has been nothing
haphazard about the Mars Convicts' plan to coerce us into accepting
their terms. Considering the probable quality of the type of minds
which developed both the stardrive and the extraordinary 'philosophy'
we have encountered today, that could be taken for granted from the
start. We cannot kill their emissary here, or subject him to serious
pain or injury, since we would pay a completely disproportionate
penalty in doing it.

"However, that doesn't mean that we should surrender to the Mars
Convicts. In fact, for all their cleverness, they appear to be acting
out of something very close to desperation. They have gained no
essential advantage through their trick, and we must assume they made
the mistake of underestimating us. This gentleman they sent to Earth
has been given thorough physical examinations. They show him to be in
excellent health. He is also younger by many years than most of us.

"So he will be confined to quarters where he will be comfortable and
provided with whatever he wishes ... but where he will not be provided
with any way of doing harm to himself. And then, I believe, we can
simply forget about him. He will receive the best of attention,
including medical care. Under such circumstances, we can expect his
natural life span to exceed our own.

"Meanwhile, we shall continue our program of developing our own
spacedrive. As the Mars Convicts themselves foresee, we'll gain it
eventually and will then be more than a match for them. Until then the
defense fields around Earth will remain closed. No ship will leave
Earth and no ship will be admitted to it. And in the long run we will
win."

The spokesman paused, added, "If there are no other suggestions, this
man will now be conducted to the hospital of the Machine where he is
to be detained for the remainder of his days."

Across the hall from Menesee, a figure arose deliberately in one of
the boxes. A heavy voice said, "Spokesman Dorn, I very definitely do
have a suggestion."

Dorn looked over, nodded warily. "Go ahead, Director Squires!"

Menesee grimaced in distaste. He had no liking for Squires, a harsh,
arrogant man, notorious for his relentless persecution of any director
or officer who, in Squires' opinion, had become slack in his duties to
the Machine. But he had a large following in the upper echelons, and
his words carried weight.

Squires folded his arms, said unhurriedly as if savoring each word,
"As you pointed out, Spokesman Dorn, we cannot hurt the person of this
prisoner. His immediate accomplices also remain beyond our reach at
present. However, our hands are not--as you seem to imply--so
completely tied that we cannot strike back at these rascals at once.
There are camps on Earth filled with people of the same political
stripe--potential supporters of the Mars Convicts who would be in
fullest sympathy with their goals if they learned of them.

"I suggest that these people serve now as an object lesson to show the
Mars Convicts the full measure of our determination to submit to no
threats of force! Let this prisoner and the other convicts who
doubtless are lurking in nearby space beyond Earth's defense fields
know that _for every day_ their obscene threat against the high
officers of the Machine continues hundreds of malcontents who would
welcome them on Earth will be painfully executed! Let them--"

Pain doubled Menesee abruptly over the table before him. A savage,
compressing pain, very different from the fiery touch of the nerve
stimulators, which held him immobile, unable to cry out or draw
breath.

It relaxed almost as instantaneously as it had come on. Menesee
slumped back in his chair, shaken and choking, fighting down bitter
nausea. His eyes refocused painfully on Rainbolt, gray-faced but on
his feet, in the prisoner's area.

"You will find," Rainbolt was saying, "that Director Squires is dead.
And so, I'm very much afraid, is every other member of the upper
echelons whose heart was in no better condition than his. This was a
demonstration I had not intended to give you. But since it has been
given, it should serve as a reminder that while it is true we could
not force you directly to do as we wish, there are things we are
resolved not to tolerate."

Ojeda was whispering shakily near Menesee, "He controls his body to
the extent that he was able to bring on a heart attack in himself and
project it to all of us! He counted on his own superb physical
condition to pull him through it unharmed. _That_ is why he didn't
seem frightened when the administrator threatened him with a gun. Even
if the spokesman hadn't acted, that gun never would have been fired.

"Menesee, no precautions we could take will stop that monster from
killing us all whenever he finally chooses--simply by committing
suicide through an act of will!"

Spokesman Dorn's voice seemed to answer Ojeda.

"Director Squires," Dorn's voice said, still thinned by pain but oddly
triumphant, "became a victim of his own pointless vindictiveness. It
was a mistake which, I am certain, no member of the Machine will care
to repeat.

"Otherwise, this incident has merely served to confirm that the Mars
Convicts operate under definite limitations. They _could_ kill us but
can't afford to do it. If they are to thrive in space, they need
Earth, and Earth's resources. They are aware that if the Machine's
leadership dies, Earth will lapse into utter anarchy and turn its
tremendous weapons upon itself.

"The Mars Convicts could gain nothing from a ruined and depopulated
planet. Therefore, the situation as it stands remains a draw. We shall
devote every effort to turn it into a victory for us. The agreement we
come to eventually with the Mars Convicts will be on our terms--and
there is essentially nothing they or this man, with all his powers,
can do to prevent it."
