
The Missionary of Oneness swung his bronzed, well-muscled legs over
the side of the hammock and sat up. With an expression of great
interest, he watched Spokesman Dorn coming across the sun room towards
him from the entrance corridor of his hospital suite. It was the first
visit he'd had from any member of the organization of the Machine in
the two years he had been confined here.

For Spokesman Dorn it had been, to judge by his appearance, a
strenuous two years. He had lost weight and there were dark smudges of
fatigue under his eyes. At the moment, however, his face appeared
relaxed. It might have been the relaxation a man feels who has been
emptied out by a hard stint of work, but knows he has accomplished
everything that could possibly have been done.

Dorn came to a stop a dozen feet from the hammock. For some seconds,
the two men regarded each other without speaking.

"On my way here," Dorn remarked then, "I was wondering whether you
mightn't already know what I've come to tell you."

Rainbolt shook his head.

"No," he said. "I think I could guess what it is--I pick up
generalized impressions from outside--but I don't really know."

Spokesman Dorn considered that a moment, chewing his lower lip
reflectively. Then he shrugged.

"So actual mind-reading doesn't happen to be one of your talents," he
said. "I was rather sure of that, though others had a different
opinion. Of course, considering what you are able to do, it wouldn't
really make much difference.

"Well ... this morning we sent out a general call by space radio to
any Mars Convict ships which might be in the Solar System to come in.
The call was answered. Earth's defense fields have been shut down, and
the first FTL ships will land within an hour."

"For what purpose?" Rainbolt said curiously.

"There's a strong popular feeling," Spokesman Dorn said, "that your
colleagues should take part in deciding what pattern Earth's permanent
form of government will take. In recent months we've handled things in
a rather provisional and haphazard manner, but the situation is
straightened out well enough now to permit giving attention to such
legalistic details. Incidentally, you will naturally be free to leave
when I do. Transportation is available for you if you wish to welcome
your friends at the spaceport."

"Thank you," said Rainbolt. "I believe I will."

Spokesman Dorn shrugged. "What could we do?" he said, almost
disinterestedly. "You never slept. In the beginning you were drugged a
number of times, as you probably know, but we soon discovered that
drugging you seemed to make no difference at all."

"It doesn't," Rainbolt agreed.

"Day after day," Dorn went on, "we'd find thoughts and inclinations
coming into our minds we'd never wanted there. It was an eerie
experience--though personally I found it even more disconcerting to
awaken in the morning and discover that my attitudes had changed in
some particular or other, and as a rule changed irrevocably."

Rainbolt said, "In a sense, those weren't really your attitudes, you
know. They were results of the conditioning of the Machine. It was
the conditioning I was undermining."

"Perhaps it was that," Dorn said. "It seems to make very little
difference now." He paused, frowned. "When the first talk of
initiating change began in the councils, there were numerous
executions. I know now that we were badly frightened men. Then those
of us who had ordered the executions found themselves wanting similar
changes. Presently we had a majority, and the changes began to be
brought about. Reforms, you would call them--and reforms I suppose
they actually were. There was considerable general disturbance, of
course, but we retained the organization to keep that within
reasonable bounds."

"We expected that you would," Rainbolt said.

"It hasn't really been too bad," Spokesman Dorn said reflectively. "It
was simply an extraordinary amount of work to change the structure of
things that had been imposed on Earth by the Machine for the past
century and a half. And the curious part of it is, you know, that now
it's done we don't even feel resentment! We actually wouldn't want to
go back to what we had before. You've obtained an incredible hold on
our minds--and frankly I expect that when at last you do relinquish
your control, we'll commit suicide or go mad."

Rainbolt shook his head. "There's been just one mistake in what you've
said," he remarked.

Spokesman Dorn looked at him with tired eyes. "What's that?" he asked.

"I said I was undermining the conditioning of the Machine. I did--and
after that I did nothing. You people simply have been doing what most
of you always would have preferred to do, Spokesman. I relinquished
control of the last of you over six months ago."
