
Now all that I had heard came rushing back to flood my brain, as I
stood tensely alert, listening to the raucous, inhuman laughter that
surged down the central shaft to reach our ears. Again it came and yet
again, rising to insane pitch.

I rested my short-handled hand-pick against the little heap of radite
ore. I wiped my sweated brow with fingers that burned and tingled from
contact with the radite. I peered covertly around at the many tunnels
converging into the central place, and saw the other workers, Martians,
and Earthmen, cowering under that sound of laughter. I wondered if I
looked to them as they looked to me. I knew I was afraid. That was
Marnick's laughter, I had heard it before. His special torture was
going on again. Would I be next? So far I had luckily escaped.

I tried to straighten up into a semblance of courage, but again that
shrieking laughter came drifting down to cower me. At the same time
McGowan left his tunnel next to mine, and came strolling over to me.
I was aghast. For any man to so much as leave his post, meant that he
would receive the same punishment that some poor devil up there was now
receiving. But McGowan always was a reckless one. Tall, brutish, dark
and always scowling, a light of indomitable spirit shone perpetually
out of his contrasting gray eyes. Those eyes were now hate-filled as he
cocked his head and listened to that laughter.

"If only he wouldn't laugh," McGowan said in a voice so calm that it
was doubly terrible. "If only he would go ahead with his torture, and
watch it if he wished. But to laugh! And to let us know that he laughs!
That is the crowning touch. Some day, Reed, I swear to you--"

"Yes, I know," I whispered fearfully. "Some day one of us is going to
kill him. A favorite dream here."

"Not someone, Reed. Me! That is a privilege I reserve. And I shall not
kill him. At least not in the usual way. I have a very special revenge
planned for Mr. Marnick."

That was a story I had heard before, too; but now something in
McGowan's voice caused me to look sharply up at him. And the hate
that smouldered in those eyes was such as I cared not to look upon. I
glanced quickly away, and then I heard a smooth familiar hum from the
central shaft. I knew what it was. I swooped for my hand-pick and began
to ply it industriously.

"Quick, McGowan, get back to your work!" I whispered. "Marnick's coming
down again!" I'm sure McGowan knew that as well as I did, but he simply
stood there, gazing almost expectantly at the place where the shaft
led up through the cave roof. "You damn fool!" I whispered, but there
was a tight little smile on McGowan's lips as he stood there.

The hum continued. Even as I continued to hack at the hard-grained
rock I shot a sidelong glance up at the shaft. Marnick's vehicle
appeared suddenly there, seemingly suspended in the air. It was simply
a glassite-enclosed, rounded cage, large enough to contain Marnick and
the two lumbering, Jovian brutes he kept always with him. A pale violet
halo hovered around the entire structure. It hung there just below the
cave roof.

I could glimpse Marnick standing there erect, arms folded, peering
haughtily down at us. Naturally a tall man, he always seemed taller
and more forbidding in that posture. His hair was gray, but no grayer
than his face; and against that grayness his eyes were dull black and
quite expressionless, as if at one time he had seen some sight that had
burned them out.

But now his arms unfolded and he leaned tensely forward. His thin
colorless lips twitched as if in disbelief. A second later his rasping
voice went bounding about the walls: "You! Earthman, over there! Get
back to your work!"

He was speaking to McGowan and we all knew it. McGowan stood only
a few feet from me, but I dared not even glance up at him now. I
glimpsed him, however, bending down slowly, deliberately, and I saw
his right hand seize a good-sized lump of radite ore from my pile. He
straightened just as deliberately, turned to face Marnick and then
said: "Go to hell!" With those words, McGowan drew back his hand and
hurled the radite lump at Marnick's cage.
