
All of us in that moment paused to watch, and all of us were aghast at
McGowan's futile bravado. We knew that not even an atom-blast, much
less a lump of rock, could penetrate that mysterious force-barrier
Marnick had erected around himself. That's what made the act so
terrible, for McGowan knew it, too. And he wore a satisfied little
smile as he did it.

[Illustration: _Straight at the glittering machine McGowan hurled the
heavy boulder._]

The rock didn't come within a yard of Marnick's cage. It struck against
the violet force-halo, bounded back and clattered to the floor.
Marnick's lips split into what might have been a grin; he touched
a button beside him and the cage dropped the rest of the way to the
cave floor. Its door opened and the two Jovian brutes stepped quickly
out. Grinning through thick, blubbery lips, with huge powerful hands
reaching out, they strode purposefully toward McGowan.

McGowan made no defensive gesture. He stood there still smiling a
little, as though hugely satisfied with what he had done. The Jovians
seized him ungently, hurried him back to the cage and into it. The door
closed and the cage slowly began to rise. The Jovians released his arms
then, and McGowan acted with customary deliberateness as his right fist
lashed up and crashed into Marnick's mouth. Marnick staggered back, his
face a gushing well of red; but with a seeming flick of the wrist his
paralyzer tube was in his hand, its pale beam spurting out. McGowan
sank down in a huddled little heap, but even so, his very attitude as
he lay there unconscious seemed one of satisfaction. The cage rose
swiftly up and out of sight.

I didn't allow myself to think of the fate that would be McGowan's
now. As we worked we listened again for the sound of Marnick's insane
laughter. But it never came. He knew that we hated him, and he loved
it. It was a sort of little game he played with us. He knew that we
would be listening for his laughter now, so he chose not to let us hear
it; to make us wonder. Psychologically it was much more terrible.

That Marnick was a devil.
