
Four days later McGowan came back to us.

Rumor among us had it that Marnick maintained special quarters up on
the surface of this satellite, a stone house against the barren rock;
and that in this house was a certain room into which Marnick thrust
the men who displeased him. Beyond this even rumor failed to go, but
we often hazarded guesses. The most prevalent guess was that Marnick
released hordes of Callistan Gnishii into this room, then stood at a
glass-paned door and shrieked with insane laughter at the antics of the
unfortunate victims. The Gnishii are tiny little sharp-tipped devils,
scarcely three inches in length. Hard-shelled, blazing red in color,
they surely must be a spawn of hell; for they are quite harmless except
when in the presence of human flesh, and then they seem to go wild.

We guessed that Marnick might be employing these Gnishii, because
several of his victims who came back to us had hundreds of fresh scars
covering their legs from ankles to knees. But these men seemed to
prefer not to speak of what they had undergone, and the rest of us
weren't too anxious to know.

So now, four days later, McGowan came back to us. He stumbled into our
quarters along the murky tunnel just above the vein we were at present
working. I rose up out of restless sleep and saw McGowan going along
the tunnel to certain of the men, silently rousing them. Kueelo and
V'Narik, both Martians, joined him; as well as Smith and Blakely and
Wilkinson, Earthmen. These five, together with McGowan, had formed a
special little cliche among themselves, and almost daily went off for
a secret meeting somewhere during our sleep period. Innumerable times
I had seen them do that, but I didn't much care, feeling that whatever
they might be planning would be futile in the end.

Now I rolled over in my bunk, turned my face to the stone wall and
tried to get back to sleep; I needed much sleep in preparation for the
morrow, because lately the radite emanations had been fast sapping my
strength. Then, to my amazement, I felt a light hand on my shoulder and
I knew it was McGowan. I heard his voice in my ear, scarcely a whisper:

"Reed! You awake? Come on and go with us; we need you!"
