
They needed me! Wondering and doubting, I rose silently up and followed
the six of them toward the dead end of the tunnel. Blakely carried an
electric lantern, carefully shaded. A quarter of a mile further we came
to the tunnel's end. There in the dim light I gazed around me at the
worked-out rock. The radite vein here, I knew, had been exhausted years
ago, even before I had come.

As I stood apart, watching, the six of them seized upon a protruding
rock and pushed with a certain unison that could only have come with
long practice. The rock rolled smoothly away and revealed a ragged
little ravine leading up and into the tunnel wall. We entered, and they
pulled the huge rock back into place. We began to climb. The ravine was
scarcely shoulder-width. A few minutes later, however, it widened out
into a large, natural cave!

Blakely placed the light in the center, and we sat in a circle around
it. We could only see each other's faces dimly. The two Martians' were
dark and leathery, with thick-lidded expressionless eyes. The three
Earthmen appeared a little anxious as they glanced at McGowan. I knew
what they were thinking, wondering; I was wondering myself.

As though reading our thoughts McGowan said: "Yes, it--it was pretty
terrible." But by the look in his eyes alone, dim as it was, we knew
that was a masterpiece of understatement. "But that's beside the
point," he went on. "Whatever I went through up there, it was worth it.
And it had to be done. For your information, Reed"--he turned his head
to look at me--"we're going to escape from these tunnels. Then we're
going to kill Marnick. When that's accomplished, we'll think about
escaping from this planet."

"But--but how--" I stammered. "You know you can't possibly--"

McGowan gestured impatiently. "I know everything you're going to say.
We've gone over it thoroughly. Let's see, you've been here only two
years, isn't it, Reed? And the average life here is five; and I have
already been here seven. Yes, I've clung on here longer than most men
do, knowing that some day my chance would come; and now it is near.
For the moment we will not think of escape. If only I can succeed in
getting rid of that monster up there, and doing it in my own special
way, all this will have been worth while. Do you agree?"

I most emphatically agreed, and said so.

McGowan arose and led me to the other side of the cave. There I saw
a small, dark opening, perhaps four feet in diameter. A tunnel! A
man-made tunnel leading steeply upward through solid rock!

"For about four years we've worked on this," McGowan said with a tinge
of pride in his voice. "We've hacked our way inches at a time with
whatever crude implements we could smuggle here. More than a mile of
solid rock lies between us and the surface, and we've gone more than
three-quarters of the way already."

"But why didn't you let me in on this!" I gasped, a sudden surge of
hope welling up in my throat so that I could hardly speak. I could
hardly even think! My brain was churning crazily. To get out of these
tunnels, to even glimpse a star again against the black night sky,
or breathe fresh air once more--those were hopes that many of us had
abandoned, as we gradually became living automatons and the radite ore
took its insidious toll of us.

McGowan looked at me steadily and answered my question: "Because
we don't trust everyone. Marnick has certain methods up there of
extracting information, and if ever--Well, anyway, you've been rather a
baffling entity since you came here. You still are. Right now we don't
know whether to trust you, but we have to because we need you."

"But you can trust me!" I exclaimed in an excess of anxiety.

"We need you," McGowan went on coldly, "because we understand you're
something of an expert with directional beam finders. We suspected
that Marnick might have a network of beams raying downward, to detect
any such escape attempt as this. We had to make sure, and that's why I
had to get to the surface, although it meant torture. And I did find
out, never mind how. He has a battery of directional beams. They won't
reach through rock very far, but we can't be too careful now that we're
getting near the surface. So, Reed: do you think you could detect any
such beams, before we break through into them?"

"Yes, I'm sure I could," I answered, perhaps a little too eagerly.

"Good. Then you're in with us to the finish." He turned to the others.
"Wilkinson--I think it's your turn tonight? Reed here will go up with
you. Incidentally, you might veer a few degrees to the right; as
near as I could judge, we're coming a little too close to Marnick's
quarters. And you, Reed, keep a sharp lookout for those beams."
