
I entered the dark little tunnel behind Wilkinson, and we began the
climb. He carried the lantern. It was rather precarious. The tunnel, I
judged, was on a forty-five-degree angle, but wisely they had leveled
out little hand and foot holds, so that we could rest occasionally.

Three-quarters of a mile, McGowan had said. It seemed more like five,
but I didn't mind at all. All my weariness and sleepiness had left
me now; every time I scraped a knee or elbow against the rock it was
a pleasure, now that a new hope was born in me. At last we reached
the top, and I cautioned Wilkinson to remain still while I tried to
determine if any of the magnetic finder beams were near us. First I
stripped myself to the waist, then pressed my body against the rock
wall in various spots. Wilkinson watched the process curiously.

"No," I told him at last. "I can't feel a thing yet. Probably we're
still too far down."

"How come you can feel those beams when other men can't?" Wilkinson
asked.

So I told him the story. "Years ago I worked in one of the electrical
laboratories where these beams were being developed. One day I was
accidentally locked in the testing room--a small chamber where the
beams were projected upon metal plates to test their intensity. Luckily
for me, the beams that day were of a very low intensity, or I wouldn't
be here now. But the power kept increasing by slow degrees, until I
could feel the vibration tearing through every fiber of my body. At
last, and just in time, I managed to attract attention. I was violently
ill for weeks. But after that, I seemed to be hyper-sensitive to such
beams."

Wilkinson continued digging at the rock with a small metal implement.
Bit by bit the rock came out, in powdery dust and tiny chunks. I
noticed that his hands were scarred and roughened from day after day of
this work.

"When we first began," he explained, "we made much faster progress. But
now a man can't work more than two or three hours up here, for the air
gets pretty stale. We take turns, of course, day after day. It's going
to be pretty tough on you from now to the finish, because you'll have
to be up here _every_ day for a couple of hours. We're counting on you."

Yes, they were counting on me. Now for the first time I began to
realize how much; and I began to doubt myself. I wasn't really sure
that I could still detect those finder beams. It had been a long time
since I had experienced it. Besides, the radite ore emanations had
effected my body in that curious tingling way, just as it had every man
here. So perhaps that would prevent--?

I only knew that if we ever blundered into one of those directional
finder beams, which McGowan said were raying down, it would instantly
set off an alarm in Marnick's quarters. I tried not to imagine what
would happen after that. In a sort of panic I pressed my sweating
body against the rocky wall, but all I could feel was the familiar
radite-tingling crawling through my skin.
