
So we worked day after day until they lengthened into weeks. My daily
labor at the radite vein was almost a pleasure now as I anticipated the
few hours of work that would come later in our secret tunnel. Daily I
accompanied a different one of our group. I wanted to take my own turn
at the digging, but McGowan wouldn't stand for this, preferring that I
direct all my attention toward the detector beams.

Weeks passed and still I detected no beams.

Kueelo, I found, was sullen and silent. The other Martian, V'Narik,
talked to me only on a few occasions. "I have a curious presentiment,"
he told me once, "that I shall never escape from here. You others,
perhaps, but not me. I am with you on this only because there is
nothing better to do. But if I can only reach the surface, and glimpse
the stars once again--especially the redness of Mars--this will have
been worth while."

The Martians are a strange race. I never could understand them. I tried
to cheer V'Narik, but he only shook his head solemnly.

From the others I gradually learned much that I had often wondered
about, especially concerning Marnick. "There are various stories about
him," McGowan told me once. "The one I'm inclined to believe is that
Marnick incurred his hatred of men long ago, during the early years of
the Mars mines. He was one of the earliest pioneers there. He brought
his wife and child from Earth. He struck a rich iridium vein and worked
it slowly, alone. Then certain Earth corporations stepped in, as you
know. They wanted Marnick to sell but he would not. He defied them to
the end, which was foolish. Well, one day Marnick came back to his mine
to find his wife dead, rayed mercilessly by a heat-gun, and his young
son missing, probably lost in the Martian wastes."

"You don't mean," I gasped, "that the Earth corporations would--"

"Would do a thing like that? They would hire it done. That's the way
they worked in the early days, they always got what they wanted, in
one way or another. Well, Marnick must have sworn a terrible vengeance
then. He fought them and plagued them, for years he pirated the
spaceways until the Tri-Planet Patrol was formed and became too strong
for him."

I pondered this story. "So now," I mused, "he's come to this. As
overseer of this penal planet, he must be--"

"He is assuredly insane," McGowan finished for me. "But he is still
vengeful. He was never certain whether they were Martians or Earthmen
who killed his loved ones--those men hired by the Earth corporation.
But ever since, I believe, Marnick has had a brooding hate for both
races, especially the criminal element. That's why he's devised his
tortures here. That's why he laughs as he indulges in his wholesale
revenge. A sort of revenge by proxy, as it were."

I was aghast as I glanced at McGowan, wondering just how close to the
truth about Marnick he had come. McGowan's eyes were steel hard again
with hate as he went on:

"And that's why, Reed, we must put an end to Marnick's mad reign here.
He was done a terrible injustice in the past, yes; but he's had his
revenge many times over, on the unfortunate men who have passed through
his hands. That's why I hate him, and that's why I shall have my own
revenge, in my own way."

McGowan's face was not a thing I liked to look upon, in that moment.
