
We looked blankly around at each other, and no man knew what the other
was thinking. McGowan smiled in a way I did not like, as if he somehow
knew which five it would be.

"Furthermore," he went on, "there will soon be eight of us. For now
Elson's got to come along."

"Elson!" exclaimed a chorus of voices, mine among them.

"Yes." McGowan's eyes narrowed infinitesimally. "I haven't steered you
wrong yet, have I? I've worked out this entire plan, so believe me when
I say that Elson is very necessary to our endeavor."

I thought of Elson, and wondered why he was necessary. He, to put it
cruelly, was the least among us; the butt of all our jokes; for even
hopeless men such as we must sometimes have amusement. Elson had been
here probably as long as McGowan, but he had suffered much more. Elson
always seemed to suffer Marnick's wrath when the latter couldn't decide
upon a more suitable victim. Elson was twisted and misshapen now,
the result of a fall through the shaft, so I had heard; and he was
blank-eyed and feeble-witted.

Now McGowan sent for him, and he came shuffling into our cave with a
bewildered look. Tersely McGowan explained the situation. Elson smiled
crookedly; he had always had a special fondness for McGowan, and obeyed
him implicitly in everything.

We began the climb. An hour later we stood panting but unbowed upon the
surface, staring at stars most of us had not seen in years! We were
eight men, determined, but armed only with the short metal hook we had
used for digging out the rock. McGowan carried it. He gestured with it
to the left, as he whispered:

"This way. We must be about a mile from the ravine where Marnick's
located. Stay in sight of each other now, and watch your step--no
noise!"

The terrain was rocky and rough; the horizon of the tiny planet seemed
very near, and curved sharply down. The night was pitch black and
boundless, with only the pinpoints of stars to guide us.

Hours later, it seemed, we glimpsed another pinpoint of light that was
not a star. It was too low against the blackness for that; we knew it
was a light from Marnick's abode, at the entrance of a rocky little
canyon perhaps a quarter of a mile away. We proceeded with infinite
caution.

Suddenly, I felt that awful agony through every nerve again, and I knew
we had stumbled into more of Marnick's detector beams. This time we may
have blundered far enough to set off an alarm, but I didn't especially
care. I fell to the ground as the warning along my nerves persisted.
For a minute I was almost violently ill. Luckily, the others stopped
instantly. McGowan dragged me back and waited until I had recovered.

"Our human beam detector. Lucky we've got you with us, Reed!" But there
was no humor in his voice, in fact I caught a note of pity. I think he
already realized, just as I was slowly beginning to--

But I shall not think of that. McGowan spoke a few words to Elson that
we could not hear. Elson nodded obediently. We moved away at a sharp
angle to the right, but now I noticed Elson did not accompany us.

I was still dizzy and weak, but I clenched my teeth and determined
to see this thing through to the finish. I guided us away from those
beams. As near as I could determine, they rayed out in a sort of
semi-circular barrier, invisible, of course. Carefully we skirted the
edge of it, toward the far wall of the canyon that sheltered Marnick's
house. How I stayed on my feet I cannot understand, for every step was
an agony as the faintest out-reaches of those rays stabbed fiercely
through me. The others, of course, felt nothing.

"We've got to get past it," McGowan whispered tensely to me, "or we're
finished!"

I nodded curtly. I didn't know what McGowan had in mind, but I realized
we had to get closer to Marnick's house. We came nearer and nearer
to the canyon and then the power of the beams began to diminish.
We pressed flat against the rocky walls and moved swiftly forward.
Suddenly we were beyond the barrier. The squat stone dwelling was a
bare fifty yards from us now, and we could see a little square of light
from the side window.
