
We paused there in a huddled little group, wondering what McGowan's
next move would be. Apparently he was waiting for something. And a
second later we knew what it was, as a ringing alarm shattered the
silence! I knew it must have been Elson out there who had set it off,
according to McGowan's instructions. I glanced sharply at McGowan and
he seemed satisfied, as he cautioned us to silence.

Another square of light appeared and we glimpsed the tall form of
Marnick in the open doorway. But he knew better than to remain there
long against the light. He stepped quickly outside, but not before we
glimpsed an atom-pistol in his hand.

"This is it!" McGowan whispered. "I only wanted to get him outside." We
moved silently across the space toward the side of the house that hid
us from Marnick. There we could peer into the lighted window. I saw a
large room quite like a library, and I was amazed at how richly it was
furnished, with books and tables and tapestries and a fireplace at one
end. It seemed utterly incongruous here on this dark, mad planet.

But I didn't have much time to think about it. McGowan was fumbling
at the window, and at last it swung silently open. "I've got to get
hold of a weapon!" he whispered. "The rest of you wait here. I don't
think Marnick will come around to this side, but keep a sharp lookout
anyway." With that he climbed through the window and moved silently
across the room.

Anxiously, I watched him, expecting Marnick to return at any moment.
McGowan searched the room thoroughly, opening drawers and tumbling
books in disarray, but no weapon was forthcoming. He did find a small
flashlight, however, and with it in hand he moved into another dark
room leading off this one, there to continue his search. He was out of
my sight now, but I glimpsed his light flashing around cautiously. The
seconds seemed like eternities.

I was so interested in watching the inside of the house that I had
almost forgotten my companions behind me. Suddenly, I heard a muffled
commotion near by, and whirled quickly around.

The two Jovians had crept silently upon us out of the darkness; perhaps
Marnick, as a cautionary measure, had sent them out to scout around
the house. At any rate, there was a silent struggle of bodies behind
me, and all I could distinguish clearly was one of the Jovians who had
seized V'Narik's neck in his two powerful hands. Blakely was standing
there with the heavy metal hook upraised, and it seemed to me that he
hesitated about ten seconds too long before he brought it crashing
down on the Jovian's skull. But by that time V'Narik was dead, and it
suddenly dawned on me that Blakely's hesitation had been deliberate;
and that left only seven of us instead of eight.

The other Jovian was more than holding his own, and Blakely seemed
content to watch. I seized the heavy bar from him and leaped into the
mêlée, waiting for an opening. I brought the bar wildly down, and by
pure luck it landed on the Jovian skull, crushing it like an eggshell.
The others staggered weakly up.

I leaped back to the window, for I thought surely Marnick must have
returned; what I didn't realize then was that scarcely a minute had yet
elapsed since the alarm had sounded. But McGowan had found his weapon.
He held an atom-pistol in his hand as he crossed the lighted room to
the window, and climbed back out to us.

It was not until that moment that I had my curious foreboding. McGowan,
if he had wanted to kill Marnick, could easily have crossed that room
to the front door that was still open, and rayed Marnick down from
behind. He wanted to kill Marnick all right, but in his own way. He had
his own special revenge mapped out. I suddenly remembered that, and I
knew that McGowan was going to carry it through.

"So far so good," he murmured as he rejoined us. He weighed the
atom-pistol familiarly in his hand. "Now, if only Elson out there comes
through all right--Come on, let's see where Marnick is. Not too far
from the house, I hope. And remember, all of you, this is strictly my
party; so no interference."

Those last words struck an ominous note in me, but I said nothing,
nor did the others as we followed McGowan along to the far corner of
the house. There we could see the long, dim rectangle of light from
the room streaming out onto the barren rock. Marnick was not in sight
but we knew he must be somewhere very near, waiting in the darkness,
watching for whoever had set off that alarm.
