
Seemingly, for a long while we waited, but it couldn't have been more
than a minute; we crowded close to each other, staring, trying to
accustom our eyes to the night. Then McGowan pointed, and we saw a
darker shape very near the house, and we knew it was Marnick, waiting.

Again that curious feeling of impending drama overwhelmed me, and I
wanted to act to prevent something, but I didn't know how--or what--

McGowan's gesture shifted imperiously, and we saw another vague blur
of a figure out there and we knew it was Elson. McGowan, in that
moment, reminded me of a stage director, proud of his work and trying
to impress its subtleties upon us. My gaze went back to the slouching
figure of Elson, and I realized he was moving toward us.

Marnick saw him at the same time. Marnick straightened up, leaned
tautly forward and seemed to be peering. Then Marnick's hated voice
came stabbing through the darkness to us, but not directed at us:

"I see you out there. Whoever you are, it was foolish of you to try
to come near my house, for you have set off a detector beam. Stop
immediately or I will blast you. I have an atom-pistol trained on you
at this moment."

For a single instant everything seemed to stand still. Elson stood
still. McGowan, close beside me, caught his breath sharply in his
throat. Then Elson moved forward again, and McGowan breathed a slow
sigh of relief.

"Good," he murmured in my ear, though I am sure he was not conscious
that I was there. "I knew Elson would obey me. Elson obeys me in
everything." And then: "Poor Elson."

In that sudden moment I realized what was going to happen; I knew
McGowan had planned this step by step from start to finish, and I knew
_Elson was going to die_! I started forward with a cry in my throat,
but McGowan's hand clamped roughly over my mouth and his fingers dug
cruelly into my arm.

I could see, though, and I saw Elson come forward in his slouching,
ungainly gait, arms dangling at his side and an idiotic grin on his
face. I heard Marnick's warning once more, and I saw the almost
invisible beam of his atom-pistol slashing the darkness. I saw Elson
stumble and plough forward on his face and lay still. And not until
then did McGowan release me.

But then it was too late. Elson was dead, and I heard a sound that
was almost a chuckle deep in McGowan's throat. Then his voice slashed
through the darkness and I realized that here was the acme of triumph
in all his years of planning:

"Drop your pistol, Marnick."

Marnick whirled toward his voice and took a tense step toward us;
but McGowan's pistol rayed across the rock and slashed dangerously
near Marnick's feet. Marnick's pistol dropped from his fingers with a
clanging sound.

"That's better. You're a madman, Marnick, but not too mad to fail to
realize when the game is over. I'm going to kill you, I want you to
know that; and I want you to know who is speaking. This is McGowan.
But before I kill you I want you to realize what you've done tonight.
You've killed a man. Know who it is? Go take a look."

Marnick stood there hesitant. I could almost picture the indecision on
his face. But McGowan's pistol rayed again, very close to his feet, and
Marnick stumbled out to where Elson lay.

"Good," McGowan went on. "Now look at 'im. It's Elson, you see?"
McGowan's voice seemed different now than I had ever heard it. It
wasn't his voice at all. But it went on inexorably, and I felt chills
chasing up and down my spine.

"Do you know who Elson really is, Marnick? No, of course, you don't. I
saw to that. He came to this prison planet about the same time I did.
He was tall and straight and youthful then, but somehow you couldn't
stand that; you made him your special victim, you tortured and maimed
him and now you've killed him. Look very closely, Marnick. You still
do not know? Then I suggest you turn him over--that's right. And I
suggest you look very closely on the outer part of his left thigh. A
curious blemish is there, an unmistakable birthmark. You realize now?
Yes, I see that you do.

"Your son, Marnick, never died on Mars. I was one of that party of men
who--Well, I don't care to think about that now. The others left him
there beside his mother, thinking him dead, but I knew better. I went
back and took him, and kept him with me until he was sixteen, when
we parted. Perhaps he inherited some of his criminal ways from his
association with me. Anyway, when I was sentenced here, and he came a
little later, I knew what I must do!"
