
It was a nightmare. I couldn't believe it. I glimpsed Marnick out there
huddling over the body of the man he had just slain ... his own son ...
and even at that distance and through that dimness there was something
that made me feel sorry for him.

He arose very slowly, turned to face McGowan and tried to speak
something but could not. He took a few faltering steps in our direction
and then McGowan rayed him down. There was still a satisfied little
smile on McGowan's lips as he did it. I hated McGowan in that moment as
much as I had ever hated Marnick, but I could do nothing, for my mind
was a little numbed.

"I waited seven years for that," McGowan said, and he breathed very
deeply. Then he walked through us and strode back to where the two
Jovians lay, and V'Narik.

"V'Narik's dead," he said as if he'd just discovered it. "He always had
a hunch he wouldn't get away from here, didn't he? But he got to see
the stars and Mars again, just as he wanted to. And Elson's dead, of
course. That still leaves six of us." He looked at me significantly.

I knew what he meant. I had known all the time that I would never set
foot on Earth again, and McGowan had known it, too. "Make it five," I
said, "for I'm staying."

The others didn't quite understand, and they didn't much care. They
went rushing off to find Marnick's cruiser that would bear them safely
to Callisto. McGowan stepped forward with that enigmatic smile on his
lips, and seized my hand.

"Thanks," he said simply. "Thanks for all you've done for us, and don't
hate me too much."

"Just go away," I said, "and leave me alone. I want to think. You might
leave me that atom-pistol if you want to."

It is a good thing they left as quickly as they did, or I would have
killed McGowan. I watched their cruiser blast up and away into the
dark void. I said I wanted to think, and I have thought. And whenever
I remember that terrible revenge, I must decide that McGowan was the
madman, not Marnick. Perhaps they were both mad. Anyway, it does not
matter any more.

I only know that I shall soon die; for my constant proximity to those
detector beams in the past several weeks, in conjunction with these
radite emanations, has produced a curious illness in me from which I
know I should never recover. The symptoms become stronger hourly, and
the agony is almost unbearable. Perhaps soon, if it continues, I shall--

But I must finish this document first. I have been writing it, here
in Marnick's study, for the past twenty-four hours. I hope it will be
found when the next Earth supply ship comes. I think it even likely
that those other unfortunate men, in the tunnels below, will continue
to work as usual until then, unknowing of what has taken place up here;
for they have become automatons.

I can only hope that this document will serve, in the future, to make
the fate of such men a little less severe.

Well, now I think it is finished.



