
"You see?"

Svan clicked off the listening-machine and turned around. The five
others in the room looked apprehensive. "You see?" Svan repeated. "From
their own mouths you have heard it. The Council was right."

The younger of the two women sighed. She might have been beautiful, in
spite of her dead-white skin, if there had been a scrap of hair on her
head. "Svan, I'm afraid," she said. "Who are we to decide if this
is a good thing? Our parents came from Earth. Perhaps there will be
trouble at first, if colonists come, but we are of the same blood."

Svan laughed harshly. "_They_ don't think so. You heard them. We are
not human any more. The officer said it."

The other woman spoke unexpectedly. "The Council was right," she
agreed. "Svan, what must we do?"

Svan raised his hand, thoughtfully. "One moment. Ingra, do you still
object?"

The younger woman shrank back before the glare in his eyes. She looked
around at the others, found them reluctant and uneasy, but visibly
convinced by Svan.

"No," she said slowly. "I do not object."

"And the rest of us? Does any of us object?"

Svan eyed them, each in turn. There was a slow but unanimous gesture of
assent.

"Good," said Svan. "Then we must act. The Council has told us that we
alone will decide our course of action. We have agreed that, if the
Earth-ship returns, it means disaster for Venus. Therefore, it must not
return."

An old man shifted restlessly. "But they are strong, Svan," he
complained. "They have weapons. We cannot force them to stay."

Svan nodded. "No. They will leave. But they will never get back to
Earth."

"Never get back to Earth?" the old man gasped. "Has the Council
authorized--murder?"

Svan shrugged. "The Council did not know what we would face. The
Councilmen could not come to the city and see what strength the
Earth-ship has." He paused dangerously. "Toller," he said, "do you
object?"

Like the girl, the old man retreated before his eyes. His voice was
dull. "What is your plan?" he asked.

Svan smiled, and it was like a dark flame. He reached to a box at his
feet, held up a shiny metal globe. "One of us will plant this in the
ship. It will be set by means of this dial--" he touched a spot on the
surface of the globe with a pallid finger--"to do nothing for forty
hours. Then--it will explode. Atomite."

He grinned triumphantly, looking from face to face. The grin
faded uncertainly as he saw what was in their eyes--uncertainty,
irresolution. Abruptly he set the bomb down, savagely ripped six leaves
off a writing tablet on the table next him. He took a pencil and made a
mark on one of them, held it up.

"We will let chance decide who is to do the work," he said angrily. "Is
there anyone here who is afraid? There will be danger, I think...."

No answer. Svan jerked his head. "Good," he said. "Ingra, bring me that
bowl."

Silently the girl picked up an opaque glass bowl from the broad arm
of her chair. It had held Venus-tobacco cigarettes; there were a few
left. She shook them out and handed the bowl to Svan, who was rapidly
creasing the six fatal slips. He dropped them in the bowl, stirred it
with his hand, offered it to the girl. "You first, Ingra," he said.

She reached in mechanically, her eyes intent on his, took out a slip
and held it without opening it. The bowl went the rounds, till Svan
himself took the last. All eyes were on him. No one had looked at their
slips.

Svan, too, had left his unopened. He sat at the table, facing them.
"This is the plan," he said. "We will go, all six of us, in my ground
car, to look at the Earth-ship. No one will suspect--the whole city
has been to see it already. One will get out, at the best point we can
find. It is almost dusk now. He can hide, surely, in the vegetation.
The other five will start back. Something will go wrong with the
car--perhaps it will run off the road, start to sink in the swamp. The
guards will be called. There will be commotion--that is easy enough,
after all; a hysterical woman, a few screams, that's all there is to
it. And the sixth person will have his chance to steal to the side
of the ship. The bomb is magnetic. It will not be noticed in the
dark--they will take off before sunrise, because they must travel away
from the sun to return--in forty hours the danger is removed."

There was comprehension in their eyes, Svan saw ... but still that
uncertainty. Impatiently, he crackled: "Look at the slips!"

Though he had willed his eyes away from it, his fingers had rebelled.
Instinctively they had opened the slip, turned it over and over,
striving to detect if it was the fatal one. They had felt nothing....

And his eyes saw nothing. The slip was blank. He gave it but a second's
glance, then looked up to see who had won the lethal game of chance.
Almost he was disappointed.

Each of the others had looked in that same second. And each was looking
up now, around at his neighbors. Svan waited impatiently for the chosen
one to announce it--a second, ten seconds....

Then gray understanding came to him. _A traitor!_ his subconscious
whispered. _A coward!_ He stared at them in a new light, saw their
indecision magnified, became opposition.

Svan thought faster than ever before in his life. If there was a
coward, it would do no good to unmask him. All were wavering, any might
be the one who had drawn the fatal slip. He could insist on inspecting
every one, but--suppose the coward, cornered, fought back? In fractions
of a second, Svan had considered the evidence and reached his decision.
Masked by the table, his hand, still holding the pencil, moved swiftly
beneath the table, marked his own slip.

In the palm of his hand, Svan held up the slip he had just marked in
secret. His voice was very tired as he said, "I will plant the bomb."
