
The six conspirators in Svan's old ground car moved slowly along the
main street of the native town. Two Earth-ship sailors, unarmed except
for deceptively flimsy-looking pistols at their hips, stood before the
entrance to the town's Hall of Justice.

"Good," said Svan, observing them. "The delegation is still here. We
have ample time."

He half turned in the broad front seat next to the driver, searching
the faces of the others in the car. Which was the coward? he wondered.
Ingra? Her aunt? One of the men?

The right answer leaped up at him. _They all are_, he thought. _Not one
of them understands what this means. They're afraid._

He clamped his lips. "Go faster, Ingra," he ordered the girl who was
driving. "Let's get this done with."

She looked at him, and he was surprised to find compassion in her
eyes. Silently she nodded, advanced the fuel-handle so that the clumsy
car jolted a trace more rapidly over the corduroy road. It was quite
dark now. The car's driving light flared yellowishly in front of them,
illuminating the narrow road and the pale, distorted vegetation of the
jungle that surrounded them. Svan noticed it was raining a little. The
present shower would deepen and intensify until midnight, then fall off
again, to halt before morning. But before then they would be done.

A proton-bolt lanced across the road in front of them. In the silence
that followed its thunderous crash, a man's voice bellowed: "Halt!"

The girl, Ingra, gasped something indistinguishable, slammed on the
brakes. A Venusian in the trappings of the State Guard advanced on them
from the side of the road, proton-rifle held ready to fire again.

"Where are you going?" he growled.

Svan spoke up. "We want to look at the Earth-ship," he said. He opened
the door beside him and stepped out, careless of the drizzle. "We heard
it was leaving tonight," he continued, "and we have not seen it. Is
that not permitted?"

The guard shook his head sourly. "No one is allowed near the ship. The
order was just issued. It is thought there is danger."

Svan stepped closer, his teeth bared in what passed for a smile. "It
is urgent," he purred. His right hand flashed across his chest in a
complicated gesture. "Do you understand?"

Confusion furrowed the guard's hairless brows, then was replaced by
a sudden flare of understanding--and fear. "The Council!" he roared.
"By heaven, yes, I understand! You are the swine that caused this--"
He strove instinctively to bring the clumsy rifle up, but Svan was
faster. His gamble had failed; there was only one course remaining.
He hurled his gross white bulk at the guard, bowled him over against
the splintery logs of the road. The proton-rifle went flying, and Svan
savagely tore at the throat of the guard. Knees, elbows and claw-like
nails--Svan battered at the astonished man with every ounce of strength
in his body. The guard was as big as Svan, but Svan had the initial
advantage ... and it was only a matter of seconds before the guard
lay unconscious, his skull a mass of gore at the back where Svan had
ruthlessly pounded it against the road.

[Illustration: _Svan grunted as his fingers constricted brutally._]

Svan rose, panting, stared around. No one else was in sight, save the
petrified five and the ground car. Svan glared at them contemptuously,
then reached down and heaved on the senseless body of the guard. Over
the shoulder of the road the body went, onto the damp swampland of the
jungle. Even while Svan watched the body began to sink. There would be
no trace.

Svan strode back to the car. "Hurry up," he gasped to the girl. "Now
there is danger for all of us, if they discover he is missing. And keep
a watch for other guards."
