
Svan hesitated only a fraction of a second after the girl turned the
lights out and stopped the car. Then he reached in the compartment
under the seat. If he took a little longer than seemed necessary to get
the atomite bomb out of the compartment, none of the others noticed.
Certainly it did not occur to them that there had been _two_ bombs in
the compartment, though Svan's hand emerged with only one.

He got out of the car, holding the sphere. "This will do for me," he
said. "They won't be expecting anyone to come from behind the ship--we
were wise to circle around. Now, you know what you must do?"

Ingra nodded, while the others remained mute. "We must circle back
again," she parroted. "We are to wait five minutes, then drive the car
into the swamp. We will create a commotion, attract the guards."

Svan, listening, thought: _It's not much of a plan. The guards would
not be drawn away. I am glad I can't trust these five any more. If
they must be destroyed, it is good that their destruction will serve a
purpose._

Aloud, he said, "You understand. If I get through, I will return to the
city on foot. No one will suspect anything if I am not caught, because
the bomb will not explode until the ship is far out in space. Remember,
you are in no danger from the guards."

_From the guards_, his mind echoed. He smiled. At least, they would
feel no pain, never know what happened. With the amount of atomite in
that bomb in the compartment, they would merely be obliterated in a
ground-shaking crash.

Abruptly he swallowed, reminded of the bomb that was silently counting
off the seconds. "Go ahead," he ordered. "I will wait here."

"Svan." The girl, Ingra, leaned over to him. Impulsively she reached
for him, kissed him. "Good luck to you, Svan," she said.

"Good luck," repeated the others. Then silently the electric motor of
the car took hold. Skilfully the girl backed it up, turned it around,
sent it lumbering back down the road. Only after she had traveled a few
hundred feet by the feel of the road did she turn the lights on again.

Svan looked after them. The kiss had surprised him. What did it mean?
Was it an error that the girl should die with the others?

There was an instant of doubt in his steel-shackled mind, then it was
driven away. Perhaps she was loyal, yet certainly she was weak. And
since he could not know which was the one who had received the marked
slip, and feared to admit it, it was better they all should die.

He advanced along the midnight road to where the ground rose and the
jungle plants thinned out. Ahead, on an elevation, were the rain-dimmed
lights of the Earth-ship, set down in the center of a clearing made by
its own fierce rockets. Svan's mist-trained eyes spotted the circling
figures of sentries, and knew that these would be the ship's own.
They would not be as easily overcome as the natives, not with those
slim-shafted blasters they carried. Only deceit could get him to the
side of the ship.

Svan settled himself at the side of the road, waiting for his chance.
He had perhaps three minutes to wait; he reckoned. His fingers went
absently to the pouch in his wide belt, closed on the slip of paper. He
turned it over without looking at it, wondering who had drawn the first
cross, and been a coward. Ingra? One of the men?
