
He became abruptly conscious of a commotion behind him. A ground car
was racing along the road. He spun around and was caught in the glare
of its blinding driving-light, as it bumped to a slithering stop.

Paralyzed, he heard the girl's voice. "Svan! They're coming! They found
the guard's rifle, and they're looking for us! Thirty Earthmen, Svan,
with those frightful guns. They fired at us, but we got away and came
for you. We must flee!"

He stared unseeingly at the light. "Go away!" he croaked unbelievingly.
Then his muscles jerked into action. The time was almost up--the bomb
in the car--

"Go away!" he shrieked, and turned to run. His fists clenched and
swinging at his side, he made a dozen floundering steps before
something immense pounded at him from behind. He felt himself lifted
from the road, sailing, swooping, dropping with annihilating force
onto the hard, charred earth of the clearing. Only then did he hear the
sound of the explosion, and as the immense echoes died away he began to
feel the pain seeping into him from his hideously racked body....

The Flight Surgeon rose from beside him. "He's still alive," he said
callously to Lowry, who had just come up. "It won't last long, though.
What've you got there?"

Lowry, a bewildered expression on his beardless face, held out the two
halves of a metallic sphere. Dangling ends of wires showed where a
connection had been broken. "He had a bomb," he said. "A magnetic-type,
delayed-action atomite bomb. There must have been another in the car,
and it went off. They--they were planning to bomb us."

"Amazing," the surgeon said dryly. "Well, they won't do any bombing
now."

Lowry was staring at the huddled, mutilated form of Svan. He shuddered.
The surgeon, seeing the shudder, grasped his shoulder.

"Better them than us," he said. "It's poetic justice if I ever saw it.
They had it coming...." He paused thoughtfully, staring at a piece of
paper between his fingers. "This is the only part I don't get," he said.

"What's that?" Lowry craned his neck. "A piece of paper with a cross on
it? What about it?"

The surgeon shrugged. "He had it clenched in his hand," he said. "Had
the devil of a time getting it loose from him." He turned it over
slowly, displayed the other side. "Now what in the world would he be
doing carrying a scrap of paper with a cross marked on both sides?"



