
The sun sank and the moon rose, flooding the desert with weird silver
light. Drifted sand glimmered in long ripples, as if a sea had suddenly
been frozen into immobility. Steve, parched fiercely by a thirst he
dared not fully quench, cursed beneath his breath. The desert was
beautiful beneath the moon, with the beauty of a cold marble lorelei to
lure men to destruction. What a mad quest! his weary brain reiterated;
the Fire of Asshurbanipal retreated into the mazes of unreality with
each dragging step. The desert became not merely a material wasteland,
but the gray mists of the lost eons, in whose depths dreamed sunken
things.

Clarney stumbled and swore; was he failing already? Yar Ali swung along
with the easy, tireless stride of the mountain man, and Steve set his
teeth, nerving himself to greater effort. They were entering the broken
country at last, and the going became harder. Shallow gullies and
narrow ravines knifed the earth with wavering patterns. Most of them
were nearly filled with sand, and there was no trace of water.

"This country was once oasis country," commented Yar Ali. "Allah knows
how many centuries ago the sand took it, as the sand has taken so many
cities in Turkistan."

They swung on like dead men in a gray land of death. The moon grew red
and sinister as she sank, and shadowy darkness settled over the desert
before they had reached a point where they could see what lay beyond
the broken belt. Even the big Afghan's feet began to drag, and Steve
kept himself erect only by a savage effort of will. At last they toiled
up a sort of ridge, on the southern side of which the land sloped
downward.

"We rest," declared Steve. "There's no water in this hellish country.
No use in goin' on for ever. My legs are stiff as gun-barrels. I
couldn't take another step to save my neck. Here's a kind of stunted
cliff, about as high as a man's shoulder, facing south. We'll sleep in
the lee of it."

"And shall we not keep watch, Steve _sahib_?"

"We don't," answered Steve. "If the Arabs cut our throats while we're
asleep, so much the better. We're goners anyhow."

With which optimistic observation Clarney lay down stiffly in the deep
sand. But Yar Ali stood, leaning forward, straining his eyes into the
elusive darkness that turned the star-flecked horizons to murky wells
of shadow.

"Something lies on the skyline to the south," he muttered uneasily. "A
hill? I cannot tell, or even be sure that I see anything at all."

"You're seeing mirages already," said Steve irritably. "Lie down and
sleep."

And so saying Steve slumbered.

The sun in his eyes awoke him. He sat up, yawning, and his first
sensation was that of thirst. He lifted his canteen and wet his lips.
One drink left. Yar Ali still slept. Steve's eyes wandered over the
southern horizon and he started. He kicked the recumbent Afghan.

"Hey, wake up, Ali. I reckon you weren't seeing things after all.
There's your hill--and a queer-lookin' one, too."

The Afridi woke as a wild thing wakes, instantly and completely, his
hand leaping to his long knife as he glared about for enemies. His gaze
followed Steve's pointing fingers and his eyes widened.

"By Allah and by Allah!" he swore. "We have come into a land of djinn!
That is no hill--it is a city of stone in the midst of the sands!"

Steve bounded to his feet like a steel spring released. As he gazed
with bated breath, a fierce shout escaped his lips. At his feet the
slope of the ridge ran down into a wide and level expanse of sand that
stretched away southward. And far away, across those sands, to his
straining sight the "hill" slowly took shape, like a mirage growing
from the drifting sands.

He saw great uneven walls, massive battlements; all about crawled the
sands like a living, sensate thing, drifted high about the walls,
softening the rugged outlines. No wonder that at first glance the whole
had appeared like a hill.

"Kara-Shehr!" Clarney exclaimed fiercely. "Beled-el-Djinn! The city of
the dead! It wasn't a pipe-dream after all! We've found it--by Heaven,
we've found it! Come on! Let's go!"
