
They strode up the broad way, and Yar Ali, utterly fearless in the face
of human foes, glanced nervously to right and left, half expecting to
see a horned and fantastic face leering at him from behind a column.
Steve himself felt the somber antiquity of the place, and almost found
himself fearing a rush of bronze war chariots down the forgotten
streets, or to hear the sudden menacing flare of bronze trumpets. The
silence in dead cities was so much more intense, he reflected, than
that on the open desert.

They came to the portals of the great temple. Rows of immense columns
flanked the wide doorway, which was ankle-deep in sand, and from which
sagged massive bronze frameworks that had once braced mighty doors,
whose polished woodwork had rotted away centuries ago. They passed into
a mighty hall of misty twilight, whose shadowy stone roof was upheld
by columns like the trunks of forest trees. The whole effect of the
architecture was one of awesome magnitude and sullen, breath-taking
splendor, like a temple built by somber giants for the abode of dark
gods.

Yar Ali walked fearfully, as if he expected to awake sleeping gods, and
Steve, without the Afridi's superstitions, yet felt the gloomy majesty
of the place lay somber hands on his soul.

No trace of a footprint showed in the deep dust on the floor; half a
century had passed since the affrighted and devil-ridden Turk had fled
these silent halls. As for the Bedouins, it was easy to see why those
superstitious sons of the desert shunned this haunted city--and haunted
it was, not by actual ghosts, perhaps, but by the shadows of lost
splendors.

As they trod the sands of the hall, which seemed endless, Steve
pondered many questions: How did these fugitives from the wrath of
frenzied rebels build this city? How did they pass through the country
of their foes?--for Babylonia lay between Assyria and the Arabian
desert. Yet there had been no other place for them to go; westward lay
Syria and the sea, and north and east swarmed the "dangerous Medes",
those fierce Aryans whose aid had stiffened the arm of Babylon to smite
her foe to the dust.

Possibly, thought Steve, Kara-Shehr--whatever its name had been in
those dim days--had been built as an outpost border city before the
fall of the Assyrian empire, whither survivals of that over-throw fled.
At any rate it was possible that Kara-Shehr had outlasted Nineveh by
some centuries--a strange, hermit city, no doubt, cut off from the rest
of the world.

Surely, as Yar Ali had said, this was once fertile country, watered by
oases; and doubtless in the broken country they had passed over the
night before, there had been quarries that furnished the stone for the
building of the city.

Then what caused its downfall? Did the encroachment of the sands and
the filling up of the springs cause the people to abandon it, or was
Kara-Shehr a city of silence before the sands crept over the walls? Did
the downfall come from within or without? Did civil war blot out the
inhabitants, or were they slaughtered by some powerful foe from the
desert? Clarney shook his head in baffled chagrin. The answers to those
questions were lost in the maze of forgotten ages.

"_Allaho akbar!_" They had traversed the great shadowy hall and at
its further end they came upon a hideous black stone altar, behind
which loomed an ancient god, bestial and horrific. Steve shrugged his
shoulders as he recognized the monstrous aspect of the image--aye,
that was Baal, on which black altar in other ages many a screaming,
writhing, naked victim had offered up its naked soul. The idol embodied
in its utter, abysmal and sullen bestiality the whole soul of this
demoniac city. Surely, thought Steve, the builders of Nineveh and
Kara-Shehr were cast in another mold from the people of today. Their
art and culture were too ponderous, too grimly barren of the lighter
aspects of humanity, to be wholly human, as modern man understands
humanity. Their architecture was repellent; of high skill, yet so
massive, sullen and brutish in effect as to be almost beyond the
comprehension of moderns.

The adventurers passed through a narrow door which opened in the end of
the hall close to the idol, and came into a series of wide, dim, dusty
chambers connected by column-flanked corridors. Along these they strode
in the gray ghostly light, and came at last to a wide stair, whose
massive stone steps led upward and vanished in the gloom. Here Yar Ali
halted.

"We have dared much, _sahib_," he muttered. "Is it wise to dare more?"

Steve, aquiver with eagerness, yet understood the Afghan's mind. "You
mean we shouldn't go up those stairs?"

"They have an evil look. To what chambers of silence and horror may
they lead? When djinn haunt deserted buildings, they lurk in the upper
chambers. At any moment a demon may bite off our heads."

"We're dead men anyhow," grunted Steve. "But I tell you--you go on back
through the hall and watch for the Arabs while I go upstairs."

"Watch for a wind on the horizon," responded the Afghan gloomily,
shifting his rifle and loosening his long knife in its scabbard. "No
Bedouin comes here. Lead on, _sahib_. Thou'rt mad after the manner of
all Franks, but I would not leave thee to face the djinn alone."

So the companions mounted the massive stairs, their feet sinking deep
into the accumulated dust of centuries at each step. Up and up they
went, to an incredible height, until the depths below merged into a
vague gloom.

"We walk blind to our doom, _sahib_," muttered Yar Ali. "_Allah il
allah_--and Muhammad is his Prophet! Nevertheless, I feel the presence
of slumbering Evil and never again shall I hear the wind blowing up the
Khyber Pass."

Steve made no reply. He did not like the breathless silence that
brooded over the ancient temple, nor the grisly gray light that
filtered from some hidden source.

Now above them the gloom lightened somewhat and they emerged into a
vast circular chamber, grayly illumined by light that filtered in
through the high, pierced ceiling. But another radiance lent itself to
the illumination. A cry burst from Steve's lips, echoed by Yar Ali.
