
Standing on the top step of the broad stone stair, they looked directly
across the broad chamber, with its dust-covered heavy tile floor and
bare black stone walls. From about the center of the chamber, massive
steps led up to a stone dais, and on this dais stood a marble throne.
About this throne glowed and shimmered an uncanny light, and the
awe-struck adventurers gasped as they saw its source. On the throne
slumped a human skeleton, an almost shapeless mass of moldering bones.
A fleshless hand sagged outstretched upon the broad marble throne-arm,
and in its grisly clasp there pulsed and throbbed like a living thing,
a great crimson stone.

The Fire of Asshurbanipal! Even after they had found the lost city
Steve had not really allowed himself to believe that they would find
the gem, or that it even existed in reality. Yet he could not doubt the
evidence of his eyes, dazzled by that evil, incredible glow. With a
fierce shout he sprang across the chamber and up the steps. Yar Ali was
at his heels, but when Steve would have seized the gem, the Afghan laid
a hand on his arm.

"Wait!" exclaimed the big Muhammadan. "Touch it not yet, _sahib_!
A curse lies on ancient things--and surely this is a thing triply
accursed! Else why has it lain here untouched in a country of thieves
for so many centuries? It is not well to disturb the possessions of the
dead."

"Bosh!" snorted the American. "Superstitions! The Bedouins were scared
by the tales that have come down to 'em from their ancestors. Being
desert-dwellers they mistrust cities anyway, and no doubt this one
had an evil reputation in its lifetime. And nobody except Bedouins
have seen this place before, except that Turk, who was probably half
demented with suffering.

"These bones may be those of the king mentioned in the legend--the dry
desert air preserves such things indefinitely--but I doubt it. May be
Assyrian--most likely Arab--some beggar that got the gem and then died
on that throne for some reason or other."

The Afghan scarcely heard him. He was gazing in fearful fascination at
the great stone, as a hypnotized bird stares into a serpent's eye.

"Look at it, _sahib_!" he whispered. "What is it? No such gem as this
was ever cut by mortal hands! Look how it throbs and pulses like the
heart of a cobra!"

Steve was looking, and he was aware of a strange undefined feeling of
uneasiness. Well versed in the knowledge of precious stones, he had
never seen a stone like this. At first glance he had supposed it to be
a monster ruby, as told in the legends. Now he was not sure, and he had
a nervous feeling that Yar Ali was right, that this was no natural,
normal gem. He could not classify the style in which it was cut, and
such was the power of its lurid radiance that he found it difficult to
gaze at it closely for any length of time. The whole setting was not
one calculated to soothe restless nerves. The deep dust on the floor
suggested an unwholesome antiquity; the gray light evoked a sense of
unreality, and the heavy black walls towered grimly, hinting at hidden
things.

"Let's take the stone and go!" muttered Steve, an unaccustomed panicky
dread rising in his bosom.

"Wait!" Yar Ali's eyes were blazing, and he gazed, not at the gem, but
at the sullen stone walls. "We are flies in the lair of the spider!
_Sahib_, as Allah lives, it is more than the ghosts of old fears that
lurk over this city of horror! I feel the presence of peril, as I have
felt it before--as I felt it in a jungle cavern where a python lurked
unseen in the darkness--as I felt it in the temple of Thuggee where the
hidden stranglers of Siva crouched to spring upon us--as I feel it
now, tenfold!"

Steve's hair prickled. He knew that Yar Ali was a grim veteran, not to
be stampeded by silly fear or senseless panic; he well remembered the
incidents referred to by the Afghan, as he remembered other occasions
upon which Yar Ali's Oriental telepathic instinct had warned him of
danger before that danger was seen or heard.

"What is it, Yar Ali?" he whispered.

The Afghan shook his head, his eyes filled with a weird mysterious
light as he listened to the dim occult promptings of his
subconsciousness.

"I know not; I know it is close to us, and that it is very ancient and
very evil. I think----" Suddenly he halted and wheeled, the eery light
vanishing from his eyes to be replaced by a glare of wolf-like fear and
suspicion.

"Hark, _sahib_!" he snapped. "Ghosts or dead men mount the stair!"

Steve stiffened as the stealthy pad of soft sandals on stone reached
his ear.

"By Judas, Ali!" he rapped; "something's out there----"

The ancient walls re-echoed to a chorus of wild yells as a horde of
savage figures flooded the chamber. For one dazed insane instant Steve
believed wildly that they were being attacked by re-embodied warriors
of a vanished age; then the spiteful crack of a bullet past his ear
and the acrid smell of powder told him that their foes were material
enough. Clarney cursed; in their fancied security they had been caught
like rats in a trap by the pursuing Arabs.
