
Even as the American threw up his rifle, Yar Ali fired point-blank
from the hip with deadly effect, hurled his empty rifle into the horde
and went down the steps like a hurricane, his three-foot Khyber knife
shimmering in his hairy hand. Into his gusto for battle went real
relief that his foes were human. A bullet ripped the turban from his
head, but an Arab went down with a split skull beneath the hillman's
first, shearing stroke.

A tall Bedouin clapped his gun-muzzle to the Afghan's side, but before
he could pull the trigger, Clarney's bullet scattered his brains.
The very number of the attackers hindered their onslaught on the
big Afridi, whose tigerish quickness made shooting as dangerous to
themselves as to him. The bulk of them swarmed about him, striking with
simitar and rifle-stock while others charged up the steps after Steve.
At that range there was no missing; the American simply thrust his
rifle muzzle into a bearded face and blasted it into a ghastly ruin.
The others came on, screaming like panthers.

And now as he prepared to expend his last cartridge, Clarney saw two
things in one flashing instant--a wild warrior who, with froth on his
beard and a heavy simitar uplifted, was almost upon him, and another
who knelt on the floor drawing a careful bead on the plunging Yar
Ali. Steve made an instant choice and fired over the shoulder of the
charging swordsman, killing the rifleman--and voluntarily offering his
own life for his friend's; for the simitar was swinging at his own
head. But even as the Arab swung, grunting with the force of the blow,
his sandaled foot slipped on the marble steps and the curved blade,
veering erratically from its arc, clashed on Steve's rifle-barrel. In
an instant the American clubbed his rifle, and as the Bedouin recovered
his balance and again heaved up the simitar, Clarney struck with all
his rangy power, and stock and skull shattered together.

Then a heavy ball smacked into his shoulder, sickening him with the
shock.

As he staggered dizzily, a Bedouin whipped a turban-cloth about his
feet and jerked viciously. Clarney pitched headlong down the steps, to
strike with stunning force. A gun-stock in a brown hand went up to dash
out his brains, but an imperious command halted the blow.

"Slay him not, but bind him hand and foot."

As Steve struggled dazedly against many gripping hands, it seemed to
him that somewhere he had heard that imperious voice before.
