
The American's downfall had occurred in a matter of seconds. Even as
Steve's second shot had cracked, Yar Ali had half severed a raider's
arm and himself received a numbing blow from a rifle-stock on his left
shoulder. His sheep-skin coat, worn despite the desert heat, saved his
hide from half a dozen slashing knives. A rifle was discharged so close
to his face that the powder burnt him fiercely, bringing a bloodthirsty
yell from the maddened Afghan. As Yar Ali swung up his dripping blade
the rifleman, ashy-faced, lifted his rifle above his head in both
hands to parry the downward blow, whereat the Afridi, with a yelp of
ferocious exultation, shifted as a jungle-cat strikes and plunged his
long knife into the Arab's belly. But at that instant a rifle-stock,
swung with all the hearty ill-will its wielder could evoke, crashed
against the giant's head, laying open the scalp and dashing him to his
knees.

With the dogged and silent ferocity of his breed, Yar Ali staggered
blindly up again, slashing at foes he could scarcely see, but a storm
of blows battered him down again, nor did his attackers cease beating
him until he lay still. They would have finished him in short order
then, but for another peremptory order from their chief; whereupon they
bound the senseless knife-man and flung him down alongside Steve, who
was fully conscious and aware of the savage hurt of the bullet in his
shoulder.

He glared up at the tall Arab who stood looking down at him.

"Well, _sahib_," said this one--and Steve saw he was no Bedouin--"do
you not remember me?"

Steve scowled; a bullet wound is no aid to concentration.

"You look familiar--by Judas!--you are! Nureddin El Mekru!"

"I am honored! The _sahib_ remembers!" Nureddin salaamed mockingly.
"And you remember, no doubt, the occasion on which you made me a
present of--this?"

The dark eyes shadowed with bitter menace and the shaykh indicated a
thin white scar on the angle of his jaw.

"I remember," snarled Clarney, whom pain and anger did not tend to make
docile. "It was in Somaliland, years ago. You were in the slave-trade
then. A wretch of a nigger escaped from you and took refuge with me.
You walked into my camp one night in your high-handed way, started a
row and in the ensuing scrap you got a butcher-knife across your face.
I wish I'd cut your lousy throat."

"You had your chance," answered the Arab. "Now the tables are turned."

"I thought your stamping-ground lay west," growled Clarney; "Yemen and
the Somali country."

"I quit the slave-trade long ago," answered the shaykh. "It is an
outworn game. I led a band of thieves in Yemen for a time; then again
I was forced to change my location. I came here with a few faithful
followers, and by Allah, those wild men nearly slit my throat at first.
But I overcame their suspicions, and now I lead more men than have
followed me in years.

"They whom you fought off yesterday were my men--scouts I had sent out
ahead. My oasis lies far to the west. We have ridden for many days, for
I was on my way to this very city. When my scouts rode in and told me
of two wanderers, I did not alter my course, for I had business first
in Beled-el-Djinn. We rode into the city from the west and saw your
tracks in the sand. We followed them, and you were blind buffalo who
heard not our coming."

Steve snarled. "You wouldn't have caught us so easy, only we thought no
Bedouin would dare come into Kara-Shehr."

Nureddin nodded. "But I am no Bedouin. I have traveled far and seen
many lands and many races, and I have read many books. I know that fear
is smoke, that the dead are dead, and that djinn and ghosts and curses
are mists that the wind blows away. It was because of the tales of
the red stone that I came into this forsaken desert. But it has taken
months to persuade my men to ride with me here.

"But--I am here! And your presence is a delightful surprize. Doubtless
you have guessed why I had you taken alive; I have more elaborate
entertainment planned for you and that Pathan swine. Now--I take the
Fire of Asshurbanipal and we will go."
