Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







    Transcriber's Note: This e-text was produced from "Worlds of If"
    November 1961. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
    that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.


They weren't human--weren't even related to humanity through ties of
blood--but they were our heirs!


SWEET
Their blood and sticky


By ALBERT R. TEICHNER


The machine had stood there a long time. It was several hundred feet
long and could run on a thimbleful of earth or water. Complete in
itself, the machine drew material from the surrounding landscape,
transmuting matter to its special purposes. It needed sugar, salt, water
and many other things but never failed to have them. It was still
working. And at the delivery end, where the packaging devices had been
broken down, it turned out a steady turgid stream on the ground of
pink-striped, twisting taffy.

Once the whole vast desert area had been filled with such devices,
producing all the varied needs of a very needful human race. But there
had been no machine to produce peace. The crossing shock waves of fused
hydrogen had destroyed the machines by the tens of thousands, along with
all the automatic shipping lines, leaving only, in the quirk of a
pressure cross-pattern, an undisturbed taffy-making machine, oozing its
special lava on the plateau floor.

It had been working seven and a half million years.

It continued to repair itself, as if a child of the race that had
started all this would come by it at any moment to tip an eager pinky in
the still-warm taffy to taste its tangy sweetness. But there were no
human beings. There had been none since the day when the packager
collapsed, at the edge of the total-evaporation zone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Creno set a few of his legs on the edge of the glassy, weathered ridge
and gazed over the plateau. Harta, next to him, trembled as she
adjusted to the strange hardness of these four dimensions. "Being is a
thin thing here," she said.

"Thin, yes," Creno smiled. "An almost dead world. But there is a mystery
in that almost to make the journey worth the coming."

"What mystery?" But Creno was of the wisest on the home planet and her
sense feelers scanned once more to find what he must mean. "I _do_ feel
it! Everything dead but that one great mental thing moving, and a
four-dimensional stream coming out in the vibrations of this world!"

"I have been watching it," said Creno. "What kind of life can that be?
You are a sharp sensor, Harta. Focus to it."

She strained and then relaxed, speaking: "The circuits are closed into
themselves. It learns nothing from outside itself except to move and
extend its metal feelers for food. Soil is its food. Soil is its energy.
Soil is its being."

"Can it be alive?"

"It is alive."

All his legs rested now in a row along the ridge. He too was relaxed as
one mystery disappeared. "I feel your feelings, but the thing is not
alive. It is a machine."

"I do not understand. A machine in the middle of a dead world?"

"Whether we understand why or not, that is what it is--a machine."

Harta throbbed with excitement. How could Creno be wrong? He knew
everything as soon as the facts were in his mind. Yet here now were
living things crawling toward the machine, just like the excrescence at
one end but in no way a part of it! The feeling of _willed_ effort as
they crawled slowly toward it, white and pink striped, reaching grasping
feelers into the turgid product, taking it in, then rising on easing
legs as the food spread within them.

"There _are_ living creatures here!" Creno pondered. "I feel your
messages. Twenty, thirty--a horde is crawling from that mountain toward
it."

"Four thousand three hundred and ninety-one," said Harta. She
concentrated. "There are three thousand and five more in the mountain
caves, waiting to come out as the others return."

       *       *       *       *       *

They came in groups of about a hundred, pulling themselves slowly toward
the edges of the great sticky lake that lay within the vaster area where
the pink matter dried and crumbled into the strong breeze. Some were
smaller than others, offspring who were nudged along by their elders.
But these small creatures were the ones who scampered most of all after
they had fed. Joyously they danced back toward the mountain. A few of
medium height went back in pairs, firm taffy fingers intertwined in each
other.

"They mate," said Creno. "It is their custom."

"How tiring they are," said Harta. "I have lost interest. We have seen
thirty-one worlds with such customs and these creatures are too simple
to be interesting. Let us go home or try some other system."

"Not yet," Creno insisted. "We passed through the ocean and surveyed the
lands of this tiny planet. Nowhere else has there been the tiniest unit
of life. Why at this one spot should something exist?"

"But we have several parallel situations," Harta protested. "They were
colonies landed in one spot by the civilization of another planet. They
landed here with their feeder machine. And that is the explanation."

"Your mind does not function well in a four-dimension continuum, Harta.
You will need more training--"

"But these cases are rare, and, Creno--"

"I know they are rare, my child. But still they exist. You will have to
learn eventually, a little at a time. Now then, it is a rule of such
limited dimensional realms that the movement of matter and events from
place to place is highly difficult. Certain compacting procedures must
be observed. To transport a machine this size across their space would
have required enormous effort and an intelligence they do not yet have.
More than that, it would have been unnecessary. A smaller device would
have supplied them with food. I am forced to conclude that--somehow--we
are approaching this problem backwards."

"Backwards? You mean they made the machine here after they came?"

He did not reply to that. "We must concentrate together on thinking
ourselves into their functioning in their manifold."

Harta followed his suggestion, and soon their thoughts were moving among
and within the striped creatures. The insides of their bodies consisted
of fundamentally the same taffy substance; but it had been modified by
various organic structures. All, though, were built of the same
fundamental units: elongated, thin cells which readily aligned
themselves in semi-crystalline patterns.

"Enough," Creno said, "back to the hill."

Their rows of thin limbs rested on the ridge crest once more. "We have
seen such cell crystals before," she sighed. "The inefficiencies in such
a poverty of dimensions! Do you still think we have looked at it
backwards?"

"Of course we have. They did not bring the machine or make it--the
machine made them!"

"That is not possible, Creno, great as you are in these matters. We have
never seen life created by a machine before. No one ever has, from the
millions of reports I have seen at home."

"Maybe we have and not known it. The life we have seen always evolved
through enormous eons and we could not see its origins clearly in most
cases. Here we are dealing with something that has taken comparatively
little time." He stopped, shocked that he, an elder, had said so much.
"No, disregard such theories. You are still too young to bother with
them. Here is the important thing--this machine was left by an earlier
race that disappeared. Everything else was destroyed but it went right
on producing its substance."

"The substance is not life."

"It is only four-dimensional matter, right. But over a long enough
time--you know this as well as I do--random factors will eventually
produce a life form. By some trick of radiation this process has been
speeded up here. The substance the machine produces has in turn produced
life!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Creno sensed with a tremor some dangerous shifting in Harta's
consciousness. As an elder it was his duty to prevent a premature
insight in the young. It had been a mistake to bring this up. He must go
no further.

It was not necessary. Harta took it up for him.

"Then any substance producing life and modified by it could--if you go
far enough back--be the product of a machine. But it would have taken so
long to produce life that the original matter, that bore the direct
imprint of the machine, would have disappeared."

"An error," said Creno desperately. "There is just this case."

"By the time these creatures have arrived at self-knowledge the machine
will be gone. They will not know it ever existed, and--"

"That is all it means. There is just this one case. Now we must leave
this unimportant example of minor dimensions!"

He strained consciousness to a forward movement but Harta remained
behind. He had to pull back. "Start," he ordered.

Her mind's obstinately frozen stance made him freeze too. He applied all
his force to bring her back into control, but she still held fast.

"Something more is hidden from me. I will be back," she said. And she
disappeared from the ridge.

He had never faced such a quandary before on a training trip with a
younger one. If he went in pursuit he would find her ultimately--that
was in the nature of being older and wiser--but, if she revolted against
his pursuit, she could extend the time considerably on this forsaken
planet. And he wanted to get her away as soon as possible.

The more time here the more chance that the awful truth would come to
her before her time.

He watched the growing waves of creatures floundering toward the vast
oozing puddle, which refilled itself as quickly as it was diminished by
them, and the receding waves of those that had already fed. This, he
could see, was an endless process. The whole life of the species moved
in continuous systole-diastole around the machine.

Soon he would have to go in search of her.

But then she was back at his side, her being for this world once more
solidified. She concentrated for a moment on the pink-striped waves of
rippling inward and outward around the great sustaining pool, then
communicated with him.

"We can leave now. There is nothing more to see."

Something in her mind remained closed to his, as the mind of younger
never should be to older. But at least he could see with relief that the
worst had not happened. The deeper knowledge had not arrived to her too
early when it could only hurt. All he found turned to him--as they
receded from this thin-manifold universe, then moved up the dimension
ladder to their home level--was a surface of happiness.

Suddenly, though, as they prepared for flight in that hyperspace all her
joy was gone.

"I saw it," she said. "In my free and unrestricted spirit I moved deep
into the substance of that world, below all the total ruin, far below.
And there was a monstrous machine, near the molten core, almost
infinitely older than the feeding one far above it. And it, too, had
been left in a stratum where all else was destroyed. I could see it had
once produced the ooze from which came the life from which in turn come
the beings by whom the machine above it was made. Maybe they, too,
thought they were free and unrestricted!"

He sighed for the bitter cost of knowledge.

This one would no longer go forth in the joy of mere exploration, and he
would no longer live vicariously in the happiness of another being's
innocence. Now Harta, too, would be seeking the answer to the question
of original creation, the answer that he had not found in his journeys
across a myriad worlds and dimensions....

That no one had ever found.


END




