
"I saw Vanderkamp again about a fortnight later," Harrigan went on. "Ran
into him in a tavern on the Bowery. He recognized me and came over.

"'That was some story you did,' he said.

"'Been bothered by cranks?' I asked.

"'Hell, yes! Not too badly, though. They want to ride off somewhere just
to get away. I get that feeling myself sometimes. But, tell me, have you
seen the morning papers?'

"Now, by coincidence, the papers that morning had carried a story from
some local nuclear physicist about the increasing probability that the
atom would be smashed. I told him I'd seen it.

"'What did I tell you?' he said.

"I just smiled and asked where he'd been lately. He didn't hesitate to
talk, perhaps because his sister had been giving him a hard time with
her nagging. So I listened. It appeared, to hear him tell it, that he
had been off visiting the Dutch in New Amsterdam. You could almost
believe what he said, listening to him, except for that wild look he
had. Anyway, he'd been in New Amsterdam about 1650, and he'd brought
back a few trifling souvenirs of the trips. Would I like to see them? I
said I would.

"I figured he'd got his hands on some nice antiques and wanted an
appreciative audience. His sister wasn't home; so he took me around and
showed me his pieces, one by one--a bowl, a pair of wooden candlesticks,
wooden shoes, and more, all in all a fine collection. He even had a
chair that looked pretty authentic, and I wondered where he'd dug up so
many nice things of the New Amsterdam period--though, of course, I had
to take his word as to where they belonged historically; I didn't know.
But I imagine he got them somewhere in the city or perhaps up in the
Catskill country.

"Well, after a while I got another look at his contraption. It didn't
appear to have been moved at all; it was still sitting where it had been
before, without a sign to say that it had been used to go anywhere,
least of all into past time.

"'Tell me,' I said to him at last, 'when you go back in time do you get
younger?'

"'Yes and no,' he said. 'Obviously.'

"It wasn't obvious to me, but I couldn't get any more than that out of
him. The thing I couldn't figure out was the reason for his claim. He
wasn't trying to sell anything to anybody, as far as I could see; he
wasn't anxious to tell the world about his time-machine, either. He
didn't mind talking in his oblique fashion about his trips. He did talk
about New Amsterdam as if he had a pretty good acquaintance with the
place. But then, he was known as a minor authority on the customs of the
Dutch colony.

"He was touched, obviously. Just the same, he challenged me, in a way. I
wanted to know something more about him, how his machine worked, how he
took off, and so on. I made up my mind the next time I was in the
neighborhood to look him up, hoping he wouldn't be home.

"When I made it, his sister was alone, and in fine fettle, as
cantankerous as a flea-bitten mastiff.

"'He's gone again,' she complained bitterly.

"Clearly the two of them were at odds. I asked her whether she had seen
him go. She hadn't; he had just marched out to his shop and that was an
end to him as far as she was concerned.

"I haggled around quite a lot and finally got her permission to go out
and see what I could see for myself. Of course, the shop was locked. I
had counted on that and had brought along a handy little skeleton key. I
was inside in no time. The machine wasn't there. Not a sign of it, or of
Vanderkamp either.

"Now, I looked around all over, but I couldn't for the life of me figure
out how he could have taken it out of that place; it was too big for
doors or windows, and the walls and roof were solid and immovable. I
figured that he couldn't have got such a large machine away without his
sister's seeing him; so I locked the place up and went back to the
house.

"But she was immovable; she hadn't seen a thing. If he had taken
anything larger than pocket-size out of that shop of his, she had missed
it. I could hardly doubt her sincerity. There was nothing to be had from
that source; so I had no alternative but to wait for him another time."
