
"It must have been all of a month before I saw Vanderkamp again,"
Harrigan continued, waving for another scotch and soda. "I was down in
the vicinity on an assignment and I took a run over to his place.

"He was home this time. He came to the door, which he had chained on the
inside. He recognized me, and it was plain at the same time that he had
no intention of letting me in.

"I came right out with the first question I had in mind. 'The thing that
bothers me,' I said to him, 'is how you get that time machine of yours
in and out of that shed.'

"'Mr. Harrigan,' he answered, 'newspaper reporters ought to have at
least elementary scientific knowledge. You don't. How in hell could even
a time machine be in two places at once, I ask you? If I take that
machine back three centuries, that's where it is--not here. And three
centuries ago that shop wasn't standing there. So you don't go in or
out; you don't move at all, remember? It's time that moves.'

"'I called the other day,' I went on. 'Your sister spoke to me. Give her
my regards.'

"'My sister's left me,' he said shortly, 'to stew, as you might say, in
my own time machine.'

"'Really?' I said. 'Just what do you have in mind to do next?'

"'Let me ask _you_ something, Mr. Harrigan,' he answered. 'Would you sit
around here waiting for an atomic war if you could get away?'

"'Certainly not,' I answered.

"'Well, then, I don't intend to, either.'

"All this while he was standing at the door, refusing to open it any
wider or to let me in. He was making it pretty plain that there wasn't
much he had to say to me. And he seemed to be in a hurry.

"'Remember me to the inquiring public thirty years hence, Mr. Harrigan,'
he said at last, and closed the door.

"That was the last I saw of him."

Harrigan finished his scotch and soda appreciatively and looked around
for the bartender.

"Did he take off then?" I asked.

"Like a rocket," said Harrigan. "Queerest thing was that there wasn't a
trace of him. The machine was gone, too--the same way as the last time,
without a disturbance in the shop. He and his machine had simply
vanished off the face of the earth and were never heard from again.

"Matter of fact, though," Harrigan went on thoughtfully, "Vanderkamp's
disappearance wasn't the really queer angle on the pitch. The other
thing broke in the papers the week after he left. The neighbors got
pretty worked up about it. They called the police to tell them that
Vanderkamp's sister Julie was back, only she was off her nut--and a good
deal changed in appearance, too.

"Gal going blarmy was no news, of course, but that last bit about her
appearance--they said she looked about twenty years older, all of a
sudden--sort of rang a bell. So I went over there. It was Julie, all
right; at least, she looked a hell of a lot like Julie had when I last
saw her--provided you could grant that a woman could age twenty years in
the few weeks it had been. And she was off her rocker, sure enough--or
hysterical. Or at least madder than a wet hen. She made out like she
couldn't speak a word of English, and they finally had to get an
interpreter to understand her. She wouldn't speak anything but
Dutch--and an old-fashioned kind, too.

"She made a lot of extravagant claims and kept insisting that she would
bring the whole matter up in a complaint before Governor Stuyvesant.
Said she wasn't Julie Vanderkamp, by God, but was named Anna Van
Tromp--which is an old Dutch name thereabouts--and claimed that she had
been abducted from her home on the Bowery. We pointed out the Third
Avenue El and told her _that_ was the Bowery, but she just sniffed and
looked at us as though _we_ were crazy."

I toyed with my drink. "You mean you actually listened to the poor
girl's story?" I asked.

"Sure," Harrigan said. "Maybe she was as crazy as a bedbug, but I've
listened to whackier stories from supposedly sane people. Sure, I
listened to her." He paused thoughtfully for a moment, then went on.

"She claimed that this fellow Vanderkamp had come to her house and
filled her with a lot of guff about the wonderful country he lived in,
and how she ought to let him take her to see it. Apparently he waxed
especially eloquent about an automatic washing-machine and dryer, and
that had fascinated her, for some reason. Then, she said, he'd brought a
ten-year-old girl along--though where in the world old Vanderkamp could
have picked up a tot like that is beyond me--and the kid had added her
blandishments to the plot. Between them, they had managed to lure her
into the old guy's machine. From what she said, it was obviously the
time machine she was talking about, and if she was Julie there was no
reason why she shouldn't know about it. But she talked as though it was
a complete mystery to her, as though she'd no idea what the purpose of
it was. Well, anyway, here she was--and very unhappy, too. Wanted to go
back to old New Amsterdam, but bad.

"It was a beautiful act, even if she was nuts. The strange thing was,
though, that there were some things even a gal going whacky couldn't
explain. For instance, the house was filled with what the experts said
were priceless antiques from Dutch New Amsterdam, of the period just
prior to the British siege. You'd think those things would make poor
Julie feel more at home, seeing as she claimed to belong in that period,
but apparently they just made her homesick. And, curiously enough, all
the modern gadgets were gone. All those handy little items that make the
twentieth century so livable had been taken away--including the
washing-machine and dryer, by the way. Julie--or Anna, as she called
herself--claimed that Vanderkamp had taken it back with him, wherever
he'd gone to, after he'd brought her there."

"Poor woman," I said sympathetically. "They toted her off to the booby
hatch, I suppose."

"No...." Harrigan said slowly. "They didn't, as a matter of fact. Since
she was harmless, they let her stay in the house a while. Which was a
mistake, it seems. Of course, she _wasn't_ from the seventeenth century.
That's impossible. All the same--." He broke off abruptly and stared
moodily into his glass.

"What happened to her?" I asked.

"She was found one morning about two weeks after she got there," he
said. "Dead. Electrocuted. It seems she'd stuck her finger into a light
socket while standing in a bathtub full of water. An accident,
obviously. As the Medical Examiner said, it was an accident any
six-year-old child would have known enough about electricity to avoid.

"That is," Harrigan added, "a _twentieth-century_ child...."



