
At breakfast next morning Jimmy waited impatiently for his sister to
come downstairs. He hoped she would get to the table before his father
because with Papa present he couldn't talk, and he wanted to talk. When
at last Stella took her chair, he stretched his foot under the table
and kicked her slightly.

"I've got a secret," he whispered.

"Tell it to me," said Stella.

"It's a big secret."

"If you won't tell, I won't give you any of my Flinch candy."

Jimmy was silent a moment as he gave this thought. Then he leaned
forward and whispered,

"Mr. Trask moved last night."

"He always moves," replied Stella, unimpressed.

"I mean really moved. Toward Mr. Maudsley."

Stella choked on her porridge and the spoon all but slipped from her
hand. She stared with wide open eyes. "He didn't."

Their whispers broke off as Mr. Tapping strode across the kitchen and
took his place at the head of the table. A heavy-set unimaginative man
who seldom entered into conversation with the children, he eyed them
speculatively. But he said nothing and began to eat his eggs and thick
strips of bacon. He ate slowly and methodically, keeping his eyes to
the table. When he had finished his coffee, he settled back to light
his pipe. He passed the match back and forth across the bowl with quiet
deliberation.

"Who's Mr. Maudsley and who's Mr. Trask?"

His wife smiled. "Those are just the names the children have given the
scarecrows."

"What scarecrows?"

"The one in our field and the one on Edmund's land."

Mr. Tapping considered this while strong curls of strong tobacco smoke
rose about him.

"Why those names? Why not Brown and Smith?"

"Because those are their names," explained Stella patiently.

Mr. Tapping cogitated on the mysteries of the juvenile mind. Abruptly
he remembered the section of pasture fence that needed repairing and
got to his feet.

But it was nearly noon before he got around to fence fixing, and then
he had but one wire stapled when he heard a "halloo" and, turning, saw
old Jason Southby hobbling across the field toward him.

Jimmy, who was holding the wire for his father, let go the pliers and
joined Stella who was trying to capture a bumble bee in a fruit jar.

"Howdy," said old Jason, reaching the fence. "Got a couple of helpers,
I see."

Mr. Tapping smiled and nodded his greeting.

"I came over to ask if you're goin' to post your property for
no-huntin' this year."

"Don't think so," replied Mr. Tapping. "Aren't many grouse, and I don't
expect there'll be many hunters."

"No," agreed old Jason, "the birds are dyin' out. It ain't like the old
days."

Mr. Tapping nodded.

"Remember when Maudsley was here. Things was different then."

"Who did you say?" said Mr. Tapping.

"Maudsley," repeated old Jason. "He owned your farm twenty ... thirty
years ago."

Mr. Tapping shook his head. Maudsley, eh? Jimmy and Stella must have
heard the name from one of the neighbors' children.

"Yep," continued old Jason. "Maudsley had this place, and Trask rented
the strip across the road."

"So?"

"Quite a story about them two."
