
Mr. Tapping said nothing. There would be no hurrying old Jason; and
no stopping him either. The man obviously had a tale to tell, and he
was enjoying every moment of this prelude. He bit off a piece of plug
tobacco, chewed a moment and spat.

"It was corn that started it," he said. "Maudsley was a great one to
fool around with hybrids, and he worked out an early variety he called
Maudsley Number two. That ain't bein' planted any more, but in those
days it was well thought of.

"Then Trask moves into the farm across the road. Trask was from down
south, from around New Orleans way, and he was fired up with all sorts
of backwoods stuff. Pretty soon he began to fight with Maudsley about
how good his hybrid corn was. Seems Trask believed the only way to
grow good crops was by usin' voodoo spells. Got so them two couldn't
come into sight of each other without startin' an argument. One day
Trask got so mad he let his cattle loose in Maudsley's cornfield.
That settled it. Maudsley headed for Trask's place, armed with a
double-barreled shotgun. But before he got there, Trask made himself
invisible."

"He did what?" demanded Mr. Tapping.

"Well anyway, that's the story Maudsley spread around. Funny thing is,
folks believed him. He said Trask, bein' from New Orleans country, knew
all sorts of voodoo spells, and he said that Trask, bein' afraid, had
cast a spell over himself to make himself vanish. 'Course some persons
were suspicious and the sheriff asked Maudsley some questions. But
Maudsley proved his shotgun hadn't been fired, and no one had seen him
commit any crime. Trask was never seen around these parts again. After
that Maudsley got to actin' sorta queer: lookin' over his shoulder,
talkin' to himself. Then one day he up and cleared out, and the next
anything was heard of him he had moved south to New Orleans, the very
place Trask had come from. Maudsley is still down there; he wouldn't
come back even long enough to complete the sale of his farm." Jason's
voice died off as he reached the end of his story.

"Did you hear what he said?" said Jimmy in a low voice.

"Sure." Stella rose triumphant from capturing her bumble bee. "I knew
it all the time."
