
For three nights the skies over the Tapping farm were black, and a cold
wind huffing down from the north kept the children indoors where they
played endless games of parchesi. On the fourth night the moon broke
through the clouds.

Jimmy, squatting by the window, the spyglass to his eye, stared out at
the two scarecrows. At intervals he thought he saw Mr. Trask descend
from the mounting pole, leap up over the shocks and begin his strange
dance. But at the instant those capers began, the clouds always managed
to blot out the light, and the boy never could be sure if it was a
trick of his eye or the glass.

And then Jimmy observed two things. With him in his gyrations Mr. Trask
carried the knife, and as he darted back and forth, he edged almost
imperceptibly toward Mr. Maudsley.

The boy watched a long time to confirm his fears. Then he turned and
ran to his sister's room.

"Mr. Trask is getting closer," he said. "You'd better come see."

At the window Stella spent several moments focusing the glass. Slowly
her body went rigid, and she uttered a hoarse exclamation.

"He's going to kill Mr. Maudsley."

The boy nodded, his eyes shining with terror.

"We've got to try and stop him!"

She turned and ran down the stairs and through the lower floor rooms
to the back door. Jimmy ran after her. Crossing the yard, they sped
halfway down the lane, then pushed through the cedar windbreak and
veered toward the cornfield. Pumpkins, golden in the moonlight, rose up
on either side as they raced up the incline.

Suddenly Stella drew up short. "Look!"

Mr. Trask had crossed the road and now was coming full tilt through the
row of shocks. Jimmy, arms spread wide, threw himself forward to block
the onrushing figure's path. He had a brief impression of a blurred
shadow bowling toward him and passing through him while he struck out
with his small fists ineffectually. Behind there was a ripping of cloth
and a hoarse scream.

Stella came running to where Jimmy stood. Together they saw two shadows
locked in an incredible embrace. Like a scythe raised aloft, Mr.
Trask's knife swept downward in a wide arc and with a quick stroke cut
off Mr. Maudsley's head. Mr. Maudsley's hat flew up, Mr. Maudsley's
head rolled off, and a thin cry of triumph welled up and faded.

And then there was nothing, except that Mr. Trask was back on one side
of the fence, and Mr. Maudsley was on the other, minus his head, of
course.

"Gee!" said Stella.

"Golly!" said Jimmy. He ran over to pick up Mr. Maudsley's hat; Jimmy
tried to put Mr. Maudsley's head back but somehow it wouldn't stick.

"We'll fix it in the morning," said Jimmy.

At the edge of the field Jimmy paused and caught his sister's arm
anxiously. "You won't tell, Stella?"

"No of course not."

"Cross your heart...?"

"Cross my heart and hope to die."
