
Three months later, an enemy jet came out of the sky and over the
valley. A scoop arrangement under its belly was sniffing Tennessee
and Alabama air for radioactive particles. It sniffed low over the
town, and then again--a ruined town might hide an underground lab and
converter--and then it barrel-rolled and crashed. Nine rifle bullets
had hit the motor; straight back through the jet intake, into the
blades.

A year after that another jet came low over the town, and it
crashed too. Only three bullets this time; but a jet motor's like a
turbine--you get a blade or two, and it goes crazy.

Two years after that, Ben Bates (no longer Mayor Ben, because a mayor
has to have a town; but still the man in charge) knocked off playing
horseshoes in what had been the Town Hall. Now the building served as a
recreation hall; there were horseshoe pits at one end of the long room,
there were tables for checkers and cards, and a short tenpin alley
along one wall. Three years ago the alley had been twice as long as it
was now; but then there were young men around who could peg the length
of it without tiring every time. Overhead the roof sagged, and in one
place you could see quite a piece of sky--but under the hole the old
men had rigged a slanted board watershed that led to a drainage ditch;
and scattered through the room were a lot of supporting posts and
timber braces. Actually the building was about as safe as it had ever
been.

There were other buildings like it; buildings that the bomb hadn't
pounded flat or made too risky. They were propped up and nailed
together and buttressed and practically glued so they'd stay up. From
outside you'd think they were going to crumble any minute--walls
slanted all cockeyed, boards peeled off and hanging, and roofs
buckling in. But they were safe. Fixed up every which way--from the
inside. All from the inside; not an inch of repair on the outside. It
had to be that way, because the town had to look like a dead town.

After the men had finished propping, the women had come along with all
the furniture and things they'd salvaged, and they swept and scrubbed
and did a hundred jobs the men never would have thought of; and so the
old people ended up with half a dozen buildings to live in, secretly
and comfortably, in the town that had to look dead.

"Arthritis is bad," Ben Bates told his teammates and opponents. "Hell,
I'm just giving away points. Maybe next week. I'll rest up, and kick
you all around next week."

He lit a cigar, a big grey man with long legs and a good-humored mouth,
and he watched Dan Paray throw one short; then he strolled over to
kibitz at the checker game between Fat Sam Hogan and Windy Harris,
at one of the tables near the door. Late morning sunlight slanted in
through the window by the table and struck light off Windy's glasses
as he leaned across the board, thumped a checker three times and said
triumphantly, "King me, Sam. You're getting blind, I swear. Or dumber."

Behind his back Ben Bates heard a shoe ring against the stake; then he
heard it spin off, and he grinned at Owen Urey's bullfrog cussing.

Tom Pace was saying urgently, "Look--look, Jim, damn it, you didn't
no more shoot down that plane singlehanded than I did. We was all
shooting. Godamighty--where you get off claiming _you_ brung it down?"

Ben turned and sat down at the table next to the checker game, and
stretched his legs in the sunlight. He raised thick brows like clumps
of steel-wool at Tom and at old Jim Liddel, who sat in his pillowed
armchair like a thin, scowling, bald, mansized spider.

"You keep talking so high and mighty," Tom said, "we'll carry you out
o' here and take you and dump you in the creek. You can tell the fish
about who got the plane."

"Still arguing over who planted the shot, huh," Ben grinned. "Regular
feud, you two."

"Well, hell, Ben," Tom said, and bit down on his gums so his whiskers
almost hid the end of his nose. "I just get filled up on this old
windbag hollering how he--"

"You go call me a windbag once more, Tom Pace," Jim Liddel said, and he
stirred his all but helpless body in the armchair, "you're gonna have a
sore eye, you seventy year old whippersnapper. _I_ brung it down."

"In a hog's behind, you brung it down, Mister Dan'l Boone!"

"It 'us just after I let loose it started smoking," old Jim snarled,
"and nobody else was shooting right then! You're gonna get a sore eye,
I swear--tobacco in it. I can spit to where you sit, and I can spit
faster'n you can move, I bet, unless you're faster'n a fly, and you
ain't. You just ask anybody who was there ... it 'us just after I shot
it started--"

Tom Pace thumped the table. "_I_ was there, you old ... now, now, Jim,
don't spit, for Godsake! Hold on. What I mean, I was there too, and
maybe somebody's shot from a second or two before was what done the
trick. Maybe even my shot! Takes a plane a while to know it's hurt,
don't it? Ever think o' that?"

"Maybe," Ben Bates said. "Maybe, maybe. And maybe. Let it go, you two.
It ain't important who done it; we oughta just be grateful we got it."

"Grateful _I_ got it," Jim Liddel grunted.

Tom Pace said, "Now, looky here, Jim--" Ben Bates nudged Tom's leg
under the table; and then slowly, fingering his jaw he said, "Well,
now, Jim ... I figure maybe you did, at that. Like you say, it smoked
and crashed right after you shot, so I always kind o' figured it _was_
you brought it down. But that's a hard thing to prove."

Jim snorted. "Can't prove it! But I got it, all right. A man knows when
he sunk a shot."

"In a varmint, maybe," Tom Pace objected, "or a man. But you claiming
to know where to hit a plane the worst?"

"We was _all_ shooting at the front, up where they put the motor," Jim
said nastily. "Don't know about planes, but I know my aim. I got it
square-on."

"Well," Ben said, "why don't you just let it lay, eh, Tom? Jim's got a
lot on his side." He looked sidewise at old Jim, and saw that Jim was
still scowling at Tom. Old Jim was ninety eight, and some set in his
notions.

"Mm. Hell," Tom said reluctantly, after a second, "I ain't saying you
_didn't_, Jim. That ain't my intent. I just get burned when you yell
you did, like no man dared say you was wrong. Sure, maybe you're
right. But ain't you willing to admit you might be wrong too?"

"_No_," Jim Liddel yelled, and from the checker table came Windy
Harris's encouraging, "You tell 'em who got that plane, Jim!"

Ben Bates scraped an inch of ash off his cigar against the table-edge,
sighed and got up. He looked down at the glowering pair and said,
"Well, come the next plane, if there is one, we'll shove a rifle in
your hand, Jim, and see how good your eye is. You too, Tom. Till that
time, reckon this is no place for a reasoning man."

"Sit down, Ben Bates," old Jim snarled. "If you're a reasoning man, sit
down. Be glad to talk to one, after Tom here goes away."

"You go to hell. _I_ ain't going no place," Tom said, and he picked up
the cards and started shuffling them in his stiff hands.

Ben sat down and stretched out his legs again.

After a second, old Jim said wistfully, "You know, I wish I _could_
still handle a rifle, Ben. Or do anything but sit. No way for a man to
live, to have dead legs and dying arms." He shifted in his cushions.
"You know, I reckon when I start to really die--die all over--I'm gonna
get up out o' this chair. I'll stand up, somehow, even if it kills me
faster. A man oughta fall when he dies, like a tree, so they know he
stood up in his time. A man oughtn'ta die sitting down."

"Sure, Jim," Ben said. "You're right about that."

"Never had a sick day in my life, until they dropped that bomb. Why,
I could outpitch and outchop and outshoot any of you whippersnappers,
until they ..." Old Jim walloped the chair arm. "Damn, I made up for
it, though! Didn't I? _They_ put me in a chair, I sat in it and _I_ got
me an airyplane, and that's more'n they could do to me, by golly, they
couldn't kill me!"

"Sure, Jim," Ben said.

"And when my time comes, I'll be up and out o' this chair. Man oughta
fall and make a noise when he dies."

"Sure, Jim," Ben said. "But that's a long ways off, ain't it?"

Jim closed his eyes, and his face looked like a skull. "You squirts
always think a man lives forever."
