
From outside came the late morning sounds: the murmuring of Smoky Creek
at the edge of town, under its cool tunnel of willows; the twittering
of a flock of robins circling above; the constant soft rustle of the
trees that crowded the green hills around. From the warehouse down by
the tracks came the faint sounds of livestock--and the voices of the
men whose job it was to look after them this week: to feed them, turn
them out into the big pens for an hour's sunlight, then drive them back
into the warehouse again.

Lucky the warehouse had stood the bomb--it was perfect for the use.

"Wonder how the war's going," Tom Pace said. He dropped some cards and
bent painfully to retrieve them; his voice was muffled: "I just wonder
how it's going, you know? Wonder who's killing more than who today.

"Maybe," Tom continued, coming up, "it's all over. Ain't seen no planes
for couple years now. Maybe somebody won."

Ben shrugged. "Who knows. Don't matter none to us. We're ready as we
can be if another plane comes around. Other than that, it ain't our
concern."

"Darn tootin'," Tom said, and pushed the cards together and started
shuffling again.

Jim Liddel said, "War!" and looked like he'd bit into spoiled meat.
"Never settled nothing ... just makes the biggest dog top-dog for a
while, so he can get his way. Man, I wish I could still lift a rifle,
if an airyplane come around! I'd love to get me another one." He put
his thin back against the cushions and pushed at the edge of the table
with his hands. Jim's fingers didn't move so well any more; some were
curled and some were straight out, and the joints were different sizes,
and now they were trembling a little. "Sometimes when I think o'
Johnny and Helen and all the kids--when I think o' that day, and those
damn bombs, and that white tower o' smoke up over the town, I ... oh,
godamighty, I'd love to see another airyplane! I'd shout and yell and
pray; I'd pray almighty God for you to get it!"

Ben pulled on his cigar with stiff lips, and said slowly, "Well, we
might, Jim. We just might. Two out o' seven ain't bad." He puffed out
smoke. "We been running in luck, so far, what with nobody ever coming
back loaded for bear. Reckon that means the other five didn't see us,
low as they was; probably didn't even know they was being shot at."

"They musta found bulletholes, though," Tom Pace said. "Afterwards. Not
a chance we'd all miss--" he bobbed his beard at old Jim--"'specially
with Dan'l Boone here plugging away. They'd know they was shot at, all
right. Might even find rifle bullets."

"Maybe they did," Ben said. "Nobody ever come snooping back, though."

"Wouldn't know where to, would they?" Windy Harris said. He and Fat
Sam Hogan had stopped playing checkers, and had been listening. "Smoky
Creek looks dead as Sodom. Buildings all down, and stuff knee-deep in
the streets. Bridge down, and the road out. And the valley is way the
hell out o' the way ... no call for them to suspect it more'n anyplace
else. Less, even. They'd likely figure somebody took a potshot from a
hill ... and there's a pack o' hills between here'n outside.

"Looks like," Ben said. "We just got to keep it that way. We got a
good plan: if the plane's up high, we just freeze under cover; if it
comes down low a time or two, we figure we're likely spotted and start
shooting. We shoot, and maybe it shoots too, and we pray."

"It's a good plan," Jim Liddel said, looking out the window. "We got
two."

Windy Harris got up and stretched out his arms.

"Two ain't _enough_," old Jim said bitterly.

"Well," Windy said, "I hope we keep on getting 'em--them as sees us,
anyway. Hope nobody _ever_ knows we're here. It's peaceful here. Way
off by ourselves, nothing to do but get up and go to bed, and do
what we want in between." He sent tobacco juice into the cuspidor
by the door. "Right now, me, I guess I'll go fishing down by the
creek--promised Maude I'd bring home a cat or two for supper. Anybody
come along?"

Tom Pace shook his head, and old Jim looked like he'd like to go, if
he only could--and Ben said, "Maybe I'll be down a little while later,
Windy. Keep to the trees."

Windy left, and Tom Pace shuffled the cards and looked over at Jim
Liddel. "You going to play with Ben and me, you old windbag, or you
going to keep bragging so loud a man can't stand your company?"

"Why, you whippersnapper," Jim growled, "you just go ahead and run 'em.
Reckon a reasoning man and a nitwit's about the best I can do right
now."

Tom dealt out two cards, and said, "War!" without dealing out the rest.
He looked at Ben, his eyes cloudy. "Got a cigar, Ben?"

Ben handed one over and held a match, and Tom got it going, puffing
longer than he had to, like he didn't want to talk yet.

Then he said, "It didn't have to happen." He worked the cigar over to
the corner of his mouth and settled it in the nest of stained whiskers
there. "None of it had to happen--what happened here, and whatever
happened outside the valley. It just didn't have to happen."

"'Course it didn't," Ben said. "Never has to. It just always does. Some
people got reasons to let it happen, and some ain't got the sense not
to."

Fat Sam Hogan said, "I don't figure there's anything in the world a man
can't sit down and talk out, instead o' reaching for a gun. Don't know
why that oughtn'ta hold for countries."

Ben Bates looked at one of the two cards Tom Pace had dealt--his hole
card. It was a four, and he lost interest. "Yup," he said, "it holds
all right ... they'll just both reach half the time anyway. One war
on top of another. Even one right after this one, ten years or so, if
this one's over. I just bet. Every country wants a piece out o' the
next one's hide--or his poke--and they won't give an inch except in
talk; they won't really buckle down to stop a war. Never. Not if they
can't get what they want by talk." He looked at the card again, just
in case--a four, sure enough. "Only time there's never a war is when
everybody has what they want, or figure they can get it without killing
somebody. But the second they see that's the only way, then it's war.
War, war, war. It's a rotten way to run a world, killing to decide
who's right or wrong ... 'specially killing people who got damn little
say about it. But I seen three-four wars now, and they don't look to
stop soon, judging." He shook his head wonderingly. "Put half the money
they spend on killing toward curing, instead, and helping them that
wants, and finding out all about diseases and such ... why, shucks,
it'd be a brand-new world."

"I seen five," Jim Liddel said. "I seen wars come and go. I fought in
one. Afterwards, every time, they say everything's fine. The war to
save this or that's over, and things are fine. Then somebody wants
something somebody else has, and they're at it again, like two bulls
trying to hump the same heifer. Bulls don't have enough sense to know
there's enough cows to go around; but people ought. It's a big enough
world." He worked those hands of his together until they were clasped,
and he pushed them that way against the table-edge until the overgrown
knuckles looked like chalk. "When I think o' that noise, and that
cloud, ... how we come running and screaming back here into all the
dust and mess, and all them bodies ... I ... Ben, I...."

"You lost heavy, Jim," Ben said. He let smoke out of his lungs, and
it curled off into the broad beam of sunlight that came through the
window, and it looked like the smoke that had shadowed a murdered town.
"Heavy. You lost heavier'n any of us."

"You can't count it," old Jim said, and the chalk was whiter. "We all
lost the same; I just had more of it. Our kids and their kids--and
_their_ kids ... lost heavy? What can a man lose more'n his life?...
And if you're as old as us, what's your life except the family you made
out o' your own flesh? What else's a man got when he's eighty or a
hundred?"

Tom Pace said, "Ruth and Dave and their kids. I remember little Davey.
He called me Tom Peach. I bought him a toy plane for his birthday. That
was a couple days before the real planes come. I buried it with him ...
I think. I think it was him I put it with. It mighta been Joey ... they
looked alike."

"A man ain't nothing, when he's as old as us," Jim Liddel said, his
skull sockets closed, "except what he done. _He_ ain't much any more,
himself; he's mostly what he done with his life, whatever he done and
left around that he can point to and say, 'I did that', that's all.
And what's he got left if they take that away? We can't make it again.
We made Smoky Creek; built it; wasn't a thing here that didn't come
out o' us or ours. We made the valley, after God give it to us; wasn't
a thing here we didn't let live or help live or make live. We made
our families, and watched 'em fit into the town and the valley, like
the valley fits into the world, and we watched 'em go on doing what
we done before them: building and working and planting and raising
families--going on, like people got to go on. That's the way it was.
That's what we had. Until they dropped the bomb and killed it--killed
all we done that made us men." Tears were squeezing out of the skull
sockets, and Ben Bates caught Tom Pace's eye and looked away, out the
window, at the green walls of the valley that was a coffin.

"I just wish an airyplane would come around again," old Jim said.
"_I--just--wish._ You know, Ben?"

Ben tried to talk and had to clear his throat; he put out his cigar in
the ashtray, as if that was what was wrong with his throat, and said,
"I know, Jim. Sure. And maybe you'll get your wish." He pushed back his
chair and tried to grin, but it came out sour. "Maybe you will, you
old fire-eater--and what if one comes and we get spotted and it shoots
us up or goes back and tells everybody we're here? That's one wish we
don't want the good Lord to grant, ain't it? Ain't it, now?"

Jim didn't say anything.

Ben got up and said, "'Bout noon. Guess I'll go home for a bite and
then go down and fish with Windy."

Jim said, thinly, "I meant, I wish one would come and we'd _get_ it."

"Well, maybe one will," Ben said, turning toward the door. "They built
a slew o' them. And maybe _we_ will, if it does."
