
He stopped by the door of the Town Hall to listen carefully, his sharp
old eyes half-shut. Behind him, at the far end of the room, somebody
made a ringer, and Dave Mason said, "Nice, Owen," in his reedy voice.
Ben listened and didn't hear what he was listening for. He stepped past
the rifle that leaned beside the door and made his way to the end of
the porch, walking close to the wall. The summer sun stood at noon, and
the porch was in shadow; beyond, the street was a jumble of boards and
broken glass, its canyon walls of leaning building-fronts and sagging
porches, its caverns of empty windows and doorways shimmering in the
heat. You couldn't see much dirt along the way; where the debris didn't
come to your knees, it reached over your head.

At the end of the porch Ben stopped and listened again; heard nothing.
He stepped down and walked as fast as he could--damn arthritis
again--to the porch of the next building.

This had been Fat Sam Hogan's Hardware Store, and about all that was
left of it was the porch; the rest was a twisted mess of wood that
slumped away to the ground at the rear. The porch had been down too,
right after the bombing--but the old men, working at night, had raised
it and braced it up. Something to walk under.

A Springfield stood, oiled and waiting, against the wall. Ben paused
and touched the barrel--it was his own. Or rather it had once been
his own; now it was the town's, strictly speaking, to be used by
whoever was nearest it when the time came. It was a good gun, a
straight-shooter, one of the best--which was why it was here instead of
at his house. A man could get a better shot from here.

He went on, hugging the wall.

He passed a rifle wedged up between the fender and hood of Norm
Henley's old Model A, and he remembered how the bomb had flipped the
car right over on its top, and how the car must have protected Norm
from the blast--just a little. Enough so they found him two blocks up
the street, in front of his mashed house, trailing blood from every
hole in him, to get to his family before he died.

Ben passed rifles leaned against walls and chairs on porches, rifles
standing behind trees, leaned in the cracks between what buildings
still stood to provide cracks, even old Jim's carbine lying under the
ledge of the pump-trough in front of Mason's General Store. All of them
in places where they were protected from rain or snow, but where they
were easy to get at.

He passed sixteen rifles--walking, as everybody walked when they were
out of doors, as close to the walls of the buildings as possible. When
you had to cross open spaces you ran as fast as your seventy or eighty
year old legs would take you--and if you couldn't run, you walked
real fast. And always you listened while you walked; particularly you
listened before you went out. For planes. So you wouldn't be spotted
from the air.

At the end of the porch of the last building on the street, Ben paused
in the shade and looked out across the creek to where the first plane
they'd shot down had crashed--the one Jim claimed to have got by his
lonesome. They'd buried what they found of the pilot, and cleared away
every last bolt and nut and scrap of aluminum, but the long scar in the
ground remained. Ben looked at it, all broken up by rocks and flowers
and bushes the old people had transplanted so it wouldn't show from
the air; and he looked at the cemetery a hundred feet beyond at which
the scar pointed like an arrow--the cemetery that wasn't a cemetery,
because it didn't have headstones; just bodies. A town that was dead
shouldn't have a lot of new graves--the dead don't bury themselves. A
pilot might see a hundred graves he hadn't seen before and wonder--and
strafe.

So Ben looked at the flat ground where those hundred bodies lay, with
only small rocks the size of a man's fist with names scratched on them
to mark who lay beneath; and he thought of his daughter May, and Owen
Urey's son George who'd married May, and their three kids, and he
remembered burying them there; he remembered their faces. The blood
from eyes, nose, ears, mouth--_his_ blood it was, part of it.

Then Ben looked up. "We ain't looking for trouble," he said to the
empty blue bowl of sky. "But if you do come, we're ready. Every day
we're ready. If you stay up high, we'll hide. But if you come down low,
we'll try to get you, you crazy murderers."
