
His house was only a few yards farther on; he got there by sticking
under the trees, walking quickly from one to the next, his ears cocked
for the jetsound that would flatten him against a trunk. Way off to
his left, across a long flat of sunflowers and goldenrod, he saw
Windy Harris down on the creekbank, by the bridge. He yelled, "They
biting?"--and Windy's faint "Got two!" reminded him of all old Jim had
said, and he shook his head. He left the trees and walked fast up his
front path.

His house was in pretty good shape. All four houses on the outskirts
had come off standing--his and Windy's and Jim's and Owen Urey's.
They'd needed just a little bracing here and there, and they were
fine--except Owen's. Owen had stomped around in his, and listened to
the sounds of it, and said he didn't trust it--and sure enough, the
first big storm it had gone down.

Now Ben and his wife Susan lived downstairs in his house; Joe Kincaid
and his wife Anna lived on the second floor; and Tom Pace lived in the
attic, claiming that climbing the stairs was good for his innards.

Anna Kincaid was sitting on the porch-swing, peeling potatoes. Ben
said, "Afternoon, Anna," and saw her pale bright eyes flicker up at
him, and that scared smile touched her mouth for just a second; then
she hunched her shoulders and kept on with the potatoes, like he wasn't
even there.

Ben thought, _It must be lonely to be that way_--and he attracted her
attention again, his voice a little louder: "Hope you're feeling fine,
Anna."

Again the flicker of eyes. "Just fine, Ben, thanks," she said, almost
in a whisper. "Peeling spuds."

"I see."

Her knife sped over a potato, removing a spiral of skin. She popped out
an eye with a twist of the point. "Think Keith'll be back from the war
today, Ben? It's been so long ... I hate to think o' my boy fighting
out there so long. Will they let him come home soon, Ben?"

"They will, Anna. I think they will, real soon. Maybe tomorrow."

"_Will they?_"

"Sure."

Keith Kincaid was under one of those fist-sized rocks, out in the
cemetery that wasn't a cemetery--next to his wife, June Hogan, and
their four kids. But Anna Kincaid didn't know that. Since the bomb,
Anna hadn't known much of anything except what the old people told her,
and they told her only things that would make her as happy as she could
be: that Keith was in the Army, and June was off with the kids having a
nice time in Knoxville; and that they'd all be back home in a day or so.

Anna never wondered about that "day or so"--she didn't remember much
from day to day. Joe Kincaid sometimes said that helped a little, as
much as anything could. He could tell her the same nice things every
day, and her eyes would light up all over again. He spent a lot of
time with her, doing that. He was pretty good at it, too ... Joe
Kincaid had been Doctor Joe before the bomb. He still doctored some,
when he could, but he was almost out of supplies; and what with his
patients being so old, he mostly just prayed for them.

In the kitchen, Susan had lunch ready and waiting--some chicken from
last night, green beans, boiled potatoes and a salad from the tiny
gardens the women tended off in the weedy ground and around the bases
of trees where they wouldn't be seen.

On the way in Ben had noticed that the woodbox was about empty--he'd
have to bring home another bag of charcoal from the "general
store"--which was Windy's barn, all braced up. Into it the old people
had taken every bit of clothing, canned food, hardware, anything at
all they could use in the way of housekeeping and everyday living, and
there it all stood; when somebody needed something, they went and took
it. Only the canned foods and tobacco and liquor were rationed. Every
week or so, around midnight, Fat Sam Hogan and Dan Paray went into
the big cave in Lawson's Hill, right near where the second plane had
crashed, and set up a lot of small fires, back where the light wouldn't
be seen; they made charcoal, and when it cooled they brought it down
to the "store," for cooking and such--a charcoal fire doesn't give off
much smoke.

Over coffee, Ben said, "Reckon I'll fish some this afternoon, honey.
How's a cat or two for supper sound?"

"Why, goodness, Ben, not for tonight," Susan smiled. "You know
tonight's the Social; me and Anna are fixing a big dinner--steaks and
all the trimmings."

"Mm," Ben said, draining his cup. "Forgot today was Sunday."

"We're going to have some music, and Owen Urey's going to read
Shakespeare."

Ben pursed his lips, tasting the coffee. It was rationed to two cups a
day; he always took his with his lunch, and sometimes he'd have sold
a leg to dive into a full pot. "Well ... I might as well fish anyway;
take in some fun. Fish'll keep till tomorrow, won't it?"

"You can have it for breakfast." She sat down across the table and
picked up the knitting she'd been on when Ben came home; he had a hunch
it was something for his birthday, so he tried not to look interested;
too early to tell what it was, anyway. "Ben," she said, "before you
go--the curtain pole in the bay window come down when I was fixing the
blankets over it for tonight. The socket's loose. You better fix it
before you go. You'll maybe get home after Anna and me want to light
the lamps, and we can't do it till it's fixed."

Ben said, "Sure, hon." He got the hammer and some nails from the
toolbox and went into the parlor, and dragged the piano bench over in
front of the bay window. The iron rod was leaning by the phonograph. He
took it up with him on the chair and fitted the other end of it into
the far socket, then fitted the near end into the loose socket, and
drove nails around the base of the socket until the thing was solid as
a rock. Then he got the blanket from the couch and hung it down double
over the rod, and fitted the buttonholes sewn all along its edge over
the nails driven around the window casing, and patted it here and there
until not a speck of light would escape when the lamps were lit.

He inspected the blankets draped over the other windows; they were all
right. The parlor was pretty dark now, so he struck a match to the oil
lamp on the mantle, just so Susan and Anna could see to set the table.
When the others arrived, they'd light the other lamps; but not until;
oil was precious. The only time anybody in town ever lit a lamp was on
Social night: then the old people stayed up till around midnight for
eats and entertainment; otherwise everybody got to bed at eight or so,
and climbed out with the dawn.

He went back into the kitchen and put away the hammer, and said, "My
second cup still hot, honey?"

She started to put down her knitting and get up, and he said, "Just
asking," and pressed her shoulder till she sat again. He went around
her and filled his cup at the stove.

"Ben," she said, when he sat down again, "I wish you'd take a look
at the phonograph too. Last time the turntable made an awful lot of
noise.... I wish it could sound better for tonight."

"I know, honey," Ben sighed. "That motor's going. There ain't much I
can do about it, though. It's too old. I'm scared to take it apart;
might not get it back together right. When it really quits, then I
guess I'll fool around and see what I can do. Heck, it didn't sound too
bad."

"It rattled during the soft parts of the music."

Ben shook his head. "If I try, I might ruin it for good." He smiled a
little. "It's like us, Suse--too old to really fix up much; just got to
keep cranking it, and let it go downhill at its own pace."

Susan folded her knitting and got up. She came around the table, and he
put an arm around her waist and pulled her into the chair beside him.

"It'll go soon, won't it, Ben?" she said softly. "Then we won't have
any music. It's a shame ... we all like to listen so much. It's
peaceful."

"I know." He moved his arm up and squeezed her thin shoulders. She
put her head on his shoulder, and her grey hair tickled his cheek; he
closed his eyes, and her hair was black and shining again, and he put
his lips against it and thought he smelled a perfume they didn't even
make any more.

After a moment he said, "We got so much else, though, Suse ... we got
peaceful music you can't play on a machine. Real peace. A funny kind of
peace. In a funny-looking town, this one--a rag town. But it's ours,
and it's quiet, and there's nothing to bother us--and just pray God we
can keep it that way. Outside, the war's going on someplace, probably.
People fighting each other over God knows what--if even He knows. Here,
it's peaceful."

She moved her head on his shoulder. "Ben--will it ever come here,
what's going on outside? Even the war, if it's still going on?"

"Well, we were talking about that this morning down at the hall, Suse.
I guess it won't. If rifles can stop it, it won't. If they see us from
the air, we'll shoot at 'em; and if we get 'em we'll clean up the mess
so if anybody comes looking for a missing plane, they won't give Smoky
Creek a second look. That's the only way anything can come, honey--if
they see us from the air. Nobody's going to come hiking over these
mountains. There's noplace they'd want to get to, and it's sure no
country for fighting."

"If the war _is_ over, they'll likely be around to fix up the bridge
and the road. Won't they?"

"Maybe so. Sooner or later."

"Oh, I hope they leave us alone."

"Don't worry, hon."

"Ben--about the phonograph--"

"Suse ..." He turned his head to look at her eyes. "It's good for
longer'n we are. That motor. So's the bridge, the way it is, and the
road ... we'll be gone first. Before they get around to fix 'em. Before
the phonograph gives out. What we want is going to last us--and what we
don't want will come too late to hurt us. _Nothing's_ going to hurt our
peace. I know that somehow. We got it, and it'll be like this for as
long as we're here to enjoy it ... I _know_."

"Ben--"

"If I want to go fishing," Ben said, and pressed her head against his
shoulder again, "I go. If I want to relax with the men, I do it. If I
want to just walk and breathe deep, I do it--keeping to the trees, o'
course. If I want to just be with you, I do it. It's quiet. It's real
quiet in our rag town. It's a world for old people. It's just the way
we want it, to live like we want to live. We got enough gardens and
livestock, and all the canned stuff in the store, to last us for a ...
for as long as we got. And no worries. About who's fighting who over
what. About who won. About how the international mess is getting worse
again, and we better make more bombs for the next one. About who's
winning here and losing there and running neck-and-neck someplace else.
We don't know any things like that, and we don't want to know. It don't
matter none to us ... we're too old, and we seen too much of it, and
it's hurt us too bad, and we know it just don't matter at all."

"Ben ... I got to crying today. About May and George and the children.
I was crying, and thinking about that day...."

"So did I think. None of us ever forgets for a minute. For a second."
His lips thinned. "That's part of why we do what we do. Rest is, we
just want to be left alone."

They sat in silence for a moment, his arm around her shoulders, his
other hand holding hers. Then he released her hand and thumped his own
on the table, grinned at her and said, "Life goes on, now! Reckon I'll
go down and get that cat--or go walking--or just go soak in some sun.
What time are the folks showing up for--"

Jetsound slammed across the peaceful valley.
