
Ben got up and walked as fast as he could to the door, picked up the
rifle leaning there, cocked it. Looking toward town he saw that Tom
Pace had been on his way home, and the sound had caught him between
trees. Tom hesitated, then turned and dived toward the tree he'd just
left--because a rifle was there.

Ben saw men pour out of the doorways of the two habitable buildings on
Main Street; they stuck close to the walls, under the porches, and they
picked up rifles.

Motionless, hidden, in shadows, under trees, in doorways, behind
knotholes, they waited. To see if the plane would buzz the town again.

It did.

It came down low over Main Street while the thunders of its first pass
still echoed and rolled. Frightening birds out of trees, driving a hare
frantically along the creekbank, blotting out the murmur of the creek
and the tree-sounds, driving away peace.

They saw the pilot peering through the plexiglass, down at the
buildings ... he was past the town in four winks; but in two they knew
that he was curious, and would probably come back for a third look.

He circled wide off over the end of the valley, a vertical bank that
brought a blinding flash of sunlight from one wing, and he came back.

Ben leveled his rifle and centered the nose of the plane in his sights.
For some reason--probably because the valley walls crowded the town on
both sides--the planes always lined up with Main Street when they flew
low over the town.

The plane grew at startling speed in Ben's sights--it loomed, and the
oval jet intake was a growling mouth--and he waited till it was about
two seconds and a thousand feet from him; then he sent his bullet up
into that mouth: a bullet aimed by a man who'd handled a rifle for
sixty years, who could pop the head off a squirrel at a hundred feet. A
running squirrel.

That was the signal, Ben's shot.

From under the tree Tom Pace's rifle spoke.

The jet was past town then, and he wheeled to follow it with his eyes;
its whining thunder lashed down and pressed his ears, lowering suddenly
in pitch as it receded; and though he couldn't hear them for the
thunder, he knew that nineteen rifles had roared before it completed
its turn, each aimed head-on at the plane. Aimed by men and women who
could shoot with Ben, and even outshoot him.

The plane coughed. Lurched. It had time to emit a fuzzy thread of black
smoke before it nosed down and melted into the ground and became a long
ugly smear of mounds and shreds and tatters of flame.

The sounds of the crash died. Ben heard men shouting; loudest of all
was old Jim Liddel's, "Got him ... by God, I prayed, and we got him!"

Behind him Susan was crying.

Ben saw men and women head for the crash-site; immediately they'd start
to carry away what debris wasn't too hot to handle. Then they'd wait,
and as soon as anything was cool enough it would be carried off and
hidden.

And there'd be a burial tonight.

Ben saw that some of the men had carried old Jim's chair out onto the
porch of the Town Hall; and he saw that Jim was half-standing out of
his cushions, propped up on his fists and still shouting; and Ben
wondered if the Maker wasn't on the porch there with Jim, waiting for
Jim to fall and make his noise.
