
He turned away--at seventy you don't want to see a man die--and went
inside and put his rifle on the kitchen table. He crossed to the
cabinet under the sink to get his reamer and oiling rag. Every rifle
was taken care of that way. Right now Tom Pace and Dan Paray were
hurrying around gathering rifles to clean them, load them. No rifle
must miss fire, or throw a bullet an inch off aim--because that might
be the rifle whose aim was right.

"Lucky we got that one," he said. "I think he saw us, Suse ... he come
in low and sudden, and I think he saw us."

"Was--was it one of theirs, Ben ... or one of ours?"

"Don't know. I didn't even look. I can't tell 'em apart. Owen'll be
around to tell me when they find out ... but I reckon it was one of
ours. If he saw us and didn't shoot, then I reckon it was one of ours.
Like the last one."

"Oh, _Ben_," Susan said. "Ben, ain't it against God?"

Ben stood looking out the window over the sink; watching a cloud of
yellow dust settle over the wreckage of the plane, and a cloud of black
smoke rising from the wreckage to darken the yellow. He knew some of
the men would be passing buckets from the well, and spading dirt on the
flames where they weren't too hot to get to.

"That's the way it is," he said. "That's how we decided. God didn't
stop the bomb dropping, Suse ... for whatever reasons He had. It don't
seem He'd deny us the right to shoot rifles, for the reasons we got. If
we get turned away at the Gates, we'll know we was wrong. But I don't
think so."

Quiet was returning to the valley; the birds had already started
singing again. You could hear the trees. From the direction of the
creek came Windy Harris, running, and he broke the quiet with a shout
as he saw Ben by the window: "Got it, huh, Ben?"

"Sure did," Ben said, and Windy ran on.

Ben looked toward the porch of the Town Hall. Old Jim had sunk back
into his pillowed chair, and he was shaking his fist, and Ben could
hear him yelling, "Got it ... _got_ it, we did!"

_He'll be around for a while yet, old Jim_, Ben thought, and turned
back to the table. He sat down and listened to the sounds of the
valley, and his eyes were the eyes of the valley--they'd seen a lot,
and understood enough of it.

"It don't matter whose it was," he said. "All of a cloth." He slid the
reamer into the barrel of the rifle, and worked it. "The hell with
the war. Even if it's over, the hell with it. With any war. Nothing's
ever going to give us back what we lost. Let 'em stay away, all them
that's to blame. Them and their planes and wars and bombs ... they're
_crazy_!" His lips curled as he worked the reamer. "Let 'em stay out
o' what they left us for lives. Don't want to hear what they're doing,
or _how_, or _why_, or _who_ ... don't want to hear about it. It'd be
_crazy_. The hell with 'em. _All_ o' them. _The hell with the whole
Twentieth Century._"



