
As we moved forward among the thick and moderately lofty vegetation,
small, furred, four-legged creatures leaped out of the underbrush and
scampered rapidly away. Using ray-guns at low power, we paralyzed
several of these; but, after close examination, we were forced to
conclude that we must look further for the intelligent inhabitants of
the planet.

"It's quite possible that there isn't any intelligent race," said
Zesmo gloomily. "If they were very bright, I should think they'd have
crossed space to Mars before now."

"Don't expect too much of the poor Earthman, Zesmo," retorted Ikleek.
"Remember that our own race discovered space travel only three
generations ago, and that ours is the first rocket powerful enough
to dare Earth's gravitational field. Due to the high velocity of
escape, the development of space travel by Earthman would be very much
retarded. They might have a high civilization and never get off the
ground."

"Aerial flight should be easy," argued Zesmo. "Look at even those
ignorant little--"

He was interrupted by a shrill shout from one of the crew. One and all,
we turned toward the sound, and saw him hastening toward us through the
trees as fast as Earth's tremendous gravity would let him, waving his
tentacles and glowing with terror.

"A monster!" he sputtered. "A metal monster!"

We hastily adjusted our ray-guns to full power, and awaited anxiously
the onslaught of whatever formidable being might come against us. We
had not long to wait, for in a moment we saw approaching among the
trees a fantastic creature.

For some moments we gaped foolishly at the thing before we realized
that it was actually a compound monster--two animals in one, so to
speak. Except that one was not an animal, but evidently a machine!

The Earth-monster had not yet seen us; and at this juncture I took
the opportunity to hastily scribble some notes which I very shortly
regretted. However, to illustrate the fact that anyone may make
mistakes and that even the most apparent truths may be misinterpreted,
I will here reproduce what I wrote:

"The intelligent inhabitants of Earth somewhat resemble us in the
possession of four limbs, two eyes, and two elongated protuberances
which are very likely ears. The sensory organs are mostly located
on, or about, the front of the head. The feet are sheathed in horny
coverings which may be either natural or artificial. The caudal
appendage is of considerable length and bears long dense hairs, thus
differing from the rest of the body, over which the hairy covering is
short and flat-lying. No real proboscis is present, but the head is
much elongated in front, with the snout directed downward...."

Enough of this. At least, tremendous as my error was, it was at the
time shared by all the others present.

The animal above described formed the lower portion of the compound
being which confronted us. Mounted astride of it was a gleaming metal
creature, constructed on the same lines, but with jointed arms and legs
of metal, without a tail, and seated erect instead of going slavishly
on all fours. In one hand it grasped a long pole with a sharp metal
point, and other accouterments which might be weapons were girded about
it.

"A robot!" ejaculated the Captain. He had jumped to the same natural
conclusion as the rest of us.

"What do you say to an intelligent race now, Zesmo?" hissed Ikleek.
"Obviously the Earthmen were _too_ intelligent. They built a high
civilization and were enslaved by their own machines!"

"Perhaps we Martians are destined to free this oppressed race from
ignoble servitude!" exclaimed Zesmo. "If we can just paralyze and
capture the machine--" He began adjusting his ray-gun to low power.
