
The creature may have heard our voices, muffled as they were by the
heavy air. At any rate, it suddenly turned toward us, displaying an
expressionless metal face with a curious grille arrangement in front;
and, recovering in a trice from its evident astonishment, it drove feet
armed with dagger-sharp points into the flanks of its mount, and came
galloping toward us. As it came it lowered its long spear, with the
obvious intention of impaling upon it one or more of our number.

Zesmo's right tentacle whipped up with his ray-gun; there was a sharp
crackle of invisible energy in the air, blue sparks leaped about the
thing's metal joints, and both it and its mount toppled heavily to the
earth and lay in an inert heap.

[Illustration: _Zesmo's right tentacle whipped up; there was the sharp
crackle of energy in the air; sparks leaped about the thing's metal
joints._]

We approached them with caution--none too cautiously, as it developed,
because abruptly the robot stirred and scrambled dizzily to its
feet. Its metal sheathing had absorbed most of the ray-gun's merely
paralyzing energy. With a swift, practiced motion, it drew from its
side a long, straight, sharp blade, which I subconsciously identified
as a primitive weapon operating on the wedge principle, even as I was
raising and aiming my ray-gun.

Taking cognizance of the fact that we would much prefer to capture the
machine in an undamaged state, but also of the fact that unless steps
were taken it would very shortly hack me into small pieces, I aimed at
the upraised weapon and pressed the firing button. The ray, at full
power, struck the blade, which glowed red-hot and partially fused.
The robot dropped it with a sharp exclamation of uncertain meaning,
probably expressing considerable annoyance.

In the meantime Zesmo had stepped to close range, and now he gave the
metal man a considerably augmented dosage of the ray. With a hiss and
crackle, the robot collapsed and gave us no more trouble.

Zesmo had begun to examine the prostrate animal upon which it had
ridden, with a view to resuscitation, then Ikleek, who had turned his
attention to the robot, abruptly straightened up and began to rock to
and fro in amusement.

"Would you mind telling me what you're so happy about?" inquired Zesmo
with pardonable acerbity.

"Merely that we've all made a _very_ silly mistake," gurgled Ikleek,
recovering a portion of his composure. He flipped a contemptuous
tentacle toward the animal which Zesmo had been examining. "Intelligent
creature, bah!" He began to rock back and forth uncontrollably once
more.

"Explain yourself," ordered Captain Tutwa sternly.

For answer, the second in command bent over the "robot," and, wrenching
off its metal head-covering, revealed the face of an unconscious living
being.

I need not describe the Earthman, since the form and appearance of this
race have become familiar to all Martians from the photographs and
descriptions which we brought back from Earth. I will only mention that
this specimen was a male, and consequently was rather hairy about the
lower portion of the face as well as on the top and back of the head.

Zesmo made no comment, but popped his eyes in and out of his head at an
expressive rate.

"Here's your Earthman!" chortled Ikleek gleefully, tapping on the
creature's metal chest-protector. "He's only wearing armor, a great
deal like a spacesuit."

"Maybe he'll die if you leave his helmet off," exclaimed Zesmo in alarm.

I picked up the helmet and examined it. "His armor isn't airtight," I
informed the company. "It must be worn for some other reason."

We were all considerably puzzled by this, and determined to revive the
Earthman as soon as possible, in order to question him on this subject
and others. With some difficulty we carried him back to the ship.
