
The Earth Rocket, accordingly, lifted and flew several miles to
the east, landing near the castle, or great fortress-like building
of stone, which was our guest's usual habitation. The Earthman was
overwhelmed by the actuality of flight; we learned, when he finally
came out of his daze, that artificial flying was here believed
impossible.

We were somewhat startled by the sensation produced by our appearance
on the scene; of course, these people had never seen a flying machine,
but their excitement seemed to us wholly disproportionate. However,
it is a characteristic of Earthman psychology to believe anything you
have never seen or heard of impossible, and accordingly to be very
much alarmed when it actually appears. After we had entered the castle
with de Long in our midst, we were disagreeably surprised to learn
that on observing our approach the people in the fortress had prepared
quantities of boiling oil and heavy stones with the idea of dropping
them on us when we passed under the walls, and had only been deterred
by the presence of their chieftain.

It was not a pleasant thought.

Nevertheless, after their terror had been dissipated by our
pacificatory policy, these people became childishly curious, and
wherever any one of us went, he could be sure of a crowd of gaping
Earthmen following on his heels to observe his every action.

Zesmo was a bit disappointed by the low state of advancement in which
we found the Earthmen. They have no electricity and no self-powered
machines; they depend entirely upon muscle, either their own--which
is far from inconsiderable in proportion to their intellect--or that
of their various slave animals. In some things they display striking
ingenuity, in other remarkable obtusity.

During our several days' stay near the castle of de Long, Zesmo and our
sociologist, Plagu Long Legs, gathered an immense body of data on the
life and characteristics of the Earthmen, which may be found in almost
any public library in more or less condensed form. Therefore I will
avoid going into it here.

So far, we had found no great danger on Earth, and no hint of the
horrors which must forever prohibit exploration of the planet. One day,
however, when I was pursuing an investigation of their socialistic
society in a telepathor conversation with de Long, he happened to
mention that one of the occupations of a good knight was killing
dragons.

"Dragons?" I inquired, recording the word in my notebook.

"Wot ye not what dragons be?" exclaimed de Long, with raised
eyebrows--an expression of mild surprise with the Earthmen. "A dragon
is a huge beast, the greatest on the Earth. From its mouth and
nostrils, it breathes flame and smoke, so that but to approach it is
deadly peril."

"Uh--where do these brutes live?" I wanted to know, somewhat
apprehensively.

"There are not many in Engelond in these latter days, St. George and
many another valiant champion having harried them full sore, slaying
many and putting the fear of God into the rest. But in Ireland and
other lands many remain and are the terror of all men living."
