
This was a bit of a shock, to say the least. We had expected dangers on
Earth, naturally; but no such fearsome beasts as de Long described. Our
ray guns might prove quite ineffective against these terrible animals.

"Are these the most dangerous creatures on Earth?" I inquired, with
some hesitancy.

De Long leaned back and emitted a series of explosive sounds indicative
of amusement.

"Far from it," he declared. "For though dragons be vasty and terrible,
yet are there other creatures no whit less perilous to mortal men, and
some far more so. We have many fiends of divers sorts even here in
Engelond, some of which are friends to man and hold no malice, but the
most of which are ill-natured and lose no opportunity to do a mischief.
They say that when the rovers came from Noroway in the days of the
good King Aelfred, they brought with them in their long black galleys,
together with many a thirsty spear, the devils and hobgoblins that
were their pagan gods; and that these have stayed after them and are
yet the foes of all true Englishmen."

"We have seen no such creatures," said I doubtfully.

"Nay, for men rarely see them. For the most part, they do their evil
deeds by night; and many are able to become invisible at their will.
And some take divers forms: such are the werewolves, which are by day
men, by night ravenous man-eating beasts."

This was decidedly discouraging. I was still not sure, though, that de
Long was not merely jesting.

"Are these things likely to be dangerous to Martians?" I demanded.

"I know not--but here in Engelond, as I have said before, there are
much fewer of these fiends than elsewhere," he reassured me.

I glanced nervously about the room. "Is it--is it possible that an
invisible fiend might be present even here?" I knew that our scientists
had produced invisibility in the laboratory, but it was hard to
believe--

De Long nodded gravely. "Quite possible," he affirmed, adding
sententiously, "Even walls have ears; speak of the Devil and his imps
will appear."

"Excuse me," I said falteringly. "I just remembered an important
engagement--"

I switched off the telepathor, gathered it up and made a hasty exit. I
wanted to consult with Captain Tutwa.

The captain listened with skepticism to my retelling of de Long's
account of the dangers of the Blue Planet.

"Bah!" he said, when I had finished. "The Earthman was probably lying,
for some reason or other. These fellows have strange motives."

"But why should he tell me such tales?" I persisted. "He seemed
perfectly serious. And if such dangers _do_ exist on Earth--"

"The motive becomes perfectly plain to me!" exclaimed the captain,
snapping a tentacle in the air. "By telling us of imaginary dangers,
the Earthman intends to frighten us away and preserve his sovereignty
over the planet."

"That sounds like a plausible reason," I admitted. "But--if he _is_
telling the truth, we are risking Martian lives every moment we remain
here! We should at least check the facts."

"Well...." The captain turned blue with concentration. "The Council,
in chartering the Earth Expedition, expressed a fear that the planet
might prove unavailable for colonization, due to possible inimical
life forms. It's so much nearer the Sun, and so moist, that we had
anticipated just such a canalbank jungle as does exist; and it's
possible that the pressure of evolutionary competition might develop
strange and fearful creatures.... But, remember that we haven't seen
even one of these 'fiends.'"

"De Long said that a great many of them are invisible."

"Hmm!" said the captain. "Of course, that's within the bounds of
possibility, though not of probability; but before we came here I'd
have said flying animals were improbable. We had best investigate."

"Eh?"

"It's simple. We'll merely put de Long under the lie detector."
