
Two minutes later he turned up Main Street and stopped before city
hall. Inside the tiny police station he dropped his pistol on the
counter. Bud Ackenbush looked up from his desk. "You could have saved
Collin some trouble."

Neff stalked out without a word and crossed the street to the Palace
Cafe. He ordered a double-thick steak, fried potatoes and pie. He
liked the way the waitresses scrambled for the chance to wait on him.
Women didn't like him. He was ugly and smelled of sweat, and on the
street women looked the other way when they met him. All but the
waitresses at the Palace. When he came in they showed their teeth and
tongues and wiggled their hips. He was a 50-cent tipper.

The important thing was it got him his steak, really double thick and
double quick. People could be real efficient. Like brown John. Prod
'em where they live and they'll do anything. Even talk to you.

"You look kinda naked tonight, Erd," Gloria kidded.

Neff wiped steak juice from his chin and stared at her breasts. It
used to excite him, but now it was just habit. It was better than
looking at red-smeared lips that smiled and eyes that didn't, eyes
that said, "Don't forget the tip, you filthy bastard!"

Funny. Hang a gun on any other citizen in town and people would stare.
Take the gun off of Erd Neff and people make cracks.

He did feel naked.

"I didn't order this damned succotash!"

"It's free with the steak dinner, Erd."

Go ahead, pinch my leg like the harvesting crews do. I'm free with the
dinner, too. Like the ketchup. Like the mustard and the salt and
pepper and the steak sauce and the sugar and the extra butter if you
ask for it, just don't forget the tip.

Clarence Hogan, the fry-cook, came around the counter and leaned on
the booth table beside Gloria. "You don't like succotash? How about
some nice peas, Erd?"

Clarence was Gloria's husband.

Pimp!

"Put some ice-cream on my pie," Neff said. He looked up at Clarence.
"No, I don't want any goddamned peas!"

They brought his pie and left him alone. He finished it and felt in
his pocket for the tip. He changed his mind. To hell with Gloria and
her fat leg! The steak was tough.

He paid the check and went out. The sky was pink yet. Later in the
week the sunsets would be blood-red, as the great combines increased
in number and cruised the rippling ocean of wheat, leaving bristly
wakes and a sky-clogging spray of dust.

Neff's busiest season. Damn that dog! Damn Collin Burns!

His hand brushed his leg where the leather holster should be. Damned
laws that men made. Laws that acquitted him of homicide and then
snatched away his only weapon of self-defense because he shot a
yapping dog.

As he got in his car Collin Burns came out of the station. He tossed
Neff's gun through the open window onto the seat. "Here's your
property. The Marshal came in, and he changed everybody's mind. It's
going to cost you a hundred dollars and a new pup for the little girl,
probably. Here's the subpoena. Tuesday at ten."

"I don't get it."

"The Marshal said to let you fight your own battles."
