
He was awake pawing the wall for the light switch, but even as his
hand found it, and his eyes discovered the closed ventilator doors, a
reddish vapor sank over his body. A single gasp and Neff was clawing
his throat. Sharp, brown-tasting, acid-burning, eye-searing,
nose-stinging!

He fell to his knees and clawed to the far corner, fighting for air,
but the acrid stink stained his throat and nose. His eyes kept
burning. The whole room must be full!

The door-lever! No, that's what they wanted. Blind! Gun's no good now.
God, for a breath of air! Damned tears! Can't open my eyes! Air! _Got
to have it!_

His throat refused to open. The stink, a little like iodine, a lot
like a hospital smell but a million times stronger--raked at the
tender tissues of his throat. Icepicks stabbed from his soft palate,
up into his brain, his temples. He swayed against the door, caught the
lever and heaved convulsively. The door fell away slowly. He stumbled
forward, gashing his knee against the sharp jamb.

A light struck redly through his clenched, tear-soaked eye-lids.

"That did it. Get the gun!" The voice was high, almost girlish. A
young boy?

A slightly heavier voice said, "Got it. Keep an eye on him while I
find out why the fan stopped working."

"He's going no place. You were right. That bromine stuff really did
the business. Lookit his face. Sure it won't kill him?"

"Don't care if it does now. We got the door open."

"What is this bromine, anyhow? Boy it sure stinks!"

"It's a chemical element like chlorine, only it's a liquid. It fumes
if you don't keep it covered with water, and the fumes really get you.
They used it in gas bombs in the war."

"That was chlorine."

"They used bromine, too. I read it."

"Air!" Neff rasped.

"Help yourself if you call this stinkin' stuff in your warehouse air."

From the vault the deadened voice came. "This must be the switch. The
other switch is for the lights."

"Look out! When you turn it on don't get dosed yourself."

"I only dumped a few drops in. There. It'll blow out in a few--phew,
let me outta here. That stuff does--God, it's worse than the dose I
got in the chem lab!" The voice grew, coughing and cursing. "Better
wait a minute or two. How's our big brave dog-killer doing?"

On his hands and knees, Neff was on the verge of passing out, but
doggedly he tried to place the voices. Highschool kids? _Bromine._
Sounded like a chemical they might filch from the highschool
laboratory.

A kick in the ribs reminded him he was still helpless. "All right, get
back in there." They aimed him through the vault door and kept kicking
him until he went. They hauled him up into his chair. He tried to
strike out blindly, but his chest was full of licking flames that
spread pain out to his shoulders.

Now rope whipped around his feet, hands, chest and neck, jerking his
body hard against the castered desk-chair and cramping his head back.
"Tie him good. No way to lock him in with this door."

Neff opened his eyes. The boys were wet blurs rummaging through his
desk. "Look! Just look at that! We can't carry all that."

"Get one of those burlap sacks out there. By the door."

Footsteps went and returned. "Now, just the small bills. Up to twenty.
No, Jerry, leave the big stuff alone. Who'd take one from a kid?"

"Okay, let's make tracks."

"Wait!" Neff said desperately. "My legs and hands. You've cut off the
circulation!"
