
He passed over the picture of the door. It looked to Jimmy like two
doors, nearly at right angles, in the same door-frame and hung from the
same hinges.

Haynes looked at it and said tolerantly, "Didn't know you went in for
trick photography." He picked up a reading glass and examined it in
detail. "A futile but highly competent job. You covered half the film
and exposed with the door closed, and then exposed for the other half
of the film with the door open. A neat job of matching, though. You've
a good tripod."

"I held the camera in my hand," said Jimmy, with restraint.

"You couldn't do it that way, Jimmy," objected Haynes. "Don't try to
kid me."

"I'm trying not to fool myself," said Jimmy. He was very pale. He
handed over the other enlargement. "What do you see in this?"

Haynes looked. Then he jumped. He read through what was so plainly
photographed on the pages of a diary that hadn't been before the
camera. Then he looked at Jimmy in palpable uneasiness.

"Got any explanation?" asked Jimmy. He swallowed. "I--haven't any."

He told what had happened to date, baldly and without any attempt to
make it reasonable. Haynes gaped at him. But before long the lawyer's
eyes grew shrewd and compassionate. As noted hitherto, he had a number
of unlikely hobbies, among which was a loud insistence on a belief in a
fourth dimension and other esoteric ideas, because it was good fun to
talk authoritatively about them. But he had common sense, had Haynes,
and a good and varied law practice.

Presently he said gently, "If you want it straight, Jimmy ... I had
a client once. She accused a chap of beating her up. It was very
pathetic. She was absolutely sincere. She really believed it. But her
own family admitted that she'd made the marks on herself--and the
doctors agreed that she'd unconsciously blotted it out of her mind
afterward."

"You suggest," said Jimmy composedly, "that I might have forged all
that to comfort myself with, as soon as I could forget the forging.
I don't think that's the case, Haynes. What possibilities does that
leave?"

Haynes hesitated a long time. He looked at the pictures again,
scrutinizing especially the one that looked like a trick shot.

"This is an amazingly good job of matching," he said wrily. "I can't
pick the place where the two exposures join. Some people might manage
to swallow this, and the theoretic explanation is a lot better. The
only trouble is that it couldn't happen."

Jimmy waited.
