
Of course, space cafard goes tragically further. A new man usually
succumbs his first few hours in space, if he is going to get it at
all. He probably makes it to the next planet, sometimes not; sometimes
he goes incurably mad, right off the bat. But even if he does make
it, wild horses could never get him on another rocketship. He becomes
a halftripper, marooned on an alien world. Usually, although I have
known of several exceptions, if you don't get it on your first trip, it
seldom bothers you; you're immune for the rest of your life.

He repeated, "How about it, spaceman?"

Sam began to approach threateningly. He couldn't afford to have
halftrippers hang out in his place. For one thing, the shipping lines
would soon declare him out of bounds for their crews. You just can't
let good men come in contact with obvious victims of space cafard.

The old-timer Sam had called Joseph was distressed. "You know not what
you say," he told me gently.

I managed a sneer. "Am I supposed to buy a drink for every spacebum
that comes along?"

The halftripper's eyes lit up and he came closer to the old man. "How
about it, pop? Could you loan me the price of a nip of woji?"

Joseph's face was compassionate. "I am sorry, brother, I myself have
nothing, but I commend you to the generosity of the tavern keeper."

I snorted at that. I could imagine how much generosity the space leper
would get from the bartender.

That's where the surprise came. Sam sighed. "Okay, halftripper, what'll
it be?"

The spacebum ordered a double woji, got it down quickly, as though he
was afraid Sam might change his mind, and then beat it to find a place
to have his dreams when the full force of the also-narcotic drink hit
him.

I finished my brandy, ordered another, and grinned wryly at the
old-timer. "You give me kert for telling him to beat it, but you give
Sam the high sign to let him have woji with which to rot out his
brains. I'd think I was being the kinder of the two of us."

"Each man's salvation is within himself," Joseph said softly. "You
won't redeem him by attempting to keep him from his weaknesses."

"You talk like a saint but I notice you're sitting here at a bar."

He looked at me penetratingly, and there was vast emptiness behind
his eyes. "There is little to enjoy in life," he said softly, "but
I have had ample time to investigate all of the supposed pleasures.
At one time I drank greatly and kept myself in a state of continual
intoxication for a period longer than you could believe. Then I went
through a state when I let nothing pass my lips but water. Now I see
the mistake of both extremes and can enjoy an occasional glass without
feeling the need of swilling it down until intoxication dulls me."

He had me interested now. I said, "You sound as though you've found the
way in which to get the greatest satisfaction from everything in life
but I notice that you don't appear particularly happy."

He was silent for a long time. Finally he sighed and answered,
"Happiness is not to be found in wine, nor in food, nor in beautiful
women, nor even in wealth and power. It is from within, what you have
done, what you are in the eyes of your fellow man."

He looked as though he was about to say more, but he fell silent, his
eyes on something far away, although he seemed to be looking directly
into my face. Then a light returned to them and he came back to our
conversation. "I am sorry," he said. "For a moment you reminded me of
someone I knew long and long ago. But now I must be on my way." He left
his drink half-finished on the bar and walked wearily to the door.

Sam took his glass away and wiped the bar reflectively. "Whenever
he's here, I can't turn down any halftrippers or other spacebums," he
complained. "I tried it once, and the old boy looked so pathetic that I
damn near cried myself."

"He seems to be quite a character," I said, only half-interested.

"Sure," Sam said. "Haven't you heard about Joseph? He's immortal."

"What?" I said, startled.
