
"Immortal. You know, he lives forever." He poured me another brandy and
leaned on the bar. His other customers had left and he was obviously in
the mood for talking.

"I thought everybody knew about Joseph," he went on. "He was one of the
first spacebarons, a real bigshot, controlled the whole of Calypso; him
and his brother. They not only personally owned all of the satellite,
but even all of the space lines that served it. When it came to law
there, he was judge, jury, and owner of the courthouse and jail.
Brother, that was one monopoly."

"You mean that old man that was just here?" I said in amazement.

"That's right. Joseph, we call him now. He probably had a longer name
then. It was a long time ago.

"Anyway, to get back to the story, one day a space liner radios in
that it wants to make an emergency landing on Calypso for medical
assistance. They had some virulent disease on board and the passengers
and crew were dying like flies.

"Well, this brother of Joseph, Micheal, or something like that his name
was, advises Joseph not to give them permission to land. The captain of
the liner pleads with him, but Joseph tells him to move on, he doesn't
want to take any chances. The ship tried to make the next port, I
forget just what it was, but, anyway, to cut it short, they all died.
That's what started things churning in Joseph's bailiwick; a full-scale
revolution, no less."

"You missed something there," I said. "The people wouldn't have been
expected to be so upset. After all, no matter how mistaken, he must
have thought he was acting in the interests of everyone on Calypso."

"Yeah," Sam pointed out, "but the thing is that among the passengers
was Joseph's own boy, the most popular person on the satellite and
the apple of his old man's eye. Nobody had known it, but the kid was
playing hookey from his school on Terra and was making a cruise of the
Jupiter moons.

"Joseph himself had never been very popular with his people, neither
had this younger brother of his, Micheal. Too strict, see. But
everybody liked the boy and were looking forward to the day when he'd
take over the reins of government. When it came out what happened,
they went berserk. They cornered Joseph and Micheal and a dozen or so
of their close associates in the palace, which was actually more of a
fortress than anything else."

Sam wiped the bar again without need, and said reflectively, "It
must've been quite a fight. Not that Joseph himself participated. The
boy had been his whole life, and he just moved around like he was in a
trance.

"They threw everything at that palace. Every weapon, every device, that
had been thought up for centuries; but it didn't crack. Finally, the
fight was ended by a fleet of battle cruisers from Terra. Joseph and
Micheal and the rest were removed and brought here to Mars. None of
them dared to remain on Calypso."

I poured myself another brandy from the bottle that Sam had left on the
bar. "You make quite a story of it," I told him, "but you didn't tell
me what you'd started to--about the immortality."

"Yeah," he said, "that's right. Well, it seems that in the atomic
bombardment of the palace something happened that wound up with Joseph
and his friends all immortal. Don't ask me what; I don't know and
neither did these scientist guys when they tried to figure it out. Of
course, it didn't become known for years; not until it became obvious
they weren't dying, or even aging. They continued to appear as they had
at the time of the fight. I don't mean they couldn't die at all; one by
one they dropped away. Two were lost in space; one was blown up in an
explosion on Terra; another was burned to death; but the only way they
could die was through accident--or suicide. After a few hundred years
they were all gone but Joseph, and, of course, he'd gone batty."

I interrupted. "You mean he's insane?"

The bartender grinned. "Crazy as a makron."

I said slowly, "He seemed normal enough to me. Uh ... perhaps a bit
eccentric."

Sam said, "Brother, he's as far around the corner as you can get. You
know what he thinks? He thinks that he's wandering through space, going
from planet to planet, trying to find a situation similar to that in
which he sent away the person he loved most to his death. He thinks
that if he ever finds that similar situation, he'll be able to make the
opposite decision from the one he made before and that will redeem him."
