
I frowned. "Where does he get the money for his wandering around the
planets?"

"He don't need no money. He's good luck. There's not a captain in the
system that would refuse free passage to old Joseph." Sam shrugged his
beefy shoulders. "And who am I to say otherwise? That's why I give the
bums free drinks when he's around; so does every other bartender."

Two customers had entered and Sam made his way down to them, leaving me
alone.

A halftripper scurried through the door and cringed up to me. He
whimpered, "How about a drink, spaceman? I...."

I flipped him a coin. "Sure, buddy," I said, repressing my usual nausea
at the sight of him. I got down from my stool and made my way out. It
was time for me to return to the spaceport and my job.

I suppose that I forgot to tell the cabbie to take me to the
administration building entrance--the first time I'd made that mistake
in years. I was preoccupied with thoughts of Joseph and the story Sam
had told of him. The guards at the main gate must have let us through
without question when they saw my United Space Lines uniform. At any
rate, when I looked up, it was too late. Not only was I on the landing
field and in full view of the concrete take-off aprons, but one
gigantic freighter was in the process of blasting off.

All the horror of it flowed over me with a rush. The careful training
of years; the work of the doctors who had treated me; all my own
self-discipline--were gone. I shook with terrified frenzy. The depths
of space! The free fall! The black emptiness! The utter, uncontrollable
terror!

I screamed shrilly and the cabbie turned, wide-eyed, to stare at me.

He knew the symptoms. "Space cafard! A halftripper!" he gasped, and
spun the cab about to get me to a hospital. He must have realized then
that my uniform didn't necessarily mean that I worked on the liners
themselves, but that I could be an office employee who only on rare
occasions went near the ships.

He knew too, that the very sight of a spacecraft blasting off was
enough to put me in bed for a week; and that I was uncommonly lucky to
have the funds for the hospitalization. Mars was strewn with the human
wrecks of halftrippers who hadn't.

As we whirled from the yard, we passed the bent figure of Joseph
walking unhurriedly toward a liner which was loading for the Venus run.

My heart cried out, even through my terror, my sickness:

_Joseph, Joseph.... So you too are still alive; and still seeking
forgiveness. I had thought I was the last._

_But you are by far the better off of we two, Joseph. For at least you
have been free to wander while I have stayed on this one hated spot
since all those centuries ago when we fled from Calypso and the wrath
of the people who had loved the boy so. As though we hadn't loved him
ourselves, Joseph._

_Yes, you are the better off, you can seek throughout the stars for
forgiveness. Then, too, your mind is forever dulled with your madness,
while mine is horribly aware, always, of what we've been through and of
the centuries ahead; it is only blurred when the space cafard comes._

_Joseph, Joseph ... you didn't even recognize your brother Micheal, nor
I you, when we met._