
"Professor--I wonder if you know how big a bite you've taken? If you
go up in the hills hereabouts you'll find whole families living in
dirt-floor houses. You'll find children who never heard of a bath or a
telephone. But you won't find one person who would live in the Reamer
mansion for a salary paid promptly every Saturday morning."

"Nonetheless," Professor Waits replied, "the so-called jinx of the
mansion, or any other maligned locality, is a matter of monstrous
coincidence. The truth lies hidden in the lives of the people involved.
I've been ferreting out that truth."

"You mean this isn't a beginning, Professor?"

He grasped his umbrella in a manner indicating he meant to spear a
dragon in case there were any around, and said, "Oh my no! I've been
tracing the lives of the principals in this drama for some time. It
involves long, tedious work. I must not only dig into the lives of the
unfortunates themselves, but also into those of kin; even--in some
cases--friends."

"What did you find out about the murder?"

He evaded neatly. "I am not seeking a killer as such. Relative to that
facet of the case, I am more interested in Henry Reamer himself. A very
wise man once said, 'If you would understand violence, look also into
the heart of the murdered'. A man carries the seeds of his destiny in
his own soul."

"And you intend to prove it?"

"I am finding more proof every day. Soon I shall publish a paper which
will startle the thinking world."

I could see the Professor wasn't one to be backed into any corners.
"And how can I help in this work?"

"I am tracing at the moment, certain details in the life of Mabel
Tutworthy, an aunt of Silas Reamer. Unauthenticated legends indicate
she killed an eight-point buck once, with her bare hands, and dragged
it home across ten miles of forest."

"I've heard that, and it's probably true. You think it has something to
do with what happened to Silas?"

"--_And_ his son Henry."

"I think you'll find what you want in that section by the south window.
It's devoted to local history."

"Thank you, my dear." He moved away, reminding me somehow, of a happy
retriever going into a lake after a duck. Halfway to the shelves, he
halted suddenly and turned. "Did you know that seventy percent of the
accidents happen to twenty percent of the people?"

I didn't, but I refused to admit such backwardness. "I certainly do.
Amazing, isn't it?"

"That is one of the pillars upon which my work is based."

"And there are others?"

"Seven in all."

He didn't tell me what the other six were. Instead he disappeared into
local history and left me with the latest best seller I was reading
under the counter lest some child come in and be stripped of all
innocence by one glance.

It was two hours before Professor Waits reappeared. He carried a small
blue notebook in one hand and a stub pencil in the other. He was
positively beaming. "A gold mine," he said. "A veritable gold mine. Did
you know that Ezekial Webb, a cousin of William Tutworthy was gored by
a bull in the year 1862?"

"No--really?"

Then I was truly ashamed of myself. He was such a pleasant, sincere
little man and he got such fun out of life. But he misinterpreted
my boorishness for true enthusiasm and said, "It's a fact! Imagine!
Walking in here and finding one of the links I've hunted for months.
I'm indebted to you, my dear, for directing me to that book shelf."

I could have told him he was under no obligation; that I got, each
week, the coolie stipend of twenty eight dollars for doing just that;
but I didn't want him starting an investigation into peonage system
practiced in libraries and schools.

Then something in the little man's manner, sobered me.
"Professor--exactly why are you doing this?"

He blinked. "I have plenty of money. I have the time. It interests me.
And I feel it a worthy occupation; gathering knowledge through which
people may know the true causes of misfortune; may throw off the yoke
of superstition."

"You feel, then, that nothing happens by chance?"

"My dear," he said, solemnly, "in this ordered universe there can be
no such thing. Action and achievement--cause and result. The revealing
pattern of each man's actions is in the pasts of himself and his
antecedents."

"And by proving this you will exonerate the Reamer mansion of all
guilt?"

He smiled. "You are a most intelligent young lady. Most intelligent! I
shall see a great deal of you in the weeks to come."
