
It was not a distasteful prospect. I liked the Professor and was glad
he liked me. After he left I went back and found not a single book out
of place. I liked him even more.

Two weeks passed before I saw Professor Waits again. He came in out of
the sunshine, carrying his black umbrella and wearing the same black
string necktie. I was busy at the time, finding an acceptable book for
Mrs. Winsolow's little Freddie who was in bed with the pip. When I got
clear, Professor Waits was deep in his research and I did not disturb
him.

He came pattering out just before closing time and I was struck by the
somber--almost sad--expression he wore.

"Did you have trouble finding what you wanted, Professor?"

"Oh no. The records are most voluminous. It's just--well, the _nature_
of my discoveries."

"Bad?"

"Very bad, Miss Hopstead. Do you know who Henry Reamer's murderer was?"

"No."

"Miles McCormick, the renter who died there so tragically with his
family."

I didn't quite know how to respond; whether I should faint or scream
for the police. I settled for a philosophical comment. "A case of
justice by a higher power."

"You mean McCormick's death?"

"Of course."

"On the contrary. There was no connection at all between the two
events. McCormick and his wife and child died because they violated a
certain law, but not necessarily a law on the statute books."

"I'm afraid I don't quite follow that."

"Look at it this way, Miss Hopstead. You are walking through a dark
room. A door is standing open. You come into violent contact with the
edge of it. What happens?"

"A broken nose? A black eye."

"Precisely. The fact you didn't know the door was there didn't protect
you from the consequences."

This of course, I was forced to concede.

"Now let's go a step further by taking, as example, a lower mentality
than our own. A horse, knowing nothing of the laws of electricity,
would step on a high voltage wire and never know why it was
electrocuted. In such a case, the animal would violate a law it did not
know existed."

I was beginning to see what he was driving at. "You mean--"

"We are far above the horse in mentality and understanding but
there are still many laws we do not understand. That is what my work
involves."

I insisted upon being heard. "You mean a lot of apparently innocent
things we do are really electric wires."

He beamed. "Exactly. When we reap misfortune it is because we violate
some law. Ignorance of that law doesn't change the end-result one iota."

"And you're trying to find out what these--these booby traps are?"

"Oh I know many of them already. My paper will surprise the world.
I'm working on a more advanced phase of the problem now. I am tracing
a pattern of interlocking violations to show that the scene of the
end-results can be only sheerest coincidence. I want to banish once
and for all the superstition-stigma attached to scenes of repeated
misfortune and violence."

"The Reamer mansion."

"That's right. And now I must be going, Miss Hopstead." He gave me the
departing smile and started for the door.

"Professor Waits."

"Yes?"

"About Mabel Tutworthy. Did she really drag that buck ten miles."

"No. It was only a fawn. And she killed it less than a mile from her
cabin."

"And the murder of Henry Reamer. What proof--?"

"Nothing the police would be interested in. It was the end-result of
a cause they won't understand until my work is published and given
study."

He opened the door, looked around, smiled. "This is certainly a fine
old building. I _must_ bring Nicholas with me the next time."

With that, he was gone.
