
The room was warm, but a cold perspiration moistened Peter Pettigrew's
brow. His eyes roved, his collar strangled him. His tongue was a wad of
cotton.

"Why--er--" he muttered feverishly.

"_Wrong!_" Sergeant McCurdle seized the word, worried it as a terrier
worries a rubber bone. "_Never_ wire! Wire is the last thing you should
touch, Pettigrew. Under conditions such as those described, wire would
be melting-hot. It would burn the flesh off your bones!

"No--" He stared at the smaller man disdainfully--"No, Mr. Pettigrew, I
fear you would be of no use in an emergency of this nature. As a matter
of fact, I don't think you belong in this group. Some men, Pettigrew,
simply don't fit. You seem to be one of them. Why don't you drop out?
Turn in your uniform and enter some other branch of civilian service?
Canteen work, for instance, or knitting sweaters--?"

Someone behind Peter Pettigrew tittered, and someone else muttered,
"That's right! If a man can't do a man's work he ought to--" Peter's
lower lip trembled, and the stalwart figure of Sergeant McCurdle danced
before his eyes. He shook his head doggedly.

"But--but I _like_ this work, Sergeant. I _want_ to be an Air Raid
Warden."

McCurdle's shrug was eloquent.

"Well, it's Uncle Sam's headache. If you persist in wasting the
government's time and money, I can't prevent it." To the others he
said, "That's all for tonight, folks. We're having a practice blackout
at midnight, remember. City-wide. Every Warden must be at his post by
then. You all know where your locations are? All right--hop to 'em! Eh?
What? Oh, _you_ again, Pettigrew? Well, what do you want now?"

"Excuse me, sir," said Peter meekly, "but--what was my mistake? What
_was_ the first thing I should have done?"

"Done?" thundered Sergeant McCurdle. "Why, any fool knows you should
have--er--er--" His brows furrowed, then cleared miraculously. "Don't
try to make _me_ do your thinking for you, Pettigrew! That's _your_
assignment, not mine. Think it out. And see that you've arrived at the
correct answer by our next meeting. All right--class dismissed!"
