
"No hose," said Peter Pettigrew to himself, "no sand or siren or
telephone. Fire spreading rapidly. Warehouse is filled with inflammable
supplies--Oh, it's no use! McCurdle was right. I guess I'm just a--a
misfit!"

The last word came out "mzzglmmp," punctuated, as it was, by something
suspiciously akin to a sigh ... or a sob.

There is an estimated total of two hundred and sixty thousand volunteer
Air Raid Wardens now training for civilian defense duty in the United
States. Of this number, about two hundred and fifty-nine thousand, nine
hundred and ninety-nine had greater aptitude for their jobs than did
Peter Pettigrew.

Two strikes had been called on this unhappy child of misfortune, and
the Celestial Umpire's arm was already rising on the third, when Peter
wailed entrance into this mad world. To begin with, as a specimen
of manhood Peter Pettigrew was a washout. Padded shoulders helped
conceal his spindling frame and built-up heels added a futile inch to
his diminutive stature, but no aids, mechanical or sartorial, could
ever remove the anemic pallor from his complexion, lend distinction
to an unruly fuzz of taffy-colored hair, or cleanse his eyes of the
pathetic wistfulness which mirrored his personality. Peter's physical
counterpart was the photo labelled _Before_ in the "BE STRONG LIKE ME!"
ads.

Moreover, Peter was shy. Terribly, horribly, inconceivably shy of
everything and anything that walked, swam, or flew on, under, or above
the surface of the earth. He gulped when he talked, and never raised
his voice to a degree louder than a timid bleat. Strangers frightened
him ... acquaintances embarrassed him ... and he had no friends. He
turned every hue of the rainbow when so much as noticed by members of
the fair sex, and ate always in cafeterias in order to avoid the dread
task of ordering from a waitress.

His position in life was just what you might expect; he was the
smallest imaginable cog in an organization so huge that to all save his
immediate clerical companions he was but another name on the payroll.

He earned enough to live and eat and visit a theatre once a week
and support a second cousin in Oregon whom he had never seen in his
life, but whose demanding letters threw him into a perfect frenzy of
obligation. He dressed soberly, let subway guards shove him around
without protest, and permitted himself nothing more highly intoxicant
than an occasional Dr. Zipper.

Thus Peter Pettigrew. Or thus, to be more accurate, the Peter Pettigrew
who slipped his brief and unobtrusive way before the public eye.
