
"Never mind," interrupted McCurdle. "Never mind the alibis, Pettigrew.
Disobedience of orders in an emergency--that's enough for me! You can
turn in your uniform _now_! And goodbye, Mr. Pettigrew!"

"B-but--" faltered Peter.

"And," appended Sergeant McCurdle, "good riddance!"

"B-but this _is_ my post, Sergeant!" wailed Peter. "I was assigned to
guard this sector during the trial blackout!"

"Y-you _what_?" This time it was McCurdle whose voice cracked on a
dismal note.

"I was assigned to guard this sector, sir--"

"Don't repeat, Pettigrew!" The baffled topkick gave vent to a groan.
"I heard you the first time. _You!_ On duty at this post! Of all the
muddle-headed assignments--Damn it, man, this Armory is one of the most
vital military objectives in the whole city!"

"It--it is?" piped Peter with sudden eagerness.

"Perhaps _the_ most important! Pettigrew, do you know the entire
basement of this building is filled with gunpowder and dynamite? Enough
to blow the surrounding neighborhood to Kingdom Come! And within three
city blocks of here stand the City Hall, the Federal Building, two
factories engaged in war armaments production, and a Marine barracks!"

"Th-there are?" gulped Peter with less eagerness.

"And of all men," despaired McCurdle, "_you_ had to be assigned to this
post. And in less than a minute the warning will be sounded. Well--"
He shrugged--"It's too late now. It's your pigeon. You've drawn your
equipment?"

"Equip--Oh, yes, sir! Right here!" Peter patted a gas mask container
at his side and, rather more gingerly, the automatic at his hip. "I'm
all-ready, sir."

"Very well, Pettigrew. From now on--" The topkick had to raise his
voice to a bellow to make himself heard over the banshee blast that had
suddenly wakened and howled from a hundred simultaneous sources--"it's
up to you! Carry on!"

And as the gray gloom of the city night was suddenly engulfed in
ebon black, as feverish eyes of electric and neon blinked out one by
one over a city grimly readying itself for any eventuality, Sergeant
McCurdle moved into the darkness--and was gone!
