
At first his disappearance was a relief to the small would-be Air
Warden. Then, as the ear-shattering sirens died into muted silence, as
McCurdle's footsteps pattered off into murkiness, a vast, enswaddling
stillness descended upon Peter Pettigrew--and with it came stark
realization of his perfect aloneness. In Stygian gloom he murmured,
"Oh, my goodness! I'm all alone!" and raised a trembling hand before
his eyes. It was a vague, white blob in the darkness. Tingling fingers
of panic clutched at Peter's nerves, and his ganglea hummed like
harpstrings. "Oh, my soul!" he jittered. "It's so _dark_!"

Civic authorities had deliberately chosen a moonless night for this
experiment. Mother Nature had collaborated by veiling the sky with a
thick overcast, making the night starless as well. The street upon
which Peter stood was as black as a whale's belly. Except for--

"Oh, mercy me!" bleated Peter, "this will never do!"

And his panic subsiding in the face of this unallowable thing, he
scurried down the street to a dwelling beneath the lowered blinds of
which escaped one lone, betraying slant of light. Hastily he ascended
its steps, more hastily rapped on the door.

"Lights out!" he cried. "Air alert! Lights--"

The door flew open suddenly, hurling a blazing flood of forbidden
illumination into Peter's eyes. A figure loomed in the doorway; the
figure of a man whose shoulders seemed to stop the entrance, who
towered threateningly above Peter.

"Hey?" roared this outraged Titan. "What's this all about? Whatcha
tryin' to--?"

"--out!" ended Peter feebly. "L-lights out, if you don't mind, please,
mister. It's an--an alert--"

There came a sudden, menacing _snap!_ and Peter closed his eyes,
wondering dimly which arm or leg was broken and why it didn't hurt.
Then stunningly:

"Sure, Warden!" came a husky whisper. "I fergot. I was list'nin' to
the Tchi-cargo Symphony an' fergot all about the blackout. I'm sorry."

And Peter opened his eyes to discover that the house was in jet
blackness, and the big man was softly shutting the door!

He turned and stumbled down the steps. But where he had been nervous
before, he was now aflame with a strange and new sensation. A wild,
heady sensation--the intoxication of power! For the first time in his
mousy life, Peter Pettigrew had issued an order. And that order had
been obeyed!

Self-confidence, a feeling so rare in his past as to have been
non-existent, swept through him like a hot torrent. His head lifted
proudly; he trod on fluffy clouds. He drew a long, tremulous breath.

"Warden!" he murmured happily. "_Warden_ Pettigrew!"
