
The stranger was hurrying up the street toward Peter. This was not,
in itself, cause for alarm. Thousands of good, solid, liberty-loving
Americans had doubtless been caught off guard by the wail of the
sirens. But _this_ man, who seemed to cling to the darkest shadows of
an everywhere-dark road, made no sound as he walked! He glided forward
noiselessly. Moreover, his diminutive but chunky frame bent beneath the
burden of a heavy gunnysack that might have contained--

What? wondered Peter Pettigrew. Anything! Anything at all, he decided.
Bombs, hand grenades, ground glass! His jaw tightened; he stepped
forward.

"Just a moment, there!" he piped peremptorily. "Who are you? What are
you do--?"

But the sinister stranger either did not hear him or chose to disregard
his challenge. He had paused, now, before the very door of the Armory,
taken from somewhere and scanned what appeared to be a notebook. He
nodded his head pleasedly and turned to the building. The rap of his
knuckles was soft in the silence; the door swung open and he vanished.

Peter sprang into action. This was all wrong! This was his post; if
it were learned that he had permitted anyone to effect entrance into
the Armory unquestioned he would lose his precious Wardenship. Perhaps
even--Peter quaked--since this incident had occurred in line of duty,
he would be tried by a military court, found guilty, and shot at
sunrise!

On legs that felt suddenly hollow, he raced forward, hurled himself at
the Armory door and pounded frantically. A uniformed private of the
regular Army opened it for him. The soldier looked faintly surprised.

"What--Oh, hello, there! You're the warden on duty here, aren't you?
What's up? Blackout over?"

"It's an all night practice," snapped Peter, "as you ought to know. But
never mind that now. That stranger--who was he? Where did he go?"

"Huh?" The soldier stared at him curiously. "Is it a gag, buddy? What
stranger?"

"The one," rasped Peter, "you just admitted. He refused to answer my
challenge--"

"Are you crazy?" The soldier sniggered drowsily and leaned his rifle
against the wall. "Nobody came through this doorway, bud, except you."

Quick suspicion fanned to a fiercer blaze in Peter's bosom. Then his
hunch had been right! The sinister stranger _was_ an enemy agent, and
this soldier in Uncle Sam's khaki was a dupe, a hireling, a Fifth
Columnist! With a swift movement he grasped the guard's rifle, levelled
it at its owner.

"So!" hissed Peter Pettigrew, patriot. "You thought you could get away
with it, eh? Well, the jig's up! Over my dead body you'll pull one of
your dastardly Nazi tricks! Not a move, now! Move a muscle and I--I'll
shoot--"

And his finger tensed on the trigger. But the other man's face did
not draw into the lines of hatred and violence Peter half expected.
Instead, the soldier grinned amiably at him.

"Okay, buddy," he chuckled. "Enjoy yourself. Quite a card, ain't you?
Well--" He yawned prodigiously--"'at's okay by me. I'm gettin' ...
kinda ... sleepy. Think I'll snatch ... forty winks. Wake me up ...
when the alert's over ... over...."

He slumped onto a bench, and fell fast asleep!
