
For a moment, sheer shock immobilized Peter. He had expected cringing
capitulation; he had met defiance, instead. It is a different matter
to dream of slaughtering hundreds of charging enemies than to pull the
trigger on one, small antagonist armed with only a gunnysack. So Peter
did nothing.

But the _saboteur_ did an amazing thing. He pencilled a checkmark
in his little notebook. Then, quietly crooning a tune that sounded
astonishingly like a lullaby, he shouldered his bag and started from
the room. Peter roused. His piping voice rang clarion-clear in the
echoing chamber.

"Oh, no you don't! Stand still, you! Drop that bag and lift your hands
or I'll--I'll--"

And he got what he wanted. The visitor _did_ drop the bag. But his
clutch was not nerveless from fright so much as from surprise! A look
of blank incredulity widened his eyes, and his jaw dropped slack as he
gasped:

"You--you're still awake!"

"You bet your boots I'm awake!" declared Peter boldly. "You didn't
think you'd get _me_ with that stuff, you--"

"And you--" gulped the little man--"you _see_ me!"

"See you? Of course I see you! If you take another step, you dirty old
Nazi, you--"

"Nazi!" exclaimed the stranger indignantly. "I'm no Nazi!"

"Oh, no? What's your name?"

"My name," said the chubby one, "is Ole Luk Oie. In some circles I am
known as Noctus or Suom, but--"

"Never mind the aliases," said Peter. "Ole Luk Oie, eh? A Norwegian.
One of Quisling's men?"

"I don't know what you're talking about," blazed his prisoner. "I don't
know anything about quisling. I've never quissled in my life. But I do
know _one_ thing: when I see the Assignment Clerk at the O.D.D. again,
I'm going to raise blue fumes about this! I was _never_ so mortified!
Imagine _me_ held at a pistol's point by a mortal who defies my Sands--"

"That'll do!" rapped Peter sternly. "I'll talk; you answer. What's this
O.D.D. you mentioned?"

"Why, the Office of Dream Distribution," snapped the stranger, "of
course! The outfit I work for. Now, see here, mortal--point that thing
the other way before it goes off by accident and creates a scandal. It
can't kill me, of course, but hanged if I want to go through eternity
with lead bullets in my gizzard. Woden knows my digestion is awful
enough now, what with staying up all night and those brazen Walküre
keeping me awake all day with their noisy war-chants--"

But he need not have elaborated on his request. For Peter, his
hand wobbling like an aspen leaf in a tornado, had already thrust
the .44 back into its holster, and was staring at his captive with
horror-stricken eyes. Peter passed a dry tongue over drier lips. And:

"W-who are you?" he croaked.

"I've already told you once," said the little fellow testily. "I'm Ole
Luk Oie. The Bringer of Sleep. The Sandman!"
