
"The Sand--_Ooooh!_" moaned Peter Pettigrew. Beneath his feet the world
quaked and quivered. Its motion developed an identical counterpart in
Peter's interior. He braced himself to hurl a last rebellious salvo at
this enemy of reason. "But--but the Sandman is only a--_a myth_!"

"Myth your eye!" retorted Ole Luk Oie savagely. "Do I _look_ like a
myth?" He did not. He looked most solid, most substantial, sturdy arms
akimbo on his firmly planted thighs, eyes flashing indignation. "And
that reminds me, how can you see me? I'm invisible, you know."

"N-not to me," quavered Peter Pettigrew.

"That," frowned Ole Luk Oie, "is obvious. But--Ah! Those dark things
you're wearing over your eyes? What do you call them?"

"They--they're special glasses," said Peter meekly, "to cut down
ultra-violet radiation."

"So that's it?" Ole Luk Oie nodded sagely. "Now it begins to make
sense. We're in the infra-red, you know. All of us immortals. And you
humans have been leading us a merry chase ever since your scientists
discovered how to photograph our wave-length. Snapping our pictures at
seances--"

"Spirit photography!" exclaimed Peter. "Then--then it's _not_ a fake?
You do sometimes communicate--?"

"Now, don't get ideas, mortal! Yes, we do; but just for a gag. We never
really tell anything. We don't want you jerks muscling in on _our_
world and messing it up like yours.

"So the glasses let you see me. And the dream-sands didn't work because
you're wearing that mask. Well--take it off!"

"Off?" repeated Peter. "Certainly not!"

The little man frowned impatiently.

"Now, don't be difficult, human! You've got to take it off, you know."

"Why?" demanded Peter stubbornly.

"Because it says here in this book," pointed out Ole Luk Oie, "that
three more mortals are to be put to sleep here in this room. You're one
of them, of course. So--"

He reached for his fallen bag. But a sudden thought flashed through
Peter's brain with the brilliance of a comet. He sprang forward
challengingly, swept the gunnysack from the little demigod's hands.

"Oh, no you don't!" he cried. "That's mine!"

Ole Luk Oie glared at him irately.

"Yours in a centaur's eye!" he snorted. "It's mine! A brand-new,
imported job. I got it just last millennium from the Arachne Weaving
Corporation in Olympus. Hand it over!"

"It _was_ yours," yammered Peter. "But it's mine now! I'm turning the
contents over to the government. Do you know what this is? The greatest
offensive military weapon any man ever discovered! Anaesthetic sands!
Our lab men will analyze this powder, learn how to make it. With this,
our forces can bring the war to a swift and humane end!"

"You," declared Ole Luk Oie flatly, "are crazy! The Sands aren't the
only offensive thing around here. In just a few minutes, I'm going to
lose my patience, human. Hand back that bag, or by Baldar--"
