
What dire threat he would have uttered, Peter Pettigrew was destined
never to learn. For at that moment came an interruption. From the
doorway behind them came a sound that caused both man and demigod to
spin. The sharp, incisive cry of a voice raised in command.

"_Achtung!_ Turn quietly, swine, and lift your hands! _Ach, zu!_ Now,
Franz ... Otto ... to your work!"

Peter's eyes bulged wide, and his lips loosed a tiny moan. For standing
in the doorway, armed to the teeth, stood three men from whose eyes
gleamed the fanaticism of the creed for which they labored. These were
no supernatural and benevolent creatures, but flesh-and-blood men;
their purpose here was evident. The destruction of this Armory and its
stores!

The underling Nazi agents needed no second bidding. With the grim,
mechanical purposefulness of their race, they leaped to their task. One
sprang to the nearest hogshead of gunpowder, smashed loose a stave and
began scattering the barrel's contents about the chamber. The other
ripped open a carton of dynamite sticks, hastily unreeled and adjusted
the wires of a detonator.

While his underlings labored, the leader enjoyed the luxury of gloating
over his accomplishment.

"So," he gibed, "there you stand, foolishly agape as sheep! You wonder
at our being here, _nichts wahr_? Ach, you _verdammt Amerikanische_!
You are all fools! Not only do you advertise in the public papers your
idiotic practice blackout, but you leave your Armory unguarded!

"In the Fatherland such madness would not be tolerated! Our _Fuehrer_
weeds out the weak and incompetent. That is why we will soon rule
the world!" He personalized his scorn, directed it squarely at Peter
Pettigrew. "Little man, you have a revolver at your side. Why don't you
draw it? Is it because you fear death? What? You don't answer? You are
silent? But why is that? You were voluble enough a moment ago when we
entered the room. Standing here alone in an empty chamber, chattering
to yourself like an insane ape--"

"A-lone!" The word wrenched itself unbidden from Peter's lips. Like a
blinding flash of light, the truth hit him. Of course! The _saboteurs_
wore no ultra-violet glasses. They saw no Ole Luk Oie standing and
watching this typically "human" drama with detached disinterest. Peter
gulped. "Oh! Oh, yes. A-lone. I was just--"

"Come closer, little man!" taunted the Nazi captain. "I would pinch
your scrawny arm to test if you are a man or a mouse. _Stop!_ What are
you leaning over for?"

"My--my shoelace--" faltered Peter. "It--it came untied--" But his
heart gave a tremendous leap. For now he knew that the Sandman's _bag_,
too, was invisible to the enemy. And that bag of dream-dust was now
secure within his hands.

"Never mind your shoelace!" commanded his antagonist. "Walk toward me
slowly with your arms raised--There! _Das ist gut!_ I see you wear a
uniform. Tell me, little man, what is the strength of this garrison?
When I make my report--"
