
Peter was grateful for the semi-gloom of the chamber. Were it not
shadowy, the German must have noticed that though his arms were above
his head his elbows bent with strain, and his knuckles were tensed
whitely with the effort of gripping a heavy sack above his head. He
shuffled forward another step. Another. Another....

"That is near enough!" said his captor. "Franz, you are nearly
finished? You too, Otto? _Gut!_ Light the fuses. In a moment we shall
go. Well, little man, speak! Will you answer and be allowed to flee
with us, or will you hold your silence and die here?"

"W-what is it you wanted to know?" bleated Peter Pettigrew, desperately
stalling for time. He was almost within arm's reach of his foeman now.
Another step....

"The strength of this garrison. Yes, I know you call it a 'civilian
defense post', but that is dirty, democratic propaganda. Tell me the
truth! How strong are your forces?"

And then--Peter acted!

"_This_ strong!" he cried in a voice of shocking thunder. And with the
full force of his meagre frame, supplemented by the unleashed vigor of
his righteous wrath, he brought the sack down heavily on the Nazi's
head!

The German cried out once, thickly--then collapsed. The bag split. A
cloud of milky-gray powder spumed into the air, flew, spread, eddied
into every nook and cranny. Franz and Otto had barely time to turn
before it clogged their nostrils, felling them in their tracks like
stricken steers. A stifling sensation gripped Peter Pettigrew by the
throat.

Glancing down, he discovered with horror that in his eagerness to
strike and strike hard he had torn his gas mask loose. Slumber-dust was
now filtering through the crevice, stealing into _his_ lungs, too!

He turned agonized eyes to the attentive Ole Luk Oie. He cried,
"Sandman! But you--you can't do this to me! The Sands! Mus' ... have
'em ... f'r the gov'ment. F'r...."

That was all. He lurched forward sleepily and fell headlong to the
floor. Ole Luk Oie minced toward him gingerly, retrieved the forsaken
sack and studied the rent in its side with sorrow.

"The very _best_ material!" he muttered. "Now they'll make me get a new
one. Oh, well--it was an interesting show, anyhow!" And before he left,
he leaned once, strangely tender, over the prostrate little Pettigrew.

"Well done, small human," he crooned softly. "Sleep well, and sweet
dreams. Forever may your dreams henceforth come true!"

And he turned, but he did not walk from the chamber. He simply lifted
his head in a curious gesture. One instant he was there--the next he
was gone.
