
Out of the dark and pleasant rollingness of slumber, Peter wakened to
hear faraway voices drawing nearer and nearer. Something cold and wet
was at his lips; he swallowed and choked on a liquid-like honeyed fire.
The voice said:

"You all right now, Pettigrew? Here, take another swig of this brandy--"

"Brandy!" gasped Peter Pettigrew, wide awake. "Oh, my gracious,
_brandy_! T-take it away!"

"Sure," soothed the voice. "Sure, Pettigrew. Anything you say. After
tonight, you can have anything you want around here, including the
world with a pink ribbon around it if you ask."

After tonight! Recollection flooded back upon Peter. He lifted himself
to one elbow. He was lying on a cot in the upper drill-hall of the
Armory. About him were the faces of his fellow student Air Wardens,
uniformed figures of regular Army officers; the shoulder propping him
up, the voice speaking into his ear, the face peering down into his,
all belonged to Sergeant McCurdle. An inexplicably altered Sergeant
McCurdle, whose eyes were respectful and admiring.

"Wh-what happened?" demanded Peter. "Ole Luk Oie--did he get away? And
the Nazi agents--?"

"Old who?" puzzled McCurdle. "We got the Heinies--three of 'em. That's
all there were, wasn't it? Man--" He shook his head admiringly--"I take
back everything I ever said or thought about you, Pettigrew. You're
a regular wildcat! Why, Joe Louis couldn't have knocked them babies
colder than you did! Every one of 'em was out like a light. Their
leader ain't come to _yet_. He's as cold as a Labrador herring."

Another voice, deeper and more authoritative, reached Peter's ears. It
was the Commanding Officer of the Armory.

"Yes, Pettigrew, it was a magnificent piece of work. You have done
your country a great service this night. Had it not been for you, I
shudder to think what horror might have been unleashed in this city.
You apprehended them in the nick of time. They had already scattered
the gunpowder, set their fuses. In another moment--"

"Yes," said Peter. "I know. I mean--Oh, is that so? How about
the--er--was there a bag lying on the floor? A bag filled with dust?"

The officers glanced at each other questioningly; one of them muttered
sotto voce, "_Wool-gathering, poor chap! And no wonder. After what he's
been through_--" The commandant ignored the query. He said, "So I am
sending a recommendation to the President, Pettigrew, that you receive
a Congressional Medal. Moreover, if you should ever decide to enter
the service of your country as a full-fledged militiaman, I should be
proud, sir, proud to have you as a member of my company!"

"And now, gentlemen--" With an effort, the officer concealed a
yawn--"the hour is late, and I am sure we are all very tired. Suppose
we--yaw-rrrm!--leave Mr. Pettigrew to get some much-needed rest."

And he trudged away, followed by a sleepy-eyed staff of subordinates.
Peter thought he knew why. Someone had left the basement door open;
mingled with the oil and tobacco smoke of the drill-room was a fine
scud of eddying dust whose nature Peter knew all too well.

He, too, was drowsy again. But there was one thing he must say to
his only remaining companion. "Sergeant," he said, "in the morning
we must sweep the storage-room floor carefully, and send the dust to
Washington. They've got to analyze it. Very important--"

"Huh?" answered Sergeant McCurdle languidly. "Dust? Oh, sure, Petty,
old boy. If you say so. But I don't quite see--aw-rrrm!--why. Hey, move
over, willya? I'm gettin' sorta tired myself...."
