
An air-taxi, emblazoned with the device of the Paratime Police, was
waiting. Verkan Vall said good-by to the rocket-pilot and took his seat
beside the pilot of the aircab; the latter lifted his vehicle above the
building level and then set it down on the landing-stage of the Paratime
Police Building in a long, side-swooping glide. An express elevator took
Verkan Vall down to one of the middle stages, where he showed his sigil
to the guard outside the door of Tortha Karf's office and was admitted
at once.

The Paratime Police chief rose from behind his semicircular desk, with
its array of keyboards and viewing-screens and communicators. He was a
big man, well past his two hundredth year; his hair was iron-gray and
thinning in front, he had begun to grow thick at the waist, and his calm
features bore the lines of middle age. He wore the dark-green uniform
of the Paratime Police.

"Well, Vall," he greeted. "Everything secure?"

"Not exactly, sir." Verkan Vall came around the desk, deposited his
rifle and bag on the floor, and sat down in one of the spare chairs.
"I'll have to go back again."

"So?" His chief lit a cigarette and waited.

"I traced Gavran Sarn." Verkan Vall got out his pipe and began to fill
it. "But that's only the beginning. I have to trace something else.
Gavran Sarn exceeded his Paratime permit, and took one of his pets
along. A Venusian nighthound."

Tortha Karf's expression did not alter; it merely grew more intense.
He used one of the short, semantically ugly terms which serve, in place
of profanity, as the emotional release of a race that has forgotten all
the taboos and terminologies of supernaturalistic religion and
sex-inhibition.

"You're sure of this, of course." It was less a question than
a statement.

Verkan Vall bent and took cloth-wrapped objects from his bag, unwrapping
them and laying them on the desk. They were casts, in hard black
plastic, of the footprints of some large three-toed animal.

"What do these look like, sir?" he asked.

Tortha Karf fingered them and nodded. Then he became as visibly angry
as a man of his civilization and culture-level ever permitted himself.

"What does that fool think we have a Paratime Code for?" he demanded.
"It's entirely illegal to transpose any extraterrestrial animal or
object to any time-line on which space-travel is unknown. I don't care
if he is a green-seal thavrad; he'll face charges, when he gets back,
for this!"

"He _was_ a green-seal thavrad," Verkan Vall corrected. "And he won't be
coming back."

"I hope you didn't have to deal summarily with him," Tortha Karf said.
"With his title, and social position, and his family's political
importance, that might make difficulties. Not that it wouldn't be all
right with me, of course, but we never seem to be able to make either
the Management or the public realize the extremities to which we are
forced, at times." He sighed. "We probably never shall."

Verkan Vall smiled faintly. "Oh, no, sir; nothing like that. He was
dead before I transposed to that time-line. He was killed when he
wrecked a self-propelled vehicle he was using. One of those Fourth
Level automobiles. I posed as a relative and tried to claim his body
for the burial-ceremony observed on that cultural level, but was told
that it had been completely destroyed by fire when the fuel tank of
this automobile burned. I was given certain of his effects which had
passed through the fire; I found his sigil concealed inside what
appeared to be a cigarette case." He took a green disk from the bag
and laid it on the desk. "There's no question; Gavran Sarn died in
the wreck of that automobile."

"And the nighthound?"

"It was in the car with him, but it escaped. You know how fast those
things are. I found that track"--he indicated one of the black
casts--"in some dried mud near the scene of the wreck. As you see,
the cast is slightly defective. The others were fresh this morning,
when I made them."

"And what have you done so far?"

"I rented an old farm near the scene of the wreck, and installed my
field-generator there. It runs through to the Hagraban Synthetics Works,
about a hundred miles east of Thalna-Jarvizar. I have my this-line
terminal in the girls' rest room at the durable plastics factory;
handled that on a local police-power writ. Since then, I've been hunting
for the nighthound. I think I can find it, but I'll need some special
equipment, and a hypno-mech indoctrination. That's why I came back."

"Has it been attracting any attention?" Tortha Karf asked anxiously.

"Killing cattle in the locality; causing considerable excitement.
Fortunately, it's a locality of forested mountains and valley farms,
rather than a built-up industrial district. Local police and wild-game
protection officers are concerned; all the farmers excited, and going
armed. The theory is that it's either a wildcat of some sort, or a
maniac armed with a cutlass. Either theory would conform, more or less,
to the nature of its depredations. Nobody has actually seen it."

"That's good!" Tortha Karf was relieved. "Well, you'll have to go and
bring it out, or kill it and obliterate the body. You know why, as well
as I do."

"Certainly, sir," Verkan Vall replied. "In a primitive culture, things
like this would be assigned supernatural explanations, and imbedded
in the locally accepted religion. But this culture, while nominally
religious, is highly rationalistic in practice. Typical lag-effect,
characteristic of all expanding cultures. And this Europo-American Sector
really has an expanding culture. A hundred and fifty years ago, the
inhabitants of this particular time-line didn't even know how to apply
steam power; now they've begun to release nuclear energy, in a few
crude forms."

Tortha Karf whistled, softly. "That's quite a jump. There's a sector
that'll be in for trouble, in the next few centuries."

"That is realized, locally, sir." Verkan Vall concentrated on
relighting his pipe, for a moment, then continued: "I would predict
space-travel on that sector within the next century. Maybe the next
half-century, at least to the Moon. And the art of taxidermy is very
highly developed. Now, suppose some farmer shoots that thing; what
would he do with it, sir?"

Tortha Karf grunted. "Nice logic, Vall. On a most uncomfortable
possibility. He'd have it mounted, and it'd be put in a museum,
somewhere. And as soon as the first spaceship reaches Venus, and
they find those things in a wild state, they'll have the mounted
specimen identified."

"Exactly. And then, instead of beating their brains about _where_
their specimen came from, they'll begin asking _when_ it came from.
They're quite capable of such reasoning, even now."

"A hundred years isn't a particularly long time," Tortha Karf
considered. "I'll be retired, then, but you'll have my job, and it'll
be your headache. You'd better get this cleaned up, now, while it can
be handled. What are you going to do?"

[Illustration]

"I'm not sure, now, sir. I want a hypno-mech indoctrination, first."
Verkan Vall gestured toward the communicator on the desk. "May I?"
he asked.

"Certainly." Tortha Karf slid the instrument across the desk.
"Anything you want."

"Thank you, sir." Verkan Vall snapped on the code-index, found the
symbol he wanted, and then punched it on the keyboard. "Special Chief's
Assistant Verkan Vall," he identified himself. "Speaking from office of
Tortha Karf, Chief Paratime Police. I want a complete hypno-mech on
Venusian nighthounds, emphasis on wild state, special emphasis
domesticated nighthounds reverted to wild state in terrestrial
surroundings, extra-special emphasis hunting techniques applicable to
same. The word 'nighthound' will do for trigger-symbol." He turned to
Tortha Karf. "Can I take it here?"

Tortha Karf nodded, pointing to a row of booths along the far wall
of the office.

"Make set-up for wired transmission; I'll take it here."

"Very well, sir; in fifteen minutes," a voice replied out of the
communicator.

Verkan Vall slid the communicator back. "By the way, sir; I had a
hitchhiker, on the way back. Carried him about a hundred or so
parayears; picked him up about three hundred parayears after leaving
my other-line terminal. Nasty-looking fellow, in a black uniform;
looked like one of these private-army storm troopers you find all
through that sector. Armed, and hostile. I thought I'd have to ray
him, but he blundered outside the field almost at once. I have a
record, if you'd care to see it."

"Yes, put it on," Tortha Karf gestured toward the solidograph-projector.
"It's set for miniature reproduction here on the desk; that be all
right?"

Verkan Vall nodded, getting out the film and loading it into the
projector. When he pressed a button, a dome of radiance appeared on
the desk top; two feet in width and a foot in height. In the middle
of this appeared a small solidograph image of the interior of the
conveyor, showing the desk, and the control board, and the figure
of Verkan Vall seated at it. The little figure of the storm trooper
appeared, pistol in hand. The little Verkan Vall snatched up his tiny
needler; the storm trooper moved into one side of the dome and
vanished.

Verkan Vall flipped a switch and cut out the image.

"Yes. I don't know what causes that, but it happens, now and then,"
Tortha Karf said. "Usually at the beginning of a transposition. I
remember, when I was just a kid, about a hundred and fifty years ago--a
hundred and thirty-nine, to be exact--I picked up a fellow on the Fourth
Level, just about where you're operating, and dragged him a couple of
hundred parayears. I went back to find him and return him to his own
time-line, but before I could locate him, he'd been arrested by the
local authorities as a suspicious character, and got himself shot
trying to escape. I felt badly about that, but--" Tortha Karf shrugged.
"Anything else happen on the trip?"

"I ran through a belt of intermittent nucleonic bombing on the Second
Level." Verkan Vall mentioned an approximate paratime location.

"Aaagh! That Khiftan civilization--by courtesy so called!" Tortha Karf
pulled a wry face. "I suppose the intra-family enmities of the Hvadka
Dynasty have reached critical mass again. They'll fool around till
they blast themselves back to the stone age."

"Intellectually, they're about there, now. I had to operate in that
sector, once--Oh, yes, another thing, sir. This rifle." Verkan Vall
picked it up, emptied the magazine, and handed it to his superior.
"The supplies office slipped up on this; it's not appropriate to my
line of operation. It's a lovely rifle, but it's about two hundred
percent in advance of existing arms design on my line. It excited the
curiosity of a couple of police officers and a game-protector, who
should be familiar with the weapons of their own time-line. I evaded
by disclaiming ownership or intimate knowledge, and they seemed
satisfied, but it worried me."

"Yes. That was made in our duplicating shops, here in Dhergabar." Tortha
Karf carried it to a photographic bench, behind his desk. "I'll have it
checked, while you're taking your hypno-mech. Want to exchange it for
something authentic?"

"Why, no, sir. It's been identified to me, and I'd excite less suspicion
with it than I would if I abandoned it and mysteriously acquired another
rifle. I just wanted a check, and Supplies warned to be more careful in
future."

Tortha Karf nodded approvingly. The young Mavrad of Nerros was thinking
as a paratimer should.

"What's the designation of your line, again?"

Verkan Vall told him. It was a short numerical term of six places, but
it expressed a number of the order of ten to the fortieth power, exact
to the last digit. Tortha Karf repeated it into his stenomemograph,
with explanatory comment.

"There seems to be quite a few things going wrong, in that area,"
he said. "Let's see, now."

He punched the designation on a keyboard; instantly, it appeared on
a translucent screen in front of him. He punched another combination,
and, at the top of the screen, under the number, there appeared:

             EVENTS, PAST ELAPSED FIVE YEARS.

He punched again; below this line appeared the sub-heading:

         EVENTS INVOLVING PARATIME TRANSPOSITION.

Another code-combination added a third line:

       (ATTRACTING PUBLIC NOTICE AMONG INHABITANTS.)

He pressed the "start"-button; the headings vanished, to be replaced by
page after page of print, succeeding one another on the screen as the
two men read. They told strange and apparently disconnected stories--of
unexplained fires and explosions; of people vanishing without trace; of
unaccountable disasters to aircraft. There were many stories of an
epidemic of mysterious disk-shaped objects seen in the sky, singly or
in numbers. To each account was appended one or more reference-numbers.
Sometimes Tortha Karf or Verkan Vall would punch one of these, and read,
on an adjoining screen, the explanatory matter referred to.

Finally Tortha Karf leaned back and lit a fresh cigarette.

"Yes, indeed, Vall; very definitely we will have to take action in the
matter of the runaway nighthound of the late Gavran Sarn," he said.
"I'd forgotten that that was the time-line onto which the _Ardrath_
expedition launched those antigrav disks. If this extraterrestrial
monstrosity turns up, on the heels of that 'Flying Saucer' business,
everybody above the order of intelligence of a cretin will suspect
some connection."

"What really happened, in the _Ardrath_ matter?" Verkan Vall inquired.
"I was on the Third Level, on that Luvarian Empire operation, at the time."

"That's right; you missed that. Well, it was one of these
joint-operation things. The Paratime Commission and the Space Patrol
were experimenting with a new technique for throwing a spaceship into
paratime. They used the cruiser _Ardrath_, Kalzarn Jann commanding. Went
into space about halfway to the Moon and took up orbit, keeping on the
sunlit side of the planet to avoid being observed. That was all right.
But then, Captain Kalzarn ordered away a flight of antigrav disks, fully
manned, to take pictures, and finally authorized a landing in the
western mountain range, Northern Continent, Minor Land-Mass. That's
when the trouble started."

He flipped the run-back switch, till he had recovered the page he
wanted. Verkan Vall read of a Fourth Level aviator, in his little
airscrew-drive craft, sighting nine high-flying saucerlike objects.

"That was how it began," Tortha Karf told him. "Before long, as other
incidents of the same sort occurred, our people on that line began
sending back to know what was going on. Naturally, from the different
descriptions of these 'saucers', they recognized the objects as antigrav
landing-disks from a spaceship. So I went to the Commission and raised
atomic blazes about it, and the _Ardrath_ was ordered to confine
operations to the lower areas of the Fifth Level. Then our people
on that time-line went to work with corrective action. Here."

He wiped the screen and then began punching combinations. Page after
page appeared, bearing accounts of people who had claimed to have seen
the mysterious disks, and each report was more fantastic than the last.

"The standard smother-out technique," Verkan Vall grinned. "I only
heard a little talk about the 'Flying Saucers', and all of that was in
joke. In that order of culture, you can always discredit one true story
by setting up ten others, palpably false, parallel to it--Wasn't that
the time-line the Tharmax Trading Corporation almost lost their
paratime license on?"

"That's right; it was! They bought up all the cigarettes, and caused a
conspicuous shortage, after Fourth Level cigarettes had been introduced
on this line and had become popular. They should have spread their
purchases over a number of lines, and kept them within the local
supply-demand frame. And they also got into trouble with the local
government for selling unrationed petrol and automobile tires. We had
to send in a special-operations group, and they came closer to having
to engage in out-time local politics than I care to think of." Tortha
Karf quoted a line from a currently popular song about the sorrows of
a policeman's life. "We're jugglers, Vall; trying to keep our traders
and sociological observers and tourists and plain idiots like the late
Gavran Sarn out of trouble; trying to prevent panics and disturbances
and dislocations of local economy as a result of our operations; trying
to keep out of out-time politics--and, at all times, at all costs and
hazards, by all means, guarding the secret of paratime transposition.
Sometimes I wish Ghaldron Karf and Hesthor Ghrom had strangled in
their cradles!"

Verkan Vall shook his head. "No, chief," he said. "You don't mean that;
not really," he said. "We've been paratiming for the past ten thousand
years. When the Ghaldron-Hesthor trans-temporal field was discovered,
our ancestors had pretty well exhausted the resources of this planet.
We had a world population of half a billion, and it was all they could
do to keep alive. After we began paratime transposition, our population
climbed to ten billion, and there it stayed for the last eight thousand
years. Just enough of us to enjoy our planet and the other planets of
the system to the fullest; enough of everything for everybody that
nobody needs fight anybody for anything. We've tapped the resources of
those other worlds on other time-lines, a little here, a little there,
and not enough to really hurt anybody. We've left our mark in a few
places--the Dakota Badlands, and the Gobi, on the Fourth Level, for
instance--but we've done no great damage to any of them."

"Except the time they blew up half the Southern Island Continent, over
about five hundred parayears on the Third Level," Tortha Karf mentioned.

"Regrettable accident, to be sure," Verkan Vall conceded. "And look
how much we've learned from the experiences of those other time-lines.
During the Crisis, after the Fourth Interplanetary War, we might have
adopted Palnar Sarn's 'Dictatorship of the Chosen' scheme, if we
hadn't seen what an exactly similar scheme had done to the Jak-Hakka
Civilization, on the Second Level. When Palnar Sarn was told about
that, he went into paratime to see for himself, and when he returned,
he renounced his proposal in horror."

Tortha Karf nodded. He wouldn't be making any mistake in turning his
post over to the Mavrad of Nerros on his retirement.

"Yes, Vall; I know," he said. "But when you've been at this desk as long
as I have, you'll have a sour moment or two, now and then, too."
