
Inside the paratime-transposition dome, Verkan Vall turned from the body
of the nighthound, which he had just dragged in, and considered the
inert form of another animal--a stump-tailed, tuft-eared, tawny Canada
lynx. That particular animal had already made two paratime
transpositions; captured in the vast wilderness of Fifth-Level North
America, it had been taken to the First Level and placed in the
Dhergabar Zoological Gardens, and then, requisitioned on the authority
of Tortha Karf, it had been brought to the Fourth Level by Verkan Vall.
It was almost at the end of all its travels.

Verkan Vall prodded the supine animal with the toe of his boot; it
twitched slightly. Its feet were cross-bound with straps, but when he
saw that the narcotic was wearing off, Verkan Vall snatched a syringe,
parted the fur at the base of its neck, and gave it an injection. After
a moment, he picked it up in his arms and carried it out to the jeep.

"All right, pussy cat," he said, placing it under the rear seat, "this
is the one-way ride. The way you're doped up, it won't hurt a bit."

He went back and rummaged in the debris of the long-deserted barn. He
picked up a hoe, and discarded it as too light. An old plowshare was
too unhandy. He considered a grate-bar from a heating furnace, and then
he found the poleax, lying among a pile of wormeaten boards. Its handle
had been shortened, at some time, to about twelve inches, converting it
into a heavy hatchet. He weighed it, and tried it on a block of wood,
and then, making sure that the secret door was closed, he went out
again and drove off.

An hour later, he returned. Opening the secret door, he carried the
ruined shoulder holster, and the straps that had bound the bobcat's
feet, and the ax, now splotched with blood and tawny cat-hairs, into
the dome. Then he closed the secret room, and took a long drink from
the bottle on his hip.

The job was done. He would take a hot bath, and sleep in the farmhouse
till noon, and then he would return to the First Level. Maybe Tortha
Karf would want him to come back here for a while. The situation on this
time-line was far from satisfactory, even if the crisis threatened by
Gavran Sarn's renegade pet had been averted. The presence of a chief's
assistant might be desirable.

At least, he had a right to expect a short vacation. He thought of the
little redhead at the Hagraban Synthetics Works. What was her name?
Something Kara--Morvan Kara; that was it. She'd be coming off shift
about the time he'd make First Level, tomorrow afternoon.

The claw-wounds were still smarting vexatiously. A hot bath, and a
night's sleep--He took another drink, lit his pipe, picked up his rifle
and started across the yard to the house.
