
An attendant in white uniform shuffled into the corridor of closed
doors, carrying a tray with one hand and scratching his head with the
other.

"How about joining us for a game of poker?"

Joe shook his head and grinned. "Not me, Professor! I start buddying
around with the loonies, I lose my job."

"But we're not inmates!"

"Maybe not, but Dr. Rothman is."

"Doesn't prove I'm crazy, Joe," said Rothman. "Conversely, not being
inmates doesn't prove these men are sane."

"It's a fact you don't look any crazier to me than a lot of
professors," confessed Joe. "I don't know. All I know is, _I'm_
not crazy enough to break the rules and lose my job. Besides, you
long-hairs wouldn't stand a chance at poker with me."

Still grinning, he shuffled out of sight down the hall.

MacPherson sighed and went back to the table. "Well, we'll have to get
along with just the four of us."

"There's always the unseen guest," said Rothman, "but you won't need to
deal him a hand. He already holds all the cards."

Neill looked up. "Stop hamming and sit down. Quit making like a maniac.
It's not even a good act."

"Okay." Rothman drew up a chair. "Now what was said about limiting the
bets?"

"Why bother setting a limit?" said Neill. "We're not likely to mistake
each other for millionaires and we all got exactly the same pay when we
were on the Project. Unless your sick pay has had two or three zeros
tacked onto it, you're not going to be making any wild bets, and as for
the rest of us--"

"University professors are still being paid less than nightclub
dancers," said Avery. "You're lucky to be out of the rat race,
Rothman. While we worry about how to pay the grocery bill, you can
relax, eating and sleeping at government expense. You never had it so
good."

"Maybe you'd like to get yourselves committed and keep me company?"

MacPherson rapped the deck on the table. "Stop that kind of talk. We
came here to play poker."

"Did you?" asked Rothman, grinning. "Then why don't you deal?"

"Cut, Neill?" said MacPherson. As he shot the slippery cards over the
table top, each flick of his thumb watched by Rothman's intent eyes,
he regretted this impulsive visit; it now seemed a gesture without
meaning. He wondered whether the others were as nervous as he was.

On the drive over from Los Angeles during the night, Neill had seemed
calm enough and even Avery, who had changed a lot during work on the
Project, had chatted with them unconstrainedly. It was hard to be
certain what other men were feeling, even when you had known them a
long time, but it could not be pleasant for any of them to be visiting
a former colleague who had been removed from the Project directly to a
sanitarium.

"Tell me something," said Rothman as he picked up his cards. "Do you
still think I'm crazy?"

"Don't be an idiot," MacPherson snapped. "Do you think we'd cut our
classes and drive nearly five hundred miles just to play poker with a
lunatic?"

"No," said Rothman. "That's how I know. But why aren't you frank about
it? Why keep on pretending there wasn't a special reason for your
visit?"
