
Neill was beating his foot against the table leg again and Avery's eyes
were hard and staring as he examined his cards.

"Who'll open?" MacPherson asked. "I can't."

"I can," said Rothman. "I'm betting one blue chip. Listen, Avery, why
won't you look at me? If you think I'm hamming, what do you call your
own act? How long are we going to go on kidding each other? They've
shut me up here, but that doesn't mean they've stopped me from logical
thinking. My three old friends from the Project don't turn up in the
middle of a Friday morning just to calm my fevered brain with a card
game."

"What's wrong with poker?" demanded MacPherson.

"Poker? Nothing. I know--It must be the test. Total conversion of
matter to energy. Not just a minute percentage any more--_total_
conversion. They've finished the set, haven't they? They're ready to
test. They're going to disintegrate Waaku, aren't they? It must be
today. Then this is the day the world ends. Tell me, when is zero hour?"

Neill's cards had slipped from his fingers and he stooped to the floor,
fumbling for them. Avery was bending one corner of a card, creasing it,
smoothing it out, and creasing it again. Nobody was going to answer,
MacPherson realized. They were leaving it up to him.

He spoke sharply. "You're getting onto forbidden ground, Rothman. You
know we're not allowed to discuss the Project with you. We're allowed
to visit you only under the strictest promise not to speak of it at
all. You're certainly rational enough to understand what the therapists
have told you, that you'd get well easily enough if you'd stop
worrying. Forget about zero hour. Everything's going to be all right."

Rothman turned to look out the window. "Is it today?"

"How should we know? We're only innocent bystanders now, like you.
Remember, we all left the Project over six months ago, except Avery,
and last month they let him go."

Neill had rearranged his cards now and he looked at them instead of
Rothman as he spoke. "There's nothing to worry about. Your calculations
were wrong. The test is not going to get out of control--if and when
they make it. But they don't tell us things any more."

"Since they fired you," said Rothman.

"That's right, since they fired us," Neill said. The creased corner of
a card suddenly broke off in his fingers.

"If you didn't believe in my calculations, why did you back me up? I
didn't ask you to. If you didn't believe in the danger, why didn't you
stay out of the argument and keep your jobs? It wasn't your fight. You
could have kept out of it--or attacked me, like Avery."

"All we did was insist that even if you had made a mistake in your
calculations, that didn't necessarily prove you were crazy," said
Neill. "We didn't know whether you were right or not. We couldn't argue
about the math. Avery tore that to pieces and the boys at Columbia and
Harvard backed him up. MacPherson and I aren't competent to check your
math. To us, you didn't seem any crazier than the people who sent you
here. But after you'd scared them silly, they had to do something to
stop your scaring other people."
