
He leaned his head against the back of his chair and closed his eyes.
"It's on its way now. There's somewhat more than a third of the
Earth between us and Waaku--the place where Waaku was, I mean. The
disintegration wave is moving slowly. The seismic wave of an earthquake
would get here in about fifty minutes, more or less. But the shock wave
from Waaku, traveling somewhere around five thousand miles an hour,
will need about an hour and seventeen minutes, plus or minus a minute
or so. That means it will reach us in about thirty-seven minutes from
now, and the disintegration wave is following close behind. Well, nice
to have known you, fellows. Anyone want to check my math?"

He waved toward the desk behind him, piled high with manuscript and a
sprawling heap of books on which rested a slide-rule.

"Calm down," said MacPherson. "Nothing is going to happen. Damn you,
Avery! Are you proud of what you accomplished?"

Avery glared. "It'll do him good! He's got to learn to face reality,
like the rest of us. In a little more than half an hour, the test will
be finished. The world will still be here. Rothman will have to admit
his equations were wrong--and then he'll be cured."

Rothman leaned forward. "Or contrariwise, Rothman will _not_ have to
admit he was wrong and Rothman will _not_ be cured! If I made a mistake
in my math, why couldn't anybody put his finger on it? I'm not so crazy
that I wouldn't be able to see an error in calculus when it was pointed
out to me. If you're sure my calculations are wrong, why do you look so
frightened?"

"Do we have to go over all that again?" said MacPherson. "The boys
at Columbia told you where the mistake was. It's where you inverted
that twelve-by-twelve matrix. Didn't you bother to check the inverted
matrix?"

"The same old tale." Rothman picked up his cards. "No mathematician
will ever admit that another mathematician could invent a method beyond
his comprehension. Still harping on an error in my inverted matrix.
What time is it now?"

"There's no doubt that your calculations are wrong," said Neill, "but
I still don't see why we have to insist on proving it the hard way.
With bombs, why do we need to fool around with the total disintegration
of matter? Sure, I know the new model releases a googol times the
energy you get out of uranium fission, but who cares? There's plenty of
uranium for our needs."

"The trouble with uranium is that it doesn't make a big enough bang,"
said MacPherson. "People aren't impressed by it any more. The same
goes for plutonium, even for lithium, at least for any size bomb we
can make. The idea is to show the world something so convincing that
they'll never even think of a war again. When they see every island in
the Waaku chain wiped off the map, they'll get the point."
