
"It doesn't matter," said Rothman. "Avery was probably warned to mend
his ways. I was. Or maybe he couldn't face the truth. I'm sure he's
been much happier, the last few months, believing I'm crazy. Anyway,
I don't blame him any more. Maybe my math will soon speak for itself.
For your benefit--" he turned to Avery--"I may point out that the
errors you said you found affect only the _velocity_ of the wave of
disintegration. So what if that isn't quite right? The proof that the
reaction will be self-sustaining is independent of that."

Avery was white with rage. "The proof, as you called it, that the
reaction will be self-sustaining and will consume the entire substance
of the Earth doesn't make sense, either. You used D as an operator
where it should have been a constant. That's what finally made them
certain that you were insane."

There was a rap at the door and Joe poked his head in. "Lunch,
Professors! Twelve o'clock, high noon, like they say. How about some
turkey sandwiches?"

MacPherson began to sweat; the thought of food made him feel sick.

Was it possible, he wondered, that in spite of everything, he was not
quite sure? He looked at Neill and Avery, but they had turned their
heads away.

"We won't bother with lunch, Joe," said Rothman.

"Must be a pretty good game if you won't even knock off to eat," said
Joe. "Well, will you at least mark your menu for tomorrow?"

"For tomorrow? Tomorrow isn't going to come, you know."

"Nuts," muttered Joe as he closed and locked the door. "Pure nuts."

Avery cleared his throat, and his voice was thin. "Look here, Rothman!
If the Universe were composed of matter as unstable as you claim,
it would have ceased to exist long ago. Somewhere, somehow, in the
infinity of chance events since the creation of the Earth, something
would have occurred to start the self-sustaining chain reaction, and
all matter would have been annihilated."

"Are you trying to prove something to yourself?" asked Rothman. "Surely
you don't equate infinity with a mere four billion years. That's
a finite time--long enough for the more dangerous radioactives to
disappear completely, of course, but not long enough for all possible
chance events to have taken place. Anyway, I never have asserted that
the reaction would reach from Earth to the other planets, or even to
the Moon. The Universe, including the Solar System, will still go on.
But our old Earth is going up like a pile of magnesium powder mixed
with potassium chlorate when you drop a lighted match on it."
