
Avery wiped his forehead. "I don't know why I keep arguing with
a lunatic. But you know yourself that the value you give for the
integration constant in those equations is a pure guess, only you
spend ten pages of doubletalk trying to hide that fact. If the constant
is the one you give, why, sure, then you get a chain reaction. But
you made it up! Who ever heard of a constant of that magnitude in the
solution of an ordinary differential equation?"

"That's one criticism of my work the Harvard and Columbia boys never
mentioned."

"Okay, then I mention it. You're crazy!"

"Are you sure?"

"Positive!"

"Then why can't you forget the approach of zero hour? I'll tell you
why and you aren't even making a good show of hiding it. You know
that, compared to mine, your knowledge of mathematics is about on a
level with that of a college sophomore. Deep down, you know that my
calculations were correct. You are convinced--_convinced_--that the
bombing of Waaku has already started a chain reaction. And that about
seventeen minutes past twelve, around eight minutes from now, the shock
wave will reach us, and then the wave of disintegration. Look out of
the window! See that cactus in the sand, with its little yellow flower?
It will be annihilated. All that desert will go, too--every pebble,
every grain of sand. Everything you see, and you yourself, will be
disintegrated, transformed into energy!"

Suddenly he relaxed into a grin and softened his voice. "I thought we
were playing poker. We're waiting for you to bet. Why don't you at
least look at your cards?"

Avery opened his mouth, then closed it, and picked up his hand,
riffling the five cards.

"I'm staying," he said. "Here's your blue and I raise you a blue."

Slowly the others picked up their hands and stared at the cards.
MacPherson scarcely looked at his as he spoke.

"I'm staying." He picked up the deck. "Cards, gentlemen?"

Rothman shook his head. "I'll play these."

Neill took two. "I like to hold a kicker," he explained.

Avery and MacPherson drew three.

"I opened," said Rothman, "and I'll bet five blue chips."

"See you and raise you a blue," Neill said.

"I'll string along," said Avery.

MacPherson threw his hand in. "I'll let you guys fight it out."
