
The President stood up and paced slowly toward the window where he stood
gazing between the breeze-stirred drapes at the sun-swept city of
Acapulco and at the breakers rolling toward the distant beach.

"No, my power is of the rabble," he confessed, "and I am their friend."
He turned to look at them and laugh. "Should I build my power on men
like you? Or the Secondary Stand-ins? Baa! For all your securities, you
are still stooges. Of the rabble. Do you obey me because I control
military force? Or because I control rabble? The latter I think. For
despite precautions, military forces can be corrupted. Rabble cannot.
They rule you through me, and I rule you through them. And I am their
servant because I have to be. No tyrant can survive by oppression."

A gloomy hush followed his words. It was still fourteen minutes before
time for the televiewphone contact with Ivan Ivanovitch IX. The
President turned back to the "window". He stared "outside" until he grew
tired of the view. He pressed a button on the wall. The window went
black. He pressed another button, which brought another view: Pike's
Peak at sunset. As the sky gathered gray twilight, he twisted a dial and
ran the sun back up again.

The palace was built two hundred feet underground, and the study was a
safe with walls of eight-inch steel. It lent a certain air of security.

The historic moment was approaching. The Stand-ins seemed nervous. What
changes had occurred behind the Hell Wall, what new developments in
science, what political mutations? Only rumors came from beyond the
Wall, since the last big peace-effort which had ended in stalemate and
total isolation. The intelligence service did the best that it could,
but the picture was fuzzy and incomplete. There was still "communism",
but the word's meaning had apparently changed. It was said that the
third Ivan had been a crafty opportunist but also a wise man who,
although he did nothing to abolish absolutism, effected a bloody
reformation in which the hair-splitting Marxist dogmatics had been
purged. He appointed the most pragmatic men he could find to succeed
them, and set the whole continental regime on the road to a harsh but
practical utilitarian civilization.

A slogan had leaked across the Wall recently: "There is no God but a
Practical Man; there is no Law but a Best Solution," and it seemed to
affirm that the third Ivan's influence had continued after his
passing--although the slogan itself was a dogma. And it might mean
something quite non-literal to the people who spoke it. The rabble of
the West were still stirred to deep emotion by a thing that began, "When
in the course of human events--" and they saw nothing incongruous about
Tertiary Stand-ins who quoted it in the name of the Federation's rule.

But the unknown factor that disturbed the President most was not the
present Asian political or economic situation, but rather, the state of
scientific development, particularly as it applied to military matters.
The forty years of non-communication had not been spent in military
stasis, at least not for the West. Sixty percent of the federal budget
was still being spent for defense. Powerful new weapons were still being
developed, and old ones pronounced obsolete. The seventh John Smith had
even conspired to have a conspiracy against himself in Argentina, with
resulting civil war, so that the weapons could be tested under actual
battle conditions--for the region had been overpopulated anyway. The
results had been comforting--but John the Sixteenth wanted to know more
about what the enemy was doing.
