
The Hell Wall--which was really only a globe-encircling belt of
booby-trapped land and ocean, guarded from both sides--had its political
advantages, of course. The mysterious doings of the enemy, real and
imagined, were a constant and suspenseful threat that made it easy for
the Smiths to keep the rabble in hand. But for all the present Smith
knew, the threat might very well be real. He had to find out. It would
also be a popular triumph he could toss to the rabble, bolstering his
position with them, and thereby securing his hold on the Primary,
Secondary, and Tertiary Stand-ins, who were becoming a little too
presumptuous of late.

He had a plan in mind, vague, tentative, and subject to constant
revision to suit events as they might begin to occur. He kept the plan's
goal to himself, knowing that the Stand-ins would call it insane,
dangerous, impossible.

"John! We're picking up their station!" a Stand-in called. "It's a
minute before time!"

He left the window and walked calmly to the couch before the
televiewphone, whose screen had come alive with the kaleidoscope
patterns of the interference-station which sprang to life as soon as an
enemy station tried to broadcast.

"Have the fools cut that scatter-station!" he barked angrily.

A Stand-in grabbed at a microphone, but before he made the call the
interference stopped--a few seconds before the appointed time. The
screen revealed an empty desk and a wall behind, with a flag of the
Asian League. No one was in the picture, which was slightly blurred by
several relay stations, which had been set up on short notice for this
one broadcast.

A wall-clock peeped the hour in a childish voice: "Sixteen o'clock,
Thirdday, Smithweek, also Accident-Prevention Week and Probe-Subversives
Week; Happy 2073! Peep!"

A man walked into the picture and sat down, facing John Smith XVI. A
heavy-set man, clad in coveralls, and wearing a red rubber or plastic
helmet-mask. The mask was the face of the first Soviet dictator, dead
over a century ago. John's scalp bristled slightly beneath his own
golden headdress. He tried to relax. The room was hushed. The opposing
leaders stared at each other without speaking. Historic moment!

Ivan Ivanovitch slowly lifted his hand and waved it in greeting. John
Smith returned the gesture, then summoned courage to speak first.

"You have translators at hand?"

"I need none," the red mask growled in the Western tongue. "You are
unable to speak my tongue. We shall speak yours."

The President started. How could the Red know that he did not speak the
Russo-Asian dialect?

"Very well." The President reached for a prepared text and began to
read. "I requested this conference in the hope of establishing some form
of contact between our peoples, through their duly constituted executive
authorities. I hope that we can agree on a series of conferences, aimed
eventually at a lessening of the tension between us. I do not propose
that we alter our respective positions, nor to change our physical
isolation from one another, except in the field of high-level diplomacy
and...."

"Why?" grunted the Asian chieftain.

John Smith XVI hesitated. The gutteral monosyllable had been toneless
and disinterested. The Red was going to draw him out, apparently. Very
well, he would be frank--for a time.

"The answer should be evident, Peoplesfriend. I presume that your
government spends a respectable sum for armaments. My government does
likewise. The eventual aim should be economy...."

"Is this a disarmament proposal?"

The fellow was blunt. Smith cleared his throat. "Not at the present
time, Peoplesfriend. I hoped that eventually we might be able to
establish a mutual trust so that to some extent we could lessen the
burden...."

"Stop talking Achesonian, President. What do you want?"

The President went rigid. "Very well," he said sarcastically, "I propose
that we reduce military expenses by blowing the planet in half. The
halves can circle each other as satellite twins, and we'll have achieved
perfect isolation. It would seem more economical than the present
course."

He apparently had sized-up the Peoplesfriend correctly. The man threw
back his masked head and laughed uproariously.

"The Solomon solution!... ha ha!... Slice the baby in half!" the
Stalin-mask chuckled. Then he paused to grow sober. "Too bad we can't do
it, isn't it?"
