
John Smith watched the proceedings with deep satisfaction. But as time
wore on, he began to wonder how many spies were truly being apprehended.
Among the many thousands who were brought to justice, only sixty-nine
actually confessed to espionage, and over half of them, upon being
subjected to psychiatric examination, proved to be neurotic
publicity-seekers who would have confessed to anything sufficiently
dramatic. Twenty-seven of them were psychiatrically cleared, but even
so, their stories broke down when questioned under hypnosis or hypnotic
drugs, except for seven who, although constantly maintaining their
guilt, could not substantiate one another's claims, nor furnish any
evidence which might lead to the discovery of a well-organized espionage
network. John Smith was baffled.

He was particularly baffled by the disappearance of seventeen men in key
positions, who, upon being mentioned as possible candidates for the
probe, immediately vanished into thin air, leaving no trace. It seemed
to Smith, upon reading the individual reports, that many of them would
have been absolved before their cases got beyond the deputy level, so
flimsy were the accusations made against them. But they had not waited
to find out. Two were obviously guilty of _something_. One had murdered
a deputy who came to question him, then fled in a private plane, last
seen heading out to sea. He had apparently run out of fuel over the
ocean and crashed. The second man, an ordnance officer at the proving
ground, had spectacularly committed suicide by exploding an atomic
artillery shell, vaporizing himself and certain key comrades including
his superior officer.

Here, the President felt, was something really ominous. The
disappearances and the suicides spelled careful discipline and planning.
Their records had been impeccable. The accusations seemed absurd. If
they were agents, they had done nothing but sit in their positions and
wait for an appointed time. The possibilities were frightening, but
evidence was inconclusive and led nowhere. Nevertheless, the
house-cleaning continued.

On Fourthday of Traffic Safety Week, which was also Eat More
Corn-Popsies Week, John Smith XVI conferred with Ivan Ivanovitch IX
again at the appointed time. Contrary to all traditions, he again
ordered the Stand-ins--temporarily eight in number, since Number Six had
died mysteriously in the bathtub--to leave the study so that he might
unmask. Promptly at sixteen o'clock the Asian's face--or rather his
ceremonial mask--came on the screen. But seeing the Westerner's
square-cut visage smiling at him sourly, he promptly removed the
covering to reveal his Oriental face. The exchange of greetings was
curt.

"I see by recent events," said Ivan, "that you are nervous on your
throne. For the sake of your own people, let me warn you that we have no
designs on your autonomy unless you become aggressive toward us. The
real difficulty, as revealed by your purge, is that you feel insecure,
and insecurity makes you unpredictable. I do not, of course, expect you
to be trustworthy. But insecurity sometimes breeds impulsiveness. If you
are to strike out blindly, perhaps the talks had best be broken off."

Smith XVI reddened angrily but held his temper. The man's presumption
was intolerable. Further, he knew about the probe, knowledge which could
only come from espionage.

"I have become aware," the President said firmly, "that you have managed
to establish a spy-system on this continent. If you wish better
relations, you will have the activity stop at once."

"I don't know what you're talking about," said the Peoplesfriend with a
bland smile. "I might point out however that at least forty of your
spies are either killed while trying to cross the Wall, or are
apprehended after they manage to enter my regime."

"The accusation is too ridiculous to deny," Smith lied. "We have no
desire to pry into your activities. We wish only to maintain the status
quo."

The exchange continued, charges and countercharges and denials. Neither
side expected truth or honesty, and the game was as old as civilization.
Neither expected to be believed, although the press of both nations
would heatedly condemn the other's lack of good faith. The ethical side
of the affair was for the rabble to consider, for only the rabble cared
about such things. The real task was to ferret out the enemy's attitudes
and intentions without revealing one's own.
