
Smith felt that he had won a little, and lost a little too. He had found
many hints of subversive activity, but had betrayed his own lack of
certainty by reacting so swiftly to it. Ivan IX, on the other hand,
seemed too much at ease, too secure, and even impertinent.

"At our last meeting," said the Asian, "I suggested a meeting between
ourselves. Have you given thought to the matter?"

"I have given it thought," said the President, "and will agree to the
proposal provided you come to this country. The meeting will be held at
my capitol."

"Which you change at random intervals, I notice," purred Ivan with a
bland smile. "For security reasons?"

"You could only know that by espionage!" Smith snapped.

"Your proposal of course is outrageous. The only sensible place for the
meeting is in Singapore."

"That is out of the question. I must insist on the capitol of my
government as the only acceptable meeting-place. My government in
contacting yours put itself in the position of extending an invitation,
a position from which we could not depart without loss of dignity."

"I suggest we delay the matter then," grunted the Peoplesfriend. "And
talk about the agenda for such a meeting. What did you have in mind?"

"I have already stated our general aims as being a reduction of armament
expenses, beneficial to both sides. I think you agree?"

"Not necessarily, since our budget is already rather low. However, make
your specific proposals, and I shall consider them. Further economy,
where not injurious to security, is always desirable."

"I propose, then, that we discuss a method whereby agreement might be
reached on a plan to divulge the nature of our respective armaments,
including number, nature, and purpose of each weapon-class, as a
foundation for discussions relating to reductions."

Smith waited for a flat "no" to the suggestion. The Asian leader
apparently knew a great deal more about the West's armaments than Smith
knew about the East. The Peoplesfriend had nothing to gain by revealing
the military strength of his own hemisphere. But he paused, watching
Smith with an expressionless stare.

"I accept that for further consideration, at least," Ivan said at last.

John XVI hovered between elation and suspicion. Suspicion won. "Of
course there must be some method to assure that accurate figures are
divulged."

"That could probably be settled."

Again the President was shocked. It was all too easy. Something was
rotten about the whole thing. The Peoplesfriend agreed too readily to
things that seemed to be to his disadvantage. The discussion continued
for several hours, during which both men presented viewpoints and
postponed agreement until a later meeting.

"Stockpiles of fissionable material," said the President, "which could
quickly be converted to weapons use should also be discussed."

Ivan frowned. "I mentioned before that we have no need of atomic
armaments, nor any plans for building them. Our defense is secured by
something entirely different, a weapon which serves an industrial
function in time of peace, and a weapon which I might add was largely
responsible for our abandoning Marxism. A single discovery, Andrei
Sorkin's, made communist doctrine not only a wrong solution, but a wrong
solution to a problem that had ceased to exist."

"What problem are you referring to?"

"The use of human beings as automatic devices in a corporate
machine--the social-structure of industry, in which the worker was
caught and bolted down and expected to perform a single, highly
specialized task. That of course, is almost a definition of the word
'proletarian'. We no longer have a true proletariat. For that reason, we
are no longer Marxist--although the name 'communist' has survived with
its meaning changed."

The conference ended after setting the time for another meeting. John
Smith XVI felt that he had been groping in the dark, because of the
information-vacuum that kept him from even making a reasonable guess as
to Ivan's real aims. He kept feeling vaguely that Ivan was just playing
along, reacting according to the opportunity of the moment, not
particularly caring what Smith did next. But leaders of states just did
not proceed so carelessly--not unless they were fools, or unless they
were supremely confident in the ultimate outcome.
