
The intelligence service analysis of his latest conversation with Ivan
gave him something to think about later however. Andrei Sorkin had been
a physicist who had done considerable work in crystal-structure before
the Big Silence had cut off knowledge of his activities from the West.
Further, the Peoplesfriend's references to industrial usage, coupled
with his remarks about specialized labor, seemed to suggest that the
East had made great strides in servo-mechanisms and auto-control
devices. But control devices were not weapons in themselves. Electronic
rocket-pilots were not weapons unless there were rockets for them to
fly. Automatic target-trackers were not weapons unless they guided a
weapon to shoot at the target. It made little sense; he concluded that
Ivan had not meant it to make much sense. Smith could only interpret it
as meaning: "Our weapons are marvelously controlled; therefore we need
fewer of them."

On the probe front, events were about as usual. The lists of suspects
and convictions grew bulky enough to keep a large office staff busy with
details. More sinister, in the President's judgment, was the small list
of suspects who vanished or committed suicide at the slightest hint of
suspicion. The list grew at a slow but steady pace. John assumed that
these were certainly guilty. And thorough, searching inquiries into
their past activities were made. These post mortem probes revealed
nothing. Their records were clean. Their families, friends, relatives,
and even their ancestors were above suspicion. If they had sold out to
the enemy, they had given him nothing in return for his wages except
perhaps a promise to be fulfilled on a Deadline Day.

He called the Secretary of Defense and demanded a screening procedure be
adopted for future personnel, a procedure which would be aimed at
selecting men with fanatic loyalty, rather than merely guarding against
treason.

"We seem to already have something," murmured the Secretary, a slender,
graying gentleman with aristocratic features. "The incidents at the
satellite-project seem to indicate that there's something they don't
like about our ordinary testing methods."

"Eh? How do you mean?"

"Three men--volunteers for the project--vanished as soon as they found
out that they had to submit to all the physicals, mental tests, and so
forth. I don't know what they were afraid of. They were already on the
reservation. Found out they'd have to be tested again, and vanished. One
a known suicide, but the body's still in the river."

"'Tested _again_'?" the President echoed.

"That's right, John. They'd gone through it before. This was just a
recheck for this particular project. Of course, I don't _know_ that they
were agents."

"Mmm! So they can't stand a recheck. All right, recheck everybody."

"John! A third of the population works for the government!"

"I mean everybody connected with new projects, the most important
installations. This might be a weapon for us."

When he received the Secretary's report a week later, John grinned
happily. The rechecks had begun, and the disappearances were mounting.
But the grin faded when he read the rest of it. Two of the men had been
caught attempting to escape. They had been lodged in a local jail to
await transfer to the capitol. During the night, the jailer became aware
of a blinding light from the cell-blocks and the stench of burnt organic
matter. By the time he reached their cells, the men were gone, and there
were only sickening fumes, charred ashes, and a pair of red-hot patches
on the floor. Somehow they had gotten incendiary materials into their
cells, and the cremation was complete--too complete to be credible.

Then the disappearances began to taper off--until finally, after a few
weeks, they ceased completely. He wondered: were the culprits all
ferreted out, or had some of them managed to get around the rechecks?

He had spoken to the Asian leader several times, and Ivan was growing
curt, even bitingly nasty at times. The President hopefully interpreted
it as a sign that his probe was successful enough to worry the Red. He
tried to strengthen his position with respect to the proposed
conferences, and made only minor concessions such as agreeing to a
coastal city in Mexico as the site, rather than the shifting capitol.
Ivan sneeringly made equally minute adjustments eastward from Singapore.
There was apparently going to be a deadlock, and John was somehow not
sorry.

Then the cold-eyed face on the screen did an abrupt about-face, and
announced, "I propose that the delegates, including the leaders of both
states, meet at a site of your selection in either of the neutral polar
regions, not later than Seventhday of Veto Week--which, I think is your
Fried Pie Week?--and come prepared to discuss and exchange information
relating to size of armament-inventories and future plans. This is my
last proposal."
