
They stared at each other coldly. John started to utter a refusal, then
paused. Seventhday of ... it was one day before the satellite program
began moving into space. If he could keep the Eastern Leader tied up for
a few weeks afterwards--

"I'll consider your proposal and give you a reply tomorrow," he said
bluntly.

The Peoplesfriend gave him a curt nod and clicked off the screen. John
chuckled. The enemy's espionage program was evidently getting badly
hurt. About one percent of the West's population had been executed,
imprisoned, or shifted to other jobs as a result of the congressional
probe. The one percent probably included quite a few guilty citizens.

"Rodner, I want a Strike-Day set, a full-scale blitz-operation readied
as soon as possible," he told the defense-chief. "I know that a lot of
your target information is forty years old, but work out the best plan
you can. A depopulation strike, perhaps; there are only two opinions in
the world, so 'world-opinion' is not one of the things we need to
consider."

The Defense Secretary caught his breath and sat stiffly erect. "War?" he
gasped.

"Don't use that word."

"Sorry, peace-effort."

"No. At least I hope not. I want a gun aimed at them as a bargaining
point. But I want it to be a damned _big_ gun, and one that's capable of
shattering every major city in the East on a few hours' notice. How
effective could you make it--if you had to?"

The Secretary frowned doubtfully and tugged at his ear. "Well, John, our
strategic command has kept a running plan in effect, revising it to
allow for every tidbit of information we can get. Planning continental
blitzes is a favorite past-time around high-level strategic commands; it
keeps the boys in trim. A plan could probably be agreed upon in a very
short time, but its nature would depend on your earliest deadline date."

"Two dates," grunted the tragedy-mask. "The first is Seventhday, Fried
Pie Week. I want a maximum possible effort readied by then, with a plan
that allows for a possible stand-by at that date, and a continued
build-up to a greater maximum--to be reached when the satellite station
is in space and ready for battle. Include the station in the extended
plan."

"This is a very dangerous business, John."

The mask whirled. "Do you presume to--?"

"No, Sir. The strike-effort will be prepared as soon as possible." He
bowed slightly, then left the presidential study-vault.

Smith turned to gaze at his Stand-ins. "You will go," he said, "all of
you, to the examining authorities for the standard loyalty tests and
psych-phys rechecks."

The nine masked figures glanced at one another in surprise, then nodded.
There were no protests. The following day he had only seven Stand-ins;
Four and Eight had been trapped in a burning building on the outskirts
of the rabble city, and their remains had not been found.

Smith kept a tight cork on his rage, but it seethed inside him and
threatened to burn through as the time approached to speak again with
Ivan Ivanovitch IX. The enemy's infiltration into the very ranks of the
Presidency robbed him even of dignity. Furthermore, now that the two
scoundrels were uncovered, and dead, he remembered a very unpleasant but
significant fact: he had, even before his "election" by the rabble,
discussed the televiewphone conferences with the Primaries. The idea of
contacting Ivan had started, as most ideas start, from some small seed
or other that could scarcely be remembered, some off-hand reference to
the costly aspects of the Big Silence perhaps, and it had grown into the
plan for contact. _But how_ had the idea first come to him? Had one of
the guilty Stand-ins perhaps planted the seed in his mind? _After_ he
proposed it, they had seemed demurring at first, but not too long.

Grimly, he realized that the idea might have originated on the far side
of the Pacific.

"Who, pray, is the potter, and who the pot?" he grunted, glowering at
the nearest Stand-in.

"I beg your pardon?" answered the man, who could not see the glower for
the mask.

"Khayyam, you fool!"

"Oh--"

"_Sixteen o'clock!_" cheeped the timepiece on the wall. "_Fifthday,
Anti-Rabies Week, Practice-Eugenics Week; Happy 2073; Peep!_"
