
The dull voice called it from the far end of the gloomy hall where Ivan
Ivanovitch IX sat facing him, flanked by a pair of aides, at a long,
plain table. John Smith XVI advanced with dignity toward him. Curt bows
were exchanged, but no handshakes. The Western delegation took their
seats.

John nudged the Stand-in on his right, who immediately opened a
portfolio to extract a sheaf of papers.

"Would you care to exchange prepared statements to begin with?" Smith
asked coolly.

"We have no--" The Peoplesfriend stopped, smirked coldly at his deputies
but continued to frown. He peered thoughtfully at his huge knuckles for
a moment, then nodded slowly. "A statement--_yes_."

John slid a section of the sheaf of papers to the Peoplesfriend. The Red
leader ignored them, spoke to a deputy curtly.

"Give me a sheet of paper."

The deputy fumbled in a thin briefcase, shook his head and muttered.
Finally he found a dog-eared sheet with only a few lines typed across
the top. He glanced questioningly at his leader. Ivan snatched it with a
low grunt, tore off the good half, produced a stubby, gnawed pencil, and
wrote slowly as if his hands were cramped with arthritis. John could see
the big block-letters but not the words.

"My prepared statement," said the Peoplesfriend.

With that he pushed the scrap of paper across the table. John stared,
and felt the blood leaving his face. The prepared statement said:

_I VETO YOU._

"Is this a joke?" he growled, keeping his voice calm. "You cannot mean
that you reject proposals before they are made? I fail to see the humor
in--"

"There is no humor."

John pushed back his chair, glanced at his men. "Gentlemen, it would
appear that we have come to the bottom of the world for nothing. I think
we had better retire to discuss--"

"Sit down," the Asian growled.

"Why--" The President stopped. One of the Red deputies had produced a
gun. He sat, and stared coldly at the eastern leader. "Have your man
dispose of that weapon. This is a conference table."

The Peoplesfriend grunted an order to the other deputy instead. "Search
them."

"Stay back," Smith droned. "I can kill you all quite easily."

The deputy hesitated. The leader started laughing, then checked it. "May
I ask how?"

John smiled. "Stay back, or you will find out too quickly." He unzipped
his heavy Arctic clothing, removed a heavy container, shaped to conform
to his chest, and laid it on the table. A cord ran from the container
into his sleeve.

The Peoplesfriend laughed. "High explosives? You would not set them off.
However--Jacob, let them keep their weapons. This will be over shortly."

They glared at each other for a moment.

"There is no conference?"

"There is no conference."

"Then why this farce?"

The eastern leader wore a tight smile. He glanced at his watch, began
counting backwards: "Seven, six, five, four--"

When he reached zero, there was a long pause; then a sharp whistle from
outside.

"Your men are now disarmed," said the Asian. "Your cadre commander is
ours."

"Impossible! The recheck--"

"He joined us since the recheck. Further, three of your televiewphone
stations in the relay chain are ours, and are relaying recorded
broadcasts prepared especially for the purpose."

"I don't believe it!"
