
There were daisies in the field where he lay, his shoulders and naked
chest pressed to the earth. A gentle wind stirred the grass, and the
flute-like warble of a song bird was repeated close to his ear, over and
over with a tireless persistence.

Abruptly he sat up and stared about him. Running parallel to the field
was a winding country road and down it came a yellow and silver vehicle
on wheels, its entire upper section encased in glass which mirrored the
autumnal landscape with a startling clearness.

The vehicle halted directly in front of him and a man with ruddy cheeks
and snow-white hair leaned out to wave at him.

"Good morning, mister!" the man shouted. "Can I give you a lift into
town?"

Moonson rose unsteadily, alarm and suspicion in his stare. Very
cautiously he lowered the mental barrier and the man's thoughts impinged
on his mind in bewildering confusion.

_He's not a farmer, that's sure ... must have been swimming in the
creek, but those bathing trunks he's wearing are out of this world!_

_Huh! I wouldn't have the nerve to parade around in trunks like that
even on a public beach. Probably an exhibitionist ... But why should he
wear 'em out here in the woods? No blonds or redheads to knock silly out
here!_

_Huh! He might have the courtesy to answer me ... Well, if he doesn't
want a lift into town it's no concern of mine!_

Moonson stood watching the vehicle sweep away out of sight. Obviously he
had angered the man by his silence, but he could answer only by shaking
his head.

He began to walk, pausing an instant in the middle of the bridge to
stare down at a stream of water that rippled in the sunlight over
moss-covered rocks. Tiny silver fish darted to and fro beneath a
tumbling waterfall and he felt calmed and reassured by the sight.
Shoulders erect now, he walked on ...

It was high noon when he reached the tavern. He went inside, saw men and
women dancing in a dim light, and there was a huge, rainbow-colored
musical instrument by the door which startled him by its resonance. The
music was wild, weird, a little terrifying.

He sat down at a table near the door and searched the minds of the
dancers for a clue to the meaning of what he saw.

The thoughts which came to him were startlingly primitive, direct and
sometimes meaningless to him.

_Go easy, baby! Swing it! Sure, we're in the groove now, but you never
can tell! I'll buy you an orchid, honey! Not roses, just one
orchid--black like your hair! Ever see a black orchid, hon? They're rare
and they're expensive!_

_Oh, darl, darl, hold me closer! The music goes round and round! It will
always be like that with us, honey! Don't ever be a square! That's all I
ask! Don't ever be a square! Cuddle up to me, let yourself go! When
you're dancing with one girl you should never look at another! Don't you
know that, Johnny!_

_Sure I know it, Doll! But did I ever claim I wasn't human?_

_Darl, doll, doll baby! Look all you want to! But if you ever dare--_

Moonson found himself relaxing a little. Dancing in all ages was closely
allied to love-making, but it was pursued here with a careless rapture
which he found creatively stimulating. People came here not only to
dance but to eat, and the thoughts of the dancers implied that there was
nothing stylized about a tavern. The ritual was a completely natural
one.

In Egyptian bas-reliefs you saw the opposite in dancing. Every movement
rigidly prescribed, arms held rigid and sharply bent at the elbows. Slow
movements rather than lively ones, a bowing and a scraping with bowls of
fruit extended in gift offerings at every turn.

There was obviously no enthroned authority here, no bejeweled king to
pacify when emotions ran wild, but complete freedom to embrace joy with
corybantic abandonment.

A tall man in ill-fitting black clothes approached Moonson's table,
interrupting his reflections with thoughts that seemed designed to
disturb and distract him out of sheer perversity. So even here there
were flies in every ointment, and no dream of perfection could remain
unchallenged.

He sat unmoving, absorbing the man's thoughts.

_What does he think this is, a bath house? Mike says it's okay to serve
them if they come in from the beach just as they are. But just one quick
beer, no more. This late in the season you'd think they'd have the
decency to get dressed!_

The sepulchrally-dressed man gave the table a brush with a cloth he
carried, then thrust his head forward like an ill-tempered scavenger
bird.

"Can't serve you anything but beer. Boss's orders. Okay?"

Moonson nodded and the man went away.

Then he turned to watching the girl. She was frightened. She sat all
alone, plucking nervously at the red-and-white checkered tablecloth. She
sat with her back to the light, bunching the cloth up into little folds,
then smoothing it out again.

She'd ground out lipstick-smudged cigarettes until the ash tray was
spilling over.

Moonson began to watch the fear in her mind ...

Her fear grew when she thought that Mike wasn't gone for good. The phone
call wouldn't take long and he'd be coming back any minute now. And Mike
wouldn't be satisfied until she was broken into little bits. Yes, Mike
wanted to see her on her knees, begging him to kill her!

_Kill me, but don't hurt Joe! It wasn't his fault! He's just a kid--he's
not twenty yet, Mike!_

That would be a lie but Mike had no way of knowing that Joe would be
twenty-two on his next birthday, although he looked eighteen at most.
There was no pity in Mike but would his pride let him hot-rod an
eighteen-year-old?

_Mike won't care! Mike will kill him anyway! Joe couldn't help falling
in love with me, but Mike won't care what Joe could help! Mike was never
young himself, never a sweet kid like Joe!_

_Mike killed a man when he was fourteen years old! He spent seven years
in a reformatory and the kids there were never young. Joe will be just
one of those kids to Mike ..._

Her fear kept growing.

You couldn't fight men like Mike. Mike was strong in too many different
ways. When you ran a tavern with an upstairs room for special customers
you had to be tough, strong. You sat in an office and when people came
to you begging for favors you just laughed. Ten grand isn't hay, buddy!
My wheels aren't rigged. If you think they are get out. It's your
funeral.

It's your funeral, Mike would say, laughing until tears came into his
eyes.

You couldn't fight that kind of strength. Mike could push his knuckles
hard into the faces of people who owed him money, and he'd never even be
arrested.

Mike could take money crisp and new out of his wallet, spread it out
like a fan, say to any girl crazy enough to give him a second glance:
"I'm interested in you, honey! Get rid of him and come over to my
table!"

He could say worse things to girls too decent and self-respecting to
look at him at all.

You could be so cold and hard nothing could ever hurt you. You could be
Mike Galante ...

How could she have loved such a man? And dragged Joe into it, a good kid
who had made only one really bad mistake in his life--the mistake of
asking her to marry him.

She shivered with a chill of self-loathing and turned her eyes
hesitantly toward the big man in bathing trunks who sat alone by the
door.

For a moment she met the big man's eyes and her fears seemed to fade
away! She stared at him ... sunburned almost black. Muscles like a
lifeguard. All alone and not on the make. When he returned her stare his
eyes sparkled with friendly interest, but no suggestive, flirtatious
intent.

He was too rugged to be really handsome, she thought, but he wouldn't
have to start digging in his wallet to get a girl to change tables,
either.

Guiltily she remembered Joe, now it could only be Joe.

Then she saw Joe enter the room. He was deathly pale and he was coming
straight toward her between the tables. Without pausing to weigh his
chances of staying alive he passed a man and a woman who relished Mike's
company enough to make them eager to act ugly for a daily handout. They
did not look up at Joe as he passed but the man's lips curled in a sneer
and the woman whispered something that appeared to fan the flames of her
companion's malice.

Mike had friends--friends who would never rat on him while their police
records remained in Mike's safe and they could count on him for
protection.

She started to rise, to go to Joe and warn him that Mike would be coming
back. But despair flooded her and the impulse died. The way Joe felt
about her was a thing too big to stop ...

Joe saw her slim against the light, and his thoughts were like the sea
surge, wild, unruly.

_Maybe Mike will get me. Maybe I'll be dead by this time tomorrow. Maybe
I'm crazy to love her the way I do ..._

Her hair against the light, a tumbled mass of spun gold.

_Always a woman bothering me for as long as I can remember. Molly, Anne,
Janice ... Some were good for me and some were bad._

_You see a woman on the street walking ahead of you, hips swaying, and
you think: I don't even know her name but I'd like to crush her in my
arms!_

_I guess every guy feels like that about every pretty woman he sees.
Even about some that aren't so pretty. But then you get to know and like
a woman, and you don't feel that way so much. You respect her and you
don't let yourself feel that way._

_Then something happens. You love her so much it's like the first time
again but with a whole lot added. You love her so much you'd die to make
her happy._
