
He knew suddenly that he could lose himself in his work again, could tap
the bright resonant bell of his genius until its golden voice rang out
through eternity. He had another great book in him and it would get
written now. It would get written ...

"You've helped me!" he almost shouted. "You've helped me more than you
know. I can't tell you how grateful I am to you. You don't know what it
means to be so paralyzed with fright that you can't write at all!"

The Man from Time was silent but his eyes shone curiously.

The writer turned to a bookcase and removed a volume in a faded cover
that had once been bright with rainbow colors. He sat down and wrote an
inscription on the flyleaf.

Then he rose and handed the book to his visitor with a slight bow. He
was smiling now.

"This was my first-born!" he said.

The Man from Time looked at the title first ... THIS SIDE OF PARADISE.

Then he opened the book and read what the author had written on the
flyleaf:

    _With warm gratefulness for a courage which brought back the sun._

                                                _F. Scott Fitzgerald._

Moonson bowed his thanks, turned and left the cabin.

Morning found him walking across fresh meadowlands with the dew
glistening on his bare head and broad, straight shoulders.

They'd never find him, he told himself hopelessly. They'd never find him
because Time was too vast to pinpoint one man in such a vast waste of
years. The towering crests of each age might be visible but there could
be no returning to one tiny insignificant spot in the mighty ocean of
Time.

As he walked his eyes searched for the field and the winding road he'd
followed into town. Only yesterday this road had seemed to beckon and he
had followed, eager to explore an age so primitive that mental
communication from mind to mind had not yet replaced human speech.

Now he knew that the speech faculty which mankind had long outgrown
would never cease to act as a barrier between himself and the men and
women of this era of the past. Without it he could not hope to find
complete understanding and sympathy here.

He was still alone and soon winter would come and the sky grow cold and
empty ...

The Time machine materialized so suddenly before him that for an instant
his mind refused to accept it as more than a torturing illusion conjured
up by the turbulence of his thoughts. All at once it towered in his
path, bright and shining, and he moved forward over the dew-drenched
grass until he was brought up short by a joy so overwhelming that it
seemed to him that his heart must burst.
