
Even the emotionally disciplined James set his teeth and felt his scalp
crawl at the memory of that horror. He glanced toward the viewport, as
though to cleanse his mind of the memory. He could see Ross out there,
among the geraniums, moving slowly and painfully in his heavy spacesuit.
Occupational therapy. Ross watered flowers and Gregory talked and
Frankston was bitter and ... himself? Observation, maybe.

Gregory's voice began again, "And then they were pounding on the lock,
begging us to let the doctor in, but we were all rolling and thrashing
with the itching, burning, sneezing, and finally James got himself under
control enough to open the locks and let them in.

"Then came the tests, allergy tests. Remember those? They'd cut a little
row of scratches in your arm ..." Each man instinctively glanced at his
forearm, saw neat rows of tiny pink scars, row on row. "Then they'd put
a little powder in each cut and each kind of powder was an extract of
some common substance we might be allergic to. The charts they made were
full of 'P's, P for positive, long columns of big, red 'P's. All pollen,
dust, wool, nylon, cotton, fish, meat, fruit, vegetables, grain, milk,
whisky, cigarettes, dogs, cats--everything! And wasn't it funny about us
being allergic to women's face powder? Ha! We were allergic to women
from their nylon hose to their face powder.

"Thirty years of breathing purified, sterilized, filtered air, thirty
years of drinking distilled water and swallowing synthetic food tablets
had changed us. The only things we weren't allergic to were the metal
and plastic and synthetics of our ship, _this_ ship. We're allergic to
Earth. That's funny, isn't it?"

Gregory began to rock back and forth, laughing the thin high laugh of
hysteria. James silently walked to a water hydrant and filled a plastic
cup. He brought Gregory a small white pill.

"You wouldn't take this with the rest of us at supper. You'd better take
it now. You need it."

Gregory nodded bleakly, sobering at once, and swallowed the pellet. He
made a face after the water.

"Distilled," he spat. "Distilled ... no flavor ... no life ... like
us ... distilled."

"If only we could have blasted off again." Frankston's voice came
muffled through his hands. "It wouldn't have made any difference where.
Anywhere or nowhere. No, our fine ship is obsolete and we're old, much
too old. They have the spacedrive now. Men don't make thirty-year
junkets into space and come back allergic to Earth. They go out, and in
a month or two they're back, with their hair still black and their eyes
still bright and their uniforms still fit. A month or two is all. Those
crowds that cheered us, they were proud of us and sorry for us, because
we'd been out thirty years and they never expected us back at all. But
it was inconvenient for Spaceport." Bitter sarcasm tinged his voice.
"They actually had to postpone the regular monthly Trans-Galactic run
to let us in with this big, clumsy hulk."

"Why didn't we ever see any of the new ships either going out or coming
back?" asked Gregory.
