
Frankston shook his head. "You don't see a ship when it's in spacedrive.
It's out of normal space-time dimensions. We had a smattering of the
theory at cadet school ... anyway, if one did flash into normal
space-time--say, for instance, coming in for a landing--the probability
of us being at the same place at the same time was almost nil. 'Two
ships passing in the night' as the old saying goes."

Gregory nodded, "I guess Trippitt was the lucky one."

"You didn't see Trippitt die," replied James.

"What was it?" asked Frankston. "What killed Trippitt? So quickly, too.
He was only outside a few minutes like the rest of us, and eight hours
later he was dead."

"We couldn't be sure," answered James. "Some virus. There are countless
varieties. People live in a contaminated atmosphere all their lives,
build up a resistance to them. Sometimes a particularly virulent strain
will produce an epidemic, but most people, if they're affected, will
have a mild case of whatever it is and recover. But after thirty years
in space, thirty years of breathing perfectly pure, uncontaminated air,
Trippitt had no antibodies in his bloodstream. The virus hit and he
died."

"But why didn't the rest of us get it?" asked Gregory.

"We were lucky. Viruses are like that."

"Those people talked about building a home for us," muttered Frankston.
"Why didn't they?"

"It wouldn't have been any different," answered James gently. "It would
have been the same, almost an exact duplicate of the ship, everything
but the rockets. Same metal and plastic and filtered air and synthetic
food. It couldn't have had wool rugs or down pillows or smiling wives or
fresh air or eggs for breakfast. It would have been just like this. So,
since the ship was obsolete, they gave it to us, and a plot of ground to
anchor it to, and we're home. They did the best they could for us, the
very best they could."

"But I feel stifled, shut in!"

"The ship is large, Frankston. We all crowd into this section because,
without each other, we'd go mad." James kicked the edge of the magazine
on the floor. "Thank God we're not allergic to decontaminated paper.
There's still reading."

"We're getting old," said Gregory. "Some day one of us will be here
alone."

"God help him then," answered James, with more emotion than was usual
for him.
