

They fell at last into the way of walking together almost every time they
met, though for a long time still they never met but at church.  He
couldn't ask her to come and see him, and as if she hadn't a proper place
to receive him she never invited her friend.  As much as himself she knew
the world of London, but from an undiscussed instinct of privacy they
haunted the region not mapped on the social chart.  On the return she
always made him leave her at the same corner.  She looked with him, as a
pretext for a pause, at the depressed things in suburban shop-fronts; and
there was never a word he had said to her that she hadn't beautifully
understood.  For long ages he never knew her name, any more than she had
ever pronounced his own; but it was not their names that mattered, it was
only their perfect practice and their common need.

These things made their whole relation so impersonal that they hadn't the
rules or reasons people found in ordinary friendships.  They didn't care
for the things it was supposed necessary to care for in the intercourse
of the world.  They ended one day--they never knew which of them
expressed it first--by throwing out the idea that they didn't care for
each other.  Over this idea they grew quite intimate; they rallied to it
in a way that marked a fresh start in their confidence.  If to feel
deeply together about certain things wholly distinct from themselves
didn't constitute a safety, where was safety to be looked for?  Not
lightly nor often, not without occasion nor without emotion, any more
than in any other reference by serious people to a mystery of their
faith; but when something had happened to warm, as it were, the air for
it, they came as near as they could come to calling their Dead by name.
They felt it was coming very near to utter their thought at all.  The
word "they" expressed enough; it limited the mention, it had a dignity of
its own, and if, in their talk, you had heard our friends use it, you
might have taken them for a pair of pagans of old alluding decently to
the domesticated gods.  They never knew--at least Stransom never
knew--how they had learned to be sure about each other.  If it had been
with each a question of what the other was there for, the certitude had
come in some fine way of its own.  Any faith, after all, has the instinct
of propagation, and it was as natural as it was beautiful that they
should have taken pleasure on the spot in the imagination of a following.
If the following was for each but a following of one it had proved in the
event sufficient.  Her debt, however, of course was much greater than
his, because while she had only given him a worshipper he had given her a
splendid temple.  Once she said she pitied him for the length of his
list--she had counted his candles almost as often as himself--and this
made him wonder what could have been the length of hers.  He had wondered
before at the coincidence of their losses, especially as from time to
time a new candle was set up.  On some occasion some accident led him to
express this curiosity, and she answered as if in surprise that he hadn't
already understood.  "Oh for me, you know, the more there are the
better--there could never be too many.  I should like hundreds and
hundreds--I should like thousands; I should like a great mountain of
light."

Then of course in a flash he understood.  "Your Dead are only One?"

She hung back at this as never yet.  "Only One," she answered, colouring
as if now he knew her guarded secret.  It really made him feel he knew
less than before, so difficult was it for him to reconstitute a life in
which a single experience had so belittled all others.  His own life,
round its central hollow, had been packed close enough.  After this she
appeared to have regretted her confession, though at the moment she spoke
there had been pride in her very embarrassment.  She declared to him that
his own was the larger, the dearer possession--the portion one would have
chosen if one had been able to choose; she assured him she could
perfectly imagine some of the echoes with which his silences were
peopled.  He knew she couldn't: one's relation to what one had loved and
hated had been a relation too distinct from the relations of others.  But
this didn't affect the fact that they were growing old together in their
piety.  She was a feature of that piety, but even at the ripe stage of
acquaintance in which they occasionally arranged to meet at a concert or
to go together to an exhibition she was not a feature of anything else.
The most that happened was that his worship became paramount.  Friend by
friend dropped away till at last there were more emblems on his altar
than houses left him to enter.  She was more than any other the friend
who remained, but she was unknown to all the rest.  Once when she had
discovered, as they called it, a new star, she used the expression that
the chapel at last was full.

"Oh no," Stransom replied, "there is a great thing wanting for that!  The
chapel will never be full till a candle is set up before which all the
others will pale.  It will be the tallest candle of all."

Her mild wonder rested on him.  "What candle do you mean?"

"I mean, dear lady, my own."

He had learned after a long time that she earned money by her pen,
writing under a pseudonym she never disclosed in magazines he never saw.
She knew too well what he couldn't read and what she couldn't write, and
she taught him to cultivate indifference with a success that did much for
their good relations.  Her invisible industry was a convenience to him;
it helped his contented thought of her, the thought that rested in the
dignity of her proud obscure life, her little remunerated art and her
little impenetrable home.  Lost, with her decayed relative, in her dim
suburban world, she came to the surface for him in distant places.  She
was really the priestess of his altar, and whenever he quitted England he
committed it to her keeping.  She proved to him afresh that women have
more of the spirit of religion than men; he felt his fidelity pale and
faint in comparison with hers.  He often said to her that since he had so
little time to live he rejoiced in her having so much; so glad was he to
think she would guard the temple when he should have been called.  He had
a great plan for that, which of course he told her too, a bequest of
money to keep it up in undiminished state.  Of the administration of this
fund he would appoint her superintendent, and if the spirit should move
her she might kindle a taper even for him.

"And who will kindle one even for me?" she then seriously asked.



