

She was always in mourning, yet the day he came back from the longest
absence he had yet made her appearance immediately told him she had
lately had a bereavement.  They met on this occasion as she was leaving
the church, so that postponing his own entrance he instantly offered to
turn round and walk away with her.  She considered, then she said: "Go in
now, but come and see me in an hour."  He knew the small vista of her
street, closed at the end and as dreary as an empty pocket, where the
pairs of shabby little houses, semi-detached but indissolubly united,
were like married couples on bad terms.  Often, however, as he had gone
to the beginning he had never gone beyond.  Her aunt was dead--that he
immediately guessed, as well as that it made a difference; but when she
had for the first time mentioned her number he found himself, on her
leaving him, not a little agitated by this sudden liberality.  She wasn't
a person with whom, after all, one got on so very fast: it had taken him
months and months to learn her name, years and years to learn her
address.  If she had looked, on this reunion, so much older to him, how
in the world did he look to her?  She had reached the period of life he
had long since reached, when, after separations, the marked clock-face of
the friend we meet announces the hour we have tried to forget.  He
couldn't have said what he expected as, at the end of his waiting, he
turned the corner where for years he had always paused; simply not to
pause was a efficient cause for emotion.  It was an event, somehow; and
in all their long acquaintance there had never been an event.  This one
grew larger when, five minutes later, in the faint elegance of her little
drawing-room, she quavered out a greeting that showed the measure she
took of it.  He had a strange sense of having come for something in
particular; strange because literally there was nothing particular
between them, nothing save that they were at one on their great point,
which had long ago become a magnificent matter of course.  It was true
that after she had said "You can always come now, you know," the thing he
was there for seemed already to have happened.  He asked her if it was
the death of her aunt that made the difference; to which she replied:
"She never knew I knew you.  I wished her not to."  The beautiful
clearness of her candour--her faded beauty was like a summer
twilight--disconnected the words from any image of deceit.  They might
have struck him as the record of a deep dissimulation; but she had always
given him a sense of noble reasons.  The vanished aunt was present, as he
looked about him, in the small complacencies of the room, the beaded
velvet and the fluted moreen; and though, as we know, he had the worship
of the Dead, he found himself not definitely regretting this lady.  If
she wasn't in his long list, however, she was in her niece's short one,
and Stransom presently observed to the latter that now at least, in the
place they haunted together, she would have another object of devotion.

"Yes, I shall have another.  She was very kind to me.  It's that that's
the difference."

He judged, wondering a good deal before he made any motion to leave her,
that the difference would somehow be very great and would consist of
still other things than her having let him come in.  It rather chilled
him, for they had been happy together as they were.  He extracted from
her at any rate an intimation that she should now have means less
limited, that her aunt's tiny fortune had come to her, so that there was
henceforth only one to consume what had formerly been made to suffice for
two.  This was a joy to Stransom, because it had hitherto been equally
impossible for him either to offer her presents or contentedly to stay
his hand.  It was too ugly to be at her side that way, abounding himself
and yet not able to overflow--a demonstration that would have been
signally a false note.  Even her better situation too seemed only to draw
out in a sense the loneliness of her future.  It would merely help her to
live more and more for their small ceremonial, and this at a time when he
himself had begun wearily to feel that, having set it in motion, he might
depart.  When they had sat a while in the pale parlour she got up--"This
isn't my room: let us go into mine."  They had only to cross the narrow
hall, as he found, to pass quite into another air.  When she had closed
the door of the second room, as she called it, he felt at last in real
possession of her.  The place had the flush of life--it was expressive;
its dark red walls were articulate with memories and relics.  These were
simple things--photographs and water-colours, scraps of writing framed
and ghosts of flowers embalmed; but a moment sufficed to show him they
had a common meaning.  It was here she had lived and worked, and she had
already told him she would make no change of scene.  He read the
reference in the objects about her--the general one to places and times;
but after a minute he distinguished among them a small portrait of a
gentleman.  At a distance and without their glasses his eyes were only so
caught by it as to feel a vague curiosity.  Presently this impulse
carried him nearer, and in another moment he was staring at the picture
in stupefaction and with the sense that some sound had broken from him.
He was further conscious that he showed his companion a white face when
he turned round on her gasping: "Acton Hague!"

She matched his great wonder.  "Did you know him?"

"He was the friend of all my youth--of my early manhood.  And _you_ knew
him?"

She coloured at this and for a moment her answer failed; her eyes
embraced everything in the place, and a strange irony reached her lips as
she echoed: "Knew him?"

Then Stransom understood, while the room heaved like the cabin of a ship,
that its whole contents cried out with him, that it was a museum in his
honour, that all her later years had been addressed to him and that the
shrine he himself had reared had been passionately converted to this use.
It was all for Acton Hague that she had kneeled every day at his altar.
What need had there been for a consecrated candle when he was present in
the whole array? The revelation so smote our friend in the face that he
dropped into a seat and sat silent.  He had quickly felt her shaken by
the force of his shock, but as she sank on the sofa beside him and laid
her hand on his arm he knew almost as soon that she mightn't resent it as
much as she'd have liked.



