
Mrs. Bullone was a fat little mouse of a woman. She stood almost in the
center of the guest room of her home, hands clasped across the paunch of
a long, dull silver gown. She had demure gray eyes, grandmotherly gray
hair combed straight back in a jeweled net--and that shocking baritone
husk of a voice issuing from a small mouth. Her figure sloped out from
several chins to a matronly bosom, then dropped straight like a barrel.
The top of her head came just above Orne's dress epaulets.

"We want you to feel at home here, Lewis," she husked. "You're to
consider yourself one of the family."

Orne looked around at the Bullone guest room: low key furnishings with
an old-fashioned selectacol for change of decor. A polawindow looked out
onto an oval swimming pool, the glass muted to dark blue. It gave the
outside a moonlight appearance. There was a contour bed against one
wall, several built-ins, and a door partly open to reveal bathroom
tiles. Everything traditional and comfortable.

"I already _do_ feel at home," he said. "You know, your house is very
like our place on Chargon. I was surprised when I saw it from the air.
Except for the setting, it looks almost identical."

"I guess your mother and I shared ideas when we were in school," said
Polly. "We were _very_ close friends."

"You must've been to do all this for me," said Orne. "I don't know how
I'm ever going to--"

"Ah! Here we are!" A deep masculine voice boomed from the open door
behind Orne. He turned, saw Ipscott Bullone, High Commissioner of the
Marakian League. Bullone was tall, had a face of harsh angles and deep
lines, dark eyes under heavy brows, black hair trained in receding
waves. There was a look of ungainly clumsiness about him.

_He doesn't strike me as the dictator type_, thought Orne. _But that's
obviously what Stet suspects._

"Glad you made it out all right, son," boomed Bullone. He advanced into
the room, glanced around. "Hope everything's to your taste here."

"Lewis was just telling me that our place is very like his mother's home
on Chargon," said Polly.

"It's old fashioned, but we like it," said Bullone. "Just a great big
tetragon on a central pivot. We can turn any room we want to the sun,
the shade or the breeze, but we usually leave the main salon pointing
northeast. View of the capital, you know."

"We have a sea breeze on Chargon that we treat the same way," said Orne.

"I'm sure Lewis would like to be left alone for a while now," said
Polly. "This is his first day out of the hospital. We mustn't tire him."
She crossed to the polawindow, adjusted it to neutral gray, turned the
selectacol, and the room's color dominance shifted to green. "There,
that's more restful," she said. "Now, if there's anything you need you
just ring the bell there by your bed. The autobutle will know where to
find us."

The Bullones left, and Orne crossed to the window, looked out at the
pool. The young woman hadn't come back. When the chauffeur-driven
limousine flitter had dropped down to the house's landing pad, Orne had
seen a parasol and sunhat nodding to each other on the blue tiles beside
the pool. The parasol had shielded Polly Bullone. The sunhat had been
worn by a shapely young woman in swimming tights, who had rushed off
into the house.

She was no taller than Polly, but slender and with golden red hair
caught under the sunhat in a swimmer's chignon. She was not
beautiful--face too narrow with suggestions of Bullone's cragginess, and
the eyes overlarge. But her mouth was full-lipped, chin strong, and
there had been an air of exquisite assurance about her. The total effect
had been one of striking elegance--extremely feminine.

Orne looked beyond the pool: wooded hills and, dimly on the horizon, a
broken line of mountains. The Bullones lived in expensive isolation.
Around them stretched miles of wilderness, rugged with planned neglect.

_Time to report in_, he thought. Orne pressed the neck stud on his
transceiver, got Stetson, told him what had happened to this point.

"All right," said Stetson. "Go find the daughter. She fits the
description of the gal you saw by the pool."

"That's what I was hoping," said Orne.

He changed into light-blue fatigues, went to the door of his room, let
himself out into a hall. A glance at his wristchrono showed that it was
shortly before noon--time for a bit of scouting before they called
lunch. He knew from his brief tour of the house and its similarity to
the home of his childhood that the hall let into the main living salon.
The public rooms and men's quarters were in the outside ring. Secluded
family apartments and women's quarters occupied the inner section.
