
The autobutle called dinner. Orne changed hurriedly into a fresh lounge
uniform, found his way to the small salon across the house. The Bullones
already were seated around an old-fashioned bubble-slot table set with
real candles, golden _shardi_ service. Two of Marak's moons could be
seen out the window climbing swiftly over the peaks.

"You turned the house," said Orne.

"We like the moonrise," said Polly. "It seems more romantic, don't you
think?" She glanced at Diana.

Diana looked down at her plate. She was wearing a low-cut gown of
_firemesh_ that set off her red hair. A single strand of _Reinach_
pearls gleamed at her throat.

Orne sat down in the vacant seat opposite her. _What a handsome woman!_
he thought.

Polly, on Orne's right, looked younger and softer in a green stola gown
that hazed her barrel contours. Bullone, across from her, wore black
lounging shorts and knee-length _kubi_ jacket of golden pearl cloth.
Everything about the people and setting reeked of wealth, power. For a
moment, Orne saw that Stetson's suspicions could have basis in fact.
Bullone might go to any lengths to maintain this luxury.

Orne's entrance had interrupted an argument between Polly and her
husband. They welcomed him, went right on without inhibition. Rather
than embarrassing him, this made him feel more at home, more accepted.

[Illustration]

"But I'm not running for office this time," said Bullone patiently. "Why
do we have to clutter up the evening with that many people just to--"

"Our election night parties are traditional," said Polly.

"Well, I'd just like to relax quietly at home tomorrow," he said. "Take
it easy with just the family here and not have to--"

"It's not like it was a _big_ party," said Polly. "I've kept the list to
fifty."

Diana straightened, said: "This is an important election Daddy! How
could you _possibly_ relax? There're seventy-three seats in question ...
the whole balance. If things go wrong in just the Alkes sector ... why
... you could be sent back to the floor. You'd lose your job as ... why
... someone else could take over as--"

"Welcome to the job," said Bullone. "It's a headache." He grinned at
Orne. "Sorry to burden you with this, m'boy, but the women of this
family run me ragged. I guess from what I hear that you've had a pretty
busy day, too." He smiled paternally at Diana. "And your first day out
of the hospital."

"She sets quite a pace, but I've enjoyed it," said Orne.

"We're taking the small flitter for a tour of the wilderness area
tomorrow," said Diana. "Lew can relax all the way. I'll do the driving."

"Be sure you're back in plenty of time for the party," said Polly.
"Can't have--" She broke off at a low bell from the alcove behind her.
"That'll be for me. Excuse me, please ... no, don't get up."
