
Stetson straightened away from the wall, smiled grimly at Orne. He
seemed to be understanding a point that the others were missing. Diana
still glared at Orne. Polly kept her attention on her hands, the tight
smile playing about her lips.

"These women probably control one out of three of the top positions in
the League," said Orne. "Maybe more. Think, admiral ... think what would
happen if you exposed this thing. There'd be secessions, riots,
sub-governments would topple, the central government would be torn by
suspicions and battles. What breeds in that atmosphere?" He shook his
head. "The Rim War would seem like a picnic!"

"We can't just ignore this!" barked Spencer. He stiffened, glared at
Orne.

"We can and we will," said Orne. "No choice."

Polly looked up, studied Orne's face. Diana looked confused.

"Once a Nathian, always a Nathian, eh?" snarled Spencer.

"There's no such thing," said Orne. "Five hundred years' cross-breeding
with other races saw to that. There's merely a secret society of astute
political scientists." He smiled wryly at Polly, glanced back at
Spencer. "Think of your own wife, sir. In all honesty, would you be
ComGO today if she hadn't guided your career?"

Spencer's face darkened. He drew in his chin, tried to stare Orne down,
failed. Presently, he chuckled wryly.

"Sobie is beginning to come to his senses," said Polly. "You're about
through, son."

"Don't underestimate your future son-in-law," said Orne.

"Hah!" barked Diana. "I _hate_ you, Lewis Orne!"

"You'll get over that," said Orne mildly.

"Ohhhhhh!" Diana quivered with fury.

"My major point is this," said Orne. "Government is a dubious glory. You
pay for your power and wealth by balancing on the sharp edge of the
blade. That great amorphous thing out there--the people--has turned and
swallowed many governments. The only way you can stay in power is by
giving _good_ government. Otherwise--sooner on later--your turn comes. I
can remember my mother making that point. It's one of the things that
stuck with me." He frowned. "My objection to politics is the compromises
you have to make to get elected!"

Stetson moved out from the wall. "It's pretty clear," he said. Heads
turned toward him. "To stay in power, the Nathians had to give us a
fairly good government. On the other hand, if we expose them, we give a
bunch of political amateurs--every fanatic and power-hungry demagogue in
the galaxy--just the weapon they need to sweep them into office."

"After that: chaos," said Orne. "So we let the Nathians continue ...
with two minor alterations."

"We alter nothing," said Polly. "It occurs to me, Lewis, that you don't
have a leg to stand on. You have me, but you'll get nothing out of me.
The rest of the organization can go on without me. You don't dare expose
us. We hold the whip hand!"
