
"The I-A could have ninety per cent of your organization in custody
inside of ten days," said Orne.

"You couldn't find them!" snapped Polly.

"How?" asked Stetson.

"Nomads," said Orne. "This house is a glorified tent. Men on the
outside, women on the inside. Look for inner courtyard construction.
It's instinctive with Nathian blood. Add to that, an inclination for odd
musical instruments--the kaithra, the tambour, the oboe--all nomad
instruments. Add to that, female dominance of the family--an odd twist
on the nomad heritage, but not completely unique. Check for predominance
of female offspring. Dig into political background. We'll miss damn
few!"

Polly just stared at him, mouth open.

Spencer said: "Things are moving too fast for me. I know just one thing:
I'm dedicated to preventing another Rim War. If I have to jail every
last one of--"

"An hour after this conspiracy became known, you wouldn't be in a
position to jail anyone," said Orne. "The husband of a Nathian! You'd be
in jail yourself or more likely dead at the hands of a mob!"

Spencer paled.

"What's your suggestion for compromise?" asked Polly.

"Number one: the I-A gets veto power on any candidate you put up," said
Orne. "Number two: you can never hold more than two thirds of the top
offices."

"Who in the I-A vetoes our candidates?" asked Polly.

"Admiral Spencer, Stet, myself ... anyone else we deem trustworthy,"
said Orne.

"You think you're a god or something?" demanded Polly.

"No more than you do," said Orne. "This is what's known as a check and
balance system. You cut the pie. We get first choice on which pieces to
take."

There was a protracted silence; then Spencer said: "It doesn't seem
right just to--"

"No political compromise is ever totally right," said Polly. "You keep
patching up things that always have flaws in them. That's how government
is." She chuckled, looked up at Orne. "All right, Lewis. We accept." She
glanced at Spencer, who shrugged, nodded glumly. Polly looked back at
Orne. "Just answer me one question: How'd you know I was boss lady?"

"Easy," said Orne. "The records we found said the ... Nathian (he'd
almost said 'traitor') family on Marak was coded as _'The Head.'_ Your
name, Polly, contains the ancient word _'Poll'_ which means _head_."

Polly looked at Stetson. "Is he always that sharp?"

"Every time," said Stetson.

"If you want to go into politics, Lewis," said Polly, "I'd be delighted
to--"

"I'm already in politics as far as I want to be," growled Orne. "What I
really want is to settle down with Di, catch up on some of the living
I've missed."

Diana stiffened. "I never want to see, hear _from_ or hear _of_ Mr.
Lewis Orne ever again!" she said. "That is final, emphatically final!"

Orne's shoulders drooped. He turned away, stumbled, and abruptly
collapsed full length on the thick carpets. There was a collective gasp
behind him.

Stetson barked: "Call a doctor! They warned me at the hospital he was
still hanging on a thin thread!"

There was the sound of Polly's heavy footsteps running toward the hall.

"Lew!" It was Diana's voice. She dropped to her knees beside him, soft
hands fumbling at his neck, his head.

"Turn him over and loosen his collar!" snapped Spencer. "Give him air!"

Gently, they turned Orne onto his back. He looked pale, Diana loosed his
collar, buried her face against his neck. "Oh, Lew, I'm sorry," she
sobbed. "I didn't mean it! Please, Lew ... please don't die! Please!"

Orne opened his eyes, looked up at Spencer and Stetson. There was the
sound of Polly's voice talking rapidly on the phone in the hall. He
could feel Diana's cheek warm against his neck, the dampness of her
tears. Slowly, deliberately, Orne winked at the two men.

THE END
