
"I'm a Gemini!" exclaimed the janitor, surprised to see anything
familiar come out of the machine. "Birthday is May 25."

"Wonderful!" cried the machine. "First intelligent man I've heard so
far. Gemini is justly famed as the owner of a quick mind and ready wit.
Your intellectual achievements are a splendid asset to your literary
inclinations."

The janitor, embarrassed at the sudden praise, shifted his broom from
one hand to the other. The machine continued.

"I need an Ephemeris," said the machine. "Can you find an Ephemeris?
I need one desperately!" and the machine's desperate need for an
Ephemeris so shook its intestines, liver and gallbladder that its tone
of voice came out a minor third above the normal monotonous dirge of
the loudspeaker.

"An E-what-eris?" said the janitor.

"An Ephemeris," repeated the machine. "An astronomical almanac.
Something that tells me where Mars is. There I was, on my way over from
the clouds of Magellan to visit friends in Orion when Whammo! Mars
comes into conjunction with Uranus. When something that _big_ happens
I just sit down and wait. Here I am now in this absurd device. Do you
suppose you could look out the window and tell me where Mars is?"

The night watchman said, "It's cloudy outside."

"See!" said the machine, "When Mars goes on the war-path _nothing_
comes out right. Now, Gemini, if you will just go down to the library
and get me an Ephemeris for this year we can clear this up and I'll be
on my way, indebted to you for life, if not longer."

"Who shall I say it's for?" asked the janitor, who did not fully
understand that the library was public, never having been in it before,
and felt he needed a recommendation or a slip of approval.

"Just say it's for Pyet, the astrologer," said the machine.

"And what are you doing inside Dr. Henderson's machine?" asked the
night watchman.

"I wouldn't care to be quoted on this," replied the machine, "but
actually any system of communicating inter-related events with a high
degree of complexity, such as the brain, or this machine, and with some
number of critical processes at the quantum statistical level, can
support consciousness."

The janitor and the night watchman looked blankly at each other and the
machine, slightly embarrassed, added by way of explanation.

"I like to read a little physics now and then. A harmless superstition
containing many pleasant diversions.

"Before this I lived in a star, a puff of expanding gas. Before that in
a haunted house ... dreadful. And before that in the lopsided blob of
protoplasm that was the last of Pyet, the astrologer.

"As for Dr. Henderson's mousecatcher," chuckled the machine, "any port
in a storm. Mars and Uranus you know."

The janitor was somewhat impatient with the machine. It had detained
him already and probably would soon be giving him orders.

"I still have three floors to clean," said the janitor. "After that I
will see if the library downstairs has a ... what was it?"

"Ephemeris," said the machine. "E-P-H-E M-E-R-I-S. Thank you."
