
Once, Lorring, the physician, said to Joe Dayton, "Kort must have
burrowed, too--like a bear. Is that human? Of course the tip of the
Syrtis Major triangle here at Port Laribee is far north. But even if
he could have gotten all the way to the tropics, the nights are still
bitter. Even so, the big question is not how he lived like he did, but
why?"

Yes, this was a point which Dayton had often wondered about, frowning
with thick, dark brows, while his wide mouth smiled quizzically above
a generous jaw. What had impelled Kort to a solitude far deeper than
that of an old-time hermit or desert-rat? Had he been a great child
lumbering by instinct through the misfit fogs of his mind to a place
where he felt at peace?

Dayton favored another explanation as the main one.

"Why, Doc?" he said to Lorring, as they played cards in the rec-hall.
"The answer is in all of us, here. Or we would never have come to Mars.
Where was there ever such a place of history, enigma, weird beauty,
fascination to men? You can't be neutral. Hating Mars, you'd never
stay. Half loving it, like most of us, you would--for a while. Loving
it, you'd want a much closer look than is possible at Port Laribee,
from which we sally forth like rubbernecks. Too bad that Mars is too
rough for men, in the long run. Too bad that the Martians are extinct.
Once there were even machines to maintain a better climate."

Other specialists were within hearing. They laughed, but they knew what
Dayton meant. They'd seen the dun deserts, the great graven monoliths,
dust scoured, the heaps of rust. Being here had the charm of a quest
for ancient treasure, marked by the mood of death.

Parsons, the metallurgist, said: "Funny, but I remember Kort's
posture--bent, just like the figures in the bas-reliefs. Though Martian
skeletal structure was far different. That sounds as if part of Mars
sneaked into Kort's body, doesn't it? Hell, there's no pseudo-science
here! Plodding through dust, and at low gravity, you just naturally
develop that posture as a habit. Now call me nuts."

"You're nuts, Parsons," Kettrich, the biologist, obliged.

Not many days later, Frank Terry and his son came to Port Laribee.
Bringing a seven-year-old boy--a bright little guy named Will--to
unlivable Mars, marked the elder Terry at once as a screwball.

Was the mother dead or divorced? Was Terry a remittance man, exiled
by his family? He seemed to have enjoyed the good things.... Such
curiosity was bad taste. Forget it.

"We like the sound of the place," Frank Terry explained. "We thought
we'd take some photographs, really get friendly with the place...."

His listeners foresaw the withering of Terry's familiar enthusiasm, and
his departure within a week. Except maybe Dayton guessed differently.
The intellectual Terry was not much like Dave Kort. Yet perhaps a
kinship showed in a certain expression, as if their natures had the
same basis.

During the next Martian year, Dayton and the observatory crew saw the
sporting-goods-store sheen vanish utterly from these two. They carried
less and less equipment with each succeeding sally into the wilderness.
Dried lichen, stuffed inside their air-tight garments, soon served them
as additional insulation against cold.

From their lengthening jaunts they brought back the usual
relics--golden ornaments, carvings, bits of apparatus that had not
weathered away. And the usual photographs of blue-green thickets,
war-melted cities, domes celled like honeycombs, suggesting a larval
stage in the life-cycle of the ancients, and of country littered with
shattered crystal--much Martian land had once been roofed with clear
quartz, against the harshening climate.

Frank Terry became bearded and battered. Will ceased to be a talkative,
sociable youngster. Still devoted to his father, he turned shy, sullen,
and alert in a new way.

He had a pet like an eight-inch caterpillar, though it was not that
at all. It was warm-blooded, golden-furred, intelligent. It had seven
beady eyes. It crept over the boy's shoulders, and down inside his
garments, chirping eerily. Except for his father it was the only
companion the boy wanted.
