
So summer ended, and the dark blue sky was murked by angry haze.
Vitrac, chief scientist, said, "You're not going out again, are you,
Terry?"

The kid gave the real answer, "Let's go, Dad. I want to. Besides,
Digger is homesick."

The next morning, when the equinoxial storm closed in, the Terrys had
vanished.

Joe Dayton led the search party. He found nothing. Mars is small but
still vast. Its total surface equals all the land on Earth. Since the
first men had come, not one in a thousand of its square miles had been
touched by human boots.

Wandering explorers found Frank Terry's mummy late that spring, in a
deep part of Syrtis Major, with old ocean salt around it. When they
brought it to Port Laribee it was not completely dried out. So Terry
must have survived through the winter.

The boy must surely be dead, too. But stories drifted back to
the Port--of holes found in the felted soil, and of a small,
heavily-burdened figure that scampered away at the sight of a man.

The general opinion was that this was pure romancing, to intrigue
the tourists who came out that year in their bright, excited crowds,
charmed by the Red Planet yet sheltered from it, equipped from shops
recommended by the most debonaire of space wanderers--if such existed.
Many were eager to stay, girls among them, bright-faced, sure, with the
thrill in their eyes and voices. Ah, yes--but how long would they have
lasted in this too rich and rough a strangeness?

Joe Dayton shrugged, sad that his opinion had to be so mean. There were
soberer arrivals, too. Relatives of Port Laribee staff-members, mostly.
Willowby's wife. Doc Lorring's small daughter, Tillie, sent out for a
visit. Among the tourists there were a few additional kids.

There was also the lost Frank Terry's elder brother, Dolph Terry, big,
but prim beneath an easy smile. Also there was a Terry girl, Doran by
name. She did not seem much like either of her brothers--the mystical
wanderer, Frank Terry, nor the slightly stuffed-shirted Dolph. She was
much younger than either of them, sun-browned, a bit puzzled at being
on another world, not terribly pretty, but quick with good-humored
shrugs and friendly chuckles whenever she could put aside her worry
about her nephew.

Dayton had some belief in the tales from the wilderness. For he'd known
young Will Terry. Besides, beneath the ineptness of kids, he recognized
an adaptability beyond that of adults. So his work was cut out for him.

"After all, William was Frank's son," Dolph told Dayton. "Frank
was--what he was. But my sister and I are here to see that the boy is
located. Perhaps he can still have a normal childhood."

"We'll do what we can," Dayton replied, smiling crookedly to dampen the
man's naive and assertive air.

For the last half of the long summer the search went on, many visitors
took brief part, ranging well beyond the short tractor lines which
encompassed the tourist's usual view of Mars.

Dolph Terry was dogged, but clumsy and irritable. His sister's rugged
cheerfulness and interest in her surroundings, pleased Dayton.

Still, at the end--due as much as anything to sheer luck--it was Joe
Dayton who captured Will Terry single-handed. It was almost autumn
again. Joe flushed the scampering figure from a thicket. The boy's limp
was to Dayton's advantage. He made a flying tackle, and the savage,
grimy thing that was an eleven-year-old human, was fighting in his
grasp.

His crooned words, finding their way through the thin texture of two
air-hoods and the tenuous atmosphere between, did not soften the
ferocity of those pale eyes. Such eyes can be like a blank mask,
anyway--not unintelligent, but expressive of a different thought-plane.

"Easy, Will--easy, fella," Dayton said. "You couldn't last much longer
out here. Your compressor must be nearly worn out."

Reassurance failed. "Lemme go!" the boy snarled blurredly, his speech
rusted by solitude. Helped by his father, he had learned the tricks
of survival, here. His dimmed past was so different from his present
life that perhaps it seemed fearfully alien to him. As he bore the
struggling boy to the tractor-vehicle, Dayton had the odd idea that a
Martian, trapped by a man, might behave like this.

He recalled old yarns of boys raised by wolves or apes. Here was the
same simple loss of human ways--not by soul-migration, but the plain
molding of habit by a bizarre environment.
