
At the Port Laribee hospital, Will Terry was at first least disturbed
when left alone. But his whimpers at night reminded Dayton of the
mewling of a Martian storm.

Dolph Terry cursed the waiting for an Earth-liner and the lack of a
psychiatrist on Mars. Doran had no luck either at making friends with
Will. Meanwhile the tempests began.

But Doran had an idea. Visitors were still awaiting passage home, among
them children.

"Kids are kids, Joe," she told Dayton. "They may be able to reach Will.
I talked it over with Doc Lorring."

She was right. Gradually, then more quickly, the trapped-lynx glare
faded from Will's eyes as he accepted the scared but fascinated
companionship of the other youngsters in the hospital. He still
had Digger. At last he let the others pet the fuzzy creature. The
strangeness dimmed on both sides. Kid-brashness returned. Perhaps
in the whimsy and fantasy of children, that could accept even the
humanizing of beast and beetle, Will and his new friends found a common
denominator for his life on Mars. He became a hero. Doran and Joe
overheard some of his bragging.

"Sure I can work an air-compressor. Dad showed me. He used to say that
Mars was home. I'm going back."

One morning Will was gone from the hospital. It came out that a
hospital orderly had been diverted from watchfulness for a minute by
other children. Two air-hoods, Mars-costumes, and compressors were
gone. Also another boy named Danny Bryant.

The complaint of Lorring's own tomboy eight-year-old completed the
picture, "They didn't want me along!"

That day the savage wind moaned and the dust trains across the sky were
tawny. Danny Bryant's folks were near hysteria. In all the foolishness
of boys, there seemed nothing to equal this. Dolph Terry seemed to
wonder blankly what sort of wily thing his brother had sired and
trained. The visitors who had been charmed by Mars were sullen and
tense. The remaining kids were scared and solemn.

Doran's eyes were big with guilt and worry. "My idea caused the
trouble, Joe," she told Dayton. "I've got to do something. I've got to
follow Will and bring those boys back. I can live out there if Will
can."

Dayton eyed her thoughtfully. It did not seem like such a tragedy to
him, except of course, for the Bryants. He could understand this love
for the wild Martian desert.

"Marry me, Doran, and we'll go together," Joe Dayton said.

So that was how it was. Dolph might think his whole family mad. Vitrac,
chief scientist, who performed the ceremony, might think so too.

Joe and Doran ranged far ahead of the other searchers. Sometimes, in
the hiss of the tempest, they thought they heard the weeping of a
child. So they blundered through dust-drifts and murk, following what
always proved a false lead.

The first night fell, a shrieking maelstrom of deathly cold, black
as a pocket. An inflatable tent would have been a hardship for
chill-stiffened fingers to set up in such a wind. They had no such
burden. They burrowed beneath a thicket instead, into the layer of
dry vegetation. For this there were no better tools than their heavy
gloves. They dug deep, kicking the felty stuff behind them to plug the
entrance, shutting out even the wail of the storm.

"The strangest honeymoon, ever!" Doran laughed.

Musty air was trapped around them, high in oxygen-content. To enrich it
further they slashed hollow root-capsules with their knives. A little
warmth was being generated in those roots. Above was the additional
insulation and airseal of drifting dust.

Joe could breathe here without an air-hood, and hold his wife close
in savage protection and regret and apology for the soft, man-made
luxuries that should be, especially now, and were not. Instead they
were in darkness, under Martian soil and dead leaves. A grub's
paradise. Ancient beings of the Red Planet might have lived like this
when the need arose, but it was an existence far off the beaten track
for humans.

"When we get back I'll make it all up to you, Doran," Joe kept
insisting.
