
There was a fear in him--of conforming for too long to the demands of
this weird environment and of somehow losing a human heritage.

"I'm reading your mind, Joe," Doran laughed. "Don't worry. We both love
the smell of coffee and bacon, too much. And music, and nice furniture,
and walks in the park. We're not like Frank was, or young Will perhaps
still is. No, this will make us want such things more--tie us tighter
to Earth."

At dawn they blundered on. During their third night underground
they were raided while they slept. Some chocolate bars and other
food-concentrates disappeared. And a pencil of Joe's. Their two-way
radio would no longer work. The chuckling, chirping inquisitive
creatures of the Martian soil had crept into its case and broken it.

Thus the Daytons, out of contact with Port Laribee, did not hear how
Danny Bryant staggered back, dazed, frost-bitten, and half smothered,
to his parents' arms.

The storm ended after five days. The small sun blazed in the steely
sky, which seemed as brittle as frozen air. There was a sharp lifting
of mood. Go back to Port Laribee? The Daytons were tempted. But they
had not yet found the boys. Besides, they were far afield. And with
much of their supplies used up or stolen, the work of mere survival
consumed time and energy and slowed travel. So it was almost as well to
push on, wasn't it?

It seemed that they were always using pointed pipette and compressor
to refill oxygen flasks from the hollow parts of vegetation. At dawn
they collected hoar-frost crystals wrung from the arid atmosphere by
the nocturnal cold, for drinking water. They ate underground fruit and
the starchy pulps of certain roots. Wary of poison, they tasted untried
things cautiously.

Mars hogs that tunnelled in an eternal blind search for food, were fair
game in the darkness beneath the thicket leaf-carpets. Dayton had a
tiny ato-stove that served for their meagre cooking.

Weeks passed and a strange life-pattern was set as the Daytons moved
south, deeper into broadening Syrtis Major. Maybe it was a bit warmer.
Some paper-dry growths were still blue-green. More were brown from the
winter dryness. Necessities were harder to find.

Sometimes, among the pastel-tinted thickets and low hills, there were
patches of real Martian desert, red and lifeless.

Night followed exhausting day, and how welcome was the warmth of a
burrow where one could nurse the frostbites acquired in the frigid dawn.

Several times footprints, large-booted but short-paced, led the Daytons
on, only to be lost in rocky ground and lichen.

Twice Joe and Doran crossed the war-fused wrecks of huge cities. Fallen
hothouse roofs littered the ruins. The piles of rust must have been
irrigation pumps, spaceship ramps, climate-controlled apparatus.

In tower, storehouse, and avenue were the skeletons, with their odd,
vertical ribs to house huge lungs.

Some devices still worked. Joe found a rod, probably of
corrosion-resistant platinum. He pressed its stud and for an instant,
before it became useless, it flashed fire that melted part of a
fanciful wall-carving.

The struggle to survive harshened further. Once it was bitter water,
oozing up from some deep irrigation pipe, that staved off death by
thirst.

Several times oxygen was obtained only by lying prone over a teeming
colony of the chitinous creatures whose instinct was to roof with a
protecting airdome of gluten, anything that promised to be food. These
Mars ants--ordinarily to be avoided--admitted air to the domes they
built from their deepest buried tunnels and chambers.
