
Often Joe looked at his wife, knowing that they both had changed. They
were tattered, and a little like the bas-relief figures. They were Dave
Kort, and Frank and Will Terry over again. Doran's teeth were very
white in a face browned by sunshine filtered only by the rare Martian
air. She was very thin, but there was an oblique charm in her features.
Or had his very conceptions of beauty altered subtly, conforming to a
now familiar environment?

Thinking back to Port Laribee and Earth itself was often like
recalling substanceless dreams, so different were such memories. And
was the fading of revulsion for even the scurrying builders of the
air-domes occasion for deeper fear because it represented the loss of
another part of one's natural self?

Joe often worried. Others had been drawn to Mars too, eager to search
out the mysteries of its past and people--all of this an intriguing
fabric--but most Earthmen had the sense to realize in time that it was
a graveyard world, unfit for humans. For to live the life of Mars you
had to stop being human. Conditioning grimed into you like the red dust.

Nor was the trap just imaginary. The most frightening part was knowing
that Doran was with child. Damn the pulse-beats of life that had no
regard for circumstances!

Joe could be glad only that she remained human enough to be pettish and
optimistic by turns.

"We can't get back, can we, Joe?" she'd say. "But maybe it'll be all
right. It's a long time, yet."

Should they try to hole up, somewhere? That wasn't much good, either.
Even in spring there wouldn't be enough resources in one place to
sustain life for long. They had to keep moving. So when again they saw
those boot-tracks, they felt free to follow.

Milder days came. At noon the temperature reached fifty degrees F.
The country brightened in pastel beauty after the vernal storms. There
were gorgeous flowerlike growths. The tracks would vanish and appear
again, seeming to mark no single trail but a series of excursions from
somewhere among the hills to the south.

Once Doran and Joe heard a thin halloo or scream of defiance.

One of their two air-compressors quit beyond repair, making it twice
the job to fill their oxygen flasks. This could be fatal, now.

Soon after they entered the hill-gorges there was a rock-fall, too
close to be a thing of accident or coincidence. Later there was a
swift-dying flicker that turned a spot of dust incandescent.

Later that afternoon, amid blue shadows from towering monoliths, Joe
met an attack as sudden and savage as a bobcat's. The creature sprang
down at him from a ledge, clawing, kicking, striking with a knife. Joe
had a bad time until his greater strength won.

Doran helped hold her nephew down. Will Terry was battered, hardened,
scarred--scarcely recognizable with his teeth bared.

But, oddly, Joe knew just what to say to soothe him.

"Will, you can see that we're like you. Maybe we don't want to be, but
we are, now. We can't drag you back again to Port Laribee."

The kid relaxed a little. His pale eyes turned puzzled but wary.

"About the other boy, Will--Danny Bryant?" Doran asked.

Will's lip curled. "He was weak and dumb," he said, fumbling with
unused words. "I took him back long ago."

"You did fine, Will," Joe said. "Now what have you found here in the
hills? You've been camping in one place for a while. Show us."

Joe had to use harsh command against the sullenness still in the boy.
He did so bluntly, driven by grim hope and need.

Thus, before sunset, Doran and he found something they needed.

"Dad wanted such a place," the kid said, half-proudly.
