
It was less than optimism promised--just a small, deep valley, pretty
as a painting, but quietly forbidding, too. Joe had seen others
almost like it. Martian growths clogged it, sprouting new blue-green
leaves. The ruins were far less damaged than in the cities. There
were countless little domes of the ant-creatures, indicating some
underground water.

Nimbly Will led the way downward and across the valley to a stout
structure. It was not very unusual, just another relic in a region away
from the fiercest path of war. Here might have been a last refuge,
after the death of millions, the breakdown of machinery, and the rapid
worsening of Martian climatic conditions. Crystal roofs lay shattered
around the ornate central massiveness. But one wing with thicker glaze
still stood--sealable.

Doran's eyes lighted as she and Joe and her nephew went into the
deserted interior through the double doors of an airlock which some
last, fleeing Martian had not closed.

Hardy wilderness plants had intruded into this hothouse but there
still were troughs of soil, proving that this had been a garden sealed
against cold, a place of fruit and flower.

"We might try to use this, Joe," Doran said, her voice thin in the
heavy stillness.

He nodded. But his gratitude was tinged with scared and bitter
overtones. He hurried to explore the central edifice, which must have
been closed before the kid came, for the preservation of things inside
was good. There were odd cylindrical cells, niches dark and dusty,
cubicles piled with metal boxes. There was even what seemed a kind of
machine-shop.

And there was a valve which, from the footprints in the dust, Will had
tried to turn. Joe accomplished this now with a levering metal bar. Out
in the dry hothouse pool a spout jetted rusty water.

"The underground storage cisterns are intact," Joe was soon explaining.
"I prayed there'd be some."

Joe Dayton was grateful, yet not happy.

Grimly he began again the bitter toil of survival, the others helping.
Like bizarre harvesters they tore up great bundles of roots and stalks
and piled them inside the hothouse. Briefly the blue sunset shadows
were long, over that weird, beautiful valley. Then the dusk came, and
the faint frost haze of the always frigid nights.

"We'd better hurry before we freeze," Joe growled irritably. "When
we get a lot of this stuff inside we'll tramp on it to break the
oxygen-capsules. By morning there should be breathable atmosphere under
this roof. Later, vegetation planted inside will keep it fresh."

Joe Dayton's mood now had a taint of despair. Forced to try to settle
in this place, he felt more than ever trapped. More than ever he felt
as if the souls of those eon-dead beings depicted on carven walls
that Phobos, the nearer moon, now illuminated, had been crowding into
his human flesh and brain to push his own ego out. No, it was not
witchcraft--it was simpler. Mars had shaped its ancient inhabitants.
Now it was working on Earthly material with the same, subtle, ruthless
fingers.

When the task in the hothouse was finished, Joe went with his wife and
nephew to burrow again away from the cold, and to eat and to sleep all
in the manner which Mars compelled.

Joe wanted Doran and his child to keep their human ways. His child.
That was his worst thought, now.

His mind pictured Will--tattered, wild, strange in thought and feeling.
He had lived his first years on Earth. So how would it be with a child
_born_ on Mars? Joe cursed into his burry beard--cursed the distance
to Port Laribee which might as well not be there at all, so out of
reach was it, so ineffectual, and so soon probably to be left deserted.
Though bone weary, Joe did not sleep well that quiet night.

The next day, bathed and smiling, Doran still did not look quite
Earthly to him. She was browned by Martian sun but the real difference
that had come into her strong beauty was a thing of multiple detail,
like the mark of persons used to the sea contrasted with those born to
the plains--but deeper.

Scrubbed fairly clean, Will remained an urchin of Mars. Also scrubbed,
and shaved, Joe felt more comfortable. Yet he knew that basically this
restored nothing.
