
A day later he was wandering around outside the hothouse, trying to
plan needed agricultural projects, when a faint scrape of pebbles made
him wheel warily.

"People! Rescue!" were his first eager thoughts. But then he saw that
the three figures, two large and one small, were creatures attuned to
Mars in the same way as himself, and as helpless.

Yet when old friends were recognized, in spite of the deep changes, Joe
Dayton felt a joyous lift.

"Doc Lorring!" he shouted. "Kettrich. And Tillie. Hey! Hey, Doran!
Will! Come here!"

Doctor Lorring's tomboy daughter, a bit younger than Will, showed a
grinning dirty face through a battered air-hood and said "Hi."

"We were trying to follow you most of the time, Dayton," Lorring
stammered. "We hoped to find you and Doran, and maybe the Terry boy.
But our tractor broke down, and we had to live off the land. While
we still had the vehicle there didn't seem much reason why Tillie
shouldn't come along. We'd begun to give up hope of finding any of you
alive."

Minutes were spent questioning and explaining. They all went into the
sealed hothouse. Kettrich, the biologist, had even saved a little
coffee.

"For a celebration, if we ever located any of you missing ones," he
said to Joe and Doran.

Kettrich sighed and went on, "Chief Vitrac, Lorson, and a dozen others
are the only old timers left at the Port. The others have all gone,
with Dolph Terry and the tourists. Humans are about done with Mars
though I suppose a few will trickle out here from time to time."

With contemplative relish Doran sipped coffee brewed with crudely
filtered water on an ato-stove. She smiled like any woman who has her
man, and has found a place and a purpose.

"Not for humans," she mused. "That's one way of putting it. Still,
it doesn't necessarily mean us. Let's face facts," she continued.
"A natural selection was going on all the time. Thousands of people
left, disgusted. A very few stayed grimly, or got trapped. On Earth
I never thought much about Mars, but now I've been here so long.
We're different, perhaps proudly so. Oh, we still like the things
that Earth-people like, maybe more than ever. But the Old Ones here
also had their comforts. We have Earth flesh and bone, we'll never be
like them that way, and I'm glad. You can either say that Terrans are
supremely adaptable, or that we are no longer quite human, and that
there are Martians again. Because one _has_ to be that to really live
here, doesn't he? Mars won't be left wasted and sad. We're some of its
first new people. Among the explorers there must be others. More and
more will come. Gradually, through the centuries, we'll build Mars back
toward what it was."

Dayton stared at his wife, then down at the ancient flagging, then at
the others. Tillie tittered. She was as brown as Will Terry and almost
as attached to the Red Planet. Around her mended glove a fuzzy creature
twined, chirping. Will and Tillie were children of Mars.
