
He kept his composure, but inwardly he was disturbed. By all rights
Steel _had_ to be bluffing--but there they were, four queens.

The game progressed. A few curious onlookers had gathered. By playing
cautiously, Rafferty started piling up chips again. His winnings
mounted to a hundred thousand, hundred fifty. He had Steel figured now
for sure.

But it wasn't as sure as all that.

Rafferty staked five thousand on a straight flush. Steel saw him and
added five hundred on top of it.

"I'll go with you," Rafferty said. "Here's another thousand." Straight
flush, Queen high. Only three hands could possibly beat him--and one
of them was a royal flush. It didn't seem likely. Besides, the lower
corner of Steel's mouth was drawn back, as it usually was when he had a
fairly good hand and was playing it big.

The chips flew out madly. Rafferty watched the pile grow; neither man
would let the cat die. Ten, twelve thousand credits now. Fifteen. In
thirty years of poker, Rafferty had never had fifteen thousand credits
riding on one hand. But he was sure he had it.

"What are you holding?" Steel asked finally.

"Straight flush, Queen high." He started to reach for the chips.

Steel's mild, purring voice interrupted him. "_What suit?_"

For the first time that night Rafferty's composure left him. "C-Clubs,"
he stammered.

"Spades," Steel said sweetly, and put down the eight to Queen,
inclusive and consecutive.

It just didn't figure, Rafferty thought glumly. He wasn't as annoyed
over the wild improbability of two straight flushes the same hand as he
was because he had failed to guess Steel's facial reaction properly.
He'd been dead wrong.

He got wronger. Steel sat calmly without saying a word except when
necessary, and gobbled in the chips. It seemed to Rafferty that Steel
was reading his every move.

He was holding two pair, and played it big. Steel stayed right with
him, and when the payoff came:

"Three fours."

Three fours won. But Steel wouldn't have ridden that far on the trio
unless he knew pretty well that Rafferty didn't have much to show. He
seemed to _know_. And as the game progressed, he grew less and less
readable himself. It was a strange reversal for Rafferty, who was
accustomed to detect his opponent's idiosyncrasies within three deals
and to play them mercilessly from then on.

"Two kings," Rafferty said.

"Two aces."

Rafferty looked down at his pile of chips and counted them. Eight
hundred credits left. Eight hundred lousy credits.

It was just enough to book passage to Aldebaran. Rafferty slumped in
his chair.

The gambler in him urged him to go on, to try to win the thirty
thousand he needed and clear out. But another part of him told him
it was futile; Steel was getting sharper and sharper, and it was
inevitable he'd lose even the remaining eight hundred. He didn't want
that to happen.

He rose stiffly.

"Had enough?" Steel asked.

"I think so."

"I hope I haven't discouraged you. We can still play some more, if you
like?"

"What's the use?" Rafferty said hollowly. "I can't win. And at least
this way I'll be on Aldebaran tomorrow when Walsh and his gunmen come
looking for me."

"What's that?"

"Never mind." Rafferty turned away, scooping up his remaining chips.
He cashed them in and shambled out the door, still unable fully to
understand that for the first time in his life he had met his master
at the poker table.
