
Ruddle looked up. He blushed a little under the fine wild tendrils of
white hair. "Well, it's just that I'm rather valuable to society what
with my paper on intrareversible positrons still uncompleted. Whereas
everything points to the machine being a huge success, it's conceivable
that Dudderel considered some point which I've--er, overlooked."

"Meaning there's a chance I might not come back?"

"Uh--well, something like that. No danger, you understand. I've gone
over the formulae again and again and they are foolproof. It's just
barely possible that some minor error, some cube root that wasn't
brought out to the farthest decimal--"

The tramp put his hands in his pockets. "If'n that's so," he announced,
"I want that check before I leave. Not taking any chances on something
going wrong and you not paying me."

Professor Ruddle gulped. "Sure, Rubberneck," he said. "Sure."

"Gooseneck. How many times--Only make it out for my real first name.
It's--" the tramp's voice dropped to a whisper--"It's _Galahad_."

The physicist added a final scribble to the green paper rectangle,
ripped it out and handed it to McCarthy. Pay to the order of Galahad
McCarthy one hundred dollars and 00 cents. On the Beet and Tobacco
Exchange Bank of North Carolina.

Ruddle watched while the check was carefully placed in the outer breast
pocket of the ancient sweater. He picked up an expensive miniature
camera and hung its carrying strap around his employee's neck. "Now,
this is fully loaded. You sure you can operate the shutter? All you
do--"

"I know all right. Fooled around with these doohickeys before. Been
playing with this 'un for two days. You want me to step out of the
machine, take you a couple of snaps of the scenery--and move a rock."

"And nothing else! Remember, you're going back a hundred and ten
million years and any action on your part might have an incalculable
effect on the present. You might wipe out the whole human race by
stepping on one furry little animal who was its ancestor. I think that
moving a rock slightly will be a good first innocuous experiment, but
be careful!"

They moved toward the great transparent housing at the end of the
laboratory. Through its foot-thick walls, the red, black and silver
equipment in one corner shone hazily. An enormous lever protruded from
the maze of wiring like a metallic forefinger.

"You should arrive in the Cretaceous Period, the middle period of the
age of reptiles. Most of North America was under water, but geological
investigation shows an island on this spot."

"You been over this sixteen times. Just show me what dingus to pull and
let me go."

Ruddle executed a little dance that a student of modern ballet might
have called "Man with High Blood Pressure about to Blow his Top."

"Dingus!" he screeched. "You don't pull any dingus! You gently
depress--gently, you hear!--the chronotransit, that large black lever,
thus sliding the quartzine door shut and starting the machine. When you
arrive you lift it--again gently--and the door will open. The machine
is set to go back a given number of years, so that fortunately you have
no thinking to do."

McCarthy stared down at him easily. "You make a lot of cracks for a
little guy. I'll bet you're scared stiff of your wife."

"I'm not married," Ruddle told him shortly. "I don't believe in the
institution." He remembered. "Who was talking about marriage? At
a time like this.... When I think of allowing a stubborn, stupid
character like yourself to run loose with a device having the immense
potentialities of a time machine--Of course, I'm far too valuable to be
risked in the first jerry-built model."

"Yeah," McCarthy nodded. "Ain't it the truth." He patted the check
protruding from his sweater pocket and leaped up into the machine. "I'm
not."

He depressed the chronotransit lever--gently.

The door slid shut on Professor Ruddle's frantic last word, "Goodbye,
Turtleneck, and be _careful_, please!"

"Gooseneck," McCarthy automatically corrected. The machine seemed to
jerk. He had a last, distorted glimpse of Ruddle's shaggy white head
through the quartzine walls. The professor, alarm and doubt mixed on
his face, seemed to be praying.
