
Incredibly bright sunlight blazed through thick bluish clouds. The time
machine rested on the waterline of a beach to whose edge the lushest
jungle ever had rushed--and stopped abruptly. The semi-transparent
walls enabled him to see enormous green masses of horsetails and
convoluted ivy, giant ferns and luxuriant palms, steaming slightly,
rich and ominous with life.

"Lift the dingus _gently_," McCarthy murmured to himself.

He stepped through the open doors into an ankle-depth of water. The
tide was evidently in and white-flecked water gurgled around the base
of the squat edifice that had brought him. Well, Ruddle had said this
was going to be an island.

"Reckon I'm lucky he didn't build his laboratory shack fifty or sixty
feet further down the mountain!"

He sloshed ashore, avoiding a little school of dun-colored sponges.
The professor might like a picture of them, he decided. He adjusted
the speed of the lens and focused it on the sponges. Then a couple of
pictures of the sea and the jungle.

Huge, leathery wings beat over a spot two miles in from the edge of
the luxuriant vegetation. McCarthy recognized the awesome, bat-like
creature from drawings the professor had shown him. A Pterodactyl, the
reptilian version of bird life.

The tramp snapped a hasty photograph and backed nervously toward the
time machine. He didn't like the looks of that long pointed beak, so
ferociously armed with jagged teeth.

Some living thing moved in the jungle under the Pterodactyl. It
plummeted down like a fallen angel, jaws agape and slavering.

McCarthy made certain that it was being kept busy, then moved rapidly
up the beach. Near the edge of the jungle, he had observed a round
reddish rock. It would do.

The rock was heavier to budge than he had thought. He strained against
it, cursing and perspiring under the hot sun. His feet sank into the
clinging loam.

Abruptly the rock tore loose. With a sucking sound it came out of the
loam and rolled over on its side. It left a moist, round hole out of
which a centipede fully as long as his arm scuttled away into the
underbrush. A nauseous stink arose from the spot where the centipede
had lain. McCarthy decided he didn't like this place.

Might as well head back.

Before he depressed the lever, the tramp took one last look at the red
rock, the underside somewhat darker than the rest. A hundred bucks
worth of tilt.

"So this is what work is like," he soliloquized. "Maybe I been missing
out on something!"
