
After the rich sunlight of the Cretaceous, the laboratory seemed
smaller than he remembered it. The professor came up to him
breathlessly as he stepped from the time machine.

"How did it go?" he demanded eagerly.

McCarthy stared down at the top of the old man's head. "Everthin'
O.K.," he replied slowly. "Hey, Professor Ruddle, what for did you
go and shave your head? There wasn't much of it, but that white hair
looked sorta distinguished."

"Hair? Shave? I've been completely bald for years. Lost my hair long
before it turned white. And my name is Guggles, not Ruddle--_Guggles_:
try and remember that for a while. Now let me see the camera."

As he slipped the carrying strap over his head and handed the
instrument over, the tramp pursed his lips. "Coulda _sworn_ that you
had a little patch of white up there. Coulda sworn. Sorry about the
name, prof; we never seem to be able to get together on those things."

The professor grunted and started for the darkroom with the camera.
Halfway there, he stopped and almost cringed as a huge female form
stepped through the far doorway.

"Aloysius!" came a voice that approximated a corkscrew to the ear.
"Aloysius! I told you yesterday that if that tramp wasn't out of my
house in twenty-four hours, experiment or not, you'd hear from me.
Aloysius! You have exactly thirty-seven minutes!"

"Y-yes, dear," Professor Guggles whispered at her broad retreating
back. "We-we're almost finished."

"Who's that?" McCarthy demanded the moment she had left.

"My wife, of course. You must remember her--she made your breakfast
when you arrived."

"Didn't make my breakfast. Made my own breakfast. And you said you
weren't married!"

"Now you're being silly, Mr. Gallagher. I've been married for
twenty-five years and I know how futile it is to deny it. I couldn't
have said any such thing."

"Name's not Gallagher--it's McCarthy, Gooseneck McCarthy," the tramp
told him querulously. "What's happened here? You can't even remember
my last name now, let alone my first, you change your own name, you
shave your head, you get married in a hurry and--and you try 'n tell me
that I let some female woman cook my breakfast when I can rassle up a
better-tastin', better-eatin'--"

"Hold it!" The little man had approached and was plucking at his sleeve
eagerly. "Hold it, Mr. Gallagher or Gooseneck or whatever your name is.
Suppose you tell me exactly what you consider this place to have been
like before you left."

Gooseneck told him. "And that thingumajig was layin' _on_ that
whatchamacallit instead of under it," he finished lamely.

The professor thought. "And all you did--when you went back into the
past--was to move a rock?"

"That's all. One hell of a big centipede jumped out, but I didn't touch
it. Just moved the rock and headed back like you said."

"Yes, of course. H'mmm. That may have been it. The centipede jumping
out of the rock may have altered subsequent events sufficiently to make
me a married man instead of a blissful single one, to have changed my
name from Ruddle to Guggles. Or the rock itself. Such an intrinsically
simple act as moving the rock must have had much larger consequences
than I had imagined. Just think, if that rock had not been moved, I
might not be married! Gallagher--"

"McCarthy," the tramp corrected resignedly.

"Whatever you call yourself--listen to me. You're going back in the
time machine and shift that rock back to its original position. Once
that's done--"

"If I go back again, I get another hundred."

"How can you talk of money at a time like this?"

"What's the difference between this and any other time?"

"Why, here I am married, my work interrupted and you chatter about--Oh,
all right. Here's the money." The professor tore his checkbook out and
hastily scribbled on a blank. "Here you are. Satisfied?"

McCarthy puzzled over the check. "This isn't like t'other. This is on a
different bank--The Cotton Growers Exchange."

"That makes no important difference," the professor told him hastily,
bundling him into the time machine. "It's a check, isn't it? Just as
good, believe me, just as good."

As the little man fiddled with dials and adjusted switches, he called
over his shoulder. "Remember, get that rock as close to its original
position as you can. And touch nothing else, do nothing else."

"I know. I know. Hey, prof, how come I remember all these changes and
you don't, with all your science and all?"

"Simple," the professor told him, toddling briskly out of the machine.
"By being in the past and the time machine while these temporal
adjustments to your act made themselves felt, you were in a sense
insulated against them, just as a pilot suffers no direct, personal
damage from the bomb his plane releases over a city. Now, I've set
the machine to return to approximately the same moment as before.
Unfortunately, my chronotransit calibrations can never be sufficiently
exact--Do you remember how to operate the apparatus? If you don't--"

McCarthy sighed and depressed the lever, shutting the door on the
professor's flowing explanations and perspiring bald head.
