
He was back by the pounding surf off the little island. He paused for
a moment, before opening the door as he caught sight of a strange
transparent object just a little further up the beach. Another time
machine--and exactly like his!

"Oh, well. The professor will explain it!"

He started up the beach toward the rock. Then he stopped again--a
dead-stop this time.

The rock lay ahead, as he remembered it before the shifting. But there
was a man straining at it, _a tall, thin man in a turtleneck sweater
and brown, corduroy pants_.

McCarthy got his flapping jaw back under control. "Hey! Hey, you at the
rock! Don't move it. It's not supposed to be moved!" He hurried over.

The stranger turned. He had the ugliest face McCarthy remembered having
seen on a human being; his neck was ridiculously long and thin. He
examined McCarthy slowly. He reached into his pocket and came out with
a soiled package. He bit off a chaw of tobacco.

McCarthy reached into his pocket and came up with an identically soiled
mass of tobacco. He also took a bite. They chewed and stared at each
other. Then they spat, simultaneously.

"What do you mean this rock ain't supposed to be moved? Professor
Ruddle told me to move it."

"Well, Professor Ruddle told me _not_ to move it. _And_ Professor
Guggles," McCarthy added as a triumphant clincher.

The other considered him for a moment, his jaw working like a
peculiar cam. His eyes traveled up McCarthy's spare body. Then he spat
contemptuously and turned to the rock. He grunted against it.

McCarthy sighed and put a hand on his shoulder. He spun him around.
"What for you have to go and act so stubborn, fella? Now I'll have to
lick you."

Without changing his vacant expression to one of the slightest
hostility, the stranger aimed a prodigious kick at his groin. McCarthy
dodged easily. That was an old hobo trick! He chopped out rapidly
against the man's face. The stranger ducked, moved away and came back
fighting.

This was a perfect spot for the famous McCarthy one-two. McCarthy
feinted with his left, seemingly concentrating all his power at the
other's middle. He noticed that his opponent was also making some
awkward gesture with his left. Then he came up out of nowhere with a
terrific right uppercut.

WHAM!

Right on the--

--on the button. McCarthy sat up and shook his head clear of bright
little lights and happy hums. He had connected, but--

So had the other guy!

He sat several feet from McCarthy, looking dazed and sad. "You are the
stubbornest cuss I ever saw! Where did you learn my punch?"

"_Your_ punch!" They rose, glowering at each other. "Listen, bub, that
there is my _own_ Sunday punch, copyrighted, patented and incorporated!
But this ain't gettin' us nowhere."

"No, it ain't. What do we do now? I don't care if I have to fight you
for the next million years, but I was paid to move that rock and I'm
goin' to move it."

McCarthy shifted the quid of tobacco. "Looky here. You've been paid
to move that rock by Professor Ruddle or Guggles or whatever he is by
now. If I go back and get a note from him saying you're not to move
that rock and you can keep the check anyways, will you promise to squat
still until I get back?"

The stranger chewed and spat, chewed and spat. McCarthy marveled at
their perfect synchronization. They both spat the same distance,
too. He wasn't such a bad guy, if only he wouldn't be so stubborn!
Strange--he was wearing a camera like the one old Ruddle had taken
from him.

"O.K. You go back and get the note. I'll wait here." The stranger
dropped to the ground and stretched out.

McCarthy turned and hurried back to the time machine before he could
change his mind.
