
But she was stunned by the first sight of herself in the mirror the
next morning. There was no mistaking it this time. She was as green
as grass, and Dora, too, was beginning to show signs of becoming that
unbecoming color.

Reluctantly, Dora conceded that it might not be the diet, after all.
She hadn't been there long enough for it to have that much effect.

Robert and Bobby were still shockingly normal.

"What--whatever can it be?" Helen asked shakily, holding out her green
hands. The only answer was hysterical screaming that sent them all
racing to the front door.

The Raymonds lived in a typical California court, with four small
houses facing four other small houses across a central walk that ran at
right angles to the street. On this walk most of the tenants were now
gathered, and the Raymonds and Dora joined them.

Helen didn't know whether to feel relieved or more dismayed when she
saw that all the women and girls were as green as she, and just as
terrified.

Someone, of course, had called the police, and a prowl car hummed to a
stop at the curb. A harrassed, white-faced policeman leaned out of the
window.

"We're doing all we can," he called. "It's like this all over town.
Don't know yet what caused it, but we're investigating." The car sped
away.

It was soon apparent that only Mimosa Beach was affected. Why, no one
could guess. Some said it was all a publicity stunt of some kind,
advertising a movie or television show, or a chlorophyll product,
perhaps, but they couldn't explain how it worked, or why only women and
girls were affected. And how could it possibly help sell anything?

Overnight, Mimosa Beach became famous, and infested with reporters and
color photographers, all male. There would have been a mass exodus if
there had been any place to go. But other communities, fearing that
their womenfolk would "catch" the greenness, like measles, refused to
let them in. Besides, in Mimosa Beach they had the dubious comfort of
all being alike, while elsewhere they would have been freaks.

There was so little they could do to make themselves look attractive.
The cosmetics they had or that were available were all wrong. But they
did the best they could, though there was no hiding that ghastly green
complexion.

"What a shame your hair isn't red," Dora said one day to Helen. "Amy
Olson, now, her hair really goes with green skin." Cocking her head
to one side, she studied the younger woman intently. "Your hair--that
mousy brown--wonder if we couldn't touch it up just a _wee_ bit?"

Helen clenched her teeth against the coy, criticizing voice. "I'm not
the flamboyant type," she said.

Dora was as green as Helen by this time, and it certainly wasn't a bit
more becoming to her. She seemed to be enjoying the publicity, though.
Besides, it gave her a good excuse for not leaving.

If only the greenness had come before Dora--they might have been spared
_one_ calamity!
