
During the next few weeks, Dora had plenty of chance to feel superior.
Other unmarried girls and women besides Patricia became pregnant and,
like Patricia, they insisted no man was responsible. But they were not
complacent about it the way Patricia was; to them it was an indignity
they did not deserve.

"What's this town coming to, anyway?" Dora demanded.

"Parthenogenetic births, maybe?" Helen ventured. "No one would have
believed that we'd turn green, but we did. Honestly, Dora, I'm getting
so I'd believe almost anything in this nightmare existence of ours,
even that _you_ were about to have a baby!"

"That," Dora rejoined acidly, "is not at all likely. But are you trying
to imply that our turning green could have something to do with these
shameful births?"

"I didn't say that, but you could be right."

"Hmmph!" Dora snorted. "A lot of nonsense!"

The four girls were in the Raymonds' living room one afternoon, a week
later, talking with Helen, when Dora, who had been feeling ill and had
gone to the doctor's, walked in. She glared at the four girls.

"I'm going to have a baby," she accused them.

Helen drew her breath in sharply. "Oh, no! Not you, too!"

"Of course," Clara Ford said complacently. "Every one have babies.
Except Robert and Bobby and the ones like them. Jack and Mary and I
have ours before we leave Venus. Have only one each, of course."

"But why am _I_ like this? How can _I_ have a baby this way?" Dora's
voice was shrill with anger and panic.

"How else?" Jack asked calmly.

A little chill of horror raced down Helen's spine. Could these odd
girls really be telling the truth? Were they from Venus, as they
insisted? She could just imagine them coming to Earth--on a Flying
Saucer, maybe--listening to the radio to learn the language. Spying on
us, but not learning as much as they thought they did. She choked off a
giggle, an incipient hysteria, as another thought struck her.

"Will _I_ have one of those--those--?"

"You already have baby," Patricia said. "Can't see how you have baby
before we come with faneweed to make you green."

Helen and Dora stared at her.

"You mean," Helen finally was able to ask, "that that weed caused all
this? That little weed?"

"But that is what we tell you all along, only you always walk away
angry."
