
Number One was radiating fury as he stalked heavily down the corridors
of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. On the surface, his face
displayed nothing--which meant nothing. There was simply a raging aura
of trouble.

Veljko Gosnjak, posted with one other before the office of Aleksander
Kardelj, winced when he saw the Party head approaching. He muttered
from the side of his mouth, "Watch out. He's on a rampage. In this
mood, he'd as well set you to filling salt shakers in the Nairebis
mines as...."

But Zoran Jankez was now near enough that he might hear, and Veljko
Gosnjak cut himself off abruptly and came to even stiffer attention.

Number One ignored them both and pushed on through the door.

Even as his right-hand man looked up from his work, Jankez was
growling ominously. "Do you know the latest from that brain-wave
experiment?"

Kardelj was close enough to the other personally to at least pretend
lack of awe. He grinned and said, "You mean young Josip? Sit down,
Zoran. A drink?"

The Number Two Party man swiveled slightly and punched out a code on a
series of buttons. Almost immediately, an area of approximately one
square foot sank down from the upper right-hand corner of his desk, to
rise again bearing two chilled glasses.

Jankez snorted his anger but took up one of the glasses. "These
everlasting gadgets from the West," he growled. "One of these days,
this confounded desk of yours will give you an electric shock that
will set me to looking for a new assistant." He threw the contents of
the glass back over his palate. "If I don't start looking before that
time," he added ominously.

However, he savored the drink, then put down the glass, pursed his
lips and rumbled, "Where do you get this excellent slivovka,
Aleksander?"

Kardelj sipped part of his own drink. He said lightly, "That is the
only secret I keep from you, Zoran. However, I will give you this
hint. Its proper name is sljivovica, rather than slivovka. It does
not come from Slovenia. I am afraid, once you know its origin, I will
no longer be of use to you."

He laughed again. "But what is it that young Josip has done?"

His superior's face resumed its dark expression. He growled, "You know
Velimir Crvenkovski, of course."

Kardelj raised scanty eyebrows. "Of course, Vice chairman of the
Secretariat of Agriculture."

Zoran Jankez had lowered his clumsy bulk into a chair. Now he said
heavily, his voice dangerous. "Velimir and I were partisans together.
It was I who converted him to the Party, introduced him to the works
of Lenin while we squatted in foxholes in Macenegro."

"Of course," the other repeated. "I know the story very well. A good
Party man, Comrade Crvenkovski, never failing to vote with you in
meetings of the Executive Committee."

"Yes," Jankez growled ominously. "And your precious Josip Pekic, your
expediter, has removed him from his position as supreme presider of
agriculture in Bosnatia."

Aleksander Kardelj cleared his throat. "I have just been reading the
account. It would seem that production has fallen off considerably in
the past five years in Bosnatia. Ah, Comrade Crvenkovski evidently had
brought to his attention that wild life in the countryside,
particularly birds, accounted for the loss of hundreds of thousands of
tons of cereals and other produce annually."

"A well-known fact," Jankez rasped. He finished what remained of his
drink, and reached forward to punch out the order for a fresh one.
"What has that got to do with this pipsqueak using the confounded
powers you invested him with to dismiss one of the best Party men in
Transbalkania?"

His right-hand man had not failed to note that he was now being given
full credit for the expediter idea. He said, still cheerfully,
however, "It would seem that Comrade Crvenkovski issued top priority
orders to kill off, by whatever means possible, all birds. Shotguns,
poison, nets were issued by the tens of thousands to the peasants."

"_Well?_" his superior said ominously. "Obviously, Velimir was clear
minded enough to see the saving in gross production."

"Um-m-m," Kardelj said placatingly. "However, he failed to respond to
the warnings of our agriculturists who have studied widely in the
West. It seems as though the balance of nature calls for the presence
of wildlife, and particularly birds. The increase in destructive
insects has more than counterbalanced the amount of cereals the birds
once consumed. Ah, Zoran," he said with a wry smile, "I would suggest
we find another position for Comrade Crvenkovski."
