
The knock came at the door in the middle of the night as Aleksander
Kardelj had always thought it would.

From those early days of his Party career, when his ambitions had
sent him climbing, pushing, tripping up others, on his way to the top,
he had expected it eventually.

Oh, his had been a different approach, on the surface, an easygoing,
laughing, gentler approach than one usually connected with members of
the Secretariat of the Executive Committee of the Party, but it made
very little difference in the very long view. When one fell from the
heights, he fell just as hard, whether or not he was noted for his
sympathetic easy humor.

The fact was, Aleksander Kardelj was not asleep when the fist pounded
at his door shortly after midnight. He had but recently turned off,
with a shaking hand, the Telly-Phone, after a less than pleasant
conversation with President of the United Balkan Soviet Republics,
Zoran Jankez.

For the past ten years, Kardelj had been able to placate Zoran Jankez,
even though Number One be at the peak of one of his surly rages, rages
which seemed to be coming with increasing frequency of late. As the
socio-economic system of the People's Democratic Dictatorship became
increasingly complicated, as industrialization with its modern
automation mushroomed in a geometric progression, the comparative
simplicity of governing which applied in the past, was strictly of
yesteryear. It had been one thing, rifle and grenades in hand, to
seize the government, after a devastating war in which the nation had
been leveled, and even to maintain it for a time, over illiterate
peasants and unskilled proletarians. But industrialization calls for a
highly educated element of scientists and technicians, nor does it
stop there. One of sub-mentality can operate a shovel in a field, or
even do a simple operation on an endless assembly line in a factory.
But practically all workers must be highly skilled workers in the age
of automation, and there is little room for the illiterate. The
populace of the People's Dictatorship was no longer a dumb, driven
herd, and their problems were no longer simple ones.

Yes, Number One was increasingly subject to his rages these days. It
was Aleksander Kardelj's deepest belief that Jankez was finding
himself out of his depth. He no longer was capable of understanding
the problems which his planning bodies brought to his attention. And
he who is confused, be he ditchdigger or dictator, is a man
emotionally upset.

Zoran Jankez's face had come onto the Telly-Phone screen already
enraged. He had snapped to his right-hand man, "Kardelj! Do you
realize what that ... that idiot of yours has been up to now?"

Inwardly, Kardelj had winced. His superior had been mountingly
difficult of late, and particularly these past few days. He said now,
cajolingly, "Zoran, I--"

"Don't call me Zoran, Kardelj! And please preserve me from your
sickening attempts to fawn, in view of your treacherous
recommendations of recent months." He was so infuriated that his heavy
jowls shook.

Kardelj had never seen him this furious. He said placatingly, "Comrade
Jankez, I had already come to the conclusion that I should consult you
on the desirability of revoking this young troublemaker's credentials
and removing him from the--"

"I am not interested in what you were _going_ to do, Kardelj. I am
already in the process of ending this traitor's activities. I should
have known, when you revealed he was the son of Ljubo Pekic, that he
was an enemy of the State, deep within. I know the Pekic blood. It was
I who put Ljubo to the question. Stubborn, wrong headed, a vicious foe
of the revolution. And his son takes after him."

Kardelj had enough courage left to say, "Comrade, it would seem to me
that young Pekic is a tanglefoot, but not a conscious traitor. I--"

"Don't call me comrade, Kardelj!" Number One roared. "I know your
inner motivation. The reason you brought this agent provocateur, this
Trotskyite wrecker, to this position of ridiculous power. The two of
you are in conspiracy to undermine my authority. This will be brought
before the Secretariat of the Executive Committee, Kardelj. You've
gone too far, this time!"

[Illustration]

Aleksander Kardelj had his shortcomings but he was no coward. He said,
wryly, "Very well, sir. But would you tell me what Josip Pekic has
done now? My office has had no report on him for some time."

"What he has done! You fool, you traitorous fool, have you kept no
record at all? He has been in the Macedonian area where my virgin
lands program has been in full swing."

Kardelj cleared his throat at this point.

Jankez continued roaring. "The past three years, admittedly, the
weather has been such, the confounded rains failing to arrive on
schedule, that we have had our troubles. But this fool! This
blundering traitorous idiot!"

"What has he done?" Kardelj asked, intrigued in spite of his position
of danger.

"For all practical purposes he's ordered the whole program reversed.
Something about a sandbowl developing, whatever that is supposed to
mean. Something about introducing contour plowing, whatever nonsense
that is. And even reforesting some areas. Some nonsense about
watersheds. He evidently has blinded and misled the very men I had in
charge. They are supporting him, openly."

Jankez, Kardelj knew, had been a miner as a youth, with no experience
whatsoever on the soil. However, the virgin lands project had been his
pet. He envisioned hundreds upon thousands of square miles of maize,
corn as the Americans called it. This in turn would feed vast herds of
cattle and swine so that ultimately the United Balkan Soviet Republics
would have the highest meat consumption in the world.

Number One was raging on. Something about a conspiracy on the part of
those who surrounded him. A conspiracy to overthrow him, Zoran Jankez,
and betray the revolution to the Western powers, but he, Zoran Jankez,
had been through this sort of plot before. He, Zoran Jankez, knew the
answers to such situations.

Aleksander Kardelj grinned humorously, wryly, and reached to flick off
the screen. He twisted a cigarette into the small pipelike holder, lit
it and waited for the inevitable.

It was shortly after that the knock came on his door.
