
The door was of heavy stained oak, with bold letters edged in gold:

       TITANIUM WORKERS
          OF AMERICA
      Amalgamated Locals
 Daniel P. Torkleson, Secretary

The secretary flipped down the desk switch and eyed Walter with pity.
"Mr. Torkleson will see you."

Walter pushed through the door into the long, handsome office. For an
instant he felt a pang of nostalgia--the floor-to-ceiling windows
looking out across the long buildings of the Robling plant, the pine
paneling, the broad expanse of desk--

"Well? Don't just stand there. Shut the door and come over here." The
man behind the desk hoisted his three hundred well-dressed pounds and
glared at Walter from under flagrant eyebrows. Torkleson's whole body
quivered as he slammed a sheaf of papers down on the desk. "Just what do
you think you're doing with this company, Towne?"

Walter swallowed. "I'm production manager of the corporation."

"And just what does the production manager _do_ all day?"

Walter reddened. "He organizes the work of the plant, establishes
production lines, works with Promotion and Sales, integrates Research
and Development, operates the planning machines."

"And you think you do a pretty good job of it, eh? Even asked for a
raise last year!" Torkleson's voice was dangerous.

Walter spread his hands. "I do my best. I've been doing it for thirty
years. I should know what I'm doing."

"_Then how do you explain these reports?_" Torkleson threw the heap of
papers into Walter's arms, and paced up and down behind the desk.
"_Look_ at them! Sales at rock bottom. Receipts impossible. Big orders
canceled. The worst reports in seven years, and you say you know your
job!"

"I've been doing everything I could," Walter snapped. "Of course the
reports are bad, they couldn't help but be. We haven't met a production
schedule in over two years. No plant can keep up production the way the
men are working."

Torkleson's face darkened. He leaned forward slowly. "So it's the _men_
now, is it? Go ahead. Tell me what's wrong with the men."

"Nothing's wrong with the men--if they'd only work. But they come in
when they please, and leave when they please, and spend half their time
changing and the other half on Koffee-Kup. No company could survive
this. But that's only half of it--" Walter searched through the reports
frantically. "This International Jet Transport account--they dropped us
because we haven't had a new engine in six years. Why? Because Research
and Development hasn't had any money for six years. What can two starved
engineers and a second rate chemist drag out of an attic laboratory for
competition in the titanium market?" Walter took a deep breath. "I've
warned you time and again. Robling had built up accounts over the years
with fine products and new models. But since the switchover seven years
ago, you and your board have forced me to play the cheap products for
the quick profit in order to give your men their dividends. Now the
bottom's dropped out. We couldn't turn a quick profit on the big,
important accounts, so we had to cancel them. If you had let me manage
the company the way it should have been run--"

Torkleson had been slowly turning purple. Now he slammed his fist down
on the desk. "We should just turn the company back to Management again,
eh? Just let you have a free hand to rob us blind again. Well, it won't
work, Towne. Not while I'm secretary of this union. We fought long and
hard for control of this corporation, just the way all the other unions
did. I know. I was through it all." He sat back smugly, his cheeks
quivering with emotion. "You might say that I was a national leader in
the movement. But I did it only for the men. The men want their
dividends. They own the stock, stock is supposed to pay dividends."

"But they're cutting their own throats," Walter wailed. "You can't build
a company and make it grow the way I've been forced to run it."

"Details!" Torkleson snorted. "I don't care _how_ the dividends come in.
That's your job. My job is to report a dividend every six months to the
men who own the stock, the men working on the production lines."

Walter nodded bitterly. "And every year the dividend has to be higher
than the last, or you and your fat friends are likely to be thrown out
of your jobs--right? No more steaks every night. No more private
gold-plated Buicks for you boys. No more twenty-room mansions in
Westchester. No more big game hunting in the Rockies. No, you don't have
to know anything but how to whip a board meeting into a frenzy so
they'll vote you into office again each year."

Torkleson's eyes glittered. His voice was very soft. "I've always liked
you, Walter. So I'm going to pretend I didn't hear you." He paused, then
continued. "But here on my desk is a small bit of white paper. Unless
you have my signature on that paper on the first of next month, you are
out of a job, on grounds of incompetence. And I will personally see that
you go on every White list in the country."

Walter felt the fight go out of him like a dying wind. He knew what the
White list meant. No job, anywhere, ever, in management. No chance,
ever, to join a union. No more house, no more weekly pay envelope. He
spread his hands weakly. "What do you want?" he asked.

"I want a production plan on my desk within twenty-four hours. A plan
that will guarantee me a five per cent increase in dividends in the next
six months. And you'd better move fast, because I'm not fooling."
