
"It's ridiculous," the lawyer spluttered, staring at the circle of men
in the room. "How can I give you an opinion on the legality of the
thing? There isn't any legal precedent that I know of." He mopped his
bald head with a large white handkerchief. "There just hasn't _been_ a
case of a company's management striking against its own labor. It--it
isn't done. Oh, there have been lockouts, but this isn't the same thing
at all."

Walter nodded. "Well, we couldn't very well lock the men out, they own
the plant. We were thinking more of a lock-_in_ sort of thing." He
turned to Paul Hendricks and the others. "We know how the machines
operate. They don't. We also know that the data we keep in the machines
is essential to running the business; the machines figure production
quotas, organize blueprints, prepare distribution lists, test promotion
schemes. It would take an office full of managerial experts to handle
even a single phase of the work without the machines."

The man at the window hissed, and Pendleton quickly snapped out the
lights. They sat in darkness, hardly daring to breathe. Then: "Okay.
Just the man next door coming home."

Pendleton sighed. "You're sure you didn't let them suspect anything,
Walter? They wouldn't be watching the house?"

"I don't think so. And you all came alone, at different times." He
nodded to the window guard, and turned back to the lawyer. "So we can't
be sure of the legal end. You'd have to be on your toes."

"I still don't see how we could work it," Hendricks objected. His heavy
face was wrinkled with worry. "Torkleson is no fool, and he has a lot of
power in the National Association of Union Stockholders. All he'd need
to do is ask for managers, and a dozen companies would throw them to him
on loan. They'd be able to figure out the machine system and take over
without losing a day."

"Not quite." Walter was grinning. "That's why I spoke of a lock-in.
Before we leave, we throw the machines into feedback, every one of them.
Lock them into reverberating circuits with a code sequence key. Then all
they'll do is buzz and sputter until the feedback is broken with the
key. And the key is our secret. It'll tie the Robling office into granny
knots, and scabs won't be able to get any more data out of the machines
than Torkleson could. With a lawyer to handle injunctions, we've got
them strapped."

"For what?" asked the lawyer.

Walter turned on him sharply. "For new contracts. Contracts to let us
manage the company the way it should be managed. If they won't do it,
they won't get another Titanium product off their production lines for
the rest of the year, and their dividends will _really_ take a
nosedive."

"That means you'll have to beat Torkleson," said Bates. "He'll never go
along."

"Then he'll be left behind."

Hendricks stood up, brushing off his dungarees. "I'm with you, Walter.
I've taken all of Torkleson that I want to. And I'm sick of the junk
we've been trying to sell people."

The others nodded. Walter rubbed his hands together. "All right.
Tomorrow we work as usual, until the noon whistle. When we go off for
lunch, we throw the machines into lock-step. Then we just don't come
back. But the big thing is to keep it quiet until the noon whistle." He
turned to the lawyer. "Are you with us, Jeff?"

Jeff Bates shook his head sadly. "I'm with you. I don't know why, you
haven't got a leg to stand on. But if you want to commit suicide, that's
all right with me." He picked up his briefcase, and started for the
door. "I'll have your contract demands by tomorrow," he grinned. "See
you at the lynching."

They got down to the details of planning.
