
Torkleson was waiting to see the shop steward when he came in next
morning. The union boss's office was crowded with TV cameras, newsmen,
and puzzled workmen. The floor was littered with piles of
ominous-looking paper. Torkleson was shouting into a telephone, and
three lawyers were shouting into Torkleson's ear. He spotted Bailey and
waved him through the crowd into an inner office room. "Well? Did they
get them fixed?"

Bailey spread his hands nervously. "The electronics boys have been at it
since yesterday afternoon. Practically had the machines apart on the
floor."

"I know that, stupid," Torkleson roared. "I ordered them there. Did they
get the machines _fixed_?"

"Uh--well, no, as a matter of fact--"

"Well, _what's holding them up_?"

Bailey's face was a study in misery. "The machines just go in circles.
The circuits are locked. They just reverberate."

"Then call American Electronics. Have them send down an expert crew."

Bailey shook his head. "They won't come."

"They _what_?"

"They said thanks, but no thanks. They don't want their fingers in this
pie at all."

"Wait until I get O'Gilvy on the phone."

"It won't do any good, sir. They've got their own management troubles.
They're scared silly of a sympathy strike."

The door burst open, and a lawyer stuck his head in. "What about those
injunctions, Dan?"

"Get them moving," Torkleson howled. "They'll start those machines
again, or I'll have them in jail so fast--" He turned back to Bailey.
"What about the production lines?"

The shop steward's face lighted. "They slipped up, there. There was one
program that hadn't been coded into the machines yet. Just a minor item,
but it's a starter. We found it in Towne's desk, blueprints all ready,
promotion all planned."

"Good, good," Torkleson breathed. "I have a directors' meeting right
now, have to get the workers quieted down a bit. You put the program
through, and give those electronics men three more hours to unsnarl this
knot, or we throw them out of the union." He started for the door. "What
were the blueprints for?"

"Trash cans," said Bailey. "Pure titanium-steel trash cans."

It took Robling Titanium approximately two days to convert its entire
production line to titanium-steel trash cans. With the total resources
of the giant plant behind the effort, production was phenomenal. In two
more days the available markets were glutted. Within two weeks, at a
conservative estimate, there would be a titanium-steel trash can for
every man, woman, child, and hound dog on the North American continent.
The jet engines, structural steels, tubing, and other pre-strike
products piled up in the freight yards, their routing slips and order
requisitions tied up in the reverberating machines.

But the machines continued to buzz and sputter.

The workers grew restive. From the first day, Towne and Hendricks and
all the others had been picketing the plant, until angry crowds of
workers had driven them off with shotguns. Then they came back in an
old, weatherbeaten 'copter which hovered over the plant entrance
carrying a banner with a plaintive message: ROBLING TITANIUM UNFAIR TO
MANAGEMENT. Tomatoes were hurled, fists were shaken, but the 'copter
remained.

The third day, Jeff Bates was served with an injunction ordering Towne
to return to work. It was duly appealed, legal machinery began tying
itself in knots, and the strikers still struck. By the fifth day there
was a more serious note.

"You're going to have to appear, Walter. We can't dodge this one."

"When?"

"Tomorrow morning. And before a labor-rigged judge, too." The little
lawyer paced his office nervously. "I don't like it. Torkleson's getting
desperate. The workers are putting pressure on him."

Walter grinned. "Then Pendleton is doing a good job of selling."

"But you haven't got _time_," the lawyer wailed. "They'll have you in
jail if you don't start the machines again. They may have you in jail if
you _do_ start them, too, but that's another bridge. Right now they want
those machines going again."

"We'll see," said Walter. "What time tomorrow?"

"Ten o'clock." Bates looked up. "And don't try to skip. You be there,
because _I_ don't know what to tell them."

Walter was there a half hour early. Torkleson's legal staff glowered
from across the room. The judge glowered from the bench. Walter closed
his eyes with a little smile as the charges were read: "--breach of
contract, malicious mischief, sabotage of the company's machines,
conspiring to destroy the livelihood of ten thousand workers. Your
Honor, we are preparing briefs to prove further that these men have
formed a conspiracy to undermine the economy of the entire nation. We
appeal to the spirit of orderly justice--"

Walter yawned as the words went on.

"Of course, if the defendant will waive his appeals against the previous
injunctions, and will release the machines that were sabotaged, we will
be happy to formally withdraw these charges."

There was a rustle of sound through the courtroom. His Honor turned to
Jeff Bates. "Are you counsel for the defendant?"

"Yes, sir." Bates mopped his bald scalp. "The defendant pleads guilty to
all counts."

The union lawyer dropped his glasses on the table with a crash. The
judge stared. "Mr. Bates, if you plead guilty, you leave me no
alternative--"

"--but to send me to jail," said Walter Towne. "Go ahead. Send me to
jail. In fact, I _insist_ upon going to jail."

The union lawyer's jaw sagged. There was a hurried conference. A recess
was pleaded. Telephones buzzed. Then: "Your Honor, the plaintiff desires
to withdraw all charges at this time."

"Objection," Bates exclaimed. "We've already pleaded."

"--feel sure that a settlement can be effected out of court--"

The case was thrown out on its ear.

And still the machines sputtered.
