
Back at the plant rumor had it that the machines were permanently
gutted, and that the plant could never go back into production.
Conflicting scuttlebutt suggested that persons high in uniondom had
perpetrated the crisis deliberately, bullying Management into the strike
for the sole purpose of cutting current dividends and selling stock to
themselves cheaply. The rumors grew easier and easier to believe. The
workers came to the plants in business suits, it was true, and lounged
in the finest of lounges, and read the _Wall Street Journal_, and felt
like stockholders. But to face facts, their salaries were not the
highest. Deduct union dues, pension fees, medical insurance fees, and
sundry other little items which had formerly been paid by well-to-do
managements, and very little was left but the semi-annual dividend
checks. And now the dividends were tottering.

Production lines slowed. There were daily brawls on the plant floor, in
the lounge and locker rooms. Workers began joking about the trash cans;
then the humor grew more and more remote. Finally, late in the afternoon
of the eighth day, Bailey was once again in Torkleson's office.

"Well? Speak up! What's the beef this time?"

"Sir--the men--I mean, there's been some nasty talk. They're tired of
making trash cans. No challenge in it. Anyway, the stock room is full,
and the freight yard is full, and the last run of orders we sent out
came back because nobody wants any more trash cans." Bailey shook his
head. "The men won't swallow it any more. There's--well, there's been
talk about having a board meeting."

Torkleson's ruddy cheeks paled. "Board meeting, huh?" He licked his
heavy lips. "Now look, Bailey, we've always worked well together. I
consider you a good friend of mine. You've got to get things under
control. Tell the men we're making progress. Tell them Management is
beginning to weaken from its original stand. Tell them we expect to have
the strike broken in another few hours. Tell them anything."

He waited until Bailey was gone. Then, with a trembling hand he lifted
the visiphone receiver. "Get me Walter Towne," he said.
