
The meeting was held in a huge auditorium in the Robling administration
building. Since every member of the union owned stock in the company,
every member had the right to vote for members of the board of
directors. But in the early days of the switchover, the idea of a board
of directors smacked too strongly of the old system of corporate
organization to suit the men. The solution had been simple, if a trifle
ungainly. Everyone who owned stock in Robling Titanium was automatically
a member of the board of directors, with Torkleson as chairman of the
board. The stockholders numbered over ten thousand.

They were all present. They were packed in from the wall to the stage,
and hanging from the rafters. They overflowed into the corridors. They
jammed the lobby. Ten thousand men rose with a howl of anger when Walter
Towne walked out on the stage. But they quieted down again as Dan
Torkleson started to speak.

It was a masterful display of rabble-rousing. Torkleson paced the stage,
his fat body shaking with agitation, pointing a chubby finger again and
again at Walter Towne. He pranced and he ranted. He paused at just the
right times for thunderous peals of applause.

"This morning in my office we offered to compromise with these jackals,"
he cried, "and they rejected compromise. Even at the cost of lowering
dividends, of taking food from the mouths of your wives and children, we
made our generous offers. They were rejected with scorn. These thieves
have one desire in mind, my friends, to starve you all, and to destroy
your company and your jobs. To every appeal they heartlessly refused to
divulge the key to the lock-in. And now this man--the ringleader who
keeps the key word buried in secrecy--has the temerity to ask an
audience with you. You're angry men; you want to know the man to blame
for our hardship."

He pointed to Towne with a flourish. "I give you your man. Do what you
want with him."

The hall exploded in angry thunder. The first wave of men rushed onto
the stage as Walter stood up. A tomato whizzed past his ear and
splattered against the wall. More men clambered up on the stage,
shouting and shaking their fists.

Then somebody appeared with a rope.

Walter gave a sharp nod to the side of the stage. Abruptly the roar of
the men was drowned in another sound--a soul-rending, teeth-grating,
bone-rattling screech. The men froze, jaws sagging, eyes wide, hardly
believing their ears. In the instant of silence as the factory whistle
died away, Walter grabbed the microphone. "You want the code word to
start the machines again? I'll give it to you before I sit down!"

The men stared at him, shuffling, a murmur rising. Torkleson burst to
his feet. "It's a trick!" he howled. "Wait 'til you hear their price."

"We have no price, and no demands," said Walter Towne. "We will _give_
you the code word, and we ask nothing in return but that you listen for
sixty seconds." He glanced back at Torkleson, and then out to the crowd.
"You men here are an electing body--right? You own this great plant and
company, top to bottom--right? _You should all be rich_, because Robling
could make you rich. But not one of you out there is rich. Only the fat
ones on this stage are. But I'll tell you how _you_ can be rich."

They listened. Not a peep came from the huge hall. Suddenly, Walter
Towne was talking their language.

"You think that since you own the company, times have changed. Well,
have they? Are you any better off than you were? Of course not. Because
you haven't learned yet that oppression by either side leads to misery
for both. You haven't learned moderation. And you never will, until you
throw out the ones who have fought moderation right down to the last
ditch. You know whom I mean. You know who's grown richer and richer
since the switchover. Throw him out, and you too can be rich." He paused
for a deep breath. "You want the code word to unlock the machines? All
right, I'll give it to you."

He swung around to point a long finger at the fat man sitting there.
"The code word is TORKLESON!"
