
Scarcely glancing to his right at the lake that lay calm in the hazy
twilight, Woodard drove behind Nodus and company. Hi-fi indeed!
Torturous device of a science-ridden culture--how had he let himself
in for the evening ahead? Why had he permitted this trespass upon his
privacy? But when, after some eight miles, the convertible ahead slowed
and signalled for a left, he checked the impulse to keep going on
around the lake and back to the hotel. Nodus would think him crazy. He
would think it aloud in the dining room--ostensibly to the deferential
genies, the man and woman who were vacationing with him; but he would
think it in a voice that carried.

Woodard pulled up beside the other car in the fir-fringed clearing.

Nodus stood waiting with his two shadows. "Russ will take you to the
studio," he said briskly. "The girl and I will be along in a minute."
He chuckled, his eyes scanning Woodard's face. "No neighbors _here_ to
raise a fuss. No knocking--no kicks or squawks...."

Only from me, Woodard thought, following the leader to a two-car garage
some distance from the cottage. Inside, Russ slid shut the door, then
flipped a switch that lighted half a dozen table lamps of the beaded
fringe variety. Woodard stared in amazement. Heavily carpeted with
scatter rugs, the place was walled and ceilinged with fiber-board.
On three walls, including the door side, were stuck triple rows of
ornamental covers from long-playing records. Running the length of the
fourth wall, left of the entrance, a counter rose waist-high, its side
hung solid with more record covers. On the left end of this counter was
an elaborate system of dialled boxes which Woodard summed up vaguely as
player, amplifiers, filters, and so on; on the right, eight open wood
boxes of records. On the center of that wall was a large clock with
a sweep second hand. Directly beneath, an empty rack of record cover
size, beside which a neatly printed sign read "NOW PLAYING".

"Quite amazing," Woodard remarked truthfully. "Well...." He dropped
into the center of three chairs right-angling the dial boxes. "Might as
well sit."

But Russ, who had been smiling dreamily, was suddenly agitated. He
shook his head. He opened and shut his mouth like a fish. As Woodard
felt his poise threatened, the door slid open. Nodus entered, preceding
Miss--Miss--But her name hadn't ever been mentioned.

Seeing where Woodard sat, he frowned. "No, no," he said. "That won't
do. You'll be better off...."

Woodard repeated, "I'm utterly amazed by all this."

Nodus' expression softened. "It's a garage, as you can see. Four hours
at the start of the summer to convert it to a sound-room. Three and a
half hours, at the end, to reconvert it. On the nose in both instances.
Half-hour discrepancy there. We're working on that."

Woodard understood that "we" included the pair, whose life currents
evidently flowed from the master's battery.

"Job's all broken down," said Nodus. "I do certain things, Russ does
certain things. The girl"--She bridled as he jerked an elbow toward
her.--"does her little chores."

The girl! Would she see fifty again? But Woodard felt himself wanting
to placate, a sensation both new and unpleasant. "The details must be
very interesting," he said weakly.

Nodus' face had gone stern again. "--won't do," he back-tracked curtly.
"You'll be better off over there." He indicated a lone chair directly
opposite the "NOW PLAYING" sign. "Acoustically speaking, the most
effective location in the studio." Clinical and considered, his tone
brooked no protest. Woodard stumbled embarrassedly to the chair. "You
can see," Nodus stated, "if you look down, all the chalk marks where
we've experimented with positions."

And Woodard did see: dozens of white marks on the rug around the chair
legs, close together as if fractions of an inch were vital.
