
As Nodus moved to the dial boxes, Russ and the girl dropped like
wraiths into chairs: she nearest Woodard, he in the middle, leaving the
place by the apparatus for Nodus. Woodard thought: God, but he has this
worked out! He's a tyrant, a baby-faced ogre. And these two goops are
in bondage to him.

It came to him that Nodus was curiously untanned for a devotee of
swimming.

"What do you weigh, Woodard?"

"Why----oh----one-sixty, I guess...."

Nodus nodded. "Near enough." He selected a record from the box nearest
him. "People always like a few effects before the concert," he said.
"Preliminaries." His expert hand pressed a switch and turned some
dials. The room was filled with a rasping hum. Now Woodard saw what
he hadn't noticed before: in the far corner, back of the counter, an
unlighted cavernous area; and in its center, black-draped like an
oracle of doom, the speaker system.

Russ and the girl looked dismayed even before Nodus snapped, "Oh-oh!
Something's not right! Russ--go outside and check the grounding." He
pulled Russ to him and whispered. Russ nodded and slipped quietly out.

I could still go, Woodard thought. The hell with any stories he'd
spread. I'd.... But the girl was staring at him, serene and knowing as
if she read thoughts.

The rasp ceased and the room went still. After a few minutes, Russ
entered and took his seat by the girl.

Now Nodus assumed a pedagogical stance, a platform manner. "This," he
said, holding the player arm poised above the whirling record, "is
the Victoria Falls--Zambesi River--taken at 78 r.p.m., which I still
consider the ideal speed. Perfect studio conditions not possible, of
course, though the engineer was extremely cooperative." Nodus smiled
benignly. "He tried to get rid of the insects. They almost got rid of
him. You'll notice a treble hum in the foreground. Giant mosquitoes.
Then I'll play it again, filtering out the falls--we can do that--and
you'll hear the mosquitoes as if they were primary."

Woodard tried to look intelligently appreciative.

"This will take four and one-half minutes. Precisely. You can check
this statement against the clock. The record is longer, but I find that
people stop concentrating after four and one-half minutes."

The room filled with the massive roar of a giant river dropping four
hundred feet. Woodard clutched the arm of his chair, rejecting the
nightmare fantasy of himself taking the falls in a canoe. Nodus too
was seated now. Looking impassively straight ahead, like a ceremonial
figure on a public stage, he was talking from the side of his mouth
to Russ. He played with a pair of horn-rimmed glasses which Woodard
had never seen him wear. The girl sat raptly beating a time of her own
devising.

It was said--where did one hear these things? Why did one remember
them?--that years ago the girl and Mr. Nodus had been in love. That
the new era in electronics had alienated Mr. Nodus' affections.
Auxiliary priestess now to the monster that had dethroned her, the girl
tapped her left wrist with the fingers of her right hand and smiled
remotely....

"Four and one-half minutes, as advertised," Nodus said, raising the
player arm. "And now, the foreground of mosquitoes. Amplified by--well,
no need to be technical. Let's just enjoy it. Two and one-half minutes
will do."

Quite so. Higher than coloratura, a whirring, a hum. As if all insect
life brought out on the lake by the evening damp had swarmed into that
room. And back of the keening shrillness, unending in its behemoth
anguish was the muffled roar of the falls. Woodard squirmed. But he
wouldn't pay Nodus the homage of warding off the insects. Forcing
himself rigid, he watched the clock. His thoughts wandered to the lake,
dark and deep outside--and to Mr. Ward, imprisoned by cold in the
darkest depth.

Two and one-half minutes exactly.
