
It was stupendous, terrifying. Woodard himself vibrated as the colossus
approached. But not for anything would he have stirred....

Three minutes and twenty-eight seconds it was, Nodus monologuing from
behind his hand to Russ, the girl beating a new time.

In the shattering silence, Woodard laughed tremulously. "This must be
the next thing to shock therapy."

The girl tensed. Russ looked wary.

"What makes you say that?" Nodus demanded.

"Why--I just meant...." Woodard was unnerved. He rarely minded
giving offense, but he liked to know when and how he was doing it.
"I suppose," he placated, "that atomic fission is more what I had in
mind...."

Nodus looked at him suspiciously. "There are worse things than atoms,"
he said. The girl cackled, then looked blankly about as if she hadn't
done it. Nodus ignored her. "Not a family man, are you, Woodard?"

"No." Woodard took in Nodus' quick nod. Had the admission somehow
worsened his situation?

"No one to care?" cried the girl, her dark eyes gleaming archly. "No
one to miss you?"

She was stilled by a flicker of Nodus' eye.

On with the effects. "Now this," Nodus lectured, handling the new
record tenderly, "has more surface noise than I consider excusable. I
keep it in my library only because...."

He glared at Woodard, who had been unobtrusively removing his jacket
and now dropped it hastily to the floor. "That won't do there!" The
girl roused and floated over, picked up the offending garment and
carried it with abstracted solicitude to a hook by the door.

"--than I consider excusable. I keep it in my library only because the
engineer, a really cooperative fellow, learned some very important
principles of underwater reproduction from taping these underseas
mating calls."

Woodard repressed a smile as the girl, back in her seat, doubled over
in silent laughter. Nodus threw her a disciplinary look. "Like to sit
in that chair yourself?" he muttered, indicating Woodard's place.
Instantly she sobered.

Now what does _that_ mean? Woodard asked himself.

"Nine and one-half minutes will be right for this."

Fantastic that it could be recorded at all, Woodard had to admit,
listening incredulously to the beeps and crackles, the yips and squeals
and tiny shrieks. Undersea, Nodus had said. Was the lake across the
road a similar hotbed of solicitation? Did Mr. Ward's chill presence
cast no damper on concupiscence?

Woodard pantomimed astonishment with a wondering nod.

"Now with this one," Nodus recited, "I say nothing. Just mention that
it lasts seven seconds. Watch the clock."

Woodard counted seconds so intently that he didn't interpret the four
very loud preliminary gasps from the speaker. Suddenly, magnified a
hundred times but undistorted, crystal clear and shattering, nearly
blowing him off his chair: a monumental sneeze.

His heart stopped, then pounded achingly. He looked furiously at the
speaker. It should have been wetly splattered all over the place, but
it rested amorphous and unshaken in its dark covering.

"And," said Nodus, "that could have been magnified a thousand
times--not in this enclosure--without distortion. An epochal
recording." Deftly he switched records, turned a knob or two. "Now
_here_--an old-timer, a real old 78. And if I can find the right
groove, a most interesting effect." Leaning over, he whispered
something to Russ, who smiled. "I defy _anybody_ to recognize...."

Woodard braced himself to interrupt. "I'd like to be excused for just
a minute," he begged nervously, rising. "Have you--do you happen to
have...." He fished for words and came up, hating himself, with "Do you
have a little boys' room?"

"Can't you wait?"

"Well, I just thought...." Woodard licked his lips. If the next effect
were anything like that sneeze, he feared the consequences of delay.

The girl nodded apprehensively at Nodus. "It's the great outdoors,"
he said grudgingly. As Woodard fumbled with the door, he added very
distinctly, "We'll be waiting."
