
And now, in the last lap of the preliminaries, effects came thick and
fast. Woodard's sensibilities were still jangled from a rattling,
polysyllabic belch (panicking the girl, but unjustifiable otherwise
as either art or science) when a powerful soprano, tweetered until it
could cut steel, emitted a blood-curdling "Good-_bye_ fo-re-ver!" Tosti
rendered by Medea; and as Woodard tried to formulate some idea about
unseemliness, he was shaken to his bowels by the agonized shriek of a
subway rounding a curve. Next, "Tires Screeching on Hot Asphalt"--not
a surrealist poem, and anyway Woodard's critical faculties were pretty
well blasted. Then a dentist's drill. Woodard struggled to make sense
of Nodus' remarks about a gum cavity and a midget microphone. Finally,
perhaps most devastating of all because it suggested evil in bright
sunlight, the tender brooded over by the sinister--the excited yelps
of girls at play; the bouncing of a ball and the rush of feet across
a wood floor; a shrill, drawn-out whistle and the voice of a gym
instructress screaming "That's enough, girls!" (The Pepsi-Cola Ladies'
Basketball Team: eleven and one-half seconds.)

Woodard peered uncertainly from trauma to learn that the concert proper
was at hand.

"I run through a few things, parts of things, interesting sections,"
Nodus lectured, playing idly with his glasses. "A little program most
people seem to like...."

Time was, Woodard would have snapped "I happen not to be most people."
But his pulse was pounding, his eyes watering. Racked with coughing,
trembling with post-sonic shakes, he could scarcely be called himself.
So he tried to nod appreciatively. If he could identify more, really
participate--then he might overcome the sensation of being one with
three against him. And his sinus might stop dripping.

"The violin," Nodus announced, for the first time placing a record
cover on the "NOW PLAYING" rack. "Some unaccompanied Bach partitas."

Woodard laughed hoarsely. "It's been my theory...." He coughed.

"Yes." Nodus held the player arm poised. "Now we'll have nineteen...."

Woodard struggled for recovery. "It's been my theory," he croaked,
"that Yehudi makes them up as he goes along."

Russ stared for a moment, then went on writing.

"Do I understand," Nodus asked with cold hatred, "that you refuse to
listen to a few unaccompanied Bach partitas?"

Woodard grovelled. The privilege of hearing partitas on this
superlative equipment? Refuse? Oh most certainly not--He collapsed in a
fit of coughing.

Mollified, Nodus said "I'll wait till you pull yourself together.
Meanwhile, you may like to know that of the records my dealer sends
me--and he knows my taste, mind you--I keep one in eight. And that one
I exchange, on the average, three times before I find a copy I can
admit...."

Woodard wanted desperately to concentrate. Here was something solid to
work on. Did Nodus keep one record in eleven, or one in twenty-four? It
depended, of course, on whether x equalled 8 _plus_ 3 or 8 _times_ 3.
Surely one should be able--but he was straining beyond his limit. It
was as if some mental spine, which in a past existence had sustained
him, were numbed or missing.

Nodus was staring. So, with an odd, expectant smile, was the girl.
To show that his wits had never left him, Woodard blurted out, "The
composer never intended the music to sound like this!"

"Like what?"

"The partitas were all wrong!" Now his voice kept breaking. "A
composer--and a performer--should have _some_ say--not be fed into
equipment like this and--and...." Another paroxysm prevented his
concluding: "and used to start sinuses running."

"I haven't played the partitas yet, Woodard."

That stopped the cough. Not played them? Then why did he feel--He found
himself thinking with curious gentleness of the guests at the hotel who
mocked nature with their complaints. And vast as his sudden pity was
for them, it was vaster still for himself. But he tried to latch onto
one worthwhile thought: I have nothing to fear but fear itself.

"Nineteen and a half minutes." Relentlessly Nodus lowered the arm.
