
Now the road had become narrow and twisting. The grade was steep but the
surface was good. Abruptly, it entered a forest.

The girl said: "Two more curves. Then you'll see a field and a barn. Off
the road and into the barn, fast."

He took the curves with rubber screaming and almost without braking sent
the car bumping across the field and into the barn. It was bigger than
it had seemed from the outside. As he brought the car to a lurching halt
the barn door closed.

Where he had expected to see stalls and milking machines and hay he saw
an expanse of metal floor and monstrous machinery. The barn door which
had been a rickety wooden slab from the outside was a gleaming sheet of
metal from the inside. It glided silently shut and left no joint or seam
to show where there had been an opening.

"Out," said Naomi.

As they left the car, a flexible metal arm snaked from one of the smooth
walls, attached itself to the front bumper of the vehicle, and whisked
it into a cubicle which opened to receive it and closed behind it.

A power-driven wheelchair sped up to them. Sitting in it was a fat man
of middle age, with pendulous jowls and a totally bald head. His
expression was a sardonic scowl.

"You have the plans?" he asked the girl.

"Sweetheart here has them."

"I don't know what you're talking about," the young man said.

"He knows, all right," the girl said. "He pretends to be innocent, but
that is merely his training. He has them under a sticking plaster on
the small of his back."

"Remove your coat and shirt," commanded the man in the wheelchair.

At that moment the floor shuddered under their feet, a gong began to
clang insistently, and the giant machinery, which had been silent,
throbbed into life.

The man in the wheelchair whirled and was off, shouting commands to men
who materialized high on the walls in cylindrical turrets which the
visitor could only think of as battle stations.

"What _is_ this place?" he asked.

He got no answer. Instead the girl grabbed his arm and pulled him off to
the edge of the gigantic metal room. An opening appeared in the wall and
she pushed him through it into a room beyond. The entranceway snapped
shut behind them and when he looked he could see no door. The room also
was windowless.

Naomi went to a metal table and as she looked down into its surface it
became a screen. Mirrored in it was the mountainous countryside they had
driven through to get to the barn--or what had seemed to be a barn from
the outside. He looked over her shoulder.

They saw as from a height. There was the light car that had chased them
from the frontier. Standing near it was a man in an officer's uniform
and another in civilian clothes. They were talking and gesturing. Beside
the car was a tank. As they watched, its gun fired and the structure
they were in shuddered, but they heard no sound.

Lumbering up the mountain road were more tanks and a self-propelled gun.
One of the tanks became enveloped in smoke and flames as they watched.
After a moment the smoke cleared. The tank was gone; where it had been
there was a deep crater.

Gradually, the figures in the drama below grew smaller. At the same time
the vista widened, so that they saw more and more countryside. It
twisted beneath them and the horizon came giddily into view. A few
moments later the curvature of the earth could be plainly seen.

Everything fitted together at once. Some of the things, anyway.

"We're in a ship," he said. "Some kind of rocket-ship."

"It's a planet plane," the girl said. "We're safe now."

"Safe from what?" he asked. "What's this all about?"

She smiled enigmatically. "Hafitz could tell you, if he chose. He's the
boss."

"The man in the wheelchair?"

She nodded and took out a compact. As she added lipstick to her mouth,
she looked him over, between glances in her mirror.

"You don't look like the spy type. If there is a type."

"I'm not a spy. I don't know what you're talking about."

"The innocent! Go on, take off your coat and shirt. We'll save Hafitz
some time."

"I'll be glad to, just to prove this is all ridiculous. A case of
mistaken identity. You've made a mistake, that's what you've done."

He stood there, hesitating.

The girl gave a burst of laughter. Then she said: "All right,
Sweetheart. I'll turn my back."

She did, and he pulled his shirt out of his trousers. Then he froze.
Taped to the skin of his back was a flat package.

_Paul Asher made the decision. He bent forward, feeling perspiration in
the palms of his hands. There was a faint click._
