
The train pulls out, and on the far side of the track stands a female.
She must have got off on the wrong side. She sure is fair to look upon,
and Muley falls off the truck when he tries to take off his hat to her.

“Ma’am,” says Telescope, bowing and trying to take off the hat he’s
already got in his hand, “ma’am, the town is on this side.”

“Oh,” says she and then stares at us.

    “Her hair was gug-golden, and her lips was blue.
    Her eyes was sweeter than the morning dew.
    Her nose was like sea-shells, and her ears was pug—

“And I’d like to assassinate Mike Pelly and J. B. Whittaker—honest to
gosh!” says Muley, still on his hands and knees with his hat down over
one eye.

“Ma’am, it sure pains me to tell you this, but—you’ve got to go right
back where you came from,” says Chuck sad-like. “Honestly.”

“Go back?” she gasps, and Chuck nods.

“Yes’m. You’ve got to. Not on our account, ma’am, but there seems to be
a sentiment against women. One of them says that women is the banes of
his existence, and the other says that—aw, Telescope, you talk a little.
I ain’t going to stand here all day arguing with a perfect lady.”

“You heard him say it, ma’am,” agrees Telescope. “They’re against a
woman. Now if you was a—wait a minute! Gosh, lady, I got a hy-iu scheme.
We’ll slip one over on the women-haters.”

Telescope grabs her by the arm, and the lady acts mystified-like.

“I—I don’t understand,” says she. “I—I——”

“This ain’t no time or place to settle it,” says Telescope. “Come on,
everybody.”

“That’s all right, ma’am,” says Muley, taking hold of her other arm.
“You can trust Telescope—as long as me and Chuck and Hen are along to
protect you. Where we going, Telescope?”

“We’ll leave our broncs here and take the buckboard,” says Telescope.
“The old man is in a poker game by this time, and he won’t need it.”

“I asked you in a lady-like manner to tell me where we’re going,” says
Muley. “Is it a secret, Telescope?”

“I’ll explain when we get there, Muley,” he replies.

The four of us helps the lady into the buckboard, while them two roan
broncs dance a jig against the hitching-rack. The lady acts scared
stiff, but that’s natural under these circumstances.

“I’ll drive,” proclaims Telescope. “The lady sets in the middle, and
Muley on the end. You other two can set in the back or get your broncs.”

“Your statement shows lack of consideration and fine thought,” states
Chuck. “I am going to ride on that seat. Sabe?”

“Nominations being in order, I’ll speak a word or two in favor of old
man Peck’s son, Henry,” says I. “I don’t care a whoop who drives, but
I’ll say right here that Henry Clay Peck is the third member of the
seat-riders.”

All of which makes it hard to arrive at a peaceful solution. Telescope’s
idea of a proper argument is to slam his sombrero on the ground and talk
at the top of his voice. Naturally this aggravates said touchy team,
with the result that they casts domestication to the four winds and
whales off up the street with the fair one all alone on the seat and the
lines dragging.

“Who in —— untied them animals?” yelps Muley.

“Which ain’t nothing but a question,” replies Chuck, throwing down the
two halters in disgust. “Come on and let’s get our broncs. She’s due to
get killed in about a minute.”

The four of us lopes down the street to where our animals are tied, and
if you asks me I’d say that we went out of town fast. In fact we showed
so much animation that Bill McFee, our progressive sheriff, took a shot
at us, just on general principles.

We strung off up the road, me and Telescope fighting for first place
with Chuck running a close second and Muley bringing up the rear, eating
alkali dust like a machine.

We hammers along for about two miles, when all to once we sees a cloud
of dust ahead of us. Said cloud is sliding toward the grade down to the
Wind River crossing, and we all sighs to think what that runaway team
will do to that lady when they hit the boulders of Wind River. We shoves
on more steam and unhooks our ropes. Me and Telescope ain’t got room for
two loops the way we’re running; so I slips back into second place.

Down that grade we sails and into the willows just short of the ford.
Chuck and Muley have picked up a little, which hampers our show to do
any fancy rope stunts, and them four animals runs almost a dead heat to
where the road breaks straight down to the river. Which only gives us a
pitch of about thirty feet to the water’s edge.

I don’t just know what happened then. We’re going too fast to even take
a second look. I seen a buckboard, with the horses standing up in the
water, and then the next thing I know I’m spinning over and over in the
air. Above me is Muley, with his legs spread out like sails, and he’s
flopping his arms like he was trying to fly higher. I remember that I
laughed at Muley trying to imitate a bird, and just then I took my first
bath short of Saturday evening.

I landed in the river flat on my stummick and found out that a feller
don’t have to learn to swim in order to do it. All the wind is out of my
carcass, but I sure done some fancy crawling until I lands on a sandbar
down the river and pumps some more wind into my system. In my pocket is
a bottle of “Track Annihilator,” and I immediate and soon finds the need
of a stimulant. I hauls it out, removes the stopper and squints through
it at the sun.

“Blam!” That bottle fades out of my hand, and all I’ve got left is the
cork.

The next bullet cuts a rosette off my chaps; so I slides into the water
like an alligator and proceeds to waller off downstream. I may die from
drowning—I say may, ’cause I’m taking a chance—but it’s a cinch that if
I stay on that sand-bar any longer that _hombre_ with the rifle is going
to improve with practise, which will spoil all of Henry Peck’s future
ambitions.

I hears a few more shots before I grabs a willer and hauls myself out
into the high grass. I’m too tired to hunt for information; so I
rusticates there until I hears somebody tramping grass and grunting:

“Gol dang ’em! Gol dang ’em! Hope I drownded the whole mess of pups.
Hope I leaded up all that didn’t drown. Half-witted horse-wranglers. No
brains! Race right into me and my load of dynamite. Too bad it didn’t
bust and blow ’em all to ——! Team runs away and leaves me on the wrong
side. Gol dang——”

“Wick Smith, throw up your hands,” says I sweet-like.

He drops his gun and grabs atmosphere.

“Toss that rifle into the brush,” says I, and he reaches down like a
nice little feller and obeys.

I takes it and throws it further into the woods, and then I walks out to
him.

“Hello, Wick,” says I. “How’s things in Piperock?”

“Tolable, Hen. How’s the Cross J these nice days? Where’s your gun?”

“Lost it in the river,” says I.
