
We looks at each other for a while, and then he says—

“What was your hurry a while ago, Hen?”

“Runaway. Strange lady comes in on the train, and we’re going to take
her to—I wonder where we was going to take her, Wick?”

“My gosh, didn’t you have no place picked out?”

“Maybe Telescope did. Well, she got in the buckboard, and the team runs
away, and we thought you was it, and—well, what’s the matter with you?”

“Strange lady came in on the train?” he gasps. “What did she look like?”

“Morn in Spring,” says I. “She had hair and eyes and a mouth and——”

“Great lovely dove!” he whoops. “That’s her to a flea’s flicker.”

“Who?”

“My wife’s sister, Amelia. My ——! She ain’t due yet.”

“Came today,” says I. “Came today, and——”

“Went away,” says a sad voice, and there stands Muley, Telescope and
Chuck.

They sure are something for to see. They look like they had been made of
mud and hadn’t dried out yet.

“It was fate,” says Muley, digging the ooze out of his eye.

    “She braved the dangers of the iron trail,
    Maybe she rode on boats that have a sail,
      And all was well,
    Until she came to peaceful Paradise,
    Where everybody leaves who has the price.
      Fate sure is—!!”

“Amen,” says Telescope. “You handled that well, Muley.”

“Gents,” says I, “don’t be sacrilegious. You are now standing in the
presence of the bereaved brother-in-law. The lost lady was his wife’s
sister.”

“Shucks!” exclaims Telescope, trying to remove the hat he ain’t got.

“This is painful, Wick. Where’s your outfit?”

“Holy henhawks!” wails Wick. “You fellers bucked over it and through it,
et cettery, and left me setting on the bank on a busted box of dynamite,
with nothing left but my rifle—and Hen threw that in the jungle. The
rest, if there’s anything left, is likely on its way to Piperock.”

“And we’re on foot,” wails Chuck. “My tobacco is wet, and there ain’t a
drink in the crowd, and——”

“And Shakespeare’s dead, and Longfellow’s dead, and I don’t feel very
good myself,” finishes Muley.

“And we’ve got to find that runaway,” says I. “They’re likely at the
ranch—unless they’re strung out along the road.”

“My wife will give me particular thunder,” wails Wick. “She ain’t
expecting me to bring back no deceased sister-in-law—darn it all! I
reckon we better toddle over to the ranch, eh?”

“I know a short-cut,” offers Chuck. “We’ll walk back over that ridge and
swing on to the road on the other side of Ghost Gulch. That’s only about
four miles.”

“And still four miles from the ranch,” groans Muley. “And us wearing
high-heeled boots.”

“Ye gods, I wish I had that rifle,” grunts Wick. “I’d kill four punchers
right here.”

“Death ain’t nothing,” groans Muley, limping along.

    “Hell hath no fury like a blistered heel,
    That busts and then begins to peel.”

It’s dark when we got to the Cross J ranch, and we limps in like five
lost souls. There ain’t a trace of that buckboard or the lady. There
ain’t nobody around the place.

“My gosh!” wails Wick. “Something has got to be did. She was my wife’s
sister.”

“Why use the past tense?” complains Muley. “Maybe she still is your
wife’s sister. We’ll be square with her, Wick, and consider her alive
until she disappoints us.”

“I know where the old man keeps his spirits,” states Chuck, fussing with
a window. “You fellers feel spirit voices calling?”

We did. Chuck found the cache, and we has quite a seance.

“Walking is too slow,” complains Wick. “I’ve got to go faster than that,
boys. Ain’t there a danged thing around here I can ride upon?

“Ain’t you _hombres_ got enough _sabe_ in your system to know that out
there somewhere in the stilly night is a remnant of my wife’s family,
crying for succor?”

“Might he not ride, Solomon?” asks Chuck, wiggling his ears at Muley.

“Beyond question he may,” nods Muley. “Hang a hull on Solomon, Chuck,
and let the sucker arrive at his wife’s sister’s side without delay.”

“Solomon is which?” asks Wick.

“Solomon,” says Telescope, “is a mule. A white mule—in color. He ain’t
no speed-demon, but he sure can save shoe leather, Wick.”

“I accepts the nomination,” says Wick and takes another drink.

Chuck comes back in about ten minutes, leading that long, hungry-looking
mule. We helps Wick into the saddle, wishes him a pleasant journey, and
then Chuck hits Solomon across the rump with a strap. Solomon bucks
stiff-legged down to the gate, and then we hear him pounding off down
the hard road.

Chuck stands there looking at what he’s got in his hand, and then:

“Gee gosh! When I took the rope off that mule, I took the bridle, too.
Poor Wickie ain’t got no rudder for his old white ship.”

“Cancel any help from Smiths,” says Telescope. “Solomon, with all his
wives, never was half as crazy as that namesake of his. Let us all have
another inoculation of paralysis microbes and start out being merciful.
We’ve got to find that lady.”

Then four fools started out in the dark. We sang a song at the gate and
then piked off down the road, arm in arm. As usual Muley gets so
sentimental that he has to compose a little; so we has to stop while he
recites:

    “An angel came to cow-land and stole my heart away.
    She was a shrinking flower that came to me today.
    My heart is like a sinker, ’cause I love her well,
    But I’m ——”

Muley breaks down and begins to sob:

“I can’t finish it! My rimer gets drownded in tears.”

“Let me assist you,” begs Chuck. “How’s thish?

    “My heart is like a sinker, ’cause I love her well,
    But I’m ’fraid thish lovely angel has got busted all to ——!

“Ain’t that shome finish?”

“Grewshome ghoul,” shudders Telescope.

“It’s a fac’,” argues Chuck. “Bet anybody forty dollars she never made
the turn out of Sillman Gulch. Betcha she turned over there. Ain’t
nobody got any shporting blood? Even money that she didn’t make that
turn—thirty to forty that they hung up before they got that far. Any
takers? Bet ten ’gainst forty that—that Solomon has killed Wick Smith
before thish.”

“Now you’re getting into pleasant conversation,” says Telescope. “That’s
what I call looking at the doughnut instead of the hole.”

I don’t know where we went. We took turns carrying that demijohn. We
wanted something to pour between unresisting lips, like you read about,
but we can’t seem to find no unresisting lips.

I know we all fell into Wind River, which is three miles from Paradise.
Muley hung up on a sand-bar and sobbed himself to sleep. Telescope
crawled back on the bank and implored us to go ahead and save the women
and children and leave him to die like a man. I heard Chuck singing—

“Locked in a stable with a s-h-e-e-p,
I lay me dow-w-w-wn in hay to sle-e-e-e-ep.”

Me, I got tangled up in the limbs of a fallen tree and went to sleep
with my feet over a limb.
