
“Well!” says a voice, and I woke up. There is “Ricky” Henderson setting
on his bronc, looking at us. “What’s the matter with you fellers? I
helped rope your broncs yesterday when they came back to town, and
they’re tied to the rack in front of the Eureka—or were last night.”

“The matter with us?” asks Muley mean-like. “That’s our business, Ricky.
Who told you to tie up our broncs in Paradise? Next time you leave ’em
alone and let ’em come home. _Sabe?_”

“Yeah?” snorts Ricky, riding away. “With their tails behind them, eh?
All right, _Little Bo-Peep_.”

“_Bo-Peep_, eh?” whispers Chuck, wiggling his ears. “Mamma mine!”

“Our broncs are in Paradise,” mentions Telescope. “Three miles more,
comrades.” We hobbles along on sore feet for a while, and then Chuck
says—

“Say, Telescope, where was you aiming to take the lady? And what was
your big scheme?”

“Out to the ranch, Chuck. I figured on dressing her up in our clothes
and hiring her out as a male teacher. _Sabe?_ Figured we’d slip one over
on them three old pelicans, and then they’d have to keep her—or never
hear the last of it. It was a good idea. If that little runt of a Warner
had sense enough to leave the team tied,” adds Telescope a little later.

“You didn’t need to throw your hat on the ground and whoop like a
drunken Indian,” reproves Muley. “You’re to blame, Telescope.”

“Yes,” says I. “You and Telescope has to argue like a pair of fools.”

“Oh, you wasn’t in the argument, was you?” sneers Telescope. “You three
grocery-store punchers make me tired.”

“You cut out that runt talk,” says Chuck. “I’d rather be small and
shapely than to be so tall that the buzzards roost in my hair. You think
you’re a lady-killer, Telescope, and this is the one time when you
likely qualify. Maybe the jury will adjudge so.”

“Yes, and he swore aloud before her,” says I. “He talked around her like
she was his wife.”

“She smiled at me,” grins Chuck sweetlike, and Muley snorts:

“Smiled! Laughed, Chuck. Do you think for a minute that a person like
her would smile at critters like you three? That woman’s got a soul.”

“Where do you qualify with soulful women, Muley?” asks Telescope. “Since
when has the fair sex designated a hunk of lard as the target for
soulful glances? Of course, if you designated a runt like Chuck or a
squint-faced _hombre_ like Hen Peck—”

Love has cut a breach in the Four Disgraces. Cupid has poisoned his
arrows, and we forgets friendship ties. Maybe it was an accident—maybe
not, but anyway we ain’t gone far when Muley steps on Chuck’s ankle.
Chuck yowls like a tom-cat and slaps Muley right in the face. Telescope
grabs Chuck by the neck, and I kicks Telescope’s feet out from under
him.

That took team work, if anybody asks you. I reckon the buzzards were the
only ones who enjoyed it. Somebody hit me between the eyes, and I
up-ended in a mesquite bush, where I found a snag, about two feet long
and as big as my wrist. So I waded right back into the conflict. Then
somebody handed me an encore in the same spot, and I got used as a
welcome mat. Then somebody laid down on top of me and pushed me into the
dirt, but I got out, found an unoccupied boot and hit that somebody
several times over the head. My eyes don’t permit me to judge distance,
but I felt out my target and made no misses.

Then I laid down, too, and went to sleep.

After a while I woke up and sat there, looking around. I can see
Telescope’s legs sticking up over the top of a mesquite, and Chuck is
setting in the shade of the same bush, crooning to himself while he
tries to light a cigaret on the sole of his boot. Muley is beside me,
snoring sweetly, and setting there beside us on a dilapidated white mule
is Wick Smith.

Wick sure looks like he had been someplace and met something awful. The
mule’s head is hanging down weary-like, while Wick slouches in the
saddle, with his jaw hanging down about three inches.

He weaves in the saddle and his mustache acts nervous-like.

“Find anything?” he asks like the weak croak of a frog.

“Not yet,” I whispers back at him.

He nods, slaps the mule side of its head and turns into the road.

“I’m still looking,” he whispers, and I says:

“That’s fine. So am I, but I can’t see nothing, Wick.”

And when I laid down beside Muley, I saw Wick and Solomon fade off up
the road toward Paradise. After a while we all got up and sort of stood
around. Chuck yawned and looked at his watch-chain. Pretty soon
Telescope cleared his throat—

“I’m—I’m all through—with all of you—the whole danged bunch!” says he
hesitating-like and starts limping toward town.

“Me—me, too,” says Muley and follers Telescope.

Chuck looks at me mean-like and says—“Me too.”

He pilgrims after Muley.

Then the whole danged bunch limped in behind Chuck.

I passed Chuck in a few minutes, and then I made Muley eat my dust.
Telescope has contracted a limp, which causes him to weave across the
road a lot and makes it hard for me to pass him. But I made it. Nobody
said anything to me, and, when folks don’t speak to me as I go past, I
get snobby, too.

I hobbles into Mike Pelly’s saloon and sets down. There ain’t nobody
there except the bartender. Pretty soon Telescope weaves in and sets
down in the other corner. Chuck points straight for the pool-table, and
then Muley stumbles in. He looks to have lost twenty pounds, and his
feet have swelled until he’s had to slit his boots.

“You fellers quitting the Cross J?” asks the bartender. “Thought maybe
you was,” he continues when we don’t answer, “’cause I seen your boss
leading four horses behind the wagon when he left last night.”

“Last night?” asks Muley. “Wagon?”

“Uh-huh. Borrowed Mike’s team and wagon.”

I rolled a smoke, and the match made as much noise as a six-shooter. We
never thought to look in the corral last night.

Then Wick Smith comes in. He buys himself a drink, and then he wipes his
mustache. He looks at us sad-like and shakes his head.

“Been to the post-office,” says he. “She ain’t coming until this
afternoon.”

“——!” grunts Telescope. “That team must ’a’ taken her a long ways.”

“Didn’t have nun-nothing on that—that mum-mule,” grunts Wick, and then
he weaves out of the door.

Wick has been drinking.

“What seems to be the trouble with you fellers?” asked the bartender.
“You look like you’d been to battle and got run over by a cannon.”

We ignores the inquiry, and pretty soon Telescope says—

“Been anything startling going on here lately?”

“——!” snorts the bartender. “Startling! Nothing ever happens in
Paradise.” And he goes on wiping glasses.

“That’s good,” says Muley soft-like. “I love a quiet village.”

We got up, one at a time, and wandered outside. I’m the last one out.
There ain’t nothing to do but walk back. We might chip in and hire a rig
at the livery stable, but under the circumstances—well, we don’t feel
like riding so close together, and rigs cost money.

I seen Muley setting on the sidewalk, pulling off his boots, and over on
the watering-trough, one on each end, sets Telescope and Chuck like a
couple of snow-birds, soaking their sore feet. Muley joins them, and
then Henry Peck goes over and immerses his corns. We ain’t been there
long when here comes Doughgod Smith, galloping up the street.

“If he’s got any more dirty work to have done, he can do it himself,”
proclaims Chuck. “I’m through deceiving women.”

Doughgod races up to us and hops up and down around us.

“Get down to the depot, Chuck!” he yelps. “She’s there.”

“Who?” asks Chuck.

“The lady—dog-gone you! The one I gave you the money for. _Sabe?_ Point
her homeward, boys, and make it sudden,” and Doughgod lopes on up the
street.

He sure is skittish around calico.

“We’ve got to stand together,” observes Chuck, pulling on his boots.
“We’ve got to. Divided we fall.”

“Under them circumstances I waves a flag of truce,” says Telescope. “I
may kill a friend later on, but it never can be said that a Tolliver
ever went back on a friend in need.”
