
We all plods down the street, with Muley carrying his boots, and, just
as we got to the depot, a freight-train whistles. The lady is there.
She’s setting there on a low truck in the shade, doing fancy work, and
she’s the same lady.

“My ——!” snorts Telescope. “She must be made of cast-iron. Ain’t bunged
up a bit.”

“And I ain’t only got seven dollars of that money left,” wails Chuck. “I
must ’a’ lost it.”

We all digs down and manages to collect enough to make up the original
twenty, and, just as the freight rolls in, we walks over to the lady.
Chuck leans over and drops the money in her lap, and her face turns
white as flour when she looks up at us.

“Get right into the caboose,” orders Chuck. “Dog-gone it, ma’am, we’re
sorry as ——, but we ain’t got no time to argue. There’s the money, and
here’s your train. Get on like a nice little girl, and you can write to
Doughgod for further information. _Sabe?_”

I sure felt sorry for her. She sort of gasps and slides off that truck,
but I reckon our looks were enough. She allows herself to walk right
into the train, and away she goes off up the track toward Silver Bend.

Doughgod has sneaked up and saw the whole thing, and he sure is glad. We
all sets down on the platform, and all to once we feels that it has been
a year since we had anything to eat. Doughgod offers to take us to a
restaurant, but we ain’t presentable; so he offers to bring us a ton of
crackers and cheese and sardines. We accepts and cheers Doughgod as he
hurries up-town. There’s another train due in an hour; so we sets down
there in the shade to eat. We seen the depot-agent looking at us through
the window. He’s a new man there; so we don’t blame him for looking with
suspicion upon us. We sure filled our skin with food, and then the train
comes rambling in.

The usual bunch of folks hops off to stretch their legs, and all to once
we hears a voice behind us—

“Can you tell me where I can find Mr. Smith?”

We all turns, and there stands a tall, skinny female, with a nose like
the beak of a hawk and a lot of mustard-colored hair. I glances around
and saw Doughgod galloping off up the street like a scared coyote.

“Ma’am,” says Telescope, “I can’t say. He may stop in Paradise, but I’d
favor Canada.”

“Say!” yelps a heavy voice behind us, and we all turns. It is the new
station agent, and in his hands is one of them sawed-off shotguns which
are furnished by express companies, and he’s got it cocked. “I want to
know,” says he, “if you are the four whelps who kidnapped my wife and
put her in that rig yesterday. The team ran away, turned the corner and
ran into a fence, and that’s all that saved her life. I’m asking a
question?”

“Yesterday?” asks Telescope foolish-like. “Yesterday?”

“I said it!” he yelps. “And an hour or so ago the same four whelps
forced her to climb on a freight-train. She just wired me from Silver
Bend. I’m still asking questions, gents.”

I seen that skinny lady edging away from us, and I seen her hop on to
the last step as the train starts, and she ducks inside like a rabbit.

“Wait!” says Telescope. “You got that right? The team ran around the
corner and into a fence and stopped. Is that right?”

“Ke-rect!” he snaps. “I’ve sworn out John Doe warrants for the men who
did it, and the sheriff is investigating right now. All I want is to
find ’em and I’ll fill ’em so full of ——”

_Blam!_

Telescope hooked one of his feet behind that feller’s legs, and yanked
so quick and hard that the station agent got an upside-down view of his
own place of business.

Man, we moved. A buckshot cut a groove in my boot heel, and Muley got
one across his hip pocket before we got out of range, which was fast
work with a gun.

We dusts straight for town, when we almost runs over Wick Smith. He’s
coming along, taking up most of the road, and me and him both tries to
turn the same way. I picked myself up as quick as possible, and started
on, when I heard Wick say—

“Train in yet?”

“Not yet,” I yells back and tries to catch up with the rest of my bunch,
who seem to have met somebody and then went on.

That somebody was Doughgod. I finds him setting in the middle of the
road with the brim of his hat down around his neck and a fool look on
his face. As I come up, he holds up the letter he’s hanging on to and he
says to me:

“Huh-Henry, she ain’t—ain’t coming here. She’s gug-got a bub-better job.
She ain’t coming here, Henry.”

“She shows a lot of sense,” says I, and I lopes on.

I seen Telescope and Chuck and Muley gallop off the street and cut
across the hills; so I puts on more speed and catches them.

“Bill McFee is up there,” pants Telescope when we slows to a walk.
“Dud-don’t forget we’re four John Does.”

“That ain’t nothing to the word I’d use,” groans Muley.

Well, we eventually got home. We collapses on the steps of the
bunk-house, and I don’t care if I never move again. Pretty soon
Telescope glances up at the door and grunts.

Half-way up the door a piece of white paper has been pasted; so we
creaks to a standing position and peruses same:

    I put your horses in the livery-stable last night, and, if
    you don’t want a big bill against them, you better get them
    right away.
                                              (signed) J. B. W.

“——!” snorts Muley. “He—he just led them down to the stable, and that
fool bartender thought he was taking them home.”

“And we been walking away from them all this time,” groans Chuck.

“Here comes Mike Pelly and the old man now,” says Telescope.

We watches old J. B. Whittaker and Mike Pelly walking down from the
ranch-house, talking serious-like. The old man turns at the barn, but
Mike comes on down to us.

“Howdy,” says Mike. “How’s everything, boys?”

“Ain’t able to kick,” says Telescope. “How’s it with you?”

“Tolable. See Doughgod in town?”

“He was there the last we seen of him,” admits Muley. “Why?”

“Going down to see him. Dang this trustee business, anyway. Nothing but
trouble. Me and the old man have decided to accept that teacher that
wrote to Doughgod, even if she is a female. Never mix into the
school-teacher business, boys. She’s ——!”

“She is,” agrees Muley, and we all nods.

THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the May 3, 1919 issue of
_Adventure_ magazine.]