
But Jones smiled and nodded warmly at the short vacancy beside him and
then looked back at me. "Stanley here, he come by to meet me after
work. Mr. Mig, he let me fix us a bite of breakfast when I finish up
the night."

I looked again at where Stanley was supposed to be standing and then,
blankly, back at Jones. He shrugged almost unnoticeably and, I thought,
barely shook his head.

"Well-l--" he said, "I expect me and Stanley better drift back on down
to the Yard before some fuzz comes along and fans us down."

"Yeah?" I said. "Yeah. So long, Jonesy--Stanley."

I don't know why I added the "Stanley" but, obscurely, it seemed to
please Jones. He gave me a big smile and then walked off down the
street, chatting companionably to--no one. I didn't get it. Well,
Stanley present or absent rated very low on the list of the problems I
was going to worry about. I went to work.

I ran into Jones every morning during the week I was on early; Jones,
coming off work, with Stanley--who wasn't there. Odd, sure. But if
Jones was stringing a way-out gag or playing with a mild hallucination,
still it was nothing to me.

I did mention it to Mig, who only said, "Si, these one big hombre eat
big. He like two plate eat for breakfast, plate he wash, bueno, what
for I complain?"

So that was all. Nothing.

Toward the end of the next week, I wandered down to the Yard again and
joined the little group of exponents of gracious almost-living by the
wall. Jones wasn't there. But as I was settling down I glanced over
at the Broad Street side of the square and I saw him strolling along
toward us. He was smiling, talking, gesturing. He was alone. I looked
twice. There was no one with Jones.

I settled down, took a drag or two on a smoke and passed it along.
Lifted a jug. Got back the old lost, gone, miserable feel of the thing
again. I looked up then at Jones who was just coming around the mangy
clump of bushes by the path. With him was a sour, whispy, scarcely
noticeable little man. Stanley.

"Evening, Jonesy," I said, "and Stanley. Good to see you again." I
meant it even though, come to think, it didn't really clear anything
up. Jones gave me his smile and Stanley nodded suspiciously.

They moved in and joined the group. Somebody made a run; a couple. The
talk staggered around as usual. Topics: booze; money, yesterday's and
tomorrow's; booze; women--only occasionally and with mild, decayed
interest; booze.

Jones put in a soft word or two from time to time until he finally
stood up, stretched and said he was going up to Mig's. Stanley stayed.
I know he did. I watched him. Afterward, I tried to remember if he said
anything, but that I couldn't recall.

I went on home myself a while after Jones left. Stanley was still
there, though, when I glanced back from Broad Street, I couldn't pick
him out in the dim moon and street light.

Still nothing much, eh?
