
Jones shook his head. "I told him, 'Stanley, we been together a long
time. You got friends besides me, I'm glad. Only, you know, I kind of
feel responsible. Maybe I ought to meet your friends, huh? Why don't
you take me to meet them?'

"'No,' says Stanley. 'Oh, no.' He wouldn't hear of it. I got to stay
here and wait for him, he tells me."

"Well, sure," I told Jones. "How could you go with a man into his
dream?"

"Yeah--only Stanley did take old Mr. Bootnose Bailey with him."

"_What?_" I exclaimed.

"Uh-huh. Stanley said he was going to prove it to me. He said he would
take somebody along with him to this place and then he would bring one
of his friends back here to visit. He said that would show me, would
show everybody. And you know, Ed, I don't believe I much liked the way
poor Stanley looked when he said that. He looked kind of mean."

"But they went? Both of them? And that's why old Bootnose isn't around?"

Jones nodded. "Yeah. Stanley promised Mr. Bootnose something would
give him a real boot. They went. Stanley, last thing he said before I
watched the two of them just sort of fade out, he said he would be back
tomorrow evening. He wanted me to be sure to wait for him in the Yard.
And fact is, Ed, I'm kind of uneasy about it all," he added.

There it was, Jonesy's story. A nonsense story? Sure. But it left
me feeling a little uneasy too. We talked it back and forth a while
longer, Jones and me, and the more we talked the more uneasy I got.
Foolish or not, Jones himself believed it. He wasn't trying to con me
into anything. There was no other point to it. And--well, maybe it was
simply the fact that Jones was a good deal of man. What he said had a
real conviction to it. Even if the story was hard to believe, still
there was what I had seen--and not seen--of Stanley. And even if there
was nothing that seemed particularly threatening about the business, it
made the two of us uneasy.

There was nothing for us to do about it, though. I went on home to my
apartment after I promised Jones I would be around the next night when
Stanley, alone or with company, was due back. I don't know what Jones
expected. I don't know what I expected. But Stanley's friend, no; we
didn't expect that.

The next day I was filling in on the desk, but my mind must have been
fumbling around with Stanley's other world. I fumbled all day and
finished by crossing up a couple of headlines. So I left the office
with the managing editor's curses ringing in my ears, even though he
had to admit that the "Present Stench--Future Disaster" line from the
sewer gas story did fit very nicely over the item on the mayoralty
campaign.

I was down at the Yard a little after five. Jones came along a few
minutes later. The group was there. It always is, except when there is
a city clean-up. Then it moves over behind the church. Today there was
a tension. Jones was smiling, gentle and friendly as always, but there
were nerves back of it. Probably the others were mostly just suffering
dry nerves. But I was rattled enough so I fumbled a five out and put
it on the rock. That, naturally, meant that Coaster Joe and Feeny, who
moved the quickest, went to make a run and didn't come back. With the
right change for the jug, the wino never skips; with change to bring
back, always.
