
I don't know how I could see a thing like that. Maybe I didn't see it,
exactly. But absolutely, in some way, by whatever means, the positive
perception of such a thing burned itself into my eyes and mind.

The other fellows? No one screamed aloud, although my mind was
screaming. Horrors were not less horrible to us, only less unfamiliar
than to other people. One by one, the others quivered to shaky feet and
they stumbled off through the evening. The jug, three-quarters full
yet, stayed there in the dust of the Yard, forgotten.

How long it was, I don't know. Not long--and then only Jones and I
were left with Stanley and Stanley's friend. The rest of the park was
empty. Across Bug Alley in front of the church an old woman carrying a
sack of rubbish was impelled to look our way. She screeched in a high,
disappearing pitch and crumpled to the walk. The church was dark and
silent.

Jones stood there, big, powerful, leaning against the wall. He smiled
at Stanley, but it was a weak, sick smile. How he managed that much,
I'll never know. Weak, trembling, stomach churning, I dragged myself up.

"Uh--well," I mumbled, "f'you fellows will excuse me--guess I better be
moving along."

Stanley's lip curled. He was irritated. I couldn't help that.

"You see?" It wasn't speech, but the thought came plainly from
Stanley's friend, out of a churning of black, hungry thoughts, "You see
how it is? Even now, not even such as these will welcome us as friends
and equals."

"Yes," snapped Stanley, "I see. I should have known. All right then,
we'll do it your way. We will show them all."

I stumbled a step or two toward the path.

"Wino," said Stanley, "Wino Jones. We are going over to the other side
now. But we will be back, you hear me? You just wait."

"Sure, Stanley," said Jones, still gentle, kind. "Only, Stanley, are
you sure?"

"I'm sure," said Stanley. He turned to his friend. "Come on. Let's go."

They moved together toward the bushes.

Stanley looked back over his shoulder at Jones. "We'll be back," he
said, "we'll be back, Wino. You be looking for us."

Then they were gone. Thank the good Lord, they were gone.

"Well," I quavered at Jones, "you did say you were kind of uneasy about
him, didn't you?"

"Yes," said Jones, "that's right. You going on home now, Ed?"

"You bet!"

"I don't like to impose, but would you mind if I kind of tagged along?
I don't feel too good--after that thing with Stanley, built of all
those thousands of hissing, wiggling snakes."

With Jones, it had been snakes, not spiders. The others--to each his
own? Somehow that made it seem even worse. Jones wanted to come along
with me? I was glad and grateful. I don't know that I could have stood
being alone that night.
