
Things looked black. The single model of his antichron worked
perfectly. It had proved that his theory was correct. He could warp
space-time, given power enough, and bring all the planets together,
just as centuries before the introduction of telegraph and radio
brought all the countries of the Earth together. But his money was
gone, his bills mounting, and he was forced to deal with interlocking
monopolies for all his supplies, power and credit. Carmichael knew that
as well as he did and was waiting for the plum to drop in his lap.
Kellog knew that Carmichael would fight him tooth and nail unless he
cut him in. And that Kellog was resolved not to do.

He had never thought of his invention in terms of money before, but
rather in terms of the immense boon it would be to all humanity, taking
it for granted that his own compensation would be just and adequate.
But now he was racking his brain for a way to turn it into money--lots
of money--and quickly. He had exhausted all his own resources in
building the one model he had, and the power bills were eating him
up. If they were not paid by the end of the week, Titan Power would
attach his laboratory and its contents, which was the same as saying
Carmichael would.

Antichron--what were its chief virtues? What could he cash in on
_now_? For he must not only save what he had, but construct other
machines to introduce to the public. He sat up and looked at his model
thoughtfully. It was a clumsy-looking device, a monster machine taking
up the whole side of the room. Its main feature was a six-foot-square
crystal window, framed by shiny steel panels studded with knobs, dials,
glowing tubes, buttons and cranks. The crystal resembled an ordinary
televise scanner of the type used by Etherways, except that it was
thicker and double-faced. Whatever form of energy, whether heat,
electricity or light, impinged on one face was immediately transmitted
to the other. Where it differed from the standard models was that
its two faces could be split apart when subjected to antichronic
stresses, and separated by any number of millions of miles. But the
same antichronic stresses also created a warp in space-time so that
the interval seemed not to exist. It was a window that with the proper
manipulations of its complex controls could be made to look upon any
spot in the universe and receive energy impulse from it _then_.

That "then" was its great virtue. Long before space travel was an
actuality, mathematicians had known that there was no such thing as
simultaneity. Time, like space, was relative. They had had their first
practical demonstration of it when they tried to use two-way television
between the Earth and Moon. Radio waves took a little over a second to
travel each way. A man would speak, then wait for two seconds before
his answer began coming back to him. Later, that time lag became almost
intolerable. From Callisto it was three quarters of an hour--you
activated the machine, waited forty or so minutes for it to light up,
and then you waited an equal period for the inquiring face looking at
you to register understanding and begin his reply. Obviously, where
an hour and a half intervened between question and answer, sprightly
conversation was impossible. The antichron would cure that. With the
space between warped out of existence, instantaneous response could be
had.

"Why ain't I rich, huh?" repeated Kellog, sourly, and began thinking
on how men got rich. Not by inventing useful things or hard work,
necessarily. He thought of Carmichael's career, and Aalman's, and
those of others. They had one common denominator--they were men who
bought and sold, bought cheap and sold dear. And where did they find
their sellers and buyers? Why, on the Stock Exchange, of course.
Kellog's eyes lit up and he almost trembled with excitement as the full
implications of that chance thought dawned upon him. He jumped up and
called Wade to him.

"How much money have we?" he asked excitedly.

Billy Wade pulled out a wallet and squinted at its contents.

"There's about a thousand here of my own and the three thousand you
gave me to keep for the power bill."

"Willing to gamble?"

Wade just grinned and handed over the money.

"Quick, now. Grab the current 'Ephemerides' and find the Earth's
present position and rate of relative movement. Then look up the exact
latitude and longitude of the lower tip of Manhattan Island--that's in
New York."

Kellog ran over to the antichron and began setting the dials as
Wade called out the figures. Then he threw a master switch and the
machine hummed into activity. In a moment the screen was glowing, then
transparent. It was as if Kellog were looking out of a window high
over a green park surrounded on three sides by water. He adjusted the
mechanism and caused the projected screen to lower itself to a great
sprawling building that lay below. He forced it through a wall, and
there he was--looking in on the trading floor of the nerve center of
the Solar System, the Systemic Stock Exchange!

Thousands of men were milling about beneath, gesticulating and
shouting. At the other end of the vast hall an immense annunciator
board stood, on which names and numbers appeared. A flickering screen
beside it was displaying news flashes.

"A notebook! Hurry!" exclaimed Doc Kellog. He jotted down quotations
as he watched. Callistan Radioactives was high and climbing--a sale
at 423-1/2, then another at 428, then at 430-1/4. A flash came over
the screen saying Martian Gems had passed its dividend. Martian Gems
promptly dropped twelve points. Etherways and I. P. T. were strong. The
market generally was strong.

"Let her run," Doc shouted, shoving the book into his pocket. "Damn
the power bill. If I'm right, it won't matter; if I'm wrong, it won't
matter either. I'll be seeing you."

Then he was out and gone, hurrying to Neville & Beardsley.
