
Mr. Neville took the money, but he looked at the young scientist
dubiously.

"Small margin accounts are dangerous," he warned. "We accept them, but
we don't solicit them. Those wolves out there will take the shirt off
your back so quick it will make your head swim."

"Fair enough," answered Kellog cheerfully. "As a matter of fact, I am
in the market for a few wolfskins myself. Here, buy me some Callistan
Radioactives and sell some Martian Gems; all you can for the money."

Neville grunted disapprovingly, but took the money. Nobody but an
ignorant fool would sell Martian short, and Callistan was no bargain
above 400. Kellog went on into the board room and sat down behind the
group of local capitalists who were scanning the board in a listless,
bored way. Kellog had a hard time restraining his elation, for the
figures on the board they were looking at were ancient history to him.
His information was over an hour ahead of it. After a while he got up
and phoned Wade from a booth.

"Read me the latest dope," he said. Then listened as Wade gave him the
quotations. Martian had stopped falling; there was a flurry in Oberon
Metals. He hung up and stopped at Neville's desk on the way back to his
chair.

"Cover that Martian sale, then buy me some Oberon."

Neville blinked. Oberon had been inactive for days. But he noticed
Kellog had doubled his money on the Martian transaction, and had a nice
paper profit on his Callistan stock.

"Beginner's luck," he cautioned, as he filed the order.

When Kellog got the day's close from Wade, he closed out his line. It
was not a bad day's work. His cash balance on Neville's books was over
fourteen thousand. He left it there; tomorrow was another day.

The next day he ran the fourteen thousand up to forty-five. The day
after that he finished up with a couple of hundred. He drew enough of
it to pay the power bill, then walked on to the booking office of Titan
General Shops.

"Last week," said Kellog to the clerk, "I left an order here for some
parts for a special televise machine--"

"It's N. G.," said the insolent clerk. "Credit disapproved."

"I've got the money now," added Kellog. But the clerk shook his head
and walked away. Over his shoulder he flung:

"You gotta get Wolf's O. K. He stopped it--personally."

"Oh," said Kellog. So he wouldn't be permitted to develop his invention
on Titan _even_ if he had money! Carmichael held the reins--the supply
house, the shops, the power plant, transportation. Kellog walked slowly
back to his laboratory, thinking on the way what his next step would be.

The following day he had better luck. When he looked from his antichron
onto the clamoring mob of Wall Street brokers he knew at once that
something unusual was afoot. Pandemonium reigned, and often awed faces
would turn to stare up at the quotation board with its ever-changing
symbols of good and bad news. Kellog read the last bulletin hurriedly.

"Following the suicide early this morning of Charles Bean, general
manager of Venus Exploitation, rumors persist that the company's
billion-dollar investment in mimil plantations has had to be written
off as a total loss. The stock opened at 240, but fell off over a
hundred points in the first few minutes of trading. The last sale was
at 97--"

Kellog waited, tense. He watched Exploitation sink rapidly to 60, 50,
then 40. A gong rang and the screen lighted up again.

"A correction to the last bulletin," it said. "President Aalman
has made a statement. He says that Bean's suicide was due entirely
to domestic difficulties. The mimil venture has been tremendously
successful. So much so that the board of directors announce a one
hundred percent stock dividend and an equal amount in cash. He further
states that he will buy personally all the stock that is offered under
500."

At once the tumult on the floor increased to a howling typhoon of sound
as the brokers suddenly reversed their position and began hunting
sellers as fervidly as they had previously been hunting buyers.
The bidding was wild, leaping by bounds to ever-higher figures.
Exploitation rose from its depths like a soaring skyrocket--up into the
hundreds, past the five-hundred mark of Aalman's bid, on to a thousand
and upward.

Another gong. Another announcement.

"It is apparent that an effort is being made to corner Venus
Exploitation. The Exchange authorities have ordered, dealings in the
stock suspended. Speculators short of stock may settle at the rate of
two thousand dollars per share."

"Wow!" yelled Doc Kellog, and a moment later he was burning up the road
to Neville & Beardsley.
