
The board room was crowded when he got there. All the big shots of
Titan were present, not excepting Carmichael. There was sheer panic
in the faces of some as they stared at the earlier bulletins, for
Exploitation represented a heavy investment for most of them. Even
Wolf's usually expressionless face showed concern as he saw his spare
millions dwindle to half and less. He was so intent on following the
damning figures that he did not notice the entrance of Kellog, or that
he sat down beside him in the chair vacated by a haggard man who had
just rushed despairingly from the room.

"It's more of Aalman's skulduggery, the pirate!" growled Carmichael to
the fellow sitting on the other side. "He's looted the company, that's
what. We're stuck. I'm getting out while I can."

He wrote an order and beckoned to Neville.

"The hell of it is," Wolf added, to his crafty-looking partner, "that
while this order is getting to New York, the stock will drop forty
points more. Damn that time lag!"

Neville approached, bowed respectfully, and took the order. He looked
at it, then remarked:

"This is for more than you own. Are you taking a short position?"

"Right! The stuff's wallpaper. When Aalman milks 'em, they stay milked.
Tomorrow I can cover at three. Get rid of this--quick."

Neville bowed again and turned away. Kellog plucked him by the sleeve.
He had sneaked a look at the order. The amount he had on balance would
margin it.

"I'll take that--at the current price," he whispered. "You needn't send
it to New York."

"You're crazy," said Neville, but he noted the order.

Kellog sat back and waited, gloating. In a few minutes the news would
come through that the market had reversed itself. He had made a
brilliant double play. If Carmichael's selling order had gone through
in the regular way, when it hit New York his stock would have brought
him hundreds of dollars a share; conversely, if his own buying order
had, he would have had to pay the corresponding price. As it was, he
got Carmichael's stock at 43, close to the bottom, and for it Wolf
received but 43.

"Whipsawed!" Carmichael yelled when Aalman's bullish statement was
broadcast. "The dirty rattlesnake. He started the rumors to depress the
stock; now he's buying it in at a bargain. Neville! Cancel my selling
orders."

Neville was late in coming. In the meantime the later flash showed on
the screen--the one telling of suspension of trading and the penalties
levied on short-sellers.

"Sorry, sir," said Neville, as placatingly as possible, "but it is
already executed. You said quick, so I disposed of it locally."

Carmichael snorted and looked about him.

"What fool--" he began, but Neville simply said, "The gentleman on your
right."

Carmichael glared at Kellog. Kellog glared right back.

"You!" howled Wolf, his porcine eyes incredulous.

"Me," grinned Kellog. "You owe me five thousand shares of Exploitation,
I believe. I want it."

Carmichael sputtered and gazed questioningly at Neville. It must be a
joke--this silly upstart of a scientist holding the whip hand over him.
Why, only a few days before he had come whining to his office for the
loan of a miserable few thousand. Now he was demanding ten million.
Preposterous!

"If you haven't the cash, I'll settle for a deed to Titan Shops, lock,
stock and barrel," offered Kellog smoothly, but he could not conceal
the triumph in his eyes. "I am rather anxious to get a little job done
there, but up to now they haven't been very ... uh ... co-operative."

Carmichael grunted like a prodded boar, frowning. He was in a tight
spot; he knew it. He had to settle and he did not have the cash.
Moreover, it hurt him to give up a property. But there seemed to be no
choice, and he was aware that the other speculators in the room were
watching him closely. He couldn't welsh--not openly.

"Done!" he exploded.
