
That night Kellog took over the Titan General Shops. He and Wade worked
late, laying out the program for the following day. Tomorrow they would
start construction on the first batch of commercial antichrons. But
just at midnight a messenger came, bearing a communication from the
power company. It read:

    You are hereby notified that due to inadequate generating
    facilities, Titan Radio Power finds itself compelled to curtail
    its service. Since our contract to furnish your plant with power
    was made with Mr. George Carmichael personally and not with the
    Titan General Shops, the change of ownership voids it. All service
    will be discontinued within four hours.

"The dirty rat!" blazed Kellog.

"Wolf is the word," corrected Billy Wade with a sigh. "You can't beat
him."

"We'll see," said Kellog grimly. "Let's have a look at the electrical
hook-up here. Maybe we can use antichron in another way."

Neither he nor Wade attempted to sleep that night. They were much too
busy. The machine was retuned and put in search for the New York home
of the general manager of Tellurian Power. They found him, aroused him
and made their proposition. Yes, the Earth plants had unlimited power.
Yes, if Kellog could project a receiving plate into one of Tellurian's
generating plants, its men would connect leads to it. The general
manager doubted whether power could be transmitted from planet to
planet--it had never been done before--but if they would pay for it, he
would send it.

Kellog closed the deal. Then he and Wade went about altering the
antichron for gathering pure current, not light. They marked the back
face to show where the Earthly electrodes should be placed. On the
front they attached their own connections. Those led to the shops. Then
they set the space-time warper to working. In a moment the back face
was gone. No doubt, at that instant, startled engineers were puzzling
over the bizarre outlet that had suddenly appeared in their plant.

"Say," said Billy Wade. "He said unlimited power, didn't he? And the
rate there is a tenth what it is here. Why not peddle some juice on the
side?"

"Right!" yelped Kellog, and he reached for a pad.

                         POWER FOR SALE, CHEAP

    Owing to surplus productive capacity provided by new owners, Titan
    General Shops is in a position to furnish any quantity of power at
    the rate of ten cents a mega-watt hour.

"Get that to the Saturnport _Herald_ to be run in the next edition," he
told Wade.

"This'll wash up Titan Power, if my guess is any good," remarked Wade
cheerfully. "They've been getting away with murder."

"Yep," said Kellog dreamily. Carmichael would have to write off another
asset, for local power could not possibly compete with Tellurian now
that there was a way to transmit it. And the power monopoly was the
biggest plum in Wolf's basket.

In an hour the first surges of energy were coming in from Earth,
flowing from the antichron into the local radio distributing emission
set. The electricians at the plant simply tuned out on Titan Power and
in on the laboratory set. The shift was made.
