
Carmichael did not take the fresh assault upon him lying down. He
promptly went about getting an injunction against the unfranchised
sale of power, but it was several days before he could get it
issued. In the meantime, with the full facilities of the shop at his
disposal, Kellog had completed a batch of sight-sound antichrons for
use in communication. He hired and instructed operators. Then the
machines were focused on the various important planets, satellites and
asteroids. At one stroke Saturnport became the central clearing house
of the Solar System for news. If necessary, a Pluto signal could be
relayed through Titan to Earth in only the time necessary to make the
connections. Etherways was at once ruined. All its equipment was junk,
except for nearby use.

"That ought to hurt," observed Billy Wade, jubilantly. "They say Wolf
had a pile of Etherways Preferred."

"Probably," said Kellog. But he was smarting under the injunction. The
corrupt local court had forbidden the outside sale of power. Not only
that, the Saturnport Council--all creatures of Carmichael--issued an
edict prohibiting the importation of power generated outside of Titan.
This time the shops did have to close down until Kellog could improvise
some old-fashioned magnetic generators of the field-armature type. Not
content with inflicting those inconveniences on Kellog, Carmichael
might be expected next to bring suit for personal damages ensuing
from the collapse of Etherways. Etherways represented the investment
of important money, and the men who lost were not the type who would
console themselves that their company had been replaced by something
incomparably better.

"I've got to go all the way," concluded Kellog, soberly. "If I don't
get him, he'll get me."

Again he put his and Wade's head together and designed a new type of
antichron. It was three-dimensional--a cubical box, to be exact, with
four sides and a bottom, but open at the top. It worked on the same
principle as the flat screen, but with slight variations. It operated
as a shuttle, not continuously.

Kellog put one of his television machines in focus with the mine on
Mimas. Miman Mines was only partly owned by Carmichael; he controlled
the industries on the lesser satellites by virtue of his strangle-hold
on transportation. So the manager was willing to talk to Kellog.

"What do you pay that buccaneer to haul ore to Titan?" asked Kellog.

"Twenty cents a ton."

"I'll haul it for two."

"You can't," objected the manager. "The Trans-Saturnian Lighter
Service's charter says--"

"I know what it says," snapped back Kellog. "My father drew it up.
It confers a perpetual monopoly on all intersatellite _ship-borne_
commerce. Now listen. Clear a place about twenty feet square and
arrange to dump ore in it from twenty feet or more above. Mark it off
with safety lines and don't ever let a man step across the lines. Then
watch my smoke."

He cut the connection long enough to send similar instructions to the
receiving station by the smelter. Then he watched through the antichron
while the preparations were being made at both ends of the line. When
they were ready he turned the machine over to Wade.

Wade sat down and got to work. His job was very much like that of the
operator of a grab bucket. He kept his eyes on the visual screen, his
hands on the controls of the cubical one.

Current!--the empty cube appears on Mimas--an avalanche of ore fills
it--shift current--it disappears from Mimas, appears at the smelter on
Titan--the unloading cradle on which it materializes tips and dumps the
ore--when it is upright again, shift current. Mimas, fill; Titan, dump.
Mimas, fill; Titan, dump. That was all there was to it. Hundreds of
tons a minute, delivered in Titan the day it is mined.

"That shoots Interplanetary Transportation and Trans-Saturnian all to
hell, I should say," drawled the editor of the _Herald_, who had been
invited to watch the demonstration. He was conducting a campaign to
have Carmichael's injunction revoked. Now that the people knew cheap
power was available, they were angry about it. "Yes," continued the
editor, "they're sunk. I'm going to stroll down to the bank and draw
out my balance before the run starts."

"What do you mean?" asked Kellog.

"Plenty. The bank is really a sort of holding company for Wolf. Now
that his companies are all shot, it'll crash. You may not know it yet,
but Carmichael is ruined. He will be a very sick wolf in an hour or so."
