
_Do not allow the emotional charm of any culture, nor any individual of
that culture, to sway your inhibition appraisal._

In the narrow confines of the lifeboat he repeated the quotation
grimly. Good inhibition agents are inflexible. He was a good agent.

For almost an hour he fed data into the monitor tapes. Then he touched
a stud and closed his eyes, waiting for judgment.

"Agricultural family-group societies are normally stagnant," the
monitor droned. "Such cultures, regardless of technological level, do
not warrent inhibition of any type. Reference: twelfth generation check
on Eden V."

The room spun. Saxon whispered, "But they have cybernetics, matter
transmitters."

"Regardless of technological level." The monitor was adamant.

This was madness. Saxon wiped his forehead and said, "Assuming
geographical isolation no barrier to united group action in the event
of emergency."

"United action is incompatible with family-group."

"Assume and advise!"

Relays chattered. Abruptly the entire panel flashed crimson. The
monitor spoke one word.

"_Annihilation._"

Saxon referred to his Inhibition handbook. He had never annihilated a
culture before.

One hour later he went into the forest. Birds sang overhead. The sun
dappled him in light and shadow. He stalked a small furry quadruped
that squealed at him from a log and brought it down with his sonic
pistol.

Back in the lifeboat he watched the animal regain consciousness in an
air-tight tank, and very slowly he pulled a lever. A green vapor rolled
into the tank. The quadruped screamed. The green vapor fed.

It was the penultimate in sporedom, yet it was more than a spore.
It had virus characteristics, and its propagation rate was almost
mathematically impossible. There was no known defense, and once used,
the entire planet was forever untouchable. To Saxon's knowledge it had
been utilized only once on Eden I.

At dusk, he took the lifeboat up fifty miles. He released the spores
in a widening spiral, and finally jettisoned the tank. He went into an
orbit at ten thousand miles, and waited.

It would take approximately a week.

It was a long week. Saxon slept little. He paced the cabin. He looked
at the stars and thought about a blue-eyed waif with tears in her
voice, begging him to stay.

After a week the lifeboat came down at the edge of a grassy plain.
Saxon took a sample of the contaminated atmosphere to determine
propagation rate.

The atmosphere was pure.

Some freak of expansion. One uncontaminated spot in a hemisphere of
death.

He selected another location. Then another. That evening he close the
coordinates of his original landing site and tested the air again.

Finally he went outside the airlock. He breathed deeply, and the air
was fresh and sweet, it smelled of forest and cool streams and evening
dew. In the blue dusk birds twittered. A small marsupial very much like
a squirrel scampered to the safety of a tree and scolded him.

Saxon began walking.

At the edge of the forest he saw the familiar plowed field. The
farmhouse was a friendly beacon in the twilight.

"Hello," Veena said. She stood at the edge of the forest. She was
smiling. "Welcome home, rover."

For the next few days Saxon was the perfect guest. He argued
philosophical abstractions with the family by firelight; by day he
hiked in the woods with Veena and listened to Mentor give her lessons.
He asked questions.

"Veena, do you know what a microorganism is?"

"Benevolent or malignant?"

"Malignant. A plague."

She pursed her lips. "Organic or cultural?"

"Organic of course."

"Bacteria." Veena shrugged. "Quite a few of the first generation
died immediately after the landing. Until they adapted. Until they
analyzed the basic metabolism of the planet's dominant life-forms, and
constructed a neutralizer."

"A neutralizer?"

"A protective shell of ionized particles," she said patiently, "keyed
to the individual body-chemistry."

"Classified information," Mentor droned.

Saxon licked his lips. "You mentioned cultural microorganisms?"

"Much more deadly. I call them that, but Lang says I'm being
semantically unsound. War, for example. Racial inferiority. To date we
haven't found a cure." She broke off, and her eyes were shining wet.

"But you don't have wars," Saxon said.

"No."

"Then?"

"We have a--ghetto," the girl said slowly. "I can't tell you about it.
Perhaps soon--"

Abruptly she changed the subject.

Slowly, Saxon's defenses began to crumble.

To all intents he was now a member of Lang's household, Veena's adopted
big brother.

Big brother--or pet?

It did not really matter.
