
He laughed, and the sound echoed from the cold stone walls of the
laboratory. "Love!" The laughter mounted. "What a foolish notion,
Sheila. You interested me once. You had spirit, and I was impelled to
discover how much it would take to break that spirit."

The sobs stopped. She paused, then looked up at him. He was smiling,
his thin lips twisted, the grey eyes glistening. She stared at him for
a long moment.

"You're wishing you could hurt me, aren't you, Sheila? You're wishing
you could strike out at me ... hear me cry in pain. That's why you bore
me. You're so transparent. I can read your every thought ... anticipate
your every emotion and they're all dull." He touched the thing on the
table again. "That's why I've perfected Ohm here. He'll be the perfect
companion."

Sheila looked at the contraption he touched, and a shudder of
revulsion shook her. Once it had been only a few scraps of steel, a
photo-electric eye, a couple of batteries, some condensers and relays.
Now it was "alive" and Craig had given it a name: Ohm.

She looked from the created to the creator. "I should have known this
was the way it would end, and I can believe you when you say you've
never loved me. You can't love anyone. You're incapable of love, Craig.
Other men work for the happiness of those near to them, but you are
only intrigued by pain and suffering. If it's any satisfaction to you,
your experiment with me has been very successful."

Craig bowed slightly.

She moved toward the laboratory door. "It always works out for you,
doesn't it, Craig? You always get bored first. You're always the one
who smiles and tells someone else to get out." She stopped in the
doorway. "Some day, perhaps you'll be the one to go; you'll be the one
who has become transparent and uninteresting."

He shrugged his shoulders. "I can only hope that when that day arrives
I'll be able to resign myself as graciously as you have."

For a second, she hesitated and then very quietly she said: "I loved
you once, Craig. When we were married, I loved you very much. I could
still love you, if ... if you could find it in your heart to be human.
But until you can, I guess Ohm is the companion you should have.
Goodbye."

"A very eloquent speech, my dear. Goodbye and good luck."

With a final quick glance at the thing on the table, Sheila stepped
through the laboratory door and out of Craig Stevens' life.

He sighed as he heard the outside door slam behind her. She had been a
fascinating experiment. Little by little, he had tested her, discovered
those irritants which were best calculated to make her react. Broken
dinner engagements, forgotten birthdays, public insults, lies,
deceptions, intrigues--each had played its part in her final nervous
disintegration. But toward the end, the game had proved boring.

So, he had devised Ohm, and now he was left in solitude to explore the
infinite possibilities represented by his electric pet.

Light was Ohm's food. He craved it as humans crave food, drink,
companionship. Craig had built a special home for his creature--a
brilliantly lighted hutch where it could creep to recharge the
batteries which gave it movement and power.
