
Looking down at his pet, Craig felt a sudden, overwhelming sense of
possession. Ohm was perfect. His shiny steel shell glistened in the
bright laboratory light. Under that shell were three wheels and two
battery-powered motors--one for creeping and one for steering. A
delicate brain and nervous system fashioned of condensers and relays
would motivate Ohm.

Craig was surprised to note that his hands were trembling slightly as
he made the final connections. The scene with Sheila had perhaps made
more of an impression than he had thought; and then, too, this was his
big moment ... the moment toward which he had worked for months.

Connections completed, he struggled to lift Ohm to the floor. Though
Ohm was relatively small--he stood just hip-high and was perhaps
three-and-a-half feet long--he was surprisingly heavy.

Craig Stevens stepped back and waited. If his calculations were
correct, Ohm would now begin his search for light. He would move
about the lab ... guided by his photo-electric eye ... seeking the
gratification which only strong light could give.

Absolute silence held the laboratory. Had he been wrong? Had he
miscalculated? He stared at the unmoving creature. He willed it to
move. He would not be defied by this mass of steel and wire. Move, he
commanded it. Move!

Slowly, with a slight jerking motion, Ohm began to move forward. Like
an animal that has been sleeping and is still groggy with dreams, it
moved--hesitated--then moved again.

Craig Stevens sighed with satisfaction. His calculations had been
correct. Ohm lived. The creature was moving more rapidly now across
the room. As it gained momentum, it was confronted suddenly with a lab
table. With a painful little thump, it collided with the table leg.
Then, there was a faintly ominous growling noise, and Ohm backed away
and set out in another direction.

Fascinated, Craig followed the creature from room to room. When Ohm
discovered a patch of bright light, he would pause and bask momentarily
in its brilliance. His contentment and deep satisfaction were apparent.

At last, by a process of trial and error, Ohm came to the hutch
that Craig had built. Eagerly, he pushed his way to the door and
quickly glided in. After satisfying himself that Ohm was comfortably
installed, Craig dropped the wire grating over the hutch. His new pet
was at home.

The next few weeks were busy ones for Craig and Ohm. Countless
experiments were tried, and in every case, the robot was a model
subject. His potentials seemed unlimited.

Craig was asked to give a special lecture and demonstration at the
University, and his audience of scholars and research experts were
delighted with Ohm.

"The perfect companion," Craig laughingly called him. "So
understanding. If any of you gentlemen are tiring of your wives and
their demands, I'll be very pleased to duplicate Ohm for you."

Ohm wandered about Craig's apartment at will. Occasional guests who
dropped in to visit soon accustomed themselves to the sight of the
metal creature lumbering through the room, bumping into chairs and
tables, growling faintly and changing its course.
