
Some weeks after Ohm was first animated, Craig conceived the idea of
giving him a more definite personality. After a few hours spent in
sketching, and some hurried consultations with a metalsmith, Ohm was
equipped with a head.

Now his presence was even more disturbing than before. Craig had placed
the photo-electric eye directly in the middle of the high steel
forehead. A nose was simulated, and, last of all, a hinged jaw, with
twin rows of razor sharp fangs.

"Good Lord!" exclaimed Professor Harvey Beale, Craig's oldest
associate, "why did you have to turn Ohm into such a grinning monster?
I think I preferred him as a blank nonentity."

Craig laughed. "He _is_ ferocious looking, isn't he? I devised that
head to scare away peddlers and tramps. Now, when the doorbell rings
and I don't want to be disturbed, I just let Ohm face them down!"

Professor Beale joined in Craig's laughter, but there was a note of
constraint in his voice. "You feel that you have perfect control over
Ohm?"

"Complete." Craig looked across the room where the robot basked in a
puddle of yellow lamplight. "It's a wonderful feeling, Beale ... a
feeling that you can never experience with a human being ... or even a
cat or a dog."

With a little grunt, Ohm began moving toward the chair in which Craig
sat. The single eye glistened in the leering face and the small wheels
made a singing noise as he spun across the carpet.

Professor Beale followed the movement with some little apprehension.
"What's such a wonderful feeling?"

Craig gestured to Ohm. "This sense of possession ... of control. It's
a thing we all want ... every human being ... from the time we're old
enough to clutch our first pet until we drop into our graves. We seek
it in marriage ... in our children ... but we're always cheated, Beale.
Always cheated because there's an unpredictable element. But with Ohm,"
he dropped his hand over the side of his easy chair and patted the
metal head, "with Ohm, there's no doubt. No question. He's mine ... and
no matter how sorely I try him, I can always predict his reactions."

Professor Beale nodded slowly. "I suppose. How ... how sorely have you
tried him, Craig?"

"I haven't really put him to the test as yet. But now that the
preliminaries are out of the way, I mean to begin. I'm going to thwart
him, Beale. I'm going to frustrate him in every way. I'm going to
deprive him of the thing he desires most ... light ... and observe his
reactions."

A flicker of apprehension touched Beale's long, friendly face. "These
experiments ... you'll do them at the school lab?"

Craig Stevens stood up. "No. Here. Ohm is adjusted to this atmosphere.
He knows these rooms. His reactions will be truer if I don't move him."

"And just what do you hope to prove?"
