
Stevens stared down at the thing he had created. The photo-electric
eye seemed to wink up at him. "The human brain has something like ten
billion nerve cells, Beale. Ohm has the equivalent of only two, and
yet, you'll admit, he gives a lifelike performance. By studying Ohm's
frustrations and reactions, we'll be able to draw some very valuable
conclusions regarding human nervous disorders and breakdowns."

The other man nodded absently. "I wish," he said finally, "that you'd
transfer your experiments to the school lab, Craig. I think it would be
safer."

"Safer!" Craig laughed a little too loudly. "No, Beale. I started this
in my own way, and that's how I mean to finish it. I'm perfectly safe
here. Ohm won't let anything harm me. Will you, Ohm?"

It was coincidence, of course, but at that moment, Ohm turned and
scuttled over to Craig's side.

He began the breaking-down process slowly. When Ohm settled himself
in a particularly warm puddle of light, Craig would snap it off.
Patiently, the robot would begin its search for another pool.

Then Craig moved the hutch, and watched with academic amusement the
creature's wild and frantic efforts to locate its home--the source
of its life-giving food. Ohm groped in the corner where the hutch
had always stood, and pathetic little whirring and buzzing noises
came from his open jaws. Again and again he returned to the corner,
painstakingly exploring every inch of it, his movements more and more
jerky and disconnected.

At last, when it seemed that the creature might destroy itself in its
frustration, Craig restored the hutch to its accustomed place. Ohm
scuttled in and huddled in a far corner. For a great many hours, the
robot refused to venture again from its shelter.

Next, Craig tried an even more agonizing experiment. He left the hutch
in its usual spot, but he dropped over its entrance a mesh of fine
wire, which permitted the light to filter through but prevented Ohm's
entry.

He released Ohm in the room and settled himself to watch the results.
After a number of exploratory trips, the robot seemed to feel the need
of refreshment, and accordingly began its slow, bumping progress toward
the hutch. Excited by the bright light which filtered through the mesh,
Ohm accelerated his pace as he approached the haven, and crashed with
painful violence against the barrier. The recoil sent him spinning
several yards away.

The quiet room was filled with the sound of Craig Stevens' delighted
laughter and the faint little grunting sounds of the robot. Again,
Ohm tried an entry, and again, he failed. The next approach was more
cautious, but the results were the same. He seemed maddened by the
presence of the bright light which he so deeply craved and which had
become suddenly inaccessible to him.

Again and again he flung his steel body against the wire mesh in a
mounting frenzy of desire.

Never had Craig Stevens witnessed a spectacle so excruciatingly amusing
and revealing. It was as pathetic and priceless as Sheila's foredoomed
desire to beget a child.

Finally, as the battery which powered him was depleted, Ohm subsided,
his steel muzzle touching the mesh which separated him from the
life-giving light he had sought.
