
Remembering the robot's bewildered struggles as he recorded them in his
notes, Craig was shaken from a fresh paroxysm of laughter. He wished
now that films had been taken of the experiment, for certainly it had
proved most revealing. Of course, it would be repeated. There would be
other opportunities.

And there were, for Craig tried that particular experiment many times.
Not that he needed additional data for his report. He added scarcely
one new observation after that first trial. It was more that the
robot's agony of frustration seemed to satisfy some deep craving ... a
desire as insatiable as Ohm's for the light. Craig could not explain
this fascination, in fact, he did not attempt to explain it. Such an
explanation might have proved doubly disturbing.

Craig seldom went out. More and more, he gave himself over to the
delights of mistreating Ohm. He found that he no longer felt any need
for human associations. He and the robot were a complete little world
in themselves. The creator and the created. The torturer and the
tortured.

One evening, Professor Beale did drop in, and before he could stop
himself, commented on Craig's appearance: "You're not well, Craig," he
said. "You've lost weight. Are you sure you're not carrying a fever
now?"

Craig fought down the unreasoning resentment he felt for Beale. He had
planned a new variant to test Ohm that night, and now Beale's visit
had cheated him. "Never been better," he countered. "I've been working
hard."

"With the robot?" Beale's eyes roamed the room, seeking for the
steel-encased body, the glistening cyclops-eye.

"Naturally. And believe me, Beale, my report is going to create a
sensation. Every neurologist and physiologist in the world will be
taking lessons from me." His voice had gotten progressively shriller,
and he paced nervously up and down as he spoke.

Beale shifted uncomfortably. "You're working too hard, Craig. Take some
time off. Forget Ohm for a while. Enjoy yourself."

Craig spun on him: "Enjoy myself! Do you think there's any other place
in the world where I could find the excitement that I know right here?
Forget Ohm! I can't forget him. He's wonderful, Beale! Sensational!"

"Of course, of course." Beale was feeling more and more alarmed by
Stevens' manner. "I saw Sheila the other day," he ventured, seeking for
something to take the conversation away from Ohm. "She asked about you."

Craig's laugh was choked and half-hysterical. "Sheila! I'd completely
forgotten her. Has she found herself a nice dull nobody?"

"I think she's still in love with you, Craig."

Craig's giggle climbed the scale. "In love! You talk like a fool,
Beale. Love! What childishness, when there are other emotions so much
more real and gratifying."
