
Harvey Beale stared at the man across the room. Was this the same
Craig Stevens with whom he had worked so many hours in the laboratory?
Was this semi-hysterical man, the great scientist who had served so
brilliantly in the last war? What had happened? What was happening?

A sudden groaning noise at his side turned him abruptly. It was Ohm.
And there was a subtle change there, too. The movement was no longer
clean and mechanical. It had developed an individuality. When the robot
moved, it reminded Beale of a whipped yellow cur which cringes at the
sound of a human voice. Both Stevens and his companion were changed.

"Let's get away for a week," Beale said, and rose ... stepping quickly
away from Ohm. "You'll come back to all this with a new perspective."

Craig shook his head. "Couldn't leave now. Couldn't leave Ohm. Later,
maybe."

Why doesn't the fool leave, he thought. Can't he see I've work to do?
Can't he sense that I'm anxious to get on with the experiments?

Reluctantly, Beale moved toward the door. "I wish you'd give yourself
some rest," he said. "You're pushing yourself too hard."

"I'll be finished soon," Craig said. "Then I can rest. Then I can rest
for a long time."

Beale paused in the doorway and looked back. The robot crouched in a
corner of the room, its photo-electric eye twitching nervously. That
room was full of anticipation. They were waiting for Beale to go--the
two of them. Abruptly, he turned and fled.

"Now," said Craig, as Beale's footfalls died away, "now, Ohm, we can
get on with our work."

Days passed and the fascination increased. It absorbed and obsessed
Craig. His every waking hour was filled with new plans, new variants.
At night, when he sank at last into an exhausted sleep, he dreamed of
Ohm and the blind frenzies of frustration to which he was yet to be
driven.

Craig saw no one. Ohm was his entire life. A little child who came to
his door looking for a lost kitten, fled sobbing, when in a fit of
irritation, he threatened her with the robot.

Nothing else mattered; nothing but Ohm. He made little changes in
the robot's construction. Supplied him with springs that permitted a
graceful, bounding movement; increased the flexibility of the jaws and
the razor sharp metal teeth. He was puzzled by a peculiar stain that
seemed to have discolored Ohm's teeth. Since no food passed the robot's
lips, Craig could not account for the presence of the stains.

On that night, the torment had been prolonged, and once, during it, Ohm
seemed to sense Craig's presence and moved toward him with a peculiar
half-pleading, half-threatening motion. Excitedly, Craig recorded
the deviation. It seemed to mark some sort of turning point in Ohm's
development.

When the robot succumbed at last to exhaustion, Craig permitted him to
enter the hutch, and leaving him there, proceeded to prepare himself
for bed. The sessions with Ohm were leaving him more and more worn out
and frazzled. Perhaps Beale had been right. A few days' rest would
restore his perspective. Of course he would miss Ohm. Never had he
experienced so gratifying a relationship. It was much more complete
than his domination of his mother had been or his subjection of Sheila.
It left him feeling at once weak and god-like.

His toilet completed, he went back to Ohm's hutch to put down the wire
mesh for the night. Once or twice, he had forgotten it, and the robot's
collisions had awakened him early in the morning. As tired as he was,
he wanted now to forestall any such disturbance.
