
Ohm was not in his hutch. That was an unlooked-for development. Usually
after the experiments, he was so depleted he did not stir from the
hutch for hours. And yet now he was gone.

Half-heartedly, Craig looked for him, but he was overcome suddenly with
a terrible drowsiness. After all, did it matter whether Ohm spent the
night in the hutch? He'd huddle in some corner of the apartment till
morning.

Wearily, Craig snapped off all the lights and stumbled into his
bedroom. The bedlamp burned brightly in the darkness. He sank down onto
the bed. He couldn't remember ever having been so tired. He closed his
eyes. Bright red circles spun and whirled. Sleep. He must have sleep.

He was dreaming. The little girl, whose kitten had disappeared was
pointing an accusing finger at him. He was trying to explain that he
hadn't taken her kitten. And then, Sheila was there, and she had a
great urgency in her manner. She was warning him. Stains. The stains
that he had noticed. Didn't he see?

No. He didn't see. His mind spun and whirled. Sounds were a tortured
mixture of Sheila's voice, the little girl's sobs, and the faint
mechanical grunts which Ohm made.

And then, the laboratory collapsed. The walls caved in to the center
and the roof dropped down on top of him. It was a terrible pressure on
his chest--crushing it. He had to remove that pressure--had to push
that crushing weight away--had to get free.

But he was awake. And it wasn't the roof on his chest. It was Ohm ...
Ohm crouched on top of him ... the beady photo-electric eye focused on
the lamp which burned like a beacon in the otherwise total dark. And
then Craig remembered. He hadn't caged Ohm in for the night. He had
been loose in the apartment. Naturally, he had come to the only light,
and now, he crouched on Craig's chest.

He tried to move, but the robot only flattened itself more--a dead
weight. The heavy steel jaws poised over Craig's throat, the steel
teeth glittering in the light.

"Ohm!" That single word was a prayer, a plea, a sob.

The stains on the teeth ... the missing kitten ... those razor sharp
teeth. A strange purring noise filled the room ... caused the bed to
vibrate under him. The steel jaws clicked open.

"I didn't mean it. You don't understand!"

The photo-electric eye blazed wildly as the razor sharp fangs touched
his throat....