
The artist walked the half-dozen blocks to Mr. Krehbeil's place the
next day. He found the old man in the basement shop of his fussy house,
hunched over his bench with a powerful light overhead. He was trying to
file a saw.

"Mr. Krehbeil!" Halvorsen called over the shriek of metal.

The carpenter turned around and peered with watery eyes. "I can't see
like I used to," he said querulously. "I go over the same teeth on this
damn saw, I skip teeth, I can't see the light shine off it when I got
one set. The glare." He banged down his three-cornered file petulantly.
"Well, what can I do for you?"

"I need some crating stock. Anything. I'll trade you a couple of my
maple four-by-fours."

The old face became cunning. "And will you set my saw? My _saws_, I
mean. It's nothing to you--an hour's work. You have the eyes."

Halvorsen said bitterly, "All right." The old man had to drive his
bargain, even though he might never use his saws again. And then the
artist promptly repented of his bitterness, offering up a quick prayer
that his own failure to conform didn't make him as much of a nuisance
to the world as Krehbeil was.

The carpenter was pleased as they went through his small stock of wood
and chose boards to crate the dolphin relief. He was pleased enough to
give Halvorsen coffee and cake before the artist buckled down to filing
the saws.

Over the kitchen table, Halvorsen tried to probe. "Things pretty slow
now?"

It would be hard to spoil Krehbeil's day now. "People are always fools.
They don't know good hand work. Some day," he said apocalyptically, "I
laugh on the other side of my face when their foolish machine-buildings
go falling down in a strong wind, all of them, all over the country.
Even my boy--I used to beat him good, almost every day--he works a
foolish concrete machine and his house should fall on his head like the
rest."

Halvorsen knew it was Krehbeil's son who supported him by mail, and
changed the subject. "You get some cabinet work?"

"Stupid women! What they call antiques--they don't know Meissen, they
don't know Biedermeier. They bring me trash to repair sometimes. I make
them pay; I swindle them good."

"I wonder if things would be different if there were anything left over
in Europe...."

"People will still be fools, Mr. Halvorsen," said the carpenter
positively. "Didn't you say you were going to file those saws today?"

So the artist spent two noisy hours filing before he carried his
crating stock to the studio.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lucy was there. She had brought some things to eat. He dumped the
lumber with a bang and demanded: "Why aren't you at work?"

"We get days off," she said vaguely. "Austin thought he'd give me the
cash for the terra-cotta and I could give it to you."

She held out an envelope while he studied her silently. The farce was
beginning again. But this time he dreaded it.

It would not be the first time that a lonesome, discontented girl chose
to see him as a combination of romantic rebel and lost pup, with the
consequences you'd expect.

He knew from books, experience and Labuerre's conversation in the old
days that there was nothing novel about the comedy--that there had
even been artists, lots of them, who had counted on endless repetitions
of it for their livelihood.

The girl drops in with groceries and the artist is pleasantly
surprised; the girl admires this little thing or that after payday and
buys it and the artist is pleasantly surprised; the girl brings her
friends to take lessons or make little purchases and the artist is
pleasantly surprised. The girl may be seduced by the artist or vice
versa, which shortens the comedy, or they get married, which lengthens
it somewhat.

It had been three years since Halvorsen had last played out the farce
with a manic-depressive divorcee from Elmira: three years during which
he had crossed the mid-point between thirty and forty; three more years
to get beaten down by being unwanted and working too much and eating
too little.

Also, he knew, he was in love with this girl.

He took the envelope, counted three hundred and twenty dollars and
crammed it into his pocket. "That was your idea," he said. "Thanks. Now
get out, will you? I've got work to do."

She stood there, shocked.

"_I said get out. I have work to do._"

"Austin was right," she told him miserably. "You don't care how people
feel. You just want to get things out of them."

She ran from the studio, and Halvorsen fought with himself not to run
after her.

He walked slowly into his workshop and studied his array of tools,
though he paid little attention to his finished pieces. It would be
nice to spend about half of this money on open-hearth steel rod and
bar stock to forge into chisels; he thought he knew where he could get
some--but she would be back, or he would break and go to her and be
forgiven and the comedy would be played out, after all.

He couldn't let that happen.

