
Aalesund, on the Atlantic side of the Dourefeld mountains of Norway,
was in the lee of the blasted continent. One more archeologist there
made no difference, as long as he had the sense to recognize the
propellor-like international signposts that said with their three
blades, _Radiation Hazard_, and knew what every schoolboy knew about
protective clothing and reading a personal Geiger counter.

The car Halvorsen rented was for a brief trip over the mountains to
study contaminated Oslo. Well-muffled, he could make it and back in a
dozen hours and no harm done.

But he took the car past Oslo, Wennersborg and Goteborg, along the
Kattegat coast to Helsingborg, and abandoned it there, among the
three-bladed polyglot signs, crossing to Denmark. Danes were as unlike
Prussians as they could be, but their unfortunate little peninsula was
a sprout off Prussia which radio-cobalt dust couldn't tell from the
real thing. The three-bladed signs were most specific.

With a long way to walk along the rubble-littered highways, he stripped
off the impregnated coveralls and boots. He had long since shed the
noisy counter and the uncomfortable gloves and mask.

The silence was eerie as he limped into Copenhagen at noon. He didn't
know whether the radiation was getting to him or whether he was tired
and hungry and no more. As though thinking of a stranger, he liked what
he was doing.

_I'll be my own audience, he thought. God knows I learned there isn't
any other, not any more. You have to know when to stop. Rodin, the
dirty old, wonderful old man, knew that. He taught us not to slick it
and polish it and smooth it until it looked like liquid instead of
bronze and stone. Van Gogh was crazy as a loon, but he knew when to
stop and varnish it, and he didn't care if the paint looked like paint
instead of looking like sunset clouds or moonbeams. Up in Hartford,
Browne and Sharpe stop when they've got a turret lathe; they don't put
caryatids on it. I'll stop while my life is a life, before it becomes
a thing with distracting embellishments such as a wife who will come
to despise me, a succession of gradually less worthwhile pieces that
nobody will look at._

_Blame nobody_, he told himself, lightheadedly.

And then it was in front of him, terminating a vista of weeds and bomb
rubble--Milles' Orpheus Fountain.

It took a man, he thought. Esthetikon circuits couldn't do it. There
was a gross mixture of styles, a calculated flaw that the esthetikon
couldn't be set to make. Orpheus and the souls were classic or later;
the three-headed dog was archaic. That was to tell you about the
antiquity and invincibility of Hell, and that Cerberus knows Orpheus
will never go back into life with his bride.

There was the heroic, tragic central figure that looked mighty enough
to battle with the gods, but battle wasn't any good against the
grinning, knowing, hateful three-headed dog it stood on. You don't
battle the pavement where you walk or the floor of the house you're in;
you can't. So Orpheus, his face a mask of controlled and suffering
fury crashes a great chord from his lyre that moved trees and stones.
Around him the naked souls in Hell start at the chord, each in its own
way: the young lovers down in death; the mother down in death; the
musician, deaf and down in death, straining to hear.

Halvorsen, walking uncertainly toward the fountain, felt something
break inside him, and a heaviness in his lungs. As he pitched forward
among the weeds, he thought he heard the chord from the lyre and didn't
care that the three-headed dog was grinning its knowing, hateful grin
down at him.

