
When Halvorsen awoke, he supposed he was in Hell. There were the young
lovers, arms about each other's waists, solemnly looking down at him,
and the mother was placidly smoothing his brow. He stirred and felt his
left arm fall heavily.

"Ah," said the mother, "you mustn't." He felt her pick up his limp arm
and lay it across his chest. "Your poor finger!" she sighed. "Can you
talk? What happened to it?"

He could talk, weakly. "Labuerre and I," he said. "We were moving a big
block of marble with the crane--somehow the finger got under it. I
didn't notice until it was too late to shift my grip without the marble
slipping and smashing on the floor."

The boy said in a solemn, adolescent croak: "You mean you saved the
marble and lost your finger?"

"Marble," he muttered. "It's so hard to get. Labuerre was so old."

The young lovers exchanged a glance and he slept again. He was half
awake when the musician seized first one of his hands and then the
other, jabbing them with stubby fingers and bending his lion's head
close to peer at the horny callouses left by chisel and mallet.

"_Ja, ja_," the musician kept saying.

Hell goes on forever, so for an eternity he jolted and jarred, and for
an eternity he heard bickering voices: "Why he was so foolish, then?"
"A idiot he could be." "Hush, let him rest." "The children told the
story." "There only one Labuerre was." "Easy with the tubing." "Let him
rest."

Daylight dazzled his eyes.

"Why you were so foolish?" demanded a harsh voice. "The sister says I
can talk to you now, so that is what I first want to know."

He looked at the face of--not the musician; that had been delirium. But
it was a tough old face.

"_Ja_, I am mean-looking; that is settled. What did you think you were
doing without coveralls and way over your exposure time?"

"I wanted to die," said Halvorsen. There were tubes sticking in his
arms.

The crag-faced old man let out a contemptuous bellow.

"Sister!" he shouted. "Pull the plasma tubes out before more we waste.
He says he wants to die."

"Hush," said the nurse. She laid her hand on his brow again.

"Don't bother with him, Sister," the old man jeered. "He is a shrinking
little flower, too delicate for the great, rough world. He has done
nothing, he can do nothing, so he decides to make of himself a nuisance
by dying."

"You lie," said Halvorsen. "I worked. Good God, how I worked! Nobody
wanted my work. They wanted me, to wear in their buttonholes like a
flower. They were getting to me. Another year and I wouldn't have been
an artist any more."

"_Ja?_" asked the old man. "Tell me about it."

Halvorsen told him, sometimes weeping with self-pity and weakness,
sometimes cursing the old man for not letting him die, sometimes
quietly describing this statuette or that portrait head, or raving
wildly against the mad folly of the world.

At the last he told the old man about Lucy.

"You cannot have everything, you know," said his listener.

"I can have her," answered the artist harshly. "You wouldn't let me
die, so I won't die. I'll go back and I'll take her away from that
fat-head Malone that she ought to marry. I'll give her a couple of
happy years working herself to skin and bones for me before she begins
to hate it--before I begin to hate it."

"You can't go back," said the old man. "I'm Cerberus. You understand
that? The girl is nothing. The society you come from is nothing. We
have a place here.... Sister, can he sit up?"

The woman smiled and cranked his bed. Halvorsen saw through a picture
window that he was in a mountain-rimmed valley that was very green and
dotted with herds and unpainted houses.

"Such a place there had to be," said the old man. "In the whole
geography of Europe, there had to be a Soltau Valley with winds and
terrain just right to deflect the dust."

"Nobody knows?" whispered the artist.

"We prefer it that way. It's impossible to get some things, but you
would be surprised how little difference it makes to the young people.
They are great travelers, the young people, in their sweaty coveralls
with radiation meters. They think when they see the ruined cities that
the people who lived in them must have been mad. It was a little travel
party like that which found you. The boy was impressed by something you
said, and I saw some interesting things in your hands. There isn't much
rock around here; we have fine deep topsoil. But the boys could get you
stone.

"There should be a statue of the Mayor for one thing, before I die.
And from the Rathaus the wooden angels have mostly broken off. Soltau
Valley used to be proud of them--could you make good copies? And of
course cameras are useless and the best drawings we can do look funny.
Could you teach the youngers at least to draw so faces look like faces
and not behinds? And like you were saying about you and Labuerre, maybe
one younger there will be so crazy that he will want to learn it all,
so Soltau will always have an artist and sculptor for the necessary
work. And you will find a Lucy or somebody better. I think better."

"Hush," warned the nurse. "You're exciting the patient."

"It's all right," said Halvorsen eagerly. "Thanks, but it's really all
right."



