
Over the cupped match flame, Hale sent a hard glance in the direction
of the voice. "Eight, ten men aren't enough."

Weiss said placatingly, "We were tipped that he'd try this temple.
We were waiting for him, but he got past us. First thing we knew, he
killed the guardian inside. We heard the shot. We called on him to
surrender, but hell, he knows what the redboys will do to him if we get
him alive."

Hale said again, "Why call me?"

"You know these old water temples. One narrow entrance, no windows.
He can't get out, that's for sure, but we can't get at him without
losing a lot of men." Weiss put a hand on Hale's arm, and Hale moved
impatiently and Weiss took it away, saying, "You know Randy better'n
any of us."

"We came to Mars together," said Hale. "We worked our way out on the
same crate. We started our farm, but Randy didn't stick. He said
there was always easy money on a frontier, and Mars shouldn't be any
different. Said he preferred four ladies to a hoe."

"He should've stuck to cards," said the man who had cleared his throat.

George Weiss said, firmly, "We want you to go in and talk to him. You
were his best friend. He'll listen to you. Tell him it's no use."

Hale said, "That's what I figured." He turned to look at the temple,
squat and white in the gloom. The doorway was tall and thin and dead
black, and behind it, part of the blackness, was Randy and his gun. And
he'd be desperate. As Hale turned back he caught a faint, acrid odor,
and he knew that a Martian was nearby, crouching, waiting to see that
this was done right.

"There've been a hundred temples stripped of their twin-stones in the
past year," Weiss said. "Our redboys are getting fed up with it. The
C. A.'s too busy whipping the climate to tend to looters, and the
Patrol buys its liquor and mammas with loot money. Half the law is too
damned busy, and the other half's crooked--and we're in the middle. The
redboys have run out of patience."

Hale nodded. "My own redboys are ready to go on the warpath. Okay. So
Randy's the goat elect. So relax and starve him out."

"They want him tonight. We promised--"

"All right, go keep it. Hell, I didn't promise anything. Damned if I'll
risk my neck to--"

"--promised to deliver," Weiss went on flatly, "because we had to.
We're in a nut-cracker, Hale. The _Lhrai_ priests are set to trigger
another Green Spot unless they get Randy to play with. Deadline's dawn."

Hale remembered Green Spot. It was a bloody, terrible memory. Green
Spot had been one of the earliest and largest farm-settlements on Mars.
One night, for some other-worldly reason that the Colonial Authority
was still puzzling about, the Martian workers had slit two hundred
Terrestrial throats and vanished into the red desert. The _Lhrai_
priests had conveyed regrets, assuring the Authority at the same
time that there had been adequate provocation for the act. And the
Authority, horrified for its sixty thousand colonists, had admitted
that there must have been.

Hale thought back, in conflicting terms of personal friendship and unit
survival. These men in the shadows; most of them were his friends. He
had worked with them, leaning on hoes in the fields or sitting in the
enclosed warmth of a back porch discussing the perversities of Martian
geochemistry. He had helled around Firstport with them, had often led
them in the helling. His wife was the friend of their wives. While
Randy--

Randy was five years ago. Randy was thirty acres of crops dumped in
Hale's lap when they'd needed working. Randy was a bitter girl named
Susan who waited on tables in New Chicago halfway across Mars, and the
son he never cared that he'd given her before he went away.

"Wait here," said Hale in a sour voice, and tossed away his cigarette.
"I'll see what I can do."
