
The temple was hexagonal, featureless save for the black slit of the
doorway, smooth native marble gleaming under Phobos' dim silver.

He stopped a few feet away and called, "Randy, it's me. Hale. Don't
shoot. I'm coming in to talk to you."

Randy's voice, soft and oddly echoed by the temple walls, floated from
the black slit. "Come on in, Hale. I won a bet with myself, that they'd
holler for you."

Hale walked on, slowly, one hand brushing his blaster butt at each
step. Again the sensation of strangeness, of wrongness, that he should
be afraid of being shot by Randy. Five years ago Randy had been a lean,
fox-eyed kid, inclined to be touchy, but no hard-case. But after five
years in the excrescent canal-towns, the smoke-filled dives where a
coin on the bar bought a drink or a drug and, more covertly tendered,
a life--five years in a sour pool, floating with the scums that even
fresh water collects when it settles--and now, a looting and a killing--

Hale felt cold, and he was perspiring. The blaster was a solid weight
on his thigh.

He reached the doorway and stood uncertainly, knowing the men behind
him were watching him. Wondering if he'll kill me, he thought. Maybe
he's turned into a ring-tailed killer. Kid, kid, why did you have to do
it? Why didn't you get off Mars, like I told you to?

The hollow, echoed voice said, "Come on in. I wouldn't shoot you,
Hale." But the voice had a thin sound to it, and Hale thought, He
might.

The doorway was about two feet across, in a wall six feet thick. Smooth
marble rustled the leather at Hale's shoulders as he entered the thick
blackness. Three paces, echoing, and his fingertips told him he had
reached the interior. He felt with his feet, located the top of the
shallow steps that every such temple contained--five steps down into a
trench which had once held precious water, then three steps up to the
temple floor. His bootheels rang sharply--five, two across the trench,
three--then he stood in darkness, waiting.

Randy said, "You've gained some weight, Hale. Or is it the jacket?"
Sort of amused, but with that same thin sound.

Hale said, "Both." He took a forward step, at an angle, and saw the
faint flood of moonlight appear on the temple floor and knew that Randy
could no longer see him. He said, "Weiss said to tell you it's no use."

"George's out there, eh? Thought I recognized his voice. I wonder who
tipped them off. I've made some enemies along the canals, I suppose."

Startlingly, a match flamed in the blackness, became an orange glow
that rose to the cigarette between Randy's lips. He was over near a
wall, his gun in his other hand. He puffed hard and his face glowed
masklike, his eyes seeking Hale.

Hale, blinking, saw that Randy hadn't changed much. He was still dark
and slender, his brown eyes large and bright. But now his hair came
down fully to the fur collar of his jacket, in the manner of the canal
crowd. The movement that brought him to Hale's side was graceful.

"How many are they, Hale? Think I could break for it?"

Hale said, "It'd be quicker than the redboys."

Randy pulled in a hard breath. "My blaster's jammed. They could've
nailed me any time they felt like it. It's been hell, waiting for
that." He looked at the gun. The hand that held it was trembling.

Hale sighed. "I guess I could walk you out at gunpoint, then, but I
don't want to do that. Come out with me on your own hook, Randy. You've
played your four queens till now, but you drew a bad hand tonight."
