
They weren't really rats, those people. Not literally. They looked
humanoid enough to enable plastic surgeons to disguise a human being as
one of them, although it meant sacrificing the little fingers and little
toes to imitate the four-digited Rats. The Rats were at a disadvantage
there; they couldn't add any fingers. But the Rats had other
advantages--they bred and fought like, well, like rats.

Not that human beings couldn't equal them or even surpass them in
ferocity, if necessary. But the Rats had nearly a thousand years of
progress over Earth. Their Industrial Revolution had occurred while the
Angles and the Saxons and the Jutes were pushing the Britons into Wales.
They had put their first artificial satellites into orbit while King
Alfred the Great was fighting off the Danes.

They hadn't developed as rapidly as Man had. It took them roughly twice
as long to go from one step to the next, so that their actual
superiority was only a matter of five hundred years, and Man was
catching up rapidly. Unfortunately, Man hadn't caught up yet.

The first meeting of the two races had taken place in interstellar
space, and had seemed friendly enough. Two ships had come within
detector distance of each other, and had circled warily. It was almost a
perfect example of the Leinster Hypothesis; neither knew where the
other's home world was located, and neither could go back home for fear
that the other would be able to follow. But the Leinster Hypothesis
couldn't be followed to the end. Leinster's solution had been to have
the parties trade ships and go home, but that only works when the two
civilizations are fairly close in technological development. The Rats
certainly weren't going to trade their ship for the inferior craft of
the Earthmen.

The Rats, conscious of their superiority, had a simpler solution. They
were certain, after a while, that Earth posed no threat to them, so they
invited the Earth ship to follow them home.

The Earthmen had been taken on a carefully conducted tour of the Rats'
home planet, and the captain of the Earth ship--who had gone down in
history as "Sucker" Johnston--was convinced that the Rats meant no harm,
and agreed to lead a Rat ship back to Earth. If the Rats had struck
then, there would never have been a Rat-Human War. It would have been
over before it started.

But the Rats were too proud of their superiority. Earth was too far away
to bother them for the moment; it wasn't in their line of conquest just
yet. In another fifty years, the planet would be ready for picking off.

Earth had no idea that the Rats were so widespread. They had taken and
colonized over thirty planets, completely destroying the indigenous
intelligent races that had existed on five of them.

It wasn't just pride that had made the Rats decide to wait before
hitting Earth; there was a certain amount of prudence, too. None of the
other races they had met had developed space travel; the Earthmen might
be a little tougher to beat. Not that there was any doubt of the
outcome, as far as they were concerned--but why take chances?

But, while the Rats had fooled "Sucker" Johnston and some of his
officers, the majority of the crew knew better. Rat crewmen were little
short of slaves, and the Rats made the mistake of assuming that the
Earth crewmen were the same. They hadn't tried to impress the crewmen as
they had the officers. When the interrogation officers on Earth
questioned the crew of the Earth ship, they, too, became suspicious.
Johnston's optimistic attitude just didn't jibe with the facts.

So, while the Rat officers were having the red carpet rolled out for
them, Earth Intelligence went to work. Several presumably awe-stricken
men were allowed to take a conducted tour of the Rat ship. After all,
why not? The Twentieth Century Russians probably wouldn't have minded
showing their rocket plants to an American of Captain John Smith's time,
either.

But there's a difference. Earth's government knew Earth was being
threatened, and they knew they had to get as many facts as they could.
They were also aware of the fact that if you know a thing _can_ be done,
then you will eventually find a way to do it.

During the next fifty years, Earth learned more than it had during the
previous hundred. The race expanded, secretly, moving out to other
planets in that sector of the galaxy. And they worked to catch up with
the Rats.

They didn't make it, of course. When, after fifty years of presumably
peaceful--but highly limited--contact, the Rats hit Earth, they found
out one thing. That the mass and energy of a planet armed with the
proper weapons can not be out-classed by any conceivable concentration
of spaceships.

Throwing rocks at an army armed with machine guns may seem futile, but
if you hit them with an avalanche, they'll go under. The Rats lost
three-quarters of their fleet to planet-based guns and had to go home to
bandage their wounds.

The only trouble was that Earth couldn't counterattack. Their ships were
still out-classed by those of the Rats. And the Rats, their racial pride
badly stung, were determined to wipe out Man, to erase the stain on
their honor wherever Man could be found. Somehow, some way, they must
destroy Earth.

And now, Al Pendray thought bitterly, they would do it.
