
The _Shane_ had sneaked in past Rat patrols to pick up a spy on one of
the outlying Rat planets, a man who'd spent five years playing the part
of a Rat slave, trying to get information on their activities there. And
he had had one vital bit of knowledge. He'd found it and held on to it
for over three years, until the time came for the rendezvous.

The rendezvous had almost come too late. The Rats had developed a device
that could make a star temporarily unstable, and they were ready to use
it on Sol.

The _Shane_ had managed to get off-planet with the spy, but they'd been
spotted in spite of the detector nullifiers that Earth had developed.
They'd been jumped by Rat cruisers and blasted by the superior Rat
weapons. The lifeboats had been picked out of space, one by one, as the
crew tried to get away.

In a way, Alfred Pendray was lucky. He'd been in the sick bay with a
sprained ankle when the Rats hit, sitting in the X-ray room. The shot
that had knocked out the port engine had knocked him unconscious, but
the shielded walls of the X-ray room had saved him from the blast of
radiation that had cut down the crew in the rear of the ship. He'd come
to in time to see the Rat cruisers cut up the lifeboats before they
could get well away from the ship. They'd taken a couple of parting
shots at the dead hulk, and then left it to drift in space--and leaving
one man alive.

In the small section near the rear of the ship, there were still
compartments that were airtight. At least, Pendray decided, there was
enough air to keep him alive for a while. If only he could get a little
power into the ship, he could get the rear air purifiers to working.

He left the lifeboat and closed the door behind him. There was no point
in worrying about a boat he couldn't use.

He made his way back toward the engine room. Maybe there was something
salvageable there. Swimming through the corridors was becoming easier
with practice; his Cadet training was coming back to him.

Then he got a shock that almost made him faint. The beam of his light
had fallen full on the face of a Rat. It took him several seconds to
realize that the Rat was dead, and several more to realize that it
wasn't a Rat at all. It was the spy they had been sent to pick up. He'd
been in the sick bay for treatments of the ulcers on his back gained
from five years of frequent lashings as a Rat slave.

Pendray went closer and looked him over. He was still wearing the
clothing he'd had on when the _Shane_ picked him up.

_Poor guy_, Pendray thought. _All that hell--for nothing._

Then he went around the corpse and continued toward the engine room.

The place was still hot, but it was thermal heat, not radioactivity. A
dead atomic engine doesn't leave any residual effects.

Five out of the six engines were utterly ruined, but the sixth seemed
to be in working condition. Even the shielding was intact. Again, hope
rose in Alfred Pendray's mind. If only there were tools!

A half hour's search killed that idea. There were no tools aboard
capable of cutting through the hard shielding. He couldn't use it to
shield the engine on the lifeboat. And the shielding that been on the
other five engines had melted and run; it was worthless.

Then another idea hit him. Would the remaining engine work at all? Could
it be fixed? It was the only hope he had left.

Apparently, the only thing wrong with it was the exciter circuit leads,
which had been sheared off by a bit of flying metal. The engine had
simply stopped instead of exploding. That ought to be fixable. He could
try; it was something to do, anyway.

It took him the better part of two days, according to his watch. There
were plenty of smaller tools around for the job, although many of them
were scattered and some had been ruined by the explosions. Replacement
parts were harder to find, but he managed to pirate some of them from
the ruined engines.

He ate and slept as he felt the need. There was plenty of food in the
sick bay kitchen, and there is no need for a bed under gravity-less
conditions.

After the engine was repaired, he set about getting the rest of the ship
ready to move--if it _would_ move. The hull was still solid, so the
infraspace field should function. The air purifiers had to be
reconnected and repaired in a couple of places. The lights ditto. The
biggest job was checking all the broken leads to make sure there weren't
any short circuits anywhere.

The pseudogravity circuits were hopeless. He'd have to do without
gravity.
