
He awakened with a start. His head was clearer than it had been for
hours. He listened to the oxygen hissing in again. He tried to read the
dial on the far wall, but it blurred before his eyes.

"Hertha," he said.

She came quickly to his cot.

"What does the oxygen register say?"

"Oxygen register?"

He gritted his teeth against the fever which began to shake his body
mercilessly until he wanted to scream to make it stop. He became angry
even as the fever shook him: angry not really at the doctors; not
really at any one thing. Angry because the mountains did not care if
he saw them; angry that the air did not care if he breathed it. Angry
because, between planets, between suns, the coldness of space merely
waited, not giving a damn.

Several years ago--ten, twenty, perhaps more--some doctor had finally
isolated a strain of the filterable virus of liguna fever that could
be used as a vaccine: too weak to kill, but strong enough to produce
immunity against its more virulent brother strains. That opened up the
Sitari System for colonization and exploration and meant that the men
who got there first would make fortunes.

So he went to the base at Ke, first selling his strip mine property and
disposing of his tools and equipping his spaceship for the intersolar
trip; and at Ke they shot him full of the disease. But his bloodstream
built no antibodies. The weakened virus settled in his nervous system
and there was no way of getting it out. The doctors were very sorry
for him, and they assured him it was a one-in-ten-thousand phenomenon.
Thereafter, he suffered recurrent paralytic attacks.

If it had not been for the advance warning--a pain at the base of
his spine, a moment of violent trembling in his knees--he would have
been forced to give up solitary strip mining altogether. As it was,
whenever he felt the warning, he had to hurry to the nearest colony and
be hospitalized for the duration of the attack. He had had four such
warnings on this satellite, and three times he had gone to Pastiville
on Helio and been cared for and come away with less money than he had
gone with.

His bank credit, once large, had slowly dribbled away, and now he
made just about enough from his mining to care for himself during
illness. He could not afford to hunt for less dangerous, less isolated
work. It would not pay enough, for he knew how to do very little that
civilization needed done. He was finally trapped; no longer could he
afford a pilot for the long flight from Helio to a newer frontier, and
he could not risk the trip alone.

He lay waiting for the new spasm of fever and stared at Hertha who,
this time, would care for him here and he would not need to go to a
hospital. Perhaps, after a little while, he would be able to save
enough to push on, through the awful indifference of space, to some new
world where, with luck, there would be a sudden fortune.

Then he could go back to civilization.

He realized bitterly that he was merely telling himself he would go
back. He knew there was only one direction he could go, and that
direction was not back.

Hertha waited, hurt-eyed, moving her pudgy hands helplessly.

When the shaking subsided, he explained through chattering teeth about
the oxygen register across the room, and she went away.
