
The period of calmness that returned after the fever was crystal and
lucid, preceding, he knew, a severe, prolonged seizure.

"I'm afraid," she told him, shivering, "but I will go."

He watched her get into the light surface suit, clamp down the helmet
with trembling hands. He was shaking with nervousness as she hesitated
at the lock. Then she pulled it open. It clicked behind her. He heard
the brief hiss of the oxygen replacing the air that had whooshed out.

And he felt sorry for her, alone, terrified, on the scaly, hard
surface of the tiny satellite. He closed his eyes, pictured her walking
past his strip mine, past the gleaming heap of minerals ready for the
transport.

He felt tears in his eyes and yet he could not entirely explain his
feelings toward her--half fear, sometimes half affection. But more
important than that: Why was she with him? What were her feelings? Had
some sense of gratitude made her come? Affection?

He could not understand her. At times she seemed beyond all
understanding. Her responses were mindless, almost mechanical, and that
frightened him.

He remembered her dumb, apologetic caresses and her pathetically clumsy
tenderness--or reflex; he could never be sure--and her eager yet
reluctant hands and the always slightly hurt, slightly accusing look in
her eyes, as if at every instant she was ready for a stinging blow, and
her great sighs, muted as if fearing to be heard and....

He was drunk, screaming meaninglessly, and the bartender threw him out.
The pavement cut his face. When he awoke, it was morning and he was in
a strange room and she was in bed beside him.

She said, "I am Hertha. I brought you home. I will go with you."

The paralysis set in. He could not move. The tears froze on his cheeks,
and he lay inert, thinking of her almost mindlessly fighting for his
life in the alien outside.

Then she was back in the hut. So soon?

She looked at him, smiled through the transparent helmet at him. He
could hear the precious oxygen hiss in to compensate for the air that
had been lost when she entered.

He could see her eyes. They were proud. Relieved, too, as if she had
been afraid he would be gone when she returned. He felt she had hurried
back to be sure that he was still there.

She knelt by the flower bed and, without removing her suit, she held
up the plant proudly. He could see the hard-packed dirt in the roots.
Fascinated, he watched her scrape a planting hole. He watched her set
the plant delicately and pat the soil with care.

Then she stood up.

He tried to move, to cry out. He could not.

He watched her until she went out of the range of his fixed eyes. She
was going to the airlock again.

After a moment he heard the familiar hiss of oxygen.

She was going to get a great number of plants.

But one at a time.



