
“I’ll make that first jump; I’ve got to!” he cried, springing to his feet
and thumping a quick fist on the parachute packs. “You can’t trust this
fellow, and if he bungles it, we’re gone!”

“I’ll not bungle it,” retorted Burt Minster stubbornly. “And as for nerve,
I’ve more nerve than he has language, which is some.”

Jim Tyler slumped wearily against the side wall of the shack and waited
for the argument to subside.

“I stand ready to prove you a liar in any way you want to pick,” Del
O’Connell declared heatedly.

Burt Minster did not answer at once. His face reddened at the challenge,
but his eyes, as they dwelt upon the parachutes, were merely thoughtful.
Jim Tyler plunged into the lull.

“Since none of us has ever gone over, perhaps we’d better rehearse a jump
this evening, before we try it on the crowd,” he suggested, in the hope
that action would halt dissension.

But Burt Minster had by no means given up the controversy. He had merely
been planning.

“This Jenkins who is running the fair intimated to-day that he might raise
the ante if we pulled something particularly spectacular the first day,”
he said slowly. “And we need the money, if we’re ever to get back where we
started. Well, I have a scheme that’ll settle this nerve question once and
for all, and give us a big lift toward buying another plane as well.”

“Out with it, then,” snapped Del O’Connell. “I’m willin’ already.”

Burt Minster laid a hand on the parachute packs.

“We have two of them, and we planned that the jumper should wear both, as
is customary. Well, instead of that, we’ll both jump, you and I, at the
same time.”

“And what would that prove?” snorted Del.

“I’m not through yet,” Burt rebuked him. “We’ll announce the thing as a
race to earth, the man landing first winning. You see, you don’t have to
pull the rip-cord that opens the parachute the minute you leave the ship.
You can fall free--an army expert fell almost two thousand feet before he
opened his ’chute--”

Del O’Connell’s eyes glinted.

“’Tis not a bad idea at all,” he admitted, and looked upon Burt Minster
with less rancor. “I like it fine.”

“Wait a minute,” interposed Jim Tyler. “You mean you’ll both jump, and let
yourselves fall a quarter of a mile or more? Why, that’s the craziest--”

“And the man who pulls his rip-cord last wins, for he’ll land first,” Del
O’Connell explained. “As good a test of nerve as ever I heard of.”

“Well, you can fly yourselves, then, for I’ll not have a hand in it,” Jim
Tyler announced firmly. “It isn’t necessary for you two to kill yourselves
to prove you’re fools. I’ll believe it now.”

His statement made no impression on his partners. This was no sudden
quarrel. Each, feeling guilty, was consequently touchy, and doggedly set
on doing his utmost to retrieve their misfortunes. And from this attitude
it was only a short step, in the ragged state of their nerves, to an open
conflict over the issue of courage--or any other issue about which they
could contend.

“Well, Jim,” said Burt Minster at last, as Tyler continued to stand his
ground unswervingly, “there’s another plane here at the fair, you know.
That fellow will take us both up if you won’t.”

Jim Tyler gave in at that, for he saw that his opposition to the plan was
only making them more eager to try it. Secretly he nursed the hope that
next day would bring them back to rational behavior.
