
But the opening hour of the fair found them still fixed in their resolve
to carry on perhaps the strangest duel of nerve that had ever been
devised. The three partners kept apart, since talk only led to acrimony,
and each at his post of observation watched the crowds gathering.

They came in battered tin automobiles, and they came on foot, and they
came in ancient horse-drawn vehicles, from Baychester County and from the
county across the Baychester River which flowed past the Fair Grounds. Jim
Tyler’s airworn but still airworthy Burgess training-plane was the center
of a milling mob, for Baychester was not so sophisticated as some of its
neighbors, and a flying machine was still an object of doubt and an object
of awe. The ropes about it strained under the pressure of the curious, and
the voices of the guards who reinforced the ropes grew hoarse and
querulous. And word of the race to the ground through the thin air spread
through the murmuring crowds.

The time of the flight came.

“Now boys, be sure and give us a good treat,” Jenkins, a stout, harassed,
badge-encrusted gentleman instructed, as he bustled up to the shack
wherein the partners had come together again.

“You’ll get it,” returned Burt Minster grimly.

“Two of them,” promised Del O’Connell, buckling the harness of his ’chute
about him, and taking a final glance at the dangling rip-cord and the ring
attached to it.

“I’ll make it worth your while,” the official declared, and dashed away.

At the plane the three men waited, while space for a takeoff in the
infield was cleared of spectators. Jim Tyler warmed up his motor, and
then, throttling down, left the cockpit and confronted his partners.

“If you’re set on going through with this fool thing I suppose I’ll have
to stand by,” he said briefly. “Where are you jumping from--wing or
cockpit?”

“Since we’re not pulling the rip-cords at once we might as well jump from
the cockpit,” said O’Connell. “You can signal to us better from there and
it will look more spectacular.”

“That suits me,” replied Burt Minster curtly.

“I won’t be able to get this bus up over six or seven thousand feet with
the weight of three men in her,” Jim calculated. “Suppose we make it five
thousand, to be sure?”

“A mile is plenty, since it’s going to be a sprint,” Del O’Connell said,
with a chuckle. “Though of course,” he added, looking sideways at Minster,
“one of us may not do much sprinting.”

“Speak for yourself,” growled the other man. “You’ll probably starve to
death before you get to the ground.”

“Remember, when I turn and put up five fingers, get ready,” Tyler broke in
hastily. “And when I nod, jump! One from each side. And jump hard, so
you’ll clear the tail.”

“Right,” assented Del O’Connell eagerly, and Burt Minster nodded
agreement.

The infield was clear at last. With a final glance at the fastenings of
their harness and the rip-cords that would release the parachutes, the two
men silently climbed into the rear cockpit. They wedged themselves into
the narrow seat. Then both turned automatically and studied the direction
and force of the wind, as revealed by the whipping flags on the
grandstand.

Jim Tyler gave the ship the throttle. Bouncing and lurching, it charged
into the wind, the propeller flickering as it cut the air and flung it
back upon the tense faces of pilot and ’chute jumpers. Far across the
infield the plane raced. Finally the wings took the burden from the
rubber-tired wheels. The ship, with a final jolt, parted company with the
ground, hung poised above the grass, and began its upward climb.

Though it was an old story to them, the two men in the rear cockpit looked
downward, each upon his side, and the plane climbed in great circles above
the fair ground below. The green of the countryside prevailed, but the
brown of the oval racetrack cut through it, and just outside this ellipse
was a speckled band of many indistinguishable colors that is the
indication of people in masses. Beyond that, behind the cigar-box
grandstand, stretched a tightly packed section of black and gray-black,
where the automobiles of the crowd were parked. Booths and buildings, gay
with bunting, displayed their tiny square outlines in regular patterns
around the ground.

And then, as the plane rose higher, the fair grounds contracted until they
were a mere detail of the landscape below--the great green and brown
squares and oblongs, with larger irregular patches of woodland,
interspersed here and there by tracts of well-watered pasture land, of a
lush green. Across it all, as if dividing all the world into two parts,
ran the almost straight course of the Baychester river.

Del O’Connell and Burt Minster at just the same time turned their
attention from the earth to the back of Jim Tyler’s head. They were
approaching their mark and both sensed it, although there was no altimeter
in their compartment.

The motor labored on, and both men thrust feet out straight, and moved
shoulders tentatively, as if to drive away any incipient stiffness that
might hinder action in that one swift leap into space. Both were entirely
at home in the air, as seamen are at home on the water, but neither had
ever gone out, deserting their craft for the impalpable element in which
it swam.

Suddenly Jim Tyler turned a grim face toward the rear cockpit and raised
his left hand, with fingers outstretched. Five thousand! For an instant
little Del O’Connell and big Burt Minster turned and looked at each other.
Determination was imprinted in the lines of both countenances, and
together they squirmed to their feet in that cramped compartment, standing
full in the buffeting stream of air flung back by the whirling propeller.
Del O’Connell, with an agile twist, got one foot up on the rim of the
cockpit and gripped the edge with both his hands. His head turned forward,
and his eyes fixed themselves on the stern face of the pilot.
