
Burt, a little slower, slung a foot over his side of the machine, and with
one hand fumbled for the ripcord and dangling ring at the end of it. Tyler
nodded.

Del O’Connell, with a quick spring, brought his other foot up out of the
cockpit and, clinging with his hands, crouched on the edge of the
fuselage. His legs bent more sharply for the leap that would carry him far
out into space.

But just then the eyes of Jim Tyler caught a sudden flash of white from
the pack on Del’s back. The next instant the great silken parachute
whipped out of its confining envelop. Del’s rip-cord had fouled on
something inside the cockpit, and his eager jump to the rim had jerked it.

The great spread of cloth billowed open instantly and whisked backward in
the grip of the wind. For just an instant Del, entirely unconscious of
what had occurred, held his place on the fuselage. Then, like a stone from
a catapult, he was whipped off his feet and flung toward the tail of the
racing plane.

The open parachute swept into the tail assembly. The tremendous force of
the wind ripped it from skirt to vent as it caught. Shroud lines parted
like threads. Then the silken cloth wrapped itself about elevators, and
several of the shrouds that did not snap became entangled over the point
of the balance of the rudder.

O’Connell’s whirling body struck the tail of the machine. Then it swept
past, dropping out into space. But the remaining shroud lines were
securely held by the rudder. O’Connell’s fall was checked by a
bone-jarring jerk. His body dangled below the tail of the plane, swaying
in the rush of the wind.

The plane wavered in the air, its flying speed dropping fast under the
resistance of the silken cloth whipping backward from the tail assembly,
and the drag of the man’s body swinging behind. Jim Tyler opened the
throttle full, and thrust the stick forward for a steep glide. The
elevators responded. They had been unhurt by the lashing parachute. The
nose of the plane turned earthward; its speed increased.

The sudden catastrophe had come before Burt Minster had gone over the
side. He drew back in the cockpit and stared over at the figure of Del
O’Connell, dragging behind the plane by the precarious strength of a few
unsevered shroud lines. As he watched, he caught sight of the white face
of his partner, and saw that O’Connell, dazed by the suddenness of the
accident and his whip-like snap from the cockpit, was just coming to a
realization of what had occurred.

Jim Tyler turned and stared backward, too, and then the eyes of Jim and
Burt met. Speech was impossible in the fury of the motor’s roar, but their
eyes appealed to each other for help--for some way out. The plane was
diving sharply earthward; to check that dive meant losing control of the
ship; not to check it meant to crash at terrific speed into the ground.
There was no way of getting O’Connell back into the ship; that was utterly
impossible.

That communion of eyes lasted but a brief second; then both men turned
despairingly to the doomed man trailing behind the plunging plane. They,
too, were doomed in that headlong dash, but somehow their plight seemed as
nothing compared to his.

O’Connell had not lost his senses. They perceived that with both hands he
was fumbling, working at his right hip. Even as they watched, his hand
went to his left side in the same peculiar movement. Then they
comprehended.

O’Connell was unbuckling his harness. Already he had unclasped the snap
buckles that fastened the heavy webbing straps about his thighs; now but
one more buckle remained--the one across his chest. He did not look toward
the plane; his whole attention was absorbed in his task, exceedingly
difficult in that lashing wind, dangling there in space at the end of the
cords. But in an instant he would no longer be dangling. The ship would be
saved--at a price.

Jim Tyler watched, paralyzed by the horrible fascination of the thing. In
another instant O’Connell would have cast himself off from the plane--and
from life. His dry throat framed at last an inarticulate sound of protest
at the sight of that sacrifice. The wind swept it away unheard.

Burt Minster, too, was watching. The breast buckle came apart. Del
O’Connell was free of the harness. He hung there by his hands, and his
face turned briefly toward them. A strained, twisted grin was on it.
