
A pain shot through Jim Tyler’s shoulder; it was a blow from Burt
Minster’s heavy fist. The big man was squatting on top of the fuselage.

“Right turn!”

His voice blared in the pilot’s ear, audible even above the thunder of the
motor. Jim obeyed automatically. The plane swerved sharply to the right.

As the machine swung around, O’Connell’s body whipped sidewise, no longer
directly behind and below the tail. In that instant Burt Minster leaped
out into the air, all the strength of his powerful muscles concentrated in
the thrust of his legs. His body, its momentum aided by the rush of air,
shot through space. He crashed like a plunging bull into the lean, small
body of Del O’Connell.

The two men dropped together as the long arms of Burt wrapped themselves
about his partner.

The plane disappeared instantly from their view; they plunged downward in
a free drop, locked together, face to face. Air was all about them; the
thunder of the machine died away in their ears. Beneath, the countryside
was slowly expanding, opening up before them like a magically blossoming
flower.

“R-r-r-r-rip-cord!” roared Burt Minster. His own arms tightened their
clutch on Del O’Connell until the little man’s breath was squeezed out of
his chest. But even before Burt had spoken the quick right hand of Del was
wriggling downward, between Burt’s shoulder and his own, toward the
release ring. He found it. He pulled.

Burt Minster’s breath followed Del O’Connell’s out of his body as an iron
band tightened across his breast; his thighs were squeezed as if a boa had
wrapped his constricting merciless folds about them. Del felt a repetition
of that shock that had hurled him from the fuselage.

Burt emitted a sound, half expiration, half grunt. His parachute had
opened.

It spread above them like a shield. The country below ceased its eerie
expansion. Burt Minster’s grip about Del O’Connell’s chest relaxed
slightly, and the smaller man breathed again--deep, lung-distending
mouthfuls of sweet air. There was no longer any rush of wind or roar of
motor; nothing but a gentle, lulling sway from side to side under that
great canopy of silk.

Burt Minster spoke first.

“These things are supposed to handle up to four hundred pounds, so I guess
we’re all right,” he remarked, with an effort at a casual tone.

Del blinked.

“If you’ll loosen up on those arms of yours, I’ll be able to get a grip
myself,” he answered. They adjusted their positions, and Del took some of
his weight from his hands by fastening his belt about Burt’s harness. They
continued to drift downward. The sudden cessation of hubbub and speed made
this gentle movement dreamlike.

Del O’Connell cleared his throat--and cleared it again. Finally he
muttered:

“That stuff about nerve, Burt--I’m a liar of the first water. Nerve?
You’re nothing else.”

“I saw what you were doing, yourself,” mumbled Burt Minster, equally
shamefaced and uncomfortable. “That certainly took guts, Del.”

“I’m glad to be out of that mess,” said Del fervently. “Look! Here comes
Jim!”

Jim it was, and he was not above but below them. He was climbing fast, and
it was plain to see that he had complete control of the ship. As they
craned their necks toward the ascending plane he banked sharply, and went
circling under them, waving his hand toward the tail. Nothing but a few
tatters of silk and several shroud lines trailed from the control surfaces
of the tail assembly. Jim had dived his encumbrance into ribbons.

With the plane whistling around them, they were wafted downward almost
directly over the fair grounds. A gentle wind was drifting them toward it,
for Jim had calculated well before signaling for the jump. The earth was
coming upward now with greater speed, as their horizon drew in upon them.
No longer could they survey half the county.

Legs dangling, they waited. Past the eastern end of the racetrack they
drifted, and then, suddenly, the ground thudded up against their feet, and
down they went in a heap together. The parachute slipped sideways, and lay
billowing on the ground.

“We finished together, Del. It’s a dead heat,” said Burt Minster, climbing
to his feet and lifting the smaller man with him.

“Dead enough,” answered Del O’Connell emphatically. “But I’ve a hunch this
last little stunt has broken our run of bad luck, Burt. See! Here comes
Jenkins on the run, and I’m crashed if he hasn’t got his checkbook in his
hand!”

                                 THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the December 30, 1925 issue
of Adventure magazine.]