
A voice spat an order at him. It was in Spanish, and only a fraction
less comprehensible to Juan than the gibberish in which these _gringos_
spoke to one another. But this was the voice of the dark man, the man
with boots, and Juan trembled.

He hastened to kindle a fire and cook humbly, while that man watched him
ominously. That one man frightened Juan more than any of the others. He
was all too familiar a type; the type of certain saturnine, hard-bitten
men who rove the backwaters of all the new countries of the world. They
are not amiable persons, and they are not especially moral persons, but
they obtain their desires in highly effective fashion from the natives
of backward nations. Those same natives, as a rule, fear them a great
deal more than whatever local devils there may be. And, as a rule, with
much more reason.

The man with the boots watched Juan coldly while he cooked. Juan’s hands
trembled a little. He sweated more than the heat would call for; at the
same time he shivered. Once, when the man with the boots moved behind
him, Juan cringed as if expecting a kick, and his eyes were agonized. A
man who is mostly Araucanian Indian can tell you stories which do not
redound remarkably to the credit of the white races.

With an exterior showing only the most impassive stolidity, Juan was
nevertheless nearly a nervous wreck from pure terror when the food was
cooked; yet all that the dark man had done was to look at him. But
considering that Juan knew the man’s breed and dreaded them sane, and
considering that he considered this man probably mad, Juan’s terror was
as understandable as it was abject.

When they began to eat Juan was a quivering bundle of nerves beneath an
appearance of Indian stolidity. He squatted down beside his hut because
he was afraid to run away, and he waited in anguished terror for them to
discuss the food.

But a slow amazement began to fill him. These men ate as if they were
starving. They wolfed down the unappetizing mess he had brought out as
his best. They fed themselves eagerly, hungrily, hugely. They grunted
with satisfaction as they thrust huge chunks of tough and insipid roots
into their mouths.

And Juan watched in bewilderment. He lived upon such victual in private,
of course. But up this nameless little jungle stream it was not
necessary to live up to his fraction of white blood. In San Teodoro De
Los Angeles, naturally, Juan paraded his descent from hypothetical white
men. In that metropolis of forty houses, Juan himself would scorn such
food with a lofty scorn as befitting only _Indios_, and not worthy of a
man in whose veins ran, however diluted, Spanish blood. But these men
ate it without even cursing him for having nothing better.

Incredible doubts assailed him and slowly turned to convictions.
Unthinkable thoughts occurred to him and became unassailable facts. And
in Juan’s slow brain there formed comforting opinions. His fraction of
white blood asserted itself for pride. The pride became the starting
point for scorn. A very few drops indeed of the superior blood of
the white man will make a vast change in an Araucanian Indian’s
potentialities. Juan regarded his guests with new eyes, though his
stolidity was unchanged.

These men were ragged and gaunt. Their shirts were in shreds and showed
the sun scorched flesh beneath. In the case of the red headed man bones
showed, sticking almost through the skin. Their trousers were ripped,
were shredded to almost nothing below the knees. Two of the three men
wore what were hardly more than sandals made from uncured hide.

It was at this moment, with his new formed scorn hot within him, that
Juan first really noted the dark man’s boots. He had seen them before,
but then he was an Indian and the _gringos_ were white men. Now Juan
thought of his own white blood, and the _gringos_ ...

He regarded the boots for a long time. Then he went into his hut and
found a jug of _chicha_. He drank of it, wiped his mouth and went out to
look again.

The white men were still eating wolfishly. He could inspect the boots
at ease. They had been beautiful boots once, and a man who is mostly
Araucanian Indian looks upon boots as the distinguishing mark of the
superior race. In Bogota, which is in Colombia, a gentleman is a man
with a collar on. In Lima, there was a time when a gentleman was a man
with a cane. But in the small jungle towns and the sierra of Peru, and
most especially to a man who is more Indian than white, a gentleman--why,
a gentleman is a man who wears shoes.

Juan looked at the boots unwinkingly for probably ten minutes. Then he
went in and took another drink of _chicha_.

Juan, of course, was in love. And in love all men are alike. They desire
to shine in the eyes of the woman they temporarily worship. And the
woman of Juan’s desire was a marvelous woman. She was unquestionably the
belle of San Teodoro De Los Angeles, which contained forty houses and
was the largest town Juan had ever seen. A miracle of femininity. She
was almost half white.

The boots stirred when the three men had stuffed themselves to bursting.
Juan remained squatting by his hut. He was still stolid, still
absolutely impassive as far as appearance went. But it was not at all
the same Juan who thought his own thoughts while the white men spoke in
the language that was only a babble to him.

“D’you suppose we can get enough grub from him to see us through?”

The voice was the voice of the red headed _gringo_.

“Only one more day’s travel down this stream,” said the man with the
boots. “Then we can get all we want at San Teodoro.”

His tone was curt. It would have made Juan shiver, ten minutes before.
Now his eyes shifted to the red headed man as he spoke again.

“But how will we pay him?”

With food in their bellies, the exaltation of spirits the white men had
displayed had now gone curiously flat. “We haven’t a damned thing he’d
want. Of course an emerald--”

The man with the boots laughed. It was more like a bark.

“He wouldn’t know what it was.”

Juan returned his gaze to the boots. He ignored the uncouth sounds
issuing from the lips of the white men. Wearing such boots as these, he
would be envied. Even Pedro, though he boasted a Spanish surname and was
full three-eighths white, possessed no such footgear. And he would be
admired by all the women. The economic factor in feminine admiration
bulks large in every climate.

The white men talked, and Juan heard the syllables, the combinations of
consonant and vowel sounds, but they meant nothing. He looked at the
boots.

“With a belly full,” said the red headed man, “I can think. And I tell
you, it looks good. What d’you think we’ve got there? How much cash?”

The booted man shrugged.

“No use guessing,” he said curtly. “Plenty.”

“It was a cache,” said the red headed man wisely. “We hit on the place
where they stored ’em. We got the product of the mine for a couple of
months, maybe. All ready to send down when old Pizarro seized the Inca
and orders went out to cover all workings.”

The dark man stood up suddenly. He flung a word over his shoulder.

“Smokes.”

He advanced toward Juan. And Juan raised his eyes from the boots, and
they traveled up the dark man’s ragged, dilapidated costume, and they
penetrated the innumerable rents and tears--the white man’s clothes were
even worse than Juan’s--and Juan’s eyes were not at all humble when they
reached the white man’s face.

Juan veiled his eyes and sat stolidly still when the white man went into
the hut. He remained motionless when the white man came out bearing a
handful of Juan’s precious native-made _cigarros_ and the jug of
_chicha_ from which Juan had just drunk twice.

And he watched while the three white men lighted his _cigarros_ and
smoked with avid enjoyment, and while they drank his _chicha_ with the
intense pleasure of men who have been deprived of the luxury of any
stimulant whatever for a very long time. In every gesture, in every
sign, they acted like beggars suddenly possessed of plenty. Even the man
with the boots was smoking with a fierce satisfaction.

“Ah!” said the red headed man, “this is something like comfort!”

The gray eyed _Yanqui_ smiled a little.

“You forget,” he said dryly. “I’ve heard you swear no decent cigar could
be had under half a dollar. What would this sell for?”

“I said it,” said the red head, “and I’ll never smoke another one under
a dollar! We’ve earned some luxury now!”

Darkness was settling down. The man with the boots was gazing somberly
at the end of his cigar. His features were curiously harsh in the
flickering light of the fire Juan had made.

The gray eyed man arose.

“Get in some wood,” he said briefly. “It won’t take long.”

Juan remained squatted, unnoticed in the shadow of his hut, while the
two white men brought in wood. It did not take long. The red headed man
sang while he tugged his burden back. The gray eyed _gringo_ came into
the firelight loaded down and smiling. The dark man’s face was as harsh
and as hard as if carved from granite. He stared at his cigar until the
wood went down with a crash. He jumped, then, and Juan noted that his
eyes were burning.
