
Darkness fell silently and very suddenly. There was still no breath of
wind. The night was hot and humid, as the day had been one of stifling
heat. The stream contracted to a little space of smooth and oily water,
illuminated by the camp-fire. The jungle vanished save for the wall of
the clearing, where leaves and occasionally the mottled trunk of a
jungle tree were pricked out by the dull red flames. Small noises began
in the jungle. Little, furtive creepings.

The canoe was unloaded. The small clearing about Juan’s hut was tacitly
adopted as a camping place. The equipment of the three men was old and
worn out. The hammocks were laced together with strips of untanned hide
where they had ripped. Had they been Indians they would have been no
worse provided. One single package from the canoe alone was carefully
wrapped and anxiously watched by all three until safely deposited in
their midst.

Juan was lost in the darkness. He was motionless, he was silent--and he
was eventually forgotten. Now and then fugitive gleams from the small
camp-fire glinted on his eyes. But the thoughts behind the bronze mask
of his face were strange thoughts for one of his breed. The white men
had eaten of his food without cursing its quality. They had smoked his
cigars with a passionate pleasure. They had brought in their own
firewood--white men!--while an Indian was nearby idle.

An Indian ... But he, Juan, was part white himself. His skin was dark,
it was true, and no white man had admitted parental interest in the past
two generations of his forbears. But boastful myths concerning imaginary
forefathers recurred to him. A putative ancestor had been great among
the white men, a _jéfe_, no less. A greater man, probably, than these.
Certainly a greater man. He would have worn shoes every day and other
white men would have called him señor. Yes. Certainly. And these were
madmen, no less, and beggarly madmen at that, and it was not fitting
that the descendant of a white man whom other white men had called señor
should go barefoot while madmen wore boots...

“We’ll take our evening look,” said the red headed man. His voice was
strained. And Juan, observing, found the words a mere jumble of sounds
or else he might have realized that the hilarity with which these three
men had come paddling down the river was a protective hilarity, a
constant dwelling upon good fortune for the forgetting of hunger. There
was certainly no hilarity in the voices now. The red headed man’s tone
was harsh, by that immutable law which fixes every man’s emotion upon
his greatest desire. When hungry, emeralds did not matter. They were
encouragement, yes; a means of forgetting starvation by providing
dreams.

The man with the boots moved back a little into the shadows as the gray
eyed _Yanqui_ slowly unfastened the intricate wrappings of untanned hide
and unfolded the stiff and stinking cover of that guarded parcel. Other
wrappings were inside the first. Juan, squatting motionless in the
deepest shadows and quite forgotten, saw the faces of the two men
stiffen and grow tense. The face of the third man was invisible.

Juan caught a glimpse of greenish pebbles in the firelight. The men
regarded them with hypnotic attention, with a feverish intensity. As one
of them moved, Juan saw the pebbles more clearly. Dull, uninteresting
small stones. Colored, to be sure--but uncut emeralds are not articles of
surpassing beauty. Even by the handful they are not impressive.

The still and silent figure in the shadows found scorn increasing.
Juan’s impression of these men’s madness now was certified. The men were
staring at the stones in utter silence. The gray eyed _Yanqui_ began to
speak monotonous, meaningless words--

“One, two, three, four, five...”

His voice went on, while the sodden heat of a breezeless jungle night
made sweat pour out on a man’s flesh, and while stars glowed luridly
overhead, and while dancing moths and night flies from the jungle
flittered drunkenly in the ruddy light of the camp-fire before they
plunged crazily down into its coals.

Small, slithering sounds in the jungle. Small, furtive lappings from the
stream. Tiny, crackling sounds from the fire. The monotonous, rhythmic
murmur of a man counting tediously in the stillness. That was all.

The dark man’s face was hidden, but his boots were limned clearly in the
firelight. Juan’s motionless figure was in a position where his eyes
could remain fixed upon them. But visions were flitting through his
brain. Of himself, in the metropolis of San Teodoro De Los Angeles. As
he would be, wearing those boots. Haughty. Condescending. And there was
that woman who was the acknowledged belle of San Teodoro.

The counting came to an end after a long, long time. There was
stillness. Then the voice of the red headed man--

“We’re rich men!”

Slowly, painstakingly, the _Yanqui_ with gray eyes was replacing the
dull green pebbles in their malodorous packet.

“Yes, we’re all rich men,” he said quietly.

“I wonder,” said the red headed _gringo_ harshly, “if you’re thinking
that if they didn’t have to be divided, one of us would be richer.”

The man with gray eyes looked steadily across the firelight.

“I’ve thought of it,” he said evenly. “Of course. But don’t be an ass.
We’ve only got another day’s paddling, and we’ll be out in the main
stream. Then we’ll be safe from the jungle and temptation together--if
it’s a temptation to you.”

The red headed man swore irritably, as if ashamed.

“It hasn’t been, until just this minute. And it won’t be again.” He
stopped, and said suddenly, “I’ll tell you something. Back up in the
mountains we were all nearly crazy. You know it. And I got to thinking
about Norma. She’s waiting for you. She’s going to marry you when you
get back.”

The other man nodded.

“I was crazy, I guess. I figured that if you died, back up there, I’d
have a chance to win her myself when I got out. I got out of my hammock
to kill you... And that was the night that damned jaguar chased us
out into the middle of the river and kept us there till daybreak. He
saved your life.”

The other _Yanqui_ shrugged and bent again to his wrapping.

“You see what a fool I am,” said the red headed man savagely. “I’m
sorry. Do you want me to let you keep my gun?”

The wrappings were nearly complete about the dull green stones. The gray
eyed man shrugged.

“Don’t be a fool. You’re cured.” He smiled suddenly. “There’s not a
shell among the three of us, anyway.”

He put the package carefully down. He stood up and stretched and climbed
unconcernedly in his hammock, slung only a few inches from the ground.

“Go to sleep,” he said dryly. “We’re all fools.”

He was still. The red headed man sat staring into the fire for minutes.
Then he, too, stood up. But he stared down at the wrapped and laced
package of uncured hides. He frowned. The frown became a scowl. Suddenly
he kicked the package and growled inarticulately. Within thirty seconds
thereafter he was in his hammock. But tossings that continued for a long
time showed that it was not easy for him to sleep.
