
Juan squatted in the darkness. The flickering firelight fitfully glinted
red upon his eyes. They moved from time to time, as he gazed alternately
from the tossing hammock to the hide wrapped bundle, and from the bundle
to the boots. Juan was wholly scornful now, and his three-sixteenths of
Spanish blood was wholly in the ascendant. These men were plainly mad.
They made much ado over small green pebbles not even bright enough to be
used for beads. They made a long recitative over them in a monotonous
voice. They rewrapped the green pebbles, and one then kicked the
package. Madness. Pure madness!

A burned-through stick collapsed and sent up a slender fountain of
sparks. The dark man had been silent, had been as motionless as Juan
himself. Yet Juan had seen his eyes darting from one to the other of his
companions. He remained motionless now, but his eyes moved from one
hammock to the other, and then to the wrapped hide package on the floor.

The stillness was so complete that a sudden snore caused even Juan to
start a little. That snore came from the hammock of the gray eyed man.
And Juan saw the dark man rise slowly. Juan saw his face clearly, and it
was the face of a devil. He saw the long hands work strangely, saw them
go to the revolver in his holster, saw them drop away again. And the
Indian in Juan felt death in the air.

The jungle may have found the next few moments subtly humorous to watch.
As the dark man reached his full height, Juan moved very quietly. As the
dark man moved soundlessly toward the hammock in which the wakeful man
lay, Juan began to crawl with infinite stealth into his hut. He vanished
within its doorway as a startled voice said--

“What’s the matter?”

And Juan was feeling his way very delicately about the abysmal blackness
of the hut when the man outside hissed sibilantly for silence. No one
knows, of course, just why Juan first looked for and found a second jug
of _chicha_ from which he took an encouraging draught. It may have
been that Juan was afraid, or it may be that he was covetous, or it is
of course possible that he was merely in love with a woman. _Chicha_,
however, is helpful in all three of those emotions.

He looked out of the doorway and saw the dark man close by the hammock
of the red headed _gringo_. He was talking in an urgent low tone.
Tumbled, incomprehensible syllables reached Juan’s ears. And Juan could
see the dark man’s face as demoniacal in the fire glow.

“Listen to me,” he was saying softly. “Last night, Walker proposed that
we should kill you and divide the emeralds two ways instead of three.”

Juan felt the _chicha_ begin to warm his inwards. He felt for and found
another possession of his, in the hut.

“I pretended to fall in with him.”

The sounds meant nothing, but Juan could see the dark man whispering
when he looked out of the hut again. His head was close to that of the
man in the hammock. Juan could not see the expression of the red headed
man. He could not see a look of horror and unbelief changing slowly to
one of dawning suspicion.

“We were to play with you until tomorrow,” the whisper went on, while
Juan did certain things which were only possible by virtue of a dash of
Spanish blood. “That was so you’d help paddle the last stretch. And
tomorrow night----”

While the red headed _Yanqui_ listened, staring, the lean fingers of the
dark man darted out. There was a little sound--not enough to waken a
sleeping man no more than two yards away. And then a horrible, silent,
struggle began. The dark man bent over the hammock like some monstrous
vulture. His hands were closed about the throat of the man with red
hair, who fought frenziedly in the toils of his hampering hammock to
tear away the grip that shut off his breath. There was no sound at all
except the ghastly rustling of the hammock cloth. Juan deliberately
waited as the struggles slackened, as the writhings of the red headed
man became less. After all, these men were madmen... And the cause of
Juan’s calmness may have been _chicha_ and the motive for his action may
have been love of a woman, or covetousness, or it may have been pure
fear. But Juan had fitted a long arrow to the string of the tall
Araucanian bow in his hands. Standing in the darkness, he drew that
arrow to his ear. He released it.

And then everything was very quiet.

Dawn was breaking as the gray eyed Yanqui woke. He tumbled out of his
hammock. He stared about him. He stiffened and looked about in what was
almost terror. He plunged through the ashes of a dead camp-fire toward
his companions.

The red headed man was breathing. A little. A very little. The gray eyed
man brought him slowly back to life. For the dark man, of course,
nothing could be done. An arrow stuck out a foot beyond his back.

The red headed man could not talk, because of his swollen throat, but by
gestures he told what he knew. It was only then that the gray eyed
_gringo_ looked for the packet of emeralds. Juan had opened that
package, and he had fingered the stones, and he had flung them
contemptuously aside. Juan, you see, was not a madman. Juan was gone.
And so were the dark man’s boots.

“M-my God!” said the gray eyed Yanqui shakenly. “M-my God! You’d have
killed me for a girl, and--he’d have killed both of us for the
emeralds--and--and that damned Indian killed him for his boots!”

Which, somehow, seems to point a moral of some sort. But it is elusive.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the August 15, 1929 issue
of “Adventure” magazine.]





