
As the evening wore on it grew rawer and more blustering still. Flakes
of dry snow that stayed where they fell, slowly tracing the curb-lines,
the shutters, and the doorsteps of the tenements with gathering white,
were borne up on the storm from the water. To the right and left
stretched endless streets between the towering barracks, as beneath
frowning cliffs pierced with a thousand glowing eyes that revealed the
watch-fires within--a mighty city of cave-dwellers held in the thraldom
of poverty and want.

Outside there was yet hurrying to and fro. Saloon doors were slamming
and bare-legged urchins, carrying beer-jugs, hugged the walls close for
shelter. From the depths of a blind alley floated out the discordant
strains of a vagabond brass band "blowing in" the yule of the poor.
Banished by police ordinance from the street, it reaped a scant harvest
of pennies for Christmas-cheer from the windows opening on the backyard.
Against more than one pane showed the bald outline of a forlorn little
Christmas-tree, some stray branch of a hemlock picked up at the grocer's
and set in a pail for "the childer" to dance around, a dime's worth of
candy and tinsel on the boughs.

From the attic over the way came, in spells between, the gentle tones
of a German song about the Christ-child. Christmas in the East-Side
tenements begins with the sunset on the "holy eve," except where the
name is as a threat or a taunt. In a hundred such homes the whir of many
sewing-machines, worked by the sweater's slaves with weary feet and
aching backs, drowned every feeble note of joy that struggled to make
itself heard above the noise of the great treadmill.

To these what was Christmas but the name for persecution, for suffering,
reminder of lost kindred and liberty, of the slavery of eighteen hundred
years, freedom from which was purchased only with gold. Aye, gold! The
gold that had power to buy freedom yet, to buy the good will, aye, and
the good name, of the oppressor, with his houses and land. At the
thought the tired eye glistened, the aching back straightened, and to
the weary foot there came new strength to finish the long task while the
city slept.

Where a narrow passage-way put in between two big tenements to a
ramshackle rear barrack, Nibsy, the newsboy, halted in the shadow of
the doorway and stole a long look down the dark alley.

He toyed uncertainly with his still unsold papers--worn dirty and ragged
as his clothes by this time--before he ventured in, picking his way
between barrels and heaps of garbage; past the Italian cobbler's hovel,
where a tallow dip, stuck in a cracked beer-glass, before a cheap print
of the "Mother of God," showed that even he knew it was Christmas and
liked to show it; past the Sullivan flat, where blows and drunken curses
mingled with the shriek of women, as Nibsy had heard many nights before
this one.

He shuddered as he felt his way past the door, partly with a premonition
of what was in store for himself, if the "old man" was at home, partly
with a vague, uncomfortable feeling that somehow Christmas-eve should be
different from other nights, even in the alley. Down to its farthest
end, to the last rickety flight of steps that led into the filth and
darkness of the tenement. Up this he crept, three flights, to a door at
which he stopped and listened, hesitating, as he had stopped at the
entrance to the alley; then, with a sudden, defiant gesture, he pushed
it open and went in.

A bare and cheerless room; a pile of rags for a bed in the corner,
another in the dark alcove, miscalled bedroom; under the window a broken
cradle and an iron-bound chest, upon which sat a sad-eyed woman with
hard lines in her face, peeling potatoes in a pan; in the middle of the
room a rusty stove, with a pile of wood, chopped on the floor alongside.
A man on his knees in front fanning the fire with an old slouch hat.
With each breath of draught he stirred, the crazy old pipe belched forth
torrents of smoke at every point. As Nibsy entered, the man desisted
from his efforts and sat up glaring at him. A villainous ruffian's face,
scowling with anger.

"Late ag'in!" he growled; "an' yer papers not sold. What did I tell yer,
brat, if ye dared----"

"Tom! Tom!" broke in the wife, in a desperate attempt to soothe the
ruffian's temper.

"The boy can't help it, an' it's Christmas-eve. For the love o'----"

"To thunder with yer rot and with yer brat!" shouted the man, mad with
the fury of passion. "Let me at him!" and, reaching over, he seized a
heavy knot of wood and flung it at the head of the boy.

Nibsy had remained just inside the door, edging slowly toward his
mother, but with a watchful eye on the man at the stove. At the first
movement of his hand toward the woodpile he sprang for the stairway with
the agility of a cat, and just dodged the missile. It struck the door,
as he slammed it behind him, with force enough to smash the panel.

Down the three flights in as many jumps Nibsy went, and through the
alley, over barrels and barriers, never stopping once till he reached
the street, and curses and shouts were left behind.

In his flight he had lost his unsold papers, and he felt ruefully in his
pocket as he went down the street, pulling his rags about him as much
from shame as to keep out the cold.

Four pennies were all he had left after his Christmas treat to the two
little lads from the barracks; not enough for supper or for a bed; and
it was getting colder all the time.

On the sidewalk in front of the notion store a belated Christmas party
was in progress. The children from the tenements in the alley and across
the way were having a game of blindman's-buff, groping blindly about in
the crowd to catch each other. They hailed Nibsy with shouts of
laughter, calling to him to join in.

"We're having Christmas!" they yelled.

Nibsy did not hear them. He was thinking, thinking, the while turning
over his four pennies at the bottom of his pocket.

Thinking if Christmas was ever to come to him, and the children's Santa
Claus to find his alley where the baby slept within reach of her
father's cruel hand. As for him, he had never known anything but blows
and curses. He could take care of himself. But his mother and the
baby----. And then it came to him with shuddering cold that it was
getting late, and that he must find a place to sleep.

He weighed in his mind the merits of two or three places where he was in
the habit of hiding from the "cops" when the alley got to be too hot for
him.

There was the hay-barge down by the dock, with the watchman who got
drunk sometimes, and so gave the boys a chance. The chances were at
least even of its being available on Christmas-eve, and of Santa Claus
having thus done him a good turn after all.

Then there was the snug berth in the sandbox you could curl all up in.
Nibsy thought with regret of its being, like the hay-barge, so far away
and to windward too.

Down by the printing-offices there were the steam-gratings, and a chance
corner in the cellars, stories and stories underground, where the big
presses keep up such a clatter from midnight till far into the day.

As he passed them in review, Nibsy made up his mind with sudden
determination, and, setting his face toward the south, made off down
town.
