
It was very quiet in the alley. Christmas had come and gone. Upon the
last door a bow of soiled crape was nailed up with two tacks. It had
done duty there a dozen times before, that year.

Upstairs, Nibsy was at home, and for once the neighbors, one and all,
old and young, came to see him.

Even the father, ruffian that he was, offered no objection. Cowed and
silent, he sat in the corner by the window farthest from where the plain
little coffin stood, with the lid closed down.

A couple of the neighbor-women were talking in low tones by the stove,
when there came a timid knock at the door. Nobody answering, it was
pushed open, first a little, then far enough to admit the shrinking form
of a little ragamuffin, the smaller of the two who had stood breathing
peep-holes on the window-pane of the delicatessen store the night before
when Nibsy came along.

He dragged with him a hemlock branch, the leavings from some
Christmas-tree fitted into its block by the grocer for a customer.

"It's from Sante Claus," he said, laying it on the coffin. "Nibsy
knows." And he went out.

Santa Claus had come to Nibsy, after all, in his alley. And Nibsy knew.

[Illustration]




         WHAT THE CHRISTMAS SUN SAW IN THE TENEMENTS


The December sun shone clear and cold upon the city. It shone upon rich
and poor alike. It shone into the homes of the wealthy on the avenues
and in the uptown streets, and into courts and alleys hedged in by
towering tenements down town. It shone upon throngs of busy holiday
shoppers that went out and in at the big stores, carrying bundles big
and small, all alike filled with Christmas cheer and kindly messages
from Santa Claus.

It shone down so gayly and altogether cheerily there, that wraps and
overcoats were unbuttoned for the north wind to toy with. "My, isn't it
a nice day?" said one young lady in a fur shoulder-cape to a friend,
pausing to kiss and compare lists of Christmas gifts.

"Most too hot," was the reply, and the friends passed on. There was
warmth within and without. Life was very pleasant under the Christmas
sun up on the avenue.

Down in Cherry Street the rays of the sun climbed over a row of tall
tenements with an effort that seemed to exhaust all the life that was in
them, and fell into a dirty block, half-choked with trucks, with
ash-barrels and rubbish of all sorts, among which the dust was whirled
in clouds upon fitful, shivering blasts that searched every nook and
cranny of the big barracks. They fell upon a little girl, bare-footed
and in rags, who struggled out of an alley with a broken pitcher in her
grimy fist, against the wind that set down the narrow slit like the
draught through a big factory chimney. Just at the mouth of the alley it
took her with a sudden whirl, a cyclone of dust and drifting ashes,
tossed her fairly off her feet, tore from her grip the threadbare shawl
she clutched at her throat, and set her down at the saloon-door
breathless and half-smothered. She had just time to dodge through the
storm-doors before another whirlwind swept whistling down the street.

"My, but isn't it cold?" she said, as she shook the dust out of her
shawl and set the pitcher down on the bar. "Gimme a pint," laying down a
few pennies that had been wrapped in a corner of the shawl, "and mamma
says make it good and full."

"All'us the way with youse kids--want a barrel when yees pays fer a
pint," growled the bartender. "There, run along, and don't ye hang
around that stove no more. We ain't a steam-heatin' the block fer
nothin'."

The little girl clutched her shawl and the pitcher, and slipped out into
the street where the wind lay in ambush and promptly bore down on her in
pillars of whirling dust as soon as she appeared. But the sun that
pitied her bare feet and little frozen hands played a trick on old
Boreas--it showed her a way between the pillars, and only just her skirt
was caught by one and whirled over her head as she dodged into her
alley. It peeped after her half-way down its dark depths, where it
seemed colder even than in the bleak street, but there it had to leave
her.

It did not see her dive through the doorless opening into a hall where
no sun-ray had ever entered. It could not have found its way in there
had it tried. But up the narrow, squeaking stairs the girl with the
pitcher was climbing. Up one flight of stairs, over a knot of children,
half babies, pitching pennies on the landing, over wash-tubs and
bedsteads that encumbered the next--house-cleaning going on in that
"flat;" that is to say, the surplus of bugs was being burned out with
petroleum and a feather--up still another, past a half-open door through
which came the noise of brawling and curses. She dodged and quickened
her step a little until she stood panting before a door on the fourth
landing that opened readily as she pushed it with her bare foot.

A room almost devoid of stick or rag one might dignify with the name of
furniture. Two chairs, one with a broken back, the other on three legs,
beside a rickety table that stood upright only by leaning against the
wall. On the unwashed floor a heap of straw covered with dirty bed-tick
for a bed; a foul-smelling slop-pail in the middle of the room; a crazy
stove, and back of it a door or gap opening upon darkness. There was
something in there, but what it was could only be surmised from a heavy
snore that rose and fell regularly. It was the bedroom of the apartment,
windowless, airless, and sunless, but rented at a price a millionaire
would denounce as robbery.

"That you, Liza?" said a voice that discovered a woman bending over the
stove. "Run 'n' get the childer. Dinner's ready."

The winter sun glancing down the wall of the opposite tenement, with a
hopeless effort to cheer the backyard, might have peeped through the one
window of the room in Mrs. McGroarty's "flat," had that window not been
coated with the dust of ages, and discovered that dinner-party in
action. It might have found a hundred like it in the alley. Four unkempt
children, copies each in his or her way of Liza and their mother, Mrs.
McGroarty, who "did washing" for a living. A meat bone, a "cut" from
the butcher's at four cents a pound, green pickles, stale bread and
beer. Beer for the four, a sup all round, the baby included. Why not? It
was the one relish the searching ray would have found there. Potatoes
were there, too--potatoes and meat! Say not the poor in the tenements
are starving. In New York only those starve who cannot get work and have
not the courage to beg. Fifty thousand always out of a job, say those
who pretend to know. A round half-million asking and getting charity in
eight years, say the statisticians of the Charity Organization. Any one
can go round and see for himself that no one need starve in New York.

From across the yard the sunbeam, as it crept up the wall, fell
slantingly through the attic window whence issued the sound of
hammer-blows. A man with a hard face stood in its light, driving nails
into the lid of a soap-box that was partly filled with straw. Something
else was there; as he shifted the lid that didn't fit, the glimpse of
sunshine fell across it; it was a dead child, a little baby in a white
slip, bedded in straw in a soap-box for a coffin. The man was hammering
down the lid to take it to the Potter's Field. At the bed knelt the
mother, dry-eyed, delirious from starvation that had killed her child.
Five hungry, frightened children cowered in the corner, hardly daring to
whisper as they looked from the father to the mother in terror.

There was a knock on the door that was drowned once, twice, in the noise
of the hammer on the little coffin. Then it was opened gently, and a
young woman came in with a basket. A little silver cross shone upon her
breast. She went to the poor mother, and putting her hand soothingly on
her head knelt by her with gentle and loving words. The half-crazed
woman listened with averted face, then suddenly burst into tears and hid
her throbbing head in the other's lap.

The man stopped hammering and stared fixedly upon the two; the children
gathered around with devouring looks as the visitor took from her basket
bread, meat, and tea. Just then, with a parting, wistful look into the
bare attic room, the sun-ray slipped away, lingered for a moment about
the coping outside and fled over the house-tops.

As it sped on its winter-day journey, did it shine into any cabin in an
Irish bog more desolate than these Cherry Street "homes?" An army of
thousands whose one bright and wholesome memory, only tradition of home,
is that poverty-stricken cabin in the desolate bog, are herded in such
barracks to-day in New York. Potatoes they have; yes, and meat at four
cents--even seven. Beer for a relish--never without beer. But home? The
home that was home even in a bog, with the love of it that has made
Ireland immortal and a tower of strength in the midst of her
suffering--what of that? There are no homes in New York's poor
tenements.

Down the crooked path of the Mulberry Street Bend the sunlight slanted
into the heart of New York's Italy. It shone upon bandannas and yellow
neckerchiefs; upon swarthy faces and corduroy breeches; upon
blackhaired girls--mothers at thirteen; upon hosts of bow-legged
children rolling in the dirt; upon pedlers' carts and ragpickers
staggering under burdens that threatened to crush them at every step.
Shone upon unnumbered Pasquales dwelling, working, idling, and gambling
there. Shone upon the filthiest and foulest of New York's tenements,
upon Bandits' Roost, upon Bottle Alley, upon the hidden by-ways that
lead to the tramp's burrows. Shone upon the scene of annual infant
slaughter. Shone into the foul core of New York's slums that is at last
to go to the realm of bad memories because civilized man may not look
upon it and live without blushing.

It glanced past the rag-shop in the cellar, whence welled up stenches to
poison the town, into an apartment three flights up that held two women,
one young, the other old and bent. The young one had a baby at her
breast. She was rocking it tenderly in her arms, singing in the soft
Italian tongue a lullaby, while the old granny listened eagerly, her
elbows on her knees, and a stumpy clay-pipe, blackened with age,
between her teeth. Her eyes were set on the wall, on which the musty
paper hung in tatters, fit frame for the wretched, poverty-stricken
room, but they saw neither poverty nor want; her aged limbs felt not the
cold draught from without, in which they shivered; they looked far over
the seas to sunny Italy, whose music was in her ears.

"O dolce Napoli," she mumbled between her toothless jaws, "O suol
beato----"

The song ended in a burst of passionate grief. The old granny and the
baby woke up at once. They were not in sunny Italy; not under Southern,
cloudless skies. They were in "The Bend" in Mulberry Street, and the
wintry wind rattled the door as if it would say, in the language of
their new home, the land of the free: "Less music! More work! Root, hog,
or die!"

Around the corner the sunbeam danced with the wind into Mott Street,
lifted the blouse of a Chinaman and made it play tag with his pig-tail.
It used him so roughly that he was glad to skip from it down a
cellar-way that gave out fumes of opium strong enough to scare even the
north wind from its purpose. The soles of his felt shoes showed as he
disappeared down the ladder that passed for cellar-steps. Down there,
where daylight never came, a group of yellow, almond-eyed men were
bending over a table playing fan-tan. Their very souls were in the game,
every faculty of the mind bent on the issue and the stake. The one
blouse that was indifferent to what went on was stretched on a mat in a
corner. One end of a clumsy pipe was in his mouth, the other held over a
little spirit-lamp on the divan on which he lay. Something spluttered in
the flame with a pungent, unpleasant smell. The smoker took a long
draught, inhaling the white smoke, then sank back on his couch in
senseless content.

Upstairs tiptoed the noiseless felt shoes, bent on some house errand, to
the "household" floors above, where young white girls from the tenements
of The Bend and the East Side live in slavery worse, if not more
galling, than any of the galley with ball and chain--the slavery of the
pipe. Four, eight, sixteen--twenty odd such "homes" in this tenement,
disgracing the very name of home and family, for marriage and troth are
not in the bargain.

In one room, between the half-drawn curtains of which the sunbeam works
its way in, three girls are lying on as many bunks, smoking all. They
are very young, "under age," though each and every one would glibly
swear in court to the satisfaction of the police that she is sixteen,
and therefore free to make her own bad choice. Of these, one was brought
up among the rugged hills of Maine; the other two are from the tenement
crowds, hardly missed there. But their companion? She is twirling the
sticky brown pill over the lamp, preparing to fill the bowl of her pipe
with it. As she does so, the sunbeam dances across the bed, kisses the
red spot on her cheek that betrays the secret her tyrant long has known,
though to her it is hidden yet--that the pipe has claimed its victim and
soon will pass it on to the Potter's Field.

"Nell," says one of her chums in the other bunk, something stirred
within her by the flash--"Nell, did you hear from the old farm to home
since you come here?"

Nell turns half around, with the toasting-stick in her hand, an ugly
look on her wasted features, a vile oath on her lips.

"To hell with the old farm," she says, and putting the pipe to her mouth
inhales it all, every bit, in one long breath, then falls back on her
pillow in drunken stupor.

That is what the sun of a winter day saw and heard in Mott Street.

It had travelled far toward the west, searching many dark corners and
vainly seeking entry to others; had gilt with equal impartiality the
spires of five hundred churches and the tin cornices of thirty thousand
tenements, with their million tenants and more; had smiled courage and
cheer to patient mothers trying to make the most of life in the teeming
crowds, that had too little sunshine by far; hope to toiling fathers
striving early and late for bread to fill the many mouths clamoring to
be fed.

The brief December day was far spent. Now its rays fell across the
North River and lighted up the windows of the tenements in Hell's
Kitchen and Poverty Gap. In the Gap especially they made a brave show;
the windows of the crazy old frame-house under the big tree that set
back from the street looked as if they were made of beaten gold. But the
glory did not cross the threshold. Within it was dark and dreary and
cold. The room at the foot of the rickety, patched stairs was empty. The
last tenant was beaten to death by her husband in his drunken fury. The
sun's rays shunned the spot ever after, though it was long since it
could have made out the red daub from the mould on the rotten floor.

Upstairs, in the cold attic, where the wind wailed mournfully through
every open crack, a little girl sat sobbing as if her heart would break.
She hugged an old doll to her breast. The paint was gone from its face;
the yellow hair was in a tangle; its clothes hung in rags. But she only
hugged it closer. It was her doll. They had been friends so long, shared
hunger and hardship together, and now----.

Her tears fell faster. One drop trembled upon the wan cheek of the doll.
The last sunbeam shot athwart it and made it glisten like a priceless
jewel. Its glory grew and filled the room. Gone were the black walls,
the darkness and the cold. There was warmth and light and joy. Merry
voices and glad faces were all about. A flock of children danced with
gleeful shouts about a great Christmas-tree in the middle of the floor.
Upon its branches hung drums and trumpets and toys, and countless
candles gleamed like beautiful stars. Farthest up, at the very top, her
doll, her very own, with arms outstretched, as if appealing to be taken
down and hugged. She knew it, knew the mission-school that had seen her
first and only real Christmas, knew the gentle face of her teacher, and
the writing on the wall she had taught her to spell out: "In His Name."
His name, who, she had said, was all little children's friend. Was he
also her dolly's friend, and would know it among the strange people?

The light went out; the glory faded. The bare room, only colder and
more cheerless than before, was left. The child shivered. Only that
morning the doctor had told her mother that she must have medicine and
food and warmth, or she must go to the great hospital where papa had
gone before, when their money was all spent. Sorrow and want had laid
the mother upon the bed he had barely left. Every stick of furniture,
every stitch of clothing on which money could be borrowed, had gone to
the pawnbroker. Last of all, she had carried mamma's wedding-ring, to
pay the druggist. Now there was no more left, and they had nothing to
eat. In a little while mamma would wake up, hungry.

The little girl smothered a last sob and rose quickly. She wrapped the
doll in a threadbare shawl, as well as she could, tiptoed to the door
and listened a moment to the feeble breathing of the sick mother within.
Then she went out, shutting the door softly behind her, lest she wake
her.

Up the street she went, the way she knew so well, one block and a turn
round the saloon corner, the sunset glow kissing the track of her bare
feet in the snow as she went, to a door that rang a noisy bell as she
opened it and went in. A musty smell filled the close room. Packages,
great and small, lay piled high on shelves behind the worn counter. A
slovenly woman was haggling with the pawnbroker about the money for a
skirt she had brought to pledge.

"Not a cent more than a quarter," he said, contemptuously, tossing the
garment aside. "It's half worn out it is, dragging it back and forth
over the counter these six months. Take it or leave it. Hallo! What have
we here? Little Finnegan, eh? Your mother not dead yet? It's in the
poor-house ye will be if she lasts much longer. What the----"

He had taken the package from the trembling child's hand--the precious
doll--and unrolled the shawl. A moment he stood staring in dumb
amazement at its contents. Then he caught it up and flung it with an
angry oath upon the floor, where it was shivered against the coal-box.

"Get out o' here, ye Finnegan brat," he shouted; "I'll tache ye to come
a'guyin' o' me. I'll----"

The door closed with a bang upon the frightened child, alone in the cold
night. The sun saw not its home-coming. It had hidden behind the
night-clouds, weary of the sight of man and his cruelty.

Evening had worn into night. The busy city slept. Down by the wharves,
now deserted, a poor boy sat on the bulwark, hungry, footsore, and
shivering with cold. He sat thinking of friends and home, thousands of
miles away over the sea, whom he had left six months before to go among
strangers. He had been alone ever since, but never more so than that
night. His money gone, no work to be found, he had slept in the streets
for nights. That day he had eaten nothing; he would rather die than beg,
and one of the two he must do soon.

There was the dark river, rushing at his feet; the swirl of the unseen
waters whispered to him of rest and peace he had not known since----it
was so cold--and who was there to care, he thought bitterly. No one who
would ever know. He moved a little nearer the edge, and listened more
intently.

A low whine fell on his ear, and a cold, wet face was pressed against
his. A little, crippled dog that had been crouching silently beside him
nestled in his lap. He had picked it up in the street, as forlorn and
friendless as himself, and it had stayed by him. Its touch recalled him
to himself. He got up hastily, and, taking the dog in his arms, went to
the police station near by and asked for shelter. It was the first time
he had accepted even such charity, and as he lay down on his rough plank
he hugged a little gold locket he wore around his neck, the last link
with better days, and thought, with a hard, dry sob, of home.

In the middle of the night he awoke with a start. The locket was gone.
One of the tramps who slept with him had stolen it. With bitter tears he
went up and complained to the Sergeant at the desk, and the Sergeant
ordered him to be kicked out in the street as a liar, if not a thief.
How should a tramp boy have come honestly by a gold locket? The doorman
put him out as he was bidden, and when the little dog showed its teeth,
a policeman seized it and clubbed it to death on the step.
