
Far from the slumbering city the rising moon shines over a wide expanse
of glistening water. It silvers the snow upon a barren heath between two
shores, and shortens with each passing minute the shadows of countless
headstones that bear no names, only numbers. The breakers that beat
against the bluff wake not those who sleep there. In the deep trenches
they lie, shoulder to shoulder, an army of brothers, homeless in life,
but here at rest and at peace. A great cross stands upon the lonely
shore. The moon sheds its rays upon it in silent benediction and floods
the garden of the unknown, unmourned dead with its soft light. Out on
the Sound the fishermen see it flashing white against the starlit sky,
and bare their heads reverently as their boats speed by, borne upon the
wings of the west wind.




                   SKIPPY OF SCRABBLE ALLEY


Skippy was at home in Scrabble Alley. So far as he had ever known home
of any kind it was there in the dark and mouldy basement of the rear
house, farthest back in the gap that was all the builder of those big
tenements had been able to afford of light and of air for the poor
people whose hard-earned wages, brought home every Saturday, left them
as poor as if they had never earned a dollar, to pile themselves up in
his strong-box. The good man had long since been gathered to his
fathers--gone to his better home. It was in the newspapers, and in the
alley it was said that it was the biggest funeral--more than a hundred
carriages, and four black horses to pull the hearse. So it must be true,
of course.

Skippy wondered vaguely, sometimes, when he thought of it, what kind of
a home it might be where people went in a hundred carriages. He had
never sat in one. The nearest he had come to it was when Jimmy Murphy's
cab had nearly run him down once, and his "fare," a big man with
whiskers, had put his head out and angrily called him a brat, and told
him to get out of the way, or he would have him arrested. And Jimmy had
shaken his whip at him and told him to skip home. Everybody told him to
skip. From the policeman on the block to the hard-fisted man he knew as
his father, and who always had a job for him with the growler when he
came home, they were having Skippy on the run. Probably that was how he
got his name. No one cared enough about it, or about the boy, to find
out.

Was there anybody anywhere who cared about boys, anyhow? Were there any
boys in that other home where the carriages and the big hearse had gone?
And if there were, did they have to live in an alley, and did they ever
have any fun? These were thoughts that puzzled Skippy's young brain once
in a while. Not very long or very hard, for Skippy had not been trained
to think; what training the boys picked up in the alley didn't run much
to deep thinking.

Perhaps it was just as well. There were one or two men there who were
said to know a heap, and who had thought and studied it all out about
the landlord and the alley. But it was very tiresome that it should
happen to be just those two, for Skippy never liked them. They were
always cross and ugly, never laughed and carried on as the other men did
once in a while, and made his little feet very tired running with the
growler early and late. He well remembered, too, that it was one of them
who had said, when they brought him home, sore and limping, from under
the wheels of Jimmy Murphy's cab, that he'd been better off if it had
killed him. He had always borne a grudge against him for that, for there
was no occasion for it that he could see. Hadn't he been to the gin-mill
for him that very day twice?

Skippy's horizon was bounded by the towering brick walls of Scrabble
Alley. No sun ever rose or set between them. On the hot summer days,
when the saloon-keeper on the farther side of the street pulled up his
awning, the sun came over the house-tops and looked down for an hour or
two into the alley. It shone upon broken flags, a mud-puddle by the
hydrant where the children went splashing with dirty, bare feet, and
upon unnumbered ash-barrels. A stray cabbage-leaf in one of these was
the only green thing it found, for no ray ever strayed through the
window in Skippy's basement to trace the green mould on the wall.

Once, while he had been lying sick with a fever, Skippy had struck up a
real friendly acquaintance with that mouldy wall. He had pictured to
himself woods and hills and a regular wilderness, such as he had heard
of, in its green growth; but even that pleasure they had robbed him of.
The charity doctor had said that the mould was bad, and a man scraped it
off and put whitewash on the wall. As if everything that made fun for a
boy was bad.

Down the street a little way was a yard just big enough and nice to play
ball in, but the agent had put up a sign that he would have no boys and
no ball-playing in his yard, and that ended it; for the "cop" would have
none of it in the street either. Once he had caught them at it and
"given them the collar." They had been up before the judge, and though
he let them off they had been branded, Skippy and the rest, as a bad
lot.

That was the starting-point in Skippy's career. With the brand upon him
he accepted the future it marked out for him, reasoning as little, or as
vaguely, about the justice of it as he had about the home conditions of
the alley. The world, what he had seen of it, had taught him one lesson:
to take things as he found them, because that was the way they were; and
that being the easiest, and, on the whole, best suited to Skippy's
general make-up, he fell naturally into the _role_ assigned him. After
that he worked the growler on his own hook most of the time. The "gang"
he had joined found means of keeping it going that more than justified
the brand the policeman had put upon it. It was seldom by honest work.
What was the use? The world owed them a living, and it was their
business to collect it as easily as they could. It was everybody's
business to do that, as far as they could see, from the man who owned
the alley, down.

They made the alley pan out in their own way. It had advantages the
builder hadn't thought of, though he provided them. Full of secret ins
and outs, runways and passages, not easily found, to the surrounding
tenements, it offered chances to get away when one or more of the gang
were "wanted" for robbing this store on the avenue, tapping that till,
or raiding the grocer's stock, that were A No. 1. When some tipsy man
had been waylaid and "stood up," it was an unequalled spot for dividing
the plunder. It happened once or twice, as time went by, that a man was
knocked on the head and robbed within the bailiwick of the now notorious
Scrabble Alley gang, or that a drowned man floated ashore in the dock
with his pockets turned inside out. On such occasions the police made
an extra raid, and more or less of the gang were scooped in, but nothing
ever came of it. Dead men tell no tales, and they were not more silent
than the Scrabbles, if, indeed, these had anything to tell.

It came gradually to be an old story. Skippy and his associates were
long since in the Rogues' Gallery, numbered and indexed as truly a bad
lot now. They were no longer boys, but toughs. Most of them had "done
time" up the river and come back more hardened than they went, full of
new tricks always, which they were eager to show the boys to prove that
they had not been idle while they were away. On the police returns they
figured as "speculators," a term that sounded better than thief, and
meant, as they understood it, much the same, viz., a man who made a
living out of other people's labor. It was conceded in the slums,
everywhere, that the Scrabble-Alley gang was a little the boldest that
had for a long time defied the police. It had the call in the other
gangs in all the blocks around, for it had the biggest fighters as well
as the cleverest thieves of them all.

Then one holiday morning, when in a hundred churches the paean went up,
"On earth peace, good-will toward men," all New York rang with the story
of a midnight murder committed by Skippy's gang. The saloon-keeper whose
place they were sacking to get the "stuff" for keeping Christmas in
their way had come upon them, and Skippy had shot him down while the
others ran. A universal shout for vengeance went up from outraged
Society.

It sounded the death-knell of the gang. It was scattered to the four
winds, all except Skippy, who was tried for murder and hanged. The
papers spoke of his phenomenal calmness under the gallows; said it was
defiance. The priest who had been with him in his last hours said he was
content to go to a better home. They were all wrong. Had the pictures
that chased each other across Skippy's mind as the black cap was pulled
over his face been visible to their eyes, they would have seen Scrabble
Alley with its dripping hydrant, and the puddle in which the children
splashed with dirty, bare feet; the dark basement room with its mouldy
wall; the notice in the yard, "No ball-playing allowed here;" the
policeman who stamped him as one of a bad lot, and the sullen man who
thought it had been better for him, the time he was run over, if he had
died. Skippy asked himself moodily if he was right after all, and if
boys were ever to have any show. He died with the question unanswered.

They said that no such funeral ever went out of Scrabble Alley before.
There was a real raid on the undertaker's where Skippy lay in state two
whole days, and the wake was talked of for many a day as something
wonderful. At the funeral services it was said that without a doubt
Skippy had gone to a better home. His account was squared.
