
Lundy still felt sick about that. The bull-meat, the hard boys, you
didn't mind kicking around. But Farrell wasn't that kind. He was just a
nice guy that got trapped by something too big for him.

A nice guy, crazy blind in love with somebody that didn't exist. A
decent hard-working guy with a wife and two kids who'd lost his mind,
heart, and soul to a Thing from outer space, so that he was willing to
kill to protect It.

_Oh, hell!_ thought Lundy wearily, _won't he ever stop screaming?_

The rockets beat and thundered. The torn grey sky whipped past. Jackie
Smith sat rigid, with closed eyes, white around the lips and breathing
in shallow, careful gasps. And Vhia was still a long way off.

Maybe farther off than he knew. Maybe he wasn't heading toward Vhia
at all. Maybe _It_ was working on him, and he'd never know it till he
crashed.

The cold knot tightened in his belly like a cold blade stabbing.

Lundy cursed. Thinking things like that was a sure way to punch your
ticket right straight to blazes.

But you couldn't help thinking, about _It_. The Thing you had caught in
a special net of tight-woven metal mesh, aiming at something Farrell
could see but you couldn't. The Thing you had forced into the glassite
box and covered up with a black cloth, because you had been warned not
to look at _It_.

Lundy's hands tingled and burned, not unpleasantly. He could still feel
the small savage Thing fighting him, hidden in the net. It had felt
vaguely cylindrical, and terribly alive.

Life. Life from outer space, swept out of a cloud of cosmic dust by the
gravitic pull of Venus. Since Venus had hit the cloud there had been a
wave of strange madness on the planet. Madness like Farrell's, that had
led to murder, and some things even worse.

Scientists had some ideas about that life from Out There. They'd had
a lucky break and found one of The Things, dead, and there were vague
stories going around of a crystalline-appearing substance that wasn't
really crystal, about three inches long and magnificently etched and
fluted, and supplied with some odd little gadgets nobody would venture
an opinion about.

But the Thing didn't do them much good, dead. They had to have one
alive, if they were going to find out what made it tick and learn how
to put a stop to what the telecommentators had chosen to call The
Madness from Beyond, or The Vampire Lure.

One thing about it everybody knew. The guys who suddenly went sluggy
and charged off the rails all made it clear that they had met the
ultimate Dream Woman of all women and all dreams. Nobody else could see
her, but that didn't bother them any. They saw her, and she was--_She_.
And her eyes were always veiled.

And _She_ was a whiz at hypnosis and mind-control. That's why _She_, or
_It_, hadn't been caught alive before. Not before Lundy and Smith, with
every scientific aid Special could give them, had tracked down Farrell
and managed to get the breaks.

The breaks. Plain fool luck. Lundy moved his throbbing head stiffly on
his aching neck, blinked sweat out of his bloodshot eyes, and wished to
hell he was home in bed.

Jackie Smith said suddenly, "Midget, I'm cold. Get me a blanket."

Lundy looked at him. His pale green eyes were half open, but not as
though they saw anything. He was shivering.

"I can't leave the controls, Jackie."

"Nuts. I've got one hand. I can hang onto this lousy tin fish that
long."
