
Lundy looked over his shoulder. Smith was hunched around in his seat,
holding the needle-gun from Lundy's holster on the pilot's chair. His
pale green eyes had a distant, dreamy glow, but Lundy knew better than
to trust it.

He said, without inflection, "You've seen her."

"No. No, but--I've heard her." Smith's heavy lips twitched and parted.
The breath sucked through between them, hoarse and slow.

Farrell went down on his knees beside the safe. He put his hands on its
blank and gleaming face and turned to Lundy. He was crying.

"Open it. You've got to open it. She wants to come out. She's
frightened."

Jackie Smith raised the gun, a fraction of an inch. "Open it, Midget,"
he whispered. "She's cold in there."

Lundy stood still. The sweat ran on him and he was colder than a frog's
belly in the rain; and for no reason at all he said thickly,

"No. She's hot. She can't breathe in there. She's hot."

Then he jerked his head up and yelled. He came around to face Smith,
unsteady but fast, and started for him.

Smith's ugly face twisted as though he might be going to cry. "Midget!
I don't want to shoot you. Open the safe!"

Lundy said, "You damned fool," with no voice at all, and went on.

Smith hit the firing stud.

The anaesthetic needles hit Lundy across the chest. They didn't hurt
much. Just a stinging prick. He kept going. No reason. It was just
something he seemed to be doing at the time.

Behind him Farrell whimpered once like a puppy and lay down across the
little safe. He didn't move again. Lundy got down on his hands and
knees and reached in a vague sort of way for the controls. Jackie Smith
watched him with dazed green eyes.

Quite suddenly, Iron Mike blew his guts out.

The control panel let go a burst of blue flame. The glare and heat of
it knocked Lundy backward. Things hissed and snarled and ran together,
and the convertible began to dance like a leaf in a gale. The automatic
safety cut the rockets dead.

The ship began to fall.

Smith said something that sounded like _She_ and folded up in his
chair. Lundy rubbed his hand across his face. The lines of it were
blurred and stupid. His dark eyes had no sense in them.

He began to crawl over the lurching floor toward the safe.

The clouds outside ripped and tore across the ship's nose, and
presently only water showed. Black, still, tideless water dotted with
little islands of floating weed that stirred and slithered with a life
of their own.

Black water, rushing up.

Lundy didn't care. He crawled through Farrell's blood, and he didn't
care about that, either. He pushed Farrell's body back against the
cabin wall and began to scratch at the shiny door, making noises like a
hound shut out and not happy about it.

The ship hit the water with a terrific smack. Spray geysered up, dead
white against the black sea, fell back, and closed in. Presently even
the ripples went away.

Dark green weed-islands twined sinuously upon themselves, a flock of
small sea-dragons flapped their jeweled wings down and began to fish,
and none of them cared at all about the ship sinking away under them.

Not even Lundy cared, out cold in the space-tight cabin, with his body
wedged up against the safe and tears drying with the sweat on his
stubbled cheeks.


                                  II

The first thing Lundy knew about was the stillness. A dead feeling, as
though everything in creation had stopped breathing.

The second thing was his body. It hurt like hell, and it was hot, and
it didn't like the thick, foul air it was getting. Lundy pushed himself
into a sitting position and tried to boot his brain into action. It was
hard work, because someone had split his head open four ways with an
axe.

It wasn't really dark in the cabin. A wavering silver glow almost like
moonlight came in through the ports. Lundy could see pretty well. He
could see Farrell's body sprawled out on the floor, and a mess of junk
that had once been equipment.

He could see the safe.

He looked at it a long time. There wasn't much to look at. Just an open
safe with nothing in it, and a piece of black cloth dropped on the
floor.

"Oh, Lord," whispered Lundy. "Oh, my Lord!"

Everything hit him at once then. There wasn't much in him but his
stomach, and that was tied down. But it tried hard to come up.
Presently the spasms stopped, and then Lundy heard the knocking.

It wasn't very loud. It had a slow, easy rhythm, as though the knocker
had a lot of time and didn't care when he got in. It came from the
airlock panel.

Lundy got up. Slowly, cold as a toad's belly and as white. His lips
drew back from his teeth and stayed there, frozen.

The knocking kept on. A sleepy kind of sound. The guy outside could
afford to wait. Sometime that locked door was going to open, and he
could wait. He wasn't in a hurry. He would never be in a hurry.

Lundy looked all around the cabin. He didn't speak. He looked sideways
out of the port. There was water out there. The black sea-water of
Venus; clear and black, like deep night.

There was level sand spreading away from the ship. The silver light
came up out of it. Some kind of phosphorescence, as bright as moonlight
and faintly tinged with green.

Black sea-water. Silver sand. The guy kept on knocking at the door.
Slow and easy. Patient. One--two. One--two. Just off beat with Lundy's
heart.

Lundy went to the inner cabin, walking steadily. He looked around
carefully and then went back. He stopped by the lock panel.

"Okay, Jackie," he said. "In a minute. In a minute, boy."

Then he turned and went very fast to the port locker and got a quart
bottle out of its shock cradle, and raised it. It took both hands.

After a while he dropped the bottle and stood still, not looking at
anything, until he stopped shaking. Then he pulled his vac-suit down
off its hook and climbed into it. His face was grey and quite blank.

He took all the oxygen cylinders he could carry, emergency rations,
and all the benzedrine in the medicine kit. He put the limit dose
of the stimulant down on top of the brandy before he locked his
helmet. He didn't bother with the needle gun. He took the two Service
blasters--his own, and Smith's. The gentle knocking didn't stop.

He stood for a moment looking at the open safe and the black cloth
dropped beside it. Something cruel came into his face. A tightness, a
twitching and setting of the muscles, and a terrible look of patience.

Being under water wouldn't bother a Thing from outer space. He reached
up and lifted the net of tight-woven metal-mesh down off its hook and
fastened it on his belt. Then he walked over and opened the airlock
door.

Black water swirled in around his weighted boots, and then the door
opened wide and Jackie Smith came in.

He'd been waiting in the flooded lock chamber. Kicking his boots
against the inner door, easy, with the slow breathing of the sea. Now
the water pushed his feet down and held him upright from behind, so he
could walk in and stand looking at Lundy. A big blond man with green
eyes, and white bandages strapped under his open black tunic, looking
at Lundy. Not long. Only for a second. But long enough.

Lundy stopped himself after the third scream. He had to, because he
knew if he screamed again he'd never stop. By that time the black water
had pushed Jackie Smith away, over to the opposite wall, and covered
his face.

"Oh, Lord," whispered Lundy. "Oh Lord, _what did he see before he
drowned_?"

No one answered. The black water pushed at Lundy, rising high around
him, trying to take him over to Jackie Smith. Lundy's mouth began to
twitch.

He shut his teeth on his lower lip, holding it, holding his throat. He
began to run, clumsily, fighting the water, and then he stopped that,
too. He walked, not looking behind him, out into the flooded lock. The
door slid shut behind him, automatically.

He walked out across the firm green-silver sand, swallowing the blood
that ran in his mouth and choked him.
