
He didn't hurry. He was going to be walking for a long, long time. From
the position of the ship when it fell he ought to be able to make it to
the coast--unless _It_ had been working on him so the figures on the
dials hadn't been there at all.

He checked his direction, adjusted the pressure-control in his
vac-suit, and plodded on in the eerie undersea moonlight. It wasn't
hard going. If he didn't hit a deep somewhere, or meet something too
big to handle, or furnish a meal for some species of hungry Venus-weed,
he ought to live to face up to the Old Man at H.Q. and tell him two men
were dead, the ship lost, and the job messed to hell and gone.

It was beautiful down there. Like the dream-worlds you see when you're
doped or delirious. The phosphorescence rose up into the black water
and danced there in wavering whorls of cold fire. Fish, queer gaudy
little things with jewelled eyes, flicked past Lundy in darts of
sudden color, and there were great stands of weed like young forests,
spangling the dark water and the phosphorescent glow with huge burning
spots of blue and purple and green and silver.

Flowers. Lundy got too close to some of them once. They reached out and
opened round mouths full of spines and sucked at him hungrily. The
fish gave them a wide berth. After that, so did Lundy.

He hadn't been walking more than half an hour when he hit the road.

It was a perfectly good road, running straight across the sand. Here
and there it was cracked, with some of the huge square blocks pushed up
or tipped aside, but it was still a good road, going somewhere.

Lundy stood looking at it with cold prickles running up and down his
spine. He'd heard about things like this. Nobody knew an awful lot
about Venus yet. It was a young, tough, be-damned-to-you planet, and it
was apt to give the snoopy scientific guys a good swift boot in their
store teeth.

But even a young planet has a long past, and stories get around.
Legends, songs, folk tales. It was pretty well accepted that a lot of
Venus that was under water now hadn't been once, and vice versa. The
old girl had her little whimsies while doing the preliminary mock-up of
her permanent face.

So once upon a time this road had crossed a plain under a hot
pearl-grey sky, going somewhere. Taking caravans from the seacoast,
probably. Bales of spices and spider-silk and casks of _vakhi_ from the
Nahali canebrakes, and silver-haired slave-girls from the high lands
of the Cloud People, going along under sultry green _liha_-trees to be
sold.

Now it crossed a plain of glowing sand under still black water. The
only trees that shadowed it were tall weeds with brilliant, hungry
flowers, and the only creatures that followed it were little fish
with jewelled eyes. But it was still there, still ready, still going
somewhere.

It was headed the same way Lundy was. It must have made a bend
somewhere and turned to meet him. Lundy licked cold sweat off his lips
and stepped out on it.

He stepped slow and careful, like a man coming alone down the aisle of
an empty church.

He walked on the road for a long time. The weeds crowded in thicker
along its edges. It seemed to run right through a dense forest of them
that spread away as far as Lundy could see on either side. He was glad
of the road. It was wide, and if he stayed in the middle of it the
flowers couldn't reach him.
