
It got darker, because of the weeds covering the sand. Whatever made
the phosphorescence didn't like being crowded that way, and pretty soon
it was so dark that Lundy had to switch on the light in the top of his
helmet. In the edges of the beam he could see the weed fronds moving
lazily with the slow breathing of the sea.

The flowers were brighter here. They hung like lamps in the black
water, burning with a light that seemed to come out of themselves.
Sullen reds and angry yellows, and coldly vicious blues.

Lundy didn't like them.

The weeds grew in thicker and closer. They bulged out from their roots,
in over the stone edges. The flowers opened their bright hungry mouths
and yearned at Lundy, reaching.

Reaching. Not quite touching. Not yet. He was tired. The brandy and the
benzedrine began to die in him. He changed his oxygen cylinder. That
helped, but not much. He took more dope, but he was afraid to go heavy
on it lest he drive his heart too hard. His legs turned numb.

He hadn't slept for a long time. Tracking Farrell hadn't been any
breeze, and taking him--and _It_--had been plain and fancy hell. Lundy
was only human. He was tired. Bushed. Cooked. Beat to the socks.

He sat down and rested a while, turning off his light to save the
battery. The flowers watched him, glowing in the dark. He closed his
eyes, but he could still feel them, watching and waiting.

After a minute or two he got up and went on.

The weeds grew thicker, and taller, and heavier with flowers.

More benzedrine, and damn the heart. The helmet light cut a cold white
tunnel through the blackness. He followed it, walking faster. Weed
fronds met and interlaced high above him, closing him in. Flowers bent
inward, downward. Their petals almost brushed him. Fleshy petals,
hungry and alive.

He started to run, over the wheel-ruts and the worn hollows of the road
that still went somewhere, under the black sea.

Lundy ran clumsily for a long time between the dark and pressing walls.
The flowers got closer. They got close enough to catch his vac-suit,
like hands grasping and slipping and grasping again. He began using the
blaster.

He burned off a lot of them that way. They didn't like it. They began
swaying in from their roots and down from the laced ceiling over his
head. They hurt. They were angry. Lundy ran, sobbing without tears.

The road did him in. It crossed him up, suddenly, without warning. It
ran along smoothly under the tunnel of weeds, and then it was a broken,
jumbled mass of huge stone blocks, tipped up and thrown around like
something a giant's kid got tired of playing with.

And the weeds had found places to stand in between them.

Lundy tripped and fell, cracking his head against the back of his
helmet. For a moment all he could see was bright light flashing. Then
that stopped, and he realized he must have jarred a connection loose
somewhere because his own light was out.

He began to crawl over a great tilted block. The flowers burned bright
in the darkness. Bright and close. Very close. Lundy opened his mouth.
Nothing came out but a hoarse animal whimper. He was still holding the
blaster. He fired it off a couple of times, and then he was on top of
the block, lying flat on his belly.

He knew it was the end of the line, because he couldn't move any more.

The bright flowers came down through the dark. Lundy lay watching them.
His face was quite blank. His dark eyes held a stubborn hatred, but
nothing else.

He watched the flowers fasten on his vac-suit and start working. Then,
from up ahead, through the dark close tunnel of the weeds, he saw the
light.

It flared out suddenly, like lightning. A sheet of hot, bright gold
cracking out like a whipped banner, lighting the end of the road.

Lighting the city, and the little procession coming out of it.

Lundy didn't believe any of it. He was half dead already, with his
mind floating free of his body and beginning to be wrapped up in dark
clouds. He watched what he saw incuriously.

The golden light died down, and then flared out twice more,
rhythmically. The road ran smooth again beyond the end of the tunnel,
straight across a narrow plain. Beyond that, the city rose.

Lundy couldn't see much of it, because of the weeds. But it seemed to
be a big city. There was a wall around it, of green marble veined with
dusky rose, the edges worn round by centuries of water. There were
broad gates of pure untarnished gold, standing open on golden pintles.
Beyond them was a vast square paved in cloud-grey quartz, and the
buildings rose around it like the castles Lundy remembered from Earth
and his childhood, when there were clouds of a certain kind at sunset.

That's what the whole place looked like, under the flaring golden
light. Cloud-cuckoo land at sunset. Remote, dreaming in beauty, with
the black water drawn across it like a veil--something never destroyed
because it never existed.

The creatures who came from between the golden gates and down the road
were like tiny wisps of those clouds, torn free by some cold wandering
breeze and driven away from the light.

They came drifting toward Lundy. They didn't seem to be moving fast,
but they must have been because quite suddenly they were among the
weeds. There were a lot of them; maybe forty or fifty. They seemed to
be between three and four feet tall, and they were all the same sad,
blue-grey, twilight color.

Lundy couldn't see what they were. They were vaguely man-shaped, and
vaguely finny, and something that was more than vaguely something else,
only he couldn't place it.

He was suddenly beyond caring. The dull black curtain around his mind
got a hole in it, and fear came shrieking through it. He could feel the
working and pulling of his vac-suit where the flowers were chewing on
it as though it were his own skin.

He could feel sweat running cold on his body. In a minute that would be
sea water running, and then....

Lundy began to fight. His lips peeled back off his teeth, but he didn't
make any noise except his heavy breathing. He fought the flowers,
partly with the blaster, partly with brute strength. No science, no
thought. Just the last blind struggle of an animal that didn't want to
die.

The flowers held him. They smothered him, crushed him down, wrapped him
in lovely burning petals of destruction. He seared a lot of them, but
there were always more. Lundy didn't fight long.

He lay on his back, his knees drawn up a little toward a rigid, knotted
belly, blind with sweat, his heart kicking him like a logger's boot.
Cold, tense--waiting.

And then the flowers went away.

They didn't want to. They let go reluctantly, drawing back and snarling
like cats robbed of a fat mouse, making small hungry feints at him. But
they went.
