
After a long moment Lundy said, "She?"

"We haven't seen her. But our mates have. She came a little while ago
and walked through the streets, and all our mates left us to follow
her. They say she's beautiful beyond any of us, and...."

"And her eyes are hidden, and they have to see them. They have to look
into her eyes or go crazy, so they follow her."

The sad little blue-grey cloud stirred in the dark water. Golden eyes
looked down at him.

"How did you know? Do you follow her, too?"

Lundy took a deep, slow breath. The palms of his hands were wet. "Yes.
Yes, I followed her, too."

"We feel your thought...." They came down close around him. Their
delicate membranes fluttered like fairy wings. Their golden eyes were
huge and soft and pleading.

"Can you help us? Can you bring our mates back safe? They've forgotten
everything. If The Others should come...."

"The Others?"

Lundy's brain was drowned in stark and terrible fear. Pictures came
through it. Vague gigantic dreams of nightmare....

"They come, riding the currents that go between the hot cracks in the
mountains and the cold deeps. They eat. They destroy." The little
woman-things were shaken suddenly like leaves in a gust of wind.

"We hide from them in the buildings. We can keep them out, away from
our seed and the little new ones. But our mates have forgotten. If
The Others come while they follow Her, outside and away from safety,
they'll all be killed. We'll be left alone, and there'll be no more
seed for us, and no more little new ones."

They pressed in close around him, touching him with their small
blue-grey fore-fins.

"Can you help us? Oh, can you help us?"

Lundy closed his eyes. His mouth twitched and set. When he opened his
eyes again they were hard as agates.

"I'll help you," he said, "or die trying."

It was dark in the great square, with only the pale sandglow seeping
through the gates. For a moment the little blue-grey woman-creatures
clung around him, not moving, except as the whole mass of them swayed
slightly with the slow rhythm of the sea.

Then they burst away from him, outward, in a wild surge of hope--and
Lundy stood with his mouth open, staring.

They weren't blue-grey any longer. They glowed suddenly, their wings
and their dainty, supple bodies, a warm soft green that had a vibrant
pulse of life behind it. And they blossomed.

The long, slender, living petals must have been retracted, like the
fronds of a touch-me-not, while they wore the sad blue-grey. Now they
broke out like coronals of flame around their small heads.

Blue and scarlet and gold, poppy-red and violet and flame, silver-white
and warm pink like a morning cloud, streaming in the black water.
Streaming from small green bodies that rolled and tumbled high up
against the dark, dreaming buildings like the butterflies that had
danced there before the sunlight was lost forever.

Quite suddenly, then, they stopped. They drifted motionless in the
water, and their colors dimmed. Lundy said,

"Where are they?"

"Deep in the city, beyond our buildings here--in the streets where only
the curious young ones ever go. Oh, bring them back! Please bring them
back!"

"If I come back myself," said Lundy, "I'll bring them."

He left them hovering in the great dark square and went on into the
city.
