
He walked down broad paved streets channelled with wheel-ruts and
hollowed by generations of sandalled feet. The great water-worn
buildings lifted up on either side, lighted by the erratic glare of the
distant fissure.

The window-openings, typical of most Venusian architecture, were
covered by grilles of marble and semi-precious stone, intricately
hand-pierced like bits of jewelry. The great golden doors stood open on
their uncorroded hinges. Through them Lundy could watch the life of the
little plant-people being lived.

In some of the buildings the lower floor had been covered with sand.
Plant-women hovered protectively over them, brushing the sand smooth
where the water disturbed it. Lundy guessed that these were seed beds.

In other places there were whole colonies of tiny flower-things still
rooted in the sand; a pale spring haze of green in the dimness. They
sat in placid rows, nodding their pastel baby coronals and playing
solemnly with bits of bright weed and colored stones. Here, too, the
plant-women watched and guarded lovingly.

Several times Lundy saw groups of young plantlings, grown free of the
sand, being taught to swim by the woman-creatures, tumbling in the
black water like bright petals on a spring wind.

All the women were the same sad blue-grey, with their blossoms hidden.

They'd stay that way, unless he, Lundy, could finish the job Special
had sent him to do. The job he hadn't been quite big enough to handle
up to now.

Farrell, with the flesh flayed off his bones, and not feeling it
because _She_ was all he could think of. Jackie Smith, drowned in a
flooded lock because _She_ wanted to be free and he had helped her.

Was this Lundy guy so much bigger than Farrell and Smith, and all the
other men who had gone crazy over Her? Big enough to catch The Vampire
Lure in a net and keep it there, and not go nuts himself?

Lundy didn't feel that big. Not anywhere near that big.

He was remembering things. The first time he'd had _It_ in a net.
The last few minutes before the wreck, when he'd heard Her crying
for freedom from inside the safe. Jackie Smith's face when he walked
in with the water from the flooded lock, and his, Lundy's, own
question--_Oh Lord, what did he see before he drowned?_

The tight cold knot was back in Lundy's belly again, and this time it
had spurs on.

He left the colony behind him, walking down empty streets lit by the
rhythmic flaring of the volcanic fissure. There was damage here.
Pavements cracked and twisted with the settling, towers shaken down,
the carved stone jalousies split out of the windows. Whole walls had
fallen in, in some places, and most of the golden doors were wrecked,
jammed wide open or gone entirely.

A dead city. So dead and silent that you couldn't breathe with it, and
so old it made you crawl inside.

A swell place to go mad in, following a dream.

After a long time Lundy saw them--the mates of the little seaweed
women. A long, long trail of them like a flight of homing birds,
winding between the dark and broken towers.

They looked like their women. A little bigger, a little coarser, with
strong tough dark-green bodies and brilliant coronals. Their golden
eyes were fixed on something Lundy couldn't see, and they looked like
the eyes of Lucifer yearning at the gates of Heaven.

Lundy began to run against the water, cutting across a wide plaza to
get under the head of the procession. He unhooked the net from his belt
with hands that felt like a couple of dead fish.
