
Then he staggered suddenly, lost his footing, and went sprawling. It
was as though somebody had pushed him with a strong hand. When he tried
to get up it pushed him again, hard. The golden glare from the fissure
was steadier now, and very bright.

The trail of little man-things bent suddenly in a long whipping bow,
and Lundy knew what was the matter.

There was a current rising in the city. Rising like the hot white winds
that used to howl in from the sea, carrying the rains.

"_They ride the currents that go between the hot cracks in the
mountains and the cold deeps. They eat. They destroy._"

The Others. The Others, who were cannibals....

_She_ led the bright trail of plant-men between the towers, and there
was a current rising in the streets.

Lundy got up. He balanced himself against the thrust of the current and
ran, following the procession. It was clumsy work, with the water and
his leaded boots. He tried to gauge where _It_--or _She_--was from the
focus of the plant-men's eyes.

The hot light flared up brighter. The water pulled and shoved at him.
He looked back once, but he couldn't see anything in the shadows
between the towers. He was scared.

He shook the net out, and he was scared.

Funny that _It_--or _She_--didn't see him. Funny _It_ didn't sense his
mind, even though he tried to keep it closed. But he wasn't a very
big object down there in the shadows under the walls, and creating an
illusion for that many minds would be a strain on anything, even a
creature from outer space.

He'd had the breaks once before, when he caught up with Farrell. He
prayed to have them again.

He got them, for what good it did him.

The current caught the procession and pulled it down close to Lundy. He
watched their eyes. She was still leading them. She had a physical body
even if you couldn't see it, and the current would pull it, no matter
how tiny it was.

He cast his net out, fast.

It bellied out in the black water and came swooping back to his pull,
and there was something in it. Something tiny and cylindrical and
vicious. Something alive.

He drew the net tight, shivering and sweating with nervous excitement.
And the plant-men attacked.

They swooped on him in a brilliant cloud. Their golden eyes burned.
There was no sense in them. Their minds shrieked and clamored at him, a
formless howl of rage--and fear, for _Her_.

They beat at him with their little green fins. Their coronals blazed,
hot angry splashes of colored flame against the dark water. They
wrenched at the net, tore at it, beating their membranes like wings
against the rising current.

Lundy was a solid, muscular little guy. He snarled and fought for the
net like a wolf over a yearling lamb. He lost it anyway. He fell on
his face under a small mountain of churning man-things and lay gasping
for the breath they knocked out of him, thankful for the vac-suit that
saved him from being crushed flat.

He watched them take the net. They clustered around it in a globe like
a swarm of bees, rolling around in the moving water. Their golden eyes
had a terrible stricken look.

They couldn't open the net. Lundy had drawn it tight and fastened it,
and they didn't have fingers. They stroked and pawed it with their
fins, but they couldn't let _Her_ out.

Lundy got up on his hands and knees. The current quickened. It roared
down between the broken towers like a black wind and took the swarm of
man-things with it, still clutching the net.

And then The Others came.


                                  IV

Lundy saw them a long way off. For a moment he didn't believe it. He
thought they must be shadows cast by the fitful glare of the fissure.
He braced himself against a building and stood watching.

Stood watching, and then seeing as the rushing current brought them
closer. He didn't move, except to lift his jaw a little trying to
breathe. He simply stood, cold as a dead man's feet and just as numb.

They looked something like the giant rays he'd seen back on Earth, only
they were plants. Great sleek bulbs of kelp with their leaves spread
like wings to the current. Their long teardrop bodies ended in a
flange like a fishtail that served as a rudder and they had tentacles
for arms.

They were colored a deep red-brown like dried blood. The golden flare
of the fissure made their cold eyes gleam. It showed their round
mouth-holes full of sharp hair-spines, and the stinging deadly cups on
the undersides of their huge tentacles.

Those arms were long enough and tough enough to pierce even the fabric
of a vac-suit. Lundy didn't know whether they ate flesh or not, but it
didn't matter. He wouldn't care, after he'd been slapped with one of
those tentacles.

The net with _Her_ in it was getting away from him, and The Others were
coming down on top of him. Even if he'd wanted to quit his job right
then there wasn't any place to hide in these ruined, doorless buildings.

Lundy shot his suit full of precious oxygen and added himself to the
creatures riding that black current to hell.

It swept him like a bubble between the dead towers, but not fast
enough. He wasn't very far ahead of the kelp-things. He tried to swim,
to make himself go faster, but it was like racing an oared dinghy
against a fleet of sixteen-meter sloops with everything set.

He could see the cluster of plant-men ahead of him. They hadn't changed
position. They rolled and tumbled in the water, using a lot of the
forward push to go around with, so that Lundy was able to overhaul them.

But not fast enough. Not nearly fast enough.

The hell of it was he couldn't see anything to do if he got there. The
net was way inside the globe. They weren't going to let him take it
away. And if he did, what would it get anybody? They'd still follow
_Her_, without sense enough to run away from the kelp-beasts.

Unless....

It hit Lundy all of a sudden. A hope, a solution. Hit him neatly as the
leading kelp-thing climbed up on his heels and brought its leaf-wings
in around him, hard.

Lundy let go an animal howl of fear and kicked wildly, shooting more
air into his suit. He went up fast, and the wings grazed his boots but
didn't quite catch him. Lundy rolled over and fed the thing a full
charge out of his blaster, right through the eye.

It began to thrash and flounder like a shot bird. The ones coming right
behind it got tangled up with it and then stopped to eat. Pretty soon
there were a lot of them tumbling around it and fighting like a flock
of gulls over a fish. Lundy swam furiously, cursing the clumsy suit.

There were a lot of the things that hadn't stopped, and the ones that
had wouldn't stay long. Lundy kicked and strained and sweated. He was
scared. He had the wind up so hard it was blowing his guts out, and it
was like swimming in a nightmare, where you're tied.

The current seemed to move faster up where he was now. He gathered his
thoughts into a tight beam and threw them into the heart of the cluster
of plant-men, at the creature in the net.

_I can free you. I'm the only one that can._

A voice answered him, inside his mind. The voice he had heard once
before, back in the cabin of the wrecked flier. A voice as sweet and
small as Pan-pipes calling on the Hills of Fay.

_I know. My thought crossed yours...._ The elfin voice broke suddenly,
almost on a gasp of pain. Very faintly, Lundy heard:

_Heavy! Heavy! I am slow...._

A longing for something beyond his experience stabbed Lundy like the
cry of a frightened child. And then the globe of man-things burst apart
as though a giant wind had struck them.

Lundy watched them wake up, out of their dream.

_She_ had vanished, and now they didn't know why they were here or what
they were doing. They had a heart-shaking memory of some beauty they
couldn't touch, and that was all. They were lost, and frightened.

Then they saw The Others.
