
It was as though someone had hit them a stunning blow with his fist.
They hung motionless, swept along by the current, staring back with
dazed golden eyes. Their brilliant petals curled inward and vanished,
and the green of their bodies dulled almost to black.

The kelp-beasts spread their wings wide and rushed toward them like
great dark birds. And up ahead, under the sullen golden glare, Lundy
saw the distant buildings of the colony. Some of the doors were still
open, with knots of tiny figures waiting beside them.

Lundy was still a little ahead of the kelp-things. He grabbed up the
floating net and hooked it to his belt, and then steered himself
clumsily toward a broken tower jutting up to his right.

He hurled a wild telepathic shout at the plant-men, trying to make them
turn and run, telling them that he'd hold off The Others. They were too
scared to hear him. He cursed them, almost crying. On the third try he
got through and they came to life in a hurry, rushing away with all the
speed they had.

By that time Lundy was braced on his pinnacle of stone, and the
kelp-beasts were right on top of him.

He got busy with both blasters. He burned down a lot of the things.
Pretty soon the water all around him was full of thrashing bodies where
the living had stopped to fight over the dead. But he couldn't get them
all, and a few got by him.

Almost without turning his head he could see huge red bird-shapes
overhauling stragglers, wrapping them in broad wings, and then lying
quiet in the rush of the current, feeding.

They kept the doors open, those little woman-things. They waited until
the last of their mates came home, and then slammed the golden panels
on the blunt noses of the kelp-things. Not many of the little men were
lost. Only a few small wives would hide their petals and wear their sad
blue-grey. Lundy felt good about that.

It was nice he felt good about something, because Old Mr. Grim was
climbing right up on Lundy's shoulders, showing his teeth. The
kelp-beasts had finally found out who was hurting them. Also, now,
Lundy was the only food in sight.

They were ganging up for a rush, wheeling and sideslipping in the spate
of black water. Lundy got two more, and then one blaster charge fizzled
out, and right after it the other one became dull.

Lundy stood alone on his broken tower and watched death sweep in around
him. And the sweet elfin voice spoke out of the net:

_Let me free. Let me free!_

Lundy set his jaw tight and did the only thing he could think of. He
deflated his vac-suit and jumped, plunging down into the black depths
of the ruined building.

The kelp-things folded their leaves back like the wings of a diving
bird and came down after him, using their tails for power.

Fitful flares of light came through broken walls and window openings.
Lundy went down a long way. He didn't have to bother about stairs. The
quakes had knocked most of the floors out.

The kelp-things followed him. Their long sinuous bodies were
maneuverable as a shark's, and they were fast.

And all the time the little voice cried in his mind, asking for freedom.

Lundy hit bottom.

The walls were fairly solid down here, and it was dark, and the place
was choked with rubble. Things got a little confused. Lundy's helmet
light was shot, and he wouldn't have used it anyway because it would
have guided the hunters.

He felt them, swirling and darting around him. He ran, to no place in
particular. The broken stones tripped him. Three times great sinewy
bodies brushed him, knocking him spinning, but they couldn't quite find
him in the darkness, chiefly because they got in each other's way.

Lundy fell through suddenly into a great hall, lying beside whatever
room he had been in and a little below it. It was hardly damaged.
Golden doors stood open to the water, and there was plenty of light.

Plenty of light for Lundy to see some more of the kelp-beasts poking
hopeful faces in, and plenty of light for them to see Lundy.

The elfin voice called, _Let me out! Let me out!_
