
Lundy didn't have breath enough left to curse. He turned and ran, and
the kelp-beasts gave a lazy flirt of their tails and caught up with him
in the first thirty feet. They almost laughed in his face.

The only thing that saved Lundy was that when they opened their
leaf-wings to take him they interfered with each other. It slowed
them, just for a moment. Just long enough for Lundy to see the door.

A little door of black stone with no carving on it, standing half-open
on a golden pivot, about ten feet away.

Lundy made for it. He dodged out from under one huge swooping wing,
made a wild leap that almost tore him apart, and grabbed the edge of
the door with his hands, doubling up and pulling.

A tentacle tip struck his feet. His lead boots hit the floor, and for a
minute he thought his legs were broken. But the surge of water the blow
made helped to carry him in through the narrow opening.

Half a dozen blunt red-brown heads tried to come through after him, and
were stopped. Lundy was down on his hands and knees. He was trying to
breathe, but somebody had put a heavy building on his chest. Also, it
was getting hard to see anything.

He crawled over and put his shoulder against the door and pushed. It
wouldn't budge. The building had settled and jammed the pivot for
keeps. Even the butting kelp-things couldn't jar it.

But they kept on trying. Lundy crawled away. After a while some of the
weight went off his chest and he could see better.

A shaft of fitful golden light shot in through a crack about ten feet
above him. A small crack, not even big enough to let a baby in and out.
It was the only opening other than the door.

The room was small, too. The stone walls were dead black, without
ornament or carving, except on the rear wall.

There was a square block of jet there, about eight feet long by four
wide, hollowed in a peculiar and unpleasantly suggestive fashion. Above
it there was a single huge ruby set in the stone, burning red like a
foretaste of hell fire.

Lundy had seen similar small chambers in old cities still on dry land.
They were where men had gone to die for crimes against society and the
gods.

Lundy looked at the hungry monsters pushing at the immovable door and
laughed. There was no particular humor in it. He fired his last shot,
and sat down.

[Illustration: _Lundy fired the last shot in his gun._]

The brutes might go away sometime, maybe. But unless they went within
a very few minutes, it wasn't going to matter. Lundy's oxygen was
getting low, and it was still a long way to the coast.

The voice from the net cried out, _Let me free!_

"The hell with you," said Lundy. He was tired. He was so tired he
didn't care much whether he lived or died.

He made sure the net was fast to his belt, and tightly closed.

"If I live, you go back to Vhia with me. If I die--well, you won't be
able to hurt anybody again. There'll be one less devil loose on Venus."

_Free! Free! Free! I must be free! This heavy weight...._

"Sure. Free to lead guys like Farrell into going crazy, and leaving
their wives and kids. Free to kill...." He looked with sultry eyes at
the net. "Jackie Smith was my pal. You think I'd let you go? You think
anything you could do would make me let you go?"

Then he saw her.

Right through the net, as though the metal mesh was cellophane. She
crouched there in his lap, a tiny thing less than two feet high,
doubled over her knees. The curve of her back was something an angel
had carved out of a whisp of warm, pearl-pink cloud.


                                   V

Lundy broke into a trembling sweat. He shut his eyes. It didn't matter.
He saw her. He couldn't help seeing her. He tried to fight his mind,
but he was tired....

Her hair hid most of her. It had black night in it, and moonbeams, and
glints of fire like a humming-bird's breast. Hair you dream about. Hair
you could smother yourself in, and die happy.

She raised her head slowly, letting the veil of warm darkness fall away
from her. Her eyes were shadowed, hidden under thick lashes. She raised
her hands to Lundy, like a child praying.

But she wasn't a child. She was a woman, naked as a pearl and so lovely
that Lundy sobbed with it, in shivering ecstasy.

"No," he said hoarsely. "No. No!"

She held her arms up to be free, and didn't move.

Lundy tore the net loose from his belt and flung it on the altar block.
He got up and went lurching to the door, but the kelp-things were still
there, still hungry. He sat down again, in a corner as far away from
both places as he could get, and took some benzedrine.

It was the wrong thing to do. He'd about reached his limit. It made him
light-headed. He couldn't fight her, couldn't shut her out. She knelt
on the altar with her hands stretched out to him, and a shaft of golden
light falling on her like something in a church.

"Open your eyes," he said. "Open your eyes and look at me."

_Let me free. Let me free!_

Freedom Lundy didn't know anything about. The freedom of outer space,
with the whole Milky Way to play in and nothing to hold you back. And
with the longing, fear. A blind, stricken terror....

"No!" Lundy said.

Things got dark for Lundy. Presently he found himself at the altar
block, fumbling at the net.

He wrenched away and went stumbling back to his corner. He was
twitching all over like a frightened dog.

"Why do you want to do it? Why do you have to torture men--drive them
crazy for something they can't have--kill them?"

_Torture? Crazy? Kill? I don't understand. They worship me. It is
pleasant to be worshiped._

"Pleasant?" Lundy was yelling aloud, and didn't know it. "Pleasant,
damn you! So you kill a good guy like Farrell, and drown Jackie
Smith...."

_Kill? Wait--give me the thought again._...

Something inside Lundy turned cold and still, holding its breath. He
sent the thought again. Death. Cessation. Silence, and the dark.

The tiny glowing figure on the black stone bent over its knees again,
and it was sadder than a seabird's cry at sunset.

_So will I be soon. So will all of us. Why did this planet take us out
of space? The weight, the pressure breaks and crushes us, and we can't
get free. In space there was no death, but now we die...._

Lundy stood quite still. The blood beat like drums in his temples.

"You mean that all you creatures out of space are dying? That the--the
madness will stop of itself?"

_Soon. Very soon. There was no death in space! There was no pain! We
didn't know about them. Everything here was new, to be tasted and
played with. We didn't know...._

"Hell!" said Lundy, and looked at the creatures beating at the crack of
the stone door. He sat down.

_You, too, will die._
