
Lundy raised his head slowly. His eyes had a terrible brightness.

"You like to be worshiped," he whispered. "Would you like to be
worshiped after you die? Would you like to be remembered always as
something good and beautiful--a goddess?"

_That would be better than to be forgotten._

"Will you do what I ask of you, then? You can save my life, if you
will. You can save the lives of a lot of those little flower-people.
I'll see to it that everyone knows your true story. Now you're hated
and feared, but after that you'll be loved."

_Will you let me free of this net?_

"If you promise to do what I ask."

_I would rather die at least free of this net._ The tiny figure
trembled and shook back the veil of dark hair. _Hurry. Tell me...._

"Lead these creatures away from the door. Lead all of them in the city
away, to the fire in the mountain where they'll be destroyed."

_They will worship me. It is better than dying in a net. I promise._

Lundy got up and went to the altar. His feet were not steady. His hands
were not steady, either, untying the net. Sweat ran in his eyes. She
didn't have to keep her promise. She didn't have to....

The net fell away. She stood up on her tiny pink feet. Slowly, like
a swirl of mist straightening in a little breeze. She threw her head
back and smiled. Her mouth was red and sulky, her teeth whiter than new
snow. Her lowered lids had faint blue shadows traced on them.

She began to glow, in the golden shaft of light, like a pillar of cloud
rising toward the sun. Lundy's heart stood still. The clear gleam of
her skin, the line of her throat and her young breasts, the supple turn
of her flank and thigh....

_You worship me, too._

Lundy stepped back, two lurching steps. "I worship you," he whispered.
"Let me see your eyes."

She smiled and turned her head away. She stepped off the altar block,
floating past him through the black water. A dream-thing, without
weight or substance, and more desirable than all the women Lundy had
seen in his life or his dreams.

He followed her, staggering. He tried to catch her. "Open your eyes!
Please open your eyes!"

She floated on, through the crack of the stone door. The kelp-things
didn't see her. All they saw was Lundy, coming toward them.

"Open your eyes!"

She turned, then, just before Lundy had stepped out to death in the
hall beyond. He stopped, and watched her raise her shadowed lids.

He screamed, just once, and fell forward onto the black floor.

He never knew how long he lay there. It couldn't have been long in
time, because he still had barely enough oxygen to make it to the coast
when he came to. The kelp-beasts were gone.

But the time to Lundy was an eternity--an eternity he came out of with
whitened hair and bitter lines around his mouth, and a sadness that
never left his eyes.

He'd only had his dream a little while. A few brief moments, already
shadowed by death. His mind was drugged and tired, and didn't feel
things as deeply and clearly as it might. That was all that saved him.

But he knew what Jackie Smith saw before he drowned. He knew why men
had died or gone mad forever, when they looked into the eyes of their
dream, and by looking, destroyed it.

Because, behind those shadowed, perfect lids, there was--_Nothing_.



