
He looked at me across the rim of an oversized brandy sniffer--a
Napoleon, I think it's called--and waggled a long forefinger at my
nose. "The trouble with you groundhogs is that you're always thinking
we spacers are walking hotbeds of contagion all primed to wreck Earth.
You should know better. Anything dangerous has about as much chance of
getting through Decontamination as an ice cube has of getting through a
nuclear furnace."

"There was Martian Fever," I reminded him.

"Three centuries ago and you still remember it," he said. "But has
there been anything else since Decontamination was set up?"

"No," I admitted, "but that was enough, wasn't it? We still haven't
reached the pre-Mars population level."

"Who wants to?" He sipped at the brownish fluid in the glass and a
shudder rippled the heavy muscles of his chest and shoulders. He
grinned nastily and took a bigger drink. "There, that ought to hold
you," he muttered. He looked at me, that odd embarrassed look glinting
in his eyes. "I think that did it. No tolerance for alcohol."

I gave him my puzzled and expectant look.

He countered with a gesture at the nearly empty brandy glass. I got
the idea. I signaled autoservice--a conditioned reflex developed over
years of pumping material out of spacemen--and slipped my ID into the
check slot of the robot as it rolled up beside us and waited, humming
expectantly.

"Rum," the spaceman said. "Demerara, four ounces."

"You are cautioned, sir," the autoservice said in a flat mechanical
voice. "Demerara rum is one hundred fifty proof and is not meant to be
ingested by terrestrial life-forms without prior dilution."

"Shut up and serve," I said.

The robot clicked disapprovingly, gurgled briefly inside its cubical
interior and extruded a pony glass of brownish liquid. "Sir, you will
undoubtedly end up in a drunkard's grave, dead of hepatic cirrhosis,"
it informed me virtuously as it returned my ID card. I glared as I
pushed the glass across the table.

"Robots," I said contemptuously. It was lost on that metallic
monstrosity. It was already rolling away toward another table.

The spaceman poured the pony glass into his Napoleon, sniffed
appreciatively, sipped delicately and extended a meaty hand. "My name's
Halsey," he said. "Captain Roger Halsey. I skipper the _Two Two Four_."

"The Bureau ship that landed this morning?"

He nodded. "Yeah. I'm one of the Bureau's brave boys." There was a
faint sneer in his voice. "The good old Bureau of Extraterrestrial
Exploration. The busy BEE." He failed to pronounce the individual
letters. "You're a reporter, aren't you?" he asked suddenly.

"How'd you guess?"

"That little trick of not answering an introduction. Most of you sludge
pumpers do it, but I never knew why."

"Libel and personal privacy laws," I said. "If you don't know who we
are, you can't sue."

He grinned. "Okay. I don't care. Keep your privacy. All I want is
someone to talk to."

I smiled inwardly.

"Think my job's exciting?" he asked. "Skipper of an exploration ship.
Poking my nose into odd corners of the Galaxy. Seeing what's over the
hill."

"Of course," I said.

"Well, you'd be wrong ninety-nine times out of a hundred. It's just a
job. Most of it is checking--or did you know that only one sun in ten
has planets, and only one in ten thousand has a spectrum that will
support human life, and that only one in ten thousand planets has
Earthlike qualities? So you can imagine how we felt when we ran across
Lyrane." He grimaced wryly. "I had it on the log as Halsey's Planet for
nearly two weeks before we discovered it was inhabited." He shrugged.
"So the name was changed. Too bad. Always did want to have a planet
named after me. But I'll make it yet."

I clucked sympathetically. Capt. Halsey sighed, and this is what he
told me.


                                  II

It's a beautiful world, Lyrane is. Like Earth must have been before
it got cluttered up with people. No cities, no smoke, no industrial
complexes--just green plains, snowy mountains, dark forests, blue seas,
and white polar caps all wrapped in cotton clouds swimming in the
clearest atmosphere you ever saw. It made my eyes ache to look at it.
And it affected the crew the same way.

We were wild to land. We came straight in along the equatorial plane
until we hit the Van Allen Belt and the automatics took over. We
stopped dead, matched intrinsics and skirted the outer band, checking
the radiation quality and the shape of the Belt. It was a pure band
that dipped down at the poles to form entry zones. There was not a sign
of bulges or industrial contaminants.

Naturally we had everything trained on the planet while we made our
sweeps--organic detectors, radar, spectroanalytic probes--all the
gadgets the BEE equips us with to make analysis easy and complete. The
readings were so homelike that every man was landsick. I wasn't any
different from the rest of them, but I was in command and I had to be
cautious about setting the _Two Two Four_ down until we'd really wrung
the analytic data dry.

So, while the crew grumbled about hanging outside on a skyhook, we kept
swinging around in a polar orbit until we knew that world below us like
a baby knows its mother. It checked clean to five decimal places, which
is the limit of our gadgetry. Paradise, that's what it was--a paradise
untrod by human foot. And every foot on the ship was itching.

"When we gonna land, Skipper?" Alex Baranov asked me. It was a gross
breach of discipline, but I forgave him. Alex was the second engineer,
an eager kid on his first flight out from Earth. Like most youngsters,
he thought there was romance in space, but right now he was landsick.
Even worse than most of us. And, like most kids, he'd leap where
angels'd dread to walk on tiptoe.

"We'll land," I assured him. "You'll be down there pretty soon."

He hurried off to tell the others.

We set the ship down in the middle of one of the continental land
masses in an open plain surrounded by forest and ran a few more tests
before we stepped out, planted the flag, and claimed the place for the
Confederation. After that we had an impromptu celebration to thoroughly
enjoy the solid feel of ground under our feet and open sky overhead. It
lasted all of five minutes before we came to our senses and posted a
guard.

It was five minutes too long. Alex Baranov had a chance to get out of
sight and go exploring, and, like a kid, he took it. We didn't miss him
for nearly ten minutes more, and in fifteen minutes a man can cover
quite a bit of territory.

"Anyone see where he went?" I asked.

"He was wearing a menticom," one of the crew offered. "Said he wanted
to look around."

"The idiot!" I snapped. "He had no business going off like that."

"Nobody told him not to," Dan Warren said. Dan was my executive
officer, and a good hand in case of trouble, but he left the command
decisions to me, and of course I figured that everybody knew the
cardinal rule of first landings. The net result was that Alex had
disappeared.

I went back into the ship and broke out another menticom.

"Alex!" I broadcasted. "Return to ship at once!"

"I can't, Skipper," Alex's projection came back to me. "I'm surrounded."

"By what? Where?"

"They look sorta human--bigger than us. I'm near the edge of the forest
nearest the ship. I can't do anything. I didn't bring a blaster." There
was panic in his thoughts. And then suddenly I saw two hairy bipeds
flash across Alex's vision. Both of them were carrying spears. The
nearest one jumped and lunged. The scene dissolved in a blaze of red
panic and the projection cut off as though someone had turned a switch.

I had a fix now and turned to face a knob of forest jutting out into
the plain. Near the forest's edge I saw a flurry of movement that
vanished as I watched.

"Break out a 'copter," I ordered.

"Why?" Warren asked, and then I realized that I alone of all the crew
had seen what had happened to Alex.

I told them.
