
Ed Barger looked at me a trifle oddly as I came through the doorway. "A
while ago you were laughing at that story K'wan was telling us about
making this house for us. I caught your undertone."

"Sure. What about it?"

"Well, I'm not so sure he was lying."

"Huh?"

"Take a look around you."

I did. It was a nice room, considering its origin--low benches around
the walls, a table and four chairs in the center, a soft, thick floor
covering that was a pleasure to the feet.

"See anything unusual?" Ed asked.

"No," I said.

"What about those benches?"

"They're part of the walls," I said, "cut out of the tree when it was
hollowed out."

"Cut to _our_ size?"

I did a double take. Barger was right. The Lyranians were seven feet
tall and long-legged, but the benches were precisely right for human
sitting, and the table in the center was only three feet above the gray
floor. Suddenly I didn't feel so good.

"And those rooms--there are four of them--scaled to people _our_ size?"

I shrugged. "So they modified the joint for us."

"You still don't get it. This place is _living_. It's _growing_.
Nothing here except those chairs isn't part of this tree, and I'm not
sure that they weren't. Besides, how did they know that there'd be four
of us?"

"They could have been hopeful, or maybe four is their idea of a
delegation. Remember there were four of them that visited us, and they
suggested that four of us visit them."

"It's obvious," Allardyce added, "that this place _has_ been made for
us. K'wan wasn't lying."

Barger shook his head. "I still don't like it. I think we'd better get
out of here. If they are as good biologists as this tree indicates,
they're a Class VI civilization at least--and we're not set up to
handle levels that high."

"I don't think that's necessary," Allardyce said. "They don't seem
unfriendly, and until they do, we're better off sitting pat and playing
the cards as they're dealt. We can always warn the ship in case
anything goes wrong."

"Don't be jumpy," Alex broke in. "I told you they were all right. They
grew the place for me. It's just grown a little since."

I made a noncommittal noise.

"It's true," Alex said. "While I was here I needed quarters and nobody
wanted me in with them. They have some custom about not letting
strangers in their houses after sunset. So they took a sapling and
sprayed it with some sort of stuff and by the next afternoon I had a
one-room house."

"Where did you stay that first night?" I demanded.

Alex shrugged. "In one of the trees down the street," he said, pointing
through the door. "It was some sort of a storage warehouse. No air
conditioning and blacker than the inside of the Coal Sack. It rains
pretty bad at night and they had to give me some shelter."

He was right on time with his last statement, because the skies opened
up and started to pour. The four-hour evening rain had begun. It had
fascinated us at first, the regularity with which the evening showers
arrived and left, but our meteorologist assured us that it was a
perfectly natural phenomenon in a planet with no axial tilt.

"But growing a tree in a day is fantastic," I said. "What's more, it's
unbelievable, a downright--"

"Not so fantastic," Allardyce interrupted. "This really isn't a tree.
It's a cycad--related to the horsetail ferns back on Earth. They grow
pretty fast anyway and they might grow faster here. Besides, the
Lyranians could have some really potent growth stimulants. In our
hydroponics stations we use delta-gibberelin. That'll grow tomatoes
from seed in a week, and forage crops in three days. It could be that
they have something better that'll do the job in hours."

"And one that makes a tree grow _rooms_?" I scoffed.
