
Naked, I was standing on an endless sandy plain. Off in the distance
the _Two Two Four_ stood on her landing jacks, a tall, needle-pointed
tower of burnished silver metal. The sun beat down from a cobalt sky
burning my bare back as I trudged painfully across the hot shifting
sand. My feet, scorched and blistered, sent agony racing through me
with every step I took toward the tall silver column that seemed to
recede from me as fast as I approached. My throat was choked with dust
and my mind filled with fear and pain.

I had to reach the ship. I _had_ to. Yet I knew with dreadful certainty
that I would not.

He came at me from a hollow in the sandy ground, a huge, furry
Lyranian--bigger than any I had seen. His white tusks glittered in the
sunlight as he leaped at me.

Twisting, I avoided him and turned to run. To fight that mountain of
fanged flesh was futile. He could rip me apart with one hand. But I
moved with viscid slowness, stumbling through the shifting sands.

In a moment he was upon me, clutching with his huge hands, snapping at
my throat with his tusked mouth. Fear pumped adrenalin into my system
and I fought as I had never fought before, breaking his holds, throwing
jarring punches into his fanged face as he clawed and bit at me.

With a violent effort I broke away and ran again toward the safety of
the distant ship. For a moment I left him behind as he scrambled to
regain his feet and came running after me. He was on me again, hands
reaching for my throat. I couldn't get away. And again we fought,
battering and clawing at each other, using fists, feet and teeth,
biting and gouging. His strength was terrible and his hot, fetid breath
was rank in my nostrils. With a grunt of triumph he tripped me and I
fell on my back on the blazing sand. I screamed as my back struck the
searing surface, but he held me helpless and immovable, pinned beneath
his massive, crushing weight.

And then he began to eat me!

I felt his sharp fangs sink into my shoulder muscles and meet in my
flesh. With a rush of frantic strength I threw him off again and again,
ran stumbling across the plain. Once more he caught me and again we
fought.

It went on endlessly--the fight, the temporary breakaway, the flight,
the pursuit, and the recapture. I wondered dully why no one on the
ship had seen us. Perhaps they were looking in the wrong direction,
or perhaps they weren't even looking. If I survived this and found
that they hadn't been on watch--I snarled and slammed my fist into the
Lyranian's face.

Both of us were covered with blood, but he was visibly weaker. It was
no longer a fight; we were too exhausted for that. We pawed at each
other feebly, and I could detect something oddly like fear in him now.
He couldn't hold me--but neither could I finish him.

I gathered my last remaining strength into one last blow. My torn fist
smashed into his bloody face. He toppled to the ground and I fell
beside him, too spent to move. I lay there panting, watching him.

He rose to his hands and knees and came crawling toward me, trembling
with weakness. I felt his smothering weight pinning me as he fell
across me. He twisted slowly, his fanged mouth gaping to bite again.
His jaws closed on my arm. I was done--beaten--too weary and bruised to
care. He had won. But his teeth couldn't break my skin. Like me, he was
finished.

We lay there as the sun beat down, glaring at each other with fear and
hate. And suddenly--over us--loomed the familiar faces of my crew and
the tall tower of the _Two Two Four_.

Somehow I had reached the ship and safety!
