
Your Supreme Beneficence! When the imperial messengers came to me,
bringing the communication with which you deigned to address my
decrepit solitude, it was like a glorious ray of light come to illumine
the deepening darkness of my declining years!

It is with trepidation that I set about to fulfill your Exalted Command.
Five millenniums, aye, even more, have passed, since those who were part
of that segment of history into which you inquire, have become but
drifting dust. Only within the feeble memory of your humblest servant is
there any record of it.

Five millenniums! Aye! That was truly the golden period of our beloved
Diskra--not that our period under _Your_ Serene Effulgence is not golden
indeed! But in that day all Diskra was under the glorious rule of
Palladin. His city on the scarlet shores of our central sea was the
wonder of us _all_. Aye! We had a sea then, where there is now but
desert.

The intelligent planets were three: our own Diskra, of course, fourth
from the sun. And nearest the sun, Mirla, that fiery globe, where life
apes the quality of our own salamander, existing by necessity near the
flames. And second from the sun Venia, the cloud-capped world, where
life exalts the virtues of the fish. Of the third planet, Terra, we then
knew little.

Our cities faced the sun in those days, towering in polychromatic
splendor. Height was no obstacle then, for we had wings--wings! Think of
it, O Beneficence! No need had we of clumsy, metal vessels. But all that
has changed. Now no whirr of wings disturbs the air, and our
formi-tectural splendors rise _within_. The history of this change is
what Your Supreme Exaltation would know. This, then, is the record.

With the rule of Palladin was born the age of science, not so much due
to the intellects of that day, as through the driving urge of ultimate
necessity. For Palladin had a brother, Thid. He was unfortunately a
mutant. Whereas our features were delicate and quite regular, Thid's
were gross and stamped with power. His royal head was too large and
cumbersome, and instead of our slender waists, he was almost
asymmetrical in shape. In short--no member of our fairer, royal sex
could look upon him with aught but horror. And it was because of this
that he was dietetically conditioned for the realm of science.

It was a mistake. As the years passed, the loneliness of his virtual
exile tended to derange Thid's prodigious mind! Aye, prodigious--and
dangerous in his manic-depressive state. Then one day Palladin called an
emergency meeting of the Inner Council. I, Braanol, was a member of that
Council.

"It has come to my attention," Palladin said, "that Thid has been
carrying on certain dangerous experiments! Experiments of a sort that
could well be inimical to us--to our very existence!"

We well knew to what Palladin referred. But Thid was his brother, one of
the Imperial ones. No one dared speak.

"Why was I not made aware of it sooner?" Palladin demanded sternly.
"You, Braanol! You knew of it?"

"Yes, your majesty." I was frightened. "I beg to explain--I have tried
to dissuade him--"

Palladin's visage became less stern, as though he understood our
reluctance in this matter. "True," he said. "Thid is my brother. He must
be mad! And I tell you now: if he has gone as far in this experiment as
I suspect, I shall not hesitate to apply the only remedy dictated by
efficiency--death! Have him brought to me at once."

But Thid was nowhere to be found. He had learned of Palladin's anger,
and had fled into the Diskran desert where the abhorred _Termans_ dwelt
in myriads despite all our effort to eradicate them. These Termans were
soft-bodied, subterranean creatures with an obstinate life-force, and we
had long realized that they might one day be a menace to us.

So into the desert our Thid fled, spurred by the knowledge that his life
was forfeit. For a time, he was naturally thought dead. Who could
survive unprotected the extremes of heat and cold? And if by a miracle
he triumphed over the elements, how survive the appalling enmity of the
Termans, whose rudimentary brains conceived no mercy?

Nevertheless, startling bits of rumor began to drift in to our city;
rumors that Thid had been seen, _leading hordes of gigantic Termans
across the desert wastes_!

We laughed, of course, for caravaneers are ever the prey of sun mirages,
and legends are dear to their souls. A legend was begun concerning Thid.
Arriving caravans vied with each other in fantastic reports. Some had
seen him with immense hordes of the repulsive Termans. Still others had
discovered subterranean labyrinths being built by the Termans under his
command, and had barely escaped with their lives. And still we laughed,
blessed by the constant climate on the shores of our sea, and the
beneficent rule of our Exalted Palladin.

And then we ceased to laugh. Palladin called together his Council of
Scientists.

"Can it be?" Palladin asked. "Two whole caravans have vanished on the
way to Estka beyond the mountains." And he told us more, reports that
had arrived from other cities. Survivors had arrived, with the light of
madness in their eyes, babbling some nameless fear. Others had died from
ghastly wounds--great burns that refused to heal, but spread a kind of
disease through the tissues. I, Braanol, examined some of these wounds
and reported to Palladin.

"Only a perverted, scientific intellect such as Thid's could have
evolved weapons to inflict such wounds!"

"If he has organized the Termans," suggested another Council Member,
"despite their pigmy size, they will become a menace that cannot be
ignored."

"We have delayed too long!" thundered Palladin. "Find Thid! I command
it!"
