
Of Thid, nothing more was seen. But we knew he must still exist
somewhere among the Termans. Under that baleful inventive genius their
weapons seemed to multiply, and we were forced to tax our scientists to
the utmost in order to have weapons, of offense--and yes, O
Beneficence--defense!

For now, though we had managed to stem their attack on our capital, they
were steadily encroaching on our territory. Underground lakes and
streams were dammed by these fiends. Vast areas of vegetation were
denuded. Precious mines of rare metals were converted by them, under
Thid's direction, into sources for their ceaseless attacks. Aye! We died
a thousand deaths multiplied a thousand times.

Our ethero-magnum, by which our telepathic vibrations were amplified for
planetary broadcast, became a monotonous recorder of tragedy as city
after city fell to the hordes. For untold years this savage struggle
went on. How well we realized that this was a war for sole dominance of
the planet!

Until at last, only our proud capital by the shores of the scarlet sea,
and its immense valley was left to us.

"We must evolve the principles of inter-spacial travel," Palladin told
us sadly. "The day may come when we shall need it."

Hitherto, our rare flights to Venia and Mirla had been primitive affairs
in which the dangerous rocket principle was employed, with the terrific
effects of acceleration crushing the crews and making landing an even
greater hazard than the flight itself. But now, through inconceivable
efforts of thought--aye, through sheer desperation!--our scientists
evolved a system of atomic integration in which free orbital electrons
were utilized to create atomic quantities beyond our known table,
drawing upon the energy that could be harnessed in the process. It is
difficult to describe otherwise than through pure mathematics--though if
your Serene Effulgence wishes, I will be happy to describe it to you at
a later date; it will take some little effort to recall the exact
formulae.

"We must send an expedition to Terra," Palladin told us. "From what we
have been able to gather astronomically, that planet seems habitable.
Mirla, we know, is out of the question; it is a holocaust of fire. And
to dwell on the semi-aquatic world of Venia, a new environmental
adaptation would be necessary."

Fantastic, wasn't it, O Exalted Empress, that we the rightful Lords of
Diskra should be compelled to abandon our beloved homes by a horde of
vermin? Indeed it was a tragic day when the first scientific expedition
was assembled. And I, Braanol, was honored beyond my humble desserts by
his Supreme Magnificence, Palladin. I was assigned as _Recorder_ on the
expedition.

Strapped and cushioned until not an inch of my body was visible, I was
launched into space together with my fellow scientists, within the
spheroid confines of our atomic projectile. The agony of enduring--even
for seconds--the required acceleration, will forever remain in my mind
as the ultimate in torture. But at last the agony was gone, as we
traveled at unimaginable speed toward the planet which we hoped would be
our future home.

No, not hoped--because meanwhile on Diskra the experiments with acid gas
were going on, in a sort of last-ditch defense which we hoped might stem
the endless hordes!
