
To this day I cannot say what happened. No one knew. For the brief
instant in which I remained conscious, I felt as if Terra had burst
asunder under the terrific impact.

Nor do I know when I finally struggled upward from oblivion; it may have
been hours later, or days. Many among us were dead. _I_ was a hopelessly
crushed horror who still lived somehow, miraculously. For many days we
remained within our sphere--disposing of the dead, tending to the
injured, conserving our strength. _I_ might have been destroyed, but
with that frantic will to live which rises within us, I flashed a
message to my companions:

"I still live! Place me in the delocalizer! I will still be of use!"

This was done. The delocalizer, reacting on the thalamic region of my
brain, intercepted pain currents and allowed me to exist without
_physical_ feeling. Only my mind, lucid and intensely alive as never
before, continued to record the adventure in this world. It was not
until later that my brain was completely dissevered from my crushed
body....

My companions had tested the atmosphere and found no gasses that might
have been inimical to our organisms. Thus they prepared for the greatest
adventure of all--the emergence. The locks were opened. A draft of
fragrant, if heavy atmosphere swept through our globe. It was pleasantly
invigorating and bright outside--so I was told by their telepathic
messages, for I alone remained within.

Telepathically they kept me informed, as they wandered up the narrow
valley. The soil was firm and amazingly fertile. Vegetation grew thickly
everywhere. They reached the far end of the valley at last, and rocky
ramparts towered over them.

Then it was--how can I begin to describe it to you, Exalted Empress?
From _their minds_, coming back to me, was a sudden flood of excited,
hysterical thought! It seemed filled with intense loathing and fear!
Imagine me there, if you can--helpless--and in a frenzy of despair
wondering what they could have encountered!

Desperately I extended my potential. I managed to intuit a fierce battle
in which they were engaging. And some of my companions were dying!
Hordes of fierce denizens from the rocks above were descending upon
them. They had taken weapons along, true--but I could sense now by their
frantic thought that these war-like creatures of Terra numbered in the
hundreds, with hordes of them swarming from beyond!

For a long while the battle raged, then I sensed that my companions were
retreating. Oh, I was glad! Glad! At least I would not be left alone.
But of the two score who had ventured out, only _six_ returned. As they
operated the lock of the ship, and tumbled in, I could see--or rather
_perceive_--a long part of the terrain behind them.

Then it was that my mind sickened. _For the creatures of this bright new
world were--Termans!_ Slightly different from those we had battled on
Diskra, true. These were even more monstrous, over six feet tall, with
long shaggy manes and a reddish fuzz covering their four limbs ... and O
Beneficence, I swear it--_sickening blue eyes_! They walked upright and
carried crude weapons, shafts of wood fitted with sharp-edged _stone_!

Not until much later did my returning companions tell me what they had
seen through their telescopic lenses. Just beyond this valley were vast
plains where the Termans seemed to number in the thousands, huge nomadic
tribes of them. There were other creatures as well, some massive beyond
all belief, others fierce and blood-lusting with huge saber-like teeth.

"We could colonize Terra indeed," was the consensus of our thoughts, "but
at what a price! To be forever battling these creatures--particularly the
Termans, that abominable _genus Homo_...."

Can you imagine, O Empress Uldulla, how the irony of it bit us? It was
almost more than we could bear to think that on Diskra our own _genus
Formicae_ was in life-or-death struggle with these creatures and we had
found them swarming here as well! All--all of this lush, verdant world
was defiled!

There was nothing we remaining seven could do now. Sadly we set about
repairing the ship, so that we could bear the awful tidings back to
Diskra. And as we sped again toward our beloved planet, a sombre pall
fell upon us. The interchange of thoughts were brief and tinged with a
profound despair.
