
This resolved into amazement, however, as we came ever closer to Diskra.
For now, through our telecto-scope we could see that our planet had been
subtly altered! A few symmetrical lines had appeared on the face of
Diskra, as if a cosmic hand had drawn straight lines across with
mathematical precision!

Not until we had safely landed, did we learn the truth. O joyous news!
The hordes of Termans had been repulsed and were even then being slowly
driven back! Our scientists had created in the laboratories a type of
_formic acid_ somewhat similar to the vesicatory secretion occurring
within our own bodies--but infinitely more deadly! It had been used as a
weapon against the Termans. And more! Huge walls of gaseous formic acid,
held unwavering by electronic force fields, were being erected. It was
these walls that caused the astronomical illusion we had seen from
space.

The rest, O Illustrious Empress, I believe you know well. How the
Termans never again were able to penetrate our walls. How we waged war
on the detestable creatures for a number of years until finally no trace
of them remained on Diskra.

Aye! Five millenniums have passed since the events I have related. Five
millenniums since my crushed body was done away with and I was preserved
in my rectangle of _glassaran_, with the constantly renovated
thought-life-fluid kept exquisitely warm. In this state I have
accompanied many another expedition to the planets, in my capacity of
official Recorder. I am but Yours to command, Exalted Empress, should
you wish to hear of them.

But I have a warning! Slowly I have developed a new sense that needs not
eyes, nor ears, nor sense of touch--no antennae even, such as I once
possessed--but unites and transcends all these! And I beg of you in my
most abject humility, _do not venture to remove even one formic-acid
wall_, either from above or from its depth into the ground. Rather build
more! Perceptively I shudder in the awful remembrance of their occasion,
and the day may come when they will be needed once more.

Thus I warn humbly, and remain Your Supreme Fertility's most
insignificant servant,

                                                              Braanol.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Fantasy Book_ Vol. 1 Number 1 (1947).
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



