
There was only a thin edge of the sun still separating daylight from
darkness as they forced entry into their tenth ruin, and Markten's tone
was dejected.

"This," he said, "has been a day wasted, and there's little possibility
that we'll come up with anything here. Better get out your night-lamp."

Markten's young assistant obeyed, and started working his way into one
of the few still-standing corridors. He moved cautiously, remembering
his training. When exploration of ruins of shattered masonry is
indicated, guard against unnecessary vibrations.... The ruins yielded
nothing but broken stone and twisted steel. There could, of course, be
an obscured entrance to some lower level--many amazing documents had
been discovered in the almost untouched lower levels of what had seemed
totally destroyed buildings when viewed only from the gutted streets.
That was why it took so long to search a city, even though there
often seemed nothing left to search. There could always be some spot
undetectable but intact....

When he found the opening that led downward, it was necessary to go
through it and descend without contacting Markten. To shout would mean
dangerous vibrations--and to go back could well mean hours of delay in
rediscovering his find.

The night-lamp pushed relentlessly against the blackness that hung
stagnant in the lower level, and picked out the stumbling blocks of
debris which had to be moved as smoothly as their weights would permit.
Some were larger than the young researcher himself, and he realized
that the going would have been a lot better had he not rationalized
about contacting Markten to make whatever finds there might be on his
own.

There were many brick and girder-cluttered places that once had been
rooms, but, like so many other shattered interiors he had examined,
all but stone and steel had been disintegrated by the unthinkable
shock-waves that must have accompanied what awful force it had been
that had wreaked such havoc over the face of an entire globe. Objects
made of less sturdy stuff had been literally torn molecule from
molecule, atom from atom.

The chance of discovery of a complete book had been computed as a
near impossibility. The finding of a complete blueprint or set of
diagrams was considered almost as hopeless. To find all the pieces of a
plan which had merely been shattered was about the best that could be
expected. And, for forty years, now, as Markten had said, it had been
done by four million painstaking Research Builders. It was, in a way,
amazing how so many thousands of different things had been built....
