
The lamp's roving beam fingered something quickly, fell back into
blackness, then was suddenly groping with the desperation of an almost
uncontrolled excitement for what it touched and lost. It touched
again....

Should he find Markten now? No, not yet! Perhaps what he saw would be
nothing. Pinned beneath one of the most massive steel girders he had
yet seen, they were--

Books! Four books!

Quickly, yet with his nervous system under a willed rigidity,
he assembled the portable cutting torch and began freeing his
one-in-a-million find from the great length of twisted steel which held
it in a vice-like hold against an embedded section of stone flooring.

Minutes ticked away. More than sixty of them were gone before the books
were in his hands at last. Did they hold any plans? Diagrams never
seen before by Research? The titles--

Carefully he deciphered them from the crushed covers.

"A History of the World: 1800-1962."

"The P-s-y-c-h-o-l-o-g-y of H-u-m-a-n Relations."

"The P-h-i-l-o-s-o-p-h-i-e-s of P-l-a-t-o, S-o-c-r-a-t-e-s, and
A-r-i-s-t-o-t-l-e."

The fourth title he did not understand at all because he could not read
it. He knew only one of its three words, and it made even less sense
than the other titles. Quickly, he flipped through the volume for a
possible hint of explanation, and there were--

Diagrams!--

Hundreds of them, and one especially beautiful one, larger than the
rest--it was necessary to unfold it from the book--in color! It was
obviously the only important one of the four books; the others, from
what he could gather from their rather vague titles, had nothing to do
with building anything--but this one, with diagrams, obviously did!

In a haste accompanied with what he knew to be too little caution,
Markten's young aide hastened back the way he had come, sometimes
stumbling in his anxiety to present his invaluable find to the Elder,
once almost falling.

But it took only minutes until he found Markten, who was still
examining the ruin on its ground level, near the large opening through
which they had entered.

"Markten! Look--"

There was an ominous rumbling sound, then a terrifying feeling of the
vibration of disintegration.
