
They bolted for the opening even as the still-standing masonry which
formed it began to topple. The rumbling increased to thunder-volume,
and the earth outside the collapsing ruin quaked beneath their running
feet. When they finally stopped at a safe distance, their night-lamps
showed only a slowly rising cloud of pumice and dust.

"How often," Markten said, when it at last was over, "do you forget the
fundamentals of your basic training?"

"I--"

"It's done now. But the contents of whatever lower levels there may
have been are lost to us for good. Nothing could have survived that.
And we have never built a digging machine. There probably was nothing,
anyway, but next time--"

Then Markten saw the book in his aide's hand. The look of
disappointment on his features changed suddenly to one of disbelief,
then to amazement.

"At least I saved this! It has diagrams, Markten! The cave-in I caused
destroyed three other books, but they had no drawings in them at all.
Here. See if you can understand the title."

"Let's get to the laboratory compartment of the plane, where we can see
something! Great electrons, boy, what made you hold this back?"

Under the powerful lamps in the lab compartment of their aircraft,
Markten and the finder of the book puzzled over the three words on its
cover and fly-leaf.

"Perhaps, in one of the dictionaries at Research headquarters--"

"No, I don't think so," Markten mused. "We'll look when we get back,
but I don't think so.... Hmm. Doesn't make much difference--it's
the diagrams that are important. And the entire book isn't
incomprehensible. Lot of chemical terms, some electrical. I'm convinced
already that these diagrams constitute a structure of a purely
electrochemical nature. Although something seems to be missing, and
yet--"

"At the headquarters lab, we can do a lot better than we can
here, Markten. Or we can hand it over right away to the Research
Pre-Construction Study division--"

"Nothing doing! I hold a competence rating on that study business,
young fellow! I'll study it for possible inherent dangers, exactly
according to regulations. Myself! And then whatever it is, we'll build
it!"

"But Markten, suppose--"

Markten had already seated himself at the controls of the craft,
switched on the take-off lights and started the powerful engines.
Above the roar of the engines as they warmed for take-off, Markten's
assistant could still detect the undertones of excitement in the
Elder's voice.

"It's something different--completely different that you've found! Not
just an improved design or a variation such as we've had to be content
with for the past five years.... This is _new_! I'm positive of it!"

There was, of course, little sense in doubting the word of an Elder.
That was a part of training. Another part which Markten's aide had not
forgotten had also said, however, that there could always be danger in
a too-cursory preconstruction study of any new discovery.

And then, of course, there were those other things he had read which
Markten had said were such a complete waste of time.
