
They began construction work from the large colored diagram less than
a month after the book containing it had been discovered. The diagram
itself, of course, had been enlarged to its full scale, as had other
sectional diagrams that Markten said definitely were parts of the same
thing, but drawn separately in the book to render greater detail.

Two things had almost stumped the Elder completely, however, before
he announced his preconstruction studies finished, and that he was
prepared to begin actual construction. There were odors in the
laboratory which his aide's nostrils had never experienced before. He
wondered if they were as new to Markten.

"I admit," Markten said the day he began work in the two specially
constructed, oblong vats filled with a fluid Markten called
formaldehyde, "I am puzzled about the power source. Obviously a chain
of electrochemical reactions, but stemming from _where_--that's what
I've got to find out. Also, I've had to have another full-scale diagram
drawn up. There was another colored one we missed--it was on a regular
page. Have a look."

His aide's less-experienced eyes examined the second full-scale drawing
Markten had made.

"It's--smaller. And--different, sort of. But yet it's the same. Maybe--"

"Maybe one is just an improved model over the other? One a later
development, you think?"

"Why not?"

"That's what I've been wondering. But--no. My studies show that neither
has any greater power potential, to any marked degree, that is, than
the other. Both structures seem to have almost exactly the same
electrochemical potentialities. But for some reason, just the same,
they are _different_."

"The original designers leave no clue in the book?"

"No. Just formulae, and the usual stuff we find with diagrams."

"You know, Markten, I've often wondered about whoever it was--"

"There you go, forgetting one of the basics of training again! 'Of sole
importance is the discovery itself; its origination is a thing of the
past, and the past being dead, is therefore of no importance.'"

"I remember. But you have confused me, Markten. With these two problems
unresolved, can you at the same time pronounce construction a safe
venture?"

"I can, because neither of the unknowns is relative to the power
potential, which I have ascertained to the required tolerances. Neither
of them are based on a framework of nuclear physics, anyway. And I
have discovered no possibility of chemical reaction which would render
anything than a slow oxidation process.

"Therefore, youngster, to solve for the two unknown
quantities--power source and construction-variation--we must build!"

Markten was an Elder, so the trace of excitement in his voice was
excusable. His decision was not to be questioned. Yet--

"Markten, I have a peculiar feeling about this."

"A peculiar _what_?"

"Well, I--"

"Are you questioning my preconstruction study?" Markten's tone was
suddenly flat, yet charged with authority.

"Of course not, sir."

"Here are untried, absolutely new diagrams. We must build. That is our
purpose. Now, we will begin. The--larger one first, I think."
