
They labored on the project for three months. They finished the
structure in the large vat first, and Markten left the job of
completing the smaller one to his assistant while he drained the larger
vat of its original fluid, dried the completed structure, and placed a
series of L-type electrodes at various spots on its exterior.

"The smaller one came out to look quite a lot different, Markten. I'll
have it ready for the first series of charges by the time you have that
one going. I don't understand, however, what good the charges will do
when there isn't any power source to activate."

"Making either of them work might be a problem, but somehow I
don't think so," Markten replied. "The whole set-up, devoid of any
central power unit as it seems to be, is designed in such a way that
electrochemical reactions of some sort should take place with the
first series of charges. A few rearrangements of electrodes might be
necessary...."

During the next four hours, Markten's assistant worked with extra
speed, so that he was able to have the smaller vat drained and the
electrode placement diagramed for his own use.

"Through what process of logic," he asked Markten as he neared his last
set of adjustments, "did you make your decision concerning a primary
charge for the inducement of the electrochemical reactions of which you
spoke?"

"You may inscribe in your apprentice journal," the Elder said, as he
prepared a dynamo for use, "that insofar as the logic of the situation
was concerned, I simply applied the physical truth that an object at
rest tends to remain at rest until acted upon by some outside force.
Since the objects in this case are ingredients of a chemical nature
specifically constructed for electrical conduction, the only possible
solution is to activate them through application of an electromotive
force. If the logic has been faulty, of course," Markten paused a
moment, "then we will know that there has simply been an error in
construction. However, we have been precise in every step. They will
work."

"What they will do, naturally, rests in theory. Something of an
electrical nature, in accordance with your logic. Correct?"

"Precisely. And if I'm wrong, and they prove of no use at all--we'll
dismantle them and inform Research Library that any further such
diagrams discovered are worthless."

The assistant straightened from his work.

"Finished?" Markten asked.

"I am. You know, though, even though they aren't exactly the same, they
have a peculiar similarity to--"

"We built according to specifications. Ready?"

"Go ahead, Markten."
