
Markten first reduced the penetrating power of the laboratory
operation-lamps to a subdued softness. The smooth metal walls of the
rectangularly shaped laboratory seemed to melt away to nothingness, and
most of the bluish light was focused on the contents of the two vats.

Markten pressed a control.

There was no sound as the electrical impulses surged through the
structures they had made, and the silence itself seemed a part of their
stillness. There was a faint odor now of ozone.

Markten glanced at dials.

"Try a temperature test; see if the materials are withstanding the
amperage. I will cut the current at your signal."

Markten's assistant obeyed.

"I don't understand," he said. "At completion, they were
room-temperature--68.7 calibrations. Now, exactly 98.6 calibrations,
yet the resistance of their chemical constituents would not warrant--"

"Any damage? Tissue-breakdown?"

"None I can see. Markten! The big one moved!"

Then the smaller one moved, too.

Both of them sat up.

For the moment Markten and his aide looked only at each other, the
younger of the two speechless, incredulity on his features. Markten
smiled.

"I was not sure," he said. "But, as you said, they do appear similar
to us. They are chemical automatons; I suspected, but of course could
not be sure. Now, we must discover the exact power source and, more
importantly, the control-centers of the things. Then--"

But on these counts, Markten was doomed to disappointment. Aside
from his discovery that the things he had created would not function
properly without ingesting large amounts of different types of
vegetable and organic materials, and that they operated independently
of any outside stimulus, he was able to discover nothing more. Except,
when at length he had concluded that neither of the things could be
of any use to the populace of New City because they could be neither
electrically or mechanically directed by any type of control yet built,
he discovered that they actually resisted any attempts to dismantle
them. They ran.

"Peculiar," he said.

"Shall I pursue them?" his apprentice asked. "They appear to be heading
in the direction of the grasslands to the north."

"Never mind." Markten sounded dejected. "They have a very low unit
power potential. They could never do any harm to anything."

"I wish we knew what those three words on the book meant. 'Advanced
H-u-m-a-n A-n-a-t-o-m-y.'"

"Nothing too important, really. Or we'd've known their meaning. Well,
there will be other things to build, and we need energy. Let's go to
Maintenance and recharge our plates."

"Good thought. I guess those things wouldn't have been strong enough to
build anything anyway. At any rate, they can't be dangerous...."