
Once more Mel was floating on clouds and this time the sensation was
exhilarating. He tried moving his arms and legs to see if he could swim
through the velvety darkness but failed. A faint glow began to appear
ahead of him and a low rumble of voices began to echo throughout his
mind. Full realization of what had happened swept over him and he
struggled to retain his sanity. The voices were louder and he recognized
that of Neil, who was saying,

"... is conscious now. Easy on the voltage, remember last time." A brief
pause, then louder. "Mel, I see that you hear me. Listen carefully. I've
tried out several of my own theories, that's why you can hear. And, in
just a moment, I'm going to give you eyesight. We're having trouble with
a voice." The light began growing in intensity and hurt his eyeballs.
Mel remembered then, depressed, that he had no eyes of his own. Even at
the thought, he tried to shut his eyes which only caused his brain to
ache more. He tried completely relaxing in an endeavor to capture the
floating sensation once more.

"Ah, that's better," approved Neil's voice. "I see that the brain wave
has smoothed down. If you'll just accept what's happened, Mel, we should
be able to work together." Figures began to form in the white mist. As
they became stronger but out of focus, he saw Neil bent over a control
panel, carefully making adjustments and glancing frequently at the
leaping line of green light across the scope in front of him. He felt a
surge of hate sweep through his brain and saw the green line jump
violently. Neil's hand jumped instinctively toward a red-covered switch.
At the same time, he flashed a glance towards a tank that was barely
within the range of Mel's vision. He realized almost at once that it
must be the same one in which his brain was resting. The full, sickening
realization of what had happened hit him and he almost went over the
black-out line. Then Neil's face loomed square in his direction and
hate, the most intense he had ever experienced, brought the green line
that represented his brain's output up to full level.

His brain sent impulses out to the nerve ends that had controlled his
arms and legs. They felt as if they were still attached to him but
paralyzed. His mind felt clearer and sharper now than it ever had before
in his life. He determined to analyze his new mental capabilities
carefully in the hope he would find a means of striking back.

During the next few weeks, only his hatred for Neil enabled Mel to keep
his sanity. The first empty feeling that the future could hold nothing
for him but horror gave way to planning and scheming. His mechanical
voice was perfected, operated by the nerve ends of his brain, much as
his original vocal cords had functioned. It enabled him to now assist in
his own rehabilitation by suggesting improvements or solutions to
mechanical aids he could control. The steady growth or realization of
his mental powers were amazing to Mel. He realized that they must have
been inherent and in his subconscious all of the time, only his loss of
body brought them out now. That, plus the fact that he required
practically no rest if the stimulants pumped into the tank were
sufficient.
