
This last was the clue to his use by Neil. It became apparent that his
erstwhile partner planned on using him to the fullest possible extent.
First Neil brought in a problem concerning a new type of paint to absorb
the rays of the sun and convert them into electrical energy. Not until
he had studied the problem and given Neil the answer did Mel realize the
full financial potentiality of his powers.

He immediately brought up the subjects. "What about our partnership
agreement on profits?" he asked.

"Profits?" repeated Neil with a nasty smile. "Why? Where did you plan on
going?"

For once Mel was glad that his voice was flat and devoid of all
inflection. It kept the other from sensing the rage that made him want
to do something violent. "You know what I mean," he insisted doggedly.
"Unless you want to admit murder, we're still partners."

Neil laughed and said, "That's right. Of course I can draw any and all
funds that I need but if the authorities ever check on your
disappearance, they'll find that a separate account has been opened in
your name in the City. All you have to do is go in and withdraw it any
time you want to." He chuckled, then grew serious.

"Don't get any ideas," he warned. "We've been spending most of the time
during the past couple of months getting you in shape for your intended
function and I'm going to bring more and more problems in to you." He
explained further, "I've opened an engineering consultant service in the
city and this paint formula alone will bring us all the business we'll
need." He pretended to be busy at one of the computers being installed
but Mel could see that he was glancing out of the corners of his eyes at
the oscilloscope for indication of a brain reaction. Mel had learned
several weeks ago that he could control the output of his brain and had
been careful to conceal the fact from Neil.

His partner said, disappointment in his voice. "Doesn't my attitude
bother you anymore?"

Mel's mechanical voice rolled out. "When you destroyed my body, you
destroyed all emotions. If that's the way you want to do things, that's
the way it'll be."

"But the ethics...."

"I know what would happen to me if you turned me over to the scientists.
I'd be a freak and treated as such. I owe nothing to the world."

"Swell," enthused Neil, this time his face twisted into a grimace of
pleasure. "I've got a lot of plans that you'll fit into."

Experiments had been made with muscular control and they discovered that
Mel could govern an electrically powered table, controlled by short wave
radio. Another "eye" that could swing in a 360 degree circle had been
mounted on it and broadcast its information to Mel's optical circuit. A
mechanical arm had also been installed on it and Mel spent long night
hours when the lab was quiet perfecting his control over it. Before
long, he was as much--if not more--proficient with it as he had been
with his own arms. He began laying his plans.

The first thing he needed was a weapon. Getting his control cart out of
the cubicle was easy since Jenkins, the only assistant allowed in the
entire laboratory, had left his key ring lying on a table one morning.
It had been but the work of a moment to wheel over, pick them up and
then conceal them. Jenkins had spent a frantic hour in search but
finally went into the machine shop to make up a new set. He had first
cautioned Mel against letting Neil know, almost fawning in his gratitude
when Mel promised.

He searched the entire lab the first two nights but discovered that Neil
had taken the revolver he had kept in a drawer of his old desk. It would
take too long to try and machine another one, although their machine
shop had proven its capability of turning out anything. A knife he
discarded as too clumsy for his means of control. He then carefully
considered steel darts shot from a tube by compressed air or carbon
dioxide but reluctantly abandoned that idea also. Since he had a
machine's limitations as well as advantages, he'd have to begin thinking
less like a human. So, the first thing to base a weapon on would be the
material most plentiful in the lab. That was--electricity.
