
Once determined on the line of his endeavors, he briefly marvelled again
on the still unexplored potentialities of his brain. The weapon would be
mounted on his own cart and electricity could either be broadcast or
self-contained. For mobility, he decided on a power pack. The weapon
itself evolved so easily that he wondered why no one had thought of it
before now. Special type condensers built a battery charge up to over a
million volts for a split second. This charge, invisible until it hit an
object more solid than air, was contained in a very narrow beam by
strong screens of opposite polarity. The entire sequence of operation
was almost instantaneous, and the bolt was more in the nature of an
electrical projectile than a continuous beam.

He decided that the unit, resembling a flashlight, could be mounted in a
concealed spot under his "eye" so that it could be fired at whatever he
might be looking at.

Now that he had a means of defending himself, Mel felt more at ease but
at a loss for his next step. Merely eliminating both Jenkins and Neil
would gain his revenge but what then? He could always notify the
authorities but mentally flinched at exposing himself to the world as a
freak and being at the mercy of the morbid curiosity of millions.

He had hardly begun to lay his plans before disaster struck. Neil came
in early one morning and had Mel begin working on a problem concerning a
new type of steel that would combine structural strength with the
lightweight qualities of aluminum. Mel energized his calculators that
were, electrically, practically part of his brain. He briefly wondered
why Neil appeared so restless, wandering around the room with his hands
behind his back, studying everything. Then the problem became so
intriguing that he completely forgot that anyone was in the room.

His first inkling that anything was wrong was when Neil straightened up
from the cart with a twisted smile on his face and exclaimed:

"Ha!"

Mel's first, startled conjecture was that the other had discovered the
special weapon. He tried to rotate the lens so that the weapon would
point at Neil but could see, by other stationary lenses in the room,
that the one on the cart remained motionless. The same was true of the
mechanical arm. In fact, the entire cart was dead.

"I pulled the main power fuse," said Neil, a slight smile on his face.
"I suppose you thought you were getting away with it completely." Not
positive as to how much his partner knew, Mel, decided on silence as his
defense. The smile disappeared from the other's face and he continued,
slowly:

"Something must be wrong with your reasoning. I knew something was up
when the power company's statement showed an unusually high increase in
power consumption. From there on it was easy to read the meters at night
myself, and then the next morning. What were you up to anyway?" Mel
still maintained his silence.

"Okay if that's the way you want it," said Neil more harshly. He walked
to the end of the tank and Mel felt his brain telegraphing warnings to
severed nerve connections not yet again in use. Neil reached out to a
valve Mel recognized as controlling the minute amount of chemicals that
served to nourish the cells in his brain. Relays were connected to it
that also regulated the injection of oxygen proportionately into the
fluid. He turned it slightly then began watching the oscilloscope
closely. In a matter of seconds, Mel felt his usually sharp senses begin
to dull. The oscilloscope blurred until, by great effort, he brought it
into focus again. He saw that the height of the wavy line denoting the
strength of his brain's output was abnormally low.

"Feeling all right?" asked Neil in mock anxiety. He turned the valve
back to its correct setting and almost instantly Mel felt better.
"That's just a sample of what can happen if you force me to it," warned
the other. "A little more of a turn and that super brain of yours would
be garbage. Only I wouldn't do that, of course. There are a few more
experiments I want to make before your brain dies." Knowing the vicious
nature of his partner, Mel decided to talk before the other goaded
himself into some unplanned action.

"Don't forget the fable about the goose that laid the golden eggs," his
voice rolled out. "There's still a lot I could do for you, you know--or
_not_ do." He saw with relief that the anger receded from the other's
face to be replaced by a look of cunning.

"I almost forgot," said Neil. "I've another surprise for you." He went
to a circuit near the master calculator that he himself had installed
only several days ago. All the master components were open, a rheostat
appearing to be the primary control. Mel had decided at the time it had
to do with voltage regulation of the calculator since there had been
trouble with it.

Neil placed his hand on it, then turned his head in the general
direction of the tank and said, "Just in case you get ideas of not
co-operating, I can use this for persuasion." He cracked the vernier
just a trifle and agony knifed through Mel's brain. It receded, leaving
a slight ache.

"Not much voltage," Neil was saying with satisfaction, "but, judging
from the way your brain wave jumped, I don't imagine it felt very good,
did it?"

"You win," was Mel's only comment, not wanting another jolt. Never
before had he felt so helpless and completely at the mercy of another.
He realized more and more that he had less defense than a new-born baby,
which could at least kick and wave its hands. He could do nothing except
try to retain his sanity and wait for his day to come....

"Good," approved his partner, his manner indicating that it was the most
natural thing in the world that Mel should give in. "Just in case you
forget, I think I'll keep the cart disconnected so that you can't do
anything to harm yourself at night." His manner abruptly turned
business-like. "Now then, that paint formula story got around and we've
got a lot of business to handle. Most of it's routine for you but we'll
drag it out and sock them plenty. A couple of items we'll copy after
you've solved them and say it couldn't be done."
