
Mel missed the cart more than he thought he would. It was much like the
time when, as a boy, he'd broken a leg and had to stay in bed for
several weeks. He was forced to turn in on himself.

The real turn in the development of his mind, and above the level he had
thought possible, came about as an accident one day. Resting, with
nothing to do, he had the full room in vision with the stationary
lenses. A flicker of motion caught his attention and careful waiting
disclosed it to be a small mouse that had somehow gained access to the
laboratory and then into his room. Welcoming any change in his routine,
he watched as the small creature scurried around the room looking for
something to eat. Several times Mel amused himself by causing his voice
box to rumble, making the rodent scurry around madly for a hiding place
until the imagined danger had passed. Eventually it became used to the
noise and not even talking affected it.

It disappeared from sight for several minutes and Mel had just begun to
wonder if it had a nest in the equipment when it reappeared on top of
the calculator, near the electrical prod that Neil had used on his
brain. Remembering the searing jolt it had given him, Mel watched
anxiously as the mouse pushed an inquisitive nose into the still exposed
components. He became more concerned as the animal became more
intrigued. Not only was there danger that the mouse would push down on a
delicate relay and close it, but he could conceivably short out the main
power supply. The result wasn't pleasant to contemplate. If it didn't
permanently damage some of his brain cells, the pain might drive him
into insanity.

He tried shouting but the mouse paid no attention to him. He called for
first, Jenkins and then Neil until he remembered that his partner had
said they were going in after some special equipment. While he watched
helplessly, the mouse stretched out and touched a relay point. Instantly
pain knifed through his brain and he became aware of a roaring sound
that he realized was his voice blaring out. The extra loud and continued
blast of sound had caused the mouse to withdraw nervously from the
relay. Something about it had made him determined, however, and as Mel
was barely recovering from the first jolt, the mouse moved back. Mel
wished desperately that the cart had been left in operation so that he
might at least use the sound of motion or the mechanical arm to frighten
his tiny tormentor from the vicinity of the relay.

He watched intently as the mouse came closer to the points, oblivious to
everything else in the room. As it almost touched the points, a violent
surge of hate coursed through his brain cells and he was surprised to
see the mouse flung violently back down to the floor. It lay there
motionless and he finally realized, with thankfulness, that it was dead.
As the pain from the jolt subsided to the point where he could barely
feel it, he began to wonder what had happened. The amount of voltage
necessary to hurt him was so small that nothing beyond a direct short
across the primary power would have affected the mouse. He began to
analyze everything preceding the point where the mouse had been flung
from the top of the calculator. A check and recheck brought the same
answer, one that he had at first refused to believe--his thoughts had
been responsible.

Further contemplation convinced him that, while his thoughts had
undoubtedly been responsible, the mental power itself had not been
enough, as pure, brute force, to accomplish the task, but must have
struck at the rodent's brain itself. That would have been enough to
convulse the animal's muscles and make it look at first as if some
outside force had hurled it to the floor. The stolid Jenkins was
somewhat perturbed when he found the dead mouse.

"But how could it get in here," he demanded querulously. Then, as if in
sudden thought, "and what could have killed it?"

Mel suddenly decided that it might be better if the other were set at
ease since even Jenkins could dissect it if he became curious enough and
might find enough to make Neil suspicious.

"I saw it yesterday," he said. "I didn't say anything since it was
interesting and was company for me. I noticed that it was moving more
slowly today and seemed to be weaker. It must have starved to death.
Nothing to eat in here, and he couldn't get out."

"Yeah," agreed the other, picking it up and throwing it into a
wastepaper basket. The explanation had evidently satisfied him, since he
went about his routine tasks.
