
Several times he neglected to notice Neil's entrance into the room, so
absorbed did he become in his newly discovered, if second-hand, freedom.

"What's happened to you anyway?" demanded his erstwhile partner one day
after he had had to repeat a question. "Half of the time lately you're
lost in a world of your own. What're you up to anyway?"

"Nothing," replied Mel, suddenly alert to any new danger, although
confident he could take care of himself now. "I was just going over some
new equations I've been formulating as a hobby. Now that you've taken
away my cart, there isn't much to keep me occupied you know. You don't
begin to bring enough problems. What's wrong?"

Mel wished that he could read the other's mind since Neil began to act
evasive. He laughed with a false heartiness. "Wrong? Why I've--we've--"
he corrected, "--already made a fortune on a couple of our own patents
as well as commissions from project solutions. Someone might get
suspicious if we did too well or too much."

This made sense but Mel couldn't resist digging. "You mean that your
past record of success as measured against your supposed one now might
make the police ask questions?" he asked. The other remained silent so
he pressed the attack. "Or are they already wondering why I haven't been
seen for so long?"

"There were a few questions at first," admitted the other, "but I think
I've satisfied them all. However, I've been thinking that it might be a
good idea to move you somewhere else."

"But hardly anyone knows the lab exists," protested Mel.

"The power company does, even if the meters are way down the road. We
should've planned on our own generators from the first. Then there's the
deed recorder. This land is in both of our names you know."

"It'd still be a tremendous project," pointed out Mel. "You couldn't
begin to keep the new location secret because you'd need help in moving
me. One little slip and it'd be all over."

There was an upward curl to the other's lips that Mel didn't like. "Oh,
we'd have to be careful," he admitted. "Luckily the time delay wouldn't
hurt any, there's so much money rolling in." He hesitated for a moment,
as if in thought, then concluded, "In fact, there's no project on now
unless you have a private one of your own. It might be a good idea to
plan on the move right away."

"I still don't like the idea," stated Mel flatly. "I'd like to think it
over for a couple of days."

"Think it over all you want," said Neil with a grin. He walked to the
calculator and patted it near the jolter. "Only don't forget I don't
have to ask you." He waited almost hopefully but Mel said nothing,
content with the feeling of power and knowledge that, so long as he was
prepared, the other could do nothing immediate to harm him. The time had
come for action, however.

Mel kept mental contact with his partner after he had left. Neil went
directly to the office and unlocked the center drawer of his desk. He
then began pulling out papers and scanning them rapidly, placing some
back and keeping others out. Mel gasped to himself when he saw the bank
statement and the amount of money deposited under the name of the
partnership. That in Neil's personal account was large but it was
perfectly obvious, according to dates Mel could see through the other's
eyes, that the transfer of funds had not been underway for long. As it
now stood, they were both practically millionaires but he knew Neil
wouldn't be satisfied.

Watching through the other's eyes, Mel had his vision switched from the
desk to the door. He saw that Jenkins had just entered, mouth moving. He
thought he could read his lips just enough to make out his own name.
Jenkins appeared to stop and listen to Neil, then his facial expression
changed as his lips protested over something. Mel's vision then switched
to another desk drawer that had been opened and he saw his missing
revolver nesting in it. Neil withdrew it and pointed it at Jenkins. The
assistant stepped back, hands up as if to ward off a blow. Then a
placating, if anxious, smile spread over his face and his mouth worked
rapidly, too much so for Mel to read any words. Whatever had been said,
it appeared to satisfy Neil since he lowered the revolver.
