
Mel broke contact and came back to his own room and stationary video
scanners that served as his eyes. Jenkins came in and his manner made it
plain to Mel that he was laboring under an intense pressure. He began
puttering around the work table, gradually making his way closer to the
tank housing Mel's brain.

"Jenkins," said Mel, purposely extra loud.

The assistant jumped nervously, dropping a piece of metal he had picked
up.

"Yes," he almost quavered.

"Have you ever thought how it would be to be condemned to a life like
mine?"

"No-o-o, not especially. Why should I?"

"You helped put me here, you know."

"I was only following orders, I--"

"All right, all right. I know how Neil can force a person to do
something. But you could help me, you know."

"How's that?" suspiciously. "I'm not going to tell anyone, if that's
what you're driving at."

"No, I'm not trying to get you to do that. All I want is the fuse
replaced on the cart. Then it would feel as if I were moving around and
break up the monotony. This is worse than any solitary cell in prison
could ever be."

"No," refused the assistant flatly. "It wouldn't do you any good anyway.
It's just--" He stopped, hand going to his mouth as if he had said
something he wasn't supposed to.

"How's that, Jenkins?" reminded Mel as gently as he could. "What's
supposed to happen?"

"I don't know," replied Jenkins sullenly.

"Put a fuse back in the cart," directed Mel. At the same time he applied
pressure almost to the breaking point against the other's mind.

"No!"

He knifed through to the other's brain with ease and just enough power
to accomplish his purpose without harming Jenkins. This was the most
complete control Mel had ever attempted and Jenkins' legs moved
spasmodically as though he were a puppet on strings. There was horror in
his bulging eyes and sweat began breaking out on his forehead.
Relentlessly he was forced towards the cart until at last it had been
reached.

"Jenkins," said Mel as low as he could. "Can you hear me?" A slight
twitch of the head was the only indication that he could, so Mel
instructed,

"There's a spare fuse near the holder, Jenkins. Take it out and place it
in the primary circuit. Do that and I'll let you go. If need be, I could
kill you now. The fuse, Jenkins." He relaxed his hold slightly but
Jenkins made no attempt to comply. Mel continued,

"Remember the dead mouse, Jenkins? I did that. The fuse, before I lose
my patience." He applied more power until the other's hand began moving
unsteadily towards the cart. As he withdrew slightly, from mental
contact, Jenkins continued his task and in a moment Mel was able to move
the cart. He had momentarily forgotten Jenkins until he became aware
that the assistant had let out a yell of terror and was rushing for the
door. Mel watched with amusement, knowing that he could have stopped the
other with hardly a strain. Just before he reached the door, it opened
and Neil appeared. Jenkins came to a halt and stared in terror at his
employer.

"Well," said the other impatiently. "What's been keeping you, Jenkins?
Did you--"

"No, he didn't," answered Mel. At the same time he caused the cart to
move sideways and swung the video scanner until it was staring directly
at Neil.

"Well," said the latter accusingly, switching his gaze to the terrified
Jenkins. "So this is how you follow out orders."

"He made me do it, boss. He made me," babbled Jenkins as Neil, face set
with determination, drew his revolver from a pocket. Before the
astounded Mel could do more than gaze incredulously, there were two
sharp cracks and Jenkins slowly placed his arms around his stomach and
rocked back and forth in agony, before toppling over to the floor to lie
motionless.

"Now you," said Neil, swinging his revolver towards Mel's tank. Mel
frantically stabbed at his partner's mind but could feel no pressure.
Another shot rang out and he felt a numbing pressure seemingly from
every direction that could only mean it was against his physical brain
itself. The shock forced him to use every bit of power he possessed to
keep conscious. Neil had lowered the revolver a trifle and was saying in
a superior tone,

"Whatever you did to Jenkins, it's only hastened the inevitable, if that
makes you feel any better. I'd have had to get rid of him too, once you
were disposed of."

He began raising the revolver again and the dazed Mel instinctively
relayed power to the cart. The eye had been pointing directly at Neil
and the only sound that indicated the energy gun had been set off was a
slight hiss. The effect on Neil was not only instantaneous but horrible
to see. His body appeared to swell until he looked bloated, then
disintegrated.
