
Mel felt himself becoming weak and hastily brought the cart over to
examine the damage the one shot had done to him. Almost fearfully he
scanned himself and saw, with relief, that the shot had penetrated the
tank and was letting the life-giving liquid escape onto the floor. A
quick glance into the tank showed that the lead pellet had missed his
brain but the pressure on the liquid had caused him the initial pain.

He directed the cart over to the work bench and brought back a tapered
piece of wood. The arm placed it into the hole and then applied pressure
until the trickle had stopped. It would do until he could effect a
permanent patch. He began to feel stronger almost immediately and knew
that the automatic features of his metal "body" were renewing the liquid
at top speed.

Using the cart, he first checked the supply of chemicals, fed as needed
into the tank, and saw that there was a sufficient quantity to last him
for at least a month. He thanked the good fortune that had allowed
Jenkins to put the cart into operation before it was too late. Without
it, his end would have been as certain as if Neil had been successful in
killing him.

His first task was to construct several more carts, each complete with
video scanner. One of them was larger than the other. It's first task
was to dispose of the two putrefying bodies. Working almost 24 hours a
day, he hooked an inter-communications system to every room of the
underground lab and directly into his system. Even the telephone was
connected to it so that, if necessary, he could answer it or make a
call.

The day finally arrived when there was no more he could do. The entire
lab was almost like a steel and concrete body, so thoroughly had its
every function been integrated as part of his brain. The decision he had
been almost frantically avoiding could no longer be put aside. He had
approximately a week in which to decide. It would be simple to call the
police and in turn let them notify the various scientists as to his
position.

He dreaded the thought of the circus that the lab would become.
Erstwhile friends would troop in to look at him with morbid curiosity.
Then when his potential became known, tasks would be assigned. There was
a definite possibility that he would be moved, even at the danger of
injury to himself. Countless thousands would demand it and their will
would be obeyed unless the curtain of national security could be drawn
across him.

One day was spent in contacting the animals outside the lab and
revelling in flight for awhile. Then he sped through the countryside,
first with a coyote, then with a deer. There was a possibility that if
the scientists moved him, his new tank would be shielded so that it
would be impossible to enjoy himself as he now was. All in the name of
science of course.

On the other hand, if it were possible to have all supplies delivered to
a nearby point where he could pick them up, he could continue his
present method of existence. His mind jumped eagerly from problem to
problem which he could undoubtedly solve for the benefit of mankind. The
present patents in the partnership's name would bring enough money
indefinitely to pursue them since much could be done by pure thought.

There was the survival phase first. He would devise an electronic
blanketing ray that would dampen all atomic explosions. Then he could
turn to the health of people all over the world, wipe out diseases. All
this would depend, of course on his being able to remain undisturbed and
that might tax his powers to their utmost. He wondered if it would be
worth the effort.

Finally he had less than three days left, which narrowed the safety
margin to the lowest point he cared to think about. He opened the
telephone circuit and heard the operator say, "Number please."

He hesitated briefly, then said,

"The Waring Chemical Supply House, please." His order was soon placed
and, afterwards, he felt almost as free and elated as when, as a boy,
school had let out for the summer. The manual dexterity of the metallic
fingers he had constructed would enable him to write checks with his own
signature. A faint idea had even tickled his curiosity and he felt
certain that he could grow cells within a couple of weeks. From there,
he could work on a body for himself, one even more efficient than the
old one Neil had destroyed.

A human in the lab at that moment would have been startled. As near
possible as it was for any wheeled vehicle to do so, he had several
carts almost doing a jig in the main office. His new life had just
begun.



