
The Japanese Sectional governor rose, and said, sucking in his breath,
"Why does not the thirsty Olduk speak, instead of drinking all the
Speaker's water?"

This time the laughter was more open. The speaker rapped with his
gavel, and order was restored.

Olduk said, "There is more water on Earth than five billion Olduks
could drink.

"But I will speak, as I have spoken years in and years over.

"I shall review the history of things. Forty-five years ago great
swarms of Martians descended on Earth and engaged in war. They wished
to conquer Earth. Fortunately succeeded not. There became a hatred
between the two peoples. This hatred has endured, without reason."

"Without reason?" said the Japanese governor.

"Doubtless," said Olduk, "you have neglected to follow history, of own
people and of what occurred before Martians made war. Not until after
the war did Martians know that Earthmen could be peaceful. Before the
war, Earthmen slaughtered great numbers of Martians. So Martians did
not feel bad when they wished to slaughter numbers of Earthmen."

"There was the second war," sarcastically.

"The second war the war of water, as the first. Earth no good for us,
see? Wished water only. The second war we fought because Earth would
not sell us water any price at; so we would conquer her and levy water
tribute. Fortunately did not succeed. Try more friendly means, which is
why I, Olduk and seven of associates, changed by operations from real
Martians, are here."

Olduk paused. He resumed carefully, cocking his massive head to one
side.

"Come to Earth, I and seven. Give Earth scientific secrets. Learn Earth
language and customs. Prove friendliness for water."

The Spanish governor rose, cleared his throat. "Bribes!" he said loudly.

"Bribes?" said Olduk.

"Bribes! Gentlemen, Olduk has made his plea for ten years, and for ten
years, in the best interests of the World State, we have refused him.
Why? Because if you sell the Martians water, their population will
increase to the point where they are able to conquer Earth. Remember
that it was our numbers and not our science that won out over the
Martians in the two wars.

"This question has been an annoyance! From now on, I vote no on the
subject, and move to have this question off our hands for good.
Furthermore, I move that the Act which gave the Martians the right to
sit on the Master Conclave be stricken out of the World Constitution!"

Olduk said, "My people will die--" when every member of the Conclave
rose and shouted out his agreement with the Spanish governor.

Olduk drew his cape tighter around his twelve-foot body.

He said, "Then I have been refused forever. But I have no feelings of
enmity. Allow me fully to explain situation once more, so that you may
possibly feel sorry for my people. We are million in number--ideal,
yes? Not canned like sardines on Earth, yes? Million enough,
fortunately. But without water, in century, none. See? Our birth rate
falls.

"But no, my people do not suffer of thirst. There become less people
to drink. But it is cruel of Earth to kill a race because they hate.
Therefore, all read story of Tantalus--interesting, see?

"Poor Tantalus," in his expressively expressionless voice. "Poor
Tantalus. Many persons of Earth would not like to be Tantalus, thus
receive justice reserved for poets."

Olduk walked over to the Speaker and said something to him. The Speaker
frowned, and then resignedly signaled an orderly.

"A gallon of water for Mr. Olduk."

The session erupted with a wave of general laughter.

The water was brought. Olduk placed the beaker to his thin lips, tossed
the contents off.

He swept the assembly with his eyes.

His left arm--or what appeared to be a left arm, so covered with the
cape was it--fumbled at his right wrist.

He said once more, gutturally, "Yes, poor Tantalus."

He stepped down from the rostrum, and with slow dignified step left the
conclave room.
