
The diving champion of the world puffed out his chest, feigning
complete nonchalance as five thousand admiring people looked up at him
where he stood as resplendant as an angel on the diving platform.

"Ladeeeeeees and gentlemannnnnnnn!" the loudspeaker blared. "Pedro
Morestes, the handsomest man in the world, and the most perfect
physical specimen by the Olivar Test, is about to break the world's
diving record of all time. Four hundred feet lie between him and the
glistening surface of this world-famed pool!

"Watch him, hold your breath, ladees and gentleman, there he
goooooooosssss--"

Pedro Morestes ran with light graceful steps toward the end of the
diving board. The board flung him upward, and he seemed to stop for an
infinitesimal second, poised like a bird, with the pool far below, and
gasping people staring upward.

One of those people watching had his wrist radio tuned to World
Broadcasters.

"Please," said Olduk's clearly audible radio voice, "do not touch
water. If things strange happen to water, do not touch, please?"

Pedro Morestes began his dazzling drop downward, twisting, twining,
going through all the intricate convolutions that four hundred feet
would allow him.

Now! A loop, a twist, straighten out for the last fifty feet, cut the
water as clean as an arrow cutting the air.

Pedro Morestes eyes popped. A hoarse scream escaped his lips.

Where was the flat surface that should receive him?

Where were the little wavelets that usually betokened the presence of
water?

Why did the entire pool bulge up in the middle, and drop at the sides?

Why was it that the whole pool had been replaced by an immense
_hemisphere of glass_?

Pedro Morestes screamed, squirmed, twisted, came down with a bone
crushing shock on the bulging surface, his posterior foremost.

He bounced upward for fifty feet, fell again, bounced again, fell,
bounced, fell--and was locked, flat on his back, by an invisible vise
that not only held him rigid, but threatened to crush him from all
sides.

The crowd stared in pure fright. The pool of water had become--a
hemisphere of glass? And Pedro Morestes, world's diving champion, lay
atop that gleaming sphere, ribs and one leg broken, unable to move a
muscle....
