
On the high seas, the S.S. _Wilcox_ battered through rising, flooding
seas.

The captain stood on the bridge, yelling orders to his men below.

The first mate flung water from his face, gritted, "We'll never make
port."

A sailor came up the companionway, steadying himself on the handrail.

"There's water pouring through a hole in a forward section," he gasped
hoarsely. "We can't caulk it. She's sinking at the stem."

"Mr. Jones," said the captain, "sound the signal to abandon ship."

The first officer said to himself, "In these seas?" But he obeyed and
went down to the cargo hold where the alarm apparatus was stationed.
Above the roar of the elements sounded seven short hoarse blasts, and a
long one. The "all hands on deck" signal vibrated through the ship.

The captain watched while sailors donned lifebelts, jumped to boat
stations. Boats were swung out, and eased down by the rail. Passengers,
herded by calm officers, came on to the deck. The ship gave another
sickening roll. A lifeboat was dashed to matchsticks.

"It's no use," the quartermaster said hoarsely. He gripped the rail,
staring out over the raging sea, where mountainous waves were sending
the S.S. _Wilcox_ to her doom.

The captain said slowly, "I wish I were what Cadmus wished he was. I
wish I could command the waves of the sea to vanish."

... An astounding thing happened.

As if a gigantic beer skimmer had been run over the surface of the sea
in all directions, the tops of the waves seemed abruptly to round.
The troughs filled, the crests dropped. The roar of water against the
flanks of the ship ceased. The waves ceased, though the wind still
roared, and whined.

The quartermaster's eyes widened in startled terror, and he looked
askance at his captain.

The captain said blankly, "God or the Devil or me!"

The waves were gone. The S.S. _Wilcox_ ceased pitching. A sailor came
up and told the captain that although the hole was still there, the
water of the open sea visible through it had seemed to turn into a
rigid surface that wouldn't let the water in. The ship was no longer
sinking.

As far as the eye could see the Atlantic Ocean was a calm smooth
stretch of water, with the inflexible rigidity of glass....
