
He was taken before the chief of the secret service of the World State.
The Speaker of the Master Conclave, and the Japanese and Spanish
sectional Governors were there. He was forced to a seat.

Olduk's eyes rested on the sphere of the water in the Speaker's hands.
His eyes flickered briefly. The Speaker glared at him wildly.

"The longer I hold this thing," he whispered, panting, "the thirstier I
get. And I can't drink! What will I do?"

Olduk said emotionlessly, "Honorable sir, you will have to hold it
until there is an agreement to give my people water. Now we are all
Tantaluses."

The iron-gray individual who was the chief of the secret service, ran
his tongue around in his dry mouth.

"You did this?" he said huskily.

"Yes," said Olduk.

The man took a paper off his desk, unfolded it in front of Olduk's
eyes.

Olduk read the headline emotionlessly:

                           WORLD IN TURMOIL;
                          DRINKING IMPOSSIBLE

"I did that, yes," said Olduk quietly. "Many people will die. Tantalus,
yes? But there is a Tantalus on Mars, too."

The iron-gray man struck him harshly across the mouth.

"How did you do it?" he rasped.

"A water-tight ship lies buried ten miles beneath the surface of the
Atlantic Ocean. A simple radio signal started the mechanism that
eventually released the force."

"What force?"

"The force that will make it impossible for people of Earth to drink,
honorable sir."

"What signal will make the mechanism stop?" Again Olduk was struck
across the face, harshly, brutally. A thin yellow ichor started to run
down Olduk's impassive face.

"The signal is known only to my people on Mars. Thus it was arranged."

"You're a liar, Olduk!"

The man lit a cigar, and while the Speaker turned away, sickened, he
brought it closer to Olduk, meanwhile talking rapidly.

"Liners are stranded in the ocean, unable to move. Their passengers
can't drink. The power house at Niagara is useless; the water comes
over the falls in drops as big as houses. People are beginning to
suffer from thirst. I know a Martian named Olduk who's going to burn
alive if he doesn't tell us how to stop the mechanism."

The cigar contacted, lingered. There was a sulphurous odor.

Tiny muscles on the Martian's face began to tense. Sweat broke out on
his face.

"You cannot harm me," he said steadily. "Can only kill me. If you kill
me, mankind die. We of Mars have then a planet of water to ourselves.
That's my warning. Heed me."

Fifteen minutes passed. Olduk's face was a mass of blood and burns.
Every nerve in his body was quivering. He had answered none of the
questions hurled at him. He had refused to divulge the location of the
buried ship. Finally his muscles relaxed, and his double-lidded eyes
sagged shut.

The chief of the secret service said ragingly, "Throw him into a cell,
the dirty--! We'll work on him later!"

After Olduk was taken away, the iron-gray man looked at the Speaker.

"What do we do now?"

The Speaker looked in horror at the sphere of water in his hand. "We'll
have to give in--"

"Damned if we will," the other snarled, pacing up and down. "If we
could find out where that ship is, we could send a super-tension ship
down and blow it to--" He stopped, his eyes lighting. He wheeled.
"Didn't Olduk say 'ten miles' below the surface? Damn! There aren't
many places that deep--" He snapped his fingers, and reached for a
phone.
