
Three hours later, a bullet-shaped rocket ship, able to withstand
thousands of tons' pressure, and reinforced with an intangible
force-field, fled away from the continent, bound for the Maracot Deep;
for such was the first choice, and, as it happened, it was the last.

High above the ocean, the pilot turned the craft nose-down, and poured
full power into his jets.

The craft plunged for the surface of the hard ocean, at frightful
velocity; struck; penetrated; was under, velocity broken almost
in three by the terrific impact. The ship bored down, powerful
searchlights playing on swarms of startled fishes. Down, down. The
pilot made an exclamation, grinned his triumph. Here, ten miles down,
they saw the hulk of the ship that was causing such destruction in the
world above.

The pilot signaled one of his subordinates. The man pulled a lever. The
craft's entire load of super-explosives sank downward toward the menace.

The pilot sent his ship blasting for the surface. Seconds later he
heard and felt the tremendous vibration that, he knew, heralded the end
of the menace. He went toward the surface, and when within fifty feet
of it, sent a blast of power into his jets.

The ship struck something, like a wall, hard, unyielding, and the pilot
and his assistants were thrown against the instrument board. They
recovered their senses.

The pilot looked at the other men.

"Ten tons of helio-hydrogen didn't do the trick," he said softly.
"What will? You know, I almost forgot. The science of the Martians is
way ahead of ours. Naturally, that ship wouldn't be exactly tender...."

He knew it was useless. He had no more explosives. He shoved every atom
of power he had into his jets, but the ship could not move more than
forty miles an hour under water. For a moment it seemed the blunt nose
of the ship was going to penetrate the incredibly tough under-surface
of that film, but no....

The pilot said, grinning crookedly, "Say your prayers, boys, and here's
hoping they give the Old Duck what he wants--quick."

Two days passed. Three billion people stared into the face of eternity.
Rivers, lakes, oceans were full. There were reservoirs of clear,
sparkling water, from which laboring pumps could take water, pumping it
to homes, making it accessible, forcing it out of faucets.

But it was untouchable. The water came out in impenetrable spheres.

They lay like jewels in the homes of most people. People stood around
and stared at them, longingly, yet not daring to touch them. They had
heard several stories about people who _had_ touched them.

Within the spheres, the water was clearly visible for what it was;
which made it all the harder to resist. The world now knew, by the
word of scientists, that nothing but a thin surface of molecules,
strengthened by a million times, lay between them and the water their
bodies thirsted for. Surface tension, acted upon by a strange force,
broadcasted from a mechanism ten miles beneath the surface of the
Atlantic.

Another day passed. The mills of industry, working by steam, and the
things that depended on water, came to a halt. Power was weak, for
it was fed from fast depleting accumulators. The tide machines were
useless, for the ocean no longer fell or rose more than a foot in any
one place.

Numberless ships were stranded on the oceans, their screws able to
turn, but their bows unable to push against the enormous contractile
force that the surface of the ocean possessed.

Crowds roved through the streets, aimless, purposeless, their voices
dry, racking, their eyes bloodshot, cheeks sunken. Beer and soft
drinks, the only drinkable liquids that were not affected, were selling
for ten dollars a bottle. The supply was fast dwindling, and the price
was being jacked up.

Water was all around them, but they were the children of Tantalus.

Newspapers began to demand, in stringent tones, that the situation be
remedied. Crowds gathered outside the World Administration Building,
shouting for water, and they were fully willing to go to the extreme of
meeting the demands of the Martians to get it.
