
The Speaker of the Master Conclave, and the Japanese and Spanish
sectional governors, stood in a room on the upper floor of the World
Administration Building.

The room was a kitchen.

On the floor lay a huge, polished, glistening drop of water.

"That's what it is, gentlemen," said the Speaker. "A drop of water,
just what you'd expect if the surface tension of water increased a
million times. The surface film acts like a tight skin or jacket
surrounding a drop of water, and the jacket contracts down to the least
possible area, a sphere. If you put your hands on it--the way I've got
my hands on this damned _thing_--you increase the 'coastline,' and the
surface film doesn't like that. It tries to decrease the coastline
formed by your fingers, so your fingers are crushed together. If you
managed to actually penetrate the film, and get your hands wet, the
terrific capillary action of the molecules would cause the surface film
to literally envelop you, and you'd be inside, and you couldn't get
out.... What are we going to do about it?"

His face was drawn and haggard and sunken.

The Spanish Governor said hoarsely, "We couldn't give in, could we?"

"No!" the Japanese Governor lashed out savagely; but in a moment a
fleeting smile crossed his face. "Send for Olduk," he said.

Olduk entered the room, unsteadily, supported by two plain-clothesmen.
His face was clean of blood, but the little, horrible marks inflicted
on him were all too evident.

"You wished to see me?" he said in a hoarse whisper. His eyes were
bloodshot.

"Yes. What do you want of Earth, explicitly?"

"Water, honorable sir. Water for my people. As much as we wish, when we
wish it, at a reasonable price; and we also desire friendship, so that
we may help each other."

The Japanese sucked in his breath, quivering angrily. "You want our
friendship. Yet you do this to our people!"

"You do no less to my people, honorable sir. Olduk is sorry, see?" He
weaved, caught onto a chair to support himself. His leathery, parchment
face seemed more wrinkled and bloodless than ever before. His reddish
eyes held a deep, pleading hope.

"We are children of Tantalus, all," he whispered. "It is not right
that we live in a mythical Hades, see, honorable sirs? Give my people
water--"

He pitched forward on his face. The Speaker started toward him, his
eternal sphere of water in his hands, but the Japanese stopped him,
held him back from the sprawling, twelve-foot figure.

He said, "Have you ever studied Martian psychology?"

"N-no," said the Speaker, puzzled.

"The theory is that they are incapable of dishonesty, and therefore
they do not believe it exists. Of course, it's only a theory, and
nobody believes it, but why couldn't we try it out?"

The Speaker was startled. "You mean we should give them our word, and
then back out on it?"

"Yes," the Japanese sucked in his breath. He saw the hesitation on the
Speaker's face, and said with icy, mocking disdain, "Are you going
to give water to a race whose sole purpose will be to increase their
population so they can conquer Earth? Think, fool! Do you want to
hold that sphere of water in your hands forever?" He smirked. "In the
interval of peace, we can go to the Maracot Deep, lift that sunken ship
out without having to worry about a surface film. We can take it to dry
land, and with a little work, cut the ship open, destroy the mechanism.
With that destroyed--"

His contempt, and his reference to the maddening sphere of water the
Speaker held, wilted the Speaker.

"We'll do it," he said slowly, casting an uneasy look at the sprawled
Martian.
