
The Master Conclave was again assembled, for the fourth and last day,
its members well-watered, and well satisfied with themselves.

The Speaker said, standing on the rostrum where Olduk had stood four
days before, "I want to make a short talk, and call for a standing vote.

"Earth has water again. We acquired it by a simple trick, that of
dishonesty. I was fully to blame. Men are now at work in the Maracot
Deep, in super-tension ships raising the Martian ship to the surface.
There is no reason to doubt that a means to destroy the mechanism
that caused so much trouble will be found. We won't have to keep our
agreement with the Martians. I want to know if this action of mine
meets with your approval."

The entire body stood to its feet.

"We were forced to it," the Japanese Governor said to the assembly at
large.

The Speaker waved them to their seats again. "I did not call for a
standing vote, yet. I have more to say before I ask for your filial
decision."

He resumed carefully, giving each word its proper significance.

"The Old Duck was a Martian--but in body he was not a Martian. He told
us that. He had been changed with 'sundry operations,' so that he could
live in this climate, so different from that of Mars. Air pressure,
oxygen content, moisture, content gravity. To each he was acclimated by
surgical operations.

"Yes," continued the Speaker, something catching in his voice, "he
was changed in such a way that the terrific amount of moisture in the
atmosphere of the Earth could be taken care of by his body. In order
to make that possible, _his twelve-foot body was given a capacity for
water proportionately three times greater than that of any Terrestrial_!

"Gentlemen," said the Speaker, while an air of startled tenseness grew
in the tiered seats, "Olduk died of thirst."

He was silent.

He said strainedly, "I wanted to know if my action of deceit met with
your approval. I require a standing vote."

The Japanese Governor rose slowly. He had to. He sent a look at the
Spanish Governor. The Spanish Governor kept his seat.

The Japanese Governor stood alone, like a monument to the thoughtless
guilt of the others.
