
GETTING UNDER SAIL

The _Dolphin_ was rapidly equipped, her rigging was ready, and there
was nothing to do but fit her up. She carried three schooner-masts, an
almost useless luxury; in fact, the _Dolphin_ did not rely on the wind
to escape the Federalists, but rather on her powerful engines.

Towards the end of December a trial of the steamer was made in the gulf
of the Clyde. Which was the more satisfied, builder or captain, it is
impossible to say. The new steamer shot along wonderfully, and the
patent log showed a speed of seventeen miles an hour, a speed which as
yet no English, French, or American boat had ever obtained. The
_Dolphin_ would certainly have gained by several lengths in a sailing
match with the fastest opponent.

The loading was begun on the 25th of December, the steamer having
ranged along the steamboat-quay a little below Glasgow Bridge, the last
which stretches across the Clyde before its mouth. Here the wharfs were
heaped with a heavy cargo of clothes, ammunition, and provisions which
were rapidly carried to the hold of the _Dolphin_. The nature of this
cargo betrayed the mysterious destination of the ship, and the house of
Playfair could no longer keep it secret; besides, the _Dolphin_ must
not be long before she started. No American cruiser had been signalled
in English waters; and, then, when the question of getting the crew
came, how was it possible to keep silent any longer? They could not
embark them, even, without informing the men whither they were bound,
for, after all, it was a matter of life and death, and when one risks
one's life, at least it is satisfactory to know how and wherefore.

However, this prospect hindered no one; the pay was good, and everyone
had a share in the speculation, so that a great number of the finest
sailors soon presented themselves. James Playfair was only embarrassed
which to choose, but he chose well, and in twenty-four hours his
muster-roll bore the names of thirty sailors who would have done honour
to her Majesty's yacht.

The departure was settled for the 3rd of January; on the 31st of
December the _Dolphin_ was ready, her hold full of ammunition and
provisions, and nothing was keeping her now.

The skipper went on board on the 2nd of January, and was giving a last
look round his ship with a captain's eye, when a man presented himself
at the fore part of the _Dolphin_, and asked to speak with the Captain.
One of the sailors led him on to the poop.

He was a strong, hearty-looking fellow, with broad shoulders and ruddy
face, the simple expression of which ill-concealed a depth of wit and
mirth. He did not seem to be accustomed to a seafaring life, and looked
about him with the air of a man little used to being on board a ship;
however, he assumed the manner of a Jack-tar, looking up at the rigging
of the _Dolphin_, and waddling in true sailor fashion.

When he had reached the Captain, he looked fixedly at him, and said,
"Captain James Playfair?"

"The same," replied the skipper. "What do you want with me?"

"To join your ship."

"There is no room; the crew is already complete."

"Oh, one man, more or less, will not be in the way; quite the contrary."

"You think so?" said James Playfair, giving a sidelong glance at his
questioner.

"I am sure of it," replied the sailor.

"But who are you?" asked the Captain.

"A rough sailor, with two strong arms, which, I can tell you, are not
to be despised on board a ship, and which I now have the honour of
putting at your service."

"But there are other ships besides the _Dolphin_, and other captains
besides James Playfair. Why do you come here?"

"Because it is on board the _Dolphin_ that I wish to serve, and under
the orders of Captain James Playfair."

"I do not want you."

"There is always need of a strong man, and if to prove my strength you
will try me with three or four of the strongest fellows of your crew, I
am ready."

"That will do," replied James Playfair. "And what is your name?"

"Crockston, at your service."

The Captain made a few steps backwards in order to get a better view of
the giant who presented himself in this odd fashion. The height, the
build, and the look of the sailor did not deny his pretensions to
strength.

"Where have you sailed?" asked Playfair of him.

"A little everywhere."

"And do you know where the _Dolphin_ is bound for?"

"Yes; and that is what tempts me."

"Ah, well! I have no mind to let a fellow of your stamp escape me. Go
and find the first mate, and get him to enrol you."

Having said this, the Captain expected to see the man turn on his heels
and run to the bows, but he was mistaken. Crockston did not stir.

"Well! did you hear me?" asked the Captain.

"Yes, but it is not all," replied the sailor. "I have something else to
ask you."

"Ah! You are wasting my time," replied James, sharply; "I have not a
moment to lose in talking."

"I shall not keep you long," replied Crockston; "two words more and
that is all; I was going to tell you that I have a nephew."

"He has a fine uncle, then," interrupted James Playfair.

"Hah! Hah!" laughed Crockston.

"Have you finished?" asked the Captain, very impatiently.

"Well, this is what I have to say, when one takes the uncle, the nephew
comes into the bargain."

"Ah! indeed!"

"Yes, that is the custom, the one does not go without the other."

"And what is this nephew of yours?"

"A lad of fifteen whom I am going to train to the sea; he is willing to
learn, and will make a fine sailor some day."

"How now, Master Crockston," cried James Playfair; "do you think the
_Dolphin_ is a training-school for cabin-boys?"

"Don't let us speak ill of cabin-boys: there was one of them who became
Admiral Nelson, and another Admiral Franklin."

"Upon my honour, friend," replied James Playfair, "you have a way of
speaking which I like; bring your nephew, but if I don't find the uncle
the hearty fellow he pretends to be, he will have some business with
me. Go, and be back in an hour."

Crockston did not want to be told twice; he bowed awkwardly to the
Captain of the _Dolphin_, and went on to the quay. An hour afterwards
he came on board with his nephew, a boy of fourteen or fifteen, rather
delicate and weakly looking, with a timid and astonished air, which
showed that he did not possess his uncle's self-possession and vigorous
corporeal qualities. Crockston was even obliged to encourage him by
such words as these:

"Come," said he, "don't be frightened, they are not going to eat us,
besides, there is yet time to return."

"No, no," replied the young man, "and may God protect us!"

The same day the sailor Crockston and his nephew were inscribed in the
muster-roll of the _Dolphin_.

The next morning, at five o'clock, the fires of the steamer were well
fed, the deck trembled under the vibrations of the boiler, and the
steam rushed hissing through the escape-pipes. The hour of departure
had arrived.

A considerable crowd, in spite of the early hour, flocked on the quays
and on Glasgow Bridge; they had come to salute the bold steamer for the
last time. Vincent Playfair was there to say good-bye to Captain James,
but he conducted himself on this occasion like a Roman of the good old
times. His was a heroic countenance, and the two loud kisses with which
he gratified his nephew were the indication of a strong mind.

"Go, James," said he to the young Captain, "go quickly, and come back
quicker still; above all, don't abuse your position. Sell at a good
price, make a good bargain, and you will have your uncle's esteem."

On this recommendation, borrowed from the manual of the perfect
merchant, the uncle and nephew separated, and all the visitors left the
boat.

At this moment Crockston and John Stiggs stood together on the
forecastle, while the former remarked to his nephew, "This is well,
this is well; before two o'clock we shall be at sea, and I have a good
opinion of a voyage which begins like this."

For reply the novice pressed Crockston's hand.

James Playfair then gave the orders for departure.

"Have we pressure on?" he asked of his mate.

"Yes, Captain," replied Mr. Mathew.

"Well, then, weigh anchor."

This was immediately done, and the screws began to move. The _Dolphin_
trembled, passed between the ships in the port, and soon disappeared
from the sight of the people, who shouted their last hurrahs.

The descent of the Clyde was easily accomplished, one might almost say
that this river had been made by the hand of man, and even by the hand
of a master. For sixty years, thanks to the dredges and constant
dragging, it has gained fifteen feet in depth, and its breadth has been
tripled between the quays and the town. Soon the forests of masts and
chimneys were lost in the smoke and fog; the noise of the foundry
hammers and the hatchets of the timber-yards grew fainter in the
distance. After the village of Partick had been passed the factories
gave way to country houses and villas. The _Dolphin_, slackening her
speed, sailed between the dykes which carry the river above the shores,
and often through a very narrow channel, which, however, is only a
small inconvenience for a navigable river, for, after all, depth is of
more importance than width. The steamer, guided by one of those
excellent pilots from the Irish sea, passed without hesitation between
floating buoys, stone columns, and _biggings_, surmounted with
lighthouses, which mark the entrance to the channel. Beyond the town of
Renfrew, at the foot of Kilpatrick hills, the Clyde grew wider. Then
came Bouling Bay, at the end of which opens the mouth of the canal
which joints Edinburgh to Glasgow. Lastly, at the height of four
hundred feet from the ground, was seen the outline of Dumbarton Castle,
almost indiscernible through the mists, and soon the harbour-boats of
Glasgow were rocked on the waves which the _Dolphin_ caused. Some miles
farther on Greenock, the birthplace of James Watt, was passed: the
_Dolphin_ now found herself at the mouth of the Clyde, and at the
entrance of the gulf by which it empties its waters into the Northern
Ocean. Here the first undulations of the sea were felt, and the steamer
ranged along the picturesque coast of the Isle of Arran. At last the
promontory of Cantyre, which runs out into the channel, was doubled;
the Isle of Rattelin was hailed, the pilot returned by a shore-boat to
his cutter, which was cruising in the open sea; the _Dolphin_,
returning to her Captain's authority, took a less frequented route
round the north of Ireland, and soon, having lost sight of the last
European land, found herself in the open ocean.



