
CROCKSTON'S TRICK

It was not long before the whole crew knew Miss Halliburtt's story,
which Crockston was no longer hindered from telling. By the Captain's
orders he was released from the capstan, and the cat-o'-nine-tails
returned to its Place.

"A pretty animal," said Crockston, "especially when it shows its
velvety paws."

As soon as he was free, he went down to the sailors' berths, found a
small portmanteau, and carried it to Miss Jenny; the young girl was now
able to resume her feminine attire, but she remained in her cabin, and
did not again appear on deck.

As for Crockston, it was well and duly agreed that, as he was no more a
sailor than a horse-guard, he should be exempt from all duty on board.

In the meanwhile the _Dolphin_, with her twin screws cutting the waves,
sped rapidly across the Atlantic, and there was nothing now to do but
keep a strict look-out. The day following the discovery of Miss Jenny's
identity, James Playfair paced the deck at the poop with a rapid step;
he had made no attempt to see the young girl and resume the
conversation of the day before.

Whilst he was walking to and fro, Crockston passed him several times,
looking at him askant with a satisfied grin. He evidently wanted to
speak to the Captain, and at last his persistent manner attracted the
attention of the latter, who said to him, somewhat impatiently:

"How now, what do you want? You are turning round me like a swimmer
round a buoy: when are you going to leave off?"

"Excuse me, Captain," answered Crockston, winking, "I wanted to speak
to you."

"Speak, then."

"Oh, it is nothing very much. I only wanted to tell you frankly that
you are a good fellow at bottom."

"Why at bottom?"

"At bottom and surface also."

"I don't want your compliments."

"I am not complimenting you. I shall wait to do that when you have gone
to the end."

"To what end?"

"To the end of your task."

"Ah! I have a task to fulfil?"

"Decidedly, you have taken the young girl and myself on board; good!
You have given up your cabin to Miss Halliburtt; good! You released me
from the cat-o'-nine-tails; nothing could be better. You are going to
take us straight to Charleston; that's delightful, but it is not all."

"How not all?" cried James Playfair, amazed at Crockston's boldness.

"No, certainly not," replied the latter, with a knowing look, "the
father is prisoner there."

"Well, what about that?"

"Well, the father must be rescued."

"Rescue Miss Halliburtt's father?"

"Most certainly, and it is worth risking something for such a noble man
and courageous citizen as he."

"Master Crockston," said James Playfair, frowning, "I am not in the
humour for your jokes, so have a care what you say."

"You misunderstand me, Captain," said the American. "I am not joking in
the least, but speaking quite seriously. What I have proposed may at
first seem very absurd to you; when you have thought it over, you will
see that you cannot do otherwise."

"What, do you mean that I must deliver Mr. Halliburtt?"

"Just so. You can demand his release of General Beauregard, who will
not refuse you."

"But if he does refuse me?"

"In that case," replied Crockston, in a deliberate tone, "we must use
stronger measures, and carry off the prisoner by force."

"So," cried James Playfair, who was beginning to get angry, "so, not
content with passing through the Federal fleets and forcing the
blockade of Charleston, I must run out to sea again from under the
cannon of the forts, and this to deliver a gentleman I know nothing of,
one of those Abolitionists whom I detest, one of those journalists who
shed ink instead of their blood!"

"Oh, it is but a cannon-shot more or less!" added Crockston.

"Master Crockston," said James Playfair, "mind what I say: if ever you
mention this affair again to me, I will send you to the hold for the
rest of the passage, to teach you manners."

Thus saying, the Captain dismissed the American, who went off
murmuring, "Ah, well, I am not altogether displeased with this
conversation: at any rate, the affair is broached; it will do, it will
do!"

James Playfair had hardly meant it when he said an Abolitionist whom I
detest; he did not in the least side with the Federals, but he did not
wish to admit that the question of slavery was the predominant reason
for the civil war of the United States, in spite of President Lincoln's
formal declaration. Did he, then, think that the Southern States, eight
out of thirty-six, were right in separating when they had been
voluntarily united? Not so; he detested the Northerners, and that was
all; he detested them as brothers separated from the common
family--true Englishmen--who had thought it right to do what he, James
Playfair, disapproved of with regard to the United States: these were
the political opinions of the Captain of the _Dolphin_. But, more than
this, the American war interfered with him personally, and he had a
grudge against those who had caused this war; one can understand, then,
how he would receive a proposition to deliver an Abolitionist, thus
bringing down on him the Confederates, with whom he pretended to do
business.

However, Crockston's insinuation did not fail to disturb him; he cast
the thought from him, but it returned unceasingly to his mind, and when
Miss Jenny came on deck the next day for a few minutes, he dared not
look her in the face.

And really it was a great pity, for this young girl, with the fair hair
and sweet, intelligent face, deserved to be looked at by a young man of
thirty. But James felt embarrassed in her presence; he felt that this
charming creature who had been educated in the school of misfortune
possessed a strong and generous soul; he understood that his silence
towards her inferred a refusal to acquiesce in her dearest wishes;
besides, Miss Jenny never looked out for James Playfair, neither did
she avoid him. Thus for the first few days they spoke little or not at
all to each other. Miss Halliburtt scarcely ever left her cabin, and it
is certain she would never have addressed herself to the Captain of the
_Dolphin_ if it had not been for Crockston's strategy, which brought
both parties together.

The worthy American was a faithful servant of the Halliburtt family; he
had been brought up in his master's house, and his devotion knew no
bounds. His good sense equalled his courage and energy, and, as has
been seen, he had a way of looking things straight in the face. He was
very seldom discouraged, and could generally find a way out of the most
intricate dangers with a wonderful skill.

This honest fellow had taken it into his head to deliver Mr.
Halliburtt, to employ the Captain's ship, and the Captain himself for
this purpose, and to return with him to England. Such was his
intention, so long as the young girl had no other object than to rejoin
her father and share his captivity. It was this Crockston tried to make
the Captain understand, as we have seen, but the enemy had not yet
surrendered; on the contrary.

"Now," said he, "it is absolutely necessary that Miss Jenny and the
Captain come to an understanding; if they are going to be sulky like
this all the passage we shall get nothing done. They must speak,
discuss; let them dispute even, so long as they talk, and I'll be
hanged if during their conversation James Playfair does not propose
himself what he refused me to-day."

But when Crockston saw that the young girl and the young man avoided
each other, he began to be perplexed.

"We must look sharp," said he to himself, and the morning of the fourth
day he entered Miss Halliburtt's cabin, rubbing his hands with an air
of perfect satisfaction.

"Good news!" cried he, "good news! You will never guess what the
Captain has proposed to me. A very noble young man he is. Now try."

"Ah!" replied Jenny, whose heart beat violently, "has he proposed to--"

"To deliver Mr. Halliburtt, to carry him off from the Confederates, and
bring him to England."

"Is it true?" cried Jenny.

"It is as I say, miss. What a good-hearted man this James Playfair is!
These English are either all good or all bad. Ah! he may reckon on my
gratitude, and I am ready to cut myself in pieces if it would please
him."

Jenny's joy was profound on hearing Crockston's words. Deliver her
father! She had never dared to think of such a plan, and the Captain of
the _Dolphin_ was going to risk his ship and crew!

"That's what he is," added Crockston; "and this, Miss Jenny, is well
worth an acknowledgment from you."

"More than an acknowledgment," cried the young girl; "a lasting
friendship!"

And immediately she left the cabin to find James Playfair, and express
to him the sentiments which flowed from her heart.

"Getting on by degrees," muttered the American.

James Playfair was pacing to and fro on the poop, and, as may be
thought, he was very much surprised, not to say amazed, to see the
young girl come up to him, her eyes moist with grateful tears, and,
holding out her hand to him, saying:

"Thank you, sir, thank you for your kindness, which I should never have
dared to expect from a stranger."

"Miss," replied the Captain, as if he understood nothing of what she
was talking, and could not understand, "I do not know--"

"Nevertheless, sir, you are going to brave many dangers, perhaps
compromise your interests for me, and you have done so much already in
offering me on board an hospitality to which I have no right whatever--"

"Pardon me, Miss Jenny," interrupted James Playfair, "but I protest
again I do not understand your words. I have acted towards you as any
well-bred man would towards a lady, and my conduct deserves neither so
many thanks nor so much gratitude."

"Mr. Playfair," said Jenny, "it is useless to pretend any longer;
Crockston has told me all!"

"Ah!" said the Captain, "Crockston has told you all; then I understand
less than ever the reason for your leaving your cabin, and saying these
words which--"

Whilst speaking the Captain felt very much embarrassed; he remembered
the rough way in which he had received the American's overtures, but
Jenny, fortunately for him, did not give him time for further
explanation; she interrupted him, holding out her hand and saying:

"Mr. James, I had no other object in coming on board your ship except
to go to Charleston, and there, however cruel the slave-holders may be,
they will not refuse to let a poor girl share her father's prison; that
was all. I had never thought of a return as possible; but, since you
are so generous as to wish for my father's deliverance, since you will
attempt everything to save him, be assured you have my deepest
gratitude."

James did not know what to do or what part to assume; he bit his lip;
he dared not take the hand offered him; he saw perfectly that Crockston
had compromised him, so that escape was impossible. At the same time he
had no thoughts of delivering Mr. Halliburtt, and getting complicated
in a disagreeable business: but how dash to the ground the hope which
had arisen in this poor girl's heart? How refuse the hand which she
held out to him with a feeling of such profound friendship? How change
to tears of grief the tears of gratitude which filled her eyes?

So the young man tried to reply evasively, in a manner which would
ensure his liberty of action for the future.

"Miss Jenny," said he, "rest assured I will do everything in my power
for--"

And he took the little hand in both of his, but with the gentle
pressure he felt his heart melt and his head grow confused: words to
express his thoughts failed him. He stammered out some incoherent words:

"Miss--Miss Jenny--for you--"

Crockston, who was watching him, rubbed his hands, grinning and
repeating to himself:

"It will come! it will come! it has come!"

How James Playfair would have managed to extricate himself from his
embarrassing position no one knows, but fortunately for him, if not for
the _Dolphin_, the man on watch was heard crying:

"Ahoy, officer of the watch!"

"What now?" asked Mr. Mathew.

"A sail to windward!"

James Playfair, leaving the young girl, immediately sprang to the
shrouds of the mainmast.



