
THE ESCAPE

Miss Jenny, sitting at the poop of the _Dolphin_, was anxiously waiting
the Captain's return; when the latter went up to her she could not
utter a word, but her eyes questioned James Playfair more eagerly than
her lips could have done. The latter, with Crockston's help, informed
the young girl of the facts relating to her father's imprisonment. He
said that he had carefully broached the subject of the prisoners of war
to Beauregard, but, as the General did not seem disposed at all in
their favour, he had thought it better to say no more about it, but
think the matter over again.

"Since Mr. Halliburtt is not free in the town, his escape will be more
difficult; but I will finish my task, and I promise you, Miss Jenny,
that the _Dolphin_ shall not leave Charleston without having your
father on board."

"Thank you, Mr. James; I thank you with my whole heart."

At these words James Playfair felt a thrill of joy through his whole
being.

He approached the young girl with moist eyes and quivering lips;
perhaps he was going to make an avowal of the sentiments he could no
longer repress, when Crockston interfered:

"This is no time for grieving," said he; "we must go to work, and
consider what to do."

"Have you any plan, Crockston?" asked the young girl.

"I always have a plan," replied the American: "it is my peculiarity."

"But a good one?" said James Playfair.

"Excellent! and all the ministers in Washington could not devise a
better; it is almost as good as if Mr. Halliburtt was already on board."

Crockston spoke with such perfect assurance, at the same time with such
simplicity, that it must have been the most incredulous person who
could doubt his words.

"We are listening, Crockston," said James Playfair.

"Good! You, Captain, will go to General Beauregard, and ask a favour of
him which he will not refuse you."

"And what is that?"

"You will tell him that you have on board a tiresome subject, a scamp
who has been very troublesome during the voyage, and excited the crew
to revolt. You will ask of him permission to shut him up in the
citadel; at the same time, on the condition that he shall return to the
ship on her departure, in order to be taken back to England, to be
delivered over to the justice of his country."

"Good!" said James Playfair, half smiling, "I will do all that, and
Beauregard will grant my request very willingly."

"I am perfectly sure of it," replied the American.

"But," resumed Playfair, "one thing is wanting."

"What is that?"

"The scamp."

"He is before you, Captain."

"What, the rebellious subject?"

"Is myself; don't trouble yourself about that."

"Oh! you brave, generous heart," cried Jenny, pressing the American's
rough hands between her small white palms.

"Go, Crockston," said James Playfair; "I understand you, my friend; and
I only regret one thing--that is, that I cannot take your place."

"Everyone his part," replied Crockston; "if you put yourself in my
place you would be very much embarrassed, which I shall not be; you
will have enough to do later on to get out of the harbour under the
fire of the Feds and Rebs, which, for my part, I should manage very
badly."

"Well, Crockston, go on."

"Once in the citadel--I know it--I shall see what to do, and rest
assured I shall do my best; in the meanwhile, you will be getting your
cargo on board."

"Oh, business is now a very unimportant detail," said the Captain.

"Not at all! And what would your Uncle Vincent say to that? We must
join sentiment with work; it will prevent suspicion; but do it quickly.
Can you be ready in six days?"

"Yes."

"Well, let the _Dolphin_ be ready to start on the 22nd."

"She shall be ready."

"On the evening of the 22nd of January, you understand, send a gig with
your best men to White Point, at the end of the town; wait there till
nine o'clock, and then you will see Mr. Halliburtt and your servant."

"But how will you manage to effect Mr. Halliburtt's deliverance, and
also escape yourself?"

"That's my look-out."

"Dear Crockston, you are going to risk your life then, to save my
father!"

"Don't be uneasy, Miss Jenny, I shall risk absolutely nothing, you may
believe me."

"Well," asked James Playfair, "when must I have you locked up?"

"To-day--you understand--I demoralise your crew; there is no time to be
lost."

"Would you like any money? It may be of use to you in the citadel."

"Money to buy the gaoler! Oh, no, it would be a poor bargain; when one
goes there the gaoler keeps the money and the prisoner! No, I have
surer means than that; however, a few dollars may be useful; one must
be able to drink, if needs be."

"And intoxicate the gaoler."

"No, an intoxicated gaoler would spoil everything. No, I tell you I
have an idea; let me work it out."

"Here, my good fellow, are ten dollars."

"It is too much, but I will return what is over."

"Well, then, are you ready?"

"Quite ready to be a downright rogue."

"Let us go to work, then."

"Crockston," said the young girl, in a faltering voice, "you are the
best man on earth."

"I know it," replied the American, laughing good-humouredly. "By the
by, Captain, an important item."

"What is that?"

"If the General proposes to hang your rebel--you know that military men
like sharp work--"

"Well, Crockston?"

"Well, you will say that you must think about it."

"I promise you I will."

The same day, to the great astonishment of the crew, who were not in
the secret, Crockston, with his feet and hands in irons, was taken on
shore by a dozen sailors, and half an hour after, by Captain James
Playfair's request, he was led through the streets of the town, and, in
spite of his resistance, was imprisoned in the citadel.

During this and the following days the unloading of the _Dolphin_ was
rapidly accomplished; the steam cranes lifted out the European cargo to
make room for the native goods. The people of Charleston, who were
present at this interesting work, helped the sailors, whom they held in
great respect, but the Captain did not leave the brave fellows much
time for receiving compliments; he was constantly behind them, and
urged them on with a feverish activity, the reason of which the sailors
could not suspect.

Three days later, on the 18th of January, the first bales of cotton
began to be packed in the hold: although James Playfair troubled
himself no more about it, the firm of Playfair and Co. were making an
excellent bargain, having obtained the cotton which encumbered the
Charleston wharves at very far less than its value.

In the meantime no news had been heard of Crockston. Jenny, without
saying anything about it, was a prey to incessant fears; her pale face
spoke for her, and James Playfair endeavoured his utmost to ease her
mind.

"I have all confidence in Crockston," said he; "he is a devoted
servant, as you must know better than I do, Miss Jenny. You must make
yourself quite at ease; believe me, in three days you will be folded in
your father's arms."

"Ah! Mr. James," cried the young girl, "how can I ever repay you for
such devotion? How shall we ever be able to thank you?"

"I will tell you when we are in English seas," replied the young
Captain.

Jenny raised her tearful face to him for a moment, then her eyelids
drooped, and she went back to her cabin.

James Playfair hoped that the young girl would know nothing of her
father's terrible situation until he was in safety, but she was
apprised of the truth by the involuntary indiscretion of a sailor.

The reply from the Richmond cabinet had arrived by a courier who had
been able to pass the line of outposts; the reply contained Jonathan
Halliburtt's death-warrant. The news of the approaching execution was
not long in spreading through the town, and it was brought on board by
one of the sailors of the _Dolphin_; the man told the Captain, without
thinking that Miss Halliburtt was within hearing; the young girl
uttered a piercing cry, and fell unconscious on the deck. James
Playfair carried her to her cabin, but the most assiduous care was
necessary to restore her to life.

When she opened her eyes again, she saw the young Captain, who, with a
finger on his lips, enjoined absolute silence. With difficulty she
repressed the outburst of her grief, and James Playfair, leaning
towards her, said gently:

"Jenny, in two hours your father will be in safety near you, or I shall
have perished in endeavouring to save him!"

Then he left the cabin, saying to himself, "And now he must be carried
off at any price, since I must pay for his liberty with my own life and
those of my crew."

The hour for action had arrived, the loading of the cotton cargo had
been finished since morning; in two hours the ship would be ready to
start.

James Playfair had left the North Commercial Wharf and gone into the
roadstead, so that he was ready to make use of the tide, which would be
high at nine o'clock in the evening.

It was seven o'clock when James left the young girl, and began to make
preparations for departure. Until the present time the secret had been
strictly kept between himself, Crockston, and Jenny; but now he thought
it wise to inform Mr. Mathew of the situation of affairs, and he did so
immediately.

"Very well, sir," replied Mr. Mathew, without making the least remark,
"and nine o'clock is the time?"

"Nine o'clock, and have the fires lit immediately, and the steam got
up."

"It shall be done, Captain."

"The _Dolphin_ may remain at anchor; we will cut our moorings and sheer
off, without losing a moment."

"Just so."

"Have a lantern placed at the mainmast-head; the night is dark, and
will be foggy; we must not risk losing our way in returning. You had
better have the bell for starting rung at nine o'clock."

"Your orders shall be punctually attended to, Captain."

"And now, Mr. Mathew, have a shore-boat manned with six of our best
men. I am going to set out directly for White Point. I leave Miss Jenny
in your charge, and may God protect us!"

"May God protect us!" repeated the first officer.

Then he immediately gave the necessary orders for the fires to be
lighted, and the shore-boat provided with men. In a few minutes the
boat was ready, and James Playfair, after bidding Jenny good-bye,
stepped into it, whilst at the same time he saw volumes of black smoke
issuing from the chimneys of the ship, and losing itself in the fog.

The darkness was profound; the wind had fallen, and in the perfect
silence the waters seemed to slumber in the immense harbour, whilst a
few uncertain lights glimmered through the mist. James Playfair had
taken his place at the rudder, and with a steady hand he guided his
boat towards White Point. It was a distance of about two miles; during
the day James had taken his bearings perfectly, so that he was able to
make direct for Charleston Point.

Eight o'clock struck from the church of St. Philip when the shore-boat
ran aground at White Point.

There was an hour to wait before the exact time fixed by Crockston; the
quay was deserted, with the exception of the sentinel pacing to and fro
on the south and east batteries. James Playfair grew impatient, and the
minutes seemed hours to him.

At half-past eight he heard the sound of approaching steps; he left his
men with their oars clear and ready to start, and went himself to see
who it was; but he had not gone ten feet when he met a band of
coastguards, in all about twenty men. James drew his revolver from his
waist, deciding to make use of it, if needs be; but what could he do
against these soldiers, who were coming on to the quay?

The leader came up to him, and, seeing the boat, asked:

"Whose craft is that?"

"It is a gig belonging to the _Dolphin_," replied the young man.

"And who are you?"

"Captain James Playfair."

"I thought you had already started, and were now in the Charleston
channels."

"I am ready to start. I ought even now to be on my way but--"

"But--" persisted the coastguard.

A bright idea shot through James's mind, and he answered:

"One of my sailors is locked up in the citadel, and, to tell the truth,
I had almost forgotten him; fortunately I thought of him in time, and I
have sent my men to bring him."

"Ah! that troublesome fellow; you wish to take him back to England?"

"Yes.

"He might as well be hung here as there," said the coast-guard,
laughing at his joke.

"So I think," said James Playfair, "but it is better to have the thing
done in the regular way."

"Not much chance of that, Captain, when you have to face the Morris
Island batteries."

"Don't alarm yourself. I got in and I'll get out again."

"Prosperous voyage to you!"

"Thank you."

With this the men went off, and the shore was left silent.

At this moment nine o'clock struck; it was the appointed moment. James
felt his heart beat violently; a whistle was heard; he replied to it,
then he waited, listening, with his hand up to enjoin perfect silence
on the sailors. A man appeared enveloped in a large cloak, and looking
from one side to another. James ran up to him.

"Mr. Halliburtt?"

"I am he," replied the man with the cloak.

"God be praised!" cried James Playfair. "Embark without losing a
minute. Where is Crockston?"

"Crockston!" exclaimed Mr. Halliburtt, amazed. "What do you mean?"

"The man who has saved you and brought you here was your servant
Crockston."

"The man who came with me was the gaoler from the citadel," replied Mr.
Halliburtt.

"The gaoler!" cried James Playfair.

Evidently he knew nothing about it, and a thousand fears crowded in his
mind.

"Quite right, the gaoler," cried a well-known voice. "The gaoler is
sleeping like a top in my cell."

"Crockston! you! Can it be you?" exclaimed Mr. Halliburtt.

"No time to talk now, master; we will explain everything to you
afterwards. It is a question of life or death. Get in quick!"

The three men took their places in the boat.

"Push off!" cried the captain.

Immediately the six oars dipped into the water; the boat darted like a
fish through the waters of Charleston Harbour.



