
ST. MUNGO

The next day at sunrise the American coast had disappeared; not a ship
was visible on the horizon, and the _Dolphin_, moderating the frightful
rapidity of her speed, made quietly towards the Bermudas.

It is useless to recount the passage across the Atlantic, which was
marked by no accidents, and ten days after the departure from
Queenstown the French coast was hailed.

What passed between the Captain and the young girl may be imagined,
even by the least observant individuals. How could Mr. Halliburtt
acknowledge the devotion and courage of his deliverer, if it was not by
making him the happiest of men? James Playfair did not wait for English
seas to declare to the father and daughter the sentiments which
overflowed his heart, and, if Crockston is to be believed, Miss Jenny
received his confession with a happiness she did not try to conceal.

Thus it happened that on the 14th of February, 18--, a numerous crowd
was collected in the dim aisles of St. Mungo, the old cathedral of
Glasgow. There were seamen, merchants, manufacturers, magistrates, and
some of every denomination gathered here. There was Miss Jenny in
bridal array and beside her the worthy Crockston, resplendent in
apple-green clothes, with gold buttons, whilst Uncle Vincent stood
proudly by his nephew.

In short, they were celebrating the marriage of James Playfair, of the
firm of Vincent Playfair & Co., of Glasgow, with Miss Jenny Halliburtt,
of Boston.

The ceremony was accomplished amidst great pomp. Everyone knew the
history of the _Dolphin_, and everyone thought the young Captain well
recompensed for his devotion. He alone said that his reward was greater
than he deserved.

In the evening there was a grand ball and banquet at Uncle Vincent's
house, with a large distribution of shillings to the crowd collected in
Gordon Street. Crockston did ample justice to this memorable feast,
while keeping himself perfectly within bounds.

Everyone was happy at this wedding; some at their own happiness, and
others at the happiness around them, which is not always the case at
ceremonies of this kind.

Late in the evening, when the guests had retired, James Playfair took
his uncle's hand.

"Well, Uncle Vincent," said he to him.

"Well, Nephew James?"

"Are you pleased with the charming cargo I brought you on board the
_Dolphin_?" continued Captain Playfair, showing him his brave young
wife.

"I am quite satisfied," replied the worthy merchant; "I have sold my
cotton at three hundred and seventy-five per cent. profit."




End of The Blockade Runners






