
"All finished?" Macker asked.

"That depends on how much you want me to do," Toolls replied. "I've
substituted our 'heavy' substances for his entire body structure,
including the brain--at the same time transferring his former memory and
habit impressions. That was necessary if he is to be able to care for
himself. Also I brought his muscular reaction time up to our norm, and
speeded his reflexes."

"Have you implanted any techniques which he did not possess before, such
as far-seeing, or mental insight?" Macker asked.

"No," Toolls said. "That is what I want your advice about. Just how much
should I reveal about ourselves and our background? Or should he be left
without any knowledge of us?"

"Well ..." Now that the others had deferred to Macker's arguments, he
had lost much of his certainty. "Perhaps we should at least let him know
who we are, and what we have done. That would save him much alarm and
perplexity when it comes time to reorient himself. On the other hand,
perhaps we should go even farther and implant the knowledge of some of
our sciences. Then he could do a better job of advancing his people. But
maybe I'm wrong. What do you think about it, Remm?"

"My personal opinion," Remm said, "is that we can't give him much of our
science, because it would be like giving a baby a high explosive to play
with. His race is much too primitive to handle it wisely. Either he, or
someone to whom he imparts what we teach him, would be certain to bring
catastrophe to his world. And if we let him learn less, but still
remember his contact with us, in time his race would very likely come to
regard us as gods. I would hesitate to drag in any metaphysical
confusion to add to the uncertainties you are already engendering. My
advice would be to wipe his mind of all memory of us. Let him explain
his new found invincibility to himself in his own way."

Macker had no criticism to offer to this suggestion. "Does he retain any
of his immunity to this world's malignant germs?" he asked.

"They are too impotent to represent any hazard to his present body
mechanism," Toolls replied. "If and when he dies, it will not be from
disease."

"He will be subject to the deterioration of old age, the same as we are,
won't he?" Macker asked.

"Of course," Toolls said, "but that's the only thing that will be able
to bring him down. He cannot be harmed by any force this 'light' world
can produce; he is impervious to sickness; and he will live
indefinitely."

"Indefinitely?"

"As his world reckons time. Their normal life span is less than a
hundred years. Ours is over five thousand. He will probably live
approximately twice that long, because he will be subjected to less
stress and strain, living as he does on a world of lighter elements."

"Then we have truly made a superman," Macker's tones inflected
satisfaction. "I wish we were returning this way in a thousand years or
so. I'd like to see the monumental changes he will effect."

"We may at that," Remm said, "or others of our people will. He will
probably be a living legend by then. I'd like to hear what his race has
to say about him. Do they have names with which to differentiate
individuals?"

"Yes," Toolls said. "This one has a family designation of Pollnow, and
a member designation of Orville."

"It will be necessary for us to leave in exactly ten minutes," Remm
reminded them. "Our next stopping place--the red star--will reach its
nearest conjunction with this planet by the time we meet it out in
space."

"Then we will have time to do nothing more for him before we go," Macker
said. "But as far as I can see we've forgotten nothing, have we,
Toolls?"

"Nothing," Toolls answered. "No--we forgot nothing."
