
He knew a good many young men, but none he could call friend. The bop
talk which fascinated them seemed to him a repulsive travesty upon
English, just as their favorite music sounded like the braying of asses
in agony.

Many girls were willing enough when Edgar asked for a first date, but
an amazing number of them developed ill health when he suggested a
second evening of classical records or good conversation.

The girls themselves could not be blamed if they mistook his courtly
approach for a new dreamy line. Alas, the very hearts which fluttered
at his old-world chivalry grew icy when no pass was made. A girl wants
to _know_ her charms are appreciated.

So Edgar sank more deeply into himself. He recalled his grandmother's
stories about life and living back near the end of the century, when
folks knew how to be pleasant and kind.

Even at his job--he was a technician in an electronic lab--Edgar
couldn't stop longing for that era when existence had been more gentle,
simple and leisurely. His social life virtually ceased.

"Man, you ain't livin'," said one of the technicians he worked with.
"We're gonna buzz a few dives tonight. Why not drag it along with us?"

Edgar blanched. "Thank you just the same, but I--I have some work to
do."

After a while, naturally, they stopped asking.

He continued to dream hopelessly, miserably, but one day he was
yanked out of it by--of all people--a military man. The brass were
on inspection tour and the lab's Chief Engineer was apologizing for
a faulty run of synchros which had occurred some time ago, when the
Brigadier snorted.

"What's past is finished. I'm interested in five years from now!"

Edgar found himself staring fixedly at a top secret gadget still in the
breadboard stage.

"Great heaven!" he thought. "I have a fixation. This isn't doing me any
good."

But what would? Suppose, instead of dreaming, he spent time actually
working toward what he wanted most?

Here in the lab, he helped to build amazing machines, things which
daily did the impossible. He no longer marveled at what could be done
with electronics and, more important, he knew the methods and the
details.

That was when Edgar decided to build a time machine.

It was two months before he touched a transformer or a capacitor and
during that period he did nothing but try to answer the question, _What
is time?_ How could he overcome it or change its flow or whatever had
to be done?

He read everything he could find on the subject from Dr. Cagliostro to
Dr. Einstein without gaining much insight. Many a midnight, when his
neck muscles ached from trying to hold up his throbbing head, he caught
himself dreaming of grandmother's wonderful stories. And every time he
forced himself furiously back to the books, but he couldn't stop the
nostalgia entirely. It was in him.
