
Eventually, Edgar came to think of time as an infinite series through
which the Universe was constantly expanding. Something like a set of
stop-motion photos taken microseconds apart, each complete, the changes
becoming apparent only when they are viewed in sequence. He was wrong,
of course, but that was unimportant.

Time must therefore be a function of human motion and consciousness,
Edgar reasoned, and that _was_ important.

"That's it!" he exclaimed, and then apologized gracefully to the
elderly gentleman glaring across the library table.

Now that he knew what his time machine must do, he could begin
building, adapting circuits, experimenting. Obviously, consciousness
could move forward through the series only; hence, consciousness must
be completely suspended, as in death, to move back in time.

It required some heartbreaking months for Edgar to learn that brain
waves couldn't be stopped, but that the simple trick of introducing
random electrical noise suspended all the brain functions.

"Fudge!" cursed Edgar, thinking of the wasted time.

Only a man filled with the longing which obsessed Edgar could have
found the aching perseverance and brain-wrenching ingenuity the job
needed. Only a man driven by a terrible master that rode in his glands.

But four months later, he stood with his hand on a switch, sweating
with nervous excitement as he eyed the spot from which a live rabbit
had just disappeared. The rabbit was on the table, but he was there an
hour ago and Edgar was here now, so the table appeared empty.

He pressed another switch and there was the bunny, wriggling its soft
nose in perplexity, but perfectly healthy. Edgar's own trip, of course,
would be strictly one way since the machine stayed in the present.
He could be brought back only if he stepped into its field on a date
for which the machine was set and he had absolutely no intention of
venturing near this vicinity again, once his aim was accomplished.

He thought about arranging a small explosive charge to blow the
equipment to what he thought of as The Hot Place. It seemed to him,
however, that there was some kind of law against that sort of thing.
Besides, even if the machine should come to the attention of the
authorities, who would know what it was? He could devise a mechanical
scrambler to change all the control settings once he was gone, and it
was unlikely that anyone could operate it again.

Most likely the landlady would simply sell it for junk, especially if
he left owing her a week's rent. The idea hurt his conscience.

"I know!" he exclaimed to himself. "I'll buy a bank check and arrange
to have the bank mail it to her a month after I've left!"

He felt much better about that.
