
Dr. Ward claimed ever afterward that clean living was what pulled
Edgar through--the fact that he wasn't conditioned to liquor gave the
medicinal whiskey virgin ground to work in.

All Edgar knew was that he came to and found himself so weak that he
could scarcely speak. Mrs. Peterson and her daughter, Marta, bustled
in and out to care for him. He hadn't paid particular attention to
Marta before, but in the days of lying helpless and being literally
spoon-fed, he began to know her very well.

Marta was a plain girl, he had thought, but he had never seen her
private smile before. Marta was rather dumpy, he had thought, but he
had never watched her bend to pick something up or twist to reach
for a medicine bottle. Her dresses, he discovered, were deliberately
all wrong for her--Mrs. Peterson had no intention of disturbing her
boarders unnecessarily.

In the shocking intimacy of his bedroom, Edgar was increasingly
disturbed. Marta was unfailingly cheerful, eager to wait on him. Every
half-hour, he heard her step in the hall.

"Hello!" Marta would say, sweeping lightly to his bedside. "How's our
patient now? Feeling better? Oh, dear, do let me just straighten that
sheet. It's all wrinkled. Would you like some milk or some fruit?"

"Not right now, thank you--perhaps a little later," Edgar would reply,
fixing his gaze determinedly on the window or the ceiling while she
bent over his bed, disturbingly rounded and disastrously close.

And as Edgar's recovery progressed, Mrs. Peterson dropped more and more
into the background. On the day Dr. Ward said he might try sitting up
for a while, it was Marta who stood by for the experiment.

Edgar started nobly, made about a foot of arc by himself and faltered.
Instantly, it seemed, Marta's arm was around his shoulders and a firm,
warm projection cushioned his cheek.

He very nearly collapsed, but she sat him up.

Three days later, he held her hand for a moment and, though she
blushed, she didn't draw it away in a hurry.

After a proper interval, their engagement was announced. Half the
maidens in Greencastle wept in the privacy of their pillows that night.
