
Edgar had had a serious problem and solved it. He had found the right
girl and married her. This should be the end of his story and it would
be, except for two things--Edgar's gene and the date of his birth.

Edgar's gene came from his grandmother via his father. The stories that
gentle old lady told her orphaned grandson were the only outlet she
had for her own powerful urge to turn back the times. And there had
always been someone in the family who bemoaned the passing of the good
old days, so strongly and constantly as to bore others to the verge of
violence.

Back even a few decades, no carrier of the nostalgia gene had any
outlet but conversation and dreams. Edgar, though, was born to an age
where science provided the knowledge and the equipment for him to find
the practical solution.

If Edgar's gene had carried any other trait, red hair, placidity or
hemophilia, for instance, or if it had been recessive instead of
dominant, this might have been a very different world. But the result
was inevitable from the moment of Edgar's birth and the chain of events
that proved it was as flawless as the steps of Gauss's theorem.

He prospered after he and Marta were married. In three short years, he
was made manager of Cloud's Emporium and just before that, Marta had
surprised him with a daughter--surprised him because he was certain of
a son. He wasn't inclined to be stubborn about it, however, and when
the child put a pudgy little hand up to his cheek in a gesture that was
probably caused by reflex or gas pains, he was completely won.

When little Emma reached three, she was incurably addicted to bedtime
stories, though only those concerning knights in armor and their
ladies fair. Edgar grew to hate the names of Arthur and Galahad, but
if he tried to tell a different story, his daughter had her own way
of stopping him. Rearing back in his arms, she merely shrieked, "Ting
Arfur, Ting Arfur!" until she turned blue, at which point Edgar always
gave in.

There was no doubt that little Emma had inherited the gene.
