
In 1906, old Cloud made Edgar a full partner in the Emporium and just
eleven years later, little Emma wrote home from New York City with the
shocking news that she was engaged to a doughboy from Brooklyn.

Edgar and Marta rushed East to unmask the scoundrel, praying they would
be in time to save Emma's honor.

The scoundrel, when unmasked, was a mechanic with weak eyes and a
passion for poetry, who was completely miserable in the infantry. His
manners were acceptable and he had enough intelligence to let Edgar
beat him thoroughly at cribbage, whereupon Edgar offered to finance the
opening of a garage in Greencastle if the young folks would move back
there when Jim's hitch in the Army was finished.

"Emma is all we have," said Edgar in his classic style. "It's
quite lonesome back home for Mother and me since she's been in the
city. We--well, we should like to know that you and, later on, our
grandchildren will be settling in a home near us."

Emma blushed and Jim tried to dig the toe of his boot into a crack
between the floorboards.

"Besides," added Edgar, becoming aware of Marta's look, "Greencastle
is a fine town and right up with the times. I think a garage will do a
fine business there."

Jim was inclined to be reluctant, but Emma gave him a side-wise kick
and said of course they'd come home and settle. She gave Edgar a big
hug and a kiss and he beamed on everybody for the rest of the evening.

A few months later, Jim's weak eyes caused him to pass a colonel
without saluting and, within days, he had a medical discharge. Emma and
the garage were waiting in Greencastle, so Jim took the first train.

In '19 and in '21, Emma produced grandsons, delighting everyone and
especially Edgar. Emma herself was thoroughly puzzled when the boys
reached the age for bedtime stories; she discovered that they were not
particularly interested in tales of bold knights and fair ladies. She
would have been happy to recite the legends of Arthur every night, but
the boys, it seemed, preferred even poor poetry to a good, stirring
joust.

Edgar privately decided that Jim's poetry gene had proved more
dominant than his own, which was perhaps just as well.

Though not interested in making a fortune, Edgar nevertheless did well
financially, using his knowledge of the '20s as an investment guide.
Jim's garage prospered and he opened another, while his father-in-law
multiplied his spare cash in the stock market. In July of 1929, Edgar
suddenly retrenched for both of them, went bearish and arranged to sell
short a number of important shares. The entire family protested that he
was losing his mind, but Edgar was firm. By November first, they were
amazed, horrified and rich.

The following year, Emma gave Jim the daughter he had wanted. And,
within three years, it was apparent to Edgar that tiny Susan carried
the gene. From the first time Grandpa experimentally told her a story
of the '90s, she wanted no others. Her mother found this also rather
difficult to understand, but at least the '90s were in the past, which
was better than poetry.
