
On a day in 1935, Edgar found himself pondering with a fierce
intentness he had not used since 1959, when he built the time machine.
Today, August fifth, was his 66th birthday--but it was also the day he
was born.

It was impossible _not_ to wonder. Forty-two years ago (or twenty-four
from now), he had not bothered to think about possible consequences, so
strong and simple had been his urge to go back. But today--would he,
the father of one and grandfather of three, be wiped out the instant
Edgar Evans was born? Or would no baby of that name be born in the tiny
Oklahoma town?

He had been born in the morning and when this particular morning passed
like any other, Edgar felt considerably better. _Cogito, ergo sum_, he
thought. "I think, therefore I am--a comforting philosophy. But what
about the baby?"

So Edgar, nervous but understandably curious, sent a discreetly worded
wire and learned before long that he had indeed been born on schedule.
The more he thought about it, the less reason he could see why it
should be otherwise. A baby born in another part of the country had
been given the same name as his. There was certainly no traceable
relationship. And nearly everyone has a namesake somewhere.

Not wishing to be institutionalized, Edgar had never hinted to anyone,
not even Marta, the secret of his past. He had invented a convenient
and plausible history, but used it only when necessary, and then
sparingly. But now he was thinking of his granddaughter, Susan.

Susan carried the gene. At five, she insisted on dressing her dolls in
the costumes of forty years ago. She would be 29 and thoroughly unhappy
by the time the young Edgar perfected and used his time machine.

So Edgar wrote a letter, sealed it and gave it to his lawyers with
instructions that it was to be given to Susan on a certain date in
1959, provided she was still unmarried.

Edgar passed away three years later with a well-bred smile on his face,
befitting the first man who ever cheated time. His last statement,
phrased as considerately as ever, was the hope that he wasn't causing
trouble by dying.
