
Susan, his granddaughter, grew into a pleasingly plump young woman in
an age where the ideal seemed to be total emaciation. She was not only
single but disillusioned and despairing when the lawyers looked her up
and gave her Edgar's letter.

A good part of what Edgar had written sounded like confused mysticism,
warnings about upsetting the future and the like, but his instructions
were specific enough and she read them as if they were the lost book of
_Revelations_.

By the next day, she had flown from San Francisco to New York and
gained entry to young Edgar Evans' room by telling his landlady she
was a distant relative. She disconnected the scrambler from the time
machine and reset the controls to put herself back in 1891. In her
haste, she forgot some of Edgar's instructions, with the result that
she landed not fittingly costumed, but bare as a bacchante, in the room
of a handsome young man from Louisiana.

The young man, whose name was Hare, was too startled to be anything
but a Southern gentleman at the time. In less than a month, however,
he took her back to Baton Rouge for inspection by his family and, that
ordeal successfully weathered, Susan found herself with a husband.

There is no need to follow all of Susan's life, which was happy, sad,
unique and filled with minor tragedies and triumphs, like any other
life. But Susan had four sons and gave the gene to each of them, and
their children received it in turn. Before she had thought it necessary
to pass the secret of the machine to Edgar's great-great-grandchildren,
Susan died, so the machine was not available to them.

Not that it mattered--knowledge was available, for young Andover Hare
had studied electronics at M. I. T. In 1962, he built his own time
machine, which was a considerable improvement over Edgar's, since it
could select place as well as time. Andover contacted his brothers,
sisters and cousins, helped them make their arrangements and passed
them through to the times they selected. Being a considerate man, he
allowed several relatives by marriage to go along on this mass temporal
migration.

They did not restrict themselves to the '90s. Some went back to the
1700s, two to the Italian Renaissance, and one adventurous cousin clear
to the Second Crusade. Andover himself decided he would like to know
Shakespeare and Ben Jonson. He was the last one through the machine
and he left a small, efficient detonator connected to it. Andover had
Edgar's gene, but not his compunctions.
