
Yes, we owe a lot to Edgar Evans. When Edgar was a grave and unchubby
one-year-old, pulling himself up on the furniture, _Gone With the
Wind_ hit the populace right in the middle of their worries, vague
fears and faintly stirring desires to get out of their increasingly
complex world. The year was 1936, a year that also saw a period piece
movie that was one of the first in the inevitable deluge--_The Great
Ziegfeld_ drew, as customers, many of the bearers of Edgar's gene,
enough to make a profit-conscious Hollywood see mint-green.

The year neighbors searched the wreckage of Edgar's home to pull
him from under the body of his mother, hunched in a last protective
gesture, was the year that saw American history searched frantically
for movie material. It was '39 and _Dodge City_ and _Union Pacific_
helped thousands of Edgar's descendants forget momentarily the distant
rumble of war. Historical novels were also helping to glamorize the
past.

By the time Edgar had graduated from school, been rejected by
the Army and worked for a time, the cold war was well advanced.
Three generations were mind-sick with tensions and fears and
doubts--heart-sick with the impossible wish to roll back the years to
times of peaceful, neighborly, unfrenzied human living.

Edgar did.

And the next time, in 1959, Susan went back. For most of us, 1959 came
only once, the year of the crisis when the missiles had already been
launched from both sides before the astonishing "thieves' agreement"
was reached and the missiles were aimed into the sea.

There could be nothing but relief for a few months after that,
but then the play on nerves began again, the tensions began their
unbearable rise.

In 1962, Susan's grandchildren were funneled like sacks of coal through
Andover Hare's machine. There were eighteen of them and a group of
their descendants built another machine later the same year. The
following March, another group disappeared--a much larger one this
time. They spread the gene so widely that most of us bear it today.

It was inevitable that we carry the seed of that desperate desire to
escape our own troubled times. And the urge makes living under this
doubly grinding pressure more anguished every day.

How many times this week have _you_ read or heard a piece of news and
wondered how much longer before the final, fatal mushrooms flare? How
many times has a video show, a movie, or even just a snapshot brought
the swift wish that you could be back there? How many times have the
"good old days" crept into your conversation, your thoughts?
