
As this account began with Edgar Evans, so it shall end with Benjamin
Reeves. Not yet, but soon--it _must_ be soon now.

Like all truly wise men, Benjamin Reeves is a modest man. He's tall,
stooped a little, and his limbs are attached in that special loose way
that makes a man amble rather than walk, sprawl rather than sit. At
50-odd, he looks much more like a friendly janitor than a respected
research engineer.

And the gene is particularly dominant in Benjamin.

For eighteen years, he labored in the military vineyard, like so many
other scientists, designing computers and control systems for the
engineering section of a huge company, and finally heading up a study
group in the Dream Department. He liked that job. The dream boys were
the ones who sat around and thought about entirely new ways of doing
things. Compared to designing, it was like the difference between the
creative excitement of composing music and the drudgery of arranging it.

But even while working on deadly machines for the future, Benjamin
couldn't stop dreaming about the past, any more than Edgar Evans had.

Then, after eighteen years, Benjamin was fired. The military had asked
for a new study on the question of how many enemy missiles might get
through the early warning and intercept rings and reach the cities.
"What, specifically, can we do to protect our people?"

When the study was finished, a huge brassbound conference was staged at
the lab and everybody was expectant.

"We have a single recommendation," said Benjamin calmly, and they were
quiet, for Benjamin and his group were the big brains. "At the earliest
warning, tell everybody to run like hell!"

So the lab fired him, though the public statement read that he was
"resigning to pursue independent research."

Benjamin was shocked at first, and hurt, but dinner and party
invitations came as often as ever from his old associates, and their
wives went right on with that ancient game of trying to find the
"right" girl for the bachelor friend. He would never mention it, of
course, but the girls nowadays seemed too direct and aggressive for
him. They lacked that womanly modesty or engaging demureness that girls
reportedly had once possessed. He wished--
