
At the breakfast table next morning George gave her the diamond
cocktail ring she'd drooled over. Rosy gave him the self-winding time
piece he'd slobbered over in Cellini's window. Dear girl, had the
courage to get it for nothing down and thirty-six months to pay.

"Don't gulp your food," Rosy said. "It's Charlie's turn to drive you."

In his high chair, Timmy scooped up handfuls of oatmeal and heaved them
over the port side.

When Charlie came to the door he had a gift-wrapped box for them. It
looked heavy. He gave it to Rosy and slipped on one of Timmy's oatmeal
bombs and flew headlong into the couch.

"Happy wedding anniversary, you two," Charlie said, picking himself up.
"When are you going to fix my fence?"

Rosy weighed the box in her arms. "Charlie, that's real sweet of you
and Beth. Let's open it now, George."

"We're late," Charlie said. He wiped his shoe on the rug. "Come on,
pal."

They took the freeway out of Sunnydale. Downtown the clock on the
Trojan Life & Casualty building gave them four minutes to get there.

"What was in that box you brought?" George asked.

"A pressure cooker."

"Oh, no."

"Supposed to build up terrific pressure," Charlie said. "Five thousand
pounds per square inch."

George stared before him as they drove into the Park-O-Port.

He had not a moment free till his coffee break at ten. Mr. Perkins
wanted the Lawndale policies cleared right away and Mr. Zungenspiel
had all the juniors in for a briefing on exorbitant rates. When he got
back to his desk Maude Doody waited to interview him about his wedding
anniversary for her "Sweetness and Light" column in _Keep Smiling_, the
company weekly.

"I hope you're always polite to Rosy," Meddlin' Maude said. "I can't
stand rude men. How old is Timmy now?"

"He'll be three in September."

Maude made a quick mental calculation. She looked doubtful. "And could
you tell us what you gave Rosy for her wedding anniversary?"

"A pressure cooker," George said, forgetting everything else.

"Is that all? What kind of pressure cooker, George?"

"Five thousand pounds per square inch."

"I mean the _brand_," Maude said, stabbing the air with her sharp
pencil. "Don't you think the folks would like to know the brand?"

"Uh, I guess the best."

"They're all best," Maude said. "Can't you remember the brand?"

"No," he said.

Meddlin' Maude rose to her feet. She looked down at him severely.
"George, you're slipping," she said and marched off to the _Keep
Smiling_ office.
