
George grabbed the telephone. Five thousand pounds per square inch, he
thought. Whammo!

The phone rang seven times. Then he dialed Charlie's house, but Beth
did not answer either. Rosy and Beth spent hours at the supermart. It
was the social center of Sunnydale where the gals could gossip a little
and compare brands.

George took the elevator up to the company cafeteria. On the fifth
floor Mr. Perkins stepped in.

"Just got your Lawndale policies," Mr. Perkins said. "Fast work, son.
Keep it up."

"Thank you, sir. I had an inquiry this morning, sir. About domestic
accidents."

"Shoot the problem, son."

"Does it cover injury by pressure cooker?"

"Was it Full Coverage or Complete Coverage?"

"Complete, sir."

"Covers everything from electrocution in the bath tub to getting hit by
a stray rocket from Cape Canaveral."

The elevator let them out at the cafeteria. "Mr. Perkins, I'd like to
double my wife's policy."

"Mighty sensible of you, George. Can you afford it?"

"No, sir."

"That's the spirit! How about your own policy, George? Isn't it about
time you went up a notch?"

"You mean it, sir?"

"I've been keeping my eye on you," Mr. Perkins said. "I'll see what I
can do."

George thanked him profusely.

"Not at all, not at all," Mr. Perkins boomed. "That's what old dad
Perkins is here for."

George got his coffee and joined Charlie at their corner table.

"Getting chummy with old dad Perkins?" Charlie asked.

"I just got told," George said, leaning forward, "I could increase my
insurance."

"No!"

"Said it was time I moved up a notch."

Charlie clenched his fist. "We _can_ make the Country Club, I tell
you. I'm almost twelve thousand in the red, not counting the house and
the boat. Let's celebrate, Georgie. All four of us. We can go to the
Emperor Room for sixty bucks. That is, if you're still talking to your
humble friends."

"Come off it."

"I've seen it happen," Charlie said bitterly. "People getting so deep
in debt they start snubbing their more solvent friends."

When Arlene dropped the noon mail on George's desk he sat dreaming.
More insurance, more credit; more credit, more debt; more debts, more
prestige. He sat up with a start and dialed Rosy.
