
George grabbed the control panel and they ran outside. They saw the
snooker describing a lovely ellipse over Sunnydale.

"My roast!" Rosy wailed.

"It seems to be waiting for orders," Charlie said.

"Have to get it down," George said, setting the control panel on the
lawn. "Before it slams into some airplane."

He pressed a large red button. The snooker wobbled for a moment, then
broke its orbit and dove for Charlie's house. It smashed in at the back
and came out the front. Beth ran out in a bathrobe, screaming.

"Stop it!" Charlie yelled, flinging himself at the control panel and
pressing a yellow button.

The snooker resumed its orbit, then wobbled and dove into every second
or third house in the street, working the houses from side to side.

Women ran out and stood dazed, clutching their children and watching
the snooker.

Desperately George pressed the blue button. The snooker resumed its
orbit, wobbled, flew once over the street as if to check what all
needed to be hit, then slammed through the whole length of houses from
end to end.

Two houses caught fire. Charlie pressed the largest button of all,
the green one. The snooker righted itself and flew out over the town.
Wherever it struck a small cloud of dust rose in the air.

Four fire-engines turned into the street. Three of them turned around
and raced back to downtown.

They lost sight of the snooker for a while. All they saw was the clouds
of dust mushrooming all over town, and here and there a fire. When the
snooker came in view again, it was rising toward a jet plane circling
overhead.

"It'll get hit!" Charlie said.

George pressed all four buttons.

The snooker wobbled for a moment. Then it seemed to shake off the
confused commands and rose into the plane's path. The plane veered. The
snooker turned after it and rose steeply. Then it dove and slammed down
through the fuselage.

They all stared as the plane crashed into the supermarket. Above them
the pilot floated down in a parachute. He seemed to see the blinking
lights of the control panel and worked the chute calmly. He landed
through the hole in Rosy's kitchen. He came out of the house eating a
piece of cold chicken.

He wore an air-research uniform with a belt slanted across his chest
and high shiny boots, and in his hand he carried a Rommel whip.
