
Two weeks later, when all the fires in the town had been put out and
the damage assessed, a great banquet was held in the Emperor Room to
honor George. In the street a huge crowd of well-wishers waited to
greet him as he came out. The Emperor Room could accommodate only the
town's important personages; there were so many of them that some of
the best families did not bribe the mayor in time to get a seat.

But George managed to get standing room for Mr. Perkins and Mr.
Zungenspiel.

Beside George at the table of honor sat Charlie. Next to him Vernher
von Wissenschaft in a splendid uniform, cracking his Rommel whip
from time to time. Everybody who was anybody was there: the Police
Commissioner, the Gambling Czar, the District Attorney, the Teamsters'
Boss, Senator Smiley, Coroner Schadenfrohm, the Election Commissioner,
the Slum Owner, the Housing Inspector.

"Never before," the mayor orated, "has so much damage been done by such
a little man in such a short time."

Vernher cracked his whip. "Very goot," he said, turning to George.
"Rhetoric, you know."

"The national economy," the mayor continued, "was in danger of
imminent collapse ever since our old-fashioned P.O.--planned
obsolescence--reached a point of no return. We had to produce more and
more until the market was glutted. Of course we would not sell so much
as a toaster to our brutal enemy." (Applause.)

Vernher cracked his whip. "Very goot."

"But now," the mayor said, smiling at George, "the solution to our
economic impasse has been found! This young man had the daring
vision to contribute a brilliant new concept to our economics. S.
D.--Senseless Destruction!" (Applause.)

Vernher cracked his whip. "Excellent."

The mayor raised his arms for silence. "I have good news," he said.
"Congress has just voted one billion dollars for Senseless Destruction
research!" (Wild applause.)

Vernher cracked his whip six times.

"I can promise you, ladies and gentlemen," the mayor continued,
"what happened to our town is only the beginning. As a result of the
visionary experiment by this daring young man, fifty thousand idle
construction workers have already been put back on the job; twenty new
banks have sprung up to handle the flood of mortgages; a new steel
mill will be erected in our world-famous game preserve. But I need not
go on. The industries, businesses and stock markets that will profit
by Senseless Destruction can hardly be numbered. The biggest boom in
history is on! And as long as we have the snooker it will never end!"
(General pandemonium.)

When order was restored, the mayor turned solemnly to George and said:
"In grateful recognition of your...."

After the recognition speech George accepted humbly the following sums,
not listing gifts under $10,000:

$10,000 from Home Builders Assn.

$12,500 from Construction Union, Local 256.

$15,000 from Last Bank of America.

$11,276.88 from Unified Steel Corp.

$20,00 from Chicago Furniture Mart.

$10,000 from Congress in Series E Bonds.

George also received the following appointments:

Special Adviser to Mayor on Senseless Destruction, with nominal yearly
income of $75,000 tax free.

Vice-President of Trojan Life & Casualty Co.

Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Sunnydale Game and Wood Preserve.

Honorary Supreme Commander of Juvenile Senseless Destructionists, to be
organized.
