
George gave a low whistle.

"_Ja_," Vernher sighed. "Charlie had secret cabinet meeting. We cannot
take chance. You must go teach them how."

"Can't you go?"

"I'm leaving for Johannesburg tonight. United Africa also caught up."

"As it is our economy barely keeps ahead of the Russians!"

"_Ja._ But cannot be helped."

"Maybe," George said, "if you invented something bigger, better, more
efficient."

"You think I haf not tried?"

George stood thinking a long moment. He said, "Vernher, is there no way
out?"

"Sure," Vernher laughed. "If we go back to savage pre-civilization."

"All right," George said. "I'll go tell Rosy. Watch the control panel a
moment, will you? Especially the Eastern Section."

"What's the matter with them?"

"They seem to be getting restless lately."

"Nonsense! My snookers haf no emotions."

"Just seems that way sometimes," George said, going out. Their job
could even make stones feel something, he thought.

He ran down to Rosy in the kitchen. She had consented to having
servants only because of her social position, but she still insisted on
personally running the kitchen her own way.

George pulled her into the hallway and put his arms around her and
kissed her.

"What on earth?" she said.

"You must be very brave, darling." He fixed her with his eyes. "Rosy,
this is _it_."

"It?"

"E-Day."

E for Escape.

"We can't talk now," he said. "Vernher is at the controls."

"Can I change?"

"No time. Are the suitcases packed?"

"They're in the garage, behind the beer barrels."

"Go get Timmy," George said. "I'll drive the station wagon round to the
back door."

At the gate to the grounds they stopped and took a last look at the
chateau. They could see Vernher standing in the control window. He
seemed to be enjoying the spectacle in the town below.

Rosy gripped George's arm. "Look!"

A snooker had strayed off its orbit and was hissing in toward the
chateau. It came fast over the grounds, heading straight for the
control window.

Vernher never saw it coming. Probably he did not even hear the glass
crashing as the sharp slivers shot into the room.
