
Later on sometime, Von Ulrich dropped around again on his therapeutic
tour of basketballs, and Martian bases, and other bases even more
remote. Barton wondered how anyone could find the basketball drifting
in all that blackness. Just a little ragged spheroid like a piece of
dead slag, something like a cork bobbing in a black ocean too big even
to bother thinking about. If no one ever found the basketball Barton
would have been happier, because the basketball was self-sustaining and
could go on and on for years without supplies or any human contact.

"Getting a little lonely maybe?" Von Ulrich asked.

"No sir."

"Don't miss having people around. Your wife, your son?"

Barton wanted to laugh.

"Well, I'll be back to see you, Barton. I may be gone a year this time."

"Happy New Year," Barton said.

But it didn't seem like a year when Von Ulrich came back in his sleek
little space-hopping clinic. It didn't seem like much of anything.

"You don't find the absence of women irritating, Barton?"

"I can take them or leave them, sir."

"Not here. There simply aren't any at all."

"I like something, but then if it isn't there, I don't miss it."

"All right, Barton," Von Ulrich would say after giving Barton more
brain-wave tests, word-association tests and making him look at
ink-blots until his eyes turned red. "See you in a few months."

"See you, sir," Barton said.

And sure enough, as though he had never really been away, Von Ulrich
would show up again, with his testing devices, his cages of mice
and guinea pigs, and his intense searching eyes. He had a folder of
pictures and after ink-blot tests, he had Barton look at the pictures,
like the one of a man in deep shadow standing over a sleeping kid.

"What do you see there, Barton?"

"A guy standing over a kid."

"What's he doing there?"

"I haven't any idea."

"Is the child sleeping?"

"Maybe it's just pretending."

"Pretending what?"

"Or maybe it's dead."

Von Ulrich's thin face frowned intensely. "Is the child pretending to
be asleep, or is it dead?"

"Maybe it isn't a real kid. Maybe it's a dummy."

Von Ulrich's face reddened. "What's the man thinking?"

"How should I know, sir."

"You don't care?"

"No, why should I give a damn what he's thinking?"

"You tell me. Why shouldn't you?"

"Because it's none of my business."
