
It must have been at least another year before Von Ulrich came back to
Barton's basketball, triumphantly equipped with new devices, and waving
a spacegram in Barton's sleepy face. Barton read it, shrugged, and let
it drift to the floor. Von Ulrich tried to control a look almost of
fear.

"As soon as the minimum time allowed, she married again," Von Ulrich
said. "And you pretend it means nothing?"

"She never did mean much of anything, sir. I mean, she was an
interfering kind of woman. She wouldn't let a man live."

"All right, Barton. What about this? She was committing adulterous
acts with this fellow, this Major General Woods. She was having an
affair with him for two years before you volunteered for duty in the
basketball."

"I figured she was playing around."

"You what?"

"It figured."

"You still pretend it meant nothing, that it means nothing now?"

"I don't know what it means. What's it got to do with me now? It was
all right, I guess. I could have gone on with it. But this is better."

He dimly remembered Jean bitching all the time of an evening because
Barton kept forgetting to take his officer's exam, and how she had to
skimp along on an NCO's lousy salary, and so on and so forth. Very much
the nagging kind. She wouldn't let him read either. He would tell her
he was just sort of stupid, and had always been a drifter anyway, and
just sort of fell into marriage and that he never had had any ambition
particularly, and anyway big brass got ulcers and heart conditions. And
then she would drag little Joey, the big-headed little brat into it,
and talk about how little Joey didn't have the right kind of idealized
image to assure him a respectable future, and little Joey would stand
there and nod his oversized head.

"What about little Joey's future?" Jean would say. "You want him to
be just another stupid NCO? And what about his teeth? He's got to
have his teeth straightened. They tease him at school, call him The
Squirrel."

"Yeah, Dad. You want me to be personable and saleable and high on the
success potential scale? What about my teeth protruding?"

And when Barton went into the bathroom and came back out, Jean was
throwing all those books he'd had such a hard time finding into the
incinerator. Barton volunteered the next day for basketball duty.

It didn't even seem long ago to Barton. It was oddly like a dream that
might have been in the past, or the future, or never at all.

Von Ulrich grabbed up the spacegram and walked stiffly erect out of the
basketball.

At some time in the future, Von Ulrich showed up again with even more
complicated tests and questions. Barton wasn't sure, but it seemed
longer than usual that Von Ulrich was away these days. Time didn't mean
much. It didn't have any particular use to Barton now.

"Yes, yes, you have a perfect service record, Barton. Never have missed
turning in an alarm with alacrity. And we're so damned short of men
capable of taking this kind of duty that I can't pull you out of here
until you make an error--or crack up. Just the same you're not fooling
me much longer, and you won't be able to fool yourself either."

Sometime later there was the business about Barton's mother. Von Ulrich
had files on Barton going clear back to pre-natal, and maybe even
before that.

"All right, Barton, you were an only child, and you lived with your
mother for 10 years after your father died. Then you married. What
about the fact that Jean was a replacement for your mother?"

"If she was, it never seemed that way to me."

"You expected your wife to take care of you the way your mother
did. And not demand anything of you. You expected to escape all
responsibility and--Barton, do you consider this basketball to be your
mother?"

"What's that, sir?"

"Deafness can be psychosomatic too, don't forget that. I said--but you
heard me, answer me."

"Doctor Von Ulrich, maybe I'm not normal, but--"

"Then you admit the regression. That this basketball floating in space
is a substitute for your mother's womb. You admit it!"

"Why, sir, I didn't--"

"But you know it's true don't you?"

"I didn't say anything about it. You said it."

"I said it because it's a summation of years of careful diagnosis. Look
at the etiology. A man who never matured, never was able to accept
responsibility as a mature adult. Always just drifting along, into one
job, out of it, into another job, out of that, never establishing roots
anywhere, always floating about. Unable to accept any responsibility
for your marriage, wanting to escape it. Never able to get close, get
involved with others, only wanting to receive, never give. What does
it add up to? A fix, a freeze in the pre-natal stage where you were
floating free and completely irresponsible in your mother's amniotic
fluid. That's why you're here in the basketball."

Von Ulrich's intense eyes seemed to reach out like arms to enfold
Barton, then recoiled as Barton shrugged and said: "So, it's like my
Ma's womb. What difference does it make what you call it as long as I'm
happy in it and do my job?"

Von Ulrich's lips moved soundlessly and then he pointed a finger into
Barton's nose. "It makes a helluva lot of difference what you call it.
You may be doing an efficient job here, but for the wrong reasons. I
wish I could recommend, on the basis of my diagnosis, that you agree to
a month's checkup in the Martian Clinic but--"

Barton interrupted. "I'm glad you can't. I wouldn't like that as much
as this. Maybe your reports won't cut much ice as long as I keep up the
perfect service record."

Von Ulrich's jaws were ridged. "Damn the military system! Damn a system
that says a man has to stay up here till he's dead or crazy or makes a
mistake!"

"But Doc, I like it. I'm happier here, I think. Maybe I wasn't normal
on Earth. Maybe I'm not normal here, or maybe being abnormal on Earth
makes me normal here. I'm happy and I do my work."

Von Ulrich backed away a few steps, then turned and ran out and slammed
the sliding panel. He didn't say goodbye to Barton this time, or that
he would be back. But Barton took no hope from Von Ulrich's lack of
ceremony.

Von Ulrich did come back, several times. Barton was sleeping a great
deal now. He didn't putter with the gimmicks much, not even the clay,
and he'd about read the books out. He slept a lot and yet there was a
funny heavy feeling as though he never did quite sleep or never quite
woke up either. But it was a good feeling because when a man was too
sound asleep he didn't enjoy it because he didn't know anything about
it. This was sort of in-between, and Barton loved it. Sometimes he
would blink his eyes and see Von Ulrich standing there, probably with
some new testing device, or with a notebook open, or with a helmet with
wires to attach to Barton's skull to record something.

Another time he thought some stranger was there and then he realized
that Von Ulrich's face was sagging and wrinkled and that his hair was
thinner and gray.

"Why not have groups of watchers if you're so worried about one being
alone?"

"We tried that, it was worse, Barton. They killed one another."

"Well, sir, my being alone is a good thing then, in that respect."

"Have you ever thought that you would kill yourself?"

"Why no, sir. Why should I?"

"Because you hate yourself. In a society, people can externalize their
self-hate. They can hate society, other people. You can only turn your
hate inward, on yourself."

"But I don't hate anything, sir."

"You do!"

"But, sir, I don't."

"Barton, I said you hate yourself. It's in all the charts, everything.
We all hate ourselves to some extent, why should you be different from
everybody else?"

"Why not, sir?"

Von Ulrich pressed his hand over his eyes, and walked out.
