
It was like a dream with a shadow drifting in and out and in again, and
it was Von Ulrich, looking so much older this time. "It's been almost
fifteen years, Barton. Fifteen years."

"So? Fifteen years earth time. What does that mean here to me, sir?"
Barton smiled, closed his eyes. "What does time matter in your mother's
womb?"

"You've developed a definite measurable syndrome, Barton. Excessive
lethargy and a sleeping compulsion. Eventually it will destroy your
efficiency as a watcher if it hasn't already."

Von Ulrich set off an alarm and in less than four seconds Barton was
over there sending a report out to the authorities, a report Von Ulrich
immediately canceled as being false.

Von Ulrich seemed to dissolve in a haze of fading light.

"Is that you, Von Ulrich, sir?"

"I'm afraid so, Barton. Back again."

Von Ulrich sat down in the contour chair and filled a pipe.

"Remember, Barton when you took your test for basketball duty? The dead
man's float?"

"I sort of remember it, sir. It was fun."

Von Ulrich flinched. "Fun? I've gone over that report on your test,
Barton. It doesn't make sense. What the hell are you anyway? A damned
freak, a mutation, an alien in disguise?"

The dead man's float had been pleasant for Barton, that was all he
could remember about it. They had taken off all Barton's clothes
so that nothing touched Barton's body but a blacked-out head-mask
through which to get air. He had been put in a tank of water at body
temperature upside down and floated there. There was no sensation.
It had been one of the happiest times of his life. Like floating on
air. Hearing nothing, seeing nothing, feeling nothing except his own
existence. Not even able to tell which was right side up, or right side
down, cross-wise or whatnot. He had been told to keep still, but nobody
had needed to tell him to do that.

"The first two or three hours of that dead man's float is a good test
for basketball duty, Barton. It's a kind of final isolation of the
human organism. Normal human beings can take a couple of hours of it
usually. They like it. Every human being to some extent likes to return
to the womb. But after a couple of hours most human beings start going
to pieces, short-circuiting. The reason is the deprivation of any
outside stimuli. Something has to feed in through some source--some
reception source--the skin, ears, nose, the eyes. These things feeding
in, they orient a person, tells him when he's thinking, feeling, gives
him stimuli for additional thinking. With all these turned off, a
person is simply left with a closed circuit. This begins to go round
and round and distorts and magnifies and ruptures the whole thinking
process. The floater becomes anxious, then very anxious, then he begins
having hallucinations, finally becomes completely disoriented. All this
happens to a normal human being inside, at the most, three or four
hours. No human being should be able to remain sane after four hours of
the dead man's float, Barton. But remember how long you lay there in
that tank?"

"I didn't care how long it was."

"Three days," Von Ulrich said. "The neurophysiologist in charge there
kept checking your reaction and finally he had to take you out of the
tank, not because you were short-circuiting, but because he was. The
impression was that you would have been delighted with the prospect of
doing the dead man's float forever."

"I don't remember it being any special time. It was like a dream, sir,
you know."

"I don't know, but I'm trying to find out." Von Ulrich sighed and
looked through the spaceport at blackness. "Out here I sometimes find
myself wondering what normalcy really is. Things sometimes veer toward
the dangerously relativistic." He sat there in the pure one hundred
percent silence of the basketball while it accumulated. "There's one
thing we've always insisted no human being could tolerate, Barton.
Isolation. Sullivan said that a single minute of complete isolation
would kill a human being. And you've been in a dead man's float for
almost twenty-two years."

"Twenty-two years, sir?"

"Doesn't mean a thing to you does it?"

"Well, sir, it doesn't seem to have had any time in it. I was just
here."
