
The war in which all of Earth's outposts were involved, lasted thirty
years. The basketballs were forgotten for a long time, and when they
were remembered again, a special search was rewarded by finding only
two of them. In the first basketball there was no trace of the watchman
who had been abandoned in it almost half a century before, and no
indication of what had happened to him.

In the second one, Von Ulrich found Barton still lying peacefully on
the couch, looking hardly any different than when Von Ulrich had walked
out and left him there.

Von Ulrich, who had been retired for a long time and who was unable to
get about except in a wheel-chair, had requested inclusion among the
search boat's personnel. No one had figured out why because even if
they found any basketballs, it was certain that no one would be alive
on any of them, let alone anyone needing Von Ulrich's specialized
talents.

Von Ulrich had hoped that Barton's basketball would be found and when
it was found, he insisted on being carried through the interconnecting
airlock into the spheroid that looked on the outside like a dead piece
of slag.

The ship's medical officer, a man young and rather stiff, was shocked
at first to see Barton lying there, but he had a ready explanation as
he used his stethescope. "Must have sprung a leak and let in preserving
frigidity."

"But then how did the leak repair itself and the temperature return to
normal?" Von Ulrich asked as he studied Barton's smooth, unaged face.

"Dead," the medical officer said, and he dropped the stethescope back
into his case.

Von Ulrich gripped the husks of his hands together to keep them from
rattling, and he smiled slowly. "Barton didn't like death much."

Zeiger the medical officer looked puzzled. "You know this man?"

"A little. I tried to know him better but a war intervened. His name is
Harry Barton and he was assigned to duty in this basketball fifty-three
years and about four months ago."

Zeiger turned away as though to hide an embarrassed reaction.

"You think I speak out of some mental senility, Zeiger? You know this
man isn't dead."

"He has to be dead."

"Not Barton. He would hardly approve of your diagnosis. He never
cared much for diagnosis anyway. This is Harry Barton, and I've
preserved--for personal reasons--his file. I have it with me. You
want to check his fingerprints? You'll find it's the same man who was
assigned to duty here fifty-three years ago."

"There's no heart-beat," Zeiger insisted, but not very enthusiastically.

"Better give Barton a more thorough check," Von Ulrich said.
