
By the time they finally arrived on Flimbot, Harkaway had already gone
native. He appeared at the airlock wearing nothing but a brief, colorful
loincloth of alien fabric and a wreath of flowers in his hair. He was
fondling a large, woolly pink caterpillar.

[Illustration]

"Where is your uniform, sir!" Captain Iversen barked, aghast. If there
was one thing he was intolerant of in his command, it was sloppiness.

"This is the undress uniform of the Royal Flimbotzi Navy, sir. I was
given the privilege of wearing one as a great _msu'gri_--honor--to our
race. If I were to return to my own uniform, it might set back
diplomatic relations between Flimbot and Earth as much as--"

"All right!" the captain snapped. "All right, all right, all right!"

He didn't ask any questions about the Royal Flimbotzi Navy. He had
deduced its nature when, on nearing Flimbot, he had discovered that the
eleventh planet actually had only one moon. The other forty-five
celestial objects were spacecraft, quaint and primitive, it was true,
but spacecraft nonetheless. Probably it was their orbital formation that
had made him think they were moons. Oh, the crew must be in great
spirits; they did so enjoy having a good laugh at his expense!

He looked for something with which to reproach Harkaway, and his eye
lighted on the caterpillar. "What's that thing you're carrying there?"
he barked.

Raising itself on its tail, the caterpillar barked right back at him.

Captain Iversen paled. First he had overlooked the spacecraft, and now,
after thirty years of faithful service to the IEE(E) in the less
desirable sectors of space, he had committed the ultimate error in his
first contact with a new form of intelligent life!

"Sorry, sir," he said, forgetting that the creature--whatever its mental
prowess--could hardly be expected to understand Terran yet. "I am just a
simple spaceman and my ways are crude, but I mean no harm." He whirled
on Harkaway. "I thought you said the natives were humanoid."

The young officer grinned. "They are. This is just a greech. Cuddly
little fellow, isn't he?" The greech licked Harkaway's face with a
tripartite blue tongue. "The Flimbotzik are mad about pets. Great
animal-lovers. That's how I knew I could trust them right from the
start. Show me a life-form that loves animals, I always say, and--"

"I'm not interested in what you always say," Iversen interrupted,
knowing Harkaway's premise was fundamentally unsound, because he himself
was the kindliest of all men, and he hated animals. And, although he
didn't hate Harkaway, who was not an animal, save in the strictly
Darwinian sense, he could not repress unsportsmanlike feelings of
bitterness.

Why couldn't it have been one of the other officers who had discovered
the Flimbotzik? Why must it be Harkaway--the most inept of his scouts,
whose only talent seemed to be the egregious error, who always rushed
into a thing half-cocked, who mistook superficialities for profundities,
Harkaway, the blundering fool, the blithering idiot--who had stumbled
into this greatest discovery of Iversen's career? And, of course,
Harkaway's, too. Well, life was like that and always had been.

"Have you tested those air and soil samples yet?" Iversen snarled into
his communicator, for his spacesuit was beginning to itch again as the
gentle warmth of Flimbot activated certain small and opportunistic
life-forms which had emigrated from a previous system along with the
Terrans.

"We're running them through as fast as we can, sir," said a harried
voice. "We can offer you no more than our poor best."

"But why bother with all that?" Harkaway wanted to know. "This planet is
absolutely safe for human life. I can guarantee it personally."

"On what basis?" Iversen asked.

"Well, I've been here two weeks and I've survived, haven't I?"

"That," Iversen told him, "does not prove that the planet can sustain
human life."

Harkaway laughed richly. "Wonderful how you can still keep that
marvelous sense of humor, Skipper, after all the things that have been
going wrong on the voyage. Ah, here comes the _flim'tuu_--the welcoming
committee," he said quickly. "They were a little shy before. Because of
the rockets, you know."

"Don't their ships have any?"

"They don't seem to. They're really very primitive affairs, barely able
to go from planet to planet."

"If they _go_," Iversen said, "stands to reason _something_ must power
them."

"I really don't know what it is," Harkaway retorted defensively. "After
all, even though I've been busy as a beaver, three weeks would hardly
give me time to investigate every aspect of their culture.... Don't you
think the natives are remarkably humanoid?" he changed the subject.

They were, indeed. Except for a somewhat greenish cast of countenance
and distinctly purple hair, as they approached, in their brief, gay
garments and flower garlands, the natives resembled nothing so much as a
group of idealized South Sea Islanders of the nineteenth century.

Gigantic butterflies whizzed about their heads. Countless small animals
frisked about their feet--more of the pink caterpillars; bright blue
creatures that were a winsome combination of monkey and koala; a kind of
large, merry-eyed snake that moved by holding its tail in its mouth and
rolling like a hoop. All had faces that reminded the captain of the work
of the celebrated twentieth-century artist W. Disney.

"By Polaris," he cried in disgust, "I might have known you'd find a
_cute_ planet!"

"Moon, actually," the first officer said, "since it is in orbit around
Virago XI, rather than Virago itself."

"Would you have _wanted_ them to be hostile?" Harkaway asked peevishly.
"Honestly, some people never seem to be satisfied."

From his proprietary airs, one would think Harkaway had created the
natives himself. "At least, with hostile races, you know where you are,"
Iversen said. "I always suspect friendly life-forms. Friendliness simply
isn't a natural instinct."

"Who's being anthropomorphic now!" Harkaway chided.

Iversen flushed, for he had berated the young man for that particular
fault on more than one occasion. Harkaway was too prone to interpret
alien traits in terms of terrestrial culture. Previously, since all
intelligent life-forms with which the _Herringbone_ had come into
contact had already been discovered by somebody else, that didn't matter
too much. In this instance, however, any mistakes of contact or
interpretation mattered terribly. And Iversen couldn't see Harkaway not
making a mistake; the boy simply didn't have it in him.

"You know you're superimposing our attitude on theirs," the junior
officer continued tactlessly. "The Flimbotzik are a simple, friendly,
_shig-livi_ people, closely resembling some of our historical
primitives--in a nice way, of course."

"None of our primitives had space travel," Iversen pointed out.

"Well, you couldn't really call those things spaceships," Harkaway said
deprecatingly.

"They go through space, don't they? I don't know what else you'd call
them."

"One judges the primitiveness of a race by its cultural and
technological institutions," Harkaway said, with a lofty smile. "And
these people are laughably backward. Why, they even believe in
reincarnation--_mpoola_, they call it."

"How do you know all this?" Iversen demanded. "Don't tell me you profess
to speak the language already?"

"It's not a difficult language," Harkaway said modestly, "and I have
managed to pick up quite a comprehensive smattering. I dare-say I
haven't caught all the nuances--_heeka lob peeka_, as the Flimbotzik
themselves say--but they are a very simple people and probably they
don't have--"

"Are we going to keep them waiting," Iversen asked, "while we discuss
nuances? Since you say you speak the language so well, suppose you make
them a pretty speech all about how the Earth government extends the--I
suppose it would be hand, in this instance--of friendship to Flimbot
and--"

Harkaway blushed. "I sort of did that already, acting as your deputy.
_Mpoo_--status--means so much in these simple societies, you know, and
they seemed to expect something of the sort. However, I'll introduce you
to the Flimflim--the king, you know--" he pointed to an imposing
individual in the forefront of the crowd--"and get over all the
amenities, shall I?"

"It would be jolly good of you," Iversen said frigidly.
