
It was a pity they hadn't discovered Flimbot much earlier in their
survey of the Virago System, Iversen thought with regret, because it was
truly a pleasant spot and a week was very little time in which to
explore a world and study a race, even one as simple as the gentle
Flimbotzik actually turned out to be. It seemed amazing that they should
have developed anything as advanced as space travel, when their only
ground conveyances were a species of wagon drawn by plookik, a species
of animal.

But Iversen had no time for further investigation. The _Herringbone's_
fuel supply was calculated almost to the minute and so, willy-nilly, the
Earthmen had to leave beautiful Flimbot at the end of the week, knowing
little more about the Flimbotzik than they had before they came. Only
Harkaway, who had spent the three previous weeks on Flimbot, had any
further knowledge of the Flimbotzik--and Iversen had little faith in any
data he might have collected.

"I don't believe Harkaway knows the language nearly as well as he
pretends to," Iversen told the first officer as both of them watched
the young lieutenant make the formal speech of farewell.

"Come now," the first officer protested. "Seems to me the boy is doing
quite well. Acquired a remarkable command of the language, considering
he's been here only four weeks."

"Remarkable, I'll grant you, but is it accurate?"

"He seems to communicate and that is the ultimate objective of language,
is it not?"

"Then why did the Flimbotzik fill the tanks with wine when I distinctly
told him to ask for water?"

Of course the ship could synthesize water from its own waste products,
if necessary, but there was no point in resorting to that expedient when
a plentiful supply of pure H_{2}O was available on the world.

"A very understandable error, sir. Harkaway explained it to me. It seems
the word for water, _m'koog_, is very similar to the word for wine,
_mk'oog_. Harkaway himself admits his pronunciation isn't perfect and--"

"All right," Iversen interrupted. "What I'd like to know is what
happened to the _mk'oog_, then--"

"The m'koog, you mean? It's in the tanks."

"--because, when they came to drain the wine out of the tanks to put the
water in, the tanks were already totally empty."

"I have no idea," the first officer said frostily, "no idea at all. If
you'll glance at my papers, you'll note I'm Temperance by affiliation,
but if you'd like to search my cabin, anyway, I--"

"By Miaplacidus, man," Iversen exclaimed, "I wasn't accusing you! Of
that, anyway!"

Everybody on the vessel was so confoundedly touchy. Lucky they had a
stable commanding officer like himself, or morale would simply go to
pot.
