
Iverson heard no more about _mpoola_ from Harkaway--who, though he did
not remain confined to his cabin when he had pursuits to pursue in other
parts of the ship, at least had the tact to keep out of the captain's
way as much as possible--but the rest of his men seemed able to talk of
nothing else. The voyage back from a star system was always longer in
relative terms than the voyage out, because the thrill of new worlds to
explore was gone; already anticipating boredom, the men were ripe for
almost any distraction.

On one return voyage, the whole crew had set itself to the study of
Hittite with very creditable results. On another, they had all devoted
themselves to the ancient art of alchemy, and, after nearly blowing up
the ship, had come up with an elixir which, although not the
quintessence--as they had, in their initial enthusiasm, alleged--proved
to be an effective cure for hiccups. Patented under the name of
Herringbone Hiccup Shoo, it brought each one of them an income which
would have been enough to support them in more than modest comfort for
the rest of their lives.

However, the adventurous life seemed to exert an irresistible lure upon
them and they all shipped upon the _Herringbone_ again--much to the
captain's dismay, for he had hoped for a fresh start with a new crew
and there seemed to be no way of getting rid of them short of reaching
retirement age.

The men weren't quite ready to accept _mpoola_ as a practical
religion--Harkaway hadn't finished his book yet--but as something very
close to it. The concept of reincarnation had always been very appealing
to the human mind, which would rather have envisaged itself perpetuated
in the body of a cockroach than vanishing completely into nothingness.

"It's all so logical, sir," the first officer told Iversen. "The
individuality or the soul or the psyche--however you want to look at
it--starts the essentially simple cycle of life as a greech--"

"Why as a greech?" Iversen asked, humoring him for the moment. "There
are lower life-forms on Flimbot."

"I don't know." The first officer sounded almost testy. "That's where
Harkaway starts the progression."

"Harkaway! Is there no escaping that cretin's name?"

"Sir," said the first officer, "may I speak frankly?"

"No," Iversen said, "you may not."

"Your skepticism arises less from disbelief than from the fact that you
are jealous of Harkaway because it was he who made the great discovery,
not you."

"Which great discovery?" Iversen asked, sneering to conceal his hurt at
being so overwhelmingly misunderstood. "Flimbot or _mpoola_?"

"Both," the first officer said. "You refuse to accept the fact that this
hitherto incompetent youth has at last blossomed forth in the lambent
colors of genius, just as the worthy greech becomes a zkoort, and the
clean-living zkoort in his turn passes on to the next higher plane of
existence, which is, in the Flimbotzik scale--"

"Spare me the theology, please," Iversen begged. "Once a greech, always
a greech, I say. And I can't help thinking that somehow, somewhere,
Harkaway has committed some horrible error."

"Humanity is frail, fumbling, futile," Dr. Smullyan declared, coming
upon them so suddenly that both officers jumped. "To err is human, to
forgive divine, and I am an atheist, thank God!"

"That _mk'oog_ is powerful stuff," the first officer said. "Or so they
tell me," he added.

"This is more than mere _mk'oog_," Iversen said sourly. "Smullyan has
been too long in space. It hits everyone in the long run--some sooner
than others."

"Captain," the doctor said, ignoring these remarks as he ignored
everything not on a cosmic level, which included the crew's ailments,
"I am in full agreement with you. Young Harkaway has doomed that pretty
little planet--"

"Moon," the first officer corrected. "It's a satellite, not a--"

"We ourselves were doomed _ab origine_, but the tragic flaw inherent in
each one of our pitiful species is contagious, dooming all with whom we
come in contact. And Harkaway is the most infectious carrier on the
ship. Woe, I tell you. Woe!" And, with a hollow moan, the doctor left
them to meditate upon the state of their souls, while he went off to his
secret stores of oblivion.

"Wonder where he's hidden that _mk'oog_," Iversen brooded. "I've turned
the ship inside out and I haven't been able to locate it."

The first officer shivered. "Somehow, although I know Smullyan's part
drunk, part mad, he makes me a little nervous. He's been right so often
on all the other voyages."

"Ruchbah!" Iversen said, not particularly grateful for support from such
a dithyrambic source as the ship's medical officer. "Anyone who
prophesies doom has a hundred per cent chance of ultimately being right,
if only because of entropy."

He was still brooding over the first officer's thrust, even though he
had been well aware that most of his officers and men considered him a
sorehead for doubting Harkaway in the young man's moment of triumph.
However, Iversen could not believe that Harkaway had undergone such a
radical transformation. Even on the basis of _mpoola_, one obviously had
to die before passing on to the next existence and Harkaway had been
continuously alive--from the neck down, at least.

Furthermore, all that aside, Iversen just couldn't see Harkaway going on
to a higher plane. Although he supposed the young man was well-meaning
enough--he'd grant him that negligible virtue--wouldn't it be terrible
to have a system of existence in which one was advanced on the basis of
intent rather than result? The higher life-forms would degenerate into
primitivism.

But weren't the Flimbotzik virtually primitive? Or so Harkaway had said,
for Iversen himself had not had enough contact with them to determine
their degree of sophistication, and only the spaceships gave Harkaway's
claim the lie.
