
Iversen condescended to take a look at the opening chapter of Harkaway's
book, just to see what the whole thing was about. The book began:

"What is the difference between life and death? Can we say definitely
and definitively that life is life and death is death? Are we sure that
death is not life and life is not death?

"No, we are not sure!

"Must the individuality have a corporeal essence in which to enshroud
itself before it can proceed in its rapt, inexorable progress toward the
Ultimate Non-actuality? And even if such be needful, why must the
personal essence be trammeled by the same old worn-out habiliments of
error?

"Think upon this!

"What is the extremest intensification of individuality? It is the
All-encompassing Nothingness. Of what value are the fur, the feathers,
the skin, the temporal trappings of imperfection in our perpetual
struggle toward the final undefinable resolution into the Infinite
Interplay of Cosmic Forces?

"Less than nothing!"

At this point, Iversen stopped reading and returned the manuscript to
its creator, without a word. This last was less out of self-restraint
than through sheer semantic inadequacy.

The young man might have spent his time more profitably in a little
research on the biology or social organization of the Flimbotzik,
Iversen thought bitterly when he had calmed down, thus saving the next
expedition some work. But, instead, he'd been blinded by the flashy
theological aspects of the culture and, as a result, the whole crew had
gone metempsychotic.

This was going to be one of the _Herringbone's_ more unendurable
voyages, Iversen knew. And he couldn't put his foot down effectively,
either, because the crew, all being gentlemen of independent means now,
were outrageously independent.

However, in spite of knowing that all of them fully deserved what they
got, Iversen couldn't help feeling guilty as he ate steak while the
other officers consumed fish, vegetables and eggs in an aura of
unbearable virtue.

"But if the soul transmigrates and not the body," he argued, "what harm
is there in consuming the vacated receptacle?"

"For all you know," the first officer said, averting his eyes from
Iversen's plate with a little--wholly gratuitous, to the captain's
mind--shudder, "that cow might have housed the psyche of your
grandmother."

"Well, then, by indirectly participating in that animal's slaughter, I
have released my grandmother from her physical bondage to advance to the
next plane. That is, if she was a good cow."

"You just don't understand," Harkaway said. "Not that you could be
expected to."

"He's a clod," the radio operator agreed. "Forgive me, sir," he
apologized as Iversen turned to glare incredulously at him, "but,
according to _mpoola_, candor is a Step Upward."

"Onward and Upward," Harkaway commented, and Iversen was almost sure
that, had he not been there, the men would have bowed their heads in
contemplation, if not actual prayer.
