
"Take that thing away before I lose my temper and clobber it," Iversen
said impatiently as the zkoort dived low to buzz him, then whizzed just
out of its reach on its huge, brilliant wings, giggling raucously.

[Illustration]

"He was just having his bit of fun," the first officer said with
reproach. "Have you no tolerance, Captain, no appreciation of the joys
of golden youth?"

"A spaceship is no place for a butterfly," Iversen said, "especially a
four-foot butterfly."

"How can you say that?" Harkaway retorted. "The _Herringbone_ is the
only spaceship that ever had one, to my knowledge. And I think I can
safely say our lives are all a bit brighter and better and _m'poo'p_
for having a zkoort among us. Thanks be to the Divine Nonentity for--"

"Poor little butterfly," Dr. Smullyan declared sonorously, "living out
his brief life span so far from the fresh air, the sunshine, the pretty
flowers--"

"Oh, I don't know that it's as bad as all that," the first officer said.
"He hangs around hydroponics a lot and he gets a daily ration of
vitamins." Then he paled. "But that's right--a butterfly does live only
a day, doesn't it?"

"It's different with a zkoort," Harkaway maintained stoutly, though he
also, Iversen noted, lost his ruddy color. "After all, he isn't really a
butterfly, merely an analogous life-form."

"My, my! In four weeks, you've mastered their entomology as well as
their theology and language," Iversen jeered. "Is there no end to your
accomplishments, Lieutenant?"

Harkaway's color came back twofold. "He's already been around half a
_thubb_," he pointed out. "Over two weeks."

"Well, the thing _is_ bigger than a Terrestrial butterfly," Iversen
conceded, "so you have to make some allowances for size. On the other
hand--"

Laughing madly, the zkoort swooped down on him. Iversen beat it away
with a snarl.

"Playful little fellow, isn't he?" the first officer said, with
thoroughly annoying fondness.

"He likes you, Skipper," Harkaway explained. "_Urg'h n gurg'h_--or, to
give it the crude Terran equivalent, living is loving. He can tell that
beneath that grizzled and seemingly harsh exterior of yours, Captain--"

But, with a scream of rage, Iversen had locked himself into his cabin.
Outside, he could hear the zkoort beating its wings against the door and
wailing disappointedly.
