
Some days later, a pair of rapidly dulling wings were found on the floor
of the hydroponics chamber. But of the zkoort's little body, there was
no sign. An air of gloom and despondency hung over the _Herringbone_ and
even Iversen felt a pang, though he would never admit it without
brainwashing.

During the next week, the men, seeking to forget their loss, plunged
themselves into _mpoola_ with real fanaticism. Harkaway took to wearing
some sort of ecclesiastical robes which he whipped up out of the
recreation room curtains. Iversen had neither the heart nor the courage
to stop him, though this, too, was against regulations. Everyone except
Iversen gave up eating fish and eggs in addition to meat.

Then, suddenly, one day a roly-poly blue animal appeared at the officers
mess, claiming everyone as an old friend with loud squeals of joy. This
time, Iversen was the only one who was glad to see him--really glad.

"Aren't you happy to see your little friend again, Harkaway?" he asked,
scratching the delighted animal between the ears.

"Why, sure," Harkaway said, putting his fork down and leaving his
vegetable _macedoine_ virtually untasted. "Sure. I'm very happy--" his
voice broke--"very happy."

"Of course, it does kind of knock your theory of the transmigration of
souls into a cocked hat," the captain grinned. "Because, in order for
the soul to transmigrate, the previous body's got to be dead, and I'm
afraid our little pal here was alive all the time."

"Looks it, doesn't it?" muttered Harkaway.

"I rather think," Iversen went on, tickling the creature under the chin
until it squealed happily, "that you didn't _quite_ get the nuances of
the language, did you, Harkaway? Because I gather now that the whole
difficulty was a semantic one. The Flimbotzik were explaining the
zoology of the native life-forms to you and you misunderstood it as
their theology."

"Looks it, doesn't it?" Harkaway repeated glumly. "It certainly looks
it."

"Cheer up," Iversen said, reaching over to slap the young man on the
back--a bit to his own amazement. "No real harm done. What if the
Flimbotzik are less primitive than you fancied? It makes our discovery
the more worthwhile, doesn't it?"

At this point, the radio operator almost sobbingly asked to be excused
from the table. Following his departure, there was a long silence. It
was hard, Iversen realized in a burst of uncharacteristic tolerance, to
have one's belief, even so newly born a credo, annihilated with such
suddenness.

"After all, you did run across the Flimbotzik first," he told Harkaway
as he spread gooseberry jam on a hard roll for the ravenous ex-zkoort
(now a chu-wugg, he had been told). "That's the main thing, and a
life-form that passes through two such striking metamorphoses is not
unfraught with interest. You shall receive full credit, my boy, and your
little mistake doesn't mean a thing except--"

"Doom," said Dr. Smullyan, sopping up the last of his gravy with a piece
of bread. "Doom, doom, doom." He stuffed the bread into his mouth.

"Look, Smullyan," Iversen told him jovially, "you better watch out. If
you keep talking that way, next voyage out we'll sign on a parrot
instead of a medical officer. Cheaper and just as efficient."

Only the chu-wugg joined in his laughter.

"Ever since I can remember," the first officer said, looking gloomily at
the doctor, "he's never been wrong. Maybe _he_ has powers beyond our
comprehension. Perhaps we sought at the end of the Galaxy what was in
our own back yard all the time."

"Who was seeking what?" Iversen asked as all the officers looked at
Smullyan with respectful awe. "I demand an answer!"

But the only one who spoke was the doctor. "Only Man is vile," he said,
as if to himself, and fell asleep with his head on the table.

"Make a cult out of Smullyan," Iversen warned the others, "and I'll
scuttle the ship!"

Later on, the first officer got the captain alone. "Look here, sir," he
began tensely, "have you read Harkaway's book about _mpoola_?"

"I read part of the first chapter," Iversen told him, "and that was
enough. Maybe to Harkaway it's eschatology, but to me it's just plain
scatology!"

"But--"

"Why in Zubeneschamali," Iversen said patiently, "should I waste my time
reading a book devoted to a theory which has already been proved
erroneous? Answer me that!"

"I think you should have a look at the whole thing," the first officer
persisted.

"Baham!" Iversen replied, but amiably enough, for he was in rare good
humor these days. And he needed good humor to tolerate the way his
officers and men were behaving. All right, they had made idiots of
themselves; that was understandable, expected, familiar. But it wasn't
the chu-wugg's fault. Iversen had never seen such a bunch of soreheads.
Why did they have to take their embarrassment and humiliation out on an
innocent little animal?

For, although no one actually mistreated the chu-wugg, the men avoided
him as much as possible. Often Iversen would come upon the little fellow
weeping from loneliness in a corner with no one to play with and, giving
in to his own human weakness, the captain would dry the creature's
tears and comfort him. In return, the chu-wugg would laugh at all his
jokes, for he seemed to have acquired an elementary knowledge of Terran.
