
"By Vindemiatrix, Lieutenant," the captain roared as Harkaway, foiled in
his attempt to scurry off unobserved, stood quivering before him, "why
have you been avoiding me like this?"

"I didn't think I was avoiding you any particular way, sir," Harkaway
said. "I mean does it appear like that, sir? It's only that I've been
busy with my duties, sir."

"I don't know what's the matter with you! I told you I handsomely
forgave you for your mistake."

"But I can never forgive myself, sir--"

"Are you trying to go over my head?" Iversen thundered.

"No, sir. I--"

"If I am willing to forgive you, you will forgive yourself. That's an
order!"

"Yes, sir," the young man said feebly.

Harkaway had changed back to his uniform, Iversen noted, but he looked
unkempt, ill, harrowed. The boy had really been suffering for his
precipitance. Perhaps the captain himself had been a little hard on him.

Iversen modulated his tone to active friendliness. "Thought you might
like to know the chu-wugg turned into a hoop-snake this morning!"

But Harkaway did not seem cheered by this social note. "So soon!"

"You knew there would be a fourth metamorphosis!" Iversen was
disappointed. But he realized that Harkaway was bound to have acquired
such fundamental data, no matter how he interpreted them. It was
possible, Iversen thought, that the book could actually have some value,
if there were some way of weeding fact from fancy, and surely there must
be scholars trained in such an art, for Earth had many wholly indigenous
texts of like nature.

"He's a thor'glitch now," Harkaway told him dully.

"And what comes next?... No, don't tell me. It's more fun not knowing
beforehand. You know," Iversen went on, almost rubbing his hands
together, "I think this species is going to excite more interest on
Earth than the Flimbotzik themselves. After all, people are people, even
if they're green, but an animal that changes shape so many times and so
radically is really going to set biologists by the ears. What did you
say the name of the species as a whole was?"

"I--I couldn't say, sir."

"Ah," Iversen remarked waggishly, "so there are one or two things you
don't know about Flimbot, eh?"

Harkaway opened his mouth, but only a faint bleating sound came out.
