
As the days went on, Iversen found himself growing fonder and fonder of
the thor'glitch. Finally, in spite of the fact that it had now attained
the dimensions of a well-developed boa constrictor, he took it to live
in his quarters.

Many was the quiet evening they spent together, Iversen entering acid
comments upon the crew in the ship's log, while the thor'glitch looked
over viewtapes from the ship's library.

The captain was surprised to find how much he--well, enjoyed this
domestic tranquility. I must be growing old, he thought--old and mellow.
And he named the creature Bridey, after a twentieth-century figure who
had, he believed, been connected with another metempsychotic furor.

When the thor'glitch grew listless and began to swell in the middle,
Iversen got alarmed and sent for Dr. Smullyan.

"Aha!" the medical officer declaimed, with a casual glance at the
suffering snake. "The day of reckoning is at hand! Reap the fruit of
your transgression, scurvy humans! Calamity approaches with jets
aflame!"

Iversen clutched the doctor's sleeve. "Is he--is he going to die?"

"Unhand me, presumptuous navigator!" Dr. Smullyan shook the captain's
fingers off his arm. "I didn't say he was going to die," he offered in
ordinary bedside tones. "Not being a specialist in this particular
sector, I am not qualified to offer an opinion, but, strictly off the
record, I would hazard the guess that he's about to metamorphose again."

"He never did it in public before," Iversen said worriedly.

"The old order changeth," Smullyan told him. "You'd better call
Harkaway."

"What does _he_ know!"

"Too little and, at the same time, too much," the doctor declaimed,
dissociating himself professionally from the case. "Too much and too
little. Eat, drink, be merry, iniquitous Earthmen, for you died
yesterday!"

"Oh, shut up," Iversen said automatically, and dispatched a message to
Harkaway with the information that the thor'glitch appeared to be
metamorphosing again and that his presence was requested in the
captain's cabin.

[Illustration]

The rest of the officers accompanied Harkaway, all of them with the air
of attending a funeral rather than a rebirth, Iversen noted nervously.
They weren't armed, though, so Bridey couldn't be turning into anything
dangerous.
