
Now it came to pass that the thor'glitch's mid-section, having swelled
to unbearable proportions, began to quiver. Suddenly, the skin split
lengthwise and dropped cleanly to either side, like a banana peel.

Iversen pressed forward to see what fresh life-form the bulging cavity
had held. The other officers all stood in a somber row without moving,
for all along, Iversen realized, they had known what to expect, what was
to come. And they had not told him. But then, he knew, it was his own
fault; he had refused to be told.

Now, looking down at the new life-form, he saw for himself what it was.
Lying languidly in the thor'glitch skin was a slender youth of a pallor
which seemed excessive even for a member of a green-skinned race. He had
large limpid eyes and a smile of ineffable sweetness.

"By Nopus Secundus," Iversen groaned. "I'm sunk."

"Naturally the ultimate incarnation for a life-form would be humanoid,"
Harkaway said with deep reproach. "What else?"

"I'm surprised you didn't figure that out for yourself, sir," the first
officer added. "Even if you did refuse to read Harkaway's book, it seems
obvious."

"Does it?" Smullyan challenged. "Does it, indeed? Is Man the highest
form of life in an irrational cosmos? Then all causes are lost ones!...
So many worlds," he muttered in more subdued tones, "so much to do, so
little done, such things to be!"

"The Flimbotzik were telling Harkaway about their _own_ life cycle,"
Iversen whispered as revelation bathed him in its murky light. "The
human embryo undergoes a series of changes _inside_ the womb. It's just
that the Flimbotzik fetus develops _outside_ the womb."

"Handily bypassing the earliest and most unpleasant stages of humanity,"
Smullyan sighed. "Oh, idyllic planet, where one need never be a
child--where one need never see a child!"

"Then they were trying to explain their biology to you quite clearly and
coherently, you lunkhead," Iversen roared at Harkaway, "and you took it
for a religious doctrine!"

"Yes, sir," Harkaway said weakly. "I--I kind of figured that out myself
in these last few weeks of intensive soul-searching. I--I'm sorry, sir.
All I can say is that it was an honest mistake."

"Why, they weren't necessarily pet-lovers at all. Those animals they had
with them were.... By Nair al Zaurak!" The captain's voice rose to a
shriek as the whole enormity of the situation finally dawned upon him.
"You went and kidnaped one of the children!"

"That's a serious charge, kidnaping," the first officer said with
melancholy pleasure. "And you, as head of this expedition, Captain, are
responsible. Ironic, isn't it?"

"Told you all this spelled doom and disaster," the doctor observed
cheerfully.

Just then, the young humanoid sat up--with considerable effort, Iversen
was disturbed to notice. But perhaps that was one of the consequences of
being born. A new-born infant was weak; why not a new-born adult, then?

"Why doom?" the humanoid asked in a high, clear voice. "Why disaster?"

"You--you speak Terran?" the captain stammered.

Bridey gave his sad, sweet smile. "I was reared amongst you. You are my
people. Why should I not speak your tongue?"

"But we're not your people," Iversen blurted, thinking perhaps the youth
did not remember back to his greechi days. "We're an entirely different
species--"

"Our souls vibrate in unison and that is the vital essence. But do not
be afraid, shipmates; the Flimbotzik do not regard the abduction of a
transitory corporeal shelter as a matter of any great moment. Moreover,
what took place could not rightly be termed abduction, for I came with
you of my own volition--and the Flimbotzik recognize individual
responsibility from the very first moment of the psyche's drawing breath
in any material casing."

Bridey talked so much like Harkaway's book that Iversen was almost
relieved when, a few hours later, the alien died. Of course the captain
was worried about possible repercussions from the governments of both
Terra and Flimbot, in spite of Bridey's assurances.

And he could not help but feel a pang when the young humanoid expired in
his arms, murmuring, "Do not grieve for me, soul-mates. In the midst of
life, there is life...."

"Funny," Smullyan said, with one of his disconcerting returns to a
professional manner, "all the other forms seemed perfectly healthy. Why
did this one go like that? Almost as if he _wanted_ to die."

"He was too good for this ship, that's what," the radio operator said,
glaring at the captain. "Too fine and brave and--and noble."

"Yes," Harkaway agreed. "What truly sensitive soul could exist in a
stultifying atmosphere like this?"

All the officers glared at the captain. He glared back with right good
will. "How come you gentlemen are still with us?" he inquired. "One
would have thought you would have perished of pure sensibility long
since, then."

"It's not nice to talk that way," the chief petty officer burst out,
"not with him lying there not yet cold.... Ah," he heaved a long sigh,
"we'll never see his like again."

"Ay, that we won't," agreed the crew, huddled in the corridor outside
the captain's cabin.

Iversen sincerely hoped not, but he forbore to speak.
