
Since Bridey had reached the ultimate point in his life cycle, it seemed
certain that he was not going to change into anything else and so he was
given a spaceman's burial. Feeling like a put-upon fool, Captain Iversen
read a short prayer as Bridey's slight body was consigned to the vast
emptiness of space.

Then the airlock clanged shut behind the last mortal remains of the
ill-fated extraterrestrial and that was the end of it.

But the funereal atmosphere did not diminish as the ship forged on
toward Earth. Gloomy days passed, one after the other, during which no
one spoke, save to issue or dispute an order. Looking at himself one day
in the mirror on his cabin wall, the captain realized that he was
getting old. Perhaps he ought to retire instead of still dreaming of a
new command and a new crew.

And then one day, as he sat in his cabin reading the Spaceman's Credo,
the lights on the _Herringbone_ went out, all at once, while the
constant hum of the motors died down slowly, leaving a strange,
uncomfortable silence. Iversen found himself suspended weightless in the
dark, for the gravity, of course, had gone off with the power. What, he
wondered, had come to pass? He often found himself thinking in such
terms these days.

Hoarse cries issued from the passageway outside; then he heard a squeak
as his cabin door opened and persons unknown floated inside, breathing
heavily.

"The power has failed, sir!" gasped the first officer's voice.

"That has not escaped my notice," Iversen said icily. Were not even his
last moments to be free from persecution?

"It's all that maniac Smullyan's fault. He stored his _mk'oog_ in the
fuel tanks. After emptying them out first, that is. We're out of fuel."

The captain put a finger in his book to mark his place, which was, he
knew with a kind of supernal detachment, rather foolish, because there
was no prospect of there ever being lights to read by again.

"Put him in irons, if you can find him," he ordered. "And tell the men
to prepare themselves gracefully for a lingering death."

Iversen could hear a faint creak as the first officer drew himself to
attention in the darkness. "The men of the _Herringbone_, sir," he said,
stiffly, "are always prepared for calamity."

"Ay, that we are," agreed various voices.

So they were all there, were they? Well, it was too much to expect that
they would leave him in death any more than they had in life.

"It is well," Iversen said. "It is well," he repeated, unable to think
of anything more fitting.

Suddenly the lights went on again and the ship gave a leap. From his
sprawling position on the floor, amid his recumbent officers, Iversen
could hear the hum of motors galvanized into life.

"But if the fuel tanks are empty," he asked of no one in particular,
"where did the power come from?"

"I am the power," said a vast, deep voice that filled the ship from hold
to hold.

"And the glory," said the radio operator reverently. "Don't forget the
glory."

"No," the voice replied and it was the voice of Bridey, resonant with
all the amplitude of the immense chest cavity he had acquired. "Not the
glory, merely the power. I have reached a higher plane of existence. I
am a spaceship."

"Praise be to the Ultimate Nothingness!" Harkaway cried.

"Ultimate Nothingness, nothing!" Bridey said impatiently. "I achieved it
all myself."

"Then that's how the Flimbotzi spaceships were powered!" Iversen
exclaimed. "By themselves--the Flimbotzik themselves, I mean--"

"Even so," Bridey replied grandly. "And this lofty form of life happens
to be one which we poor humans cannot reach unassisted. Someone has to
build the shell for us to occupy, which is the reason humans dwell
together in fellowship and harmony--"

"You purposely got Harkaway to take you aboard the _Herringbone_,"
Iversen interrupted wrathfully. "You--you stowaway!"

Bridey's laugh rang through the ship, setting the loose parts quivering.
"Of course. When first I set eyes upon this vessel of yours, I saw
before me the epitome of all dreams. Never had any of our kind so
splendid an encasement. And, upon determining that the vessel was, as
yet, a soulless thing, I got myself aboard; I was born, I died, and was
reborn again with the greatest swiftness consonant with comfort, so that
I could awaken in this magnificent form. Oh, joy, joy, joy!"

"You know," Iversen said, "now that I hear one of you talk at length, I
really can't blame Harkaway for his typically imbecilic mistake."

"We are a wordy species," Bridey conceded.

"You had no right to do what you did," Iversen told him, "no right to
take over--"

"But I didn't take over," Bridey the _Herringbone_ said complacently. "I
merely remained quiescent and content in the knowledge of my power until
yours failed. Without me, you would even now be spinning in the vasty
voids, a chrome-trimmed sepulcher. Now, three times as swiftly as
before, shall I bear you back to the planet you very naively call home."

"Not three times as fast, please!" Iversen was quick to plead. "The ship
isn't built--_we're_ not built to stand such speeds."

The ship sighed. "Disappointment needs must come to all--the high, the
low, the man, the spaceship. It must be borne--" the voice
broke--"bravely. Somehow."

"What am I going to do?" Iversen asked, turning to the first officer for
advice for the first time ever. "I was planning to ask for a transfer or
resign my command when we got back to Earth. But how can I leave Bridey
in the hands of the IEE(E)?"

"You can't, sir," the first officer said. "Neither can we."

"If you explain," Harkaway offered timidly, "perhaps they'll present the
ship to the government."

Both Iversen and the first officer snorted, united for once. "Not the
IEE(E)," Iversen said. "They'd--they'd exhibit it or something and
charge admission."

"Oh, no," Bridey cried, "I don't want to be exhibited! I want to sail
through the trackless paths of space. What good is a body like this if I
cannot use it to its fullest?"

"Have no fear," Iversen assured it. "We'll just--" he shrugged, his
dreams of escape forever blighted--"just have to buy the ship from the
IEE(E), that's all."

"Right you are, sir," the first officer agreed. "We must club together,
every man Jack of us, and buy her. Him. It. That's the only decent thing
to do."

"Perhaps they won't sell," Harkaway worried. "Maybe--"

"Oh, they'll sell, all right," Iversen said wearily. "They'd sell the
chairman of the board, if you made them an offer, and throw in all the
directors if the price was right."

"And then what will we do?" the first officer asked. "Once the ship has
been purchased, what will our course be? What, in other words, are we to
do?"

It was Bridey who answered. "We will speed through space seeking,
learning, searching, until you--all of you--pass on to higher planes
and, leaving the frail shells you now inhabit, occupy proud, splendid
vessels like the one I wear now. Then, a vast transcendent flotilla, we
will seek other universes...."

"But we don't become spaceships," Iversen said unhappily. "We don't
become anything."

"How do you know we don't?" Smullyan demanded, appearing on the
threshold. "How do you know what we become? Build thee more stately
spaceships, O my soul!"

Above all else, Iversen was a space officer and dereliction of duty
could not be condoned even in exceptional circumstances. "Put him in
irons, somebody!"

"Ask Bridey why there were only forty-five spaceships on his planet!"
the doctor yelled over his shoulder as he was dragged off. "Ask where
the others went--where they are now."

But Bridey wouldn't answer that question.




