
Outside, trucks clustered at the base of a giant gantry. Aréchaga
shuddered as a fork lift dropped a pallet of bagged meat on the gantry
platform. The meat was irradiated and sealed in transparent plastic,
but the habits of a lifetime in the tropics do not disappear in spite
of engineering degrees. All that meat and not a fly in sight, he
thought. It doesn't look right.

Multiple-stage rockets had gone the way of square sail and piston
engines when a crash program poured twenty-two mega-bucks into a
non-mechanical shield. Piles now diverted four per cent of their output
into a field which reflected neutrons back onto the pile instead of
absorbing them. Raise the reaction rate and the field tightened. Those
sudden statewide evacuations in the early years of the century were
now remembered only by TV writers.

A liquid metal heat exchanger transferred energy to the reaction mass
which a turbine pump was drawing from a fire hydrant. Since the hydrant
was fed from a sea water still there was no need for purification.

The last load of provisions went up and an asepsis party rode the
gantry, burdened with their giant vacuum cleaners and germicidal
apparatus.

"They'll seal everything but the control room," the general said. "When
you go aboard there'll only be one compartment to sterilize."

"I still think it's a lot of hog-wash," Aréchaga said.

"They can't have us carrying any bugs with us," van den Burg said
tiredly.

"The Martians might put us in quarantine," Hagstrom added sourly.

"If there are any Martians--and if we get there," Aréchaga groused.

"Now boys," the general began.

"Oh, save it, Pop," Hagstrom said. "Let's be ourselves as long as the
public relations pests aren't around."

"Anybody going to town?" van den Burg asked.

"I am," Aréchaga said. "May be quite a while before I get another
plate of fried beans."

"Checkup at 0400," the general reminded.

Hagstrom went to B.O.Q. Van den Burg and Aréchaga caught the bus into
town and lost each other until midnight when they caught the same bus
back to the base.

"What's in the sack?" Hagstrom asked.

"Snack," Aréchaga said. "I can't stand that insipid slop in the B.O.Q.
mess."

"Looks like a lot of snack to eat between now and daybreak."

"Don't worry, I've got quite an appetite."
