
At 0345 an orderly knocked on three doors in Bachelor Officers'
Quarters and three young men made remarks which history will delete.
They showered, shaved, and spat toothpaste. At 0400 they walked into
the Medical Officer's door. A red-eyed corpsman reached for a manometer
and the three men began taking their clothes off. Fifteen minutes later
the doctor, a corpulent, middle-aged man in disgustingly good humor for
0400, walked in with a cheery good morning. He poked and tapped while
the corpsman drew blood samples.

"Turn your face and cough," he said.

"You think I'm going to develop hernia from riding a nightmare?"
Hagstrom growled. "You did all this yesterday."

"An ounce of prevention," the doctor said cheerfully.

"A pound of bull," van den Burg grunted.

"Now boys, what if that got in the papers?" asked a voice from the
doorway.

"Damn the papers!" they greeted the general.

"Do we get breakfast?" Aréchaga asked.

"You'll take acceleration better without it."

"Tell my stomach that."

"Bend over the table," the doctor said.

"Oh, my aching back," Hagstrom moaned.

"That's not the exact target, but you're close. And awaaaay we go," the
doctor chanted as he drove the needle home.

Each man received an injection of antibiotics and drank a paper cupful
of anise-flavored liquid.

"Don't we get wrapped in cellophane?" Aréchaga asked.

"You'll be pure enough when that purgative goes through you."

They dressed and rode in the general's staff car to the base of the
gantry. As the car stopped, the general said, "Well boys, I hope you
don't expect a speech."

"We love you too, Pop," van den Burg said. They shook hands and
stepped aboard the gantry platform. Hagstrom muttered and they faced a
telescopic TV pickup with mechanical grins until the rising platform
shielded them.

Each had his own control board and each was prepared to take over
another's duties if necessary. They took off the baggy coveralls and
tossed them into lockers. Aréchaga's made an odd clunk. He hitched up
his shorts and turned quickly. They checked each other's instruments
and settings, then went to their couches. A clock with an extra hand
ticked the seconds off backward.

"We're ready," van den Burg muttered into a throat mike.

"So're we," a speaker answered tinnily.

The second hand began its final revolution in reverse. With blastoff it
would begin turning in its proper direction. There was a clang as the
water hose dropped its magnetic nipple. The rumbling became louder and
the G meter climbed to 3.5. After several minutes the needle dropped
suddenly to 2. Aréchaga tried to lift his head but decided it wasn't
worth the effort. The rumbling stopped and he knew the sudden panic of
free fall.

He made the adjustment which controlled arc flights and free fall
parachute jumps had taught him and unstrapped. The speaker's tinny
voice read off numbers which they transmuted into turns of two wheels
with axes at right angles. Since the weight of the remaining reaction
mass could not be calculated with exactitude they spun by trial and
error the last few turns until a telescope parallel to the thrust axis
zeroed on a third magnitude pinpoint whose spectroscope matched the
tinny voice's demands.

"Why such a razzy speaker?" Hagstrom groused as he spun a wheel.

"A paper cone gets mush-mouthed in 3 G's," van den Burg grunted.

Aréchaga set the pump for 1.6 seconds at four liters. He nodded.
Hagstrom pulled the rods. Weight returned briefly; then they floated
again. Van den Burg belched. The tinny voice approved, and Hagstrom
dropped the cadmium rods again. "Anybody for canasta?" Aréchaga asked.
