
The first day nobody ate. Overtrained, blasé--still, it _was_ the
first time and the stomach had yet to make peace with the intellect.
The second day Aréchaga broke the pantry door seals and studied the
invoices. He gave a groan of disgust and went back to sleep. With
something solid strapped in on top it was almost easy.

On the third day van den Burg put bags of steak and string beans into
the hi-fi oven and strapped himself into a chair. He used chopsticks to
snare the globules of soup and coffee which escaped from hooded cups
despite all precautions.

"How is it?" Hagstrom asked.

"It'd taste better if you'd come down and sit on the same side of the
ship."

Human Factors had recommended that table and chairs be situated in one
plane and resemble the real thing. The sight of one's fellow man at
ease in an impossible position was not considered conducive to good
digestion.

Hagstrom dived across the room and in a moment Aréchaga joined him.
Aréchaga sampled the steak and vegetables and turned up his nose. He
broke seals and resurrected pork, beef, onions, garlic, and sixteen
separate spices. There was far too much _sancoche_ for one meal when he
was through.

"What'll you do with the rest of it?" Hagstrom asked.

"Eat it tomorrow."

"It'll spoil."

"In this embalmed atmosphere?" Aréchaga asked. He sampled the stew.
"Irradiated food--pfui!" He went to his locker and extracted a jar.

"What's that?" van den Burg asked.

"_Salsa picante._"

"Literal translation: shredding sauce," Hagstrom volunteered.
"Guaranteed to do just that to your taste buds."

"Where'd you get it?" van den Burg asked.

"Out of my locker."

"Not sterile, I presume."

"You're darn tootin' it ain't. I'm not going to have the only tasty
item on the menu run through that irradiator."

"Out with it!" van den Burg roared.

"Oh, come now," Aréchaga said. He poured _salsa_ over the stew and took
a gigantic bite.

"I hate to pull my rank but you know what the pill rollers have to say
about unsterilized food."

"Oh, all right," Aréchaga said morosely. He emptied the jar into the
disposal and activated the locks. The air loss gave the garbage a
gradually diverging orbit.
