





THE LONG HILLSIDE

A CHRISTMAS HARE-HUNT IN OLD VIRGINIA

By Thomas Nelson Page

Charles Scribner's Sons New York, 1908

Copyright, 1891, 1904, 1906




I

There do not seem to be as many hares now as there used to be when I was
a boy. Then the "old fields" and branch-bottoms used to be full of them.
They were peculiarly our game; I mean we used to consider that they
belonged to us boys. They were rather scorned by the "gentlemen," by
which was meant the grown-up gentlemen, who shot partridges over the
pointers, and only picked up a hare when she got in their way. And the
negroes used to catch them in traps or "gums," which were traps made of
hollow gum-tree logs. But we boys were the hare-hunters. They were our
property from our childhood; just as much, we considered, as "Bruno" and
"Don," the beautiful "crack" pointers, with their brown eyes and satiny
ears and coats, were "the gentlemen's."

The negroes used to set traps all the Fall and Winter, and we, with the
natural tendency of boys to imitate whatever is wild and primitive, used
to set traps also. To tell the truth, however, the hares appeared to
have a way of going into the negroes' traps, rather than into ours, and
the former caught many to our one.

Even now, after many years, I can remember the delight of the frosty
mornings; the joy with which we used to peep through the little panes
of the dormer-windows at the white frost over the fields, which promised
stronger chances of game being caught; the eagerness with which,
oblivious of the cold, we sped through the garden, across the field,
along the ditch banks, and up by the woods, making the round of our
traps; the expectancy with which we peeped over the whitened weeds and
through the bushes, to catch a glimpse of the gums in some "parf" or
at some clearly marked "gap"; our disappointment when we found the door
standing open and the trigger set just as we had left it the mormng
before; our keen delight when the door was down; the dash for the trap;
the scuffle to decide which should look in first; the peep at the brown
ball screwed up back at the far end; the delicate operation, of getting
the hare out of the trap; and the triumphant return home, holding up our
spoil to be seen from afar. We were happier than we knew.

So far to show how we came to regard hares as our natural game, and how,
though to be bird-hunters we had to grow up, we were hare-hunters as
boys. The rush, the cheers, the yells, the excitement were a part of the
sport, to us boys the best part.

Of course, to hunt hares we had to have dogs--at least boys must
have--the noise, the dash, the chase are half the battle.

And such dogs as ours were!

It was not allowable to take bird-dogs after hares. I say it was not
allowable; I do not say it was not done, for sometimes, of course,
the pointers _would_ come, and we could not make them go back. But
the hare-dogs were the puppies and curs, terriers, watch-dogs, and the
nondescript crew which belonged to the negroes, and to the plantation
generally.

What a pack they were! Thin, undersized black-and-tans, or spotted
beasts of doubtful breed, called "houn's" by courtesy; long legged,
sleepy watch-dogs from the "quarters," brindled or "yaller" mongrels,
which even courtesy could not term other than "kyur dogs"; sharp-voiced
"fises," busier than bees, hunting like fury, as if they expected to
find rats in every tuft of grass; and, when the hares got up, bouncing
and bobbing along, not much bigger than the "molly cottontails" they
were after, getting in everyone's way and receiving sticks and stones
in profusion, but with their spirits unbroken. And all these were in one
incongruous pack, growling, running, barking, ready to steal, fight, or
hunt, whichever it happened to be.

We used to have hunts on Saturdays, just we boys, with perhaps a black
boy or two of our particular cronies; but the great hunt was "in the
holidays"--that is, about Christmas. Then all the young darkies about
the place were free and ready for sport.

This Christmas hunt was an event.




II

It was the year 186--, and, Christmas-day falling on a Sunday, Saturday
was given as the first day of the holidays. It had been a fine Fall;
the cover was good, and old hares were plentiful. It had been determined
some time before Christmas that we would have a big hare-hunt on that
day, and the "boys"--that is, the young darkies--came to the house from
the quarters, prepared for the sport, and by the time breakfast was over
they were waiting for us around the kitchen door.

Breakfast was always late about Christmas time; perhaps, the spareribs
and sausages and the jelly dripping through a blanket hung over the legs
of an upturned table accounted for it; and on, this Christmas eve it was
ten by the tall clock in the corner of the dining-room before we were
through.

When we came out, the merry darkies were waiting for us, grinning and
showing their shining teeth, laughing and shouting and calling the
dogs. They were not allowed to have guns; but our guns, long old
single-barrels handed down for at least two generations, had been
carried out and cleaned, and they were handing them around, inspecting
and aiming them with as much pride as if they had been brand-new. There
was only one exception to this rule: Uncle "Limpy-Jack," so called
because he had one leg shorter than the other, was allowed to have a
gun. He was a sort of professional hunter about the place. No lord
was ever prouder of a special privilege handed down in his family for
generations.

The other boys were armed with stout sticks and made much noise. Uncle
Limpy-Jack was in this respect also the only exception; he was grave
as became a "man" who was a hunter by business, and "warn't arter no
foolishness." He allowed no one to touch his gun, which thus possessed
a special value. He carried his powder in a gourd and his shot in an old
rag.

The pack of dogs I have described, fully recruited, were hanging around,
growling and snarling, sneaking into the kitchen and being kicked out by
Aunt Betty and her corps of varicolored assistants, largely augmented
at the approach of Christmas with its cheer. The yelping of the mongrel
pack, the shouts and whoops of the boys, and the laughter of the maids
or men about the kitchen and back-yard, all in their best clothes and
in high spirits, were exhilarating, and with many whoops and much
"hollering," we climbed the yard fence, and, disdaining a road, of
course, set out down the hill across the field, taking long strides,
each one bragging loudly of what he would do.

Let me see: there were John and Andrew and Black Peter, and Bow-legged
Saul, and Milker-Tim, and Billy, and Uncle Limpy-Jack, and others now
forgotten, and the three white boys. And the dogs, "Ole Rattler," and
"Ole Nim-rod," who had always been old by their names, and were regarded
with reverence akin to fetich-worship because they were popularly
supposed to be able to trail a hare. It was a de-lusion, I am now
satisfied; for I cannot recall that they ever trailed one certainly
three feet. Then there were the "guard dawgs": "Hector," brindled,
bob-tailed, and ugly, and "Jerry," yellow, long-tailed, and mean; then
there was "Jack," fat, stumpy, and ill-natured; there were the two
pointers, Bruno and Don, the beauties and pride of the family, with a
pedigree like a prince's, who, like us, were taking a holiday hunt, but,
unlike us, without permission; "Rock," Uncle Limpy-Jack's "hyah dawg,"
and then the two terriers "Snip" and "Snap." We beat the banks of the
spring ditch for form's sake, though there was small chance of a hare
there, because it was pasture and the banks were kept clean. Then we
made for the old field beyond, the dogs spreading out and nosing around
lazily, each on his own hook. Whether because of the noise we made
and their seeking safety in flight, or because they were off "taking
holiday"{1} as the negroes claimed, no hares were found, and after a
half-hour our ardor was a little dampened. But we soon set to work
in earnest and began to beat a little bottom lying between two hills,
through which ran a ditch, thickly grown up with bushes and briers. The
dead swamp-grass was very heavy in the narrow little bottom along the
sides, and was matted in tufts. The dogs were scattered, and prowling
around singly or in couples; and only one of the pointers and Snip
were really on the ditch. Snip showed signs of great industry, and went
bobbing backward and forward through a patch of heavy matted grass. In
any other dog this might have excited suspicion, even hope. There are,
however, some dogs that are natural liars. Snip was one of them. Snip's
failing was so well known that no attention was paid to him. He
gave, indeed, a short bark, and bounced up two or three times like a
trap-ball, looking both ways at once; but this action only called down
upon him universal derision.

     1 The hares, according to the negroes, used to take holidays
     and would not go into traps in this season; so the only way
     to get them was by hunting them.

Just then, however, a small boy pointed over to the top of the hill
calling, "Look-a yander," and shouts arose, "Dyah she go!" "Dyah she
go!" "Dyah she go!"

Sure enough, there, just turning the hill, went a "molly cotton,"
bouncing. In a second we were all in full chase and cry, shouting to
each other, "whooping" on the dogs, and running with all our might. We
were so carried away by the excitement that not one of us even thought
of the fact that she would come stealing back.

No negro can resist the inclination to shout "Dyah she go!" and to run
after a hare when one gets up; it is involuntary and irresistible. Even
Uncle Limpy-Jack came bobbing along for a while, shouting, "Dyah she
go!" at the top of his voice; but being soon distanced he called his
dog, Rock, and went back to beat the ditch bank again.

The enthusiasm of the chase carried us all into the piece of pine beyond
the fence, where the pines were much too thick to see anything and where
only an occasional glimpse of a dog running backward and forward, or an
instinctive "oun-oun!" from the hounds, rewarded us. But "molly is berry
sly," and while the dogs were chasing each other around the pines,
she was tripping back down through the field to the place where we had
started her.

We were recalled by hearing an unexpected "bang" from the field behind
us, and dashing out of the woods we found Uncle Limpy-Jack holding up a
hare, and with a face whose gravity might have done for that of Fate.
He was instantly surrounded by the entire throng, whom he regarded with
superb disdain and spoke of as "you chillern."

"G' on, you chillern, whar you is gwine, and meek you' noise somewhar
else, an' keep out o' my way. I want to git some hyahs!"

He betrayed his pleasure only once, when, as he measured out the shot
from an old rag into his seamed palm, he said with a nod of his head:
"Y' all kin _run_ ole hyahs; de ole man' _shoots_ 'em." And as we
started off we heard him muttering:

     "Ole Molly Hyah,
     What yo' doin' dyah?
     Settin' in de cornder
     Smokin' a cigah."

We went back to the branch and began again to beat the bushes, Uncle
Limpy-Jack taking unquestioned the foremost place, which had heretofore
been held by us.

Suddenly there was a movement, a sort of scamper, a rash, as something
slipped out of the heavy grass at our feet and vanished in the thick
briers of the ditch bank. "Dy ah she go!" arose from a dozen throats,
and gone she was, in fact, safe in a thicket of briers which no dog nor
negro could penetrate.

The bushes were vigorously beaten, however, and all of us, except Uncle
Limpy-Jack and Milker-Tim, crossed over to the far side of the ditch
where the bottom widened, when suddenly she was discovered over on the
same side, on the edge of the little valley. She had stolen out, the
negroes declared, licking her paws to prevent leaving a scent, and
finding the stretch of hillside too bare to get across, was stealing
back to her covert again, going a little way and then squatting, then
going a few steps and squatting again. "Dyah she go!" "Dyah she go!"
resounded as usual.

Bang!--bang!--snap!--bang! went the four guns in quick succession,
tearing up the grass anywhere from one to ten yards away from her. As if
she had drawn their fire and was satisfied that she was safe, she turned
and sped up the hill, the white tail bobbing derisively, followed by the
dogs strung out in line.

Of course, all of us had some good excuse for missing, Uncle
Limpy-Jack's being the only valid one--that his cap had snapped. He made
much of this, complaining violently of "dese yere wuthless caps!" With
a pin he set to work, and he had just picked the tube, rammed painfully
some grains of powder down in it, and put on another cap which he had
first examined with great care to impress us. "Now, let a ole hyah git
up," he said, with a shake of his head. "She got _man_ ready for her,
she ain't got you chil-lern." The words were scarcely spoken when a
little darkey called out, "Dyah she come!" and sure enough she came,
"lipping" down a furrow straight toward us. Uncle Limpy-Jack was on that
side of the ditch and Milker-Tim was near him armed only with a stout
well-balanced stick about two feet long. As the hare came down the hill,
Uncle Jack brought up his gun, took a long aim and fired. The weeds and
dust flew up off to one side of her, and she turned at right angles
out of the furrow; but as she got to the top of the bed, Milker-Tim,
flinging back his arm, with the precision of a bushman, sent his stick
whirling like a boomerang skimming along the ground after her.

Tim with a yell rushed at her and picked her up, shouting, "I got her! I
got her!"

Then Uncle Limpy-Jack pitched into him: "What you doin' gittin' in my
way!" he complained angrily. "Ain' you got no better sense 'n to git in
my way like dat! Did n' you see how nigh I come to blowin' yo' brains
out! Did n' you see I had de hyah when you come pokin' yer wooly black
head in my way! Ef I had n' flung my gun off, whar 'd you 'a' been now!
Don' you come pokin' in my way ag'in!"

Tim was too much elated to be long affected by even this severity, and
when he had got out of Uncle Jack's way he sang out:

     "Ole Molly Hyah,
     You' ears mighty thin.
     Yes, yes, yes,
     I come a-t'ippin' thoo de win'!"

So far the honors were all Uncle Jack's and Milker-Tim's, and it was
necessary for the rest of us to do something. Accordingly, the bottom
having been well hunted, the crowd struck out for an old field over
the hill, known as "the long hillside." It was thick in hen-grass
and broom-straw, and sloped down from a piece of pine with a southern
exposure on which the sun shone warm. We had not reached it before
a hare jumped out of a bush near Charlie. In a few moments, another
bounced out before one of the dogs and went dashing across the field.
Two shots followed her; but she kept on till at last one of the boys
secured her.

We were going down the slope when Peter called in great excitement,

"Heah a ole hyah settin' in her haid. Come heah, Dan, quick! Gi' me your
gun; le' me git him!"

This was more than Dan bargained for, as he had not got one himself yet.
He ran up quickly enough, but held on tightly to his gun.

"Where is he? Show him to me: I 'll knock him over."

As he would not give up the gun, Peter pointed out the game.

"See him?"

"No."

"Right under dat bush--right dyah" (pointing). "See him? Teck keer dyah,
Don, teck keer," he called, as Don came to a point just beyond. "See
him?" He pointed a black finger with tremulous eagerness.

No, Dan did not see, so he reluctantly yielded up the gun.

Peter took aim long and laboriously, shut both eyes, pulled the trigger,
and blazed away.

There was a dash of white and brown, a yell, and Don wheeled around
with his head between his forepaws stung by the shot as "molly" fled
streaking it over the hill followed only by the dogs.

Peter's face was a study. If he had killed one of us he could not have
looked more like a criminal, nor have heard more abuse.

Uncle Limpy-Jack poured out on him such a volume of vituperation and
contempt that he was almost white, he was so ashy.

Don was not permanently hurt; but one ear was pierced by several shot,
which was a serious affair, as his beauty was one of his good points,
and his presence on a hare-hunt was wholly against the rules. Uncle
Limpy-Jack painted the terrors of the return home for Peter with a
vividness so realistic that its painfulness pierced more breasts than
Peter's.

Don was carried to the nearest ditch, and the entire crowd devoted
itself to doctoring his ear. It was decided that he should be taken to
the quarters and kept out of sight during the Christmas, in the hope
that his ear would heal. We all agreed not to say anything about it
if not questioned. Uncle Limpy-Jack had to be bribed into silence by a
liberal present of shot and powder from us. But he finally consented.
However, when Met, in a wild endeavor to get a shot at a stray partridge
which got up before us, missed the bird and let Uncle Limpy-Jack, at
fifty yards, have number-six pellets in the neck and shoulder, Peter's
delinquency was forgotten. The old man dropped his gun and yelled, "Oh!
Oh!" at the top of his voice. "Oh! I 'm dead, I 'm dead, I 'm dead." He
lay down on the ground and rolled.

Met was scared to death and we were all seriously frightened. Limpy-Jack
himself may have thought he was really killed. He certainly made us
think so. He would not let anyone look at the wound.

Only a few of the shot had gone in, and he was not seriously injured,
but he vowed that it was all done on purpose, and that he was "going
straight home and tell Marster," a threat he was only prevented from
executing by us all promising him the gold dollars which we should find
in the toes of our stockings next morning.




III

So far the day had been rather a failure; the misfortunes had exceeded
the sport; but as we reached the long hillside I have spoken of, the fun
began. The hares were sunning themselves comfortably in their beds, and
we had not gone more than two hundred yards before we had three up, and
cutting straight down the hill before us.

Bang!--bang!--bang!--bang! went the guns. One hare was knocked over, and
one boy also by the kick of his gun; the others were a sight chase, and
every boy, man, and dog joined in it for dear life.

"Whoop!--whoop! Dyah she go! Dyah she go! Heah, heah! Heah, heah! Heah,
heah, heah! Whoop, Rattler! Whoop, Nimrod! Heah, Snip! heah, heah,
Bruno! Heah, heah!" Everyone was striving to get ahead.

Both hares were picked up before reaching cover, one being caught by
Bruno, who was magnificent in a chase. After many falls and failures
by all of us, Saul flung himself on the other, and gave a wild yell of
triumph.

The "long hillside" was full of hares; they bounced out of the
hen-grass; slipped from brush-heaps and were run down, or by their speed
and agility escaped us all. The dogs got the frenzy and chased wildly,
sometimes running over them and losing them through a clever double and
dash. The old field rang with the chase until we turned our steps toward
home to get ready for the fun after dark.

We were crossing the pasture on our way home. The winter sunset sky was
glowing like burnished steel; the tops of the great clump of oaks and
hickories in which the house stood were all that we could see over the
far hill; a thin line of bluish smoke went straight up in the quiet air.
The dogs had gone on ahead, even the two or three old watch-dogs ran
after the others, with their noses in air.

The question of concealing Don and his ragged ears came up. It was
necessary to catch him and keep him from the house. We started up the
slope after him. As we climbed the hill we heard them.

"Dee got a ole hyah now; come on," exclaimed one or two of the younger
negroes; but old Limpy-Jack came to a halt, and turning his head to one
side listened.

"Heish! Dat ain' no ole hyah dey 're arter; dey 're arter Marster's
sheep--dat 's what 'tis!"

He started off at a rapid gait. We did the same.

"Yep, yep! Oun, oun, oun! Err, err, err!" came their voices in full cry.

We reached the top of the hill. Sure enough, there they were, the
fat Southdowns, tearing like mad across the field, the sound of their
trampling reaching us, with the entire pack at their heels, the pointers
well in the lead. Such a chase as we had trying to catch that pack
of mischievous dogs! Finally we got them in; but not before the whole
occurrence had been seen at the house.

The shouts that were borne to us, as rescuers began to troop across the
fields, drove our hearts down into our boots.

The return to the house was widely different from the triumph of the
out-going in the morning. It was a dejected cortege that wended its
toilsome way up the hill. Uncle Limpy-Jack basely deserted us after
getting the promise of our gold dollars, declaring that he "told dem
boys dat huntin' ole hyahs warn' no business for chillern!"

We knew that we had to "face the condign." There was no maudlin
sentiment in that region. Solomon was truly believed to have been the
wisest of men, and at least one of his decrees was still acted on in
that pious community.

The black boys were shipped off to their mammies and I fear received
their full share of "the condign."

We were ushered solemnly into the house and were marched upstairs to
meditate on our enormities.

We could hear the debate going on below, and now and then a gentle voice
took up the cause. Presently a slow step mounted the stair and the door
opened. It was a grave senior--owner of Don. We knew that we were gone.

"Boys, did n't you know better than that?"

Three culprits looked at each other sideways and remained speechless. We
were trying to figure out which was the more politic answer.

"Now, this is Christmas----"

"A time of peace and good-will," said Met under his breath, but loud
enough to be heard.

"Yes--and that 's the reason I am going to appeal to you as to what
should be done to you. Suppose you were in my place and I in yours, and
you had told me never--_never_ to take the pointers out to run
hares, and I knew I was disobeying you, and yet I had done it
deliberately--_deliberately_ disobeyed you--what would you do?"

I confess that the case seemed hopeless. But Met saved the day.

"I 'll tell you what I 'd do, sir."

"What?"

"I 'd give you another chance."

"Hm---ah--ur----"

It was, however, too much for him, and he first began to smile and then
to laugh. Met also broke out into a laugh, knowing that he had caught
him.

So peace and good-will were restored and Christmas really began.





