
The first indication that the Confidet might be working, came three
weeks later, when Quay handed Cutter the report showing an efficiency
increase of 3.7 percent. "I think that should tell the story," Quay said
elatedly.

"Doesn't mean anything," Cutter said. "Could be a thousand other factors
besides that damned gimmick."

"But we've never been able to show more than one point five variance on
the administrative checks."

"The trouble with you, Quay," Cutter said brusquely, "is you keep
looking for miracles. You think the way to get things in this world is
to hope real hard. Nothing comes easy, and I've got half a notion to get
those damned silly things jerked out." He bent over his work, obviously
finished with Quay, and Quay, deflated, paced out of the office.

Cutter smiled inside the empty office. He liked to see Quay's enthusiasm
broken now and then. It took that, to mold a really good man, because
that way he assumed real strength after a while. If he got knocked down
and got up enough, he didn't fall apart when he hit a really tough
obstacle. Cutter was not unhappy about the efficiency figures at all,
and he knew as well as Quay that they were decisive.

Give it another two weeks, he thought, and if the increase was
comparable, then they might have a real improvement on their hands.
Those limp, jumpy creatures on the desks out there might actually start
earning their keep. He was thinking about that, what it would mean to
the total profit, when Lucile opened his door and he caught a glimpse of
the office outside, including the clerk with the sad, frightened eyes.
Even you, Linden, Cutter thought, we might even improve you.


The increase _was_ comparable after another two weeks. In fact, the
efficiency figure jumped to 8.9. Quay was too excited to be knocked down
this time, and Cutter was unable to suppress his own pleasure.

"This is really it this time, George," Quay said. "It really is. And
here." He handed Cutter a set of figures. "Here's what accounting
estimates the profit to be on this eight-nine figure."

Cutter nodded, his eyes thinning the slightest bit. "We won't see that
for a while."

"No," Quay said, "but we'll see it! We'll sure as hell see it! And if it
goes much higher, we'll absolutely balance out!"

"What does Bolen figure the top to be?"

"Ten percent."

"Why not thirty-six point eight?" Cutter said, his eyes bright and
narrow.

Quay whistled. "Even at ten, at the wage we're paying--"

"Never settle for quarters or thirds," Cutter said. "Get the whole
thing. Send for Bolen. I want to talk to him. And in the meantime, Bob,
this is such a goddamned sweet morning, what do you say we go to lunch
early?"

Quay blinked only once, which proved his adaptability. Cutter had just
asked him to lunch, as though it were their habit to lunch together
regularly, when in reality, Quay had never once gone to lunch with
Cutter before. Quay was quite nonchalant, however, and he said, "Why,
fine, George. I think that's a good idea."
