
Like everything he gave her, Mary liked his gift extremely well, and
night after night, after the birthday, he came home to find her at the
desk, using the chair, captaining her house and her servant staff. And
the improvement was noticeable in her, almost from the first day. Within
a month, he could detect a remarkable change, and for the first time,
since they had been married, Mary gave a dinner for thirty people
without crying just before it started.

There were other changes.

Quay brought in efficiency report after efficiency report, and by the
end of three months, they had hit eighteen and seven-tenths percent
increase. The administrative office was no longer the dull, listless
place it had been; now it thrived and hummed like the shop below. Cutter
could see the difference with his own eyes, and he could particularly
see the differences in certain individuals.

Brown and Kennedy showed remarkable improvement, but it was really Harry
Linden who astonished Cutter. An individual check showed a sixty-percent
increase by Linden, and there was a definite change in the man's looks.
He walked differently, with a quick, virile step, and the look of his
face and eyes had become strong and alive. He began appearing early in
the morning, ahead of the starting hour, and working late, and the only
time he missed any work hours, was one afternoon, during which, Lucile
informed Cutter, he had appeared in court for his divorce trial.

Within a month, Cutter had fired Stole and Lackter and Grant, as
department heads, and replaced them with Brown, Kennedy, and Linden. He
had formulated plans for installation of the Confidets in the drafting
department and the supply department, and already the profits of
increased efficiency were beginning to show in the records. Cutter was
full of new enthusiasm and ambition, and there was only one thorn in the
entire development.

Quay had resigned.

Cutter had been startled and extremely angry, but Quay had been
unperturbed and stubborn. "I've enjoyed working with you immensely,
George, but my mind is made up. No hard feelings?"

Cutter had not even shaken his hand.

It had bothered him for days, and he checked every industrial company in
the area, to see where Quay had found a better position. He was highly
surprised, when he learned, finally, that Quay had purchased a small
boat and was earning his living by carrying fishermen out onto the Bay.
Quay had also married, four days after his resignation, and Cutter
pushed the entire thing out of his mind, checking it off to partial
insanity.

By February of the next year, he had promoted Harry Linden to Quay's old
job, gotten rid of the deadwood that showed up so plainly on the
individual checks, and the total efficiency average had reached
thirty-three percent. His and Mary's anniversary was on the fourth of
March, and when that day arrived, he was certain that he had reached
that point where he could expand to another plant.

He was about to order her a mink stole in celebration, but it was also
that day that he was informed that she was suing him for divorce. He
rushed home, furious, but she was gone. She had taken her clothes and
jewelry and the second Cadillac. In fact, all that she had left of her
personal possessions were the antique desk and chair. When the trial was
over, months later, she had won enough support to take her to France,
where, he learned, she purchased a chateau at Cannes.

He tried to lose himself in his work, but for the first time in his
life, he had begun to get faintly worried. It was only a sliver of
worry, but it kept him from going on with the expansion. Stocks in the
company had turned over at an amazingly rapid rate, and while it was
still nothing more than intuition on his part, he began to tighten up,
readying himself to meet anything.

The explosion came in July.

Drindor Products had picked up forty-nine percent of the stock on the
market, by using secondary buyers. There had been a leak somewhere,
Cutter realized, that had told his competitor, Drindor, the kind of
profit he was making. He knew who it had been instantly, but before he
could fire Harry Linden, all of his walls crashed down. Four months
before, to put more _esprit de corps_ into Linden, he had allowed
Linden eight shares of his own stock, intending to pick it up later from
the market. Linden had coerced with Drindor. Cutter lost control.

A board of directors was elected by Drindor, and Drindor assumed the
presidency by proxy. Harry Linden took over Cutter's office, as Vice
President In Charge.

Cutter had wildly ordered Edward Bolen to remove the Confidets one week
before, but even then he had known that it was too late, and the
smiling, knowing look on Bolen's face had infuriated him to a screaming
rage. Bolen remained undisturbed, and quietly carried the disks away.
Cutter, when he left his office that final day, moved slowly, very
slowly.
