
He was impartial as to the source of his thrills--provided they were
distant enough from modern civilization. His hero was likely to be an
ape-man roaring through the jungle, with a bloody rock in one hand and a
beautiful girl in the other. Or a cowboy, "hard-riding, hard-shooting,"
the vanishing hero of the ancient ranches. Or a man marooned with a
lovely woman on a desert South Sea island. His heroes were invariably
strong, fearless, resourceful fellows, who could handle a club on equal
terms with a cave-man, or call science to aid them in defending a
beautiful mate from the terrors of a desolate wilderness.

And a hundred million read Eric's novels, and watched the dramatization
of them on the television screens. They thrilled at the simple, romantic
lives his heroes led, paid him handsome royalties, and subconsciously
shared his opinion that civilization had taken all the best from the
life of man.

Eric had settled down to the artistic satisfaction of describing the
sensuous delight of his hero in the roasted marrow-bones of a dead
mammoth, when the pretty woman in the other room stirred, and presently
came tripping into the study, gay and vivacious, and--as her husband of
a few months most justly thought--altogether beautiful in a bright silk
dressing gown.

Recklessly, he slammed the machine back into its place, and resolved to
forget that his next "red-blooded action thriller" was due in the
publisher's office at the end of the month. He sprang up to kiss his
wife, held her embraced for a long happy moment. And then they went hand
in hand, to the side of the room and punched a series of buttons on a
panel--a simple way of ordering breakfast sent up the automatic shaft
from the kitchens below.

Nada Stokes-Harding was also an author. She wrote poems--"back to nature
stuff"--simple lyrics of the sea, of sunsets, of bird songs, of bright
flowers and warm winds, of thrilling communion with Nature, and growing
things. Men read her poems and called her a genius. Even though the
whole world had grown up into a city, the birds were extinct, there were
no wild flowers, and no one had time to bother about sunsets.

"Eric, darling," she said, "isn't it terrible to be cooped up here in
this little flat, away from the things we both love?"

"Yes, dear. Civilization has ruined the world. If we could only have
lived a thousand years ago, when life was simple and natural, when men
hunted and killed their meat, instead of drinking synthetic stuff, when
men still had the joys of conflict, instead of living under glass, like
hot-house flowers."

"If we could only go somewhere--"

"There isn't anywhere to go. I write about the West, Africa, South Sea
Islands. But they were all filled up two hundred years ago. Pleasure
resorts, sanatoriums, cities, factories."

"If only we lived on Venus! I was listening to a lecture on the
television, last night. The speaker said that the Planet Venus is
younger than the Earth, that it has not cooled so much. It has a thick,
cloudy atmosphere, and low, rainy forests. There's simple, elemental
life there--like Earth had before civilization ruined it."

"Yes, Kinsley, with his new infra-red ray telescope, that penetrates the
cloud layers of the planet, proved that Venus rotates in about the same
period as Earth; and it must be much like Earth was a million years
ago."

"Eric, I wonder if we could go there! It would be so thrilling to begin
life like the characters in your stories, to get away from this hateful
civilization, and live natural lives. Maybe a rocket--"
