
Five minutes later Mr. Eric Stokes-Harding and his pretty wife were in
street clothes, light silk tunics of loose, flowing lines--little
clothing being required in the artificially warmed city. They entered an
elevator and dropped thirty stories to the ground floor of the great
building.

There they entered a cylindrical car, with rows of seats down the sides.
Not greatly different from an ancient subway car, except that it was
air-tight, and was hurled by magnetic attraction and repulsion through a
tube exhausted of air, at a speed that would have made an old subway
rider gasp with amazement.

In five more minutes their car had whipped up to the base of another
building, in the business section, where there was no room for parks
between the mighty structures that held the unbroken glass roofs two
hundred stories above the concrete pavement.

An elevator brought them up a hundred and fifty stories. Eric led Nada
down a long, carpeted corridor to a wide glass door, which bore the
words:

                             COSMIC EXPRESS

stenciled in gold capitals across it.

As they approached, a lean man, carrying a black bag, darted out of an
elevator shaft opposite the door, ran across the corridor, and entered.
They pushed in after him.

They were in a little room, cut in two by a high brass grill. In front
of it was a long bench against the wall, that reminded one of the
waiting room in an old railroad depot. In the grill was a little window,
with a lazy, brown-eyed youth leaning on the shelf behind it. Beyond him
was a great, glittering piece of mechanism, half hidden by the brass. A
little door gave access to the machine from the space before the grill.

The thin man in black, whom Eric now recognized as a prominent French
heart-specialist, was dancing before the window, waving his bag
frantically, raving at the sleepy boy.

"Queek! I have tell you zee truth! I have zee most urgent necessity to
go queekly. A patient I have in Paree, zat ees in zee most creetical
condition!"

"Hold your horses just a minute, Mister. We got a client in the machine
now. Russian diplomat from Moscow to Rio de Janeiro.... Two hundred
seventy dollars and eighty cents, please.... Your turn next. Remember
this is just an experimental service. Regular installations all over the
world in a year.... Ready now. Come on in."

The youth took the money, pressed a button. The door sprang open in the
grill, and the frantic physician leaped through it.

"Lie down on the crystal, face up," the young man ordered. "Hands at
your sides, don't breathe. Ready!"

He manipulated his dials and switches, and pressed another button.

"Why, hello, Eric, old man!" he cried. "That's the lady you were telling
me about? Congratulations!" A bell jangled before him on the panel.
"Just a minute. I've got a call."

He punched the board again. Little bulbs lit and glowed for a second.
The youth turned toward the half-hidden machine, spoke courteously.

"All right, madam. Walk out. Hope you found the transit pleasant."

"But my Violet! My precious Violet!" a shrill female voice came from
the machine. "Sir, what have you done with my darling Violet?"

"I'm sure I don't know, madam. You lost it off your hat?"

"None of your impertinence, sir! I want my dog."

"Ah, a dog. Must have jumped off the crystal. You can have him sent on
for three hundred and--"

"Young man, if any harm comes to my Violet--I'll--I'll--I'll appeal to
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals!"

"Very good, madam. We appreciate your patronage."
