
Betty smiled faintly. "The Inchcapes call their planet Bide-A-Wee. I
think Sugar Plum's ever so much nicer. But--but can we afford it?"

"We certainly can't!" fumed Cousin Aurelia. "We'll put it back on the
market and salvage whatever we can."

"No, we won't," Charles said firmly. "And it's not just a summer resort.
We're pulling up stakes to live there all year round."

Betty gasped.

Cousin Aurelia straightened up, bristling.

"I have made up my mind," Charles went on. "I have done a lot of serious
thinking." He pointed at the heavily framed neo-daguerreotype portraits
on the walls. "Our ancestors rediscovered the only _true_ principles,
those of the great Nineteenth Century. They brought the Second Victorian
Age into being. Civilization reached its peak, its full flowering. But
now all is crumbling before the poisonous onslaught of modernism. We who
have not been corrupted must seek out a refuge. That, Cousin, is why I
bought Sugar Plum."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Cousin Aurelia. "There may be changes everywhere
else, but never in Boston."

"Ha!" Charles looked at his watch. "Solomon!" he called out.

The butler came bowing out of the DoItAll nook, where the servants
stayed when they were switched off. He wore a swallowtail coat and
knee-breeches, and had kinky white hair. Made to order, he was Cousin
Aurelia's idea.

[Illustration]

"Yassuh, Marse Charles. Here Ah is."

"Solomon," ordered Charles, "tune in Watson Widgett."

Betty paled, uttering a polite little scream.

"Are you _mad_?" cried Cousin Aurelia. "I've heard about him. I'll not
have that man in _my_ home!"

Charles squared his shoulders. "Cousin, may I remind you that _I_ am
head of this house, and that we are _Victorians_? It's high time you
found out what's going on. Solomon!"

"Yass_uh_."

There was a click from the DoItAll, a brief flash of light and a figure
appeared in their midst, a cheerful young man in loose trousers and
shirt, without coat, waistcoat, cravat, or even a pair of suspenders. He
was grinning at Cousin Aurelia.

"Boys and girls," he was saying, "Wyoming has outlawed corsets! The
folks in Siskiyou, California, have given women the vote! And listen to
this. The Bikini swimsuit--just a wisp and a twist--is back on the
market!" He winked loathsomely. "Yes, indeed, our prize fake Victorians,
our second-hand stuffed shirts, are due for a fall. Here's the best news
today, from a cute little lady right here in old Boston." He unfolded a
paper. "Dear Watsy, When I first found your program, I was a real Mrs.
Biedermeyer. Marriage was something we gentlewomen tried to endure while
we knitted an anti-macassar. It wasn't supposed to be fun. Then a friend
tipped me off to your--"

At this point, Cousin Aurelia emitted a shriek, rolled her eyes and
crumpled to the carpet.

Charles gestured and the commentator vanished with a click and a flash.
Betty scurried out and returned with the smelling salts.

Presently, Cousin Aurelia regained her senses, shivered, and said, "It's
too awful for words. If it were not for Betty, I would surely have left
long ago. As it is, I shall go where you go, to protect her, of course."

Then she permitted Betty to help her to her feet and out of the room.

"Solomon!" Charles called loudly.

"Yassuh, Marse Charles."

"Set the table for two," Charles commanded. "I shall dial the dinner
myself."

He felt very adventurous and masterful. Dialing dinner without aid was
fine training in self-reliance.
