
"And so we see," Ont telepathed, "that there must be a Whole of which
each of us is a part only. The old process which says 'I think,
therefore I am,' has its fallacy in the statement, 'I think.' It assumes
that that assertion is axiomatic and basic, when in reality it is the
conclusion derived from a long process of mental introspection. It is a
theory rather than an axiom."

"But don't you think, Ont," Upt replied, "that you are confusing the
noumenon with the phenomenon? What I mean is, the fact of thinking is
there from the very start or the conclusion couldn't be reached; and the
theoretical conclusion, as you call it, is merely the final recognition
of something basic and axiomatic that was there all the time!"

"True," Ont replied. "But still, to the thinking mind, it is a theory
and not an axiom. All noumena are there before we arrive at an
understanding of them. Thought, if it exists as such, is also there. But
the theoretical conclusion I think has no more degree of certainty than
any other thing the mind can deal with. To say 'I think' is to assert
the truth of an hypothesis which MAY be true, but not necessarily so.
And then to conclude, 'Therefore I am,' is to advance one of the most
shaky conclusions of all time. Underneath that so-called logical
conclusion lies a metaphysics of being, a theory of Wholes, a
recognition by differentiation of parts, with a denial of all but the
one part set apart by that differentiation, and, in short, the most
irrational hodgepodge of contradictory conclusions the thinking mind can
conceive. This pre-cognition that enables one to arrive at the tenuous
statement, 'I think, therefore I am,' is nicely thrown out by tagging it
with another metaphysical intangible called illusion--as if the mind can
separate illusion from reality by some absolute standard."

"I believe you're right, Ont," Upt replied slowly, his telepathed
thoughts subdued with respect. "It is possible that the concept, 'I
think,' is the illusion, while the so-called illusions are the reality."
