
"But," Ont added thoughtfully, "although the conclusion that we are all
thoughts in the mind of the Creator is logically unshakeable, it isn't
very satisfying, from a logical point, because it makes God nothing more
than the compromising of a cute dilemma. It places the Creator in the
same light as the final decision to locate the Capitol of the United
States at Washington."

"Where's that?" Upt asked quickly.

"I don't know," Ont said testily. "That's just something I picked up out
of the blue, so to speak. Inspirational thought. For all I know it's
just a figment of my imagination."

"I've had inspirational thoughts too," Upt said excitedly. "I haven't
spoken of them to you because I was afraid you might think I was
becoming disorganized in my thoughts."

"I've done a lot of thinking about the inspirational stuff I get now and
then," Ont said matter-of-factly. "If it came all the time I would be
inclined to think it was the Voice of the Supreme Being Itself! But it
doesn't come that way."

"Neither does mine," Upt said. "I often think there must be angels that
hover over us at times and bless us with their wise thoughts, perhaps
looking into us to see if we are 'ready' yet. When I seem to sense these
powerful thoughts about me I try to feel humble and worshipful. I hope
in that way one of them will see fit to reveal himself to me someday."

"They might," Ont said hopefully. "I wouldn't mind actually talking to
one of them myself. But speaking of that, we don't know for sure that
these inspirational thoughts aren't actually our own. They SEEM
different, but that may be because they arise in some part of our deep
subconscious thought processes. I've been trying to extend my sense of
awareness in order to reach into my subconscious mind and actually plumb
it to its depths. One thing I've found is that most of my REAL thinking
goes on there, and only rises to the surface of consciousness when it is
completed! That lends probability to the theory that ALL such voices of
inspiration are merely my own subconscious mind giving me the end
products of carefully thought out trains of reasoning it had dreamed
up."

"I think I'll try that line of development myself," Upt said. "I'd never
thought of it. Maybe inspiration is only subconscious thought rising to
the surface of consciousness. Maybe it is. But if so, I'll be very
disappointed. I'd hoped sometime to be able to commune with some
intelligence infinitely superior to mine and really learn the true
nature of things."
