
On purpose, Ernie spent an uneventful evening, arose the next morning,
ignored his wife's red hair, conveniently forgot her name, avoided even
checking to see if the door was there, and saved up a sneer for the
telephone.

During the day, his business life was perfect. He got the Jenkins
account, lunched with the boss, and was asked to serve on the
membership committee in the Chamber of Commerce drive. However, during
the afternoon he developed a terrific headache and excused himself from
the office long enough to see the company physician.

The thin, foxy doctor handed him a pill and a glass of water. After
Ernie had swallowed the pill politely, the physician leaned forward
and gazed at his eyes and forehead. "Tell me, Lane--you're a newlywed,
aren't you?"

Ernie nodded.

"Then why the worried frown? You seem to be carrying the Rock of
Gibraltar on your shoulders. Is your job too much for you?"

"Of course not," Ernie said, smiling. "I told you I had a headache."

"Perhaps," the doctor said, smiling back. "You seemed to have been in
something of a prepossessed state when you came in. I was just curious."

Ernie laughed it off and at the doctor's request lay on a cot for a
period of ten minutes. When he returned to the office, there was a
request that he call a "Marsha."

The sudden venomous thoughts of the evening before spun before his
eyes. What the devil was going on with the woman? The new name, the new
hair-do, the new smirk in her voice--that wasn't the woman he married.
He grabbed the phone and called home.

Twenty rings. No answer.

It was a quarter of four when the switchboard notified him that his
wife was on the line. "Hello, Ernie? This is Melinee. I'm at the Lee
Hat Shop. Can you meet me in half an hour? I want to do some shopping
and I thought we'd have supper and maybe see a movie."

Melinee? It was all like a breath of spring. Away from that house, she
was a different person. Happily, he agreed to buying her a new hat,
supper and a ticket to Loew's State. For Melinee, anything. For Marsha,
nothing.

And when they met, surely enough her hair was blonde again and the
smirk in her voice was gone. She was his bride, and he forgot whatever
the past, present or future might hold.

The future, however, was not long coming. After the movie, they
returned home and were about to settle down when, passing along the
hallway, Ernie looked over his shoulder and saw the extra door.
Quickly, he reached past Melinee and grasped the knob with his hand.

"Ernie, what on _Earth_!"

She startled him. He laughed, and they went in to bed.

It was around one A.M. when Ernie decided he would not be able to put
off any longer the chore of exploring that hall door. It plainly had
not been there the night before; it plainly was there tonight.

He tiptoed softly from bed and left the room. Melinee did not even
stir. He closed the door lightly and cat-footed his way through the
darkness to the wall switch at the foot of the stairs.

Stealthily looking all about him, as if someone or something might
suddenly try to stop him, Ernie sneaked up on the door. He grabbed the
knob with both hands, turned it briskly and the door swung open.

The pale green wall of the hallway confronted him. It was as if the
door were merely hinged onto the wall. No opening whatever.
