
He tapped it with his knuckles. Then he examined the door. It was a
French style thing extending from floor to ceiling with contrasting
green slats. Identical with those appearing all along the hallways,
most of them closet doors.

Just for the heck of it, he thought he would drag out a hammer and
uncork the screws holding the false door--carry it to some conspicuous
place and observe as it went through its next disappearing act. But as
he turned to head for the tool cabinet, Ernie heard the din of distant
shouting--as if a room-full of men were playing cards.

And yet not so distant. For a moment the world became silent. Ernie
pressed an ear against the wall behind the false doorway. It seemed to
be coming from inside, and there were only a few words of any audible
clarity. "Maximum--not much longer--and logarithms--"

Ernie tried the adjacent door. It opened into a small storage room,
unlighted. He felt around the wall paneling, but no switch. Gauging
the dimensions, it seemed to him that the storage room practically
accounted for all the space behind the hall. If the fake door opened
onto a room, it could only be this room, and there was nothing here.

He listened. No sound inside the confines of the room. But the moment
he returned, pressed his ear against the outer wall, Ernie heard them
shouting again. It was as if the wall were twelve inches thick--as if
he were not hearing anything at all--and yet hearing.

The thought struck him--there was a laundry chute opening from the
second floor to the storage room. Provided they wanted to install a
chute. Meanwhile, the agent had told him, it would remain just a hole
in the floor.

He and Melinee had not made any plans for developing the second floor.
It was evident that his mother would one day have to live with them,
and her own invalid sister, in time. And then whatever children there
might be. But so far he and Melinee had actually made only one trip up
there with the agent.

In fact, there was no electrical connection to the upstairs whatever.
Ernie remembered the layout, however, and made his way up the stairs
that creaked in defiance of the agent's compliments. When he reached
the top in the pitch blackness, he felt for the wall.

A strange coldness not at all common to the summer season moved out
along the hallway. It seemed to hover around him, curious of the
intruder.

Imagination.

He walked on, an inch at a time, for he remembered a small table about
half way along. But he never felt the table. Ernie reached the end of
the hall before he was sure--and where had the table gone?

He returned along the opposite wall until he felt the small square
paneling. Then a brass knob. He pulled it open, half expecting the end
of the world. And at that point, a bluish haze filled with gaseous,
luminous smoke rose out and blinded him.

When the obnoxious odor of the smoke was gone, he took a deep breath
and stuck his head in again. Directly below him sat three men, fat and
jovial, shaking their pipes at one another. There was a row of red and
white lighted tubes, not unlike fluorescents, a mahoganylike counter
that might pass for a bar, and a row of bottles against a mirror.
