
With a silent nod, the man named Kronkite shut the transparent door,
turned three knobs, a bell clanged and the floor of the whole affair
sank some thirty degrees on one side, rose thirty on the other. Then
the whirring in the chamber resumed and Ernie was led back to the bar.

"Have yourself a drink, man," his host coaxed.

"I don't need one," Ernie said. "Listen, before we go on, just one
question--"

The man smiled pleasantly.

"Where the heck am I? And what is this going on in my basement?"

The smile continued. It was maddening.

"Well?" said Ernie.

"You are here," the man finally said. "And don't be silly, Ernie. Your
house has no basement."

Ernie turned to the bartender. "I think I _will_ have a drink."

"Make it a triple," the little man called, and the bartender smiled as
if his face hurt.

There was a pained expression on Ernie. He sank his head into his arms.

"Cheer up," the man said. "It isn't worth all that."

"What isn't?"

"Be happy, man."

"I'll be happy when I get out of here, but I'll be hilarious when I
find out the score--and I plan to be hilarious before I get happy. Is
that clear?"

"You talk as if you had been drinking already, man. Snap out of it. I
like men with clear heads."

It was not only a delaying tactic, Ernie thought; it was plainly a
case of nerve-busting. They were going to force it out of him. He had
already conceded they were not a gang of thieves using his basement
for a hideaway; they were not digging a secret tunnel for the Defense
Department.

"You like men with clear heads? What am I, some sort of recruit?"

"Now!" the man exclaimed, suddenly thrust into a new frame of mind. "We
are now on the same plane. You _are_ a recruit and we can understand
each other now."

"So where is this?"

"This is your house, of course, but we're not quite there yet. We're in
what you would call--oh, another dimension."

Ernie reached for the drink and sniffed it. Its smell fitted the
situation. "And what does that mean?"

"Oh, you and I have lived in the same vicinity all our lives,
even crossed each other's paths, but we are in different
dimensions--different worlds in the same place."

"You mean like Mars and Earth?"

"I mean like Mars _in_ Earth, or vice versa," the man answered.

Ernie jumped up and started for the ladder. "I'm getting out of here--"

"Don't be a fool! Climb that ladder and you'll butt your skull in!"

"I came through the hatch. I'll leave through the hatch."

"But we've shifted thirty degrees. You told us to. Now the top of the
ladder is thirty degrees away from the door of the laundry chute, which
is quite impossible to reach, my friend, because there is perhaps dirt
and a foundation and everything else in the way. We'd have to tear
out our own structure and gouge into yours. This we cannot do. Too
expensive."
