
Ernie had heard enough. He climbed the ladder to the top, butted his
head and climbed down. "Okay. You win. What's the score?"

"You and Marsha," the man said.

"Melinee," Ernie corrected.

"Melinee in your dimension, Marsha in ours. You and she exist in our
dimension as well. Same types, same characteristics inwardly. But not
the same outwardly. Different hair, different name--your own features
were to be slightly different here."

Ernie sat down on the sofa beside the two old men. He buried his head.
"This is the other dimension? Then where is the other me?"

"Oh, no," his host said. "This is not 'the other' dimension. This is
the _experimental_ dimension. _You_ are from the second. What we are
both in is a third realm sponsored by the government--the federal
government of The Unison States. Congrice sponsored this scientific
investigation, provided we could accomplish it before the session ends."

The first desire to laugh at the stupidity of the nightmare grappled
with Ernie. But when he looked at that ladder and remembered the bump
on his head, he knew this was not the time or place for a nightmare.

The man went on, "So we talked Senatore Jumphries into wielding his
might in committee, the committee on extra-dimensional perception
talked to the President Eisenhoovelt, he addressed the Congrice, and by
the single vote of Demorep Martini, this thing was financed for short
duration."

Ernie opened his eyes and looked beyond the bar and the experimental
lab. It was like the inside of a giant ship in space or a vessel
plowing the Pacific. It spread into distant chasms of darkness.

"Our object, of course, is to start out the new dimension with an Adam
and Eve," the host said.

Ernie sneered. "You think you can start a new world!"

"Oh, we've begun it. And we chose your home because here you are two
young newlyweds just starting out in life, not too concerned that the
future holds nothing more for you than junior assistant to the vice
president--ever! Here you have more chance for development, advancement
and enjoyment. We have effected changes--your Melinee, for example. You
and Marsha will run this dimension. You and she will--"

"We will not, and I'm going to Melinee now. Let me out of here."

The man politely hid a laugh. "Dear sir, I assure you there is no way
out of the dimension. You are trapped. You must remain now, regardless,
and conduct our experiment for us."

"You got through to our world to find out about us," Ernie said. "How
can you keep me here?"

"But we entered your world from our own dimension. Our people pass back
and forth all the time, unknown to your people. But from this special
contraption which Congrice has rigged up for us, there is no immediate
escape."

Ernie got mad. "Then what the devil are these people doing here?"

"Sh," the man said, "those are our Congrice observers." He seemed
extremely disturbed. "Don't let them know how you feel. They get angry
at people who take them on wild-goose chases."
