
There was a sudden feeling of hope that Ernie held a monkey wrench in
his hand. First, he would find out all about the thing, then he would
raise hail Columbia to the two Congrice observers and get them to
thumbs-down the experiment. Then, if there was an ounce of humaneness
in them, they would free him.

"Okay, I'll calm down. But let me know the rest. When will I see
Melinee?"

"Marsha," the man said firmly, "will be along shortly. We must first
lift the initial dimension prototype to the exact level of your house.
Every coordinate must match each stick of furniture in your own
dimension. Then we can begin working outward--"

"Working outward?"

"From your house. It is to be the beginning of this--er--civilization
you and Marsha are to create. You will observe in each direction there
is still darkness? When we have manipulated the realm into the exact
position of the ground floor of your house, we will install a series of
transitional burnouts. These will break down molecular resistance which
our more powerful equipment creates on solid portions of your house.
Everything will fit into place, and you and Marsha will report to us
regularly."

Ernie was fuming. "Then we are your prisoners?"

"Oh, but you'll enjoy every minute of it! We created the origin, the
nucleus, in the home of some newlywed in your dimension for the mere
purpose of convenience of adaptability. We will bring in teams who
will plant ersatz crops, trees, cut streams, create weather--put life
into the whole place. With your dimension's home and our dimension's
scientific advantages, you can have full reign of populating a
wonderful new world."

Ernie was madder than he had ever remembered. "And if I refuse?"

"You can't refuse. Marsha will be here momentarily; we have been
experimenting with her changes in hair, mood, expression--we hypnotized
her on occasions. The extra door in the hallways? Sooner or later she
will see it, wonder as you did and open it. This time we will have the
magnetic field force turned on. You see, Ernie, you came in the wrong
way and--" and here he paused abruptly--"quite a problem has been
posed."

"I'll say it has!"

"Yes. You see, you were supposed to come through the door, and you
still will, for there was a technical miscalculation in our instruments
which, while allowing you to enter this new dimension, also did not
allow you to enter. You yourself suggested we correct by thirty whole
degrees. Well, we are not set up for more than one field force entrance
per person. The Congrice didn't allot us that much money."

Ernie's eyes grew wild and bright. "So, technically, I'm not even here?"

"Technically, your other self is still up by the laundry chute looking
in or going back to bed, or whatever." He scratched his balding head.
"Really an unfortunate event. For when the other you enters our hallway
door, we shall have to do away with one of you. It would not only
frighten Marsha, but the federal government would accuse us of waste,
corruption and heaven knows what else."

The wildness in Ernie's eyes turned into a gleam. "You mean your
government just wouldn't understand?"

"Right," the man said unhappily. "There's more politics in science than
you'd ever believe possible."

"Mister, I think I have a solution."

"You _have_?"
