
Bob Randall shifted his position a little in the wide seat and the
chain that linked his wrist with Virginia's rattled metallically,
sounding unduly loud in the quiet of the room.

Virginia's black hair brushed his cheek as she turned her face up to
him, to ask in a whisper so low it could not be heard by the four
guards who stood beside and behind them:

"It's almost over, isn't it?"

He nodded and she turned her attention back to the five judges seated
at the row of five desks before them. The gray-haired one at the center
desk, Bob knew, was the one in charge of the proceedings and his name
was Vor-Dergal. He had gained the knowledge by watching and listening
and it was the only information he had acquired. He did not know the
names of the other four judges, nor even for sure that they were judges
and that it was a trial. There had been no introductions by the
Tharnarians, no volunteering of information.

Vor-Dergal spoke to them:

"In brief, the facts are these: You claim that your mission was of a
scientific nature, that the two of you were sent from Earth to try to
reach the center of the galaxy where you hoped to find data concerning
the creation of the galaxy. Your ship carried only the two of you and
is one of several such ships sent out on such missions. Since the
voyages of these small exploration ships were expected to require an
indefinite number of years and since the occupants would have to endure
each other's company for those years, your government thought it more
feasable to let the crew of each ship consist of a man and a woman,
rather than two men."

He saw Virginia's cheek quiver at the words, but she managed to
restrain the smile.

"Our system was reached in your journey," Vor-Dergal continued, "and
you swung aside to investigate our sister planet, Vendal. You were met
by a guard ship before reaching Vendal and it fired upon you. Instead
of turning back, you destroyed it with a tight-beam adaptation of your
meteor disintegrator."

Vor-Dergal waited questioningly and Bob said:

"Our instruments showed us that the guard ship was robot-operated. They
could discern nothing organic in the ship, nothing alive. The same
instruments showed us that this planet, Vendal, possessed operating
mines and factories and no organic life other than small animals. We
knew that machines neither voluntarily build factories nor reproduce
other machines, yet the mines and factories were operating. We thought
it might be a world where the inhabitants had all died for some reason
and the robots were still following the production orders given them
when the race lived."

"And so you wilfully destroyed the guard ship that would have turned
you back?"

"We did. It was a machine, operated by machines. And so far as we knew,
it was protecting a race that had died a thousand years before. It was
all a mystery and we wanted to find the answer to it."

Vor-Dergal and the others accepted the explanation without change of
expression. Vor-Dergal resumed:

"Three more guard ships appeared when you were near Vendal. In the
battle that followed, you severely damaged one of them. And when your
ship was finally caught in the guard cruiser's tractor beams, you
resisted the robots. When they boarded your ship, you destroyed several
of them and were subdued only when the compartments of your ship were
flooded with a disabling gas."

"That's true," Bob said.

"In summary: You deliberately invaded Tharnarian territory,
deliberately damaged and destroyed Tharnarian ships, and would have
landed on Vendal had the guard ships not prevented it.

"Your guilt is both evident and admitted. Are there any extenuating
circumstances that have not been presented at this hearing?"

"No," Bob said.

None had been presented all day for the good reason that there was
not a single factor of the circumstances that the Tharnarians would
consider extenuating.

"Your guilt was evident from the beginning," Vor-Dergal said. "We have
spent the past one hundred and eighty days in studying the books and
tapes in your ship. What we learned of your history and your form of
civilization leaves us no alternative in the sentence we must pass upon
you."

The chain clinked faintly as Virginia lifted her hand to lay it on his
arm and she gave him a quick glance that said, "_Here it comes!_"

Vor-Dergal pronounced sentence upon them:

"Tomorrow morning, at thirty-three twelve time, you will both be put
to death by a robot firing squad."

Virginia's breath stopped for a moment and her hand gripped his arm
with sudden pressure but she gave no other indication of emotion and
her eyes did not waver from Vor-Dergal's face.

Vor-Dergal looked past her to the guards. "Return them to their cell."

The guards produced another chain, to link their free arms together
behind their backs, and they were marched across the room and out the
door.

Outside, the sun was setting, already invisible behind a low-lying
cloud. Bob calculated the designated time of their execution in
relation to the Terran time as given by his watch and found that
thirty-three twelve would be about halfway between daylight and
sunrise.
