
Tal-Karanth stood by the open windows and watched the guards return the
Terrans to their cell. Extra guards, both robot and Tharnarian, had
been posted inside and outside the prison building for the night to
prevent any possibility of an escape. Other robots stood guard around
the Terran ship, although it was inconceivable that the Terrans could
ever overpower the prison guards and reach their ship.

But it had been inconceivable that a ship as small as the Terran
ship could ever destroy a Tharnarian guard cruiser. The tight-beam
adaptation circuit of the meteor disintegrators was very ingenious.

Why had the Tharnarian cruisers not had the same weapon? They possessed
the same general type of meteor disintegrators; the same adaptation
circuit would transform a Tharnarian cruiser's meteor disintegrators
into terrible weapons. Why had no one ever thought of doing such a
thing? Why had it been taken for granted for fifty thousand years that
the cruiser's blasters were the ultimate in weapons?

What other weapons did the Terrans on Earth possess? How invincible
would their cruisers be if a small exploration ship could destroy a
Tharnarian cruiser?

The captive Terrans could not be permitted to return to Earth and tell
the others of Tharnar. Neither could they be permitted to live out
their lives in prison on Tharnar. Someday, somehow, they might escape
and return to Earth, or send a message to Earth. The robot fleet of
Tharnar could never withstand an attack by a Terran fleet; the fate of
Tharnar and the quiet and gentle City would be written in blood and
dust and ashes.

There was the sound of rubber-padded metal feet in the distance and he
saw six more robots marching out to add their numbers to the robots
already guarding the Terran ship. The ship, itself, was not far from
the Executive Building; close enough that his eyes, still sharp despite
his seventy years, could make out the name on it: _The Cat_.

_The Cat._ And a cat was--he recalled the definition to be found among
the Terran books--_any of various species of carnivorous and predatory
animals, noted for their stealth and quickness, and their ferocity when
angered_.
