
The robot shoved the plastic food tray under the cell door and went
back down the corridor. Virginia turned away from the single window,
where _The Cat_ could be seen as a silhouette merging into the darkness.

"Last supper, Bob," she said. "Let's eat, drink, and be merry."

He went to the door to get the tray and noticed the three robots and
two Tharnarian guards down the left hand stretch of corridor and the
same number down the right. Virginia came up beside and said, "They're
not taking any chances we won't be here in the morning, are they?"

"No," he said, picking up the tray. "None to speak of."

He carried the tray to the little table in the center of the room and
Virginia seated herself across from him as she had done each meal for
the past six months. But she toyed with the plastic spoon and did not
begin to eat at once.

"I wonder why they made it a firing squad?" she asked. "You'd think
they would have used something ultra-civilized and refined, such as
some painless and flower-scented gas."

"Spies were executed with firing squads during the last Terran war,
three hundred years ago," he said. He smiled thinly. "I suppose they
consider us spies and want us to feel at home in the morning."

"I'm glad they do. I don't want it to be shut up in a room--I would
rather be out under the open sky." She poked at the rim of her tray
again. "They never did tell us why, Bob. They didn't tell us anything,
only that they had no alternative. We didn't hurt any Tharnarians; we
only destroyed one of their ships and some of their robots."

"We upset their sense of security and showed them they're not secure at
all. I suppose they're afraid of an attack from Earth."

"They didn't tell us anything," she said again. "They act as though we
were animals."

"No," he said, "they don't seem to have a very high opinion of our low
position on the social evolution scale."

He began to eat in the manner of one who knows the body needs
nourishment to take advantage of any opportunity for escape, even
though the mind may be darkly certain that no such opportunity shall
arise.

"You ought to eat a little, Ginny," he said.

She tried, and gave up after a few bites.

"I guess I'm just not hungry--not now," she said. She glanced at the
darkened window where _The Cat_ had become invisible. "How long until
daylight again, Bob?"

He looked at his watch. "Seven hours."

"Seven hours?" A touch of wistfulness came into her voice. "I never
noticed, before, how short the nights are."
