
The robot laid the material Tal-Karanth had requested on his desk,
the records and tapes from the Terran ship, and withdrew. Tal-Karanth
sighed wearily as he inserted the first tape in the projector,
wondering again why he felt the vague dissatisfaction and wondering why
he hoped to find an answer among the material from the Terran ship. It
would be an all night task--and he could hardly expect to find more
than he already knew. Tharnar was not safe and secure from discovery by
Terrans in the years to come and faith in the robot fleet had been an
illusion.

Before setting the projector in operation he put through a call to his
daughter.

Thralna's image appeared before him, reclining on a couch while two
robots worked at caring for her finger nails. She raised up a little as
his image appeared before her and the robots stepped back.

"Yes, Father?" she asked.

She waited for him to speak, her wide gray eyes on his image and her
jet-black curls framing her young and delicately beautiful face. For a
moment she reminded him of someone; someone more mature and stronger--

With something of a shock he realized it was the Terran girl his
daughter reminded him of; that the Terran girl seemed the more mature
of the two although Thralna was twenty-eight and the Terran girl was
twenty-one. They had the same gray eyes and black curls, the same curve
to the jaw, the same chin and full lips....

But the similarity was only incidental. There was a grace and a
gentleness to Thralna's beauty; a grace and gentleness that was the
result of fifty thousand years of civilization. Beneath the superficial
beauty of the barbarian girl lay only an animal-like vitality and
potential violence....

"Yes, Father?" Thralna asked again in her carefully modulated voice.

"Are you going to the theatre tonight, Thralna?"

"Yes. Tonight's play was written by D'ret-Thon and it's supposed to be
almost as good as one of the classics. Why do you ask, Father?"

"I called to tell you that I have to work late tonight. I may not be
home until morning."

"Couldn't you let a robot do it?"

"No. I have to do it, myself."

"Does it have to do with those two aliens?"

"Yes."

A little frown of worry appeared and as quickly disappeared. Her slim
fingers touched her forehead for a moment, to smooth away any vestige
of a wrinkle, then she said, "It will be such a relief when they're
finally disposed of. Whenever I think of how they might escape and get
into the City, it frightens me. Are you sure they can't escape, Father?"

"There is no possibility of their escaping," he said. "You go ahead
with your plans for the evening. Will you come home when the show is
over?"

"Not for a while. Kin is taking me dancing, afterward."

"Where you went last time--the place where they were reviving the old
dances?"

"No. Nobody goes there anymore. Those old dances were rather fun but
they were so--so tiring. Our modern dances are much slower and more
graceful, you know."

"All right, Thralna," he said in dismissal. "Enjoy yourself."

"Yes, Father."

She was reclining on the couch again, her eyes closed, when he switched
off the image. He sat for a little while before turning on the tape
projector, recalling his conversation with her and a feeling growing
within him that he was almost on the verge of discovering still another
menace to Tharnar.
