
Tal-Karanth stood before the window again and watched the City as
it slept in the pre-dawn darkness. How many slept in the City? Once
there had been three million in the City but each census found the
population to be less. Five years before there had been less than a
million--two-thirds of the City was a beautiful shell that housed only
the robots that cared for it.

What was wrong? And why had it never occurred to him before that there
was something wrong?

He went back to his desk, where the material from the Terran ship
littered the eternalloy top of it, and sat down again. He was tired,
and frustrated. A menace faced Tharnar, and no one seemed to realize
it. The coming of the barbarians had awakened him to the fallacy of
trusting the robot fleet, but there was still another danger. And the
robot fleet would be more helpless before the newly discovered danger
than it would be before the Terran ships.

He pressed a button and music filled the room; music that had always
before been soothing and restful to hear. But it sounded flat and
meaningless compared with the throbbing barbarian music he had heard
that night and he switched it off again.

What was wrong? It was one of the latest compositions; one that had
been acclaimed as almost as good as one of the classics.

Almost as good.... Like the play Thralna had attended, like the art
exhibits, the athletic records, the scientific discoveries, like
everything in the City and on Tharnar. Almost as good--but never quite
as good as they had been fifty thousand years before.

Was that part of the answer?

No--not part of the answer. Part of the problem, part of the danger
greater than a barbarian invasion. There was no answer that he could
see. Something had been lost by the Tharnarians fifty thousand years
before and he was neither sure what it was nor how to give it back to
them.

He pressed the button that would connect him with Security Officer
Ten-Quoth. Of the two problems, it was only within his power to
handle the immediate phase of the first problem; to make the final
authorization of the execution of the Terrans.
