
Bob looked again at the window which had lightened to a pale gray
square. It was already daylight outside; it would not be long until the
guards came for them. Virginia had fallen asleep at last, more tired
than she had thought, and she still slept with her head against his
shoulder and with his arm around her to support her. He straightened
his legs slowly, not wanting them to be numb from lack of circulation
when the guards came and not wanting to awaken Virginia to grim reality
any sooner than he had to.

But the slight movement was enough. She opened her eyes drowsily,
then the sleepiness gave way to the hard jolt of remembrance and
realization. She looked at the gray window and asked, "How much longer?"

"Within a few minutes."

"I wish you hadn't let me sleep."

"You were tired."

"I didn't want to sleep--I didn't think I would." Then she changed
the subject, as though to keep it from going into the sentimental. "I
see the robot never did come back for the tray. We'll be leaving a
messy room, won't we? I wonder if they'll disinfect it to make sure
it's clean when we're gone? You know"--she smiled a little--"fleas and
things."

She lifted her face to kiss him on the cheek, then she rose and moved
to the window.

"It's cloudy," she said. "There's a mist of rain falling and it's
cloudy outside. I guess it's already later than we thought."

He went over to stand beside her and saw that the morning was alight
with near-sunrise behind the gray clouds.

"It's out there waiting for us--_The Cat_," she said.

He saw it, standing silver-white in the gray morning, gleaming in the
rain and with its slim, dynamic lines making it look as though it might
at any moment hurl itself roaring into the sky.

"It's a beautiful ship," she said. "I wonder what they will do with it
when they--"

A sound came from the far end of the corridor; a snapped command in
Tharnarian. The command was followed at once by the sound of footsteps
approaching their cell; the heavy tread of robots and the lighter,
softer steps of the guards.

Virginia turned away from the window and they faced the cell door as
they waited.

"This is it," she said.

"Are you afraid, Ginny?"

"Afraid?" She laughed up at him, a laugh that came only a little too
quickly. "It's like a play, set a long time ago on Earth. Coffee and
pistols at dawn. Only I don't think they're bringing us any coffee and
if we get a pistol, it will have to be one of theirs."

"It isn't over with till the end--and maybe we can change the ending of
this play for them."

"I'll be watching you, Bob, so I can help you the moment you make the
try."

The Tharnarian guards stopped outside the door, their blasters in their
hands. One of them unlocked the door and two robots entered, guards
locking the big door behind the robots the moment they were inside. The
robots carried no blasters, nothing but three lengths of chain.

The Tharnarian leader outside the door rasped a command:

"You will both turn to face the window, with your hands behind you."

Bob did not obey at once, but appraised the situation. The robots were
massive things--more than six hundred pounds in weight, their metal
bodies invulnerable to any attack he could make with his bare hands.
But there was one chance in ten thousand: if he could catch the first
robot by surprise and send it toppling into the cell door, its weight
might be enough to break the lock of the door.

He struck it with his shoulder, all his weight and strength behind the
attack, and Virginia's small body struck it a moment later.

But it was like shoving against a stone wall. The robot rocked for the
briefest instant, then it threw out a foot to regain its balance. The
other robot snapped a chain around his wrists while Virginia fought it.

"Don't, Ginny," he said, ceasing his own struggles. "It's no use,
honey."

She stopped, then, and the robot jerked her arms around behind her
back, to lock the second chain around her wrists.

She smiled up into his dark and sombre face. "We tried, Bob. They were
just too big for us."

A third chain, longer than the first two, was produced. He felt the
cool metal of it encircle his neck and heard the lock snap shut. The
other end of it was locked around Virginia's neck.

The cell door was opened and the guard leader commanded, "Step forward.
The robots will guide you."

They stepped forward, the robots beside them, gripping their arms with
steel fingers. The chain around their necks rattled from the movement
of walking, linking them together like a pair of captive wild animals.
Bob wondered if the chain had been solely as another precaution to
prevent their escape or if it had been a deliberate act of contempt.
The Tharnarians feared them and, because they feared them, they hated
them. Did it bolster the morale of the Tharnarians to deliberately
treat them as though they were animals?

They stepped out into the cool dawn, into a small courtyard with a
black stone wall at its farther side. The sky was bleakly gray and
the rain was falling as a cold mist, dampening Virginia's face as she
looked up at him.

"The last mile, Bob."

"Walk it straight and steady, Ginny. They're watching."

"How else would we walk it?" she asked calmly.

They came to the wall, where a metal ring had been set in the stone.
There was a chain fastened to the ring and when the robots had swung
them around with their backs to the wall, the free end of the chain was
locked to the center of the chain around their necks.

Again, it could be an added precaution. Or it could be the final
attempt to let their execution be like the killing of a pair of
dangerous animals. It did not really matter, of course....

Two of the armed robots who had walked with the guards took up a
position twenty feet in front of them, blasters in their metal hands.
The robots who had chained them stepped to one side, away from the line
of fire. The leader of the guards lifted his arm to look at his watch
and said something to the robots. The robots lifted their blasters at
the words and leveled them, one aimed at Virginia's heart and one at
Bob's.

But the expected blast did not come. The guard leader continued to
observe his watch. Apparently the first command had meant only: "Aim."
The "Fire" command would come when the hands of the watch reached the
thirty-three twelve mark.

Virginia's shoulder was warm against his arm. But her hand, when it
found his behind their backs, was cold.

"They cheated us," she said. "We were supposed to have a whole firing
squad."

The guard leader gave another command and there was a double click
as the robots pressed the buttons that would ready their blasters for
firing. Virginia swayed a little for the first time, a movement too
small for the Tharnarians to see and one from which she recovered
almost at once.

"It's--I'm all right," she said. "I'm not afraid, Bob."

"Of course you're not, Ginny--of course you're not."

The guard leader had returned his attention to his watch and the
seconds went by; long seconds in which the only sound was the almost
inaudible whisper of the rain against the stone wall behind them.
Virginia looked up at him for the last time, the cold mist wet on her
face.

"We've had a lot of fun together, Bob. We never expected it to end so
soon, but we knew all the time that it might. We'll go together and
that's the way we always wanted it to be, wherever and whenever it
might happen."

Then she faced forward again and they waited, the rain whispering on
the wall behind them and forming in crystal drops on the chain around
their necks. She did not waver again as she stood beside him and he
knew she would not when the end came.

The guard leader dropped his arm, as though he no longer needed to
refer to his watch. He glanced at them very briefly then turned to the
robots, his face revealing the command he was going to give.

Virginia's hand tightened on his own in farewell and he could feel the
pulse of her wrist racing hard and fast. But she stood very straight
as she looked into the blaster and they heard the final command to
their robot-executioners:

"_Dorend thendar!_"
