
_Thirty-three one._

Tal-Karanth looked again at the timepiece on the wall. Thirty-three
one. At the end of eleven more small fractions of time, the Terrans
would no longer exist.

What was life? What was the purpose behind it all? In fifty thousand
years the Tharnarians were no nearer the answer than their ancestors
had been. Why should there be life at all? Why not the suns and
planets, created by chance, and devoid of life? And why even the
suns and planets, the millions of galaxies racing outward across the
illimitable expanse of space and time? Why the universe and why the
life it contained? Why not just--nothing?

The barbarians had set out to find the answer within a hundred years
after the building of their first interstellar ship. And Tharnar's
interstellar ships had not been outside the system for fifty thousand
years; no Tharnarian had been as far as Vendal for fifteen thousand
years.

Why had the Tharnarians lost their curiosity; the curiosity and desire
to learn that had created the past glory of Tharnar?

He thought again of what he had discovered that night; of one of
the reasons why the Terrans had named their ship _The Cat_. It was
not because a cat was a dangerous animal, as he and the others had
thought. It was because the mission of _The Cat_ would be to explore
in unknown territory, because of an old Terran proverb: _Curiosity
killed a cat_. He did not yet understand the second reason behind the
name, but the first reason showed that the Terrans were not without a
sense of humor. How long had it been since he had heard a Tharnarian
laugh at himself, at his own failings or possibility of failure? Never.

Yet--wasn't that pride? What was wrong with the high-headed pride that
admitted no inferiority, no failure? Wasn't fifty thousand years of
civilization something of which to be extremely proud?

_Thirty-three five._

He went to the window and pressed the button that would open it against
the mechanical will of the automatic health-guard equipment. It slid
open and he breathed the cool, moist air that smelled of wet earth and
grass and the odor of the _lana_ tree flowers; flowers that were closed
against the rain and would not open until the sun came out.

The City was quiet in the gray of the morning. He could see one
pedestrian and three moving vehicles in the entire visible portion of
the City. The City, like the flowers of the _lana_ trees, would not
open into life until the storm was over and the sun was shining again.

_Thirty-three nine._

The City, like the flowers of the _lana_ trees. The beauty and
perfection of them both was the result of fifty thousand years of
breeding to bring about that perfection. The City, like the flowers of
the _lana_ trees....

But flowers were without purpose; were only--vegetation.

And what was the purpose of the City?

He did not know. He was the Supreme Executive of Tharnar, and he did
not know.

_Thirty-three ten._

He went back to his desk and switched on the three-dimensional
projection of the scene that would be taking place in the courtyard
behind the prison.

The man and girl stood chained to the wall and the robots were waiting
for the third and last command from the guard leader, the blasters in
their hands as steady as though held in vises and their metal faces
impassive. He increased the magnification of the scene, drawing the
images of the man and girl closer to him. There was no reading the
man's face, other than the hardness and lack of fear. But on the face
of the girl was a defiance that seemed to shine like a radiance about
her. He was reminded of the physical similarity between the barbarian
girl and his daughter. But now the similarity had faded to a shadow.
There was something vital and alive about the barbarian girl, there was
a beauty to her in the way she waited for death that was strange and
wild by Tharnarian standards.

What had Thralna said the night before? "... _Whenever I think of how
they might escape and get into the City, it frightens me._"

--_it frightens me_--

What if it was Thralna who stood before the robots? Would she have her
Tharnarian pride as she looked into the black muzzle of the blaster
and knew she had only a few more heart beats of life left? Would she
stand with the bold defiance of the barbarian girl? Or would she drop
to the ground and plead for her life?

He knew the answer. But it was not Thralna's fault that she was as she
was. She was only like all the others of Tharnar.

_Thirty-three eleven._

How different they were, the two barbarians and the men and women of
Tharnar. Yet the difference would cease to exist within a few moments.
When the man and girl were dead, when all the life and restless drive
were gone from them and they lay still on the cold, wet ground, they
would look the same as Tharnarians.

How did it feel to die in the cold dawn, on an alien world a thousand
lightyears from your own? But they had known such a thing might happen
to them. They had named their ship _The Cat_ because of that. Because
of that, and something else....

Suddenly, clearly, he understood the second reason for the name of
their ship.

_Thirty-three twelve._
