
It was mid-morning of the next day, bright and warm with a few fleecy
white clouds drifting across the blue sky. Tal-Karanth stood before the
window again, Vor-Dergal beside him, and watched the City come to life;
slowly and leisurely, as it had come to life each mid-morning for the
past fifty thousand years.

Vor-Dergal looked toward _The Cat_, where the boarding ramps had
already been withdrawn and the airlocks closed.

"They're ready to go," he said. "I hope you haven't made a mistake in
what you did. The other Terrans will learn of us now, and when they
come...." He let the sentence trail off, unfinished.

"We have a great deal to gain by the coming of the Terrans,"
Tal-Karanth said, "and little to lose."

"Little to lose?" Vor-Dergal asked. "We have Tharnar and the City to
lose; we have our lives and our civilization to lose."

"Yes, our civilization," Tal-Karanth said. "Our god that we
worshipped--our civilization. Look, Vor--listen to what I have to say:

"I did some thinking the night the Terrans were waiting to be executed.
I'm afraid it was probably one of the few times for thousands of years
that a Tharnarian ever tried to critically examine the Tharnarian way
of life. I started from the beginning, more than fifty thousand years
ago, when the interstellar ships of Tharnar were actually interstellar
and were manned by men instead of robots.

"It was a good start we made in interstellar exploration, but it didn't
last very long. We wanted to associate with our cultural peers, and
there weren't any. We didn't attempt to make any contact with the
primitive races we found. We felt that there would be no point in doing
so. Tharnar possessed the highest--and the only--civilization in all
the explored regions of the galaxy and younger races had nothing to
offer us.

"The time came when no more exploration ships were sent out. We
retired to Tharnar and Vendal and surrounded them with a robot-operated
fleet, to keep out the inferior races when they finally did learn
how to build spaceships. We devoted ourselves to our social culture
and became imbued with self-satisfaction, with the assurance that we
of Tharnar possessed the full flowering of culture and progress. We
withdrew into a shell of complacency and each generation lived out its
life with comfortable, methodical, sameness. And our robot-operated
fleet was on guard to prevent any other race from annoying us, from
disturbing us in the wisdom and serenity of our way of life.

"Fifteen thousand years ago, the last of us on Vendal returned to the
more ideal world of Tharnar. And there was plenty of room for them on
Tharnar by then. The population had been decreasing for thousands of
years--it's decreasing right now. Women don't want to have children
anymore--it's an inconvenience for them. They want comfort; the full
stomach, the soft couch, the attention of their robots. And men are the
same.

"There is no longer any incentive for living on Tharnar other than to
duplicate the lives of our ancestors. There is nothing new, nothing
to be done that has not already been done better. So we lapse into an
existence of placid satisfaction with the status quo--we vegetate.
We're like plants that have been seeded in the same field for so many
centuries that the fertility of the soil is exhausted. This barren
field in which we grow is our own form of culture.

"Do you see what the ultimate end will have to be, Vor?"

He had thought old Vor-Dergal would reply with a heated defense of
Tharnarian civilization, but he did not. Instead, he said, "If the
present trend continues, there will come a time when there will be more
robots in the guard ships than there will be Tharnarians for them to
guard. But is the other better, the destruction at the hands of the
barbarians?"

"Destruction? It's within their power to destroy us, but why should
they? It will be unpleasant for many Tharnarians to contemplate, but
an unbiased study of the Terrans shows that they would not want the
things we have on Tharnar and in the City; that they would not consider
Tharnar and the City worth the trouble of conquest."

"A conjecture," Vor-Dergal said. "And, even if you are right and the
Terrans never come to destroy us--what have we to gain by taking this
risk?"

"New life. We've been too long in the barren field of our own culture.
We've lost our curiosity, our desire to learn, our sense of humor that
would permit us to make honest self-evaluations, our pride and courage.
And in losing these things, we lost our racial urge to survive.

"Look at the City this morning, Vor. See how slowly it moves; listen to
how still it is for a city that contains almost a million people. Do
you know what this day is for the City? It's one more act, to be added
to all the thousands of acts in the past, in the City's rehearsal for
extinction.

"The Terrans have what we lost. They're a young race with a vitality
that's like a fire where our own is like a dying spark. That's why
I let those two go; why I want the others of their kind to know of
Tharnar and come here. It's not too late for us; not yet too late for
contact with these Terrans to give back to us all these things we lost."
