
In the pause following his words the quiet of the City was suddenly
shattered by the thunder of _The Cat's_ drives. It lifted, shining
and slender and graceful, and hurled itself up into the blue sky.
Tal-Karanth watched it until it was a bright star, far away and going
out into the universe beyond, until the sound of its drives had faded
and gone.

He looked away from the sky and back to the slowly moving, softly
whispering City; the City that was dying and did not know it. He felt
the stirring of an uneasiness within him; a strange non-physical desire
for something. It was the first time in his life he had ever felt such
a sensation; it was something so long gone from the Tharnarians that
the Tharnarian word for it was obsolete and forgotten. But the Terran
word for it was _wanderlust_.

"I almost wish I could have gone with them, Vor," he said. "They're
going to try to reach the heart of the galaxy and see if they can find
the answer to Creation. And we on Tharnar spend our lives sipping sweet
drinks as we discuss trifles and wait for the sun to shine warm enough
for us to emerge from our air-conditioned houses."

"If you're right in thinking that Terrans won't come to plunder Tharnar
and the City," Vor-Dergal said, "then it would be interesting to know
what those two find when they reach the center of the galaxy. If they
don't get killed long before they reach it."

"I think any hostile forms of life they encounter will find them hard
to kill," Tal-Karanth said. "We paid a high price for their capture,
remember? There were two Terran proverbs behind the name of their ship.
It took me quite a while to understand the second one but when I did, I
realized the true extent of Terran determination and self-confidence.

"Their mission was to explore across the unknown regions of space.
They knew it would be dangerous, very dangerous. So they named their
ship '_The Cat_' partly because of an old Terran proverb: '_Curiosity
killed a cat_.' But that was only half the reason behind the name. They
intended to reach the center of the galaxy and they didn't intend to
let anything stop them. So there was a second meaning behind the naming
of their ship:

"'_A cat has nine lives._'"



