
Achilles at midnight paced back and forth before his tent. Finally, in
the agony of his spirit, he called to Thetis. The radio which had been
installed in his shield, unknown to him, transmitted his voice to a
cabin in the great spaceship hanging over the Trojan plain.

Thetis, hearing it, said to Apollo, "Get out of my cabin, you heel, or
I'll have you thrown out."

"Leave?" he said. "Why? So you can be with your barbarian lover?"

"He is not my lover," she said angrily. "But I'd take even a barbarian
as a lover before I'd have anything to do with you. Now, get out. And
don't speak to me again unless it's in the line of business."

"Any time I speak to you, I mean business," he said, grinning.

"Get out or I'll tell my father!"

"I hear and obey. But I'll have you, one way or another."

Thetis shoved him out. Then she quickly put on the suit that could bend
light around her to make her invisible and transport her through the
air and do many other things. Out of a port she shot, straight toward
the tent of her protégé. She did not decelerate until she saw him
standing tall in the moonlight, his hands still raised in entreaty. She
landed and cut the power off so he could see her.

"Mother, Mother!" cried Achilles. "How long must I put up with
Agamemnon's high-handedness?"

Thetis took him by the hand and led him into the tent. "Is Patroclos
around?" she asked.

"No, he is having some fun with Iphis, that buxom beauty I gave him
after I conquered the city of Scyros."

"There's a sensible fellow," said Thetis. "Why don't you forget this
fuss with King Agamemnon and have fun with some rosy-cheeked darling?"
But a painful expression crossed her face as she said it.

Achilles did not notice the look. "I am too sick with humiliation and
disgust to take pleasure in anything. I am full up to here with being a
lion in the fighting and yet having to give that jackal Agamemnon the
lion's share of the loot, just because he has been chosen to be our
leader. Am I not a king in Thessaly? I wish--I wish--"

"Yes?" said Thetis eagerly. "Do you want to go home?"

"I _should_ go home. Then the Greeks would wish they'd not allowed
Agamemnon to insult the best man among them."

"Oh, Achilles, say the word and I'll have you across the sea and in
your palace in an hour!" she said excitedly. She was thinking, _The
Director will be furious if Achilles disappears, but he won't be able
to do anything about it. And the Script can be revised. Hector or
Odysseus or Paris can play the lead role._
