
That night two technicians went into the Greek camp, one to Achilles'
tent and one to Agamemnon's. The technician assigned to the King of
Mycenae gave him a whiff of sleep gas and then taped two electrodes to
the royal forehead. It took him a minute to play a recording and two to
untape the electrodes and leave.

Five minutes later, the King awoke, shouting that Zeus had sent him a
dream in the shape of wise old Nestor. Nestor had told him to rouse the
camp and march forth even if it were only dawn, for today Troy would
fall and his brother Menelaos would get back his wife Helen.

Agamemnon, though, who had always been too clever for his own good,
told the council of elders that he wanted to test his army before
telling them the truth. He would announce that he was tired of this
war they could not win and that he wanted to go home. This news would
separate the slackers from the soldiers, his true friends from the
false.

Unfortunately, when he told this to the assemblage, he found far
less men of valor than he had expected. The entire army, with a few
exceptions, gave a big hurrah and stampeded toward the ships. They had
had a bellyful of this silly war, fighting to win back the beautiful
tart Helen for the King's brother, spilling their guts all over foreign
plains while their wives were undoubtedly playing them false with the
4-Fs, the fields were growing weeds, and their children were starving.

In vain, Agamemnon tried to stop the rush. He even shouted at them what
they had only guessed before, that more was at stake than his brother's
runaway wife. If Troy was crushed, the Greeks would own the trading
and colonizing routes to the rich Black Sea area. But no one paid any
attention to him. They were too concerned with knocking each other over
in their haste to get the ships ready to sail.

At this time, the only people from the spaceship on the scene
were some cameramen and technicians. They were paralyzed by the
unexpectedness of the situation, and they were afraid to use their
emotion-stimulating projectors. By the flick of a few switches
the panic could be turned into aggression. But it would have been
aggression without a leader. The Greeks, instead of automatically
turning to fight the Trojans, would have killed each other, sure that
their fellows were trying to stop them from embarking for home.

The technicians did not dare to waken the Director and acknowledge they
could not handle a simple mob scene. But one of them did put a call
through to one of the Director's daughters, Athena.

Athena zipped down to Odysseus and found him standing to one side,
looking glum. He had not panicked, but he also was not interfering.
Poor fellow, he longed to go home to Penelope. In the beginning of this
useless war, he had pretended madness to get out of being drafted. But,
once he had sworn loyalty to the King, he would not abandon him.

Athena flicked off her light-bender so he could see her. She shouted,
"Odysseus, don't just stand there like a lump on a bog! Do something or
all will be lost--the war, the honor of the Greeks, the riches you will
get from the loot of Troy! Get going!"

Odysseus, never at a loss, tore the wand of authority from the King's
numbed hand and began to run through the crowd. Everybody he met he
reproached with cowardice, and backed the sting of his words with the
hard end of the wand on their backs. Athena signaled to the technicians
to project an aggression-stimulating frequency. Now that the Greeks
had a leader to channel their courage, they could be diverted back to
fighting.

There was only one obstacle, Thersites. He was a lame hunchback with
the face of a baboon and a disposition to match.

Thersites cried out in a hoarse, jeering voice, "Agamemnon, don't you
have enough loot? Do you still want us to die so you may gather more
gold and beautiful Trojan women in your greedy arms? You Greeks, you're
not men. You're women who will do anything this disgrace to a crown
tells you to do. Look what he did to Achilles. Robbed him of Briseis
and in so doing robbed us of the best warrior we have. If I were
Achilles, I'd knock Agamemnon's head off."

"We've put up with your outrageous abuse long enough!" shouted
Odysseus. He began thwacking Thersites on the head and the back until
blood ran. "Shut up or I'll kill you!"

At this the whole army, which hated Thersites, roared with laughter.
Odysseus had relieved the tension; now they were ready to march under
Agamemnon's orders.

Athena sighed with relief and radioed back to the ship that the
Director could be awakened. Things were well in hand.
