
And so they were--until a few days later when Apollo and Hera, waiting
until the Director had gone to bed early with a hangover from the night
before, induced Hector to make a night attack. The fighting went on all
night, and at dawn Patroclos ran into Achilles' tent.

"Terrible news!" he cried. "The Trojans have breached the walls around
our ships and are burning them! Diomedes, Agamemnon, and Odysseus are
wounded. If you do not lead your men against Hector, all is lost!"

"Too bad," said Achilles. But the blood drained from his face.

"Don't be so hardhearted!" shouted Patroclos. "If you won't fight, at
least allow me to lead the Myrmidons against the enemy. Perhaps we can
save the ships and drive Hector off!"

Achilles shouted back, "Very well! You know I give you, my best friend,
anything you want. But I will not for all the gold in the world serve
under a king who robs me of prizes I took with my own sword. However, I
will give you my armor, and my men will march behind you!"

Then, sobbing with rage and frustration, he helped Patroclos dress in
his armor.

"Do you see this little lever in the back of the shield?" he said.
"When an enemy strikes at you, flick it this way. The air in front
of you will become hard, and your foe's weapon will bounce off the
air. Then, before he recovers from his confusion, flick the lever the
other way. The air will soften and allow your spear to pass. And the
spearpoint will shear through his armor as if it were cheese left in
the hot sun. It is made of some substance harder than the hardest
bronze made by the hand of man."

"So this is the magic armor your divine mother, Thetis, gave you," said
Patroclos. "No wonder--"

"Even without this magic--or force field, as Thetis calls it--I am
the best man among Greek or Trojan," said Achilles matter-of-factly.
"There! Now you are almost as magnificent as I am. Go forth in my
armor, Patroclos, and run the Trojans ragged. I will pray to Zeus that
you come back safely. There is one thing you must not do, though, no
matter how strong the temptation--do not chase the Trojans too close
to the city, even if you are on the heels of Hector himself. Thetis
has told me that Zeus does not want Troy to fall yet. If you were to
threaten it now, the gods would strike you down."

"I will remember," said Patroclos. He got into Achilles' chariot and
drove off proudly to take his place in front of the Myrmidons.
