
During the next twenty-four hours, Thetis wept much. But she was also
very busy, working while she cried. She went to Hephaistos, the chief
technician, an old man of five thousand years. He loved Thetis because
she had intervened for Hephaistos more than once when her father had
been angry with him. Yet he shook his head when she asked him if he
could make Achilles another suit of armor, even more invulnerable than
the first.

"Not enough time. Achilles is to be killed tomorrow."

"No. My father has cooled off a little. He remembered that the Script
calls for Achilles to kill Hector before he himself dies. Besides, the
government anthropologist wants to take films of the funeral games for
Patroclos. And he overrules even Father, you know."

"That'll give me a week," said Hephaistos, figuring on his fingers. "I
can do it. But tell me, child, why all the tears? Is it true what they
say, that you love a barbarian, that magnificent red-haired Achilles?"

"I love him," she said, weeping again.

"Ah, child, you are a mere hundred years or so. When you reach my age,
you'll know that there are few things worth tears, and love between
man and woman is not one of them. However, I'll make the armor. And
its field of force will cover everything around him except an opening
to the outside air. Otherwise, he'd suffocate. But what good will all
this do? The Director will find some means of killing him. And even if
Achilles should escape, you'd be no better off."

"I will," she said. "We'll go to Italy--and I'll give him perpetuol."

Thetis went to her cabin. Shortly afterward, the doorbell rang. She
opened the door and saw Apollo.

Smiling, he said, "I have something here you might be interested in
hearing." He held in his hand a small cartridge.

Seeing it, her eyes widened in surprise.

"Yes, it's a recording," he said, and he pushed past her into the
room. "Let me put it in your playback."

"You don't have to," she replied. "I presume you had a microphone
planted in Hephaistos' cabin?"

"Correct. Won't your father be angry if somebody sends him a note
telling him you're planning to ruin the Script by running off to Italy
with a barbarian? And not only that but inject perpetuol into the
barbarian to increase his life span? Personally, if I were your father,
I'd let you do it. You'd soon grow sick of your handsome but uncouth
booby."

Thetis did not answer.

"I really don't care," he said. "In fact, I'll help you. I can arrange
it so the arrow that hits Achilles' heel will be a trick one. Its head
will just seem to sink into his flesh. Inside it will be a needle that
will inject a cataleptic agent. Achilles will seem to be dead but will
actually be in a state of suspended animation. We'll sneak his body at
night from the funeral pyre and substitute a corpse. A bio-tech who
owes me a favor will fix up the face of a dead Trojan or Greek to look
like Achilles'. When this epic is done and we're ready to leave Earth,
you can run away. We'll not miss you until we're light-years away."

"And what do you want in return for arranging all this? My thanks?"

"I want you."

Thetis flinched. For a moment she stood with her eyes closed and her
hands clenched. Then, opening her eyes, she said, "All right. I know
that is the only way open for me. It's also the only way you could have
devised to have me. But I want to tell you that I loathe and despise
you. And I'll be hating every atom of your flesh while you're in
possession of mine."

He chuckled and said, "I know it. But your hate will only make me
relish you the more. It'll be the sauce on the salad."

"Oh, you heel!" she said in a trembling voice. "You dirty, sneaking,
miserable, slimy heel!"

"Agreed." He picked up a bottle and poured two drinks. "Shall we toast
to that?"
