
As he turned to leave, he noticed again the woman lying in radiant
state upon the bed. He walked to her side and leaned over, kissing her
gently on the forehead. As he straightened up, his leg caught against
her arm, pushing it slightly. The woman's arm slipped from its position
and dangled from the edge of the bed like a crazy pendulum. Charles
picked it up and folded it across her now cold breasts. He started
to pull the sheet over her nude form, then stopped, smiling at his
conventionality. After all, it didn't make any difference now.

The phonograph was near the door. On sudden impulse he switched it
on, turned the volume up full, and in grim jest left it playing
Rachmaninoff's _Isle of the Dead_ on full automatic. The music haunted
him down the hall to the elevator that he had to run himself.

The lobby was littered with debris, human and otherwise. Charles
ignored it. The street that led towards the Bureau of Vital Statistics
was a mess of desolate carnage. Charles overlooked it. Shop fronts
smashed, stores looted, gyro-cars wrecked, proud buildings defaced.

"That was it," he said to himself. "Pride. We called this the 'Proud
Era.' Everything was better and bigger and nicer to have. Buildings
were taller, men were healthier, most of the problems of humanity
seemed licked, or nearly so. It was a time of free power, each small
unit of population, each section of town operating on perpetual,
ever-lasting, automatic atomic piles.

"We were free. We seemed, almost, to have accomplished something. The
world was running well. No wonder we called it the 'Proud Era.' Life
was fun, just a bowl of cherries, until...."

Two years ago the animals had started dying. Strangely enough the
rats had gone first, to anybody's notice. Sales of poison dropped,
scientific laboratories chained to a perpetual rodent-cycle began to
complain bitterly.

Then the lovers who hunted out and haunted the lonely lanes through the
countryside began to remark that the locusts were late that year. The
Southern states joyously reported that mosquito control was working to
an unprecedented degree. The largest cotton crop ever was forecast and
rumors from Mexico had it that no one had died from scorpion bite in
several weeks.

A month later the meat animals, the birds and the household pets
began dropping as rapidly as the flies which had dropped earlier.
Congress was called into special session, as were all of the national
governments around the world. The U.N. met at emergency sessions to
cope with the situation. The president of the world-wide Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals committed suicide.

Within a year it was obvious to everyone that man was the only animal
left on earth.

The panic which had begun with the death of the animals was quieted
somewhat by the fact that humans seemed immune to the pandemic. But the
lakes full of dead fish caused a great stink and residents along the
coasts began to move inland. Sales of perfumes and deodorants soared.

Then just one year ago, the first human became infected with the
strange malady. Within six months, half of the world's population was
gone. Less than a month ago no more than a few thousand people remained
in New York. And now....

"I've got to find out," Charles told himself. He meant it, of course,
but in a sense he was afraid--afraid that his trip to the Bureau might
give him an answer he didn't dare listen to. "But I've got to try." He
walked on down the bloody street.

Before the plague the Bureau of Vital Statistics had been one of man's
crowning achievements. Housed as it was in a huge metallic globe of
a building, it contained computers which kept exact account of every
human on earth.

Compulsory registration and the classification of each individual by
means of the discrete patterns of his brain waves had accomplished for
man what no ordinary census could have. The machine knew who was alive,
who was dead, and where everybody was.

Once a year the Bureau issued The Index, an exact accounting of Earth's
four billion inhabitants. Four billion names and addresses, compressed
into microprint, a tremendous achievement even for the "Proud Era."
In all of his life, Charles had never once glanced at The Index.
The average person had little necessity to do so since the Bureau
information service would answer questions free of charge at any time.

Reaching the gigantic building, Charles pushed aside the body of a
young man and walked into the main foyer. Passing behind once-guarded
doors, he entered the giant computer room and paused in admiration.
