
Only once, before the plague, had he seen the interior of this room.
But he still remembered it and he still recalled the powerful emotional
experience it had been those many years ago.

All children had to have a brain-wave recording made by the Bureau
during the first month of their life. And again at the age of 10 each
child returned to the Bureau for a recheck. It was for this latter
recording that Charles had come to the Bureau some twenty-two years
before and a friendly guard had let him peep briefly into the computer
room. The impression of intense activity, of organized confusion, of
mechanical wonder had remained with him the rest of his life.

"So different now," he thought, surveying the room. "Now it's empty, so
empty." The machine seemed to reflect the stillness, the very deadness
of the world. The silence became unbearable.

Charles walked to the master control panel. With newly acquired
dexterity he switched the computer screens on and watched them glow
to life. All around the world sensitive receiving stations pulsed to
activity, sending out searching fingers, hunting for elusive patterns
of neutral energy, mapping and tabulating the results.

The main computer screen dominated one wall of the room. Other smaller
screens clustered around it. On these screens could be graphed the
population of any and every part of the globe. An illuminated counter
immediately above it would give the numerical strength of the area
being sampled while the screen would show population density by
individual pinpoints of light that merged to form brightness patterns.

"I'll try New York first," he said to himself, knowing that he was a
coward, afraid to check the whole world from the start. "I'll start
with New York and work up."

Charles activated the switches that would flash a schematic map of New
York on the screen. "There's bound to be somebody else left here. After
all, there were at least twenty of us just a couple of days ago." And
one of them, a beautiful woman, had invited him up to her apartment,
not because she liked him, but because....

The main screen focused itself, the patterns shifting into a
recognizable perceptual image.

"Why, it was just yesterday (or was it the day before?) that ten of
us, at least, met here to check the figures. There were lots of us
alive then." Including the blond young woman who had died just this
afternoon....

Charles stopped talking and forced his eyes upwards. Peripheral vision
caught first the vague outlines of the lower part of the map. His eyes
continued to move, slowly, reluctantly. They caught the over-all relief
of Greater New York City--and then concentrated on the single, shining
dot at the very heart of the map--and he understood.

His eyes stabbed quickly for the counter above the screen.

One.

He gasped.

The counter read _one_.

Charles was by himself, the last person alive in all of New York City.

He began to tremble violently. The silence of the room began to press
quickly in on him. His frantic fingers searched for the computer
controls.

New York State. One.

The entire United States. One.

The western hemisphere, including islands.

(Was that a point of light in Brazil? No. Just a ghost image).

One.

The Pacific area, Asia, Australia, Asia Minor, Russia and the Near
East, Africa and then Europe.

England!

There was a light in England! Someone else still lived! The counter
clicked forward.

Two!

His trembling stopped. He breathed again.

"Of course. London was at least as populous as New York City before the
plague. It's only logical that--"

He stopped. For even as he spoke, the light winked out! The counter
clicked again.

One.

Alone.

Alone!

Charles screamed.

The bottom dropped out from under him!
