
Chance. That was it! The laws of probability, the bell-shaped curve,
normal distribution, rectilinear regression. More people per square
foot in New York than elsewhere. The first person who died was from New
York, so the last person who gave way to the disease should come from
here too. Spin the wheel; throw the dice; toss the coin.

So simple to explain by the laws of chance. No need for any underlying
assumptions about good and evil, no need for teleological arguments
concerning cause and effect. Simply explain it by chance. Somebody had
to be the last to go and that was--

"No," Charles said, standing up in the quiet of the spring evening.
"No, chance won't do it. No man can reckon with chance. The mind
rejects such things. There must be something beyond mere accident.
There must be!"

He sighed slowly.

"So now I'm a hermit, whether or not I like it," he said in derision to
the gravel path as he walked along it. "A hermit in the midst of a city
of millions of--No, I forgot. There aren't any more people, are there?"
It was hard to realize, even now. "A hermit, alone--and I haven't even
got a cave...."

Charles stopped walking suddenly. No cave, he thought. No place to
sleep out the long one, no place to rest while time came to change
things around and make them for the better. No place to hide.

And suddenly it was the most important thing in life to him to find his
"cave."

It took him almost an hour to find the proper tools, and better than
two hours more of hard, nighttime work to get the hole dug to his
satisfaction. It took almost three hours to find the right sort of
casket, durable but not too heavy for one man to handle. He carted it
out to a grassy plot close to the center of the park where the grave
was. He let the coffin down slowly into the depression, then piled up
loose dirt on the sloping sides of the hole so that the rain would wash
it down over him.

"I can't very well bury myself," he said. "I guess it will rain after
I'm gone." He looked carefully down at the metallic container.

Wait now. There was something wrong, something missing. It was--oh,
yes, he caught it. It was the stone. There wasn't any stone to go at
the head of the grave. "I'll have to fix that."

A sheet of metal, bent double, served for the monument proper. A nearby
tool shed yielded up a can of paint and a brush. By the glow of one of
the streetlights Charles worked out the inscription.

"It ought to be something impressive," he thought out loud. "Something
fitting the occasion."

What did one say on these situations? There was so little chance to
practice up for things like this. But it ought to be good, it ought to
be proper.

"'In this now hallowed corner of the planet Earth--' No. That sounds
too ... too...."

Make it simple, he thought. And he finally wrote:

                         HERE LIES THE BODY OF
                         THE LAST MAN ON EARTH

Yes. That was it. Simple. Let whoever came afterwards figure out the
rest. Let them decide. He smiled and finished the painting.

Charles was hungry. He got up and started for one of the restaurants
near the park. Later on, when there was more time, he'd find a piece
of granite and move it to the plot. He could spend his free time
carving on it, copying the inscription. He would make it into a real
shrine; maybe he would practice up a bit and try to carve a statue to
go with the stone.

Somehow, though, since things were ready and it didn't make too much
difference, it seemed to Charles that he'd probably have a long time
to wait. "Maybe it's just a disease, and I'm immune. I was immune to
smallpox. The vaccination never took. That's probably it."

He smiled. Strange, but now he wanted very much to go on living,
alone or not. There were things he could do, ways to keep occupied.
He wouldn't mind it so much. But he wanted more and more desperately
with each passing second to retain his foothold on the tenuous path of
physical existence.

The tantalizing thought of "why" puzzled its way back into his mind.
But it seemed less pressing now that he had almost come to the
conclusion that he would live for a long time. Later, in a few days
perhaps, he would think about it. In a little while he'd have plenty of
opportunity for hunting down the answer. This seemed good to him, for
now he thought he almost had the answer, if there were an answer. He
thought he had seen the solution peering out at him from the recesses
of his mind, and he didn't like the expression on its face. Better to
forget.
