
Charles reached the broad boulevard. There was a large cafe just across
from him, its front window caved in by a large truck. He stumbled and
almost fell as he stepped from the curb.

"Look at me, nervous as a cat."

He was trembling noticeably as he started across the street.

"I--" He started to say something, to think something. But some hidden
part of his mind clamped down, obscuring the thought, rejecting the
concept.

The tremor turned to a shake before he reached the far curb, and the
first burst of wild pain came as he laid his shoulder against the door
to the restaurant. This was the way the plague began, but--His mind
quickly repressed the idea. It couldn't be the plague. He was immune!

Another burst of pulsating, shattering pain crashed through his body,
tearing down the defenses of his mind, putting an end of his thoughts
of immunity. Colors flared before his eyes, a persistent, irresistible
susurrus flooded his ears.

He wanted to protest, but there was no one to listen to him. He
appealed to every divinity he knew, all the time knowing it would be
useless. His body, out of his voluntary control, tried to run off in
all directions at once.

Charles struggled to end his body's disorganized responses, to
channelize all his energy into one direction. His mind came back into
action. He set up his goal; everything else seemed irrelevant: he had
to get back to the park, to his hermit's cave, to his long, narrow
home. He couldn't die until then.

Ten minutes.

He was allotted ten minutes before the end.

It could have been ten years or ten seconds, for now objective time
meant nothing to him. It was not a matter of measuring seconds and
minutes. It was a matter of forgetting time and measuring space.

He concentrated on the grave; he forced his body to become an unwilling
machine. While he could, he walked, forcing himself on. When his legs
gave way, he crawled. When his knees buckled, he rolled. When his
stomach protested, he vomited. It made no difference.

Charles refused to think. Machines, especially half-broken machines, do
not think; they only work. Sweating, straining, bleeding, retching, he
pushed himself towards his goal, trying to add one final touch of grace
and custom to the rude irrationalness of it all.

His eyes gave out a few feet from the pit. He felt his way towards it.
Convulsions shook his body like a cat shakes a captive mouse. He humped
his body forward between the seizures, hands outstretched, searching
for the grave.

And then he was upon it. One arm reached out for grass, and clutched
bare space instead.

He was home.

He gathered energy from his final reservoirs of strength for one final
movement that would throw him headlong into the shallow grave. He
tensed his muscles, pulled his limbs up under him and started to roll
into the hole.

Instantly the thought struck him with paralyzing devastation. The
answer to it all poked its face out from the recesses of his mind and
sapped the last bit of his energy, corroding his nerves and dying
muscles. Now he knew, and the knowing was the end of it.

He collapsed at the edge of the pit. Only one arm hung loosely down
into it, swinging senseless in the air, pointing accusingly at the
empty coffin.

The world will end, not with a bang, nor with a whimper, but with the
last man's anguished cry at the unreasonableness of it all.

Charles screamed.
