
The large, invisible, ovular being that hung suspended over the Empire
State Building rested from its exertion. Soon it was approached by
another of its kind.

"It is finished?" asked the second.

"Yes. Just now. I am resting."

"I can feel the emptiness of it."

"It was very good. Where were you?"

"On the next planet out. No beauty to it at all; no system. How was
yours?"

"Beautiful," said the first. "It went according to the strictest
semantic relationship following the purest mathematical principles.
They made it easy for me."

"Good."

"Well, where to now?"

"There's another system about four thoughts away. We're due there soon."

"All right. Let's go."

"What's that you have there?"

"Oh, this?" replied the first. "It's a higher neural order compendium
the Things here made up. It's what I used."

"You can't take it with you, you know. They don't allow souvenirs."

"I know."

"Well?"

"All right, all right. You're so good, see if you can compute the
scatter probability."

The first being moved imperceptably and the heavy plastoid binding of
the book disappeared. The thousands of pages dropped softly, caught
at the wind like hungry sails, separated, and pulled by the fingers of
gravity, went their disparate ways.

Here a page scuttled into a broken window of the Chrysler Building
(read the names: Aabat, Aabbs, Aabbt).

Here a page landed upright on the head of one of the library lions
and sloughed softly to the ground (read the names: Looman, Loomana,
Loomanabsky).

Here another page crept in between the cracks of a pier on the
riverfront, dropping gently to the caressing eddies of the water (read
the names: Smith, Smitha, Smitj).

And here two pages danced down into Central Park, pirouetted,
promenaded, and finally came to rest against a propped-up piece of
metal (read the names: Whit, Whita, Whitacomb).

It was not until the dusty morning sun stirred up the breezes that they
fluttered down into the shallow hole beneath, unnoticed. The writing on
the metal, until then partially obscured by the papers, became legible:

                         HERE LIES THE BODY OF
                        THE LAST MAN ON EARTH--
                           CHARLES J. ZZYZST
                              GO TO HELL!



