
In the waning glow of the match Ashley stood staring at me in
amazement, and then I saw the astonishment ebb from his countenance and
horror grow there. Slowly his color ebbed, leaving his bronzed face as
ashy as that of his master had been. The match went out, and we stood
silent.

"Well," I said impatiently, "speak up, man! Who's the lady with you?"

"She's Mr. Brent's niece." The answer came tonelessly through dry lips.

"I am Gloria Brent!" she exclaimed in a voice whose cultured accent was
not lost in the fear that caused it to tremble. "Uncle Richard wired
for me to come to him at once----"

"I've seen the wire," Ashley muttered. "You showed it to me. But
I don't know how he sent it. He hasn't been to the village, to my
knowledge, in months."

"I came on from New York as fast as I could!" she exclaimed. "I can't
understand why the telegram was sent to me, instead of to somebody else
in the family----"

"You were always your uncle's favorite, Miss," said Ashley.

"Well, when I got off the boat at the village just before nightfall,
I found Ashley, just getting ready to drive home. He was surprized to
see me, but of course he brought me on out; and then--that--that dead
man----"

She seemed considerably shaken by the experience. It was obvious that
she had been raised in a very refined and sheltered atmosphere. If she
had been born in the piny woods, as I was, the sight of a dead man,
white or black, would not have been an uncommon phenomenon to her.

"The--the dead man----" she stammered, and then she was answered most
hideously.

From the black woods beside the trail rose a shriek of blood-curdling
laughter. Slavering, mouthing sounds followed it, so strange and
garbled that at first I did not recognize them as human words. Their
inhuman intonations sent a chill down my spine.

"Dead men!" the inhuman voice chanted. "Dead men with torn throats!
There will be dead men among the pines before dawn! Dead men! Fools,
you are all dead!"

Ashley and I both fired in the direction of the voice, and in the
crashing reverberations of our shots the ghastly chant was drowned. But
the weird laugh rang out again, deeper in the woods, and then silence
closed down like a black fog, in which I heard the semi-hysterical
gasping of the girl. She had released Ashley and was clinging
frantically to me. I could feel the quivering of her lithe body against
mine. Probably she had merely followed her feminine instinct to seek
refuge with the strongest; the light of the match had shown her that I
was a bigger man than Ashley.

"Hurry, for God's sake!" Ashley's voice sounded strangled. "It can't be
far to the cabin. Hurry! You'll come with us, Mr. Garfield?"

"What was it?" the girl was panting. "Oh, what _was_ it?"

"A madman, I think," I answered, tucking her trembling little hand
under my left arm. But at the back of my mind was whispering the
grisly realization that no madman ever had a voice like that. It
sounded--God!--it sounded like some bestial creature speaking with
human words, but not with a human tongue!

"Get on the other side of Miss Brent, Ashley," I directed. "Keep as far
from the trees as you can. If anything moves on that side, shoot first
and ask questions later. I'll do the same on this side. Now come on!"

He made no reply as he complied; his fright seemed deeper than that
of the girl; his breath came in shuddering gasps. The trail seemed
endless, the darkness abysmal. Fear stalked along the trail on either
hand, and slunk grinning at our backs. My flesh crawled with the
thought of a demoniacal clawed and fanged _thing_ hurling itself
upon my shoulders.

The girl's little feet scarcely touched the ground, as we almost
carried her between us. Ashley was almost as tall as I, though not so
heavy, and was strongly made.

Ahead of us a light glimmered between the trees at last, and a gusty
sigh of relief burst from his lips. He increased his pace until we were
almost running.

"The cabin at last, thank God!" he gasped, as we plunged out of the
trees.

"Hail your employer, Ashley," I grunted. "He's driven me off with a
gun once tonight. I don't want to be shot by the old----" I stopped,
remembering the girl.

"Mr. Brent!" shouted Ashley. "Mr. Brent! Open the door quick! It's
me--Ashley!"

Instantly light flooded from the door as the upper half was drawn back,
and Brent peered out, shotgun in hand, blinking into the darkness.

"Hurry and get in!" Panic still thrummed in his voice. Then: "Who's
that standing beside you?" he shouted furiously.

"Mr. Garfield and your niece, Miss Gloria."

"Uncle Richard!" she cried, her voice catching in a sob. Pulling loose
from us, she ran forward and threw her lithe body half over the lower
door, throwing her arms around his neck. "Uncle Richard, I'm so afraid!
What does this all mean?"

He seemed thunderstruck.

"Gloria!" he repeated. "What in heaven's name are you doing here?"

"Why, you sent for me!" She fumbled out a crumpled yellow telegraph
form. "See? You said for me to come at once!"

He went livid again.

"I never sent that, Gloria! Good God, why should I drag you into my
particular hell? There's something devilish here. Come in--come in
quickly!"
