
He jerked open the door and pulled her inside, never relinquishing the
shotgun. He seemed to fumble in a daze. Ashley shouldered in after her,
and exclaimed to me: "Come in, Mr. Garfield! Come in--come in!"

I had made no move to follow them. At the mention of my name, Brent,
who seemed to have forgotten my presence, jerked loose from the girl
with a choking cry and wheeled, throwing up the shotgun. But this time
I was ready for him. My nerves were too much on edge to let me submit
to any more bullying. Before he could bring the gun into position, he
was looking in the muzzle of my .45.

"Put it down, Brent," I snapped. "Drop it, before I break your arm. I'm
fed up on your idiotic suspicions."

He hesitated, glaring wildly, and behind him the girl shrank away. I
suppose that in the full flood of the light from the doorway I was not
a figure to inspire confidence in a young girl, with my frame which is
built for strength and not looks, and my dark face, scarred by many a
brutal river battle.

"He's our friend, Mr. Brent," interposed Ashley. "He helped us, in the
woods."

"He's a devil!" raved Brent, clinging to his gun, though not trying to
lift it. "He came here to murder us! He lied when he said he came to
warn us against a black man. What man would be fool enough to come into
Egypt at night, just to warn a stranger? My God, has he got you both
fooled? I tell you, _he wears the brand of the hound_!"

"Then you know _he's_ here!" cried Ashley.

"Yes; this fiend told me, trying to worm his way into the house. God,
Ashley, _he's_ tracked us down, in spite of all our cleverness.
We have trapped ourselves! In a city, we might buy protection; but
here, in this accursed forest, who will hear our cries or come to our
aid when the fiend closes in upon us? What fools--what fools we were to
think to hide from _him_ in this wilderness!"

"I heard him laugh," shuddered Ashley. "He taunted us from the bushes
in his beast's voice. I saw the man he killed--ripped and mangled as if
by the fangs of Satan himself. What--what are we to do?"

"What can we do except lock ourselves in and fight to the last?"
shrieked Brent. His nerves were in frightful shape.

"Please tell me what it is all about?" pleaded the trembling girl.

With a terrible despairing laugh Brent threw out his arm, gesturing
toward the black woods beyond the faint light. "A devil in human form
is lurking out there!" he exclaimed. "He has tracked me across the
world, and has cornered me at last. Do you remember Adam Grimm?"

"The man who went with you to Mongolia five years ago? But he died, you
said. You came back without him."

"I thought he was dead," muttered Brent. "Listen, I will tell
you. Among the black mountains of Inner Mongolia, where no white
man had ever penetrated, our expedition was attacked by fanatical
devil-worshippers--the black monks of Erlik who dwell in the forgotten
and accursed city of Yahlgan. Our guides and servants were killed, and
all our stock driven off but one small camel.

"Grimm and I stood them off all day, firing from behind the rocks when
they tried to rush us. That night we planned to make a break for it, on
the camel that remained to us. But it was evident to me that the beast
could not carry us both to safety. One man might have a chance. When
darkness fell, I struck Grimm from behind with my gun-butt, knocking
him senseless. Then I mounted the camel and fled----"

He did not heed the look of sick amazement and abhorrence growing in
the girl's lovely face. Her wide eyes were fixed on her uncle as if
she were seeing the real man for the first time, and was stricken by
what she saw. He plunged on, too obsessed and engulfed by fear to care
or heed what she thought of him. The sight of a soul stripped of its
conventional veneer and surface pretense is not always pleasant.

"I broke through the lines of the besiegers and escaped in the night.
Grimm, naturally, fell into the hands of the devil-worshippers, and for
years I supposed that he was dead. They had the reputation of slaying,
by torture, every alien that they captured. Years passed, and I had
almost forgotten the episode. Then, seven months ago, I learned that
he was alive--was, indeed, back in America, thirsting for my life.
The monks had not killed him; through their damnable arts they had
_altered_ him. The man is no longer wholly human, but his whole
soul is bent on my destruction. To appeal to the police would have been
useless; he would have tricked them and wreaked his vengeance in spite
of them. I fled from him up and down across the country for more than a
month, like a hunted animal, and finally, when I thought I had thrown
him off the track, I took refuge in this God-forsaken wilderness, among
these barbarians, of whom that man Kirby Garfield is a typical example."

"_You_ can talk of barbarians!" she flamed, and her scorn would
have cut the soul of any man who was not so totally engrossed in his
own fears.

She turned to me. "Mr. Garfield, please come in. You must not try to
traverse this forest at night, with that fiend at large."

"No!" shrieked Brent. "Get back from that door, you little fool!
Ashley, hold your tongue. I tell you, he is one of Adam Grimm's
creatures! He shall not set foot in this cabin!"

She looked at me, pale, helpless and forlorn, and I pitied her as I
despised Richard Brent; she looked so small and bewildered.

"I wouldn't sleep in your cabin if all the wolves of hell were howling
outside," I snarled at Brent. "I'm going, and if you shoot me in the
back, I'll kill you before I die. I wouldn't have come back at all, but
the young lady needed my protection. She needs it now, but it's your
privilege to deny her that. Miss Brent," I said, "if you wish, I'll
come back tomorrow with a buckboard and carry you to the village. You'd
better go back to New York."

"Ashley will take her to the village," roared Brent. "Damn you,
_will_ you go?"
