
With a sneer that brought the blood purpling his countenance, I turned
squarely upon him and strode off. The door banged behind me, and I
heard his falsetto voice mingled with the tearful accents of his niece.
Poor girl, it must have been like a nightmare to her; to have been
snatched out of her sheltered urban life and dropped down in a country
strange and primitive to her, among people whose ways seemed incredibly
savage and violent, and into a bloody episode of wrong and menace and
vengeance. The deep pinelands of the Southwest seem strange and alien
enough at any time to the average Eastern city-dweller; and added to
their gloomy mystery and primordial wildness was this grim phantom out
of an unsuspected past, like the figment of a nightmare.

I turned squarely about, stood motionless in the black trail, staring
back at the pin-point of light which still winked through the trees.
Peril hovered over the cabin in that tiny clearing, and it was no
part of a white man to leave that girl with the protection of none but
her half-lunatic uncle and his servant. Ashley looked like a fighter.
But Brent was an unpredictable quantity. I believed he was tinged with
madness. His insane rages and equally insane suspicions seemed to
indicate as much. I had no sympathy for him. A man who would sacrifice
his friend to save his own life deserves death.

But evidently Grimm was mad. His slaughter of Jim Tike suggested
homicidal insanity. Poor Jim Tike had never wronged him. I would have
killed Grimm for that murder, alone, if I had had the opportunity.
And I did not intend that the girl should suffer for the sins of her
uncle. If Brent had not sent that telegram, as he swore, then it looked
much as if she had been summoned for a sinister purpose. Who but Grimm
himself would have summoned her, to share the doom he planned for
Richard Brent?

Turning, I strode back down the trail. If I could not enter the cabin,
I could at least lurk in the shadows ready at hand if my help was
needed. A few moments later I was under the fringe of trees that ringed
the clearing.

Light still shone through the cracks in the shutters, and at one
place a portion of the window-pane was visible. And even as I looked,
this pane was shattered, as if something had been hurled through it.
Instantly the night was split by a sheet of flame that burst in a
blinding flash out of the doors and windows and chimney of the cabin.
For one infinitesimal instant I saw the cabin limned blackly against
the tongues of flame that flashed from it. With the flash came the
thought that the cabin had been blown up--but no sound accompanied the
explosion.

Even while the blaze was still in my eyes, another explosion filled
the universe with blinding sparks, and this one was accompanied by a
thunderous reverberation. Consciousness was blotted out too suddenly
for me to know that I had been struck on the head from behind,
terrifically and without warning.




                           _3. Black Hands_


A flickering light was the first thing that impressed itself upon my
awakening faculties. I blinked, shook my head, came suddenly fully
awake. I was lying on my back in a small glade, walled by towering
black trees which fitfully reflected the uncertain light that emanated
from a torch stuck upright in the earth near me. My head throbbed, and
blood clotted my scalp; my hands were fastened together before me by a
pair of handcuffs. My clothes were torn and my skin scratched as if I
had been dragged brutally through the brush.

A huge black shape squatted over me--a black man of medium height
but of gigantic breadth and thickness, clad only in ragged, muddy
breeches--Tope Braxton. He held a gun in each hand, and alternately
aimed first one and then the other at me, squinting along the barrel.
One pistol was mine; the other had once belonged to the constable that
Braxton had brained.

I lay silent for a moment, studying the play of the torchlight on the
great black torso. His huge body gleamed shiny ebony or dull bronze as
the light flickered. He was like a shape from the abyss whence mankind
crawled ages ago. His primitive ferocity was reflected in the bulging
knots of muscles that corded his long, massive apish arms, his huge
sloping shoulders; above all the bullet-shaped head that jutted forward
on a column-like neck. The wide, flat nostrils, murky eyes, thick lips
that writhed back from tusk-like teeth--all proclaimed the man's
kinship with the primordial.

"Where the devil do you fit into this nightmare?" I demanded.

He showed his teeth in an ape-like grin.

"I thought it was time you was comin' to, Kirby Garfield," he grinned.
"I wanted you to come to 'fo' I kill you, so you know _who_ kill
you. Den I go back and watch Mistuh Grimm kill de ol' man and de gal."

"What do you mean, you black devil?" I demanded harshly. "Grimm? What
do you know about Grimm?"

"I meet him in de deep woods, after he kill Jim Tike. I heah a gun fire
and come with a torch to see who--thought maybe somebody after me. I
meet Mistuh Grimm."

"So you were the man I saw with the torch," I grunted.

"Mistuh Grimm smaht man. He say if I help him kill some folks, he help
me git away. He take and throw bomb into de cabin; dat bomb don't kill
dem folks, just paralyze 'em. I watchin' de trail, and hit you when you
come back. Dat man Ashley ain't plumb paralyze, so Mistuh Grimm, he
take and bite out he throat like he done Jim Tike."

"What do you mean, bite out his throat?" I demanded.

"Mistuh Grimm ain't a human bein'. He stan' up and walk like a man, but
he part hound, or wolf."

"You mean a werewolf?" I asked, my scalp prickling.

He grinned. "Yeah, dat's it. Dey had 'em in de old country." Then he
changed his mood. "I done talk long enough. Gwine blow yo' brains out
now!"

His thick lips froze in a killer's mirthless grin as he squinted along
the barrel of the pistol in his right hand. My whole body went tense,
as I sought desperately for a loophole to save my life. My legs were
not tied, but my hands were manacled, and a single movement would bring
hot lead crashing through my brain. In my desperation I plumbed the
depths of black folklore for a dim, all but forgotten superstition.

"These handcuffs belonged to Joe Sorley, didn't they?" I demanded.

"Uh huh," he grinned, without ceasing to squint along the sights. "I
took 'em 'long with his gun after I beat his head in with window-bar. I
thought I might need 'em."

"Well," I said, "if you kill me while I'm wearing them, you're
eternally damned! Don't you know that if you kill a man who's wearing a
cross, his ghost will haunt you for ever after?"

He jerked the gun down suddenly, and his grin was replaced by a snarl.

"What you mean, white man?"

"Just what I say. There's a cross scratched on the inside of one of
these cuffs. I've seen it a thousand times. Now go ahead and shoot, and
I'll haunt you into hell."

"Which cuff?" he snarled, lifting a gun-butt threateningly.

"Find out for yourself," I sneered. "Go ahead; why don't you shoot? I
hope you've had plenty of sleep lately, because I'll see to it that you
never sleep again. In the night, under the trees, you'll see my face
leering at you. You'll hear my voice in the wind that moans through the
cypress branches. When you close your eyes in the dark, you'll feel my
fingers at your throat."

"Shut up!" he roared, brandishing his pistols. His black skin was
tinged with an ashy hue.

"Shut me up--if you dare!" I struggled up to a sitting position, and
then fell back cursing. "Damn you, my leg's broken!"

At that the ashy tinge faded from his ebon skin, and purpose rose in
his reddish eyes.

"So yo' leg's busted!" He bared his glistening teeth in a beastly grin.
"Thought you fell mighty hard, and then I dragged you a right smart
piece."

Laying both pistols on the ground, well out of my reach, he rose
and leaned over me, dragging a key out of his breeches pocket. His
confidence was justified; for was I not unarmed, helpless with a broken
leg? I did not need the manacles. Bending over me he turned the key in
the old-fashioned handcuffs and tore them off. And like twin striking
snakes my hands shot to his black throat, locked fiercely and dragged
him down on top of me.
