
Dirty Jake Niedelmeier was, you might say, the most feared ribbon clerk
in the Territory. Easily the most.

I remember him from the early days, from the first day he came to town,
in fact. I remember because he got off the stage just as I was leaning
out the window nailing up my brand-new shingle, and my office was and
still is upstairs next to the stage depot. I was down on the boardwalk
admiring it, all shiny gold leaf on black like the correspondence
school promised:

                          Hiram Pertwee, M.D.

His voice broke in on me, all squeaky. "Beg your pardon," he said,
"where's the YMCA?"

Well, that isn't the usual sort of question for here. I turned around.
There he was, a scrawny little runt about knee-high to short, wearing a
panama hat, a wrinkled linen duster and Congress gaiters.

He wasn't especially dirty then, of course, only about average for a
stage passenger. He kind of begrudged his face, with little squint
eyes and a long thin nose, a mustache like a hank of Spanish moss and
just about chin enough to bother shaving. Under his duster he wore a
clawhammer coat, the only alpaca one I ever saw, and I never from that
day out saw him wear any other. He stood there looking like he'd never
been anyplace he really cottoned to, but this might just be the worst.

I was just a young squirt then and not above funning a dude. I told him
the YMCA was around the corner, two doors down and up the back stairs
at the Owl Hoot Palace. He nodded and went the way I told him.

That was, and still is, Kate's Four Bit Crib. The girls there wear
candy-striped stockings and skirts halfway to the knee, and their
shirtwaists are open at the neck. Dirty Jake didn't speak to me for
three years.

He wasn't Dirty Jake then, though, just Jacob Niedelmeier, fresh from
selling ribbons and yard goods in Perth Amboy, New Jersey and hot to
find a fortune in the hills. He'd been a failure all his natural life.
This was a new beginning, for a man 34 who was already at the bitter
end and looking for the path back. Gold was the way, he figured. He was
going to get it.

But he didn't. He was back flat broke and starving in four months.

He spent the next seventeen years behind the notions counter at
Martin's Mercantile, selling ribbon and yard goods and growing old two
years at a time. I think it tainted his mind.

Leastways, from the time I got to know him, some fourteen years gone,
he's been what you might say, a queer actor. At first, when the store
closed at sundown he'd take off for the near hills with a pick and a
sack, still seeking for color somebody might have missed. After a while
he didn't bother with the gear. He just moseyed around all that rock
mostly, I suppose, to be away from people.

Truth to tell, people were beginning to avoid him anyway. He was
getting kind of gamy over the years, and cantankerous generally.
