
Maybe it's kind of funny we got more or less friendly but doctors and
ribbon clerks aren't so all-fired far apart. They both have to do with
people and their ways, and like to get shut of both now and then. Every
couple of months I'd go along with him up in the hills, to get the sick
smell out of my nose. Night air and a night sky can be pretty fine if
you've been looking at tongues and such long enough.

Going out like that, we didn't say much. I preferred it that way since
Jake Niedelmeier was a boob.

A smart man can get on tolerably well with an idiot if both just have
sense enough to keep their mouths shut. One time he didn't was when he
brought along a bottle of rye. He got started and was going on to beat
the band, yapping about how life was a cheat and someday everybody'd
respect Jacob Niedelmeier, until finally I lost patience and told him
that while I treasured our association beyond pearls I'd chuck him off
a cliff if he didn't shut the hell up. I was nice about it, and after
that it was like I said, tolerable.

Well, sir, about two years ago he came into my office while I was
darning up some fool borax miner that'd got himself kicked square in
the bottle on his hip. Jake stood in the corner picking his teeth while
I finished. After the borax miner limped out he spoke up.

"Comin'?" That was all the invitation he ever gave.

"I guess," I said. I sloshed the suture needle in a basin, gave it a
couple of swipes on the hone stone and threw it in my satchel. That
miner had a tough rind.

Jake went out first. I closed the door behind us, not locking it,
of course, because our night marshal was kind of my relief surgeon
whenever I was on calls. He was a Secesh hospital orderly during the
Rebellion. He was better with a saw than with sewing, but he could tie
up most wounds well enough to do till I got back.

Jake and I set out south up the mountain trail, but pretty soon it hit
me he was heading someplace considerable more directly than we usually
did.

Sure enough, he took off at an angle from the trail after a bit. We
struck up into some fairly woolly country. He wasn't following any
sign I could see, at least not by moonlight, but he kept going faster
until I was plumb out of wind.

We were in the hills overlooking Crater Lake when we came to kind of an
amphitheater in the rocks, some twenty feet across. He stopped at the
edge of it and stood staring in, silent and breathing catchy.

Me, I just chased my own breath for a while, then looked too and
saw what he was aiming at. Right in the middle, shining pale in the
moonshine like nothing else does, was a pile of old, old bones. Jake, I
saw, had seen it before. It was scaring him yet.
