
Next day a squabble came up over some borax rights upcountry. I didn't
get to open that rolltop for a time. Then one early morning coming back
in the buggy from a house-call in Pockmark, forty-odd miles north, I
got to worrying again at the umbrella handle and those dead Indians.

Seems like four, five times a week some chunkhead hunkers down hard
with his spurs on. When I got to the office that night there was one
waiting--a bad one, Spanish rowels--and Jake was sprawled in my chair,
picking his teeth with my spare scalpel. I patched up the chunkhead,
took the scalpel from Jake and rinsed it off and watched him suck his
teeth for a while. It began to look like he was going to be stubborn.
So finally I said: "Say, Jake."

He grunted. "Jake," I said, "I think I've got that dingus figured." He
snuck a glance over at the desk so I knew he knew what I meant, but he
was busy pretending that wasn't what he came to talk about.

"I think it's a gun that can read minds like a gypsy," I said. Jake
still looked bored, so I took the umbrella handle out of the rolltop
and waved it at him. He dove off the chair and started rolling for the
door.

"You damn fool," I said, "it won't go off." I was reasonably certain
it wouldn't, but I laid it back down by the disk gently anyhow and sat
in the chair. I've only got the one chair, on the theory that anybody
who isn't bad enough to lie on the table is well enough to stand. Jake
edged over and stood like a short-legged bird on a bobwire fence. "It
kin whut?" he said.

"It can read minds," I said. "You were going to bash those bones. The
gun knew it and trained square on your head. You remember?"

He remembered. "And those Indians," I went on. "You remember them? The
left side of the head on each of them was blown off."

I hauled down a roller chart of the human skeleton, first time I'd done
that since I don't know when.

"This up here is the brain," I said. "We don't know a hell of a lot
about it, but we do know it's like a whole roomful of telegraphers,
sending messages to different parts of the body along the nerves.
They're like the wires. This left hemisphere--right here--sends to the
right side of the body. Don't fret about why, the nerves twist going
into the spinal cord.

"Okay. We know, too, that the part of the brain that sends to the arm
is right here, in the parietal lobe. Right under the chunk of skull
that was shot off on those three Indians."

"Shaw," Jake said, perching on the table. The old billy-goat was
beginning to get impressed, even if he didn't have any notion of what I
was talking about.
