
I didn't have exactly much notion either, but I kept on. "The brain
works by a kind of electricity, same kind as in the telegraph batteries
at the depot. This gun," I tapped the umbrella handle and Jake started
off again, but caught himself, "has some sort of detector, a galvanic
thermometer that senses electrical messages to the nerves."

From here on in it was pure dark and wild hazard. "Obviously," I said,
"whenever one of those signals goes from this cerebral motor area here
in the left hemisphere down to make the weapon hand move, it must be a
special signal this gun was built to catch. Just like a lock is made
for one particular key.

"And near as I can figure, the gun has to be able to tell when that
move coming up is going to be dangerous to the man holding it. Stands
to reason if it can tell when a brain's signalling a hand, it can tell
too if that brain is killing-mad. Some people can do that, and most
dogs.

"So, if it senses murderous intent and a message to the weapon hand to
move, it moves too, and faster.

"It homes on this disk like a magnet right into the hand of the gent
that owns it, and aims itself plumb at the place the signal is coming
from." I tapped the chart. "Right here."

I poked the gunk out of a corncob, packed it and lit up before going
on. Jake stared at the umbrella handle like a stuffed owl.

"Now, that fourth skeleton we saw sure as hell isn't human. He isn't
from anywhere on this green earth, or I miss my guess. Might even have
something to do with Crater Lake there, years ago. But we aren't likely
to find out.

"But we do know that he fought three Indians that probably jumped him
all at once. And he killed every one of them with this gun before he
fell."

That brought Jake up short.

The Territory is kind of violent generally, and anybody or anything
good along that line would be bound to have the sober respect of a
ninny like Jake.

I dug up an old glove, and used spirit gum to stick in its palm the
little disk from the skeleton's hand. I pulled the glove on my right
hand, and stood up with my hand about a foot over the umbrella handle.

"Okay," I said, "kill me."
