
Next morning the borax squabble blew up again. What with miners getting
stomped I didn't get to bed for a week, much less have a chance to find
out where Jake and that damned weapon had lit out for. By the time
I did, it was too late. Jacob Niedelmeier, the ribbon clerk, after
seventeen years was on his way to glory as the legendary Dirty Jake.

I got the start of the story from a drifter, name of Hubert Comus. He'd
got into kind of a heated discussion in a saloon south a ways that
ended with him and this other man going for their hardware. Hubert
got his Merwin & Bray .42 out and, being a fool, tried fanning it. Of
course it jammed and he laid the heel of his hand open clear to the
bone.

Twasn't the hand bothering Hubert, though. Like most, the other man
missed him clean, but when the barkeep threw them both out Hubert lit
sitting on the boardwalk and took a six-inch splinter clear through his
corduroys.

While I was working on him he told me about Jake.

A man, it seems, had turned up in a little settlement called Blister,
about two days down the line. Nobody noticed him come in, except that
he was wearing one glove, a shiny clawhammer coat and Congress gaiters.
The general run in the mining camps doesn't wear Congress gaiters.

He got noticed, though, when he showed up in a barroom wearing a
pearl-gray derby with an ostrich plume in the band, and carrying a
rolled-up umbrella under his arm. The little devil had stuck the shaft
of a regular umbrella in the muzzle of the skeleton's weapon.

It turned out he'd bought the derby that the storekeeper there had
planned to be buried in. Where the ostrich plume came from I never did
find out.

"He come right in the swingin' door an' stood there," Hubert said over
his shoulder, "lookin' at the crowd. Purty quick they was all lookin'
right back, I kin tell you. That feather fetched 'em up sharp. Take
it easy back there, will you, Doc? Then Homer Cavanaugh, the one they
called Ham Head, he bust out laughing. He laughed so hard he bent over
double, and the rest of the boys was just beginnin' t'laugh too when
the little feller picked up a spitoon and dumped it down Ham Head's
neck.

"The boys got mighty quiet then. Hey, easy, Doc, will you? Ham Head
straightened up and his face went from red as flannels to white, just
like that. He stood glarin' at the little feller for a couple of ticks,
openin' and closin his fists, and then that big right hand went for the
Smith & Wesson in his belt.

"Well, it was a double-action pistol and had a couple notches in the
grip, but Ham Head never cleared it. I never even seen the little
feller draw, but there was Ham Head fallin' with half his noggin shot
away. Gently, will you, Doc, gently!

"The little feller stood leaning on his umbrella, lookin' down at him.
'What was that man's name?' he says. 'Ham Head Cavanaugh,' somebody
says back. 'Ham Head Cavanaugh,' the little feller says, 'he's the
first.' Then he shoves the umbreller back under his arm and goes out.
We never saw him again.

"Some say it was a bootleg pistol he used, or a derringer in his
sleeve. And some say he had a pardner with a rifle in the street, but
there wasn't nobody there. I was standin' as close to him as I am to
you, Doc, and I swear--it--was--that--um--breller--OW!"
