
Ham Head Cavanaugh was the first. I had kind of a personal interest in
Jake and his weapon, so I kept track. There was Curly Sam Thompson, Big
John Ballentine, Redmeat Carson, Uriah Singletree and twelve others
known of, all dead within eighteen months. Any man Jake could hoorah
into a fight. With never a chance to get his right hand on iron before
his head gave the signal and got blown off. He took them all on. And he
never lost--because he couldn't.

Jake was king-o'-the-hill now, all right. He had the success he yearned
for.

Yet when he came back to see me last April it wasn't to brag. He was
in trouble. I looked up from a customer, a damn fool that'd sat on a
gila monster, and there he was, sneaking in the door bare-headed like a
whipped hound, not the cock of the walk in the whole Territory. He slid
into the back room like a shadow, and the man I was working on never
even knew he'd come.

When I went in afterward the lamp was out, the shade was down and he
was in a corner, nervous as a jackrabbit an eagle just dropped in a
wolf den. "Buried my derby under a pile of rock up in the mountains,"
he whispered. "Look," and he held out his glove.

It was plumb worn out. The little metal disc was hanging on by a
strand of spirit gum, and the fabric of the palm was in shreds.

I looked at him for a minute without saying anything. He was still
wearing the clawhammer coat, over B.V.D. tops, but it looked like he'd
been buried weeks in it and dug up clumsy. He had on greasy rawhide
breeches and battered cowhand boots for shoes. He had a month's beard
on his lip and he stunk.

This here was legendary Dirty Jake, no question about it.

"Get a new glove," I said.

"Nope," he answered, "no good. Last week in Ojo Rojizo I took the
glove off to scratch and right then a man braced me. He threw me in a
horse-trough when I wouldn't fight. I want you to fix me up good.

"I want you to open my hand up and set the dingus just under the skin,
and sew it up again. Knew a feller did that with five-dollar gold
pieces cuz he didn't like banks. Worked fine till he got a counterfeit,
and it killed him.

"I'll lay low in the hills till the hand heals. No problems after that."

No problems? Maybe so, but I'd been doing some thinking. Still, I kept
my mouth shut and did what he wanted, and he slunk off with no thanks.
Don't guess I really had any coming.

After he left I got out my tallybook and ticked off the men Dirty
Jake had killed: One Eye Jack Sundstrom, Fat Charlie Ticknor, Pilander
Quantrell, Lobo Stephens, Alec the Frenchman Dubois, some jackass Texas
nobody even knew and the rest, all men whose brains had telegraphed a
special signal to Jake's gun before it reached their own right hand.
Well, there was a new pistolero in town.

A month and a half later I was craned around, trying to lance a boil of
my own, when out of the corner of my eye I saw Dirty Jake go by under
my window. He'd dug that hat with the ostrich plume out from under the
rocks, his hand was healed, he was swinging his umbrella and he didn't
so much as look up. He was headed for the Owl Hoot Palace. I decided
the boil'd wait.

Less than five minutes later I heard the shots, two of them. A second
later Jubal Bean, swamper at the Owl Hoot, came pounding up the
boardwalk and hollered in the door:

"Doc, better come quick. Dirty Jake just took a couple slugs in the
chest and he never even got to draw!"

I took my time. "It was just a matter of odds," I said. "Who got him?"

"The new one," Jubal said, "the man they call Lefty."
