
The day dawned when Incubus was to make her debut at Belmont. The odds
on her were a hundred to one. Laughing softly to himself, Watson put
five hundred dollars on her nose.

"You crazy, fella?" the seller said to him. "The horse to bet on is
Godlove's Pamplemousse. He's a natural to win."

"Incubus is my own horse," Watson explained patiently.

"Oh, I guess it's like my kid. He plays the pianner and stinks but I
gotta clap for him all the same."

"Why didn't you give her some hip reducing exercises," Godlove sneered
as the jockey led Incubus out into the paddock. "She'll never get
through the starting gate with that spread."

"Take it easy," Watson told her, as she reared. "Now, listen," he
said to the jockey, a sullen young apprentice--all he could get--"she
responds to direction very well. Talk to her. She practically
understands."

"Oh, sure," the jockey jeered. "Is snookums gonna win the race for
daddykins?"

"Ess," replied Incubus.

The jockey stared at her and at Watson. Watson laughed, a trifle too
hard. "I'm a great ventriloquist," he explained. "Can't break myself of
the habit."

"Well, you better begin now," the jockey said, "because I'm
temperamental and when I'm emotionally disturbed the horse senses it."

"The horses," the announcer declaimed through the loudspeaker, "are at
the post.... They're off!... All of them, that is, except Incubus. She
can't get through the starting gate. She's stuck."

"Yah, wear a girdle!" the crowd called derisively.

With a wrench of sheer rage Incubus pulled herself through the gate and
dashed after the other horses. "In the backstretch it's Pamplemousse
in the lead with Disestablishmentarianism and Epigram running half
a length behind and.... But who's this coming up from the rear? It's
Incubus! She's ahead by a length.... By two lengths.... By three
lengths! What a horse! What a jockey! He's giving her the whip!... Oh,
oh, something's wrong. Incubus has lost her rider! Too bad, Incubus."

The horses raced up the stretch, with Incubus keeping five lengths
ahead of Pamplemousse as per direction. She was much annoyed to
discover that he had won the race.

"But _I_ won it!" she kept whispering to Watson as he led her off. "I
was first. This is a frame-up. I'm going right to the judges and raise
an objection."

"It doesn't count if you don't have the jockey on you," he told her.
"That's the rule."

"Flap the rules!" she said. "You mean without that pee-wee it doesn't
count? A fine thing! I hate the rules, I hate the rules, I hate the
rules!" She stamped her foot. "He hit me with a whip, the little
bastard, so I gave him the old heave-ho."

"Aw, come on now, Incubus, we'll get another jockey who won't whip you.
You see how easy you can win a race?"

She tossed her head. "I'm not so sure I want to run again."

"You know you want to run, Incubus. You've made a big impression, I
could see that."

"Who cares what people think?"

"I saw Pamplemousse giving you the eye," Watson murmured. "Good-looking
horse, isn't he? Any filly'd be glad to have him interested in her."

"Oh, I dunno," Incubus said. "He's all right, I guess, if you like them
tall and dark. But, okay, I'll try it again for you, Watson."

Godlove accosted them again as Watson led Incubus into her stall.
"I take back what I said about your horse, Watson," he apologized.
"She looks like a fiend, but she runs like one too. With the proper
handling, she might be a stake horse." He looked speculatively at
Incubus. "Give you five thousand for her, big rump and all."

"Not on your life."

Godlove shrugged. "Suit yourself. But she'll have to run in another
claimer, you know." He left, laughing softly.

After two weeks of steady diet and vigorous massage, during which her
hip measurements were considerably reduced, Incubus was entered in a
four-thousand-dollar claimer. Even though she was still a maiden she
was favored next to Pamplemousse by the players, for her unusual first
start had not passed unnoticed. Watson bet another five hundred, to
obtain which he had mortgaged the old homestead. But this time he could
get only even money.

"Remember, Incubus," he instructed her as he buckled her saddle, "if
Godlove claims you you know what to do."

"Sure do. Shall I let him live afterward?"

"Yeah, let him live. Just make it uncomfortable for him.... Now look
here, sonny." This to the new jockey. "She doesn't like the whip. You
saw what she did to her last boy?"

The jockey nodded and gulped.

"All you have to do is sit on her and let her go where she wants. Then
you'll be all right."

"I wooden even get near her," the boy said, "if I didn't have an aged
mother to support."
