
The starter waved the yellow flag and the horses were off. Incubus
raced neck and neck with Pamplemousse until they were a furlong from
the finish line. Then she surged ahead to win by five lengths. When she
rode into the winner's circle the crowd booed, as is their pleasant
custom with winning horses and jockeys.

"A popular figure, eh?" Incubus sneered. "_Tcha!_"

"Y'know, Mr. Watson," the jockey said as he was assisted from the horse
with a dazed but beatific smile on his face, "I'm so steamed up over
this win I even thought Incubus was talking to me."

The men standing around laughed. "You've let excitement go to your
head," Godlove remarked. "Personally I would never hire a jockey who
has no emotional equilibrium."

The jockey reached a tentative finger toward Incubus' nose. "Good
horse," he said. "Good Incubus."

"I think you're pretty nice yourself," Incubus murmured out of the side
of her mouth. There was a stricken silence.

Reuben Godlove's eyes narrowed. "That jockey who rode her the other
day told me about your ventriloquism," he informed Watson. "Seems like
a pretty cheap trick if you ask me." The others murmured agreement,
color flowing back into their faces.

"Anyhow, now that she's my horse," Godlove went on, taking possession
of Incubus' bridle. "She's going to be trained serious."

"Now?" Incubus asked Watson.

"Later," he whispered back.

"That ain't funny, Watson," Godlove assured him. As he led Incubus off
she looked back over her shoulder and winked.

"Mr. Watson," the jockey said, following him off the field, "you're not
really a ventriloquist, are you? That horse talks, doesn't she?"

Watson nodded.

"You gonna let Godlove get away with her?" The boy's voice rose to a
shrill squeak.

"I'll claim her back in the next race."

"Yeah, but you can't claim her back less'n you've entered another horse
in the same race and you don't have another horse, do you, Mr. Watson?"

Watson's jaw dropped. "I never thought of that! What'll I do?"

"You've got to get another horse, Mr. Watson. Do you have enough money?"

"Well, the purse from this race is almost two thousand, and I made
another thousand betting on Incubus. And, of course, Godlove gave me
four thousand for her. But that won't be enough to buy a decent horse
and maintain him--expenses are terrific."

The jockey chewed his lower lip thoughtfully. "I know what you can do,"
he said at length, "you can buy Prunella. She's set at a price of five
thousand dollars but her owner's pretty disgusted with her--she has
good lines but she finished last in twenty-seven starts--and I think
you could have her for four thousand in cash."

Prunella, a meek-looking chestnut filly with big brown eyes and a
vicious temper, was enthusiastically disposed of for four thousand and
installed in Incubus' vacant stall. Watson shed a silent tear to see
Incubus' second-best saddle hanging there on the wall.

In the dead of night he slipped into Godlove's stable. Incubus was
awake, reading the _Morning Telegraph_. "Look at the picture they have
of me," she snapped. "Obviously taken by an enemy. Next time Watson,
remember--my right profile is the best."

"I'll remember," he promised and told her what had happened.

"You're sure this Prunella isn't taking my place in your affections?"
she demanded severely. "That all this isn't a subterfuge?"

"My God, no! She quits before she starts."

"All right," Incubus said. "Now, I am reliably informed by the stable
grapevine that Godlove's entering me in a six-thousand-dollar claimer.
You spent almost all your money on Prunella--how're you going to claim
me?"

There was dead silence in the stable.

"These men," she sighed. "Without us females to think for them they'd
be lost. The answer is simple. Prunella's got to win that race. Then
you'll have the purse, plus whatever you can bet on her, and you'll get
good odds."

"Prunella win the race! She couldn't beat a speedy snail."

"She'll win the race." Incubus grinned happily.
