
The weather was clear and the track fast. Incubus was running at three
to five--Prunella ninety-eight to one. Reuben Godlove appeared with his
arm in a sling and a bandage on his forehead and glowered at Watson. "A
fine trainer you are," he snarled.

"Let's see how well you've done with her," Watson suggested, smiling
amiably.

The starting gate opened and all the horses dashed out--all except
Prunella, who sauntered forth and stood admiring the view. Incubus
turned, ran back and nipped Prunella viciously in the forequarters.
With a whinny of rage Prunella proceeded to chase Incubus, who was
showing a fleet pair of heels along the track. But there were six
horses between Prunella and her attacker.

With a thrust of her powerful shoulders, Incubus sent Dernier Cri
staggering into the geraniums that bordered the field. She thrust a
hoof into the path of Kropotkin and sent him and his rider sprawling
on the track. She murmured something into Epigram's ear and that black
colt turned light grey and refused to budge another step.

There were now three horses between Incubus and Prunella. Polyhymnia
suddenly started to run backward. Sir Bleoberis buried his head in
the sand and pretended he didn't notice the race was still going on.
Cachucha--who had hitherto not been known as a jumper--hurdled the rail
and dashed into the crowd of astonished players.

Still Incubus ran lightly before Prunella, half a length ahead, kicking
dust in her face and making irritating remarks, while the enraged filly
laid her ears back and bared white teeth to snap at her rival. One
length before the finish line Incubus suddenly stopped short, leaving
momentum to carry Prunella over the line to victory!

Prunella had won the race. Incubus was second but was disqualified for
conduct unbecoming a horse and a lady. It was never determined who had
run third.

"Together again at last, Watson," Incubus said during the joyful
reunion in the paddock. "Ah, but it's been a long, long time...."

"Two weeks," commented the jockey, who had ridden Prunella.

"Listen, pipsqueak," Incubus told him irately. "I've spent the whole
two weeks cooking up this speech and I don't want a half-pint like you
spoiling it. It's been a long, long time, Watson...."

Prunella nickered.

"None of _your_ lip, either," Incubus said. "Where would you have been
if I hadn't won your race for you? Oh, you can run if you want to, can
you? _Ha! Ha! Plater!_"

Prunella neighed angrily.

"Okay, Watson'll enter you in a claimer without me and we'll see what
you can do." She turned toward her owner. "And now, Watson, I trust you
have a hot tub prepared. I'm so-o-o-o tired...."
