
The racing secretary entered Incubus for an allowance with some
misgivings. "But if she behaves again this time the way she did last
she's out, Watson. Suspended--disqualified! Can't have that sort of
thing going on, you know."

"She's actually the most tractable of horses, sir," Watson assured him.
"It's merely that Mr. Godlove didn't know how to handle her."

"Oh--ah," the racing secretary said.

"And I'd like to enter Prunella in the five-thousand-dollar claimer."

The racing secretary smiled. "Well, Mr. Watson, you don't have to be
afraid that anybody'll claim _her_. Godlove has spread the word around.
Now everybody's afraid to claim a Watson horse."

Prunella won handily in her claimer and Incubus breezed to victory
in her allowance. "Bet on Watson horses," the word went round the
tracks. Incubus won a Class C, Class B and Class A handicap in swift
progression, Prunella came in first in two seven-thousand-dollar
claimers and second in a ten-thousand-dollar one.

And then Incubus came in last in a stake race at Aqueduct.

"What's the matter with you, Incubus?" Watson demanded. "You can run
ten times around the track before any of these nags could reach the
quarter-mile pole."

Incubus lay on her back in the hay and chewed reflectively on a straw.
"You know, Watson," she said, "there are finer things in life than
racing."

"What, for instance?"

She simpered. "I've been talking to Pamplemousse--you know, Godlove's
horse--and he says it isn't ethical what I'm doing, that I'm competing
with horses way below my class, that it isn't fair."

"But there aren't any horses in your class."

"I know," she sighed. "Sometimes superiority can have its
disadvantages. That's what Pamplemousse says--he says it isn't fair
for me to run at all. Says woman's place is in the home. Do you think
woman's place is in the home, Watson?"

Prunella neighed in the adjoining stall.

"That's a dirty lie!" Incubus shrieked, getting up. "I double dare you
to say it once more." Prunella kept silence.

"You're in love, Incubus?" Watson asked gently.

She bowed her head. "I didn't know I could be--I thought I was too
tough. But you're never too tough. Oh, I know I'm a stake horse and
he's still only a claimer but I love him just the same."

"Well, if that's the way you feel about it, Inky, I guess you have a
right to. Only"--he gulped--"I'd entered you in the Belmont Futurity
and it means ... so much to me."

Incubus wiped away a tear with a wisp of hay. "All right, Watson, I'll
win the Futurity for you. After all you have first claim on my loyalty.
Who brought me out of obscurity? You! Who recognized my potentialities?
You! Who made a horse out of me? You!"

Incubus won the Belmont Futurity and was carried off the track on
the shoulders of a cheering crowd. Retouched photographs of the big
black horse hit not only the sport pages but the front page of every
newspaper in the country.

But the question of her racing again was shelved for the nonce. Shortly
after the Futurity, Watson discovered that Incubus was pregnant.
"Pamplemousse?" he asked.

She nodded shyly.

"But how could you do it? You two were in separate stalls."

Incubus snickered. "I have my methods, Watson."

"He's a low cad," said Watson.

"I knew what I was doing. I went into it with my eyes open."

He wondered just how he was going to enter the foal in the stud book.
Although it would be of impeccable ancestry its escutcheon would be
marred by a bend sinister.

Some months later, Incubus called Watson to her stall.

"What is it, Inky?"

"I don't know how to tell you this, Watson. I've got to go back."

"Back! Back where, Inky girl?"

"Back where I came from. Oh, I might have known it was never to be,
that you can't wipe out the past. Still I'd hoped that somehow--some
way.... But the Big Bookie says no. I've got to go back where I came
from--I don't belong here. He says I was sent as a punishment, not as a
reward."

She extended a hoof toward Watson's hand. "I had my baby tonight,
Watson. Take good care of her--she's half equine, so she can stay
here--and she'll be the fastest thing on earth when she grows up.
Prunella'll help you raise her and support the family."

Watson wiped his streaming eyes. "I'll take care of your baby,
Incubus," he vowed. "I'll call her Incubus Two and I'll treat her as if
she were my own daughter."

"I knew I could count on you, Watson. Well--this is goodbye."

Incubus slowly vanished.

It was hard losing Incubus. He'd grown attached to her, looking on her
not only as a horse but a friend. Still, at least he had the colt. In
two years she would take up where her mother had left off and again the
Watson name would reverberate through the racetracks.

He went inside the stall, looked down at Incubus' daughter, who reposed
on the hay looking up at him with big blue eyes. He gasped.

He had forgotten. Incubus was not a real horse, she was merely a demon
in the shape of a horse.

Incubus Two was not in the shape of a horse.

