
He had expected others to recognize the futility of it, load ships
and flock to the dark side of the Moon also. Evidently there had been
no time, even if there had been the desire. He had thought that there
would be scattered groups of survivors, but he hadn't found any. The
war had been too thorough.

Landing on the Earth should have killed him, for the air itself was
poisoned. He hadn't cared--and he had lived. He seemed to be immune to
the various kinds of germs and radiations, or perhaps that was part of
his new power. He certainly had encountered enough of both, skipping
around the world in his ship, from the ruins of one city to another,
across blasted valleys and plains, scorched mountains. He had found no
life, but he did discover something.

He could create. He realized the power on his third day on Earth.
Wistfully, he had wished for a tree in the midst of the melted rock
and metal; a tree had appeared. The rest of the day he experimented,
and found that he could create anything that he had ever seen or heard
about.

Things he knew best, he could create best. Things he knew just from
books or conversation--palaces, for example--tended to be lopsided
and uncertain, although he could make them nearly perfect by laboring
mentally over the details. Everything he created was three-dimensional.
Even food tasted like food and seemed to nourish him. He could forget
all about one of his creations, go to sleep, and it would still be
there when he awakened. He could also uncreate. A single concentrated
thought and the thing he had made would vanish. The larger the thing,
the longer it took to uncreate.

Things he _hadn't_ made--valleys and mountains--he could uncreate, too,
but it took longer. It seemed as though matter was easier to handle
once he had shaped it. He could make birds and small animals, or things
that looked like birds and small animals.

He had never tried to make a human being.

He wasn't a scientist; he had been a space-pilot. He had a vague
concept of atomic theory and practically no idea of genetics. He
thought that some change must have taken place in his germ-plasm, or
in his brain, or perhaps in the Earth. The "why" of it all didn't
especially bother him. It was a fact and he accepted it.

He stared at the monument again. Something about it bothered him.

Of course, he could have created it, but he didn't know if the things
he made would endure after his death. They seemed stable enough, but
they might dissolve with his own dissolution. Therefore he compromised.
He created a chisel and mallet, but selected a granite wall that he
hadn't made. He cut the letters into the inside of the wall of the
cave so they would be safe from the elements, working many hours at a
stretch, sleeping and eating beside the wall.

From the mouth of the cave, he could see his ship, perched on a level
plain of scorched ground. He was in no rush to get back to it. In six
days the inscription was done, cut deeply and eternally into the rock.

The thought that had been bothering him as he stared at the gray
granite finally came to the surface. The only people who would come
to read it would be visitors from the stars. How would they decipher
it? He stared at the inscription angrily. He should have written it in
symbols. But what kind of symbols? Mathematics? Of course, but what
would that tell them about Man? And what made him think _they_ would
discover the cave anyway? There was no use for an inscription when
Man's entire history was written over the face of the planet, scorched
into the crust for anyone to see. He cursed his stupidity for wasting
six days working at the useless inscription. He was about to uncreate
it when he turned his head, hearing footsteps at the mouth of the cave.

He almost fell off the chair getting to his feet.
