
He hadn't heard or seen a thing. And now the fog was full of thundering
wings and shrill screams of triumph. Below the walls, where the
ground-mist hung in stagnant whorls, a host of half-seen bodies crowded
out of the wilderness into which no civilized man had ever gone.

The rapid-fire pistol bucked and snarled in Tex's hand. Captain Smith,
lying on his belly, called orders in his crisp, unhurried voice. C
Battery on the northeast corner cut in with a chattering roar, spraying
explosive bullets upward, followed by the other three whose duty it was
to keep the air clear.

Tex's heart thumped. Powder-smoke bit his nostrils. Breska began to
whistle through his teeth, a song that Tex had taught him, called, "The
Lone Prairee."

The ground-strafing crews got their guns unlimbered, and mud began to
splash up from below. But it wasn't enough. The gun emplacements were
only half manned, the remainder of the depopulated garrison having been
off-duty down in the compound.

The Jupiterians were swarming up the incline on which the fort stood,
attacking from the front and fanning out along the sides when they
reached firm ground. The morasses to the east and west were absolutely
impassable even to the swamp-men, which was what made Fort Washington
a strategic and envied stronghold.

Tex watched the attackers with mingled admiration and hatred. They had
guts; the kind the Red Indians must have had, back in the old days in
America. They had cruelty, too, and a fiendish genius for thinking up
tricks.

If the relief column didn't come soon, there might be one trick too
many, and the way would be left open for a breakthrough. The thin,
hard-held line of frontier posts could be flanked, cut off, and
annihilated.

Tex shuddered to think what that would mean for the colonists, already
coming hopefully into the fertile plateaus.

A sluggish breeze rolled the mist south into the swamps, and Tex got
his first clear look at the enemy. His heart jolted sharply.

This was no mere raid. This was an attack.

Hordes of tall warriors swarmed toward the walls, pale skinned giants
from the Sunless Land with snow-white hair coiled in warclubs at the
base of the skull. They wore girdles of reptile skin, and carried bags
slung over their brawny shoulders. In their hands they carried clubs
and crude bows.

Beside them, roaring and hissing, came their war-dogs; semi-erect
reptiles with prehensile paws, their powerful tails armed with
artificial spikes of bone.

Scaling ladders banged against the walls. Men and beasts began to
climb, covered by companions on the ground who hurled grenades of baked
mud from their bags.

"Beetle-bombs!" yelled Tex. "Watch yourselves!"

He thrust one ladder outward, and fired point-blank into a dead-white
face. A flying clay ball burst beside the man who fired the nearest
ground gun, and in a split second every inch of bare flesh was covered
by a sheath of huge scarlet beetles.

Tex's freckled face hardened. The man's screams knifed upward through
the thunder of wings. Tex put a bullet carefully through his head and
tumbled the body over the parapet. Some of the beetles were shaken off,
and he glimpsed bone, already bare and gleaming.

Missiles rained down from above; beetle-bombs, green snakes made
worm-size by starvation. The men were swarming up from the compound
now, but the few seconds of delay almost proved fatal.

The aerial attackers were plain in the thinning mist--lightly-built men
mounted on huge things that were half bird, half lizard.

The rusty netting jerked, catching the heavy bodies of man and lizard
shot down by the guns. Tex held his breath. That net was all that
protected them from a concerted dive attack that would give the natives
a foot-hold inside the walls.

A gun in A Battery choked into silence. Rust, somewhere in the
mechanism. No amount of grease could keep it out.

Breska swore sulphurously and stamped a small green thing flat. Red
beetles crawled along the stones--thank God the things didn't fly. Men
fought and died with the snakes. Another gun suddenly cut out.

Tex fired steadily at fierce white heads thrust above the parapet. The
man next to him stumbled against the infested stones. The voracious
scarlet flood surged over him, and in forty seconds his uniform sagged
on naked bones.

Breska's shout warned Tex aside as a lizard fell on the catwalk. Its
rider pitched into the stream of beetles and began to die. Wings beat
close overhead, and Tex crouched, aiming upward.

His freckled face relaxed in a stare of utter unbelief.
