
She was beautiful. Pearl-white thighs circling the gray-green barrel
of her mount, silver hair streaming from under a snake-skin diadem
set with the horns of a swamp-rhino, a slim body clad in girdle and
breast-plates of irridescent scales.

Her face was beautiful, too, like a mask cut from pearl. But her eyes
were like pale-green flames, and the silver brows above them were drawn
into a straight bar of anger.

Tex had never seen such cold, fierce hate in any living creature, even
a rattler coiled to strike.

His gun was aimed, yet somehow he couldn't pull the trigger. When he
had collected his wits, she was gone, swooping like a stunting flyer
through the fire of the guns. She bore no weapons, only what looked
like an ancient hunting-horn.

Tex swore, very softly. He knew what that horned diadem meant.

This was the war chief!

The men had reached the parapet just in time. Tex blasted the head from
a miniature Tyrannosaurus, dodged the backlash of the spiked tail, and
threw down another ladder. Guns snarled steadily, and corpses were
piling up at the foot of the wall.

Tex saw the woman urge her flying mount over the pit of the compound,
saw her searching out the plan of the place--the living quarters, the
water tanks, the kitchen, the radio room.

Impelled by some inner warning that made him forget all reluctance to
war against a woman, Tex fired.

The bullet clipped a tress of her silver hair. Eyes like pale green
flames burned into his for a split second, and her lips drew back from
reptilian teeth, white, small, and pointed.

Then she whipped her mount into a swift spiral climb and was gone,
flashing through streamers of mist and powder-smoke.

A second later Tex heard the mellow notes of her horn, and the
attackers turned and vanished into the swamp.

As quickly as that, it was over. Yet Tex, panting and wiping the sticky
sweat from his forehead, wasn't happy.

He wished she hadn't smiled.

Men with blow-torches scoured the fort clean of beetles and green
snakes. One party sprayed oil on the heaps of bodies below and fired
them. The netting was cleared, their own dead burned.

Tex, who was a corporal, got his men together, and his heart sank as he
counted them. Thirty-two left to guard a fort that should be garrisoned
by seventy.

Another attack like that, and there might be none. Yet Tex had an
uneasy feeling that the attack had more behind it than the mere attempt
to carry the fort by storm. He thought of the woman whose brain had
evolved all these hideous schemes--the beetle-bombs, the green snakes.
She hadn't risked her neck for nothing, flying in the teeth of four
batteries.

He had salvaged the lock of silver hair his bullet had clipped. Now it
seemed almost to stir with malign life in his pocket.

Captain John Smith came out of the radio room. The officer's gaunt
face was oddly still, his gray eyes like chips of stone.

"At ease," he said. His pleasant English voice had that same quality of
dead stillness.

"Word has just come from Regional Headquarters. The swamp men have
attacked in force east of us, and have heavily beseiged Fort Nelson.
Our relief column had been sent to relieve them.

"More men are being readied, but it will take at least two weeks for
any help to reach us."
