
Tex heard the hard-caught breaths as the news took the men like a jolt
in the belly. And he saw eyes sliding furtively aside to the dense
black smoke pouring up from the incinerator, to the water tanks, and to
the broken grating.

Somebody whimpered. Tex heard Breska snarl, "Shut up!" The whimperer
was Kuna, the young Martian who had stared white-faced at the captain a
short while before.

Captain Smith went on.

"Our situation is serious. However, we can hold out another fortnight.
Supplies will have to be rationed still further, and we must conserve
ammunition and man-power as much as possible. But we must all remember
this.

"Help is coming. Headquarters are doing all they can."

"With the money they have," said Breska sourly, in Tex's ear. "Damn the
taxpayers!"

"... and we've only to hold out a few days longer. After all, we
volunteered for this job. Jupiter is a virgin planet. It's savage,
uncivilized, knowing no law but brute force. But it can be built into a
great new world.

"If we do our jobs well, some day these swamps will be drained, the
jungles cleared, the natives civilized. The people of Earth and Mars
will find new hope and freedom here. It's up to us."

The captain's grim, gaunt face relaxed, and his eyes twinkled.

"Pity we're none of us using our right names," he said. "Because I
think we're going to get them in the history books!"

The men laughed. The tension was broken. "Dismissed," said Captain
Smith, and strolled off to his quarters. Tex turned to Breska.

The Martian, his leathery dark face set, was gripping the arms of his
young countryman, the only other Martian in the fort.

"Listen," hissed Breska, his teeth showing white like a dog's fangs.
"Get hold of yourself! If you don't, you'll get into trouble."

Kuna trembled, his wide black eyes watching the smoke from the bodies
roll up into the fog. His skin lacked the leathery burn of Breska's.
Tex guessed that he came from one of the Canal cities, where things
were softer.

"I don't want to die," said Kuna softly. "I don't want to die in this
rotten fog."

"Take it easy, kid." Tex rubbed the sandy-red stubble on his chin and
grinned. "The Skipper'll get us through okay. He's aces."

"Maybe." Kuna's eyes wandered round to Tex. "But why should I take the
chance?"

He was shaken suddenly by a fit of coughing. When he spoke again, his
voice had risen and grown tight as a violin string.

"Why should I stay here and cough my guts out for something that will
never be anyway?"

"Because," said Breska grimly, "on Mars there are men and women
breaking their backs and their hearts, to get enough bread out of the
deserts. You're a city man, Kuna. Have you ever seen the famines that
sweep the drylands? Have you ever seen men with their ribs cutting
through the skin? Women and children with faces like skulls?

"That's why I'm here, coughing my guts out in this stinking fog.
Because people need land to grow food on, and water to grow it with."

Kuna's dark eyes rolled, and Tex frowned. He'd seen that same starry
look in the eyes of cattle on the verge of a stampede.

"What's the bellyache?" he said sharply. "You volunteered, didn't you?"

"I didn't know what it meant," Kuna whispered, and coughed. "I'll die
if I stay here. I don't want to die!"

"What," Breska said gently, "are you going to do about it?"

Kuna smiled. "She was beautiful, wasn't she, Tex?"

The Texan started. "I reckon she was, kid. What of it?"

"You have a lock of her hair. I saw you pick it from the net. The
net'll go out soon, like the grating did. Then there won't be anything
to keep the snakes and beetles off of us. She'll sit up there and watch
us die, and laugh.

"But I won't die, I tell you! I won't!"

He shuddered in Breska's hands, and began to laugh. The laugh rose
to a thin, high scream like the wailing of a panther. Breska hit him
accurately on the point of the jaw.

"Cafard," he grunted, as some of the men came running. "He'll come
round all right."

He dragged Kuna to the dormitory, and came back doubled up with
coughing from the exertion. Tex saw the pain in his dark face.

"Say," he murmured, "you'd better ask for leave when the relief gets
here."

"_If_ it gets here," gasped the Martian. "That attack at Fort Nelson
was just a feint to draw off our reinforcements."

Tex nodded. "Even if the varmints broke through there, they'd be
stopped by French River and the broken hills beyond it."

A map of Fort Washington's position formed itself in his mind; the
stone blockhouse commanding a narrow tongue of land between strips of
impassable swamp, barring the way into the valley. The valley led back
into the uplands, splitting so that one arm ran parallel to the swamps
for many miles.

To fierce and active men like the swamp-dwellers, it would be no trick
to swarm down that valley, take Fort Albert and Fort George by surprise
in a rear attack, and leave a gap in the frontier defenses that could
never be closed in time.

And then hordes of white-haired warriors would swarm out, led by that
beautiful fury on the winged lizard, rouse the more lethargic pastoral
tribes against the colonists, and sweep outland Peoples from the face
of Venus.

"They could do it, too," Tex muttered. "They outnumber us a thousand to
one."

"And," added Breska viciously, "the lousy taxpayers won't even give us
decent equipment to fight with."

Tex grinned. "Armies are always step-children. I guess the sheep just
never did like the goats, anyhow." He shrugged. "Better keep an eye on
Kuna. He might try something."

"What could he do? If he deserts, they'll catch him trying to skip out,
if the savages don't get him first. He won't try it."

But in the morning Kuna was gone, and the lock of silver hair in Tex's
pocket was gone with him.
