
Five hot, steaming days dragged by. The water sank lower and lower
in the tank. Flakes of rust dropped from every metal surface at the
slightest touch.

Tex squatted on a slimy block of stone in the compound, trying to
forget hunger and thirst in the task of sewing a patch on his pants.
Fog gathered in droplets on the reddish hairs of his naked legs,
covered his face with a greasy patina.

Breska crouched beside him, coughing in deep, slow spasms. Out under
the sagging net, men were listlessly washing underwear in a tub of
boiled swamp water. The stuff held some chemical that caused a stubborn
sickness no matter what you did to it.

Tex looked at it thirstily. "Boy!" he muttered. "What I wouldn't give
for just one glass of ice water!"

"Shut up," growled Breska. "At least, I've quit being hungry."

He coughed, his dark face twisted in pain. Tex sighed, trying to ignore
the hunger that chewed his own belly like a prisoned wolf.

Nine more days to go. Food and water cut to the barest minimum. Gun
parts rusting through all the grease they could put on. The strands of
the net were perilously thin. Even the needle in his hand was rusted so
that it tore the cloth.

Of the thirty-one men left after Kuna deserted, they had lost seven;
four by green snakes slipped in through broken drain gratings, three
by beetle-bombs tossed over the parapet. There had been no further
attacks. In the dark, fog-wrapped nights, swamp men smeared with black
mud crept silently under the walls, delivered their messages of death,
and vanished.

In spite of the heat, Tex shivered. How much longer would this silent
war go on? The swamp-men had to clear the fort before the relief column
came. Where was Kuna, and why had he stolen that lock of hair? And what
scheme was the savage beauty who led these devils hatching out?

Water slopped in the tub. Somebody cursed because the underwear never
dried in this lousy climate. The heat of the hidden sun seeped down in
stifling waves.

And suddenly a guard on the parapet yelled.

"Something coming out of the swamp! Man the guns!"

Tex hauled his pants on and ran with the others. Coming up beside the
lookout, he drew his pistol and waited.

Something was crawling up the tongue of dry land toward the fort. At
first he thought it was one of the scaly war-dogs. Then he caught a
gleam of scarlet collar-facings, and shouted.

"Hold your fire, men! It's Kuna!"

The grey, stooped thing came closer, going on hands and knees, its dark
head hanging. Tex heard Breska's harsh breathing beside him. Abruptly
the Martian turned and ran down the steps.

"Don't go out there, Breska!" Tex yelled. "It may be a trap." But the
Martian went on, tugging at the rusty lugs that held the postern gate.
It came open, and he went out.

Tex sent men down to guard it, fully expecting white figures to burst
from the fog and attempt to force the gate.

Breska reached the crawling figure, hauled it erect and over one
shoulder, and started back at a stumbling run. Still there was no
attack. Tex frowned, assailed by some deep unease. If Kuna had gone
into the swamps, he should never have returned alive. There was a trap
here somewhere, a concealed but deadly trick.

Silence. The rank mist lay in lazy coils. Not a leaf rustled in the
swamp edges.

Tex swore and ran down the steps. Breska fell through the gate and
sagged down, coughing blood, and it was Tex who caught Kuna.

The boy lay like a grey skeleton in his arms, the bones of his face
almost cutting the skin. His mouth was open. His tongue was black and
swollen, like that of a man dying of thirst.

Kuna's sunken, fever-yellowed eyes opened. They found the tub, in which
soiled clothing still floated.

With a surge of strength that took Tex completely by surprise, the boy
broke from him and ran to the water, plunging his face in and gulping
like an animal.

Tex pulled him away. Kuna sagged down, sobbing. There was something
wrong about his face, but Tex couldn't think what.

"Won't let me drink," he whispered. "Still won't let me drink. Got to
have water." He clawed at Tex. "Water!"

Tex sent someone after it, trying to think what was strange about Kuna,
scowling. There were springs of sweet water in the swamps, and even the
natives couldn't drink the other. Was it simply the desire to torture
that had made them deny the deserter water?

Tex caught the boy's collar. "How did you get away?"

But Kuna struggled to his knees. "Breska," he gasped. "Breska!"

The older man looked at him, wiping blood from his lips. Kuna said
something in Martian, retched, choked on his own blood, and fell over.
Tex knew he was dead.

"What did he say, Breska?"

The Martian's teeth showed briefly white.

"He said he wished he'd had my guts." His expression changed abruptly.
He caught Tex's shoulder.

"Look, Tex! Look at the water!"
