
Where there had been nearly a full tub, there was now only a little
moisture left in the bottom. While Tex watched, that too disappeared,
leaving the wood dry.

Tex picked up an undershirt. It was as dry as any he'd ever hung in
the prairie air, back in Texas. He touched his face. The skin was like
sun-cured leather. His hair had not a drop of fog on it.

Yet the mist hung as heavy as ever.

Captain Smith came out of the radio room, looking up at the net and the
guns. Tex heard him mutter, quite unconsciously.

"It's the rust that'll beat us. It's the rust that'll lose us Jupiter
in the end."

Tex said, "Captain...."

Smith looked at him, startled. But he never had time to ask what the
matter was. The lookout yelled. Wings rushed overhead. Guns chattered
from the parapet. The attack was on.

Tex ran automatically for the catwalk. Passing Kuna's crumpled body, he
realized something he should have seen at first.

"Kuna's body was dry when he came into the fort. All dry, even his
clothes." And then, "Why did the swamp-men wait until he was safely
inside and the door closed to attack?"

With a quarter of their guns disabled and two-thirds of their garrison
gone, they still held superiority due to their position and powerful
weapons.

There was no concerted attempt to force the walls. Groups of
white-haired warriors made sallies, hurled beetle-bombs and weighed
bags of green snakes, and retired into the mist. They lost men, but not
many.

In the air, it was different. The weird, half-feathered mounts wheeled
and swooped, literally diving into the gunbursts, the riders hurling
missiles with deadly accuracy. And they were dying, men and lizards, by
the dozen.

Tex, feeling curiously dazed, fired automatically. Bodies thrashed into
the net. Rust flakes showered like rain. Looking at the thin strands,
Tex wondered how long it would hold.

Abruptly he caught sight of what, subconsciously, he'd been looking
for. She was there, darting high over the melee, her silver hair
flying, her body an iridescent pearl in the mist.

Captain Smith spoke softly.

"You see what she's up to, Tex? Those flyers are volunteers. Their
orders are to kill as many of our men as possible before they die
themselves, but they must fall inside the walls! On the net, Tex. To
weaken, break it, if possible."

Tex nodded. "And when it goes...."

"We go. We haven't enough men to beat them if they should get inside
the walls."

Smith brushed his small military mustache, his only sign of
nervousness. Tex saw him start, saw him touch the bristles wonderingly,
then finger his skin, his tunic, his hair.

"Dry," he said, and looked at the fog. "My Lord, dry!"

"Yes," returned Tex grimly. "Kuna brought it back. He couldn't get wet
even when he tried to drink. Something that eats water. Even if the net
holds, we'll die of thirst before we're relieved."

He turned in sudden fury on the distant figure of the woman and emptied
his gun futilely at her swift-moving body.

"Save your ammunition," cautioned Smith, and cried out, sharply.

Tex saw it, the tiny green thing that had fastened on his wrist. He
pulled his knife and lunged forward, but already the snake had grown
incredibly. Smith tore at it vainly.

Tex got in one slash, felt his knife slip futilely on rubbery flesh of
enormous contractile power. Then the venom began to work. A mad look
twisted the officer's face. His gun rose and began to spit bullets.

Grimly, Tex shot the gun out of Smith's hand, and struck down with the
gun-barrel. Smith fell. But already the snake had thrown a coil round
his neck and shifted its grip to the jugular.

Tex sawed at the rubbery flesh. Beaten as though with a heavy whip, he
stood at last with the body still writhing in his hand.

Captain Smith was dead, with the snake's jaws buried in his throat.

Dimly Tex heard the mellow notes of the war-chief's horn. The sky
cleared of the remnants of the suicide squad. The ground attackers
vanished into the swamps. And then the woman whirled her mount sharply
and sped straight for the fort.

Puffs of smoke burst around her but she was not hit. Low over the
parapet she came, so that Tex saw the pupils of her pale-green eyes,
the vital flow of muscles beneath pearly skin.

He fired, but his gun was empty.

She flung one hand high in derisive salute, and was gone. And Breska
spoke softly behind Tex.

"You're in command now. And there are just the fourteen of us left."
