
They kept a tape recorder going all the time he talked. When he had
finished the Commissioner snapped off the recorder and got to his feet.
He stood for a moment, deep in thought. Finally he got out his
cigarettes and lit up slowly, a frown on his beefy face.

"You don't believe me," Loyce said.

The Commissioner offered him a cigarette. Loyce pushed it impatiently
away. "Suit yourself." The Commissioner moved over to the window and
stood for a time looking out at the town of Oak Grove. "I believe you,"
he said abruptly.

Loyce sagged. "Thank God."

"So you got away." The Commissioner shook his head. "You were down in
your cellar instead of at work. A freak chance. One in a million."

Loyce sipped some of the black coffee they had brought him. "I have a
theory," he murmured.

"What is it?"

"About them. Who they are. They take over one area at a time. Starting
at the top--the highest level of authority. Working down from there in a
widening circle. When they're firmly in control they go on to the next
town. They spread, slowly, very gradually. I think it's been going on
for a long time."

"A long time?"

"Thousands of years. I don't think it's new."

"Why do you say that?"

"When I was a kid.... A picture they showed us in Bible League. A
religious picture--an old print. The enemy gods, defeated by Jehovah.
Moloch, Beelzebub, Moab, Baalin, Ashtaroth--"

"So?"

"They were all represented by figures." Loyce looked up at the
Commissioner. "Beelzebub was represented as--a giant fly."

The Commissioner grunted. "An old struggle."

"They've been defeated. The Bible is an account of their defeats. They
make gains--but finally they're defeated."

"Why defeated?"

"They can't get everyone. They didn't get me. And they never got the
Hebrews. The Hebrews carried the message to the whole world. The
realization of the danger. The two men on the bus. I think they
understood. Had escaped, like I did." He clenched his fists. "I killed
one of them. I made a mistake. I was afraid to take a chance."

The Commissioner nodded. "Yes, they undoubtedly had escaped, as you did.
Freak accidents. But the rest of the town was firmly in control." He
turned from the window. "Well, Mr. Loyce. You seem to have figured
everything out."

"Not everything. The hanging man. The dead man hanging from the
lamppost. I don't understand that. _Why?_ Why did they deliberately hang
him there?"

"That would seem simple." The Commissioner smiled faintly. "_Bait._"

Loyce stiffened. His heart stopped beating. "Bait? What do you mean?"

"To draw you out. Make you declare yourself. So they'd know who was
under control--and who had escaped."

Loyce recoiled with horror. "Then they _expected_ failures! They
anticipated--" He broke off. "They were ready with a trap."

"And you showed yourself. You reacted. You made yourself known." The
Commissioner abruptly moved toward the door. "Come along, Loyce. There's
a lot to do. We must get moving. There's no time to waste."

Loyce started slowly to his feet, numbed. "And the man. _Who was the
man?_ I never saw him before. He wasn't a local man. He was a stranger.
All muddy and dirty, his face cut, slashed--"

There was a strange look on the Commissioner's face as he answered.
"Maybe," he said softly, "you'll understand that, too. Come along with
me, Mr. Loyce." He held the door open, his eyes gleaming. Loyce caught a
glimpse of the street in front of the police station. Policemen, a
platform of some sort. A telephone pole--and a rope! "Right this way,"
the Commissioner said, smiling coldly.
