
He burned off some rubber finding a slot in the park-lot. He strode
under a sign reading _Public Youth Center No. 947_ and walked casually
to the reception desk, where a thin man with sergeant's stripes and a
pansy haircut looked out of a pile of paperwork.

"Where you think you're going, my pretty lad?"

Wayne grinned down. "Higher I hope than a typewriter jockey."

"Well," the sergeant said. "How tough we are this evening. You have a
pass, killer?"

"Wayne Seton. Draft call."

"Oh." The sergeant checked his name off a roster and nodded. He wrote
on a slip of paper, handed the pass to Wayne. "Go to the Armory and
check out whatever your lusting little heart desires. Then report to
Captain Jack, room 307."

"Thanks, sarge dear," Wayne said and took the elevator up to the Armory.

A tired fat corporal with a naked head blinked up at tall Wayne.
Finally he said, "So make up your mind, bud. Think you're the only kid
breaking out tonight?"

"Hold your teeth, pop," Wayne said, coolly and slowly lighting a
cigarette. "I've decided."

The corporal's little eyes studied Wayne with malicious amusement.
"Take it from a vet, bud. Sooner you go the better. It's a big city and
you're starting late. You can get a cat, not a mouse, and some babes
are clever hellcats in a dark alley."

"You must be a genius," Wayne said. "A corporal with no hair and still
a counterboy. I'm impressed. I'm all ears, Dad."

The corporal sighed wearily. "You can get that balloon head
ventilated, bud, and good."

Wayne's mouth twitched. He leaned across the counter toward the
shelves and racks of weapons. "I'll remember that crack when I get
my commission." He blew smoke in the corporal's face. "Bring me a
Smith and Wesson .38, shoulder holster with spring-clip. And throw in
a Skelly switchblade for kicks--the six-inch disguised job with the
double springs."

The corporal waddled back with the revolver and the switchblade
disguised in a leather comb case. He checked them on a receipt ledger,
while Wayne examined the weapons, broke open the revolver, twirled the
cylinder and pushed cartridges into the waiting chamber. He slipped
the knife from the comb case, flicked open the blade and stared at its
gleam in the buttery light as his mouth went dry and the refracted
incandescence of it trickled on his brain like melted ice, exciting and
scary.

He removed his leather jacket. He slung the holster under his left
armpit and tested the spring clip release several times, feeling the
way the serrated butt dropped into his wet palm. He put his jacket
back on and the switchblade case in his pocket. He walked toward the
elevator and didn't look back as the corporal said, "Good luck, tiger."

Captain Jack moved massively. The big stone-walled office, alive with
stuffed lion and tiger and gunracks, seemed to grow smaller. Captain
Jack crossed black-booted legs and whacked a cane at the floor. It had
a head shaped like a grinning bear.

Wayne felt the assured smile die on his face. Something seemed to
shrink him. If he didn't watch himself he'd begin feeling like a pea
among bowling balls.

Contemptuously amused little eyes glittered at Wayne from a shaggy
head. Shoulders hunched like stuffed sea-bags.

"Wayne Seton," said Captain Jack as if he were discussing something
in a bug collection. "Well, well, you're really fired up aren't you?
Really going out to eat 'em. Right, punk?"

"Yes, sir," Wayne said. He ran wet hands down the sides of his chinos.
His legs seemed sheathed in lead as he bit inwardly at shrinking fear
the way a dog snaps at a wound. You big overblown son, he thought, I'll
show you but good who is a punk. They made a guy wait and sweat until
he screamed. They kept a guy on the fire until desire leaped in him,
ran and billowed and roared until his brain was filled with it. But
that wasn't enough. If this muscle-bound creep was such a big boy,
what was he doing holding down a desk?

"Well, this is it, punk. You go the distance or start a butterfly
collection."

The cane darted up. A blade snicked from the end and stopped an inch
from Wayne's nose. He jerked up a shaky hand involuntarily and clamped
a knuckle-ridged gag to his gasping mouth.

Captain Jack chuckled. "All right, superboy." He handed Wayne his
passcard. "Curfew's off, punk, for 6 hours. You got 6 hours to make
out."

"Yes, sir."

"Your beast is primed and waiting at the Four Aces Club on the West
Side. Know where that is, punk?"

"No, sir, but I'll find it fast."

"Sure you will, punk," smiled Captain Jack. "She'll be wearing yellow
slacks and a red shirt. Black hair, a cute trick. She's with a hefty
psycho who eats punks for breakfast. He's butchered five people.
They're both on top of the Undesirable list, Seton. They got to go and
they're your key to the stars."

"Yes, sir," Wayne said.

"So run along and make out, punk," grinned Captain Jack.
