
A copcar stopped Wayne as he started over the bridge, out of bright
respectable neon into the murky westside slum over the river.

Wayne waved the pass card, signed by Captain Jack, under the cop's
quivering nose. The cop shivered and stepped back and waved him on. The
Olds roared over the bridge as the night's rain blew away.

The air through the open window was chill and damp coming from
Slumville, but Wayne felt a cold that wasn't of the night or the wind.
He turned off into a rat's warren of the inferiors. Lights turned pale,
secretive and sparse, the uncared-for streets became rough with pitted
potholes, narrow and winding and humid with wet unpleasant smells.
Wayne's fearful exhilaration increased as he cruised with bated breath
through the dark mazes of streets and rickety tenements crawling with
the shadows of mysterious promise.

He found the alley, dark, a gloom-dripping tunnel. He drove cautiously
into it and rolled along, watching. His belly ached with expectancy as
he spotted the sick-looking dab of neon wanly sparkling.

                           _FOUR ACES CLUB_

He parked across the alley. He got out and stood in shadows, digging
the sultry beat of a combo, the wild pulse of drums and spinning brass
filtering through windows painted black.

He breathed deep, started over, ducked back. A stewbum weaved out of
a bank of garbage cans, humming to himself, pulling at a rainsoaked
shirt clinging to a pale stick body. He reminded Wayne of a slim grub
balanced on one end.

The stewbum stumbled. His bearded face in dim breaking moonlight had
a dirty, greenish tinge as he sensed Wayne there. He turned in a
grotesque uncoordinated jiggling and his eyes were wide with terror and
doom.

"I gotta hide, kid. They're on me."

Wayne's chest rose and his hands curled.

The bum's fingers drew at the air like white talons.

"Help me, kid."

He turned with a scratchy cry and retreated before the sudden blast
of headlights from a Cad bulleting into the alley. The Cad rushed
past Wayne and he felt the engine-hot fumes against his legs. Tires
squealed. The Cad stopped and a teener in black jacket jumped out and
crouched as he began stalking the old rummy.

"This is him! This is him all right," the teener yelled, and one hand
came up swinging a baseball bat.

A head bobbed out of the Cad window and giggled.

The fumble-footed rummy tried to run and plopped on wet pavement. The
teener moved in, while a faint odor of burnt rubber hovered in the air
as the Cad cruised in a slow follow-up.

Wayne's breath quickened as he watched, feeling somehow blank wonder
at finding himself there, free and breaking out at last with no curfew
and no law but his own. He felt as though he couldn't stop anything.
Living seemed directionless, but he still would go with it regardless,
until something dropped off or blew to hell like a hot light-bulb. He
held his breath, waiting. His body was tensed and rigid as he moved in
spirit with the hunting teener, an omniscient shadow with a hunting
license and a ghetto jungle twenty miles deep.

The crawling stewbum screamed as the baseball bat whacked. The teener
laughed. Wayne wanted to shout. He opened his mouth, but the yell
clogged up somewhere, so that he remained soundless yet with his mouth
still open as he heard the payoff thuds where the useless wino curled
up with stick arms over his rheumy face.

The teener laughed, tossed the bat away and began jumping up and down
with his hobnailed, mail-order air force boots. Then he ran into the
Cad. A hootch bottle soared out, made a brittle tink-tink of falling
glass.

"Go, man!"

The Cad wooshed by. It made a sort of hollow sucking noise as it
bounced over the old man twice. Then the finlights diminished like
bright wind-blown sparks.

Wayne walked over and sneered down at the human garbage lying in
scummed rain pools. The smell of raw violence, the scent of blood, made
his heart thump like a trapped rubber ball in a cage.

He hurried into the Four Aces, drawn by an exhilarating vision ... and
pursued by the hollow haunting fears of his own desires.
