
He walked through the wavering haze of smoke and liquored dizziness and
stood until his eyes learned the dark. He spotted her red shirt and
yellow legs over in the corner above a murky lighted table.

He walked toward her, watching her little subhuman pixie face lift.
The eyes widened with exciting terror, turned even paler behind a red
slash of sensuous mouth. Briefed and waiting, primed and eager for
running, she recognized her pursuer at once. He sat at a table near
her, watching and grinning and seeing her squirm.

She sat in that slightly baffled, fearful and uncomprehending attitude
of being motionless, as though they were all actors performing in a
weirdo drama being staged in that smoky thick-aired dive.

Wayne smiled with wry superiority at the redheaded psycho in a dirty
T-shirt, a big bruiser with a gorilla face. He was tussling his mouse
heavy.

"What's yours, teener?" the slug-faced waiter asked.

"Bring me a Crusher, buddyroo," Wayne said, and flashed his pass card.

"Sure, teener."

Red nuzzled the mouse's neck and made drooly noises. Wayne watched and
fed on the promising terror and helplessness of her hunted face. She
sat rigid, eyes fixed on Wayne like balls of frozen glass.

Red looked up and stared straight at Wayne with eyes like black buttons
imbedded in the waxlike skin of his face. Then he grinned all on one
side. One huge hand scratched across the wet table top like a furious
cat's.

Wayne returned the challenging move but felt a nervous twitch jerk at
his lips. A numbness covered his brain like a film as he concentrated
on staring down Red the psycho. But Red kept looking, his eyes bright
but dead. Then he began struggling it up again with the scared little
mouse.

The waiter sat the Crusher down. Wayne signed a chit; tonight he was in
the pay of the state.

"What else, teener?"

"One thing. Fade."

"Sure, teener," the waiter said, his breathy words dripping like syrup.

Wayne drank. Liquored heat dripped into his stomach. Fire tickled his
veins, became hot wire twisting in his head.

He drank again and forced out a shaky breath. The jazz beat thumped
fast and muted brass moaned. Drumpulse, stabbing trumpet raped the
air. Tension mounted as Wayne watched her pale throat convulsing, the
white eyelids fluttering. Red fingered at her legs and salivated at her
throat, glancing now and then at Wayne, baiting him good.

"Okay, you creep," Wayne said.

He stood up and started through the haze. The psycho leaped and a table
crashed. Wayne's .38 dropped from its spring-clip holster and the blast
filled the room. The psycho screamed and stumbled toward the door
holding something in. The mouse darted by, eluded Wayne's grasp and was
out the door.

Wayne went out after her in a laughing frenzy of release. He felt the
cold strange breath of moist air on his sweating skin as he sprinted
down the alley into a wind full of blowing wet.

He ran laughing under the crazy starlight and glimpsed her now and
then, fading in and out of shadows, jumping, crawling, running with the
life-or-death animation of a wild deer.

Up and down alleys, a rat's maze. A rabbit run. Across vacant lots.
Through shattered tenement ruins. Over a fence. There she was, falling,
sliding down a brick shute.

He gained. He moved up. His labored breath pumped more fire. And her
scream was a rejuvenation hypo in his blood.
