
She quivered above him on the stoop, panting, her eyes afire with
terror.

"You, baby," Wayne gasped. "I gotcha."

She backed into darkness, up there against the sagging tenement wall,
her arms out and poised like crippled wings. Wayne crept up. She gave
a squeaking sob, turned, ran. Wayne leaped into gloom. Wood cracked.
He clambered over rotten lumber. The doorway sagged and he hesitated
in the musty dark. A few feet away was the sound of loose trickling
plaster, a whimpering whine.

"No use running," Wayne said. "Go loose. Give, baby. Give now."

She scurried up sagging stairs. Wayne laughed and dug up after her,
feeling his way through debris. Dim moonlight filtered through a
sagging stairway from a shattered skylight three floors up. The mouse's
shadow floated ahead.

He started up. The entire stair structure canted sickeningly. A railing
ripped and he nearly went with it back down to the first floor. He
heard a scream as rotten boards crumbled and dust exploded from
cracks. A rat ran past Wayne and fell into space. He burst into the
third-floor hallway and saw her half-falling through a door under the
jagged skylight.

Wayne took his time. He knew how she felt waiting in there, listening
to his creeping, implacable footfalls.

Then he yelled and slammed open the door.

Dust and stench, filth so awful it made nothing of the dust. In
the corner he saw something hardly to be called a bed. More like
a nest. A dirty, lumpy pile of torn mattress, felt, excelsior,
shredded newspapers and rags. It seemed to crawl a little under the
moon-streaming skylight.

She crouched in the corner panting. He took his time moving in. He
snickered as he flashed the switchblade and circled it like a serpent's
tongue. He watched what was left of her nerves go to pieces like rotten
cloth.

"Do it quick, hunter," she whispered. "Please do it quick."

"What's that, baby?"

"I'm tired running. Kill me first. Beat me after. They won't know the
difference."

"I'm gonna bruise and beat you," he said.

"Kill me first," she begged. "I don't want--" She began to cry. She
cried right up in his face, her wide eyes unblinking, and her mouth
open.

"You got bad blood, baby," he snarled. He laughed but it didn't sound
like him and something was wrong with his belly. It was knotting up.

"Bad, I know! So get it over with, please. Hurry, hurry."

She was small and white and quivering. She moaned but kept staring up
at him.

He ripped off his rivet-studded belt and swung once, then groaned and
shuffled away from her.

He kept backing toward the door. She crawled after him, begging and
clutching with both arms as she wriggled forward on her knees.

"Don't run. Please. Kill me! It'll be someone else if you don't. Oh,
God, I'm so tired waiting and running!"

"I can't," he said, and sickness soured in his throat.

"Please."

"I can't, I can't!"

He turned and ran blindly, half-fell down the cracking stairs.
