
He studied her with curious and new emotions through the thick,
heavy-hanging mists, his long serpentine form curled out along the
global swamp, undulating between the spongy swaying trunks of two
bulbous trees, half-buried in the thick iridescent mud, and effectively
hidden from her alien eyes by interlocking crinoids and gigantic
towering ferns.

Monstrous insects droned broodingly through the sultry vapors and
ventured to light on his gleaming hide. A quick twitch of long steely
tendons blotted them out in lightning grips. But his thickly lidded
eyes remained fixed on the girl who had come from Earth.

He was not disappointed in her beauty of form. It had a soft, rhythmic
smoothly-flowing curvature. It seemed to him a perfect aesthetic
creation of its kind. The contrast, too, impressed him--her frail,
delicate form treading so fearfully among gigantic flora and fauna of
endless varieties, each vying with the others in size and ferocity.
Because of this contrast she seemed more beautiful here, perhaps, than
she might on her own world. But she should not be here; she would find
only death here. She did not understand this world, and she never would.

He felt the pangs of an emotion utterly strange to him. He plunged
the supersonic fingers of his brain deeply into hers and found an
expression there that would vaguely define that emotion. LOVE. It was
an abstract symbol that on her own world meant the crystallization of
celestial ideals.

_And that is what I must feel for this alien creature_, he mused. LOVE.

The many other emotions that accompanied the symbol, LOVE, on her
world--hate, jealousy, hope, ambition, despair, courage--these did
not enter his massive neural circuits. She felt this great emotion
for another being somewhat like her, very close by. This other
being, he examined only briefly for he was ugly, a frantic figure
pacing nervously in something they both knew as a SHIP that rested
not far away in the swamp. She had wandered away from the SHIP and
could not find her way back to it through the mists. And this other
organism--MAN--was being driven into complete disintegration with
anxiety and fear for her.

But he knew that the man would never find her. There was no jealousy or
hate or envy as he curled through the swamp, watching her. That would
spoil the beauty of this moment. She would be destroyed soon; other
emotions must not distract from the few moments he had in which to
absorb this aesthetic thrill of her movements.

_Gruoon!_ The symbol was etched in his mind as a blob of dark dread.
His body tensed into rippling steel. The _Gruoon_ was dropping down
through the mist; his brain could follow every flapping motion of
its great leathery shape as it dropped in a straight driving plunge
directly for the girl.

His triple-lidded eyes could not see it, but that was not necessary;
because of his supersonic brain, he was a ruler of this swamp world,
and that was why he would survive the dull grey aeons that stretched
ahead. So long as his supersonic brain guided his actions he would rule.

He tensed, arched high in taut waiting, while the _Gruoon_ plummeted
down in a sighing blur of speed.

Now he could sense the _Gruoon's_ naked, yellow-scaled claws
outstretched, its toothed beak yawing, and its red-disked eyes shining
with that insatiable blood-thirst that was the scourge of this world.
The scourge of all but himself.

He tensed the full length of his mighty corded body, his twelve
flippers digging into the glowing mud, his gigantic corded tail curled
in feral silence around into a taut S that could spring outward in a
blinding explosion of power.

She was experiencing great fear, but still not as much as she should.
This surprised him. Now that he knew how completely helpless and alien
she was on this world of his, how frail and delicate she was, and how
she belonged on a much different sphere than this one. She had no
conception that the _Gruoon_ was even now falling down upon her like a
comet. That those poisonous claws would wrap about her creamy body and
rip her to shreds and carry her away into the smoking peaks.

She was ignorant of all the countless dangers surrounding her. Fifty
_kimm_ away, hardly more than the length of his own body, was the SHIP
which she was trying to find. But she had not the dimmest concept of
where it was. Such appalling lack of basically protective intuition was
incomprehensible to him.

She knew nothing of the _Vreed_, and its painless bite which bloated
a living organism rapidly until it burst. And the venomous stinging
of the _Kristons_ that paralzyed to a slow unmoving death. Or the
semi-organic _Trumask_ tree that waited for her approach even now,
immobile, without any visible sign to its victims that its crimson
appendages could suddenly whip into action to trap them, dragging them
into its trunk that opened to reveal a slightly pulsating cavern full
of half-devoured forms. These were only a few of an endless horde of
huge and hideous things, yet she suspected none of the things waiting
in the mists. She could only believe what she saw through her beautiful
eyes. And the mist was thick.

Suddenly the taut S of his body unleashed itself, whipping straight
upward in an unbending line. His sharp snout speared up through the
swirling vapor until he was balanced momentarily on the tip of his
stiffened tail. Then, at the apex of his spring, his three-jawed mouth
unhinged, gaped and crunched shut on the _Gruoon_. The vapor was
whipped into fretful whirls. The girl sank down, her eyes searching
upward, but blindly through the gloom.

He sank down once more on his scaled belly, wriggled deeper in the mud.
He dropped the mangled leathery blob that had been a _Gruoon_. Then he
turned his eyes once more on the bit of strange beauty which he had
preserved a little while longer for his aesthetic pleasure.
