
Her eyes kept searching above her. Now the dread silence that had
followed, for an instant, after the piercing shriek of the dying
_Gruoon_, seemed to affect her more than the sound had. She shook
her head, her eyes lowering to look apprehensively about her, then
back to the thick greyness above. She turned indecisively in several
directions, took a few steps in one direction, then hesitated, turned
in another; then abruptly and hysterically changed her previous course
entirely and was running directly toward him.

Yes, she was completely lost, and that was indeed a strange weakness in
an organism. Only fifty _kimm_ away was the intricate machinery that
had brought her here, and which sheltered more of her kind, including
her lover whom she ached to see again. Incredible.

And this SHIP mechanism full of her kind, aliens, were intending to
remain here on his world! It was an amazing paradox. They intended
to rely for their survival on a number of synthetic defense methods,
constructed from basic elements and powered by various energy
principles. This girl had just unsheathed such a device for her own
protection--just now, long after the _Gruoon_ had attacked and died! If
she had any inborn protective instincts at all, they were so weakened
from lack of use or by heredity that only now had they gotten around to
warning her.

And these beings had mechanical detectors based somewhat on his organic
equipment. But they were utterly inadequate to meet the predatory
ferocity of his world. Why had these irrational creatures ventured from
their own comparatively safe world to this? If they actually intended
to remain, their chances of survival depended on almost immediate
adaptation. But that would be impossible, of course.

He watched her with a lonely and hungry eagerness. She had slowed her
pace to a walk and had already begun edging unwittingly to the right
in what would prove to be a long erratic circle leading away from the
SHIP. But she would not go far, even on the wrong course. She was
walking headlong and blindly into the silently waiting arms of the
bloated, motionless _Trumask_.

He waited, too, watching her. Somehow she seemed more a thing of beauty
as she approached death. Death lent a sadness that added to her beauty
a kind of poignancy. His eyes half-lidded dreamily as the full softness
of the emotion flowed through him.

The synthetic defensive mechanism was held out in front of her as she
edged along. She was beautiful as she moved. And on this world of his,
no warmth or softness of her kind could exist. It would die. On his
world the only living thing that remotely suggested this girl from
another planet to his hungry mind was the delicate soft petal of the
_Minon_ blossom. But on close inspection of the unwary or forgetful,
even this spit out a deadly white venom.

He slid his long writhing length, slithering soundlessly between the
_Trumask_ and the girl.
