
Her deeply buried instinct functioned better this time, but not nearly
quickly enough. Not for this environment. She paused, her head jerking
from side to side, the weapon in her hand clutched tightly and swinging
with the direction of her head. But her eyes swept unsuspectingly past
the _Trumask_. Seemingly, on her world, only organisms promised real
danger.

A strange world, that--a soft, slow-turning world of dream more than
reality; of hope rather than realization; of delusion taking the place
of struggle.

Slime strung down from the tentacles of the _Trumask_ as they writhed
toward her in undulating evil shudders. The trunk gaped open.

All of the girl's reactions went through his brain, and he was amazed
by their pointless complexity. A thousand fragments jostled each other
in her mind. Memories of the past, forgotten mistakes, hopes for the
future with no regard for probability, visions of the lover who waited
in the SHIP. All these and many more, equally irrelevant to this dire
situation. She should be concentrating on one thing--escape. Yet she
was not moving. She was in a kind of paralysis he could not understand.

Now, _now_, she was acting, but, as usual, far too late. She was trying
to employ the weapon. But one of the bloated red tentacles flipped it
from her hand. She sagged down, her mouth mumbling incoherent symbols.
She dropped on her knees in the oozing scum, digging down frantically
in a sobbing attempt to find the weapon; but three of the viscuous
tentacles encircled her. They dragged her toward the maw of the trunk
that now gaped to its full, cavernous capacity. Her terrified eyes
could see an unrecognizable amorphous shape still struggling weakly
down in that pulsating well.

He acted as lightning strikes, instinctively. Later he would know why.
In his world thought had to follow action. His huge jaws closed on a
number of the thick tentacles, severed them. They whipped free of the
girl, jerking and contorting, slashing the murky vapor in aimless death
patterns. The girl somehow had staggered out of reach of the remaining
ones.

He dropped down again, out of sight, writhing away to bury himself
again in mud and fog. He searched her mind. Had she seen him? She must
have. Strange that he could find no reaction. There seemed to be a
kind of shock. She had seen him. Then some mental defense mechanism had
blinded her memory to him. Did she find him ugly? Why? Should not he be
possessed of some kind of beauty, also? He had within him the capacity
to appreciate beauty. At least she should be sympathetic and grateful
and kind to him if she knew he was saving her from death, and pain.
Yet--her mind would not accept him. She had seen him briefly, then
forgotten.

Her terror and nervous disintegration was acute now. He could save
her from physical dangers, but he could not protect this soft strange
mind and nervous system from breaking apart and losing its balance of
function.

Yet her beauty still remained, and that was his chief interest. The
fluid motion, contour, symmetry and rhythm remained as before; was the
justification for her continued existence in his eyes.

Her motions did not follow her mental direction at all now. She reached
her hands out as though trying to part thick mist like a solid web. She
groped about in small circles. Then she stopped, her eyes parted wide,
and she screamed. Through the holocaust of sound--the cries, bellows,
and screeches and hisses of the swamp--her scream was almost soundless.
Yet its mental significance cut into his great brain like a wound.

_Torrg!_

The scream's effect had detracted even his wondrous instinctive
mechanism for an instant. During that second the _Torrg_ heaved itself
up almost beneath her. Something slithered through his brain, rippling
down his long curved length--the closest emotion to fear his nervous
system could approach. He hesitated, flinching away.

He knew what to do. Why then, did he hesitate before the _Torrg_?

The girl stood stiff with terror, mindless, muscles drawn tight, nerves
twitching.

He hesitated. He had about gained the maximum from her beauty. It was a
passing thing. He could not possibly go on appreciating it much longer;
she was a limited art form. And the _Torrg_--even _he_ was apprehensive
of that one. Even _he_ had never challenged the ferocious deadliness
of the giant _Torrg_. It was a mighty, mindless machine of destruction,
and so difficult to kill. Its thick leathery body, slick with green
scum, was almost impossible to pierce, and any one of its twenty
writhing arms was a pounding, sucking, smashing bludgeon of power. He
had five _amphos_ to live ... but if he tried to keep the _Torrg_ from
this alien creature....
