
He searched her mind, as the _Torrg_ raised up higher and higher from
the thick nest of its pool. Vaguely, beneath her terror-stricken mind,
he saw the symbol SQUID, enlarged many times. Its great green-colored
caudal fins swayed impatiently, fanning huge swirling spirals of
vapor, like smoke, throwing drops of swamp weed and mud until the
groveling girl's beauty was almost buried in the steaming stench.

Why had she reacted so adversely to that brief sight of him? Why was
he so uncertain about his course of action? If he had a form suitable
for her eyes, if he could look forward to having her always to watch
its perfect rhythm of movement; if he were only assured of her beauty
going on forever, flowering for his pleasure in this world of teeming
ugliness, if--

The _Torrg_ acted almost too quickly for his reaction. But that
unexpectedness of the _Torrg's_ move decided him. His instinct guided
him again, guided him in a blinding streaking flash of sheer power.

He took the muddy squirming figure of the girl between his unhinged
jaws, delicately, but firmly. He accomplished this in an incomparable
burst of energy, continuing on through the finish of the move without
a stop. His body shot beneath the whipping tentacles of the _Torrg_,
toward the SHIP that waited helplessly for her return.

He felt the _Torrg's_ suckers close on his back as he passed. There was
no pausing to understand why he was exposing himself to certain defeat.
One must get in the initial blow in his world, or lose. His instinct
was guiding him. It had never yet failed him. Later, if he survived, he
could reason out the problem.

He sat the girl down gently, an inert lump just beneath the bow of the
SHIP. Then he twisted around to try and rake the _Torrg_ from his back.
He had put himself wholly into the mad mindless power of the _Torrg's_
blood-thirst. He kept trying to turn, but it seemed too late for that.
He felt its twenty arms wrap about his throat and belly and flippers.
Its monstrous weight crawled up his back. Two more of its appendages
clinched about his jaws--his only means of destruction.

He coiled and uncoiled, unleashing the full force of his great power.
His body twisted, jerked over and over in lightning-fast, explosive
arcs. Simultaneously he rolled in the direction of his swamp lake, at
the bottom which he had lived for all his lonely life.

Disengaged appendages of the _Torrg_ swung and slapped thunderously
against the swamp surface. Then the two were sliding down through the
thick black depths of his swamp lake.

In the tepid bubbling water their individual differences were largely
canceled. Here they could battle to the ultimate decision.

They sank down through the murky, swirling deeps, and he was curling
and snapping his fifty _kimm_ until the entire expanse of his swamp
lake churned and frothed, surging and boiling as though a steam fissure
had blown open beneath it. Dead things floated up past them toward the
surface and were promptly devoured by serpentine things.

[Illustration: This was his last battle. His instinct told him that.]

This was his last battle. His instinct told him that. Somehow, though,
his instinct had failed him this time. Taking the girl back to her SHIP
had been an error of instinct. He would never know why he had done it,
because he would not have time to study the psychology of it.

He felt the great holes being ripped in his belly where his flippers
had been torn out. He felt his thick cold blood streaming out in
rivers, thickening the swamp lake. He noted the darting lusting hunger
of the intent school of killer snakes that were already swimming into
the current of that blood, following up the direction of the final
feeding.

This knowledge drove him to the great effort that partially dislodged
the appendages from about his jaws. His long sharp head speared around,
closed about that part of the _Torrg_ from which its many eyes stared
cold and lidless.

They settled together that way into the crawling mud of the lake
bottom. The _Torrg's_ death threshings, the final contracting of its
arms, crushed him, squashing his insides out into the thirsting water.
His jaws were locked about the _Torrg_ in a grip even death could not
undo....

Until weakness drove the last spark of reason from his great supersonic
circuit he was reflecting on the psychology of it, of why his instinct
had proven false. Glimmerings of the cause appeared, but then the
ancient brain that had survived so many countless _amphos_ abruptly
ceased to exist.