
Night fell quickly, and with little relief on Kash, for the stars were
few and far between, and shed little light. Dillon stepped out of the
office that was doing double-duty as living quarters until separate
quarters could be set up, and started for the nearby well. He cursed as
he realized his flashlight still lay on the desk, but the light pouring
from the open door was enough to see by, and he decided against
returning.

As he walked, he breathed deeply of the tangy night air, and sighed with
satisfaction. This world was infinitely more pleasurable than the last
he had posted, and he intended to enjoy his stay.

He let his thoughts ramble as he walked and so almost ran down the
waiting alien before he saw him. The native's huge eyes gleamed softly
in the spill of light from the office, and the gray down that covered
his body and head, except for the face, seemed soft and alive.

"Tarsa, Bila," said the Earthman, using the native greeting.

"Tarsa, starman. May the Gods shine their eternal light on you."

"And on you," Dillon said, observing the ritual. "But what brings you
here at night?"

"The night is beautiful, is it not, starman? It shines with a glory all
its own. At times it would seem to outdo its brother, the day."

"Indeed," he agreed. "Your world is one of the loveliest I have yet
seen, and my travels have led me over as many stars as there are waves
on the sea. But surely you did not come to talk merely of the night and
its beauty."

"Alas, no," sighed the native. "My task is a most unhappy one, for
sorrow hangs heavy over the village. The women and children are weeping,
and the men know not what to do in the face of calamity. It seems as
though the Gods themselves have turned against my people." He wiped his
eyes with the back of his hand.

"What would you with me, Bila?" asked the Earthman. "Surely I cannot be
of any assistance?"

"As a man from the sky, surely you have met the Gods in open battle
before!" cried the alien. "And just as surely you must have defeated
them, else you would not be here this night."

"I am flattered, Bila. It is true that the Gods of the universe and I
are not total strangers. Exactly what is wrong?"

"It is Toll, the son of Kylano. He has fallen from a cliff, and the
bones of his arm are broken and need curing."

"But isn't that a job for the priest?"

"Aye. But our priest has been on a pilgrimage these past ten days, and
is to be gone another thirty or more. There is no one left with the
necessary knowledge. You will come?"

"I'll come, Bila. But first I must get a bag from the office. With it I
may be able to help the boy."

"Ah, you too have an herb basket like the priest's? Truly you are a
friend of the Gods."

"Not quite like the priest's," said Dillon, smiling. "But it serves much
the same purpose." He hurried up the path and into the shack, emerging a
moment later with the first-aid bag that was standard equipment for all
men isolated from the services of a doctor.
