
"Where is the boy, Bila?" asked Dillon as he came up to the alien again.

"At my village, starman. Come." He slipped down the path and was soon
swallowed by the darkness. The Earthman hurried after, afraid of being
lost in the almost impenetrable night.

He had forgotten the flashlight again, and he cursed as he stumbled over
an unseen obstruction.

"Bila!" he called.

"Yes, starman?" The alien appeared as if from nowhere.

"I'm afraid that I'm not as gifted as you when it comes to traveling at
night without light. You had better let me hold onto your shoulder."

"Of course, starman. I am most sorry for causing you trouble."

"It's my own fault. I should have remembered the light. Let's get going
again." He placed his hand on the alien's shoulder, and they started off
again.

Despite his guide, he twice stumbled over obstructions, and would have
fallen but for his grip on the other's shoulder. Bila waited while he
steadied himself, and then started off again, keeping up a fast pace.

The village lay three miles from the post, and during the day, Dillon
considered it nothing more than a brisk walk. But the blindness that
came with the dark wiped out all realization of time and space, and he
soon began to think that they must have passed it by, when the alien
spoke.

"We are here, starman."

They rounded a bend, and a cluster of huts came into view, lit by the
dim light of a few scattered lamps. The alien threaded his way through
the narrow lanes between the huts, and stopped outside one of the
largest in the group. He held the hangings aside, and Dillon stooped to
enter.

The hut was already crowded with natives. The smoke from half a dozen of
the sputtering lamps hung like a shroud over the interior, and the
Earthman's eyes were soon smarting. He wondered how the natives, with
their much larger eyes, could stand it.

The injured boy lay on a pallet in the center of the hut. An animal skin
had been thrown over him, with the broken arm exposed. Dillon knelt by
him, and felt it over carefully.

"A clean break, thank God," he said, more to himself than his audience.

The boy whimpered, and he reached for the bag, and rummaged around.
Finally he pulled out an already prepared hypo, loaded with a sedative.
He swabbed the boy's good arm, and pressed the needle home.

The natives moved forward when they saw the needle, and some of them
began to mutter. But the boy quickly dropped off into an untroubled
sleep, and they settled down.

The Earthman took hold of the broken arm, and marvelled at the frailty
of it. The bones had to hold a lighter weight than those of Earthmen,
and thus were correspondingly weaker. He felt that he could snap one of
them with his hands.

He straightened the arm out, as gently as he could, and then pulled. The
broken ends slid together with a satisfying pop, and he quickly bound
them with a splint from his bag. He wrapped the bandage tight, and tied
it. Then he arose, picking up his bag.

"He should be alright now," he said. "I'll stop by in the morning, when
he's awake, and give him a going-over."

"His arm," said Bila. "It is ... fixed?"

"Yes. He's young, and he should heal fast. Three weeks from now he'll be
out with the other children, playing games and just as active as ever."

"We thank you, starman," said Bila. "We have not the words to say just
how happy we are that you have helped us."

"It's nothing," said Dillon, embarrassed by the show of gratitude. "All
Earthmen would do the same."

"Ah, your magic must be even greater than that of the priests. It is
most unfortunate that the village priest was away. But the Gods have
smiled on us, by sending you instead."

"He'll be back soon, I hope?" said Dillon. "The priest, I mean."

"Alas, not for at least thirty days, and perhaps more. He knew not where
his pilgrimage would lead him."

"But if you have more troubles like this?"

"Our misfortunes," said Bila, his face downcast. "If the Gods see fit to
abandon us to the miseries of the world, what can mere men say? If some
must die, than they shall surely die."

"No!" He regretted the word the moment it was out, but it was too late
to recall it. The milk was spilt, and crying would be foolish at this
point. "No. If you have troubles, come to me. I will do what I can,
although I am not sure that it will be much."

"Ten million thanks, starman!" His eyes glistened with joy. "Our people
shall be eternally grateful."

"You'd better save your thanks, until you're sure that I can help you.
But right now, I'd appreciate a guide back to the post, and a lamp, so I
don't fall anymore."

"Of course. It shall be done immediately." He motioned for one of the
men in the hut, who came with a lamp. Bila held the hangings aside, and
the two passed outside into the blackness again.

The trip back to the trader's shack passed without mishap and Dillon
went to sleep quite pleased.
