
It was the same hut, and a crowd that may or may not have been present
the earlier night. The numbers were the same. The only change was the
lack of the overhanging pall of smoke from the lamps.

The man occupied the same pallet as the boy, and the crowd made way for
Dillon as he moved to his side. It was readily apparent that he was very
ill, and Dillon uttered a silent prayer that he had something in the kit
to help him.

The leg wound was nasty and crusted over. He swabbed it clean, blanching
when he saw its depth. Steadying himself, he bound it tightly, and sat
back on his heels to ponder his next move.

The bandage would prevent any further infection, but the Earthman was
afraid the damage had already been done. The fever lay heavily on the
native, and he tossed and turned in his coma. The drugs in the bag were
all intended for use by Terrans only, and an attempt to aid the slight
alien might only result in death. Whereas if he were left alone to ride
out the fever, he just might come through all right.

Kylano let out a muted sob, and struck out wildly, nearly hitting Dillon
in the face. He cursed, and turned to his bag, selecting the most
catholic antibiotic it contained. He looked up at the watching crowd,
but they just stared back impassively. He cursed again, and swabbed a
spot on the native's arm, and thrust home the needle.

He threw the empty hypo back in the bag, and shut it savagely. Then he
stood up, and looked around for Bila.

"A drink of water, please," he said, catching the other's eye.

"Certainly, starman," he replied, handing over a gourd.

Dillon drank deeply, then wiped his mouth. He handed back the gourd and
picked up his bag. As he pushed his way through the crowd, Bila
followed.

"Kylano will be well now?" said the alien.

"I don't know. I just don't know. I hope so."

"Is there anything more you can do?"

"Perhaps. If I knew just what he was sick with, and I had the right
drugs to treat it, I could do a lot. As it is...." He left the sentence
hanging.

"If the Gods will it, he will live."

"Pray that they will it. In the meantime, you might bathe his forehead
every now and then. It'll help to make him more comfortable."

"In any event, we thank you, starman. With our priest gone...."

"Why did your priest leave on such a long journey, Bila? I should think
he would be more concerned with the care of his flock."

"The ways of the priesthood are beyond the comprehension of ordinary
men. When the Gods speak to them, they obey, no matter how onerous the
orders may be. If men must suffer during their absence, it is
unfortunate. But it must be."

"Then I'd think that your priests would see to it that someone in the
village would know what to do in case of emergency."

"Oh, no!" He seemed horrified at the thought. "Knowledge is for the Gods
to give to the chosen ones. Common men would not be worthy of it, for it
is certain that they do not have the intelligence to deal with it
properly. Only the priests are wise enough to be so honored. Priests and
men from the stars," he added, as an afterthought.

"Well, in any event, I hope you don't need me any more...."
