
"But they did need you," said Cassidy.

"Unfortunately, yes. Four more times in the twenty days before the
return of the priest."

"What were the troubles?"

"Once, it was to aid in childbirth--my first adventure as a midwife," he
said, remembering the event and his shame at his ignorance in the
matter. He had had to take directions from the woman. "Once, a hunter
had fallen in an animal trap, and broken both his legs," he continued.
"And twice, it was for sickness."

"The same one as this Kylano?"

"I don't know. I couldn't hope to diagnose it, so I just shot them full
of antibiotics, and prayed for a miracle."

"You should have prayed for brains instead. But all of your sick ones
recovered?"

"Yes. I couldn't seem to do anything wrong, and it wasn't long before
the natives were beginning to look on me as the personal representative
of their Gods. It was embarrassing, the way they fawned over me."

"Tell me," said Cassidy. "You said you read the regs over. Why in the
name of all that's holy didn't you have the sense to follow them?"

"I couldn't stand by and watch them die! I had to help them, Cassidy.
Damn it, I _had_ to!"

"Yeah, sure. But go on."

"Well, to shorten matters, the local priest finally got back from his
pilgrimage, and took up his old duties. All went well for about a week,
and then another alien became ill. The priest heard about it, naturally,
and went to his aid. But it seems my percentage of recoveries was better
than his at its very best. They wouldn't let him even near the sick
one. Instead, they sent for me."

"You went?"

"Of course. I didn't know the priest was back, and what else could I
do?"

"I shudder to think. What happened?"

"The native got well, and the tribe practically pitched the priest out
on his ear. He went running to his superiors, and they called a council
of war. They banned the natives from the post, and threatened to cut off
any who were seen with me from all priestly privileges.

"The tribe made an almighty stink. They called their own council, and
there was practically civil war. That's when I called you. Or, rather,
the nearest trouble-shooter."

"Ah, me. Why is it that I, Cassius Cassidy, get saddled with all of the
real stinkers in the galaxy? I don't mind shooting other people's
troubles for them, but I do resent the fact that the messiest ones get
dumped in my lap. Sometimes I feel like resigning."

"Cassidy, one of these days...."

"Oh, simmer down. I said there was a simple solution to your problem,
and I knew what I was talking about. The natives have been so taken in
by your ridiculously lucky flukes that they think you're the next thing
to a God. Right?"

"Right." Each looked as though the other were something unmentionable,
left over from the last cleaning of the cesspool.

"So we just...." He leaned forward and outlined his plan.
