
Five days passed, peaceably. The natives gave the post a wide margin;
not even Bila showed his face. Dillon began to think that maybe there
was a chance things would go back to normal by themselves; and that
Cassidy's plan would not be necessary.

The first four days were merely a continuation of the heat. The two
Earthmen sat around the office, speaking only when it was absolutely
unavoidable, and then only in snarls. Dillon sent out a rush request for
air conditioning equipment, omitted, by some mistake, from the supplies.

The fifth day was as sunny as ever, but a stiff west wind sprang up, and
the temperature was bearable. Cassidy smiled for the first time in days,
and Dillon tried to be pleasant to him.

The sixth day broke with an unceasing torrent of rain, and the men
returned to their surly grumbling.

"I hope the post isn't washed away," said Cassidy. "This storm begins to
assume the aspects of the Biblical flood."

"We're safe enough," said Dillon. "Only...."

"Only what?"

"Nothing. Just a hunch."

"Good or bad?"

"Bad. All bad. I've got a feeling we're due for a visit."

As if on cue, a knock came on the office door. Dillon opened it, and
stood aside for the thoroughly bedraggled alien waiting outside. Bila
was a sorry caricature of himself, with his down plastered to his body.
Water dripped from him in a steady stream.

"Tarsa, starman," he said.

"Tarsa, Bila," replied Dillon. "I've been expecting you."

"Oh? Do you then have the powers of foreseeing the future, too?"

"No," he said, laughing. "It's just that it's been several days since
you were last here. You were overdue for a visit."

Cassidy cleared his throat, and Dillon turned to him.

"This is Cassidy, Bila," he said. "He is my brother from the stars, and
has come to visit me for a short while."

"Tarsa, Cassidy," the native said, gravely.

"Tarsa, Bila. I have been hoping to meet a member of your people."

"Oh? Has the fame of Kash spread far through the universe then?"

"Indeed, all of the civilized worlds talk of Kash and its gentle folk.
It is a common ambition to be able to come here and see you in person.
It is hoped that soon such travel will be most frequent, to the reward
of both of our peoples."

"Indeed," said Bila. "I thank you in the name of my people. Will you
yourself be here long?"

"Unfortunately, no. But when I go I will take fond memories as
souvenirs."

"What is so important that it brought you out in this storm, Bila?"
asked Dillon, breaking into the conversation. "Your troubles must be
pressing."

"Indeed, they are. The Gods frown heavily on our village this day, and I
have come once more to seek your intercession."

"What is the matter?" asked Cassidy.

"Alas, the trouble is in my own household. My wife lies at the door to
death, and I fear she is fast slipping beyond."

"Haven't you had the priest in?" asked Dillon.

"Against your great and wondrous magic, Dillon, what is the priest? He
is like a lost little boy, unable to tell North from East, and helpless
in the face of death. Only you have the power to bring her back to the
world of the living, as you did with Kylano and the others."

"I thank you for your trust," said Dillon. "I only hope it is not
misplaced."

"You will come?"

"Of course. As soon as I dress for the storm, and get my bag." He turned
to do so, then was struck by an afterthought. "By the way, do you mind
if Cassidy comes with us? He would appreciate the chance to see your
village."

"It will be an honor."

"Good. Get into your togs, Cass."

They were soon ready. Dillon grabbed up his bag, and he followed the
native out into the storm. The rain blew straight toward them, and they
bent forward, into the wind. The trip to the village was a fight all the
way.

The village itself had become isolated; an island in the midst of a
shallow lake. They waded across, to the hut that was Bila's. He held the
hangings aside, and the Earthmen stepped into the stink of the alien
crowd.

The omnipresent lamps were lit, and the smoke hung heavy. Both of the
Earthmen were soon wishing they had protection for their smarting eyes.

The natives stopped their keening, and made room for the two men. They
both moved forward, and bent over the woman. Dillon could see that she
was as sick as the others, but whether or not it was the same disease,
he could not say. For the eighth such time, he wished he had taken
medical training as a youth, in deference to his family's wishes.

"It's hot in here," said Cassidy. Sweat beaded out on his forehead, and
he wiped it away with a shaking hand.

"Small wonder," said Dillon, "with all these people here. They must up
the temperature by twenty degrees." He opened his bag, and dug out a
swab. After cleaning a spot on her arm, he dug out a needle, and filled
it from an ampoule.

"Dillon!"

He whirled around. "Cass! What's the matter?"

"I ... don't know. Woozy. I feel woozy." He staggered, and fell forward,
unconscious.

"Cass!" He bent over the man, and turned him over. Cassidy's face was
white, and the sweat rolled off in rivulets. Dillon felt for a pulse,
and then pulled out a stethoscope. Baring the other's chest, he listened
for a beat.

"What is it, Dillon?" asked Bila. "What is wrong?"

"I don't know. He's sick." He looked worried.

"Sick?" The natives stared at each other, unbelieving.

"Yes, sick! Earthmen get sick too, you know!" He bared Cassidy's arm,
and swabbed it clean. Then he pressed home the needle he had prepared
for the woman.

"He will get well?" asked Bila.

"I don't know." Dillon felt for a pulse again. Disbelief washed over his
face, and he sank back on his heels.

"What is it?"

"He's dead."

"Dead?" Amazement took hold of them.

"Dead." The Earthman stood up, shaking his head. "But your wife, Bila. I
must attend to her."

"No." The native stepped between the man and woman, and held out his
arms.

"No? Why not?"

"The Gods have frowned on you, starman. It is obvious that they are
dissatisfied with you, for they took your brother."

"But just because Cassidy died doesn't mean your wife will." He stared
at the lesser being, dumfounded. "But she might, if not treated."

"We shall get the priest. We cannot run the risk of offending the Gods
by permitting you to touch her."

The Earthman stared from face to face, but the same message was written
on all. Hopelessness took the place of question, and he turned, and
stumbled from the hut, and into the storm.

"Take the man to the post," said Bila. Several of the men hurried to do
his bidding. They carried Cassidy out into the night, without looking
back.
