
As she picked up his trend of thought, Judy's face lost its resentful
expression, and something like seraphic righteousness spread over it. "I
see what you mean. Just how did you plan to make up for this shut-in
feeling that poor Droozle must have been suffering so much from for all
these years?"

"Oh, Judy, I'm so glad you asked me!" He threw wide his arms to the
world. "_Out_ into the wind and the rain we shall go, and there I will
draw my pictures while he observes; then _into_ the roaring, brawling
taverns we shall go, where life thrives in all its abundance. I've been
robbing him by shutting him up here."

"Jean, look at Droozle," the girl exclaimed, pointing. "He has stopped
in the middle of a page and is starting on a fresh one."

Droozle wrote, "Please not out into the wind and the rain. Please not
into the roaring, brawling taverns where life thrives in all its
abundance. I _loathe_ shudder and tilt."

"Loathing is no reason to turn away from reality, Droozle," admonished
the artist. "Things are not nearly so bad as they used to be anyway. In
all justice, shudder and tilt requires far less body-English than its
ancestor, rock and roll."

Droozle argued carefully, "You will recall I heard some of it once when
you took me into a particularly dirty bar over in the west end of town.
I feel, as a result, that I have observed this type of data to the
extent that I can write of it competently without further study."

"Oh, but that was months ago," enthused Jean. "The tunes have all
changed by now. New pows appear on the tapes every week. You have missed
countless sockeroos already, being cooped up here. You will bless me,
once you get accustomed to the realities of life--see if you don't.
Heigh-ho the wind and the rain!"

The snake shuddered.

"Careful, you'll centrifuge," Judy warned.

Jean added reflectively, studying the ceiling, "Day by day, month by
month, year by year, the reality of everyday existence etches deeply
into our consciousness, if we will but have the fortitude to expose
ourselves to it."

Droozle unavoidably centrifuged this time, but did manage, with
laborious lateral movements, to mix the hemoglobin back with the plasma
again.

He complained, "It is cruel of you to condemn me to this ugliness. I
want only to read my books and hear a few simple fugues by Bach."

"It is not cruel. You will have exactly the same existence I have chosen
for myself as an artist. It is fundamental that if you are to write
serious literature, you must rub your nose against the realities of
life."

Droozle wriggled unhappily for a moment. Finally he wrote, "Actually my
writing may not be as serious as the title implies. Misunderstandings
conceivably arise over titles. Instead of _The Rise and Fall of the
Western Plainsman_, how about changing it to _Those Lowdown Scaly
Rustlers_?"

"That's really getting down to earth," cried Jean, concealing his
elation. "But if you aren't going to write serious literature, who will
I get to go on my painting trips with me?"

"Take that female of yours," suggested Droozle. "If she refuses to go,
inform her that we shall be forced to hand her over to the dog catcher."

"Do you suppose he means that?" wondered Jean.

"Of course not, silly," said Judy, bright-eyed. "He's only negotiating."


    --FRANK BANTA


[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Galaxy December 1962.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed.]



