
Chief Steward Slichow paced up and down beside the ration crate turned
up to serve him as a field desk. He scowled in turn, impartially, at his
watch and at the weary stewards of his headquarters detail. The latter
stumbled about, stacking and distributing small packets of emergency
rations.

The line of crewmen released temporarily from repair work was transient
as to individuals but immutable as to length. Slichow muttered something
profane about disregard of orders as he glared at the rocky ridges
surrounding the landing place.

He was so intent upon planning greetings with which to favor the tardy
scouting parties that he failed to notice the loose cloud drifting over
the ridge.

It was tenuous, almost a haze. Close examination would have revealed it
to be made up of myriads of tiny spores. They resembled those cast forth
by one of the bushes Kolin's party had passed. Along the edges, the haze
faded raggedly into thin air, but the units evidently formed a cohesive
body. They drifted together, approaching the men as if taking
intelligent advantage of the breeze.

One of Chief Slichow's staggering flunkies, stealing a few seconds of
relaxation on the pretext of dumping an armful of light plastic packing,
wandered into the haze.

He froze.

After a few heartbeats, he dropped the trash and stared at ship and men
as if he had never seen either. A hail from his master moved him.

"Coming, Chief!" he called but, returning at a moderate pace, he
murmured, "My name is Frazer. I'm a second assistant steward. I'll think
as Unit One."

Throughout the cloud of spores, the mind formerly known as Peter Kolin
congratulated itself upon its choice of form.

_Nearer to the original shape of the Life than Ashlew got_, he thought.

He paused to consider the state of the tree named Ashlew, half immortal
but rooted to one spot, unable to float on a breeze or through space
itself on the pressure of light. Especially, it was unable to insinuate
any part of itself into the control center of another form of life, as a
second spore was taking charge of the body of Chief Slichow at that very
instant.

_There are not enough men_, thought Kolin. _Some of me must drift
through the airlock. In space, I can spread through the air system to
the command group._

Repairs to the _Peace State_ and the return to Haurtoz passed like weeks
to some of the crew but like brief moments in infinity to other units.
At last, the ship parted the air above Headquarters City and landed.

The unit known as Captain Theodor Kessel hesitated before descending the
ramp. He surveyed the field, the city and the waiting team of inspecting
officers.

"Could hardly be better, could it?" he chuckled to the companion unit
called Security Officer Tarth.

"Hardly, sir. All ready for the liberation of Haurtoz."

"Reformation of the Planetary State," mused the captain, smiling
dreamily as he grasped the handrail. "And then--formation of the
Planetary Mind!"


END


  [ Transcriber's Note:
    This e-text was produced from Worlds of If January 1962. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed.
  ]



