
A stoop-shouldered old man with thin, straggly white hair came timidly
from the Administration Building and stood at the field superintendent’s
side.

“Am I too early?” he asked timidly, his mild blue eyes apologizing
silently for his temerity in addressing such a magnificent personage as
the field superintendent, resplendent in correct cut flying togs and
polished riding boots.

“Here’s one of the best pilots on the field.” The field superintendent
turned to Jimmy. “His plane’s one of the fastest ships on the ground.”

Jimmy stepped forward promptly.

“This is Jimmy Devlin--Mr. Weber.”

“Ed Weber.” The old man offered his hand shyly. “I am pleased to meet
you.”

“Take good care of Mr. Weber, Jimmy.” The field superintendent winked
broadly and sauntered back to his office.

“Where was it you wanted to go, Mr. Weber?” Jimmy asked. “Did you just
want to take a little ride around the field or did you want to go
somewhere particularly?”

“I want to go to Keno, Nevada,” the old man confided.

“You mean Reno, don’t you?” Jimmy asked.

“No, I mean Keno,” the old man said. “But I don’t wonder you never heerd
of it. ’Tain’t nothin’ more than a water hole to begin with, and it’s
way out on the edge of the mountains more’n a hundred miles south and
east of Reno.”

“Is there a landing field there?”

Jimmy realized that his question was foolish, and, furthermore, that the
old man did not know what he meant.

“I mean a level place, maybe half a mile long or so where I could land
the plane.”

“There’s a flat down between the hills where I reckon you could maneuver
her into a place to set down,” the old man explained. “But how much will
you take to fly me there?”

Jimmy took the old man off behind one of the hangars where he would not
be grabbed by one of the other pilots and then got out his map. Keno did
not show on the map, but Weber made a pencil cross to indicate its
approximate location.

“What is it--a town or a ranch?” Jimmy inquired.

“Wal,” Weber explained, “there used to be a shack there where a man
could get a drink and maybe a slab of bacon and some beans, but I reckon
there ain’t much right now except the water hole. Figgerin’ it
conservative, though, inside of three days there’ll be five thousand men
there and the name of Keno will be spread over the front page of every
newspaper in the U. S.”

The old man chuckled quietly at Jimmy’s bewilderment.

“It’s a gold strike, son,” he said quietly. “I’ve got a sister living up
there in that country. Last night I got a long distance telephone call
from her saying that an old hard pan miner had staggered in with a bag
of samples and his tongue hanging out, blabbing about the strike he’d
made at Keno.”

“When do you want to go?”

“Jist as soon as we can get started, son,” the old man said earnestly.
“Here’s the way I’ve got it figgered out. If we can get into Keno today
we’ll be ahead of the first of the rush. Old-time gold strikes don’t
happen often nowadays, but there’s still enough prospectors and would-be
prospectors left to make a fairly sizable gold rush. But at the best,
they can’t commence to come in until tomorrow morning. I know every foot
of that ground. I always knowed there was gold around Keno somewheres. I
found plenty of rich float but I was never able to track it down. From
the information I got over the telephone last night, I know just where
the strike was made, and if we can get there ahead of the rest of them,
I’ll stake out a claim that will put me on Easy Street for the rest of
my life.”

“Say,” Jimmy asked excitedly, “is there anything to prevent me from
staking out a claim too?”

“Not that I know of, son,” Weber replied, “and I’ll help you pick out a
good one too. Then we’ll fly down to the Carson Land Office and register
them and the trick’s done. I guess I’ll have to go back and see that
nobody squats on the claim, but once they’re registered they’ll be safe
unless it’s so rich that they have to be watched night and day.”
