
Jimmy was able to borrow some blankets. The Calico Peacock had been
fitted with a couple of passenger seats ahead of the pilot’s cockpit,
and there was plenty of space for Weber and the luggage. Jimmy loaned
the old man a pair of flying goggles. Weber had provided himself with a
bearskin hunting cap which pulled down over his ears. Before they took
off, Jimmy got out his maps again and they went over them carefully.

From the spot where he had located Keno, the old man traced the course
of the valley on down to a spot where fan-shaped valleys converged to
form a single broad, shallow valley.

“I spent three years there,” he explained. “I’d have been up there yet,
too, if my sister hadn’t worried me into coming down here and getting a
job and living in a house. She was scared that some day I’d slip and
fall and get hurt and nobody would ever know where to go to look for my
bones. She pestered me until I finally give in, but I ain’t surprised
that they struck it up there. No, sir! I knowed it was comin’ and for a
long time I’ve been waitin’ for it to happen. I had my plans all laid.
When she called me up last night, it didn’t take me half an hour to be
all ready to start.”

“Are you sure that there’s enough flat space up there to land?” Jimmy
asked anxiously.

“There’s plenty of room,” Weber assured him calmly. “I wouldn’t be
taking you up there on a wild goose chase. This means too much to me. I
knowed there was gold there. I’ve seen the float. But you know it’s a
funny thing. I was expectin’ it to be found over on Stink Crick.”

He pointed to one of the valleys to the west of Keno.

“I prospected that Keno flat, but I finally came to the conclusion the
main ledge was over on Stink Crick. You know, it’s funny about gold
strikes. I’ll bet a hundred men have prospected Keno at one time or
another without ever locatin’ this strike. You’d never guess how it was
finally found.”

“How?”

“Wal, sir, it jist shows you how these things go,” Weber said
reminiscently. “Accordin’ to my sister over the telephone, this old hard
pan miner that made the strike had a dog that he took along with him to
keep him company. It was just a little rat-tail mutt not much bigger
than a rabbit. While they was camped up here at this Keno water hole,
this mutt chased something into a hole and commenced to bark and snarl
and try to dig it up. He made so much racket that this old hard-shelled
prospector went over to see what all the fuss was about, and believe it
or not, his dog had uncovered the ledge that all of us had been lookin’
for.”

“I’ll bet that dog gets a good home,” Jimmy grinned.

“Wal, that’s the way it goes,” Weber declared. “Maybe I’ve set on that
very ledge of rock and cussed because I couldn’t uncover any color. I
heard tell of a strike made down in Arizona when a burro kicked off a
piece of rock and uncovered the ledge. Gold strikes are made like that.”

“Are you sure we’ll get there in time to get a claim?” Jimmy questioned.

“Unless somebody thinks of going there in an aeroplane like we are,
we’ll beat the leaders,” Weber predicted. “They kain’t get there until
before tomorrow morning at the best, and that means travelin’ around the
sun. It ain’t a big valley, though, and if anybody gets there after
tomorrow night, they’ll be out of luck. There’ll be five thousand men
make the rush, and there’ll be a lot of land staked out that’s plumb
worthless.”
