
Between Stockton and Sacramento the engine began to smoke. It was a race
between a forced landing in some grain field or landing at the
Sacramento airport. Jimmy made Sacramento, but by a narrow margin. He
landed with a dead prop and an engine that was practically frozen stiff.
Mechanics came out across the field and pulled the Calico Peacock out of
the way of incoming ships.

“Anything wrong?” Weber asked.

“Engine’s heating up,” Jimmy explained. “We’ll have to wait here a while
until it cools off.”

“Then can we go on?” Weber inquired. “We’ll make it, won’t we?”

“I think so,” Jimmy assured him. “Unless we crack some of the bearings
we’ll be all right as soon as this cools off a little.”

“You know, a gold strike’s a funny business,” Weber mused. “You can’t
put your fingers on gold. Just when you think you’re all ready to make a
stake, something comes up. It’s always been like that.”

“We’ll make it or bust.” Jimmy promised.

“I wasn’t thinkin’ so much of that,” Weber declared, “I know you’re
doin’ your best, son, but you ask any old prospector. Gold’s a funny old
gal. She’ll flirt with you for years and then go throw herself on some
total stranger’s neck, right in his lap, as it were.”

A pilot friend of Jimmy’s sauntered over and inquired their trouble.

“You headed for Keno, too?” he asked, looking in the passenger cockpit
and seeing the blanket rolls and grub sack. “Three planes have left here
already for that destination. They say they’ve made a big gold strike up
there.”

“You know who went?” Weber asked eagerly. “I mean, who the passengers
was?” The pilot shook his head.

“I reckon it don’t matter none anyway,” Weber said, “’Tain’t likely they
know Keno like I know it. Most likely they’re just mining men anxious to
be the first on the ground and ready to buy good claims if they can’t
stake them themselves.”

“We’ll get off as soon as we can,” Jimmy promised.

“Take your time, son,” Weber cautioned. “There’s plenty of land up there
for the first forty or fifty that shows up. Just so that we get there
ahead of the old sourdoughs that’ll be driftin’ in in the mornin’. You
know this contraption better than I do, so I ain’t aimin’ to give you
any advice. But I just want you to understand that I spent all my life
just lookin’ for the end of the rainbow and if I miss it once again, it
ain’t goin’ to get the best of me. Don’t take no chances with your
flying machine, son, or risk your neck tryin’ to get an old crackpot
like me up to Keno.”
