
While they waited for the engine to cool, Jimmy told his passenger about
buying the Calico Peacock and reclaiming it for passenger purposes. The
old man displayed keen interest while Jimmy showed him the repairs he
had made, and the patches he had put on the wing fabric. He also
confessed that the engine was heating because it had never been given a
thorough test after being overhauled. The old man did not appear to
think that he had been victimized. Instead, when he had inquired into
the cost of operating a plane and what dope and fabric and replacements
cost, he seemed to appreciate Jimmy’s generosity in attempting the trip
for fifty dollars.

“You stand to lose more than I do,” he commented. “If we don’t get
there, all I’ll lose is somethin’ I never had, while if anythin’ should
happen to us, you’d lose your whole investment. And after you tellin’ me
how you’ve worked to put the Calico Peacock in shape, I can appreciate
what it means to you.”

From the field officials Jimmy learned that the other planes for Keno
had flown almost directly east, crossing the Sierra Nevadas above Sutter
Creek and the other famous old gold mining landmarks. This was the
shortest route to Keno, although it offered no emergency landing fields
to Jimmy’s knowledge. He would have to cross the Sierra Nevadas at a
high altitude, which made the trip a gamble if his engine started to
heat again. Jimmy was willing to take the chance, but he explained the
risk to his passenger.

“If there’s any safer way, son, you’d better take it,” Weber advised.
“I’m sayin’ that, not on my account, for the shortest way there will
suit me best, but I’m considerin’ your interests.”

“My interests are yours,” Jimmy declared. “I want to take the short way
if you’re willing to take a chance on landing in the tree tops. Even if
the engine does start to heat up, we ought to be over the tops of the
mountains by that time.”

“I’m leavin’ everything to your judgment,” Weber asserted.

“Then we’ll take the short cut,” Jimmy decided. “Let’s get going.”
