
Leaving Sacramento, they headed eastward and began to climb. Almost
immediately they were over the rolling, grass-covered foothills. Then
they came to the scrub oak country. The rolling hills became steeper.
White water appeared in the streams under them. Mine stipples showed
above the roofs of the small mining settlements as they entered the
famous Mother Lode country.

Jimmy put the Calico Peacock into as stiff a climbing angle as he dared
and opened the throttle wide. As they neared the summit the engine began
to heat again. It was too late to turn back. They were out of reach of
any emergency landing field.

The tree tops began to approach nearer and nearer as the Calico Peacock
came closer to the ceiling it could attain with its pounding, smoking
engine.

They were not more than fifteen feet above the tree tops when they shot
over the ridge at the summit and looked down over the eastern slopes of
the mountains. The smell of hot oil and burning metal made Jimmy clamp
his teeth shut grimly, as he eased the nose of the Calico Peacock down
toward the horizon and took some of the load off the engine.

Weber pointed out a low depression in the hills off to the southeast and
motioned for Jimmy to head the ship in that direction.

For a while Jimmy thought they were going to make it. The engine began
to cool off somewhat as they picked up speed and descended to a lower
altitude. They were within sight of a saucer-shaped depression in the
hills which Weber yelled back was Keno, when the thing happened which
Jimmy had been fearing.

A connecting rod bearing burned out. Instantly the engine began to
pound. The din was terrific. There was only one thing to do. Jimmy
closed the throttle, cut off his ignition, nosed the ship over, and
commenced to pick out a spot to land.

Weber looked back with a silent question.

“Bearing’s busted. We’ve got to land!” Jimmy yelled. “Brace yourself and
get ready for a crash.”

The old man looked off toward Keno and then nodded his understanding.
They would land fifteen or twenty miles short of their destination. It
looked as though he had just missed the rich strike once more. Jimmy
spiraled down over a narrow valley. Trees crowded down to the bank of a
little creek. There was no clear spot in which to make a landing. Jimmy
headed the Calico Peacock into what appeared to be a patch of young
aspens and then braced himself as the crash came.

He expected the ship to nose over as the wing fabric was ripped off and
it settled down into the trees. He was not prepared, however, for the
demolishing crash which followed as the plane settled. A ledge of rocks
had been concealed by the trees. The Calico Peacock nosed head on into
the rocks and crumbled into a tangled mass of wreckage.
