
Steven had some dim, almost dreamlike memory of dogs that acted
friendly, dogs that didn't roam the streets in packs and pull you
down and tear you apart and eat you alive; and he had a memory of the
squirrels in the park being so tame that they'd eat right out of your
hand....

But that had been a long, long time ago--before men had started hunting
squirrels, and sometimes dogs, for food, and dogs had started hunting
men.

Steven turned south and paralleled the bridle path, going always
wherever the cover was thickest, moving as silently as the breeze.
He was going no place in particular--his purpose was simply to see
someone before that someone saw him, to see if the other had anything
worth taking, and, if so, take it if possible. Also, he'd try to get a
squirrel.

Far ahead of him, across the bridle path and the half-mile or so of
tree-clumped park that lay beyond, was Central Park South--a sawtoothed
ridge of grey-white rubble. And beyond that lay the ruin of midtown
Manhattan. The bomb had exploded low over 34th Street and Seventh
Avenue that night six years ago, and everything for a mile in every
direction had been leveled in ten seconds. The crater started at around
26th and sloped down to where 34th had been and then up again to 40th,
and it glowed at night. It wasn't safe to go down around the crater,
Steven knew. He'd heard some men talking about it--they'd said that
anyone who went there got sick; something would go wrong with their
skin and their blood, and they'd start glowing too, and die.

Steven had understood only part of that. The men had seen him and
chased him. He'd gotten away, and since then had never ventured below
Central Park South.

It was a "war", they'd said. He didn't know much about that either ...
who was winning, or had won, or even if it was still being fought. He
had only the vaguest notion of what a war was--it was some kind of
fight, but he didn't think it was over food. Someone had "bombed" the
city--once he had heard a man call the city a "country"--and that was
about as early as he could remember anything. In his memory was the
flash and roar of that night and, hours before that, cars with loud
voices driving up and down the streets warning everybody to get out of
the city because of the "war". But Steven's father had been drunk that
night, lying on the couch in the living room of their apartment on the
upper west side, and even the bomb hadn't waked him up. The cars with
the voices had waked Steven up; he'd gone back to sleep after a while,
and then the bomb had waked him up again. He'd gone to the window and
climbed out onto the fire escape, and seen the people running in the
street, and listened to all the screaming and the steady rumble of
still-falling masonry, and watched the people on foot trample each
other and people in cars drive across the bodies and knock other people
down and out of the way, and still other people jump on the cars and
pull out the drivers and try to drive away themselves until someone
pulled _them_ out.... Steven had watched, fascinated, because it was
more exciting than anything he'd ever seen, like a movie. Then a man
had stood under the fire escape, holding up his arms, and shouted up
at Steven to jump for God's sake, little boy, and that had frightened
Steven and he went back inside. His father had always told him never to
play with strangers.

Next afternoon Steven's father had gotten up and gone downstairs to
get a drink, and when he saw what had happened, he'd come back making
choked noises in his throat and saying over and over again, "Everybody
worth a damn got out ... now it's a jungle ... all the scum left, like
me--and the ones they hurt, like you, Stevie...." He'd put some cans of
food in a bag and started to take Steven out of the city, but a madman
with a shotgun had blown the side of his head off before they'd gone
five blocks. Not to get the food or anything ... looting was going on
all over, but there wasn't any food problem yet ... the man was just
one of the ones who killed for no reason at all. There'd been a lot
like that the first few weeks after the bomb, but most of them hadn't
lasted long--they wanted to die, it looked like, about as much as they
wanted to kill.

Steven had gotten away. He was five years old and small and fast on his
feet, and the madman missed with the other barrel.

Steven had fled like an animal, and since then had lived like one. He'd
stayed away from the men, remembering how his father had looked with
half a head--and because the few times men had seen him, they'd chased
him; either they were afraid he'd steal from them, or they wanted his
knife or belt or something. Once or twice men had shouted that they
wouldn't hurt him, they only wanted to help him--but he didn't believe
them. Not after seeing his father that way, and after the times they
had tried to kill him.

He watched the men, though, sneaking around their fires at
night--sometimes because he was lonely and, later on, hoping to find
scraps of food. He saw how they lived, and that was the way he lived
too. He saw them raid grocery stores--he raided the stores after they
left. He saw them carrying knives and guns--he found a knife and
carried it; he hadn't yet found a gun. They ran from the dogs; he
learned to run from them, after seeing them catch a man once. The men
raided other stores, taking clothes and lots of things whose use Steven
didn't understand. Steven took some clothes at first, but he didn't
care much about what he wore--both his shirt and his heavy winter coat
had come from dead men. He found toy stores, and had a lot of toys. The
men collected and hoarded wads of green paper, and sometimes fought
and killed each other over it. Steven vaguely remembered that it was
called "money", and that it was very important. He found it too, here
and there, in dead men's pockets, in boxes with sliding drawers in
stores--but he couldn't find any use for it, so his hoard of it lay
hidden in the hole in the floor under the pile of blankets that was his
bed.

Eventually he saw the men begin to kill for food, when food became
scarce. When that happened--the food scarcity, and the killing--many
of the men left the city, going across the bridges and through the
tunnels under the rivers, heading for the "country".

He didn't follow them. The city was all he'd ever known.

He stayed. Along with the men who said they'd rather stay in the city
where there was still plenty of food for those who were willing to hunt
hard and sometimes kill for it, and, in addition, beds to sleep in,
rooms for protection from the weather and dogs and other men, all the
clothes you could wear, and lots of other stuff just lying around for
the taking.

He stayed, and so he learned to kill, when necessary, for his food.
He had six knives, and with them he'd killed men higher than he could
count. He was good at hiding--in trees, in hallways, behind bushes,
under cars--and he was small enough to do a good job of trailing when
he saw somebody who looked as though they were carrying food in their
pockets or in the bags almost everyone carried. And he knew where to
strike with the knife.

His home was the rubble of an apartment building just north of Columbus
Circle, on Broadway. No one else lived there; only he knew the way
through the broken corridors and fallen walls and piles of stone to
his room on the seventh floor. Every day or so he went out into the
park--to get food or anything at all he could get that he wanted. He
was still looking for a gun. Food was the main thing, though; he had
lots of cans up in his room, but he'd heard enough of the men's talk to
know that it was wise to use them only when you didn't have anything
else, and get what you could day by day.

And, of course, there was water--when it didn't rain or snow for a
while, he had to get water from the lakes in the park.

That was hard sometimes. You could go two or three days without water,
even if you went to one of the lakes and stayed hidden there all day,
because it might be that long before a moment came when no one was near
enough to kill you when you made your dash from the bushes and filled
your pail and dashed back. There were more skeletons around the lakes
than anyplace.
