
The dogs were coming up Central Park West. Their racket bounced off the
broken buildings lining the street, and came down into the park, and
even the squirrels and birds were quieter, as if not wanting to attract
attention.

Steven froze by the bole of a tree, ready to climb if the dogs came
over the wall at him. He'd done that once before. You climbed up and
waited while the dogs danced red-eyed beneath you, until they heard or
smelled someone else, and then they were off, bounding hungrily after
the new quarry. They'd learned that men in trees just didn't come down.

The dogs passed the point in the park where Steven waited. He knew from
the sound that they weren't after anybody--just prowling. The howls and
snarls and scratchy sounds of nails on concrete faded slowly.

Steven didn't move until they were almost inaudible in the distance.

Then, when he did move, he took only one step--and froze again.

Someone was coming toward him.

Just a shadow of a motion, a whisper of sound, a breath--someone was
coming along the path on the other side of the bushes.

Steven's lips curled back to reveal decayed teeth. He brought out his
knife from his belt and stood utterly still, waiting for the steps
to go on so he could trail along behind his quarry, off to one side,
judging the other's stature from glimpses through the bushes, and
ascertaining whether he was carrying anything worth killing him for.

But the footsteps didn't pass. They stopped on the other side of the
bushes. Then leaves rustled as whoever it was bent to come through
the bushes. Steven hugged his tree trunk, and saw a short thin figure
coming toward him through the green leaves, a bent-over figure. He
raised the knife, started to bring its point down in the short arc that
would end in the back of the other's neck...

He dropped the knife.

Wide-eyed, not breathing, he stared at her.

Knife in hand, its point aimed at his belly, she stared back.

She was dressed in a man's trousers, torn off at the ankles, and a
yellow blouse that might have belonged to her mother, and new-looking
shoes she must have found, or killed for, only a week or so ago. Her
face was as sunburned and dirty as his.

A squirrel chittered over their heads as they stared at each other.

Steven noted expertly that she seemed to be carrying no food and had
no gun. No one with a gun would carry a drawn knife.

She still held the knife ready, though the point had drooped. She
moistened her lips.

He wondered if she would attack. He obviously didn't have any food
either, so maybe she wouldn't. But if she did--well, she was only a
little larger than he was; he could probably kill her with her own
knife, though he might even get his own knife from the ground before
she got to him.

But it was a _woman_, he knew ... without knowing exactly what a woman
was, or how he knew. The hair was long--but then, some of the men's
hair was long too. It was something different--something about the face
and body. He hadn't seen many women, and certainly never one as little
as this, but he knew that's what it was. A _woman_.

Once he'd seen some men kill another man who'd killed a woman for her
food. By their angry shouts he knew that killing a woman was different
somehow.

And he remembered a woman. And a word: mother. A face and a word, a
voice and a warmth and a not-sour body smell ... she was dead. He
didn't remember who had killed her. Somehow he thought she had been
killed _before_ everything changed, _before_ the "bomb" fell; but he
couldn't remember very well, and didn't know how she'd been killed or
even why people had killed each other in those days.... Not for food,
he thought; he could remember having plenty to eat. Another word:
cancer. His father had said it about his mother. Maybe somebody had
killed her to get that, instead of food. Anyway, somebody had killed
her, because she was dead, and people didn't just _die_.

Seeing a _woman_, and such a little one ... it had startled him so much
he had dropped his knife.

But he could still kill her if he had to.

She stirred, her eyes wide on his. She moved just an inch or so.

Steven crouched, almost too fast to see, and his knife was in his hand,
ready from this position to get in under her stab and cut her belly
open.

She made a strangled sound and shook her head.

Steven pulled his swing, without quite knowing why. He struck her knife
out of her hand with his blade, and it went spinning into the leaves.

He took a step toward her, lips curled back.

She retreated two steps, and her back was against a tree trunk.

He came up to her and stood with his knife point pressing into her
belly just above where the blouse entered the man's pants.

She whimpered and shook her head and whimpered again.

He scowled at her. Looked her up and down. She was wearing a tarnished
ring on her right hand, with a stone that sparkled. He liked it. He
decided to kill her. He pressed the knifepoint harder, and twisted.

She said, "Little boy--" and started to cry.

Memories assailed Steven:

_Jump for God's sake, little boy...._

Distrust. Kill her.

_My little boy ... my son...._

His knifepoint wavered. He scowled.

_Don't run away, little boy--we won't hurt you...._

Kill.

Tears were rolling down her cheeks.

_My son, my baby ... I'm crying because I have to go away for a long
time...._

Steven stepped back. She was weaponless, and a _woman_--whatever that
was.

Leaves rustled. Steven and the girl froze motionless.

It was only a squirrel in the bushes.

He bent silently, looked around under the leafy green bushes that
surrounded them, almost at ground-level. If there had been men nearby,
he could have seen their legs. He saw nothing. He kept one eye on the
girl as he bent. She wasn't crying, now that he'd taken the knife away.
She was watching him and rubbing her belly where he'd pressed it.

When he straightened, she took a step away from the tree, moving as
silently as he ever had. Suddenly she stooped to pick up her knife,
made a slashing motion at the ground with it, looked up at him.

He was in mid-air. On her. She flattened beneath him with a squeal. She
was stronger than he was, and experienced. She brought her knife back
over her shoulder, and if he hadn't ducked his head it would have laid
his face open. When she brought it down for another try, he clubbed the
back of her hand with the hilt of his knife, and she gasped and dropped
it.

Astride her, he raised his knife to kill her. She was pointing with
her left hand, frantically, at something that lay on the ground
beside them, and saying, "No, no, little boy, no, no--" Then she just
whimpered, knowing that his knife was poised, and kept stabbing her
finger at the ground. Because she was helpless, he paused, looked, and
saw a squirrel lying there, head bleeding.

He understood. She hadn't been trying to kill him. She had seen the
squirrel, and gotten it.

He decided to kill her anyway. For the squirrel.

"_No, little boy--_"

He hesitated.

"_Friends_, little boy...."

After a moment he rolled off her.

She sat up, cheeks tear-streaked. She pointed at the squirrel, then at
Steven, and shook her head violently.

Knife threatening her, he reached out to pick up the squirrel.

_Mine_, the knife said.

At that point the squirrel, which had been only momentarily stunned by
her blow, shook itself and scrambled for the bushes. His hand missed
it by inches. He lunged for it, flat on his belly, and caught its tail
with one hand.

As another squirrel's tail had done long ago, this one broke off.

He lay there for a moment, snarling, the tail in his hand; and when
he turned over, the girl had her knife in her hand and her teeth were
bared at him.

Blue eyes blazing, he got to his feet, expecting her to attack any
second. He dropped the tail. He crouched to fight.

She didn't attack.

Nor, for some reason, did he.

The way her chapped lips were stretched back over her teeth disturbed
him ... or rather it unsettled him, because it _didn't_ disturb him. At
least not the way a snarl did. It didn't put him on guard, every muscle
tense; it didn't make him feel that he had to fight. She didn't look
angry or eager to have anything he had or ready to kill ... he didn't
know the word for how she looked.

She weighed her knife in her hand. Then she struck it in her belt, and
said again, "_Friends_, little boy."

He stared. At her strange snarl that wasn't a snarl. At the knife she
had put away. He had never seen anyone do that before.

Slowly he felt his own lips curl back into an expression he could
hardly remember. He felt the way he felt sometimes late at night when,
safe and alone in his room, he would play a little with his toys. He
didn't feel like killing her any more. He felt like ... like _friends_.

He looked at the squirrel tail lying on the ground. He worried it with
a foot, then kicked it away. It wasn't good to eat--and he thought of
how the squirrel had looked scrambling off, and felt his lips stretch
tighter.

He tried to think of the word. Finally it came.

"Funny squirrel," he said, through his tight lips.

He stuck his knife in his belt.

They stared at each other, feeling each other's pleasure at the
peacemaking.

She bent, picked up a small stone and flipped it at him. He made no
attempt to catch it, and it struck him on the hip. He half-crouched,
instantly wary, hand on knife. A thrown stone had only one meaning.

But she was still smiling, and she shook her head. "No, little boy,"
she said. "_Play._" She tossed another stone, high in the air.

He reached out and caught it as it descended.

He started to toss it back to her, and remembered only at the last
moment not to hurl it at her head.

He tossed it, and she missed it.

He grinned at her.

She tossed another one back at him, and he missed, and they both
grinned.

Then he grunted, remembering something from the dim past. He picked up
a small fallen branch from the ground.

When he looked up, she was poised to run.

This time he shook his head, waving the stick gently. "Play," he said.

She threw another stone, eyes warily on the stick. He swung, missed.

He hit the next one, and the sharp crack, and the noise the stone
made rattling off into the bushes, flattened him to the ground, eyes
searching for sign of men.

She was beside him. He smelled her body and her breath.

They saw no one.

He looked at her lying beside him. She was grinning again.

Then she laughed; and, without knowing what he was doing or why--he
could hardly remember ever doing it before--he laughed too.

It felt good. Like the snarl that wasn't a snarl, only better. It
seemed to come from way inside. He laughed again, sitting up. He
laughed a third time, tight hesitant sounds that came out of his throat
and stretched his lips until they wouldn't stretch any more.

Tears were on his cheeks, and he was laughing very tightly, very
steadily, and she was laughing the same way, and they lay that way for
a few minutes until they were trembling and their stomachs ached, and
the laughter was almost crying.

He saw her face, so close by, and felt an impulse. He rolled over and
started to scuffle with her. When she realized that he wasn't trying to
kill her, that he was playing, she scuffled back, rubbing his face in
the dirt harder than he had hers, because she was stronger.

He spat dirt and grass and grinned at her, and they fell apart.

Footsteps.
