
Marilou looked down her button nose as she picked a brown spot from the
apple. "Hmmph, I'll tell 'im he's wrong," she said. "He thinks he knows
so damn much!"

"Marilou!" Aunt Twylee exclaimed as she looked over her glasses. "A
sweet child like you shouldn't use such language!"

Marilou giggled and popped the remaining portion of the apple in her
mouth.

"Do your parents know where you are, child?" Aunt Twylee asked, as she
took the bowl from Marilou's hands. She began dicing the apples into a
dough-lined casserole.

"No, they don't," Marilou replied. She sprayed the air with little
particles of apple as she talked. "Everybody's gone to the hills to look
for the boys."

"The boys?" Aunt Twylee stopped her work and looked at the little girl.

"Yes--Jimmy an' Eddie an' some of the others disappeared from the
settlement this morning. The men're afraid they've run off to th' hills
an' the renegades got 'em."

"Gracious," Aunt Twylee said; her brow knitted into a criss-cross of
wrinkles.

"Oh, I know those dopes. They're prob'ly down at th' canals--fishin' or
somep'n."

"Just the same, your mother will be frantic, dear. You should have told
her where you were going."

"I don't care," Marilou said with unadulterated honesty. "She'll be all
right when I get home."

Aunt Twylee shook her head and clucked her tongue.

"Can I have another glass? Please?"

The old lady poured the glass full again. And then she sprinkled sugar
down among the apple cubes in the casserole and covered them with a
blanket of dough. She cut an uneven circle of half moons in it and put
it in the oven. "There--all ready to bake, Marilou," she sighed.

"It looks real yummy, Aunt Twylee."

"Well, I certainly hope it turns out good, dear," she said, wiping her
forehead with her apron. She looked out the open back door. The
landscape was beginning to gray as heavier clouds moved down from the
mountains and pressed the afternoon heat closer, more oppressively to
the ground. "My, it's getting hot. I wouldn't be a bit surprised if we
didn't get a little rain this afternoon, Marilou." She turned back to
the little girl. "Tell me some more about your daddy, dear. We Martians
certainly owe a lot to men like your father."

"That's what he says too. He says, you Martians would have died out
in a few years, if we hadn't come here. We're so much more civi ...
civili ..."

"Civilized?"

"Yeah. He says, we were so much more 'civ-ilized' than you that we saved
your lives when we came here with all our modern stuff."

"Well, that's true enough, dear. Just look at that wonderful Earth
stove," Aunt Twylee said, and laughed. "We wouldn't be able to bake an
apple cobbler like that without it, would we?"
