
When the smoke died away, a small lizardlike creature was visible in
the parallelogram.

"Tell the demon what you want," Neeshan ordered the Free'l.

The Free'l hesitated. They had few wants, after all, which was one of
the things that made teaching them magic difficult.

"Two big dyla melons," one of the younger ones said at last.

"A new andana necklace," said another.

"A tooter like the one you have," said Rhn, who was ambitious.

"Straw for a new roof on my hut," said one of the older females.

"That's enough for now," Neeshan interrupted. "The demon can't bring
you a tooter, Rhn--you have to ask another sort of demon for that. The
other things he can get. Sammel, to work!"

The lizard in the parallelogram twitched its tail. It disappeared, and
returned almost immediately with melons, a handsome necklace, and an
enormous heap of straw.

"Can I go now?" it asked.

"Yes." Neeshan turned to the Free'l, who were sharing the dyla melons
out around their circle. "You see? _That's_ how it ought to be. You
cast a spell. You're careful with it. And it works. Right away."

"When you do it, it works," Rhn answered.

"Magic works when _anybody_ does it. But you have to do it right."

Rhn raised his mud-plastered shoulders in a shrug. "It's such a lot
of dreeze, doing it that way. Magic ought to be fun." He walked away,
munching on a slice of the melon the demon had brought.

Neeshan stared after him, his eyes hot. "Dreeze" was a Free'l word that
referred originally to the nasal drip that accompanied that race's
virulent head colds. It had been extended to mean almost anything
annoying. The Free'l, who spent much of their time sitting in the rain,
had a lot of colds in the head.

Wasn't there anything to be done with these people? Even the simplest
spell was too dreezish for them to bother with.

He was getting a headache. He'd better perform a headache-removing
spell.

He retired to the hut the Free'l had assigned to him. The spell worked,
of course, but it left him feeling soggy and dispirited. He was still
standing in the hut, wondering what he should do next, when his big
black-and-gold tooter in the corner gave a faint "woof." That meant
headquarters wanted to communicate with him.

Neeshan carefully aligned the tooter, which is basically a sort of lens
for focusing neural force, with the rising double suns. He moved his
couch out into a parallel position and lay down on it. In a minute or
two he was deep in a cataleptic trance.

The message from headquarters was long, circuitous, and couched in the
elaborate, ego-caressing ceremonial of high magic, but its gist was
clear enough.

"Your report received," it boiled down to. "We are glad to hear that
you are keeping on with the Free'l. We do not expect you to succeed
with them--none of the other magical missionaries we have sent out ever
has. But if you _should_ succeed, by any chance, you would get your
senior warlock's rating immediately. It would be no exaggeration, in
fact, to say that the highest offices in the Brotherhood would be open
to you."
