
Neeshan came out of his trance. His eyes were round with wonder and
cupidity. His senior warlock's rating--why, he wasn't due to get that
for nearly four more six hundred-and-five-day years. And the highest
offices in the Brotherhood--that could mean anything. Anything! He
hadn't realized the Brotherhood set such store on converting the
Free'l. Well, now, a reward like that was worth going to some trouble
for.

Neeshan sat down on his couch, his elbows on his knees, his fists
pressed against his forehead, and tried to think.

The Free'l liked magic, but they were lazy. Anything that involved
accuracy impressed them as dreezish. And they didn't want anything.
That was the biggest difficulty. Magic had nothing to offer them. He
had never, Neeshan thought, heard one of the Free'l express a want.

Wait, though. There was Rhn.

He had shown a definite interest in Neeshan's tooter. Something in its
intricate, florid black-and-gold curves seemed to fascinate him. True,
he hadn't been interested in it for its legitimate uses, which were to
extend and develop a magician's spiritual power. He probably thought
that having it would give him more prestige and influence among his
people. But for one of the Free'l to say "I wish I had that" about
anything whatever meant that he could be worked on. Could the tooter be
used as a bribe?

Neeshan sighed heavily. Getting a tooter was painful and laborious. A
tooter was carefully fitted to an individual magician's personality; in
a sense, it was a part of his personality, and if Neeshan let Rhn have
his tooter, he would be letting him have a part of himself. But the
stakes were enormous.

Neeshan got up from his couch. It had begun to rain, but he didn't want
to spend time performing a rain-repelling spell. He wanted to find Rhn.

Rhn was standing at the edge of the swamp, luxuriating in the downpour.
The mud had washed from his shoulders, and he was already sniffling.
Neeshan came to the point directly.

"I'll give you my tooter," he said, almost choking over the words, "if
you'll do a spell--a simple spell, mind you--exactly right."

Rhn hesitated. Neeshan felt an impulse to kick him. Then he said,
"Well...."

Neeshan began his instructions. It wouldn't do for him to help Rhn too
directly, but he was willing to do everything reasonable. Rhn listened,
scratching himself in the armpits and sneezing from time to time.

After Neeshan had been through the directions twice, Rhn stopped him.
"No, don't bother telling me again--it's just more dreeze. Give me the
materials and I'll show you. Don't forget, you're giving me the tooter
for this."
