
He started off, Neeshan after him, to the latter's hut. While Neeshan
looked on tensely, Rhn began going through the actions Neeshan had
told him. Half-way through the first decad, he forgot. He inverted
the order of the hand-passes, sprinkled salt on the wrong point, and
mispronounced the names in the invocation. When he pulled his hands
apart at the end, only a tiny yellow flame sprang up.

Neeshan cursed bitterly. Rhn, however, was delighted. "Look at that,
will you!" he exclaimed, clapping his chapped, scabby little hands
together. "It worked! I'll take the tooter home with me now."

"The tooter? For _that_? You didn't do the spell right."

Rhn stared at him indignantly. "You mean, you're not going to give me
the tooter after all the trouble I went to? I only did it as a favor,
really. Neeshan, I think it's very mean of you."

"Try the spell again."

"Oh, dreeze. You're too impatient. You never give anything time to
work."

He got up and walked off.

For the next few days, everybody in the village avoided Neeshan. They
all felt sorry for Rhn, who'd worked so hard, done everything he was
told to, and been cheated out of his tooter by Neeshan. In the end
the magician, cursing his own weakness, surrendered the tooter to
Rhn. The accusatory atmosphere in the normally indifferent Free'l was
intolerable.

But now what was he to do? He'd given up his tooter--he had to ask
Rhn to lend it to him when he wanted to contact headquarters--and the
senior rating was no nearer than before. His head ached constantly,
and all the spells he performed to cure the pain left him feeling
wretchedly tired out.

Magic, however, is an art of many resources, not all of them savory.
Neeshan, in his desperation, began to invoke demons more disreputable
than those he would ordinarily have consulted. In effect, he turned for
help to the magical underworld.

His thuggish informants were none too consistent. One demon told him
one thing, another something else. The consensus, though, was that
while there was nothing the Free'l actually wanted enough to go to any
trouble for it (they didn't even want to get rid of their nasal drip,
for example--in a perverse way they were proud of it), there _was_ one
thing they disliked intensely--Neeshan himself.

The Free'l thought, the demons reported, that he was inconsiderate,
tactless, officious, and a crashing bore. They regarded him as the
psychological equivalent of the worst case of dreeze ever known,
carried to the nth power. They wished he'd drop dead or hang himself.

Neeshan dismissed the last of the demons. His eyes had begun to shine.
The Free'l thought he was a nuisance, did they? They thought he was the
most annoying thing they'd encountered in the course of their racial
history? Good. Fine. Splendid. Then he'd _really_ annoy them.

He'd have to watch out for poison, of course. But in the end, they'd
turn to magic to get rid of him. They'd have to. And then he'd have
them. They'd be caught.

One act of communal magic that really worked and they'd be sold on
magic. He'd be sure of his senior rating.
