
Neeshan began his campaign immediately. Where the Free'l were, there
was he. He was always on hand with unwanted explanations, hypercritical
objections, and maddening "wouldn't-it-be-betters."

Whereas earlier in his evangelical mission he had confined himself to
pointing out how much easier magic would make life for the Free'l, he
now counciled and advised them on every phase of their daily routine,
from mud-smearing to rain-sitting, and from the time they got up until
they went to bed. He even pursued them with advice _after_ they got
into bed, and told them how to run their sex lives--advice which the
Free'l, who set quite as much store by their sex lives as anybody does,
resented passionately.

But most of all he harped on their folly in putting up with nasal drip,
and instructed them over and over again in the details of a charm--a
quite simple charm--for getting rid of it. The charm would, he informed
them, work equally well against anything--_or person_--that they found
annoying.

The food the Free'l brought him began to have a highly peculiar taste.
Neeshan grinned and hung a theriacal charm, a first-class antidote
to poison, around his neck. The Free'l's distaste for him bothered
him, naturally, but he could stand it. When he had repeated the
anti-annoyance charm to a group of Free'l last night, he had noticed
that Rhn was listening eagerly. It wouldn't be much longer now.

On the morning of the day before the equinox, Neeshan was awakened from
sleep by an odd prickling sensation in his ears. It was a sensation
he'd experienced only once before in his life, during his novitiate,
and it took him a moment to identify it. Then he realized what it was.
Somebody was casting a spell against him.

At last! At last! It had worked!

Neeshan put on his robe and hurried to the door of the hut. The day
seemed remarkably overcast, almost like night, but that was caused by
the spell. This one happened to involve the optic nerves.

He began to grope his way cautiously toward the village center. He
didn't want the Free'l to see him and get suspicious, but he did want
to have the pleasure of seeing them cast their first accurate spell.
(He was well protected against wind-damage from it, of course.) When
he was almost at the center, he took cover behind a hut. He peered out.

They were doing it _right_. Oh, what a satisfaction! Neeshan felt his
chest expand with pride. And when the spell worked, when the big wind
swooped down and blew him away, the Free'l would certainly receive a
second magical missionary more kindly. Neeshan might even come back,
well disguised, himself.

The ritual went on. The dancers made three circles to the left,
three circles to the right. Cross over, and all sprinkle salt on the
interstices of the star Rhn had traced on the ground with the point of
a knife. Back to the circle. One to the left, one to right, while Rhn,
in the center of the circle, dusted over the salt with--with _what_?

"Hey!" Neeshan yelled in sudden alarm. "Not brimstone! Watch out!
You're not doing it ri--"

His chest contracted suddenly, as if a large, stony hand had seized
his thorax above the waist. He couldn't breathe, he couldn't think,
he couldn't even say "Ouch!" It felt as if his chest--no, his whole
body--was being compressed in on itself and turning into something as
hard as stone.

He tried to wave his tiny, heavy arms in a counter-charm; he couldn't
even inhale. The last emotion he experienced was one of bitterness. He
might have _known_ the Free'l couldn't get anything right.
