
Owensville is a small town in western Pennsylvania. It sits low in one
end of a green-sided valley, just a few frame houses and stores strung
along a main street ... and that main street is on the one and only
road that leads through the valley: a road that all the maps show to be
a convenient and dependable connection between the Penn Turnpike and
several other major routes, should you be heading south.

So a lot of people drive through Owensville every week--upwards of two
hundred or so. And there's always one or two of them in the mood to
spend a little time in a restroom--the last Howard Johnson's is twenty
miles back along the Turnpike, and the road down into the valley is a
bumpy one besides, and you know what that does to your innards.

So they come driving around the bend under the trees and their car
wheels thump across the old wooden bridge across Miller's Creek--and
once in a while one of them would pull off the road into the yard
beside Charley Mason's General Store because they'd spot his
crescent-doored outhouse standing there. Charley always kept it painted
up so it'd be easier to see--clean white with a red roof--and over
the door he'd lettered, big enough to see from the bridge, PUBLIC
RESTROOM.

Then somebody'd get out of the car and go in, and a few minutes later
the chain that came up through the roof would yank down as whoever was
inside reached up and pulled the handle.

And then the big old cowbell on the roof--the biggest and noisiest
Charley'd been able to find--would dance around in the mounting he'd
made out of an angle-iron, and go _Blongle, blongle, blok!_

After a minute the door'd open and the city folk would come out,
looking puzzled and kind of sneaky. They'd give a glance up at the roof
and see the cowbell mounted there. Some of them might grin at the way
they'd been had. But mostly they'd get into their car and drive off
maybe a little faster'n they would've ordinarily.

If it was a woman, it was five times as funny. Because some of the
older men were always sitting around on the porch of Charley's store
playing pinochle, or lounging down by the bridge just talking, and
when the woman would come out they'd all grin at her and those who had
mustaches might twiddle them a bit, and she'd get redder'n a bushel of
tomatoes.

Women drove off faster'n anybody, usually.

Some townspeople said it wasn't a very good way to advertise Owensville
to passersby. But Charley said that a town of thirty-two people didn't
have to worry about advertising one way or the other--it just needed
diversion. And since it was on his property, the cowbell stayed up.

It was just a gag. It never really hurt anybody. Charley, who could
incline to philosophy when it suited him, said that the only person it
could hurt was somebody who was plain ashamed of being human. And, on
the personal side, he admitted he got a kick out of seeing them all
flustered up that way.

Probably the outhouse and the bell'd still be there, and Charley'd
still be getting his laughs, if the fat lady in the green convertible
hadn't decided to do some praying.
