
The three old men turned and saw a tall, handsome, blond young man,
dressed in a neat and utterly clean white suit, standing in the
center of the yard. His face wore an expression of perfect peace and
abounding love.

Actually, he wasn't _quite_ standing in the yard yet. When they turned,
his feet were about four feet above the ground. As they watched, he
floated slowly down until he was standing straight, and tall and
smiling a little.

At that moment, _timelessness_ descended upon the scene--upon Charley
Mason's store, the yard, the outhouse. _Timelessness_ bounded the
area from one edge of Charley's yard to the other, and from the road
clear to the woods out back; and that _timelessness_ extended downward
to a perfect point at the very center of the Earth, and extended upward
in a perfect cone to Heaven; and within its boundaries nothing that
happened was visible to the outside world, or indeed even "happened"
so far as the outside world was concerned: for it all happened in
_timelessness_ ... in one of those particles of time-substance which
exists _between_ microseconds on Earth's time continuum: particles so
small that they are of use only to angels, who in their work must often
get between people and their intended deeds faster than seems possible.

The young man's calm eyes looked into the minds of the three old
men on the porch, and saw no evidence there of lewd or lascivious
thoughts of the magnitude reported by the fat lady in her prayer. This
did not surprise him, for exaggeration is the backbone of prayer, and
the Heavenly Workers are used to it. In particular are they used to
nuisances like the fat lady, who continually turn in false alarms.

Closing his eyes, the young man contacted his secretary-cherubim in
his office in Heaven. The cherubim immediately returned the dossiers
of Luke and Sam and Charley Mason to the Heavenly Files, with no
additional notations on the debit side.

That done--for nothing is so urgent in the eyes of Heaven as the latest
data on souls--the young man turned his attention to the outhouse.

He saw the cowbell, and his lips pursed.

He left the porch, walking lightly, and crossed the yard to the
outhouse. The three old men watched him dreamily, unmoving,
comprehending, gripped by _timelessness_ and a sense of wonder.

The young man opened the crescented door and went in. The chain yanked.
The cowbell went _Blongle, blongle, blok!_

The young man reappeared in the door and looked at the old men on the
porch. He pursed his lips again and shook his head reprimandingly. He
disappeared again.

A second later, the cowbell and chain and angle-iron disappeared too.
