
The young man came out, dusting his hands with a white handkerchief. He
came back across the yard and mounted the steps. He seated himself on
the porch railing, where he could face the three old men.

"Shame on you," he said.

The men cast their eyes downward.

"The lady's accusations were somewhat excessive," the young man said.
"Your motives seem not to have been primarily lascivious, and I have so
informed Heaven. But still ... don't you think you should be ashamed of
yourselves?" He paused. "You may nod if you wish."

The men nodded, eyes dreamy.

"After all," the young man said, "isn't that rather a snide trick to
play on tired travelers who seek your hospitality?"

Charley Mason's mouth worked; his Adam's apple bobbed.

"Speak," said the young man.

"Gosh," Charley said in a low voice, "it was just a little joke. We
never had nothing else in mind--"

"I know," the young man said. "I have discounted that element. I am
speaking of the unkindness of the prank--the discomfiture which you
impose on its victims."

"Oh," said Charley. "I--gosh, it just embarrassed them a little bit,
that's all. I mean ... that's all, isn't it?"

"No," said the young man sternly, "there is more. Think a moment,
humans, upon that common structure in the yard ... think deeply, and
you will realize that there is much more to it than meets the eye."

"Guess so," mumbled Charley.

"It is a haven ... a place of wondrous solitude ... a refuge for those
who would contemplate without interruption, as many a weary traveler
yearns for."

"Guess so."

"In what other situation can you be so completely alone ... in a
perfect isolation not only permitted but sanctioned by your society?
Why, humans, I could tell you of the most extraordinary moments of
piety, of philosophical reflection, of artistic conception which we
have recorded as occurring under such circumstances...."

"I never thought of it that way, I guess," Charley said slowly. "I
always did sort of think it leveled you off, though."

The young man eyed them soberly.

"In late afternoon," he said, "in the confines of the rustic outhouse,
settled happily, hearing the quaint and natural sounds of the insects
in the field, the flutterings of birds from branch to branch ... do you
know that in this day it is the only waking place where one may flee
for the inner life?"

The old men looked down guiltily.

"It is ever a reminder of one's mortality," the young man said.

"It is Man in his true aristocratic state," he said.

"And yet at his most humble," he said.

"And now I will leave," he said. "I hope you have seen the light, and
will no longer impose your crude, cruel joke on those who trust you for
a moment's peace."

He stood up. "I hardly think that it was the work of the Devil,
however, as the lady seemed to think--"

A cloud seemed to come over the sun--but there were no clouds, so
perhaps the sun dimmed. The birds in the trees were suddenly silent.
Even the rustling leaves seemed to pause. It grew still darker, and a
chill breeze sprang up.

A head, whose face was dark and sharp and saturnine, appeared in the
center of the yard.
