
As the young man and the three old men watched, a tall, dark, gaunt man
in a neatly tailored black suit rose from the ground and stood eying
them mockingly.

"Wasn't it?" he said in a thin, dry voice, and laughed.

The young man's lips tightened. He said nothing. The three old men were
shrunken back in their chairs, staring.

The Devil--or perhaps the man in black was only _part_ of the Devil,
for mysterious and complex are the ways he influences from his bronze
throne in the exact center of midwestern Gehenna--turned and sauntered
to the outhouse. He entered.

A moment later the cowbell and chain and angle-iron reappeared--though
not quite as they had been. The chain seemed a little heavier, the
cowbell a little larger and more shiny.

The chain was yanked. The cowbell went _Blongle, blongle, blok,
blok!_--a metallic sound of triumph.

The man in black came out smirking. He made his way across the yard and
mounted the porch steps. The young man frowned and lifted a shoulder so
the fabrics of their clothing would not touch.

The man in black went to the opposite end of the porch and sat down in
a chair there. He looked out over the bridge and the murmuring creek
and the trees beyond and took a pipe from a pocket. From another pocket
he took a live coal, which he dropped into the pipe. He puffed, and
sulphur-smell filled the air.

The young man got up, sighing and bracing his hands on his knees. He
stood for a moment regarding the man in black levelly. Then he went
down the steps and across the yard and into the outhouse.

Chain, cowbell and mounting vanished.

The man in black rose, still smiling. He passed the three old men,
trailing sulphur smoke from his pipe. They shrank back, eyes wide. He
went down into the yard and toward the outhouse.

When he was halfway there, the young man emerged. They locked eyes, the
young man's cool and determined, the other's hot and mocking and quite
as determined.

They passed each other, saying not a word.

As the young man reached the porch steps, there came from the outhouse
a loud _Blongle, blongle, blongle, blok, blok_, and he paused, one foot
on the steps, lips thinned. He seated himself deliberately, and only
then did he look around.

The new bell was twice as large as the former. The chain was heavier.
It hung from a heavy cast-iron mounting.

The man in black came out. He sauntered back to the porch and seated
himself.
