
A non-existent half hour passed. The young man sat on the steps, his
white suit impeccable, face thoughtful. The man in black sat and smoked
and smirked. The three old men waited.

Out in the yard the outhouse stood, a battleground of good and evil.
Its coat of white paint gleamed in the sun, which still stood high
as a result of _timelessness_. Its red roof was a challenge. To the
young man, staring moodily, the crescent in the door seemed a mocking,
lopsided smile.

On the roof stood a new and larger mounting, containing a new and
larger cowbell, from which hung a new and heavier chain.

Once the young man looked upward, as if for guidance.

Once he sighed and shook his head, as if discouraged.

"One of us must win," he said finally.

"Always," the man in black nodded.

"If I destroy that bell, you will replace it."

"With a bigger one."

"If you replace it, I shall destroy it."

"And then I shall replace it again."

"Do you really feel," asked the young man, "that so small a purpose is
worth such an effort?"

"I might ask you the same question."

"Tiny building blocks may build a great edifice."

"The removal of one may contribute to its ruin."

The creek murmured. Out in back of the store, the bird in the elm sang
a hesitant note, and then was silent.

Charley Mason cleared his throat.

The man in black turned his hot, mocking gaze on Charley. Charley
closed his mouth so hard his teeth clicked.

The young man said, "You need not fear him, mortal--only his
temptations."

"Mister--" Charley said hesitantly.

"Yes?"

"Something sort of has me wondering."

"Yes?"

"Well--I've been watching you two go at it, and--well, it sort of looks
like this other feller has the edge on you right down the line. I mean,
like he was all confident, and you just don't know how to get around
him--"

The young man nodded somberly. "I have been waiting for you to make
that observation, human. It is true. Evil has only to _be_ ... has only
to _exist_ for its work to be half done. It is a pit; you have only
to fall into it. While to be good, you must exert yourself to climb
_out_ of the pit." He looked sadly at the smirking man in black. "He
walks confidently, for he requires no more than your acceptance of him,
your tolerance, your passivity, your apathy. How can such a dynamic
imbalance threaten him?... He must only _be_ to be strong; you must
_act_ to make him weak."

The young man got up and stretched his arms. He looked upward at the
sky again, and seemed to be listening. He shrugged a little.

"It has been pointed out to me," he said, "that I have demonstrated
sufficiently--now there are other matters to be attended to. I will
destroy the bell once again ... but mark these words well, humans: the
Dark One will create another--and it, like all his creations, will be
a potential for evil. Not a large evil, perhaps, in this case, nor
an evil in itself by the simple fact of its existence--rather his
creations represent the potential of evil _within yourselves_. After he
goes, I urge that you take down the bell and throw it away ... destroy
it ... for as you have seen he is powerless to prevent that. If he
creates another, cast it aside also. Keep doing so. The bell is but
the symbol, the temptation: the conquest of evil can take place only
in your own souls; you must _act_ in the face of that temptation. The
battleground is not this town, nor this yard, nor that structure, but
in _yourselves_. In you is the pit; in you must be the strength and
will to escape it. Do you understand?"

Three nods.
