
Ferris paced off the tidy measurements of the office outside the
laboratory in the biology building. Mitchell sat slumped in the chair
behind the blond imitation wood desk, watching him disinterestedly.

"Do you suppose the Great Man will actually show up?" Ferris demanded,
pausing in mid-stride.

"I imagine he will," Mitchell said. "Macklin's always seemed a decent
enough fellow when I've had lunch with him or seen him at the trustees
meetings."

"He's always treated me like dirt," Ferris said heatedly. "Everyone on
this campus treats biologists like dirt. Sometimes I want to bash in
their smug faces."

Sometimes, Mitchell reflected, Ferris displayed a certain lack of
scientific detachment.

There came a discreet knock on the door.

"Please come in," Mitchell said.

Elliot Macklin entered in a cloud of pipe smoke and a tweed jacket. He
looked more than a little like a postgraduate student, and Mitchell
suspected that that was his intention.

He shook hands warmly with Mitchell. "Good of you to ask me over,
Steven."

Macklin threw a big arm across Ferris' shoulders. "How have you been,
Harold?"

Ferris' face flickered between pink and white. "Fine, thank you,
doctor."

Macklin dropped on the edge of the desk and adjusted his pipe. "Now
what's this about you wanting my help on something? And please keep the
explanation simple. Biology isn't my field, you know."

Mitchell moved around the desk casually. "Actually, Doctor, we haven't
the right to ask this of a man of your importance. There may be an
element of risk."

The mathematician clamped onto his pipe and showed his teeth. "Now you
have me intrigued. What is it all about?"

"Doctor, we understand you have severe headaches," Mitchell said.

Macklin nodded. "That's right, Steven. Migraine."

"That must be terrible," Ferris said. "All your fine reputation and
lavish salary can't be much consolation when that ripping, tearing
agony begins, can it?"

"No, Harold, it isn't," Macklin admitted. "What does your project have
to do with my headaches?"

"Doctor," Mitchell said, "what would you say the most common complaint
of man is?"

"I would have said the common cold," Macklin replied, "but I suppose
from what you have said you mean headaches."
