
"Headaches," Mitchell agreed. "Everybody has them at some time in his
life. Some people have them every day. Some are driven to suicide by
their headaches."

"Yes," Macklin said.

"But think," Ferris interjected, "what a boon it would be if everyone
could be cured of headaches _forever_ by one simple injection."

"I don't suppose the manufacturers of aspirin would like you. But it
would please about everybody else."

"Aspirins would still be used to reduce fever and relieve muscular
pains," Mitchell said.

"I see. Are you two saying you _have_ such a shot? Can you cure
headaches?"

"We think we can," Ferris said.

"How can you have a specific for a number of different causes?" Macklin
asked. "I know that much about the subject."

"There _are_ a number of different causes for headaches--nervous
strain, fatigue, physical diseases from kidney complaints to tumors,
over-indulgence--but there is one _effect_ of all of this, the one real
cause of headaches," Mitchell announced.

"We have definitely established this for this first time," Ferris added.

"That's fine," Macklin said, sucking on his pipe. "And this effect that
produces headaches is?"

"The pressure effect caused by pituitrin in the brain," Mitchell
said eagerly. "That is, the constriction of blood vessels in the
telencephalon section of the frontal lobes. It's caused by an
over-production of the pituitary gland. We have artificially bred a
virus that feeds on pituitrin."

"That may mean the end of headaches, but I would think it would mean
the end of the race as well," Macklin said. "In certain areas it is
valuable to have a constriction of blood vessels."

"The virus," Ferris explained, "can easily be localized and stabilized.
A colony of virus in the brain cells will relax the cerebral
vessels--and only the cerebral vessels--so that the cerebrospinal fluid
doesn't create pressure in the cavities of the brain."

The mathematician took the pipe out of his mouth. "If this really
works, I could stop using that damned gynergen, couldn't I? The stuff
makes me violently sick to my stomach. But it's better than the
migraine. How should I go about removing my curse?" He reinserted the
pipe.

"I assure you, you can forget ergotamine tartrate," Ferris said. "Our
discovery will work."
