
"Will work," Macklin said thoughtfully. "The operative word. It
_hasn't_ worked then?"

"Certainly it has," Ferris said. "On rats, on chimps...."

"But not on humans?" Macklin asked.

"Not yet," Mitchell admitted.

"Well," Macklin said. "Well." He thumped pipe ashes out into his palm.
"Certainly you can get volunteers. Convicts. Conscientious objectors
from the Army."

"We want you," Ferris told him.

Macklin coughed. "I don't want to overestimate my value but the
government wouldn't like it very well if I died in the middle of this
project. My wife would like it even less."

Ferris turned his back on the mathematician. Mitchell could see him
mouthing the word _yellow_.

"Doctor," Mitchell said quickly, "I know it's a tremendous favor to
ask of a man of your position. But you can understand our problem.
Unless we can produce quick, conclusive and dramatic proof of our
studies we can get no more financial backing. We _should_ run a
large-scale field test. But we haven't the time or money for that.
We can cure the headaches of one person and that's the limit of our
resources."

"I'm tempted," Macklin said hesitantly, "but the answer is go. I mean
'_no_'. I'd like to help you out, but I'm afraid I owe too much to
others to take the rest--the risk, I mean."

Macklin ran the back of his knuckles across his forehead. "I really
would like to take you up on it. When I start making slips like that it
means another attack of migraine. The drilling, grinding pain through
my temples and around my eyeballs. The flashes of light, the rioting
pools of color playing on the back of my lids. Ugh."

Ferris smiled. "Gynergen makes you sick, does it, doctor? Produces
nausea, eh? The pain of that turns you almost wrong side out, doesn't
it? You aren't much better off with it than without, are you? I've
heard some say they preferred the migraine."

Macklin carefully arranged his pipe along with the tools he used to
tend it in a worn leather case. "Tell me," he said, "what is the worst
that could happen to me?"

"Low blood pressure," Ferris said.

"That's not so bad," Macklin said. "How low can it get?"

"When your heart stops, your blood pressure goes to its lowest point,"
Mitchell said.

A dew of perspiration had bloomed on Macklin's forehead. "Is there much
risk of that?"

"Practically none," Mitchell said. "We have to give you the worst
possibilities. _All_ our test animals survived and seem perfectly happy
and contented. As I said, the virus is self-stabilizing. Ferris and I
are confident that there is no danger.... But we may be wrong."

Macklin held his head in both hands. "Why did you two select _me_?"

"You're an important man, doctor," Ferris said. "Nobody would care if
Mitchell or I cured ourselves of headaches--they might not even believe
us if we said we did. But the proper authorities will believe a man
of your reputation. Besides, neither of us has a record of chronic
migraine. You do."

"Yes, I do," Macklin said. "Very well. Go ahead. Give me your
injection."

Mitchell cleared his throat. "Are you positive, doctor?" he asked
uncertainly. "Perhaps you would like a few days to think it over."

"No! I'm ready. Go ahead, right now."

"There's a simple release," Ferris said smoothly.

Macklin groped in his pocket for a pen.


                                  II

"Ferris!" Mitchell yelled, slamming the laboratory door behind him.

"Right here," the small man said briskly. He was sitting at a work
table, penciling notes. "I've been expecting you."

"Doctor--Harold--you shouldn't have given this story to the
newspapers," Mitchell said. He tapped the back of his hand against the
folded paper.

"On the contrary, I should and I did," Ferris answered. "We wanted
something dramatic to show to the trustees and here it is."

"Yes, we wanted to show our proof to the trustees--but not broadcast
unverified results to the press. It's too early for that!"

"Don't be so stuffy and conservative, Mitchell! Macklin's cured, isn't
he? By established periodic cycle he should be suffering hell right
now, shouldn't he? But thanks to our treatment he is perfectly happy,
with no unfortunate side effects such as gynergen produces."

"It's a significant test case, yes. But not enough to go to the
newspapers with. If it wasn't enough to go to the press with, it wasn't
enough to try and breach the trustees with. Don't you see? The public
will hand down a ukase demanding our virus, just as they demanded the
Salk vaccine and the Grennell serum."

"But--"

The shrill call of the telephone interrupted Mitchell's objections.

Ferris excused himself and crossed to the instrument. He answered it
and listened for a moment, his face growing impatient.

"It's Macklin's wife," Ferris said. "Do you want to talk to her? I'm no
good with hysterical women."

"Hysterical?" Mitchell muttered in alarm and went to the phone.

"Hello?" Mitchell said reluctantly. "Mrs. Macklin?"

"You are the other one," the clear feminine voice said. "Your name is
Mitchell."

She couldn't have sounded calmer or more self-possessed, Mitchell
thought.

"That's right, Mrs. Macklin. I'm Dr. Steven Mitchell, Dr. Ferris's
associate."

"Do you have a license to dispense narcotics?"

"What do you mean by that, Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell said sharply.

"I used to be a nurse, Dr. Mitchell. I know you've given my husband
heroin."

"That's absurd. What makes you think a thing like that?"

"The--trance he's in now."

"Now, Mrs. Macklin. Neither Dr. Ferris or myself have been near your
husband for a full day. The effects of a narcotic would have worn off
by this time."

"Most known narcotics," she admitted, "but evidently you have
discovered something new. Is it so expensive to refine you and Ferris
have to recruit new customers to keep yourselves supplied?"

"Mrs. Macklin! I think I had better talk to you later when you are
calmer."

Mitchell dropped the receiver heavily. "What could be wrong with
Macklin?" he asked without removing his hand from the telephone.

Ferris frowned, making quotation marks above his nose. "Let's have a
look at the test animals."

Together they marched over to the cages and peered through the
honeycomb pattern of the wire. The test chimp, Dean, was sitting
peacefully in a corner scratching under his arms with the back of his
knuckles. Jerry, their control in the experiment, who was practically
Dean's twin except that he had received no injection of the E-M Virus,
was stomping up and down punching his fingers through the wire,
worrying the lock on the cage.

"Jerry _is_ a great deal more active than Dean," Mitchell said.

"Yes, but Dean isn't sick. He just doesn't seem to have as much nervous
energy to burn up. Nothing wrong with his thyroid either."

They went to the smaller cages. They found the situation with the rats,
Bud and Lou, much the same.

"I don't know. Maybe they just have tired blood," Mitchell ventured.

"Iron deficiency anemia?"

"Never mind, doctor. It was a form of humor. I think we had better see
exactly what is wrong with Elliot Macklin."

"There's nothing wrong with him," Ferris snapped. "He's probably just
trying to get us in trouble, the ingrate!"
