
Macklin's traditional ranch house was small but attractive in
aqua-tinted aluminum.

Under Mitchell's thumb the bell chimbed _dum-de-de-dum-dum-dum_.

As they waited Mitchell glanced at Ferris. He seemed completely
undisturbed, perhaps slightly curious.

The door unlatched and swung back.

"Mrs. Macklin," Mitchell said quickly, "I'm sure we can help if there
is anything wrong with your husband. This is Dr. Ferris. I am Dr.
Mitchell."

"You had certainly _better_ help him, gentlemen." She stood out of the
doorway for them to pass.

Mrs. Macklin was an attractive brunette in her late thirties. She wore
an expensive yellow dress. And she had a sharp-cornered jawline.

The Army officer came out into the hall to meet them.

"You are the gentlemen who gave Dr. Macklin the unauthorized
injection," he said.

It wasn't a question.

"I don't like that 'unauthorized'," Ferris snapped.

The colonel--Mitchell spotted the eagles on his green tunic--lifted
a heavy eyebrow. "No? Are you medical doctors? Are you authorized to
treat illnesses?"

"We weren't treating an illness," Mitchell said. "We were discovering a
method of treatment. What concern is it of yours?"

The colonel smiled thinly. "Dr. Macklin is my concern. And everything
that happens to him. The Army doesn't like what you have done to him."

Mitchell wondered desperately just what they had done to the man.

"Can we see him?" Mitchell asked.

"Why not? You can't do much worse than murder him now. That might be
just as well. We have laws to cover that."

The colonel led them into the comfortable, over-feminine living room.
Macklin sat in an easy chair draped in embroidery, smoking. Mitchell
suddenly realized Macklin used a pipe as a form of masculine protest to
his home surroundings.

On the coffee table in front of Macklin were some odd-shaped building
blocks such as were used in nursery schools. A second uniformed
man--another colonel but with the snake-entwined staff of the medical
corps in his insignia--was kneeling at the table on the marble-effect
carpet.

The Army physician stood up and brushed his knees, undusted from the
scrupulously clean rug.

"What's wrong with him, Sidney?" the other officer asked the doctor.

"Not a thing," Sidney said. "He's the healthiest, happiest, most
well-adjusted man I've ever examined, Carson."

"But--" Colonel Carson protested.

"Oh, he's changed all right," the Army doctor answered. "He's not the
same man as he used to be."

"How is he different?" Mitchell demanded.

The medic examined Mitchell and Ferris critically before answering. "He
used to be a mathematical genius."

"And now?" Mitchell said impatiently.

"Now he is a moron," the medic said.


                                  III

Mitchell tried to stop Colonel Sidney as he went past, but the doctor
mumbled he had a report to make.

Mitchell and Ferris stared at Colonel Carson and Macklin and at each
other.

"What did he mean, Macklin is an idiot?" Mitchell asked.

"Not an idiot," Colonel Carson corrected primly. "Dr. Macklin is a
moron. He's legally responsible, but he's extremely stupid."

"I'm not so dumb," Macklin said defensively.

"I beg your pardon, sir," Carson said. "I didn't intend any offense.
But according to all the standard intelligence tests we have given you,
your clinical intelligence quotient is that of a moron."

"That's just on book learning," Macklin said. "There's a lot you learn
in life that you don't get out of books, son."

"I'm confident that's true, sir," Colonel Carson said. He turned to the
two biologists. "Perhaps we had better speak outside."

"But--" Mitchell said, impatient to examine Macklin for himself. "Very
well. Let's step into the hall."

Ferris followed them docilely.

"What have you done to him?" the colonel asked straightforwardly.

"We merely cured him of his headaches," Mitchell said.

"How?"

Mitchell did his best to explain the F-M Virus.

"You mean," the Army officer said levelly "you have infected him with
some kind of a disease to rot his brain?"

"No, no! Could I talk to the other man, the doctor? Maybe I can make
him understand."

"All I want to know is why Elliot Macklin has been made as simple as if
he had been kicked in the head by a mule," Colonel Carson said.

"I think I can explain," Ferris interrupted.

"You can?" Mitchell said.

Ferris nodded. "We made a slight miscalculation. It appears as if the
virus colony overcontrols the supply of posterior pituitary extract in
the cerebrum. It isn't more than necessary to stop headaches. But that
necessary amount of control to stop pain is too much to allow the brain
cells to function properly."

"Why won't they function?" Carson roared.

"They don't get enough food--blood, oxygen, hemoglobin," Ferris
explained. "The cerebral vessels don't contract enough to pump the
blood through the brain as fast and as hard as is needed. The brain
cells remain sluggish, dormant. Perhaps decaying."

The colonel yelled.

Mitchell groaned. He was abruptly sure Ferris was correct.
