
The colonel drew himself to attention, fists trembling at his sides.
"I'll see you hung for treason! Don't you know what Elliot Macklin
means to us? Do you want those filthy Luxemburgians to reach Pluto
before we do? Macklin's formula is essential to the FTL engine. You
might just as well have blown up Washington, D.C. Better! The capital
is replaceable. But the chances of an Elliot Macklin are very nearly
once in a human race."

"Just a moment," Mitchell interrupted, "we can cure Macklin."

"You _can_?" Carson said. For a moment Mitchell thought the man was
going to clasp his hands and sink to his knees.

"Certainly. We have learned to stabilize the virus colonies. We have
antitoxin to combat the virus. We had always thought of it as a
beneficial parasite, but we can wipe it out if necessary."

"Good!" Carson clasped his hands and gave at least slightly at the
knees.

"Just you wait a second now, boys," Elliot Macklin said. He was leaning
in the doorway, holding his pipe. "I've been listening to what you've
been saying and I don't like it."

"What do you mean you don't like it?" Carson demanded. He added, "Sir?"

"I figure you mean to put me back like I used to be."

"Yes, doctor," Mitchell said eagerly, "just as you used to be."

"_With_ my headaches, like before?"

Mitchell coughed into his fist for an instant, to give him time to
frame an answer. "Unfortunately, yes. Apparently if your mind functions
properly once again you will have the headaches again. Our research is
a dismal failure."

"I wouldn't go that far," Ferris remarked cheerfully.

Mitchell was about to ask his associate what he meant when he saw
Macklin slowly shaking his head.

"No, sir!" the mathematician said. "I shall not go back to my original
state. I can remember what it was like. Always worrying, worrying,
worrying."

"You mean wondering," Mitchell said.

Macklin nodded. "Troubled, anyway. Disturbed by every little thing.
How high was up, which infinity was bigger than what infinity--say,
what was an infinity anyway? All that sort of schoolboy things. It's
peaceful this way. My head doesn't hurt. I've got a good-looking wife
and all the money I need. I've got it made. Why worry?"

Colonel Carson opened his mouth, then closed it.

"That's right, Colonel. There's no use in arguing with him," Mitchell
said.

"It's not his decision to make," the colonel said. "He's an idiot now."

"No, Colonel. As you said, he's a moron. He seems an idiot compared to
his former level of intelligence but he's legally responsible. There
are millions of morons running around loose in the United States. They
can get married, own property, vote, even hold office. Many of them
do. You can't force him into being cured.... At least, I don't _think_
you can."

"No, I can't. This is hardly a totalitarian state." The colonel looked
momentarily glum that it wasn't.

Mitchell looked back at Macklin. "Where did his wife get to, Colonel?
I don't think that even previously he made too many personal decisions
for himself. Perhaps she could influence him."

"Maybe," the colonel said. "Let's find her."
