
They found Mrs. Macklin in the dining room, her face at the picture
window an attractive silhouette. She turned as the men approached.

"Mrs. Macklin," the colonel began, "these gentlemen believe they can
cure your husband of his present condition."

"Really?" she said. "Did you speak to Elliot about that?"

"Y-yes," Colonel Carson said, "but he's not himself. He refused the
treatment. He wants to remain in his state of lower intelligence."

She nodded. "If those are his wishes, I can't go against them."

"But Mrs. Macklin!" Mitchell protested. "You will have to get a court
order overruling your husband's wishes."

She smoothed an eyebrow with the third finger of her right hand. "That
was my original thought. But I've redecided."

"Redecided!" Carson burst out almost hysterically.

"Yes. I can't go against Elliot's wishes. It would be monstrous to put
him back where he would suffer the hell of those headaches once again,
where he never had a moment's peace from worry and pressure. He's happy
now. Like a child, but happy."

"Mrs. Macklin," the Army man said levelly, "if you don't help us
restore your husband's mind we will be forced to get a court order
declaring him incompetent."

"But he is not! Legally, I mean," the woman stormed.

"Maybe not. It's a borderline case. But I think any court would give us
the edge where restoring the mind of Elliot Macklin was concerned. Once
he's certified incompetent, authorities can rule whether Mitchell and
Ferris' antitoxin treatment is the best method of restoring Dr. Macklin
to sanity."

"I doubt very much if the court would rule in that manner," she said.

The colonel looked smug. "Why not?"

"Because, Colonel, the matter of my husband's health, his very life, is
involved."

"There is some degree of risk in shock treatments, too. But--"

"It isn't quite the same, Colonel. Elliot Macklin has a history of
vascular spasm, a mild pseudostroke some years ago. Now you want to
give those cerebral arteries back the ability to constrict. To
paralyze. To kill. No court would give you that authority."

"I suppose there's some chance of that. But without the treatment
there is _no_ chance of your husband regaining his right senses, Mrs.
Macklin," Mitchell interjected.

Her mouth grew petulant. "I don't care. I would rather have a live
husband than a dead genius. I can take care of him this way, make him
comfortable...."

Carson opened his mouth and closed his fist, then relaxed. Mitchell led
him back into the hall.

"I'm no psychiatrist," Mitchell said, "but I think she wants Macklin
stupid. Prefers it that way. She's always dominated his personal life,
and now she can dominate him completely."

"What is she? A monster?" the Army officer muttered.

"No," Mitchell said. "She's an intelligent woman unconsciously jealous
of her husband's genius."

"Maybe," Carson said. "I don't know. I don't know what the hell to tell
the Pentagon. I think I'll go out and get drunk."

"I'll go with you," Ferris said.

Mitchell glanced sharply at the little biologist.

Carson squinted. "Any particular reason, doctor?"

"To celebrate," Ferris said.

The colonel shrugged. "That's as good a reason as any."

On the street, Mitchell watched the two men go off together in
bewilderment.


                                  IV

Macklin was playing jacks.

He didn't have a head on his shoulders and he was squatting on a great
curving surface that was Spacetime, and his jacks were Earth and Pluto
and the rest of the planets. And for a ball he was using a head. Not
his head. Mitchell's. Both heads were initialed "M" so it was all the
same.

Mitchell forced himself to awaken, with some initial difficulty.

He lay there, blinking the sleep out of his eyes, listening to his
heart race, and then convulsively snatched the telephone receiver from
the nightstand. He stabbed out a number with a vicious index finger.

After a time there came a dull click and a sleepy answer.

"Hello?" Elliot Macklin said.

Mitchell smiled to himself. He was in luck; Macklin had answered the
phone instead of his wife.

"Can you speak freely, doctor?" Mitchell asked.

"Of course," the mathematician said. "I can talk fine."

"I mean, are you alone?"

"Oh, you want to know if my wife is around. No, she's asleep. That Army
doctor, Colonel Sidney, he gave her a sedative. I wouldn't let him give
me anything, though."

"Good boy," the biologist said. "Listen, doctor--Elliot--El, old son.
I'm not against you like all the others. I don't want to make you go
back to all that worrying and thinking and headaches. You believe me,
don't you?"

There was a slight hesitation.

"Sure," Macklin said, "if you say so. Why shouldn't I believe you?"

"But there was a hesitation there, El. You worried for just a second if
I could have some reason for not telling you the truth."

"I suppose so," Macklin said humbly.

"You've found yourself worrying--thinking--about a lot of other
problems since we left you, haven't you? Maybe not the same kind of
scientific problem. But more personal ones, ones you didn't used to
have time to think about."

"If you say so."

"Now, you know it's so. But how would you like to get rid of those
worries just as you got rid of the others?" Mitchell asked.

"I guess I'd like that," the mathematician replied.

"Then come on over to my laboratory. You remember where it's at, don't
you?"

"No, I--yes, I guess I do. But how do I know you won't try to put me
back where I was instead of helping me more?"

"I couldn't do that against your wishes. That would be illegal!"

"If you say so. But I don't guess I can come anyway. The Army is
watching me pretty close."

"That's alright," Mitchell said quickly. "You can bring along Colonel
Carson."

"But he won't like you fixing me up more."

"But he can't stop me! Not if you want me to do it. Now listen to me--I
want you to come right on over here, El."

"If you say so," Macklin said uncertainly.
