
Mitchell opened the door on the first knock.

Macklin stood in the doorway, looking uncertain and ill at ease. Carson
stood behind his left shoulder, looking actively belligerent.

"Come in," Mitchell said. "I have the injection ready for you, Doctor."

"Now you aren't going to 'cure' me?" Macklin said in concern. "This is
just going to help ease my mind?"

"Of course," the biologist said soothingly.

Colonel Carson lunged forward, mouth opening ominously.

Mitchell winked at him broadly.

Carson stopped in confusion and studied Mitchell's face. He essayed a
second wink. Carson relaxed.

Mitchell picked up the hypo of colorless carrier fluid from the
interestingly stained work table. "One thing first, Dr. Macklin. I'll
have to have your signed release for this treatment. It specifies that
your intelligence will probably be affected in this effort to keep your
head from troubling you. Carson can witness it."

"Sure," Macklin said. "I guess that's okay. If you say so."

The colonel grinned, his face hot and shiny. "I'm sure it will be fine,
Doctor."

Macklin looked at the officer with almost a trace of suspicion, then
accepted the sheet of typescript and the ballpoint pen from Mitchell.
Laboriously he affixed his signature.

Mitchell had the mathematician take a seat and pressed the needle
directly into the neck area.

"Ouch!" Macklin said.

Mitchell stood back and exhaled.

"It should take effect shortly," the biologist said.

"Good," Carson said....

The cylinders of the electric clock said 4:35:00 A.M.

Macklin was playing with his hands and their shadows in front of his
face.

"How long will this stage last, Dr. Mitchell?" Colonel Carson said in
concern.

"Indefinitely. This is the last stage. The circulatory system of his
brain has been relaxed to the point where he has about the I.Q. of a
turnip."

Carson steeled himself. "_So_, doctor! You're nothing but a dirty Lux!"

"No, Colonel. I've never even seen Luxemburg. My reason for doing this
to Dr. Macklin were entirely patriotic ... or, at least, sympathetic."

"Tell that to the hangman! I'll see you tried for treason."

"Look at him, Colonel. He is certainly no longer legally responsible.
He has the strength of a grown man and the intellect of an amoeba.
It would be impossible to keep him alive either under sedation or in
a padded cell. Even if Mrs. Macklin still refuses her consent--and I
don't think she will when she sees him in this bad a state--you can go
over her head and get permission for Ferris and myself to administer
our antitoxin to destroy the pituitrin-absorbing virus colony in his
cerebrum."

Carson looked dazed. "I--I'll call her."
