
Mitchell greeted the orangish sunrise with a feeling of defeat. He
turned from the window to face the instruments of his laboratory.
Mrs. Macklin had come. Numbly she signed the release allowing the
restorative treatment. By the time she, Carson and the mathematician
left, Macklin had been able to say "mama" and--embarrassingly--"papa"
to him. Mitchell was confident he would regain his full senses and that
the brain cells had only become passive, and had not decayed.

But still it was only the wiping out of one horrendous mistake. Months
and months of work wasted.

The door banged open and a small man entered with a long, slender brown
paper bag and proceeding on an aeronautical search pattern.

"Dr. Ferris!" Mitchell said. "You mustn't take it so hard. I tried to
get in touch with you. But at least I have been able to administer the
antitoxin to Dr. Macklin."

"Who gives a damn about that egghead?" Ferris said, placing the
paperbag upright on the work table. "Don't you understand, man? We're
rich! Where are the glasses?"

"Rich?" Mitchell said. "Doctor, would you like me to help you over to
your own quarters?"

"Relax, Mitchell. I'm not _that_ drunk. I know what I'm talking about.
I tell you the F-M Virus is going to make us rich! Powerful! Men like
Elliot Macklin will be insignificant beside us."

He knew that Ferris was in sober earnest. "What do you mean, Doctor?"

Ferris turned, his thin face lit up with a flush of pleasure.
"Mitchell, we have something to make people permanently stupid! People
can stop thinking temporarily by using alcohol or narcotics or watching
television. But we--only you and I--have something to let them stop
thinking permanently. And we'll make them pay for it--for the shot and
the rent on the condition. Who _wants_ to think? A handful of people.
Who _has_ to think to do routine paperwork or push a button or pull
a lever? A bunch of happy, content morons can do all of that. We'll
return man to his natural, pre-evolutionary state of stupidity. As for
those of us who _don't_ take the treatment, we have it made! Made!"

Mitchell stared at him.

"Don't you get it, Mitchell?" Ferris roared. "_We have the ultimate
tranquilizer!_"

Mitchell thought of the world after the F-M Virus had been given it. He
thought: In his condition, if I shoved Ferris so that his head cracked
into the corner of the table, no one could prove anything. I could
destroy our records....

No, it wasn't any good. Some other researcher somewhere else was bound
to isolate the F-M Virus. None of it was any good.

He groped blindly towards the door. He had to get out, get to a
drugstore, buy some aspirins.

His head was killing him.



