
"Ready for me yet, Asir?" the squat man asked.

Asir hated him with narrowed eyes. The executioner was bound by law to
wait until his victim requested his fate. But Asir remained ignorant
of what the fate would be. The Council of Senior Kinsmen judged him
in secret, and passed sentence as to what the executioner would do
with the knife. But Asir was not informed of their judgment. He knew
only that when he asked for it, the executioner would advance with the
bleeding-blade and exact the punishment--his life, or an amputation,
depending on the judgment. He might lose only an eye or an ear or a
finger. But on the other hand, he might lose his life, both arms, or
his masculinity.

There was no way to find out until he asked for the punishment. If he
refused to ask, they would leave him hanging there. In theory, a thief
could escape by hanging four days, after which the executioner would
pull out the nails. Sometimes a culprit managed it, but when the nails
were pulled, the thing that toppled was already a corpse.

The sun was sinking in the west, and it blinded him. Asir knew about
the sun--knew things the stupid council failed to know. A thief, if
successful, frequently became endowed with wisdom, for he memorized
more wealth than a score of honest men. Quotations from the ancient
gods--Fermi, Einstein, Elgermann, Hanser and the rest--most men owned
scattered phrases, and scattered phrases remained meaningless. But a
thief memorized all transactions that he overheard, and the countless
phrases could be fitted together into meaningful ideas.

He knew now that Mars, once dead, was dying again, its air leaking
away once more into space. And Man would die with it, unless something
were done, and done quickly. The Blaze of the Great Wind needed to be
rekindled under the earth, but it would not be done. The tribes had
fallen into ignorance, even as the holy books had warned:

_It is realized that the colonists will be unable to maintain a
technology without basic tools, and that a rebuilding will require
several generations of intelligently directed effort. Given the
knowledge, the colonists may be able to restore a machine culture if
the knowledge continues to be bolstered by desire. But if the third,
fourth, and Nth generations fail to further the gradual retooling
process, the knowledge will become worthless._

The quotation was from the god Roggins, _Progress of the Mars-Culture_,
and he had stolen bits of it from various sources. The books themselves
were no longer in existence, remembered only in memorized ritual
chants, the possession of which meant wealth.

Asir was sick. Pain and slow loss of blood made him weak, and his
vision blurred. He failed to see her coming until he heard her feet
rustling in the dry grass.

"Mara----"

She smirked and spat contemptuously at the foot of the post. The
daughter of a Senior Kinsman, she was a tall, slender girl with an
arrogant strut and mocking eyes. She stood for a moment with folded
arms, eyeing him with amusement. Then, slowly, one eye closed in a
solemn wink. She turned her back on him and spoke to the executioner.

"May I taunt the prisoner, Slubil?" she asked.

"It is forbidden to speak to the thief," growled the knifeman.

"Is he ready to beg for justice, Slubil?"

The knifeman grinned and looked at Asir. "Are you ready for me yet,
thief?"

Asir hissed an insult. The girl had betrayed him.

"Evidently a coward," she said. "Perhaps he means to hang four days."

"Let him then."

"No--I think that I should _like_ to see him beg."

She gave Asir a long searching glance, then turned to walk away. The
thief cursed her quietly and followed her with his eyes. A dozen steps
away she stopped again, looked back over her shoulder, and repeated the
slow wink. Then she marched on toward her father's house. The wink made
his scalp crawl for a moment, but then....

_Suppose she hasn't betrayed me?_ Suppose she had wheedled the sentence
out of Tokra, and knew what his punishment would be. _I think that I
should like to see him beg._

But on the other hand, the fickle she-devil might be tricking
him into asking for a sentence that she _knew_ would be death or
dismemberment--just to amuse herself.

He cursed inwardly and trembled as he peered at the bored executioner.
He licked his lips and fought against dizzyness as he groped for words.
Slubil heard him muttering and looked up.

"Are you ready for me yet?"
