
Welkir stepped back and slammed the door. Asir sagged in defeat. He
sank down on the doorstep to rest a moment. The night was black, except
for lamp-flickers from an occasional window.

"Ssssst!"

A sound from the shadows. He looked around quickly, searching for the
source.

"Ssssst! Asir!"

It was the girl Mara, Welkir's daughter. She had slipped out the back
of the house and was peering at him around the corner. He arose quietly
and went to her.

"What did Slubil do to you?" she whispered.

Asir gasped and caught her shoulders angrily. "Don't you _know_?"

"No! Stop! You're hurting me. Tokra wouldn't tell me. I made love to
him, but he wouldn't tell."

He released her with an angry curse.

"You _had_ to take it sometime," she hissed. "I knew if you waited you
would be too weak from hanging to even run away."

He called her a foul name.

"Ingrate!" she snapped. "And I bought you a hüffen!"

"You _what_?"

"Tokra gave me a ritual phrase and I bought you a hüffen with it. You
can't _walk_ to the hills, you know."

Asir burned with dull rage. "You slept with Tokra!" he snapped.

"You're jealous!" she tittered.

"How can I be jealous! I hate the sight of you!"

"Very well then, I'll keep the hüffen."

"_Do!_" he growled. "I won't need it, since I'm not going to the hills!"

She gasped. "You've got to go, you fool! They'll kill you!"

He turned away, feeling sick. She caught at his arm and tried to pull
him back. "Asir! Take the hüffen and _go_!"

"I'll go," he growled. "But not to the hills. I'm going out to the
vault."

He stalked away, but she trotted along beside him, trying to tug him
back. "Fool! The vaults are sacred! The priests guard the entrance, and
the Sleeper guards the inner door. They'll kill you if you try it, and
if you linger, the council will kill you tomorrow."

"Let them!" he snarled. "I am no sniveling townsman! I am of the hills,
and my father was a renegade. Your council had no right to judge me.
Now _I_ shall judge _them_."

The words were spoken hotly, and he realized their folly. He expected a
scornful rebuke from Mara, but she hung onto his arm and pleaded with
him. He had dragged her a dozen doorways from the house of her father.
Her voice had lost its arrogance and became pleading.

"Please, Asir! Go away. Listen! I will even go with you--if you want
me."

He laughed harshly. "Tokra's leavings."

She slapped him hard across the mouth. "Tokra is an impotent old
dodderer. He can scarcely move for arthritis. You're an idiot! I sat on
his lap and kissed his bald pate for you."

"Then why did he give you a ritual phrase?" he asked stiffly.

"Because he likes me."

"You lie." He stalked angrily on.

"Very well! Go to the vaults. I'll tell my father, and they'll hunt you
down before you get there."

She released his arm and stopped. Asir hesitated. She meant it. He came
back to her slowly, then slipped his swollen hands to her throat. She
did not back away.

"Why don't I just choke you and leave you lying here?" he hissed.

Her face was only a shadow in darkness, but he could see her cool smirk.

"Because you love me, Asir of Franic."

He dropped his hands and grunted a low curse. She laughed low and took
his arm.

"Come on. We'll go get the hüffen," she said.

_Why not?_ he thought. _Take her hüffen, and take her too._ He could
dump her a few miles from the village, then circle back to the vaults.
She leaned against him as they moved back toward her father's
house, then skirted it and stole back to the field behind the row of
dwellings. Phobos hung low in the west, its tiny disk lending only a
faint glow to the darkness.

He heard the hüffen's breathing as they approached a hulking shadow
in the gloom. Its great wings snaked out slowly as it sensed their
approach, and it made a low piping sound. A native Martian species,
it bore no resemblance to the beasts that the ancients had brought
with them from the sky. Its back was covered with a thin shell like
a beetle's, but its belly was porous and soft. It digested food by
sitting on it, and absorbing it. The wings were bony--parchment
stretched across a fragile frame. It was headless, and lacked a
centralized brain, the nervous functions being distributed.
