
They stared at each other again, but it was different this time.
Bewildered, he shook his head and resumed the descent toward the
vaults. The guards were battering at the door behind them.

The stairwell was damp and cold. Blackness folded about them like a
shroud. They moved in silence, and after five thousand steps, Asir
stopped counting.

Somewhere in the depths, Big Joe slept his restless sleep. Asir
wondered grimly how long it would take the guards to tear down the
metal door. Somehow they had to get past Big Joe before the guards came
thundering after them. There was a way to get around the monster: of
that he was certain. A series of twenty-four numbers was involved, and
he had memorized them with a stolen bit of ritual. How to use them was
a different matter. He imagined vaguely that one must call them out in
a loud voice before the inner entrance.

The girl walked beside him now, and he could feel her shivering. His
eyes were quick and nervous as he scanned each pool of darkness, each
nook and cranny along the stairway wall. The well was silent except for
the mutter of their footsteps, and the gloom was full of musty odors.
The candle afforded little light.

"I told you the truth about Tokra," she blurted suddenly.

Asir glowered straight ahead and said nothing, embarrassed by his
previous jealousy. They moved on in silence.

Suddenly she stopped. "Look," she hissed, pointing down ahead.

He shielded the candle with his hand and peered downward toward a small
square of dim light. "The bottom of the stairs," he muttered.

The light seemed faint and diffuse, with a slight greenish cast. Asir
blew out the candle, and the girl quickly protested.

"How will we see to climb again?"

He laughed humorlessly. "What makes you think we will?"

She moaned and clutched at his arm, but came with him as he descended
slowly toward the light. The stairway opened into a long corridor
whose ceiling was faintly luminous. White-faced and frightened, they
paused on the bottom step and looked down the corridor. Mara gasped and
covered her eyes.

"Big Joe!" she whispered in awe.

He stared through the stairwell door and down the corridor through
another door into a large room. Big Joe sat in the center of the
room, sleeping his sleep of ages amid a heap of broken and whitening
bones. A creature of metal, twice the height of Asir, he had obviously
been designed to kill. Tri-fingered hands with gleaming talons, and
a monstrous head shaped like a Marswolf, with long silver fangs. Why
should a metal-creature have fangs, unless he had been built to kill?

The behemoth slept in a crouch, waiting for the intruders.

He tugged the girl through the stairwell door. A voice droned out of
nowhere: "_If you have come to plunder, go back!_"

He stiffened, looking around. The girl whimpered.

"Stay here by the stairs," he told her, and pushed her firmly back
through the door.

Asir started slowly toward the room where Big Joe waited. Beyond the
room he could see another door, and the monster's job was apparently
to keep intruders back from the inner vaults where, according to the
ritual chants, the Blaze of the Winds could be kindled.

Halfway along the corridor, the voice called out again, beginning a
kind of sing-song chant: "_Big Joe will kill you, Big Joe will kill
you, Big Joe will kill you----_"

He turned slowly, searching for the speaker. But the voice seemed to
come from a black disk on the wall. The talking-machines perhaps, as
mentioned somewhere in the ritual.

A few paces from the entrance to the room, the voice fell silent.
He stopped at the door, staring in at the monster. Then he took a
deep breath and began chanting the twenty-four numbers in a loud but
quavering voice. Big Joe remained in his motionless crouch. Nothing
happened. He stepped through the doorway.
