
Hearing their deity speak, the priests of Big Joe babbled wildly
and withdrew a little. But one, more impulsive than the rest, began
shrieking.

"_Kill the intruders! Cut them down with your spears!_"

Asir glanced back to see two of them racing toward the room, lances
cocked for the throw. If a spear struck a trigger-tile----

"Stop!" he bellowed, facing around.

The two priests paused. Wondering if it would result in his sudden
death, he rested a hand lightly against the huge steel arm of the
robot, then leaned against it. The huge eyes were staring down at him,
but Big Joe did not move.

The spearmen stood frozen, gaping at the thief's familiarity with the
horrendous hulk. Then, slowly they backed away.

Continuing his bluff, he looked up at Big Joe and spoke in a loud
voice. "If they throw their spears or try to enter, kill them."

He turned his back on the throng in the hall and continued the cautious
advance. Five to go, four, three, two----

He paused to stare into the room beyond. Gleaming machinery--all
silent--and great panels, covered with a multitude of white circles and
dials. His heart sank. If here lay the magic that controlled the Blaze
of the Great Wind, he could never hope to rekindle it.

He stepped through the doorway, and the girl followed. Immediately the
robot spoke like low thunder.

"_The identity of the two technologists is recognized. Hereafter they
may pass with impunity. Big Joe is charged to ask the following: why do
the technologists come, when it is not yet time?_"

Staring back, Asir saw that the robot's head had turned so that he was
looking directly back at the thief and the girl. Asir also saw that
someone had approached the door again. Not priests, but townspeople.

He stared, recognizing the Chief Commoner, and the girl's father
Welkir, three other Senior Kinsmen, and--Slubil, the executioner who
had nailed him to the post.

"Father! Stay back."

Welkir remained silent, glaring at them. He turned and whispered to the
Chief Commoner. The Chief Commoner whispered to Slubil. The executioner
nodded grimly and took a short-axe from his belt thong. He stepped
through the entrance, his left foot striking the zero-tile. He peered
at Big Joe and saw that the monster remained motionless. He grinned at
the ones behind him, then snarled in Asir's direction.

"Your sentence has been changed, thief."

"Don't try to cross, Slubil!" Asir barked.

Slubil spat, brandished the axe, and stalked forward. Big Joe came
up like a resurrection of fury, and his bellow was explosive in the
vaults. Slubil froze, then stupidly drew back his axe.

Asir gasped as the talons closed. He turned away quickly. Slubil's
scream was cut off abruptly by a ripping sound, then a series of dull
cracks and snaps. The girl shrieked and closed her eyes. There were two
distinct thuds as Big Joe tossed Slubil aside.

The priests and the townspeople--all except Welkir--had fled from
the corridor and up the stairway. Welkir was on his knees, his hands
covering his face.

"Mara!" he moaned. "My daughter."

"Go back, Father," she called.

Dazed, the old man picked himself up weakly and staggered down the
corridor toward the stairway. When he passed the place of the first
warning voice, the robot moved again--arose slowly and turned toward
Asir and Mara who backed quickly away, deeper into the room of strange
machines. Big Joe came lumbering slowly after them.

Asir looked around for a place to flee, but the monster stopped in the
doorway. He spoke again, a mechanical drone like memorised ritual.

"_Big Joe is charged with announcing his function for the intelligence
of the technologists. His primary function is to prevent the entrance
of possibly destructive organisms into the vaults containing the
control equipment for the fusion reaction which must periodically
renew atmospheric oxygen. His secondary function is to direct the
technologists to records containing such information as they may need.
His tertiary function is to carry out simple directions given by the
technologists if such directions are possible to his limited design._"

Asir stared at the lumbering creature and realized for the first time
that it was not alive, but only a machine built by the ancients to
perform specific tasks. Despite the fresh redness about his hands and
jaws, Big Joe was no more guilty of Slubil's death than a grinding mill
would be if the squat sadist had climbed into it while the Marsoxen
were yoked to the crushing roller.

Perhaps the ancients had been unnecessarily brutal in building such
a guard--but at least they had built him to _look_ like a destroyer,
and to give ample warning to the intruder. Glancing around at the
machinery, he vaguely understood the reason for Big Joe. Such metals as
these would mean riches for swordmakers and smiths and plunderers of
all kinds.
