
Asir straightened his shoulders and addressed the machine.

"Teach us how to kindle the Blaze of the Great Wind."

"_Teaching is not within the designed functions of Big Joe. I am
charged to say: the renewal reaction should not be begun before the
Marsyear 6,000, as the builders reckoned time._"

Asir frowned. The years were no longer numbered, but only named in
honor of the Chief Commoners who ruled the villages. "How long until
the year 6,000?" he asked.

Big Joe clucked like an adding machine. "Twelve Marsyears,
technologist."

Asir stared at the complicated machinery. Could they learn to operate
it in twelve years? It seemed impossible.

"How can we begin to learn?" he asked the robot.

"_This is an instruction room, where you may examine records. The
control mechanisms are installed in the deepest vault._"

Asir frowned and walked to the far end of the hall where another door
opened into--_another anteroom, with another Big Joe_! As he approached
the second robot spoke:

"_If the intruder has not acquired the proper knowledge, Big Oswald
will kill._"

Thunderstruck, he leaped back from the entrance and swayed heavily
against an instrument panel. The panel lit up and a polite recorded
voice began reading something about "President Snell's role in the
Eighth World War". He lurched away from the panel and stumbled back
toward Mara who sat glumly on the foundation slab of a weighty machine.

"What are you laughing about?" she muttered.

"We're still in the first grade!" he groaned, envisioning a sequence of
rooms. "We'll have to learn the magic of the ancients before we pass
to the next."

"The ancients weren't so great," she grumbled. "Look at the mural on
the wall."

Asir looked, and saw only a strange design of circles about a bright
splash of yellow that might have been the sun. "What about it?" he
asked.

"My father taught me about the planets," she said. "That is supposed to
be the way they go around the sun."

"What's wrong with it?"

"One planet too many," she said. "Everyone knows that there is only an
asteroid belt between Mars and Venus. The picture shows a planet there."

Asir shrugged indifferently, being interested only in the machinery.
"Can't you allow them one small mistake?"

"I suppose." She paused, gazing miserably in the direction in which her
father had gone. "What do we do now?"

Asir considered it for a long time. Then he spoke to Big Joe. "You will
come with us to the village."

The machine was silent for a moment, then: "_There is an apparent
contradiction between primary and tertiary functions. Request priority
decision by technologist._"

Asir failed to understand. He repeated his request. The robot turned
slowly and stepped through the doorway. He waited.

Asir grinned. "Let's go back up," he said to the girl.

She arose eagerly. They crossed the anteroom to the corridor and began
the long climb toward the surface, with Big Joe lumbering along behind.

"What about your banishment, Asir?" she asked gravely.

"Wait and see." He envisioned the pandemonium that would reign when
girl, man, and robot marched through the village to the council house,
and he chuckled. "I think that I shall be the next Chief Commoner," he
said. "And my councilmen will all be thieves."

"Thieves!" she gasped. "Why?"

"Thieves who are not afraid to steal the knowledge of the gods--and
become technologists, to kindle the Blaze of the Winds."

"What is a 'technologist', Asir?" she asked worshipfully.

Asir glowered at himself for blundering with words he did not
understand, but could not admit ignorance to Mara who clung tightly to
his arm. "I think," he said, "that a technologist is a thief who tells
the gods what to do."

"Kiss me, Technologist," she told him in a small voice.

Big Joe clanked to a stop to wait for them to move on. He waited a long
time.