
A murmur went up at the mention of the hated name. Jeheera, their
planetary neighbor, had hurled its declaration of war seven
Nahrla-years ago. Still, the major preparations for the battle were
not underway. The battlefield had been chosen: a distant world on the
rim of the great nebula, a world whose green land areas and wide seas
most resembled the terrain of the two combatants. It was traditional
for Nahrla and Jeheera to fight on other worlds; through countless
centuries, they had learned the bitter outcome of war on their own
soil. Jointly, their exploratory forces had searched the galaxies for
the scene of their next conflict. They had decided upon the planet
called Earth by its inhabitants, and fixed the date of the engagement
for forty years hence--a generation to the short-lived creatures of
the green world, but only a brief span to the people of Nahrla.

"Forty years!" Athra rasped. "Seven gone already. And still we sit
in idle quarrel, without our defenses prepared. Do you realize the
consequence of such inaction? Do you not suppose that Jeheera has
already sent its agents to this world, to scout out its population,
its ways, its weaknesses, its dangers and pitfalls? And what have we
learned? What information do our scouts supply?"

At the end of the hall, a figure arose, bowing humbly, its four
jointless arms wrapped about its narrow body.

"If I may report, sir," he said quietly.

The council members turned to the speaker.

"You may speak, Shura," the chairman said.

The figure bowed again. "As captain of the exploratory force of
Nahrla, it is my duty to point out the nature of the problem we face
on this new battleground. This is no ordinary world we have chosen.
Its inhabitants are strange and unpredictable. They are alternately
peace-loving and warlike, wise and stupid, courageous and cowardly,
noble and selfish. There is little consistency in their actions or
emotions. But there is one aspect of their nature which is common to
all."

"And what is that?"

"Suspicion. A lack of trust in each other's motives. And that is why
our problem has been so difficult, sir. We would have sent our agent
among them many orbits ago, if we could have decided upon what form the
agent should adopt."

Shura slithered across the polished floor of the council room and
stopped before the Reading Screen at the right of the chairman's
pillow. He flipped the switch that started the screen glowing.

"Here is what the Earth-race calls a Man."

A gasp of revulsion swept the room at the image that appeared on the
screen.

"In addition to his unattractiveness," Shura said, "the Man is a
relatively ineffective creature. As an individual, he is usually
inclined to be emotionally unstable, petty, given to a sense of
self-importance, greedy, acquisitive, slothful, and often cruel. At
times, he is capable of unselfish and even noble actions, but even
these are questioned by his fellow-creatures as having hidden, base
motivations. If our agent were to take the form of this Man, his
ability to uncover the type of information we seek would be hampered
by the same distrust that affects all men of the planet Earth.
Therefore, we cannot recommend, in all honesty, that we despatch an
agent bearing this shape to scout this battlefield."
