
The chairman grunted. "Then what shape do you recommend, Shura?"

The figure shrugged. "We have considered several others. There are many
types of organic creatures on this world, some of them more trusted by
Man than Man himself. This shape, for example."

He flicked the switch. A four-legged creature, blanketed with shaggy
fur, with a long nose and pointed ears, appeared on the Reading Screen.

"This is what they call Dog. Dog is considered by the Earth-race
as Man's Best Friend. He accompanies Man everywhere, and told many
confidences, even though he has no ability to speak or comprehend. He
is well cared-for, often pampered. And most important, he is usually
trusted implicitly."

"And this is the shape you recommend?"

Shura sighed. "No. Unfortunately, Dog's actions are limited by the
master's. They are allowed little freedom of action. If Dog becomes
independent of Man, they declare it Wild, and treat it as a beast of
the field."

The chairman slapped at his pillow with his seven-fingered hand.

"Get to the point, Shura! I do not wish to hear what shapes you do
_not_ recommend. I wish a positive answer to our problem!"

"We have one," Shura said.

The councilmen murmured.

"Here is the shape we recommend, after careful study. It is the shape
of Man, but Man in the dawn of his innocence. The only shape in which
all of the inhabitants of this planet give their complete faith and
trust."

He flicked the switch again.

Athra, the chairman, stared at the bloated, pink, ugly thing on the
Screen, and looked disgusted.

"What in Nahrla's name is _that_?"

"That," Shura said, "is what the Earth-race calls a Baby. Unlike
ourselves, the Earth-creatures are mammals, bearing their young within
the womb and expelling it after nine months of gestation. The creature
that emerges is called a Baby, or Infant, and it undergoes a process
of cell growth until it becomes an Earth-adult. But at no point in this
entire growth process is the Earth-creature more adored, more pampered,
and most important--more _trusted_--than the time when it bears the
name of Baby."
