
Mrs. Purdy, of the Delafield Adoption Agency, smiled toothily at the
young couple seated in front of her desk.

"I'm always happy to deliver such good news," she said. "I know how
long you two have been waiting, but now I think your prayers have been
answered."

Jane Bryan caught her breath sharply.

"Oh, Mrs. Purdy! You mean--"

"Yes, my dear. It isn't often that we are able to find just the infant
our prospective parents have requested. But Fate has been good to you
both. Recently, our agency was fortunate enough to receive a foundling
infant boy. He's a perfect darling--just about a month old, blue eyes,
blond hair, and an absolute charmer."

Jane's husband, Dan, reached over to grip his wife's hand.

"You really mean it, Mrs. Purdy?"

"I certainly do. Naturally, you were one of the first couples I thought
of when the baby was brought here. The poor little thing was abandoned
on our very doorstep; it was like a gift from Heaven. Now, all we have
to do is complete a few minor formalities--"

Jane couldn't help herself. The tears started in her pretty green eyes,
and she fumbled helplessly in her purse for her handkerchief. Dan got
up and went to her. He put her head on his shoulder, and let her weep
in happiness and relief. Mrs. Purdy watched them, her eyes tender.

"Can we see him?" Dan asked. "Can we see our baby now, Mrs. Purdy?"

"Of course. Come right this way."

Jane dried her eyes, and they left the office together. But her tears
began to flow again as they approached the crib on the second floor of
the adoption agency. Her arms went out impulsively toward the child
that lay in peaceful slumber on the sheet.

"Oh, he's adorable!" Jane breathed. "Oh, Dan, he's just what we always
wanted!"

"How soon?" Dan said tightly. "How soon, Mrs. Purdy?"

"Just a few days. We'll work as swiftly as we can, Mr. Bryan. In a few
days, you can take your new baby home."

The few days turned out to be a week. Then the phone rang in the Bryan
household, and Mrs. Purdy's cheerful voice said:

"Today's the day!"

At five o'clock on a Monday afternoon, Jane Bryan carried her new son
across the threshold of their apartment.
