
Of course, even with the galaxy collapsing, the dress business had to
go on, but I found myself buying a newspaper four or five times a day
and keeping the radio on in the store to find out what was going on.
Everybody else was doing the same. People were even arguing about it on
street corners.

The newspapers had about a thousand different theories. There were
scientific articles on the red shift, and intergalactic dust; there
were articles on stellar evolution and visual hallucination; the
psychologists were trying to prove that the stars hadn't been there in
the first place, or something like that.

I didn't know what to believe. The only article that made any sense
to me was one written by a social commentator, and he wasn't even a
full-fledged scientist. He said it looked as if someone was doing a big
job of housecleaning in out galaxy.

The Thomas kid had his own theories. He was sure it was the work of
invaders from another dimension. He told me they were sucking our
galaxy into theirs, which was in another dimension, like dust into a
vacuum cleaner.

"It's perfectly clear, Mr. Ostersen," he told me one evening after
work. "They've started sucking in the outside stars at the other side
of the Milky Way, and they're working through the centre. They'll reach
us last, because we're at the far end."

"Well ..." I said.

"After all," he told me, "_Astonishing Yarns_ and _Weird Science
Stories_ practically agree on it, and they're the leaders in the
sci-fic field."

"But they're not scientists," I said.

"That doesn't matter," the kid told me. "They predicted the submarine
before there was one. They predicted airplanes when scientists were
saying the bumblebee couldn't fly. And rockets and radar and atom
bombs. They've got the truth about this too."

He paused for breath. "Someone's gotta stop the invaders," he went on
in a tone of utter conviction. He looked at me sharply. "You know,
since they're dimension-changers, they can take the appearance of
humans." Again he looked at me, suspiciously.

"Anyone might be one. _You_ might be one."

I could see he was getting nervous, and maybe on the verge of handing
me over to some committee or other, so I fed him milk and cake. That
just made him more suspicious, but there wasn't anything I could do
about it.

The newspapers took up the science-fiction theory just as the Thomas
kid had told it to me, and added their own embellishments. Some guy
said he knew how the invaders could be stopped. He had been approached
by them, he said, and they'd offered him controllership of a small
galaxy if he'd cooperate. Of course, he wouldn't.

It sounds foolish, but the sky was getting pretty bare. People in every
country were saying foolish things and doing foolish things. We were
starting to wonder how soon our own sun would go.

I watched every night, and the stars disappeared faster and faster.
The thing seemed to increase at a geometric rate. Soon the sky was
just filled with little lights going out, faster than you could count.
Almost all of it could be seen with the naked eye now, because it was
getting a lot closer to us.

In two weeks the only part of the Milky Way left were the Magallenic
clouds, and the astronomers said that they weren't a part of our
galaxy anyhow. Betelguese and Actares and Rigel winked out, and Sirius
and Vega. Then Alpha Centauri disappeared, and that was our closest
neighbor. Aside from the moon, the sky was pretty bare at night, just
a few dots and patches here and there.

I don't know what would have happened if the voice hadn't been heard
then. It would be anybody's guess. But the voice came the day after
Alpha Centauri vanished.
