
The next day I went in to work, although I don't know why. I knew that
this was It, and everyone else knew it too. But it seemed right to go
back to work, end of the world or not. Most of my adult life had been
bound up in that store, and I wanted a day more with it. I had some
idea of getting my affairs in order, although I knew it couldn't matter.

The subway ride was murderous. New York is always a crowded city, but
it seemed as though the whole United States had moved in. The subways
were so tightly jammed the doors couldn't even close. When I finally
got out, the streets were filled from one curb to the other. Traffic
had given up, and people were piling out of cars and buses anywhere
they were stopped, adding to the jam in the streets.

In the store, Frank and Minnie were already there. I guess they had the
same idea--about gathering up loose ends.

"Gee, Mr. Ostersen," Frank said. "What do you think He'll do--about our
sins, I mean?" Frank was twenty-one, and I couldn't see how he could
have committed an unusual number of sins. But he was worried about
them. The way he frowned and paced around, he might have been the devil
himself.

Minnie didn't have any sins on her mind, as far as I could see. She was
wearing what must have been her best dress--she hadn't bought it in my
store--and her hair was a lighter brown than it had been yesterday. I
suspected she wanted to look her best in front of the Almighty, be He
man or woman.

We talked about sins most of the morning, and listened to the radio.
The radio had a lot to say about sins, but no two speakers agreed.

Around lunchtime, Ollie Bernstein dropped in.

"Hiya, ex-competitor," he said, standing in the doorway. "How's
business?"

"I sold five dozen halos," I told him. "How's with you?"

"What's it matter?" he asked, coming sideways through the doorway.
"Four days before Judgment, who cares? Come have lunch with me,
ex-competitor."

Ollie and I had never been on really friendly terms. We sold the same
price line, and our stores were too close for mutual comfort. Also,
he was fat and I've always been suspicious of fat men. But suddenly,
I found myself liking him. It seemed a shame I hadn't recognized his
solid qualities years ago.

We went to Lotto's, a classy place on East 73rd Street. We had hoped to
avoid some of the crowd by going uptown, but there wasn't a chance of
it. Lotto's was packed, and we stood three-quarters of an hour for a
table.

Seated, we ordered roast duck, but had to settle for hamburger steak.
The waiter told us people had been walking in and ordering roast duck
all morning.

Lotto's had a radio--probably for the first time in its existence--and
a minister or rabbi was speaking. He was interrupted by a news
announcement.

"The war in Indo-China is over," the announcer said. "Peace was
declared at 7:30 this morning. Also, a general truce has been called in
Mongolia, and in Tanganyika." There was a lot of that. In Indo-China,
it seemed that the rebels had given up the country to the French,
declaring that all men should live in peace. The French immediately
announced they were withdrawing their forces as fast as they could get
planes for them. Every Frenchman was going to spend the last three days
before Judgment in Paris.

For a moment I wished I was in Paris.

The announcer also said, the Russian airforce had agreed to pilot the
Frenchmen home.

It was the same everywhere. Every country was leaning over backward,
giving up this and that, offering land to its neighbors, shipping food
to less fortunate areas, and so forth.

We listened over a bottle of Moselle--all the champagne had been drunk
that morning. I think I got a little high. Anyhow, I walked back with
my arms around two total strangers. We were assuring each other that
peace, it was wonderful.

And it was at that.

I went home early, to miss the evening rush. It was still rough going.
I grinned at my wife as I reached the door, and she grinned back. Jane
was a little high, also.
