
The big man fumbled for a cigarette. He glanced at the clock. "Hank,
for Chrissake--"

Henry Ritchie sighed and slumped in the chair. "I tried, Max."

"Did you? Did you try--I mean with everything?"

"With everything. Might as well face it: the boy's going to burn, right
on schedule."

Kaplan opened his mouth.

"Forget it. The governor isn't about to issue a commutation. With the
public's blood up the way it is, he knows what it would mean to his
vote. We were stupid even to try."

"Lousy vultures."

Ritchie shrugged. "They're hungry, Max. You forget, there hasn't been
an execution in this state for over two years. They're hungry."

"So a poor dumb kid's got to fry alive in order for them to get their
kicks...."

"Wait a second now. Don't get carried away. This same poor dumb kid is
the boy who killed George Sanderson in cold blood and then raped his
wife, not too very long ago. If I recall, your word for him then was
Brutal Murderer."

"That was the paper. This is you and me."

"Well, get that accusatory look off your face. Murder and rape--those
are stiff raps to beat, pal."

"You did it with Beatty, you got him off," Kaplan reminded his friend.

"Luck. Public mood--Beatty was an old man, feeble. Look, Max--why don't
you stop beating around the bush?"

"Okay," Kaplan said slowly. "They--let me in this afternoon. I talked
with him again."

Ritchie nodded. "And?"

"Hank, I'm telling you--it gives me the creeps. I swear it does."

"What did he tell you?"

Kaplan puffed on his cigarette nervously, kept his eyes on the clock.
"He was lying down when I went in, curled up tight. Trying to sleep."

"Go on."

"When he heard me, he came to. 'Mr. Kaplan,' he says, 'you've got to
make them believe me, you've got to make them understand--' His eyes
got real big then, and--Hank, I'm scared."

"Of what?"

"I don't know. Just him, maybe. I'm not sure."

"He carrying the same line?"

"Yeah. But worse this time, more intense somehow...."

Ritchie tried to keep the smile. He remembered, all right. Much too
well. The whole story was crazy, normally enough to get the kid off
with a life sentence in the criminally insane ward. But it was a little
_too_ crazy, so the psychiatrists wouldn't buy.

"Can't get his words out of my mind," Kaplan was saying. His eyes were
closed. "'Mister, tell them, tell them. If you kill me, then you'll all
die. This whole world of yours will die....'"

_Because_, Ritchie remembered, _you don't exist, any of you, except in
my mind. Don't you see? I'm asleep and dreaming all this. You, your
wives, your children, it's all part of my dream--and when you kill me
then I'll wake up and that will be the end of you...._

"Well," Ritchie said, "it's original."

Kaplan shook his head.

"Come on, Max, snap out of it. You act like you never listened to a
lunatic before. People have been predicting the end of the world ever
since Year 1."

"Sure, I know. You don't have to patronize me. It's just that--well,
who _is_ this particular lunatic anyway? We don't know any more about
him than the day he was caught. Even the name we had to make up. Who is
he, where'd he come from, what's his home?"

_My home ... a world of eternities, an eternity of worlds.... I must
destroy, hurt, kill before I wake always ... and then once more I must
sleep ... always, always...._

"Look, there's a hundred vagrants in every city. Just like our boy: no
name, no friends, no relatives."

"Then he doesn't seem in the least odd to you, is that it? Is that what
you're telling me?"

"So he's odd! I never met a murderer that wasn't!" Ritchie recalled the
lean hairless face, the expressionless eyes, the slender youthful body
that moved in strange hesitant jerks, the halting voice.
