
Pulley watched in fascination. "You really got it bad," he said
wonderingly. "Taking a chance like that, for one lousy kiss. What's so
hot about this dame?"

"I can't explain it. She's a looker--but it's more than that. I been
watching her parade around, swingin' her little--" He cut himself and
swore. "I stopped to speak to her once. There was something in her
face--the same kind of thing you see in _all_ their faces--"

"Yeah," Pulley said bitterly. "I know the look."

"Do you?" The other man turned around. "What do _you_ see? Hate?"

"Yeah. What else?"

"No." Bolgar shook his head and stared moodily at himself in the sliver
of glass. "It's not hate anymore, Pulley. The hate died out of 'em a
long time ago--right after the war, right after the contamination...."

"They hate us," Pulley stated flatly.

"I don't think so. I think it's something different now. Something
worse." He began to shave again. "Contempt," he said.

Pulley's right hand balled into a fist and struck his knee. "We shoulda
killed 'em all! We shoulda wiped 'em out!"

"I asked her for a match," Bolgar said dreamily. "Just a lousy match.
She stared at me like I was some kind of microbe. Then she wraps her
damn cape around her face like she didn't want to let me breathe on
her." His growing anger caused his hand to tremble; he cut himself a
second time.

"So you're gonna kiss her?" Pulley sneered. "Why don't you throttle the
gal? Why don't you beat her up? Or haven't you got the guts?"

Bolgar turned the anger on him. "Watch yourself, Sergeant!"

"Pulling rank?" It was a jeer.

"Shut up!"

Pulley swung his boots to the bed. "Okay, pal," he chuckled. "Have it
your own way. You're asking for the same amount of trouble--whether you
kiss her or kill her--"

"I'm going to kiss her," Bolgar said vacantly, dabbing at his face with
a grimy cloth. "I'm going to wait for her by the mess hall. She comes
out of quarters on Barton Street every night around ten o'clock. She
cuts across the square, over to Pitcher Street. It's pretty deserted
there, that time. I'm gonna jump out and--"

"Operation kiss," Bolgar laughed, toying with the medal on his chest.
"The last victory of the war...."

Bolgar slipped into his coat. The unbleached cloth was shabby and
threadbare, but the buttons were still bright and gleaming. The
insignia of the 505th Army caught the light in the room brazenly, the
iron hand clutching forked lightning. He had medals, too, and they
jangled as he buttoned the coat up to its tight collar. At least, he
thought, his medals were worn where they belonged.

"My!" Pulley said mockingly. "You look pretty, Lieutenant."

"Where's my cap?"

"On the hook, behind you."

Bolgar put the cap on his head, squaring it. He stepped back from the
glass to determine its correctness.

"Beautiful!" Pulley said.

"All right, knock it off! What time is it?"

"Twenty of ten. Better get goin'. Your girl friend's waiting."

"I'm going," Bolgar said, strapping on his watch. He clanked to the
doorway of the barrack, but turned before going out. "This place
stinks," he said. "We got to clean it up one of these days."

"Sure," Pulley said lazily. He flopped over on the sagging bunk and
turned his head to the wall. "Have a good time, Lieutenant." His
chuckle ended in a yawn.
