
He bought a paper and turned at once to the shipping news section. As he
had hoped, every ship was listed. He checked off some of the names he
had glimpsed on the field, and found happily that their destinations
were printed in the most routine manner.

There still remained the question of how to get past the guards. This,
he suddenly realized, was a question impossible to solve on an empty
stomach. It had been many hours since he had eaten lunch.

There were a dozen restaurants in the spaceport, and he selected one
carefully, studying the illuminated menus and the prices before daring
to enter. If that motherly old woman had been as kind-hearted as she
pretended to be, he wouldn't have had to worry so much about prices. As
it was, he knew that he had money enough for only two days, and after
that--his stomach could complain all it wanted to, it would have to go
unfed.

He chose from the menu only items that he never tasted at school--dishes
made from real plant and animal life, with just enough synthetics to
give them flavor. He couldn't say that he liked what he ate, but at
least it gave him the feeling of being on his own, of having made the
break with his tame past as complete as possible. Earth-beef tasted too
strong; Venus seaweed stew had a pungency that he didn't like.

He finished his plate only because he had been taught that to leave food
over was wasteful. And for the first time he began to wonder what they
would feed him on the spaceship. Suppose he got on one that wasn't
scheduled to make port for five years--and all he received to eat was
stuff like this? The thought made him shudder. Here was a hardship of
space travel that the books he read had never mentioned.

After eating, he slumped back in his chair. He hadn't realized he was so
completely exhausted until a hand shook his shoulder. Then he awoke
with a start.

A waiter said, "This is no place to sleep, youngster."

"I'm sorry, sir. I was tired and I didn't realize."

"You been here for a long time. Waiting for someone?"

"Yes, sir. Something must have held him up."

"Seems to me that I noticed you walk in here about three hours ago.
That's a long time to wait."

"That's what I thought, sir. I can't understand what happened."

"Well, you can't hang around here. I'll tell you what I'll do, though.
I'll turn you over to the matron in our Lost and Found room, and she'll
look out for you. Follow me."
