
Whit sat silent, and Suzy kept on talking. She could always talk. No
matter what you said to her, no matter how you felt, no matter where you
were, Suzy could always talk to you and make your life seem brighter,
and the trip back home again worth fighting to make. You fell in love
with Suzy, they all did, but as she always said, they made her promise
not to say she loved you back. Not until you got back home, safe and
sound and sane.

That was Suzy's job on earth, in a drab little office with an engineer
who controlled her channels, and sometimes blushed at what he heard go
out over them. She spoke, sometimes gaily, sometimes gently, sometimes
with all the frail strength of her body, into a microphone beamed to
each capsule in turn, and in those capsules were men, who, but for her,
would go mad before their time was up.

And Suzy never cheated, and she never lied, and she never changed. She
was the love light of outer space, she and a dozen others at Point Magu.
She kept men sane, and she brought them home, and she kept her promise
never to love and never to marry until they came back again.

"Whit? What we were talking about yesterday. Did you think about that?"

"You mean about the gardenias?"

"Umhummm. My gardenias, to pin on my blouse."

"Suzy, I'll bring you a thousand, one each day, until you say you love
me. I'm drawing them now, on paper, one every day, for you."

"Aw, Whit, you're awful nice."

Then, after frantic good-byes, shouting, screaming, pounding on the
microphone, hoping that the dead metal would somehow speak once more,
Whit would settle back for another day's dreaming of Suzy, while he kept
his tiny house-in-space, read his little gauges, and kept his dreams
alive. It was only in the afternoon that madness came too close, and in
the power-saving darkness he raged and cursed and pled and begged, until
Suzy's voice came winging out of space to comfort him for another day,
when they talked of all the beautiful things that people talk about when
there is love between them.
