
For Suzy loved her men, all seven of them. To know them well, to listen
time and again to their recorded conversations, to pick out points that
were worth repeating, to avoid the subjects that depressed them, to say
what would bring them home in love with her was a pleasure to her, and
she worked hard at the job. All alone, late into the night, Suzy would
sit in her little office, listening to her records, and planning the
next day's battle for the sanity of her men.

"Now Al," she'd muse, "he'll want to know how that recipe came out, the
one with the mushrooms. Poor guy, he does like to eat. I'll tell him
about the party I went to with Sheila, and how she ate up all the rum
cakes and could hardly find her way home again. He'll like that."

"And Jim. He'd like to have another problem, like the twelve coin one. I
wish I had a mind like his. Maybe Miss Graham can find me a book on math
problems that a man can do in his head. And I'll tell him how nice it
would be to be a professor's wife, and a little college in the north.
He doesn't want _me_ yet, but he wants somebody...."

"I guess I'll have to talk sex to Crazy Cat, too. It's about the only
thing he likes to think about, and that's my job. I hope he doesn't
realize I'm not the hellcat he seems to think I am. Maybe some of the
girls could give me some ideas he'd like to think about; my dates are
pretty dull. They really should have given Crazy Cat to somebody else.
Some psychiatrist slipped up there, I guess. But I'll bring him down!
I'll bring him down sane if I have to wade in filth up to my eyeballs!
That's a joke."

"Whit's hopeless, he loves me so. I hope he doesn't go off the deep end,
and end up whacky. Maybe we'll have to relay him some instrument checks,
to keep him busy. Or maybe, if I told him I'd marry him it would keep
him leveled for a while. Can't say that too soon, though, or he'd go
nuts from jealousy. I guess I'll just have to keep on letting him love
me, just being me, just showing him I care about him as much as I can.
He's a dear, really."

That was the way Suzy mused, in her drab little office, after hours,
doing her job for her men, her hopes up in the sky where only her voice
and her love could reach them.
