
Miss Graham was stiff, and stood tall in her prim tailored suit. Her
dark man's necktie clashed with her hair and her complexion, but her
face was kind and her voice, although firm, was soft and understanding.

"Suzy, I want to talk to you. Don't get up."

"Yes, Miss Graham?"

"I've been listening to some of your records. Some of this stuff you've
been putting out is going to make us trouble, you know."

"I'm sorry, Miss Graham. I try to do what I think is best, and you know
I spend a lot of time planning. It's too late to shift poor Crazy Cat to
anybody else, and it's the only thing that seems...."

"I'm not talking about Crazy Cat Tompkins, Suzy," interrupted Miss
Graham. "I'm talking about Whit Clayborne."

"I see. I know I shouldn't have said that I'd marry him, but gosh, he
was just about to go to pieces, right while I was talking to him. I
could hear him grit his teeth, and I could hear the mike squeak with the
grip he had on it. It was awful, Miss Graham."

"Couldn't you have waited? You could have asked me what to do, you
know. Men ask our girls to marry them every day; it isn't as if it was a
new problem that we hadn't handled before."

"But he needed me, right then. I didn't think he could wait. I _had_ to
say I'd marry him, or he'd have been biting pieces out of his mattress."

"I know you did your best, Suzy. Those rules, well, they're not only for
his protection, you know. What are you going to do when Whit Clayborne
lands, and comes in here to claim his bride? Had you thought of that?"

"Honestly, Miss Graham, I didn't think of anything, except that he
needed me at the time. But of course I'll let him go. I'd let him go
even if the rules didn't say I had to."

Miss Graham's voice was unexpectedly gentle. "You want to get married,
don't you? We _could_ break a rule, just this once."

"Not like that, Miss Graham. Not like that. It wouldn't be fair to hold
him to a promise that he made in space. Even if you'd let me do it, I
wouldn't marry him. I couldn't live with myself. He doesn't know, well,
about me. He wouldn't have loved me if I'd told him. He's never seen me;
all he's in love with is a voice that understands how to keep him sane.
I wouldn't hold him to that promise, Miss Graham, if he was the last
chance to marry that I'd ever have."
