
Brack was disappointed from the start. When he sat at a table of the
hotel restaurant and studied the menu, he saw it was all synthetics.

"Blast it!" he barked into the table phone, "haven't you anything else?"

"I understand how you feel, mister." It was a live human female voice
that answered, not the usual robot. "Hold on. I'll come out and see if
I can help you."

Through the kitchen door emerged a young girl, short and white-skinned,
but very well proportioned.

"Outbound?" she queried. Her pretty face was clouded by an unhappy
expression.

"Yes, and I wanted something with a little taste to it, a little
substance."

"Such as what?" said the girl, tossing her long blond hair.

Brack looked at the girl carnivorously. "A steak."

She smiled sympathetically. "We haven't anything of that sort. Sorry."
She stared at him with light blue eyes the color of moonstones. "How do
you happen to land at this miserable place? Fuel?"

"I'm early for my convoy."

Brack stared at the girl's face and he could see it was the mask of
some hidden, tragic emotion.

"You weren't thinking of staying at the Hotel Eros?" she inquired in a
voice edged with repugnance.

"Well, I do have about twelve hours."

The girl was emphatic. "Take my advice, mister. Spend them in your
ship."

A man's voice crackled over the table phone. "Esther!"

She looked startled. "Yes?" she said, leaning over the table to speak
into the phone.

('Beautiful!' thought Brack. 'She must have some Earth-blood in her
veins.')

The man's voice was angry, strident. "Don't gab with the customers!"

Esther stood up, a blush of embarrassment on her milky-white cheeks.

"Your order, please?" she said to Brack, stiffly.

The trucker put his big, brown-colored hand over the phone. "Who's
that character?" he asked with distaste. "The boss?"

The girl nodded unhappily. "I didn't realize he was listening."

"Sounds like a tyrant." Brack uncovered the phone. "What's the closest
thing you have to beefsteak?"

"Why don't you try some of our roasted pradolan? It's quite good," she
added for the boss's benefit. "Specialty of the house."

"There's just one thing I want to know," said Brack. "Is it synthetic?"

The girl smiled sadly. "I'd do anything for some real food myself. I
haven't left Corbie in seven years."

"What makes you stick around a place like this? Married?"

"No. My father owns the Eros."

"You're free, brown and twenty-one," said Brack somewhat inaccurately.
"He can't make you stay if you want to leave."

Esther waved warningly at the table phone and Brack again covered it
with his hand.

"Maybe he can't legally, but there's only one passenger ship between
here and the planets every year, and they've refused me a ticket twice
now."

"Sounds pretty rotten to me," said the trucker. "Well, what if you got
married to some guy? Then he couldn't--"

A heavy-set white man, bald and bullet-headed, strode out of the
kitchen and seized the girl roughly by the arm.

"Now I told you not to gab with the customers and I meant it!" he
snarled. "You get back there in the kitchen where you belong!"

She tried to wrench free of his grip. "Take your hands off me!"

Slap! He batted her across the cheek with his open hand and she
staggered from the blow. "No back talk, young lady! Now, git!"

The trucker half rose from his seat, his fists clenched, but it was
over too quickly for him to intervene. And after all, he reflected
later while eating the pradolan roast, the man was her father.
