
The situation was crystal-clear. Big Jake Connors was displeased with
Brink. In all the city whose rackets he was developing and
consolidating, Brink was the only man who resisted Big Jake's civic
enterprise--and got away with it! And nobody who runs rackets can permit
resistance. It is contagious. So Big Jake had ordered that Brink be
brought into line or else. The or else alternative had run into snags,
before, but it was being given a big new try.

There was the shrill high clamor of two women screaming at the tops of
their voices because revolvers were waved at them. One Elite employee,
at the pressing machine, took his foot off the treadle and steam
billowed wildly. Another man, at a giant sheet-iron box which rumbled,
stared with his mouth open and blood draining from his cheeks. Brink,
alone, looked--quite impossibly--amused and satisfied.

"Get outside!" snarled a voice as Fitzgerald's revolver came out ready
for action. "This joint is finished!"

The companion of the snarling man rubbed suddenly at his eye. He rubbed
again, as if it twitched violently. But it was, after all, only a
twitching eyelid. He reached negligently down and picked up a wooden
box. By its markings, it was a dozen-bottle box of spot-remover--the
stuff used to get out spots the standard cleaning fluid in the
dry-cleaning machine did not remove.

The man heaved the box, with the hand with which he had rubbed his
twitching eye. The other man raised a hand--the one not holding a
revolver--to rub at his own eye, which also seemed to twitch agitatedly.

Detective Sergeant Fitzgerald had his revolver out. He drew in his
breath for a stentorian command for them to drop their weapons. But he
didn't have time to shout. The hurtling small box of spot-remover struck
the large sheet-iron case from which loud rumblings came. It was a
dryer; a device for spinning clothes which were wet with liquid from the
dry-cleaning washer. A perforated drum revolved at high speed within it.
The box of spot-remover hit the door. The door dented in, hit the
high-speed drum inside, and flew frantically out again, free from its
hinges and turning end-for-end as it flew. It slammed into the thrower's
companion, spraining three fingers as it knocked his revolver to the
floor. The weapon slid merrily away to the outer office between
Detective Fitzgerald's feet.

But this was not all. The dryer-door, having disposed of one threatening
revolver, slammed violently against the wall. The wall was merely a thin
partition, neatly paneled on the office side, but with shelves
containing cleaning-and-dyeing supplies on the other. The impact shook
the partition. Dust fell from the shelves and supplies. The hood who
hadn't lost his gun sneezed so violently that his hat came off. He bent
nearly double, and in the act he jarred the partition again.

Things fell from it. Many things. A two-gallon jar of extra-special
detergent, used only for laces, conked him and smashed on the floor
before him. It added to the stream of fluid already flowing with
singular directness for the open, double, back-door of the workroom. The
hood staggered, sneezed again, and convulsively pulled the trigger of
his gun. The bullet hit something which was solid heavy metal,
ricocheted, ricocheted again and the second hood howled and leaped
wildly into the air. He came down in the flowing flood of spilled
detergent, flat on his stomach, and with marked forward momentum. He
slid. The floor of the plant had recently been oiled to keep down dust.
The coefficient of friction of a really good detergent on top of
floor-oil is remarkably low,--somewhere around point oh-oh-nine. Hood
number two slid magnificently on his belly on the superb lubrication
afforded by detergent on top of floor-oil.

The first hood staggered. Something else fell from the shelf. It was a
carton of electric-light bulbs. Despite the protecting carton, they went
off with crackings like gunfire. Technically, they did not explode but
implode, but the hood with the revolver did not notice the difference.
He leaped--and also landed in the middle of the wide streak of
detergent-over-oil which might have been arranged to receive him.

He remained erect, but he slid slowly along that shining path. His
relatively low speed was not his fault, because he went through all the
motions of frenzied flight. His legs twinkled as he ran. But his feet
slid backward. He moved with a sort of dignified celerity, running fast
enough for ten times the speed, upon a surface which had a frictional
coefficient far below that of the smoothest possible ice.

Detective Sergeant Fitzgerald gaped, his mouth dropped open and his gun
held laxly in a practically nerveless hand.

The thing developed splendidly. The prone gunman slid out of the wide
double door, pushing a bow-wave of detergent before him. He slid across
the cement just outside, into the open garage whose delivery-truck was
absent, and slammed with a sort of deliberate violence into a stack of
four cardboard drums of that bone-black which is used to filter
cleaning-fluid so it can be used over again in the dry-cleaning machine.
The garage was used for storage as well as shelter for the
establishment's truck.

The four drums were not accurately piled. They were three and a half
feet high and two feet in diameter. They toppled sedately, falling with
a fine precision upon the now hatless, running, sliding hood. One of
them burst upon him. A second burst upon the prone man--who had butted
through the cardboard of the bottom one on his arrival. There was a
dense black cloud which filled all the interior of the garage. It was
bone-black, which cannot be told from lamp-black or soot by the
uninitiated.

From the cloud came a despairing revolver shot. It was pure reflex
action by a man who had been whammed over the head by a
hundred-and-fifty-pound drum of yielding--in fact bursting--material.
There was a metallic clang. Then silence.

In a very little while the dust-cloud cleared. One figure struggled
insanely. Upon him descended--from an oil drum of cylinder-oil stored
above the rafters--a tranquil, glistening rod of opalescent
cylinder-oil. His last bullet had punctured the drum. Oil turned the
bone-black upon him into a thick, sticky goo which instantly gathered
more bone-black to become thicker, stickier, and gooier. He fought it,
while his unconscious companion lay with his head in a crumpled
cardboard container of more black stuff.

The despairing, struggling hood managed to get off one more shot, as if
defying even fate and chance. This bullet likewise found a target. It
burst a container of powdered dye-stuff, also stored overhead. The
container practically exploded and its contents descended in a
widespread shower which coated all the interior of the garage with a
lovely layer of bright heliotrope.

Maybe the struggling hood saw it. If so, it broke him utterly. What had
happened was starkly impossible. The only sane explanation was that he
had died and was in hell. He accepted that explanation and broke into
sobs.
