
Detective Sergeant Fitzgerald had witnessed every instant of the
happening, but he did not believe it. Nevertheless, he said in a strange
voice: "I'll phone for the paddy-wagon. It'll do for a ambulance, in
case of need."

He put away his unused service revolver. Thinking strange, dizzy
thoughts of twitching eyelids and plastic scraps and starkly incredible
happenings, he managed to call for the police patrol. When he hung up,
he gazed blankly at the wall. He gazed, in fact, at a spot where a
peculiar small machine with no visible function reposed--somewhat
dusty--on a shelf.

Brink stepped over briskly and closed the door between the scene of
catastrophe and the immaculate shop. Somehow, none of the mess had
spilled back through the doorway. Then he came in, frowning a little.

"The fight's out of them," he said cheerfully. "One's got a bad cut on
his head. The other's completely unnerved. _Tsk! Tsk!_ I hate to have
such things happen!"

Sergeant Fitzgerald shook himself, as if trying to come back to a normal
and a reasonable world.

"Look!" he said in a hoarse voice. "I saw it, an' I still don't believe
it! Things like this don't happen! I thought you might be lucky. It
ain't that. I thought I might be crazy. It ain't that! What has been
goin' on?"

Brink sat down. His air was one of wry contemplation.

"I told you I had a special kind of luck you couldn't believe. Did your
eyelids twitch any time today?"

Fitzgerald swallowed.

"They did. And I stopped short an' something that should've knocked my
cranium down my windpipe missed me by inches. An' again--But no matter.
Yes."

"Maybe you can believe it, then," said Brink. "Did you ever hear of a
man named Hieronymus?"

"No," said Fitzgerald in a numbed voice. "Who's he?"

"He got a patent once," said Brink, matter-of-factly, "on a machine he
believed detected something he called eloptic radiation. He thought it
was a kind of radiation nobody had noticed before. He was wrong. It
worked by something called psi."

Sergeant Fitzgerald shook his head. It still needed clearing.

"Psi still isn't fully understood," explained Brink, "but it will do a
lot of things. For instance, it can change probability as magnetism can
change temperature. You can establish a psi field in a suitable
material, just as you can establish a magnetic field in steel or alnico.
Now, if you spin a copper disk in a magnetic field, you get eddy
currents. Keep it up, and the disk gets hot. If you're obstinate about
it, you can melt the copper. It isn't the magnet, as such, that does the
melting. It's the energy of the spinning disk that is changed into heat.
The magnetic field simply sets up the conditions for the change of
motion into heat. In the same way ... am I boring you?"

"Confusing me," said Fitzgerald, "maybe. But keep on. Maybe I'll catch a
glimmer presently."

"In the same way," said Brink, "you can try to perform violent actions
in a strong psi field--a field made especially to act on violence. When
you first try it you get something like eddy currents. Warnings. It can
be arranged that such psi eddy currents make your eyelids twitch. Keep
it up, and probability changes to shift the most-likely consequences of
the violence. This is like a spinning copper disk getting hot. Then, if
you're obstinate about it, you get the equivalent of the copper disk
melting. Probability gets so drastically changed that the violent thing
you're trying to do becomes something that can't happen. Hm-m-m. ... You
can't spin a copper disk in a magnetic field when it melts. You can't
commit a murder in a certain kind of psi field when probability goes
hog-wild. Any other thing can happen to anybody else--to you, for
example--but no violence can happen to the thing or person you're trying
to do something violent to. The psi field has melted down ordinary
probabilities. The violence you intend has become the most improbable of
all conceivable things. You see?"

"I'm beginnin'," said Detective Sergeant Fitzgerald dizzily, "I'm
beginnin' to get a toehold on what you mean. I'd hate to have to testify
about it in court, but I'm receptive."

"So my special kind of luck," said Brink, "comes from antiviolence psi
fields, set up in psi units of suitable material. They don't use up
energy any more than a magnet does. But they transfer it, like a magnet
does. My brother-in-law thought he had to lose his business because Big
Jake threatened violent things. I offered to take it over and protect
it--with psi units. So far, I have. When four hoods intended to shoot up
the place and moved to do it, they were warned. Psi 'eddy currents' made
their eyelids twitch. They went ahead. Probability changed. Quite
unlikely things became more likely than not. They were obstinate about
it, and what they intended became perhaps the only thing in the world
that simply couldn't happen. So they crashed into a telephone pole. That
wasn't violence. That was accident."

The detective blinked, and then nodded, somehow painfully.

"I see," he said uncertainly.
