
Paul was trembling now, suddenly aghast at what he had done. This
wasn't a parlor game anymore, and he told himself it hadn't happened;
told himself this in quick desperation; that this whole thing had been
nothing more than an idle daydream, a moment's relaxation along with a
few drinks.

Like hell it was! Regardless of how he figured it he was now a bigtime
thief. Bigtime? How much is bigtime? How much money was now stuffed in
the briefcase beside his stool? He reached down surreptitiously and
hefted the bag for weight. Plenty!

He ordered another drink and gave it no chance to play tricks,
snatching the glass firmly by the stem and lifting it the old fashioned
way. It didn't help much.

Then real panic welled up as a heavy hand dropped on his shoulder, and
he turned and saw the goggle eyes of the little fat man; saw a pudgy
finger pointed accusingly.

"I tell 'ya officers this is the guy. And he's nuts. Stark raving nuts,
I'm telling 'ya. He gets his drinks without even lifting them. They
bounce right off the bar."

There were two policemen, a rather bored oldster with signs of
breakfast on the front of his uniform and a spruced up young patrolman
not yet disillusioned.

The older cop dropped his hand from Paul's shoulder and spoke with a
certain deference. "This is no charge, mister. Just a routine look-in.
Our friend here is all excited about something and--well, you know how
it is."

"That's okay, officer," Paul croaked, striving to control his voice.
The younger cop, taking a cue from his superior's manner, threw a stern
look at the discomfited fat man. "Do you want to prefer any charges,
mister?"

The fat man took an involuntary backward step, banged his heel against
Paul's briefcase and instantly both policemen were staring at the floor.

Paul's eyes followed theirs. A chill went deep into his bones. That
faulty catch. He'd meant to get it fixed. Now it was his undoing as a
heap of banded banknotes spilled out on the floor.

The elder cop broke the silence. "Maybe there'll be some charges--maybe
not--but I think we'll take a walk to the station all the same."
