
Paul's mind was numb as he stood between the officers at the call
box. He could not force his brain to function even normally, let
alone execute any mental tricks discovered in the bottom of a martini
glass. A squad car pulled up and he climbed docilely in the back seat
and sat like a man in a trance between the two silent policemen. At
the station there was the added chill of feeling like a man alone, a
criminal involved in a terrible experience that was merely routine to
the tormentors who walked by his side.

It was one of the older stations with a well-worn floor marked by the
scuffing footsteps of many an unhappy wrongdoer. The desk sergeant had
a sagging disillusioned face and a pair of eyes that had given up all
hope of Utopia. He turned them on Paul and grunted, "What's the gripe?"

The senior officer did the talking. "We don't exactly know, Sergeant,
but we got a lead on this character, found him sitting in a gin mill
with enough dough in his ketch to pay off the national debt. It seemed
a little out of line somehow."

The desk sergeant stretched his scrawny neck and peered down at the
offending briefcase. "The dough in there?"

"Right."

"Let's have a look."

The younger officer lifted the bag as though it contained the secret to
every unsolved crime on the books and deposited it triumphantly on the
desk.

"Pretty battered leather to lug around real dough in," the sergeant
commented. He lifted the flap and reached inside. Then he scowled at
the accusing cop and tipped the briefcase upside down.

A sheaf of white papers fell out; a pack of new lead pencils Paul had
lifted from the supply shelf that afternoon and a copy of _Lurid Sex_
he had bought at the corner newsstand. That was all.

The desk sergeant slammed the briefcase down on the desk and glowered
at the trio before him. "What kind of a rib is this? You jerks think I
got nothing more to do than sit here and let you bounce your gags off
me? Besides this isn't even a gag. It's got no point. Let's have the
snapper, I'm listening."

The elder cop turned pale with amazement. The younger one, obviously
of different metabolism, had turned beet red. After a thick pause they
found their voices simultaneously.

"I'll swear on the Bible that there was money in that damn briefcase
when we first looked into it...."
