
In the lead, a brown young man in flying green turban and white duck
trousers appeared to be losing steadily to his pursuer, who, though
swathed from head to food in that featureless native garb of the others,
might yet be identified by subtle conformations as a female.

Both of them stopped at once upon sighting Colonel Glinka in the
pathway, the female hurriedly retreating to what might be deemed a safer
distance, the young man standing as if petrified, with one foot upraised
and a sun-snarl upon his mottled face, quivering at point.

"Oh, Effendi," he cried at last, "if you are looking for Aden, then you
are lost, for Aden is five hundred miles that way. And if you are
looking for Cairo--"

"I am hardly ever lost," Colonel Glinka said, and, eying the young
female, added, "Tell me, what is the name of that rather tasteless game
that you are playing?"

"No game, Effendi," the brown young man said. "That one chases me every
time I go outside. They are worse than Tuaregs, these people."

"Are you not a native, then?"

"I?" The young man placed a hand of scorn upon his breast. "Hadji Abdul
Hakkim ben Salazar? I am Saudi, and a Hadj besides. Say, Joe, have you
got an American cigarette?"

"A great deal better than that," Colonel Glinka said, proffering an
ornate golden cigarette case. "Try one of these, my boy."

Abdul Hakkim ben Salazar took two, sniffing them suspiciously. "They are
very brown," he said.

Less critically, Colonel Glinka lighted one for himself. "You know," he
said, "I was rather hoping that you might direct me to the house of a
very old friend of mine."

"What handle?"

"I cannot tell you what name he is presently affecting, but he is a
small, crooked man with a heavy black beard--or, at any rate, he once
had such a beard. I know that he is somewhere on this island; therefore
it will be useless for you to lie to me."

"Ah, that is the Sidi Doctor Stephens," Abdul said, puffing not too
happily upon his cigarette. "His is the only house upon this island;
also, I am his flunky and so I ought to know."

"'Stephens' will do," said Colonel Glinka, thwacking him smartly with
the Malacca cane. "Lead on. And you may dispense with the gutter
American dialect. I am not American, and besides I speak Arabic
fluently."

"But I not so well," Abdul said, "for I was raised in the Kuwait
oil-fields."

"By whom? A camel breeder?"

"Socony Vacuum," Abdul said.

They toiled up the face of the cliff. At once, half a dozen of the
white-robed gallery fell in behind them. When Colonel Glinka stopped and
looked back, they stopped. When he continued upon his way, they
continued.

"Have they no homes to which to go?" he complained. "Have they nothing
to do?"

"They are a very backward people, who live in the open," Abdul said.
"They do not work."

"How, then, do the wretches live? Wall Street charity, I presume."

"Oh, no, when they are not able to forage, the Sidi Doctor Stephens
feeds them."

"The reactionary old fool! But you may be sure that they knew how to
work in the old days, before he came."

"I do not think so."

"And why, in your ageless wisdom, not?"

"Because the Sidi Doctor made them," Abdul Hakkim ben Salazar said.
