
Colonel Glinka did not reply, for they had reached the summit of the
path by this time and were looking down upon a small, white villa that
nestled in a green microcosm between the naked chines of the dark,
interior hills. A miniature Eden indeed, thought Colonel Glinka, of figs
and cinnamons, of date palms and patchouli, all enclosed within a high
wire fence.

They descended, and Abdul Hakkim ben Salazar, with a flourish, produced
a great bronze key and unlocked the iron gate. "The Sidi Doctor," he
said, "will doubtless be in his conservatory, making flowers."

"A godlike pastime," said Colonel Glinka with heavy irony. "And where
may this hotbed of new life be found?"

"Over there," Abdul said, pointing toward a narrow, screened,
quonsetlike annex which protruded from the rear of the villa. "Come with
me and I will show you."

"You will not," Colonel Glinka said, smiting him upon the thigh once
again with the heavy cane. "You will remain here and keep silent."

"Ouchdammit!" Abdul exclaimed. "You be careful with that thing, Joe,
okay?"

"_You_ be careful, my boy," Colonel Glinka said and marched swiftly
around the corner of the house, opened the screen door of the
conservatory, and entered.

Here, amid long, terraced rows of tropical plants, a bearded dwarf in a
green coat crouched before an earthen tray of lilies of the valley,
tranquilly puffing up a massive, tobacco-stained meerschaum. He did not
look up at the sound of the intruder, for he was engaged in a delicate
business, the transfer of pollen from corolla to corolla with a
toothpick.

"So you are, after all, only a minor god," Colonel Glinka said.

"I heard your plane and I watched you come up the path," the black
bearded little man said. "Glinka, is it not?"

"You remembered me!" Colonel Glinka, quite affectedly, removed his
goggles and dabbed at his eye with a perfumed handkerchief. "A humble
policeman, a fat little nobody, to be remembered by the great Dr.
Stefanik who was once our greatest scientist--yes, our most brilliant
geneticist--do not shake your head. Let me see, was it Ankara where last
we met? Yes, eight years ago in Ankara. You got away from me in Ankara.
I was so ashamed, Comrade, that I cried."

"Nine years," the other corrected. "For one remembers a mad dog. And do
not call me 'comrade,' Comrade. You know that I was never anything other
than a simple Cossack."

"And, as such, invariably troublesome to us," Colonel Glinka said. "Yet
you were our white hope, Comrade Stefanik. We might have led the world,
I am told, in organics as we now lead in physics. I have read all of
your books upon the fascinating subject of chromosomic change and the
morphology of rats. It was required reading for those of us who were
assigned to you. Most interesting, though I confess I did not understand
all of it."
