
Dr. Stefanik got slowly to his feet. His back was now revealed to be so
cruelly deformed that his black beard curled against his smock, and he
walked with a shuffling, crablike motion as he limped over to pick up a
small rubber irrigation hose.

"Why did you leave us, Comrade Stefanik?" asked Colonel Glinka. "Why
shame us, discredit your government, by running away?"

"I did not like it there," Dr. Stefanik said.

"We knew, of course, that you were on the verge of some great discovery,
some new process, perhaps, of controlling human development. A genetical
means, our biologists tell me, which might have made us all supermen,
tall and brilliant, and immune to disease. A race of Pavlovs and
Stakhanovs. Do you deny this?"

Dr. Stefanik merely sucked upon his pipe calmly, twisted a valve half
hidden in the greenery. A spray of brilliant green liquid emerged from
the nozzle of the hose, bathing the plants in a gentle emerald mist.

"It is true," he said at last, "that I had experimented in those days
with a new process of alloploidy."

"And what is that?"

"Alloploidy is the manipulation of chromosomic patterns which allows us
to superimpose the character of our most perfect specimens upon those of
less fortunate hereditary traits within the species."

"I see," said Colonel Glinka, who had not really quite seen. "Exactly. A
super-race, to rule the world. Imagine, Comrade!"

"Only super-rats and the like," Dr. Stefanik told him calmly, "for you
may go home and tell them that I have never seen fit to experiment with
human beings, Glinka, and I never will."

"_I_ tell them _that_?" Colonel Glinka cried. "Would I dare? Oh, no, you
must tell them yourself. That is why you will have to return with me."

"Never!"

Colonel Glinka sighed prodigiously. "I am afraid that our country is
going to be dogs-in-the-manger in this matter," he said. "You see, we
are a jealous people by nature, and if we cannot have you, no one
shall." And, deliberately, he laid the Malacca cane across his left arm,
so that its tip was pointed squarely at Dr. Stefanik and the sinister
round hole there clearly revealed to him.

"How melodramatic that is," Dr. Stefanik said.

"I know it," said Colonel Glinka, "but you must remember that the
customs officials in this part of the world are exceedingly tiresome
about firearms. This little gem, now, is quite discreet, and very
accurate, and it will shoot you three times before you can say 'Never.'
Will you not change your mind?"

"No."

"I _did_ so want to become tall and brilliant," Colonel Glinka said
regretfully, and he started to press the handle of the cane.

[Illustration]

"We are as tall as we stand," said Dr. Stefanik, and, swiftly focusing
the nozzle of the irrigation hose to a thin stream, squirted the
stinging green fluid in Colonel Glinka's right and left eye.
