
He wakened in the morning to the sound of furious argument.

Corbett and Jenks, of course. A trifle--division of the breakfast
ration, or of the breakfast chores--had set off their nerves like
trains of explosive. Even as Wofforth rose from his bedstrip, Corbett
swung a cobble-like fist at Jenks' gaunt, grimacing face. The nimbler,
smaller man ducked and sidled away. Corbett took a lumbering step to
close in on his enemy, and Jenks darted a hand to his belt behind, then
brought it forward again with an electro-automatic pistol.

"I've been keeping this for you!" Jenks shrilled. "I'll just diminish
the population of Pluto by thirty-three and one-third percent!"

"Hold it!" bellowed Wofforth.

He was too late. A stream of bullets chattered through Corbett's body,
folding him over and ripping through the paper-thin wall of the tent.
Air whistled out; the tent began to collapse.

Jenks, pinned under Corbett's body, was squealing like a pig.
"Lieutenant, help me--!"

Wofforth saw in an instant that the wall could not be patched in time;
the bullets had torn loose an irregular strip, pressure had done the
rest: even now, the tent was only a few seconds away from complete
collapse. As he stumbled across the floor toward the spacesuits, his
heart was laboring and his chest straining for breath. Spots swam in
front of his eyes. He found the topmost spacesuit by touch, and fumbled
for the helmet. The tent drifted down on his head in soft, murderous
folds. He opened the valve, shoved his face into the helmet, and gulped
precious oxygen. His dulled awareness brightened again, momentarily;
but he knew he was still a dead man unless he could get into the suit
before pressure fell completely. Numbed fingers plucked at the suit
opening. Somehow he got the awkward garment over his legs, closed and
locked the torso, pulled down the helmet....

He was lying in darkness, with a low, steady hiss of oxygen in his
ears. He rolled over weakly, got to his feet. He turned on his helmet
light. He was propping up a gray cave of metal foil, that fell in
stiff creases all around him. At his feet were the bodies of Jenks and
Corbett. Both were dead.

After a while, clumsily, painfully, he dragged the two corpses free of
the tent. He found the heater and thawed a hole in the frozen surface,
big enough for both. He tumbled them in, then undercut the edges of the
hole with the heater, so that chunks fell in and covered them. While
he watched, the cloud of vapor he had made began to settle, slowly
congealing on the broken surface and blurring it over again. In a
year, there would be no mark here to show that the surface had been
disturbed. In a thousand years, it would still be the same.

In the first ray of dawn he flung all supplies from the sled except the
fuel containers. He checked the engine, and started it.

Into his belt-bag he thrust the log book. Nothing else went aboard the
sled--no food, no water container, no tools, instruments or oxygen
tanks. The tent he left lying there, with all that had been carried
inside the night before.

As the sun rose clear of the distant rim of the plain to eastward, he
rigged a line to the steering boom, then lashed himself securely within
reach of the engine. Steering by the taut line, he started westward,
slowly at first, then faster. It was as he had hoped. The lightened
sled attained and held a greater speed than on any previous day.

"I'll make it," he said aloud, with nobody else to listen on all Pluto.
"I'll make it!"

Faster he urged the engine's rhythm, and faster. He clocked its speed
by the indicators on the housing. A hundred and fifty miles an hour. A
hundred and sixty; not enough. Whipping the boom line tight around his
waist to hold his course steady, he sighted between the upcurve of the
runner forward. There was level, smooth-frozen country, mile upon mile.
He speeded up to one hundred and seventy-five miles an hour. More. The
sled hummed at every joining.

At noon, he had done a good thousand miles. At mid-afternoon, sixteen
hundred. Two and a half hours of visibility left, and more than four
hundred miles to go.

"I can do those on my head," muttered Wofforth to himself, and then,
far in the distance, the flat rim of the horizon was flat no longer.

It had sprung up jagged, full of points and bulges. Speeding toward it,
he steered by the line around his waist while he cut his engine. He
came close at fifty miles an hour, almost a crawl.

Some ancient volcanic action had thrown up those mountains, like a rank
of close-drawn sentries. The sled could not cross them anywhere. Still
reducing speed, Wofforth drew close to a notch, but the notch gave into
a crater, a great shallow saucer two miles in diameter and filled with
shadows below, so that Wofforth could not gauge its depth. Opposite,
another notch--perhaps once the crater had been a lake, with water
running in and out. If he had come there at noon, he could have seen
the bottom, and perhaps--

"But it isn't noon." Wofforth was talking to himself again. His voice
sounded thin and petulant in his own ears. "By noon tomorrow, the heat
will be out of this suit."

He stopped the sled, unlashed himself and trudged to the notch. He
stood in it, looking down, then across.

The little bright jewel of the sun, sagging toward the horizon, showed
him the upper reaches of the crater's interior, pitched at an angle of
perhaps fifty degrees.

Even if it had been noon, it would have been no use. The sled could
never climb a slope like that.

Then he looked again, this way and that. He nodded inside his helmet.

He might as well try.

Returning to the sled, he started the engine and lashed himself fast
again. He steered away from the crater, and around. He made a great
looping journey of twenty miles or so across the plain, building speed
all the time.

As he rounded the rear curve of his course, he was driving along at two
hundred and sixty miles an hour, and he had to apply pressure to the
boom with both hand and knees to point the sled back straight for the
notch. Straightening his humming vehicle into a headlong course, he
leaned forward and sighted between the upcurved runners.

"Now!" he urged himself, and watched the break in the crater wall rush
toward him.

It greatened, yawned. He leaped through, and with a groaning gasp of
prayer he dragged the boom over to steer the sled right.
