
It worked, as he had not dared hope. The runners bounced, bit. Then he
was racing around the inside of the great cup's rim, like a hurtling
bubble on the inner surface of a whirlpool's funnel. Two miles across,
three miles and more on the half diameter--the engine laboring up to
three hundred miles an hour, centrifugal force holding it there--

Little more than thirty seconds raced by when he knew he had won. He
saw the far notch growing near. He came to it in a last booming rush,
and hurled his whole weight against the boom to face the runners into
the notch.

Under the low-dropping sun, he and his sled shot into open country
beyond the range.

His right arm felt dead from shoulder to fingertip. His head roared
and drummed with the racing of his blood. His face had tired spots in
it, where muscles he had never used before had locked into an agonized
grimace.

On he sped, straight west, gasping and gurgling and mumbling in crazy
triumph.

An hour, an anticlimactic hour wherein the sled almost steered itself
over the smoothest of plain, and up ahead he spied the black outline of
Base Camp.

It was a sprawling, low structure, prefabricated metal and plastic and
insulation, black outside to gather what heat might come from outer
space. It held aloof on the dull frozen plain from the irregular stain
where the expedition ship had braked off with one set of rockets and
had soared away with another set. Larger, more familiar, grew Base Camp
with each second of approach. Shakily Wofforth cut his engine, slowed
from high speed to medium, to a hundred miles an hour, to sixty, to
fifty. He made a final circle around Base Camp, and let it coast in
with the engine off, to within twenty yards of the main lock panel.

He got up, on legs that shook inside his boots. He felt his heart
still racing, his head still ringing. He sighed once, and walked
close, his gauntlet fumbling at the release button on the lock panel.

But the button did not respond.

"Jammed," he said. "No--locked."

He couldn't get in. He had reached Base Camp, but he could not get in.
They hadn't counted on his return. They'd gone off and left Base Camp
locked up.

He sagged against the lock panel, and cursed once, with an utter and
furious resignation.

He felt himself slipping. He was going to faint. His legs would not
hold him up. He was slipping forward--seemed to be sinking into the
massive and unyielding outer surface of Base Camp. It was a dream. Or
it was death.

He did not lose all hold on his awareness. He had a sense of lying at
full length, and blinding light flashes that made his eyelids jump. And
a tug somewhere, as though his helmet was coming off. He would have put
out a hand to see, but his left arm was broken, and his right arm limp
from weariness.

"You're back," said a voice he knew, a voice strained with wonder. "You
managed. I knew you would."

"Now," said Wofforth, "I know it's a dream. We dream after we die."

A hand was cupped behind his neck, lifting him to a sitting position.
He felt warm fluid at his lips. "It's no dream," said the voice
beseechingly. "Look at me."

"I don't dare. The dream will go away."

But he opened his eyes and looked at her hair like Plutonian night, her
eyes like bright stars. "Lya," he said. "I'm going to call you Lya."

"Please call me Lya."

"I'd be bound to dream about you. I've dreamed about you so much....
_Owww!_"

He got his right hand up to cherish his tingling cheek.

"So you felt that," she said. "Now you know you're awake. Or must I
slap you again?"

"I'm sorry, Madame."

"You called me Lya. Can you stand up? I'll help you."

She helped him. He stood up, there in the admission chamber of Base
Camp. Lya Stromminger was smiling, and she was crying, too.

"You didn't go away," he said. "You're still here." The weight of his
odyssey, half around Pluto, was beginning to stagger him.

"No, I stayed. I knew you'd come back. I knew Pluto couldn't kill you
or keep you from coming back."

He drank more from the cup she held to his lips.

"We'll wait together for them to come with the next expedition," she
promised him.

"Twenty years? Supplies--"

"There'll be plenty. Don't you know about Pluto? Didn't those craters,
those old volcanoes, tell you?"

Thinking of how he had crossed the crater, Wofforth shuddered.

"Pluto is colder than anybody even guessed--outside. But inside are
the internal fires--like all the solid planets. We made our tests and
we can tap them. I kept the instruments for that. It means we'll have
power, and can make our synthetic foods and so on for as long as we
need them. You and I are the inhabitants here--"

He stumbled to a chair and sat. "Twenty years--" he said.

Her arm was still around him. Her hair brushed his cheek. "It won't be
long. We have so much to say to each other."