
ONE, two, three, four, five.  There were five of them.

Five couriers, sitting on a bench outside the convent on the summit of
the Great St. Bernard in Switzerland, looking at the remote heights,
stained by the setting sun as if a mighty quantity of red wine had been
broached upon the mountain top, and had not yet had time to sink into the
snow.

This is not my simile.  It was made for the occasion by the stoutest
courier, who was a German.  None of the others took any more notice of it
than they took of me, sitting on another bench on the other side of the
convent door, smoking my cigar, like them, and—also like them—looking at
the reddened snow, and at the lonely shed hard by, where the bodies of
belated travellers, dug out of it, slowly wither away, knowing no
corruption in that cold region.

The wine upon the mountain top soaked in as we looked; the mountain
became white; the sky, a very dark blue; the wind rose; and the air
turned piercing cold.  The five couriers buttoned their rough coats.
There being no safer man to imitate in all such proceedings than a
courier, I buttoned mine.

The mountain in the sunset had stopped the five couriers in a
conversation.  It is a sublime sight, likely to stop conversation.  The
mountain being now out of the sunset, they resumed.  Not that I had heard
any part of their previous discourse; for indeed, I had not then broken
away from the American gentleman, in the travellers’ parlour of the
convent, who, sitting with his face to the fire, had undertaken to
realise to me the whole progress of events which had led to the
accumulation by the Honourable Ananias Dodger of one of the largest
acquisitions of dollars ever made in our country.

‘My God!’ said the Swiss courier, speaking in French, which I do not hold
(as some authors appear to do) to be such an all-sufficient excuse for a
naughty word, that I have only to write it in that language to make it
innocent; ‘if you talk of ghosts—’

‘But I _don’t_ talk of ghosts,’ said the German.

‘Of what then?’ asked the Swiss.

‘If I knew of what then,’ said the German, ‘I should probably know a
great deal more.’

It was a good answer, I thought, and it made me curious.  So, I moved my
position to that corner of my bench which was nearest to them, and
leaning my back against the convent wall, heard perfectly, without
appearing to attend.

‘Thunder and lightning!’ said the German, warming, ‘when a certain man is
coming to see you, unexpectedly; and, without his own knowledge, sends
some invisible messenger, to put the idea of him into your head all day,
what do you call that?  When you walk along a crowded street—at
Frankfort, Milan, London, Paris—and think that a passing stranger is like
your friend Heinrich, and then that another passing stranger is like your
friend Heinrich, and so begin to have a strange foreknowledge that
presently you’ll meet your friend Heinrich—which you do, though you
believed him at Trieste—what do you call _that_?’

‘It’s not uncommon, either,’ murmured the Swiss and the other three.

‘Uncommon!’ said the German.  ‘It’s as common as cherries in the Black
Forest.  It’s as common as maccaroni at Naples.  And Naples reminds me!
When the old Marchesa Senzanima shrieks at a card-party on the Chiaja—as
I heard and saw her, for it happened in a Bavarian family of mine, and I
was overlooking the service that evening—I say, when the old Marchesa
starts up at the card-table, white through her rouge, and cries, “My
sister in Spain is dead!  I felt her cold touch on my back!”—and when
that sister _is_ dead at the moment—what do you call that?’

‘Or when the blood of San Gennaro liquefies at the request of the
clergy—as all the world knows that it does regularly once a-year, in my
native city,’ said the Neapolitan courier after a pause, with a comical
look, ‘what do you call that?’

‘_That_!’ cried the German.  ‘Well, I think I know a name for that.’

‘Miracle?’ said the Neapolitan, with the same sly face.

The German merely smoked and laughed; and they all smoked and laughed.

‘Bah!’ said the German, presently.  ‘I speak of things that really do
happen.  When I want to see the conjurer, I pay to see a professed one,
and have my money’s worth.  Very strange things do happen without ghosts.
Ghosts!  Giovanni Baptista, tell your story of the English bride.
There’s no ghost in that, but something full as strange.  Will any man
tell me what?’

As there was a silence among them, I glanced around.  He whom I took to
be Baptista was lighting a fresh cigar.  He presently went on to speak.
He was a Genoese, as I judged.

‘The story of the English bride?’ said he.  ‘Basta! one ought not to call
so slight a thing a story.  Well, it’s all one.  But it’s true.  Observe
me well, gentlemen, it’s true.  That which glitters is not always gold;
but what I am going to tell, is true.’

He repeated this more than once.
