
_I_ took an engagement once (pursued the German courier) with an English
gentleman, elderly and a bachelor, to travel through my country, my
Fatherland.  He was a merchant who traded with my country and knew the
language, but who had never been there since he was a boy—as I judge,
some sixty years before.

His name was James, and he had a twin-brother John, also a bachelor.
Between these brothers there was a great affection.  They were in
business together, at Goodman’s Fields, but they did not live together.
Mr. James dwelt in Poland Street, turning out of Oxford Street, London;
Mr. John resided by Epping Forest.

Mr. James and I were to start for Germany in about a week.  The exact day
depended on business.  Mr. John came to Poland Street (where I was
staying in the house), to pass that week with Mr. James.  But, he said to
his brother on the second day, ‘I don’t feel very well, James.  There’s
not much the matter with me; but I think I am a little gouty.  I’ll go
home and put myself under the care of my old housekeeper, who understands
my ways.  If I get quite better, I’ll come back and see you before you
go.  If I don’t feel well enough to resume my visit where I leave it off,
why _you_ will come and see me before you go.’  Mr. James, of course,
said he would, and they shook hands—both hands, as they always did—and
Mr. John ordered out his old-fashioned chariot and rumbled home.

It was on the second night after that—that is to say, the fourth in the
week—when I was awoke out of my sound sleep by Mr. James coming into my
bedroom in his flannel-gown, with a lighted candle.  He sat upon the side
of my bed, and looking at me, said:

‘Wilhelm, I have reason to think I have got some strange illness upon
me.’

I then perceived that there was a very unusual expression in his face.

‘Wilhelm,’ said he, ‘I am not afraid or ashamed to tell you what I might
be afraid or ashamed to tell another man.  You come from a sensible
country, where mysterious things are inquired into and are not settled to
have been weighed and measured—or to have been unweighable and
unmeasurable—or in either case to have been completely disposed of, for
all time—ever so many years ago.  I have just now seen the phantom of my
brother.’

I confess (said the German courier) that it gave me a little tingling of
the blood to hear it.

‘I have just now seen,’ Mr. James repeated, looking full at me, that I
might see how collected he was, ‘the phantom of my brother John.  I was
sitting up in bed, unable to sleep, when it came into my room, in a white
dress, and regarding me earnestly, passed up to the end of the room,
glanced at some papers on my writing-desk, turned, and, still looking
earnestly at me as it passed the bed, went out at the door.  Now, I am
not in the least mad, and am not in the least disposed to invest that
phantom with any external existence out of myself.  I think it is a
warning to me that I am ill; and I think I had better be bled.’

I got out of bed directly (said the German courier) and began to get on
my clothes, begging him not to be alarmed, and telling him that I would
go myself to the doctor.  I was just ready, when we heard a loud knocking
and ringing at the street door.  My room being an attic at the back, and
Mr. James’s being the second-floor room in the front, we went down to his
room, and put up the window, to see what was the matter.

‘Is that Mr. James?’ said a man below, falling back to the opposite side
of the way to look up.

‘It is,’ said Mr. James, ‘and you are my brother’s man, Robert.’

‘Yes, Sir.  I am sorry to say, Sir, that Mr. John is ill.  He is very
bad, Sir.  It is even feared that he may be lying at the point of death.
He wants to see you, Sir.  I have a chaise here.  Pray come to him.  Pray
lose no time.’

Mr. James and I looked at one another.  ‘Wilhelm,’ said he, ‘this is
strange.  I wish you to come with me!’  I helped him to dress, partly
there and partly in the chaise; and no grass grew under the horses’ iron
shoes between Poland Street and the Forest.

Now, mind! (said the German courier) I went with Mr. James into his
brother’s room, and I saw and heard myself what follows.

His brother lay upon his bed, at the upper end of a long bed-chamber.
His old housekeeper was there, and others were there: I think three
others were there, if not four, and they had been with him since early in
the afternoon.  He was in white, like the figure—necessarily so, because
he had his night-dress on.  He looked like the figure—necessarily so,
because he looked earnestly at his brother when he saw him come into the
room.

But, when his brother reached the bed-side, he slowly raised himself in
bed, and looking full upon him, said these words:

‘JAMES, YOU HAVE SEEN ME BEFORE, TO-NIGHT—AND YOU KNOW IT!’

And so died!
