
Two days later, while I was bravely punching typewriter keys in a
desperate effort to make good my boast, a small, haggard-looking fellow
came to the door and rang the bell.

"We don't want any," I said.

He peered through the screen door and said, "I'm MacDonald," in a
nervous, uncertain voice.

"MacDonald who?"

"Donald MacDonald. May I come in?"

"You're kidding. No, by God, you're not. You _are_ Donald MacDonald."

He smiled wanly. "May I come in? I flew all the way--"

"Just to see me?"

"I--er--it was no trouble. I took a _skyorie_."

"A what?"

"May I come in?"

"Sure, sure, c'mon in. Have a chair. Drink?"

"No, thanks," he said, seating himself. "I'm afraid I've been--that
is--er--No, I don't believe so."

"I got your letter," I said, suddenly remembering. My awe at the
presence of the great man was suddenly overwhelmed by a feeling of
"Now, what the hell does he want?"

"And I got yours," MacDonald said. "That's why I'm here." He gazed at
my typewriter as though it were ready to bite him. "You didn't take my
advice?"

"Hardly," I said, rather flippantly. "Once the bug has bitten you--"

"Have you had anything accepted?"

I stared at the rug, hating the man for asking. "No, not yet," I
admitted grudgingly, "but--"

"Then the bug hasn't _really_ bitten you yet," he said. "You'll know it
when he does."

"I--uh--guess my letter was a bit--er--abrupt," I said, not knowing how
else to fill the silence.

"You were pretty mad," he admitted, "and I don't blame you; I should
have known better than to tell you that way. But in this game,
you've--well, you've got to learn to take criticism. If your work's
bad, admit it and throw in the towel."

"And mine's bad?"

He shrugged, avoiding my eyes. "I'm afraid so."

But the steam had been released and the period of mourning had ended,
so "I'll improve," I told him.

"You're wasting your time."

"Possibly. What I can't understand, though, is why a big name in
science-fiction comes way the devil out here just to advise me to stop
knocking my head against a wall."

"Perhaps more than your head is at stake," he said.

"What?"

"Nothing," he said hastily. For a moment his pale face held a haunted
look, and he rose, looking like a man unsure of himself. "I can't talk
you out of it, so I'd better go."

"Wait a minute. Just what did you mean by that other remark?"

Donald MacDonald glanced around him as though he were afraid invisible
beings might be eavesdropping. "You really want to know the reason why?"

I nodded.

"Your work is good," he said seriously. "Too good. Not up to par on
some points, but in a few years you'll be going places. That's why I
sneaked away from them and came here--to beg you to reconsider, to stop
this writing now, before it's too late."

"You mean--you _can't_ mean--you're not--afraid of competition?"

He waved an annoyed hand. "Competition, hell! There's always room for
more. You don't understand," he went on, screwing his face into a look
of determination. "I'm trying to save your peace of mind, your sanity
perhaps. The mind is a great and powerful thing, sometimes dangerous.
All these things--these alien creatures that a science-fiction author
creates--"

"Yes?"

But he had straightened suddenly, a look of terror on a face gone
ashen. He went to the door like a man being pushed, fumbled for the
knob. "I beg of you, for your sake, forget it," he called back. Then he
was gone.

I went out on the porch but MacDonald was not in sight. I heard a
strange noise as of the flapping of great leathery wings. A shadow
passed across the lawn. I looked up.

Nothing.
