
The murderer moved forward confidently, now. He'd shot his uncle
as the old man was fumbling cigarettes out of the nephew's case.
He'd made sure that death had come, and he'd fled--but without the
cigarette-case. Now he'd come back for it. It had been foolish of him
to feel afraid....

He heard the drumming of reflective finger-tips upon the table-top.
Stark terror swept over him again, and he pressed on the button of his
flashlight.... The old, unprepossessing figure was outlined in full.
Grayed, unkempt hair, bushy eye-brows, head bent down, hand extended
toward the cigarette-case on the table.... All was as it should have
been. But the coat, the long, dingy coat that hung down from the
extended arm--that was moving! Muscles in the sleeve had been flexing
and unflexing. The coat was flapping back and forth. The man in the
chair was alive!

With a snarl, the murderer sprang forward, his hands outstretched. An
instant later he fell back with a rattle in his throat. The flesh he
had touched was cold and already rigid.

He stood still, fighting down an impulse to scream. The man in the
chair was dead. And then he heard that insane, deliberate tapping
again. He could feel the dead eyes upon him, gazing up from a
bent-forward head and looking through the bushy brows. A strange,
malevolent joy was possessing the dead thing. It was gazing at him,
tapping meditatively, while it debated a suitable revenge for its own
death.

The murderer cursed hoarsely and groped for the table. He was
livid with terror and a queer, helpless rage. He hated his victim,
dead, as he had never hated him living. His fingers touched the
cigarette-case--and it was jerked from beneath his touch.

The murderer choked. He had to have the cigarette-case. It was proof of
his presence--proof against which his carefully prepared alibi would be
of no use. He'd been seen to use it no more than an hour since, when he
left the house in which he was a weekend guest to come hurtling across
country for his murder. He had to have it!

And the tapping came again, insanely gleeful, diabolically reflective.
The man in the chair was beyond reach. No more harm could come to him.
And he could toy with the living man as a cat toys with a mouse.

Numb with unreasoning terror of the thing that was dead, and yet moved,
that was not two yards away and yet was removed by all the gulf between
the living and the dead, the murderer pressed the flashlight button
again. He clenched his teeth as he seemed to sense the stoppage of a
stealthy movement by the thing in the chair. His cigarette-case was
gone, missing from the table.

The flashlight beam swept about the room in a last flare of common
sense. It was empty. No one, nothing.... Nothing in the house except
the dead man, to seize that one small article which would damn the
murderer.

He remembered suddenly and switched off the light. There were
neighbors. Not near neighbors, but people who would notice the glow
of a flashlight if it met their eyes. They knew the old man for what
he was, and probably whispered among themselves of buried treasure or
hidden money. They would suspect a robber of like mind if they saw the
flashlight going.

They might have noticed it then! He had to get the cigarette-case and
go away quickly....

Forcing his brain to function while he was stiff with a terror that
he could not down, he masked the bulb with his fingers and let a
little ray trickle over the table. The old, claw-like hand. It seemed
to be nearer the telephone than it had been. The cloth table-top. No
monogrammed case. It had been there. He had seen it not two minutes
since. But it had vanished utterly.

The living man could have screamed with rage. He seemed to feel the
thing in the chair shaking with silent laughter. The chair was shaking!
God! It _was_ shaking!

The murderer fled to the doorway upon caving knees, his whole soul
writhing in panic. And then he heard the reassuring purring of his
motor-car, waiting to carry him away. Outside was sanity. Only within
was nightmarish horror. He could not go away and leave that case to
hang him....

He was grinding his teeth as he came back. He was doggedly desperate
in his resolution. He got down on his hands and knees and let a little
trickle of light slip between his fingers. Instinctively he kept out
of reach of the dead fingers. Not yet had he come to think of danger
there. The thing in the chair enraged him while it terrified him,
because it mocked him. But he would get this one thing and go....
