
The floor was bare. The case had not fallen from the table to the floor.

He let his light go out again, while his scalp crawled. But he
could not go without the case. Leaving it, he left safety--perhaps
life--behind. There was no single thing to connect him with this murder
save that. His alibi was prepared, was perfect. But he had been seen to
use that case an hour ago. Found here, it would damn him. If it were
carried away, he would be unsuspected.

He had planned it perfectly. That was the only flaw in the whole plan,
and he had only to pick up the monogrammed case of silver to be both
safe and rich. Why, he'd even planned out the funeral! He would be
dutifully grieved. Some of the neighbors would be there--some because
it was the proper thing, but more from curiosity. The only person who
would really regret the old man's death would be the telephone-girl.
The old man paid her a small extra sum to give his line special
attention. It was, he said, his burglar-protection. And every month,
grudgingly, he paid her a small sum, with a deduction for each time he
could claim to have been kept waiting for a number.

There was a scratching sound from the chair. The murderer sprang to his
feet, his terror making his throat dry. The scratching came again, like
a fingernail on rough-polished sheet metal. The telephone! The thing in
the chair was reaching for the telephone!

The murderer acted without thought, in pure sweating fear. He sprang
like a wildcat. The table toppled heavily to the floor and the
telephone went spinning against the wall. He flung the extended wrist
aside....

It resisted his hand. And he jerked away and stood moaning softly, in
an ecstasy of fear and desperation.

Once more the feeling as if the thing in the chair were laughing,
shaking in silent, ghastly laughter. The one thing that held the
murderer in the room was the cigarette-case that could hang him. And
the thing was tormenting him and shaking in horrible mirth....

Long past the power to reason, the murderer brought forth all his
willpower. It was really a conflict between two fears, a panic-stricken
horror of the dead thing before him, and terror of a noose that awaited
him. He flashed his light despairingly--and saw the cigarette-case.

It was projecting invitingly from the pocket of the thing in the
chair. It had been on the table. It had been filched from beneath his
descending hand. It was in the dead man's pocket, as if tucked there
by stiff and clumsy fingers--or as if left projecting to lure him to a
snatch. And the extended hand, with its clawing fingers outstretched,
quivered a little as if with eagerness for him to make an attempt to
get it.

He whimpered. It was trying to get him to reach for the case,
invitingly in sight. But if he reached, he would be within the length
of its arms. And they would move stiffly but very swiftly to seize
him....

He whimpered. He dared not go without that case. He dared not reach
in his hand to seize it. He sobbed a little with pure terror. Then,
glassy-eyed with horror, he swung his foot in a sudden, nervous kick.
If he could kick the case from its insecure position, he could retrieve
it from the floor....

He was quivering. The kick failed. The thing remained motionless, but
it seemed to him that it was tensing itself for a sudden effort.... The
murderer wrung his hands. He kicked again, and sheer icy fear flowed
through his veins as he felt the soft resistance of the cloth against
his foot. But he missed.

He heard a curious little chuckling sound that could not possibly have
come from anything but a human throat. It was a human voice. It was
syllables, divided to form words, but words in a strangled, distant,
ghastly tone....

Drenched in the sweat of undiluted horror, the murderer swung his
foot a third time, desperately, with his eyes glassy and the breath
whistling in his throat.

Then he screamed....

The flashlight dropped to the floor. There was utter darkness. There
was no noise for seconds save those chuckling sounds. They were louder,
now. The murderer stood rigid, balanced upon one foot, his eyes
terrible. He screamed again. Something had hold of his foot. Something
grasped at his trouser-leg and tugged at it gently. Not strongly.
Gently. But it was tugging....

The murderer screamed and screamed, with his eyes the eyes of a man
in the depths of hell. Not because his foot was caught, but because
something was pulling him, weakly but inexorably, in furtive little
tugs, toward the man in the chair--who was dead.

Then sharp nails sank in his flesh and the murderer broke away. He
fell, and in falling his slipping foot crashed against the leg of the
chair, and that turned over upon him....
