
The office door banged open, and a tall, gray-haired man walked in,
dropping a pile of papers on the desk. "Hello, Griff! Sorry to keep
you waiting. Never can tell when you'll get stalled in a place like
this." John Cranstead dropped easily into his chair behind the desk and
eyed Griffin quizzically. "Feeling excited? Or just scared out of your
shirt?"

"A little of both," said Griffin, uneasily. "I don't know quite how I
feel."

Cranstead grinned, and popped his glasses out of his pocket. "Ah, well.
Don't worry about it. Martha says you wondered what day it was."

Griffin flushed. "I couldn't remember it."

"You'd have been remarkable if you could," Cranstead chuckled. "It
went pretty well with you. Eight months is almost dead minimum for a
complete job. But then they told me you cooperated very well."

Griffin shrugged. "Naturally."

"Well, it's over now. As of--" he peered at his wrist watch for an
instant, then jotted the time down on the top sheet of paper--"3:15
P.M., 17 July, 2173, I can no longer call you Dan Griffin. You're a
Free Agent now. Or you will be." He picked up the paper, glanced at it,
and handed it across the desk to Griffin. "Don't let it throw you," he
said.

Griffin glanced down at the paper, with a terrifying feeling of
unreality, as if this were all part of a very bad dream. They had told
him, of course. They had explained it all very carefully. But then,
they had told him so many things. At the top of the paper he saw
the Hoffman Medical Center seal, and just below it, in heavy Gothic
letters, he read:

                         CERTIFICATE OF DEATH

His eyes ran down the page to his own name. Daniel Carter Griffin,
male, aged 53. Cause of death: Subtotal Prosthesis, Voluntary. And
below that, somewhere near the bottom, a line marked "signature."

Griffin looked up at Cranstead's smiling face. "I'm supposed to sign
this?"

"That's right. There are a few other forms to sign--legal claims papers
for the Metropolitan Death Insurance Company, a few other customary
papers--" He broke off with a smile. "Don't look so horrified. It's
really not as paradoxical as it seems. After all, Dan Griffin _is_
quite dead. You'll certainly agree to that."

Griffin nodded, signing the papers rapidly. "When do I get my name
back?"

"At the end of your Free Agent period, if you want it back. Or any
other name you choose. That's up to you." Cranstead smiled. "And of
course, as a Free Agent you can use any name you like."

"I can't see what's wrong with the old one. I was quite happy with it."

Cranstead shrugged. "You may find yourself quite a different man now."

"Well, I don't feel any different." Griffin's voice had a sharp
defensive edge, and his eyes were suddenly bright with anger. "I
feel fine; just the same as I always felt. Why all this ridiculous
rigmarole?"

Cranstead sighed. "Take it easy, Griff. How do you know how you feel?
You haven't been outside the hospital walls since the prosthesis
started. You haven't met anyone or reacted to anything other than
carefully controlled hospital conditions. Don't be impatient. You don't
know yet what you'll want because you're literally a new man. You've
turned in your old worn out body for a new one. Give it a try before
you get excited."

Griffin scowled. "But why this insinuation that things will be
different? I remember my old life perfectly well. I liked it. I want to
go back. Why make it so difficult?"

Cranstead tossed him a cigarette. "Look at it this way," he said. "If
you hadn't come here to the Center for prosthesis, in about five years,
give or take a little, that death certificate would have been valid in
a very, very final sense. You'd have been gone and there'd have been no
bringing you back. But you did come here to the Center, under your own
steam, and submitted to a very thorough repair job; a repair job that
will last you another sixty to eighty years, starting now--"

"All right, I know that," snapped Griffin. "I still don't see--"

Cranstead held up his hand. "Wait a minute--you don't quite realize
that you may indeed be very dead to the world you knew before. The
doctors can't predict the personality changes you may have undergone.
Except for certain very broad limits, they can't predict how you'll
act. So we have to protect you, as well as the world you left when
you came here. The prosthesis is almost a total job--replaced organs,
replaced vascular system, replaced glandular system, even some repaired
nervous tissue. Some men come out almost exactly as they were before.
But some come out vastly different--"

Griffin blinked and stared at the death certificate. "And this," he
said slowly, "protects me."

"It makes the old Dan Griffin with the leaky heart and the bad kidneys
legally dead. Just as the death insurance protects your wife and
family. You can't be forced back into the old mold if you don't fit, so
you're cut loose as completely as possible. You have a year to adjust;
a year as a Free Agent, to go anywhere you wish and do anything you
like. You no longer exist in the eyes of the law. If you go back to
your old life, that's fine. And if you don't go back, and find yourself
a new life, that's fine too. It's up to you."

Dan Griffin stood up, a coldness growing in his mind like nothing
he had ever experienced; a sense of utter aloneness and total
helplessness. "It's hard to get used to," he said softly. "I don't know
what to think." He walked to the window and stared out at the city
that spread out for miles, and saw the shadows of the tall Upper Level
apartments falling across the busy curves of the throughways. "I just
don't know--"

"We'll help you in any way we can," said Cranstead. "But nobody but
yourself can influence your ultimate decision. You're a Free Agent. The
decision must be yours."

"It's frightening," said Griffin.

John Cranstead gave him a long look. "It may be the most frightening
thing in the world," he said.


                                  II

He did not go home immediately.

He wasn't entirely sure why he didn't. He knew that he wanted to go
home more than anything else. To go back to the house he had known for
so long, back to the soft comfort of the old, heavy, carved furniture,
back to the rows of books, and the neat paintings on the walls. And
back to Marian, who would be waiting there for him. Oh, he wanted to
go back, but somehow something held him, some cold, unreasoning core
of apprehension that lay in his mind, whispering in his ear as he
walked down the steps of the Hoffman Medical Center into the crush of
traffic on the street below. His wrist still tingled from the needles
that had stamped the small green bar there, indelibly. The mark was his
passport, and he shivered as his mind echoed Cranstead's words back in
the office. "You're free in every sense of the word. Go wherever you
like, do anything you want to do. Deliberate criminality won't occur to
you, and you'll be incapable of it if it does. We've seen to that. But
otherwise, the ultimate decision is up to you--"

A cab skidded by and he hailed it. He settled back in the seat as the
little car swept up into the heavy elevated traffic that moved down
through the miles of curves and straightways into the center of the
City. It was huge, this beehive that had spread down from Boston and
up from Washington to engulf the entire Atlantic Seaboard, a place
where he could lose himself for a little while, and maybe think things
through before he went back to his home and to Marian. He stared from
the window at the bright lights below--the Lower Level commercial
traffic, speeding with its never-ending hum--the tattered sections of
the Old City that lay below, half-hidden ruins of an age that few men
could remember, or would want to remember if they could. The driver's
voice broke in on his reverie, and he gave a little start.

"I said, where you goin', Mister?"

"Oh. Anywhere. I don't care." He hesitated for a moment. "I'm a Free
Agent."

The driver nodded. "Mind if I pick up fares?"

"Not in the least." Griffin shrugged himself back in the seat,
staring out the window. Frightening, he'd said! It was paralyzing. He
moved his arms, first one, then the other, feeling the remnants of
the painful tightness under the smoothly-molded skin. Then his mind
drifted back, and he tried to remember the days of sickness, trying
to visualize physically how it had felt to be sick. He found that he
couldn't remember. He was no longer sick, and the pain and fright and
desperation were unpleasant memories, the first to be dulled, and
hidden from sight, and larded over with the frosting of forgetfulness.

And yet he knew that he had been sick. He had been older then, just
past fifty, and though he could not recreate those days in his mind, he
knew that he had known he was sick for a long time, a growing awareness
that health and youngness had somehow been left behind. There had been
the gasping rests at the top of the stairs while he had waited for
breath and energy to return; and the leaden tiredness at the end of
the day that had made the evenings a gauntlet to be endured. And there
had been those terrifying nights when he had awakened in a cold sweat,
strangling in the darkness, with hardly the strength left to drag
himself up into a sitting position; and then Marian, wide-eyed with
fright, barely able to hold back the tears, packing pillows behind him
as he sat gasping by the open window, wondering if this really might
be the end. And then, later, the stabbing, excruciating pain that cut
through his chest and down his arm, the vice-like wrenching pain that
tore the breath from him, and almost life itself. Angina, the doctor
had called it. Congestive failure. And he had sat there, by the window,
and known that he was staring death in the face.

The pain he could not remember now, but the fear was sharp in his
memory. And then there had been the day when old Doctor Barnez had come
in to see him, and settled back in the chair, smiling at him, and
said, "Griff, I think it's time you considered a repair job. A real
repair job. Because you won't be with us long if you don't--"

He had grasped at it with the desperation that can be born only of
staring death in the face, grasped at it as he stood literally in
the valley of shadows. Oh, he had heard of prosthesis. He could even
remember the bitter political battles that had raged. He could remember
the attacks on it from the pulpit, and the rabble-rousing speeches of
the men who used it as a football to carry them to power. But the laws
were passed in spite of them, and many people had taken the step. And
always Griffin had watched with desultory interest, and thought it a
thing of the remote future, never applicable to a strong, active man
like himself.

He stared out at the buildings, tall and proud in the gathering
darkness. When the chips were finally down, he had agreed, Life was
sweet. If it was within the power of medical techniques to restore
it, could he scorn such a chance? Could anyone? For after all, it was
the goal of hundreds of years of medical study. Gradually, over the
years, medicine had leaped the low hurdles of disease, of microbes, and
viruses, and creeping malignancies, and these had been the easy steps.
At the end, they had moved against the real last enemies of man: old
age, degeneration, the multitude of death's helpers which had held man
to a hundred years of life. And then those hurdles had been crossed--

Griffin shook his head as the cab took another turn and sped deeper
into the city. He had wanted a healthy body again. And they had
promised him a healthy body. The prosthesis was almost total, the
remodelling he could never have understood, the probing and repairing,
the replacing and regrowing and relearning. And he had come forth
with a healthy body, with his past life's full measure of memory and
experience, and another sixty years in which to use it. He had thought
that a healthy, whole body once more was all he could ever desire--

And now he wondered.
