
He knew now that he was going to see Dr. Barnez first, before he went
anywhere else. He leaned over and gave the driver the address, and
then settled back, waiting as the car reached the upper-level strips
of the New City. He found the doctor's house, and waited in the small
anteroom for a few moments. Then he saw the familiar, stooped figure,
beaming at him from the door of the inner office. "Come in, Griff, come
in!" he boomed. "Lord, man, what a change! You look like you never
looked before. They treated you well over there--" The old doctor
tossed him a cigar, and settled back, regarding him over silver-rimmed
glasses. "Any regret, Griff? Even cigars you can have again now!"

Griffin shook his head, feeling the uneasiness nibbling again at his
mind. "No--no regrets, nothing I can put my finger on--" He nipped the
cigar, feeling suddenly foolish to take such relish in contemplating
the acrid smoke of a dried-up weed.

"But a multitude of things you can't quite put your finger on, eh?" The
old man was smiling.

Griffin nodded slowly.

"You'll find the readjustment troublesome at times. But as a Free
Agent, it's infinitely easier." The old man paused. "You've seen
Marian?"

Griffin flushed. "No. I haven't been home. I'm--I'm a little afraid to
go."

"Don't be. Marian will be there."

"Oh, I don't mean that. It's just--I've been waiting so long, and
hoping so much. I don't know what to expect of Marian, I'm afraid
she'll be different, somehow--"

"_She_ won't be changed."

Griffin's eyes caught the old man's. "I know it. But what about me? I
don't feel any different--"

Dr. Barnez held up a wrinkled, blue-veined hand. "It's to be expected,
isn't it? You're not the same man you were. Your mind is intact, but
there are many more things that make a man what he is than his mind,
Griff. You've been changed in many ways--physical changes, chemical
changes, endocrine changes. That's why you're a Free Agent. They've
learned the hard way that they can't force the new form into the old
mold. It just didn't work."

Griffin sat forward, his eyes burning on the old man's face. "What's
happened to the others, doctor? I want it straight."

Doctor Barnez shook his head. "Why torture yourself, Griff? Go home to
Marian, see how you feel--"

"I want it straight."

The doctor shrugged. "All right. Some have gone back and stayed. But
many haven't stayed. A great many."

"Where have they gone?"

"Who knows? They're dead as far as the world they left is concerned.
Who knows where they've gone?"

"But I don't want to change! Can't you see that? I love Marian. She's
been my life. For years she's been more to me than anything else. I
wouldn't change that for life itself--"

The old doctor stood up, shaking his head. "You mustn't worry," he said
gently. "Ultimately, the choice is yours. It will be you who stays, or
leaves, in the end. Not Marian."
