
He opened the door of his house, and walked in, and found himself face
to face with a total stranger.

She looked the same, of course. The same dark, beautiful eyes, the
same finely molded face, the same tiny figure, kept amazingly slender
and youthful over the years. Her hair was graying more than he had
remembered, but it was the same Marian he had left, eight months
before. And yet, he knew the moment that he saw her that something was
gone, and could never be replaced, not in a thousand years of life.

Her lips trembled as she searched his face, and she said, "I'm glad
you're back, Griff--" and he walked into the room like a ghost, moving
about as though he were not really here at all, but seeing things
in a strange, subtly distorted dream. The desk, with its perpetual
litter just as he had left it; the honey barrel full of pipes, charred
and scratched from years of use, still slightly fragrant from the
last smoking. And there were the soft chairs, the worn carpet, the
pictures on the walls. The same, fine, smooth architectural lines
that had pleased him so when the house was built five years before;
scientifically fitted to their personalities in a thousand subtle ways,
as any house should be. He sat down gingerly, as though expecting
to fall through into the dust beneath the house, and looked again
at Marian, his lovely, wonderful Marian--for the house which had
fit so well was a nightmare to his sensibilities now, garish and
impossible--and a Marian he didn't know was waiting eagerly for him to
speak.

And then he knew it was only a dream, his memories of the life before.
He waited for the surge of excitement, waited for the eager words
to come into his throat, the words telling her how very much he had
missed her, what plans he had made for them--and his throat was dry,
and no words came. He waited for the joy of returning to sweep through
him, and it did not come. It was dead, as dead as the ashes in that
last-smoked pipe.

He didn't say a word. He didn't have to, because he saw it in her eyes,
wide heart-broken eyes. He looked at her, and all he felt was pity.
He didn't even feel shame, though he felt he should. And he knew that
words would only make it harder, would be whiplashes to make the wounds
deeper and more vicious.

He picked up his hat, and brushed her cheek with his lips, and without
a word he walked out through the door.

Marian had not changed, not in any way. The house was the same, kept in
readiness, waiting for him. No, Marian hadn't changed.

It was he who had changed.


                                  III

At first he felt only anger. The suspicion didn't come until later. It
was a cold, amorphous anger, not directed toward anyone or anything, a
wrenching, nonspecific sort of anger. He found a small place where he
could eat, set down off the Upper Level throughway, and he ordered hot
coffee and a little food, and then sank his head into his hands--

And the anger grew, as he thought of the horrible house that no longer
fit, and of Marian, and himself with the strange young-old face that
was not his face at all, but a ghost-face from the past that stared out
of the mirror at him. They had warned him, of course. Told him, rather.
It had not been a warning, for warning implies evil, and if there had
been evil in what they had told him it had been well concealed. They
had said that everything would be as he left it, that he could go back
to his old life, if that was what he wanted, if that was where he
belonged. They had told him all this, and it had had little meaning to
him.

But it had meaning now, a thousand meanings that he could not
understand. Because he had gone back, and discovered in the horror of a
single look that it was wrong, that he no longer belonged. And it was
then that he began to suspect that somehow, beyond his control and ken,
he had become the victim of a terrible, cosmic joke.

Yet he was alive. He could not deny it. There was nothing wrong with
his mind. He could think, he could remember, analyze. Just as they
said, he could go back to the desk where he had worked so many years,
and take over once again where he had left off.

But the place had repelled him. He shivered, and the suspicion
deepened. They had said he could go back, if he wanted to, but he
didn't want to. He couldn't even make a pretense of wanting to. There
were other things to do, somewhere, more important things that had no
part nor connection with the old Dan Griffin.

People were coming into the place now. They sat at tables nearby, and
he could feel their eyes drift over him, curiously. How many times
before had he watched these strange, drifting creatures with faces
that belied their years, when they had chanced to cross his path? How
often, before, had he seen the little green bar tattooed on a wrist,
and looked at the face above it, and wondered, what is he doing? How
does it feel to be a completely new man again, with a new life, and
twelve months of freedom, complete freedom of movement, of inquiry, of
thought. He wished that he had never wondered these things before.

The coffee came and he gulped it eagerly, realizing that he hadn't
eaten for several hours. The suspicion was taking form in his mind
now, and he grasped at it greedily. He had seen many Free Agents
before. They had become an accepted, harmless facet of a society
rather too hurried to be bothered much by introspection. Free Agents?
They were--well, they were around. They didn't do any harm, the news
articles had said that only psychologically safe people were accepted
for prosthesis, and then they were conditioned against criminal
activities in the course of the remodelling. Why worry about them? They
were seen here and there, and they bothered no one, and no one bothered
them.

But what happened to them? Some went back to their old lives. He knew
that. Some came back and took up their old places as if they had merely
taken a vacation trip. And others came back, and then left--

Where did they go?

Griffin tried to think. Specifically, whom did he know who had come
back permanently?

He ran over names in his mind. Jack Townsend--he'd come back. Fine boy,
Jack, and never a whisper of a change. Ted Maroneck? He'd bolted after
two weeks back, and Griffin had run into him in the city one day, with
a coarse blonde woman, slightly drunk, and very raucous. How about Phil
Steinberg? Only a week at home. Couldn't blame him, though. Ellie had
been enough to drive anybody back to the woods. They'd never heard from
him since. And Bob Whittaker--he'd been gone six months, now. And Joe
Meyer--where was Joe?

Griffin took up his coat, preparing to leave, and now suddenly he was
afraid. There was something wrong. In his own acquaintance, a couple
who had come home and stayed. And a dozen who were gone, like the month
of May.

_Where?_

He wanted to know. And something screamed in his mind that he had
better find out where they had gone. And very soon.
