
The building said Bureau of Public Records on the facade, and he
walked up the marble steps quickly, his mind now hard with suspicion.
In the center of the huge lobby he found the Directory, and read down
the lines of names and departments. Under R he found "Reading Room,
Microfilm Library," with a floor number after it. A few moments later
he was stepping off the elevator, walking into the long, narrow room
with the reading booths glassed in against the walls. He found a
place, and lifted the order-phone from its hook. "Let me have the
documentary file on Robert L. Whittaker of this city," he said.

"I'm sorry, sir." The operator's voice was harsh in his ear. "Personal
files are not available without proper authorization--"

"I'm a Free Agent," said Griffin shortly. "I'd like to see that file."

The visiphone screen came to light quite suddenly, and the girl's face
appeared. "Identification, please?"

He held up a card from his pocket. There was no name on it. It carried
a tri-di photo-impression, and a fingerprint, and said FREE AGENT in
large green letters, followed by a code number. The girl watched him
stamp his thumb on a duplicator card, and then the screen snapped off.
Then, seconds later, a microfilm spool plopped down in the groove
before him.

He took it out and threaded it into the reader, his heart pounding
wildly in his throat. "Send me the same on Philip C. Steinberg and
Joseph B. Meyer," he said. "And any other information you have on their
activities--"

The documents were there, of course. Birth certificate, baptismal
record, licensing record, application for prosthesis, application
approval. He blinked at the last frame on the spool, a chill going down
his back.

The death certificate. With Bob Whittaker's signature on it.

He snatched up the order phone again, his hand trembling. "I'd like
Robert Whittaker's Free Agent records," he snapped at the operator's
smooth voice.

There was a pause. Then the operator said, "There aren't any records,
sir."

"WHAT?"

"I'm sorry, there is no record of Robert Whittaker reapplying for his
name."

"Well then, what name did he take?"

"I'm sorry, that information is not available."

"I told you I'm a Free Agent."

"I'm sorry. Free Agent records are not available to anyone. Not even
Free Agents."

It was the chink in the wall that he had known he would find. He
slammed down the receiver with a crash, and threaded the second spool.
It had been too good, too smooth for it to be true. He had known, deep
in his mind, that somewhere he would find the flaw in the Free Agent's
freedom--and he had found it. And knowing where the flaw was only fed
his suspicions and fanned his fears into brighter flame.

It was the same with every spool. Phil Steinberg was legally dead.
Sorry, but information regarding his Free Agent period is restricted.
Ted Maroneck was legally dead. So was Joe Meyer--

_So was Dan Griffin_--

He sat there trembling, a cold sweat breaking out on his forehead.
He had known there would be a flaw. He wasn't supposed to know it. A
marionette wasn't supposed to know that it was only a creature on a
string, a lifeless piece of wood until hands drew the strings and made
it do its little dance of life. Like the monkey-on-a-stick he had owned
as a boy, so many years before, which would climb up, and down, and up,
and down, every time he pressed the button.

And somewhere, he had a button now. And somewhere, somebody was pushing
it. Something had happened to him quite apart from the physical
rebuilding. Neatly hidden behind a careful screen of helpfulness and
humanity and a brave new life was something else, something that he had
not been told. And he was being manipulated, like a monkey on a stick,
and he couldn't do anything about it, because he wouldn't know about it.

But now he did know.


                                  IV

Somewhere to the west of the city a Mars-bound rocket rose on its fiery
tail with a roar, higher and higher on its wings of flame until its
roar had dwindled to a high, penetrating whine. It flickered in the
morning sun, and disappeared.

Griffin awoke with a jolt, and stared out the window of the hotel,
watching the rocket move like an arrow across the sky, a sight that
he had always loved. Then he rolled back with a groan, the anger and
fear of the night before rushing back into his sleep-dulled mind like a
nightmare.

He had not found them. When he had finally taken the room, and fallen
down fully clothed on the bed to sleep, he knew he had reached a dead
end. He could do nothing but wait now. And knowing what he knew, he was
afraid to wait.

And then he heard a sound in the room, and jerked upright, and saw the
girl standing in the door. She was watching him as he lay there, her
face without expression. She might have been pretty once; her hair had
been long and shining black, and there was even a trace of a wave left
in it, a pitiful attempt to pin it back in some semblance of order. But
her face was hard, and she watched him with sharp dark eyes like an
animal's.

He sat up slowly, his feet on the cold floor. "All right," he said.
"What do you want? How did you get in here?"

Her lips curled into a sneer. "You can go where you want to. Why can't
I?"

His eyes drifted to her wrist. It was blank. "Who are you?"

"You don't recognize me? With all the slinking around and watching
through the corner of your eye, you haven't even seen me before?" She
sank down in a chair, regarding him as if he were some sort of bug. "I
spotted you up in the restaurant last night. I've been following you
ever since. You didn't know that?"

He was on his feet now, a snarl of anger in his throat. He started
across the room for the telephone, and she said, "You'd better leave
that alone."

"I'm going to call the police."

"The police won't help you. You're dead, remember? Or was it somebody
else's records you were looking up last night?"

He whirled on her, his eyes blazing. "Get out of here," he said,
"before I throw you out."

The girl's face was contemptuous. "Sit down, buddy," she said. "You
Retreads really think you're God Almighty, don't you? Walk out all
shiny and new, and you think you own the world, with your pretty Free
Agent stripe and all the tripe that goes with it."

Comprehension began to seep through now. The girl's voice was bitter.
Griffin sat down, watching the girl closely. "What have you got against
Free Agents?"

"Plenty, buster."

"Like what, for instance?"

"Like the way the Hoffman Center sets itself up as judge and jury and
makes a chosen people out of you. Not out of me. Oh, no, I won't stand
a chance when the time comes. Not my old man, either. He tried for a
retread, and they turned him down flat. Psychopathic inferior, they
called him. He had to die. I'll have to die, too. But sooner or later
they're going to find something wrong with the setup, and when they do,
all hell is going to break loose, and they'll cut it out altogether,
just like they tried to do at the first, and then there won't be any
more snakes like you walking around with your pretty green stripes.
Just one thing's got to go wrong, that's all." Her face was bitter.
"How does it feel to be the Lord Master, buster? What are you so scared
of? Or hasn't it been all it's cracked up to be?"

Griffin closed his eyes tiredly. "I think we'll get along better if
you'll just state your business and get out. What do you want?"

"I want you, buddy."

"What do you know about me?" His eyes snapped open sharply.

She made a bored face. "Mister, I don't know you from Adam's off ox.
All I know about you is the little green stripe on your arm."

"So I'm a Free Agent."

"That's all I need. A Free Agent. Any Free Agent will do."

He shook his head. "No dice. I don't get mixed up in any shady deals."

Quite suddenly the bitterness and contempt were gone from the girl's
face, and only the fear remained, a craven, hopeless kind of fear.
"There's nothing shady about it, Mister. Nothing bad, nothing you can't
do, I swear it. Just going aboard a rocket ship for an inspection tour.
Is there anything wrong with that? So you take a friend aboard with
you. Then you walk off again. Is there anything wrong with that?"

Griffin blinked at her. There was no denying the desperation in her
voice, the fear in her eyes. Griffin's eyes narrowed thoughtfully.
"What rocket are you talking about?"

"The Venus Rocket. It leaves tonight. I want on board it."

"Why?"

"Maybe I like Venus. Maybe I don't like it here. Maybe I've got to get
away. Take your choice."

"What about the Colonization Board?"

Her eyes were dark with fear. "They'd never let me aboard. I wouldn't
dare apply. They'd find out--things--on my record here."

His mouth hardened. "You mean they'd turn you over."

"Well, maybe they would," she snarled. "What are you doing, playing cop
or something? Look, I want on that rocket. I've got to get aboard it.
You're a Free Agent. You can go wherever you like--and so can anyone
who's with you, if you vouch for him. They can't touch you. And you're
scared, you've been scared ever since you left the Records Bureau last
night. It sticks out all over you--"

"All right, maybe I am!"

"Maybe you want something."

He turned on her sharply. Something in his mind was screaming a protest
at the idea that was forming in his mind, but he shrugged it off. So
maybe it was illegal, maybe even criminal--was what they had done
to him any less criminal? "I want records," he said softly. "I want
information and records. I want them very much."

"I can get them for you."

"The records I want are restricted."

"Do tell."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean if they're on paper they can be bought."

"I have no money."

"Well, I have." She looked up at him sharply. "I've got enough money to
buy passage to Venus. It can buy information if I can get free passage
to Venus. It can buy information like nothing."

He sat down, his face very close to hers. "I want to know what's
happened to other Free Agents," he said. "I can give you some names. I
want their records, everything that's known about them, where they've
gone, where they are now. I want them in a hurry."

The girl stared at him for a long minute. "You _are_ scared," she said.
She lit a cigarette, and tossed the match on the floor. "Let's get
moving," she said.
