
She said her name was Nan Baker, and that was about all she would
say. Griffin doubted even that, but he didn't press conversation as
they left the surface car at the Lower Level junction, and moved down
the roads and alleys into the depths of the Old City. The itinerary
itself was more illuminating than any words; her very familiarity with
their route offered more lethal insight into the girl's background
and motives and trustworthiness than anything she could possibly have
told him. She knew her way through this jungle of crowded, dilapidated
buildings; without hesitation they threaded their way through a
bewildering tangle of dirty streets and darkened alleys.

Some of the buildings were in ruins, but many still showed signs
of dismal habitation. This was the Old City, the area of decay and
violence and crime where no one in his right mind would think of going,
or allow himself to be taken. It was the crumbling ruin of the earlier
city that had been here, ignored by advancing architecture and a more
savory society, its reputation falling to the level of the dregs who
had sunk here. And the girl found her way through the streets with an
air of long familiarity.

They moved down a long, dank tunnel, formed of dripping concrete and
decaying beams, obviously an old viaduct, long since decaying in
disuse. At the far end was a building with a screen across the window.
There was the sound of a juke box, and a roar of loud laughter as they
stepped inside and shouldered through the crowd of people sitting at
the long bar in the half-light.

A woman was dancing on a walkway behind the bar, totally nude, and
the crowd were laughing and shouting at her as a sick-looking drummer
pounded a cymbal and the juke box whined. Griffin followed the girl
through the fringes of the crowd and back along a dark, dripping
corridor. They found a room, a frowsy makeshift of a dressing room that
reeked of cheap perfume and dead rats. The girl motioned him inside.
"You wait here. I'll be back."

Ten minutes later she returned, followed by a short, obese individual
who sank down on a chair and regarded Griffin with pale, dead eyes.
"Got yourself a Retread friend, huh?" he said to the girl, jerking a
fat thumb at Griffin.

She nodded tensely, and looked at Griffin. "Tell him what you want."

Griffin told him. The fat man listened. Then he said, "Rough. That's
Government records. It'll take time."

"We've got no time," the girl snapped.

"Then it'll take money." His pale eyes flicked up to the girl. "You
financing?"

"I'm financing."

"All right." He rubbed his chin with a greasy finger. "How much time
can you give me?"

"About twelve hours. There's a flight leaving at ten tonight. I've got
to be on it."

The fat man hoisted himself out of the chair. "Relax," he said. "You
got a long wait." Then he was gone in a breath of stale air.
