
They waited. They didn't relax. They sat in the reeking little room,
and the noise from the front drifted back to them, tinny and unreal.
There was laughter, and footfalls on the stairs beyond their wall. Then
there was a clink of broken glass, and more laughter over their heads
somewhere. The girl watched Griffin, and paced the room, her hands so
jittery she could hardly hold them still to light a cigarette. Finally
she said, "I'm going up front for a drink."

"You're staying here."

"Who do you think you are, you damn--"

"You leave, I leave," Griffin snapped. "In the opposite direction.
Think it over."

She picked up a dusty whiskey bottle and slammed it against the far
wall with a snarl. It bounced off, without even breaking. "Go to
hell!" she spat. Then she sat down. "You'd think they were robbing the
Treasury or something."

He closed his eyes, trying to get his breath in the dead air. His mind
screamed with impatience. Why was it taking so long? But then, what
good would it do him when he had his information? Whatever the plan
had been, he had already upset it. Whoever was pushing the button,
manipulating the strings, must be in a fine state by now. The thought
gave him a certain degree of sour pleasure. The button had been
pushed, and he had not responded quite properly. And here, he knew he
was beyond manipulation, beyond the grasp of whatever agency was making
the plans for him. But whoever was directing the show would know now
that he knew--

And he didn't doubt for a minute that something was planned for him.
A man who was legally dead, a man whose wife would be resigned to his
being dead, to her, and never expect to see him again, a man whose
family had received the death insurance money that was due them upon
his signature on the death certificate--whether he ever returned to his
old life or not, that insurance would be paid--and now, a man who was
wandering and frightened, a ghostly nonentity, existing in a society
where he could not fit in, seeking something that he did not know.
Personalities change, they had said. Perhaps.

But there were other changes, carefully controlled changes, he was
certain of that now, changes that were made for a purpose, concealed
from public inspection and public wrath by a careful groundwork of
legal nonsense and humanitarianism. If anything about prosthesis went
wrong, the public would fall upon it in an instant. Prosthesis was too
touchy a thing, life was too fearful and mysterious and sacred, for
halfway measures. The prosthesis had to be perfect. It could not have a
price-tag....

But now he knew that the sixty years' extension of life did have a
price-tag, somehow. And very soon he would know the price.


                                   V

Someone jabbed him in the ribs, and he awoke with a jerk, blinking in
the gloom. His mouth tasted like sweaty leather; he knew he had been
sleeping. "What's the matter?"

"Wake up!" The girl was standing over him, her voice a harsh whisper.

He was alert in an instant. "The records--"

She thrust a packet into his hands, "We've got to go," she said. "There
isn't much time. They were late."

"Just relax a minute." He ripped open the packet. A roll of photostats
fell out into his lap, still damp. He threw them on the dressing table,
and snapped on a dirty yellow light.

"You can't read them now--"

He didn't even hear her. He stared at the names on the papers before
him. Names he had never seen before. Not all new, though. Bob Whittaker
had kept his old name. But the others--changed, just as their faces
had changed. He read the entries under Whittaker's name. Job after job
on Earth, months of drifting, observing, then drifting again. A run on
the Mars-Earth line as a crew-hand. Imagine Whittaker a crew-hand on a
space liner! Work in the mines on Mars. Back to Earth, and married to a
girl he had never heard of.

And then, at the end of the page, a number, and a letter, and a date,
and the words: CHECKED THROUGH.

There was nothing else.

Griffin stared at the paper, his heart pounding in his throat. The next
was shorter. But at the bottom, the same story. Joe Meyer's picture,
with a name Griffin had never seen before--

CHECKED THROUGH.

Phil Steinberg--_Checked through._

It was like a trail in the snow that led one way out into the bright
moonlight, into the middle of a field, and then stopped dead, without
sign or struggle. Impossible. But the papers were there before him.
_Checked through._

Nobody to suspect, nobody to worry about tracing them down. Because
they were dead. Free Agents. Beyond the law, beyond search and tracing.
Dropped from sight.

The girl was shaking his arm, begging him to hurry. He rolled up the
papers, thrust them into his inside pocket. He could not find his hat,
and he swore under his breath, and they went out without it. Then they
were on a surface car, curving up through the twilight into the New
City again, until they spotted a street where cabs were passing. They
hailed one, and the girl leaned back in the seat, trembling, as Griffin
said, "Rocket Landing. Hurry."

And then he leaned back, a thousand phantoms flickering through his
agitated mind.
