
He had to get rid of her before he could do anything. He glared at the
girl as they made their way across the Landing Building pavilion toward
the endless rows of loading platforms, wishing he had never agreed to
help her. Instinct told him to run, to leave her there and let her get
aboard her ship as best she could, but he followed her grimly. The
entrance guard passed them without argument when Griffin showed him his
green stripe. "Venus ship? Platforms are down to the right--"

They moved down the rows of silent ships, and then she pointed. It was
a huge ship, with a single light swinging on top of the gantry. "That's
the one."

He glanced up at the ship. The gantry stood tall by her side, and her
airlock was standing open. He pushed the crane buzzer; up above, the
machinery began to squeak and groan as the platform started down.

"Who's down there?" The voice from above was harsh, and Griffin saw a
head appear over the edge of the crane. "What do you want?"

"Free Agent," said Griffin. "I'd like to come aboard and take a look
around."

"Not supposed to start loading for two hours," the voice grumbled.

"We're not shipping, we're just looking."

"All right. Come along."

The crane rumbled down and squeaked to a stop. Griffin and the girl
stepped on the platform, and it started up again. At the top the guard
peered at them suspiciously, hand on his gun belt. He fluoresced the
green stencil on Griffin's arm, grunting. "Who's she?" he said.

"Free loader," said Griffin, tense. "Friend of mine."

The guard didn't like it. It was written a yard wide across his face.
"Going to be long?"

"Not long. Just want to look around."

"Better keep forward, Free Agent. The pile's active."

"We won't go aft." Griffin moved through the lock, and the girl
followed him. He heard a sound, then, a soft, swishing sound that
sounded wrong. He whirled too late as the guard moved toward him.
Powerful arms trapped him, held him tightly, and a hand clamped
unceremoniously across his mouth. Something sharp bit his arm, and he
let out a little scream. And then, like pieces in a puzzle the whole
grotesque picture slammed into place in his mind, and he fought like a
wild man to break loose from the arms that held him.

After a while, he stopped struggling.
