
The first sound he heard was not a sound at all, but a vibration, low,
deep seated, swallowing his whole body as he lay there. He tried to
sit up, and felt the leather bands catch his arms and legs and chest.
He let out a little cry, and fumbled to unbuckle them, and then he
rolled and spun crazily through the air until his boots struck metal,
and caught him tight to the floor. A pang of nausea shot through him;
he stared wide-eyed at the empty cabin, the dozen slanted acceleration
cots, all empty. He struggled to the closed hatchway in front, and
fought it open, his mind screaming. And then he was in the control
room, staring at the empty seats in front of the panel, and above the
rows of glittering keys, the curved plexiglass giving out to the black
expanse of space with its millions of bright pinpoints.

He gave a strangled cry, and pushed up against the glass, staring down
at the still-dwindling discs below him, one pale greenish-blue, the
other, much smaller, dead white against the blackness. And then he was
clawing the glass, screaming and sobbing and cursing like a madman.
He stared out the glass, and down at the panel, and slowly, like a
malignant poison seeping into his mind, he began to realize what it
meant.

He knew now where he was going. He knew now the price-tag. Not to
Venus, not to Mars--it would be too easy to return from there, it would
be idiotic to shanghai a person aboard a ship to take him to Mars or
Venus--he could simply turn around and come back home. Not to Venus,
not to Mars. Not anywhere in the Solar System--

He saw it clearly, as bits of evidence fell into place. Man had
been aiming at the stars for centuries. It was sure to come; the
frontier had expanded year by year--across Africa, across Asia, across
Antarctica--to the moon, to the planets. Always the expanding frontier,
until now, when it had expanded beyond man's reach. For man could not
go to the stars. There was no light-speed drive to carry him there,
the journey would take too long. Once a man had grown to maturity,
and been educated, and reached an age where he could move out on the
long journey, he would be too old. The journey could never take less
than twenty-five or thirty years, with the rocket drive man had, and
man would be too old to be useful when he arrived at his destination.
A man aged 25 at the start of the journey would spend his prime years
in transit; he would be fifty, or sixty, or seventy or more before he
arrived. There could be no round trips, there could be no exploration,
or colonization, or anything else. Man would be too old--

_Unless he be born again_--

But Griffin had been born again. He had a new body, and now, in the
barest infancy of his new life, with sixty or seventy or eighty years
of life left before him, he was on the first lap of the journey--to the
stars. This was the price-tag, this was how the government was using
the techniques which gave men new lives--in order to carry Earth to the
stars.


                                  VI

And then he decided that they weren't going to get away with it. His
despair was giving way to a burning rage. He was trapped, and he
knew it, and the very helplessness infuriated him. He had never been
on a ship before, he knew nothing about controls, or lifeboats, or
navigation, but he knew a little about engines. Properly treated, they
would drive a space ship. Improperly treated, they could explode.

He knew it would mean his life, and he didn't care any more. He started
back through the cabin to the hatchway at the rear. It was closed. He
fell upon it savagely, struggling to throw it open.

"That won't do any good," a voice said behind him. "It's locked."

He whirled, staring at the black-haired girl as if she were a ghost.
And then he began kicking at the hatch again. "I'll break it open,
then," he snarled, "and if you don't like it, that's too bad--"

"Stop it!" The girl was upon him now, wrenching at his wrist. "Stop
it, you silly fool, and listen to me for a minute--"

"I listened to you before, and you sold me out." He struggled to break
away from her. "I don't know where you were hiding, but you sold me
out. It was a great act, but it's over now, and now you can go with
me--"

Then she said: "The ship will touch on Titan for an hour or more. You
can leave it then, if you like."

His jaw sagged, and he stared at her, the fear and bitterness and
despair giving way to confusion. "On--Titan?"

"That's what I said. You didn't think you'd be awake and able to
move about now if the ship were headed out, did you? You'd be under
deep-sleep for two weeks. Use your head."

He gaped at her. His thinking began tumbling down around his ears, and
he grasped at it wildly. "But it's going out--"

"Oh, yes. It's going out--from Titan. With a full load. Men and women
aboard, voluntarily aboard. Men and women just like you."

"Then it is true. We grow old and start to die, and they take us to
the Center and make us new again, so we can be shanghaied aboard ships
and driven out to the stars, whether we like it or not. What's the
matter--is the government afraid of us? Or is it just greedy to hand
the people Centauri on a silver platter?"

"I said you could get off on Titan if you want," the girl snapped.

"Sure," he sneered. "I believe you. Anything you say now, I believe
it. Go ahead, say something more. Say something about the rest of the
suckers that are coming through now, the ones who think they can have a
new life without a price-tag on it. How about them? Can they get off on
Titan too?"

"You've got it wrong, Griffin," the girl said sadly. "You've got it
backwards. Right facts, wrong conclusion. Your cause and effect are
backwards."

"I don't get you." Griffin's voice was leaden.

"You weren't made new again so you could be placed on this ship. You
were placed on this ship because you'd been made new again."

Griffin stared at her. "You mean because I'm different now? Because
there's something wrong with me?"

She hesitated. "In a sense--"

"_In a sense!_ I'm either a whole, complete human being or I'm not!
_Now which is it?_"

"Oh, no, no," cried the girl wearily. "Can't you see that's just the
idea we've been fighting against for so long? Look, Griffin. _You're
alive._ You've got sixty more years of life. A long, useful life. But
if it's not a useful life in the society where you lived before, does
that make it wrong? They have skill and techniques to give perfectly
good new bodies to men and women who would die without them. Could it
ever be right to deny that life to the people who wanted it? Could they
turn them back, and say 'No, we can give you life, but we've decided
not to use it.' Could they do that?"

Griffin shook his head. "What happened? Back when it first started.
What went wrong?"

The girl sat down, facing him. "Some didn't change at all. Some went
back, just as they were before. Others tried it, and went insane. Some
committed suicide. Others lived out lives of utter misery trying to fit
a pattern they could never be part of. They were a kind of human being
which had never existed before--an infant personality superimposed on a
grown, mature body, thrust out into a highly organized, rigid society.
They couldn't survive." She looked up at Griffin. "The government got
the Free Agent legislation through, finally. It helped some, but not
enough. Most of them were looking for something that just didn't exist.
They searched, and floundered, and tried one thing and another, and in
the end they were bitter, and confused, and utterly helpless. So they
went to the stars."

The girl walked out into the control room, and stared out at the bright
pinpoints of light in the blackness. Griffin followed her, his body and
mind both numb. "What about Mars, or Venus?" he said.

"No good. They were just the old Earth society in a different setting,
trying like crazy to duplicate things back on Earth. But on a new
planet, in a new solar system, a _new_ society would have a chance.
On a dozen planets a dozen societies could be created." She laughed
wryly. "You and your price-tag! You can go back to Earth, Griffin. But
you'll die there. You'd never have believed that if we'd told you at
the start. You remembered your old life too well. You thought it would
be so easy to go back to it. We had to let you try, and you tried.
Maybe now you can believe it. You can go back to Earth, if you want to,
or you can ship out and make your own world to live in. You're a Free
Agent. It's up to you."

He heard them coming aboard. He lay still on the acceleration couch,
his eyes closed, pretending to be asleep, but his ears strained for the
familiar sounds, and he heard the crane moving up the side of the ship,
and the people coming aboard.

There was little talking. They moved quietly, and they paid practically
no attention to him. He felt sure that they knew he was awake, but they
came aboard, and took their places, and began to strap themselves in
without a word.

The girl with the black hair was gone. She had work to do, back on
Earth--the same work she had done with him, another flounderer to bring
in, perhaps in a slightly different fashion, but essentially the same.
And someday she, too, would be on the way out--

He waited in silence, and he could not have put into words the thoughts
that flooded his mind. He waited, and his body grew tight; he heard
the sounds coming from below, an occasional shout, the screeching of
machinery, the hiss of airlocks closing. And then the ship was silent.
Still he waited--

A whir started, somewhere in the depths of the ship. It grew to a
growl, then to a roar. In a peal of thunder he felt himself crushed to
the cot, felt his eyelids pressed tight over his eyes, felt his face
muscles sag under the crush of the powerful acceleration, and he knew
the ship was rising in earnest this time.

A thought crossed his mind as he sank into the blackness of the
deep-sleep that would carry him through the acceleration. He would have
smiled, if he could have. They'd told him the truth. A Free Agent could
go anywhere he wanted to go--

Even to the stars.



