
The lamp was not really a light, of course, nor did it faintly resemble
one. What it did, in fact, resemble, was a sleek space cruiser. This
was wholly misleading, for though it was designed for interplanetary
travel, it was to be a one-way voyage. Once in the orbit of Pluto
it would nose down, smash a few feet into the crystalline surface
of frozen ammonia, and remain there forever, standing on end like a
lighthouse. It was at this point that it would cease to be a spaceship
and become a beacon.

At least that was what Professor Salvor-Jones said.

The beacon was three hundred feet long, white in color, for some
mysterious reason, and had cost the government of Earth something less
than seventeen million dollars. It was packed with expensive robotic
equipment, and was designed to be completely self-sustaining, once its
controls were properly set. It did everything for passing starships
that could possibly be expected of a well-reared beacon. It cheered
them on the outward passage, making them feel less lonely. It greeted
them, like a remote, cold Statue of Liberty upon their return, warned
them of lurking meteorite storms within the vicinity of their course,
and advised them of their position with relation to their destination
when they contacted its sensitive radio. But most important, it warned
them to steer clear of Pluto.

It very nearly failed before it had begun all this show of monkish
wayside hospitality, however. It would have failed if it hadn't been
for Knucklebone Smith.

They cut the beaconship loose from its convoy five hundred miles out,
which was sufficient for it to spiral in on the minimum of power it
carried and land safely.

Salvor-Jones and Smith had only to lie in their safety hammocks in the
cramped temporary passenger cubicle. The ship would land by itself.
Their duties began once it had established itself firmly on the bleak
expanse of dark planet below them. They were to adjust the automatic
controls, make tests, and generally see that the thing was as it should
be for the lonely vigil that lay ahead.

Three weeks, Salvor-Jones indicated, should be plenty of time for all
this. When it was finished, they could send a patrol cruiser from
Ganymede to pick them up.

That was what he said but he was a very zealous man, and doted on
thoroughness.

The fact was that they were finished with the tests in seven and a half
hours, and there was nothing to do, unhappily, for the remaining twenty
days except to entertain themselves as best they could, and wait. It
might be said that things went too smoothly.

Professor Salvor-Jones was a smallish man with a square mustache of
regulation black, and a lock of jet hair that hung at times over his
left eye. He had a perpetual motion machine built into him, and a
profound contempt for the normal pace of life.

But worst of all, in view of his predicament, he had Knucklebone Smith.

Salvor-Jones finished his checking at 1800 star time and came into the
living compartment from the chill outer ship, or beacon, as it had now
become. He blew on his hands, put away his check-sheet board, and stood
uncertainly, gnawing his thumb and gazing at the spectacle of Smith
hunkered silently in front of a portable radiant heater. Knucklebone
was, as usual, the picture of contemplative suicide.

"Well, well," said Salvor-Jones briskly.

Smith made no answer. He swallowed thoughtfully, his Adam's apple
convulsing, and continued to stare into the glowing sun of the heater.

"We've not much to do from now on, I'm afraid," Salvor-Jones said,
"until a starship passes within range. Then we'll be able to see how
well it works."

Smith nodded glumly. He was sulking. He had been assigned to assist,
but this little man insisted on doing everything himself. Didn't trust
a damn soul but himself. Pick up a tool and like as not he'd snatch it
from your hand and leave you standing there watching him. Smith hated
people like that.

"Play chess?" Salvor-Jones asked.

"I never played chess," Knucklebone Smith said.

"Quite an assortment of games on board," Salvor-Jones said. "Checkers.
Maybe you'd rather play checkers."

"Never tried it."

"Poker?"

"No."

Salvor-Jones sighed. He got out the animated slide pictures, set up the
screen, and amused himself at length. The slides were mostly those of
lightly clad females in warm climates, doing pleasantly idle things.

After the second slide, Knucklebone switched his chair around so that
his back was to the screen. The girls made him feel too sentimental.
The blue skies and golden beaches made him homesick.
