
On the fifth day Knucklebone Smith was fiddling with a power switch
and blew out a safety fuse. It required some three hours for Professor
Salvor-Jones to repair it, but he was glad for the diversion.

On the eighth day Smith was pottering in the pile room with an electric
torch, making himself a wire bookrack. A lubrication reservoir caught
on fire and a minor generator was ruined.

On the eleventh day he dropped a hammer from the fidley of the power
room to the floor, a hundred feet below. A gas line was smashed.
Salvor-Jones put on a gas mask and went down to fix it. It took quite a
long while.

On the fourteenth day, without the slightest pretext, Salvor-Jones
called Knucklebone Smith a meddling fool. Smith hit him once and that
was that. They didn't speak to each other for four days.

The meteor storm came only three days before their exile was to end. On
Pluto, where the frozen atmosphere lies inert on the surface, there was
nothing to stop the rain of debris from space. It sounded like sporadic
hail on the tough metal hull of the beacon, and their scopes showed the
mass to be more than a million miles in width, streaming in from the
direction of Orion.

Salvor-Jones was worried. There was a tiny blip in the lower corner
of the solar coordinate on the radar screen; a blip that occulted
with alternating brightness and dimness, in a pattern of unnatural
regularity. A ship!

Her radio came in an hour later. She announced her name, _Luna Star_,
and destination, Alpha Centauri. The hail of stones from space was
getting worse. The beacon was built to stand such stress, but a
starship, meeting them head on--!

It was a dangerous situation.

Within the Pluto Lamp a hundred relays clicked and buzzed. Automatic
switches closed. The power pack, deep in the body of the beacon hummed
with sudden power. Even Knucklebone Smith seemed slightly interested.
But nothing happened.

The ship's signal came in loud and clear once more. "This is _Luna
Star_. Come in, robot station Pluto Lamp. Come in Pluto Lamp."

Salvor-Jones sprang for the manual switch and flicked it on. "_Luna
Star_," he screamed, "Do you read me? This is Pluto Lamp. Do you read
me?"

"This is _Luna Star_. We understand the robot station is now in
operation, but manned. Come in if you are there."

"_Luna Star_, do you read me?" They waited a long, tense minute. There
was no answer. "We're not getting through," Salvor-Jones said.

Knucklebone cleared his throat. "There's a red light on over at the
emergency panel. Would that have anything to do with it?"

"You imbecile!" Salvor-Jones said, "Why didn't you say so. It's the
antenna. I knew it. I knew there'd be trouble with the antenna! A
meteorite must have damaged it."

"I guess this thing ain't going to work," Knucklebone said. "We've been
here only a couple of weeks, and look what happens. I never thought it
would be any good anyway."

Salvor-Jones bared his teeth. "There isn't a storm like this one every
twenty-five years," he growled. "Don't sit there; we've got to go up on
the dome. No! Stay where you are. I don't want this job botched." He
began to struggle into his exposure suit.

"If the _Star_ hits it head-on there'll be hell to pay," Knucklebone
said diffidently. "I was in one of these storms once before on an
old crate out in the Belt." He got up and stretched his spidery frame
languidly. Then he went over and took down his impossibly long exposure
suit from its hook.

"What are you doing?" Salvor-Jones said.

"Guess I'll go with you."

"You're going to play hell," Professor Salvor-Jones said in an
unscholarly manner. "What good could you possibly be?"

There was a steely glint in Knucklebone Smith's eyes. Later on, at the
inquiry, Salvor-Jones testified concerning that glint. "Listen," Smith
said, "I guess I'm sick and tired of you trying to play the big hero
all alone on this here tub. A body would think I was a moron. They
picked me out of millions, didn't they? That's Destiny. I guess you
haven't thought about it, but everybody's got a Destiny--something they
can do better than anybody else. Everybody's good at something." It was
a long speech for Knucklebone Smith. There were two red spots of anger
on his sallow cheeks.

"So I've heard," Salvor-Jones said wryly. "Well, come along, but don't
say I didn't warn you. It may be the end of us, you know."

Knucklebone snorted. He had walked in the shadow of death before. A man
had his destiny. Something worthwhile to perform before he kicked off.
And if he had ever done anything worthwhile he couldn't remember it. He
zipped up his suit and reached for his helmet.

The roof hatch, massively armored, opened noiselessly on its hydraulic
supports. The coldness rushed at them, and could not be entirely shut
out by the suits. Smith shivered throughout his long, skinny body.

Clambering out on the roof of the beacon they became aware of what
seemed like a strong wind, but what was, in reality, microscopic
interstellar dust from the storm, traveling at supersonic speed,
flattening their suits against them.

Here and there a pea-sized pebble clanged against the metal hull like a
bullet. Crouching in the shelter of the antenna tower, they scanned its
naked ribs of steel alloy for a break.

At last Salvor-Jones, who knew what he was looking for, found it, six
feet up, where a meteorite had smashed into the coaxial and shorted it
against the frame. He climbed up and went to work, cursing to himself
in his helmet as the death missiles hurtled about him.

It seemed to Salvor-Jones that he had been up there forever, with one
leg draped over a brace, clumsily working with his heavy gloves. The
cold was seeping in more and more in spite of the fact that it could
not have been more than half an hour from the time of his ascent.

He clambered down at last, beating his hands together to restore
circulation.

Knucklebone Smith, who had done nothing, leaned against the tower
on the storm side. He was staring fixedly at something out in that
perpetual night. But there was nothing to see. Only the faint glow of
the bluish-white methane crystals, swirling through the frozen gullies
of the rugged terrain; sweeping around the dark ridges as they were
agitated by the driving stellar dust.

"You'll be killed out there," Salvor-Jones said into his mike. "Get
behind something, quick!"

Smith said nothing. He just stood there, with his back to Salvor-Jones,
contemplating the horizon as the storm rippled his uniform. His
position had not shifted a fraction of an inch. It was this fact
that frightened Salvor-Jones suddenly. He caught his breath, and
crept around the edge of the shelter. He reached out and shook his
assistant's arm.

Knucklebone Smith did not move. There was a gaping hole in the side of
his helmet where a rock had struck. He had frozen to death, standing up.
