
A sudden flurry of unseen particles buffeted Salvor-Jones and bowled
him over. Something big smashed against the roof hatch with such force
that the entire beacon shuddered. The lid of the hatch, its braces torn
from under it, clanged shut. Then the sudden gust abated.

Salvor-Jones crawled over to the escape hatch and looked at it. It was
slightly askew; there was plenty of room to get his hands under the
edge of it. He tugged manfully in an effort to slide it aside enough to
admit him, but in vain. It weighed more than half a ton.

He pried at it with his adjustable wrench but it wouldn't budge. He
looked around for something longer. There was nothing.

Professor Salvor-Jones realized that he was going to die on Pluto. He
wished that he believed in prayer.

He read the gage of his heating unit. Not much longer.

He sat down on the hatch, heedless of the silent flak about him. He
envied Knucklebone Smith over there; the man had never known what hit
him.

Knucklebone was still standing there, tall against the night, rigidly
leaning against the superstructure, an impossible caricature of death.

Something clicked in Salvor-Jones's brain. One faint, mad hope. He
crawled over and tugged at Smith's legs. The tall corpse came crashing
down on top of him.

He seized one unyielding foot, a big, all-important, boot-clad foot
that stuck out at just the right angle, and began to drag Knucklebone
across the width of the dome.

The _Lunar Star_ got through safely. It was turned aside by a last
minute warning from the Pluto Lamp beacon. This impressed the
importance of the Lamp in the minds of the authorities, as is attested
to by history, for it was in service well over one hundred years after
Salvor-Jones's ordeal.

In Selena City there is a small monument, equally dedicated to the
two heroes, Salvor-Jones and Smith. For the professor declared that
Smith had been as much responsible for the success of the Lamp as he,
himself. Hadn't he saved the day, there at the very last?

As for Knucklebone Smith, his frozen body still lies in simple state on
Pluto. There is a faint, fixed smile on his face; or presumably there
is, for Salvor-Jones attests that it was there that night. And it can
hardly have escaped him now.

For it was just as Knucklebone had always said. Every man is good for
something.

Even if it is only to be used for a lever.