
Aug. 6th. Three days. Three days of hell! That's what it has been
since I discovered that damned thing. How he tortures me! He has begun
to mock me. When he thinks he has given an extraordinarily clever
impersonation he shakes with laughter. I can't hear him laugh. But I
see him. And that's worse. I can't stand it much longer!

Aug. 7th. We never know how much we can stand until we go through some
ordeal such as I am now undergoing. But I feel that my nerve is near
the breaking-point.

I have locked the door of my room. Anna leaves a tray outside my door.
Sometimes I eat the food she brings, but more often I don't. My wife
begs me to let her in, but I tell her to go away. I'm afraid to tell
her--I'm afraid to tell anyone. I know what they do with people who
have "hallucinations". No, I can't tell. Neither can I leave. God
knows why, but I can't.

Aug. 8th. It was the day before yesterday that I mentioned his mocking
me. Today--I tremble at the thought--he is beginning to resemble me!
This morning I looked in the mirror and discovered that he had
discarded his rags and was now dressed in one of my suits. I ran to
the wardrobe and discovered his clothes hanging where mine had been. I
turned and faced him. He laughed and pointed toward my hands and feet.
They were bloated beyond recognition. I dare not guess how far this
change has gone. I can write no more today.

Aug. 9th. The change is complete. He looks more like me than I do
myself. He has grown more cruel with the change. He taunts me with my
ugliness. Finally I could stand it no longer. I fled from the room. At
last I found the thing I was looking for--a mirror. When I came face
to face with what I now am I nearly collapsed. Yes, he has taken my
form. God pity me! I've taken his!

I slunk back to the room in horror. Back to his laughter and the hell
that is now my existence. God knows what to-morrow will bring!

Aug. 10th. Seven days since that devil has been in the mirror. I have
prayed to God that it may be the last. It will! I know it will! He, in
the mirror, senses it too. I see the look of apprehension in his eyes.
Damn him! It's my turn to snarl in triumph now. For when I lay down
this pen, for the last time, perhaps, I shall leap through the mirror.
And he exists only in the mirror. God help me! _I am laying down my
pen!_

[Illustration]
