








                           The York Problem

                         BY HERBERT D. KASTLE

     _Warfare, diplomacy, art, music, science, religion--have all
     failed to secure peace for the world. But still there is hope
       for Mankind. Another experiment remains: change the color
                 line--and let's see what happens...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, February 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


They sat around the table, thirteen men dressed in the prescribed blue
of their office. They spoke quietly, without tension, and they all
seemed alike. Commissioner Dobu summed up this meeting of the Earth
Council of Prevention and Correction of Non-Conformity.

"It is to be regretted," he said, "that the juvenile deliquency problem
remains unsolved in York. It is also to be noted, and included in the
local reports of the sector captains, that the problem has existed some
six hundred years, since 3046, speaking in general figures. Therefore,
the fault lies not with us--though this point is to be hinted at rather
than stated per se, Peaceful Sirs."

The council members accepted his aside, with brief nods and briefer
smiles, for the problem of York was nothing to smile at.

Dobu cleared his throat and continued. "Since the Federated Galactic
Bill of Inherent Human Rights forbids psychiatric treatment or
syndromic surgery against an individual's wishes, and since the
people of York under the fanatic tutorship of their church masters
consider psychiatry a sacrilege, there is no easy solution--no humane
solution. But people who have refused all advice, aid and education
for six hundred years no longer deserve humane treatment. Therefore,
as we have done on so many other occasions, and as has been done
by our predecessors, we present what we feel is the only solution.
Namely, that York as a community, and the people of York as a whole,
be eliminated in whatever manner the Federated Galactic Council sees
fit. Sterilization appears to be the method most suitable. But even
euthanasia would not be out of order."

Mala Wang yawned as she read the commissioner's report. It was like all
the others she'd sent to Galactic Council in the four years she'd been
with the CPCNC. And nothing had ever happened; not unless you counted
the Report-Received flashes.

She inserted a fresh strip into the feeder, worked the keys
efficiently, and began sending. "Federated Galactic Council, Centauri
Two, Code CPCNC-Earth. Most Peaceful Sirs: In the meeting of July,
3646, the problem of York, its adult inhabitants, and more particularly
its juvenile delinquents...."

Some forty minutes later, she was finished. She shut off the feeder,
opened the ejector, and waited. Before she'd finished buffing the nails
on her left hand, the ejector began clicking. "Report Received" emerged
on the tape. Mala shrugged and pushed back her chair, but another
series of clicks stopped her.

"Urgently request operator stand by for results emergency session,
Federated Galactic Council, being called at this time. Business:
Continuing reports of CPCNC-Earth on York Sector."

Mala stared at the tape, and slowly her eyes grew wide and her
lips parted. Then she threw the inter-departmental switch and rang
Commissioner Dobu. As soon as Dobu's face materialized on the screen,
she said, "Peaceful Sir! I've just received a message that indicates
the Galactic Council is going to take action on your reports!"

A half-hour later, the Earth Council of Prevention and Correction of
Non-Conformity was reconvened, waiting for the Galactic Council's
decision. They were all wondering whether it would be sterilization or
euthanasia.

       *       *       *       *       *

John Stevens was irritable. He'd been that way for weeks now, or was it
months? Anyway, life was getting to be a foul-blooded pain!

He saw the empty can, kicked it, watched it bounce along the cracked
pavement. When it stopped bouncing, he was again faced with his
problem: What to do on a hot July afternoon?

He considered going down to Frank's Vizio Palace, but decided against
it. Not that he was afraid of the Sinais, but it was too hot to invade
enemy territory alone. Besides, he had brained all this month's vizios
and new ones wouldn't be in for at least a week. So he leaned against
the tenement's warped wall and looked for more cans to kick. On a day
like this, he thought, a kid could almost wish vacation was over and
school back in operation.

Then he saw Pete Smith and waved a languid hand. "How's the
pure-blood?" he asked.

"Living," Pete answered. "And I can see Mr. Aryan's doing all right
for--"

Both froze as the patrol bubble turned the corner on racing treads and
pulled up short. John considered making a run for it, but saw it was
too late. Pete had arrived at the same conclusion.

"They picked our lips on the vocal-box," Pete whispered. "We're in
trouble."

John didn't have a chance to answer. The two Blasts were out of
their bubble and coming toward them. The tall one said mechanically,
"Section twenty-seven, Earth Ordinances, using profane language on
public lanes. Subsection twelve, covering classification of terms of
racial-superiority as profanity due to its negation of established fact
and the harmful effects--"

"Oh, shove it, Blast," Pete muttered. "We know the public scroll. So
you picked us up on the box. So what?"

The CPCNC officer looked at him. "You people never will learn. Why
don't you accept the status quo, learn to live like human beings?"

"That's what I always say," John murmured sarcastically.

The Blast stepped in and slapped him, hard. John rocked back on his
heels, clenched his fists, but did nothing. The Blast slapped him
again, not quite so hard but with a great deal more deliberation. John
bit his lip and dropped his eyes.

"Yeah," he said. "Why don't _we_ act like human beings!"

The second Blast, a shorter, heavier man, waved his companion away.
"Easy, Farn. Don't let this Yorker get you." He turned to the two
adolescents, something like pity in his brown eyes. "We'll let it pass,
this time. But we've got you down on our photopads. The next offense
means Re-education House."

Neither boy said a word, but John's cheek burned and something in his
chest burned even more.

The conciliatory Blast hesitated; then said, "Why don't you boys come
down to Composite Youth Center? We've got the latest vizios, athletic--"

"We're members of Race-Through-God," John said, a quiet satisfaction
in his voice. "The scroll says we can't be forced to attend CYC. Our
master told us that. We go to meetings regularly."

Farn, the Blast who had slapped John, whirled around and stamped back
to the bubble. "C'mon, Stan!" he called. "This filthy slum sickens me!"

Stan nodded, but lowered his voice to a confidential murmur. "You'll
never get out of York, be issued a space visa, or do anything worth
while if you stick to the race-church stuff, boys. You don't know what
the Galaxy is like--the planets, the beautiful cities. It's really
something. Just sign up for CYC. After that, you can qualify for
Integration and meet some really beautiful ladies."

"We got our own ladies," John said, sullen and irritated. And his
emotions bothered him. He should be enraged, after the slaps and
sacriligeous lecture; not irritated. "We don't want Integration."

Stan shrugged wearily. "All right. So you'll stick in this archaic
hole, and eventually try to kill one of us, and end up on a euthanasia
table. And one day the Galactic Council will get fed up and clean out
the lot of you." He turned to the bubble, speaking over his shoulder.
"Watch your steps. Any gang fights, stealing, or profanity will get you
six months. The Blasts in Re-education won't slap--they'll use electros
on your fannies!"

When the bubble went down the street and around the corner, Pete spat
eloquently. John was still fighting his irritation, his vast sense of
dissatisfaction, but he spat too, and said, "Man, I'd love to do a
carve on all Outsiders!"

"John!" a shrill voice called. "John, you getting into trouble again?"

John turned light blue eyes to the left and looked at the ground floor
window. "Oh, ease up, Ma! Can't an Aryan stand up to a foul-blood
Outsider?"

"John!" the gray-haired, prematurely-old woman screeched. Her eyes
darted up and down the street and her voice dropped to an intense
whisper. "Don't you use those words in public! A profanity charge is
all we need, what with your father drinking--"

John tried to interrupt, but she raised her voice again and shouted him
down.

"Don't you go getting into trouble, bringing those Blasts around
bothering God-fearing folk who want to be left alone! It's you kids
that make it tough for the rest of us. That rabble would let us be if
you--"

John rubbed his short-cropped blond hair in exasperation, and stalked
to the corner. Pete followed, and they paused near the curb, ignoring
the tirade which continued behind them. Finally, the woman stopped
speaking and drew her head back inside the window.

The street was old, cracked in many places. But it didn't matter.
The only traffic was the ramshackle public snake which ran once
every half-hour, and an occasional transport, and the Blast bubbles
which were constantly on the prowl for profanity, theft, attacks on
Outsiders, and juvenile delinquency.

"For once in a foul-blood lifetime," John exploded, "let's cut a
different caper! I'm sick of fighting the Sinais and Albines and Sons
of Musso. I want Upper City, where we can pick up some high loot."

Pete's thick jaw fell open and he stared at his blond, slender
companion. "Upper City! But the Blasts--"

"It's a free Galaxy, ain't it?" John snapped. "We're allowed anywhere
our disks take us, ain't we? So I want to travel Upper City."

"They'll watch us," Pete muttered. "Even if we could grab some loot, I
don't like it there. My old man works as custodian in a food vendro.
I went with him a few times and I didn't like it. The Outsiders look
at us as if we smelled bad, and they don't sit near when we're on the
snake. I tell you it's tough, John. Let's get a few of the boys and
raid the Sons of Musso."

John hesitated, and then decided that as leader of the Adolphs he had
to follow through on what he'd said. He moved into the street and
walked casually to the snake stop. "If you're jetting out, okay. But I
don't operate that way."

Pete didn't move. "You been there lately?" he jeered. "You know what
it's like?"

John acted as if he were too disgusted to answer. He'd been to Upper
City several times, but that was years ago, when he was a baby and his
mother had gone against the Divine-Angel-Church master's wishes and had
him inoculated against cancer. Everyone was doing it on the sly anyway,
so she took him for his three shots. Then she'd switched to the
Race-Through-God sect, and it was like the other, only there the master
let it be known he'd taken his anti-cancer shots like everyone else.
But John didn't remember much of Upper City, except that the people had
looked at them with amusement and some contempt. He'd wondered why they
did, but when he asked his mother she'd said he'd find out for himself.

He had. The foul-blood trash! They had no pride. And they were all
alike!

He searched for a disk as the snake appeared at the corner. The jointed
series of cars moved slowly on its tractor-like treads, turbo exhaust
filtering through the block-tube high on the engine. Each year it
seemed to get slower, noisier, shabbier.

       *       *       *       *       *

John stepped into car three as the snake stopped. He placed his disk
in the slot, waited a moment, then moved inside as the Clear buzzer
sounded. He'd tried to fake his disk a few times, cutting imitations
from plastic cans, but the auto-guard was too damn smart. It always
rang for the Blast each snake carried in a little booth hinged to the
last car.

He found a seat near a window and glanced around. Not half-filled this
early in the day. Later, when four o'clock came, it would be jammed. He
turned to the window and watched the familiar shabby streets flow by.
As they entered Sinai territory, he felt a tightening of the stomach
muscles. But then he laughed and remembered he was on the snake, not
invading. Nevertheless, when two big kids got on and took seats across
the aisle, he knew a moment of fear. They were Sinais, all right. He'd
seen the muscular one in a caper last winter. And they knew him for an
Adolph.

They exchanged glares, and John kept his face tough. The muscular Sinai
took out a knife, holding it low so no one but John could see and began
to run his finger over the blade. John reached for his own sticker;
then stopped. He grinned and whistled ONE GALAXY, ONE PEOPLE. The
Sinais didn't like it. It was equivalent to calling them Outsiders. But
their corner came along and they had to hop it. John turned back to the
window. He'd get his sticker into that muscular one; see if he didn't!

"Your sister sleeps with Outsiders," a soft voice murmured.

John jerked around, and saw the three kids shuffling past his seat.
They grinned at him and the soft-spoken one said, "You don't like it,
Adolph? Step off at Benito Street and we'll have it out."

John controlled his rage. "Some other time," he said, voice calm. "I'm
capering Upper City today. Maybe you boys would like to declare a truce
and come along?"

They all stared at him. Then the one who did all the talking said,
"Hell, he's a foul-blood liar!"

"Sure," John said as they slumped into seats. "Follow me to the Split
and see."

"Okay," another Son of Musso said. "We will." And the three of them
grinned at him.

John grinned back, but he felt far from Aryan inside. Now he wouldn't
be able to jet out. Now he'd really have to cross the Split.

He began to sweat, hoping the snake would break down along the route,
that a Blast would stop him from crossing, that the Earth would blow
up! Anything to keep from having to cross the Split. He knew now that
he'd never meant to do it--just take a ride, kill some time, and bluff
Pete when he got back.

Ten minutes later, the Last Corner sign lit up at car end. The three
Sons of Musso strolled out into the street and waited, standing quietly
under the eyes of the Blasts who were always around the dry river bed
which separated York from Upper City.

This was the Split, and John had to leave the car. He came out, walked
past the three kids toward the span, and stopped at the gate. "One to
Upper City," he said, throat dry.

The Blast gave him a sharp look. "Why do you want to go there, boy?"

"Free Galaxy, ain't it?" John muttered.

The Blast shrugged, handed him a transfer disk, lifted the gate. John
had a momentary surge of satisfaction as he heard the Sons of Musso
talking excitedly behind him. It wasn't every day that a kid from York
invaded Upper City. Then he was at the shiny new snake and his stomach
tightened and he was sweating.

He kept walking, got on the fifth car, took a seat in the last row. He
was the only passenger, but he'd seen others waiting in the cars he'd
passed. Older folks. People who worked in Upper City, doing various
menial tasks for the Outsiders.

When the Blast walked through on his way to the back-box, John ran to
the port and looked out across the one-piece duralume span. The Sons
of Musso were still there. Before he could make a decision, the snake
eased forward fluidly and then hit high speed.

John Stevens was frightened, but he composed his features and returned
to his seat. He sat straight and tried to remember what the master had
said about maintaining dignity in front of Outsiders, showing them the
stuff pure-bloods were made of. But the words fled his mind as he gazed
out of the window.

Upper City was really something. Wide thoroughfares lacing over and
under each other in stop-free throughways. Thousands--no, _millions_
of private bubbles rolling along with gaily-dressed passengers!
Low, square, bright-looking buildings. Trees and grass and flowers
everywhere. And then, for one glorious moment, they were in Bunche
Spaceport, the greatest on Earth!

John drank in the huge, upright needles that stood gleaming in the July
sun, waiting to blast off for planets where even greater cities and
spaceports were established. If only he, John Stevens of York, could
get inside one of those ships and go--

Deep bitterness hit him, and all the irritation he'd felt for the past
weeks was back. They don't let us do anything! he thought. They keep
us poor; in dirt and ignorance! That's what the master had said. And
he'd added that the Outsiders were afraid of Aryans. That's why they
persecuted them.

John was seeing the full majesty of Upper City now, the spacious
walks and busy drives and sun-filled buildings. And he couldn't help
wondering why his people refused Integration.

He suddenly realized that the car had filled with passengers, with
Outsiders. He also realized that the twin seat next to his was just
about the only one left in the jammed car. He felt his face stiffen,
felt the hatred rise in his blood; and then the girl flounced up the
aisle and hesitated, looking at him. She sat down.

Not more than sixteen, John thought. Just right for him. And she sure
was cute. Lovely golden skin--

He stopped the thoughts there.

It wasn't right to think that way. The master at Race-Through-God
wouldn't approve. Not that John attended church regularly, as he'd told
the Blast back in York. But still, such thoughts weren't right. They
smacked of Integration.

He kept his head still, but flicked his eyes around the crowded car.
They'd made another stop, and now Outsiders were standing. They didn't
seem to resent him, or, for that matter, pay him any particular
attention. It was just that _he_ felt different, and that made him
angry, and that led to his standing up and moving to the port and
getting off at the next corner--all this instead of being sensible and
staying on the snake until it returned to the span and York.

But even as he stepped into the street, he was remembering how that
girl had looked, with her big brown eyes and dark hair and golden skin.

He muttered, "Damned, non-Aryan, foul-blood Outsiders!" Then
walked quickly down the street when he realized he'd used terms of
racial-superiority. Getting picked up here for profanity wouldn't be
fun. He'd get six months in Re-education House for sure.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a hot, bright day and Upper City was clean, fragrant and
beautiful, but John Stevens wasn't enjoying himself. He was filled
with nagging irritation, growing angrier by the second without
knowing exactly why. He began to search the eyes of people passing
by--well-dressed Outsiders in their one-piece coroplast suits, colors
ranging through all the hues of the rainbow. He felt shabby in his old
brown plasts. Those eyes seemed to be sneering at him. They seemed to
be looking at him with disgust and contempt.

He was about to turn around and go back to the snake stop, about to
obey the warning bell that had begun ringing in his brain, when it
happened. It wasn't much, and yet it was the last straw--the one that
broke the normal behavior patterns and left him at the mercy of his own
emotions.

A young woman, sleek and well-groomed, was passing with a little boy of
about five. The child stopped dead on seeing John. In spite of himself,
John stopped too. The child stared at John, eyes wide and filled with
wonder.

"Mommy!" he shrilled. "Mommy, _look_ at him!"

The woman tried to hush her son, to drag him away, but the child eluded
her grasp and danced back, still staring at John. "Look at him, Mommy!
What a funny color--"

John raised his hand as if to strike the child. He didn't mean it,
not really, but he wanted to stop that high-pitched voice, stop those
amazed eyes from examining him. The child screamed and ran to his
mother. The mother shrank back, enfolding the little boy in her arms,
and shouted, "Help! Help me, please!"

John turned and ran, almost into the arms of a tall Blast. He stopped,
whirled around, and headed back past the woman and child. He cut left
at the next corner, ran faster than ever before in his life, cut
right, and left, and kept going until the breath rasped through his
throat like liquified metal. But even as he ran, he was without fear.
He was too angry now to be frightened. And it was anger such as he'd
never before experienced. A sickening, confusing, red-hazed mélange of
emotion that had about it a nightmare quality.

He had to slow down, and saw that it was all right. He'd lost
that Blast, left the entire scene far behind. "Lousy foul-blooded
Outsiders!" he panted, and at the same time knew that it wasn't just
the Outsiders. It was his mother, and his father, and the slum, and the
gangs, and the poverty. It was his life he hated, his life he raged at.

This then was the irritation he'd felt in the past weeks, now
transformed by Upper City into a maniacal rage.

John Stevens was leader of the Adolphs. John Stevens wasn't even close
to being the biggest or strongest boy in his crowd. But he was the
smartest. And this raw, basic, but still superior intellect worked
against him as he stalked the wide avenues of Upper City.

A caper, he thought. He'd pull a big caper, return with loot, justify
this visit, take out his anger on these people--these scum who had made
his life so poor.

Or was it his mother and father who had made his life poor? Was it the
masters who had done that? Why had he come here when it brought such
confusion, such pain?

Another quick change of thought. He blocked everything from his mind
but the red haze of rage; fed it, allowed it to grow to the point where
it swallowed everything but his desire to strike back.

He didn't know where he was, where he was going, and he no longer saw
the Outsiders. He had regained his wind now, and began walking quickly,
almost running.

It was later, much later, when he finally found the right street, and
the right vendro, and the focal point for his hatred. Clothing. New,
bright, expensive coroplast suits. Eight hundred disks and up! More
than his father made in three months. More than John Stevens had ever
seen in a lump sum.

The street was quiet, empty of pedestrians. He walked past the vendro,
casing it with eyes that saw nothing but inner hate. Something
sane--something still resisting the never-before-experienced
rage--cried out that he wasn't being smart, that he wasn't checking for
Blasts, that he couldn't think straight enough for a caper, especially
one in Upper City. But he was back at the vendro now, and he was going
inside.

There was only the commersh, and an old man magnetting dust from the
floor. The commersh was an Outsider, naturally. But the old man was
one of York's folk, and this made John Stevens lose whatever grain of
caution he might have retained. His folk, slaving for these scum!

The commersh was moving toward him, face bland, only his dark eyes
showing something other than serenity at seeing a kid from York. "Are
you sure you have the right--" he began, and then gasped as John pulled
his knife and snapped the eight-inch blade free of the haft.

John pressed the blade against the Outsider's stomach and said, "Five
suits, the best, and I'm with you every foul-blood inch of the way!"

"Don't, son!" the old man said from the side. "Get out before--"

John half-turned his head, and then felt the numbness strike his body.
He stood there, completely rigid for a moment, and then found he could
breathe and move his lips and shift his eyes. The commersh stepped
back, pressed a red button on the counter.

"You Yorkers must be insane," he said mildly. "Do you think we haven't
got adequate protection against criminals of our own group, not to
say such pitiful amateurs as you? I can paralyze a whole vendro full
of people with this little ornament on my wrist." He showed John the
metallic strap and small case. "It's six months Re-education House for
you."

The old man shuffled closer, peered at John, said, "The Blasts will be
here soon. You can talk. Tell me your name and I'll get word to your
folks and your master. Maybe they can help."

The rage was so strong now that John barely heard the old man. He was
screaming inside, bellowing insane things that couldn't get through his
rigid throat. But the words, "You can talk," penetrated, and he calmed
himself.

He tried hard, and squeaking sounds came through his lips. He shaped
the words, and then had nothing to say. There wasn't anything bad
enough, anything that could hurt this Outsider, anything that could
penetrate his shield of superiority.

And then he remembered the ancient word, the forbidden word, the
cardinal sin that meant death if used. He'd heard it one night when his
father had gotten hold of enough medicinal prychol for a long drunk,
and had ranted and raved against the Outsiders.

"Nigger!" John screamed. "Niggers, all of you! Billions of foul-blood
Niggers! Planets full of lousy Niggers! All alike! All brown! Only we
are white! Only we are pure-bloods! Only we aren't Nig--"

The paralysis intensified, everything stopped, he couldn't breathe, he
wanted desperately to breathe. And, more than that, in a final instant
of clarity, he wanted to say that it was all a mistake--everything he'd
said, everything he'd thought, everything he'd lived by. He too would
be a golden brown, like the billions of others. It was his own folk
who were the outsiders, but it wasn't their fault either. It was the
fault of those few thousand who'd refused Integration when all the rest
of Earth's population had decided on mixed breeding as a solution to
human conflict. And that was six hundred years ago, and the cults had
formed in York, and no one knew how to break the pattern of hatred,
envy and fear.

But he was falling into a long tube that had no light and had no end.

That girl on the snake, that lovely girl with the sweet smell and soft
eyes and golden skin, that composite of all the white, black, brown,
yellow and red races of Earth would never be his. The space ships and
wonderful planets would never be his. _Never_, he thought, _because I
am dead._

He was wrong. He wasn't dead. He opened his eyes later and vomited and
was then hauled to his feet and stripped and given fresh clothing. He
was taken by two Outsiders--only he didn't think of them that way any
more, only used the term because he had no others--was taken by them to
a white room and pushed inside and left there alone as the port slid
shut.

A voice spoke from the smooth white walls. "CPCNC-Earth urges you to
accept psychiatric treatment."

"No," John said automatically. He didn't want his brain touched. There
were stories told by the masters--

The voice spoke again. "Very well. You have used the term of utmost
profanity to villify a citizen of Upper City. The Galactic Scroll calls
for a penalty of death. However, because of your youth, and probable
syndromic history, the sentence is reduced to ten years in Re-education
House. Have you anything to say?"

John fought not to cry out. Ten years! That was worse than death! Six
months was enough to break a man, and ten years would drive him mad.

He'd wanted to say he was ready for CYC. He'd wanted to say he was
anxious for the time when he'd be eligible for Integration, when
he'd be sent to another part of Earth and allowed to mingle with the
golden-skinned people and so lose his hatreds, fears and tensions. But
now he couldn't. Because it wasn't a matter of free choice any longer.
It was an escape from terror, from ten years in hell.

Later, he was told that this room would be his home for the next ten
years. He didn't answer the unseen voice, nor touch the food that was
given him through the minor-port. He decided he would use the only
means of escape men had ever found in Re-education House. He would
starve himself to death.

He meant it.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the council room not far away, the thirteen members of CPCNC-Earth
were considerably more subdued. They'd had an hour of waiting, and an
hour of thinking. Each was now wrestling with his conscience, wondering
what portion of responsibility was his in the coming decision. Of
course, everyone in the Galaxy agreed that York's eight hundred
thousand residents had to be eliminated since they were incorrigible
race-god fanatics. But now that the moment was almost at hand,
sterilization seemed quite drastic, and euthanasia--

To a man, they looked up as Mala entered the chamber. "Most Peaceful
Sir," she began, stopping before Commissioner Dobu's chair. But
Dobu snatched the transcription from her hand, mumbled over the
code-identification and formal introductions, and read the meat of the
report in a voice that trembled only slightly.

"After years of work, our scientists on Centauri Two have produced
the answer to the York problem. Four million units, liquid, of a new
geneological agent is en route to Earth, York Sector, for immediate
administration to the white population. The effect produced by
induction of this agent into the bloodstream will be an instantaneous
change of pigmentation to accepted norm, and subsequent loss of
racial tension. Change is permanent, and will be transmitted to
offspring. Administration will be initiated by paralysis of entire
white population, said method to be launched immediately. Shipment
of geneological agent should arrive Bunche Spaceport, 22 hundred
hours, day-this-report. Within five days after change of pigmentation,
population of York is to be separated into family units and sent to
as many different Galactic sectors as is possible. This order applies
to all white residents, not excluding those found outside of York, or
those in re-education institutions."

       *       *       *       *       *

John Stevens didn't hear the shout that went up from thirteen relieved
and delighted men. He was entering the second hour of his fast unto the
death.

He couldn't know that he'd fail to complete a single day of it.




