
Burton brought out a steel tape-measure. The hole was four and
three-eighths inches across. It was perfectly circular and about sixteen
inches long. And four feet above the ground.

"But why?" said Randolph. "Why should anyone bore a four-inch tunnel
through a rock way out in the middle of the desert?"

"Religious symbol," said Janus. He looked around, one hand on his gun.
"We'd better keep an eye out--maybe we've landed on sacred ground or
something."

"A totem _hole_, perhaps," Allenby suggested.

"Oh. I don't know," Randolph said--to Janus, not Allenby. As I've
mentioned, we always ignored Allenby's puns. "Note the lack of
ornamentation. Not at all typical of religious articles."

"On Earth," Gonzales reminded him. "Besides, it might be utilitarian,
not symbolic."

"Utilitarian, how?" asked Janus.

"An altar for snakes," Burton said dryly.

"Well," said Allenby, "you can't deny that it has its _holy_ aspects."

"Get your hand away, will you, Peters?" asked Janus.

I did. When Janus's camera had clicked, I bent again and peered through
the hole. "It sights on that low ridge over there," I said. "Maybe it's
some kind of surveying setup. I'm going to take a look."

"Careful," warned Janus. "Remember, it may be sacred."

As I walked away, I heard Allenby say, "Take some scrapings from the
inside of the hole, Gonzales. We might be able to determine if anything
is kept in it...."

One of the stumpy, purplish, barrel-type cacti on the ridge had a long
vertical bite out of it ... as if someone had carefully carved out a
narrow U-shaped section from the top down, finishing the bottom of the U
in a neat semicircle. It was as flat and cleancut as the inside surface
of a horseshoe magnet.

I hollered. The others came running. I pointed.

"Oh, my God!" said Allenby. "Another one."

The pulp of the cactus in and around the U-hole was dried and
dead-looking.

Silently Burton used his tape-measure. The hole measured four and
three-eighths inches across. It was eleven inches deep. The semicircular
bottom was about a foot above the ground.

"This ridge," I said, "is about three feet higher than where we landed
the ship. I bet the hole in the rock and the hole in this cactus are on
the same level."
