
Half an hour later, we spotted more holes, about a mile down the
'canal,' still on a line, marching along the desert, through cacti,
rocks, hills, even through one edge of the low vegetation of the 'canal'
for thirty feet or so. It was the damnedest thing to bend down and look
straight through all that curling, twisting growth ... a round tunnel
from either end.

We followed the holes for about a mile, to the rim of an enormous
saucerlike valley that sank gradually before us until, miles away, it
was thousands of feet deep. We stared out across it, wondering about the
other side.

Allenby said determinedly, "We'll burrow to the _bottom_ of these holes,
once and for all. Back to the ship, men!"

We hiked back, climbed in and took off.

At an altitude of fifty feet, Burton lined the nose of the ship on the
most recent line of holes and we flew out over the valley.

On the other side was a range of hefty hills. The holes went through
them. Straight through. We would approach one hill--Burton would
manipulate the front viewscreen until we spotted the hole--we would pass
over the hill and spot the other end of the hole in the rear screen.

One hole was two hundred and eighty miles long.

Four hours later, we were halfway around Mars.

Randolph was sitting by a side port, chin on one hand, his eyes
unbelieving. "All around the planet," he kept repeating. "All around the
planet...."

"Halfway at least," Allenby mused. "And we can assume that it continues
in a straight line, through anything and everything that gets in its
way...." He gazed out the front port at the uneven blue-green haze of a
'canal' off to our left. "For the love of Heaven, why?"

Then Allenby fell down. We all did.

Burton had suddenly slapped at the control board, and the ship braked
and sank like a plugged duck. At the last second, Burton propped up the
nose with a short burst, the ten-foot wheels hit desert sand and in five
hundred yards we had jounced to a stop.

Allenby got up from the floor. "Why did you do that?" he asked Burton
politely, nursing a bruised elbow.

Burton's nose was almost touching the front port. "Look!" he said, and
pointed.

About two miles away, the Martian village looked like a handful of
yellow marbles flung on the desert.
