
We checked our guns. We put on our oxygen-masks. We checked our guns
again. We got out of the ship and made damned sure the airlock was
locked.

An hour later, we crawled inch by painstaking inch up a high sand dune
and poked our heads over the top.

The Martians were runts--the tallest of them less than five feet
tall--and skinny as a pencil. Dried-up and brown, they wore loincloths
of woven fiber.

They stood among the dusty-looking inverted-bowl buildings of their
village, and every one of them was looking straight up at us with
unblinking brown eyes.

The six safeties of our six guns clicked off like a rattle of dice. The
Martians stood there and gawped.

"Probably a highly developed sense of hearing in this thin atmosphere,"
Allenby murmured. "Heard us coming."

"They thought that landing of Burton's was an earthquake," Randolph
grumbled sourly.

"Marsquake," corrected Janus. One look at the village's scrawny
occupants seemed to have convinced him that his life was in no danger.

Holding the Martians covered, we examined the village from atop the
thirty-foot dune.

The domelike buildings were constructed of something that looked like
adobe. No windows--probably built with sandstorms in mind. The doors
were about halfway up the sloping sides, and from each door a stone ramp
wound down around the house to the ground--again with sandstorms in
mind, no doubt, so drifting dunes wouldn't block the entrances.

The center of the village was a wide street, a long sandy area some
thirty feet wide. On either side of it, the houses were scattered at
random, as if each Martian had simply hunted for a comfortable place to
sit and then built a house around it.

"Look," whispered Randolph.

One Martian had stepped from a group situated on the far side of the
street from us. He started to cross the street, his round brown eyes on
us, his small bare feet plodding sand, and we saw that in addition to a
loincloth he wore jewelry--a hammered metal ring, a bracelet on one
skinny ankle. The Sun caught a copperish gleam on his bald narrow head,
and we saw a band of metal there, just above where his eyebrows should
have been.

"The super-chief," Allenby murmured. "Oh, _shaman_ me!"

As the bejeweled Martian approached the center of the street, he glanced
briefly at the ground at his feet. Then he raised his head, stepped with
dignity across the exact center of the street and came on toward us,
passing the dusty-looking buildings of his realm and the dusty-looking
groups of his subjects.

He reached the slope of the dune we lay on, paused--and raised small
hands over his head, palms toward us.

"I think," Allenby said, "that an anthropologist would give odds on that
gesture meaning peace."

He stood up, holstered his gun--without buttoning the flap--and raised
his own hands over his head. We all did.
