
The pebbles were getting hot. The sky was big and blue. He looked at
his fingers and saw the way the sun burned on every black hair. He
looked at his boots and the dust on them. Suddenly he felt very happy
because he made a decision. I won't go to sleep, he thought. I'm having
nightmares, so why sleep. There's your solution.

He made a routine. From nine o'clock in the morning, which was this
minute, until twelve, he would walk around and see the planetoid. He
would write on a pad with a yellow pencil everything he saw. Then he
would sit down and open a can of oily sardines and some canned fresh
bread with good butter on it. From twelve thirty until four he would
read nine chapters of _War and Peace_. He took the book from the
wreckage, and laid it where he might find it later. There was a book of
T. S. Eliot's poetry, too. That might be nice.

Supper would come at five-thirty and then from six until ten he
would listen to the radio from Earth. There would be a couple of bad
comedians telling jokes and a bad singer singing some song, and the
latest news flashes, signing off at midnight with the UN anthem.

After that?

He felt sick.

I'll play solitaire until dawn, he thought. I'll sit up and drink hot
black coffee and play solitaire, no cheating, until sunrise.

Ho ho, he thought.

"What did you say?" he asked himself.

"I said 'Ha ha'," he replied. "_Some_ time, you'll have to sleep."

"I'm wide awake," he said.

"Liar," he retorted, enjoying the conversation.

"I feel fine," he said.

"Hypocrite," he replied.

"I'm not afraid of the night, or sleep, or anything," he said.

"_Very_ funny," he said.

He felt bad. He wanted to sleep. And the fact that he was afraid of
sleep made him want to lie down all the more and shut his eyes and curl
up. "Comfy-cozy?" asked his ironic censor.

"I'll just walk and look at the rocks and the geological formations and
think how good it is to be alive," he said.

"Ye gods," cried his censor. "William Saroyan!"

You'll go on, he thought, maybe one day, maybe one night, but what
about the next night and the next, and the _next_? Can you stay awake
_all_ that time, for six nights? Until the rescue ship comes? Are you
_that_ good, _that_ strong?

The answer was no.

What are you afraid of? I don't know. Those voices. Those sounds. But
they can't hurt you, can they?

They _might_. You've got to face them some time. Must I? Brace up to
it, old man. Chin up, and all that rot.

He sat down on the hard ground. He felt very much like crying. He felt
as if life was over and he was entering new and unknown territory. It
was such a deceiving day, with the sun warm; physically, he felt able
and well, one might fish on such a day as this, or pick flowers or kiss
a woman or anything. But in the midst of a lovely day, what did one get?

Death.

Well, hardly _that_.

Death, he insisted.

He lay down and closed his eyes. He was tired of messing around.

All right, he thought, if you _are_ death, come get me. I want to know
what all this damned nonsense is about.

Death came.
