
Leonard smiled a rictal smile. He felt ghastly. How long have you
waited? he demanded.

"How long is _time_?" Ten thousand years? "Perhaps." Ten million years?
"Perhaps."

What are you? Thoughts, spirits, ghosts? "All of those, and more."
Intelligences? "Precisely." How did you survive?

_Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee_, sang the chorus, far away.

_Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh_, sang another army, waiting to fight.

"Once upon a time, this was fertile land, a rich planet. And there were
two nations, strong nations, led by two strong men. I, Iorr. And he,
that one who calls himself Tylle. And the planet declined and gave way
to nothingness. The peoples and the armies languished in the midst of
a great war which had lasted five thousand years. We lived long lives
and loved long loves, drank much, slept much, fought much. And when
the planet died, our bodies withered, and, only in time, and with much
science, did we survive."

Survive, wondered Leonard Sale. But there is nothing of you!

"Our _minds_, fool, our _minds_! What is a body without a mind?"

What is a mind without a _body_, laughed Leonard Sale. I've got you
there. Admit it, I've _got_ you!

"True," said the cruel voice. "One is useless lacking the other. But
survival is survival even when unconscious. The minds of our nations,
through science, through wonder, survived."

But without senses, lacking eyes, ears, lacking touch, smell, and the
rest? "Lacking all those, yes. We were vapors, merely. For a long time.
Until today."

And now I am here, thought Leonard Sale. "You are here," said the
voice. "To give substance to our mentalities. To give us our needed
body."

I'm only one, thought Sale. "Nevertheless, you are of use."

I'm an individual, thought Sale. I resent your intrusion.

"He resents our intrusion! Did you hear him, Iorr? He resents!"

"As if he had a right to resent!"

Be careful, warned Sale. I'll blink my eyes and you'll be gone,
phantoms! I'll wake up and rub you out!

"But you'll have to sleep again, _some_ time!" cried Iorr. "And when
you do, we'll be here, waiting, waiting, waiting. For you."

What do you want? "Solidity. Mass. Sensation again." You can't _both_
have it. "We'll fight that out between us."

A hot clamp twisted his skull. It was as if a spike had been thrust and
beaten down between the bivalvular halves of his brain.

Now it was terribly clear. Horribly, magnificently clear. He was their
universe. The world of his thoughts, his brain, his skull, divided into
two camps, that of Iorr, that of Tylle. They were _using_ him!

Pennants flung up on a pink mind sky! Brass shields caught the sun.
Grey animals shifted and came rushing in bristling tides of sword and
plume and trumpet.

_Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!_ The rushing.

_Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh!_ The roaring.

_Nowwwwwwwwww!_ the whirling.

_Mmmmmmmmmmmmm_----

Ten thousand men hurtled across the small hidden stage. Ten thousand
men floated on the shellacked inner ball of his eye. Ten thousand
javelins hissed between the small bone hulls of his head. Ten thousand
jeweled guns exploded. Ten thousand voices chanted in his ears. Now
his body was riven and extended, shaken and rolled, he was screaming,
writhing, the plates of his skull threatened to burst asunder. The
gabbling, the shrilling, as, across bone plains of mind and continent
of inner marrow, through gullies of vein, down hills of artery, over
rivers of melancholy, came armies and armies, one army, two armies,
swords flashed in the sun, bearing down upon each other, fifty thousand
minds snatching, scrabbling, cutting at him, demanding, using. In a
moment, the hard collision, one army on another, the rush, the blood,
the sound, the fury, the death, the insanity!

Like cymbals, the armies struck!

He leaped up, raving. He ran across the desert. He ran and ran and did
not stop running.

He sat down and cried. He sobbed until his lungs ached. He cried
very hard and long. Tears ran down his cheeks and into his upraised,
trembling fingers. "God, God, help me, oh God, help me," he said.

All was normal again.
