
Well, with one thing and another it was Tolstoy or Balzac, gin-rummy,
coffee, tablets, walking, more Tolstoy, more Balzac, more gin-rummy,
more solitaire. The first day passed, as did the second and the third.

On the fourth day he lay quietly in the shade of a rock, counting to a
thousand by fives, then by tens, to keep his mind occupied and awake.
His eyes were so tired he had to bathe them frequently in cool water.
He couldn't read, he was bothered with splitting headaches. He was so
exhausted he couldn't move. He was numb with medicine. He resembled
a waxen dummy, stuffed with things to preserve him in a state of
horrified wakefulness. His eyes were glass, his tongue a rusted pike,
his fingers felt as if they were gloved in needles and fur.

He followed the hand of his watch. One second less to wait, he thought.
Two seconds, three seconds, four, five, ten, thirty seconds. A whole
minute. Now an hour less time to wait. Oh, ship, hurry on thy appointed
round!

He began to laugh softly.

What would happen if he just gave up, drifted off into sleep? Sleep,
ah, sleep; perchance to dream. All the world a stage.... What if he
gave up the unequal struggle, lapsed down?

_Eeeeeeeeeee_, the high, shrill warning sound of battle metal.

He shivered. His tongue moved in his dry, burry mouth.

Iorr and Tylle would battle out their ancient battle.

Leonard Sale would become quite insane.

And whichever won the battle, would take this ruin of an insane man,
the shaking, laughing wild body, and wander it across the face of this
world for ten, twenty years, occupying it, striding in it, pompous,
holding court, making grand gestures, ordering heads severed, calling
on inward unseen dancing girls. Leonard Sale, what remained of him,
would be led off to some hidden cave, there to be infested with wars
and worms of wars for twenty insane years, occupied and prostituted by
old and outlandish thoughts.

When the rescue ship arrived it would find nothing. Sale would be
hidden somewhere by a triumphant army in his head. Hidden in some
cleft of rock, placed there like a nest for Iorr to lie upon in evil
occupation.

The thought of it almost broke him in half.

Twenty years of insanity. Twenty years of torture, doing what you don't
want to do. Twenty years of wars raging and being split apart, twenty
years of nausea and trembling.

His head sank down between his knees. His eyes snapped and cracked and
made soft noises. His eardrum popped tiredly.

_Sleep, sleep_, sang soft sea voices.

I'll--I'll make a proposition with you, listen, thought Leonard Sale.
You, Iorr, you, too, Tylle! Iorr, you can occupy me on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays. Tylle, you can take me over on Sundays,
Tuesdays and Saturdays. Thursday is maid's night out. Okay?

_Eeeeeeeeeeeeee_, sang the sea tides, seething in his brain.

_Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh_, sang the distant voices softly, soft.

What'll you say, is it a _bargain_, Iorr, Tylle?

_No_, said a voice.

_No_, said another.

Greedy, both of you, greedy! complained Sale. A pox on both your houses!

He slept.
