
Captain Hannah ran a leathery hand over his leathery face. He looked
haggard. "I came here because I've got to talk to somebody," he said,
"and you make a good listener.

"Do you remember after I completed my contract with you for the
delivery of the gasha root, and after you had talked me into leaving
Beulah with you for the sake of the little one, how we had a few drinks
together to celebrate our mutual success, before I headed out?"

Well, my memory about who had talked whom into what about Beulah didn't
agree with his, but I told him I remembered our last get-together, and
he went on.

"Anyone who tries to set up an interstellar Jump with a hangover should
be permanently barred from the spaceways," he said with some feeling.
"I guess that the only reason they aren't, is that the ones who make a
mistake are never heard from again." He paused and sipped. "Except me."

"When I left you that last time, and pushed _Delta Crucis_ up into
parking orbit, I was full of rhial and a grim determination to deliver
a whale to the Prinkip. I must have made some mistake or other in
setting up the Jump coordinates, because when I popped out of Limbo,
alarm bells went off in all directions. The main computer told me it
didn't have the faintest idea where we had arrived, and the auxiliary
computer agreed noisily. I turned off the alarms and uncovered the
viewports to check for myself, without much hope.

"The view from the ones on the starboard side didn't show me anything I
recognized, so I pushed myself across the room and slid off the covers
on the port side.

"The stars there were unfamiliar, too, but I'm afraid that I didn't
notice for awhile. The foreground was taking up all of my attention.
There were two towheaded kids--about eight or nine years old, I should
judge--floating in empty space, with their noses flattened against
the viewport glass. They were as brown as berries, and as naked as
jaybirds, and as cute as chipmunks, and as alike as two peas, and as
improbable as virtue.

"The one on the left--my left, that is--backed off enough so that his
nose straightened out, smiled angelically and asked politely whether he
and his twin brother might come in. That is, his lips moved and I heard
the words, and they made sense. Only they didn't. Nothing made sense
when somebody talking in a vacuum could be heard as if he were right
beside you. Anyway, I nodded that they could come in.
