
"The two boys swam forward, using a sort of self-taught kind of a
breast stroke, right through the solid glass of the viewport, until
they were in the ship beside me, and then they stood up. That's no
small feat in itself, standing up in a spaceship in the absence of
gravity or spin."

Captain Hannah beckoned the waiter for a refill, and then asked me if I
wouldn't change my mind and drink with him. The way this story of his
was going, I figured I might as well, and he didn't start in talking
again until we had both had a sip.

"They were skinny, and they looked explosively energetic, the way kids
that age usually do. But they just stood quietly facing me side by
side, giving out with cheerful gaptoothed small-boy smiles. Somehow or
other it was reassuring to notice that they both had belly buttons.
It was an indication to me--whether it made sense or not--that they
were just human beings; that they had been born of women in the usual
way--and that there must be some rational explanation for what looked
like miracles.

"'Is there anything I can do for you two kids?' I asked, as politely as
I knew how.

"'Well, sir,' said the one who had spoken before, 'please excuse us for
barging in on you like this, with no clothes on and all....'

"The other boy picked up the conversation without a break, 'but you
have materialized your spaceship right in the middle of our swimming
hole ...'

"'... and it's muddying everything up something fierce,' finished boy
number one.

"I glanced out through the view ports at the illimitable and
untrammeled reaches of space, and then back at the boys.

"'We're afraid you'll just have to take our word for it, sir. This is
our swimming hole,' said boy number one earnestly. 'There aren't
many ...'

"'... spots like this in space,' number two picked up. 'It has
something to do with gravity balances and radiation zones and
thought-energy sumps and a lot of other ...'

"'... things like that that we don't understand either because we
haven't had it in school yet. But we do know that it's the best place
we can reach for space swimming, only ...'

"'... it's too far for us to get to and pull along our clothes too.
Besides which, what boy would want to go swimming with his clothes on
anyway?' They both came to a full stop.

"'The only thing wrong with it,' the speaker had shifted again, 'is,
it's even too far to bring along any sandwiches and cookies and stuff.'

"I stopped swinging my head back and forth from one to the other as the
speaker shifted, and shook myself awake. 'How about some chocolate cake
and a bulb or two of milk? I've got plenty of both,' I told them."
