
"Oh, come now," I said to Captain Hannah, glancing at the row of rhial
beakers in front of him. In spite of his space tan, I could see him
blush.

"Well, I like chocolate cake," he said defensively. "And drinking milk
when I'm in space gets my stomach back in shape for going ashore again
with the likes of you. What's wrong with that, I'd like to know?"

I signified "Nothing at all," with an elaborate gesture, and he went
back to his story after dipping his nose.

"Well, I gave each of them some cake and milk, and they sat down
politely at my table to eat it ... and the plates stayed on the table
and the cake stayed on the plates even though there wasn't any gravity
and I didn't have any spin on the ship.

"'Now what's all this about my muddying up your swimming hole?' I
asked, when they had finished eating all my cake and drinking three
bulbs of milk each.

"'That's all there is to it, sir,' said the first boy. 'You have
changed the gravity balance and the radiation pattern and everything
else ...'

"'... and that's taken all the fun out of swimming. And when you have
taken all the chances we have in playing hooky just because this is
such a good place to swim ...'

"'... it's a shame to have it all spoiled. So would you please leave,
sir?'

"'Oh, I'd be glad to Jump out of here, boys,' I told them. 'But you
see, I've got a little problem. I'm lost. I don't have the faintest
idea where in the Universe I am, so how can I set the right coordinates
to Jump somewhere else?'

"'Oh!' said the two boys together. 'We didn't realize....' They
stopped, and looked at each other. They acted as if they were carrying
on an argument although their lips didn't move and I couldn't hear
anything. At any rate, they soon reached some sort of agreement.

"'We'll have to get help,' said the first boy at last. 'We'd call Dad,
except he'd warm both of us real good if he knew we were out here
swimming when we're supposed to be in school. But....'

"'There's our big brother Jim. We've got enough on him so maybe he
won't squeal. And he's grown up enough to know what to do.'

"'And he was real good at narking and giffling in school.'

"'He got an A in narking, and a B plus in giffling, but of course it
wasn't _advanced_ giffling.'

"'Still, he should be able to do the job, all right.'
