
"I couldn't have been unconscious for more than a few seconds. I woke
up to find that I had shrunk to a height of maybe two feet, and that
Jim was looking at me with a very worried expression.

"'Boy, was that a lousy job of giffling,' I heard Aloysius say,
irreverently. At least, it was Aloysius unless the two boys had
exchanged positions while I had been out.

"'Yup, you've got to be careful when you giffle,' agreed his twin
sagely.

"'What happened?' I asked weakly. 'And why have you shrunk us down this
way?'

"'Shrunk us down?' asked Jim blankly, and then he laughed. 'Oh, I
didn't do anything like that to us. That sort of thing is too dangerous
to try unless you're a Master Giffler. I don't think even Dad would
try a thing like that with a human being. All I did was to enlarge the
spaceship. At the same time, of course, I increased the strength of
the intermolecular bonds, so that the ship is just as sturdy as it was
before. Only now it's big enough to carry a whale.'

"'Only the big jerk forgot that with the space in this room suddenly
increased to twenty-five or thirty times as big as it was before, there
still wasn't any more ...'

"'... air in it, so you nearly suffocated.' I think it ended with Mike.

"'But he finally had sense enough to gather the air in a ball around
your head, so you woke up all right, and I nark that now he had brought
in enough air ...'

"'... to fill the room and all your tanks, so you'll be all right now.'

"'And now you can get yourself out of our swimming hole, sir,'
Aloysius, I think, concluded.

"I was still a little dazed. But I tried to put my brain in gear, while
I looked from one smiling, expectant Monahan face to another. 'I've got
one question,' I said at last.

"'Yes, sir?' asked Jim, all eagerness to be helpful.

"'Does this psionic ability all of you are playing around with so
freely make you basically any smarter than an ordinary untalented
run-of-the-mill human of the same age?'

"'Well of course, sir,' said Jim, and then looked at the two brats, who
were staring at him with their mouths open.

"'Well, of course, we have a lot more to learn than the Normals,' he
began again. 'But then, I've studied hard instead of playing hooky like
the imps here.'

"Now all three of us were staring at him.

"'Well, to be truthful, sir, Dad says that we've got about the same
basic intelligence as the Normals, and that we shouldn't try to get
uppity because of our special talents. But most Normals that I've seen
usually don't act very bright.'

"'Then,' I asked with elaborate patience, 'all you did was to make my
_Delta Crucis_ bigger, and to increase the strength of the components
to match? Nothing else?'
