
"Jim nodded warily. 'That's it, sir.'

"'It didn't occur to you, son, that while that might be all right for
the hull and the Jumping equipment, you just don't change the size of
a rocket motor to change its power rating? Don't you realize that if
I turned on my landing rockets right now, I'd probably blow us all to
Kingdom Come?'

"Jim thought for a minute. 'I nark it now, sir,' he said slowly. 'And
the hull probably isn't right too, I'm afraid.'

"'You're probably right, son,' I answered him. 'Don't you think you had
just better put things right back the way they were before?'

"I added hastily, 'Not forgetting to get rid of the extra air you
giffled in.'

"'No, sir. I can't do that!' The boy's forehead was all wrinkled with
his effort at thinking. 'Dad says that when you start in to giffling,
you've got to carry through what you start.'

"'But it's my life you're giffling around with,' I protested. 'You
don't have to worry. _You_ can stay alive in the vacuum of space, or
jump around without a ship, but I can't. Just leave me alone, why don't
you? Just show me the way to go home and then leave me alone, like a
good boy.'

"Jim shook his head. 'I'm just going to have to get help, sir,' he said.

"Mike and Aloysius both looked scared. 'Jim, why don't you just do
like Captain Hannah says,' asked one of them.

"'If you get Dad into this,' said the other, 'he'll for sure give it to
the two of us, but good. And we'll just bet that he won't think you're
too old to get it, either.'

"Jim waved the argument aside. 'He'll probably be right, too,' he
commented absently, acting as if he were listening to something the
rest of us couldn't hear. Then he nodded decisively.

"'Your _Delta Crucis_ is all fixed up right, now, sir,' he told me in
positive tones. 'There's even a tank for you to keep the whale in.
But I suggest you not waste any time in getting the beast to Penguin,
because the ship won't stay this way too long. Then it'll revert to the
way it used to be before you ran into us.'

"He noticed my expression of concentrated unhappiness.

"'Oh, not while you are carrying the blue whale,' he assured me. 'As
soon as you finish the job, or in a couple of months if you don't get
started on it. There is nothing to be worried about, sir.'

"Then he heaved a kind of deep, shuddering sigh, and said, 'We have got
to go now. Good luck to you.'

"'The same to you,' I said automatically. The two brats gave me a
withering look of scorn, apparently for expressing such impossible
sentiments, and then all three Monahans disappeared."

Captain Hannah took another whiff of rhial and then stared at the
beaker broodingly.
