
"Well," I asked. "Did you get the whale to Penguin? And was the Prinkip
pleased? Or did you just sit around and drink rhial until your ship
popped back to its normal size?"

"Oh, I couldn't pass up a chance like that," he said. "I delivered the
whale all right. She turned out to be gravid, too. I seem to make a
habit out of picking up pregnant cargoes. The Prinkip was very pleased,
and gave me a bonus.

"Then _Delta Crucis_ went back to being herself again. And I found this
note, along with a small gift, in the Control room." He fished a sheet
of paper out of the breast pocket of his blue uniform coat and passed
it across the table to me.

It was an unsigned letter written in a beautiful flowing script. It
said:

    My dear Captain Hannah:

    Congratulations to you on the success of your venture. All seems
    to have worked out well for you.

    For three Monahans, things were less pleasant. For a considerable
    period of time they experienced difficulty in sitting down in
    comfort.

    You are welcome at any time to pay a return visit to our remote
    sector of space and reestablish your acquaintance with the Adepts.

    It is not beyond the bounds of possibilities that Normals can be
    taught to demonstrate our Psionic abilities.

    Until you return then,

    Farewell!

The note was unsigned.

"Well," I said, "You are going to take them up on it, aren't you? This
is a chance in a lifetime. In a hundred lifetimes--it's a chance in a
million years. What are you waiting for, man?"

Captain Hannah shook his head. "I don't know," he said. "But does that
note sound as if it had been written by a mature Adept--by, say, the
father of those boys?

"Doesn't it seem more like something written by a teenage boy? Or even
by a precocious nine-year-old?"

"Well, what of it?" I asked. "Provided that it gets you back there, so
that you will have the chance of talking with the father?"

"I'm afraid that one or more of the Monahan children may hold a grudge
against me. After all, I apparently did cause the whole tribe of them
considerable humiliation and pain, in the end. If they want to get
even, they have a lot of power--whatever narking and giffling may be.
So here's a present for you, and I advise you to throw it away, even if
I can't bring myself to do so."

Captain Hannah slammed something down on the table, jammed his head,
and stalked out of the bar.

I picked up his gift and examined it. It was a small bottle. On the tag
attached to it, neatly and mockingly printed, were the words, "DRINK
ME."

I stared at it for a long time, thinking of opportunity--and of snarks
and of boojums.

END



