
He leaped to one side as the sounds neared his back.

Too late. Something crashed into the side of his head and bright lights
danced gaily inside his skull.

He fell and rolled frantically across the soft sand.

As he scrambled to his feet he saw his attacker, a husky, powerfully
built man. A blackjack dangled loosely from a hand.

Before he could rise a knee struck him on the jaw. He sank to the
ground.

The man was on him, pinning him to the sand.

Farrell's nostrils were filled with the man's acrid body odor.

A knife glittered in the starlight as it was pressed gently against his
throat.

"Tell me where the money is," the man ordered. "It'll save time."

Too stunned to speak, Farrell nodded at his coat pocket.

The man removed the money and counted rapidly, somehow managing to keep
the knife in his hand while he flipped the bills.

Satisfied, he stuffed the bills in a pocket and raised the knife for a
fatal lunge.

His arms pinned at his sides by the man's knees, Farrell knew only one
thing could save him: WORDS.

"I can get you five times that much," he said quickly, the words
crowding each other in their haste.

It worked: the knife wavered, hesitated. If he had screamed, "Don't
kill me!" he would have been killed instantly but the simple statement
had aroused his assailant's curiosity.

"Five times that much?" the man repeated gruffly.

Phobos, the largest and closest of the two moons, moved visibly
across the dark sky. Suddenly, they were no longer in the shadow of
a building. Moonlight flowed across the man's face and for the first
time, he saw his features.

He looked up at a rough, almost brutal face with thick lips, fierce
eyes, blunt, broken nose and bushy eyebrows.

"Five thousand dollars," Farrell confirmed.

"Where?"

"Dankor city. You've heard of a Martian game called rhakal?"

He frowned. "Yeah, I heard of it. I also heard Earthmen don't win very
often."

"I won," Farrell told him. "Five thousand. I spent most of it but I
saved the thousand to go back to Earth. If you don't kill me, I'll win
five thousand for you."

His adversary grinned wryly and lowered the knife toward Farrell's
throat. "This sounds like a trick."

"Trick? How can I trick you? Dankor is off limits to Earthmen. You and
I will be the only--"

The man cocked his head and asked, "You have any Martian friends in
Dankor?"

Farrell laughed at the thought, "Martian _friends_?"

Some of the wariness left the other's face.

Everyone knew no Earthman had a Martian friend. The Martians were a
fading but proud race. They resented Earthmen and submitted bitterly
to their presence. Martians did not associate with Earthmen. To do so
would mean loss of social standing and almost always loss of their
lives by the hand of some fanatical anti-Earth group.

Martians submitted to the invasion of their planet by colonists because
they had no choice: they were few in number, a weak, dying race.
Inwardly, they hated Earthmen and, given the chance, would rid Mars of
all colonists.

While his antagonist considered the offer, Farrell's mind whirled
rapidly. How could he escape? His body was trapped beneath the man's
weight, unable to move. Call for help? He quickly discarded the idea:
on one side was a Martian city and on the other was the spaceport.
The group of crude stone buildings were inhabited by aliens. Martians
might come and watch him die if he called for help but they'd never try
to save him. The spaceport was deserted except for the empty, waiting
spaceships and the office buildings were too far away for anyone to
hear a cry.

He could do nothing.

"I'll give you a chance," his enemy said as he rose to his feet. "You
win five thousand for me and I'll let you keep the thousand and your
life." He placed the knife in a sheath and drew a stubby revolver from
a pocket. "If you make a wrong move, I'll blast you in half. I don't
like to use this thing because it's noisy, but--" He waved the gun and
the action seemed to complete the sentence in itself.
