
A blinding tide of red fury washed over Larry. Without thinking,
reacting purely by instinct, he lashed out at the Dornellian.

His fist didn't contact; it was blocked by the heavy forearm of his
opponent. A hand raked out at Larry, a hand with six fingers, each of
which was tipped with long, cutting talons. Larry moved his head aside
barely in time. The talons raked across his cheek, drawing blood. If he
hadn't ducked, the cut would have ripped his throat open.

The Dornellian's other hand slashed out. Larry blocked it with his own
arm and sent a hard left to the midsection of the eight-foot monster.

The Dornellian backed away, snarling. The fight was on for real, now.
"Little Earthman, I'm going to kill you!"

He leaped in suddenly, and his fist smashed against Larry's face. Larry
rolled with the blow, but it brought the taste of blood to his mouth.

His feet moving fast, the Earthman bobbed back away from the giant.
He felt a glow of pleasure within himself. Here was his chance to
practice a little with a Dornellian! What better training was there for
a championship bout than a barroom brawl? He had to watch out for those
claws though--those deadly razors that sprouted from the Dornellian's
fingertips.

Two other Dornellians started to move in, but an Aldebaranian--a huge
reptilian beast, slow-moving but powerful--stepped in front of them.

"Keep back," he hissed, in his snakelike voice. "This is a personal
quarrel."

Larry heard an Arcturian spider-man click his mandibles together and
whisper: "Yes, let the Earthman fight it out by himself."

Larry wasn't too worried. He had fought to the death on half a hundred
planets, and hadn't been killed yet. An ordinary Dornellian didn't
bother him much. He moved in confidently for the knockout.

His fist lashed out, but his opponent was even faster. Larry connected
with nothing but empty air, and the Dornellian's claws raked down his
side as the other hand slammed against the side of his head.

Dazed, Larry danced back. His arm was dripping blood, and his head felt
groggy and heavy.

The Dornellian threw a left jab, and Larry blocked it with his own left
arm. But the giant had done something unexpected. Instead of striking
with his closed fist, he had suddenly extended his fingers. The sharp
claws stabbed deep into the muscle of the Earthman's forearm, sending a
wave of pain to his shoulder.

Again Larry backed away, his arm aching from the wounds. Quickly, he
reversed his direction and stepped back in. This time, he used a kick
but the Dornellian sidestepped. The toe of Larry's boot caught his hip.
Cursing, the Dornellian closed in.

He punched a hand forward, claws extended. Larry stepped to one side
and grabbed the hairy wrist. Using the giant's strength and weight
to his own advantage, he propelled the monster across the room,
slamming him up against the bar. Then he leaped forward to smash in the
Dornellian's ribcage with his heavy boots.

He was not quick enough. The giant rolled aside and sprang to his feet.
Snarling viciously, he advanced toward the Earthman.

One hand came down in a hard, chopping blow. Larry managed to fend
it off, but the Dornellian's other hand slugged into the pit of his
stomach.

Weak with pain, Larry staggered back. He aimed a kick at the alien's
shin, and it connected hard. Taking advantage of his opportunity, Larry
stepped in. His heel came down on the Dornellian's toes at the same
time that his fist slammed into the bristly jaw.

The giant reeled backwards, his taloned hand slashing through the air.
He regained his balance and came forward again, but this time Larry was
ready for him.

The Dornellian stepped square into a blow to the stomach.

Oddly enough, it didn't seem to bother him much. Then Larry remembered
that the Dornellian nervous system wasn't much like an Earthman's; the
nerves just weren't in the same places.

But where were they? Again he cursed Blackmer. The manager hadn't told
him anything about Dornellians, had let him sign for the fight with
Fornax Kedrin even though it would be sheer murder.

_Well_, Larry thought somberly, _I'll learn tonight. If I ever get out
of this bar alive._
