
The car pulled up before the hotel where Larry and his manager were
staying, and Larry got out. The Arcturian waved to him and drove off.

Wearily, Larry dragged himself inside and into the elevator.

"Seventeen, please."

"Yes, sir, Mr. Filmore," said the Dornellian elevator boy.

He pushed open the door to his room and dropped on the bed, dead tired.
He didn't dare look in the mirror; he was afraid to see what a mess the
Dornellian had made out of his face, which hadn't been any too neat
before.

"Blackmer?" he called.

There was no answer. The manager was not around. Larry got up, looked
bleary-eyed into the other room, and, seeing no one, dropped off into
a deep sleep. His last thought before he blacked out was that he'd get
into the ring and do his best. He'd already beaten _one_ Dornellian;
how tough could Fornax Kedrin be? And what did it matter anyway? He
was bound to get killed sooner or later anyway. That was the unspoken
assumption every fighter operated under.

When he awoke the following morning, he didn't feel quite so certain
about things. The brawl the night before had taken a terrific toll on
his nervous system, and he knew that he'd be butchered if he stepped
into the ring with the Dornellian champ. He was in no condition to
fight.

"Blackmer? You here?"

The manager's bed had been slept in, but there was no sign of him.
Larry groped for the house phone, grabbed it, spoke into it. "Do you
know where Mr. Blackmer is?"

"He's in the bar, sir," said the switchboard boy. "Do you want me to
call him for you?"

"Yes, please."

A moment later, Larry heard the manager's harsh voice. "Blackmer here.
Who's calling?"

"This is Larry. I'm ready for that fight, Blackmer," he said, hoping
he'd have the strength to go through with it. "And after I get through
with the Dornellian, I'm going to knock your teeth in. This is my last
fight for you."

"Now Larry," Blackmer said. "Don't be hasty. I--"

"Shut up! We're quits! I may get killed in that ring, but I'll fight
just this once and--"

"What? Haven't you heard? The fight's off!"

Larry blinked in astonishment. "How would I have heard?"

"I thought the news was all over. That's why I didn't bother to wake
you. Fornax Kedrin is in the hospital. He got his jaw broken in a bar
brawl last night. Nobody knows who did it. But I got another bout lined
up on Domerang VI with--"

"Skip it," Larry said. "I'll discuss it with you some other time."

Larry slowly dropped the receiver back on the hook. He grinned. And
then he began to laugh.