
Such protestations from unmarried mothers were not uncommon, but Sara
Caffey's cold convictions were unshakable. She sank back into her
seven satin pillows and sighed mightily. Her wide-spaced, intelligent
eyes glared at me from a handsome, if somewhat overly strong, face.
Creamy white shoulders swept gracefully into gradually darkening neck
skin and frankly tanned cheeks and broad forehead. Her straight,
slender nose was sunburned.

As resident physician for over fifteen years, I had learned patience
in these matters. But the thought that this lovely creature expected
me to believe that she was an unfulfilled old maid got under my skin,
particularly under the circumstances.

"Miss Caffey, I am a physician, not a philosopher. Just the same,
permit me to congratulate you on your virginity."

"Thanks," she said, in a voice not untinged with pride.

"However," I went on, "in spite of certain contra-indications and
irregularities of symptoms such as the absence of morning sickness and
the like, I would like to enlist your cooperation in delivering
yourself of an infant within the next three months."

"Dr. Foley, please understand!" She threw her hands apart in despair.
"I love children. I would have an acre of them if I were married, or
even in the mood for any other alliance. But men just don't fit my
frame of reference. And regardless of what kind of a damned fool I may
make of myself in the future, I haven't, to date! Doctor, the kind of
cooperation you ask for hasn't been known for two thousand years."

I tried another tack. "Well, since you arrived without a medical
history on your condition, would you tell us the name of your last
doctor so we may write for a transcript?"

"Phillipe Sansome, in Paris."

"The surgeon?"

She nodded. "And don't try to explain that he misdiagnosed because
he's hungry for surgical fees. He didn't plan to operate. In fact,
that's why I left. He was trying some new cure of his own that didn't
set well with the staff there, and they got into such a squabble I
figured I'd better remove the cause of it all before the dear old man
lost his license."

While she was speaking, I casually drew back the covers and exposed
her slightly swollen abdomen. It, too, had a surprising coat of tan. I
donned my stethoscope, moved the diaphragm around until I had what I
wanted, and held it there.

"Yes, I know of Dr. Sansome," I told her. "We shall send a wire at
once for your case record. Helps, you know. Now, if you will just slip
these into your ears--"

She let me hang the stethoscope around her neck, and even brushed back
her shining black hair so I could adjust the ear-pieces for her.

"If Doctor Sansome had heard that," I said, "he would have changed his
mind."

She listened intently to the quick, light, foetal heartbeat for over a
minute, and gradually a faraway gleam lighted her eyes. "Oh if you
were only right," she said softly, "Here I've chased stories all over
the globe half my life, and I'd have the biggest story since the flood
right here in my own tummy!"

She lay back again. "But of course, you're wrong."

"Then what do you call the sounds you've just heard?" I said in
complete exasperation.

"Gut rumble," she said. "Now go along like a nice intern and find me a
passel of surgeons and let's have at this tumor, cancer, bubble-gum or
what have you. I want out of here, fast as I can mend."
