
It is thousands, perhaps millions of years since Sir John explained to
me. What little I understood at the time I may have forgotten, yet I try
to reproduce what I can of his theory.

"In my study of the processes of birth," he began, "I discovered the
rudiments of an action which takes place in the bodies of both men and
women. There are certain properties in the foods we eat that remain in
the body for the reproduction of life, two distinct Essences, so to
speak, of which one is retained by the woman, another by the man. It is
the union of these two properties that, of course, creates the child.

"Now, I made a slight mistake one day in experimenting with a
guinea-pig, and I re-arranged certain organs which I need not describe
so that I thought I had completely messed up the poor creature's
abdomen. It lived, however, and I laid it aside. It was some years later
that I happened to notice it again. It had not given birth to any young,
but I was amazed to note that it had apparently grown no older: it
seemed precisely in the same state of growth in which I had left it.

"From that I built up. I re-examined the guinea-pig, and observed it
carefully. I need not detail my studies. But in the end I found that my
'mistake' had in reality been a momentous discovery. I found that I had
only to close certain organs, to re-arrange certain ducts, and to open
certain dormant organs, and, _mirabile dictu_, the whole process of
reproduction was changed.

"You have heard, of course, that our bodies are continually changing,
hour by hour, minute by minute, so that every few years we have been
literally reborn. Some such principle as this seems to operate in
reproduction, except that, instead of the old body being replaced by the
new, and in its form, approximately, the new body is created apart from
it. It is the creation of children that causes us to die, it would seem,
because if this activity is, so to speak, dammed up or turned aside into
new channels, the reproduction operates on the old body, renewing it
continually. It is very obscure and very absurd, is it not? But the most
absurd part of it is that it is true. Whatever the true explanation may
be, the fact remains that the operation can be done, that it actually
prolongs life indefinitely, and that I alone know the secret."

Sir John told me a very great deal more, but, after all, I think it
amounted to little more than this. It would be impossible for me to
express the great hold his discovery took upon my mind the moment he
recounted it. From the very first, under the spell of his personality, I
believed, and I knew he was speaking the truth. And it opened up before
me new vistas. I began to see myself become suddenly eternal, never
again to know the fear of death. I could see myself storing up, century
after century, an amplitude of wisdom and experience that would make me
truly a god.

"Sir John!" I cried, long before he was finished. "You must perform that
operation on me!"

"But, Dennell, you are too hasty. You must not put yourself so rashly
into my hands."

"You have perfected the operation, haven't you?"

"That is true," he said.

"You must try it out on somebody, must you not?"

"Yes, of course. And yet--somehow, Dennell, I am afraid. I cannot help
feeling that man is not yet prepared for such a vast thing. There are
sacrifices. One must give up love and all sensual pleasure. This
operation not only takes away the mere fact of reproduction, but it
deprives one of all the things that go with sex, all love, all sense of
beauty, all feeling for poetry and the arts. It leaves only the few
emotions, selfish emotions, that are necessary to self-preservation. Do
you not see? One becomes an intellect, nothing more--a cold apotheosis
of reason. And I, for one, cannot face such a thing calmly."

"But, Sir John, like many fears, it is largely horrible in the
foresight. After you have changed your nature you cannot regret it. What
you are would be as horrible an idea to you afterwards as the thought of
what you will be seems now."

"True, true. I know it. But it is hard to face, nevertheless."

"I am not afraid to face it."

"You do not understand it, Dennell, I am afraid. And I wonder whether
you or I or any of us on this earth are ready for such a step. After
all, to make a race deathless, one should be sure it is a perfect race."

"Sir John," I said, "it is not you who have to face this, nor any one
else in the world till you are ready. But I am firmly resolved, and I
demand it of you as my friend."

Well, we argued much further, but in the end I won. Sir John promised to
perform the operation three days later.

... But do you perceive now what I had forgotten during all that
discussion, the one thing I had thought I could never forget so long as
I lived, not even for an instant? It was my love for Alice--I had
forgotten that!
