
When I awoke again, my head was fairly clear, but there was an
abominable reek of ether all about me. The moment I opened my eyes, I
felt that something had happened. I asked for Sir John and for Alice. I
saw a swift, curious look that I could not interpret come over the face
of the nurse, then she was calm again, her countenance impassive. She
reassured me in quick meaningless phrases, and told me to sleep. But I
could not sleep: I was absolutely sure that something had happened to
them, to my friend and to the woman I loved. Yet all my insistence
profited me nothing, for the nurses were a silent lot. Finally, I think,
they must have given me a sleeping potion of some sort, for I fell
asleep again.

For two endless, chaotic days, I saw nothing of either of them, Alice or
Sir John. I became more and more agitated, the nurse more and more
taciturn. She would only say that they had gone away for a day or two.

And then, on the third day, I found out. They thought I was asleep. The
night nurse had just come in to relieve the other.

"Has he been asking about them again?" she asked.

"Yes, poor fellow. I have hardly managed to keep him quiet."

"We will have to keep it from him until he is recovered fully." There
was a long pause, and I could hardly control my labored breathing.

"How sudden it was!" one of them said. "To be killed like that--" I
heard no more, for I leapt suddenly up in bed, crying out.

"Quick! For God's sake, tell me what has happened!" I jumped to the
floor and seized one of them by the collar. She was horrified. I shook
her with a superhuman strength.

"Tell me!" I shouted, "Tell me--Or I'll--!" She told me--what else could
she do.

"They were killed in an accident," she gasped, "in a taxi--a
collision--the Strand--!" And at that moment a crowd of nurses and
attendants arrived, called by the other frantic woman, and they put me
to bed again.

I have no memory of the next few days. I was in delirium, and I was
never told what I said during my ravings. Nor can I express the feelings
I was saturated with when at last I regained my mind again. Between my
old emotions and any attempt to put them into words, or even to remember
them, lies always that insurmountable wall of my Change. I cannot
understand what I must have felt, I cannot express it.

I only know that for weeks I was sunk in a misery beyond any misery I
had ever imagined before. The only two friends I had on earth were gone
to me. I was left alone. And, for the first time, I began to see before
me all these endless years that would be the same, dull, lonely.

Yet I recovered. I could feel each day the growth of a strange new vigor
in my limbs, a vast force that was something tangibly expressive to
eternal life. Slowly my anguish began to die. After a week more, I began
to understand how my emotions were leaving me, how love and beauty and
everything of which poetry was made--how all this was going. I could not
bear the thought at first. I would look at the golden sunlight and the
blue shadow of the wind, and I would say,

"God! How beautiful!" And the words would echo meaninglessly in my ears.
Or I would remember Alice's face, that face I had once loved so
inextinguishably, and I would weep and clutch my forehead, and clench my
fists, crying,

"O God, how can I live without her!" Yet there would be a little strange
fancy in my head at the same moment, saying,

"Who is this Alice? You know no such person." And truly I would wonder
whether she had ever existed.

So, slowly, the old emotions were shed away from me, and I began to joy
in a corresponding growth of my mental perceptions. I began to toy idly
with mathematical formulae I had forgotten years ago, in the same
fashion that a poet toys with a word and its shades of meaning. I would
look at everything with new, seeing eyes, new perception, and I would
understand things I had never understood before, because formerly my
emotions had always occupied me more than my thoughts.

And so the weeks went by, until, one day, I was well.

... What, after all, is the use of this chronicle? Surely there will
never be men to read it. I have heard them say that the snow will never
go. I will be buried, it will be buried with me; and it will be the end
of us both. Yet, somehow, it eases my weary soul a little to write....

Need I say that I lived, thereafter, many thousands of thousands of
years, until this day? I cannot detail that life. It is a long round of
new, fantastic impressions, coming dream-like, one after another,
melting into each other. In looking back, as in looking back upon
dreams, I seem to recall only a few isolated periods clearly; and it
seems that my imagination must have filled in the swift movement between
episodes. I think now, of necessity, in terms of centuries and
millenniums, rather than days and months.... The snow blows terribly
about my little fire, and I know it will soon gather courage to quench
us both ...
