
Years passed, at first with a sort of clear wonder. I watched things
that took place everywhere in the world. I studied. The other students
were much amazed to see me, a man of thirty odd, coming back to college.

"But Judas, Dennell, you've already got your Ph.D! What more do you
want?" So they would all ask me. And I would reply;

"I want an M.D. and an F.R.C.S." I didn't tell them that I wanted
degrees in Law, too, and in Biology and Chemistry, in Architecture and
Engineering, in Psychology and Philosophy. Even so, I believe they
thought me mad. But poor fools! I would think. They can hardly realize
that I have all of eternity before me to study.

I went to school for many decades. I would pass from University to
University, leisurely gathering all the fruits of every subject I took
up, revelling in study as no student revelled ever before. There was no
need of hurry in my life, no fear of death too soon. There was a
magnificence of vigor in my body, and a magnificence of vision and
clarity in my brain. I felt myself a super-man. I had only to go on
storing up wisdom until the day should come when all knowledge of the
world was mine, and then I could command the world. I had no need for
hurry. O vast life! How I gloried in my eternity! And how little good it
has ever done me, by the irony of God.

For several centuries, changing my name and passing from place to place,
I continued my studies. I had no consciousness of monotony, for, to the
intellect, monotony cannot exist: it was one of those emotions I had
left behind. One day, however, in the year 2132, a great discovery was
made by a man called Zarentzov. It had to do with the curvature of
space, quite changing the conceptions that we had all followed since
Einstein. I had long ago mastered the last detail of Einstein's theory,
as had, in time, the rest of the world. I threw myself immediately into
the study of this new, epoch-making conception.

To my amazement, it all seemed to me curiously dim and elusive. I could
not quite grasp what Zarentzov was trying to formulate.

"Why," I cried, "the thing is a monstrous fraud!" I went to the
professor of Physics in the University I then attended, and I told him
it was a fraud, a huge book of mere nonsense. He looked at me rather
pityingly.

"I am afraid, Modevski," he said, addressing me by the name I was at the
time using, "I am afraid you do not understand it, that is all. When
your mind has broadened, you will. You should apply yourself more
carefully to your Physics." But that angered me, for I had mastered my
Physics before he was ever born. I challenged him to explain the theory.
And he did! He put it, obviously, in the clearest language he could. Yet
I understood nothing. I stared at him dumbly, until he shook his head
impatiently, saying that it was useless, that if I could not grasp it I
would simply have to keep on studying. I was stunned. I wandered away in
a daze.

For do you see what happened? During all those years I had studied
ceaselessly, and my mind had been clear and quick as the day I first had
left the hospital. But all that time I had been able only to remain what
I was--an extraordinarily intelligent man of the twentieth century. And
the rest of the race had been progressing! It had been swiftly gathering
knowledge and power and ability all that time, faster and faster, while
I had been only remaining still. And now here was Zarentzov and the
teachers of the Universities, and, probably, a hundred intelligent men,
who had all outstripped me! I was being left behind.

And that is what happened. I need not dilate further upon it. By the end
of that century I had been left behind by all the students of the world,
and I never did understand Zarentzov. Other men came with other
theories, and these theories were accepted by the world. But I could not
understand them. My intellectual life was at an end. I had nothing more
to understand. I knew everything I was capable of knowing, and,
thenceforth, I could only play wearily with the old ideas.
