
So inevitably the Ice closed in.... One day the men of our tiny clearing
were but a score. We huddled about our dying fire of bones and stray
logs. We said nothing. We just sat, in deep, wordless, thoughtless
silence. We were the last outpost of Mankind.

I think suddenly something very noble must have transformed these
creatures to a semblance of what they had been of old. I saw, in their
eyes, the question they sent from one to another, and in every eye I saw
that the answer was, Yes. With one accord they rose before my eyes and,
ignoring me as a baser creature, they stripped away their load of
tattered rags and, one by one, they stalked with their tiny shrivelled
limbs into the shivering gale of swirling, gusting snow, and
disappeared. And I was alone....

So am I alone now. I have written this last fantastic history of myself
and of Mankind upon a substance that will, I know, outlast even the snow
and the Ice--as it has outlasted Mankind that made it. It is the only
thing with which I have never parted. For is it not irony that I should
be the historian of this race--I, a savage, an "archaic survival?" Why
do I write? God knows, but some instinct prompts me, although there will
never be men to read.

I have been sitting here, waiting, and I have thought often of Sir John
and Alice, whom I loved. Can it be that I am feeling again, after all
these ages, some tiny portion of that emotion, that great passion I once
knew? I see her face before me, the face I have lost from my thoughts
for eons, and something is in it that stirs my blood again. Her eyes are
half-closed and deep, her lips are parted as though I could crush them
with an infinity of wonder and discovery. O God! It is love again, love
that I thought was lost! They have often smiled upon me when I spoke of
God, and muttered about my foolish, primitive superstitions. But they
are gone, and I am left who believe in God, and surely there is purpose
in it.

I am cold, I have written. Ah, I am frozen. My breath freezes as it
mingles with the air, and I can hardly move my numbed fingers. The Ice
is closing over me, and I cannot break it any longer. The storm cries
weirdly all about me in the twilight, and I know this is the end. The
end of the world. And I--I, the last man....

The last man....

... I am cold--cold....

But is it you, Alice? Is it you?


THE END



