
Such a state of affairs could not continue for long. A belated thaw had
at last set in. The snow was ceasing, and a few more days would see a
resumption of outdoor work, when a final flare-up occurred. It was late
afternoon. Henderson rolled out of his bunk to go to the creek for water
and found Hartley gazing at the snow-bound north window. The old man
laughed, a sneering, mirthless cackle.

“Enjoyin’ the view?” he asked.

Nick had been thinking of digging away enough to let some light into the
cabin, now that the snow had stopped drifting, but after that remark he
would willingly have died first. He grew red and tried not to notice the
question.

“Well, now,” went on Henderson, enjoying the situation, “I always liked
that view myself. It’s so much better ’n gazin’ at your sour-bellied
features.”

He picked up a pail and his snowshoes and added with elaborate
politeness:

“Possibly you could tear yourself away long enough to git some wood?
There ain’t any left, as you’ll see if you can wrench your eyes away
from that soul-fillin’ picture of Nature at her best.”

This was a long and difficult speech for Henderson, and he felt that he
had done a rather neat bit of work in getting it off so smoothly. He
chuckled again as he opened the door and started up the tunnel.

When he heard that laugh, something snapped in Nick’s brain. He whirled
in a frenzy and rushed to the door.

“By ---- I’ve stood all I’m goin’ to from you!” he cried wildly. “You
keep out of here or I’ll beat the livin’ lights out o’ you.”

His voice rose to a shriek as he poured out his rage in a flood of
vituperation. Henderson, standing at the top of the tunnel, went flaming
hot with a fierce joy.

“Come out here an’ say that!” he yelled. “Come out, ---- you!”

At that moment Nick, frantically eager to obey the summons, dived into
the tunnel. His head and shoulders struck its roof. A slight upward
surge as he plunged, and the snow slumped in with a dull rumble. Nick
was swept back into the cabin by a miniature avalanche, and Henderson
stood staring at the tumbled groove where the tunnel had been.

In the next few instants the old man’s opinion of Nick underwent a
radical change. His exhilarating wrath became red fury, born of the
conviction that his partner was a coward--who had played a sneaking but
effective trick that left Henderson ridiculously helpless. As this
realization swept over him he grew dizzy and swayed on his feet, while
the veins stood out on his purple neck. When he could control his limbs
he floundered to the chimney and began to roar inarticulate masses of
blasphemy at the man below. At last he managed to form a coherent
sentence.

“Wait!” he bellowed, sobbing. “Great ---- just wait ’til I get you! If I
don’t rid the earth o’ your ---- drivelin’ carcass. Coward! ----’s too
good for the likes o’ you! Hangin’s too good! Shootin’s too-- Oh, gimme
my gun! I’ll shoot you down like a yeller dog! I’ll drill you like a
sieve! Just wait!”

He surged back to the tunnel as the smoke from the fire strangled him
and, snatching up a snowshoe, began to dig furiously.

Nick, listening to this tirade of abuse, began to feel a panicky terror.
Henderson’s gasping, choking voice sounded perfectly demoniacal as it
reverberated in the chimney, and the frightful threats were delivered
with the frenzy of a raving maniac.

The long siege had been too much, thought Nick. The old man had gone
suddenly crazy--crazy with the lust for blood. Weren’t the papers always
full of stories of men who shot people in bursts of insanity and then
grew sane again? If Henderson could get his gun now, he would surely do
for him, unless he shot Henderson first-- or unless--but he didn’t want
to run. He must do something, though!

His partner’s snowshoe was crunching nearer and nearer the snow-filled
doorway, while the digger gasped great lungfuls of air into his heaving
chest. Nick stood hesitating for another moment, glancing about the
dim-lit room while the candle on the mantel spluttered and wavered. Then
he ran to the shelf by the bunks and with trembling hands gathered up
the two revolvers, the rifle and all the cartridges.

Three minutes later Henderson burst in. Nick stood waiting for him with
set face in front of the fire-place. The old man kicked the little pile
of snow to one side and shut the door carefully. Then he whirled and
charged across the cabin. His partner met him half-way.

The desperate rough-and-tumble fight that followed raged for an hour,
all about the little room, under the bunks, almost in the fire. Stools
flew everywhere, extra clothing fell from the walls and got tangled up
with the writhing swelter of arms and legs, ashes swirled, while the men
panted and tugged, punched gasping, short-armed punches, neither giving
an inch, seemingly as strong and fresh as ever.

Then of a sudden as they rose together Nick made a terrific effort to
hit the old man on the jaw. The old man dodged back sharply and the fist
swished harmlessly past. Nick half-turned and stumbled forward, unable
to overcome the momentum of the blow. He blundered heavily against
Henderson, who had not regained his balance. They crashed to the floor,
rolled apart, and lay flat in utter exhaustion.

Henderson at length drew himself with much grunting to a sitting
posture. He sighed as his eyes took in the wreckage of the room.

“What a couple o’ durn fools we be, anyway,” he remarked heavily.

Nick rolled over and met his partner’s wry grin with a hoarse chuckle.
He too sighed as he surveyed the hodge-podge of furniture and clothes
sprinkled with ashes. The old man staggered to his feet and made for the
door to let some fresh air into the reeking room. As he stepped over
Hartley he stopped and reached down a sweaty hand.

“An’ I figgered you was a coward,” he remarked. “Man, you’re a wild
cat!”

“Aw, heck,” said Nick as he grasped the hand and pulled himself erect,
“you’d ’a’ done me up easy, if you hadn’t been all in from diggin’. An’
say, Jim,” he snickered again--“I thought you’d gone crazy! Honest I
did. I was that scared I--”

Henderson had reached out to unlatch the door when the wooden handle
lifted seemingly of its own volition. The heavy door swung inward with a
rush, and three men leaped into the shack.

“Put ’em up!” said the leader, greasy-looking and fat.

“What--” began Henderson in utter bewilderment.

Then he caught the gleam of an automatic, and his hands rose reluctantly
above his head. Nick, after a suddenly suppressed motion toward the
shelf, followed suit dumbly.
