
The other invaders came forward, each with a snowshoe thong formed into
a noose. They deftly slipped these over the upstretched hands, drew them
tight with a jerk and tied them.

“Now, then, hands down--way down,” went on the fat man.

The thongs’ free ends were tied with painstaking care to their wearers’
ankles.

“Bring ’em over here where we can look at ’em.”

The fat man walked to the hearth. The prisoners were pushed after him.

“See here,” said Henderson, as his tall, dark jailer finished searching
him and started a thorough investigation of the cabin. “What’s the
meanin’ o’ this, anyway?”

“Why,” responded the fat man in a confidential tone, “we’re hungry, see?
So we decided to ask ourselves to dinner with you and your buddy.”

Nick’s guardian came back from his inspection of the premises.

“Say, Cap,” he said, “there’s plenty of food, all right, but there ain’t
no guns here.”

“Have you looked everywhere?”

“Sure, an’ so’s Tony. Why was you so leery o’ jumpin’ these holds?”

“What’d ye jump ’em for anyway?” grumbled Tony.

“I’ll answer both them questions while we rest a bit,” said the fat man
indulgently. “As to jumpin’ ’em when they’re fightin’, Perry, you never
want to do that. It’s takin’ a chance, because there’s generly a gun
that both’s tryin’ to grab, an’ it may go off any time right in your
face. An’ Tony, didn’t I give you my reasons for jumpin’ ’em at all
before we got here? You’ll know when you’ve been workin’ at this work as
long as I have that news can travel fast--mighty fast. How was we to
know they wouldn’t recognize us, from a description or somethin’? How
was we to know one of ’em wasn’t a bull? An’ lastly, how was we to know
but what they might try to stick us up, if we didn’t get the hop on
’em--an’ us just oozin’ cash? We couldn’t answer a one of them questions
’til we seen what was what, could we? Play it safe, boys,” he ended,
patronizingly conscious of his superior astuteness, ‘an’ you’ll always
come out on top, even if you do make it unpleasant for the other feller
sometimes. See?”

He teetered ponderously on the heels of his moccasins and drew forth a
silver case.

“Have one?” he offered, holding it out to Henderson and Hartley. “No?
Sorry.”

He lit a cigaret with a flourish. The old man paused in his snarling
efforts to twist out of his bonds and coughed savagely, but his partner
lay quiet, a scared look in his eyes.

“Now,” said the leader of the gang, “let’s rustle some grub. Here--” he
stirred Henderson with his foot--“where’s the breadbox?”

“Get your foot off me!” burst out Henderson. “What kind of a game you
tryin’ to pull off, anyway? Come into a man’s cabin with your hifalutin’
gabble an’ tie him up. Lemme go!”

“Will you rustle some grub if I do?”

“Not by a durn sight I won’t!” the old man roared. “I’d rustle you an’
your dirty gang to ---- out o’ here, if I had a gun!”

“Yeah--if,” taunted the fat man. Then, “Why ain’t you got one?” he
snapped suspiciously.

“That young idiot lost it somewheres, that’s why,” gritted Henderson,
while the “young idiot” gave fervent though silent thanks for his
partner’s quick wit.

The fat man turned to Hartley, who shrank away.

“Well, you goin’ to act nice an’ sociable an’ cook us up some grub? We
got to move on pretty quick, an’ it’ll be all for the best if you hustle
about it.”

“Yes, sir,” said Nick eagerly. “I’ll do my best for you.”

“Blasted little slob,” muttered Henderson.

“There, that’s something like,” said the fat man heartily.

He was enjoying himself thoroughly. His manner became even more grand as
he continued:

“It ain’t every man has the privilege o’ waitin’ on me. I cut quite a
figure, down where I come from.” He gestured, his cigaret held jauntily
between his pudgy fingers. “Why, me an’ my pals cleaned up a whole
fortune in just two hours, not so many nights ago. Oh, it’s all right
Perry,” he reassured his companion, who had turned with a warning oath
from his task of loosening Nick’s bonds so he could move about. “I doubt
if anybody’s goin’ to look for us up this way, an’ I know our friends
here won’t squeal on us.”

He leered.

“Tony’s a good pard when it comes to disappearin’, eh Tony?”

He chuckled again, glowing more and more in the light of his own
importance as Tony grinned in a pleased way.

“Say,” he said to Nick, who was digging out some meal from the food-box,
“hustle that grub, you hear?”

“Yes, sir, I am, as fast as I can,” answered Hartley.

Henderson at this point made a furious effort to free himself, fairly
bursting with rage.

“That’s right,” said the fat man, glancing at Henderson with a tolerant
smile. “Now let’s fix the fire. Gettin’ a bit chilly, seems to me.”

Nick started toward the fire-place.

“There’s no more wood,” he said.

“Go get some, then, don’t stand there like a fool.”

“I’ll have to dig for it.”

“Better let me go, Cap,” said Perry.

Nick looked at him in ill-concealed relief.

“No!” snapped the fat man, noting the glance. “What the ---- are you
buttin’ in here for? Let the boy go. He knows where ’t is, an’ I’ll bet
my shirt he won’t try to run off in all this snow an’ cold. You bring in
all the snowshoes an’ duffle while I turn him loose.”

As Perry came back with a load of packs and snowshoes the leader said to
Nick:

“Now, then, young feller, don’t go tryin’ any monkeyshines. You bring
that wood in peaceable, or--”

Quick as light his right hand fluttered and a bullet spat into the
threshold of the door, so that Perry’s descending foot covered the hole.

Even Henderson, crouched against the wall and watching his partner with
veiled speculation and anxiety, was impressed by this display. He drew
in his breath sharply. Nick was frankly frightened.

“See?” said the fat man, replacing the automatic in his hip pocket. “An’
Perry an’ Tony are most as good as that, too. It’s easier to draw from a
holster,” he added in explanation.

“Yes, sir,” answered Nick. “I’ll be as quick as I can.”

His bonds were removed and he hurried out, rubbing his wrists.

“Shut that door!” roared the fat man.

Nick rushed back and closed it.

The fat man turned to Henderson.

“How long will it take him to get that wood?” he inquired. “No fooling,
now!”

His hand flickered as Henderson hesitated.

“Not very long,” said the old man hastily. “’Bout five-ten minutes, I
guess. He’s got to burrer down into the snow, that’s all.”
