
The fat man walked about the room restlessly, glancing here and there.
The candle sputtered. The graying coals of the fire settled with a
whispered crunch.

“What’ll ye do wid dese fellers, Cap?” inquired Tony after a while.

“Just wait till we’ve had some food, an’ we’ll decide,” answered the fat
man. “Say, though, it’s lucky you knew about this place, Tony. I’m near
starved.”

He grinned as he continued:

“If you birds hadn’t been fightin’ I dunno as we’d ’a’ found you at
that, in all this ---- snow. Too dark to see much, but Tony heard a
thumpin’ an’ crashin’ along the bank o’ the river somewhere, so we
breezed over. We come away in a bit of a hurry from where we last was,
an’ we’re in a bit of a hurry to git where we’re goin’, up to Tony’s
place, so this makes it pretty nice. Where the ----’s that other guy?
I’m gittin’ cold.”

Tony loosed his revolver in its holster and started silently for the
door, but just then Nick’s voice was heard, asking them to open up. He
stamped shivering into the room, covered with snow from head to heels,
carrying a great load of logs.

“Easy does it, young feller,” said the fat man, watching like a cat as
Hartley staggered to the hearth.

Tony and Perry closed in behind him, ready for anything.

Nick squatted down and dropped the logs carefully before the fire. He
selected some small, dry splints and put them on the coals, blowing
gently until they burst into flame. He gave one quick glance around him
before he carefully reached forward and placed a larger piece on the
blaze. Then with a sharp exclamation of pain he yanked his hands back
from the scorching heat, to wipe them on his shirt front, and in the
same instant leaped erect and whirled to one side. A revolver appeared
in each of his hands, and before one could think two spurts of flame
shot out. The fat man yelled and careened against the wall, clutching
his right shoulder. Perry crooked his arm with a startled oath as his
gun, holster and all, was torn from his numbed fingers.

“Up!” snapped Nick, and the bewildered Tony obeyed.

Henderson dived across the room, leaped prodigiously and sunk his head
in the fat man’s stomach. The fat man, who was clawing wildly for his
gun with his left hand, grunted and crumpled to the floor in agony.
Perry at this instant recovered his wits and rushed forward, snarling,
to stagger back, blinded by the impact of a gun-barrel across his eyes.

“Here!” yelled Henderson, squatting before his partner.

Nick lowered one gun, still covering Tony with the other. Henderson
grasped the barrel between his wrists and held it against the rawhide
thongs.

“Shoot!” he said, and Nick pulled the trigger.

The old man jumped up. His hands and moccasins were scorched, but he was
free. He grabbed Tony’s gun and covered Perry before the cursing man had
cleared his eyes of dizziness and blood.

A minute later the three invaders lay bound hand and foot. Nick and
Henderson stood looking down at them.

“Of course,” said Nick, “it’s easier to draw from your shirt front than
your pocket, but I’m pretty near as good as you, ain’t I?”

He bent to examine the fat man’s shoulder.

“Only a flesh wound,” he said to his partner. “I didn’t dare to try for
his gun in this light. It was too far behind him. That was a good one
you gave him, all right.”

“Yeah?” returned Henderson. “Why, I was all ready an’ waitin’ for that
play. What about the one you give Perry, huh?”

The fat man groaned and eased over on his side.

“Say,” he wheezed craftily. “A man that can shoot like you can is
wastin’ his time out in this ---- place. Why don’t you two come in with
us? There’s forty thousand in bills amongst us three. We’ll split it
five ways--eight thousand apiece. What about it?”

Henderson spat. Nick grinned.

“No,” he answered. “Not us, I guess. I seen your face in the papers too
many times a couple o’ years ago, an’ I bet it’s there today, too.
You’re wanted bad back in the States, old boy, an’ I know it.”

He turned to his partner.

“Jim, they’s no use us two tryin’ to take this gang out to the Poste.
I’ll start off now an’ bring in the sheriff an’ a few others to help.
I’ll be out there tomorrow night an’ back the next. All right?”

“All right, only hustle. We don’t want this place to be a pig-pen any
longer ’n we can help. Besides, we got to get out on the lines pretty
quick.”

“Listen.” The fat man saw it was no use to try to bribe his captors.
“You got us, an’ I don’t say it wasn’t my fault, not takin’ Tony’s
advice an’ comin’ in peaceable, instead o’ stagin’ a hold-up.” He gave a
twisted smile as Tony cursed him heartily. “But you’d never ’a’ done it
without pullin’ that hid gun stunt. I wish you’d tell me before you go
just how in ---- you did that.”

This question was burning in Henderson’s mind as well, though he gave no
sign, only smiled a superior, tolerant smile as if such a thing was of
every-day occurrence.

[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the August 30, 1923 issue
of Adventure Magazine.]

