

MRS. AMBIENT left me and went to meet them; she stopped and had a few
words with her husband that I didn’t hear and that ended in her taking
the child by the hand and returning with him to the house.  Her husband
joined me in a moment, looking, I thought, the least bit conscious and
constrained, and said that if I would come in with him he would show me
my room.  In looking back upon these first moments of my visit I find it
important to avoid the error of appearing to have at all fully measured
his situation from the first or made out the signs of things mastered
only afterwards.  This later knowledge throws a backward light and makes
me forget that, at least on the occasion of my present reference—I mean
that first afternoon—Mark Ambient struck me as only enviable.  Allowing
for this he must yet have failed of much expression as we walked back to
the house, though I remember well the answer he made to a remark of mine
on his small son.

“That’s an extraordinary little boy of yours.  I’ve never seen such a
child.”

“Why,” he asked while we went, “do you call him extraordinary?”

“He’s so beautiful, so fascinating.  He’s like some perfect little work
of art.”

He turned quickly in the passage, grasping my arm.  “Oh don’t call him
that, or you’ll—you’ll—!”

But in his hesitation he broke off suddenly, laughing at my surprise.
Immediately afterwards, however, he added: “You’ll make his little future
very difficult.”

I declared that I wouldn’t for the world take any liberties with his
little future—it seemed to me to hang by threads of such delicacy.  I
should only be highly interested in watching it.

“You Americans are very keen,” he commented on this.  “You notice more
things than we do.”

“Ah if you want visitors who aren’t struck with you,” I cried, “you
shouldn’t have asked me down here!”

He showed me my room, a little bower of chintz, with open windows where
the light was green, and before he left me said irrelevantly: “As for my
small son, you know, we shall probably kill him between us before we’ve
done with him!”  And he made this assertion as if he really believed it,
without any appearance of jest, his fine near-sighted expressive eyes
looking straight into mine.

“Do you mean by spoiling him?”

“No, by fighting for him!”

“You had better give him to me to keep for you,” I said.  “Let me remove
the apple of discord!”

It was my extravagance of course, but he had the air of being perfectly
serious.  “It would be quite the best thing we could do.  I should be all
ready to do it.”

“I’m greatly obliged to you for your confidence.”

But he lingered with his hands in his pockets.  I felt as if within a few
moments I had, morally speaking, taken several steps nearer to him.  He
looked weary, just as he faced me then, looked preoccupied and as if
there were something one might do for him.  I was terribly conscious of
the limits of my young ability, but I wondered what such a service might
be, feeling at bottom nevertheless that the only thing I could do for him
was to like him.  I suppose he guessed this and was grateful for what was
in my mind, since he went on presently: “I haven’t the advantage of being
an American, but I also notice a little, and I’ve an idea that”—here he
smiled and laid his hand on my shoulder—“even counting out your
nationality you’re not destitute of intelligence.  I’ve only known you
half an hour, but—!”  For which again he pulled up.  “You’re very young,
after all.”

“But you may treat me as if I could understand you!” I said; and before
he left me to dress for dinner he had virtually given me a promise that
he would.

When I went down into the drawing-room—I was very punctual—I found that
neither my hostess nor my host had appeared.  A lady rose from a sofa,
however, and inclined her head as I rather surprisedly gazed at her.  “I
daresay you don’t know me,” she said with the modern laugh.  “I’m Mark
Ambient’s sister.”  Whereupon I shook hands with her, saluting her very
low.  Her laugh was modern—by which I mean that it consisted of the vocal
agitation serving between people who meet in drawing-rooms as the solvent
of social disparities, the medium of transitions; but her appearance
was—what shall I call it?—medieval.  She was pale and angular, her long
thin face was inhabited by sad dark eyes and her black hair intertwined
with golden fillets and curious clasps.  She wore a faded velvet robe
which clung to her when she moved and was “cut,” as to the neck and
sleeves, like the garments of old Italians.  She suggested a symbolic
picture, something akin even to Dürer’s Melancholia, and was so perfect
an image of a type which I, in my ignorance, supposed to be extinct, that
while she rose before me I was almost as much startled as if I had seen a
ghost.  I afterwards concluded that Miss Ambient wasn’t incapable of
deriving pleasure from this weird effect, and I now believe that
reflexion concerned in her having sunk again to her seat with her long
lean but not ungraceful arms locked together in an archaic manner on her
knees and her mournful eyes addressing me a message of intentness which
foreshadowed what I was subsequently to suffer.  She was a singular
fatuous artificial creature, and I was never more than half to penetrate
her motives and mysteries.  Of one thing I’m sure at least: that they
were considerably less insuperable than her appearance announced.  Miss
Ambient was a restless romantic disappointed spinster, consumed with the
love of Michael-Angelesque attitudes and mystical robes; but I’m now
convinced she hadn’t in her nature those depths of unutterable thought
which, when you first knew her, seemed to look out from her eyes and to
prompt her complicated gestures.  Those features in especial had a
misleading eloquence; they lingered on you with a far-off dimness, an air
of obstructed sympathy, which was certainly not always a key to the
spirit of their owner; so that, of a truth, a young lady could scarce
have been so dejected and disillusioned without having committed a crime
for which she was consumed with remorse, or having parted with a hope
that she couldn’t sanely have entertained.  She had, I believe, the usual
allowance of rather vain motives: she wished to be looked at, she wished
to be married, she wished to be thought original.

It costs me a pang to speak in this irreverent manner of one of Ambient’s
name, but I shall have still less gracious things to say before I’ve
finished my anecdote, and moreover—I confess it—I owe the young lady a
bit of a grudge.  Putting aside the curious cast of her face she had no
natural aptitude for an artistic development, had little real
intelligence.  But her affectations rubbed off on her brother’s renown,
and as there were plenty of people who darkly disapproved of him they
could easily point to his sister as a person formed by his influence.  It
was quite possible to regard her as a warning, and she had almost
compromised him with the world at large.  He was the original and she the
inevitable imitation.  I suppose him scarce aware of the impression she
mainly produced, beyond having a general idea that she made up very well
as a Rossetti; he was used to her and was sorry for her, wishing she
would marry and observing how she didn’t.  Doubtless I take her too
seriously, for she did me no harm, though I’m bound to allow that I can
only half-account for her.  She wasn’t so mystical as she looked, but was
a strange indirect uncomfortable embarrassing woman.  My story gives the
reader at best so very small a knot to untie that I needn’t hope to
excite his curiosity by delaying to remark that Mrs. Ambient hated her
sister-in-law.  This I learned but later on, when other matters came to
my knowledge.  I mention it, however, at once, for I shall perhaps not
seem to count too much on having beguiled him if I say he must promptly
have guessed it.  Mrs. Ambient, a person of conscience, put the best face
on her kinswoman, who spent a month with her twice a year; but it took no
great insight to recognise the very different personal paste of the two
ladies, and that the usual feminine hypocrisies would cost them on either
side much more than the usual effort.  Mrs. Ambient, smooth-haired,
thin-lipped, perpetually fresh, must have regarded her crumpled and
dishevelled visitor as an equivocal joke; she herself so the opposite of
a Rossetti, she herself a Reynolds or a Lawrence, with no more
far-fetched note in her composition than a cold ladylike candour and a
well-starched muslin dress.

It was in a garment and with an expression of this kind that she made her
entrance after I had exchanged a few words with Miss Ambient.  Her
husband presently followed her and, there being no other company, we went
to dinner.  The impressions I received at that repast are present to me
still.  The elements of oddity in the air hovered, as it were, without
descending—to any immediate check of my delight.  This came mainly, of
course, from Ambient’s talk, the easiest and richest I had ever heard.  I
mayn’t say to-day whether he laid himself out to dazzle a rather juvenile
pilgrim from over the sea; but that matters little—it seemed so natural
to him to shine.  His spoken wit or wisdom, or whatever, had thus a charm
almost beyond his written; that is if the high finish of his printed
prose be really, as some people have maintained, a fault.  There was such
a kindness in him, however, that I’ve no doubt it gave him ideas for me,
or about me, to see me sit as open-mouthed as I now figure myself.  Not
so the two ladies, who not only were very nearly dumb from beginning to
end of the meal, but who hadn’t even the air of being struck with such an
exhibition of fancy and taste.  Mrs. Ambient, detached, and inscrutable,
met neither my eye nor her husband’s; she attended to her dinner, watched
her servants, arranged the puckers in her dress, exchanged at wide
intervals a remark with her sister-in-law and, while she slowly rubbed
her lean white hands between the courses, looked out of the window at the
first signs of evening—the long June day allowing us to dine without
candles.  Miss Ambient appeared to give little direct heed to anything
said by her brother; but on the other hand she was much engaged in
watching its effect upon me.  Her “die-away” pupils continued to attach
themselves to my countenance, and it was only her air of belonging to
another century that kept them from being importunate.  She seemed to
look at me across the ages, and the interval of time diminished for me
the inconvenience.  It was as if she knew in a general way that he must
be talking very well, but she herself was so at home among such allusions
that she had no need to pick them up and was at liberty to see what would
become of the exposure of a candid young American to a high æsthetic
temperature.

The temperature was æsthetic certainly, but it was less so than I could
have desired, for I failed of any great success in making our friend
abound about himself.  I tried to put him on the ground of his own
genius, but he slipped through my fingers every time and shifted the
saddle to one or other of his contemporaries.  He talked about Balzac and
Browning, about what was being done in foreign countries, about his
recent tour in the East and the extraordinary forms of life to be
observed in that part of the world.  I felt he had reasons for holding
off from a direct profession of literary faith, a full consistency or
sincerity, and therefore dealt instead with certain social topics,
treating them with extraordinary humour and with a due play of that power
of ironic evocation in which his books abound.  He had a deal to say
about London as London appears to the observer who has the courage of
some of his conclusions during the high-pressure time—from April to
July—of its gregarious life.  He flashed his faculty of playing with the
caught image and liberating the wistful idea over the whole scheme of
manners or conception of intercourse of his compatriots, among whom there
were evidently not a few types for which he had little love.  London in
short was grotesque to him, and he made capital sport of it; his only
allusion that I can remember to his own work was his saying that he meant
some day to do an immense and general, a kind of epic, social satire.
Miss Ambient’s perpetual gaze seemed to put to me: “Do you perceive how
artistic, how very strange and interesting, we are?  Frankly now is it
possible to be _more_ artistic, _more_ strange and interesting, than
this?  You surely won’t deny that we’re remarkable.”  I was irritated by
her use of the plural pronoun, for she had no right to pair herself with
her brother; and moreover, of course, I couldn’t see my way to—at all
genially—include Mrs. Ambient.  Yet there was no doubt they were, taken
together, unprecedented enough, and, with all allowances, I had never
been left, or condemned, to draw so many rich inferences.

After the ladies had retired my host took me into his study to smoke,
where I appealingly brought him round, or so tried, to some disclosure of
fond ideals.  I was bent on proving I was worthy to listen to him, on
repaying him for what he had said to me before dinner, by showing him how
perfectly I understood.  He liked to talk; he liked to defend his
convictions and his honour (not that I attacked them); he liked a little
perhaps—it was a pardonable weakness—to bewilder the youthful mind even
while wishing to win it over.  My ingenuous sympathy received at any rate
a shock from three or four of his professions—he made me occasionally
gasp and stare.  He couldn’t help forgetting, or rather couldn’t know,
how little, in another and drier clime, I had ever sat in the school in
which he was master; and he promoted me as at a jump to a sense of its
penetralia.  My trepidations, however, were delightful; they were just
what I had hoped for, and their only fault was that they passed away too
quickly; since I found that for the main points I was essentially, I was
quite constitutionally, on Mark Ambient’s “side.”  This was the taken
stand of the artist to whom every manifestation of human energy was a
thrilling spectacle and who felt for ever the desire to resolve his
experience of life into a literary form.  On that high head of the
passion for form the attempt at perfection, the quest for which was to
his mind the real search for the holy grail—he said the most interesting,
the most inspiring things.  He mixed with them a thousand illustrations
from his own life, from other lives he had known, from history and
fiction, and above all from the annals of the time that was dear to him
beyond all periods, the Italian cinque-cento.  It came to me thus that in
his books he had uttered but half his thought, and that what he had kept
back from motives I deplored when I made them out later—was the finer and
braver part.  It was his fate to make a great many still more “prepared”
people than me not inconsiderably wince; but there was no grain of
bravado in his ripest things (I’ve always maintained it, though often
contradicted), and at bottom the poor fellow, disinterested to his
finger-tips and regarding imperfection not only as an æsthetic but quite
also as a social crime, had an extreme dread of scandal.  There are
critics who regret that having gone so far he didn’t go further; but I
regret nothing—putting aside two or three of the motives I just
mentioned—since he arrived at a noble rarity and I don’t see how you can
go beyond that.  The hours I spent in his study—this first one and the
few that followed it; they were not, after all, so numerous—seem to glow,
as I look back on them, with a tone that is partly that of the brown old
room, rich, under the shaded candle-light where we sat and smoked, with
the dusky delicate bindings of valuable books; partly that of his voice,
of which I still catch the echo, charged with the fancies and figures
that came at his command.  When we went back to the drawing-room we found
Miss Ambient alone in possession and prompt to mention that her
sister-in-law had a quarter of an hour before been called by the nurse to
see the child, who appeared rather unwell—a little feverish.

“Feverish! how in the world comes he to be feverish?” Ambient asked.  “He
was perfectly right this afternoon.”

“Beatrice says you walked him about too much—you almost killed him.”

“Beatrice must be very happy—she has an opportunity to triumph!” said my
friend with a bright bitterness which was all I could have wished it.

“Surely not if the child’s ill,” I ventured to remark by way of pleading
for Mrs. Ambient.

“My dear fellow, you aren’t married—you don’t know the nature of wives!”
my host returned with spirit.

I tried to match it.  “Possibly not; but I know the nature of mothers.”

“Beatrice is perfect as a mother,” sighed Miss Ambient quite tremendously
and with her fingers interlaced on her embroidered knees.

“I shall go up and see my boy,” her brother went on.  “Do you suppose
he’s asleep?”

“Beatrice won’t let you see him, dear”—as to which our young lady looked
at me, though addressing our companion.

“Do you call that being perfect as a mother?” Ambient asked.

“Yes, from her point of view.”

“Damn her point of view!” cried the author of “Beltraffio.”  And he left
the room; after which we heard him ascend the stairs.

I sat there for some ten minutes with Miss Ambient, and we naturally had
some exchange of remarks, which began, I think, by my asking her what the
point of view of her sister-in-law could be.

“Oh it’s so very odd.  But we’re so very odd altogether.  Don’t you find
us awfully unlike others of our class?—which indeed mostly, in England,
is awful.  We’ve lived so much abroad.  I adore ‘abroad.’  Have you
people like us in America?”

“You’re not all alike, you interesting three—or, counting Dolcino,
four—surely, surely; so that I don’t think I understand your question.
We’ve no one like your brother—I may go so far as that.”

“You’ve probably more persons like his wife,” Miss Ambient desolately
smiled.

“I can tell you that better when you’ve told me about her point of view.”

“Oh yes—oh yes.  Well,” said my entertainer, “she doesn’t like his ideas.
She doesn’t like them for the child.  She thinks them undesirable.”

Being quite fresh from the contemplation of some of Mark Ambient’s
_arcana_ I was particularly in a position to appreciate this
announcement.  But the effect of it was to make me, after staring a
moment, burst into laughter which I instantly checked when I remembered
the indisposed child above and the possibility of parents nervously or
fussily anxious.

“What has that infant to do with ideas?” I asked.  “Surely he can’t tell
one from another.  Has he read his father’s novels?”

“He’s very precocious and very sensitive, and his mother thinks she can’t
begin to guard him too early.”  Miss Ambient’s head drooped a little to
one side and her eyes fixed themselves on futurity.  Then of a sudden
came a strange alteration; her face lighted to an effect more joyless
than any gloom, to that indeed of a conscious insincere grimace, and she
added “When one has children what one writes becomes a great
responsibility.”

“Children are terrible critics,” I prosaically answered.  “I’m really
glad I haven’t any.”

“Do you also write, then?  And in the same style as my brother?  And do
you like that style?  And do people appreciate it in America?  I don’t
write, but I think I feel.”  To these and various other inquiries and
observations my young lady treated me till we heard her brother’s step in
the hall again and Mark Ambient reappeared.  He was so flushed and grave
that I supposed he had seen something symptomatic in the condition of his
child.  His sister apparently had another idea; she gazed at him from
afar—as if he had been a burning ship on the horizon—and simply murmured
“Poor old Mark!”

“I hope you’re not anxious,” I as promptly pronounced.

“No, but I’m disappointed.  She won’t let me in.  She has locked the
door, and I’m afraid to make a noise.”  I daresay there might have been a
touch of the ridiculous in such a confession, but I liked my new friend
so much that it took nothing for me from his dignity.  “She tells me—from
behind the door—that she’ll let me know if he’s worse.”

“It’s very good of her,” said Miss Ambient with a hollow sound.

I had exchanged a glance with Mark in which it’s possible he read that my
pity for him was untinged with contempt, though I scarce know why he
should have cared; and as his sister soon afterward got up and took her
bedroom candlestick he proposed we should go back to his study.  We sat
there till after midnight; he put himself into his slippers and an old
velvet jacket, he lighted an ancient pipe, but he talked considerably
less than before.  There were longish pauses in our communion, but they
only made me feel we had advanced in intimacy.  They helped me further to
understand my friend’s personal situation and to imagine it by no means
the happiest possible.  When his face was quiet it was vaguely troubled,
showing, to my increase of interest—if that was all that was wanted!—that
for him too life was the same struggle it had been for so many another
man of genius.  At last I prepared to leave him, and then, to my
ineffable joy, he gave me some of the sheets of his forthcoming
book—which, though unfinished, he had indulged in the luxury, so dear to
writers of deliberation, of having “set up,” from chapter to chapter, as
he advanced.  These early pages, the _prémices_, in the language of
letters, of that new fruit of his imagination, I should take to my room
and look over at my leisure.  I was in the act of leaving him when the
door of the study noiselessly opened and Mrs. Ambient stood before us.
She observed us a moment, her candle in her hand, and then said to her
husband that as she supposed he hadn’t gone to bed she had come down to
let him know Dolcino was more quiet and would probably be better in the
morning.  Mark Ambient made no reply; he simply slipped past her in the
doorway, as if for fear she might seize him in his passage, and bounded
upstairs to judge for himself of his child’s condition.  She looked so
frankly discomfited that I for a moment believed her about to give him
chase.  But she resigned herself with a sigh and her eyes turned,
ruefully and without a ray, to the lamplit room where various books at
which I had been looking were pulled out of their places on the shelves
and the fumes of tobacco hung in mid-air.  I bade her good-night and
then, without intention, by a kind of fatality, a perversity that had
already made me address her overmuch on that question of her husband’s
powers, I alluded to the precious proof-sheets with which Ambient had
entrusted me and which I nursed there under my arm.  “They’re the opening
chapters of his new book,” I said.  “Fancy my satisfaction at being
allowed to carry them to my room!”

She turned away, leaving me to take my candlestick from the table in the
hall; but before we separated, thinking it apparently a good occasion to
let me know once for all since I was beginning, it would seem, to be
quite “thick” with my host—that there was no fitness in my appealing to
her for sympathy in such a case; before we separated, I say, she remarked
to me with her quick fine well-bred inveterate curtness: “I daresay you
attribute to me ideas I haven’t got.  I don’t take that sort of interest
in my husband’s proof-sheets.  I consider his writings most
objectionable!”



