
Viljalmar Andersen, Secretary-General of the U.N., was to introduce the
space emissary. "Can you give me an idea at all of what he is like?" he
asked nervously.

President McCord was as upset as the Dane. He shrugged in agitation. "I
know almost as little as you do."

Sir Alfred Oxford protested, "But my dear chap, you've had him for
almost two weeks. Certainly in that time--"

The President snapped back, "You probably won't believe this, but he's
been asleep until yesterday. When he first arrived he told us he hadn't
slept for a _decal_, whatever that is; so we held off our discussion
with him until morning. Well--he didn't awaken in the morning, nor the
next. Six days later, fearing something was wrong we woke him."

"What happened?" Sir Alfred asked.

The President showed embarrassment. "He used some rather ripe Irish
profanity on us, rolled over, and went back to sleep."

Viljalmar Andersen asked, "Well, what happened yesterday?"

"We actually haven't had time to question him. Among other things,
there's been some controversy about whose jurisdiction he comes under.
The State Department claims the Army shouldn't--"

The Secretary General sighed deeply. "Just what _did_ he do?"

"The Secret Service reports he spent the day whistling Mother Machree
and playing with his dog, cat and mouse."

"Dog, cat and mouse? I say!" blurted Sir Alfred.

The President was defensive. "He had to have some occupation, and he
seems to be particularly interested in our animal life. He wanted a
horse but compromised for the others. I understand he insists all three
of them come with him wherever he goes."

"I wish we knew what he was going to say," Andersen worried.

"Here he comes," said Sir Alfred.

Surrounded by F.B.I. men, Dameri Tass was ushered to the speaker's
stand. He had a kitten in his arms; a Scotty followed him.

The alien frowned worriedly. "Sure," he said, "and what kin all this be?
Is it some ordinance I've been after breakin'?"

McCord, Sir Alfred and Andersen hastened to reassure him and made him
comfortable in a chair.

Viljalmar Andersen faced the thousands in the audience and held up his
hands, but it was ten minutes before he was able to quiet the cheering,
stamping delegates from all Earth.

Finally: "Fellow Terrans, I shall not take your time for a lengthy
introduction of the envoy from the stars. I will only say that, without
doubt, this is the most important moment in the history of the human
race. We will now hear from the first being to come to Earth from
another world."

He turned and gestured to Dameri Tass who hadn't been paying overmuch
attention to the chairman in view of some dog and cat hostilities that
had been developing about his feet.

But now the alien's purplish face faded to a light blue. He stood and
said hoarsely. "Faith, an' what was that last you said?"

Viljalmar Andersen repeated, "We will now hear from the first being ever
to come to Earth from another world."

The face of the alien went a lighter blue. "Sure, an' ye wouldn't jist
be frightenin' a body, would ye? You don't mean to tell me this planet
isn't after bein' a member of the Galactic League?"

Andersen's face was blank. "Galactic League?"

"Cushlamachree," Dameri Tass moaned. "I've gone and put me foot in it
again. I'll be after getting _kert_ for this."

Sir Alfred was on his feet. "I don't understand! Do you mean you aren't
an envoy from another planet?"

Dameri Tass held his head in his hands and groaned. "An envoy, he's
sayin', and meself only a second-rate collector of specimens for the
Carthis zoo."

He straightened and started off the speaker's stand. "Sure, an' I must
blast off immediately."

Things were moving fast for President McCord but already an edge of
relief was manifesting itself. Taking the initiative, he said, "Of
course, of course, if that is your desire." He signaled to the bodyguard
who had accompanied the alien to the assemblage.

A dull roar was beginning to emanate from the thousands gathered in the
tremendous hall, murmuring, questioning, disbelieving.
