
Karson turned from the dead screen and looked at Speaker Darell. "Well,
there's our ultimatum," he said. "One week to get out and then Lugert
takes over."

"That means we'll have to move fast," said Darell. "You'd better call
Dr. Lorence. Only a week...."

Karson was already busy punching out Lorence's code number on the
visiphone. When the scientist appeared Karson quickly sketched out
the situation as it stood. Lorence's eyes widened when Karson told of
Lugert's threat. Then the Speaker went on to outline the part Lorence
and his time-net would play in the attempt to defeat Lugert.

"I'll see what I can do," Lorence promised. "I'll try to find the man
you're looking for."

"Can you do it in two days or less?"

"I hope so," Lorence said.

It took two days. Then Lorence rang the Office of the Council and told
Karson, "It's worked!"

"The time-net? You've got the man?"

"I have. I'll bring him right over."

Lorence entered the council room a while later, followed by a tall,
thin, lean-faced man dressed in archaic clothing. Karson's heart
thumped excitedly; here was the man, he thought! Here was the hero from
yesteryear who would put an end to the threat Lugert represented.

"This is Speaker Karson and Speaker Darell of our governing Council,"
Lorence said.

The man from the past nodded curtly. "You can call me Jack." His voice
was cold, flat, with a curious twang of regional accent in it; the
vowel-pronunciation was odd, as was to be expected.

Karson eyed the hard-faced stranger. He didn't seem to have an ounce of
fat on him; he looked tough, uncompromising. "I think you'll do," he
said after a moment's study. "You've got the stuff."

"Thanks," Jack said in a wry voice. "Suppose you line the program out
for me now. Give me the picture; tell me what I'm here for."

Karson frowned. "You're here to help us, because we're helpless
ourselves. Did Dr. Lorence tell you what the characteristics of this
world are?"

"He said a few things. You fill me in."

"It's 300 years since we last had a war of any sort. Crime had been
extinct 150 years--until Lugert.

"Lugert. I heard of him. Who is he?"

"He's the man you're going to kill for us," Karson said bluntly.

The man named Jack grinned. "Oh? A rub-out job?"

"I think that's the term," said Karson. "Lugert's a throwback--a man
out of the past. A man out of your time, suddenly reborn in our era
for God knows what reason. He's cold and hard and utterly ruthless.
Nothing stops him; we're powerless. The compulsion against violence is
too strong in us."

"Just a bunch of patsies," Jack said. "Lugert snaps the whip and you
all lie down and play dead when he says so. That it?"

It took Karson a few moments to digest the strange idioms. Finally he
said, "Right. He began small, with petty thefts and burglaries--he
took anything he wanted. Then he began branching out. He compelled a
scientist to create a serum for him that would instill absolute loyalty
to him in anyone who took it; using that serum, he's built up a band of
henchmen who shares his violent ways. Two days ago he decided to make
the ultimate grab for power: he ordered us to evacuate the Government
Building and let him take over."

"And you said yes," Jack remarked.

"What else could we do? But we have a weapon: you. You share Lugert's
way of life; we don't. We can strike at him indirectly, through you."

"You want me to kill this Lugert. What's in it for me?"

"What?"

"I said, what's in it for me? What do I get out of it besides the risk
of a punctured hide? I don't do these things for my health, Karson."

Karson thought about that for a moment. "Of course; there would have
to be some reward, wouldn't there? Well, what would you want? We can
supply virtually anything, if you'll do the job properly. Osmiridium?
Sapphires? Books? Women?"

The man named Jack shook his head. "Gold," he said.

Karson was startled. "Gold? But why would you want--oh, very well.
Gold was the reigning object of value in your day, wasn't it? Would 25
pounds be enough?"

The man from the past smiled unwarmly. "Quite enough," he said. "You
got yourself a deal."
