
The message that he had been momentarily expecting from the orbiting
_Raphael_ came through. His transceiver picked it up, converted it into
thought, and relayed the thought to the ganglionic sealed unit that
encased both his transplanted brain and the nutrient solution that
sustained it. "Model EV just dropped. Will chute into your area any
moment."

"Good," 8M pulsed into the trans-transmitter. "Building a base the size
of this one is no job for one M.A.N."

"You are hereby notified," the _Raphael_ went on, "that Gorman and Oder
Developments, Incorporated, has informed us that one Lawrence Dickens,
discharged several months ago for rebellious conduct detrimental
to the Company's good name, has started up an advance-construction
corporation of his own and may try to sabotage the base in an attempt
to obtain Gorman and Oder Developments' Earth Government contract. The
_Raphael's_ matter detector indicates that there is another overseer
ship in Jovian orbit, and it is possible that Dickens may already have
chuted one of his Mining, Adapting Neo-processors into your area. If
so, you will recognize it by its greenish-yellow coloring. Its model
designation is 'Boa 9', and Dickens himself will be the operator. You
are hereby advised to stay on your toes."

"My tracks are the best I can do," said 8M wryly.

"The Company frowns on levity," the _Raphael_ said sternly, and signed
off.

Annoyed, 8M activated his transperipheral vision. The Company frowned
on too many things, if you asked him. Sometimes it even frowned on
free will. Consider, for example, its going to all the trouble and
expense of creating a self-sustaining, self-reliant Mining, Adapting
Neo-processor like himself, and then arbitrarily forbidding him,
on the pain of death, to use edenite--an iron-like ore endemic to
Jupiter--in any of his melts. He should have been permitted to make
his own decision in the matter. Certainly, if the ore had proved to be
injurious to his "system", he would have ceased using it at once. There
had been no need for the Company to _forbid_ him to use it. He was a
M.A.N.--not a little child.

The rotating transperipheral beam relayed more murk to his retinal
screen, more desolation. Jupiter was a place of constant atmospheric
turmoil and treacherous terrain. A human being, using the body God
gave him, could not exist anywhere on the surface without the
protection that a base afforded, and as a consequence, the base had
to be built beforehand. All previous attempts had failed, and 8M
represented mankind's last hope of ever colonizing the planet. If he
failed, the project would be abandoned, and Jupiter's rich resources
would be allowed to remain in their native state. Thus far he had
succeeded--after Herculean efforts--in laying the foundation. Now there
remained the building of the base proper, and for this he was to have a
helpmate.

Lord knew, he needed one.
