
He led the way out of the valley, and they started back toward the
base. He saw the track-impressions then, and knew instantly that
neither he nor EV had made them. The wind had long since obliterated
their own impressions, and in any event, these had been made by a
different type of machine.

"They're Boa 9 impressions," EV said. "We have company."

"It must have skirted my alert-field--I should have upped the radius. I
hope the base is all right."

The impressions led straight to it, paralleled the line of footings
for a while, then veered off in an altogether different direction. The
M.A.N. and the W.O.M.A.N. stuck to the trail, but the impressions grew
rapidly less distinct, and presently faded out altogether. 8M halted
on a high hill, and EV drew up beside him. "You know more about this
business than I do," he said, when his transperipheral vision netted
him nothing more than the usual quota of murk and desolation. "Why
should Dickens go to such lengths to defeat the Company when he may not
be able to get its contract with the Earth Government anyway?"

"Vengeance," EV said. "He was pretty high on the Company ladder when
he got the sack, and the fall must have been pretty painful. When he
left, he talked quite a number of other employees into leaving with
him, which explains how he was able to set up a rival concern so fast."

"And he actually sacrificed his life and became a M.A.N. just to get
even?"

"Not a M.A.N.--a sort of super-M.A.N. And he didn't sacrifice his
life. The Boa 9, which he designed himself, goes one step beyond the
Company's M.A.N. Dickens solved the riddle of per-planet radio waves,
and controls the machine from his orbiting ship. But he sees, feels and
hears just as he would if he were actually a part of the machine, and
his reactions, despite the slight time-lapse, are almost as hair-fine
as ours are. He is a very brilliant man, and I'm afraid that someday
the Company will regret letting him go."

"Perhaps. Obviously, though, he's emotionally unstable." 8M swung his
block-long body around. "Well, it's time we got on the job. We'll
work eight hours on, and eight off--that way we'll stay in step with
Jupiter's night-and-day cycle. All right?"

"All right," she said.
