
She had her open hearth ready by the time they reached the ore deposit
which he had been mining yesterday, and he fed an experimental charge
through her exterior door, employing his outside charger-keel. First
limestone, and then ore. The warmth of her reached out and bathed his
flanks, and the red-hotness of her hearth traveled throughout his whole
body. In lieu of "giving her a drink"--an operation for which he was
not equipped--he charged her with the pigs he had poured the night
before. This, of course, delayed the heat, but even so, she had it out
in half the time his own hearth would have required.

Thrilled, he plunged into the mining end of the operation, while she
processed the heat. A delay occurred when his main ore-crusher broke
down and one of its parts had to be replaced. He would have made the
part himself, but she offered to do the job for him, saying that it
would be good practice. She had the part ready in no time, and it was
an exact replica of the old. Installing it required, not hours, as
ordinarily would have been the case, but mere minutes.

He was delighted. "You're quite a W.O.M.A.N. at that," he told her.

"My parts-replacement shop is equipped with the best machines money can
buy," she said proudly. "Given the specifications, I can manufacture
anything under the sun." She paused, and a wave of sadness reached out
and touched his hull perceptors. "Except--except--"

"Yes?"

"Nothing," she said. "Shall we get back to work?"

By nightfall, he had both his and her mills in action, and heats coming
up in both their hearths. He charged her once more before they settled
down for the night so that a heat could be tapped first thing in the
morning. A feeling of contentment such as he had not experienced since
becoming a M.A.N. came over him as he rested beside her in their valley
bed, but he did not permit it to lull him into a concomitant feeling of
security, and after deactivating his eyes, he extended his alert-field
to maximum radius. If the Boa 9 tried any tricks, he would at least
have forewarning.

The Boa 9 did not, however, and the night passed without incident. 8M
began mining operations as soon as they reached the ore deposit, while
EV poured and processed the heat which she had nursed during her sleep.
The stockpile of structural steel was growing visibly now, and in a few
days they would be able to shut down their systems and begin erecting
the first level of the base. Oddly, 8M found the prospect dismal,
rather than cheering, and he was at a loss to understand his apostasy.
