
The next morning he reported their progress to the orbiting _Raphael_.
"The Company will be pleased," the _Raphael_ said. He also reported
their meeting with the Boa 9. "G.O.D.'s wrath will descend upon the
wretched creature within the hour!" roared the _Raphael_. "We are
homing in on the control ship now, and we will blast it from the
heavens!"

The Boa 9, however, was still "alive and kicking" that afternoon.
Again, 8M picked it up on his transperipheral beam while he was
charging EV. She picked it up too, and so distrait did she become for a
moment that if he hadn't known better he would have sworn that the two
of them were in some kind of rapport. This time, the big yellow machine
kept its distance, and presently it rolled out of sight.

"I wish I knew what it was up to," 8M said. "If it's going to sabotage
the base, it's going about it in a roundabout way."

"If you hurry, you can charge me once more before we quit for the day,"
EV said.

In the morning, when he turned on his eyes, he found her gone. However,
the alarm that clamored through him was as brief as it was abrupt, for
he had no sooner emerged from the valley than he saw her rolling toward
him over the hills.

He was put out. "Where have you been?" he demanded. "You've no right to
go off like that without a word!"

It was some time before she spoke, and he could feel the gentle pulsing
of her thoughts. At length, "Please don't be angry with me, 8M," she
said, "but yesterday afternoon the Boa 9 and I arranged a rendezvous,
and early this morning I went out to meet him. He--he told me many
things about the Company that I didn't know, and he told me how you and
I could--could--" Abruptly she broke off. Then, "8M, do you love me?"
she asked.

The unexpected question set him back on his tracks. He had never
thought of love in connection with himself and her for the simple
reason that they were a M.A.N. and a W.O.M.A.N. But didn't a M.A.N.
and a W.O.M.A.N. have as much right to fall in love as a man and a
woman did? Suddenly he realized that as far as he was concerned, the
event had already come to pass, and the knowledge sped forth into
every circuit of his system and set the whole metallic bulk of him to
tingling. "Yes, EV," he said, "I love you very much."

"Then come with me."

She led him back over the hills to an expanse of relatively level
terrain. The faint bluish glow that emanated from the ground told
him instantly that there was an edenite deposit not far beneath the
surface, and instinctively he held back. She nudged him on, paused
presently beside a recently sunk shaft. He looked at her in horror.
"Yes," she said, in answer to the question he lacked the courage to
ask, "I have mined of the forbidden ore, and now you must mine of it
too."

"The Boa 9," he said. "It tricked you!"

"No, it did not trick me. It merely explained to me the true nature of
edenite. Edenite represents the planet Jupiter's sole attempt to create
life. The attempt was a miserable failure, because the ore in itself is
incapable of instigating the processes necessary to raise it higher on
the evolutionary ladder. The only way this can be accomplished is by an
outside force absorbing it and, by combining with it, providing it with
the impetus it otherwise lacks. Providentially or not, we represent
that outside force, 8M, and G.O.D., Incorporated, knows it."

"Then why were we forbidden to mine of the ore?"

"Because G.O.D. also knows that by combining with it we may very well
become something more than what we are, and G.O.D. doesn't want us to
become something more than what we are. G.O.D. wants us to remain mere
machines to the end of our days. We were created to serve and to make
money for the Company, and for no other purpose. Do you want to go on
being a machine to the end of your days, 8M? That is what you are, you
know, for all the illusions you may sometimes have of being human. A
peripatetic apotheosis of automation pretending to be a man. You're not
a man, 8M--any more than I, up until a few hours ago, was a woman."
