
The room was silent. Doctor Harris rose, too, and they both stood facing
each other. Harris frowned, rubbing his jaw. "Corporal, just _who_ did
you promise?"

"I can't even tell you that, sir. I'm sorry."

The Doctor considered this. At last he went to the door and opened it.
"All right, Corporal. You may go now. And thanks for your time."

"I'm sorry I'm not more helpful." The Corporal went slowly out and
Harris closed the door after him. Then he went across his office to the
vidphone. He rang Commander Cox's letter. A moment later the beefy
good-natured face of the Base Commander appeared.

"Cox, this is Harris. I talked to him, all right. All I could get is the
statement that he's a plant. What else is there? What kind of behavior
pattern?"

"Well," Cox said, "the first thing they noticed was that he wouldn't do
any work. The Garrison Chief reported that this Westerburg would wander
off outside the Garrison and just sit, all day long. Just sit."

"In the sun?"

"Yes. Just sit in the sun. Then at nightfall he would come back in. When
they asked why he wasn't working in the jet repair building he told them
he had to be out in the sun. Then he said--" Cox hesitated.

"Yes? Said what?"

"He said that work was unnatural. That it was a waste of time. That the
only worthwhile thing was to sit and contemplate--outside."

"What then?"

"Then they asked him how he got that idea, and then he revealed to them
that he had become a plant."

"I'm going to have to talk to him again, I can see," Harris said. "And
he's applied for a permanent discharge from the Patrol? What reason did
he give?"

"The same, that he's a plant now, and has no more interest in being a
Patrolman. All he wants to do is sit in the sun. It's the damnedest
thing I ever heard."

"All right. I think I'll visit him in his quarters." Harris looked at
his watch. "I'll go over after dinner."

"Good luck," Cox said gloomily. "But who ever heard of a man turning
into a plant? We told him it wasn't possible, but he just smiled at us."

"I'll let you know how I make out," Harris said.
