
Harris walked slowly down the hall. It was after six; the evening meal
was over. A dim concept was coming into his mind, but it was much too
soon to be sure. He increased his pace, turning right at the end of the
hall. Two nurses passed, hurrying by. Westerburg was quartered with a
buddy, a man who had been injured in a jet blast and who was now almost
recovered. Harris came to the dorm wing and stopped, checking the
numbers on the doors.

"Can I help you, sir?" the robot attendant said, gliding up.

"I'm looking for Corporal Westerburg's room."

"Three doors to the right."

Harris went on. Asteroid Y-3 had only recently been garrisoned and
staffed. It had become the primary check-point to halt and examine ships
entering the system from outer space. The Garrison made sure that no
dangerous bacteria, fungus, or what-not arrived to infect the system. A
nice asteroid it was, warm, well-watered, with trees and lakes and lots
of sunlight. And the most modern Garrison in the nine planets. He shook
his head, coming to the third door. He stopped, raising his hand and
knocking.

"Who's there?" sounded through the door.

"I want to see Corporal Westerburg."

The door opened. A bovine youth with horn-rimmed glasses looked out, a
book in his hand. "Who are you?"

"Doctor Harris."

"I'm sorry, sir. Corporal Westerburg is asleep."

"Would he mind if I woke him up? I want very much to talk to him."
Harris peered inside. He could see a neat room, with a desk, a rug and
lamp, and two bunks. On one of the bunks was Westerburg, lying face up,
his arms folded across his chest, his eyes tightly closed.

"Sir," the bovine youth said, "I'm afraid I can't wake him up for you,
much as I'd like to."

"You can't? Why not?"

"Sir, Corporal Westerburg won't wake up, not after the sun sets. He just
won't. He can't be wakened."

"Cataleptic? Really?"

"But in the morning, as soon as the sun comes up, he leaps out of bed
and goes outside. Stays the whole day."

"I see," the Doctor said. "Well, thanks anyhow." He went back out into
the hall and the door shut after him. "There's more to this than I
realized," he murmured. He went on back the way he had come.
