
It was a warm sunny day. The sky was almost free of clouds and a gentle
wind moved through the cedars along the bank of the stream. There was a
path leading from the hospital building down the slope to the stream. At
the stream a small bridge led over to the other side, and a few patients
were standing on the bridge, wrapped in their bathrobes, looking
aimlessly down at the water.

It took Harris several minutes to find Westerburg. The youth was not
with the other patients, near or around the bridge. He had gone farther
down, past the cedar trees and out onto a strip of bright meadow, where
poppies and grass grew everywhere. He was sitting on the stream bank, on
a flat grey stone, leaning back and staring up, his mouth open a little.
He did not notice the Doctor until Harris was almost beside him.

"Hello," Harris said softly.

Westerburg opened his eyes, looking up. He smiled and got slowly to his
feet, a graceful, flowing motion that was rather surprising for a man of
his size. "Hello, Doctor. What brings you out here?"

"Nothing. Thought I'd get some sun."

"Here, you can share my rock." Westerburg moved over and Harris sat down
gingerly, being careful not to catch his trousers on the sharp edges of
the rock. He lit a cigarette and gazed silently down at the water.
Beside him, Westerburg had resumed his strange position, leaning back,
resting on his hands, staring up with his eyes shut tight.

"Nice day," the Doctor said.

"Yes."

"Do you come here every day?"

"Yes."

"You like it better out here than inside."

"I can't stay inside," Westerburg said.

"You can't? How do you mean, 'can't'?"

"You would die without _air_, wouldn't you?" the Corporal said.

"And you'd die without sunlight?"

Westerburg nodded.

"Corporal, may I ask you something? Do you plan to do this the rest of
your life, sit out in the sun on a flat rock? Nothing else?"

Westerburg nodded.

"How about your job? You went to school for years to become a Patrolman.
You wanted to enter the Patrol very badly. You were given a fine rating
and a first-class position. How do you feel, giving all that up? You
know, it won't be easy to get back in again. Do you realize that?"

"I realize it."

"And you're really going to give it all up?"

"That's right."
