
Harris was silent for a while. At last he put his cigarette out and
turned toward the youth. "All right, let's say you give up your job and
sit in the sun. Well, what happens, then? Someone else has to do the job
instead of you. Isn't that true? The job has to be done, _your_ job has
to be done. And if you don't do it someone else has to."

"I suppose so."

"Westerburg, suppose everyone felt the way you do? Suppose everyone
wanted to sit in the sun all day? What would happen? No one would check
ships coming from outer space. Bacteria and toxic crystals would enter
the system and cause mass death and suffering. Isn't that right?"

"If everyone felt the way I do they wouldn't be going into outer space."

"But they have to. They have to trade, they have to get minerals and
products and new plants."

"Why?"

"To keep society going."

"Why?"

"Well--" Harris gestured. "People couldn't live without society."

Westerburg said nothing to that. Harris watched him, but the youth did
not answer.

"Isn't that right?" Harris said.

"Perhaps. It's a peculiar business, Doctor. You know, I struggled for
years to get through Training. I had to work and pay my own way. Washed
dishes, worked in kitchens. Studied at night, learned, crammed, worked
on and on. And you know what I think, now?"

"What?"

"I wish I'd become a plant earlier."

Doctor Harris stood up. "Westerburg, when you come inside, will you
stop off at my office? I want to give you a few tests, if you don't
mind."

"The shock box?" Westerburg smiled. "I knew that would be coming around.
Sure, I don't mind."

Nettled, Harris left the rock, walking back up the bank a short
distance. "About three, Corporal?"

The Corporal nodded.

Harris made his way up the hill, to the path, toward the hospital
building. The whole thing was beginning to become more clear to him. A
boy who had struggled all his life. Financial insecurity. Idealized
goal, getting a Patrol assignment. Finally reached it, found the load
too great. And on Asteroid Y-3 there was too much vegetation to look at
all day. Primitive identification and projection on the flora of the
asteroid. Concept of security involved in immobility and permanence.
Unchanging forest.

He entered the building. A robot orderly stopped him almost at once.
"Sir, Commander Cox wants you urgently, on the vidphone."

"Thanks." Harris strode to his office. He dialed Cox's letter and the
Commander's face came presently into focus. "Cox? This is Harris. I've
been out talking to the boy. I'm beginning to get this lined up, now. I
can see the pattern, too much load too long. Finally gets what he wants
and the idealization shatters under the--"

"Harris!" Cox barked. "Shut up and listen. I just got a report from Y-3.
They're sending an express rocket here. It's on the way."

"An express rocket?"

"Five more cases like Westerburg. All say they're plants! The Garrison
Chief is worried as hell. Says we _must_ find out what it is or the
Garrison will fall apart, right away. Do you get me, Harris? Find out
what it is!"

"Yes, sir," Harris murmured. "Yes, sir."
