
By the end of the week there were twenty cases, and all, of course, were
from Asteroid Y-3.

Commander Cox and Harris stood together at the top of the hill, looking
gloomily down at the stream below. Sixteen men and four women sat in the
sun along the bank, none of them moving, none speaking. An hour had gone
by since Cox and Harris appeared, and in all that time the twenty people
below had not stirred.

"I don't get it," Cox said, shaking his head. "I just absolutely don't
get it. Harris, is this the beginning of the end? Is everything going to
start cracking around us? It gives me a hell of a strange feeling to see
those people down there, basking away in the sun, just sitting and
basking."

"Who's that man there with the red hair?"

"That's Ulrich Deutsch. He was Second in Command at the Garrison. Now
look at him! Sits and dozes with his mouth open and his eyes shut. A
week ago that man was climbing, going right up to the top. When the
Garrison Chief retires he was supposed to take over. Maybe another year,
at the most. All his life he's been climbing to get up there."

"And now he sits in the sun," Harris finished.

"That woman. The brunette, with the short hair. Career woman. Head of
the entire office staff of the Garrison. And the man beside her.
Janitor. And that cute little gal there, with the bosom. Secretary, just
out of school. All kinds. And I got a note this morning, three more
coming in sometime today."

Harris nodded. "The strange thing is--they really _want_ to sit down
there. They're completely rational; they could do something else, but
they just don't care to."

"Well?" Cox said. "What are you going to do? Have you found anything?
We're counting on you. Let's hear it."

"I couldn't get anything out of them directly," Harris said, "but I've
had some interesting results with the shock box. Let's go inside and
I'll show you."

"Fine," Cox turned and started toward the hospital. "Show me anything
you've got. This is serious. Now I know how Tiberius felt when
Christianity showed up in high places."
