
Harris snapped off the light. The room was pitch black. "I'll run this
first reel for you. The subject is one of the best biologists stationed
at the Garrison. Robert Bradshaw. He came in yesterday. I got a good run
from the shock box because Bradshaw's mind is so highly differentiated.
There's a lot of repressed material of a non-rational nature, more than
usual."

He pressed a switch. The projector whirred, and on the far wall a
three-dimensional image appeared in color, so real that it might have
been the man himself. Robert Bradshaw was a man of fifty, heavy-set,
with iron grey hair and a square jaw. He sat in the chair calmly, his
hands resting on the arms, oblivious to the electrodes attached to his
neck and wrist. "There I go," Harris said. "Watch."

His film-image appeared, approaching Bradshaw. "Now, Mr. Bradshaw," his
image said, "this won't hurt you at all, and it'll help us a lot." The
image rotated the controls on the shock box. Bradshaw stiffened, and his
jaw set, but otherwise he gave no sign. The image of Harris regarded him
for a time and then stepped away from the controls.

"Can you hear me, Mr. Bradshaw?" the image asked.

"Yes."

"What is your name?"

"Robert C. Bradshaw."

"What is your position?"

"Chief Biologist at the check-station on Y-3."

"Are you there now?"

"No, I'm back on Terra. In a hospital."

"Why?"

"Because I admitted to the Garrison Chief that I had become a plant."

"Is that true? That you are a plant."

"Yes, in a non-biological sense. I retain the physiology of a human
being, of course."

"What do you mean, then, that you're a plant?"

"The reference is to attitudinal response, to Weltanschauung."

"Go on."

"It is possible for a warm-blooded animal, an upper primate, to adopt
the psychology of a plant, to some extent."

"Yes?"

"I refer to this."

"And the others? They refer to this also?"

"Yes."

"How did this occur, your adopting this attitude?"

Bradshaw's image hesitated, the lips twisting. "See?" Harris said to
Cox. "Strong conflict. He wouldn't have gone on, if he had been fully
conscious."

"I--"

"Yes?"

"I was taught to become a plant."

The image of Harris showed surprise and interest. "What do you mean, you
were _taught_ to become a plant?"

"They realized my problems and taught me to become a plant. Now I'm free
from them, the problems."

"Who? Who taught you?"

"The Pipers."

"Who? The Pipers? Who are the Pipers?"

There was no answer.

"Mr. Bradshaw, who are the Pipers?"

After a long, agonized pause, the heavy lips parted. "They live in the
woods...."

Harris snapped off the projector, and the lights came on. He and Cox
blinked. "That was all I could get," Harris said. "But I was lucky to
get that. He wasn't supposed to tell, not at all. That was the thing
they all promised not to do, tell who taught them to become plants. The
Pipers who live in the woods, on Asteroid Y-3."

"You got this story from all twenty?"

"No." Harris grimaced. "Most of them put up too much fight. I couldn't
even get _this_ much from them."

Cox reflected. "The Pipers. Well? What do you propose to do? Just wait
around until you can get the full story? Is that your program?"

"No," Harris said. "Not at all. I'm going to Y-3 and find out who the
Pipers are, myself."
