
He started down the rocks. More rocks rose up ahead and he climbed them.
Suddenly he stopped, listening. Far off, he could hear a sound, the
sound of water. Was he approaching a pool of some kind? He went on
again, trying to locate the sound. He scrambled down rocks and up rocks,
and all around him there was silence, except for the splashing of
distant water. Maybe a waterfall, water in motion. A stream. If he found
the stream he might find the natives.

The rocks ended and the stream bed began again, but this time it was
wet, the bottom muddy and overgrown with moss. He was on the right
track; not too long ago this stream had flowed, probably during the
rainy season. He went up on the side of the stream, pushing through the
ferns and vines. A golden snake slid expertly out of his path. Something
glinted ahead, something sparkling through the ferns. Water. A pool. He
hurried, pushing the vines aside and stepping out, leaving them behind.

He was standing on the edge of a pool, a deep pool sunk in a hollow of
grey rocks, surrounded by ferns and vines. The water was clear and
bright, and in motion, flowing in a waterfall at the far end. It was
beautiful, and he stood watching, marveling at it, the undisturbed
quality of it. Untouched, it was. Just as it had always been, probably.
As long as the asteroid existed. Was he the first to see it? Perhaps. It
was so hidden, so concealed by the ferns. It gave him a strange feeling,
a feeling almost of ownership. He stepped down a little toward the
water.

And it was then he noticed her.

The girl was sitting on the far edge of the pool, staring down into the
water, resting her head on one drawn-up knee. She had been bathing; he
could see that at once. Her coppery body was still wet and glistening
with moisture, sparkling in the sun. She had not seen him. He stopped,
holding his breath, watching her.

She was lovely, very lovely, with long dark hair that wound around her
shoulders and arms. Her body was slim, very slender, with a supple grace
to it that made him stare, accustomed as he was to various forms of
anatomy. How silent she was! Silent and unmoving, staring down at the
water. Time passed, strange, unchanging time, as he watched the girl.
Time might even have ceased, with the girl sitting on the rock staring
into the water, and the rows of great ferns behind her, as rigid as if
they had been painted there.

All at once the girl looked up. Harris shifted, suddenly conscious of
himself as an intruder. He stepped back. "I'm sorry," he murmured. "I'm
from the Garrison. I didn't mean to come poking around."

She nodded without speaking.

"You don't mind?" Harris asked presently.

"No."

So she spoke Terran! He moved a little toward her, around the side of
the pool. "I hope you don't mind my bothering you. I won't be on the
asteroid very long. This is my first day here. I just arrived from
Terra."

She smiled faintly.

"I'm a doctor. Henry Harris." He looked down at her, at the slim coppery
body, gleaming in the sunlight, a faint sheen of moisture on her arms
and thighs. "You might be interested in why I'm here." He paused. "Maybe
you can even help me."

She looked up a little. "Oh?"

"Would you like to help me?"

She smiled. "Yes. Of course."

"That's good. Mind if I sit down?" He looked around and found himself a
flat rock. He sat down slowly, facing her. "Cigarette?"

"No."

"Well, I'll have one." He lit up, taking a deep breath. "You see, we
have a problem at the Garrison. Something has been happening to some of
the men, and it seems to be spreading. We have to find out what causes
it or we won't be able to run the Garrison."
