
Time dragged along in the weather dome. I had managed to smuggle a
small portable telescope along with me, and tried to make observations
whenever possible. But the weather was usually too poor. Rizzo, almost
in desperation for something to do, started to build an electronic
image-amplifier for me.

Our one link with the rest of the world was our weekly radio message
from McMurdo. The times for the messages were randomly scrambled, so
that the chances of their being intercepted or jammed were lessened.
And we were ordered to maintain strict radio silence.

As the weeks sloughed on, we learned that one of our manned satellites
had been boarded by the Reds at gunpoint. Our space-crews had put
two Red automated spy-satellites out of commission. Shots had been
exchanged on an ice-island in the Arctic. And six different nations
were testing nuclear bombs.

We didn't get any mail of course. Our letters would be waiting for
us at McMurdo when we were relieved. I thought about Gloria and our
two children quite a bit, and tried not to think about the blast and
fallout patterns in the San Francisco area, where they were.

"My wife hounded me until I spent pretty nearly every damned cent I
had on a shelter, under the house," Rizzo told me. "Damned shelter is
fancier than the house. She's the social leader of the disaster set. If
we don't have a war, she's gonna feel damned silly."

I said nothing.

The weather cleared and steadied for a while (days and nights were
indistinguishable during the long Antarctic winter) and I split my time
evenly between monitoring the meteorological sensors and observing the
stars. The snow had covered the dome completely, of course, but our
"snorkel" burrowed through it and out into the air.

"This dome's just like a submarine, only we're submerged in snow
instead of water," Rizzo observed. "I just hope we don't sink to the
bottom."

"The calculations show that we'll be all right."

He made a sour face. "Calculations proved that airplanes would never
get off the ground."

The storms closed in again, but by the time they cleared once more,
Rizzo had completed the image-amplifier for me. Now, with the tiny
telescope I had, I could see almost as far as a professional instrument
would allow. I could even lie comfortably in my bunk, watch the
amplifier's viewscreen, and control the entire set-up remotely.

Then it happened.

At first it was simply a curiosity. An oddity.
