
I ignored him and turned my attention to Army business. The
meteorological equipment was functioning perfectly, but our orders read
that one of us had to check it every twelve hours. So I checked and
tried to keep my eyes from wandering as Rizzo tinkered with a photocell
and oscilloscope.

"There we are," he said, at length. "Now let's see what they're telling
us."

In spite of myself I looked up at the face of the oscilloscope. A
steady, gradually sloping greenish line was traced across the screen.

"No message," I said.

Rizzo shrugged elaborately.

"If you leave the 'scope on for two days, you'll find that the line
makes a full swing from peak to null," I informed him. "The star
pulsates every two days, bright to dim."

"Let's turn up the gain," he said, and he flicked a few knobs on the
front of the 'scope.

The line didn't change at all.

"What's the sweep speed?" I asked.

"One nanosecond per centimeter." That meant that each centimeter-wide
square on the screen's face represented one billionth of a second.
There are as many nanoseconds in one second as there are seconds in
thirty-two years.

"Well, if you don't get a signal at that sensitivity, there just isn't
any signal there," I said.

Rizzo nodded. He seemed slightly disappointed that his joke was at an
end. I turned back to the meteorological instruments, but I couldn't
concentrate on them. Somehow I felt disappointed, too. Subconsciously,
I suppose, I had been hoping that Rizzo actually would detect a signal
from the star. _Fool!_ I told myself. But what could explain that
bright emission line? I glanced up at the oscilloscope again.

And suddenly the smooth steady line broke into a jagged series of
millions of peaks and nulls!

I stared at it.

Rizzo was back on his bunk again, reading one of his magazines. I tried
to call him, but the words froze in my throat. Without taking my eyes
from the flickering 'scope, I reached out and touched his arm.

He looked up.

"Holy Mother of God," Rizzo whispered.

For a long time we stared silently at the fluttering line dancing
across the oscilloscope screen, bathing our tiny dome in its weird
greenish light. It was eerily fascinating, hypnotic. The line never
stood still; it jabbered and stuttered, a series of millions of little
peaks and nulls, changing almost too fast for the eye to follow, up
and down, calling to us, speaking to us, up, down, never still, never
quiet, constantly flickering its unknown message to us.

[Illustration: _The line never stood still; millions of little peaks
and nulls calling to us, speaking to us, never still, never quiet,
constantly flickering its unknown message to us._]

"Can it be ... people?" Rizzo wondered. His face, bathed in the
greenish light, was suddenly furrowed, withered, ancient: a mixture of
disbelief and fear.

"What else could it be?" I heard my own voice answer. "There's no other
explanation possible."

We sat mutely for God knows how long.

Finally Rizzo asked, "What do we do now?"
