
It took Rizzo a few hours to get everything properly set up. I did some
arithmetic while he worked. If the message was in binary code, that
meant that every cycle of the signal--every flick of the dancing line
on our screen--carried a bit of information. The signal's wavelength
was 5000 Angstroms; there are a hundred million Angstrom units to the
centimeter; figuring the speed of light ... the signal could carry, in
theory at least, something like 600 trillion bits of information _per
second_.

I told Rizzo.

"Yeah, I know. I've been going over the same numbers in my head." He
set a few switches on the computer control board. "Now let's see how
many of the 600 trillion we can pick up." He sat down before the board
and pressed a series of buttons.

We watched, hardly breathing, as the computer's spools began spinning
and the indicator lights flashed across the control board. Within a few
minutes, the printer chugged to life.

Rizzo swivelled his chair over to the printer and held up the unrolling
sheet in a trembling hand.

Numbers. Six-digit numbers. Completely meaningless.

"Gibberish," Rizzo snapped.

It was peculiar. I felt relieved and disappointed at the same time.

"Something's screwy," Rizzo said. "Maybe I fouled up the circuits...."

"I don't think so," I answered. "After all, what did you expect out of
the computer? Shakespearean poetry?"

"No, but I expected numbers that would make some sense. One and one,
maybe. Something that means something. This stuff is nowhere."

Our nerves must have really been wound tight, because before we knew
it we were in the middle of a nasty argument--and it was over nothing,
really. But in the middle of it:

"Hey, look," Rizzo shouted, pointing to the oscilloscope.

The message had stopped. The 'scope showed only the calm, steady line
of the star's basic two-day-long pulsation.

It suddenly occurred to us that we hadn't slept for more than 36
hours, and we were both exhausted. We forgot the senseless argument.
The message was ended. Perhaps there would be another; perhaps not. We
had the telescope, spectrometer, photocell, oscilloscope, and computer
set to record automatically. We collapsed into our bunks. I suppose I
should have had monumental dreams. I didn't. I slept like a dead man.
