
When we woke up, the oscilloscope trace was still quiet.

"Y'know," Rizzo muttered, "it might just be a fluke ... I mean, maybe
the signals don't mean a damned thing. The computer is probably
translating nonsense into numbers just because it's built to print out
numbers and nothing else."

"Not likely," I said. "There are too many coincidences to be explained.
We're receiving a message, I'm certain of it. Now we've got to crack
the code."

As if to reinforce my words, the oscilloscope trace suddenly erupted
into the same flickering pattern. The message was being sent again.

We went through two weeks of it. The message would run through for
seven hours, then stop for seven. We transcribed it on tape 48
times and ran it through the computer constantly. Always the same
result--six-digit numbers; millions of them. There were six different
seven-hour-long messages, being repeated one after the other,
constantly.

We forgot the meteorological equipment. We ignored the weekly messages
from McMurdo. The rest of the world became a meaningless fiction to
us. There was nothing but the confounded, tantalizing, infuriating,
enthralling message. The National Emergency, the bomb tests, families,
duties--all transcended, all forgotten. We ate when we thought of it
and slept when we couldn't keep our eyes open any longer. The message.
What was it? What was the key to unlock its meaning?

"It's got to be something universal," I told Rizzo. "Something
universal ... in the widest sense of the term."

He looked up from his desk, which was wedged in between the end of his
bunk and the curving dome wall. The desk was littered with printout
sheets from the computer, each one of them part of the message.

"You've only said that a half-million times in the past couple weeks.
What the hell is universal? If you can figure that out, you're damned
good."

_What is universal?_ I wondered. _You're an astronomer. You look out at
the universe. What do you see?_ I thought about it. _What do I see?
Stars, gas, dust clouds, planets ... what's universal about them? What
do they all have that_....

"Atoms!" I blurted.

Rizzo cocked a weary eye at me. "Atoms?"

"Atoms. Elements. Look...." I grabbed up a fistful of the sheets and
thumbed through them. "Look ... each message starts with a list of
numbers. Then there's a long blank to separate the opening list from
the rest of the message. See? Every time, the same length list."

"So?"

"The periodic table of the elements!" I shouted into his ear. "That's
the key!"

Rizzo shook his head. "I thought of that two days ago. No soap. In the
first place, the list that starts each message isn't always the same.
It's the same length, all right, but the numbers change. In the second
place, it always begins with 100000. I looked up the atomic weight of
hydrogen--it's 1.008 something."

That stopped me for a moment. But then something clicked into place in
my mind.
