
"Why is the hydrogen weight 1.008?" Before Rizzo could answer, I went
on, "For two reasons. The system we use arbitrarily rates oxygen as
16-even. Right? All the other weights are calculated from oxygen's.
And we also give the average weight of an element, counting all its
isotopes. Our weight for hydrogen also includes an adjustment for tiny
amounts of deuterium and tritium. Right? Well, suppose _they_ have a
system that rates hydrogen as a flat one: 1.00000. Doesn't _that_ make
sense?"

"You're getting punchy," Rizzo grumbled. "What about the isotopes? How
can they expect us to handle decimal points if they don't tell us about
them ... mental telepathy? What about...."

"Stop arguing and start calculating," I snapped. "Change that list
of numbers to agree with our periodic table. Change 1.00000 to
1.008-whatever-it-is and tackle the next few elements. The decimals
shouldn't be so hard to figure out."

Rizzo grumbled to himself, but started working out the calculations. I
stepped over to the dome's microspool library and found an elementary
physics text. Within a few minutes, Rizzo had some numbers and I had
the periodic table focused on the microspool reading machine.

"Nothing," Rizzo said, leaning over my shoulder and looking at the
screen. "They don't match at all."

"Try another list. They're not all the same."

He shrugged and returned to his desk. After a while he called out,
"their second number is 3.97123; it works out to 4.003-something."

It checked! "Good. That's helium. What about the next one, lithium?"

"That's 6.940."

"Right!"

Rizzo went to work furiously after that. I pushed a chair to the desk
and began working up from the end of the list. It all checked out, from
hydrogen to a few elements beyond the artificial ones that had been
created in the laboratories here on Earth.

"That's it," I said. "That's the key. That's our Rosetta Stone ... the
periodic table."

Rizzo stared at the scribbled numbers and jumble of papers. "I bet I
know what the other lists are ... the ones that don't make sense."

"Oh?"

"There are other ways to identify the elements ... vibration
resonances, quantum wavelengths ... somebody named Lewis came out a
couple years ago with a Quantum Periodic Table...."

"They're covering all the possibilities. There are messages for many
different levels of understanding. We just decoded the simplest one."

"Yeah."

I noticed that as he spoke, Rizzo's hand--still tightly clutching the
pencil--was trembling and white with tension.

"Well?"

Rizzo licked his lips. "Let's get to work."
