
We were like two men possessed. Eating, sleeping, even talking was
ignored completely as we waded through the hundreds of sheets of
paper. We could decode only a small percentage of them, but they still
represented many hours of communication. The sheets that we couldn't
decode, we suspected, were repetitions of the same message that we were
working on.

We lost all concept of time. We must have slept, more than once, but I
simply don't remember. All I can recall is thousands of numbers, row
upon row, sheet after sheet of numbers ... and my pencil scratching
symbols of the various chemical elements over them until my hand was so
cramped I could no longer open the fingers.

The message consisted of a long series of formulas; that much was
certain. But, without punctuation, with no knowledge of the symbols
that denote even such simple things as "plus" or "equals" or "yields,"
it took us more weeks of hard work to unravel the sense of each
equation. And even then, there was more to the message than met the
eye:

"Just what the hell are they driving at?" Rizzo wondered aloud. His
face had changed: it was thinner, hollow-eyed, weary, covered with a
scraggly beard.

"Then you think there's a meaning behind all these equations, too?"

He nodded. "It's a message, not just a contact. They're going to an
awful lot of trouble to beam out this message, and they're repeating it
every seven hours. They haven't added anything new in the weeks we've
been watching."

"I wonder how many years or centuries they've been sending out this
message, waiting for someone to pick it up, looking for someone to
answer them."

"Maybe we should call Washington...."

"No!"

Rizzo grinned. "Afraid of breaking radio silence?"

"Hell no. I just want to wait until we're relieved, so we can make
this announcement in person. I'm not going to let some old wheezer in
Washington get credit for this.... Besides, I want to know just what
they're trying to tell us."

It was agonizing, painstaking work. Most of the formulas meant nothing
to either one of us. We had to ransack the dome's meager library of
microspools to piece them together. They started simply enough--basic
chemical combinations: carbon and two oxygens yield CO_{2}; two
hydrogens and oxygen give water. A primer ... not of words, but of
equations.

The equations became steadily longer and more complex. Then, abruptly,
they simplified, only to begin a new deepening, simplify again, and
finally become very complicated just at the end. The last few lines
were obviously repetitious.

Gradually, their meaning became clear to us.

The first set of equations started off with simple, naturally-occurring
energy yielding formulas. The oxidation of cellulose (we found the
formula for that in an organic chemistry text left behind by one of
the dome's previous occupants), which probably referred to the burning
of plants and vegetation. A string of formulas that had groupings in
them that I dimly recognized as amino acids--no doubt something to do
with digesting food. There were many others, including a few that Rizzo
claimed had the expression for chlorophyll in them.

"Naturally-occurring, energy-yielding reactions," Rizzo summarized.
"They're probably trying to describe the biological set-up on their
planet."

It seemed an inspired guess.
