
The air gushed in with incredible force, shoved the men forcefully
against the metal wall, then subsided as the pressure was equalized.
Headley stepped forward, felt the icy crystals of snow tapping against
his suit. He thrust one arm through the port, gasped, as gravity jerked
it groundward. He leaned back, sighed. Inside the ship, with its
inertia-stasis gravity, normal movement was possible; but outside, with
the super-gravity, even slow walking would be a job.

"Set your suit control for three graves," he ordered. "That way, we'll
have enough weight to stay on the ground, and will still be able to
move."

Bart Caxton growled an unintelligible reply, drew his right arm from
the semi-rigid sleeve of his suit, made an adjustment on the suit's
control-panel. Instantly, weight descended with pile-driving force, and
muscles corded in his legs to counteract the tripled gravity.

Headley adjusted his gravity control, then connected himself to Caxton
with a ten-foot length of cable. Carefully, he lowered himself from the
port, stood erect in the howling wind and snow, waited until Caxton
had clambered down to his side. Reaching upward, they closed the port,
leaving it uncogged, so that they could easily reenter.

Headley checked his radi-compass bearings, then braced the full force
of the wind, Caxton pressing forward at his side. They struggled toward
the ice-sheathed cliff a hundred yards away, each step an agony of
effort, clumsily dodging a huge boulder that rolled a lazy path of
death toward them.

Snow smashed at them, made vision difficult, went whirling away.
Even through the radi-heated layers of their suits, they could feel
the implacable cold plucking at their lives with skeletal fingers of
death. Minutes passed, as they fought through the drifting snow, each
minute an age of effort; and when Headley glanced back, he felt a
vague surprise to find that they had travelled so short a distance. He
grinned at Caxton.

"Like trying to run in a slow-motion dream," he said, frowned slightly
when he heard his partner's sullen growl of acknowledgment.

They struggled forward again, approaching the cliff of ice and rock
that towered overhead. Headley splashed heedlessly through a small pool
of semi-liquid, halted with a tiny cry of excitement.

"Look!" he said. "That rock's alive."

Bart Caxton tilted his gaze to where several clay-colored rocks lay at
the edge of the pool.

"You're nuts," he said. "They're just rocks."

"I'll swear I saw one move out of the way of my foot," Headley insisted
stubbornly, bent and lifted the first of the rocks.

It was heavy in his hands, and he had the uncanny sensation that
it squirmed impatiently as he lifted it. He examined it carefully,
ignoring Caxton's impatient words for them to hurry. And even as he
watched, he saw the living rock split in his hands, opening down the
side, disclosing gill-like fringed flesh that looked like slivers of
whitish ice.

"_It is alive!_" he exclaimed excitedly, then dropped the stone as
sudden giddiness clutched at his senses.

Caxton caught at his drooping body. "What's wrong?" he snapped.

Headley blinked his eyes. "Nothing!" he disclaimed. "Just a combination
of pressure and lack of oxygen." He reached for his suit's panel,
opened the oxygen valve another quarter turn.

He shook his head slightly, then bent to study the rock he had dropped.
It had not moved, nor had its mouth-like opening closed. It lay at his
feet in the shallow liquid, resembling nothing more than a ruptured
rock.

"To hell with it!" Caxton said disagreeably. "Let's find the
_kronalium_."

Headley nodded, stumbled after Caxton. But jubilation was in his heart.
When he and Caxton returned, they would take back several of the
rock-creatures as living proof of the success of their mission.

He glanced back, saw squat legs flick from the opening in the rock,
saw the creature scurry back to the few others of its kind that rested
at the side of the semi-frozen pool of liquid. He grinned again, then
pressed forward to lead the way to the cliff.
