
They rested in the lee of the escarpment, safe from the howling wind,
huddling out of the way of the rocks and snow-clots that went spinning
by from the fury of the storm.

"Now what?" Caxton asked.

Tom Headley glanced at the gauges below the level of his chin, watched
the needles carefully.

"God!" he said. "This place is a storehouse of minerals and elements.
We'll have no trouble getting money for an expedition."

"Damn it!" Rage knotted Caxton's voice until it was a thin screech.
"Who cares about that; do you find any traces of _kronalium_?"

Headley watched a single dial, turned slowly, studying the line of
cliff-base at his left. "Close by," he said. "It must be a big deposit,
for the needle doesn't waver."

"Then let's get to it!" Caxton came to his feet, towered over his
squatting partner.

Headley struggled upright, fighting the super-gravity, led the way down
the edge of the escarpment. Time and again, he fell, tripped by the
gravity, whirled aside by the smashing wind. Each time, he struggled
erect, forced himself to go forward again.

He watched the needle floating in its case, followed its point
unerringly toward a shallow recess in the cliff's base. Using his belt
pick, he chopped at the layer of ice and snow, let out a shout of
relief when a strip of reddish metal appeared.

"This is it," he announced. "Now the repair job will be simple."

Bart Caxton nodded, seeing the metal, and for a brief second his hand
hovered over the single gun strapped to his suit. Then he relaxed,
caught his pick in his right hand, bent forward to help smash away
great chunks of the metal.

"It's almost anticlimactic," he said shortly, "finding this stuff so
easily."

Tom Headley grinned. "It would have been more anticlimactic," he said,
"not to have found it. I've found _traces_ of it on every planet I've
visited."

Then they worked without further conversation, digging loose a great
pile of the metal, making staggering trips to the ship with the
precious element that was the only metal with which their rocket tubes
could be repaired. Hours later, they cogged the port shut on their
ship, exhausted the tainted air, released a breathable atmosphere.

Out of their suits, they ate a quick meal, began the task of smelting
the _kronalium_ so that it would fit the wrecked drive mechanism at
the rear of the ship. Headley worked with the quiet sureness of a
man whose life had been self-sufficient; Caxton worked with the grim
doggedness of a man who knows that his life hinges upon his speed in
working.
