
They worked in shifts, eating and sleeping when they could, Caxton
doing the crude work, Headley putting the final touches upon the
delicate task that was theirs.

And forty hours later they stood in admiration of the job they had
done. New metal tubes glowed redly in the light of the radi-lamps,
ready to send the ship hurtling back toward inhabited space. They still
sparkled from the heat generated when Headley had given them a trial
burst of power.

"And that's that," Headley said. His face was grim and lined, and his
smile was a trifle forced.

Bart Caxton nodded, but his eyes were on the bank of dials that
indicated the quantity of oxygen still aboard the ship. His lips were
thin, and his eyes blank, as he made swift calculations in his chaotic
mind.

"Let's blast off," he said.

Tom Headley grinned. "Not yet," he said. "There's five hundred pounds
of _kronalium_ back there that we're taking along. And I want several
of those rock animals for living proof that we've been here."

Anger distorted Caxton's features. His hand sought the gun at his
waist, then dropped beneath the steadiness of Headley's gaze.

"All right," he agreed sullenly. "But let's hurry."

Five trips they made, carrying the metal back to the ship, knowing that
each trip made them more wealthy, so scarce was the metal in great
quantities.

And then, on the sixth trip, Caxton snatched the single gun from
Headley's waist. He laughed as he did so, and the sound was thin and
strained with triumph.

"It's you or me, Headley," he snarled. "And I figure it's going to be
me."

Headley felt horror welling into his mind, but he forced his voice to
be absolutely calm and unemotional.

"Don't be a fool, man," he said. "Both of us can make it back, by going
on short oxy-rations."

Caxton shook his head. "_I'm_ going back," he said viciously. "I'm
taking the ship, the _kronalium_, and a couple of those damned animals
for evidence. I'll say that you died on Uranus." His voice was suddenly
flat and deadly. "_Sucker!_"

A cone of blackness flared from the gun in his hand, caught Tom
Headley, dropped him in his tracks. He twitched silently, lay where he
had fallen, his right arm splashing liquid from the tiny pool at his
feet.

[Illustration: _A cone of blackness dropped Headley in his tracks._]

Bart Caxton tossed the gun aside, leaned over, unscrewed the hinged
valve on Headley's oxygen tank, then callously dumped the unconscious
man into the pool.

Then, without another glance at the body submerged in the pool, Caxton
caught up three of the living rocks, turned and fought his way back to
the ship. He stood for a moment in the ship's port, staring bleakly at
the pool where the dying body of his partner lay. Then he slammed the
port, cogged it shut.

He laid the rock animals in a dark corner of the tank room, then walked
heavily back to the control room and removed his suit. Grinning, he
sank into the pilot's seat, and his hands raced over the controls.

Rockets drummed, and the ship fled into space on a tail of flaming
gasses.

Bart Caxton watched the gauges, then reached out and adjusted the
oxygen valve. He would have to go on three-quarters' rations, but there
would still be oxygen left when he struck the spacelanes.
