
It was after this that he cultivated deliberate illusion, and dabbled
in the notions of the bizarre and the eccentric as an antidote for the
commonplace. Most of these, however, soon showed their poverty and
barrenness; and he saw that the popular doctrines of occultism are as
dry and inflexible as those of science, yet without even the slender
palliative of truth to redeem them. Gross stupidity, falsehood, and
muddled thinking are not dream; and form no escape from life to a mind
trained above their level. So Carter bought stranger books and sought
out deeper and more terrible men of fantastic erudition; delving into
arcana of consciousness that few have trod, and learning things about
the secret pits of life, legend, and immemorial antiquity which
disturbed him ever afterward. He decided to live on a rarer plane, and
furnished his Boston home to suit his changing moods; one room for
each, hung in appropriate colors, furnished with befitting books and
objects, and provided with sources of the proper sensations of light,
heat, sound, taste, and odor.

Once he heard of a man in the South who was shunned and feared for
the blasphemous things he read in prehistoric books and clay tablets
smuggled from India and Arabia. Him he visited, living with him and
sharing his studies for seven years, till horror overtook them one
midnight in an unknown and archaic graveyard, and only one emerged
where two had entered. Then he went back to Arkham, the terrible
witch-haunted old town of his forefathers in New England, and had
experiences in the dark, amidst the hoary willows and tottering gambrel
roofs, which made him seal for ever certain pages in the diary of a
wild-minded ancestor. But these horrors took him only to the edge of
reality, and were not of the true dream country he had known in youth;
so that at fifty he despaired of any rest or contentment in a world
grown too busy for beauty and too shrewd for dream.

Having perceived at last the hollowness and futility of real things,
Carter spent his days in retirement, and in wistful disjointed memories
of his dream-filled youth. He thought it rather silly that he bother
to keep on living at all, and got from a South American acquaintance
a very curious liquid to take him to oblivion without suffering.
Inertia and force of habit, however, caused him to defer action; and
he lingered indecisively among thoughts of old times, taking down the
strange hangings from his walls and refitting the house as it was in
his early boyhood--purple panes, Victorian furniture, and all.

With the passage of time he became almost glad he had lingered, for
his relics of youth and his cleavage from the world made life and
sophistication seem very distant and unreal; so much so that a touch of
magic and expectancy stole back into his nightly slumbers. For years
those slumbers had known only such twisted reflections of every-day
things as the commonest slumbers know, but now there returned a
flicker of something stranger and wilder; something of vaguely awesome
immanence which took the form of tensely clear pictures from his
childhood days, and made him think of little inconsequential things he
had long forgotten. He would often awake calling for his mother and
grandfather, both in their graves a quarter of a century.

Then one night his grandfather reminded him of the key. The gray
old scholar, as vivid as in life, spoke long and earnestly of their
ancient line, and of the strange visions of the delicate and sensitive
men who composed it. He spoke of the flame-eyed Crusader who learnt
wild secrets of the Saracens that held him captive; and of the first
Sir Randolph Carter who studied magic when Elizabeth was queen. He
spoke, too, of that Edmund Carter who had just escaped hanging in the
Salem witchcraft, and who had placed in an antique box a great silver
key handed down from his ancestors. Before Carter awaked, the gentle
visitant had told him where to find that box; that carved oak-box of
archaic wonder whose grotesque lid no hand had raised for two centuries.

In the dust and shadows of the great attic he found it, remote and
forgotten at the back of a drawer in a tall chest. It was about a foot
square, and its Gothic carvings were so fearful that he did not marvel
no person since Edmund Carter had dared open it. It gave forth no noise
when shaken, but was mystic with the scent of unremembered spices. That
it held a key was indeed only a dim legend, and Randolph Carter's
father had never known such a box existed. It was bound in rusty iron,
and no means was provided for working the formidable lock. Carter
vaguely understood that he would find within it some key to the lost
gate of dreams, but of where and how to use it his grandfather had told
him nothing.

An old servant forced the carven lid, shaking as he did so at the
hideous faces leering from the blackened wood, and at some unplaced
familiarity. Inside, wrapped in a discolored parchment, was a huge
key of tarnished silver covered with cryptical arabesques; but of any
legible explanation there was none. The parchment was voluminous, and
held only the strange hieroglyphs of an unknown tongue written with an
antique reed. Carter recognized the characters as those he had seen
on a certain papyrus scroll belonging to that terrible scholar of the
South who had vanished one midnight in a nameless cemetery. The man had
always shivered when he read this scroll, and Carter shivered now.

But he cleaned the key, and kept it by him nightly in its aromatic box
of ancient oak. His dreams were meanwhile increasing in vividness, and
though showing him none of the strange cities and incredible gardens
of the old days, were assuming a definite cast whose purpose could not
be mistaken. They were calling him back along the years, and with the
mingled wills of all his fathers were pulling him toward some hidden
and ancestral source. Then he knew he must go into the past and merge
himself with old things, and day after day he thought of the hills
to the north where haunted Arkham and the rushing Miskatonic and the
lonely rustic homestead of his people lay.
