
In the brooding fire of autumn Carter took the old remembered way past
graceful lines of rolling hill and stone-walled meadow, distant vale
and hanging woodland, curving road and nestling farmstead, and the
crystal windings of the Miskatonic, crossed here and there by rustic
bridges of wood or stone. At one bend he saw a group of giant elms
among which an ancestor had oddly vanished a century and a half before,
and shuddered as the wind blew meaningly through them. Then there was
the crumbling farmhouse of old Goody Fowler the witch, with its little
evil windows and great roof sloping nearly to the ground on the north
side. He speeded up his car as he passed it, and did not slacken till
he had mounted the hill where his mother and her fathers before her
were born, and where the old white house still looked proudly across
the road at the breathlessly lovely panorama of rocky slope and verdant
valley, with the distant spires of Kingsport on the horizon, and hints
of the archaic, dream-laden sea in the farthest background.

Then came the steeper slope that held the old Carter place he had not
seen in over forty years. Afternoon was far gone when he reached the
foot, and at the bend half-way up he paused to scan the outspread
countryside golden and glorified in the slanting floods of magic poured
out by a western sun. All the strangeness and expectancy of his recent
dreams seemed present in this hushed and unearthly landscape, and he
thought of the unknown solitudes of other planets as his eyes traced
out the velvet and deserted lawns shining undulant between their
tumbled walls, the clumps of faery forest setting off far lines of
purple hills beyond hills, and the spectral wooded valley dipping down
in shadow to dank hollows where trickling waters crooned and gurgled
among swollen and distorted roots.

Something made him feel that motors did not belong in the realm he was
seeking, so he left his car at the edge of the forest, and putting the
great key in his coat pocket walked on up the hill. Woods now engulfed
him utterly, though he knew the house was on a high knoll that cleared
the trees except to the north. He wondered how it would look, for it
had been left vacant and untended through his neglect since the death
of his strange great-uncle Christopher thirty years before. In his
boyhood he had reveled through long visits there, and had found weird
marvels in the woods beyond the orchard.

Shadows thickened around him, for the night was near. Once a gap in
the trees opened up to the right, so that he saw off across leagues of
twilight meadow and spied the old Congregational steeple on Central
Hill in Kingsport; pink with the last flush of day, the panes of the
little round windows blazing with reflected fire. Then, when he was in
deep shadow again, he recalled with a start that the glimpse must have
come from childish memory alone, since the old white church had long
been torn down to make room for the Congregational Hospital. He had
read of it with interest, for the paper had told about some strange
burrows or passages found in the rocky hill beneath.

Through his puzzlement a voice piped, and he started again at its
familiarity after long years. Old Benijah Corey had been his Uncle
Christopher's hired man, and was aged even in those far-off times of
his boyhood visits. Now he must be well over a hundred, but that piping
voice could come from no one else. He could distinguish no words, yet
the tone was haunting and unmistakable. To think that "Old Benijy"
should still be alive!

"Mister Randy! Mister Randy! Whar be ye? D'ye want to skeer yer Aunt
Marthy plumb to death? Hain't she tuld ye to keep nigh the place in
the arternoon an' git back afur dark? Randy! Ran--dee!... He's the
beatin'est boy fer runnin' off in the woods I ever see; haff the time
a-settin' moonin' raound that snake-den in the upper timber-lot!...
Hey, yew, Ran--dee!"
