
Now it is agreed by all the distant relatives of Randolph Carter that
something occurred to heighten his imagination in his tenth year. His
cousin, Ernest B. Aspinwall, Esq., of Chicago, is fully ten years his
senior and distinctly recalls a change in the boy after the autumn of
1883. Randolph had looked on scenes of fantasy that few others can
ever have beheld, and stranger still were some of the qualities which
he showed in relation to very mundane things. He seemed, in fine, to
have picked up an odd gift of prophecy; and reacted unusually to things
which, though at the time without meaning, were later found to justify
the singular impressions. In subsequent decades as new inventions,
new names, and new events appeared one by one in the book of history,
people would now and then recall wonderingly how Carter had years
before let fall some careless word of undoubted connection with what
was then far in the future. He did not himself understand these words,
or know why certain things made him feel certain emotions; but fancied
that some unremembered dream must be responsible. It was as early as
1897 that he turned pale when some traveler mentioned the French town
of Belloy-en-Santerre, and friends remembered it when he was almost
mortally wounded there in 1916, while serving with the Foreign Legion
in the Great War.

Carter's relatives talk much of these things because he has lately
disappeared. His little old servant Parks, who for years bore patiently
with his vagaries, last saw him on the morning he drove off alone in
his car with a key he had recently found. Parks had helped him get the
key from the old box containing it, and had felt strangely affected by
the grotesque carvings on the box, and by some other odd quality he
could not name. When Carter left, he had said he was going to visit his
old ancestral country around Arkham.

Half-way up Elm Mountain, on the way to the ruins of the old Carter
place, they found his motor set carefully by the roadside; and in it
was a box of fragrant wood with carvings that frightened the countrymen
who stumbled on it. The box held only a queer parchment whose
characters no linguist or paleographer has been able to decipher or
identify. Rain had long effaced any possible footprints, though Boston
investigators had something to say about evidences of disturbances
among the fallen timbers of the Carter place. It was, they averred,
as though someone had groped about the ruins at no distant period. A
common white handkerchief found among the forest rocks on the hillside
beyond can not be identified as belonging to the missing man.

There is talk of apportioning Randolph Carter's estate among his heirs,
but I shall stand firmly against this course because I do not believe
he is dead. There are twists of time and space, of vision and reality,
which only a dreamer can divine; and from what I know of Carter I think
he has merely found a way to traverse these mazes. Whether or not he
will ever come back, I can not say. He wanted the lands of dreams he
had lost, and yearned for the days of his childhood. Then he found a
key, and I somehow believe he was able to use it to strange advantage.

[Illustration: "There the bearded and finny Gnorri
build their labyrinths."]

I shall ask him when I see him, for I expect to meet him shortly in
a certain dream-city we both used to haunt. It is rumored in Ulthar,
beyond the River Skai, that a new king reigns on the opal throne of
Ilek-Vad, that fabulous town of turrets atop the hollow cliffs of glass
overlooking the twilight sea wherein the bearded and finny Gnorri build
their singular labyrinths, and I believe I know how to interpret this
rumor. Certainly, I look forward impatiently to the sight of that great
silver key, for in its cryptical arabesques there may stand symbolized
all the aims and mysteries of a blindly impersonal cosmos.