
These were the thoughts of Bly Stanton as he plodded over the ridge of
another dune. Then, all thoughts were wiped from his mind. He dropped to
his knees at the sight of the blaze in the hollow between two dunes
directly below.

Their proximity to the fire and the light of the moon combined to make
their features readily discernible. There was no mistaking the Mongoloid
features of Himlo men. And if that was not enough, two of them were
dressed in garments of fur which would have identified them immediately.
The wind was coming from their direction, so Bly was safe for the
moment. They had keen senses of smell, and had the wind been otherwise,
Bly would have been discovered.

He retreated like some huge beetle, on all fours, backward, as if he had
been suddenly confronted by a larger beetle. When he had traveled some
few yards and saw only the serrated ridge of sand interposed between him
and the sky, he rose, turned, and started for the edge of the water.

Though he felt no fear of these men, Bly found it the better part of
discretion to move swiftly from their path. He ran at a trot, a long
lope which covered ground with a minimum of effort. The whole of the
night went by, and still Bly Stanton moved in the easy pace he had set
himself. The dawn found his lean figure bounding along the edge of the
sand.

Hunger forced him to pause, then, and seek food. There was wild fruit on
trees a half mile inland. He ate some apples, and washed down the meager
meal with water from a spring. Then he found shelter and lay down to
sleep. Travel by night, he reasoned, was the best way.

The sound of voices awakened him. They were voices the timbre of which
he had never heard before. He parted the brush under which he had lain
through the day, and peered out cautiously. His eyes widened at the
sight they saw. Strange creatures, a tribe of which he knew nothing,
squatted in the sand a hundred feet from the water. They wore
tight-fitting garments which hugged their bodies so tightly that every
curve was clearly outlined. And they had figures which were not familiar
to Stanton.

It was not strange, for these were women.
