
In the adult world days passed before Oley's accidentally acquired
pattern of nubilous information on the subject of shorts was enlarged.
It was only days in the adult world, but in Oley's world each day was a
mountainous fraction of an entire lifetime, into which came tumbling and
jumbling--or were pulled--bits, pieces, oddments, landslides and
acquisitions of information on every subject that he ran into, or that
ran into him. Nobody had told Oley that acquiring information was his
job at the moment; the acquisition was partly accidental, mostly
instinctive, and spurred by an intense curiosity and an even more
intense determination to master the world as he saw it.

There was the taste of the sick green flowers that Momma kept in the
window box and, just for a side course, a little bit of the dirt, too.
There were the patterns of the rain on the window, and the reactions of
a cat to having its tail pulled. The fact that you touch a stove one
time, and it's cool and comfortable to lay your head against, and
another time it hurts. Things like that. And other things--towering
adults who sometimes swoop down on you and throw you high into the air;
and most times walk over you, around you, and ignore you completely. The
jumble of assorted and unsorted information that is the heritage of
every growing young inquiring brain.

In terms of time, it was only a couple of weeks, if you were looking at
it as an adult, until the next "shorts" incident.

Oley was sitting peacefully at the breakfast table, doing his level best
to control the manipulation of the huge knife-fork-and-spoon,
plate-bowl-and-glass, from which he was expected to eat a meal. Things
smelled good. Momma was cooking doste, and that to Oley smelled best of
all. The doster ticked quietly to itself, then gave a loud pop, and up
came two golden-brown slices of doste. Dostes? Oley wasn't sure. But he
hadn't really begun paying too much attention to whether one doste was
the same as two doste or what, though he could quite proudly tell you
the difference between one and two.

Out it came, and fresh butter was spread on it, and in went two shiny
white beds, for some more doste.

Little Oley watched in fascination. And now he reached for the
tremendous glass sitting on the table in front of him. But his fingers
didn't quite make it. Somehow, the glass was heavy and slippery, and it
eluded him, rolled over on its side, and spilled the bright purple juicy
contents out across the table in a huge swish.

Oley wasn't dismayed, but watched with a researcher's interest as the
bright purple juice swept across the table towards the busily ticking
doster. Momma, of course, wasn't here, or she would have been gruff
about it. She'd just gone into the other room.

[Illustration]

The juice spread rapidly at first, and then more and more slowly, making
a huge, circuitous river spreading across the table, first towards the
doster and then away from it towards the frayed power-cord lying on the
table. It touched and began to run along the cord. Not a very eventful
recording so far, but Oley watched, charmed.

As he watched, a few bubbles began to appear near the frayed spot. A few
wisps of steam. And then, suddenly, there was a loud, snarling
splat--and Momma screamed from the doorway. "That juice is making a
short!"

The information, of course, was duly recorded. Juice makes shorts.

It was a minor item of information, mixed into a jumble of others, and
nothing else was added to this particular file for nearly another week.
