
Oley was playing happily on the living room floor that night. Here there
was much to explore, though an adult might not have thought twice about
it. Back in the corner behind Momma's doing bachine a bright, slender
piece of metal caught Oley's attention. Bigger on one end than the
other, but not really very big anywhere, the sewing machine needle
proved fascinating. As a first experiment, Oley determined that it
worked like a tooth by biting himself with it. After that he went around
the room, biting other things with it. Information, of course, is
information, and to be obtained any way one can.

The brown, snaky lamp cord was the end of this experiment. Oley bit it,
viciously, with his new tooth, and had only barely observed that it had
penetrated completely through when there was a loud splat, and all the
lights in the room went out.

In the darkness and confusion, of course, Oley moved away, seeking other
new experiences. So the cause of the short that Momma and Poppa yakked
so loudly about was never attributed to Oley's actions, but only to "How
could a needle have gotten from your sewing machine into this lamp cord,
Alice?"

But the sum of information had increased. Neatles stuck into lamp cords
had something to do with shorts.

More time passed. And this time the file on shorts was stimulated by
Poppa. The big, rough, booming voice had always scared Oley a bit when
it sounded mad, like now.

"Alice, I've just got to have some more shorts!"

Poppa was rummaging in a drawer far above Oley's head, so he couldn't
see the object under discussion. But all he already knew about
shorts--the information passed in review before him.

Shorts are useful. They help electrics to work harder.

Shorts you wear, and they are electrics.

Wires are electrics.

Shorts can be made by juice.

Shorts can be made by neatles, that bite like teeth.

Poppa needs more shorts.

But Oley wasn't motivated to act at the moment. Just sorting out
information and connecting it with other information files in the
necessarily haphazard manner that might eventually result in something
called intelligence, although he didn't know that yet.

It was a week later in the kitchen, when Momma dropped a giant version
of the neatle on the floor, that his information file in this area
increased again.

"Is that a neatle?" Oley asked.

His mother laughed quietly and looked fondly at her son as she put the
ice pick back on the table.

"I guess you could call it a needle, Oley," she told him. "An ice
needle."

Oley instinctively waited until Momma's back was turned before taking
the nice neatle to try its biting powers; and instinctively took it out
of the kitchen before starting his experiments.

As he passed the cellar door he heard a soft gurgling and promptly
changed course. Pulling open the door with difficulty, he seated himself
on the cellar stairs to watch a delightful new spectacle--frothing,
gurgling water making its way across the floor towards the stairs. It
looked wonderfully dirty and brown, and to Oley it was an absorbing
phenomenon. It never occurred to him to tell Momma.

Suddenly above him the cellar door slammed open, and Poppa came charging
down the stairs, narrowly missing the small figure, straight into the
rising waters, intent, though Oley couldn't know it, on reaching the
drain pipe in the far corner of the cellar to plug it before water from
the spring rains could back up farther and really flood the cellar out.

Halfway across the cellar, Poppa reached up and grasped the dangling
overhead light to turn it on, in order to see his way to the drain--and
suddenly came to frozen, rigid, gasping stop as his hand clamped firmly
over the socket.

Little Oley watched. There was juice in the cellar. Poppa had hold of an
electric. Was Poppa trying to make the shorts he needed?

Oley wasn't sure. He thought it probable. And from the superior
knowledge of his four years, Oley already knew a better way to make
shorts. Neatles make good shorts. Juice don't do so well.

Suddenly, Oley decided to prove his point: Nice neatles probably made
even better shorts than other neatles--and there was a big electric
running up the side of the stairs--an electric fat enough to make a real
good shorts. Maybe lots of shorts.

Raising his nice neatle, Oley took careful aim and plunged it through
the 220-volt stove feeder cable.
