
At first, Larsen had come very near to killing himself, when he learned
that. But a scheme had come to him. There was the Eye of Triton, the
great stone which people of Neptune's moon had worshiped for untold
Neptunian ages. It was clearly unique on Triton, where all other gems
were so abundant. It must be unique in the system; certainly in its
historical value. What value the Tritonians themselves set on it could
be judged from the immense strength of the Temple they had built to
guard it. Tradition held that the Eye had dropped from the heavens; a
meteor, perhaps torn from the heart of Neptune; perhaps from another
system. Few humans had ever seen it, and those only from a distance,
and in the worst of lights. But they agreed that it was transparent
white, like a diamond. Moreover, it was set as the eye of a life-sized
statue of a Tritonian--and the eye of a Tritonian is upwards of five
inches in diameter.

A certain plutocrat of Cyrene had offered Larsen a cool million for the
Eye, even if it turned out to be nothing but a diamond. For a million,
you could buy everything that Cyrene had to offer and Cyrene, the
pleasure-dome on the far side of earth's moon, offered every pleasure
and every luxury that mankind had ever developed. Men could prolong
their lives, and their vigor, indefinitely nowadays if they could
afford to pay for all the resources of modern medicine. Best of all,
the I.P.P. had no jurisdiction in Cyrene, and the local authorities
never bothered any resident of the little planet provided he was
supplied with money enough.

It would be doubly pleasant to win such a fortune at the expense of
the Tritonians. To be sure, they had never been known to harm anyone.
But it was precisely such inoffensive beings that Larsen loathed and
despised most bitterly. Besides, he blamed them for the discovery of
the gems which had made his own valueless.

In any case, he had gone too far to back down now. Landing on
Triton without a license, as he had done, was itself a violation of
Interplanetary Law. Attempted violation of a Tritonian temple was a
serious offense. If the Patrol caught him, he would spend the rest of
his life in the mines of Mercury. And they would be sure to catch him
if he failed to get the Eye.

It wasn't like the good old days, when an outlaw could always keep
a million miles ahead of the Patrol. Now every port where he might
obtain supplies was too closely watched. Only Cyrene offered a place
of refuge, and there only to a man with plenty of money. Larsen smiled
grimly. Whatever happened, he was not going back to the mines. There
was always one very sure way of cheating the law!

He pushed the torch ahead of him through the hole, cautiously. Its
exhaust condensed to ice on the cold bort. A few projections of the
bort barred his way. Larsen turned up the torch, directed it on them.
The bort glowed yellow in the fierce heat, as the pure carbon burned,
which condensed to dry ice on his space-suit.

When those obstructions were gone, Larsen crawled past into the Temple,
and stood up. A thin powder of snow covered everything. The bluish
glare of the torch, reflected from it, suggested but faintly the
vastness of the place. Before him crouched a monstrous figure, human
sized, but lobster shaped, its head enormous, its dozen legs many
jointed. Many similar figures lay on the floor, as stiffly motionless,
each grasping a massive double-headed ax.

Larsen had to turn up his torch before he could be sure that the
crouching figure was indeed the idol he sought, and those others its
guardian priests, frozen in the death-like sleep of their kind. Not
till dawn could anything awaken them. Dawn, he knew, could not be far
off. But he reckoned that it would take some time for its reviving
warmth to penetrate the immense thickness of those walls.

Cautiously, he wiped the snow off the single enormous eye that
occupied the center of the idol's forehead. The eye flashed fire at
him; blue-white, transparent, lustrous as a diamond. It had been
cut, diamond fashion, in many facets, to resemble the many-lensed,
insect-like eyes of the Tritonians themselves. The eye was set in a
band of cement. Larsen tested that cement with a chisel. He cursed. It
was almost as hard as the bort from which the idol had been hewn. He
dared take no chances on scratching the Eye. He turned on his torch
full blast, and began to cut into the bort around the cement, careful
to keep the flame away from the Eye. Sudden heating might crack that
mysterious stone.
