
Larsen worked feverishly, forgetful of time, sweating despite the
chill, until he felt a draught on his back; a cold that bit through his
space-suit to his very marrow. Snowflakes were swirling around him.
The dawn-wind, blowing through the hole in the door! On Triton, the
hydrogen atmosphere froze every night.

From either side, winds rushed in to fill the vacuum, but themselves
froze before they had gone far.

The Eye seemed loose in its socket. Larsen turned down the torch.
Cautiously, he grasped the cement. The Eye came away in his hand. He
was used, by now, to the low gravity of Triton, but the lightness of
the stone surprised him. It seemed as light as pumice.

Larsen looked up just in time. The Tritonians were stirring! The wind,
so cold to him, was warm to them; it meant air to them. Those great
pale eyes--one to each Tritonian--were fixed on him, glaring with
a phosphorescent luster. There was no expression on their gargoyle
faces. Their cavernous mouths gaped open; toothless, but rimmed with
razor-sharp horn, like the jaws of a snapping turtle. The snow dropped
from them; their lobster-segmented shells were dull black, like the
bort of the statue. They were closing in on him. He could not tell
their numbers; behind those visible, more kept crowding out of the
shadows.

As the Tritonians neared him, he saw that they turned their heads away.
Those enormous eyes, adapted to the faint sunlight of Triton, could not
bear the glare of the torch. An ax rose over a helmeted head, grasped
by four tentacular arms. Larsen put down the Eye, and turned up the
torch, aiming it at the dragon's head, looming behind those arms. It
shriveled, turned from black to red. Its owner slumped to the floor,
its limbs still writhing feebly.

Larsen picked up the Eye again, and started for the door. He moved
deliberately, spraying death around him. The Tritonians could not face
the blazing heat of the torch, or its blinding glare. Some fled in
panic, some retired more slowly, some stood, as if bewildered, in his
very path, until he burned them out of it. At the door, he wheeled to
face them, turning down the torch. They started to close in again, and
he turned it up, sweeping them at close range. Half a dozen fell, the
others broke.

The torch was flickering now, as its fuel ran low. In frantic haste,
Larsen unsnapped its carrying strap, dropped it, and plunged into
the hole he had blasted. In utter blackness, he clawed through it,
expecting, every instant, to feel monstrous jaws or talons seize him
from behind. He emerged into the blinding white smother of the dawn
blizzard. Thin as the air was, the force of it hurled his light body
back against the door as he tried to rise. He dropped on all fours, and
crawled forward, dead into the freezing wind, the Eye still clutched in
one hand. The twenty yards to the _Wolf Cub_ seemed twenty miles; he
had about given up all hope when suddenly he bumped into it.
