
The stubby ovaloid was angling in towards the Port from a little above
horizontal, as though to make a belly landing. Just short of the field,
the steering jets gave a tremendous side blast that whipped the ship
into a tight upward arc. All the ship's jets winked out, and the ship
whistled straight up for over a mile, began to slow, and dropped back
in free fall. The ship dropped faster and faster toward the concrete
apron, tail first, its jets dead.

Two hundred feet above the ramp Pop Gillette hit the bank of firing
buttons and hit it hard. The heavy ship shuddered to a stop five feet
above the ramp, cracking the concrete with the fury of its rear jets,
spinning like an enormous pin-wheel, its rotator jets gushing fire in
hundred-yard sweeps.

[Illustration: The heavy ship shuddered to a stop five feet above the
ramp....]

Joe wiped the sweat from his forehead and dropped into his chair.

"Brother! Someday his tubes are going to misfire when he tries that,
and the Lorelei is going to be spread from here to Marsport!"

The radar man did not answer immediately. He was still standing at the
dome, his mouth slightly agape, staring at the stubby ship that now lay
silent in Ramp Four. He pulled himself together, closed his mouth with
a click, and moved back to the sweep screen.

"Who the hell _is_ that guy?"

"You've heard of Pop Gillette. Everybody in space has. Anytime you want
to tell a whopper about space, all you have to say is, 'I remember
one time when Pop Gillette and me was out around so-and-so....' And
whatever nutty place you name, he's probably really been there, and
whatever nutty thing you can think of to happen, it probably really did
happen to him."

The radar man nodded in recognition, and Joe went on.

"Like the time he got mad at the people at White Sands Port. One night
he goosed an asteroid down right in the middle of their main landing
strips. The damn thing was a quarter of a mile long, and almost as
high. How he got it down through the atmosphere, nobody knows, but he
did ... and he landed it so gently that nobody knew anything about it
until they looked out their windows the next morning. They finally got
the Patrol on him, and told him the asteroid was legally his, so he had
to think of a way to get rid of it. He did. Turned out to be laced with
uranium, so he rented the whole darned field for a month, cut the thing
up and carted it away. Sold it for a fortune."

The outer door of the ovaloid ship was now open, and as one of the
Port's zeeps rolled alongside, a man, miniature in the distance,
slid down the ship's side-ladder and climbed aboard. Joe swung the
directional p.a. at the zeep.

"Hey Pop ... come on up!"
