
The little figure waved, and the zeep headed for the control tower. As
it drew nearer they could begin to see Pop Gillette more clearly. He
was a thin little man, deeply space tanned. He could have been anyplace
from fifty to three hundred and fifty. He rode sitting on the rear edge
of the speeding zeep, balanced precariously, calmly puffing a Venusian
cigarote.

He came through the outer control rooms like a Martian whirlwind,
spraying greetings and minor presents in all directions.

"Hi there, Tom. Saw your uncle out near Ganymede. Living with a Phobian
Bat Woman....

"Hi there. Here's that gooloo bird's tail feather you asked for five or
six years ago!" (It had been near twenty years ago, when the recipient
was four years old.)

"Hello, Honey. You know that Neptunian Rock Egg you wanted? Got a
couple in my ship as big as your head. Come up to the hotel for supper
tonight and I'll give them to you!" He winked roguishly at Honey and
whirled into the control room.

"Hi Joe, you landlocked lard-bottom. What have you been doing?" And
before Joe could start to answer, he went on. "Had an unusual thing
happen to me out on Pluto. I was out prospecting for liquid hydrogen
wells when I sprung a leak in my oxygen tank. I got it fixed, but most
of my oxy had leaked out. Had enough for fifteen, maybe twenty minutes,
and the ship was two hours away. Thought I'd never make it. Finally
started back with a load of icicles under my arm. Every few minutes I'd
stop, break off a piece, and drop it into my tank. Turned out to be
pure oxygen, frozen stiff!"

When Joe had regained his composure, he tossed a wink at the radar man,
who was again standing with his mouth ajar.

"Say, Pop," Joe said with careful casualness. "All-Planetary's
Mercury-Venus liner is coming in about oh-four-four."

Pop choked on a lungful of cigarote smoke, and, turning crimson through
his space tan, glared at Joe.

"You better clear out of this tower, son. When that bunch of gears
comes in, it's apt to take this whole side off the planet!"

Joe kept his face serious.

"I hear this is one of the new models," he said. "They only use the
pilot for landings. Take-offs and cruising are all automatic."

Pop Gillette tossed his cigarote into the disposal in disgust.

"I wouldn't put it past that bunch of pants-brains to just point
the things and light a fuse. Those young punks they have for pilots
couldn't belly on the moon."

"But Pop," Joe said. "You're too old to work a liner even if they did
go back to manuals."

Pop Gillette flashed red and purple, and glared at Joe.

"Too old! Do you know what I hit when I brought the Lorelei in just
now? Fourteen damn G's! If she wasn't an old meteor patrol ship she'd
crack open like an egg the way I handle her. Too old my space-warped
rear!"

"But ships are bigger these days, Pop. When you were shoving them they
couldn't have weighed over half a million tons. The one that's due this
afternoon tops two million. That's a lot of ship."

Pop Gillette shook his head derisively at such ignorance, which was,
after all, to be expected from a ground crew man.

"They're all the same. Once you have the feel of it," he rippled his
fingers as though working a bank of firing keys, "it works anyplace.
I run the Lorelei just like I used to run my liners. I can cut it a
bit finer than I could a big ship, but elsewise it doesn't make any
difference how big they come. I could stand that liner on her butt
and write my name clean across that field." He jerked his head at the
four-mile-wide Venusport, and glared at Joe and the radar man. "And
cross the 't's' and dot the 'i's'!"
