
It was an hour later, while they were sitting around drinking Venusian
wine, that the call came through. You always expect a distress call to
be weak and difficult to understand, but this one wasn't. It was as
clear as though the transmitter were in the next room.

"Mayday! Mayday! Mayday! All-Planetary Liner Twelve calling Venusport!
Over!"

At the first sound of the universal distress call, Joe and the radar
man went into action. Joe hit a red stud that alerted all the units
at the Port, and cut in the speakers in the other control sections,
while the radar man got a rough bearing on the liner, and switched up
the amplification until he had the ship located within a foot, and its
speed and course plotted to five decimal places.

All this in the time it took the first call to come through. Joe
flipped the transmitting stud.

"Venusport to All-Planetary Twelve. All other units clear the air
immediately. Come in."

The voice cut in sharply through the space static again, sounding a
little frightened and tense.

"All-Planetary Twelve calling Venusport. Something went wrong with the
radar deflectors. We took a meteor through the control room. Luckily
it just clipped us, but it put a ten foot hole in the side. The man on
duty got out okay, but we lost all the air in that section. We can't
bring her in with that hole in her. We have to have air in the control
room, or all the switches arc out. Over."

Outside, the control tower ships were being moved out of the way, back
into the hangars and into the pits. Blinker lights and radio landing
beams were flickering out "Stay Clear!" warnings to all ships in that
segment of space. Joe flipped the stud again.

"Is the hole too big for a plastic patch? Over."

"It's a good ten feet across. We haven't got any patches that big, and
even if we did have, they wouldn't do any good. Once we pumped the air
back in, the pressure would boot the patch out into space. The only
thing that will work is a welding job. Over."

Joe shook his head glumly and flipped the stud.

"We've got enough monalloy here to fix it, but we haven't got a
portable welding outfit that could handle the job. Down here we could
have it fixed in half an hour. Over."

There was a pause before the voice came back.

"That's a lot of help. Over."
