
Pop Gillette tugged at Joe's sleeve. Joe started to shake him loose,
but stopped when he felt the old man's grip tighten on his arm like a
space grapple.

"Let me have that thing," he said. He took the mike from Joe and
flipped the stud.

"Hey there! What's your cargo?"

The speaker was silent for a moment, other than for the faint crackle
of the space static. Then the voice cut in again, a little more
resigned than before, as it rattled off the list of cargo.

"Let's see. We've got twenty tons of unrefined uranium from Titan,
fifty thousand gallons of mercury from Gany, and twenty tons of canned
wooklah meat from Jupe. At least we can live on wooklah meat on our way
to Alpha Centauri." He laughed nervously. "Boy, is All-Planetary going
to be mad, at a hundred bucks a can. Over."

Pop Gillette scratched his chin reflectively. Finally he shook his head
in disgust.

"I could have told that bunch of fat-headed clod-lubbers they couldn't
trust a bunch of machinery. If they'd of had a pilot watching the
screens instead of some half-baked crewman, this wouldn't have
happened. Easiest thing in the world to blast around a meteor, but try
to tell that to _that_ bunch." He spat in disgust. "I swore I'd never
lift a hand for All-Planetary again as long as I lived, but now I guess
I'll have to go up and fix that damned liner. First vacation I've had
in five years and I have to play nurse-maid to a bunch of half-wits!"

He glared at Joe. "Well, are you coming or aren't you?"

Joe looked at him blankly.

Pop Gillette shook his head sadly at the mental level of Venusport's
personnel.

"Somebody's got to bring the Lorelei back down, don't they? Lord, the
people they put in responsible positions these days.... Come on! Get
the cadmium out!" And he was halfway down the stairs before Joe was on
his feet.

"And bring a roll of scotch tape!" he shouted back.

What happened after that is pretty well a matter of the records. Every
telecast carried the report for days. Pop Gillette got aboard the liner
by bringing the Lorelei alongside. Then, with Joe holding her steady as
she went, Pop jumped across the twenty feet of open space, scotch tape
in his space suit pocket, to the liner's open port.

Then he brought the liner down for a tail landing, as pretty as you
please.
