
Two hours passed. "It got lonely upstairs," said Nibley apologetically.

Captain Kroll glanced nervously up from the mess-table where he and
twelve other men sat. Williams, Simpson, Haines, Bruno, McClure,
Leiber, and the rest. All were eating, but not hungry. They all looked
a little sick. The ship was swerving again and again, steadily,
steadily, back and forth. In a short interval the Heavy Belt would be
touched. Then there would be real sickness.

"Okay," said Kroll to Nibley. "You can eat with us, this once. And only
this once, remember that."

Nibley ate like a starved weasel. Bruno looked over at him again and
again and finally asked, "How about that chess game?"

"Nope. I always win. Don't want to brag but I was the best outfielder
playing baseball when I was at school. Never struck out at bat,
neither. Damn good."

Bruno cut a piece of meat. "What's your business now, Gramps?"

"Findin' out where things is goin'," evaded Nibley.

Kroll snapped his gaze at Nibley. The old man hurried on, "Why, I know
where the whole blamed universe is headin'." Everybody looked up from
their eating. "But you wouldn't believe me if I told you," laughed the
old man.

Somebody whistled. Others chuckled. Kroll relaxed. Bruno scowled.
Nibley continued, "It's a feelin'. You can't describe stars to a blind
man, or God to anybody. Why, hell's bells, lads, if I wanted I could
write a formula on paper and if you worked it out in your mind you'd
drop dead of symbol poison."

Again laughter. A bit of wine was poured all around as a bracer for
the hours ahead. Nibley eyed the forbidden stuff and got up. "Well, I
got to go." "Have some wine," said Bruno. "No, thanks," said Nibley.
"Go ahead, have some," said Bruno. "I don't like it," said Nibley,
wetting his lips. "That's a laugh," said Bruno, eyeing him. "I got to
go upstairs. Nice to have ate with you boys. See you later, after we
get through the Swarms--"

Faces became wooden at the mention of the approaching Belt. Fingers
tightened against the table edge. Nibley spidered back up the rungs to
his little room alone.

An hour later, Nibley was drunk as a chromium-plated pirate.

He kept it a secret. He hid the wine-bottle in his shock-hammock,
groggily. Stroke of luck. Oh yes, oh yes, a stroke, a stroke of luck,
yes, yes, yes, finding that lovely fine wonderful wine in the storage
cabinet near the visiport. Why, yes! And since he'd been thirsty for so
long, so long, so long. Well? Gurgle, gurgle!

Nibley was drunk.

He swayed before the visiport, drunkenly deciding the trajectories of
a thousand invisible nothings. Then he began to argue with himself,
drowsily, as he always argued when wine-webs were being spun through
his skull by red, drowsy spiders. His heart beat dully. His little
sharp eyes flickered with sudden flights of anger.

"You're some liar, Mr. Nibley," he told himself. "You point at meteors,
but who's to prove you right or wrong, right or wrong, eh? You sit up
here and wait and wait and wait. Those machines down below spoil it.
You never have a chance to prove your ability! No! The captain won't
use you! He won't need you! None of those men believe in you. Think
you're a liar. Laugh at you. Yes, laugh. Yes, they call you an old, old
liar!"

Nibley's thin nostrils quivered. His thin wrinkled face was crimsoned
and wild. He staggered to his feet, got hold of his favorite
monkey-wrench and waved it slowly back and forth.
