
For a moment his heart almost stopped in him. In panic he clutched at
his chest, pushing, pulling, pumping at his heart to keep it running.
The wine. The excitement. He dropped the wrench. "No, not yet!" he
looked down at his chest, wildly tearing at it. "Not just yet, oh
please!" he cried. "Not until I _show_ them!"

His heart went on beating, drunkenly, slowly.

He bent, retrieved the wrench and laughed numbly. "I'll show 'em," he
cried, weaving across the deck. "Show them how good I am. Eliminate
competition! I'll run the ship myself!"

He climbed slowly down the rungs to destroy the machines.

It made a lot of noise.

Nibley heard a shout. "Get him!" His hand went down again, again. There
was a scream of whistles, a jarring of flung metal, a minor explosion.
His hand went down again, the wrench in it. He felt himself cursing
and pounding away. Something shattered. Men ran toward him. _This_ was
the computator! He hit upon it once more. Yes! Then he was caught up
like an empty sack, smashed in the face by someone's fist, thrown to
the deck. "Cut acceleration!" a voice cried far away. The ship slowed.
Somebody kicked Nibley in the face. Blackness. Dark. Around and around
down into darkness....

When he opened his eyes again people were talking:

"We're turning back."

"The hell we are. Kroll says we'll go on, anyway."

"That's suicide! We can't hit that Asteroid Belt without radar."

Nibley looked up from the floor. Kroll was there, over him, looking
down at the old man. "I might have known," he said, over and over
again. He wavered in Nibley's sobering vision.

The ship hung motionless, silent. Through the ports, Nibley saw they
were based on the sunward side of a large planetoid, waiting, shielded
from most of the asteroid particles.

"I'm sorry," said Nibley.

"He's sorry." Kroll swore. "The very man we bring along as relief
computator sabotages our machine! Hell!"

Bruno was in the room. Nibley saw Bruno's eyes dilate at Kroll's
exclamation. Bruno knew now.

Nibley tried to get up. "We'll get through the Swarm, anyway. I'll take
you through. That's why I broke that blasted contraption. I don't like
competition. I can clear a path through them asteroids big enough to
lug Luna through on Track Five!"

"Who gave you the wine?"

"I found it, I just found it, that's all."

The crew hated him with their eyes. He felt their hatred like so many
meteors coming in and striking at him. They hated his shriveled,
wrinkled old man guts. They stood around and waited for Kroll to let
them kick him apart with their boots.

Kroll walked around the old man in a circle. "You think I'd chance you
getting us through the Belt!" He snorted. "What if we got half through
and you got potted again!" He stopped, with his back to Nibley. He was
thinking. He kept looking over his shoulder at the old man. "I can't
trust you." He looked out the port at the stars, at where Jupiter shone
in space. "And yet--" He looked at the men. "Do you want to turn back?"

Nobody moved. They didn't have to answer. They didn't want to go back.
They wanted to go ahead.

"We'll keep on going, then," said Kroll.

Bruno spoke. "We crew-members should have some say. I say go back. We
can't make it. We're just wasting our lives."

Kroll glanced at him, coolly. "You seem to be alone." He went back to
the port. He rocked on his heels. "It was no accident Nibley got that
wine. Somebody planted it, knowing Nibley's weakness. Somebody who
was paid off by the Martian Industrials to keep this ship from going
through. This was a clever set-up. The machines were smashed in such
a way as to throw suspicion directly on an innocent, well, almost
innocent, party. Nibley was just a tool. I'd like to know who handled
that tool--"

Nibley got up, the wrench in his gnarled hand. "I'll tell you who
planted that wine. I been thinking and now--"

Darkness. A short-circuit. Feet running on the metal deck. A shout. A
thread of fire across the darkness. Then a whistling as something flew,
hit. Someone grunted.

The lights came on again. Nibley was at the light control.

On the floor, gun in hand, eyes beginning to numb, lay Bruno. He lifted
the gun, fired it. The bullet hit Nibley in the stomach.

Nibley grabbed at the pain. Kroll kicked at Bruno's head. Bruno's head
snapped back. He lay quietly.

The blood pulsed out between Nibley's fingers. He watched it with
interest, grinning with pain. "I knew his orbit," he whispered, sitting
down cross-legged on the deck. "When the lights went out I chose my own
orbit back to the light switch. I knew where Bruno'd be in the dark.
Havin' a wrench handy I let fly, choosin' my arc, naturally. Guess he's
got a hard skull, though...."
