
They carried Nibley to a bunk. Douglas stood over him, dimly, growing
older every second. Nibley squinted up. All the men tightened in upon
it. Nibley felt their dismay, their dread, their worry, their nervous
anger.

Finally, Kroll exhaled. "Turn the ship around," he said. "Go back to
Mars."

The crew stood with their limp hands at their sides. They were tired.
They didn't want to live any more. They just stood with their feet on
the deck. Then, one by one, they began to walk away like so many cold,
dead men.

"Hold on," cried Nibley, weakening. "I ain't through yet. I got two
orbits to fix. I got one to lay out for this ship to Jupiter. And I got
to finish out my own separate secret personal orbit. You ain't turnin'
back nowhere!"

Kroll grimaced. "Might as well realize it, Grandpa. It takes seven
hours to get through the Swarms, and you haven't another _two_ hours in
you."

The old man laughed. "Think I don't know that? Hell! Who's supposed to
know all these things, me or you?"

"You, Pop."

"Well, then, dammit--bring me a bulger!"

"Now, look--"

"You heard me, by God--a bulger!"

"Why?"

"You ever hear of a thing called triangulation? Well, maybe I won't
live long enough to go with you, but, by all the sizes and shapes of
behemoths--this ship is jumpin' through to Jupiter!"

Kroll looked at him. There was a breathing silence, a heart beating
silence in the ship. Kroll sucked in his breath, hesitated, then smiled
a grey smile.

"You heard him, Douglas. Get him a bulger."

"And get a stretcher! And tote this ninety pounds of bone out on the
biggest asteroid around here! Got that?"

"You heard him, Haines! A stretcher! Stand by for maneuvering!" Kroll
sat down by the old man. "What's it all about, Pop? You're--sober?"

"Clear as a bell!"

"What're you going to do?"

"Redeem myself of my sins, by George! Now get your ugly face away so I
can think! And tell them bucks to hurry!"

Kroll bellowed and men rushed. They brought a space-suit, inserted the
ninety pounds of shrill and wheeze and weakness into it--the doctor had
finished with his probings and fixings--buckled, zipped and welded him
into it. All the while they worked, Nibley talked.

"Remember when I was a kid. Stood up to that there plate poundin' out
baseballs North, South and six ways from Sundays." He chuckled. "Used
to hit 'em, and predict which window in what house they'd break!"
Wheezy laughter. "One day I said to my Dad, 'Hey, Dad, a meteor just
fell on Simpson's Garage over in Jonesville.' 'Jonesville is six miles
from here', said my father, shakin' his finger at me. 'You quit your
lyin', Nibley boy, or I'll trot you to the woodshed!'"

"Save your strength," said Kroll.

"That's all right," said Nibley. "You know the funny thing was always
that I lied like hell and everybody said I lied like hell, but come
to find out, later, I wasn't lyin' at all, it was the truth. I just
_sensed_ things."

The ship maneuvered down on a windless, empty planetoid. Nibley was
carried on a stretcher out onto alien rock.

"Lay me down right here. Prop up my head so I can see Jupiter and the
whole damned Asteroid Belt. Be sure my headphones are tuned neat.
There. Now, give me a piece of paper."

Nibley scribbled a long weak snake of writing on paper, folded it.
"When Bruno comes to, give him this. Maybe he'll believe me when he
reads it. Personal. Don't pry into it yourself."

The old man sank back, feeling pain drilling through his stomach, and a
kind of sad happiness. Somebody was singing somewhere, he didn't know
where. Maybe it was only the stars moving on the sky.

"Well," he said, clearly. "Guess this is it, children. Now get the
hell aboard, leave me alone to think. This is going to be the biggest,
hardest, damnedest job of computatin' I ever latched onto! There'll be
orbits and cross orbits, big balls of fire and little bitty specules,
and, by God, I'll chart 'em all! I'll chart a hundred thousand of the
damned monsters and their offspring, you just wait and see! Get aboard!
I'll tell you what to do from there on."

Douglas looked doubtful.

Nibley caught the look. "What ever happens," he cried. "Will be worth
it, won't it? It's better than turnin' back to Mars, ain't it? Well,
_ain't_ it?"

"It's better," said Douglas. They shook hands.

"Now all of you, get!"
