
The mercury clock over the white mantel chimed the hour of eight A.M.,
and Jimmy Starr sat up in bed yawning. As the last note faded into
silence, the door of the room opened, and a white-haired man entered,
carrying a tray.

"Good morning, Mr. Starr."

"Good morning, Peters," Jimmy said. "Did you bring the paper?"

The servant nodded, propped a morning edition against Jimmy's upraised
knees and placed the breakfast tray on the side of the bed. "Will you
have orange juice or Martian melon today?" he asked.

"Orange juice, I believe," replied Jimmy absently, and then coughed
to hide the sudden tenseness that had entered his voice. He waited
impatiently while the aged servant opened the window blinds and busied
himself about the room.

When at last the man had gone, Jimmy sat bolt upright and stared at
the screaming type.

                       NEBULA ON THE LOOSE AGAIN
                       GENTLEMAN BURGLAR PROVES
                         TO BE COMMON CRIMINAL

The running story was bitter in its denunciation. Where before those
same columns had accepted each new exploit of the Nebula as a prank
upon the police and an irritation to the wealthy, they now demanded
legal action. For this time the Nebula had committed murder!

The Crater City Museum had been robbed during the night. Three
priceless Thro-Pahl figurines had been stolen. An aged night watchman
had been brutally beaten to death.

"The guilt is undeniable," the paper continued. "Drunk with power, this
sadist had the effrontery to leave behind one of his mocking cards.
What are the police going to do about it?"

Jimmy Starr leaned back and let a soft whistle escape from his lips.
The newspaper story was all wrong. For Jimmy Starr had spent the entire
night in his apartment. And Jimmy Starr was the Nebula!

He didn't know quite how long he had been playing this dual role.
Years now, ever since his father, Randall Starr, president of the
Triplanetary Freight Lines had been murdered and had left his enormous
fortune to his son.

Randall Starr had come up from poverty with his only heritage, a
brilliant mind and skillful hands. He had dabbled in a little of
everything before he had become associated with the Venus-Mars-Earth
shipping business. But all during his years of executive activity, he
had always found time for two things: his hobby, the manufacture and
study of theft-proof materials and devices; and the deciphering of the
ancient _Lost Chronicles_ of Mars.

It was this last that had resulted in his untimely end. Jimmy Starr
had known for a long time that his father was on the verge of a great
discovery, but what that discovery was he had had no inkling.

"Wait 'til I've finished," Randall Starr would always say when
questioned. "Some day I'll have an announcement to make that will
startle all Mars."

And then one night Jimmy Starr had been wakened by a terrific crash
downstairs in the lower-floor study. He had rushed to the room to
find his father stretched out on the floor, blood trickling from a
gaping wound in his head. The window was open, showing the way of the
assailant's escape. Randall Starr's filing cabinet had been thrown to
the floor and battered open with some heavy instrument. Papers lay
strewn about in wild disorder.

Jimmy knelt at his father's side, in time to hear the old man's last
gasping words. "The ... Chronicles ... they took ... the five cyphers.
You must get them back, Jimmy, before the last one is completed and the
secret discovered. You must, do you understand? The future of all life
on this planet depends on it."

"Who...?" choked Jimmy. "Tell me who, and I'll...."

But the effort had been too great. The old man fell back, his warning
unfinished.

Clues? Jimmy had employed the finest detectives on Mars in a vain
attempt to track down the guilty one. He had followed trails himself,
questioned all of his father's former friends and associates. The one
and only shred of evidence he had led him no place. This was a polished
_falpa_ button which Randall Starr had torn from his assailant's tunic
during the struggle--the type of button which members of the limited
_superiors_ class effected. The _superiors_ were a throw-back to the
feudalistic days of a by-gone age. Powerful overlords with inherited
political and financial power, they still wielded a strong influence
over an otherwise partially modernized society.

So this much Jimmy knew--his father had been murdered and the
_Chronicles_ cypher taken by a man who walked in the highest brackets
of the System's social worlds.
