
In time Jimmy's grief passed, and he began to follow in his father's
footsteps. Theoretically, he was acting head of Triplanetary. But
with the shipping line operating smoothly with hundreds of efficient
under-officials, there was little for him to do. After graduating from
the Martian School of Technology, he toured the System in his own
space-yacht. It was that trip that brought home to him the poverty and
sordid conditions existent in the various worlds.

On Venus he had seen powerful land-owners growing fat and rich while
native Kamalis and Sarakans toiled in the swamps. On Mars he had toured
the luxurious plaisances and estates of the D.O.F.C--the Descendents
of the First Colonists--and a hundred miles out in the desert had
walked through the stinking narrow streets of the Thedras, the despised
aboriginals of the West Plateaus.

Then and there Jimmy Starr had decided to add a twofold purpose to his
life. He would do all in his power to aid the oppressed poor, and he
would strain every effort to plague the lives of the _superiors_ class.
Some day, in some way, that effort would lead him, he felt sure, to his
father's murderer and the stolen _Chronicles_ cypher. The only item in
question was the time element.

He spent six months in his father's private library, studying
everything he could find on locks, time vaults, hermetic chambers and
impenetrable walls. Six months more went into a thorough reading on the
various subjects of criminology, micro-fingerprints, robot detectors.

He had begun quietly at first, a small art treasure taken from the
collection of some greedy _superiors_ millionaire. But gradually the
daring of those thefts, the absolute lack of clues, with the exception
of the tell-tale blue card, had attracted attention. In a year his fame
had spread as far as Pluto. In six months more the Nebula was a byword
in every tongue.

The police had sworn action, the press had chuckled, and the public had
looked with open admiration on this benefactor of the downtrodden.

Now all that was over. The Nebula was a criminal. He was accused of
murder.

Slowly Jimmy Starr got out of bed and began to dress. Funny, he had
never thought of this contingency. Someone had seen an opportunity to
profit by his name, and had utilized it with cold-blooded efficiency.

He lit a cheroot and stood there smoking. A bell tinkled behind him,
announcing a call on the visiphone. He crossed to the panel, touched
a stud. A voice came out of the speaker, but no image appeared on the
vision screen.

"_Good morning, Nebula!_"

An electric shock swept through him. His cheroot slipped from his
fingers.

"_Good morning, Nebula. Answer please._"

Mechanically Jimmy's fingers found the transmitting button and clicked
it over. But he stood out of range of the vision screen as he replied,
"Who's speaking?"

The feminine voice, sweet and musical, laughed gaily. "I'm sorry I
can't tell you that. You may call me Andromeda, if you will. Now listen
closely, Jimmy Starr. I know your secret. I know that you live a dual
life, that you are that much sought after gentleman cracksman, the
Nebula."

The voice laughed again, but there was no mockery in it. "You needn't
be afraid, Jimmy, I'm not going to let the cat out of the bag. But I
will, unless you agree to follow my orders. Is that clear?"

For a long moment Jimmy stood there in silence.

"Never mind," the voice continued, "I didn't expect you to admit it.
But listen. The Nebula is no longer a champion of the poor. In the eyes
of the press and the police, he has committed murder. I know that you
are innocent of that charge. It is now eight-thirty. In exactly fifteen
hours you will go to the central offices of the Crater City Trust
Company at Ninth and Planet. You will enter in any way you see fit,
open the vault and take from the compartment marked W-203 the three
articles it contains. Do you understand? Compartment W-203."

There was a click and the visiphone was silent.

Frantically Jimmy twisted the control switch on and off. "Hello," he
said, "hello!"
