
At fifteen minutes past eleven that night Jimmy Starr opened a panel in
his room and took his place in a cylindrical shell, touched a control
and settled back. Save for a slight jar and an audible hum, there was
no sensation of movement. Moments later the tube-cage jarred again,
the door slid open, and he climbed out on a small lighted kiosk in the
center of a well of darkness. A narrow ramp led upward, and he made his
way to the street level in a few quick strides.

He now stood on the intersection of Ninth and Planet.

Jimmy Starr sauntered across the street, studying each passerby out of
the corner of his eyes. Before the entrance of the Crater City Trust
Company he paused to light a cheroot. He stood there, smoking quietly
while a turbaned Kagor from the North Desert Country shuffled by,
dragging his cumbersome third leg after him.

Then he slipped open his tunic, exposing a small compact carry-case
strapped about his middle. Opening it, he selected from its array of
objects a slender metal tube, capped at one end. To this he quickly
fastened a small ball of hardened carponium clay. He unscrewed a cap in
the clay ball and inserted a small pellet.

With flying fingers, he shoved the tube hard against the door lock.
That lock was not the best, but it was one of the most dependable
theft-proof devices on the market.

Mentally he counted the seconds as each pulsation within the tube was
transmitted to his hand. At the tenth he stiffened. There was a dull
thud, a little puff of smoke, and a grating and jangling as of breaking
glass.

Then he was inside, pacing down the center aisle of the main office.
He had no need for a torch. The place was brilliantly lighted with
overhead carboliers, and he knew that he was clearly visible from the
street.

In rapid strides he reached the far end of the office, where an
enormous vault door of _arelium_ steel was imbedded in a frame of
_kartite_. That frame was anchored in natural rock piers ninety feet
below. The entire structure was as impregnable as human intellect could
make it.

Jimmy Starr leaped over the low railing that separated the vault from
the office proper. Again he opened the little carry-case and from a
lower compartment took out a tightly rolled Martian papyrus.

He was working fast now, putting into action a plan that he had formed
on his visit to this office earlier in the day. Then, while he had
stood discussing the financial status of Triplanetary Shipping with
one of the Trust Company officials, he had managed to slip out a tiny
camera and, unobserved, take a quick photograph of the rear wall of the
office.

Back in his own apartment it had been the work of a few moments to
transfer the scene on the negative onto this elastic papyrus.

He stood up on the railing, fastened the two ends of the papyrus to the
side wall; then, utilizing all his strength, stretched it across the
full width of the office to the opposite wall.

Finished, he slipped behind the screen with a gay laugh. Let a passerby
gaze in the street window now. He would see a deserted office with the
unmolested vault in clear view. From the street no one could know that
vault was an enlarged photograph on a screen, and that behind that
screen crouched the most wanted cracksman on Mars--the Nebula!

He spent a moment surveying the massive vault. "Craig-Orlan, Series A.
Model Four," he muttered appreciatively. "Mercury time lock, rondulated
tumblers, protected with individual micacaps. This is going to be
tough."

He took from the carry-case a pair of earphones, snapped them on and
pressed their connection to the panel just below the main dial. Slowly
he began to turn that dial, straining his ears for tell-tale clicks.

The silence of the office pressed down upon him. Far off sounded the
hollow roar as the night Earth Express blasted down to its cradle.

For several minutes he continued. Then his brow furrowed in a frown.
"Must have a shield of some kind behind it," he muttered. He opened
the carry-case again, drew forth a tiny electrolic drill with a
wedge-shaped bit. A low hum sounded as he switched the drill on and
pressed it against the panel.

When an aperture of half an inch in depth had been bored, he removed
the drill and placed in the opening another of his pellets. Ten seconds
and the puff of blue smoke. Once more he slipped on the headphones.

This time a smile of satisfaction turned his lips. In the receivers he
could hear distinctly each metallic click as the grooved tumblers fell
into position. He reached up now and shoved a huge _kapar_ bar far over
in its slot. On silent hinges the enormous vault door began to open.

But this was only the beginning. It was a full hour before he had
penetrated the second and third inner doors of the vault, another half
hour before he located in the vast array of files, Compartment W-203.
