
About to open it, he stood motionless in thought. What was he doing
here? Why was he ransacking the vault of the Crater City Trust, one of
the most respected and ethical financial institutions in the city? He
wanted nothing of theirs. More than that, there was a murder charge
on his head, and he was deliberately taking chances when all logic
screamed at him to hide.

As in a dream he heard that musical voice that had come over the
visiphone, "_Listen, Jimmy Starr, I know your secret_...." He inserted
a false key in the file lock and opened it.

Nothing! The compartment was empty.

A wave of bitterness swept over him. He thrust the compartment
shut savagely and turned to leave the vault. Half way he halted in
mid-stride.

A sound had reached his ears from the opposite side of the papyrus
screen, the sound of someone fumbling with the latch of the front
entrance door.

Quickly Jimmy passed through the three doors of the vault. He
paused before the combination to slide a small card under the dial.
Pastel-blue in color, that card bore the design of the constellation
Orion.

Then he reached up, whipped down the papyrus screen and crouched back
of the railing. The man at the front entrance had discovered the broken
lock; the door crashed open; excited footsteps pounded inward.

Bending low, Jimmy darted down the side aisle, keeping his head well
below the top of the desks. Once he shot a look at the intruder. It
was Hamilton Garth, president of Crater City Trust! A gray-haired man
with a wiry build, an iron visage, and heavy-browed gimlet eyes. Before
the yawning door of the vault Garth stopped short and uttered a cry of
consternation. He spun on his heel and with rapid strides made for the
door.

But not before Jimmy had reached it. He raced through the entrance just
as Garth sighted him and gave a hoarse shout.

Jimmy raced down the street a hundred yards, then hurled himself into
an alley. A police officer was running toward him, attracted by Garth's
cries.

Even as Jimmy crouched there, new sounds added to the confusion. The
alarm tocsin of the Crater City Trust shrilled up and up into the
rarified air. Far down the street the answering siren of the I.P. depot
rose in deafening crescendo. Jimmy could hear windows bang open in the
buildings across the thoroughfare. The emergency street lamps flared
on, turning the intersection into a stage of ghastly white.

The alley-way in which he crouched was a dead-end. Jimmy thrust aside
the wave of helplessness that swept over him and steeled himself for
action. The Nebula couldn't be caught. Not now with brutality dogging
his footsteps.

With a swift movement he whipped off the tunic, threw it from him.
Frantically he opened the carry-case and took from it a short
collapsible rod, a folded rakish evening cap. He shoved the carry-case
under his waist coat, hoping that the bulge would not be detected, set
the cap on his head at a jaunty angle and jerked the rod out to its
full four feet.

That rod was an explosive detonator for use on time doors when all
other means of entrance failed. But it was a cane now. Swinging it,
Jimmy darted out into the glare of the street, then began to pace
leisurely forward straight in the direction of Crater City Trust.

When he reached the entrance, a small crowd had gathered, and Hamilton
Garth was in their midst excitedly talking to an I.P. officer.

"Vault doors wide open!" he was shouting. "Second and third doors, too!
It's the Nebula! I saw his card. Why the devil don't you do something?"

The I.P. man was taking notes in a little book. "Calm yourself, Mr.
Garth," he said. "Whoever broke in here can't get away this time. The
impenetration walls have automatically closed down. The entire area is
cut off by a ring of steel."

"But it's the Nebula I tell you, you stupid fool!" cried Garth.
"While you stand there like an idiot--" The eyes of the Trust Company
president suddenly fastened on Jimmy, leaning comfortably on his
rod-cane at the edge of the growing crowd. "Mr. Starr, I'm certainly
glad to see you. Help me. Tell me what I should do...."

Nodding quietly, Jimmy stepped forward. To the I.P. he said casually,
"J. C. Starr, president of Triplanetary Shipping. How much has been
stolen, officer?"

Another I.P. man emerged from the Trust office. "Only one compartment
opened, sir. W-203."

Hamilton Garth looked bewildered. "That's odd," he said. "The W series
of files are all unused. There's nothing in any of them."

Jimmy laughed. "Mr. Garth, you can consider yourself a lucky man. The
Nebula seems to have muffed things this time. Good night."

He turned and sauntered off down the street.
