
It was the following morning, and for an hour Jimmy Starr had sat by
the visiphone in his room, waiting for a call. A tray of half-smoked
cheroots lay on the table beside the instrument.

The bell sounded. Jimmy touched the stud.

"_Good morning, Nebula. We failed last night, didn't we?_"

He leaned back in his chair and smiled. Though that haunting musical
voice stirred him deeply, he had full control of himself now. For an
hour he had been preparing mentally what he would say.

"Young woman," he said, "or Andromeda, as you choose to call yourself,
I haven't the slightest idea of what you're talking about. Yesterday
you made a connection with my instrument and hung up without revealing
your image. My name is James C. Starr, and if you wish to converse with
me, I suggest you show yourself. Otherwise...."

"Wait!" The gayness left the unseen girl's voice. "Wait, don't touch
that stud. We failed last night, Jimmy Starr. But we can't fail again
tonight. Everything is at stake. Do you understand, everything. The
very future of life here on Mars. Jimmy, what do you know about the
canals?"

"The canals?" He forgot his protestations to consider thoughtfully.
"Why nothing much. They're to be opened and filled with water in a
year. Everyone knows that. So far the locks have been giving the
engineers a little trouble, but...."

"Not a little trouble, Jimmy. A whole lot of trouble. At the present
time specifications call for a hundred and twelve locks and sub power
stations down the length of Canal Grand alone. And there are seven
hundred and eight subsidiary canals branching into the main stem.
Add to those figures the number of lesser canals branching into the
subsidiary canals, the necessary freight and passenger depots, and you
can see what a tremendous engineering project it will be."

"It can be done," Jimmy said confidently.

"It can, yes, if the engineers locate a new deposit of _pxar_, the part
organic, part inorganic material that alone will withstand the terrible
refraction-rot of the red desert country."

Jimmy didn't know what she was driving at, but what she said was true.
Refraction-rot, the multiple infra-red light radiations from the
scarlet sands of the desert played hob with all kinds of construction
work. _Pxar_ alone had the resiliency and the hardness to withstand the
terrible disintegration processes of the shifting sands. And there was
very little _pxar_ left.

The voice continued:

"Jimmy, I can't tell you everything yet. But I can tell you this. By
joining forces with me, you will be working toward the recovery of your
father's lost secret and the identification of the man who murdered him.

"Tonight at midnight you will enter the offices of Phobos Enterprises
and take from their vault the paper-wrapped box on the third shelf.
Good luck, Nebula."
