
Phil Hanley, reporter of the _Globe_, let himself into his apartment,
strode straight to the liquor cabinet and took a stiff drink. Then he
sat down before a table and spread an array of objects before him.

They were a curious collection: A polished _falpa_ button of the type
affected by members of the _superiors_ class; two panelled cards,
each with the design of the Constellation Orion, two rather blurred
photographs of finger prints, and a notebook.

These findings were the results of Hanley's activities during the
night. Still obsessed with his plan to get a signed interview with the
Nebula, he had reasoned, logically enough, that the only way to do so
was to learn first the cracksman's identity.

The button first. It was elliptical in shape and bore that curious
triangular emblem so hated by the poorer classes. Hanley had found it
on the office floor of the Crater City Trust Company. He realized,
however, that any number of _superiors_ might have business with that
establishment and that the button's presence there meant nothing.

In rotation he examined the two panelled cards and the fingerprint
photographs. He brought a powerful atolight down and studied them with
the aid of a _proberglass_.

At the end of five minutes a low whistle of amazement came to his lips.
He pushed glass and light away and brought forward the discovery he had
deliberately reserved for the last. The notebook.

There was no reason to believe it the property of the Nebula. The
Nebula didn't go around dropping private journals for inquisitive
reporters to find. Hanley had discovered it half hidden in the gutter
before the entrance of the Crater City Museum where the night watchman
had been murdered.

The notebook contained but a single page of writing. In heavy
penmanship the words read:

_The figurines are pure pxar. The breakdown analysis will prove that,
I am sure. But whether the figurines will serve their intended
purpose is a question that can be answered only by experiment. If my
decipherment of the Chronicles is correct, I must have thousands of
them, and to obtain them it will be necessary to locate the Tombs. Does
the marking Ka Ce 54 W bear any significance?_

Phil Hanley read those words twice, then leaned back, frowning.
Presently he roused himself, strode to a wall cabinet and took down a
book labeled, _Ancient Mars--the Webley Theories of the Early Life_.

He carried the book back to the table, but before he could open it,
steps sounded along the outer corridor leading to his door. A moment
later the door banged open, and a figure crossed the threshold.

Hanley had but a split instant to utter a gasp of astonished
recognition. Then he saw the heat gun leveled directly at him, and with
a twisting leap, he lunged for the connecting door of the adjoining
room.
