
Jimmy Starr was panting when he reached his room. The clock on the
mantel showed five A.M., and since midnight he had been living with
double interest his role as a fugitive.

Without realizing why, he had obeyed to the letter the instructions of
the voice on the visiphone. That single suggestion that his efforts
might lead him to the murderer of his father had spurred him on. He had
entered Phobos Enterprises, taken the package described. But getting
away this time had been a terrible ordeal.

The I.P. men were on the alert. All Crater City patrols were
in readiness. The impenetration walls were down everywhere,
checkerboarding the metropolis into five hundred separate and distinct
guarded areas.

Three times he had missed capture by a scant margin. He had crawled
sixty feet through an exhaust _zordite_ tube when any second the
motors leading to it might have seared his body to a crisp with their
discharges. With an I.P. man close on his heels, he had swung over a
dizzy canyon of space and catwalked across a sustaining bar from one
building to another. And it seemed now he could still hear that cry
that rose up to him on the building roof from the street below:

"_Death to the Nebula!_"

On the table the package for which he had risked so much lay open.
Jimmy scowled down upon its contents: three Thro-Pahl figurines, gray
in color, eighteen inches in height, each the likeness of an armor-clad
Martian of the first dynasty. To an art collector they were undoubtedly
wondrous artifacts, but to Jimmy they meant nothing.

The visiphone bell sounded. Heart pounding, Jimmy touched the stud and
heard again that voice.

"_Good morning, Nebula. We made it this time. I'm so glad._"

He stared into the blank screen silently. What did she look like, the
owner of that haunting voice? Was she dark or fair? Was she...? "Who
are you?" he said huskily.

"There isn't time for that now, Jimmy. Tell me, have you examined the
figurines?"

He had the vision plate turned on, and he nodded in reply.

"Look at them again. Look at their composition. It's not the carving
I'm--we're--interested in. It's their structure. Don't you see, Jimmy?
It's _pxar_."

He didn't see, and he waited for her to continue.

"_Pxar_--the same material that the engineers need for their
construction work for the canal locks, the only material that will
withstand the radiations of the Red Desert sands.

"Those figurines are old, Jimmy. They were carved during the days of
the First Dynasty when the original canal locks were built. Today
there's practically none left. Yet without _pxar_ the canal project is
doomed to failure.

"Now pick up one of the figurines and examine its base. Do you see that
tiny three-cornered prong that projects from it? Like a root, a stunted
root reaching out for nourishment."
