
The girl's voice became breathless. "Jimmy, that was your father's
secret. He spent the last days of his life deciphering the _Lost
Chronicles_, and for years it has been my work too. You see, chemical
analysis has proved that under certain conditions _pxar_ will grow
and reproduce its own kind. The early Martians knew this, and they
also knew that the time would come when there would be no more of it
available. So they designed those figurines to be superimposed on the
bodies of living Martians. The root-claw would then reach down, embed
itself in the flesh and suck out the vital life."

"I--I don't understand," Jimmy said slowly.

"Let me put it this way. If the base of one of those figurines is
fastened to the body of a Martian, the root will adhere to that body,
and the figurine will become a living parasite, growing and developing
in size, until amoeba-like, it will divide into two.

"Jimmy, there's a monstrous plot brewing here on Mars. Your father
discovered that secret and realized it was so deadly he meant to
lock it away forever in the files of the Interplanetary Council. But
before he could do that, he was murdered and the incomplete cyphers
stolen. Those cyphers have now been worked out. Someone has made plans
to sell an enormous quantity of _pxar_ to the development company
that's building the canal locks. They're going to create that _pxar_
by feeding those figurines and thousands like them off the bodies of
unsuspecting Martians."

"But how?" Jimmy interjected.

"I don't know how. Not yet, though I've been piecing the threads of
this puzzle together for weeks now. It wasn't until five days ago that
I was able to decipher completely the code of the _Chronicles_. I did
know that your father was working on the cypher, too, because he and
I frequented the same libraries, but it was only by accident that I
discovered that that cypher was the reason behind his murder.

"Once started, the _pxar_ plot will be a plague, a Martian black death.
Once started, those figurines will multiply and grow. And here's the
damnable part of it, Jimmy. After a certain number of the figurines
have been given life, they will also acquire self mobility. Do you
understand? It means that they will spread, advance from the body of
one Martian to another of their own accord. That's the black revelation
of the _Chronicles_--_the fact that this plague happened on this planet
once before, was responsible for the complete extinction of the first
dynasty Martians_."

He turned the gray figurine over and over in his hands. There was a
glitter in his eyes now, a glitter of excitement. Things were falling
into place in his brain like pieces of a puzzle.

"Examine those images," the girl's voice suddenly ordered. "Do you see
any mark on them at all?"

One by one he studied every inch of their surfaces. Abruptly his eyes
caught a tiny series of even scratches along the thigh of one of the
figurines.

"Ka Ce 54 W," he read slowly.

For a moment silence answered him. Then the voice uttered a low gasp.
"It's the first section of the third cypher," she said. "It means ...
wait a minute ... it means that the Tombs are in the Dur-Par section of
the desert. Jimmy, we've got to go there."

"The Tombs?" he repeated.

"Yes, according to the _Chronicles_, a secret store of thousands of
those parasitical figurines is hidden somewhere out in the Red Desert.
The first dynasty Martians, you see, prepared for the emergency which
they knew was inevitable, the disappearance of _pxar_ from this planet.
That was before they knew of the images' plague properties.

"We've got a race on our hands, Jimmy. Even now the man who first stole
the figurines may be heading directly for the Tombs."

Jimmy Starr took out a cheroot, lit it mechanically. Then he voiced a
single question. "You must have a personal interest in this matter.
What is it?"

She had the answer for that too. "My brother," she said, "is one of
the technical officials for the canal-locks project. A murder charge
was framed on him, and he was given the alternative of being 'exposed'
to the I.P. men or agreeing to accept all the _pxar_ an unidentified
source could supply with no questions asked. He has agreed.

"I ... I love my brother, but this has gone beyond personalities now.
This is plague, wholesale murder; all Mars is at stake."

Jimmy Starr made an instant decision. "Where will I meet you?" he said.

She considered. Then, "You'll find instructions at the Canal Grand
entrance. Good luck, Jimmy."
