
Half an hour later Jimmy climbed out of a tube-cage and emerged onto a
deserted square at the outskirts of Crater City. Before him, dim in the
overhead light, a sign read:

                              THE CANALS
                       POSITIVELY NO TRESPASSING
                        ENTER AT YOUR OWN RISK

Before the sign stood a small kiosk with dusty bulletins tacked upon
it. Jimmy waited impatiently, pacing to and fro. Then his eye caught
sight of a small envelope protruding from a crevice on the kiosk wall.
It bore no name or address, but upon its surface was the design of the
Constellation Orion.

Inside, a scrap of paper bore the written words: "_Canal Grand--south.
Way Station X. I'll meet you there._"

He pursed his lips. What kind of a game was this? Unseen speakers on
the visiphone. Mysterious messages directing him into the unknown. It
smacked of a twentieth century thriller.

All his inherent sense of danger warned him to turn back. In answer,
that haunting voice rang again in his ears: "_Good luck, Jimmy._"

He turned to the stair well and began to descend. Darkness was here,
and he could feel the thick red dust under his shoes as he went down.
Fifty-seven ... fifty-eight ... first ... second ... third level. Not
until he reached the bottom and stood before the massive door leading
into the canal did he switch on his electric torch. Then he stared.

The door yawned open. Twenty feet beyond, drawn up at the near wall of
the great ditch, was a tracto-car. And before that car there were three
men preparing to board.

Jimmy stared as he recognized the foremost of the three. Hamilton
Garth! The Trust Company official stood there calmly in the glare of
the torch, waiting for him to approach.

"What the devil are you doing here?" Garth demanded.

It was a tight question, but fortunately Garth was so absorbed in his
own plans and movements that he did not wait for an answer. "Sloan and
Barker," he said shortly, waving his hand toward his two companions.
"I.P. men. We're trailing the Nebula."

"But I thought nothing was stolen from your office," Jimmy said slowly.
"You said...."

Garth scowled. "Money, tangibles, no. But prestige, tremendously. Do
you realize, sir, what it will mean when the public learns that a cheap
cracksman can walk into my vault as if it had a revolving door? I've
offered fifty thousand _plantoles_ for the arrest of the Nebula, and
I'm going to set an example by being the first to start on his trail."

"I see." Jimmy studied him in thoughtful silence. "And his trail starts
here?"

"In the canal, yes. We received an unsigned tip half an hour ago that
the Nebula was heading south down Canal Grand. You're coming with us,
of course."

As the tracto-car rocketed dizzily down the huge ditch, Jimmy hunkered
down in the tonneau seat and let his thoughts run wild. This tip Garth
had spoken of.... Could it be that she...?

He forced his eyes toward the way ahead, deliberately guiding his
mind into other channels. It wasn't the first time he had been in
the canals, but it was the first time he had penetrated this far.
The powerful triple-beam atolight cut a swath of radiance ahead
like a chalkmark on a blackboard. Revealed in its glare were the
mountainous-high walls of red stone on either side, the red floor
between, hard packed, smooth as a pavement. Dimly in the reflected glow
he could see the serrated lines high up near the top of the near wall,
the marks of the ancient water levels, and at intervals he could see
the crumbling ruins of a counting depot.

What glory, what pomp and circumstance this mighty ditch had seen.
Gilded canopied barges of the first and second dynasty kings, military
floats, ore and shipping rafts, all drifting in an endless procession
across the arid wastes of the Red Desert. Army transports loaded
with armored troops advancing and retreating, converging through the
labyrinthian network of subsidiary canals to battle the capital itself.

And today the wonders of the past were on the verge of being repeated.
Engineers were struggling frantically to overcome the one problem that
so far had baffled them--the finding of a supply of _pxar_ sufficient
to rebuild the locks.

Ahead a lone Kiloto swooped out of the darkness into the span of light,
whirled frantically and missed the onrushing car by inches.

Presently a low rubble of masonry loomed before them. Hamilton Garth
tapped the I.P. man driver on the shoulder. "Way station," he said.
"Pull in there. We'll look for clues."

It was a forlorn spot. A few _pxar_ columns stood sentinel-like at the
entrance. A roofless plaisance stretched beyond. Here and there were
the remnants of crude hydro-dovolic mechanism chambers. Hamilton Garth
made a thorough examination of the place with his torch. The search was
fruitless, of course, and he stood up with a scowl.

"I suggest we split up and look around outside," he said. "Sloan, you
take the east side; Barker, take the right, and I'll go straight down
the canals for a ways. Mr. Starr, you'd better stay here, if you don't
mind."

It suited Jimmy. This was the place where he was scheduled to meet
Andromeda, and the sooner he could be alone, the better. Even now he
was tingling with excitement at the thought of unveiling the owner of
that hidden voice.
