
The two I.P. men and Garth shuffled off into the sand. Silence and the
loneliness of the Martian night closed in on Jimmy. He crossed to a
block of stone and slumped down on it wearily. From far off somewhere
the banshee scream of a prowler shattered the stillness. It died away,
came again, and then merged eerily into the wail of an Enzo-cat, the
two-headed carrion-eater of the desert. And then suddenly a voice
behind him said, "Don't look now, Jimmy, but a friend of yours is here."

He wheeled and brought up the electric torch as simultaneously a hand
grasped his.

"Not here, Jimmy. No light, please. Come, there's not a moment to lose."

A slender figure was partly visible in the gloom. A faint scent of
Martian _trofero_ touched his nostrils.

Before he could protest further he found himself guided out of the Way
Station and out into the sand. Presently a small two-seater tracto-car
rose up before them. There was no sign of Garth or the two I.P. men.
The girl leaped in, touched a stud, and the car trembled with life. Two
seconds later they were boring into the darkness.

"Can I look now?" Jimmy demanded.

She laughed. "If you like."

He switched on the torch. A young dark-haired girl with clear brown
eyes and lovely features smiled back at him. She was beautiful.

He settled deeper in the seat. "Garth and the two I.P. men. Why didn't
they come back?"

She didn't reply to that. Savagely with a sudden frantic twist of the
wheel she maneuvered the tracto-car on a tangent toward the east bank
of the canal. Even as she did, a man-high ribbon of white irridescence
shot toward them. It was a spear-headed ellipse of blinding light with
a whipping comet-like tail.

"Refraction-protract," she cried. Under her skillful guidance the car
turned left, then right, to miss the oncoming beam by inches. The girl
uttered a sigh of relief. "That was too close for comfort," she said.
"Those refraction-protracts are disintegrating light rays stored up by
the Red Desert sands and released by sudden changes in temperature.
We'll have to watch ourselves."

They drove on in silence. Questions were surging through Jimmy's brain,
but he said nothing, waiting for the girl to explain.

"Would it surprise you very much if I told you the man behind all this
is Hamilton Garth?"

He went slowly rigid. "Garth? But he--"

"Told you he was trailing the Nebula. That was a neat way to divert
suspicion from himself. You see, Garth, although a member of the
_superiors_ class, has been having financial trouble with both of his
companies lately, Crater City Trust, and Phobos Enterprises. Some of
his investments went wrong; in particular, an expedition he financed
to Pluto was never heard from again. He needed funds desperately and
_pxar_ was his answer.

"How he learned that your father's work in deciphering the _Chronicles_
was connected with this strange material, we probably shall never
know. The important thing is he did find out and immediately took
steps to acquire them. But even after he had them it was necessary to
complete the cypher before he could learn the secret. Garth must have
found a passage in some work other than the _Chronicles_ that led him
to suspect vaguely the nature of the final revelation."

Jimmy nodded slowly. "I see," he said. "And after Garth has located the
supply of figurines, he intends to launch them on their parasitical
work and sell the supply of _pxar_ he thus accumulates to the
engineers. But neither the Martians nor the engineers would consent to
such a diabolical plan."

The girl smiled grimly and touched a stud on the dash, increasing the
speed of the car. "Garth took care of that, too," she explained. "He
planned to advertise all over Mars a sanitarium devoted to the cure of
every conceivable kind of ill. It was to be located in the mountains
beyond the Red Desert Country. Once a patient was admitted, his doom
was sealed.

"It was Garth, of course, who broke into the Crater City Museum, stole
the three Thro-Pahl figurines and killed the night-watchman. Previously
he had designed a fake Nebula signature card, and he left this behind
at the scene of the crime. He's a member of the _superiors_ class, you
must remember, and his hatred for the man who was making a mockery of
that class was intense."
