
Dawn came up slowly, a reddish haze at first, then a brilliant glare
that turned the canal into a glittering avenue of crimson reflections.
They roared east along a canal that steadily grew narrower.

Presently, far ahead, a depression became visible in the side wall. Up
this depression a nature-formed ramp led to the upper level.

"This is the end of the line," the girl said. She gave a short laugh.
"Do you realize, Mr. Starr, you haven't even asked me my name?"

He colored, stammered something.

"It's Linda," she said, "Linda Hall. Come. Up this way."

The climb was hard, grueling work, and when at length they reached the
summit, man and girl were panting from the exertion. But here Jimmy
looked upon a scene of utter desolation. As far as the eye could reach
stretched a vast plain. No cairn, no monolithic pile of rocks broke the
bleak monotony.

Linda, however, moved forward with a quick step. She had a small
metal box with needle dials in her hand now, and she consulted it at
intervals. For a quarter of a mile they plodded across the flat. Then
Jimmy saw that the needles on the dials were fluttering wildly.

"Stand here," she told him.

She moved off on a tangent, walking carefully, studying the ground. He
watched her figure grow smaller and smaller. Abruptly she halted and
waved to him frantically. He hurried to her side.

She stood at the brink of a deep cleft in the plain floor. Rectangular
in shape, it seemed to bore down and down into measureless depths.
Jimmy felt his heart skip a beat. A flight of ladder-like stairs
descended into the well, and lying prone at the top of those stairs was
a man.

A deep searing burn ran from his temple down the left side of his face,
about which blood had caked and hardened. Jimmy knelt and fumbled for a
pulse. A faint flutter touched his fingers. He whipped a flask from his
pocket and brought it to the man's lips.

He moaned, opened his eyes weakly and rose up on one elbow.

"Who are you?" Jimmy demanded.

At first his words were unintelligible. Then the haze which clouded his
eyes cleared somewhat.

"Name's Hanley," he said weakly. "Phil Hanley. Represent the _Martian
Globe_. Hamilton Garth's down there. We've got to stop him."

Hanley struggled with short jerky sentences. "Garth blasted me with a
heat gun. Tried to do it once before in my own apartment, but I managed
to get away from him. This time he thought he'd done for me. He's after
the figurines. _By the blazing eternal! Are you the Nebula?_"
