
Six hundred and thirty-nine steps led to the bottom of the shaft.
In places the rock had crumbled so badly the greatest care had to
be taken, or a misstep would have meant plunging into the abyss.
Curiously, no sand seemed to have drifted here; the air was dry and
clear.

Hanley, still unsteady from the burn he had received, examined the
hieroglyphics on the stone walls with puzzled eyes.

"This place must have been discovered before," he said. "It isn't
possible that this shaft could have remained here all these years
without someone stumbling upon it."

Linda nodded. "It's presence has been known, of course," she replied.
"It leads to an underground cavern that stretches for miles under the
surface. It's the burial place of the first dynasty Martians. But there
are many such places below the Red Desert country. Always it has been
thought they contained nothing of value."

They reached the bottom level and stood staring out before them. Where
the floor of the desert above had been red in color, the surface here
was ochre, a dull uncertain floor that gave off a radiance of its own
and illuminated the underground cavern with a faint unreal glow. The
grotto stretched in three directions as far as the light permitted them
to see. At intervals of every twenty feet or so, large rectangular
blocks, ten to fifteen feet high and twelve feet long, dotted the
expanse. In a way the place looked like a vast apiary.

"Each one is a grave," Linda said quietly. "The block, of course, is
only a marker. The crypt is lower down."

Jimmy scowled. "And one of those crypts contains the figurines, eh?
Like looking for a needle in a haystack."

She gripped his arm. "We've got to find the right one before Garth.
We've got to, do you understand! He's somewhere down here now, with
those two hirelings of his. When--if--we do find it, this will destroy
them." She pressed a short tube in Jimmy's hands.

Like three sleep-walkers, they paced slowly out among the stone blocks.
And now Jimmy realized the proportions of the task they had set
themselves to do. Each of the blocks was equipped with a vault-like
door of massive weight and size, surrounded by a panel of those strange
hieroglyphics, and with an intricate series of bizarre lock dials on
its surface. The blocks looked exactly the same.

Above them in the dimness of the ceiling a heavy whirring sounded, and
at intervals a curious bird-like creature with pointed wings and a
weazened human face swooped down to be momentarily visible in the half
light.

"_Sarkonivals_," Linda said shortly. "The early Martians were
superstitious of them and transported them here to guard the burial
grounds. They must feed on a variety of moss that grows down here."

They moved on. The rows of burial blocks seemed endless. Jimmy came to
a halt.

"We're getting no place fast," he said. "Have you no clue at all as to
which block it might be?"

Linda shook her head. Hanley was staring up above him, apparently
fascinated by the strange flying creatures.

"You know," he said slowly, "I read about those _sarkonivals_ once.
They always fly in groups of an even twenty, save when some atmospheric
disturbance causes them to alter their formation."

He pointed upward. "They _are_ all in groups of twenty except over that
block over there. Above that they seem to be in confusion."

Jimmy followed his gaze and frowned thoughtfully. He paced forward
to the block in question, stood there watching the movements of the
_sarkonivals_.

Suddenly he turned to Linda. "Look. See how their flying formation is
always the same? They're twenty of them up there all right, and they
start to circle the block in a compact mass. But as soon as they strike
a point directly above it, they separate. First five, then three, then
two, six, one, and three. Always the same order. Do you suppose that
might be the combination? A magnetic disturbance issuing from the block
in such a way as to prevent the usual twenty-formation and break it up
in that fashion?"

"Jimmy!" Her eyes lighted. "I think you've got it!"

He seized the ancient combination wheel, put his strength to it.
Slowly, a fraction of an inch at a time, it began to turn. Jimmy
hesitated.

[Illustration: He seized the ancient combination wheel....]

"I can't read these numerals, if they are numerals," he said. "I don't
know where to start."

Linda studied the markings. "I think that's the symbol for absolute
zero," she said. "Try it anyway."

He began to turn the wheel again, counting off the numbers as he
watched the irregular formation of _sarkonivals_ above him. "Five,
three, two, six, one, three."

Twice he tried with no result. The third time there was a dull whirring
somewhere in the bowels of the block, and the door slowly swung open.
Within, a short passageway ended at another door, equipped with another
series of dials.

Here Jimmy nodded in satisfaction. "I should be able to crack this."

He opened his carry-case, took out the headphones and slipped them on.
Linda and Hanley pressed close, watching him.

"Hurry," the girl said. "I don't like it here."

A voice behind answered her.

"No need to hurry, Mr. Starr, alias the Nebula. Just take your time,
but be sure you open it."
