
They wheeled. Three figures blocked the passage. In the lead, leaning
comfortably against the side wall, stood Hamilton Garth, a heat gun
leveled before him. Behind him were the two pseudo-I.P. men.

"Very nice of you to save us the trouble of locating the figurine
cache," Garth said smoothly. "Now all you have to do is open that
inner door and then help us carry a load of the images back to our
tracto-car. You have nothing to worry about. If you obey orders, no
harm will come to you. If you don't, well, don't forget I have a nice
ace-in-the-hole. I have only to tell the world that James C. Starr,
president of Triplanetary Shipping is the much-wanted cracksman, the
Nebula."

Jimmy, Linda, and Hanley looked at each other.

"Come," said Garth. "This place oppresses me as much as it does you.
Get to work."

Silently Jimmy adjusted the headphones again and began to move the
dials. Five minutes passed. Then he stood back, grasped the handle and
pulled the door open.

The interior was black, but a click of the torch revealed row upon
row of Thro-Pahl images. There were hundreds here, and there must be
hundreds more in the lower crypt.

And then Jimmy remembered the metal tube Linda had given him when they
first entered this underground chamber. He drew forth the tube and with
a quick motion threw it before him.

Nothing! The crypt remained steeped in silence.

"What was that you threw?" demanded Garth. "Answer, damn you!"

Jimmy shrugged. "It was a tube of setro-frenalot--NSK 54," he said.
"I think you know what that means, Mr. Garth. The double detonation
explosive. If it doesn't explode upon the first impact, the slightest
jar, the slightest whisper of sound will discharge it."

Garth's face went black with rage. "You damned double-crossing--!"

He tossed his heat gun to one of the two pseudo-I.P. men and plunged
into the vault. Halfway the significance of Jimmy's words came home to
him. Gingerly, a step at a time, he began to work his way toward the
metal tube that lay in the light of his electric torch.

Now he stood directly above it. He reached down, let his fingers fasten
about the tube. With the greatest of care, he lifted it and began to
catwalk back to the door of the vault.

But at the threshold Jimmy uttered a cry of alarm and swept Linda
protectingly into his arms.

"What's the matter?" Garth demanded.

"The calibo-marset fire. Blue flame. It's started in the
setro-frenalot. It's going to go off."

Garth's eyes shot wide with fear. He looked down at the tube in his
hands, then abruptly swung and hurled it through the open doorway into
the vault.

There was a low roar, mounting to a crescendo report. A cloud of smoke
belched outward, and the ground beneath their feet trembled. At the
first indication of Garth's action, Jimmy, Linda, and Hanley had hurled
themselves backward, away from the vault door. Garth too had whirled
and leaped like a released spring to safety.

But the two I.P. men were caught. They had not heard Jimmy's
exclamation--hadn't time to guess what was coming. An avalanche of
rubble and huge stones washed forward to sweep relentlessly over
them. An instant later only a sound of dust-rising debris and masonry
fragments marked the spot where they had stood.

As the deafening reverberations rolled back into silence, Hamilton
Garth seemed to grasp the significance of the situation like a man
in a dream. For a moment he stood there, rigid, eyes narrowing, lips
quivering. Then with a snarl of profanity, he charged straight at Jimmy
Starr.

Jimmy's head was still reeling dizzily from a blow dealt him by a
flying chunk of rock, and he saw the onrushing Trust man through a
haze. Garth's fist bludgeoned into his jaw. Another blow drove into
his midsection, sent a wave of nausea sweeping through him. And then
a picture of his father lying helpless on the study floor shot into
his mind's eye; with it came a sudden realization of all that the
_superiors_ class--Garth's class--stood for. He snapped his fists
forward and began to hit with all the strength he possessed at the face
before him. He was still flailing his arms in and out, when Hanley
stepped in and pulled him back.
