
The Master Astrologer leaned on the railing and stared at it. The huge
mirror, kept in condition by the attendants, gleamed brilliantly. The
great instrument at the end of the hall near the window, the Eastern
sky visible. The sun rose in sight of that window, and the Morning
Star. From where the telescope stood, it should be possible to train
it on the planet.

The Master Astrologer became excited; he glanced around hurriedly
for fear someone might have witnessed. Then carefully he took in all
details of the lay of the room, turned and walked out.

It was dark. A chill wind from the deserts swept through the deserted
streets of the Martian capital. A period of deepest silence when even
the eternal thumping of the canal pumps died down to a dull distant
hum. In the dim stretches of the hour before dawn the city was at its
quietest. On the street corners a few sleepy guards leaned against
walls and closed their single great eyes in rest for a moment.

Down a side street in the darkest shadows slipped a figure. Dark
cloaked, treading upon cushioned toes, it crept from building to
building, keeping as much as possible in the recesses of arches of the
little carved balconies Martian buildings are wont to have. Finally
the figure came to a halt in a doorway. It stood for a moment looking
around to make sure of the place and then producing a long thin
instrument, picked the lock and rolled aside the door.

Saknarth stepped softly inside the dark hallway, rolled the door shut.
He listened a moment, then assured by silence tip-toed forward up
the incline that he knew lay to one side of the hall. Up he climbed.
Reaching a floor, he turned quickly and groped for the next incline,
reached it and ascended again. Soon he came to where there were no more
floors, and pushing aside a trap door, stepped out on the roof.

It was not so dark up here. The dim lights of the two tiny moons added
to the lights of the myriad stars to cast a misty white glow upon
objects.

The astrologer tip-toed silently across the roof onto an adjoining
one. On he progressed to come finally to the great wall of a building
looming up above. Set in this wall was a large window about fifteen
feet above his head.

Saknarth groped under his cloak, drew out a long thin rope. To the end
of this he fastened a small, strong double hook making an effective
grappling iron.

He stepped back, whirled it around his head and tossed it upwards.
It struck the wall just below the sill, bounded back. He waited and
listened; no one had heard. Again he tossed the rope; and this time the
hook caught in the carved decorations of the window sill.

Saknarth pulled; the rope held. He whispered a short prayer and
grasping high on the rope raised his feet off the ground. Immediately
he swung inward to touch the wall with his feet. Then, slowly and
laboriously, climbed up the rope.

Reaching the sill, Saknarth threw a leg over and lay quiet for a
moment. Still safe. He drew out his lock-picking instrument and easily
opened the window enough to permit him to creep through and drop
silently on the other side.

The long hall was dark and quiet. No one had heard him. He looked up.
There next to him loomed the great telescope.
