
Saknarth stepped over the railing and perched himself on the observer's
seat. He polished the eyepiece fondly, grasped the hand wheels. Turning
these, he swung the heavy instrument downwards, down till it faced the
open window and the coming dawn.

There, low in the heavens hung the Morning Star. It glowed brightly
and seemed to beckon and encourage him on. He set the readings on the
clockwork adjustment, applied his eye to the lens.

A brilliant crescent shining with the blue green radiance of the third
planet. Much larger than ever the Master Astrologer had seen it. He
stared eagerly at the now sharply outlined land masses visible, noting
the green color of some and wondering if it could be the green of
vegetation.

He drew his gaze from the bright crescent to stare at the dark portion.
It was not truly dark. A dim grey light seemed to show up vague
suggestions of continents and seas, the reflected light of Kurnal's
huge moon, he thought. But the lights: he must look for the lights.

Long he stared and suddenly he saw them. A tiny dot of white light
glowing in the center of the dark disc. Now several others caught his
view; his heart thumped wildly. The lights were there; Kwarit had
spoken truthfully. He stared avidly at them. Cities, he thought: could
they be cities? He dismissed the thought as soon as it had come as
being foolish. There were many. He tried to count them. Most were in
the Northern half, yet there were one or two in the southern zone, too.
Many on top and a few below. A strange sense of having seen that design
before entered his mind. The arrangement was peculiar; he studied it
closely.

The Sign of Dallon! He recognized it. The ideograph of Dallon the
prophet was exactly like that. The Sign of Dallon on the face of
Kurnal. The prophecy. He remembered it from his student days.

Dallon, one of the ancient founders of the priesthood, had declared;
"Man shall be humble and bow down to the gods; he shall revere those
who are their priests and prophets; he shall not deem to impose upon
their domains and shall support and obey them. This shall be until the
Sign of Dallon shall appear on the face of the Morning Star. Then will
Man rise above the gods. And that time is Never."

The time had come; the priesthood should no longer enslave mankind.
Now was learning and enlightenment to come to the people to give
them conquest over fear and misery. And he, Saknarth, must tell the
multitudes.

He continued thus, in his reveries, his lone eye glued to the great
instrument, his mind seething with a multitude of thoughts.
