
Carrying his copper staff the Grandmaster paced to the arched doorway,
followed by Crookback. Bump-arch bowed as they preceded him through the
door; and he had to bend his head again to pass through, for Bump-arch
was partly of Bowman stock and tall for a man of the City.

The masters and mistresses of the Guild, the journeymen and
journeywomen, filed out behind the Candidate in the order of their
seniority. When Proudwalk and her brother reached the Street of the
Scientists, already the kingsman and the godsman had taken their places
to the right and the left of the Grandmaster in the foremost rank of
the procession.

The kingsman wore his second gaudiest uniform--the most splendid was
reserved for coronations--and carried his silver mace of authority.
The godsman was naked, as above display and free of the temptations of
sex. He carried nothing, for his nakedness was his badge of office. It
was death for anyone except a godsman or a godswoman to be found in a
public place unclothed.

There came next the Candidate and his master, and after them by two's
the whole body of scientists. Proudwalk and Snubnose walked together,
the last pair.

Early in the morning Snubnose had determined to cheer up his sister as
much as he could on this unhappy day. Now she walked along so lightly
and smiled so much and so gaily, that it was obvious that she needed no
cheering. Snubnose was irritated.

"I don't see why you didn't talk him out of it," he said. "He might
have listened to you where he wouldn't listen to me. He has the odd
delusion that you're smarter than I."

"I am," said Proudwalk.

Snubnose growled.

He said, "You must not care about him as much as you let on, for all
your mooning around the gardens. Well, it doesn't surprise me much.
You women are all obsessed with family pride, no matter how liberal
you pretend to be. Of course you can't marry Bump-arch, whose mother's
father was a Bowman. Our--two to the tenth power--one thousand and
twenty-four ancestors, all pure City, all guildfolk from the very best
guilds, would disturb every palace in Spiritland with their wailing. So
now Bump-arch won't qualify, and it will be an easy out for you."

"Snubnose, you know that's not true. But I'll tell you something." She
lowered her voice. "I told Bump-arch not to listen to you and to go
ahead with his demonstration."

"But why? Even if you are only a biologist, you ought to know from your
basic studies that all the best thinkers in physics for five hundred
years have regarded time travel as a physical impossibility and all old
traditions of time travel as myths."

"Oh little gods. Whatever we can't do any more is impossible and a
myth. We just won't admit we are not as good scientists as our remote
ancestors. But some of us are as good, or even better."

"By all the gods, big and little, you really do love the poor fellow.
He's good, but not that good. What will you do now? Wait till he
finishes another apprenticeship and hope mother changes her mind
meanwhile? And then he would probably come up with another impossible
demonstration. Listen," he said, whispering in her ear, "if you two are
thinking of something crazy like Private Law at least let me know so I
can help you. I wish father were alive," he added helplessly.

"So do I. He was the only one in our family with any sense. Thanks just
the same, Snubnose," she said, and she pressed his hand.

For a little while he solemnly held her hand, then suddenly dropped it.

"I didn't think," he said. "This is worse than ever. If you really
believe that Bump-arch's demonstration is going to work, you don't seem
a bit worried about the fact that you won't see him for five years. And
another thing," said the young man, "if his physics are right you will
be getting old and he will be the same age he is now."

"In five years I'll be an old, old woman," said the girl sarcastically,
"and you'll be an old, old man, and we'll sit in the square in the sun
and talk about all this. But right now let's quit talking about it,
because I see that little Shrill-voice ahead of us there is pricking up
her ears."

But she herself said one more thing. "If you're so anxious to worry,
worry about the Principles. That's the one thing that is bothering me."

Then they smiled at each other and were silent. And soon a wave of
silence washed back to them as the head of the procession turned from
the Street of the Scientists, lined with its wind-ruffled oaks, to the
open shining Avenue of the Sun, where no person might speak without
sacrilege.

The godsman raised his hands to the sun, and everyone else, entering
the Avenue, bowed his head.

They marched in silence, formally, humbly, until at the Street of
Ward, arms clashed in salute. Here were the apartments of the honorary
militia, the warders. The street ran between their dwellings and the
city wall. The warders had formed their squads on the flat roofs, and
they were happily juggling their polished weapons; more effective for
their sparkle and clang, wiseacres said, than for repelling the Bowmen.

During the previous generation, mobile units of the Public Law police
had taken over the job of fighting the intermittent wars with the
Bowmen. For that reason, as Snubnose knew well, the police would be
especially vindictive in tracking down Bump-arch and Proudwalk if they
attempted a Private Law marriage. The Public Law police hated anyone
with genes of the Bowmen in his chromosomes.

The last squad of warders saluted, and the scientists trooped onto
the Field of Proof. It was called in one of the songs of the Guild
of Scientists "verdant place where truth doth reign." But the place
was only spottily verdant, because the apprentice biologists who
were supposed to keep the Field grassed were not conscientious. They
spent most of their time in the Ready Hall gossiping with prospective
candidates.

Dust rose from large bare patches beneath the copper-tipped shoes of
the scientists.

At a sign from the Grandmaster, the guildfolk spread in a single
circle. The Grandmaster took his position at the center of the circle
with the Candidate, the Candidate's master, the kingsman, and the
godsman.

The Bowman strain in Bump-arch was conspicuous, as he stood beside
the others. It was marked by his height and by the unmistakable way
the bones of his face shaped themselves. A romantic girl could look
at him and think of a noble primitive and fall in love, Snubnose
reflected. A family-proud dame could look at him and think of the
public slaves--Bowmen captured in battle--sweating and stinking in the
building gangs.

"What do I think?" Snubnose asked himself. He shrugged. "Bump-arch is
my friend."

He turned to say something to his sister, and he saw that she had left
him. While the circle had been forming, she had moved a quarter way
around. Now her eyes were fixed on her lover.

Snubnose felt vaguely hurt. He said to himself, childishly, "They're up
to something, and they're treating me like a little boy again."
