
"Time," said the Grandmaster.

And what was time? Snubnose, the grown-up physicist, asked himself that
question.

In his physics it was the denominator of velocity; squared, the
denominator of acceleration. In old texts--incomplete, variously
translated, little understood--it was called a dimension when
multiplied by an imaginary number. But imaginary numbers had no place
in physics. So it had been decided in 1480 DRC, at the historic
conference of scientists, kingsmen, and godsmen. Imaginary numbers,
with some other concepts, had been declared metaphysics and had been
turned over to the godsmen. Just as neuroses, because of their
traditional origin in sexual impulses, had been taken away from the
psychologists and assigned to the kingsmen.

Snubnose remembered how Crookback had catechized the pair of them,
Bump-arch and him, on the Principles. How did that one go? "Science
appertains only to matter itself; not to the mysteries of matter or the
desires of matter. The mysteries of matter belong to the gods, and the
desires of matter belong to the king."

Or something like that.

He hadn't been quick with his lessons, like Bump-arch. His friend had
scoffed at the Principles when alone with him, but had learned them
by heart after a couple of offhand readings. Snubnose would sweat and
sweat and think he had them, but when the time came to recite, the
words would fly out the window into the fresh-smelling air.

Old Crookback had got so disgusted with him once that he had put him on
bread and water. And then Bump-arch had sneaked out over the city wall
and had caught a rabbit in a homemade trap and had talked one of the
women of the settled Bowmen into cooking it for them. Gods, that had
tasted good at midnight....

The circle of scientists was getting noisy. Snubnose's nearest
neighbors were loudly rehashing the latest Private Law marriage.
Snubnose wondered suddenly, why didn't the demonstration start? The
Grandmaster had said, "Time." Was there trouble?

In the center of the Field, while Bump-arch stood apart, the
dignitaries were carrying on one of those exasperating public wrangles,
obvious but inaudible. The godsman was doing most of the talking,
waving a plump arm. The Grandmaster looked unhappy, the kingsman looked
important, and Crookback looked polite.

The godsman was so excited he absent-mindedly scratched his bare
buttock. He caught himself and blushed--a total affair for a
godsman--and during his embarrassment, Crookback began to talk. The
godsman kept shaking his head and interrupting, but Crookback went on
talking, and finally the godsman seemed to give a reluctant consent.

The Grandmaster raised his hand high, with the fingers spread, and a
girl apprentice burst from the door of the Ready Hall. She ran across
the Field, and two scientists smilingly moved aside to let her through.
She stood panting before the Grandmaster. He handed her the symbolic
messenger's key and spoke to her briefly--briefly for the Grandmaster.

She was off on the run.

Snubnose didn't know what was happening, but it looked as if the
godsman had made some kind of a concession. He was sure that must be
for the good and felt relieved--until the Grandmaster, leaning on his
copper staff, addressed the guildfolk.

The Grandmaster began: "The holy one submitted an objection concerning
a possible violation of the Principles and proposed to forbid the
demonstration by the Candidate."

If that stood, Bump-arch would probably be tried for sacrilege in
Godsmen's Castle. Yet the godsman had seemed to give ground....

"Needless to say, both the distinguished master of the Candidate and
I myself, speaking individually for ourselves, and, in my own case
especially, speaking for the Guild of Scientists as a body, assured the
holy one of our reverent adherence to the Principles, and--"

He was interrupted by the angry voice of the godsman.

"Get on!"

The guildfolk buzzed. As often as they might have liked to tell their
Grandmaster to get on, this was an insult to the Guild. But they were
quickly silent, for it was an insult they would have to swallow, at
least in public.

The Grandmaster swallowed it too, visibly gulping, and he said mildly,
"The holy one has generously agreed to submit the issue to the High
arbiter of the Guild of Lawyers, and the High Arbiter has been sent
for."

It was the last thing said that alarmed Snubnose, and he looked at his
sister and saw that for the first time her face was tight with unease.
The High Arbiter was an old friend of their mother's, which was not
likely to make him a friend of theirs today. He moved in the same
snobbish society as their mother and had many times clucked with her
about Proudwalk's "infatuation for that lowborn young man."

Snubnose would have liked to leave his place in the circle of
scientists and join Proudwalk, but it was against Acknowledged Custom
to change position once the circle was formed.

Everyone now was shuffling uncomfortably in the hot sun, except the
godsman who was exposed to the cooling air and had the godsmen's secret
of escaping sunburn. And Bump-arch, who looked as uncomfortable as
anybody else but did not shuffle. He stood still and straight while
sweat ran down his face into the tight black neckband of an apprentice.
Once he seemed to look at Snubnose and wink, or perhaps he was only
winking the sweat away.

An elephant moved slowly down the Street of Ward and onto the Field
of Proof. It was a ponderous metal ovoid bearing on its roof a velvet
pavilion with the curtains drawn. The circle of scientists parted and
opened, and the elephant, with much grinding, came to a stop a few feet
from the group in the center of the Field.

The driver, an apprentice lawyer, climbed from his hole and parted the
curtains of the pavilion. The High Arbiter looked out at the world with
a sour expression. He did not descend.

"I will hear the holy one first," he said from his roost.

The godsman raised his hands to the sun, and spoke.

"Wise one! The Candidate and his master, abetted by the Grandmaster
of the Guild of Scientists, are shamelessly defying the Principles.
The Candidate is preparing to demonstrate the accelerated movement of
matter into the future. That is a mystery of matter. Only the gods
can know the path that things take from the dimming past to the dark
future. Scientists must confine themselves to their arts and not try to
steal the mysteries belonging to the gods.

"The gods grant knowledge of mysteries to godsmen who have humbly
supplicated, not to thieves. Let the scientists work to improve the
fire-wheels that spin through the night seeking out the encampments of
the Bowmen. Let them mix better fertilizers to sell to the Lords of the
West. Let them keep in repair the ancient elephants for the honor of
our exalted citizens."

The High Arbiter looked slightly less sour, and he nodded shortly. "I
will hear the Grandmaster of the Guild of Scientists," he said.

The Grandmaster lifted his head.

"Wise one!" he said. "The godsman jibes, and with some basis.
Generation to generation, the fire-wheels spin more slowly and seek
less surely. The fertilizers grow leaner. The ceremonial elephants
are fewer and worse. Perhaps the godsmen are not supplicating hard
enough for solutions to mysteries of matter--solutions which would
enable the scientists to control matter. In the impious days before the
Principles, matter served mystery and mystery served matter, and by
some inexplicable mercy of the gods, things went very well."

Years of banality, years of caution, years of looking to his retirement
offering had, for a little while, lost their hold on him.

Snubnose was silently raging. What a place, he thought, for the
Grandmaster to burst out with that kind of thing. True, scientists
sometimes talked that way in the Guild social rooms, especially
after drinking illegal grain distillate, but here it could only hurt
Bump-arch's cause.

Snubnose looked at his friend. Bump-arch was trying to suppress a
jubilant smile. Surprised, Snubnose looked at his sister. She was
jumping up and down with pleasure, as he hadn't seen her do for at
least two years.

"Romantics," he said to himself.

The High Arbiter had a talent for looking displeased, and now he did
not stint.

"I note the Grandmaster's improper tone," he said stiffly.
"Furthermore, his remarks are irrelevant to the issue. The holy one
says that the demonstration treats of a mystery of matter in violation
of the Principles. In view of the Grandmaster's failure to refute
that, it is highly probable. However, it will have to be established
by authority and precedent--unless the demonstration involves an idea
specifically forbidden, which would be conclusive. I will hear the holy
one."

"There is indeed a forbidden idea. It is known from tradition and old
texts that the mathematic of accelerated movement through time involves
imaginary numbers. At the conference of 1480 DRC it was confirmed that
imaginary numbers are a metaphysical concept forbidden to scientists."

"I will hear the Candidate's master."

A light cloud was filtering the sunlight, and the old man seemed cool
and calm. He took a step to a little mound of good grass as if he were
climbing to a rostrum.

"Wise one! Neither the holy one nor our own Grandmaster--both devoted
patriots with their minds on the welfare of the City--thought to
bring one very important fact to your attention. My apprentice's
demonstration is not an original experiment; it is a reconstructed
experiment. By Acknowledged Custom, reconstructed experiments are
permitted regardless of mysteries and ideas so long as the experimenter
does not comprehend any impious theory but merely follows the practical
directions of old texts.

"I declare that my apprentice is ignorant of the theory of his
demonstration--and who is in a better position to know than his master?"

Snubnose rejoiced. He was ready to forgive even the bread and water. In
a few sentences Crookback had excused the Grandmaster's rashness, had
made good the Grandmaster's oversight, and had set forth a strong case
for Bump-arch.

"I will hear the holy one."

"Let him prove that!" the godsman shouted.

"I will hear the Candidate's master."

"I regret that I cannot prove it absolutely. Negatives are difficult of
proof. I suggest that the Candidate swear to his ignorance by the God
Mother-Father."

"You should know that apprentices are not eligible to take oaths," the
High Arbiter said impatiently, dropping the formal manner as if in a
hurry to finish the proceedings--and finish Bump-arch.

Encouraged, the godsman cried, "Let Crookback swear to it. He was
willing to declare it."

"Will you?" the High Arbiter asked Crookback.

"Though I am sure of the truth, my reverence for the God Mother-Father
is too great to permit me to swear to the contents of another's mind--"

"That, and not wanting to be tried for false swearing," Snubnose
muttered. He admired his old master a lot less.

"--but I will swear by the God Mother-Father that I myself am ignorant
of the theory."

"What good is that?" the godsman demanded.

Cleverly, the master stood in respectful silence. There was an awkward
pause--awkward for the godsman and the High Arbiter--and then the High
Arbiter collected himself and said, "The question may be answered. I
will hear the Candidate's master."

"I am shocked and saddened," said Crookback, "that the holy one
believes that apprentices, still wearing their neckbands, excel in
wisdom the masters of the guilds."

The High Arbiter's driver, who had been squatting meekly by the
elephant, suddenly let loose a screaming laugh, which he cut off just
as suddenly with a scared catch of breath.

"I will hear the oath," the High Arbiter said.

Crookback swore by the God Mother-Father while the godsman glowered.
The High Arbiter said, "The demonstration may proceed. My apprentices
will present my bills tomorrow, including commutation of fees for
twenty journeyman lawyers, since you did not place the issue in King's
Courts."

Everybody winced, and the elephant rumbled away.
