
The doors of the Ready Hall opened, and the whole body of apprentice
scientists marched on the Field. They carried sections of steel sheet,
lengths of magnesium tubing, and parts of machines unfamiliar to the
guildfolk. Under Bump-arch's direction they began to assemble the
equipment and to enclose it in a small building.

Bump-arch had planned well. They put the components together quickly,
and marched from the Field. They had erected a cubical chamber of
bright steel with an opening near the ground just big enough for a
person--not too fat a person--to crawl through. Above the opening a
closing panel was suspended in grooves.

The Grandmaster and the godsman and the kingsman inspected the setup
with the peculiar ignorant attention of high officials. Each walked
around the cube once and rapped it with his fingers here and there.
Each solemnly stooped to the ground and put his head in the opening,
although it was dark inside and nothing was visible. The plump godsman
made a move as if to crawl in, then backed away.

The kingsman brushed dust from his cloak, and the inspection seemed to
be over. The three officials and Crookback withdrew to the circle of
scientists and stood just within it, a little to the left of Snubnose.

Bump-arch took hold of the door panel, the only projection on the
smoothness of the cube, and scrambled to the roof, where he could be
seen by the whole circle.

Now Bump-arch was really enjoying himself, Snubnose thought. And
Proudwalk was enjoying Bump-arch with her big eyes.

"Elder ones, whether my experiment succeeds or fails, the outcome will
be self-evident. I make no qualifications and prepare no excuses. I
will now go ahead with the demonstration."

Snubnose said to himself, "It's a better performance than the High
Arbiter gave on his elephant." He would have liked to yell some words
of encouragement.

"Before I start," Bump-arch added, "as required by the Laws of the
Guild, I ask, are there any among you who wish to inspect my apparatus?"

It was no longer considered good manners to accept that invitation, but
a journeyman physicist named Red-hair stepped forward. He walked very
carefully, and Snubnose wondered how much grain distillate he had drunk
that morning.

Before he reached the steel chamber, Red-hair yelled to the Candidate,
"Tell me how to start it. I don't like our times anyway."

"It's not going very far," Bump-arch said easily.

"It's not going anywhere, boy," Red-hair roared. "Everybody knows that.
I don't know why we've wasted so much time today."

"You'd better not move any dials! There are a couple of ten-day lamps
inside, if you want to look around."

Red-hair crawled through the opening. Five minutes later he crawled
out, his hair in his eyes. "I can't make anything of it," he said to
everybody in general, and he resumed his place in the circle.

"Now, elder ones, does anyone else wish to inspect the apparatus?"

"I do!"

It was Proudwalk.

She walked on grass and over the patches of shifting dust; walked with
the graceful, slightly affected manner that had given her the name.
There was the pride in her walk, and there was sexuality.

Bump-arch leaped to the ground to meet her. He bowed as if they were
at the King's Councillor's Ball and he were asking her for the dance.
Proudwalk touched her palms together in the stylized gesture of
acceptance. Immediately she slipped through the entrance. Bump-arch
stooped, and quickly followed her. The door panel dropped down its
grooves, sealing the chamber.

The scientists chattered; the godsman shouted.

The kingsman raised his voice. "What's going on, Grandmaster?"

"A reconstructed demonstration attempting the accelerated movement of
matter through time to the relatively near future by an apprentice
who, having completed the requisite service, has been admitted to
candidature for the rank of journeyman physicist."

The Grandmaster took a breath.

"Ask the Candidate's master," the godsman said, with the calmness now
of more intense anger. "You heard him trick the High Arbiter into
ruling that a mystery of matter is not a mystery and a forbidden idea
is not forbidden. Maybe he can convince you that a desire of matter is
not a desire of matter."

Crookback spoke up at once. "It would seem an unlikely place to give
way to desire, but I am an old bachelor, as ignorant of the desires of
matter as of its mysteries. However, young men and women frequently
work together on scientific experiments."

"Not in windowless boxes," said the kingsman. "And who gave her
leave to help the Candidate? There is something odd about this whole
demonstration, and I'm going to find out what it is."

The kingsman strode to the little building. The sun had returned in
full brightness, and the alloyed-steel walls were glistening. The
kingsman glistened too: the smooth fabric of his cloak--his silver
ornaments--his mace of massy silver.

Sharply he rapped with his mace on the closed door. There was
afterwards silence. He rapped again. There was again silence.

The kingsman lost his temper. He brought back his mace and swung it
fiercely toward the wall of the chamber.

The blow of massy silver against steel did not come. The wildly
swinging arm and mace whirled through the air. The kingsman fell
forward.

He sprawled, splendid and ridiculous: defeated by air.

There was no cubical building. The guildfolk faced each other across
the Field. Where the steel cube had stood, the kingsman was getting to
his knees.

Floating gently through the air, separating and drifting down, were
many sheets of paper.

Snubnose picked up one of the papers as it fell. It was headed "COPY OF
CONTRACT" and dated that Day of the Candidate, 155th-1712 DRC. It said:
"Hereby do Bump-arch, apprentice physicist, and Proudwalk, journeywoman
biologist, contract under Private Law a marriage between them: and do
undertake to dwell as husband and wife under the same roof for a period
of five years in validation of this marriage: such period to terminate
for purposes of the Private Law upon 155th-1717 DRC, but to continue
under other roofs for the duration of their lives."

"Time," said the Grandmaster.

Walking slowly home to face his mother, Snubnose said to himself, "This
one will keep the Guild of Lawyers busy for the duration of all our
lives."



