
The War ended on March 29, 2049 when the last Earthian troops
surrendered to the Venusian peace forces.

When did the War begin? The first battle was fought on December 18,
2048, but the first 'incident' that led directly to the conflict
occurred in November, 2042. And even before that date, many years
before, officials on Venus knew that war between the two worlds was
inevitable.

Space scientists of Venus have been observing Earth for hundreds
of years. The first space ship to reach your planet and return
to Venus made its voyage in the Earth year, 1891. From that time
on, explorations were made sporadically until the 1950's, when
revolutionary improvements in the design of our ships made possible
more economical and faster trips.

It is an interesting coincidence, incidentally, that atomic power
was discovered on Earth just as we on Venus had made atomic driven
spacecraft obsolete by the introduction of the magnetico-gravitational
drive. This fact is mentioned because it was the evidence of atomic
explosions on Earth that increased our interest in your planet a
century ago.

In all our observations of Earth, the most obvious fact we learned was
that its dominant race was aggressive and war-like in nature. Having
no desire to introduce this war-mindedness to our peaceful world, we
avoided all contact with Earth.

We realized, however, that in time the Earth race would accomplish
space travel and thus force a contact with us. Therefore, we devised
highly potent weapons for our defense in the event that the people of
Earth ever stopped quarreling among themselves and attempted an attack
on our world.

High officials in our government were appalled at the thought of war
with its chaotic and indiscriminate killing. There were those who
deemed it an actual act of aggression on our part to arm ourselves
in preparation for a war. The opposition to our defense program was
strong. Yet, it was our preparedness which saved our civilization from
destruction when your forces launched their invasion of our planet
last year.
