
To understand the events which led to The War, it is best that we
briefly review the history of space travel by Earthians. In the year
2002, the six remaining nations of the Earth formed the Federation
to abolish war and to enable the people of your planet to put forth
a united effort to discover the secret of interplanetary travel.
This endeavour, in itself, was considered by our leaders to be most
creditable. But the entire pattern of your development, observed
for many centuries, instilled seeds of doubt in our minds. You were
conditioned to war and the mere establishment of a Federation to
monitor the future was not adequate insurance, we felt, against further
conflict. In your concentration on conquering space, however, you did
stop warring among yourselves.

Space travel from Earth began thirty-eight years ago. The first
successful trip to Luna and back was made in 2011, and by 2020 the
Lunar space port was opened. It was in 2020, also, that the space ship,
Pioneer, left for Mars. It was never heard from again.

Unsuccessful attempts to travel to the other planets were made during
the years 2021-2027. The Pioneer II, bound for Mars, the Adventurer,
bound for Mars, and the Enterprise, bound for Venus, all disappeared
without a trace.

In September, 2028, the Space King returned to Earth after completing
a voyage to Mars. The ship landed safely, but the excited celebration
that greeted it was short-lived when it was discovered that the
entire crew was afflicted with a neurological disease that your Earth
scientists labeled 'space sickness'. This disease posed a new obstacle
to interplanetary travel. It attacked indiscriminately and it proved
fatal in almost every case.

Research and experimentation on the cause and cure of 'space sickness'
was carried on continuously from the time the Space King returned with
its dying crew until the disease was conquered in 2041. During these
years, the experimental ships Enterprise II, Razorback, and Space King
II were utilized as laboratories in orbital flights.

In April, 2041, the space liner Morning Star was completed,
incorporating technological improvements designed to prevent the
occurrence of 'space sickness'. The Morning Star left the Lunar station
on July 17, 2042. Its destination was Venus.

In government circles on Venus, it was felt that no further delay
could be permitted in establishing contact with the people of Earth.
They were already too close to space flight maturity to forego any
opportunity for formulating an understanding. Therefore, The Morning
Star, whose flight had been observed constantly, was allowed to pass
through our ionic barrier and land unharmed on our planet. Emissaries
of our _Lora Dannun_ (nearest translation: Supreme Council) were on
hand to greet the Earthmen when they left their ship.

As a precautionary measure, two atomic scorchers were trained on the
ship, but our officials approached the debarking Earthmen without
side arms and in a friendly manner. The Earthmen, understandably
apprehensive, came forward with their hand weapons drawn.

Although we on Venus were already familiar with your International
English language, our welcoming committee did not think it wise to
further startle the men from Earth by greeting them in their own
tongue. Therefore, our friendly intentions were made known by elaborate
and unmistakable gestures.

The aliens from Earth, nevertheless, were startled enough by our
appearance. They stared wide-eyed at what appeared to be four
child-like specimens of human beings. This resemblance which Venusians
bear to humans, and which should have impressed the crew of the Morning
Star with the possibilities of intelligent negotiations, did not deter
them from jumping to irrational conclusions.

Our chief emissary, Ser Madi, heard their leader and his lieutenant
in the following conversation (which is reproduced from the auto-tape
recording made on the spot):

    _Leader: What do you make of them, Jensen? They look almost like
    human children, don't they?

    Lieutenant: There doesn't seem to be anything to worry about here,
    sir. They seem friendly enough. But why children? You'd think
    they'd send some bigwigs out to welcome us. Why did they send
    children?

    Leader: I don't know.... Maybe it's a trap!

    Lieutenant: You're right, sir. We can't afford to take any chances.

    Leader: Take them back to the ship for the psych boys to work on. I
    don't like the looks of this._

At this point Ser Madi revealed his knowledge of the Earth language. "I
assure you, gentlemen," he said to the strangers, "that this is not a
trap. Please follow us peacefully."

The invaders were stunned into silence, but it took the leader only
a moment to recover. "I'll be damned!" he exclaimed. "The sly little
devils understand English! Jensen! Have these creatures escorted onto
the Star. This is something we'll have to talk over on the ship."

At a signal from the man called Jensen, eight of your people advanced
toward the four members of our welcoming committee. Ser Madi spoke
again: "I warn you, sir, not to try to abduct us. Order your men back."

The leader of the Earthmen laughed. "Look at them!" he said to his
lieutenant. "These things are threatening us!" The soldiers had paused
at Ser Madi's words. "Go on," the leader ordered them. "Take them
aboard the ship!"

"You were warned," Ser Madi said sadly. He motioned to his companions
and, in an instant of brilliant light, the space ship was reduced to
smoldering ashes.

The stunned Earthians were easily taken into custody. They were
completely awed by the destruction of their ship, which had been
accomplished with "invisible" weapons. Ser Madi did not think it
necessary to explain the compactness and efficiency of the atomic
scorchers to them. They would not have been able to comprehend the
principles behind the finger ring weapons.
