
The Abilene News of December 19, 2042, shouted at the top of its
headline voice:

                          SPACE INVADERS HERE

The Bugle:

                            EARTH ATTACKED

The Times:

                       "MORNING STAR" DESTROYED

           11 Survivors Of Space Liner Tell Story Of Attack

An immediate meeting was held between our delegation and the leaders
of your government. After the formalities of greeting were over, the
spokesman for the Earth government reviewed the facts of the Morning
Star incident as they had been related by Captain Daniels and his
crew. Venusian forces, they claimed, had been guilty of an unprovoked
attack against the ship. We had barbarously murdered all of the ship's
complement, save for the eleven "hostages" whom we had brought to Earth
aboard the Tunn.

The government of Earth demanded an explanation. Ser Alaga spoke the
truth. The Earthians were not satisfied.

            (THE FOLLOWING CONVERSATION IS REPRODUCED FROM
                THE AUTO-TAPE RECORDING OF THE MEETING)

    Earth Spokesman: _We will grant that your act of aggression was not
    premeditated, but resulted from a misinterpretation, on your part,
    of the friendly intentions of our forces. Nevertheless, our vessel
    was destroyed. Twenty-three of our men were killed. The government
    of the World Federation demands that your government make suitable
    reparations._

    Ser Alaga: _Mr. Cartwright, we respectfully deny the allegation
    that our forces were guilty of any act of aggression._

    Cartwright: _The Morning Star was destroyed by your men, was it
    not?_

    Ser Alaga: _In self-defense, yes. As we have explained, the captain
    of your ship threatened our welcoming committee with...._

    Cartwright: _None of your men were harmed!_

    Ser Alaga: _They prevented their own imminent destruction by their
    action in self-defense. It was this action which resulted in the
    unfortunate...._

    Cartwright: _Our ship and our men were attacked before they had
    fired a shot. Therefore, your action cannot be deemed to have taken
    place in self-defense._

    Ser Alaga: _Your reasoning confounds me, sir. If the prevention of
    aggressive action is termed aggression, then we are guilty of it. I
    bow to your logic._

    _Naturally our government wishes to express its regrets over the
    impulsive act of its representatives. We want to meet with you in
    peace and friendship. We want to prevent any future incidents such
    as the one which has brought us here today._

    Cartwright: _On behalf of the World Federation, I accept your
    apology. We, too, would like to prevent further strife between our
    worlds. There is much to be gained by a useful and cooperative
    alliance between Earth and Venus. But, to insure this, we feel that
    your government should make certain ... payments in reparation for
    our losses._

    Ser Alaga: _Although I am in sympathy with your views, our
    delegation has not been empowered to offer any reparations.
    However, if you will indicate what your government would consider
    a suitable payment for your losses, we shall convey your request to
    our Council._

                     (END OF AUTO-TAPE RECORDING)

Yttrium was the reparation asked by Earth--five thousand pounds of
isolated and purified Yttrium. This metal was essential for the
construction of Earth's space ships, the "alumiryten" alloy being used
in the manufacture of the tough outer shell of these ships.

The supply of Yttrium ores on Venus is almost unlimited, and the
Council had no trouble delivering the requested amount of the refined
metal. The last shipment of ingots reached Earth within three months.

This conciliatory payment was intended to preserve the peace and build
good will within the system. It was our intention that, if possible,
the Earth would assume a more responsible attitude toward the greater
scope of friendly interplanetary relations. It was our hope that
harmony would form a permanent bond between our two worlds.

Our efforts were wasted.

                       YTTRIUM SHIPMENTS IMPURE

screamed the tabloid headlines. President Iverson of the World
Federation sent a stiff note to the Council on Venus. He demanded
apologies and immediate restitutions, claiming that sixty percent of
the metal delivered was actually zirconium. We had cheated them, said
Iverson.

In a terse reply to his note, our government branded the Iverson
accusation a lie. It was all too apparent what was intended. We refused
to discuss the matter. We broke off all diplomatic relations with Earth
and simply ignored the numerous threats and accusations that were
continuously being made.

Our vigilance increased, however, and we prepared for the attack that
Iverson promised when he said: "Venus has not yet felt the force of
Earth.... They will!"

Several years passed, during which time the Federation built a huge
space armada, using to good advantage the five thousand pounds of
pure yttrium they had received from Venus. It was also during these
years of preparation that Venus and its people were forced to accept
the hardships of a regimented economy. Our citizens, however, long
accustomed to personal sacrifice for the welfare of Society, did not
complain.

On September 14, 2048, a fleet of four hundred Federation war-ships
took off for Venus.

The battle in defense of our planet was carried out exactly according
to the strategy of the Supreme Council. The first wave of one hundred
attacking ships was completely demolished in our ionic barrier. Fifty
percent of the second wave was accounted for in the same manner.
Those ships which did manage to pierce the discharging barrier were
badly damaged and were easily destroyed by our cruising disintegrator
teams. The third wave of invaders was met by our ascending task force
of sixty scout ships, each equipped with twin cosmic blasters. In
this engagement, three of our ships were lost ... all the invaders
were destroyed. While this battle was being fought, our space patrol
descended upon the fourth wave from outer space.

The Earth fleet was completely obliterated.

On March 14, 2049, our invasion fleet attacked the Earth. After two
weeks of sporadic fighting, the occupation was completed.

Iverson, Cartwright, Briande, and the rest of the leaders of Earth's
war-like government are in exile on their various asteroids. We shall
not kill them, nor shall we allow them to die. They are supplied with
their needs by a ship that calls once a month. Otherwise, they are
left completely alone on their space islands, each a master of his own
little world. We believe this to be a fitting punishment for men who
try to conquer a world.

Peace has been restored to the system: on Venus, and on Earth.
