
_Peace Communique No. 2--Abilene--May 1, 2049_

One month ago, the provisional Venusian government on Earth was
established to administer the military occupation of your planet.
During the past month, that government, assisted by the Venusian
Administration Corps, has instituted reforms whereby peace and security
have been attained for all the Earth.

What of the future?

Citizens of Earth, here is your future: You are welcomed as equals
in a union with Venus. For a time, until you have learned how to
govern yourselves peacefully, your planet will be directed by Venusian
administrators. But even now--immediately--you shall be accorded the
same rights and privileges that the citizens of Venus enjoy.

And you shall have peace! Perhaps you should be thankful for the last
terrible war which your leaders brought upon you, for as a result of
it, you shall no longer know the meaning of war.

Of course, citizens have duties as well as rights. Failure to comply
with regulations is severely punished. Therefore, it is advisable that
you acquaint yourselves with the obligations of a peaceful citizen.

The duties of a citizen vary, depending upon the individual's
classification and the location in which he lives. In addition to his
special duties, however, every citizen is required to know and observe
the five GENERAL DUTIES of a citizen, listed below.

                      GENERAL DUTIES OF A CITIZEN

1. Every citizen will work at his appointed task one-third of each day.

2. Every citizen will perform those duties necessary to maintain his
sleeping area in such a manner as to comply with the directives posted
in his barracks.

3. Every citizen (male) will father/ (female) will bear a child once
every alternate cycle.

4. Every citizen will report promptly when notified of special duty
(e.g. waste disposal detail, sewer maintenance crew, restorative squad).

5. Every citizen will report to his extermination center immediately
upon notification. (See Note)

(Note: Certain measures are necessary to prevent the over-population
of a peaceful world. In addition to the obvious elimination of the
incurably sick, the insane, the feeble-minded, the disabled, the
dishonest, and the aged, periodic exterminations must be held among the
general citizenry.

Citizens who have been selected will report promptly to the appointed
center for speedy, painless extermination. Failure to do so will result
in a delayed and painful process.)
