
Viri manipulated his keys and knobs. The brief delay before an
answering image appeared on the screen irritated Ahnu. The loose,
coppery scales around his thick neck glinted with iridescent highlights
as he puffed out his air-sacs.

"Dessication!" he snarled. "We bridge all those light-years with
subspace waves for his benefit, and he can't be alert enough to--Got
him now, Viri?"

The technician snapped the tip of a gripping tentacle in assent.
Another Yaradirian looked out at them from the screen.

This one had obviously been roughing it; his scales were lubricated by
only a minimum film of moisture, and he wore space harness on the lower
part of his body.

_To keep his walking tentacles wet_, Ullo realized. _He hasn't so much
as a drop of water on the floor of that dive!_

"Zoya Lar-Tul!" announced Viri.

"Stated simply," said Ahnu bluntly, "what is your trouble?"

"Stated simply, Great One," answered the scout, "I am in imminent
danger of detection by natives of this system."

Ullo stiffened in his mud tub. He heard the _slurp_ as the Supervisor
splashed more mud upon the oozing floor.

"How is that?" demanded Ahnu, his throat again beginning to expand
majestically.

"I fail to see," replied Zoya, "in what manner I could have avoided
it, Great One. The natives, _Earthmen_ in their own speech, have just
discovered an inefficient form of our own interstellar subspace drive.
They have gone exploring."

_Might have known it_, thought Ullo. _Just when I'm working up to a top
rank, too!_

It sounded bad. Should they be unable to think Zoya out of his
predicament, it might well mean new personnel all around. Ullo's only
satisfaction was that Ahnu's relatives would be discharged before his
own resignation was given him to sign.

Ahnu controlled himself.

"Give me a picture of your situation!" he commanded.

"To begin with, Great One, I chose to study the natives from a
distance, as is usual. I left my subspace ship on the largest satellite
of their sixth planet, which has several other moons and a beautiful
set of rings that--"

"Kindly touch bottom!" Ahnu cut him off. "I am not interested in a
local travelogue!"

"Even so, Great One. With my short-range rocket, I then established
this base on the seventh moon of their fifth planet. Only this moon's
smallness and insignificance has so far prevented by discovery."

They listened to the rest of the story in an uncomfortable silence that
was broken only by an occasional squishing of mud as one or another
stirred uneasily.

Zoya Lar-Tul had observed the _Earthmen_, as well as other bodies in
the system, for a quarter-revolution of his chosen fifth planet. At the
time of his arrival, the natives had reached their own satellite, but
he judged that they would be long in organizing successful flights to
the planets.

"I translated some of their broadcasts and learned that this was their
great current project. Naturally, however, I was unconcerned, and
contented myself with obtaining specimens for my researches by brief,
discreet trips here and there."
