
The next day, the latter was kept busy with the many reports of arid
planets he had to file in order to justify the expenses of exploration.

_He always leaves explaining the budget to me_, he thought.

He did, however, snatch time to put a copy tape of the last installment
of Zoya's preliminary report on the speaker, having felt ill at
ease for not being completely up to date at the previous evening's
conference.

Halfway through a listing of sociological and psychological
observations, Ullo stiffened. He ran the tape through again.

"He'd _better_ get to that ship!" he wheezed to himself. "They sound
like a nest of trouble-makers--resourceful, aggressive, just the sort
to burst into this system some sweet day and tell us Yaradir is _their_
colony!"

He ripped the tape out of the speaker and hurried along a dank corridor
to Ahnu's office, not even pausing at his favorite spots to rub against
the cool, dripping walls. He found his chief relaxing in an adjoining
chamber by submitting to a massage.

"Not now!" complained Ahnu at the first mention of _Earthmen_. "Wait
till we hear from Zoya. I want to enjoy having my scales oiled in
peace!"

Ullo spitefully dropped the tape into a pot of scale-grease on the way
out, but dutifully returned to his work.

Late one night, however, he was reminded of the scout in system
LL-255-13. The emergency buzzer beside his sleeping pool awoke him with
an urgent summons. The number on the screen beside it indicated the
communications chamber now reserved for Zoya Lar-Tul.

Still dripping, Ullo pumped down the corridor, encountering his chief
at the last turn. Ahnu was irritated.

"What can they have spoiled now?" he demanded, as if he suspected Ullo
of having had a tentacle in it. "It was a perfectly simple arrangement!"

"Perhaps something unexpected came up," suggested Ullo.

"What could be unexpected? It was utterly simple!" said Ahnu
explosively. "If he beats them to it, he reports from the ship.
Otherwise he destroys it and goes back to report from his base!"

He slap-slapped irately into their destination, wondering audibly why
he had to come down here and direct people's eyestalks for them.

"Because, Great One," replied Viri Nol-Rin, a trifle more abruptly than
was consistent with proper respect for Ahnu's position, "the televisor
at Zoya's base has gone dead!"

"What? Why? If you can't keep in communication--"

"There _isn't_ any communication," interrupted Viri.

Ullo saw that the operator was deeply disturbed. To
interrupt--_actually interrupt_--Ahnu Nol-Yev! Even if one was his
nephew!

"That is why, if you will remember," Viri went on, "I insisted Zoya
leave his signal in operation. The chance that his base would be
approached by a strange ship sooner than we hoped, and blow up."

"So the bomb went off?" said Ullo.

"It must have. And, by the figures Zoya gave me before he left, he is
long, long overdue at the subspace ship."

"Well, what of it?" demanded Ahnu. "It merely means he will have to
report from the ship when he ... if he ... if _they_ don't--"

He snorted and wheezed into silence.
