
But they didn't quiet down. Not really. They were uneasy. You can feel
them inside you when they're uneasy. I think that's why I'm scared of
them. They make me feel like I'm not human as I thought--like I wanted
to put my back-hair up and snarl. Yeah. They were uneasy that night,
all of a sudden....

Gow glared at us as we came up into the lantern light. "She's gettin'
worse," he said. "She's lonesome."

"That's tough," said Bucky Shannon. His grey-green eyes looked like an
owl's. He swayed slightly. "That's sure tough." He sniffled.

I looked at Gertrude. Her cage is the biggest and strongest in the tank
and even so she looked as though she could break it open just taking a
deep breath. I don't know if you've ever seen a _cansin_. There's only
two of them on the Triangle. If you haven't, nothing I can say will
make much difference.

They're what the brain gang calls an "end of evolution." Seems old
Dame Nature had an idea that didn't jell. The _cansins_ were pretty
successful for a while, it seems, but something gummed up the works and
now there's only a few left, way in the deep-swamp country, where even
the Venusians hardly ever go. Living fossils.

I wouldn't know, of course, but Gertrude looks to me like she got stuck
some place between a dinosaur and a grizzly bear, with maybe a little
bird blood thrown in. Anyway, she's big.

I couldn't help feeling sorry for her. She was crouched in the cage
with her hands--yeah, hands--hanging over her knees and her snaky head
sunk into her shoulders, looking out. Just looking. Not at anything.
Her eyes were way back in deep horny pits, like cold green fire.

The lantern light was yellow on her blue-black skin, but it made the
mane, or crest, of coarse wide scales that ran from between her eyes
clear down to her flat, short tail, burn all colors. She looked like
old Mother Misery herself, from way back before time began.

Gow said softly, "She wants a mate. And somebody better get her one."

Bucky Shannon sniffled again. I said irritably, "Be reasonable, Gow!
Nobody's ever seen a male _cansin_. There may not even be any."

Gertrude screamed again. She didn't move, not even to raise her head.
The sadness just built up inside her until it had to come out. That
close, the screech was deafening, and it turned me all limp and cold
inside. The loneliness, the sheer stark, simple pain....

Bucky Shannon began to cry. I snarled, "You'll have to snap her out of
this, Gow. She's driving the rest of 'em nuts."

He hammered on his gong, and things quieted down again. Gow stood
looking out over the tank, sniffing a little, like a hound. Then he
turned to Gertrude.

"I saved her life," he said. "When we bought her out of Hanak's wreck
and everybody thought she was too hurt to live, I saved her. I know
her. I can do things with her. But this time...."

He shrugged. He was huge and tough and ugly, and his voice was like a
woman's talking about a sick child.

"This time," he said, "I ain't sure."

"Well for Pete's sake, do what you can. We got a charter, and we need
her." I took Shannon's arm. "Come to bed, Bucky darlin'."

He draped himself over my shoulder and we went off. Gow didn't look at
us. Bucky sobbed.

"You were right, Jig," he mumbled. "Circus is no good. I know it. But
it's all I got. I love it, Jig. Unnerstan' me? Like Gow there with
Gertrude. She's ugly and no good, but he loves her. I love...."

"Sure, sure," I told him. "Stop crying down my neck."

We were a long way from the light, then. The cages and tanks loomed
high and black over us. It was still. The secret, uneasy motion all
around us and the scruffing of our feet only made it stiller.

Bucky was almost asleep on me. I started to slap him. And then the mist
rose up out of the darkness in little lazy coils, sparkling faintly
with blue, cold fire.

I yelled, "Gow! Gow, the Vapor snakes! Gow--for God's sake!"

I started to run, back along the passageway. Bucky weighed on me, limp
and heavy. The noise burst suddenly in a deafening hell of moans and
roars and shrieks, packed in tight by the metal walls, and above it all
I could hear Gertrude's lonely, whistling scream.

I thought, "_Somebody's down here. Somebody let 'em out. Somebody wants
to kill us!_" I tried to yell again. It strangled in my throat. I
sobbed, and the sweat was thick and cold on me.

One of Bucky's dragging, stumbling feet got between mine. We fell. I
rolled on top of him, covering his face, and buried my own face in the
hollow of his shoulder.

The first snake touched me. It was like a live wire, sliding along the
back of my neck. I screamed. It came down along my cheek, hunting my
mouth. There were more of them, burning me through my clothes.

Bucky moaned and kicked under me. I remember hanging on and thinking,
"This is it. This is it, and oh God, I'm scared!"

Then I went out.


                                  II

Kanza the Martian croaker, was bending over me when I woke up. His
little brown face was crinkled with laughter. He'd lost most of his
teeth, and he gummed _thak_-weed. It smelt.

"You pretty, Mis' Jig," he giggled. "You funny like hell."

He slapped some cold greasy stuff on my face. It hurt. I cursed him and
said, "Where's Shannon? How is he?"

"Mis' Bucky okay. You save life. You big hero, Mis' Jig. Mis' Gow come
nickuhtime get snakes. You hero. Haw! You funny like hell!"

I said, "Yeah," and pushed him away and got up. I almost fell down
a couple of times, but presently I made it to the mirror over the
washstand--I was in my own cell--and I saw what Kanza meant. The damned
snakes had done a good job. I looked like I was upholstered in Scotch
plaid. I felt sick.

Bucky Shannon opened the door. He looked white and grim, and there was
a big burn across his neck. He said:

"Beamish is here with his lawyer."

I picked up my shirt. "Right with you."

Kanza went out, still giggling. Bucky closed the door.

"Jig," he said, "those vapor worms were all right when we went in.
Somebody followed us down and let them out. On purpose."

I hurt all over. I growled, "With that brain, son, you should go far.
Nobody saw anything, of course?" Bucky shook his head.

"Question is, Jig, who wants to kill us, and why?"

"Beamish. He realizes he's been gypped."

"One hundred U.C.'s," said Bucky softly, "for a few lousy swampedge
mining camps. It stinks, Jig. You think we should back out?"

I shrugged. "You're the boss man. I'm only the guy that beats off the
creditors."

"Yeah," Bucky said reflectively. "And I hear starvation isn't a
comfortable death. Okay, Jig. Let's go sign." He put his hand on the
latch and looked at my feet. "And--uh--Jig, I...."

I said, "Skip it. The next time, just don't trip me up, that's all!"

We had a nasty trip to Venus. Gertrude kept the brute tank on edge,
and Gow, on the rare occasions he came up for air, went around looking
like a disaster hoping to happen. To make it worse, Zurt the Jovian
strong-man got hurt during the take-off, and the Mercurian cave-cat had
kittens.

Nobody would have minded that, only one of 'em had only four legs. It
lived just long enough to scare that bunch of superstitious dopes out
of their pants. Circus people are funny that way.

Shannon and I did a little quiet sleuthing, but it was a waste of time.
Anybody in the gang might have let those electric worms out on us. It
didn't help any to know that somebody, maybe the guy next to you at
dinner, was busy thinking ways to kill you. By the time we hit Venus, I
was ready to do a Brodie out the refuse chute.

Shannon set the crate down on the edge of Nahru, the first stop on our
itinerary. I stood beside him, looking out the ports at the scenery. It
was Venus, all right. Blue mud and thick green jungle and rain, and a
bunch of ratty-looking plastic shacks huddling together in the middle
of it. Men in slickers were coming out for a look.

I saw Beamish's sleek yacht parked on a cradle over to the left, and
our router's runabout beside it. Bucky Shannon groaned.

"A blue one, Jig. A morgue if I ever saw one!"

I snarled, "What do you want, with this lousy dog-and-pony show!" and
went out. He followed. The gang was converging on the lock, but they
weren't happy. You get so you can feel those things. The steamy Venus
heat was already sneaking into the ship.

While we passed the hatchway to the brute tank, I could hear Gertrude,
screaming.
