
The canvasmen were busy setting up the annex, slopping and cursing in
the mud. The paste brigade was heading for the shacks. Shannon and I
stood with the hot rain running off our slickers, looking.

I heard a noise behind me and looked around. Ahra the Nahali woman was
standing in the mud with her arms up and her head thrown back, and her
triangular mouth open like a thirsty dog. She didn't have anything on
but her blue-green, hard scaled hide, and she was chuckling. It didn't
sound nice.

You find a lot of Nahali people in side-shows, doing tricks with
the electric power they carry in their own bodies. They're Venusian
middle-swampers, they're not human, and they never forget it.

Ahra opened her slitted red eyes and looked at me and laughed with
white reptilian teeth.

"Death," she whispered. "Death and trouble. The jungle tells me. I can
smell it in the swamp wind."

The hot rain sluiced over her. She shivered, and the pale skin under
her jaw pulsed like a toad's, and her eyes were red.

"The deep swamps are angry," she whispered. "Something has been taken.
They are angry, and I smell death in the wind!"

She turned away, laughing, and I cursed her, and my stomach was tight
and cold. Bucky said,

"Let's eat if they have a bar in this dump."

We weren't half way across the mud puddle that passed as a landing
field when a man came out of a shack on the edge of the settlement. We
could see him plainly, because he was off to one side of the crowd.

He fell on his knees in the mud, making noises. It took him three or
four tries to get our names out clear enough to understand.

Bucky said, "Jig--it's Sam Kapper."

We started to run. The crowd, mostly big unshaken miners, wheeled
around to see what was happening. People began to close in on the man
who crawled and whimpered in the mud.

Sam Kapper was a hunter, supplying animals to zoos and circuses and
carnivals. He'd given us good deals a couple of times, when we weren't
too broke, and we were pretty friendly.

I hadn't seen him for three seasons. I remembered him as a bronzed,
hard-bitten guy, lean and tough as a twist of tung wire. I felt sick,
looking down at him.

Bucky started to help him up. Kapper was crying, and he jerked all over
like animals I've seen that were scared to death. Some guy leaned over
and put a cigarette in his mouth and lighted it for him.

I was thinking about Kapper, then, and I didn't pay much attention. I
only caught a glimpse of the man's face as he straightened up. I didn't
realize until later that he looked familiar.

We got Kapper inside the shack. It turned out to be a cheap bar, with a
couple of curtained booths at the back. We got him into one and pulled
the curtain in a lot of curious faces. Kapper dragged hard on the
cigarette. The man that gave it to him was gone.

Bucky said gently, "Okay, Sam. Relax. What's the trouble?"
