
Circus people get around a lot, and the Law supplies us with Wanted
sheets. I remembered this guy from the last batch they handed us on
Mars. Melak Thompson was his name, and he had a reputation.

He had a face you wouldn't forget. Dark and kind of handsome, with the
Dry-lander blood showing in the heavy bones and the tilted green eyes.
His mouth was smiling and brutal. He nodded at the booth.

"Let's take a walk," he said.

We took a walk. The men sitting at the dirty tables were still silent,
and still not miners. I began to sweat.

The booth was a little crowded with us all in there. I sat jammed up
against Sam Kapper's body. Bucky Shannon's grey-green eyes were sleepy,
and there was a vein beating on his forehead.

Beamish said to Melak, "Kapper's dead. Dead, without talking."

"That's tough." Melak shook his dark head. "We was gentle with him."

"Yeah," I said. Kapper had been a good guy, and I was mad. "Feed
anybody enough _selak_, and you can afford to be. It's a dirty death."

_Selak's_ made from a Venusian half-cousin of henbane, which is what
scopolamine comes from. It has a terrific effect on the heart. And
Kapper had simply torn himself apart trying to keep from talking while
he was under the influence.

Bucky Shannon made a slow, ugly move to get up. Beamish said,

"Sit down."

There was something in his voice and his bland blue eyes. Shannon sat
down. Melak was looking at Beamish, still grinning.

"Well," he said, "I guess your idea was pretty good after all."

I had a sudden inspiration. The burns were still sore on my body, and
Rapper's tortured face was close to mine, and I took a wild shot at
something I wasn't even sure I saw.

"Yeah," I said. "A swell idea. Why did you try so hard to butch it,
Melak?"

He stopped grinning. Beamish looked forward a little. My tongue stuck
in my mouth, but I managed to say.

"You get it, Bucky. A male _cansin_, Kapper said. The only one
in captivity, maybe even on Venus. Worth its weight in credit
slips. That's why Beamish was so happy to overpay us to get us out
here--because he thought Gertrude could find her boy friend fast, even
if Kapper didn't talk."

I turned to Melak again. "A swell idea. Why did you have those vapor
snakes turned loose on us? Did you think Kapper was enough?"

He struck me, pretty hard, across the mouth. My head banged back
against the booth wall and for a minute I couldn't see anything but
spangles of fire shooting around. I heard Beamish say, from a great
distance,

"How about it, Melak?"

It was awfully still in the booth. I swallowed some blood and blinked
my eyes clear enough to see Bucky Shannon poised across the table like
a bow starting to unbend. And suddenly, somewhere far off over the drum
of rain on the flimsy roof, there began to be noises.

I hadn't been comfortable up till then. I'm no Superman, nor one of
those guys you read about who can stare Death in the eye and shatter
him with a light laugh.

But all of a sudden I was afraid. Afraid so that all the fear I'd felt
before was nothing. And it was funny, too. I didn't know what it was,
then, but I knew what it wasn't. It wasn't Beamish or Melak or those
hard guys beyond the curtains, or even Kapper's body pressed up against
me.

I didn't know what it was. But I wanted to get down on the floor and
hide myself in a crack, like a cockroach.
