
The others felt it, too. I remember the sweat standing out on Bucky
Shannon's forehead, and the sudden tightening of Beamish's jaw, and the
glitter in Melak's green eyes.

Beyond the curtains there was an uneasy stirring of feet. The confused,
distant noise grew louder. Somewhere, not very far away, a woman began
to scream.

Beamish said softly, "You dirty double-crossing rat." His face was
still dead-pan, only now it was like something beaten out of iron. His
hands were out of sight under the table.

Melak smiled. I could feel his body shift and tense beside me. "Sure,"
he said. "I double-crossed you. Why not? I planted a guy in the circus
hammer gang and he crawled in the sewage lock and tried to get these
punks. I'm glad now he bungled it. Kapper had guts."

Beamish whispered, "You're a fool. You don't know what you're playing
with. I've done research, and I do."

"Too bad you wasted the time," said Melak. "Because you're through."

He threw himself suddenly aside, lifting the table hard into Beamish.
The curtains ripped away and he rolled in them, twisting like a snake.
I yelled to Bucky and dropped flat. Beamish had drawn a gun under the
table. The blast of it seared my face.

The next second four heavy blasters spoke at once. Beamish's gun
dropped on the floor. Then it was quiet again, and I could hear the
woman screaming, outside in the beating rain.

Melak got up. "Sure I double-crossed you," he said softly. "Why should
I split with anybody? Nobody knows about it but us. Kapper couldn't
send word from the swamps when he caught it, and he couldn't send word
from here because he wasn't let.

"That critter'll bring anything I ask for it. Why should I split with
you?"

Beamish didn't answer. I don't think Melak thought he would.

The noise from outside was getting louder. Bucky groaned.

"It's coming from the pitch, Jig. Trouble. We've got to...."

The table was yanked from over us. We got up off our knees. Melak
looked at us. He was shaking a little and his green eyes were mean.

"I don't think," he said, "I really need you guys around, either." He
jerked his head suddenly. "Cripes, I wish that dame would shut up!"

It was getting on my nerves, too--that monotonous, sawing screech.
Melak stepped aside. "Get 'em, boys. I don't want 'em dragging their
outfit down on our necks."

Four blaster barrels came up. My insides came up with them. I was way
beyond anything, then--even panic.

Gow burst in through the doorway.

He was soaked to the skin, tattered, bleeding, and wild-eyed. He
yelled, "Boss! Gertrude...." Then he saw the guns and stopped.

It was very still in the place. Outside there was sound rising like a
sullen tide against the walls. The woman's screaming became something
not human, and then stopped, short.

Gow said, almost absently, "Gertrude went nuts. We'd brought her cage
up from the tank for the show and she--broke out. There wasn't nothin'
we could do. She busted a lot of cages and then disappeared."

Melak snarled something, I don't know what. The wall behind Gow jarred,
buckled, and split open around the doorway. Bamboo fragments clattered
on the floor. Somebody yelled, and a blaster went off.

Gertrude stood in the splintered opening. She looked at us with cold,
mad green eyes, towering huge and blue against the low roof, her hands
swinging and her crest erect.

She let go one wild, whistling screech and came straight toward the
booth. Bucky Shannon touched my arm.

"Climb into your brassies, kid," he muttered. "Here's our chance!"

I caught his shoulder. He followed the line of my pointing, and I felt
him tremble.

Gertrude was coming at us like a rocket express. Behind her wet and
glistening from the hot rain, came three more just like her.


                                  III

We scattered, all of us, hunting for a way out. There was only one door
leading to the back, and it was stoppered tight with men cursing and
fighting to get through. Gow was crouched in a corner by the splintered
wall.

I pulled Bucky along, thinking we might get in back of the _cansins_
and sneak out. I wondered what they wanted. And I wondered where in
heck you could hide a thing as big as Gertrude and keep anybody from
finding out.

Somebody screamed briefly. I saw one of the strange _cansins_ toss the
bartender aside like a dry twig. Gow rose up in front of me with a
queer staring look in his eyes.

"Somethin's wrong," he said. "All wrong. I...." His mouth twitched. He
turned sharply and started to scramble through the wrecked hall. Bucky
and I were right on his heels. I think Melak and some of his lobbygows
were crowding us, but nobody was thinking about things like that any
more.

I knew what was eating Gow. The fear that had looked out of Kapper's
eyes. The fear that was riding me. Fear that had nothing to do with
anything physical.

Bucky cursed and stumbled beside me. And suddenly the four _cansins_
let go a tremendous thundering scream. The hair rose on my neck, and I
turned to look. I just had to.

Gertrude had turned away from the booth. They stood, the four of
them, their huge black shoulders touching, their crests like rows of
petrified flame, staring at what Gertrude held in her arms.

It was Kapper's body.

Slowly, with infinite gentleness, she began to strip him. He hung loose
in the cradle of one great arm, his flesh showing blue-white against
her blueness. Her free hand ripped his clothes away like things made of
paper.

I don't know why nobody tried to shoot the beasts after the first
second. Sheer panic, I guess. We could have killed them all, then.
But we just stood looking, fascinated by the slow, intent baring of
Kapper's body.

And the strange fear. It was on us all.

Kapper lay naked in her black arms. She raised him slowly over her
head, her eyes blind green fires deep under bony brows. The others drew
closer, shivering, and I could hear them whimper.

Strangers from the deep swamps with no stink of man on them. I thought
of the Nahali woman laughing in the hot rain. Death from the deep
swamps, because something had been taken, and they were angry.

There was a little black box strapped to Kapper's thin white belly.

Gertrude shifted her hands a little. The blood hammered in my ears. I
was sick. I didn't want to look any more. I couldn't help it. Bucky
Shannon caught a hard, sobbing breath.

Gertrude broke Sam Kapper's body in two.
