
I can still hear the noise it made. The blood ran dark and sluggish
down her arms. It worried me that Kapper's face didn't change
expression. The little black box on his belly split with the rest of
him.

Something rose out of it. Something no bigger than my forefinger that
carried a cold green blaze around it like a ball of St. Elmo's fire.

Gertrude threw Kapper away. I heard the two flopping thuds of him
hitting the floor. Some guy was down on his knees close to me. His lips
moved. I don't know if he could remember his prayers. Somebody else was
vomiting, hard. I wanted to, but my stomach felt frozen.

The cold green fire had a shape inside it. I couldn't make it out
clearly, except that it looked horribly human. It put out four thin
green filaments. Don't ask me if they were physical things like
tentacles, or just beams of light, or maybe thought. I don't know.
Whatever they were, they worked.

They connected with the four black, snaky heads of the female
_cansins_. I felt the shock of them connecting with my own nerves. And
it was like something had welded those four brutes together into one.

They had been four. Separate, with hard outlines. Now they were one.
One single interlocking entity. I guess it was just my being so scared
and sick, but I thought I saw their outlines blur a little.

Gow spoke suddenly. His voice was pretty loud, and calm.

"That was it," he said, as though it was the only thing in the world
that mattered. "They ain't complete by themselves. Like the _zurats_
back home on Mercury. They got a community brain. No wonder Gertrude
was lonesome."

His voice broke the spell. Somebody screamed, and everybody started to
move at once, clawing in blind panic for the openings. And we all knew,
then, what we were afraid of.

We were afraid of the little thing in the black box, the thing in a
cloak of fire that had risen from the ruins of Kapper's body, and the
power that lived in it.

I suppose we thought we were going to fight it, all right. But outside,
where we could breathe. Not in here, with the hugeness of the females
smothering us, penned in with the last male _cansin_ in creation.

I knew then why Kapper had broken, and why he hadn't told, in spite of
the _selak_. The thing hadn't let him. And it had called to its kind,
from the deep swamps and Buckhalter Shannon's Imperial Circus.
