
The deep indigo night of Venus had settled down, in the smell of mud
and jungle and the hot rain. Lights flared crazily here and there out
of open doorways. People were yelling, the tight, animal mob-yell of
fear.

There was no place to run in Nahru. The jungle held it. The thick green
jungle built on quicksand and crawling with death. Behind us the four
_cansins_ raised a wild whistling screech.

It was answered, out of the hot night between the little shacks of
Nahru. Brute voices, singing their hate. Suddenly I remembered what Gow
had said. "_She busted a lot of cages...._"

God knew what was loose in that town.

Bucky Shannon spoke beside me. We were still running, slipping and
floundering in the mud, making toward the ship from sheer instinct. He
gasped,

"We got to get those babies rounded up. Gow! Gow, you hear me? We got
to get 'em back!"

Gow's voice came sullenly. "I hear you, boss." We slowed down. It was
suddenly important to hear what more Gow had to say.

"Don't you get it?" he asked slowly. "Gertrude let 'em out. She wanted
'em--to help her. They know it. They ain't going back."

Somewhere behind us a plastic shack cracked open like an eggshell.
Human cries were drowned in a whistling screech. Off to the right the
Mercurian cave-cat began to laugh like a crazy woman.

Slow, patient, animal hate, walled around them, waiting. The feel and
smell of hate in the brute tank. I could feel and smell it now, in
Nahru, only it wasn't patient and waiting any more.

The time it had waited for was here. Gertrude had set it free.

Shannon said, very softly, "Mother o' God, what are we going to do?"

"Get back to the ship. Get back and get out of here!"

I jumped. It was Melak's voice, sounding hard and ugly. Light spilling
out of a sagging door made a faint silhouette of him in the rain. He
held a blaster in his hand.

Shannon snarled, "Take off with half my gang stranded here? You go to
hell!"

Rockets blasted suddenly out on the landing field. Somebody had made it
to Beamish's yacht and gone. The runabout followed it. The circus ship
was still there, and the only one in Nahru.

I said, "We can't go. Not with a couple hundred credits' worth of
animals running loose in the town."

"Get on to the ship," said Melak. "Cripes, if I knew how to fly I'd
leave you here! Now move!"

Shannon was almost crying. He started to rush Melak. I caught him and
said, "Sure. Sure we'll move. All of us. Look behind you!"

"I was weaned on that one. Move!"

Well, it was his funeral.
