
It was almost ours, too. Ganymedian puffballs move fast. They had come
out from between two shacks, skimming over the mud on their long white
cilia. There were three of them, rolled up in balls about the size of
my head. They didn't make any noise.

They came up behind Melak. Two of them unrolled suddenly, whipping
out into lean, fuzzy ropes about five feet long. They went around the
Martian 'breed. The third one came straight at me.

Melak made a noise that wasn't human and went down. The puffballs
tightened around him, pulsing a little with the pleasure of digestion.
Gow was on the other side of Melak, too far away, and unarmed.

I jumped, and the mud tripped me. Shannon fell the other way. The
puffball, strung out now like a fuzzy snake, paused a moment, not three
inches from my face. I lay still on my belly, choking on my heart.

Shannon moved, and it whipped down across his legs.

He screamed. I could feel the poison from the thing eating into him. I
got to my knees and he cursed me and raised something out of the mud.
It was Melak's blaster. He fired, between his feet.

The puffball shrivelled to a little stinking wire and dropped away.
Bucky said evenly,

"That pays me off. Now it's all your party, Jig."

He fainted. His legs were already swelling. Gow bent over him.

"He's gotta have the croaker, quick."

"You take him to the ship, Gow. If you can get there."

"Me? I'm the zoo-man. I oughta...."

"Do I look like Superman, to carry that big lug?" I didn't know why it
was so hard to talk. "Get him there. Then round up everybody left at
the ship. Get guns and ropes and torches and come back, quick!"

He nodded and got Bucky across his shoulders. I gave him the blaster.
Then I turned back. I knew where most of the circus gang would
be--spread out among the bars.

It was a lot darker, because now all the doors were closed, except two
or three where the people hadn't lived to close them. It was quieter,
too, because there's a limit to the noise a human throat can make.
There was just the hot rain, and the soft jungle undertone of things
padding and slithering in the mud, hunting.

Up the street somewhere the _cansins_ screamed, and another shack
split open. Instantly the brute clamor went up from the dark alleys,
answering. Animal legions from five different planets, led by a tiny
creature in a cloak of green fire. And man was the common enemy.

A pair of Martian sand-tigers shot out into the street ahead of me.
They were frolicking like kittens, playing with something dark and
tattered. Then they saw me and dropped it, and came sliding on their
bellies, their six powerful legs sucking in the mud.

There was no place to go. I don't remember being particularly scared,
but that wasn't because I was brave. It was sheer exhaustion. A guy can
only take so much. Now I was just walking around, seeing and hearing,
but not feeling anything inside. Like a guy that's coked to the ears,
or punchy from a beating.

I picked up a double handful of mud and slung it in their snarling
pusses, and threw my head back and yelled.

"Ha-a-y _Rube_!"

A door at my left opened three inches, daggering the rain with yellow
light. A voice said,

"For gossakes get in here!"

I picked up another handful of mud. The Martian cats were pawing the
last load out of their eyes. I gave them more to play with. I guess
they weren't very hungry, just then. I said,

"I'm going to get the _cansins_."

Just like that. I told you I was out on my feet. Clean nuts. The guy in
the doorway thought so too.

"Will you come in before you're too dead?"

"And wait around for those big apes to crack the house open over my
head? The hell with that." More mud sploshed in the cats' faces.
They were beginning to get sore. "The rest of the critters are just
following the _cansins_. Sort of a mopping-up brigade. Stop the
_cansins_, and we can round up the others easy."

"Oh, sure," said the man. "Any time before breakfast. Are you coming,
pal, or do I shut this door again?"

I don't know how it would have turned out. Probably I'd have wound up
inside the cats. But one of 'em let out a shrill, nasty wail, the kind
they give the trainer when they're challenging him to a finish fight,
and somebody came shouldering out past the man in the doorway.

The door swung wide, so that there was plenty of light. The six-inch
fangs on the Martian kitties were a beautiful, shining white. The
newcomer said something to the cats in a level undertone and came to me.

It was Jarin, the Titan who works the cats. He's about half my height,
metallic green in color, and faster on his feet than a rummy grabbing
the first drink. He looks like a walking barrel when he's folded up,
and like nothing on earth when he isn't.

He was unfolded then. He went up to the cats, light and dainty in the
mud. They were crouching uneasily, coughing and snarling, wanting to
rush him and not quite daring to.

The male sprang.


                                  IV

All I could see was a green blur in the rain. I heard the crisp, wicked
smacks of Jarin's tentacles on the tiger. It flopped over in mid-air,
buried its face in the mud and came up yowling, like your Aunt Minnie's
cat when you stepped on its tail.

It went away from there, fast, with its mate right behind it.

Jarin chuckled softly. "About the _cansins_," he hissed. "You had an
idea?"

Somewhere, quite close to us, there was the familiar sound of a plastic
shack going to pieces. I remembered hearing blasters rip occasionally.
But only Melak's hoods were armed with anything heavy enough to do any
good, and I guessed most of them had beat it to Beamish's yacht. A
_cansin_ has a hell of a tough hide, and their vitality is something
you wouldn't believe if you hadn't seen it.

The familiar whistling screech went up, and the babel of human screams
and the brute chorus from the rainy alleys. I think, right then, I
began to get scared. The fear began to seep through my dopey calm, like
pain in a new wound.

I shuddered and said, "No. No ideas."

There was a soft step in the mud behind me. I spun around, sweating.
Ahra the Nahali woman stood there, red-eyed and laughing.

"You are frightened," she whispered.

I didn't deny it.

"I can help you stop the _cansins_." Her eyes glittered like wet
rubies, and her teeth were white and sharp. "It may not work, and you
may die. Will you try it?"

She was daring me. She was hardly more human than the brutes
themselves, and she belonged with the rain and the hot indigo night.

I said, "You don't want to help, Ahra. You want us to die."

I could see the pale skin throbbing under her bony jaw. She laughed,
soft alien laughter that made my back hair stir and prickle.

"You humans," she whispered. "Trampling and spoiling. The middle swamps
have suffered you, greedy after oil and plumes and _ti_. But you we can
fight."

She jerked her round, glistening head toward the sound of destruction.
"The death from the deep swamps, no. You deserve to die, you humans.
You went meddling with something too big even for your pride. But
because the _cansins_ killed my mate and our first young...."

She hunched up. I thought she was going to flop on her belly like a
cayman in the mud. Her teeth gleamed, sharp and savage.

"Legend says the _cansins_ were once the wisest race on Venus. They
were worshipped as gods by the little pre-human creatures of the swamp
edges. They were going to be the reasoning lords of a planet.

"But nature made a mistake. Perhaps some mutation that couldn't be
stopped. I don't know. Anyway, the females grew until their one thought
was to find enough food. The males tried to balance this. Most of their
strength was in their minds, anyway. But they couldn't.

"The _cansins_ took to eating their worshippers. At the same time
the number of eggs they laid grew smaller and smaller. Finally the
swamp-edgers drove them out, back into the deep swamps.

"They've been there ever since, going farther and farther on the path
of evolution, dwindling in numbers, always hungry, and hating the
humans who robbed them of their future. Even us they hate, because we
go erect and have speech. The females are not independent. The male
controls the community mind--they must have unity to exist at all.

"If you could control the male...."

I thought of the little creature in the ball of green fire. I shivered,
and the pit of my stomach pinched up. I said, "Yeah? How?"

She chuckled at me. "It may mean death. Will you risk it?"

I didn't have to. I could beat it back to the ship, maybe even rescue
some of the gang, with Jarin's help. Then I thought about Bucky and the
way he cried down my neck that night in the tank and what would happen
to us if we didn't get the animals rounded up. I thought--oh, hell, why
does a guy ever do anything? I don't know. Maybe I thought I'd never
get across the field to the ship anyhow.

I said, "Spill it, you she-snake. What do I do?"

"Get Quern," she said, and went off through the hot rain, back into the
plastic shack. The door slammed shut. Jarin and I were alone in the
dark.

I said, "Will you help me?"

"Of course."

I looked down the street toward the landing field. I felt tired,
suddenly. Gone in the knees and weak, and sick to vomiting with fear.

"Here comes Gow," I said. "He's got seven or eight guys with guns. Just
keep the critters off us until we get through with the _cansins_, and
try not to kill any more than you can help."

Good old Jig, thinking about money even then. Gow came up. We talked a
minute, just the things that had to be said, and then I asked,

"Anybody have an idea where Quern might be?"

"Yeah," said Gow slowly. "He was in the ginmill next to the one we was
in. Drunk. I heard him singin' when I went by. I think the big apes
wrecked it."
