
"You're sure there was no error?" Boyle asked. "You couldn't have been
mistaken?"

"I heard it," Locke said stubbornly.

He clenched his fists angrily, patently reliving his shock of
discovery. "I was running a routine check on Administration visiphone
channels--it's part of my work as communications technician at
AL&O--when I ran across a circuit that had blown its scrambler.
Ordinarily I'd have replaced the dead unit without listening to
plain-talk longer than was necessary to identify the circuit. But by
the time I had it tagged as a Council channel, I'd heard enough from
Cornelison and Bissell and Dorand to convince me that I owed it to the
Social Body to hear the rest. And now I'm holding a tiger by the tail,
because I'm subject to truth-check. That's why I came to you with this,
Boyle. Naturally, since you are President of Transplanet Enterprises--"

"I know," Boyle cut in, forestalling digression. Locke's job, not
intrinsically important in itself, still demanded a high degree of
integrity and left him open to serum-and-psycho check, as though he
were an actual member of AL&O or a politician. "If anyone knew what
you've overheard, you'd get a compulsory truth-check, admit your guilt
publicly and take an imprisonment sentence from the Board of Order. But
your duty came first, of course. Go on."

"They were discussing the Alcorians' offer of longevity when I cut
into the circuit. Bissell and Dorand were all for accepting at once,
but Cornelison pretended indecision and had to be coaxed. Oh, he came
around quickly enough; the three of them are to meet Fermiirig and
Santikh tomorrow morning at nine in the AL&O deliberations chamber for
their injections. You should have heard them rationalizing that, Boyle.
It would have sickened you."

"I know the routine--they're doing it for the good of the Social Body,
of course. What puzzles me is why the Alcorians should give away a
secret so valuable."

"Trojan horse tactics," Locke said flatly. "They claim to have
arrived at a culture pretty much like our own, except for a superior
technology and a custom of prolonging the lives of administrators
they find best fitted to govern. They're posing as philanthropists
by offering us the same opportunity, but actually they're sabotaging
our political economy. They know that the Social Body won't stand for
the Council accepting an immortality restricted to itself. That sort
of discrimination would stir up a brawl that might shatter the Weal
forever."

Deliberately, Boyle fanned the younger man's resentment. "Not a bad
thing for those in power. But it _is_ rough on simple members of the
Social Body like ourselves, isn't it?"

"It's criminal conspiracy," Locke said hotly. "They should be
truth-checked and given life-maximum detention. If we took this to the
Board of Order--"

"No. Think a moment and you'll understand why."

Boyle had gauged his man, he saw, to a nicety. Locke was typical of
this latest generation, packed to the ears with juvenile idealism
and social consciousness, presenting a finished product of AL&O's
golden-rule ideology that was no more difficult to predict than a
textbook problem in elementary psychology. To a veteran strategist
like Boyle, Locke was more than a handy asset; he was a tool shaped
to respond to duty unquestioningly and to cupidity not at all, and
therefore an agent more readily amenable than any mercenary could have
been.

"But I _don't_ understand," Locke said, puzzled. "Even Administration
and Legislation are answerable to Order. It's the Board's duty to bring
them to account if necessary."

"Administration couldn't possibly confirm itself in power from the
beginning without the backing of Order and Legislation," Boyle pointed
out. "Cornelison and Bissell and Dorand would have to extend the
longevity privilege to the other two groups, don't you see, in order
to protect themselves. And that means that Administrative Council is
not alone in this thing--it's AL&O as a body. If you went to the Board
of Order with your protest, the report would die on the spot. So,
probably, would you."

He felt a touch of genuine amusement at Locke's slack stare of horror.
The seed was planted; now to see how readily the fool would react to a
logical alternative, and how useful in his reaction he might be.

"I know precisely how you feel," Boyle said. "It goes against our
conditioned grain to find officials venal in this day of compulsory
honesty. But it's nothing new; I've met with similar occasions in my
own Transplanet business, Locke."

He might have added that those occasions had been of his own devising
and that they had brought him close more than once to a punitive
truth-check. The restraining threat of serum-and-psycho had kept him
for the greater part of his adult life in the ranks of the merely rich,
a potential industrial czar balked of financial empire by the necessity
of maintaining a strictly legal status.

Locke shook himself like a man waking out of nightmare.

"I'm glad I brought this problem to a man of your experience," he said
frankly. "I've got great confidence in your judgment, Boyle, something
I've learned partly from watching you handle Transplanet Enterprises
and partly from talking with Moira."

Boyle gave him a speculative look, feeling a return of his first acid
curiosity about Locke and Moira. "I had no idea that Moira was so
confidential outside her marital-seven," he said dryly. "She's not by
any chance considering a _fourth_ husband, is she?"

"Of course not. Moira's not _unconventional_. She's been kind to me a
few times, yes, but that's only her way of making a practical check
against the future. After all, she's aware it can't be more than a
matter of--"

He broke off, too embarrassed by his unintentional blunder to see the
fury that discolored the older man's face.

The iron discipline that permitted Boyle to bring that fury under
control left him, even in his moment of outrage, with a sense of grim
pride. He was still master of himself and of Transplanet Enterprises.
Given fools enough like this to work with and time enough to use them,
and he would be master of a great deal more. Immortality, for instance.

"She's quite right to be provident, of course," he said equably. "I
_am_ getting old. I'm past the sixty-mark, and it can't be more than
another year or two before the rejuvenators refuse me further privilege
and I'm dropped from the marital lists for good."

"Damn it, Boyle, I'm sorry," Locke said. "I didn't mean to offend you."

The potential awkwardness of the moment was relieved by a soft chime
from the annunciator. The apartment entrance dilated, admitting Moira.

She came to them directly, slender and poised and supremely confident
of her dark young beauty, her ermine wrap and high-coiled hair
glistening with stray raindrops that took the light like diamonds. The
two men stood up to greet her, and Boyle could not miss the subtle
feminine response of her to Locke's eager, athletic youth.

_If she's planning to fill my place in her marital-seven with this
crewcut fool_, Boyle thought with sudden malice, _then she's in for a
rude shock. And a final one._

"I couldn't enjoy a line of the play for thinking of you two patriots
plotting here in my apartment," Moira said. "But then the performance
was shatteringly dull, anyway."

Her boredom was less than convincing. When she had hung her wrap in a
closet to be aerated and irradiated against its next wearing, she sat
between Boyle and Locke with a little sigh of anticipation.

"Have you decided yet what to do about this dreadful immortality scheme
of the Councils, darlings?"
