
Boyle went to the auto-dispenser in a corner and brought back three
drinks, frosted and effervescing. They touched rims. Moira sipped at
her glass quietly, waiting in tacit agreement with Locke for the older
man's opinion.

"This longevity should be available to the Social Body as well as to
AL&O," Boyle said. "It's obvious even to non-politicals like Locke and
myself that, unless equal privilege is maintained, there's going to be
the devil to pay and the Weal will suffer. It's equally obvious that
the Alcorians' offer is made with the deliberate intent of undermining
our system through dissension."

"To their own profit, of course," Locke put in. "Divide and conquer...."

"Whatever is to be done must be done quickly," Boyle said. "It would
take months to negotiate a definitive plebiscite, and in that time the
Alcorians would have gone home again without treating anyone outside
AL&O. And there the matter would rest. It seems to be up to us to get
hold of the longevity process ourselves and to broadcast it to the
public."

"The good of the Body is the preservation of the Weal," Locke said
sententiously. "What do you think, Moira?"

Moira touched her lips with a delicate pink tongue-tip, considering.
To Boyle, her process of thought was as open as a plain-talk teletape;
immortality for the Social Body automatically meant immortality for
Moira and for David Locke. Both young, with an indefinite guarantee of
life....

"Yes," Moira said definitely. "If some have it, then all should. But
how, Philip?"

"You're both too young to remember this, of course," Boyle said,
"but until the 1980 Truth-check Act, there was a whole field of
determinative action applicable to cases like this. It's a simple
enough problem if we plan and execute it properly."

His confidence was not feigned; he had gone over the possibilities
already with the swift ruthlessness that had made him head of
Transplanet Enterprises, and the prospect of direct action excited
rather than dismayed him. Until now he had skirted the edges of
illegality with painstaking care, never stepping quite over the line
beyond which he would be liable to the disastrous truth-check, but at
this moment he felt himself invincible, above retaliation.

"This present culture is a pragmatic compromise with necessity," Boyle
said. "It survives because it answers natural problems that couldn't
be solved under the old systems. Nationalism died out, for example,
when we set up a universal government, because everyone belonged to the
same Social Body and had the same Weal to consider. Once we realized
that the good of the Body is more important than personal privacy, the
truth-check made ordinary crime and political machination obsolete.
Racial antagonisms vanished under deliberate amalgamation. Monogamy
gave way to the marital-seven, settling the problems of ego clash,
incompatability, promiscuity and vice that existed before. It also
settled the disproportion between the male and female population.

"But stability is vulnerable. Since it never changes, it cannot
stand against an attack either too new or too old for its immediate
experience. So if we're going after this Alcorian longevity process,
I'd suggest that we choose a method so long out of date that there's no
longer a defense against it. _We'll take it by force!_"
