
The coup next morning was no more difficult, though bloodier, than
Boyle had anticipated.

At nine sharp, he left David Locke at the controls of his helicar on
the sun-bright roof landing of AL&O, took a self-service elevator
down four floors and walked calmly to the deliberation chamber where
Administrative Council met with the visitors from Alcor. He was armed
for any eventuality with an electronic freeze-gun, a sleep-capsule of
anesthetic gas, and a nut-sized incendiary bomb capable of setting
afire an ordinary building.

His first hope of surprising the Council in conference was dashed
in the antechamber, rendering his sleep-bomb useless. Dorand was a
moment late; he came in almost on Boyle's heels, his face blank with
astonishment at finding an intruder ahead of him.

The freeze-gun gave him no time for questions.

"Quiet," Boyle ordered, and drove the startled Councilor ahead of him
into the deliberations chamber.

He was just in time. Cornelison had one bony arm already bared for the
longevity injection; Bissell sat in tense anticipation of his elder's
reaction; the Alcorian, Fermiirig, stood at Cornelison's side with a
glittering hypodermic needle in one of his four three-fingered hands.

For the moment, a sudden chill of apprehension touched Boyle. There
should have been _two_ Alcorians.

"Quiet," Boyle said again, this time to the group. "You, Fermiirig,
where is your mate?"

The Alcorian replaced the hypodermic needle carefully in its case, his
triangular face totally free of any identifiable emotion and clasped
both primary and secondary sets of hands together as an Earthman might
have raised them overhead. His eyes, doe-soft and gentle, considered
Boyle thoughtfully.

"Santikh is busy with other matters," Fermiirig said. His voice was
thin and reedy, precise of enunciation, but hissing faintly on the
aspirants. "I am to join her later--" his gentle eyes went to the
Councilors, gauging the gravity of the situation from their tensity,
and returned to Boyle--"if I am permitted."

"Good," Boyle said.

He snapped the serum case shut and tucked it under his arm, turning
toward the open balcony windows. "You're coming with me, Fermiirig. You
others stay as you are."

The soft drone of a helicar descending outside told him that Locke had
timed his descent accurately. Cornelison chose that moment to protest,
his wrinkled face tight with consternation at what he read of Boyle's
intention.

"We know you, Boyle! You can't possibly escape. The Ordermen--"

Boyle laughed at him.

"There'll be no culprit for the Ordermen," he said, "nor any
witnesses. You've wiped out ordinary crime with your truth-checks and
practicalities, Cornelison, but you've made the way easier for a man
who knows what he wants."

He pressed the firing stud of his weapon. Cornelison fell and lay
stiffly on the pastel tile. Bissell and Dorand went down as quickly,
frozen to temporary rigidity.

Boyle tossed his incendiary into the huddle of still bodies and shoved
the Alcorian forcibly through the windows into the hovering aircar.

Locke greeted the alien's appearance with stark amazement. "My God,
Boyle, are you _mad_? You can't kidnap--"

The dull shock of explosion inside the deliberations chamber jarred the
helicar, throwing the slighter Alcorian to the floor and staggering
Boyle briefly.

"Get us out of here," Boyle said sharply. He turned the freeze-gun on
the astounded Locke, half expecting resistance and fully prepared to
meet it. "You fool, do you think I'm still playing the childish game I
made up to keep you and Moira quiet?"

A pall of greasy black smoke poured after them when Locke, still
stunned by the suddenness of catastrophe, put the aircar into motion
and streaked away across the city.

Boyle, watching the first red tongue of flame lick out from the
building behind, patted the serum case and set himself for the next
step.

Immortality.
