
Locke took the helicar down through the mountains, skirting a clear
swift river that broke into tumultuous falls a hundred yards below
Boyle's cottage, and set it down in a flagstone court.

"Out," Boyle ordered.

Moira met them in the spacious living room, her pretty face comical
with surprise and dismay.

"Philip, what's _happened_? You look so--"

She saw the alien then and put a hand to her mouth.

"Keep her quiet while I deal with Fermiirig," Boyle said to Locke. "I
have no time for argument. If either of you gives me any trouble...."

He left the threat to Locke's stunned fancy and turned on the Alcorian.

"Let me have the injection you had ready for Cornelison. Now."

The Alcorian moved his narrow shoulders in what might have been a
shrug. "You are making a mistake. You are not fitted for life beyond
the normal span."

"I didn't bring you here to moralize," Boyle said. "If you mean to see
your mate again, Fermiirig, give me the injection!"

"There was a time in your history when force was justifiable,"
Fermiirig said. "But that time is gone. You are determined?" He shook
his head soberly when Boyle did not answer. "I was afraid so."

He took the hypodermic needle out of its case, squeezed out a pale drop
of liquid and slid the point into the exposed vein of Boyle's forearm.

Boyle, watching the slow depression of the plunger, asked: "How long a
period will this guarantee, in Earth time?"

"Seven hundred years," Fermiirig said. He withdrew the instrument and
replaced it in its case, his liquid glance following Boyle's rising
gesture with the freeze-gun. "At the end of that time, the treatment
may be renewed if facilities are available."

_Immortality!_

"Then I won't need you any more," Boyle said, and rayed him down. "Nor
these other two."

Locke, characteristically, sprang up and tried to shield Moira with
his own body. "Boyle, what are you thinking of? You can't murder us
without--"

"There's a very effective rapids a hundred yards down river," Boyle
said. "You'll both be quite satisfactorily dead after going through
it, I think. Possibly unrecognizable, too, though that doesn't matter
particularly."

He was pressing the firing stud, slowly because something in the
tension of the moment appealed to the sadism in his nature, when an
Orderman's freeze-beam caught him from behind and dropped him stiffly
beside Fermiirig.
