
Pete had finished his beer, and was standing beside the silent TV,
staring at the wall, when she returned. Beth took him by the arm, and
he turned to face in her direction without resistance. "Pete," she
said, then louder, "Pete!" Some of the far-awayness cleared from his
eyes, and he saw her.

"Oh. What'd Lucille have to say?"

Beth gave a funny kind of smile and a half-shrug.

Pete nodded. "Them, too. I guess I knew they'd feel it. Everybody will.
I wonder how long we've got."

His wife gripped his upper arms, hard. "Listen," she said. "It's not
too late, yet. Lucille and Corey have told us a dozen times to come in
with them if things started blowing up. There's room. I have plenty
of food, so we won't infringe on theirs. Let's go over there, now.
Just--Just in case."

Pete wrenched away from her and shook his head violently. "_No!_ I've
told you, over and over. I'm not going to prolong things. If the world
blows itself up, I don't want to hang around for a few extra weeks to
die in the wreckage of thirst or starvation. I'd as soon go when the
world goes." Then his manner softened, and he took her gently by the
shoulders. "But, honey--If _you_ want to go with them, it's okay. I'll
understand. Let me help you pack the car, and--"

Beth's hand came up in a blurred arc and cracked stingingly against the
side of Pete's face. "_Stop it!_" she cried. "Stop talking that way!
You know I won't go without you. What's left if you're gone!?" Pete had
to grip her wrists to stop the frantic tiny fists that pummeled his
chest in angry affection.

"Okay, okay, honey. I won't say it again. We'll stay here, together."
He started to take her in his arms, then suddenly grinned and started
turning her around to face the other way. "In fact, we'll have a
party!" he said, shoving her kitchenward. "Open that bottle of wine
we've been saving for Thanksgiving dinner. We'll have it, tonight,
along with maybe some of that anchovy paste we bought and never tried,
and--"

"There's some cold chicken in the refrigerator," said his wife,
catching his infectious enthusiasm. "And I think some onion dip, and
corn crisps--"

The peal of the front doorbell stopped them in the hall. "Lucille?"
Pete asked his wife. Blankly, she shrugged, then crossed the short
foyer and opened the door. A young man in uniform burst in, his cap
pushed crazily back on his short-cropped hair. "Pete--Beth--Listen!" he
said. "Did you hear the news bulletin?"

"Martin ..." Pete said, shaken. "Why aren't you at the base?" Martin
Fenelly was a neighbor, a Space Reservist.

"Dorothea's out in the car. We're headed there now. Come with us,
please!" begged the young officer.

"Something _is_ going to happen, then!" said Beth.

"You bet your boots," said Martin. "Riots are starting all over the
world. London, Chicago, Cairo.... Anyplace with public shelters. People
are trampling one another to get in."

"But the newscasters didn't say--" started Pete, simultaneously with
Beth's halting, "Conelrad isn't on the air...."

"Conelrad!" spat young Fenelly. "They don't dare use it. If they did,
the panics would grow. Right now, there's still a chance of keeping
some order. One warning to the populace, and the country becomes a mob,
two hundred million strong!"

"Pete--!" Beth turned to stare up into his face. "What should we do?"

Pete licked dry lips, then looked shrewdly at Fenelly. "What's at the
base? Shelters?"

"A ship," said Martin. "A spaceship. Never been tried, or fully tested,
but it's about the only real chance anyone has. I'm going, so's
Dorothea, and three of my crewmen. The others are swiping jets to fly
to their homes. They want to be with their families when hell breaks
loose."

"But where's it flying to? Where can you go?"

"Moonbase," said Martin. "There's plenty of room, all the synthetic
foods a person needs, oxygen-generators, water-recapturing systems.
It's the nearest safe spot, as of that blowup at the UN today."
