
Hours before the spaceship reached Moonbase, the men stationed
there saw the horror begin. The orb of Earth, silver and blue
against the black void of space, began to erupt with tiny bubbles of
orange-and-white, faster and faster, until the shapes of the continents
were limned against the steady blue glow of the oceans. Then the fringe
of the oceans began to billow white rolling clouds of steam, and the
planet shrouded itself in impenetrable heaving seas of angry white
vapor.

Some common tacit urging made the men continue with their jobs there,
go through the routine of scanning the universe, radioing reports
to stations long since molten piles of slag, metering the water and
precious oxygen that kept them alive. No one wanted to talk of what
they'd seen; life went on for many hours as though nothing untoward had
happened. Then, when the last strained thread of control was fraying
madly--

The spaceship landed, with its five-person complement.

"More mouths to feed," said the Moonbase commander, looking out
through the port at the spacesuited figures moving clumsily toward
the airlock. "I don't know if we should let them in. Even if it's the
President, I don't know."

"Sir," said an aide, "Look there, in the lead. The small one, leaning
on the arm of another one. I think it's a woman."

The commander's eyes hooded for a moment, then he turned to his aide
and said, "Let her in."

"Before the others, you mean, sir?" asked the man.

"Let _her_ in. Period."

"S-sir ..." said the aide, his voice shaking. "You're not thinking of--"

"We've been here for three months without a woman, Captain," said the
commander. "This may be the last one alive in the cosmos. I'm not sure
the man with her would agree to sharing her."

"But the others--They can't live out there for more than a few hours in
their spacesuits...."

But the commander had picked up a book of crossword puzzles, and
was concentrating fiercely on a cryptogram. The other man swallowed
noisily, once, then went to carry out the orders.
