
Just a few weeks short of two years after the holocaust, the great
spaceship settled on faltering fires to the charred surface of the
Earth. The Moonbase commander, gaunt from long starvation, reeled out
into the glaring white sunlight, fell face downward upon the sharp
black rocks, and just lay there, trying to catch his breath. Behind
him, a pale shadow formed in the blackness of the open airlock, and a
woman crept out, her hair tangled and white-streaked, her face raddled
with disease. She shuddered, and sank to a squatting position on the
ground, covering her face with her hands to block out the horrible
vista that ran for mile upon scorched mile.

"It's dead, the world's dead," she mewled, quaking. "We're at a wake, a
hideous, horrible wake!"

The commander groaned and lifted himself up painfully on his elbows.
"There's got to be something, somewhere, or we've had it."

"It's your fault," said the woman. "What did you expect the men to do
when you kept me to yourself! You shared me with them nearly two years.
You shouldn't have locked the men out of your quarters."

"I was drunk!" the commander said bitterly. "I didn't think they'd go
berserk--wreck the synthesizers--fight among themselves--"

"I had a husband, once," said the woman. "You let him freeze to death,
suffocate, all because he would have wanted to keep me for himself.
You turned around and did the same thing." Musingly, she eyed a
large jagged stone, lifted it in her hand, and approached the weary,
sprawling form on the ground. "If he deserved to die, why not you?"

"That was different," said the commander. "I'd have shared you when I
sobered up. He'd never--" He hadn't time for even a gasp as the woman
brought the stone down with both hands upon the nape of his neck,
shattering the bone beneath the thin flesh there. He fell forward,
drooling blood on the sun-baked black rock.

"No," said the woman, brushing her hands firmly against her thighs to
cleanse them of the feel of the rock. "Martin would never. That's why I
loved him."

Tiredly, she began to walk, away from the ship and the memories of
degradation it held for her, out across the hot, blazing plains of arid
rock, humming a lilting waltz that had been played at her highschool
prom.

When she could walk no further, she lay down on the rock, rolled onto
her back, and smiled emptily at the stark blue skies overhead until
unconsciousness stole over her.
