
A hundred miles away, a naked boy knelt before a cairn of rock,
frowning in concentration, his tongue tucked against the corner
of his mouth as he carefully arranged smooth red pebbles before
the cairn until their design pleased him. Under the cairn lay a
steel-and-concrete door, and within the chamber beyond it lay the
mummified bodies of his parents and siblings, as he'd found them
when he was old enough to crawl. He was walking now, pretty well for
his fifteen months of life. He could only judge his progress by the
progress of others like him, children conceived amid the radiation and
gene-mutating chaos of those first months in the shelters.

He'd determined to be a leader. He didn't know the word "leader", of
course, but he would soon coin a sound that conveyed that meaning to
himself and the others. He didn't know why his parents were dead, or
the parents of the others like himself. Perhaps one always died when
one reached a certain age. Still, why had his brother and sister died,
then, since they had so much growing to do before they matched that of
his parents?

He shrugged away the problem, finished his arrangement of colored
stones, and stood up to consider them. They would do nicely, he
decided. They would prettify the spot where his ancestry lay buried,
here amid the rocky splendors of such a lovely, incredibly beautiful
planet.

He scowled, suddenly, deciding that the pattern of stones held one red
rock too many. Carefully, he removed it.

He sent a short series of affectionate thoughts toward the departed
souls of his family, then turned away from the cairn and began to
toddle across the burning black rock toward the area housing the
shelters of the other children. He was tired of mourning for the day.
Besides, the other kids were considering building a structure to keep
off the infrequent hot rains, and he thought he knew a way to support
the roof which no one else had yet considered.

Thinking hard as he moved toward the community area, he tossed the
colored pebble up and down absently in one hand, then popped it into
his mouth and chewed it up with relish. It was only an appetizer. For
dinner, at sunset, he had his eye on a rainbow outcropping of quartz.
It should be delicious.


                                THE END

