
She rose, strode across the room and opened the front door. She stepped
out on the porch and Homer felt a momentary relief. It was an illusion.
C. J.'s offer had been more of a shock than he thought. Then she
appeared again, carrying a black bag.

"Where will I put my things?" she asked.

"Ma'am," said Homer. "I am a gentleman." That, he decided, was the best
way to state his position in mixed company.

"What has that got to do with it? I'm a lady."

"Certainly, ma'am, but you must realize that what you're suggesting
is--er--most unorthodox. I don't propose to turn my house over to you
with or without company. Even if--" Homer clamped his jaw shut for he
almost said that the offer was attractive. How could he have said such
a thing? He'd hardly known this woman for a full minute.

"Your house? I'll admit your arms and legs are yours, and so no doubt
is your hair, your teeth, your eyes and your ears. But how can you say
this house is yours?"

Homer looked at the girl. She spoke perfect English although now that
he noticed there _was_ just a slight accent. She had something of an
Italian grace, French fire, and the wholesome heartiness of Scandinavia
in her, and yet she was different.

"It is my private property," said Homer. "I'll admit I do not own it,
but I rent it. I have a year's lease."

"When I studied your customs and manners I must have overlooked a few
things," she said. "But I can't see how you can own a dwelling."

Homer was horrified. Undoubtedly she was from behind the Iron Curtain.
"This is America, ma'am," he said stiffly.

"I thought this was the earth," she said.

Again Homer's jaw dropped as if he had not heard correctly. "Do you
mean that you are from Some Other Place?" His voice supplied capitals.

"I am assuredly not of _this_ planet," she said. "I'm Qalith of Planet
12, star 10, Pleiades." Her smile was pleasant too, Homer observed. "I
learned your language by telepathy but unfortunately I didn't go deeply
into your economics and social customs."

Homer decided she must have tuned in on Russia, then he realized that
English is not usually spoken there, so he assumed she had listened to
some subversives somewhere. If she _was_ from the Pleiades. More than
likely she was a spy. "Do you think the Revolution will come during our
life-time?" he asked.

"There is a revolution every twenty-four hours on this planet," she
smiled. "On my planet the revolution is 26 hours, your hours."

This was a joke, Homer decided. A student trick, extremely in bad
taste. Especially since it entailed a girl to expose herself in such a
costume.

"I hope you didn't park your spaceship by a fire plug," he said
sarcastically.

"Fire plug? I missed that when I learned your language. Something
electrical, no doubt. But if you mean my space shuttle, it is in
a desolate area south of here." She pointed in the direction of
the Cambridge Manor Country Club. "We know that spaceships have a
disturbing effect on primitive races such as yours."

In spite of Homer's determination not to believe this girl, he felt
an admiration in the way she played her role. He wondered if there
was really a spaceship on the golf course. It would certainly have a
disturbing effect on early morning golfers. Good heavens! C. J. Fader
belonged to Cambridge Manor!

"Miss--er--Qalith," Homer said, "your being here presents problems,
whether or not you are from the Pleiades! You must understand that this
isn't the proper thing to do." Homer glanced toward the window and
quickly moved over to the venetian blinds which he turned downward,
just in case one of the neighbors looked in. "I must sit down and think
a moment. Then we'll decide what must be done."

"I know what I'm going to do," said Qalith. "So you decide what you're
going to do."
