
Homer had a bottle of bourbon in his kitchen cabinet. The board of
trustees of Faderfield Junior College frowned on faculty drinking of
any sort, and of course alcoholic beverages were forbidden on the
campus under strictest penalties--expulsion for a student, dismissal
for an instructor. But Homer was extremely moderate and there were
times when he felt that whisky had a respectable place in the scheme of
things. He poured himself a drink, after offering one to Miss Qalith.
She declined.

"I must be careful what I eat and drink on strange planets," she said.

"A wise forethought," Homer said, with a nod. He mixed the whisky with
tap water, dropped in an ice cube and began sipping it as he sat in a
straight-backed chair opposite her.

"Now," he began, "I won't question anything you've said. It doesn't
matter really whether you were born in Faderfield, the next county or a
planet 200 light years distant. There's one fact we can't deny. You are
a woman. Right?"

"You are perceptive, sir--"

"My name's Homer," he said. He smiled and she smiled back. Homer
finished his drink and put aside the glass. "I'm a man."

"That I had already perceived."

"Do men and women--ah--occupy the same lodgings on Planet 12?"

"Certainly. And so do they here. I looked in all the houses on this
street before I came to yours. I picked your house because you were
alone."

"But those people are married!" said Homer. "I'm an unmarried man. A
bachelor."

"Are you a social outcast? An exile?" Qalith asked.

"No. I have not chosen a mate--as yet," he didn't want her to think he
was opposed to the idea. "On earth it's not customary for an unmarried
couple--"

"Oh," said Qalith. "That old thing."

Homer felt a little indignant. "It isn't to be ignored."

"Far be it from me to upset the earth," she said. "I just dropped in
for a brief time to complete our museum catalog of your system. We're
not complete on the earth, you see, and your little village seemed to
have a pretty fair representation of human society, except a lack of
primitive tribes. Now I'm not so sure it is anything but primitive."

"We are civilized," said Homer. "Highly civilized. We have a certain
moral code and your being with me jeopardizes my position in respect
to that code." He paused. "If anyone saw you here, I'd be disgraced. I
couldn't face my fellow citizens." He added mentally that he wouldn't
get that job with Fader's Fadeless Formulae if he wanted it.

"Is that why you closed the blinds?"

Homer nodded.

"It would seem to me to be worse if people knew I was here and didn't
see us," she said. "But I'm new to your planet and I still have a
problem. Where will I stay?"

Homer thought quickly. "There's a rooming house where some of the lady
teachers stay." He paused, looked at her spangled costume and shook his
head. "But your clothes wouldn't be understood. They'd think you were a
burlesque queen."

"A burlesque queen?"

"Another thing you'd never understand," said Homer. "If I could find
the proper clothes, I could say you were a cousin from Des Moines--"

"What is a cousin from Des Moines?"

Homer shook his head. "You'd give away the show."

"Why don't you say I'm from another planet?"

"No one would believe it. In fact, I'm not sure I believe it myself."

"If Earthlings won't believe the truth, why not let me stay here? No
one would believe I did."

"You don't understand," Homer groaned. "There's such a thing as
custom. Moral law. Ethics. Social behavior. There are ways a person can
act because to act otherwise is not the thing to do. Certain things
cannot be done and people are quick to suspect that they are being done
sometimes when they're not being done. Am I clear?"

"No," said Qalith. "But the earth file in our museum is going to be a
large one."

Suddenly the phone rang. Homer jumped and knocked his empty glass to
the floor. Quickly he rose and lifted the phone.

"This is Fader, Hopkins," came a voice over the wire. "About my
letter--"

"Oh yes, C. J. It came today."

"This is a big thing, my boy."

"I know it is, C. J."

"I want to get started on it immediately."

"To be frank, C. J., I wanted a little time to think it over."

"I'll make it twelve thousand if you make up your mind now--tonight,"
Fader said. "I'm going to expand. I'll make Fader's Fadeless the
biggest line of paints in the world, but I've got to have research.
You've convinced me you can do the job--"

"Can't I call you back C. J.? I just want to study this thing--" And
get rid of Qalith, Homer told himself.

"No! I'm coming over to talk to you." There was a click in the receiver
and Homer held a silent phone.

"A funny instrument," said Qalith, "It'll never take the place of
telepathy."
