
Homer put the phone back in its cradle, and picked up the empty liquor
glass. He took it to the kitchen. It wasn't the first thing he had to
do, but C. J. might not approve so Homer had to get it out of sight. He
closed the kitchen cabinet door so the whisky was out of sight. Then he
went to the living room and saw that Qalith was unpacking her bag.

Homer could see the spangles of garments like the one she wore. She was
setting out small boxes, which looked a great deal like boxes of things
that women always carry--perfume, cosmetics, and so on.

"No, no, no!" Homer shouted. "You mustn't unpack your bag! C. J. will
be here any minute."

"I was here first," said Qalith.

"Listen, Qalith," said Homer, "On your planet there must be certain
rules of conduct that may seem outlandish when considered alone, but
have very good reason for being when you consider them in the light of
other facts."

"Oh yes," said Qalith. "One should always wear a telepathy helmet when
he's keeping a secret."

Homer took Qalith by the arm, led her to the divan and sat down beside
her. Quickly and pointedly he told her about Fader's Fadeless Formulae
and the opportunity that faced him. And he gave her the Facts of life.

"The only drawback is that old skinflint Fader himself," Homer
explained. "As I'm fixed now, I have a pleasant job. The dean's nice
and easy going. I get along fine and I like my work. Fader will pay me
twice as much, but he'll be breathing down my neck every minute, making
sure he's making a 90 per cent profit on everything I do."

"You don't know whether to take a job in which you'll be unhappy, but
which can give you what you want or to stay on a job where you'll be
happy, but poor. Is that it?" Qalith looked at him with a curious
expression in her eyes.

"That's it," said Homer.

The front doorbell rang and Homer realized he'd spent more time
explaining to Qalith than he should have spent. He jumped to his feet.
His arms swept up the boxes and piled them into the bag. He lifted the
bag and ran to the kitchen. "Hide, Qalith! Hide quickly! In the bedroom
and close the door!" he said.

He thrust the bag in the broom closet off the kitchen.

When he returned he saw Qalith admitting C. J. Fader at the front door.

"Harrumph!" said Mr. Fader. His eyes traveled over Qalith from spangled
boots to gleaming tiara.

"Oh, Mr. Fader," said Homer thickly.

"I must have arrived more quickly than you anticipated," said Fader. He
stepped forward and nudged Homer. "You sly young dog."

"It's not what you think, C. J.," said Homer.

"I haven't said a word about what I thought," said Fader. "What I want
to know is where you found her."

"I didn't--"

"I'm from another planet," said Qalith.

"I'll say you are, baby," said Fader, chucking her under the chin. "You
know, Homer here had me fooled. But I can see he's not as namby pamby
as I thought. Yes, sir! He's quite a boy."

"He's been explaining all of the manners and customs of the earth to
me," said Qalith.

"And I'll bet he knows how!" said Fader.

"It's really the truth," said Homer. "Qalith is from the Pleiades."

"Oh yes! Near Cincinnati! Well I always heard those Cincy girls were
pretty cute. Playing at the Roxy?"

Homer shuddered. "She's left her spaceship on the Cambridge Manor golf
links," he said.

Mr. Fader roared. "Homer, you're a man after my own heart! I'll tell
you what, boy. You come into my organization and I'll make you a vice
president with a big chunk of stock. You can have charge of research
and if you can line up the babes for our conventions we'll put the
whole dammed paint trade in our pocket inside of two years! After all,
boy, it's girls and salesmen, not the quality of your product that win
on today's market!"

Slowly the idea sank into Homer's brain. Mr. Fader hadn't wanted to
hire him because he was anything special as a chemist.

"How much will I get?" Homer asked bluntly.

"The stock ought to be worth twelve thousand a year," said Fader. "On
top of that you'll get twenty-five thousand as vice president in charge
of research and conventions."

And the ten thousand that Homer hoped to get had been cheap. Ten
thousand for a chemist, twenty-five for a salesman, plus a bundle of
stock. A high priced pimp.

"Are you sure I'll be worth it?"

"Don't talk like a nincompoop, boy! We're in." He turned to Qalith.
"Got any friends, honey?"
