
Qalith's eyes seemed to gleam. Fader's hand straightened with a jerk.
He stood stiffly.

"He's hypnotized," said Qalith. "We can talk and he won't hear or
remember what we say."

"There's not much to be said," said Homer.

"You don't want the job?"

"With this lecherous old tom-cat?"

Qalith smiled. "You are Puritanical," she said. "You're stuffy and
naive and innocent. But I like you."

"I'm probably crazy too," said Homer.

Qalith shook her head. "No. You're unhappy. You don't like being a
teacher either, do you?"

"Of course I do!" Homer spoke with too much emphasis. "It's a pleasant
life."

"But you've seen broken old men teaching. Men who had brains and who
didn't have a cent in their savings account. You know you'll starve all
your life and get very little thanks for discovering genius. You know
and you want to get away from it. That's why you even considered going
with Fader in the first place. If you'd really been contented you'd
have turned him down right off."

Homer realized she spoke the truth. "But any job has its drawbacks.
I've either got to teach chemistry or become a research chemist.
From what I've seen, Fader and Faderfield Junior College are my only
choices. And Chemistry is all I know."

"You know about ethics and customs of your planet. You know what people
are supposed to do and rarely do."

"It doesn't make a living for me."

"Not on earth. But on Planet 12, you'd be an authority on the planet
Earth. The only authority because you know all about the earth's unkept
laws of social conduct and you're one of the few that ever kept those
laws."

One thing held Homer back. "Is your planet really communistic? Don't
you have private property?"

"Do you own this house?"

"Well I rent it, but some people do own their houses."

"Are you sure?"

"Well, they have mortgages and taxes and so on."

"Actually very few people own what they think they have, excepting
their bodies."

"But men move in with women and women move in with men--"

"This thing you call marriage corresponds with a custom we have," said
Qalith. "I was going to marry you."

"I don't know you and you don't know me!"

"How do you think I found you without telepathy? And you've seen me
now--is there anything wrong about me that--well, that--"

"Nothing!" Homer said fervently. He thought of people who had courted
many years and still didn't know each other. Then he glanced down at
Fader, still staring hypnotically. "What a tale he's going to spread
about town tomorrow!" Homer said.

"He won't believe it," said Qalith.

"I'll be gone," said Homer.

"Then we'd better get going. You can work on the earth file on the trip
to the Pleiades."

"Says you," said Homer. He got her bag from the broom closet and as
an afterthought, he picked up his rod and tackle. Maybe he'd get some
fishing done on Planet 12, among other things--