
“Who is doing the talking?” Pemberton asked.

“Kidwell will do all the talking because it is he who is equipped with the
long distance sending and receiving apparatus. Dexter can talk with
Kidwell and Kidwell can talk with Dexter by changing the plug at the side
of the machine, so he is directly connected with Dexter. Dexter is the
pilot in the rear seat and will drive unless something happens. If
something should happen, Kidwell can drive as they have double controls.”

“Hey, below! We are having fun up here chasing toy balloons. Those that
have been let loose on the Fair Grounds have reached this far up. There
are twenty or thirty in sight. We have run down three or four. One was
thrown back by the propeller’s draft and hit Old “Dex” on the head and
busted. He would have jumped out of his seat if he were not tied down with
a safety belt. Thought part of the machinery had hit him, I guess. We are
climbing in circles and staying over the Fair Grounds as nearly as we can.
The hand on our instrument is gradually crawling near two miles and we can
begin to tell it is getting very cold. We feel sorry for you poor land
mortals below sweating in that 100 degrees in the shade. But say, ‘you
don’t have to stay in the shade’--Ha, Ha!”

The sound of Kidwell’s laughter from two miles above roared through the
horns. It ceased and no other sound came from above for several minutes.

“Got another balloon; caught it alive this time; going to tie my pipe to
it and drop it overboard. The pipe will pull it down. Tell the kids down
there I will give five dollars to the one who gets it and I will wring
their necks if any of them busts my pipe. Here she goes--”

Cheers and laughter greeted this last announcement and many small boys
jammed in the crowd began to crowd and squirm frantically to get out into
the center field where they could watch for Kidwell’s pipe pulling a toy
balloon down.

“You below! We are going to have trouble in just a minute. Saw several
balloons above us snatched and rushed east at a speed that makes us look
like a snail. It’s one of those terrific wind currents that different
persons have discovered two or three miles up. We will be O. K. when we
get in it, but going from slow to fast air is going to give us some rough
riding. We are starting; I can feel our old machine beginning to pitch.
Here we go!-- God, we are pitching and spinning like a leaf. We are on our
tail--now we are upside down. Over we go sideways--now we are level--whew,
we just made a complete flip-flop. It’s a wonder we hold together--we are
rocking and pitching like a row boat on a stormy ocean.

“We are getting up in the main current and don’t pitch so much. It is all
I can do to hold my dinner down. I’m sea-sick--we are heading west, but I
think we are losing several miles a minute as this terrific air current
drifts us east.”

A deadly hush fell on the crowd below as they pictured the aeroplane being
tossed and pitched about in one of the mighty air currents that are found
miles above the earth. They could see the two men fighting to keep their
machine right side up, as they fought through the eddies and whirls at the
edge of the current and into the steady but fast moving air of the center.
When Kidwell announced that they had made it, a mighty cheer went up.
Several minutes passed and no sound came from the men miles
above--then----

“Hurrah for the Liberty Motor--we just had another fight to get out of the
big current and are now in still air above it. We were pitched and flung
about, upside down and every which way, just as when we entered it. Our
Motor did not miss a lick. Old “Dex” got sick. I saw him gulping and raise
his helmet and lean over, but nothing happened. Now we are riding
smoothly. We are heading straight west instead of circling so as to gain
the distance we were carried backwards in the big air current. It is
getting cold. We are using oxygen from our tanks as the air is mighty thin
here--Dex has just called my attention to our instrument--what do you
reckon she reads?--whoop--she has touched it. She’s reached thirty
thousand feet. We’ll make it. We’ll break that old world’s altitude
record.”

A roar that shook the Grand Stand went up from the listening crowd below.
For ten minutes they cheered and flung things in the air in their
excitement. A few more minutes and the world’s highest altitude record
would belong to America once more. The cheering died down and then broke
out afresh.

“What is the world’s record?” Pemberton leaned over and shouted above the
din into the president’s ear.

“A little less than thirty-five thousand feet,” the President answered in
one of the partly quiet spells of the crowd.

“Thirty-one thousand” came from the horns,--only those right against them
could hear, but they began to relay the news. “Thirty-one thousand.”
Another deafening cheer rang out. The crowd became silent as the President
raised his hand for silence and pointed to the horns.

“Thirty-two thousand and Old Dex grinning like a frog.”

This time only a laugh from the crowd greeted the announcement. They would
hold their cheers for the last as they wanted to hear all now.

“It’s just about there--now it’s closer--just a little
more--near--nearer---- Gee, it moves slowly--just ready to touch--now it
touches--whoopee--it’s over--we have reached the world’s altitude
record--now we have passed it.”

The Grand Stand roared and shook as the crowd below let loose. Hats flew
high in the air, men thumped each other like boys. Once more the world’s
altitude record belonged to America--to the United States--brought to it
by the two dauntless aviators, far out of sight in the vast space above.
Those in the Grand Stand began to stamp and shout in unison and stopped
only when the stand threatened to break under the strains of the thousands
of thumping feet. At the rear of the mass of people, a boy with a toy
balloon struggled to get through to the platform.

“Hey, kid, look out or you’ll get hurt crowding in like that,” a man
addressed him.

“I caught the pipe,” the boy cried as he held aloft a pipe tied to the
balloon string.

“Kidwell’s pipe--Kidwell’s pipe”--the man shouted as he gathered the boy
up and held him above the crowd’s head. From hand to hand they passed the
boy to the platform, where the President of the Fair met him and led him
to the front of the platform where the boy held up the toy balloon with
the pipe tied to it. The boy was still panting, for he had caught the pipe
nearly a quarter of a mile away and had run all the way back to the crowd,
while other boys chased him. The President took a five dollar bill from
his pocket and gave it to the boy and took possession of the pipe. The boy
struck through the crowd, headed for the refreshment stands, while the
President returned to his seat.

“Forty thousand feet up and cold as fifty North Poles.”

The people became quiet with awe. Not satisfied with breaking the world’s
altitude record, these two daredevils were steadily climbing higher and
higher. Forty thousand feet--miles high--how far would they go?

“We have just noticed a queer color of the air just a short way to our
west, although we can hardly call it color. It might be just our
imagination; anyway Dex has headed the machine in that direction--yes we
notice the difference more as we get closer--turn her Dex--turn her-- My
God it’s a whirlwind--loop her back, Dex--turn----”

The last, regarding turning the machine, came from the horns in a shout
and must have been meant for Dexter. It broke off suddenly as Kidwell must
have changed the plug from below to connect with Dexter.
