
Thousands of eyes unconsciously looked upward, although all knew that it
was impossible to see to the great height the aeroplane had attained. But
all realized that something serious was happening miles above. What had
happened? Would the aeroplane come flying down from above and land a
shattered wreck?

Minutes passed and no voice was heard through the horn. The suspense
became unbearable. Several more minutes passed and at last came--

“Hello, below,--we thought we were gone that time. We ran into a whirling
draft of air of cyclone speed. Our machine was caught in it and we were
pitched over and over like a feather, whirling, tossing, and tumbling. We
were flung up--up--and up. We don’t know how far up we are now, because we
were carried upward for many minutes at many miles a minute. Our
instrument only registers sixty thousand feet and the hand reached that
mark long before we were pitched out of the whirling mass and into still
air. The current seems to come up and then turn east and we were flung to
the top side. We must be fifteen or twenty miles high--way above any
height we dreamed a person could fly. Our motor does not run as smoothly
as it did below, but it is doing fairly well. We still have to use our own
supply of oxygen. The movements of the machine are rather slow and
sluggish. It might be that we are flying in air hurled up in that mighty
up-rushing funnel of air from below. We can not understand it. We are
circling about, getting our nerve back to make a dive for the earth. If we
get through the high eastward current of air and miss the upward
whirlwind, we will be O. K. If we hit the upward whirlwind, we will be
flung back like a leaf. We can feel the intense cold through all our furs.
It must be fifty degrees below zero. Nothing but space, space, space, as
far as you can see and in every direction. You feel like loosening, your
belt, stepping on the edge of the machine and stepping off
into--nothing--you feel as though there were no world--no God--No----”

The voice broke off and then continued with a note of excitement in it.

“We have made a discovery; there are clouds up here--Dex just pointed
several out to me and we are headed for them. They seem very dense as we
get nearer.”

For several minutes the voice stopped and those below talked in suppressed
excitement. They were past the cheering stage now. What had happened miles
above the earth had made them curious and started them thinking. Then the
voice came, quivering with a tone of excitement.

“People, below! I am going to make a statement to you that will seem
unbelievable, a statement that will upset all past theories of the upper
air. If I were not sure of bringing down proofs of my statements, I would
not make it and I don’t even ask you to believe it, until we come back.

“People, below--there is vegetable and animal life here. We are now flying
above a floating island of vegetable substance while around us and above
are hundreds of other floating islands of the same substance. I have
managed to catch a small handful of the substance as it floated in the air
between the larger bodies of the same thing.

“It is nearly transparent, but has a pale greenish color. It is spongy and
tough, being made up of a rubber-like material full of thousands of small
gas pockets. It must be this gas that keeps it afloat at this great
height. It grows on long rope-like branches like sea-kelp or some kind of
moss. What we took for clouds were great masses of this plant matted
together and floating about. I believe we could walk on these islands, but
it would be impossible to land our aeroplane for it would sink too deep to
get it out again.
