
“We have seen a small bat-like animal fly from one island to another.
Another of the same kind of creatures is flying alongside us and keeps
turning its head to watch us as though it wonders what we are. I believe
it is as much surprised to see us as we are to see it. Dex has just
notified me that he will try to run it down and wants me to catch or kill
it. We must bring down proofs or we would never dare tell of such things
as are up here. Here we go--we are after the bat-like animal. Zip!--the
blamed little thing is gone; it was just fooling along with us and when we
whirled to reach it, it shot away like a bullet. They are too speedy for
us to run down. I was close enough to see that it was nearly the size and
shape of a bat, except that it had a head like a bird with large owl-like
eyes, and had a beak instead of a mouth with teeth. It was of the same
pale sickly green like the plants we have found.

“Dex has spied something else ahead and is pointing for me to see but I
fail to make it out. Now I see it. It is something long twisting through
the air. It is turning and coming this way. It is another animal, or a
reptile for it is more like a snake. No, not like a snake either, for it
is about ten feet long and flat as can be. Its head is also formed with a
beak. It looks like a huge ribbon floating through the air. It has turned
and is flying above and to one side of us, looking down at us while it
winds its way along. If we can get within striking distance, I will take a
swipe at it with a wrench. I would like to bring it down--Look out,
Dex--now--hold her steady.”

The last came in a shouted command and must have been meant for Dexter,
then----

“That queer snake-like thing turned and in a flash had straightened out in
a line and shot down on us like a bullet. It hit the top of our right wing
and went through as though the wing were a spider web. Then it struck one
of our stay wires and was split long ways for a foot or more. It clung to
the wire, thrashing about, a blood of that pale greenish color oozing out.
When I was ready to go out on the wing and try to get it, it fell on the
lower plane and was blown off. It fell below to the plant island over
which we are flying now. If it had struck either of us, it would have been
death. A short distance more and we will make the dive for earth as our
oxygen supply is getting low. I have been catching stray pieces of the
plants of which the islands are made and have a bunch packed in the bottom
of my cockpit. There is also a large bunch caught in the wires of our left
wing and several small bunches caught in other places. These might hold
fast until we get down. I have been wondering if the change of pressure on
the plant and animals--if we can catch any animals to bring down--will
cause them to contract. The effect on them should be just the opposite of
the effect on the fish that have been brought up from two miles or more
under the sea; when they came up, the pressure was so much less that some
swelled up and exploded. I believe these animals would be pressed together
more if brought to the denser air of the earth’s surface. This plant up
here might be made good use of below at some future time and if--of all
the sights--what monsters! What fierce fighting monsters. Look at the
great gashes they are tearing in each other. They can’t last.

“Oh, I forgot, you below--we just turned a half circle around the end of a
medium sized floating island and have come upon one of the most awful
battles between two of the biggest and fiercest of monsters. One is like a
large flying alligator, except that it has a huge beak and large bat-like
wings. The other is shaped like an octopus, but has flat arms and two
large balloon-like appendages on its back. It has a hellish beak. They are
closed in one biting, clawing and choking mass. We are circling them and
watching. The flying alligator just laid open one of the devil-fish of the
air’s balloons. It shrank as though it were full of gas. Now they are
whirling on the air so fast you can hardly tell what is happening. The
alligator has lost the use of one of its wings. The octopus has wrapped
several of its arms around it. They are starting to sink. They’re
dropping, two of the arms, bitten off. Everything up here is that sickly
green, both monsters are that color and they are bleeding the green blood
--if it is blood. They are now covered with gashes all over their bodies.
They can’t last much longer. There goes the other balloon. It shrinks--now
they are falling.
