
“They don’t stop fighting. We are following them down and still circling
around them. The two fighting air demons have fallen on the big island
below us. They are hardly able to move. The alligator devil is now on top
and rending the octopus to shreds. Its days are over. The flying
alligator--for I don’t know what else to call it--is victor, but it will
never be able to fly again. One wing is completely torn in shreds and the
other is not much better. Its body is full of big wounds. The din of their
screams and clashing of their beaks must have been awful. Where they came
from or what they were fighting about, we do not know. It was one of the
most terrific and most awe-inspiring sights, man ever witnessed.

“The flying alligator has risen on its hind legs and is trying to lunge
itself into the air, but it can only flutter like a broken-winged bird. It
is giving out its cry, as we can see by the motion of its beak.

“Dex shut off the motor for an instant and drifted close over its head. It
uttered a piercing scream like a thousand wild cat whistles, and lunged up
for us. I hate to think what would have happened if it had been able to
fly. I believe it would have rent us in pieces in a second. We are leaving
here right now, for Dex has pointed out another flying alligator about a
mile away, which is coming this way. It must be answering the wounded
one’s cries. It is traveling fast and coming from the north. We can see
its giant, bat-like wings beating the air and it rises and falls at each
stroke. We are speeding westward and as soon as we reach the edge of this
extra large floating island over which we are flying, we will dive for the
earth. We can not see the edge, but it cannot be over a mile or so. We
have left the wounded flying alligator about a half mile back, and the
other monster has already reached it and has circled above it once.

“God, it has turned and is headed after us, its huge wings beating faster
than before. We must reach the edge and dive, for it travels twice as fast
as our sluggish-acting machine. I am not scared, for I can see the edge
about two miles ahead and we will reach it before the demon can overtake
us. Another has dropped from above where the wounded alligator is and it,
also, is now headed after us. Miles above the earth and being chased by
two hideous monsters. Have you ever noticed birds flying? When they beat
their wings downwards, they not only go forward, but partly upward as
well, and when they raise their wings for another stroke, they sink a
little instead of keeping a straight course ahead. That is the way these
demons fly. Dex is giving our machine all it will take.

“The two demons are going fast, but we will reach the edge before they can
catch us. God help us, another monster and straight ahead. We can not go
that way and must turn south or north. No, not north for I see two coming
from that direction. We are nearly surrounded and our only hope is south.
I see the edge south, but it is a mile farther away than west. But we will
make it. I don’t see any of the demons coming from that direction. Our
machine is roaring at full speed, but we are not making over fifty or
sixty miles in this rarefied air. The demons of this upper air are flying
twice as fast and now there are nearly a dozen close on our trail and
swiftly gaining.... We are near the edge and our danger is over. A minute
more and we would have been lost, for now there are two monsters in front
of us. We are surrounded, but we will reach the edge and will head down
like a bullet before they can get near enough to head us off. Their
screams are bringing other monsters from all directions.

“Just passed one of those hideous flying devil-fish and see another ahead
and above us. We are just at the edge and are tipping down for our long
dive. Will be with you in a few---- Dex, Dex, look out for the devil-fish.
For God’s sake, look, Dex---- Oh, God, too late-- We are done. Our
propeller is shattered, we are falling. Look out below-- No, we have
fallen on the edge of the island. We are tearing through. No we have
stopped. God, we are in a fix. The devil-fish flung itself at us and into
our propeller and wrecked it and blocked the controls and we fell straight
down. We are within a few hundred feet of the edge, the weight of the
machine has sunk us until we rest in a sloping crater about fifty feet
deep. The monsters are arriving and flying in circles above us. Our motor
is quiet and when we raise our receivers, the screams and snapping of
their giant beaks almost deafen us. Our only hope now is to reach the edge
and trust ourselves to our safety parachutes.”

For several minutes the horns were quiet and the people jammed around them
listening for further word from the two men in the void above. They
whispered together in low under-tones and every minute or so their eyes
traveled upward in an attempt to pierce the blind of the miles distance.
But in vain. At last--it seemed hours, though it was only a few
minutes--the voice came again.

“We took our parachutes from their holders on the side of the machine and
started up to the top of the sink-hole we are in. The monsters began to
come closer as we neared the top and one made a dive for us, so we
retreated to the machine. They seem to be afraid to come into this pit we
are in. We found a place on one side of the pit where the vegetable has
been pulled until it has pulled apart and we can see below. We are going
to this hole now and enlarge it sufficiently to enable us to drop
through--all is clear below--so good-bye, but watch for us to come sailing
down soon. We are carrying oxygen tanks with us to breathe.”

The voice ceased and the crowd began to watch above for any specks that
might turn out to be the two men and their parachutes. Many minutes
passed, then the voice came, a voice filled with a tone of despair and
terror.
