
“They got poor Dexter. He went first, after we had enlarged the hole, and
before he had dropped five hundred feet a dozen of the monsters were after
him. Helpless in the parachute, they dived on him and dragged him up to
the top of the island and tore him to shreds. Now they are screaming and
snapping their beaks above this pit and are swooping nearer and nearer.
Their taste of blood seems to have made them wilder. I will fight them
from the cockpit and if I can hold out until night, I might drop through
the hole and escape in the darkness. I have broken a spar loose for a
club. They are coming closer. I struck at that one. It just missed my
head. They are gathering in a bunch. They are diving for me in one mass.
I’m lost--Good-bye.”

A shriek of a man in mortal agony and terror rang out in the air, followed
by a shriek from the crowd. Then all was still. The people knew all was
over in the far upper air. Men stood gazing upward, ghastly white, while
women buried their faces in their hands and wept.

A dull thud was heard at the far side of the infield and people began to
gather there on a run. A hole showed where something had fallen with
enough force to bury itself. Hurriedly digging, they unearthed an oxygen
tank, one of the tanks that Kidwell and Dexter had taken up with them. A
cry from some people as they pointed aloft drew thousands of eyes in that
direction. Fluttering and falling, something was coming down. Several
hands grabbed it as soon as it came within reach. One uttered a cry and
let go. He held up his hands in horror. They were wet with fresh blood.

A broken and torn part of an aeroplane wing, spattered with red blood,
fell. Kidwell and the aeroplane must have been torn to pieces by the
demons of the far upper air, and the tank and pieces of the plane
scattered over the edge of the floating vegetable island, must have fallen
to earth.

Another shout and once more all looked aloft. The air was full in all
directions with thousands of fluttering pieces that looked like paper.
When they fell among the crowd a shout of surprise went up.

“Money--Money--One dollar bills.”

Over the ground for miles around the Fair Grounds there fell a shower of
one dollar bills. This was the last thing ever heard or seen of the two
men and the aeroplane.

A few weeks later Pemberton and the President of the State Fair were
talking in the President’s office. The President spoke:

“I have had two different planes up since Kidwell and Dexter were lost.
The men went armed with shot guns and prepared for trouble. They were
unable to find any upward current of air and they cruised all around in
search of it. I am informed, though, that such a current would not
necessarily always be in the same place, else it might stop altogether,
just like winds near the earth. I have given up hope of anybody reaching
the scene of the awful tragedy above.”

“If there ever was an awful tragedy above,” Pemberton added. The President
looked at him in blank surprise.

“What?”

“I say if there ever was an awful tragedy above--if Kidwell and Dexter
ever did get over two or three miles high.”

“What? Don’t you think that Kidwell and Dexter were killed by the monsters
many miles above the earth, as they described? Why do you think they
weren’t?”

Pemberton slowly answered:

“I don’t know what to think. There is no reason for my doubting the truth
of their death miles above the earth. I have gone over it all hundreds of
times, yet I can not make up my mind whether far above float the remains
of two of the bravest men, or whether far away on the earth’s surface are
two of the slickest rascals that ever lived. Did what Dexter described
really happen or did they fly above out of our sight and concoct the
story? Did they cast down an oxygen tank, smear blood on a piece of plane
that they might have taken with them for the purpose, and cast it down to
fool us? A small cut on a finger might have furnished the blood, and they
might have cast down part of the stolen money. Why did only one dollar
bills come down? Where are the half-million dollars of large bills? They
could be floating far above with the wrecked plane. Where is the upward
whirlwind? Still, it might have moved or died out. We might have listened
to one of the most awful death struggles, or we might have been the
victims of one of the cleverest jokes ever played on the public. And the
men escaped with half a million dollars. Who knows?

                                 THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the Winter Edition, 1928 issue
of _Amazing Stories Quarterly_ magazine.]

