
He awoke to the sound of running feet. He sat up in bed and looked
towards the door of the small white room in which he was confined. It
was partly open, and the sound of clattering soles and shrill young
voices came through clearly.

The door slammed open, startling him. A hoydenish youngster gaped at
him. There was a flat lock of reddish hair over his forehead, and his
face was freckled.

"Hoy," he said. "What's the matter with _you_?"

Ron stared back wordlessly.

"You sick or something?" the boy said, edging into the room.

"No." His own voice, strange and reedy, frightened him. "No, I'm all
right."

"Andy!" A tall man with a frowning face appeared behind the boy. "Come
on, fella. Let's not waste any time." He looked at Ron. "You the new
chap?"

"Yes."

"Feel well enough for some breakfast?"

"I guess so."

"Fine. Then get some clothes on and come along."

"Hoy," the freckle-faced boy said curiously. "You play airball?"

"That's enough of that." The man paddled the boy's rump. "Get along,
Andy. You'll have plenty of time to get acquainted later."

The boy giggled and ran down the hall. Ron got out of bed slowly, and
walked towards the undersized clothing that was draped on a nearby
chair. He slipped into a gray coverall and said: "Listen--can I talk to
you?"

The man looked at his watch. "Well ... all right, I suppose. But only
for a minute. I promised the boys a game this morning; I'm Mr. Larkin,
the athletic director."

Ron hesitated. "Mr. Larkin, I--where am I?"

"Don't you know?" Even the man's smile was half a frown. "You're at
Roverwood Home for Boys. Didn't they tell you that?"

"No," Ron said carefully. "I--I don't seem to remember very much. How I
got here, I mean."

"Dr. Minton brought you in last evening. He's one of our directors."

"Oh." Ron laced on the tiny scuffed shoes. "And where's Dr. Minton now?"

"Gone back to the city. He's a busy man. Hear they've got him working
on some big government project. Well, come on, Ronnie. Breakfast's
waiting."

"Yes, sir," Ron Carver said.

He followed the tall man down the hall, having trouble guiding the
short stumpy legs that were now his own. They entered a communal dining
room, filled with the clatter of dishes and the laughter of boys. He
was brought to a long table and seated beside Larkin. The other boys
greeted him with only mild interest, but the freckle-faced youth at the
other end dropped him a broad wink.

He ate sparingly, choking on the food, his mind working. It was the
longest nightmare of his life, and the moment of awakening seemed too
far off for comfort.

Then Larkin was standing up and rattling a spoon against a water glass.

"Fellas," he said, "all those interested in this morning's airball
game will assemble on the field in half an hour after breakfast. Please
don't volunteer unless you're able to handle a PF. Everybody else is
invited to see the game."

He sat down, amid cheers. He smiled sadly at Ron, and asked: "How about
you, Ronnie? Can you operate a PF?"

"Of course," he answered, without thinking. He'd been using Personal
Flyers since he was old enough to dream about flight. On his tenth
birthday, his father had bought him one of the earliest models, a
cumbersome machine then called a "platform". Since that day, he
had become familiar with every man-made thing that flew, from the
double-rotored PF's to the sixty-rocket space liners.

"Fine," Larkin said cheerfully. "Then maybe you'd like to play the
game."

Ron Carver looked up sharply. _Play the game...._

"Sure, Mr. Larkin," he said, forcing his eagerness.

Half an hour later, they were assembled on the huge lawn outside of the
main building of Roverwood Home for Boys. The long row of PF's, looking
like chrome-plate pot-bellied stoves, gleamed in the morning sun. The
boys began to run when they saw their Flyers, and Ron found his arm
taken by the freckled youth who had entered his room.

"Hoy," he said. "Follow me. I'll pick you out a lively one!"

The redhead clambered inside a machine marked Seven, and Ronnie
followed his instructions by choosing the vehicle marked Nine. They
secured themselves inside, and tested the jet tube set in front of the
Flyer. The boys took off from the ground in perfect unison, the redhead
bellowing out an introduction over the sound of the wind roaring past
their ears.

The PF's descended on a blast from Mr. Larkin's whistle, congregating
in the center of the field. Teams were chosen, and Andy was picked as
Captain of the Odds. A coin was tossed to decide the playing sequence,
and they were ready.

Larkin released the first airball, and the two teams streamed up after
it. Andy gunned the engine and reached the ball first. He sent it
scooting thirty yards ahead of him with the blast of the airjet pipe,
but a member of the Evens team was there to veer it off to the left.
Another Evens man, a burly youth of fourteen, took command of it,
neatly getting the airball in the sight of his airjet and cork-screwing
it towards the goalpost. Ron had grown too old before the game of
airball had become popular with the nation's youngsters, but he had
seen enough action to have learned some tricks. He pointed his PF
directly for the Even machine, and kept coming. The burly youth looked
up, startled at the onslaught, and pulled his Flyer away. The fact that
the PF's were magnetically collision-proof didn't matter; it was pure
instinct. Ron captured the ball in his airjet pipe, and shouted for
Andy to block his path towards the goal.

The Odds scored, and the two teams descended for a rest. Andy, the
grin wide on his brown-spotted face, said: "You're okay, Ronnie! Hoy, I
mean it. You're okay!"

"Thanks," Ron said. He found himself panting.

The game resumed. It ended in a 3-2 score, favor of the Odds. Andy and
Ron were cheered as they left the Flyers and headed for the communal
showers of the Roverwood Home for Boys.

In the stall, Ron Carver looked down at the spindly frame that was now
his body, and began to weep. Andy heard him, but said nothing. Then
they dressed and ambled back to the main house, sharing the awkward
silence of new friends.

Finally, the older boy said: "I don't mean to butt in, Ronnie. But is
somethin' the matter?"

"I--I don't know, Andy. I'm all mixed up. I don't even know how I got
here."

"That's easy. Dr. Minton brought you."

"But where is he now, Andy? Dr. Minton? It's very important that I see
him."

Andy shrugged. "Not much chance of that. Dr. Minton only comes around
once, twice a year.

"But I have to see him! Right away! Will they call him for me?"

"Gosh. I don't think so. He's some kind of big shot in the government
now."

They flopped on the grass, and Andy tore out a ragged clump and chewed
on it blankly. Ron said: "Andy, I'm in trouble. I need some help."

"No kidding?"

"Yes!" He brought his voice to a whisper. "Andy--what if I told you
that I was really--" He stopped, and examined the open, innocent face
in front of his eyes. He knew that it would be useless to tell the
truth. "Skip it," he said.

"I don't get you. What's on your mind, Ronnie?"

"Nothing, Andy. I just have to get away from here."

"But you can't. I mean, not until they let you. It's the rules."

"Andy--how long have you been here?"

The boy thought a moment. "Almost nine years," he said blissfully.
"Since my folks got killed."

"How long do you have to stay?"

"Why, 'til I'm old enough to work. Eighteen, I guess."

_Only six years to go_, Ron thought sourly.

He stood up.

"Andy--where do they put the PF's?"

"In the shed."

"Is it possible to get one out?"

"'Course not. Only when we play the game."

"And when will we play another game?"

"Dunno. Tomorrow maybe. It's Sunday."

_Play the game._ Ron said to himself.
