
Ron Carver watched the back of the young boy's neck for twenty minutes,
while he steered the ancient copter expertly across the skies. He
figured that the boy might have been fourteen or fifteen, but there
was a competence in the way his hands moved over the controls, and a
steeliness in the way his head sat on his thin neck.

They didn't make much conversation, but Ron gathered that the boy was a
member of something called the Red Rockets, an organization with some
inexplicable purpose.

It was only after the copter had landed on the roof of a half-decayed
slum in the worst part of town, that Ron realized who the Red Rockets
were. They were kids, all of them, banded together for mutual defense
and in common antagonism toward the world. When he clambered out of the
copter, his rescuer grinned and said:

"This is it, pal. This is where the gang meets."

"The Red Rockets?"

"Yeah. This is Shock's house. He's the leader."

They had to descend by stairs; there was no building elevator. When
they reached the second floor, the boy put a finger to his lips, and
rapped one-two, two-two on the apartment door.

A boy no older than Ron's new body opened it. His dark pinched face
grew smaller and darker when he saw the stranger. He looked back into
the room before letting them in.

The room was a study in decay. Someone had once wallpapered it in an
optimistic pink pattern that was now sardonic in the surroundings. The
furniture was rudimentary, and there were no working light fixtures. A
battery lamp was sitting in the middle of a wooden table, and three
youngsters were playing with a ragged deck of cards.

The tallest of them arose when the newcomers entered. He was the only
one wearing a jacket; the others were in shirtsleeves. His hair was
black, and unruly to the point of being ludicrous. His wide mouth
twisted when he spoke.

"Who's this?" he said. "What's the idea?"

"He's okay," Ron's protector said. "He's an okay kid. I spotted him on
a rooftop down on Park. A million cops after him. I dropped down in the
copter and picked him up."

The tall boy studied Ron's face. "What's your name?"

"Ron."

"What were the cops chasin' you for?"

Ron hesitated. "Any of your business?"

The tall boy smiled. "Maybe not." He looked towards the others, and
winked as if pleased. "Guess he's okay." He held his right hand out to
Ron, while his left ducked into his jacket pocket. "My name's Shock,
pal. And I'm the leader here. And just so's you don't forget it--"

Pain lanced through Ron's arm and struck the base of his skull. He
tried to free himself from the tall boy's grip, but his fingers
wouldn't part from the other's flesh. He dropped to his knees in agony,
until the grip was broken.

He looked up, his face damp.

"That's your 'nitiation," the tall boy grinned. "Now you know what's
what, Ronnie boy. So if you want to join the Rockets, you'll know where
your orders come from."

Shock helped him to his feet. "Right, Ronnie boy?"

Ron shook his head, still bewildered.

"Good deal," Shock said. "Now let's finish that game. You play, kid?"

"No," Ron said. He staggered towards a wooden chair on the side of the
room and dropped on it heavily. "No," he repeated, still trying to
regain his breath.

_Play the game...._

His rescuer sat beside him. "Don't mind that guy," he whispered. "He
does that to everybody. He got some kind of a power in his hands. But
he's not a bad guy. Honest."

"Sure," Ron said weakly.

"We get a lot of kicks," the boy said eagerly. "You'll see. We have
dogfights with the other gangs. With copters. We only got one, that
ain't so much. But we're figurin' on gettin' some PF's next year, if we
can collect enough dough in the treasury...."

"That'll be great," Ron said. Then he dropped his hand on the other's
arm. "Listen--is there any chance of takin' a trip? In the copter?"

"Yeah, sure," the boy said warily. "Only you gotta ask for it in
advance. I mean, it's Rocket property, and you gotta sign for it. And
even then, if Shock wants to use it--well...."

"Why?" Ron said. "Why's that? Because he's the leader?"

"Sure," the boy said simply. "That's the reason."

Ron looked across the room at the card players.

"How do you get to be the leader?"

"I dunno. Shock's the leader 'cause he can lick anybody in the Rockets.
That makes sense, don't it?"

"Yes. I suppose so." He chewed his lip. "Listen. Let's say _I_ was
leader. Could I use the copter then? Any time I wanted?"

"Sure. I mean, if you're the leader, who's gonna stop you?"

"Yes," Ron said. He stood up and walked to the table, watching the
cards as they were slapped on the wood.

"Hey, Shock," he said.

The tall boy didn't look up. "What is it?"

"You cheat." A thrill ran through Ron's new body as he said it, and he
muttered a small prayer that his guess about Shock's power was correct.

"I _what_?"

"I've been watching you play, and you cheat. You don't even cheat good.
You cheat sloppy."

The tall boy stood up slowly, and the other chairs were scraped back in
anticipation.

"Now that's something," he said. "That's really something! The kid's
here ten minutes, and right away he wants to be buried." His face
became grim. "Boy, we've had 'em wise before, pal. But never like this."

Ron planted himself in front of him.

"So?" he said.

Shock's face clouded. "Say, are you kidding? You really like trouble
that bad?"

His right hand lashed out, while the left headed for his jacket pocket.
But it wasn't the right that Ron avoided. Both of his short arms shot
out towards the tall boy's left, and stopped the descent of the arm.
Shock's right hand thudded against Ron's shoulder, the blow only
stinging him.

"Hey!" Shock cried. "Hey, you--"

It was a triumph for Ron. He had been right about the electrical
circuit woven through Shock's clothing, the circuit he couldn't
complete without his left hand tripping the mechanism in his pocket.
With the power off, Shock's weapon was useless. He was caught by
surprise, and Ron's quick-moving hands tumbled him to the floor.

Before he had a chance to do anything else, Ron was upon him with an
upraised chair. He closed his eyes before he swung. The sound of the
crash might have sickened him in other circumstances; now it sounded
good and satisfying.

Ron looked around the room, panting.

"I'm the leader now," he said. "Understand? I'm the leader!"

The looked at each other uncertainly.

"I'm taking the copter for a while," Ron said, backing towards the
door. "Any arguments?"

Nobody answered.

"Swell. So long, pals."

Outside the door, he ran all the way back to the roof and was off
before the gang could follow.

The trip took almost two hours. Even Ron's experienced guidance of
the controls couldn't push the old copter past its limits, and he was
keeping a worried eye on the fuel gauge. It was with a sigh of relief
that he dropped the vehicle atop a public parking station in the
downtown district, within walking distance of the Government Medical
Center.

The sun was dropping fast, and the Washington streets were still filled
with Sunday sightseers who found nothing odd in the sight of a solitary
twelve-year-old. When he entered the enormous U-shaped edifice that
housed a hundred and one government medical projects, he was thinking
fast about a plausible story for the receptionist. The best he could do
was:

"I'm looking for Dr. Wilfred Minton. He--he's my uncle."

"Dr. Minton?" She was young, and the efficient type. "I'm sorry, but
Dr. Minton's been on special assignment for some time. It's not easy to
locate him."

"Oh, I know about that," Ron said airily. "But I was supposed to see
him today. You see, my mom--his sister that is--she was in a very bad
accident...." He swallowed hard, wondering if he was being believed.

The woman frowned. "Well, if it's an emergency, I suppose I could check
with central control. If it's really important."

"Oh, it's important, all right!" He said this with great conviction.

"Very well, then." She picked up her telephone, and there was much
transferring from party to party. Finally, she lowered the receiver,
saying: "He's in the east wing. It's Security territory, so I'll have
to see about a pass."

It took another ten minutes for her to locate the authority she was
seeking. A young man with crinkly hair and a grim expression came
briskly to the desk, asked him a few questions, and then signed his
name on a document. Ron put the paper into the pocket of his coveralls,
and followed the man to a bank of private elevators.

The man waved him inside one, and he couldn't resist a wide-eyed
question.

"Gosh, mister. Are you from the FBI?"

The man couldn't conceal a small pleased grin. "That's right, son. Only
you keep it a secret."

"Sure," Ron said. When the door closed and the elevator ascended, he
grinned too. Being twelve had its advantages sometimes.

He got off the elevator, and a uniformed guard checked his paper and
led him into an anteroom.

"You wait here, son," he said, and left.

Ron waited five minutes. When nothing happened, he tried an adjoining
door. It was open. He stepped inside the next room, and saw that it was
a bare room with nothing but a row of filing cabinets and an abandoned
swivel chair with a definite list to port.

He went to the files and peered at the designation cards.

They read:

                           PROJECT SCHOLAR.

He shrugged, and tried to open the top file. It was locked. He tried
the others, with no better luck.

Then he heard the voices in the anteroom.

For some reason, he sensed danger. He knew he shouldn't be in the file
room, that if he were found his visit to Dr. Minton might come to a
sudden end. He couldn't take the chance. He tiptoed to the front door
of the file room and turned the knob. He slipped out, and ran on his
toes down the empty corridor.

Quickly, without thought of the consequence, Ron opened still another
door and closed it behind him.

He looked at the shining brass fixtures and ultra modern appliances,
and wondered what a kitchen was doing in a government medical building.
Then, when he heard a sound in the adjoining room, he reasoned that he
had stumbled into someone's living quarters.

He went to a brown mahogany door and pushed against it gently, until he
widened the crack sufficiently to make out the figure walking up and
down in the other room.

When the man crossed his line of vision, Ron's breath tumbled out in a
gasp.

It was his own body. His thirty-year-old body, with its six-foot-two
frame of big bones and long muscles, its sandy, close-cropped hair, its
brooding eyes and full mouth. It was Ron Carver. It was himself as he
had been before.

"Here's the little rascal," a voice said behind him.
