
The laboratory was in the basement of the building, an antiseptic room
with the acrid odor of chemicals. Dr. Luther prepared something in a
hypodermic syringe, while Dr. Minton strapped his former patient onto
a padded examining table.

"Doctor ..." Ron whispered.

"Hush, Ron. It's all right...."

"But what is all this? Who am I?"

The doctor frowned. "You're Ronald Carver. You're the same Ronald
Carver you always were. But you have made an exchange of bodies. That
is all."

"But why? How?"

"I don't really know. God help us. It was _his_ project from start to
finish--that thing upstairs."

"Who is he?"

"A phenomenon. A mutation. A freak. A genius. A god. I can't explain
him. He was born twelve years ago, to normal parents in the middle
west. He was a recognized prodigy at the age of six months, a
mathematical wizard at one, a scientific genius at three.... You've
heard of this kind of thing, Ron. Once a generation, something like
this. And once a millenium--a horror like this one."

"I don't understand! What is Project Scholar?"

"He is. All by himself. The government has taken charge of his
abilities, at least for the time being." He snorted. "He's already done
things I wouldn't have believed possible in five thousand years of
evolution. And yet he is still only twelve years old...."

"Only twelve?" Ron squirmed in the straps. "Doctor! This body--"

"Yes, Ron. It's his, of course. He grew angry with it; wanted to
discard it, like everything else which doesn't fit his conception of
the fitness of things. It was awkward--a giant's brain in a child's
body. So he developed a solution--an operation, involving the total
transference of electrical energy...."

The doctor's shaggy head bowed. "He needed human help for that. That's
when I was brought in as assistant. And it was my function to select
the perfect body as a temporary house for his ego...."

"Temporary?"

"When this body ages and grows feeble, there will be another. Our
friend has outwitted Death itself."

The doctor looked up, his jaw firm.

"I was instructed to destroy his body when the transference was
completed. I couldn't do it, Ron. I managed to spirit you away where
you would be cared for. It was almost a year before you came to your
senses after the operation. By that time, I didn't know what to do with
you. My first thought was the Roverwood Home, where I am a director,
where you would be lost among many, many boys' faces...."

"But why me, doctor? Why me?"

"I had to choose someone, Ron. It was merely a question of who...."

Dr. Luther entered, priming the needle.

"Ready?" he said.

"One moment." The doctor's hand covered Ron's mouth, and he felt the
contours of a small round pill against his lips. He realized he was
meant to swallow it, and he did.

"Ready now," Dr. Minton said.

Dr. Luther performed the injection.

"Good night, sweet prince," he said gently.
