
DEFINITION AND DEVELOPMENT

Mankind has always loved to tell stories and to listen to them. The most
primitive and unlettered peoples and tribes have always shown and still
show this universal characteristic. As far back as written records go we
find stories; even before that time, they were handed down from remote
generations by oral tradition. The wandering minstrel followed a very
ancient profession. Before him was his prototype--the man with the gift
of telling stories over the fire at night, perhaps at the mouth of a
cave. The Greeks, who ever loved to hear some new thing, were merely
typical of the ready listeners.

In the course of time the story passed through many forms and many
phases--the myth, e.g. _The Labors of Hercules_; the legend, e.g. _St.
George and the Dragon_; the fairy tale, e.g. _Cinderella_; the fable,
e.g. _The Fox and the Grapes_; the allegory, e.g. Addison's _The Vision
of Mirza_; the parable, e.g. _The Prodigal Son_. Sometimes it was merely
to amuse, sometimes to instruct. With this process are intimately
connected famous books, such as "The Gesta Romanorum" (which, by the
way, has nothing to do with the Romans) and famous writers like
Boccaccio.

Gradually there grew a body of rules and a technique, and men began to
write about the way stories should be composed, as is seen in
Aristotle's statement that a story should have a beginning, a middle,
and an end. Definitions were made and the elements named. In the
fullness of time story-telling became an art.

Similar stories are to be found in many different literatures because
human nature is fundamentally the same the world over; that is, people
are swayed by the same motives, such as love, hate, fear, and the like.
Another reason for this similarity is the fact that nations borrowed
stories from other nations, changing the names and circumstances.
Writers of power took old and crude stories and made of them matchless
tales which endure in their new form, e.g. Hawthorne's _Rappaccini's
Daughter_. Finally the present day dawned and with it what we call the
short-story.

The short-story--Prof. Brander Matthews has suggested the hyphen to
differentiate it from the story which is merely short and to indicate
that it is a new species[1]--is a narrative which is short and has
unity, compression, originality, and ingenuity, each in a high
degree.[2] The notion of shortness as used in this definition may be
inexactly though easily grasped by considering the length of the average
magazine story. Compression means that nothing must be included that can
be left out. Clayton Hamilton expresses this idea by the convenient
phrase "economy of means."[3] By originality is meant something new in
plot, point, outcome, or character. (See Introduction III for a
discussion of these terms.) Ingenuity suggests cleverness in handling
the theme. The short-story also is impressionistic because it leaves to
the reader the reconstruction from hints of much of the setting and
details.

[Footnote 1: _The Philosophy of the Short-Story in Pen and Ink_, page
72. (Longmans, Green & Co., 1888.)]

[Footnote 2: _Ibid._]

[Footnote 3: _Materials of Fiction_, page 175. (Doubleday, Page & Co.,
1912.)]

Mr. Hamilton has also constructed another useful definition. He says:
"The aim of a short-story is to produce a single narrative effect with
the greatest economy of means that is consistent with the utmost
emphasis."[4]

[Footnote 4: _Materials of Fiction_, page 173. (Doubleday, Page & Co.,
1912.)]

However, years before, in 1842, in his celebrated review of Hawthorne's
_Tales_[5] Edgar Allan Poe had laid down the same theory, in which he
emphasizes what he elsewhere calls, after Schlegel, the unity or
totality of interest, _i.e._ unity of impression, effect, and economy.
Stevenson, too, has written critically of the short-story, laying stress
on this essential unity, pointing out how each effect leads to the next,
and how the end is part of the beginning.[6]

[Footnote 5: _Graham's Magazine_, May, 1842.]

[Footnote 6: _Vailima Letters_, I, page 147.]

America may justly lay claim to this new species of short narrative.
Beginning in the early part of the nineteenth century there had begun to
appear in this country stories showing variations from the English type
of story which "still bore upon it marks of its origin; it was either a
hard, formal, didactic treatise, derived from the moral apologue or
fable; or it was a sentimental love-tale derived from the artificial
love-romance that followed the romance of chivalry."[7] The first one to
stand out prominently is Washington Irving's _Rip Van Winkle_, which was
published in 1820. This story, while more leisurely and less condensed
than the completely developed form of the short-story, had the important
element of humor, as well as freshness, grace, and restraint, nothing
being said that should not be said.

[Footnote 7: Krapp's _Irving's Tales of a Traveller_, etc. Introduction.
(Scott, Foresman & Co.)]

The next writer in the order of development is Edgar Allan Poe, whose
_Berenice_ appeared in 1835. With it the short-story took definite form.
Poe's contribution is structure and technique; that is, he definitely
introduced the characteristics noted in the definition--unity,
compression, originality, and ingenuity. With almost mathematical
precision he sets out to obtain an effect. To quote from his
before-mentioned review of Hawthorne his own words which are so definite
as almost to compose a formula of his way of writing a short-story and
are so thoughtful as to be nearly the summary of any discussion of the
subject: "A skillful literary artist has constructed a tale. If wise, he
has not fashioned his thoughts to accommodate his incidents; but having
conceived, with deliberate care, a certain unique or single effect to be
wrought out, he then invents such incidents--he then combines such
events--as may best aid him in establishing this preconceived effect. If
his very initial sentence tend not to the out-bringing of this effect,
then he has failed in his first step. In the whole composition there
should be no word written of which the tendency, direct or indirect, is
not to the one preestablished design. And by such means, with such care
and skill, a picture is at length painted which leaves in the mind of
him who contemplates it with a kindred art a sense of the fullest
satisfaction. The idea of the tale has been presented unblemished
because undisturbed; and this is an end unattainable by the novel." It
is to be noted that Poe roused interest in his effect by the method of
suspense, that is, by holding back the solution of the plot, by putting
off telling what the reader wants to know, though he continually
aggravates the desire to know by constant hints, the full significance
of which is only realized when the story is done. His stories are of two
main classes: what have been called stories of "impressionistic terror,"
that is, stories of great fear induced in a character by a mass of
rather vague and unusual incidents, such as _The Fall of the House of
Usher_ (1839) and _The Pit and the Pendulum_ (1843); and stories of
"ratiocination," that is, of the ingenious thinking out of a problem, as
_The Mystery of Marie Roget_ (1843). In the latter type he is the
originator of the detective story.

The writings of Nathaniel Hawthorne exhibit the next stage of
development. While lacking some of the technical excellence of Poe by
often not knowing how to begin or how to end a story, by sacrificing
economy or compression, yet he presented something new in making a story
of situation, that is, by putting a character in certain circumstances
and working out the results, as _The Birthmark_ (1843). His stories also
fall into two groups, the imaginative, like _Howe's Masquerade_ (1838),
and the moralizing introspective, or, as they have been called, the
"moral-philosophic," that is, stories which look within the human mind
and soul and deal with great questions of conduct, such as _The
Ambitious Guest_ (1837). Hawthorne was the descendant of Puritans, men
given to serious thought and sternly religious. It is this strain of his
inheritance which is evidenced in the second group. In all his writing
there is some outward symbol of the circumstances or the state of mind.
It is seen, for example, in _The Minister's Black Veil_ (1835).

In 1868 was published _Luck of Roaring Camp_, by Bret Harte. In this
story and those that immediately followed, the author advanced the
development of the short-story yet another step by introducing local
color. Local color means the peculiar customs, scenery, or surroundings
of any kind, which mark off one place from another. In a literary sense
he discovered California of the days of the early rush for gold.
Furthermore, he made the story more definite. He confined it to one
situation and one effect, thus approaching more to what may be
considered the normal form.

With the form of the short-story fairly worked out, the next development
is to be noted in the tone and subject matter. Local color became
particularly evident, humor became constantly more prominent, and then
the analysis of the working of the human mind, psychologic analysis,
held the interest of some foremost writers. Stories of these various
kinds came to the front about the third quarter of the last century.
"Mark Twain" (Samuel Langhorne Clemens), Thomas Bailey Aldrich, and
Frank R. Stockton preeminently and admirably present the humor so
peculiarly an American trait. Local color had its exponents in George W.
Cable, who presented Louisiana; "Charles Egbert Craddock" (Miss M. N.
Murfree), who wrote of Tennessee; Thomas Nelson Page, who gave us
Virginia; and Miss M. E. Wilkins (Mrs. Charles M. Freeman), who wrote of
New England, to mention only the most notable. With psychologic analysis
the name of Henry James is indissolubly linked. _The Passionate Pilgrim_
(1875) may be taken as an excellent example of his work.

By this time the American short-story had crossed to England and found
in Robert Louis Stevenson an artist who could handle it with consummate
skill. He passed it on a more finished and polished article than when
he received it, because by a long course of self-training he had become
a master in the use of words. His stories remind one of Hawthorne
because there is generally in them some underlying moral question, some
question of human action, something concerning right and wrong. But they
also have another characteristic which is more obvious to the average
reader--their frank romance. By romance is meant happenings either out
of the usual course of events, such as the climax of _Lochinvar_, or
events that cannot occur.

The latest stage in the development of the short-story is due to Rudyard
Kipling, who has made it generally more terse, has filled it with
interest in the highest degree, has found new local color, chiefly in
India, and has given it virility and power. His subject matter is, in
the main, interesting to all kinds of readers. His stories likewise
fulfill all the requirements of the definition. Being a living genius he
is constantly showing new sides of his ability, his later stories being
psychologic. His writings fall into numerous groups--soldier tales;
tales of machinery; of animals; of the supernatural; of native Indian
life; of history; of adventure;--the list could be prolonged. Sometimes
they are frankly tracts, sometimes acute analyses of the working of the
human mind.

So in the course of a little less than a century there has grown to
maturity a new kind of short narrative identified with American
Literature and the American people, exhibiting the foremost traits of
the American character, and written by a large number of authors of
different rank whose work, of a surprisingly high average of technical
excellence, appears chiefly in the magazines.

