

NOTES TO "WEE WILLIE WINKIE"

PAGE 196. WEE WILLIE WINKIE: the name is taken from the Scotch poem of
William Miller (1810-1872). Below is given Whittier's familiar version
of the poem:

   Wee Willie Winkie
     Runs through the town,
   Upstairs and downstairs,
     In his nightgown!
   Tapping at the window,
     Crying at the lock,
   "Are the weans in their bed,
     For it's now ten o'clock?"

   "Hey, Willie Winkie,
     Are you coming then?
   The cat's singing purrie
     To the sleeping hen;
   The dog is lying on the floor
     And doesn't even peep;
   But here's a wakeful laddie
     That will not fall asleep."

   Anything but sleep, you rogue!
     Glowering like the moon;
   Rattling in an iron jug
     With an iron spoon;
   Rumbling, tumbling all about,
     Crowing like a cock,
   Screaming like I don't know what,
     Waking sleeping folk.

   "Hey, Willie Winkie,
     Can't you keep him still?
   Wriggling off a body's knee
     Like a very eel;
   Pulling at the cat's ear,
     As she drowsy hums;
   Heigh, Willie Winkie!
     See! there he comes!"

   Wearied is the mother
     That has a restless wean,
   A wee stumpy bairnie,
     Heard whene'er he's seen--
   That has a battle aye with sleep
     Before he'll close his e'e;
   But a kiss from off his rosy lips
     Gives strength anew to me.

"AN OFFICER, etc.": this quotation refers to the time when the holders
of military rank also held social position. AYAH: Anglo-Indian for
"nurse." BABA: Oriental title of respect. SUBALTERN: a commissioned
officer of lower rank than captain, _i.e._ lieutenant. COMPOUND: an
enclosure, in the East, for a residence.

197. COMMISSIONER: a civilian official having charge of a department.
STATION: a military post. MESS: a group of officers who eat together,
hence the officers. RANK AND FILE: the non-commissioned officers and
privates.

198. AFGHAN AND EGYPTIAN MEDALS: it is customary for medals to be struck
off in commemoration of campaigns and for them to be called after the
places in which the campaigns occurred.

199. HUT JAO: native expression equivalent to "go away at once."

200. BELL, BUTCHA: dogs' names. _Butcha_ = butcher.

201. OLD ADAM: it is a religious belief that Adam, supposedly the first
man, committed sin, the tendency to which he handed down to all men as
his descendants. Hence when one does wrong it is said that the Old Adam
comes out. QUARTERS: house or rooms of an officer.

202. BAD MEN: childish name for hostile natives. BROKE HIS ARREST: an
officer under arrest is his own keeper. SAHIB: a term of respect,
equivalent to Mister, used by East Indians toward Europeans.

203. TWELVE-TWO: the unit of measurement of the height of a horse is
called a hand, which is equal to four inches. Hence twelve-two means
twelve hands and two inches. WALER: a horse from New South Wales.

205. PUSHTO: sometimes _Pushtu_, the language of the Afghans.

206. SAHIB BAHADUR: Sahib = Mister. _Bahadur_, title of respect
equivalent to "gallant officer."

207. SPOIL-FIVE: a game of cards. COLOR SERGEANT: in the British army,
he is a non-commissioned officer who ranks higher and receives better
pay than an ordinary sergeant, and, in addition to discharging the usual
duties of a sergeant, attends the colors (the flag) in the field or near
headquarters. PATHANS: (pronounced Pay-tan) an Afghan race settled in
Hindustan and in eastern Afghanistan. DOUBLE: to increase the pace to
twice the ordinary; double-quick.

208. CANTONMENT: (in India pronounced can-tone-ment) part of a town
assigned to soldiers. PULTON: native expression equivalent to "troops."

209. PUKKA: native expression meaning "real," "thorough."




The Academy Classics


The works selected for this series are such as have gained a conspicuous
and enduring place in literature; nothing is admitted either trivial in
character or ephemeral in interest. Each volume is edited by a teacher
of reputation, whose name is a guaranty of sound and judicious
annotation. It is the aim of the notes to furnish assistance only where
it is absolutely needed, and, in general, to permit the author to be his
own interpreter.

All the essays and speeches in the series (excepting Webster's Reply to
Hayne) are printed without abridgment. The plays of Shakespeare are
expurgated only where necessary for school use.

The series is handsomely bound in blue cloth, the page is open and
clear, and the paper of the best quality.


ADDISON. De Coverley Papers.
Edited by Samuel Thurber. Cloth, 35 cents.
This volume contains thirty-seven papers of which twenty have Sir
Roger as the main theme, and seventeen mention him in such a
way as to throw further light on his character.


ARNOLD. Essays in Criticism.
Edited by Susan S. Sheridan. Cloth, 25 cents.
The essays are those on The Study of Poetry, on Keats, and on
Wordsworth.

Rugby Chapel.
Edited by L. D. Syle. (In _Four English Poems_. Cloth, 25 cents.)

Sohrab and Rustum.
Edited by G. A. Watrous. (In _Three Narrative Poems_. Cloth, 30 cents.)


BURKE. Conciliation with the Colonies.
Edited by C. B. Bradley. Cloth, 30 cents.
This book contains the complete speech, and a sketch of the
English Constitution and Government.


BURNS. Selections.
Edited by Lois G. Hufford. Cloth, 35 cents.
The selections are forty-five in number and include The Cotter's
Saturday Night, Tam O'Shanter, The Vision, The Brigs of Ayr,
and all the more familiar short poems and songs.

The Academy Classics--Continued

BYRON. The Prisoner of Chillon.
Edited by L. D. Syle. (In _Four English Poems_. Cloth, 25 cents.)


CARLYLE. Essay on Burns.
Edited by H. W. Boynton. Cloth, 25 cents.

Essay on Boswell's Johnson.
Edited by H. W. Boynton. _Out of print._


COLERIDGE. The Ancient Mariner.
Edited by G. A. Watrous. (In _Three Narrative Poems_. Cloth, 30 cents.)


COWPER. John Gilpin's Ride.
Edited by L. D. Syle. (In _Four English Poems_. Cloth, 25 cents.)


GEORGE ELIOT. Silas Marner.
Edited by W. Patterson Atkinson. Cloth, 30 cents.
The introduction contains a brief life of George Eliot, an account
of the writing of Silas Marner, and a short list of works on the
author.


EMERSON. Select Essays and Poems.
Edited by Eva March Tappan. Cloth, 30 cents.
The Essays are those on Compensation, Self-reliance, and Manners.
There are also nine of the best-known poems. A feature of
the book is the suggestive questions at the bottom of each page
which keep the pupil's attention on the alert and at the same time
aid in the interpretation of the text.


GOLDSMITH. The Vicar of Wakefield.
Edited by R. Adelaide Witham. Cloth, 40 cents.
The introduction to the work contains a Bibliography of the Life of
Goldsmith, a Bibliography of Criticism, a Life of Goldsmith arranged
by topics, a Table of Masterpieces published during his
life, and an appreciation of Goldsmith's style.

The Traveller and The Deserted Village.
Edited by George A. Watrous. (In _Selected Poems_. Cloth, 30 cents.)


GRAY. Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard and The Progress of Poesy.
Edited by G. A. Watrous. (In _Selected Poems_. Cloth, 30 cents.)

The Academy Classics--Continued


IRVING. Life of Goldsmith.
Edited by R. Adelaide Witham. Cloth, 40 cents.
The editor has furnished a life of Irving arranged by topics, with
references to Pierre Irving's life of his uncle. There is also an
arrangement of the text by topics, for convenience in assigning the
reading. The book has a useful list of the works of Irving side
by side with Contemporary American Literature.

Selections from the Sketch-Book.
Edited by Elmer E. Wentworth. Cloth, 35 cents.
This book contains The Voyage, The Wife, Rip Van Winkle,
Sunday in London, The Art of Bookmaking, The Mutability of
Literature, The Spectre Bridegroom, Westminster Abbey, Christmas,
The Stage Coach, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, Stratford-on-Avon,
To My Books, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.


LOWELL. Selections. The Vision of Sir Launfal and Other Poems.
Edited by Dr. F. R. Lane. Cloth, 25 cents.
There are fourteen poems in all, including such passages from the
Fable for Critics as refer to prominent American men of letters.


MACAULAY. Edited by Samuel Thurber.

Essay on Addison.
Essay on Lord Clive.
Essay on Johnson.
Essay on Milton.
Cloth, each, 25 cents.
There is a map of India in the Essay on Clive.

Essay on Chatham.
Boards, 20 cents.

Essays on Milton and Addison.
One volume, cloth, 35 cents.


MACAULAY. Essay on Warren Hastings.
Edited by Joseph V. Denney. Cloth, 40 cents.
This edition will be found especially useful to pupils in composition
who are studying Macaulay for structure. The essay affords conspicuously
excellent illustrations of all four forms of discourse--narration,
description, exposition, and argumentation. The book has a map of India,
a sketch of Macaulay's life, and a bibliography.

The Academy Classics--Continued


MILTON. Minor Poems.
Edited by Samuel Thurber. Cloth, 30 cents.
L'Allegro; Il Penseroso; Comus; Lycidas; Arcades; On the
Nativity; On Shakespeare; At a Solemn Music; Sonnets.

Paradise Lost, Books I and II.
Edited by Henry W. Boynton. Cloth, 30 cents.
This edition has the first two books of Paradise Lost complete and
a resume of the rest of the epic, with quotations of notable passages.
The introduction has two plans and a description of the Miltonic
universe.


POPE. The Rape of the Lock.
Edited by L. D. Syle. (In _Four English Poems_. Cloth, 25 cents.)

An Essay on Criticism.
Edited by George A. Watrous. (In _Selected Poems_. Cloth, 30 cents.)


SCOTT. The Lady of the Lake.
Edited by G. B. Alton. Cloth, 30 cents.

Marmion.
Edited by Mary E. Adams. Cloth, 30 cents.


SHAKESPEARE. Edited by Samuel Thurber.

As You Like It.
Julius Caesar.
Macbeth.
Merchant of Venice.
The Tempest.

Cloth, each, 30 cents.

Hamlet (with Pearson's _Questions on Hamlet_). Cloth, 35 cents.


STEVENSON. Treasure Island.
Edited by W. D. Lewis. Cloth, 50 cents.
This edition has a short introduction and a life of Stevenson.
Very few notes are provided. A complete glossary explains all the
unusual terms used in the story.
The book contains illustrations and a map.


TENNYSON. Enoch Arden.
Edited by G. A. Watrous. (In _Three Narrative Poems_.) Cloth, 30 cents.

Idylls of the King: Selections.
Edited by H. W. Boynton. Cloth, 30 cents.


The Academy Classics--Continued


WEBSTER. Reply to Hayne.
Edited by C. B. Bradley. Cloth, 25 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Four English Poems.
Edited by L. D. Syle. Cloth, 25 cents.
The Rape of the Lock, John Gilpin's Ride, The Prisoner of Chillon,
and Rugby Chapel.

Selected Poems from Pope, Gray, and Goldsmith.
Edited by George A. Watrous. Cloth, 30 cents.
The poems included are Pope's Essay on Criticism, Gray's Elegy and
Progress of Poesy, and Goldsmith's Traveller and Deserted Village.

Three Narrative Poems.
Edited by G. A. Watrous. Cloth, 30 cents.
The Ancient Mariner, Sohrab and Rustum, and Enoch Arden.
A feature of this book is a map, which makes plain the geography
of Sohrab and Rustum.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Literature Note-Book

By Professor F. N. SCOTT, of the University of Michigan, and F. E.
BRYANT, of the University of Kansas. Price, each, 6 cents; per dozen, 60
cents; per hundred, $5.00.

This is a blank-book for book reviews and reports on home reading. On
the front cover are seventeen numbered questions, each suggesting a
possible treatment for the book review. The purpose of these is to
enable the teacher with the least labor to prescribe the scope of the
essay he wishes the pupil to write. The teacher indicates a question, or
series of questions, by number, and the pupil understands that his
review is to answer these questions. There are directions for both
teacher and pupil. On the back cover is a list of books for home
reading.

Journeys in Fiction

By ALFRED M. HITCHCOCK, High School, Hartford, Conn. Paper, 42 pages.
Price, 10 cents.




Select Essays of Macaulay


Edited by SAMUEL THURBER. 12mo, cloth, 219 pages. Price, 50 cents.

This selection comprises the essays on Milton, Bunyan, Johnson,
Goldsmith, and Madame D'Arblay, thus giving illustrations both of
Macaulay's earlier and of his later style. The subjects of the essays
are such as to bring them into close relation with the study of English
Literature.

The notes are intended to help the pupil to help himself. When an
allusion is not easily understood, a note briefly explains it, or at
least indicates where an explanation may be found. In other cases the
pupil is expected to rely on his own efforts, and on such assistance as
his teacher may think it wise to give.




Historical Essays of Macaulay


Edited by SAMUEL THURBER. 12mo, cloth, 399 pages. Price, 60 cents.

This selection includes the essays on Lord Clive, Warren Hastings, and
both the essays on the Earl of Chatham. The text in each case is given
entire. A map of India, giving the location of places named in the
essays, is included.

These essays are annotated on the same principle that is followed in the
notes to the Select Essays.




Select Essays of Addison


With Macaulay's Essay on Addison. Edited by SAMUEL THURBER. 12mo, cloth,
340 pages. Price, 60 cents.

The editor has aimed to bring together such papers from the _Spectator_,
the _Tatler_, the _Guardian_, and the _Freeholder_ as will prove most
readable to youth of high school age, and at the same time give
something like an adequate idea of the richness of Addison's vein. The
_De Coverley Papers_ are of course included. There are seventy
selections in all. They have to do with the Spectator Club, the Stage,
Manners, Politics, Morals, and Religion. There are selections from
Addison's Stories and his Hymns. The book contains also Macaulay's Essay
on Addison.



