
From the entrance of _The Space Room_ came a thumping and a grating
and a banging. Suddenly, sweeping across the dance floor like a cold
wind, was a bass fiddle, an enormous black monstrosity, a refugee from
a pawnbroker's attic. It was queerly shaped. It was too tall, too
wide. It was more like a monstrous, midnight-black hour-glass than a
bass.

The fiddle was not unaccompanied as I'd first imagined. Behind it,
streaking over the floor in a waltz of agony, was a little guy, an
animated matchstick with a flat, broad face that seemed to have been
compressed in a vice. His sandcolored mop of hair reminded me of a
field of dry grass, the long strands forming loops that flanked the
sides of his face.

His pale blue eyes were watery, like twin pools of fog. His
tightfitting suit, as black as the bass, was something off a park
bench. It was impossible to guess his age. He could have been anywhere
between twenty and forty.

The bass thumped down upon the bandstand.

"Hello," he puffed. "I'm John Smith, from the Marsport union." He
spoke shrilly and rapidly, as if anxious to conclude the routine of
introductions. "I'm sorry I'm late, but I was working on my plan."

A moment's silence.

"Your plan?" I echoed at last.

"How to get back home," he snapped as if I should have known it
already.

Hummm, I thought.

My gaze turned to the dance floor. Goon-Face had his eyes on us, and
they were as cold as six Indians going South.

"We'll talk about your plan at intermission," I said, shivering. "Now,
we'd better start playing. John, do you know _On An Asteroid With
You_?"

"I know _everything_," said John Smith.

I turned to my piano with a shudder. I didn't dare look at that
horrible fiddle again. I didn't dare think what kind of soul-chilling
tones might emerge from its ancient depths.

And I didn't dare look again at the second monstrosity, the one named
John Smith. I closed my eyes and plunged into a four-bar intro.

Hammer-Head joined in on vibro-drums and Fat Boy on clarinet, and
then--

My eyes burst open. A shiver coursed down my spine like gigantic mice
feet.

The tones that surged from that monstrous bass were ecstatic. They
were out of a jazzman's Heaven. They were great rolling clouds that
seemed to envelop the entire universe with their vibrance. They held a
depth and a volume and a richness that were astounding, that were like
no others I'd ever heard.

First they went _Boom-de-boom-de-boom-de-boom_, and then,
_boom-de-de-boom-de-de-boom-de-de-boom_, just like the tones of all
bass fiddles.

But there was something else, too. There were overtones, so that John
wasn't just playing a single note, but a whole chord with each beat.
And the fullness, the depth of those incredible chords actually set my
blood tingling. I could _feel_ the tingling just as one can feel the
vibration of a plucked guitar string.

I glanced at the cash customers. They looked like weary warriors
getting their first glimpse of Valhalla. Gap-jawed and wide-eyed, they
seemed in a kind of ecstatic hypnosis. Even the silent, bland-faced
Martians stopped sipping their wine-syrup and nodded their dark heads
in time with the rhythm.

I looked at The Eye. The transformation of his gaunt features was
miraculous. Shadows of gloom dissolved and were replaced by a
black-toothed, crescent-shaped smile of delight. His eyes shone like
those of a kid seeing Santa Claus.

We finished _On An Asteroid With You_, modulated into _Sweet Sally
from Saturn_ and finished with _Tighten Your Lips on Titan_.

We waited for the applause of the Earth people and the shrilling of
the Martians to die down. Then I turned to John and his fiddle.

"If I didn't hear it," I gasped, "I wouldn't believe it!"

"And the fiddle's so old, too!" added Hammer-Head who, although sober,
seemed quite drunk.

"Old?" said John Smith. "Of course it's old. It's over five thousand
years old. I was lucky to find it in a pawnshop. Only it's not a
fiddle but a _Zloomph_. This is the only one in existence." He patted
the thing tenderly. "I tried the hole in it but it isn't the right
one."

I wondered what the hell he was talking about. I studied the black,
mirror-like wood. The aperture in the vesonator was like that of any
bass fiddle.

"Isn't right for what?" I had to ask.

He turned his sad eyes to me. "For going home," he said.

Hummm, I thought.
