
Erik looked up from his easel as Birkala approached. He was a blond
man of noble face and bearing, looking to be Birkala's own age. Yet
this Earthman had lived and traveled the stars before Birkala's great
grandfather was conceived in the womb.

Spira sat nude on the edge of a fountain pool, one knee bent and one
hand dipped gracefully in the sparkling water. She sat patiently
and kept her wide golden eyes fixed on Erik's face, but recognized
Birkala's approach with a faint smile. The sunlight glinted from her
yellow-green hair and burnt orange skin.

Birkala stood at Erik's shoulder, his feet apart and his hands
clasped behind him, and studied the unfinished painting critically.
With a sure, light brush, Erik had captured the innocence of a young
woman seated by a fountain. The style was so simple as to be almost
calligraphic, yet a few lines and spots of paint portrayed to the eye
the long curve of Spira's thigh, the tilt of her breasts, the candor
and loveliness of her face.

Birkala's eyes dropped from the canvas to Erik's seated figure, and
his expression altered from unwilling admiration to defiant scorn. The
Earthman's short-sleeved smock was agape and exposed Erik's perfectly
muscled body to the warm sunshine.

"Why are Earthmen so obsessed with nudity?" demanded Birkala. Birkala
himself wore loose trousers, shiny boots with curled toes, a shirt
with flowing sleeves, a scarf about his throat. Beneath this was
under-clothing.

"We are not obsessed with nudity, Birkala," replied Erik gently. "The
human body is natural and it is beautiful. We see nothing shameful
about it, and we wear clothing only when needed for protection against
the elements."

"That is all right for you to say. It would be all right for me to
believe. But can you say a hunched body like Direka's is beautiful?"

"Not to unsympathetic eyes, perhaps. Poor Direka! But there will be a
day when on Orcti, as on Earth, no one is born with a deformed body."

Birkala sat down on a rock, crushing a bunch of purple minita flowers
beside it.

"Always in the future," he said bitterly. "Always promises, in the dim,
distant future. You Earthmen know many things and have many things
that you promise us, but why must these promises always be for our
grandchildren's grandchildren?"

"We found you in mud huts, and now you live in clean cities," reproved
Erik, beginning to wipe his brushes clean. "We found you driving oxen,
and now you ride spaceships to the other planets of your system."

"Your lives are centuries long, and ours are three-score and ten,"
countered Birkala. "It is true we have spaceships, but you step into a
beam transmitter and cross the galaxy in seconds."

"That is because you are not ready," replied Erik mildly.

Birkala sat silent, his anger building up in him. Spira, seeing that
Erik was finished with painting for the moment, arose in a graceful
flow of motion and came to them. She stood beside Erik, one hand on his
shoulder, and studied the canvas without speaking.

"You're the only Earthman on all Orcti," Birkala began again. "Since I
was a child I've heard of Erik, the Earthman who lives in the garden in
the heart of the city. Since I was a child I've heard that Erik, the
Earthman, watches over us like a noble god. Why do you really stay on
Orcti, Erik? To prevent us from progressing too swiftly and challenging
the position of Earth?"

"Why do you carp at Erik?" demanded Spira, and there was a note of
anger to her soft voice. "Erik has always been a friend to us,
Birkala."

"Ah, yes, and especially a friend to pretty little Spira," replied
Birkala with deep irony. "She is my sister, Erik. Should I be honored
that the great Earthman takes my sister as a mistress?"

Spira flushed, for the term "mistress" was not a respectable one on
Orcti.

"I love Spira, like a daughter and a wife at once," said Erik. "I think
you know that, Birkala. No one was happier than you when she came to
me. I do not marry her because I am forbidden to be bound by the laws
of Orcti, but I shall cherish her all of her life."

"Yes. I know the schedule. And then another young woman shall grace the
garden of the always-young Earthman. How nice for the Earthman!"

"Why are you so savage today, Birkala?" asked Spira, genuinely puzzled.
"I know that you have been restless for a long time, but we knew as
children that other women had been in my place long before I was born."

"Birkala is angry because he is a good scientist," explained Erik
with an understanding smile. "Birkala thought yesterday that he had
discovered the principle on which the beam transmitter is based, and
I showed him that his theory is wrong. He is angry with himself for
having been mistaken."

Birkala spat into the fountain.

"I am not so sure I was wrong," he retorted. "I think it could be that
you tried to direct me away from my theory because you don't want me to
find the truth."

He turned and strode from the garden, frowning, his face hot.

Turning right from the garden gate along the street, he passed in front
of Erik's house, which was flush with the sidewalk. As he did so, he
was surprised to see the door ajar and Direka sitting in it.

Direka evidently had been waiting for Birkala to appear. He rose
quickly, almost stumbling down the steps, and gestured eagerly at
Birkala.

"Come quickly, Birkala!" he chattered. "I have found a way into the
part of the Earthman's house which is forbidden!"
