
Birkala hesitated, then followed the crooked little man into Erik's
house.

Erik kept his house open. It was never locked, and Birkala had never
heard that anyone had had the temerity to try to rob or harm the
mysterious Earthman. Anyone could walk in or out, but few did without
invitations, for the people of Orcti held Erik in awe.

But the rear portion of the house was without windows or doors. It was
not too apparent from the outside, but Birkala had been in Erik's
house many times and had discovered long ago that there was a large
section of it closed and inaccessible.

As fast as his short legs could move, Direka led Birkala through the
simply furnished house. Birkala followed easily, and smiled. Direka was
like a monkey; he was not bright, but he was clever and eager.

In Erik's bedroom, Direka stopped, panting, and pointed triumphantly
at the rear wall. There was a great crack in it, near Erik's bed. A
section of the wall was a secret door, and it had been left ajar.

"Good fortune!" breathed Birkala, his eyes sparkling. "I have wondered
for a long time what was behind that wall."

He pushed the door wider and went through the opening, Direka crowding
at his heels. It was very dark, the only light coming through the crack
from the bedroom. Birkala could see nothing.

He felt about the walls for a switch, without success.

"I wonder how one turns on the light in here?" he said to Direka.

At the word "light", light sprang into being all around them. It was a
soft, indirect illumination which appeared to have no source and cast
no shadow.

They were in a sort of corridor which paralleled the wall through
which they had just come. On the opposite wall of this hallway were
banks of dials and charts and switches, and in the center of this
opposite wall was an open doorway.

Cautiously, Birkala and Direka moved down the corridor and peered
through the open door. It gave entrance to a square room, which was
lighted with the same sort of illumination as the hall.

There was nothing in the room. There were just four walls, a ceiling
and a floor. There was no furniture. There were no windows and there
was no other door.

"A strange thing!" muttered Birkala. "Erik does not retire to this
place, for he is always around the house. I have walked into his
bedroom and found him asleep. What is the purpose of this room?"

"Perhaps a dungeon," darkly suggested Direka, who was a devotee of
adventure pictures at the theaters.

Birkala backed away from the door and studied the array of dials and
switches. As Erik had said, Birkala was a good scientist. Birkala
was thoroughly familiar with the nervous and intestinal workings of
spaceships. He had made several trips to other planets in Orcti's
system, and had made several contributions of his own to the science of
rocketry and astrogation.

He whistled softly between his teeth.

"We've found it, Direka!" he exclaimed to his companion. "This is the
beam transmitter that Erik has kept hidden so carefully. This is the
control panel, and the room undoubtedly is the transmitter itself."

Direka looked puzzled, then brightened.

"Now we can go to Earth? Yes, Birkala?" he chirped.
