
Birkala inspected the control panel carefully. The charts were
star-charts, etched on metal under glass. Below each was a series of
dials, and Birkala deduced that these dials set the coordinates on the
charts, establishing the destination. He recognized the configurations
of the heavens from Orcti.

"Yes, Direka, I think we could," he said. "But then the Earthmen would
know we had been meddling. If we should go, we should go here, I think."

He stabbed a finger at one of the charts, at a star on the outer edge
of the inhabited portion of the galaxy.

"The inhabited planet in this system is no more advanced than Orcti,"
he said. "If I could go there, I could perhaps evade discovery by the
Earthman there. But we certainly shall not risk going anywhere until I
learn more about the operation of this machine."

Birkala was too good a scientist not to realize that grave danger was
involved in tinkering with an unfamiliar machine. But he was too ardent
a scientist and his obsession with the beam transmitter was too strong
for him not to risk danger to himself willingly.

"Direka, you go out into the house, and if you see either Erik or
Spira approaching, warn me quickly," he commanded. "I must study this
machine."

Direka slipped out through the opening, and Birkala turned back to the
control panel. As experienced as he was with machinery and technical
matters, he nevertheless expected to be baffled by this product of
Earth's advanced science.

But the controls were surprisingly simple. There were the destination
coordinates, and Birkala was able to read enough of the square, blocky
Earth writing to discern the designations for _off_ and _on_ beside
what was apparently the control lever. There were some power--or
volume--or perhaps distance--controls about which he was not sure; the
best thing to do about them was not to touch them.

There were no controls in the room itself, so Birkala deduced that one
set the coordinates for one's destination, switched on the machine
and then walked into the room. The room probably acted as both sender
and receiver, and after a time lapse the sending apparatus perhaps
switched off automatically so that the room could receive again.

He pushed aside the chill, disturbing speculation about the controls
of unknown purpose. He set the coordinates firmly for the star system
Denragi, and pushed the switch to the _on_ position.

At first Birkala thought the power source to the machine must be
disconnected. There was no throbbing, no hum, no indication that it had
been activated. Yes, there was one: a bright red spark showed square on
the destination he had set by the coordinates. Denragi shone of its own
light on the control panel.

Encouraged, he stepped to the door of the empty room.

Birkala recoiled, appalled.

He could not see into the room. The luminescence was gone. The room was
absolutely dark.

Yet the darkness was more than the absence of light. It was more, even,
than the utter jet-blackness of intergalactic space. It was an active
blackness, a _presence_ of blackness, and it filled the room to the
very edge of the door, untouched by the normal light from the hallway.

The most frightening thing about it was that he felt an impulse to move
into the room, a strong pull into the room, into the blackness. As he
instinctively resisted, the pull grew stronger.

And then Birkala was terrified. For the pull was so strong that he
could not step back away from the yawning door.

In a semi-daze, he fought with his mind, for the force was not a
physical one. He fought, and he felt his control slipping.

There came a commotion from the bedroom behind him, the sound of
upraised voices. There was Direka's agonized chatter, a shrill protest,
and the firm angry voice of a woman.

He was able to turn his head slightly to see Spira come through the
opening into the hallway.

Birkala could not speak. He tried to warn Spira back with his strained,
stinging eyes. But, unclothed as she had been at the fountain, she
walked purposefully to him.

"Birkala, you know Erik does not wish you tampering with these
forbidden things!" she chided, and laid a restraining hand on his
shoulder.

At her touch, the powerful attractive force drained from Birkala in a
rush. Released, he staggered back and fell against the opposite wall of
the corridor.

But Spira was yanked into the black room like a filing to a magnet, and
vanished utterly.
