
When Spira left him to go into the house, Erik sat for a few moments,
studying his unfinished canvas critically. Now, an arc of pure orange
there, a trace of subdued green there....

A disturbing current intruded from the outer fringes of his mind,
that still undeveloped realm of precognition. There was something ...
something was to happen ... to Spira!

He rose in haste, and strode swiftly into the house.

He encountered the hunchback sneaking from the direction of the
bedroom. At sight of him, Direka broke into an awkward trot toward the
front door. There was something in his face that made Erik speed his
steps.

The hidden panel to the back of the house was open. Erik burst through
it.

The transmitter was on, and its electrical aura hovered ominously
around the door of the transmission room. In the hallway across from
that door, Birkala was struggling to his feet.

Erik seized Birkala in time to prevent him from hurling himself into
the blackness of the activated room.

"Spira!" gasped Birkala. "She was pulled in there!"

With the strength of a giant, Erik hurled Birkala the length of the
corridor.

"Get out!" he roared. "Quickly!"

Erik plunged into the holocaust of hostile blackness.

The room was endless, infinite. It was all space and all beyond space,
and there was no light there for human eyes to see.

There was an alien presence in this nothingness, a vampire presence
that clutched a pathetic, limp figure light-years away, and reached out
toward Erik with its hungry essence.

Erik stood straight in the midst of nothing, his head thrown back,
his yellow hair lifting on the wind that blows between the galaxies.
The questing essence touched him and explored him, blindly unaware of
humanity's challenge to its elemental insistence.

Erik let his mind expand beyond him in a flexing of sure strength. Erik
forced his mind from him in a blaze of anger. Erik attacked with his
mind, magnificent in its unchained and immeasurable power.

The alien force receded, it dwindled, it diminished. It melted before
the strength of Erik's mind, that was a burning, pulsating power like
light, and yet was not light. The vampire essence slowly, reluctantly,
relinquished its distant, doll-like victim and retired in pain beyond
the edges of the galaxies.

In a room that was a room once more, in a room that was yet dark but
lighted to him by the cold fire of his brain, Erik strode to a corner
and lifted the crumpled, unconscious figure of Spira in his arms.
Carrying her tenderly, he left the terrible room.
