
The corridor was empty. Birkala was no longer there.

Erik pulled down the control switch, and the blackness that had sprung
up behind him in the transmission room faded into the harmless air of
Orcti.

Bearing Spira, Erik strode through the house and out into the garden.

Birkala was pacing back and forth near the easel, his face working in
his agitation. Erik approached him, and laid Spira gently on the soft
grass before him. She lay still, the rise and fall of her breasts the
only indication that she lived.

"Is she all right?" choked Birkala, kneeling at her side in an agony of
remorse.

"She is not harmed physically," said Erik, and Birkala gasped with
relief. Erik added: "But you must see the rest of your answer."

He leaned over her and called softly:

"Spira!"

As though awakening from a spell, Spira opened her golden eyes. They
fixed themselves on Erik's sorrowful face, and they widened. She smiled.

But, with growing horror, Birkala realized it was not the smile
of Spira, the sister of his childhood. It carried no message of
recognition nor of intelligence. It was the pitiful smile of
mindlessness.

She gurgled.

Erik helped her to sit up, and she stared about her wonderingly.

"You have looked on me as an alien, Birkala," he said sternly, "but we
are of the same humanity. The mother of your race, too, was Earth. But
while the far-flung children of Earth had to start as pioneers to build
the cultures of their varied worlds, the men of Earth forged ahead
through the millennia in their climb toward whatever estate may one day
be the goal of mankind.

"We of Earth who come to your worlds are watchers to help you avoid
some of the pitfalls we know may divert you from that same path we have
trod, and destroy you. When you think of me as a man, Birkala, you
think of me as one who knows the secret of long life and has a physical
science in advance of your own. But the difference is far more: there
are thresholds beyond the physical which you cannot comprehend, and
beyond these thresholds the man of Earth has gone and explored and
moves ever outward."

"I know this must be true," murmured Birkala brokenly, stroking his
sister's yellow-green hair. "I wronged you, Erik."

"No, you wronged yourself, Birkala, and your people. Because you stand
at the pinnacle of your own science, you thought you could step forward
into ours. Because the words 'beam transmitter' signify technology to
you, you would not understand that no physical means of transportation
could transcend the limiting speed of light. You could not understand
that this thing called, in your language, a beam transmitter, reaches
out into unguessed dimensions.

"Birkala, the reason Earth has not given you the beam transmitter is
not that it is beyond your technological capabilities. It is that you
have not developed in mind and heart to the point where you can cope
with the awful perils of those dimensions, dangers that even we do not
understand fully. As the people of Orcti are impelled to cover their
bodies with clothing, so are they incapable of facing such things with
their naked minds. You could have destroyed your entire world, instead
of just your sister."

There were tears in Birkala's eyes.

"And is she, then, destroyed?" he asked in a low voice.

"She must go home with you," said Erik. "I cannot help her. Slowly she
may recover some of her own personality, and years from now she may be
again part of the woman she was. But Spira is the price you have paid
for your temerity, and she will always be there to remind you of that."

Shaking his head, Birkala arose and urged the girl to her feet. Erik
helped him dress her in the clothing she had worn when she came to the
garden, the saucy skirt and shirt of the women of Orcti. Taking her by
the hand, Birkala started to lead her carefully away.

"Wait, Birkala," said Erik.

He took the canvas from his easel and handed it to Birkala.

"It is yours and you must keep it," he said sadly. "It is like Spira.
It is beauty interrupted before it could fulfill its promise."

