
Surgery Three had some new equipment for the experiment. Bruno’s
collaborator, Andrew Parsons, the atomic physicist, was there, small and
untidy, with a scowling, wrinkled face that looked incongruous under the
surgeon’s cap. There was to be no real surgery; trepanning wasn’t
necessary, but aseptic precautions were taken as a matter of course.

The anesthetist and two other nurses stood ready, and Morrissey, in his
white gown, seemed to have forgotten his worry and had settled down to
his usual quiet competence. Gregson was on one of the tables, already
prepped and unconscious. Intravenous anesthesia would presently
supplement the apomorphine in his system, as it would also be
administered to Bruno himself.

Ferguson and Dale, two other doctors, were present. At worst quick
cerebral surgery might be necessary, if anything went badly amiss. But
nothing could, Bruno thought. Nothing could.

He glanced at the sleek, shining machines, with their attachments and
registering dials. Not medical equipment, of course. They were in
Parsons’ line; he had planned and built them. But the idea had been
Bruno’s to begin with, and Bruno’s psychiatric knowledge had
complemented Parsons’ technology. Two branches of science had met, and
the result would be—a specific for insanity.

Two spots on Bruno’s head had been shaved clean. Parsons carefully
affixed electrodes, which were already in place on Gregson’s skull.

“Remember,” Parsons said, “you should be as relaxed as possible.”

“You took no sedative, Doctor,” Morrissey said.

“I don’t need one. The anesthetic will be enough.”

The nurses moved with silent competence about the table. The emergency
oxygen apparatus was tested. The adrenalin was checked; the sterilizer
steamed on its table. Bruno emptied his mind and relaxed as a nurse
swabbed his arm with alcohol.

Superimposure of the electronic mental matrix of sanity ... psychic
rapport ... the pattern of his sanity-dampers would be fixed
unalterably in the twisted, warped mind of the manic-depressive.

He felt the sting of the needle. Automatically he began counting. One.
Two. Three....

He opened his eyes. The face of Morrissey, intent and abstracted, hung
over him. Beyond Morrissey was the bright ceiling fluorescent, glaring
down with a brilliance that made Bruno blink. His arm stung slightly but
otherwise there were no after effects.

“Can you hear me, Doctor?” Morrissey said.

Bruno nodded. “Yes. I’m awake now.” His tongue was a little thick. That
was natural. “Gregson?”

But Morrissey’s face was growing smaller. No, it was receding. The
ceiling light shrank. _He was falling_—

He shot down with blinding rapidity. White walls rushed up past him.
Morrissey’s face receded to a shining dot far above. It grew darker as
he fell. Winds screamed, and there was a slow, gradually increasing
thundering like an echo resounding from the floor of this monstrous
abyss.

Down and down, faster and faster, with the white walls fading to gray
and to black, till he was blind, till he was deafened with that roaring
echo.

Visibility returned. Everything was out of focus. He blinked, swallowed,
and made out the rectangular shape of a bedside screen. There was
something else, white and irregular.

“Are you awake, Doctor?”

“Hello, Harwood,” Bruno said to the nurse. “How long have I been out?”

“About two hours. I’ll call Dr. Morrissey.”

She stepped out of the room. Bruno flexed his muscles experimentally. He
felt all right. Not even a headache. His vision was normal now. He
instinctively reached for his wrist and began counting the pulse.
Through the window he could see the slow motion of a branch, the leaves
fluttering in a gentle wind. Footsteps sounded.

“Congratulations,” Morrissey said, coming to the bed. “Gregson’s in
shock, but he’s already beginning to come out of it. No prognosis yet,
but I’ll bet a cookie you’ve done it.”

Bruno let out his breath in a long sigh. “You think so?”

Morrissey laughed. “Don’t tell me you weren’t sure!”

“I’m always sure,” Bruno said. “Just the same, confirmation’s always
pleasant. I’m thirsty as the devil. Get me some ice, Ken, will you?”

“All right.” Morrissey leaned out of the door and called the nurse. Then
he came back and lowered the Venetian blind. “Sun in your eyes. That
better? How do you feel, or need I ask?”

“Quite normal. No ill effects at all. Say, you’d better notify Barbara
I’m alive.”

“I already have. She’s coming over. Meanwhile, Parsons is outside. Want
to see him?”

“Sure.”
