
Morrissey stared and chuckled.

“Still not sure you’re awake? I can assure you you are, Doctor. I’m not
going to jump out of the window. And it’s still night, you’ll notice.”

When Bruno didn’t move, Morrissey pinched up a fold of the other’s
forearm between thumb and finger.

“Ouch!” Bruno said. “Thanks.”

“Any time,” Morrissey said cheerfully. “Get some rest now. I’ll be
back.”

He went out with the nurse. Bruno blew out his breath and let his gaze
wander around the room. Everything looked perfectly solid and normal. No
black, thundering abyss lurked under the floor. An unpleasant dream!

He reached for pad and pencil and made careful notes on the curious
double-delusion before he let himself relax. Then he felt the sedative
creeping slowly along his nerves, a warm, pleasant sensation that he was
glad to encourage. He didn’t want to think. Later would be time enough.
The empathy surrogate experiment, Gregson, the physicist Parsons,
Barbara—later!

He drowsed. It seemed only a moment before he opened his eyes to see
sunlight beyond the window. Brief panic touched him, then he looked at
his wrist-watch and was reassured to see that it said eleven o’clock. He
could hear the muffled sounds of the ordinary hospital routine going on
outside door and window. Presently, feeling refreshed, he got up and
dressed.

In Nurse Harwood’s office he telephoned Morrissey, exchanged brief
greetings, and then went to his own office to shower and shave.

He telephoned Barbara.

“Hello, there,” she said. “Morrissey notified me you were doing all
right. So I thought I’d wait till you woke up.”

“I’m awake now. Suppose I come over to the house for lunch?”

“Swell. I’ll be waiting.”

“Half an hour, then?”

“Half an hour. I’m glad you called, Bob. I was worried.”

“You needn’t have been.”

“Was your experiment a success?”

“Can’t tell yet. Keep your fingers crossed.”

Ten minutes later Bruno’s fingers were still crossed as he examined
Gregson. Parsons and Morrissey were present. The physicist kept making
notes, but Morrissey stood silent and watchful.

There was very little to be seen as yet. Gregson lay in his bed, the
shaved spots on his head white against the dark hair, his features
relaxed and peaceful. The typical anxiety expression was gone. Bruno
opened the man’s eyes and flashed his light into them. Contraction of
the pupils seemed normal.

“Can you hear me, Gregson?”

Gregson’s lips moved. But he said nothing.

“It’s all right. You’re feeling fine, aren’t you? You’re not worried
about anything, are you?”

“Headache,” Gregson said. “Bad headache.”

“We’ll give you something for that. Now try to sleep.”

Outside, in the corridor, Bruno tried hard to repress his exultation.
Parsons blinked at him, scowling.

“Can you tell anything yet?”

Bruno checked himself. “No. It’s too soon. But—”

“The manic-depressive phase is passed,” Morrissey put in. “He seems
rational. And he hasn’t been for three years.”

“Those damper bars—” Bruno smiled. “Well, we’ll have to wait and see.
We can’t write up a report yet. He’s certainly oriented. We’ll give him
a chance to rest. More tests later. I don’t want to jump the gun.”

But with Barbara he let himself be more enthusiastic.

“We’ve done it, Barbara! Found a specific for insanity.”

She leaned across the table to pour coffee.

“I thought there were so many types of psychosis that the treatment
varied considerably.”

“Well, that’s true, but we’ve never got to the real basis of the trouble
before. You can cure a cold by rest therapy, force fluids and aspirin,
but cold vaccine gets directly to the root of the trouble. Some types of
insanity have been thought incurable, but tetanus was incurable till we
got a vaccine for it. The empathy surrogate therapy is the lowest common
denominator. It works on the electronic structure of the mind, and
unless there’s physical deterioration, as in advanced paresis, our
treatment should work beautifully.”

“So that’s what you were working on,” Barbara said. “Bob, you don’t know
how glad I am that it’s successful.”

“Well—we hope. We’re almost sure. But—”

“You can take a vacation now? You’ve been working so hard!”

“A few more weeks, and I’ll be ready. I’ve got to collate my notes. I
can’t run out on Parsons at this stage. But very soon, I promise.”
