
He looked up to see her smile. Suddenly he stiffened. Her smile was
broadening, stretching, the lower lip dropping till all her teeth
showed. The lower lids of her eyes hung ... stretched....

Her nose lengthened.

Her eyes slowly crawled out of their sockets and lengthened on dreadful
stalks down her cheeks.

She melted down and out of sight beneath the table.

The table began to sink.

And now everything around him was melting. Under him the chair became
plastic and then fluid. The floor was a bowl, and the walls were
dripping down into it, into a shining whirlpool at the center.

He slipped helplessly along that slope till the pool engulfed him, in a
chaos of thunder and confusion and sickening horror.

The winds bellowed.... The empty drop closed around him.... He
fell in darkness....

This time, when he woke, he wasn’t sure. The panic had not left him. He
learned, later, that he had been semi-delirious for eight days, and only
Morrissey’s unceasing attention had kept him reasonably quiet. Then
there were weeks of convalescence, and a vacation, and it seemed a long
time before he came back from Florida, tanned and healthy, to resume his
duties.

Even then, though, there was the fear.

When he drove toward the blocky buildings of the sanitarium he felt a
touch of it brush him. He reached for Barbara’s hand, and felt some
comfort in the assurance of her nearness. She had been helpful, too,
though she had not understood.

Every day after that, when he left her, there was a fleeting
apprehension lest he never see her again. To forget the uncertainty of
his footing, the ground that was no longer absolutely solid, he plunged
into the hospital’s routine. And gradually, after more weeks, the terror
began to leave him.

Gregson had been cured. He was still under precautionary observation,
but all traces of his psychosis seemed to have vanished. There were
still minor neuroses, the natural result of the past six years of
abnormal restraint, but they were disappearing under proper therapy. The
empathy surrogate treatment was successful. Yet, for a while, Bruno
refused to attempt more experiments.

Parsons was displeased. He was anxious to chart a graph on the process,
and one trial did not provide enough evidence. Bruno kept putting the
physicist off with promises. It eventually ended in a minor spat which
Morrissey halted by pointing out that Dr. Robert Bruno was, technically,
his own patient, and was not yet ready for further research on the
dangerous subject.

Parsons, furious, went off. Bruno followed Morrissey into the latter’s
office and sat down in one of the more comfortable chairs. It was
mid-afternoon, and beyond the windows the drowsy hum of summer made a
peaceful counterpoint to the conversation.

“Cigarette, Ken?”

“Thanks.... Look, Bob.” The two men had drawn closer together in the
last weeks. Morrissey no longer addressed his Chief of Staff with the
former “Doctor.” “I’ve been collating the facts of your case, and I
think I’ve got at the root of the trouble. Do you want to hear my
diagnosis?”

“Candidly, I don’t,” Bruno said, closing his eyes and inhaling smoke.
“I’d prefer to forget it. But I know I can’t. That would be psychically
ruinous.”

“You had a cyclic self-containing dream—I suppose you could call it
that. You dreamed you were dreaming you were dreaming. You know what
your trouble is?”

“Well?”

“You’re not sure you’re awake now.”

“Oh, I’m sure enough,” Bruno said. “Most of the time.”

“You’ve got to be sure all the time. Or else make yourself believe that
it doesn’t matter whether you’re dreaming or waking.”

“Doesn’t matter! Ken! To know that everything may melt away under my
feet at any time, and to think that doesn’t matter! That’s impossible!”

“Then you’ve got to be sure you’re awake. Those hallucinations you had
are over. Weeks have passed.”

“Hallucinatory time is elastic and subjective.”

“It’s a defense mechanism—you know that, I suppose?”

“Defense against what?”

Morrissey moistened his lips. “Remember, I’m the psychiatrist and you’re
the patient. You were psychoanalyzed when you studied psychiatry, but
you didn’t get all the devils out of your subconscious. Hang it, Bob,
you know very well that most psychiatrists take up the work because
they’re attracted to it for pathological reasons—neuroses of their own.
Why did you always insist that you were so utterly sure of everything?”

“I always made sure.”

“Compensation. To allow for a basic unsureness and insecurity in your
own makeup. Consciously you were sure the empathy surrogate treatment
would work, but your unconscious mind wasn’t so certain. You never let
yourself know that, though. But it came out under stress—the therapy
itself.”

“Go on,” Bruno said slowly.
