
Morrissey tapped the papers on his desk.

“I know my diagnosis is pretty accurate, but you can decide that for
yourself. You can tell, perhaps, better than I can. The frontiers of the
mind are _terra incognita_. Your simile of a uranium pile was better
than you’d realized. When critical mass is approached, there’s danger.
And the damper bars in your own mind—what did Parsons’ machine do to
them?”

“I am quite sane,” Bruno said. “I think.”

“Sure you are, now. You’re getting over that explosion. You’d been
building up an anxiety neurosis, and the therapy made it blow off. Just
how, I don’t understand. The electronic patterns of the mind aren’t in
my field. All I know is that the experiment with Gregson removed the
safety blocks from your mind, and you lost control for a while. Thus the
hallucinations, which simply followed the path of least resistance.
Point One: You’re afraid of insecurity and unsureness, and you always
have been. Thus your dream follows a familiarly symbolic pattern. At any
time the sureness of waking may vanish. Point Two: As long as you think
you’re dreaming, you’re dodging responsibility!”

“Good Lord, Ken!” Bruno said. “I just want to be sure I’m awake!”

“And there’s absolutely no way you can be sure of that,” Morrissey said.
“The conviction must come from your own mind and be subjective. No
objective proof is possible. Otherwise, if you fail to convince
yourself, the anxiety neurosis will grow back into a psychosis, and—”
He shrugged.

“It sounds logical,” Bruno said. “I’m beginning to see it pretty
clearly. I think, perhaps, this clarification is what I needed.”

“Do you think you’re dreaming now?”

“Not at the moment—certainly.”

“Swell,” Morrissey said. “Because the conglobulation of the psych
between the forever and upstriding kaleeno bystixing forinder saan—”

Bruno jumped up. “Ken!” he said, dry-throated. “Stop it!”

“Fylixar catween baleeza—”

“_Stop it!_”

“BYZINDERKONA REPSTILLING AND ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS NEVER KNOWING NEVER
KNOWING NEVER KNOWING—”

The words came out in great whirling shining globes. They raced past
Bruno’s head with a screaming hiss. They bombarded him. They carried him
back into a thundering, windy abyss of blackness and terror.
