

A Chinese candlestick is meant to hold, upon a long, upright prong, a
candle painted with very soft red wax, so soft that the finger cannot
touch the paint without blurring and marring it. Otherwise, it is like
Occidental candlesticks in general respects.

Reginald Carefrew, who had plenty of money in his pocket, but who had
left Singapore in something of a real hurry, walked into the Benevolent
Brethren Bazaar in search of silks and pongees to take home to Europe.
The bazaar, which bore no other name, confined itself almost exclusively
to such goods. In the front of the shop, which was upon one of the
half-Dutch streets overlooking the harbor, were strewn about a few
objects of brass, bronze, and the cheap champlevé cloisonné which are
made for tourists.

Almost as he entered the place, however, the vigilant eye of Carefrew
discovered a very different object, placed in a niche which concealed it
from view of the street. It was no less than a candlestick of three
arms, a most unusual thing; also, it was made chiefly from jade, highly
carven, while the upright prongs and the trimmings were of brass.
Altogether, a most extraordinary and wonderful candlestick--priced at
nine florins.

Carefrew, naturally, thought that his eyes lied to him about the price.
With excitement twitching at his nerves, he walked back and bought
several bolts of silk, ordering them sent to him at the residence of
Huber Davis.

Then, casually, he inquired about the candlestick of the smiling clerk.

It was, he learned, a worthless object, left here for sale long years
ago by some now forgotten Hindu native, or maybe Arab; one could not be
certain where years had elapsed and the insignificance of the object was
great, but of course the books would show, should it be desired that the
affair be looked into.

Naturally, Carefrew did not desire the affair looked into, because some
one was then sure to discover that the candlestick was real jade. There
was no doubt about that fact, and he was too shrewd to be deceived. A
passing wonder did enter his mind as to how yellow men, especially men
of T’ang from the middle provinces, could have supposed the candlestick
to be worthless; but, after all, mistakes happen to all men--and other
men profit by them. The candlestick was not a wonder of the world, but
was worth a few hundred dollars at least.

So Carefrew laid down his nine florins, and carried his purchase away
with him, wrapped in paper.

Carefrew found the bungalow deserted except for the native boys; the
siesta hour was over, and Huber Davis had departed to his office. After
a critical inspection of his purchase, resulting in a complete
vindication of his former judgment, Carefrew set the triple candlestick
on the dining-table and swung off to Chinatown again.

It was the most natural desire in the world to want to complete that
princely candlestick with appropriate candles; particularly as Carefrew
was now on his way to Europe and would have little further chance to get
hold of the real articles.

Being down-town, Carefrew dropped into the office of Huber Davis, and
found a letter which had come in that morning by the coast steamer from
Batavia. The letter was from Ruth, confirming her passage on the next
fast Royal Mail boat. Upon the fourth day from this she would be at
Sabang, having taken passage as far as Colombo for herself and Carefrew,
whose loose business ends she was arranging.

“I suppose,” inquired Huber Davis in his cool, semi-interested fashion,
“you did not take her into your confidence regarding your late financial
ventures?”

“Why in hell would I want to bother her about finances?” retorted
Carefrew, with his bold-eyed look. “She doesn’t understand such things.”

“Damned good thing she doesn’t, perhaps,” reflected the other. “Well,
see you later! By the way, here’s the receipt for that thirty thousand
you laid in my safe.”

“I don’t want receipts from you.” protested Carefrew virtuously.

“Maybe not, but I want to give ’em to you,” and Huber Davis smiled.

“Damned rotter!” reflected Carefrew as he passed on his way.

He was not acquainted in or with Sabang. It was not hard to see what he
desired, however, and presently he succeeded beyond his expectations. A
dirty window filled with dried oysters and strings of fish and other
things, after the Chinese fashion, carried also a display of temple
candles. They had only appeared in the window that morning, but Carefrew
did not know it, and would not have cared had he known it.

Carefrew stopped and inspected the candles, which were exactly what he
wanted. There was a half-inch wick of twisted cotton, around which was
built the candle, two inches thick. The outside was gaudy red and blue
with sticky greasepaint, and at the lower end was a protruding reed four
inches long.

By this reed one might handle the affair without marring the paint, and
into this reed fitted the upright prong of a candlestick. The whole
candle was bound inside a big joint of bamboo, which held it without
harm.

Noting that there was one candle on display, and that there seemed to be
but two more with it, Carefrew entered the shop, found the proprietor,
and priced the candles. The proprietor had brought them from Singapore
ten years previously and did not want to sell them. However, Carefrew
offered a ten-florin note, and carried them home.

He was, for the moment, a child with a new toy, completely absorbed in
it, and utterly heedless of all the rest of the world. Another man might
have had weights upon his conscience, but Reginald Carefrew was not
bothered by any such.

He laid the three bamboo cylinders upon the dining-table, after it had
been laid for dinner, and opened them, cutting the shrunken withes that
held them securely. The glaring red candles lay before him, and for a
moment he pulled at his cigarette and studied them. Knowing what sort of
candles they were, he tentatively touched them with his forefinger. The
touch left a red blotch at the end of his finger, so soft was the
greasepaint.

One by one he set them carefully upon the three prongs of his jade
candlestick. One could not blame his ardent admiration. Even to an eye
which knew nothing of Chinese art, the picture was exquisite; to one who
could appreciate fully, it was marvelous. Candles and candlestick
blended into a perfect thing, a creation.

“And to think that it cost me,” said Carefrew to his brother-in-law,
when Huber Davis appeared, “exactly nineteen florins--ten of which were
for the candles!”

Huber Davis gazed at the outfit appraisingly, a slight frown creasing
his brow.

“If I were you,” he said after a moment, “I’d get rid of it, Reggy. You
certainly picked up something there--but it doesn’t look right to me.
You don’t catch John Chinaman handing out stuff like that at a bargain
price, not these days!”

“Bosh!” ejaculated Carefrew. “A pickup, that’s all--one of the things
that comes the way of any man who keeps his eyes open.”

Huber Davis shrugged his shoulders.

“Got the red stuff on your hands, eh?”

Carefrew smiled vaguely--his smile was always vague and
disagreeable--and glanced at his hands. He rubbed them, and the red
spots became a fine pink rouge.

“I’ll light ’em up,” he said, “and then wash for dinner, eh?”

Huber Davis said nothing, but watched with cold-growing eyes as Carefrew
lighted the three wicks. He was somewhat long in doing this, for they
were slow to catch. When they did flare, it was with a yellow, smoky
light that sent a black trail to the ceiling. Carefrew turned to leave
the room, but the voice of his brother-in-law brought him about quickly.

“Wait! I had a letter to-day from my agent in Batavia, Reggy. He said
that Ruth had been in the office--he was helping her straighten up some
of your affairs.”

A subtle alarm crept into the narrow eyes of Carefrew as he met the
cold, passionless gaze of Huber Davis.

“Well?” he demanded suddenly. “What is the idea?”

“You didn’t say anything was wrong with Ruth,” said Huber Davis calmly.
“But my agent mentioned that her right arm looked badly bruised--her
sleeve fell away, I imagine--and she said it had been a slight accident.
What was it?”

Carefrew’s brows lifted. “Damned if I know! Must have hurt herself after
I left, eh? Too bad, now--”

He turned and left the room, whistling. Huber Davis gazed after him; one
would have said that the man’s cold eyes suddenly glowed and smoldered,
as a shaft of sunlight suddenly strikes fire into cold amethyst.

“Ah!” he muttered. “You damned blackguard--it goes with the rest, it
does! You’ve laid hands on her, and yet she sticks by you; some women
are like that. You’ve laid hands on her, all right. If I could prove it,
by the Lord I’d let out your rotten soul! But she’ll never tell.”

Presently Carefrew’s gay whistle sounded, and he sauntered back into the
dining-room.

“That’s queer!” he observed lightly. “The red ink wouldn’t come off.
I’ll get some of your cocoa butter after dinner and try it on. Hello!
Real steamed rice, eh? Say, that’s a treat! I despise this Dutch stuff.”



