

Huber Davis, who had an excellent general agency, always dealt with Li
Mow Gee in silks and fabrics--that is, he dealt with Li Mow Gee direct,
which meant that he was one of a circle of half a dozen men who did
this. Not more than half a dozen knew that Li Mow Gee had any particular
interest in the silk trade.

Two days after Carefrew had brought home the candlestick and
appurtenances thereof, Huber Davis sought the Street of the Heavenly
Elbow, and entered the dingy cubby-hole which opened upon the widening
shop of Li Mow Gee. That morning Carefrew had carefully tied up his
temple candles again and was preparing to pack his purchases of silk.

After a very short wait Huber Davis was ushered through the fan-shaped
apartments to the hub and kernel of Li Mow Gee’s enterprises, where the
owner sat before his charcoal brazier, heated his rice-wine, and gazed
upon his nudes--to call them by a polite name--with never-flagging
appreciation.

Li Mow Gee greeted him cordially and ordered tea brought in. Huber Davis
said nothing of business until the tea had been poured, and then he did
not make the usual foreigner’s mistake of drinking his tea. He knew
better, for Li Mow Gee followed the tea ceremony implicitly.

When he had concluded his business in silk Huber Davis took from his
pocket a sheet of note-paper upon which were inscribed three ideographs.

“I wish you would do me a favor, Mr. Li,” he said. “My brother-in-law is
visiting me, and the other day he picked up a candlestick bearing these
characters. For the sake of satisfying my own curiosity, I copied the
characters and put ’em up to my clerk, but he said they were very old
writing, and that only a university man like yourself could decipher
them correctly. So, if you would oblige me--”

Li Mow Gee took the paper and glanced at the three ideographs. He
wrinkled up his dissipated eyes and gazed at Huber Davis. Then he picked
up his pipe and began to smoke.

“Your clerk was a wise man, Mr. Davis,” he said quietly. “You have heard
of the Heaven-and-Earth Society, no doubt?”

Huber Davis started. “You mean--”

“Exactly, my friend. How your esteemed brother-in-law picked up this
candlestick I cannot imagine; but it is marked with the emblems of that
society, of which I am a member.”

Huber Davis whistled. He knew that not all the power of the Manchu
emperors had availed to stifle that secret fraternity, and he knew that
Reggy Carefrew was playing with hot coals. But he kept silence, and
presently he had his reward.

“If we were not friends,” said Li Mow Gee reflectively, “and if the ties
of friendship were not sacred and honorable things, I would say nothing
to you. Even now it may be too late; as to that I cannot say, for others
may know that your brother-in-law made this purchase. But, because we
are friends, for your sake I shall try to help you.”

“I appreciate it,” said Huber Davis, not without anxiety. His anxiety
was warranted. “If you will give me advice it shall be followed
implicitly, I assure you.”

Li Mow Gee smoked until his long pipe sucked dry.

“Well, then, bring to me that candlestick and whatever else was with
it--candles, perhaps. I will make good whatever sum your honorable
relative expended, and I will see to it that the matter is adjusted in
the right quarters in case trouble has arisen. But, remember, time is an
element of importance.”

“In half an hour,” said Huber Davis earnestly, “I shall return with the
things.”

Li Mow Gee picked up his cup of tea, signaling that the interview was
ended.

Huber Davis dropped business and hurried home. If he could have
reconciled it with his conscience, he would have let matters alone in
the confidence that before a great while Reginald Carefrew would be
removed from this mortal sphere; but Huber Davis had a stiff conscience.
Besides, there was Ruth. If Ruth still loved this swindler, Huber Davis
intended to protect and further him--for her sake. There was a good deal
of the old conventional spirit in Huber Davis.

He expected trouble, and was prepared to handle it firmly; but he wanted
to avoid a scene if possible. So, finding Carefrew engaged in packing,
he lighted his pipe and watched for a few moments without broaching the
subject on his mind.

“How much,” he said at last, “do you expect to get for that candlestick
if you sell it?”

Carefrew looked at him in surprise.

“Eh? Think I have some judgment, after all, do you? Oh, I ought to get a
hundred easily.”

“Well, see here,” proposed Huber Davis, “I do like the thing, Reggy.
Tell you what: I’ll give a hundred and twenty-five, cash down, if you’ll
turn it over. Eh?”

Carefrew grinned. “Hundred and fifty takes it,” he said.

“You nasty son of--” thought Huber Davis. With an effort he controlled
himself and produced his check-book. By the time he had written the
check Carefrew had unpacked the candlestick. Huber Davis remembered the
negligible remark which Li Mow Gee had made about the candles.

“Throw in the candles,” he said, waving the check to dry it. “I want
’em.”

Carefrew assented with a laugh. “You are welcome, old boy! I’ve never
yet got that damned red stuff off my hands; nothing touches it. It ‘ll
have to wear off. And it itches!”

Huber Davis paid little attention to him, but picked up the wrapped
candlestick, took the two-foot bamboo sections, and started off down the
hill.

“Now, you dirty whelp,” he mentally apostrophized his relative, “I’ve
got you out of a cursed bad situation, only you don’t know it and would
never believe it!”

Upon reaching the funny-bone in the Street of the Heavenly Elbow, he
sent in his name and was ushered quickly to the presence of Li Mow Gee.

“There’s the stuff,” he said, with a deep breath of relief. “And I’m in
your debt, Li. I’ll remember it.”

Li Mow Gee smiled slightly, ironically, as though Huber Davis might
stand more in his debt than was known or dreamed of.

“Don’t forget the price,” he said quietly. “Accounts must be kept
straight, my friend. What was the cost of this thing?”

“Nineteen florins, but don’t bother about that,” returned the other,
saying nothing of his payment to Carefrew.

“Pardon me, but it must be made all straight.” Li Mow Gee counted out
nineteen florins from his pocketbook, which Huber Davis accepted. “Now a
little wine to our friendship, eh?”

Huber Davis drank a thimble-cup of hot wine and took his departure,
feeling that his hundred and fifty dollars had been well spent, having
pulled Carefrew out of a bad situation, and thereby benefited Ruth.

Li Mow Gee, alone with his charcoal brazier and his pictures and his
pipe, left the wrapped candlestick as it was, but took the three candles
in their bamboo wrappings and opened a door in the wall where no door
appeared to sight. He entered a long, narrow room which contained a
great many queer little bottles, many of them old Chinese flasks carved
from agate or amethyst, and a long table; the room did not appear in the
least like a laboratory.

When he had laid the candles upon the table Li Mow Gee carefully cut the
wrappings, but left each candle lying in its cradle of bamboo. Then he
took a large glass bottle from the corner, and poured oil over each
candle until the bamboo cradles were filled. When he lighted a match and
ignited the oil one realized that the table was of ironwood.

Li Mow Gee stood placidly watching while the three candles became
reduced to scorched and smoking masses of black grease, then blew out
the lingering flames, cleaned the débris from the table into a brass
jar, and returned to his own apartment.

When he had emptied six cups of wine he clapped his hands four times,
and promptly the venerable Mr. Chang appeared, removing his spectacles
and blinking.

“I return to your keeping the honorable candlestick of our lodge,” said
Li Mow Gee, “and I thank you for the loan, venerable master.”

“Are the spirits of the dead satisfied?” queried Mr. Chang.

Li Mow Gee poured himself another cup of wine and positively grinned.

“If they are not,” he said, this time in English, “they are damned hard
to please!”

It will be observed that Li Mow Gee was out nothing whatever--except
certain obscure labors--for while he had paid Huber Davis nineteen
florins, Carefrew had paid nineteen florins to agents of Li Mow Gee. And
this, according to Oriental notions, was the acme of honor and
propriety.



