

The Royal Mail boat, the “through packet” on which Ruth Carefrew was
coming, held due for Sabang late in the afternoon. Upon the morning of
that day Huber Davis went to the wireless station and sent a message to
Ruth, aboard the steamer, to prepare to leave ship at Saban and cancel
passage.

Then Huber Davis returned to his own bungalow, and met Dr. Brossot as
the latter was leaving.

“Well,” inquired Huber Davis quickly, “what’s the trouble?”

The physician shrugged his shoulders.

“It has come, that’s all. Java has been swept, the west coast of Sumatra
has seen them die by thousands, and now--it is here.”

“The influenza?’ said Huber Davis.

“It can be nothing else. High temperature, and you say he had chills
yesterday; much pain, everything according to the ritual. I am sorry,
Mynheer Davis; his room had better be quarantined, of course.”

“You think it is dangerous?”

“No. The danger, of course, lies in the pneumonia afterward. We must
wait and see?”

After this, events moved fast. At noon the doctor arrived again, in
response to a hurried message from Huber Davis. An hour later the two
men sat in the study of Davis.

“But, Brossot,” said the latter, staring at the doctor, “what the devil
was it, then? You say there was no pneumenia--”

The honest Dutchman shook his head. “Mynheer, upon my word of honor, I
don’t know! I shall call it heart-failure; that’s what we all say, you
know, to conceal our ignorance. The Chinese would say that he had
swallowed gold, another polite way of saying the same thing. If you want
an autopsy--”

Huber Davis rose, paced up and down the room, his brow furrowed.

“That’s not half bad, that Chinese saying,” he muttered. “No, Brossot,
no autopsy. His wife arrives this afternoon, you know; my sister Ruth.
Swallowed gold, did he? I believe it’s the truth, at that!”

But he never thought again about the red grease-paint on those candles,
and he did not know anything about Li Mow Gee having a little
laboratory--in the Chinese style--opening off his apartments. Nobody
knew about that laboratory, except Li Mow Gee; and Mr. Li never boasted
of his methods.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the May 3, 1919 issue
of Argosy And Railroad Man's Magazine.]

