



CONTENTS

                                        PAGE
THE RED ONE                               11
THE HUSSY                                 57
LIKE ARGUS OF THE ANCIENT TIMES           93
THE PRINCESS                             141




THE RED ONE


THERE it was!  The abrupt liberation of sound!  As he timed it with his
watch, Bassett likened it to the trump of an archangel.  Walls of cities,
he meditated, might well fall down before so vast and compelling a
summons.  For the thousandth time vainly he tried to analyse the
tone-quality of that enormous peal that dominated the land far into the
strong-holds of the surrounding tribes.  The mountain gorge which was its
source rang to the rising tide of it until it brimmed over and flooded
earth and sky and air.  With the wantonness of a sick man’s fancy, he
likened it to the mighty cry of some Titan of the Elder World vexed with
misery or wrath.  Higher and higher it arose, challenging and demanding
in such profounds of volume that it seemed intended for ears beyond the
narrow confines of the solar system.  There was in it, too, the clamour
of protest in that there were no ears to hear and comprehend its
utterance.

—Such the sick man’s fancy.  Still he strove to analyse the sound.
Sonorous as thunder was it, mellow as a golden bell, thin and sweet as a
thrummed taut cord of silver—no; it was none of these, nor a blend of
these.  There were no words nor semblances in his vocabulary and
experience with which to describe the totality of that sound.

Time passed.  Minutes merged into quarters of hours, and quarters of
hours into half-hours, and still the sound persisted, ever changing from
its initial vocal impulse yet never receiving fresh impulse—fading,
dimming, dying as enormously as it had sprung into being.  It became a
confusion of troubled mutterings and babblings and colossal whisperings.
Slowly it withdrew, sob by sob, into whatever great bosom had birthed it,
until it whimpered deadly whispers of wrath and as equally seductive
whispers of delight, striving still to be heard, to convey some cosmic
secret, some understanding of infinite import and value.  It dwindled to
a ghost of sound that had lost its menace and promise, and became a thing
that pulsed on in the sick man’s consciousness for minutes after it had
ceased.  When he could hear it no longer, Bassett glanced at his watch.
An hour had elapsed ere that archangel’s trump had subsided into tonal
nothingness.

Was this, then, _his_ dark tower?—Bassett pondered, remembering his
Browning and gazing at his skeleton-like and fever-wasted hands.  And the
fancy made him smile—of Childe Roland bearing a slug-horn to his lips
with an arm as feeble as his was.  Was it months, or years, he asked
himself, since he first heard that mysterious call on the beach at
Ringmanu?  To save himself he could not tell.  The long sickness had been
most long.  In conscious count of time he knew of months, many of them;
but he had no way of estimating the long intervals of delirium and
stupor.  And how fared Captain Bateman of the blackbirder _Nari_? he
wondered; and had Captain Bateman’s drunken mate died of delirium tremens
yet?

From which vain speculations, Bassett turned idly to review all that had
occurred since that day on the beach of Ringmanu when he first heard the
sound and plunged into the jungle after it.  Sagawa had protested.  He
could see him yet, his queer little monkeyish face eloquent with fear,
his back burdened with specimen cases, in his hands Bassett’s butterfly
net and naturalist’s shot-gun, as he quavered, in Bêche-de-mer English:
“Me fella too much fright along bush.  Bad fella boy, too much stop’m
along bush.”

Bassett smiled sadly at the recollection.  The little New Hanover boy had
been frightened, but had proved faithful, following him without hesitancy
into the bush in the quest after the source of the wonderful sound.  No
fire-hollowed tree-trunk, that, throbbing war through the jungle depths,
had been Bassett’s conclusion.  Erroneous had been his next conclusion,
namely, that the source or cause could not be more distant than an hour’s
walk, and that he would easily be back by mid-afternoon to be picked up
by the _Nari’s_ whale-boat.

“That big fella noise no good, all the same devil-devil,” Sagawa had
adjudged.  And Sagawa had been right.  Had he not had his head hacked off
within the day?  Bassett shuddered.  Without doubt Sagawa had been eaten
as well by the “bad fella boys too much” that stopped along the bush.  He
could see him, as he had last seen him, stripped of the shot-gun and all
the naturalist’s gear of his master, lying on the narrow trail where he
had been decapitated barely the moment before.  Yes, within a minute the
thing had happened.  Within a minute, looking back, Bassett had seen him
trudging patiently along under his burdens.  Then Bassett’s own trouble
had come upon him.  He looked at the cruelly healed stumps of the first
and second fingers of his left hand, then rubbed them softly into the
indentation in the back of his skull.  Quick as had been the flash of the
long handled tomahawk, he had been quick enough to duck away his head and
partially to deflect the stroke with his up-flung hand.  Two fingers and
a hasty scalp-wound had been the price he paid for his life.  With one
barrel of his ten-gauge shot-gun he had blown the life out of the bushman
who had so nearly got him; with the other barrel he had peppered the
bushmen bending over Sagawa, and had the pleasure of knowing that the
major portion of the charge had gone into the one who leaped away with
Sagawa’s head.  Everything had occurred in a flash.  Only himself, the
slain bushman, and what remained of Sagawa, were in the narrow, wild-pig
run of a path.  From the dark jungle on either side came no rustle of
movement or sound of life.  And he had suffered distinct and dreadful
shock.  For the first time in his life he had killed a human being, and
he knew nausea as he contemplated the mess of his handiwork.

Then had begun the chase.  He retreated up the pig-run before his
hunters, who were between him and the beach.  How many there were, he
could not guess.  There might have been one, or a hundred, for aught he
saw of them.  That some of them took to the trees and travelled along
through the jungle roof he was certain; but at the most he never glimpsed
more than an occasional flitting of shadows.   No bow-strings twanged
that he could hear; but every little while, whence discharged he knew
not, tiny arrows whispered past him or struck tree-boles and fluttered to
the ground beside him.  They were bone-tipped and feather shafted, and
the feathers, torn from the breasts of humming-birds, iridesced like
jewels.

Once—and now, after the long lapse of time, he chuckled gleefully at the
recollection—he had detected a shadow above him that came to instant rest
as he turned his gaze upward.  He could make out nothing, but, deciding
to chance it, had fired at it a heavy charge of number five shot.
Squalling like an infuriated cat, the shadow crashed down through
tree-ferns and orchids and thudded upon the earth at his feet, and, still
squalling its rage and pain, had sunk its human teeth into the ankle of
his stout tramping boot.  He, on the other hand, was not idle, and with
his free foot had done what reduced the squalling to silence.  So inured
to savagery has Bassett since become, that he chuckled again with the
glee of the recollection.

What a night had followed!  Small wonder that he had accumulated such a
virulence and variety of fevers, he thought, as he recalled that
sleepless night of torment, when the throb of his wounds was as nothing
compared with the myriad stings of the mosquitoes.  There had been no
escaping them, and he had not dared to light a fire.  They had literally
pumped his body full of poison, so that, with the coming of day, eyes
swollen almost shut, he had stumbled blindly on, not caring much when his
head should be hacked off and his carcass started on the way of Sagawa’s
to the cooking fire.  Twenty-four hours had made a wreck of him—of mind
as well as body.  He had scarcely retained his wits at all, so maddened
was he by the tremendous inoculation of poison he had received.  Several
times he fired his shot-gun with effect into the shadows that dogged him.
Stinging day insects and gnats added to his torment, while his bloody
wounds attracted hosts of loathsome flies that clung sluggishly to his
flesh and had to be brushed off and crushed off.

Once, in that day, he heard again the wonderful sound, seemingly more
distant, but rising imperiously above the nearer war-drums in the bush.
Right there was where he had made his mistake.  Thinking that he had
passed beyond it and that, therefore, it was between him and the beach of
Ringmanu, he had worked back toward it when in reality he was penetrating
deeper and deeper into the mysterious heart of the unexplored island.
That night, crawling in among the twisted roots of a banyan tree, he had
slept from exhaustion while the mosquitoes had had their will of him.

Followed days and nights that were vague as nightmares in his memory.
One clear vision he remembered was of suddenly finding himself in the
midst of a bush village and watching the old men and children fleeing
into the jungle.  All had fled but one.  From close at hand and above
him, a whimpering as of some animal in pain and terror had startled him.
And looking up he had seen her—a girl, or young woman rather, suspended
by one arm in the cooking sun.  Perhaps for days she had so hung.  Her
swollen, protruding tongue spoke as much.  Still alive, she gazed at him
with eyes of terror.  Past help, he decided, as he noted the swellings of
her legs which advertised that the joints had been crushed and the great
bones broken.  He resolved to shoot her, and there the vision terminated.
He could not remember whether he had or not, any more than could he
remember how he chanced to be in that village, or how he succeeded in
getting away from it.

Many pictures, unrelated, came and went in Bassett’s mind as he reviewed
that period of his terrible wanderings.  He remembered invading another
village of a dozen houses and driving all before him with his shot-gun
save, for one old man, too feeble to flee, who spat at him and whined and
snarled as he dug open a ground-oven and from amid the hot stones dragged
forth a roasted pig that steamed its essence deliciously through its
green-leaf wrappings.  It was at this place that a wantonness of savagery
had seized upon him.  Having feasted, ready to depart with a hind-quarter
of the pig in his hand, he deliberately fired the grass thatch of a house
with his burning glass.

But seared deepest of all in Bassett’s brain, was the dank and noisome
jungle.  It actually stank with evil, and it was always twilight.  Rarely
did a shaft of sunlight penetrate its matted roof a hundred feet
overhead.  And beneath that roof was an aerial ooze of vegetation, a
monstrous, parasitic dripping of decadent life-forms that rooted in death
and lived on death.  And through all this he drifted, ever pursued by the
flitting shadows of the anthropophagi, themselves ghosts of evil that
dared not face him in battle but that knew that, soon or late, they would
feed on him.  Bassett remembered that at the time, in lucid moments, he
had likened himself to a wounded bull pursued by plains’ coyotes too
cowardly to battle with him for the meat of him, yet certain of the
inevitable end of him when they would be full gorged.  As the bull’s
horns and stamping hoofs kept off the coyotes, so his shot-gun kept off
these Solomon Islanders, these twilight shades of bushmen of the island
of Guadalcanal.

Came the day of the grass lands.  Abruptly, as if cloven by the sword of
God in the hand of God, the jungle terminated.  The edge of it,
perpendicular and as black as the infamy of it, was a hundred feet up and
down.  And, beginning at the edge of it, grew the grass—sweet, soft,
tender, pasture grass that would have delighted the eyes and beasts of
any husbandman and that extended, on and on, for leagues and leagues of
velvet verdure, to the backbone of the great island, the towering
mountain range flung up by some ancient earth-cataclysm, serrated and
gullied but not yet erased by the erosive tropic rains.  But the grass!
He had crawled into it a dozen yards, buried his face in it, smelled it,
and broken down in a fit of involuntary weeping.

And, while he wept, the wonderful sound had pealed forth—if by _peal_, he
had often thought since, an adequate description could be given of the
enunciation of so vast a sound melting sweet.  Sweet it was, as no sound
ever heard.  Vast it was, of so mighty a resonance that it might have
proceeded from some brazen-throated monster.  And yet it called to him
across that leagues-wide savannah, and was like a benediction to his
long-suffering, pain racked spirit.

He remembered how he lay there in the grass, wet-cheeked but no longer
sobbing, listening to the sound and wondering that he had been able to
hear it on the beach of Ringmanu.  Some freak of air pressures and air
currents, he reflected, had made it possible for the sound to carry so
far.  Such conditions might not happen again in a thousand days or ten
thousand days, but the one day it had happened had been the day he landed
from the _Nari_ for several hours’ collecting.  Especially had he been in
quest of the famed jungle butterfly, a foot across from wing-tip to
wing-tip, as velvet-dusky of lack of colour as was the gloom of the roof,
of such lofty arboreal habits that it resorted only to the jungle roof
and could be brought down only by a dose of shot.  It was for this
purpose that Sagawa had carried the ten-gauge shot-gun.

Two days and nights he had spent crawling across that belt of grass land.
He had suffered much, but pursuit had ceased at the jungle-edge.  And he
would have died of thirst had not a heavy thunderstorm revived him on the
second day.

And then had come Balatta.  In the first shade, where the savannah
yielded to the dense mountain jungle, he had collapsed to die.  At first
she had squealed with delight at sight of his helplessness, and was for
beating his brain out with a stout forest branch.  Perhaps it was his
very utter helplessness that had appealed to her, and perhaps it was her
human curiosity that made her refrain.  At any rate, she had refrained,
for he opened his eyes again under the impending blow, and saw her
studying him intently.  What especially struck her about him were his
blue eyes and white skin.  Coolly she had squatted on her hams, spat on
his arm, and with her finger-tips scrubbed away the dirt of days and
nights of muck and jungle that sullied the pristine whiteness of his
skin.

And everything about her had struck him especially, although there was
nothing conventional about her at all.  He laughed weakly at the
recollection, for she had been as innocent of garb as Eve before the
fig-leaf adventure.  Squat and lean at the same time, asymmetrically
limbed, string-muscled as if with lengths of cordage, dirt-caked from
infancy save for casual showers, she was as unbeautiful a prototype of
woman as he, with a scientist’s eye, had ever gazed upon.  Her breasts
advertised at the one time her maturity and youth; and, if by nothing
else, her sex was advertised by the one article of finery with which she
was adorned, namely a pig’s tail, thrust though a hole in her left
ear-lobe.  So lately had the tail been severed, that its raw end still
oozed blood that dried upon her shoulder like so much candle-droppings.
And her face!  A twisted and wizened complex of apish features,
perforated by upturned, sky-open, Mongolian nostrils, by a mouth that
sagged from a huge upper-lip and faded precipitately into a retreating
chin, by peering querulous eyes that blinked as blink the eyes of
denizens of monkey-cages.

Not even the water she brought him in a forest-leaf, and the ancient and
half-putrid chunk of roast pig, could redeem in the slightest the
grotesque hideousness of her.  When he had eaten weakly for a space, he
closed his eyes in order not to see her, although again and again she
poked them open to peer at the blue of them.  Then had come the sound.
Nearer, much nearer, he knew it to be; and he knew equally well, despite
the weary way he had come, that it was still many hours distant.  The
effect of it on her had been startling.  She cringed under it, with
averted face, moaning and chattering with fear.  But after it had lived
its full life of an hour, he closed his eyes and fell asleep with Balatta
brushing the flies from him.

When he awoke it was night, and she was gone.  But he was aware of
renewed strength, and, by then too thoroughly inoculated by the mosquito
poison to suffer further inflammation, he closed his eyes and slept an
unbroken stretch till sun-up.  A little later Balatta had returned,
bringing with her a half-dozen women who, unbeautiful as they were, were
patently not so unbeautiful as she.  She evidenced by her conduct that
she considered him her find, her property, and the pride she took in
showing him off would have been ludicrous had his situation not been so
desperate.

Later, after what had been to him a terrible journey of miles, when he
collapsed in front of the devil-devil house in the shadow of the
breadfruit tree, she had shown very lively ideas on the matter of
retaining possession of him.  Ngurn, whom Bassett was to know afterward
as the devil-devil doctor, priest, or medicine man of the village, had
wanted his head.  Others of the grinning and chattering monkey-men, all
as stark of clothes and bestial of appearance as Balatta, had wanted his
body for the roasting oven.  At that time he had not understood their
language, if by _language_ might be dignified the uncouth sounds they
made to represent ideas.  But Bassett had thoroughly understood the
matter of debate, especially when the men pressed and prodded and felt of
the flesh of him as if he were so much commodity in a butcher’s stall.

Balatta had been losing the debate rapidly, when the accident happened.
One of the men, curiously examining Bassett’s shot-gun, managed to cock
and pull a trigger.  The recoil of the butt into the pit of the man’s
stomach had not been the most sanguinary result, for the charge of shot,
at a distance of a yard, had blown the head of one of the debaters into
nothingness.

Even Balatta joined the others in flight, and, ere they returned, his
senses already reeling from the oncoming fever-attack, Bassett had
regained possession of the gun.  Whereupon, although his teeth chattered
with the ague and his swimming eyes could scarcely see, he held on to his
fading consciousness until he could intimidate the bushmen with the
simple magics of compass, watch, burning glass, and matches.  At the
last, with due emphasis, of solemnity and awfulness, he had killed a
young pig with his shot-gun and promptly fainted.

Bassett flexed his arm-muscles in quest of what possible strength might
reside in such weakness, and dragged himself slowly and totteringly to
his feet.  He was shockingly emaciated; yet, during the various
convalescences of the many months of his long sickness, he had never
regained quite the same degree of strength as this time.  What he feared
was another relapse such as he had already frequently experienced.
Without drugs, without even quinine, he had managed so far to live
through a combination of the most pernicious and most malignant of
malarial and black-water fevers.  But could he continue to endure?  Such
was his everlasting query.  For, like the genuine scientist he was, he
would not be content to die until he had solved the secret of the sound.

Supported by a staff, he staggered the few steps to the devil-devil house
where death and Ngurn reigned in gloom.  Almost as infamously dark and
evil-stinking as the jungle was the devil-devil house—in Bassett’s
opinion.  Yet therein was usually to be found his favourite crony and
gossip, Ngurn, always willing for a yarn or a discussion, the while he
sat in the ashes of death and in a slow smoke shrewdly revolved curing
human heads suspended from the rafters.  For, through the months’
interval of consciousness of his long sickness, Bassett had mastered the
psychological simplicities and lingual difficulties of the language of
the tribe of Ngurn and Balatta and Vngngn—the latter the addle-headed
young chief who was ruled by Ngurn, and who, whispered intrigue had it,
was the son of Ngurn.

“Will the Red One speak to-day?” Bassett asked, by this time so
accustomed to the old man’s gruesome occupation as to take even an
interest in the progress of the smoke-curing.

With the eye of an expert Ngurn examined the particular head he was at
work upon.

“It will be ten days before I can say ‘finish,’” he said.  “Never has any
man fixed heads like these.”

Bassett smiled inwardly at the old fellow’s reluctance to talk with him
of the Red One.  It had always been so.  Never, by any chance, had Ngurn
or any other member of the weird tribe divulged the slightest hint of any
physical characteristic of the Red One.  Physical the Red One must be, to
emit the wonderful sound, and though it was called the Red One, Bassett
could not be sure that red represented the colour of it.  Red enough were
the deeds and powers of it, from what abstract clues he had gleaned.  Not
alone, had Ngurn informed him, was the Red One more bestial powerful than
the neighbour tribal gods, ever athirst for the red blood of living human
sacrifices, but the neighbour gods themselves were sacrificed and
tormented before him.  He was the god of a dozen allied villages similar
to this one, which was the central and commanding village of the
federation.  By virtue of the Red One many alien villages had been
devastated and even wiped out, the prisoners sacrificed to the Red One.
This was true to-day, and it extended back into old history carried down
by word of mouth through the generations.  When he, Ngurn, had been a
young man, the tribes beyond the grass lands had made a war raid.  In the
counter raid, Ngurn and his fighting folk had made many prisoners.  Of
children alone over five score living had been bled white before the Red
One, and many, many more men and women.

The Thunderer was another of Ngurn’s names for the mysterious deity.
Also at times was he called The Loud Shouter, The God-Voiced, The
Bird-Throated, The One with the Throat Sweet as the Throat of the
Honey-Bird, The Sun Singer, and The Star-Born.

Why The Star-Born?  In vain Bassett interrogated Ngurn.  According to
that old devil-devil doctor, the Red One had always been, just where he
was at present, for ever singing and thundering his will over men.  But
Ngurn’s father, wrapped in decaying grass-matting and hanging even then
over their heads among the smoky rafters of the devil-devil house, had
held otherwise.  That departed wise one had believed that the Red One
came from out of the starry night, else why—so his argument had run—had
the old and forgotten ones passed his name down as the Star-Born?
Bassett could not but recognize something cogent in such argument.  But
Ngurn affirmed the long years of his long life, wherein he had gazed upon
many starry nights, yet never had he found a star on grass land or in
jungle depth—and he had looked for them.  True, he had beheld shooting
stars (this in reply to Bassett’s contention); but likewise had he beheld
the phosphorescence of fungoid growths and rotten meat and fireflies on
dark nights, and the flames of wood-fires and of blazing candle-nuts; yet
what were flame and blaze and glow when they had flamed and blazed and
glowed?  Answer: memories, memories only, of things which had ceased to
be, like memories of matings accomplished, of feasts forgotten, of
desires that were the ghosts of desires, flaring, flaming, burning, yet
unrealized in achievement of easement and satisfaction.  Where was the
appetite of yesterday? the roasted flesh of the wild pig the hunter’s
arrow failed to slay? the maid, unwed and dead ere the young man knew
her?

A memory was not a star, was Ngurn’s contention.  How could a memory be a
star?  Further, after all his long life he still observed the starry
night-sky unaltered.  Never had he noted the absence of a single star
from its accustomed place.  Besides, stars were fire, and the Red One was
not fire—which last involuntary betrayal told Bassett nothing.

“Will the Red One speak to-morrow?” he queried.

Ngurn shrugged his shoulders as who should say.

“And the day after?—and the day after that?” Bassett persisted.

“I would like to have the curing of your head,” Ngurn changed the
subject.  “It is different from any other head.  No devil-devil has a
head like it.  Besides, I would cure it well.  I would take months and
months.  The moons would come and the moons would go, and the smoke would
be very slow, and I should myself gather the materials for the curing
smoke.  The skin would not wrinkle.  It would be as smooth as your skin
now.”

He stood up, and from the dim rafters, grimed with the smoking of
countless heads, where day was no more than a gloom, took down a
matting-wrapped parcel and began to open it.

“It is a head like yours,” he said, “but it is poorly cured.”

Bassett had pricked up his ears at the suggestion that it was a white
man’s head; for he had long since come to accept that these
jungle-dwellers, in the midmost centre of the great island, had never had
intercourse with white men.  Certainly he had found them without the
almost universal bêche-de-mer English of the west South Pacific.  Nor had
they knowledge of tobacco, nor of gunpowder.  Their few precious knives,
made from lengths of hoop-iron, and their few and more precious tomahawks
from cheap trade hatchets, he had surmised they had captured in war from
the bushmen of the jungle beyond the grass lands, and that they, in turn,
had similarly gained them from the salt-water men who fringed the coral
beaches of the shore and had contact with the occasional white men.

“The folk in the out beyond do not know how to cure heads,” old Ngurn
explained, as he drew forth from the filthy matting and placed in
Bassett’s hands an indubitable white man’s head.

Ancient it was beyond question; white it was as the blond hair attested.
He could have sworn it once belonged to an Englishman, and to an
Englishman of long before by token of the heavy gold circlets still
threaded in the withered ear-lobes.

“Now your head . . . ” the devil-devil doctor began on his favourite
topic.

“I’ll tell you what,” Bassett interrupted, struck by a new idea.  “When I
die I’ll let you have my head to cure, if, first, you take me to look
upon the Red One.”

“I will have your head anyway when you are dead,” Ngurn rejected the
proposition.  He added, with the brutal frankness of the savage:
“Besides, you have not long to live.  You are almost a dead man now.  You
will grow less strong.  In not many months I shall have you here turning
and turning in the smoke.  It is pleasant, through the long afternoons,
to turn the head of one you have known as well as I know you.  And I
shall talk to you and tell you the many secrets you want to know.  Which
will not matter, for you will be dead.”

“Ngurn,” Bassett threatened in sudden anger.  “You know the Baby Thunder
in the Iron that is mine.”  (This was in reference to his all-potent and
all-awful shotgun.)  “I can kill you any time, and then you will not get
my head.”

“Just the same, will Vngngn, or some one else of my folk get it,” Ngurn
complacently assured him.  “And just the same will it in the end turn
devil-devil house in the smoke.  The quicker you slay me with your Baby
Thunder, the quicker will your head turn in the smoke.”

And Bassett knew he was beaten in the discussion.

What was the Red One?—Bassett asked himself a thousand times in the
succeeding week, while he seemed to grow stronger.  What was the source
of the wonderful sound?  What was this Sun Singer, this Star-Born One,
this mysterious deity, as bestial-conducted as the black and kinky-headed
and monkey-like human beasts who worshipped it, and whose silver-sweet,
bull-mouthed singing and commanding he had heard at the taboo distance
for so long?

Ngurn had he failed to bribe with the inevitable curing of his head when
he was dead.  Vngngn, imbecile and chief that he was, was too imbecilic,
too much under the sway of Ngurn, to be considered.  Remained Balatta,
who, from the time she found him and poked his blue eyes open to
recrudescence of her grotesque female hideousness, had continued his
adorer.  Woman she was, and he had long known that the only way to win
from her treason of her tribe was through the woman’s heart of her.

Bassett was a fastidious man.  He had never recovered from the initial
horror caused by Balatta’s female awfulness.  Back in England, even at
best the charm of woman, to him, had never been robust.  Yet now,
resolutely, as only a man can do who is capable of martyring himself for
the cause of science, he proceeded to violate all the fineness and
delicacy of his nature by making love to the unthinkably disgusting
bushwoman.

He shuddered, but with averted face hid his grimaces and swallowed his
gorge as he put his arm around her dirt-crusted shoulders and felt the
contact of her rancid oily and kinky hair with his neck and chin.  But he
nearly screamed when she succumbed to that caress so at the very first of
the courtship and mowed and gibbered and squealed little, queer, pig-like
gurgly noises of delight.  It was too much.  And the next he did in the
singular courtship was to take her down to the stream and give her a
vigorous scrubbing.

From then on he devoted himself to her like a true swain as frequently
and for as long at a time as his will could override his repugnance.  But
marriage, which she ardently suggested, with due observance of tribal
custom, he balked at.  Fortunately, taboo rule was strong in the tribe.
Thus, Ngurn could never touch bone, or flesh, or hide of crocodile.  This
had been ordained at his birth.  Vngngn was denied ever the touch of
woman.  Such pollution, did it chance to occur, could be purged only by
the death of the offending female.  It had happened once, since Bassett’s
arrival, when a girl of nine, running in play, stumbled and fell against
the sacred chief.  And the girl-child was seen no more.  In whispers,
Balatta told Bassett that she had been three days and nights in dying
before the Red One.  As for Balatta, the breadfruit was taboo to her.
For which Bassett was thankful.  The taboo might have been water.

For himself, he fabricated a special taboo.  Only could he marry, he
explained, when the Southern Cross rode highest in the sky.  Knowing his
astronomy, he thus gained a reprieve of nearly nine months; and he was
confident that within that time he would either be dead or escaped to the
coast with full knowledge of the Red One and of the source of the Red
One’s wonderful voice.  At first he had fancied the Red One to be some
colossal statue, like Memnon, rendered vocal under certain temperature
conditions of sunlight.  But when, after a war raid, a batch of prisoners
was brought in and the sacrifice made at night, in the midst of rain,
when the sun could play no part, the Red One had been more vocal than
usual, Bassett discarded that hypothesis.

In company with Balatta, sometimes with men and parties of women, the
freedom of the jungle was his for three quadrants of the compass.  But
the fourth quadrant, which contained the Red One’s abiding place, was
taboo.  He made more thorough love to Balatta—also saw to it that she
scrubbed herself more frequently.  Eternal female she was, capable of any
treason for the sake of love.  And, though the sight of her was
provocative of nausea and the contact of her provocative of despair,
although he could not escape her awfulness in his dream-haunted
nightmares of her, he nevertheless was aware of the cosmic verity of sex
that animated her and that made her own life of less value than the
happiness of her lover with whom she hoped to mate.  Juliet or Balatta?
Where was the intrinsic difference?  The soft and tender product of
ultra-civilization, or her bestial prototype of a hundred thousand years
before her?—there was no difference.

Bassett was a scientist first, a humanist afterward.  In the jungle-heart
of Guadalcanal he put the affair to the test, as in the laboratory he
would have put to the test any chemical reaction.  He increased his
feigned ardour for the bushwoman, at the same time increasing the
imperiousness of his will of desire over her to be led to look upon the
Red One face to face.  It was the old story, he recognized, that the
woman must pay, and it occurred when the two of them, one day, were
catching the unclassified and unnamed little black fish, an inch long,
half-eel and half-scaled, rotund with salmon-golden roe, that frequented
the fresh water, and that were esteemed, raw and whole, fresh or putrid,
a perfect delicacy.  Prone in the muck of the decaying jungle-floor,
Balatta threw herself, clutching his ankles with her hands kissing his
feet and making slubbery noises that chilled his backbone up and down
again.  She begged him to kill her rather than exact this ultimate
love-payment.  She told him of the penalty of breaking the taboo of the
Red One—a week of torture, living, the details of which she yammered out
from her face in the mire until he realized that he was yet a tyro in
knowledge of the frightfulness the human was capable of wreaking on the
human.

Yet did Bassett insist on having his man’s will satisfied, at the woman’s
risk, that he might solve the mystery of the Red One’s singing, though
she should die long and horribly and screaming.  And Balatta, being mere
woman, yielded.  She led him into the forbidden quadrant.  An abrupt
mountain, shouldering in from the north to meet a similar intrusion from
the south, tormented the stream in which they had fished into a deep and
gloomy gorge.  After a mile along the gorge, the way plunged sharply
upward until they crossed a saddle of raw limestone which attracted his
geologist’s eye.  Still climbing, although he paused often from sheer
physical weakness, they scaled forest-clad heights until they emerged on
a naked mesa or tableland.  Bassett recognized the stuff of its
composition as black volcanic sand, and knew that a pocket magnet could
have captured a full load of the sharply angular grains he trod upon.

And then holding Balatta by the hand and leading her onward, he came to
it—a tremendous pit, obviously artificial, in the heart of the plateau.
Old history, the South Seas Sailing Directions, scores of remembered data
and connotations swift and furious, surged through his brain.  It was
Mendana who had discovered the islands and named them Solomon’s,
believing that he had found that monarch’s fabled mines.  They had
laughed at the old navigator’s child-like credulity; and yet here stood
himself, Bassett, on the rim of an excavation for all the world like the
diamond pits of South Africa.

But no diamond this that he gazed down upon.  Rather was it a pearl, with
the depth of iridescence of a pearl; but of a size all pearls of earth
and time, welded into one, could not have totalled; and of a colour
undreamed of in any pearl, or of anything else, for that matter, for it
was the colour of the Red One.  And the Red One himself Bassett knew it
to be on the instant.  A perfect sphere, full two hundred feet in
diameter, the top of it was a hundred feet below the level of the rim.
He likened the colour quality of it to lacquer.  Indeed, he took it to be
some sort of lacquer, applied by man, but a lacquer too marvellously
clever to have been manufactured by the bush-folk.  Brighter than bright
cherry-red, its richness of colour was as if it were red builded upon
red.  It glowed and iridesced in the sunlight as if gleaming up from
underlay under underlay of red.

In vain Balatta strove to dissuade him from descending.  She threw
herself in the dirt; but, when he continued down the trail that spiralled
the pit-wall, she followed, cringing and whimpering her terror.  That the
red sphere had been dug out as a precious thing, was patent.  Considering
the paucity of members of the federated twelve villages and their
primitive tools and methods, Bassett knew that the toil of a myriad
generations could scarcely have made that enormous excavation.

He found the pit bottom carpeted with human bones, among which, battered
and defaced, lay village gods of wood and stone.  Some, covered with
obscene totemic figures and designs, were carved from solid tree trunks
forty or fifty feet in length.  He noted the absence of the shark and
turtle gods, so common among the shore villages, and was amazed at the
constant recurrence of the helmet motive.  What did these jungle savages
of the dark heart of Guadalcanal know of helmets?  Had Mendana’s
men-at-arms worn helmets and penetrated here centuries before?  And if
not, then whence had the bush-folk caught the motive?

Advancing over the litter of gods and bones, Balatta whimpering at his
heels, Bassett entered the shadow of the Red One and passed on under its
gigantic overhang until he touched it with his finger-tips.  No lacquer
that.  Nor was the surface smooth as it should have been in the case of
lacquer.  On the contrary, it was corrugated and pitted, with here and
there patches that showed signs of heat and fusing.  Also, the substance
of it was metal, though unlike any metal, or combination of metals, he
had ever known.  As for the colour itself, he decided it to be no
application.  It was the intrinsic colour of the metal itself.

He moved his finger-tips, which up to that had merely rested, along the
surface, and felt the whole gigantic sphere quicken and live and respond.
It was incredible!  So light a touch on so vast a mass!  Yet did it
quiver under the finger-tip caress in rhythmic vibrations that became
whisperings and rustlings and mutterings of sound—but of sound so
different; so elusively thin that it was shimmeringly sibilant; so mellow
that it was maddening sweet, piping like an elfin horn, which last was
just what Bassett decided would be like a peal from some bell of the gods
reaching earthward from across space.

He looked at Balatta with swift questioning; but the voice of the Red One
he had evoked had flung her face downward and moaning among the bones.
He returned to contemplation of the prodigy.  Hollow it was, and of no
metal known on earth, was his conclusion.  It was right-named by the ones
of old-time as the Star-Born.  Only from the stars could it have come,
and no thing of chance was it.  It was a creation of artifice and mind.
Such perfection of form, such hollowness that it certainly possessed,
could not be the result of mere fortuitousness.  A child of
intelligences, remote and unguessable, working corporally in metals, it
indubitably was.  He stared at it in amaze, his brain a racing wild-fire
of hypotheses to account for this far-journeyer who had adventured the
night of space, threaded the stars, and now rose before him and above
him, exhumed by patient anthropophagi, pitted and lacquered by its fiery
bath in two atmospheres.

But was the colour a lacquer of heat upon some familiar metal?  Or was it
an intrinsic quality of the metal itself?  He thrust in the blue-point of
his pocket-knife to test the constitution of the stuff.  Instantly the
entire sphere burst into a mighty whispering, sharp with protest, almost
twanging goldenly, if a whisper could possibly be considered to twang,
rising higher, sinking deeper, the two extremes of the registry of sound
threatening to complete the circle and coalesce into the bull-mouthed
thundering he had so often heard beyond the taboo distance.

Forgetful of safety, of his own life itself, entranced by the wonder of
the unthinkable and unguessable thing, he raised his knife to strike
heavily from a long stroke, but was prevented by Balatta.  She upreared
on her own knees in an agony of terror, clasping his knees and
supplicating him to desist.  In the intensity of her desire to impress
him, she put her forearm between her teeth and sank them to the bone.

He scarcely observed her act, although he yielded automatically to his
gentler instincts and withheld the knife-hack.  To him, human life had
dwarfed to microscopic proportions before this colossal portent of higher
life from within the distances of the sidereal universe.  As had she been
a dog, he kicked the ugly little bushwoman to her feet and compelled her
to start with him on an encirclement of the base.  Part way around, he
encountered horrors.  Even, among the others, did he recognize the
sun-shrivelled remnant of the nine-years girl who had accidentally broken
Chief Vngngn’s personality taboo.  And, among what was left of these that
had passed, he encountered what was left of one who had not yet passed.
Truly had the bush-folk named themselves into the name of the Red One,
seeing in him their own image which they strove to placate and please
with such red offerings.

Farther around, always treading the bones and images of humans and gods
that constituted the floor of this ancient charnel-house of sacrifice, he
came upon the device by which the Red One was made to send his call
singing thunderingly across the jungle-belts and grass-lands to the far
beach of Ringmanu.  Simple and primitive was it as was the Red One’s
consummate artifice.  A great king-post, half a hundred feet in length,
seasoned by centuries of superstitious care, carven into dynasties of
gods, each superimposed, each helmeted, each seated in the open mouth of
a crocodile, was slung by ropes, twisted of climbing vegetable parasites,
from the apex of a tripod of three great forest trunks, themselves carved
into grinning and grotesque adumbrations of man’s modern concepts of art
and god.  From the striker king-post, were suspended ropes of climbers to
which men could apply their strength and direction.  Like a battering
ram, this king-post could be driven end-onward against the mighty
red-iridescent sphere.

Here was where Ngurn officiated and functioned religiously for himself
and the twelve tribes under him.  Bassett laughed aloud, almost with
madness, at the thought of this wonderful messenger, winged with
intelligence across space, to fall into a bushman stronghold and be
worshipped by ape-like, man-eating and head-hunting savages.  It was as
if God’s World had fallen into the muck mire of the abyss underlying the
bottom of hell; as if Jehovah’s Commandments had been presented on carved
stone to the monkeys of the monkey cage at the Zoo; as if the Sermon on
the Mount had been preached in a roaring bedlam of lunatics.
