
By the time each had finished his own bottle and from his rags fished
forth a second one, their brains were well-mellowed and a-glow, although
they had not got around to telling their real names.  But their English
had improved.  They spoke it correctly, while the argo of tramp-land
ceased from their lips.

“It’s my constitution,” Whiskers was explaining.  “Very few men could go
through what I have and live to tell the tale.  And I never took any care
of myself.  If what the moralists and the physiologists say were true,
I’d have been dead long ago.  And it’s the same with you two.  Look at
us, at our advanced years, carousing as the young ones don’t dare,
sleeping out in the open on the ground, never sheltered from frost nor
rain nor storm, never afraid of pneumonia or rheumatism that would put
half the young ones on their backs in hospital.”

He broke off to mix another drink, and Fatty took up the tale.

“And we’ve had our fun,” he boasted, “and speaking of sweethearts and
all,” he cribbed from Kipling, “‘We’ve rogued and we’ve ranged—’”

“‘In our time,’” Slim completed the crib for him.

“I should say so, I should say so,” Fatty confirmed.  “And been loved by
princesses—at least I have.”

“Go on and tell us about it,” Whiskers urged.  “The night’s young, and
why shouldn’t we remember back to the roofs of kings?”

Nothing loth, Fatty cleared his throat for the recital and cast about in
his mind for the best way to begin.

“It must be known that I came of good family.  Percival Delaney, let us
say, yes, let us say Percival Delaney, was not unknown at Oxford once
upon a time—not for scholarship, I am frank to admit; but the gay young
dogs of that day, if any be yet alive, would remember him—”

“My people came over with the Conqueror,” Whiskers interrupted, extending
his hand to Fatty’s in acknowledgment of the introduction.

“What name?” Fatty queried.  “I did not seem quite to catch it.”

“Delarouse, Chauncey Delarouse.  The name will serve as well as any.”

Both completed the handshake and glanced to Slim.

“Oh, well, while we’re about it . . . ”  Fatty urged.

“Bruce Cadogan Cavendish,” Slim growled morosely.  “Go on, Percival, with
your princesses and the roofs of kings.”

“Oh, I was a rare young devil,” Percival obliged, “after I played ducks
and drakes at home and sported out over the world.  And I was some figure
of a man before I lost my shape—polo, steeple-chasing, boxing.  I won
medals at buckjumping in Australia, and I held more than several swimming
records from the quarter of a mile up.  Women turned their heads to look
when I went by.  The women!  God bless them!”

And Fatty, alias Percival Delaney, a grotesque of manhood, put his bulgy
hand to his puffed lips and kissed audibly into the starry vault of the
sky.

“And the Princess!” he resumed, with another kiss to the stars.  “She was
as fine a figure of a woman as I was a man, as high-spirited and
courageous, as reckless and dare-devilish.  Lord, Lord, in the water she
was a mermaid, a sea-goddess.  And when it came to blood, beside her I
was parvenu.  Her royal line traced back into the mists of antiquity.

“She was not a daughter of a fair-skinned folk.  Tawny golden was she,
with golden-brown eyes, and her hair that fell to her knees was
blue-black and straight, with just the curly tendrilly tendency that
gives to woman’s hair its charm.  Oh, there were no kinks in it, any more
than were there kinks in the hair of her entire genealogy.  For she was
Polynesian, glowing, golden, lovely and lovable, royal Polynesian.”

Again he paused to kiss his hand to the memory of her, and Slim, alias
Bruce Cadogan Cavendish, took advantage to interject:

“Huh!  Maybe you didn’t shine in scholarship, but at least you gleaned a
vocabulary out of Oxford.”

“And in the South Seas garnered a better vocabulary from the lexicon of
Love,” Percival was quick on the uptake.

“It was the island of Talofa,” he went on, “meaning love, the Isle of
Love, and it was her island.  Her father, the king, an old man, sat on
his mats with paralysed knees and drank squareface gin all day and most
of the night, out of grief, sheer grief.  She, my princess, was the only
issue, her brother having been lost in their double canoe in a hurricane
while coming up from a voyage to Samoa.  And among the Polynesians the
royal women have equal right with the men to rule.  In fact, they trace
their genealogies always by the female line.”

To this both Chauncey Delarouse and Bruce Cadogan Cavendish nodded prompt
affirmation.

“Ah,” said Percival, “I perceive you both know the South Seas, wherefore,
without undue expenditure of verbiage on my part, I am assured that you
will appreciate the charm of my princess, the Princess Tui-nui of Talofa,
the Princess of the Isle of Love.”

He kissed his hand to her, sipped from his condensed milk can a man-size
drink of druggist’s alcohol, and to her again kissed her hand.

“But she was coy, and ever she fluttered near to me but never near
enough.  When my arm went out to her to girdle her, presto, she was not
there.  I knew, as never before, nor since, the thousand dear and
delightful anguishes of love frustrated but ever resilient and beckoned
on by the very goddess of love.”

“Some vocabulary,” Bruce Cadogan Cavendish muttered in aside to Chauncey
Delarouse.  But Percival Delaney was not to be deterred.  He kissed his
pudgy hand aloft into the night and held warmly on.

“No fond agonies of rapture deferred that were not lavished upon me by my
dear Princess, herself ever a luring delight of promise flitting just
beyond my reach.  Every sweet lover’s inferno unguessed of by Dante she
led me through.  Ah!  Those swooning tropic nights, under our palm trees,
the distant surf a langourous murmur as from some vast sea shell of
mystery, when she, my Princess, all but melted to my yearning, and with
her laughter, that was as silver strings by buds and blossoms smitten,
all but made lunacy of my lover’s ardency.

“It was by my wrestling with the champions of Talofa that I first
interested her.  It was by my prowess at swimming that I awoke her.  And
it was by a certain swimming deed that I won from her more than
coquettish smiles and shy timidities of feigned retreat.

“We were squidding that day, out on the reef—you know how, undoubtedly,
diving down the face of the wall of the reef, five fathoms, ten fathoms,
any depth within reason, and shoving our squid-sticks into the likely
holes and crannies of the coral where squid might be lairing.  With the
squid-stick, bluntly sharp at both ends, perhaps a foot long, and held
crosswise in the hand, the trick was to gouge any lazying squid until he
closed his tentacles around fist, stick and arm.—Then you had him, and
came to the surface with him, and hit him in the head which is in the
centre of him, and peeled him off into the waiting canoe. . . . And to
think I used to do that!”

Percival Delaney paused a moment, a glimmer of awe on his rotund face, as
he contemplated the mighty picture of his youth.

“Why, I’ve pulled out a squid with tentacles eight feet long, and done it
under fifty feet of water.  I could stay down four minutes.  I’ve gone
down, with a coral-rock to sink me, in a hundred and ten feet to clear a
fouled anchor.  And I could back-dive with a once-over and go in
feet-first from eighty feet above the surface—”

“Quit it, delete it, cease it,” Chauncey Delarouse admonished testily.
“Tell of the Princess.  That’s what makes old blood leap again.  Almost
can I see her.  Was she wonderful?”

Percival Delaney kissed unutterable affirmation.

“I have said she was a mermaid.  She was.  I know she swam thirty-six
hours before being rescued, after her schooner was capsized in a
double-squall.  I have seen her do ninety feet and bring up pearl shell
in each hand.  She was wonderful.  As a woman she was ravishing, sublime.
I have said she was a sea-goddess.  She was.  Oh, for a Phidias or a
Praxiteles to have made the wonder of her body immortal!

“And that day, out for squid on the reef, I was almost sick for her.
Mad—I know I was mad for her.  We would step over the side from the big
canoe, and swim down, side by side, into the delicious depths of cool and
colour, and she would look at me, as we swam, and with her eyes tantalize
me to further madness.  And at last, down, far down, I lost myself and
reached for her.  She eluded me like the mermaid she was, and I saw the
laughter on her face as she fled.  She fled deeper, and I knew I had her
for I was between her and the surface; but in the muck coral sand of the
bottom she made a churning with her squid stick.  It was the old trick to
escape a shark.  And she worked it on me, rolling the water so that I
could not see her.  And when I came up, she was there ahead of me,
clinging to the side of the canoe and laughing.

“Almost I would not be denied.  But not for nothing was she a princess.
She rested her hand on my arm and compelled me to listen.  We should play
a game, she said, enter into a competition for which should get the more
squid, the biggest squid, and the smallest squid.  Since the wagers were
kisses, you can well imagine I went down on the first next dive with soul
aflame.

“I got no squid.  Never again in all my life have I dived for squid.
Perhaps we were five fathoms down and exploring the face of the reefwall
for lurking places of our prey, when it happened.  I had found a likely
lair and just proved it empty, when I felt or sensed the nearness of
something inimical.  I turned.  There it was, alongside of me, and no
mere fish-shark.  Fully a dozen feet in length, with the unmistakable
phosphorescent cat’s eye gleaming like a drowning star, I knew it for
what it was, a tiger shark.

“Not ten feet to the right, probing a coral fissure with her squid stick,
was the Princess, and the tiger shark was heading directly for her.  My
totality of thought was precipitated to consciousness in a single
all-embracing flash.  The man-eater must be deflected from her, and what
was I, except a mad lover who would gladly fight and die, or more gladly
fight and live, for his beloved?  Remember, she was the woman wonderful,
and I was aflame for her.

“Knowing fully the peril of my act, I thrust the blunt-sharp end of my
squid-stick into the side of the shark, much as one would attract a
passing acquaintance with a thumb-nudge in the ribs.  And the man-eater
turned on me.  You know the South Seas, and you know that the tiger
shark, like the bald-face grizzly of Alaska, never gives trail.  The
combat, fathoms deep under the sea, was on—if by combat may be named such
a one-sided struggle.

“The Princess unaware, caught her squid and rose to the surface.  The
man-eater rushed me.  I fended him off with both hands on his nose above
his thousand-toothed open mouth, so that he backed me against the sharp
coral.  The scars are there to this day.  Whenever I tried to rise, he
rushed me, and I could not remain down there indefinitely without air.
Whenever he rushed me, I fended him off with my hands on his nose.  And I
would have escaped unharmed, except for the slip of my right hand.  Into
his mouth it went to the elbow.  His jaws closed, just below the elbow.
You know how a shark’s teeth are.  Once in they cannot be released.  They
must go through to complete the bite, but they cannot go through heavy
bone.  So, from just below the elbow he stripped the bone clean to the
articulation of the wrist-joint, where his teeth met and my good right
hand became his for an appetizer.

“But while he was doing this, I drove the thumb of my left hand, to the
hilt into his eye-orifice and popped out his eye.  This did not stop him.
The meat had maddened him.  He pursued the gushing stump of my wrist.
Half a dozen times I fended with my intact arm.  Then he got the poor
mangled arm again, closed down, and stripped the meat off the bone from
the shoulder down to the elbow-joint, where his teeth met and he was free
of his second mouthful of me.  But, at the same time, with my good arm, I
thumbed out his remaining eye.”

Percival Delaney shrugged his shoulders, ere he resumed.

“From above, those in the canoe had beheld the entire happening and were
loud in praise of my deed.  To this day they still sing the song of me,
and tell the tale of me.  And the Princess.”  His pause was brief but
significant.  “The Princess married me. . . . Oh, well-a-day and
lack-a-day, the whirligig of time and fortune, the topsyturviness of
luck, the wooden shoe going up and the polished heel descending a French
gunboat, a conquered island kingdom of Oceania, to-day ruled over by a
peasant-born, unlettered, colonial gendarme, and . . . ”

He completed the sentence and the tale by burying his face in the
down-tilted mouth of the condensed milk can and by gurgling the corrosive
drink down his throat in thirsty gulps.
