
After an appropriate pause, Chauncey Delarouse, otherwise Whiskers, took
up the tale.

“Far be it from me to boast of no matter what place of birth I have
descended from to sit here by this fire with such as . . . as chance
along.  I may say, however, that I, too, was once a considerable figure
of a man.  I may add that it was horses, plus parents too indulgent, that
exiled me out over the world.  I may still wonder to query: ‘Are Dover’s
cliffs still white?’”

“Huh!” Bruce Cadogan Cavendish sneered.  “Next you’ll be asking: ‘How
fares the old Lord Warden?’”

“And I took every liberty, and vainly, with a constitution that was
iron,” Whiskers hurried on.  “Here I am with my three score and ten
behind me, and back on that long road have I buried many a youngster that
was as rare and devilish as I, but who could not stand the pace.  I knew
the worst too young.  And now I know the worst too old.  But there was a
time, alas all too short, when I knew, the best.

“I, too, kiss my hand to the Princess of my heart.  She was truly a
princess, Polynesian, a thousand miles and more away to the eastward and
the south from Delaney’s Isle of Love.  The natives of all around that
part of the South Seas called it the Jolly Island.  Their own name, the
name of the people who dwelt thereon, translates delicately and justly
into ‘The Island of Tranquil Laughter.’  On the chart you will find the
erroneous name given to it by the old navigators to be Manatomana.  The
seafaring gentry the round ocean around called it the Adamless Eden.  And
the missionaries for a time called it God’s Witness—so great had been
their success at converting the inhabitants.  As for me, it was, and ever
shall be, Paradise.

“It was _my_ Paradise, for it was there my Princess lived.  John Asibeli
Tungi was king.  He was full-blooded native, descended out of the oldest
and highest chief-stock that traced back to Manua which was the primeval
sea home of the race.  Also was he known as John the Apostate.  He lived
a long life and apostasized frequently.  First converted by the
Catholics, he threw down the idols, broke the tabus, cleaned out the
native priests, executed a few of the recalcitrant ones, and sent all his
subjects to church.

“Next he fell for the traders, who developed in him a champagne thirst,
and he shipped off the Catholic priests to New Zealand.  The great
majority of his subjects always followed his lead, and, having no
religion at all, ensued the time of the Great Licentiousness, when by all
South Seas missionaries his island, in sermons, was spoken of as Babylon.

“But the traders ruined his digestion with too much champagne, and after
several years he fell for the Gospel according to the Methodists, sent
his people to church, and cleaned up the beach and the trading crowd so
spick and span that he would not permit them to smoke a pipe out of doors
on Sunday, and, fined one of the chief traders one hundred gold
sovereigns for washing his schooner’s decks on the Sabbath morn.

“That was the time of the Blue Laws, but perhaps it was too rigorous for
King John.  Off he packed the Methodists, one fine day, exiled several
hundred of his people to Samoa for sticking to Methodism, and, of all
things, invented a religion of his own, with himself the figure-head of
worship.  In this he was aided and abetted by a renegade Fijian.  This
lasted five years.  Maybe he grew tired of being God, or maybe it was
because the Fijian decamped with the six thousand pounds in the royal
treasury; but at any rate the Second Reformed Wesleyans got him, and his
entire kingdom went Wesleyan.  The pioneer Wesleyan missionary he
actually made prime minister, and what he did to the trading crowd was a
caution.  Why, in the end, King John’s kingdom was blacklisted and
boycotted by the traders till the revenues diminished to zero, the people
went bankrupt, and King John couldn’t borrow a shilling from his most
powerful chief.

“By this time he was getting old, and philosophic, and tolerant, and
spiritually atavistic.  He fired out the Second Reformed Wesleyans,
called back the exiles from Samoa, invited in the traders, held a general
love-feast, took the lid off, proclaimed religious liberty and high
tariff, and as for himself went back to the worship of his ancestors, dug
up the idols, reinstated a few octogenarian priests, and observed the
tabus.  All of which was lovely for the traders, and prosperity reigned.
Of course, most of his subjects followed him back into heathen worship.
Yet quite a sprinkling of Catholics, Methodists and Wesleyans remained
true to their beliefs and managed to maintain a few squalid, one-horse
churches.  But King John didn’t mind, any more than did he the high times
of the traders along the beach.  Everything went, so long as the taxes
were paid.  Even when his wife, Queen Mamare, elected to become a
Baptist, and invited in a little, weazened, sweet-spirited, club-footed
Baptist missionary, King John did not object.  All he insisted on was
that these wandering religions should be self-supporting and not feed a
pennyworth’s out of the royal coffers.

“And now the threads of my recital draw together in the paragon of female
exquisiteness—my Princess.”

Whiskers paused, placed carefully on the ground his half-full condensed
milk can with which he had been absently toying, and kissed the fingers
of his one hand audibly aloft.

“She was the daughter of Queen Mamare.  She was the woman wonderful.
Unlike the Diana type of Polynesian, she was almost ethereal.  She _was_
ethereal, sublimated by purity, as shy and modest as a violet, as
fragile-slender as a lily, and her eyes, luminous and shrinking tender,
were as asphodels on the sward of heaven.  She was all flower, and fire,
and dew.  Hers was the sweetness of the mountain rose, the gentleness of
the dove.  And she was all of good as well as all of beauty, devout in
her belief in her mother’s worship, which was the worship introduced by
Ebenezer Naismith, the Baptist missionary.  But make no mistake.  She was
no mere sweet spirit ripe for the bosom of Abraham.  All of exquisite
deliciousness of woman was she.  She was woman, all woman, to the last
sensitive quivering atom of her—

“And I?  I was a wastrel of the beach.  The wildest was not so wild as I,
the keenest not so keen, of all that wild, keen trading crowd.  It was
esteemed I played the stiffest hand of poker.  I was the only living man,
white, brown, or black, who dared run the Kuni-kuni Passage in the dark.
And on a black night I have done it under reefs in a gale of wind.  Well,
anyway, I had a bad reputation on a beach where there were no good
reputations.  I was reckless, dangerous, stopped at nothing in fight or
frolic; and the trading captains used to bring boiler-sheeted prodigies
from the vilest holes of the South Pacific to try and drink me under the
table.  I remember one, a calcined Scotchman from the New Hebrides.  It
was a great drinking.  He died of it, and we laded him aboard ship,
pickled in a cask of trade rum, and sent him back to his own place.  A
sample, a fair sample, of the antic tricks we cut up on the beach of
Manatomana.

“And of all unthinkable things, what did I up and do, one day, but look
upon the Princess to find her good and to fall in love with her.  It was
the real thing.  I was as mad as a March hare, and after that I got only
madder.  I reformed.  Think of that!  Think of what a slip of a woman can
do to a busy, roving man!—By the Lord Harry, it’s true.  I reformed.  I
went to church.  Hear me!  I became converted.  I cleared my soul before
God and kept my hands—I had two then—off the ribald crew of the beach
when it laughed at this, my latest antic, and wanted to know what was my
game.

“I tell you I reformed, and gave myself in passion and sincerity to a
religious experience that has made me tolerant of all religion ever
since.  I discharged my best captain for immorality.  So did I my cook,
and a better never boiled water in Manatomana.  For the same reason I
discharged my chief clerk.  And for the first time in the history of
trading my schooners to the westward carried Bibles in their stock.  I
built a little anchorite bungalow up town on a mango-lined street
squarely alongside the little house occupied by Ebenezer Naismith.  And I
made him my pal and comrade, and found him a veritable honey pot of
sweetnesses and goodnesses.  And he was a man, through and through a man.
And he died long after like a man, which I would like to tell you about,
were the tale of it not so deservedly long.

“It was the Princess, more than the missionary, who was responsible for
my expressing my faith in works, and especially in that crowning work,
the New Church, Our Church, the Queen-mother’s church.

“‘Our poor church,’ she said to me, one night after prayer-meeting.  I
had been converted only a fortnight.  ‘It is so small its congregation
can never grow.  And the roof leaks.  And King John, my hard-hearted
father, will not contribute a penny.  Yet he has a big balance in the
treasury.  And Manatomana is not poor.  Much money is made and
squandered, I know.  I hear the gossip of the wild ways of the beach.
Less than a month ago you lost more in one night, gambling at cards, than
the cost of the upkeep of our poor church for a year.’

“And I told her it was true, but that it was before I had seen the light.
(I’d had an infernal run of bad luck.)  I told her I had not tasted
liquor since, nor turned a card.  I told her that the roof would be
repaired at once, by Christian carpenters selected by her from the
congregation.  But she was filled with the thought of a great revival
that Ebenezer Naismith could preach—she was a dear saint—and she spoke of
a great church, saying:

“‘You are rich.  You have many schooners, and traders in far islands, and
I have heard of a great contract you have signed to recruit labour for
the German plantations of Upolu.  They say, next to Sweitzer, you are the
richest trader here.  I should love to see some use of all this money
placed to the glory of God.  It would be a noble thing to do, and I
should be proud to know the man who would do it.’

“I told her that Ebenezer Naismith would preach the revival, and that I
would build a church great enough in which to house it.

“‘As big as the Catholic church?’ she asked.

“This was the ruined cathedral, built at the time when the entire
population was converted, and it was a large order; but I was afire with
love, and I told her that the church I would build would be even bigger.

“‘But it will take money,’ I explained.  ‘And it takes time to make
money.’

“‘You have much,’ she said.  ‘Some say you have more money than my
father, the King.

“‘I have more credit,’ I explained.  ‘But you do not understand money.
It takes money to have credit.  So, with the money I have, and the credit
I have, I will work to make more money and credit, and the church shall
be built.’

“Work!  I was a surprise to myself.  It is an amazement, the amount of
time a man finds on his hands after he’s given up carousing, and
gambling, and all the time-eating diversions of the beach.  And I didn’t
waste a second of all my new-found time.  Instead I worked it overtime.
I did the work of half a dozen men.  I became a driver.  My captains made
faster runs than ever and earned bigger bonuses, as did my supercargoes,
who saw to it that my schooners did not loaf and dawdle along the way.
And I saw to it that my supercargoes did see to it.

“And good!  By the Lord Harry I was so good it hurt.  My conscience got
so expansive and fine-strung it lamed me across the shoulders to carry it
around with me.  Why, I even went back over my accounts and paid Sweitzer
fifty quid I’d jiggered him out of in a deal in Fiji three years before.
And I compounded the interest as well.

“Work!  I planted sugar cane—the first commercial planting on Manatomana.
I ran in cargoes of kinky-heads from Malaita, which is in the Solomons,
till I had twelve hundred of the blackbirds putting in cane.  And I sent
a schooner clear to Hawaii to bring back a dismantled sugar mill and a
German who said he knew the field-end of cane.  And he did, and he
charged me three hundred dollars screw a month, and I took hold of the
mill-end.  I installed the mill myself, with the help of several
mechanics I brought up from Queensland.

“Of course there was a rival.  His name was Motomoe.  He was the very
highest chief blood next to King John’s.  He was full native, a
strapping, handsome man, with a glowering way of showing his dislikes.
He certainly glowered at me when I began hanging around the palace.  He
went back in my history and circulated the blackest tales about me.  The
worst of it was that most of them were true.  He even made a voyage to
Apia to find things out—as if he couldn’t find a plenty right there on
the beach of Manatomana!  And he sneered at my failing for religion, and
at my going to prayer-meeting, and, most of all, at my sugar-planting.
He challenged me to fight, and I kept off of him.  He threatened me, and
I learned in the nick of time of his plan to have me knocked on the head.
You see, he wanted the Princess just as much as I did, and I wanted her
more.

“She used to play the piano.  So did I, once.  But I never let her know
after I’d heard her play the first time.  And she thought her playing was
wonderful, the dear, fond girl!  You know the sort, the mechanical
one-two-three tum-tum-tum school-girl stuff.  And now I’ll tell you
something funnier.  Her playing _was_ wonderful to me.  The gates of
heaven opened to me when she played.  I can see myself now, worn out and
dog-tired after the long day, lying on the mats of the palace veranda and
gazing upon her at the piano, myself in a perfect idiocy of bliss.  Why,
this idea she had of her fine playing was the one flaw in her
deliciousness of perfection, and I loved her for it.  It kind of brought
her within my human reach.  Why, when she played her one-two-three,
tum-tum-tum, I was in the seventh heaven of bliss.  My weariness fell
from me.  I loved her, and my love for her was clean as flame, clean as
my love for God.  And do you know, into my fond lover’s fancy continually
intruded the thought that God in most ways must look like her.

“—That’s right, Bruce Cadogan Cavendish, sneer as you like.  But I tell
you that’s love that I’ve been describing.  That’s all.  It’s love.  It’s
the realest, purest, finest thing that can happen to a man.  And I know
what I’m talking about.  It happened to me.”

Whiskers, his beady squirrel’s eye glittering from out his ruined eyebrow
like a live coal in a jungle ambush, broke off long enough to down a
sedative draught from his condensed milk can and to mix another.

“The cane,” he resumed, wiping his prodigious mat of face hair with the
back of his hand.  “It matured in sixteen months in that climate, and I
was ready, just ready and no more, with the mill for the grinding.
Naturally, it did not all mature at once, but I had planted in such
succession that I could grind for nine months steadily, while more was
being planted and the ratoons were springing up.

“I had my troubles the first several days.  If it wasn’t one thing the
matter with the mill, it was another.  On the fourth day, Ferguson, my
engineer, had to shut down several hours in order to remedy his own
troubles.  I was bothered by the feeder.  After having the niggers (who
had been feeding the cane) pour cream of lime on the rollers to keep
everything sweet, I sent them out to join the cane-cutting squads.  So I
was all alone at that end, just as Ferguson started up the mill, just as
I discovered what was the matter with the feed-rollers, and just as
Motomoe strolled up.

“He stood there, in Norfolk jacket, pigskin puttees, and all the rest of
the fashionable get-up out of a bandbox, sneering at me covered with
filth and grease to the eyebrows and looking like a navvy.  And, the
rollers now white from the lime, I’d just seen what was wrong.  The
rollers were not in plumb.  One side crushed the cane well, but the other
side was too open.  I shoved my fingers in on that side.  The big,
toothed cogs on the rollers did not touch my fingers.  And yet, suddenly,
they did.  With the grip of ten thousand devils, my finger-tips were
caught, drawn in, and pulped to—well, just pulp.  And, like a slick of
cane, I had started on my way.  There was no stopping me.  Ten thousand
horses could not have pulled me back.  There was nothing to stop me.
Hand, arm, shoulder, head, and chest, down to the toes of me, I was
doomed to feed through.

“It did hurt.  It hurt so much it did not hurt me at all.  Quite
detached, almost may I say, I looked on my hand being ground up, knuckle
by knuckle, joint by joint, the back of the hand, the wrist, the forearm,
all in order slowly and inevitably feeding in.  O engineer hoist by thine
own petard!  O sugar-maker crushed by thine own cane-crusher!

“Motomoe sprang forward involuntarily, and the sneer was chased from his
face by an expression of solicitude.  Then the beauty of the situation
dawned on him, and he chuckled and grinned.  No, I didn’t expect anything
of him.  Hadn’t he tried to knock me on the head?  What could he do
anyway?  He didn’t know anything about engines.

“I yelled at the top of my lungs to Ferguson to shut off the engine, but
the roar of the machinery drowned my voice.  And there I stood, up to the
elbow and feeding right on in.  Yes, it did hurt.  There were some
astonishing twinges when special nerves were shredded and dragged out by
the roots.  But I remember that I was surprised at the time that it did
not hurt worse.

“Motomoe made a movement that attracted my attention.  At the same time
he growled out loud, as if he hated himself, ‘I’m a fool.’  What he had
done was to pick up a cane-knife—you know the kind, as big as a machete
and as heavy.  And I was grateful to him in advance for putting me out of
my misery.  There wasn’t any sense in slowly feeding in till my head was
crushed, and already my arm was pulped half way from elbow to shoulder,
and the pulping was going right on.  So I was grateful, as I bent my head
to the blow.

“‘Get your head out of the way, you idiot!’ he barked at me.

“And then I understood and obeyed.  I was a big man, and he took two
hacks to do it; but he hacked my arm off just outside the shoulder and
dragged me back and laid me down on the cane.

“Yes, the sugar paid—enormously; and I built for the Princess the church
of her saintly dream, and . . . she married me.”

He partly assuaged his thirst, and uttered his final word.

“Alackaday!  Shuttlecock and battle-dore.  And this at, the end of it
all, lined with boilerplate that even alcohol will not corrode and that
only alcohol will tickle.  Yet have I lived, and I kiss my hand to the
dear dust of my Princess long asleep in the great mausoleum of King John
that looks across the Vale of Manona to the alien flag that floats over
the bungalow of the British Government House. . . ”

Fatty pledged him sympathetically, and sympathetically drank out of his
own small can.  Bruce Cadogan Cavendish glared into the fire with
implacable bitterness.  He was a man who preferred to drink by himself.
Across the thin lips that composed the cruel slash of his mouth played
twitches of mockery that caught Fatty’s eye.  And Fatty, making sure
first that his rock-chunk was within reach, challenged.

“Well, how about yourself, Bruce Cadogan Cavendish?  It’s your turn.”

The other lifted bleak eyes that bored into Fatty’s until he physically
betrayed uncomfortableness.

“I’ve lived a hard life,” Slim grated harshly.  “What do I know about
love passages?”

“No man of your build and make-up could have escaped them,” Fatty
wheedled.

“And what of it?” Slim snarled.  “It’s no reason for a gentleman to boast
of amorous triumphs.”

“Oh, go on, be a good fellow,” Fatty urged.  “The night’s still young.
We’ve still some drink left.  Delarouse and I have contributed our share.
It isn’t often that three real ones like us get together for a telling.
Surely you’ve got at least one adventure in love you aren’t ashamed to
tell about—”

Bruce Cadogan Cavendish pulled forth his iron quoit and seemed to debate
whether or not he should brain the other.  He sighed, and put back the
quoit.

“Very well, if you will have it,” he surrendered with manifest
reluctance.  “Like you two, I have had a remarkable constitution.  And
right now, speaking of armour-plate lining, I could drink the both of you
down when you were at your prime.  Like you two, my beginnings were far
distant and different.  That I am marked with the hall-mark of gentlehood
there is no discussion . . . unless either of you care to discuss the
matter now . . . ”

His one hand slipped into his pocket and clutched the quoit.  Neither of
his auditors spoke nor betrayed any awareness of his menace.

“It occurred a thousand miles to the westward of Manatomana, on the
island of Tagalag,” he continued abruptly, with an air of saturnine
disappointment in that there had been no discussion.  “But first I must
tell you of how I got to Tagalag.  For reasons I shall not mention, by
paths of descent I shall not describe, in the crown of my manhood and the
prime of my devilishness in which Oxford renegades and racing younger
sons had nothing on me, I found myself master and owner of a schooner so
well known that she shall remain historically nameless.  I was running
blackbird labour from the west South Pacific and the Coral Sea to the
plantations of Hawaii and the nitrate mines of Chili—”

“It was you who cleaned out the entire population of—” Fatty exploded,
ere he could check his speech.

The one hand of Bruce Cadogan Cavendish flashed pocketward and flashed
back with the quoit balanced ripe for business.

“Proceed,” Fatty sighed.  “I . . . I have quite forgotten what I was
going to say.”

“Beastly funny country over that way,” the narrator drawled with perfect
casualness.  “You’ve read this Sea Wolf stuff—”

“You weren’t the Sea Wolf,” Whiskers broke in with involuntary
positiveness.

“No, sir,” was the snarling answer.  “The Sea Wolf’s dead, isn’t he?  And
I’m still alive, aren’t I?”

“Of course, of course,” Whiskers conceded.  “He suffocated head-first in
the mud off a wharf in Victoria a couple of years back.”

“As I was saying—and I don’t like interruptions,” Bruce Cadogan Cavendish
proceeded, “it’s a beastly funny country over that way.  I was at
Taki-Tiki, a low island that politically belongs to the Solomons, but
that geologically doesn’t at all, for the Solomons are high islands.
Ethnographically it belongs to Polynesia, Melanesia, and Micronesia,
because all the breeds of the South Pacific have gravitated to it by
canoe-drift and intricately, degeneratively, and amazingly interbred.
The scum of the scrapings of the bottom of the human pit, biologically
speaking, resides in Taka-Tiki.  And I know the bottom and whereof I
speak.

“It was a beastly funny time of it I had, diving out shell, fishing
beche-de-mer, trading hoop-iron and hatchets for copra and ivory-nuts,
running niggers and all the rest of it.  Why, even in Fiji the Lotu was
having a hard time of it and the chiefs still eating long-pig.  To the
westward it was fierce—funny little black kinky-heads, man-eaters the
last Jack of them, and the jackpot fat and spilling over with wealth—”

“Jack-pots?” Fatty queried.  At sight of an irritable movement, he added:
“You see, I never got over to the West like Delarouse and you.”

“They’re all head-hunters.  Heads are valuable, especially a white man’s
head.  They decorate the canoe-houses and devil-devil houses with them.
Each village runs a jack-pot, and everybody antes.  Whoever brings in a
white man’s head takes the pot.  If there aren’t openers for a long time,
the pot grows to tremendous proportions.  Beastly funny, isn’t it?

“I know.  Didn’t a Holland mate die on me of blackwater?  And didn’t I
win a pot myself?  It was this way.  We were lying at Lango-lui at the
time.  I never let on, and arranged the affair with Johnny, my
boat-steerer.  He was a kinky-head himself from Port Moresby.  He cut the
dead mate’s head off and sneaked ashore in the night, while I whanged
away with my rifle as if I were trying to get him.  He opened the pot
with the mate’s head, and got it, too.  Of course, next day I sent in a
landing boat, with two covering boats, and fetched him off with the
loot.”

“How big was the pot?” Whiskers asked.  “I heard of a pot at Orla worth
eighty quid.”

“To commence with,” Slim answered, “there were forty fat pigs, each worth
a fathom of prime shell-money, and shell-money worth a quid a fathom.
That was two hundred dollars right there.  There were ninety-eight
fathoms of shell-money, which is pretty close to five hundred in itself.
And there were twenty-two gold sovereigns.  I split it four ways:
one-fourth to Johnny, one-fourth to the ship, one-fourth to me as owner,
and one-fourth to me as skipper.  Johnny never complained.  He’d never
had so much wealth all at one time in his life.  Besides, I gave him a
couple of the mate’s old shirts.  And I fancy the mate’s head is still
there decorating the canoe-house.”

“Not exactly Christian burial of a Christian,” Whiskers observed.

“But a lucrative burial,” Slim retorted.  “I had to feed the rest of the
mate over-side to the sharks for nothing.  Think of feeding an
eight-hundred-dollar head along with it.  It would have been criminal
waste and stark lunacy.

“Well, anyway, it was all beastly funny, over there to the westward.
And, without telling you the scrape I got into at Taki-Tiki, except that
I sailed away with two hundred kinky-heads for Queensland labour, and for
my manner of collecting them had two British ships of war combing the
Pacific for me, I changed my course and ran to the westward thinking to
dispose of the lot to the Spanish plantations on Bangar.

“Typhoon season.  We caught it.  The _Merry Mist_ was my schooner’s name,
and I had thought she was stoutly built until she hit that typhoon.  I
never saw such seas.  They pounded that stout craft to pieces, literally
so.  The sticks were jerked out of her, deckhouses splintered to
match-wood, rails ripped off, and, after the worst had passed, the
covering boards began to go.  We just managed to repair what was left of
one boat and keep the schooner afloat only till the sea went down barely
enough to get away.  And we outfitted that boat in a hurry.  The
carpenter and I were the last, and we had to jump for it as he went down.
There were only four of us—”

“Lost all the niggers?” Whiskers inquired.

“Some of them swam for some time,” Slim replied.  “But I don’t fancy they
made the land.  We were ten days’ in doing it.  And we had a spanking
breeze most of the way.  And what do you think we had in the boat with
us?  Cases of square-face gin and cases of dynamite.  Funny, wasn’t it?
Well, it got funnier later on.  Oh, there was a small beaker of water, a
little salt horse, and some salt-water-soaked sea biscuit—enough to keep
us alive to Tagalag.

“Now Tagalag is the disappointingest island I’ve ever beheld.  It shows
up out of the sea so as you can make its fall twenty miles off.  It is a
volcano cone thrust up out of deep sea, with a segment of the crater wall
broken out.  This gives sea entrance to the crater itself, and makes a
fine sheltered harbour.  And that’s all.  Nothing lives there.  The
outside and the inside of the crater are too steep.  At one place,
inside, is a patch of about a thousand coconut palms.  And that’s all, as
I said, saving a few insects.  No four-legged thing, even a rat, inhabits
the place.  And it’s funny, most awful funny, with all those coconuts,
not even a coconut crab.  The only meat-food living was schools of mullet
in the harbour—fattest, finest, biggest mullet I ever laid eyes on.

“And the four of us landed on the little beach and set up housekeeping
among the coconuts with a larder full of dynamite and square-face.  Why
don’t you laugh?  It’s funny, I tell you.  Try it some time.—Holland gin
and straight coconut diet.  I’ve never been able to look a confectioner’s
window in the face since.  Now I’m not strong on religion like Chauncey
Delarouse there, but I have some primitive ideas; and my concept of hell
is an illimitable coconut plantation, stocked with cases of square-face
and populated by ship-wrecked mariners.  Funny?  It must make the devil
scream.

“You know, straight coconut is what the agriculturists call an unbalanced
ration.  It certainly unbalanced our digestions.  We got so that whenever
hunger took an extra bite at us, we took another drink of gin.  After a
couple of weeks of it, Olaf, a squarehead sailor, got an idea.  It came
when he was full of gin, and we, being in the same fix, just watched him
shove a cap and short fuse into a stick of dynamite and stroll down
toward the boat.

“It dawned on me that he was going to shoot fish if there were any about;
but the sun was beastly hot, and I just reclined there and hoped he’d
have luck.

“About half an hour after he disappeared we heard the explosion.  But he
didn’t come back.  We waited till the cool of sunset, and down on the
beach found what had become of him.  The boat was there all right,
grounded by the prevailing breeze, but there was no Olaf.  He would never
have to eat coconut again.  We went back, shakier than ever, and cracked
another square-face.

“The next day the cook announced that he would rather take his chance
with dynamite than continue trying to exist on coconut, and that, though
he didn’t know anything about dynamite, he knew a sight too much about
coconut.  So we bit the detonator down for him, shoved in a fuse, and
picked him a good fire-stick, while he jolted up with a couple more stiff
ones of gin.

“It was the same programme as the day before.  After a while we heard the
explosion and at twilight went down to the boat, from which we scraped
enough of the cook for a funeral.

“The carpenter and I stuck it out two days more, then we drew straws for
it and it was his turn.  We parted with harsh words; for he wanted to
take a square-face along to refresh himself by the way, while I was set
against running any chance of wasting the gin.  Besides, he had more than
he could carry then, and he wobbled and staggered as he walked.

“Same thing, only there was a whole lot of him left for me to bury,
because he’d prepared only half a stick.  I managed to last it out till
next day, when, after duly fortifying myself, I got sufficient courage to
tackle the dynamite.  I used only a third of a stick—you know, short
fuse, with the end split so as to hold the head of a safety match.
That’s where I mended my predecessors’ methods.  Not using the
match-head, they’d too-long fuses.  Therefore, when they spotted a school
of mullet; and lighted the fuse, they had to hold the dynamite till the
fuse burned short before they threw it.  If they threw it too soon, it
wouldn’t go off the instant it hit the water, while the splash of it
would frighten the mullet away.  Funny stuff dynamite.  At any rate, I
still maintain mine was the safer method.

“I picked up a school of mullet before I’d been rowing five minutes.
Fine big fat ones they were, and I could smell them over the fire.  When
I stood up, fire-stick in one hand, dynamite stick in the other, my knees
were knocking together.  Maybe it was the gin, or the anxiousness, or the
weakness and the hunger, and maybe it was the result of all of them, but
at any rate I was all of a shake.  Twice I failed to touch the fire-stick
to the dynamite.  Then I did, heard the match-head splutter, and let her
go.

“Now I don’t know what happened to the others, but I know what I did.  I
got turned about.  Did you ever stem a strawberry and throw the
strawberry away and pop the stem into your mouth?  That’s what I did.  I
threw the fire-stick into the water after the mullet and held on to the
dynamite.  And my arm went off with the stick when it went off. . . . ”

Slim investigated the tomato-can for water to mix himself a drink, but
found it empty.  He stood up.

“Heigh ho,” he yawned, and started down the path to the river.

In several minutes he was back.  He mixed the due quantity of river slush
with the alcohol, took a long, solitary drink, and stared with bitter
moodiness into the fire.

“Yes, but . . . ” Fatty suggested.  “What happened then?”

“Oh,” sad Slim.  “Then the princess married me, of course.”

“But you were the only person left, and there wasn’t any princess . . . ”
Whiskers cried out abruptly, and then let his voice trail away to
embarrassed silence.

Slim stared unblinkingly into the fire.

Percival Delaney and Chauncey Delarouse looked at each other.  Quietly,
in solemn silence, each with his one arm aided the one arm of the other
in rolling and tying his bundle.  And in silence, bundles slung on
shoulders, they went away out of the circle of firelight.  Not until they
reached the top of the railroad embankment did they speak.

“No gentleman would have done it,” said Whiskers.

“No gentleman would have done it,” Fatty agreed.

                                 THE END

Glen Ellen, California,
      _September_ 26, 1916.


