
From somewhere outside, a threatening murmur became audible. It was an
unholy blend of rasping shouts and shriller chanting, punctuated by
notes of a brassy gong. As Charlie listened, the volume rose
noticeably.

Kho reached out with one tentacle and wrapped six inches about the
Earthman's wrist. When he plunged through the doorway, Charlie
perforce went right with him.

Whipping around a corner of the hut, he had time for a quick squint at
the chanters. Kho alone had looked weirdly alien. Two hundred like
him--!

Led by a dozen bulgy figures in streaming robes, masked and decorated
in brass, the natives were swarming over the sand toward the
fugitives. They had evidently been busy. Above a distant cluster of
low buildings, a column of smoke spiraled upward suggestively.

Kho led the way at a flowing gallop over a sandstone ridge and down a
long slope toward what looked like the junction of two gullies.

"The canal," he wheezed. "With luck, we may find a boat."

A frenzied screech went up as the mob topped the ridge and regained
sight of them. Charlie, having all he could do to breathe in the thin
air, tried to shake his wrist loose. Now that they were descending the
slope, he saw where the water was. They slid down a four-foot drop in
a cloud of fine, choking dust, and were faced by several puntlike
craft stranded on the mudflat beyond. The water was fifty feet
further.

"We should have gone down-stream," said Kho, "but we can wade."

Their momentum carried them several steps into the mud before Charlie
realized how wrong that was. Then, as they floundered about to regain
the solid bank, it became apparent that they would never reach it in
time.

"They are catching us," rasped Kho.

The howling crowd was scarcely a hundred yards away. The heat waves
shimmered above the reddish desert sand until the Martians were
blurred before Charlie's burning eyes. His feet churned the clinging
mud, and he felt as if he were running in a dream.

"I'm sorry you're in it, too," he panted.

"It does not matter. I act as I must."

The Earthman rubbed sweat from his eyes with the back of a muddy
hand.

"Everything is wrong," he mumbled. "I still can't remember cracking up
the ship. Why did I always want to be a rocket pilot? Well ... I made
my bed!"

The oncoming figures wavered and blurred in the heat. Kho emitted a
grating sound reminiscent of an Earthly chuckle.

"As do all you mortals--who finally have to lie in them," he rasped.
"I will tell you now, since I can carry this episode little farther.
You have never piloted a spaceship."

Charlie gaped at him incredulously.

"You ... you ... what about the wreck?"

"It was a truck that hit you, Charles Holmes. You have no more sense
than to be crossing the street with your nose in a magazine just
purchased on the corner."

With some dulled, creeping, semi-detached facet of his mind, Charlie
noted that the running figures still floated above the sand without
actually drawing near.

"Are you--Do you mean I'm ... d-d-d--?"

"Of course you are," grated Kho amiably. "And in view of certain
actions during your life, there will be quite a period of--shall we
say--probation. When I was assigned to you, your reading habits
suggested an amusing series of variations. You cannot know how dull it
is to keep frustrating the same old dreams!"

"Amusing?" repeated Charlie, beyond caring about the whimper in his
tone.

The mob was dissolving into thin smoke, and the horizon was shrinking.

Kbo himself was altering into something redder of skin but equipped
with a normal number of limbs, discounting the barbed tail. The
constant heat of the "desert" began, at last, to seem explicable.

"For me a great amusement," grinned Kho, displaying hideous tusks.
"Next time, I'll be a Venusian. You will lose again. Then we can visit
other planets, and stars ... oh, we shall see a lot of each other!"

He cheerfully polished one horn with a clawed finger.

"_You_ won't enjoy it!" he promised.
