
They emerged from the temple and started down the broad roadway toward
the palace. There was not much of a crowd, at first. Most of Zurb had
flocked to the palace earlier; the lucky ones in the courtyard and the
late comers outside. Those whom they did meet stared at them in
open-mouthed amazement, and then some, remembering their doubts and
blasphemies, began howling for forgiveness. Others--a substantial
majority--realizing that it would be upon King Kurchuk that the real
weight of Yat-Zar's six hands would fall, took to their heels, trying
to put as much distance as possible between them and the palace before
the blow fell.

As the procession approached the palace gates, the crowds were
thicker, made up of those who had been unable to squeeze themselves
inside. The panic was worse, here, too. A good many were trampled and
hurt in the rush to escape, and it became necessary to use paralyzers
to clear a way. That made it worse: everybody was sure that Yat-Zar
was striking sinners dead left and right.

Fortunately, the gates were high enough to let the god through without
losing altitude appreciably. Inside, the mob surged back, clearing a
way across the courtyard. It was only necessary to paralyze a few
here, and the levitated idol and its priestly attendants advanced
toward the stone platform, where the king sat on his throne, flanked
by court functionaries and black-robed priests of Muz-Azin. In front
of this, a rank of Chuldun archers had been drawn up.

"Horv; move Yat-Zar forward about a hundred feet and up about fifty,"
Verkan Vall directed. "Quickly!"

As the six-armed anthropomorphic idol rose and moved closer toward its
saurian rival, Verkan Vall drew his needler, scanning the assemblage
around the throne anxiously.

"_Where is the wicked King?_" a voice thundered--the voice of Stranor
Sleth, speaking into a midget radio tuned to the loud-speaker inside
the idol. "_Where is the blasphemer and desecrator, Kurchuk?_"

"There's Labdurg, in the red tunic, beside the throne," Tammand Drav
whispered. "And that's Ghromdur, the Muz-Azin high priest, beside
him."

Verkan Vall nodded, keeping his eyes on the group on the platform.
Ghromdur, the high priest of Muz-Azin, was edging backward and
reaching under his robe. At the same time, an officer shouted an
order, and the Chuldun archers drew arrows from their quivers and
fitted them to their bowstrings. Immediately, the ultrasonic
paralyzers of the advancing paratimers went into action, and the
mercenaries began dropping.

"_Lay down your weapons, fools!_" the amplified voice boomed at them.
"_Lay down your weapons or you shall surely die! Who are you,
miserable wretches, to draw bows against Me?_"

[Illustration:]

At first a few, then all of them, the Chulduns lowered or dropped
their weapons and began edging away to the sides. At the center, in
front of the throne, most of them had been knocked out. Verkan Vall
was still watching the Muz-Azin high priest intently; as Ghromdur
raised his arm, there was a flash and a puff of smoke from the front
of Yat-Zar--the paint over the collapsed nickel was burned off, but
otherwise the idol was undamaged. Verkan Vall swung up his needler and
rayed Ghromdur dead; as the man in the green-faced black robes fell, a
blaster clattered on the stone platform.

"_Is that your puny best, Muz-Azin?_" the booming voice demanded.
"_Where is your high priest now?_"

"Horv; face Yat-Zar toward Muz-Azin," Verkan Vall said over his
shoulder, drawing his blaster with his left hand. Like all First Level
people, he was ambidextrous, although, like all paratimers, he
habitually concealed the fact while outtime. As the levitated idol
swung slowly to look down upon its enemy on the built-up cart, Verkan
Vall aimed the blaster and squeezed.

[Illustration:]

In a spot less than a millimeter in diameter on the crocodile idol's
side, a certain number of neutrons in the atomic structure of the
stone from which it was carved broke apart, becoming, in effect, atoms
of hydrogen. With a flash and a bang, the idol burst and vanished.
Yat-Zar gave a dirty laugh and turned his back on the cart, which was
now burning fiercely facing King Kurchuk again.

"Get your hands up, all of you!" Verkan Vall shouted, in the First
Level language, swinging the stubby muzzle of the blaster and the
knob-tipped twin tubes of the needler to cover the group around the
throne, "Come forward, before I start blasting!"

Labdurg raised his hands and stepped forward. So did two of the
priests of Yat-Zar. They were quickly seized by Paratime Policemen who
swarmed up onto the platform and disarmed. All three were carrying
sigma-ray needlers, and Labdurg had a blaster as well.

King Kurchuk was clinging to the arms of his throne, a badly
frightened monarch trying desperately not to show it. He was a big
man, heavy-shouldered, black-bearded; under ordinary circumstances he
would probably have cut an imposing figure, in his gold-washed mail
and his golden crown. Now his face was a dirty gray, and he was biting
nervously at his lower lip. The others on the platform were in even
worse state. The Hulgun nobles were grouped together, trying to
disassociate themselves from both the king and the priests of
Muz-Azin. The latter were staring in a daze at the blazing cart from
which their idol had just been blasted. And the dozen men who were to
have done the actual work of the torture-sacrifice had all dropped
their whips and were fairly gibbering in fear.

Yat-Zar, manipulated by the robed paratimer, had taken a position
directly above the throne and was lowering slowly. Kurchuk stared up
at the massive idol descending toward him, his knuckles white as he
clung to the arms of his throne. He managed to hold out until he could
feel the weight of the idol pressing on his head. Then, with a scream,
he hurled himself from the throne and rolled forward almost to the
edge of the platform. Yat-Zar moved to one side, swung slightly and
knocked the throne toppling, and then settled down on the platform. To
Kurchuk, who was rising cautiously on his hands and knees, the big
idol seemed to be looking at him in contempt.

"_Where are my holy priests, Kurchuk?_" Stranor Sleth demanded in to
his sleeve-hidden radio. "_Let them be brought before me, alive and
unharmed, or it shall be better for you had you never been born!_"

The six priests of Yat-Zar, it seemed, were already being brought onto
the platform by one of Kurchuk's nobles. This noble, whose name was
Yorzuk, knew a miracle when he saw one, and believed in being on the
side of the god with the heaviest artillery. As soon as he had seen
Yat-Zar coming through the gate without visible means of support, he
had hastened to the dungeons with half a dozen of his personal
retainers and ordered the release of the six captives. He was now
escorting them onto the platform, assuring them that he had always
been a faithful servant of Yat-Zar and had been deeply grieved at his
sovereign's apostasy.

"_Hear my word, Kurchuk_," Stranor Sleth continued through the
loud-speaker in the idol. "_You have sinned most vilely against me,
and were I a cruel god, your fate would be such as no man has ever
before suffered. But I am a merciful god; behold, you may gain
forgiveness in my sight. For thirty days, you shall neither eat meat
nor drink wine, nor shall you wear gold nor fine raiment, and each day
shall you go to my temple and beseech me for my forgiveness. And on
the thirty-first day, you shall set out, barefoot and clad in the garb
of a slave, and journey to my temple that is in the mountains over
above Yoldav, and there will I forgive you, after you have made
sacrifice to me. I, Yat-Zar, have spoken!_"

The king started to rise, babbling thanks.

"_Rise not before me until I have forgiven you!_" Yat-Zar thundered.
"_Creep out of my sight upon your belly, wretch!_"
