
The procession back to the temple was made quietly and sedately along
an empty roadway. Yat-Zar seemed to be in a kindly humor; the people
of Zurb had no intention of giving him any reason to change his mood.
The priests of Muz-Azin and their torturers had been flung into the
dungeon. Yorzuk, appointed regent for the duration of Kurchuk's
penance, had taken control and was employing Hulgun spearmen and
hastily-converted Chuldun archers to restore order and, incidentally,
purge a few of his personal enemies and political rivals. The priests,
with the three prisoners who had been found carrying First Level
weapons among them and Yat-Zar floating triumphantly in front, entered
the temple. A few of the devout, who sought admission after them, were
told that elaborate and secret rites were being held to cleanse the
profaned altar, and sent away.

Verkan Vall and Brannad Klav and Stranor Sleth were in the conveyer
chamber, with the Paratime Policemen and the extra priests; along with
them were the three prisoners. Verkan Vall pulled off his false beard
and turned to face these. He could see that they all recognized him.

"Now," he began, "you people are in a bad jam. You've violated the
Paratime Transposition Code, the Commercial Regulation Code, and the
First Level Criminal Code, all together. If you know what's good for
you, you'll start talking."

"I'm not saying anything till I have legal advice," the man who had
been using the local alias of Labdurg replied. "And if you're through
searching me, I'd like to have my cigarettes and lighter back."

"Smoke one of mine, for a change," Verkan Vall told him. "I don't know
what's in yours beside tobacco." He offered his case and held a light
for the prisoner before lighting his own cigarette. "I'm going to be
sure you get back to the First Level alive."

The former Overseer of the Kingdom of Zurb shrugged. "I'm still not
talking," he said.

"Well, we can get it all out of you by narco-hypnosis, anyhow," Verkan
Vall told him. "Besides, we got that man of yours who was here at the
temple when we came in. He's being given a full treatment, as a
presumed outtime native found in possession of First Level weapons. If
you talk now it'll go easier with you."

The prisoner dropped the cigarette on the floor and tramped it out.

"Anything you cops get out of me, you'll have to get the hard way," he
said. "I have friends on the First Level who'll take care of me."

"I doubt that. They'll have their hands full taking care of
themselves, after this gets out." Verkan Vall turned to the two in
the black robes. "Either of you want to say anything?" When they shook
their heads, he nodded to a group of his policemen; they were hustled
into the conveyer. "Take them to the First Level terminal and hold
them till I come in. I'll be along with the next conveyer load."
