
The conveyer flashed and vanished. Brannad Klav stared for a moment at
the circle of concrete floor from whence it had disappeared. Then he
turned to Verkan Vall.

"I still can't believe it," he said. "Why, those fellows were First
Level paratimers. So was that priest, Ghromdur: the one you rayed."

"Yes, of course. They worked for your rivals, the Fourth Level Mineral
Products Syndicate; the outfit that was trying to get your Proto-Aryan
Sector fissionables franchise away from you. They operate on this sector
already; have the petroleum franchise for the Chuldun country, east of
the Caspian Sea. They export to some of these internal-combustion-engine
sectors, like Europo-American. You know, most of the wars they've been
fighting, lately, on the Europo-American Sector have been, at least in
part, motivated by rivalry for oil fields. But now that the
Europo-Americans have begun to release nuclear energy, fissionables have
become more important than oil. In less than a century, it's predicted
that atomic energy will replace all other forms of power. Mineral
Products Syndicate wanted to get a good source of supply for uranium,
and your Proto-Aryan Sector franchise was worth grabbing.

"I had considered something like this as a possibility when Stranor,
here, mentioned that tularemia was normally unknown in Eurasia on this
sector. That epidemic must have been started by imported germs. And I
knew that Mineral Products has agents at the court of the Chuldun
emperor, Chombrog: they have to, to protect their oil wells on his
eastern frontiers. I spent most of last night checking up on some
stuff by video-transcription from the Paratime Commission's microfilm
library at Dhergabar. I found out, for one thing, that while there is
a King Kurchuk of Zurb on every time-line for a hundred para-years on
either side of this one, this is the only time-line on which he
married a Princess Darith of Chuldun, and it's the only time-line on
which there is any trace of a Chuldun scribe named Labdurg.

"That's why I went to all the trouble of having that Yat-Zar plated
with collapsed nickel. If there were disguised paratimers among the
Muz-Azin party at Kurchuk's court, I expected one of them to try to
blast our idol when we brought it into the palace. I was watching
Ghromdur and Labdurg in particular; as soon as Ghromdur used his
blaster, I needled him. After that, it was easy."

"Was that why you insisted on sending that automatic viewer on
ahead?"

"Yes. There was a chance that they might have planted a bomb in the
House of Yat-Zar, here. I knew they'd either do that or let the place
entirely alone. I suppose they were so confident of getting away with
this that they didn't want to damage the conveyer or the conveyer
chamber. They expected to use them, themselves, after they took over
your company's franchise."

"Well, what's going to be done about it by the Commission?" Brannad
Klav wanted to know.

"Plenty. The syndicate will probably lose their paratime license; any
of its officials who had guilty knowledge of this will be dealt with
according to law. You know, this was a pretty nasty business."

"You're telling me!" Stranor Sleth exclaimed. "Did you get a look at
those whips they were going to use on our people? Pointed iron barbs a
quarter-inch long braided into them, all over the lash-ends!"

"Yes. Any punitive action you're thinking about taking on these
priests of Muz-Azin--the natives, I mean--will be ignored on the First
Level. And that reminds me: you'd better work out a line of policy,
pretty soon."

"Well, as for the priests and the torturers, I think I'll tell Yorzuk
to have them sold to the Bhunguns, to the east. They're always in the
market for galley slaves," Stranor Sleth said. He turned to Brannad
Klav. "And I'll want six gold crowns made up, as soon as possible.
Strictly Hulgun design, with Yat-Zar religious symbolism, very rich
and ornate, all slightly different. When I give Kurchuk absolution,
I'll crown him at the altar in the name of Yat-Zar. Then I'll invite
in the other five Hulgun kings, lecture them on their religious
duties, make them confess their secret doubts, forgive them, and crown
them, too. From then on, they can all style themselves as ruling by
the will of Yat-Zar."

"And from then on, you'll have all of them eating out of your hand,"
Verkan Vall concluded. "You know, this will probably go down in Hulgun
history as the Reformation of Ghullam the Holy. I've always wondered
whether the theory of the divine right of kings was invented by the
kings, to establish their authority over the people, or by the
priests, to establish _their_ authority over the kings. It works about
as well one way as the other."

"What I can't understand is this," Brannad Klav said. "It was entirely
because of my respect for the Paratime Code that I kept Stranor Sleth
from using Fourth Level weapons and other techniques to control these
people with a show of apparent miraculous powers. But this Fourth
Level Mineral Products Syndicate was operating in violation of the
Paratime Code by invading our franchise area. Why didn't they fake up
a supernatural reign of terror to intimidate these natives?"

"Ha, exactly because they _were_ operating illegally," Verkan Vall
replied. "Suppose they had started using needlers and blasters and
antigravity and nuclear-energy around here. The natives would have
thought it was the power of Muz-Azin, of course, but what would you
have thought? You'd have known, as soon as they tried it, that First
Level paratimers were working against you, and you'd have laid the
facts before the Commission, and this time-line would have been
flooded with Paratime Police. They had to conceal their operations not
only from the natives, as you do, but also from us. So they didn't
dare make public use of First Level techniques.

"Of course, when we came marching into the palace with that idol on
antigravity, they knew, at once, what was happening. I have an idea
that they only tried to blast that idol to create a diversion which
would permit them to escape--if they could have got out of the palace,
they'd have made their way, in disguise, to the nearest Mineral
Products Syndicate conveyer and transposed out of here. I realized
that they could best delay us by blasting our idol, and that's why I
had it plated with collapsed nickel. I think that where they made
their mistake was in allowing Kurchuk to have those priests arrested,
and insisting on sacrificing them to Muz-Azin. If it hadn't been for
that, the Paratime Police wouldn't have been brought into this, at
all.

"Well, Stranor, you'll want to get back to your temple, and Brannad
and I want to get back to the First Level. I'm supposed to take my
wife to a banquet in Dhergabar, tonight, and with the fastest
strato-rocket, I'll just barely make it."

[Illustration: ]
