
Three days we ranged the shifting blue-white sands of K'niik-K'naak,
watching everywhere for signs of the herd we'd heard occurred in that
region. Nothing.

"Keep sharp lookout," I snapped at Mimp, over my shoulder. Mimp was
like a brother, but you have to keep these aliens in their place.

"Yes, Bwana," said Mimp. (He called me Bwana, always.) "Soon we come to
waterhole."

I didn't ask him how he knew. Andromedans have a knack for geography.
In many ways, they're almost as good as an Earthman. "Good," was all I
answered. It was short, to the point, and showed who was boss.

Onward we trekked, a sunburnt duo casting long bronze shadows across
the burning sands of K'niik K'naak. A thin plume of Yekkweed fumes
marked our passage. It was nearly sunset when we spotted the pink
glitter of that sickening slop that is the Polaris III excuse for
water. I stood watching the sunset, while Mimp unloaded all the gear
and began to set up camp. As the last rays faded in the sky, I turned
and entered the pseudolog hut Mimp had inflated. Hard on his lungs, of
course, but I hadn't wanted to burden him with the extra weight of a
hand-pump. I'm a stern man, but I'm fair.

He had my slippers laid out beside the armchair by the fire and a cool
mint julep awaiting me on the small teakwood taboret. He was busying
himself in the kitchenette, whipping up a quick souffle with one hand
and tossing a small salad with the other.

"Hurry it up there," I growled jovially. "Time is money, time is
money!" A bit of friendly joshing is good for the relationship; shows
Mimp I'm tolerant of him sharing the same quarters, without actually
making me act like an equal, if you know what I mean.

"I hurry, Sahib," said Mimp. "Coming up." (He always called me Sahib.)
He rushed across the room and began setting the table, with my
pearl-handled silverware.

"No, not there," I yawned, picking up my julep and settling back into
the armchair. "I think I'd like the table nearer the piano, so you can
play Chopin Nocturnes while I dine." I added, as a kindly afterthought,
"You can reheat your share of the souffle later, after I've gone to
bed." Personally, I hate cold souffle.

"Yes, Effendi," said Mimp. (He always called me Effendi.) Rapidly, he
moved the table over to the Steinway, set out the finished souffle
and salad and then hurried to the piano and began laboriously plunking
out glorious melody. I took a sip of my julep, then spat it out on the
carpet.

"Mimp!" I roared, incensed. "Did you make this drink with Polaris III
water?"

Craven and cowering, he fell at my feet, whining for mercy. But I was
adamant. You let an alien take an inch, and the next thing, he's swiped
a parsec. "The knout," I said, keeping my voice emotionless and holding
out my hand.

"Please, Kimosabe," whimpered Mimp, "I dared not use the water in
the canteens. You know that Polaris III water is poisonous to us
Andromedans, while you Earthmen can tolerate it."

"I can _not_!" I raged.

"I was speaking medically," he mewed piteously.

"And I, esthetically," I snarled. "The knout, now, and be quick about
it."

He scurried on all fours to the bureau where I kept my odds and ends,
and came crawling back with the brutal leather whip. I weighed the
infraction, decided that three stripes should be lesson enough and I
laid them onto his bare back with a steady hand. "Now," I said, wearied
by the effort, "play something gay and lilting."

Hastily, he dragged himself to the Steinway and complied. Dinner was
really delicious.
