
In the parlor, I stood erect, and glanced about. There was no one in
sight, but the back door was open. "_Mimp!_" I bellowed, stamping
across the carpet. "Where are you, you off-color blemish!?" No reply.
"This means six stripes with the knout!" I warned him.

Then I heard a faint sound, not unlike that of a fourteen-inch bolo
knife being brought down hard upon the inflating-valve of a pseudolog
hut. I felt at my belt. My bolo was missing. "Mimp!" I hollered, much
too late.

Then the whole damned room, piano, fireplace, carpet, armchair and all,
snapped in upon me, and I was wound up with those rubberized walls
tighter than the center of a golfball. I think I must have swooned,
then.

Much, much later, by dint of tooth, fingernail and sheer grit, I
had gnawed, clawed and wrenched my way free of the collapsed hut. A
stunning sight met my eyes. All about the waterhole, the flying tuskers
were still kneeling. Every one of them was dead and already beginning
to rot. But the infuriating thing was that not one of them had so much
as an inch of tusk any more.

Every beast had been detusked, the priceless pearl shafts lopped off
flush with the thick gray hides. _Mimp!_ And with _my_ bolo knife,
already!

At least he'd left me a canteen. I tasted it. _Pffaugh!_ Pink Polaris
III slop! The dirty little--! But I saved it anyhow. I had a long
lonely walk back to town ahead of me.

And there it was that I learned even worse news.

Mimp had already sold the tusks and was on his way back to Andromeda,
with a fortune in his breechclout. I swore revenge, then and there,
but was unable to carry it out, since I was short the rocketfare back
to Earth and the authorities. (It seems that Polaris III is a neutral
planet. Even the mighty word "Earthman" carries no weight there.) So
I had to hock the piano, my precious Moxley .55 and what could be
salvaged of the souffle, and even then I was only able to book passage
as near Earth as Sirius II.

Luckily, they had a consulate there. I was able to secure a ride home,
after some weeks' wait. By then, however, it was too late to avenge
myself.

Mimp, with his stolen fortune, had paid off his planet's debt to Earth.
Andromeda IV (his home planet) declared its independence, and the
Earth authorities throw up their hands and shrug whenever I hint at
extraditing him. Seems he's the new emperor there, or something. They
can't afford to antagonize him. Damn!

However, I suppose you're wondering just why I get goosebumps when I
recall the flying tuskers of K'niik-K'naak. Well, it wasn't so much the
danger from the beasts, nor the hideous heat of that desert, nor my
long, painful sojourn beneath the Steinway in the shrunken hut that was
so bad.

It was those tuskers. Know how they died? Mimp had poisoned the
waterhole. Unsporting, and all that, but the thing that nags my brain
is: Why didn't _I_ think of that?

Me! Bested by a lousy purple alien!

What's the universe coming to?



