
There were thirty-seven matches in the box when Lance found it. There
may have been some slight variation in the “average contents” when the
box left the Emerald Match Company. It is certain that when Lance
handed it through the car window in the railroad station to Big Pete
Jenkins, there were only nine left and among these, quite tightly
wedged by now into her corner, and out of sight, was the thin match.

The other eight were dead-set against her by now. They had no further
contact with her; she was ostracized, a pariah of a match--too thin,
and too brown on one side, and with a head too little symmetrical and
too little apt to light at the first draw along the box-side for any
self-respecting match to notice her at all!

Pete Jenkins went all the way to New York. By the time he arrived there
were four of the nine left. The thin match was still in her corner,
wedged in. It was better for her there, on the whole, she had come to
believe. The pressure of the feeling against her had sent up strongly
into her head the idea of her destiny. This was, of course, only the
common destiny of all matches--to set something on fire. It might be
anything, from a joss-stick to a great conflagration; but it was to
start fire. That, she knew by instinct, was the great thing. What
difference did it really make, she said over and over again to herself,
that she was thin, had a crooked head, and a streak all down one side!
There lay within her power the possibility of anything--anything, that
is, that could come of setting something on fire. Patience! When it
came her turn, if it ever did come, to be taken out and scraped along
the side of the box, she must light, and blaze up, and burn clearly and
steadily. She must not fail. And it would be so easy to fail! Many a
match had failed, and for many reasons. There was the possibility of
dampness, that greatest of all match-dreads. Then, the outside of the
box would be sadly worn down by now, with most of the matches gone. The
first out, those nearest to the top as fate at the hands of the packer
adjusted it for them, always had the best chance. Then, too, she might
break! She would be especially likely to break, being so very thin; or
her paraffin-soaked neck, which was the thinnest part of her, might
have got too dry to burn properly!

But there was no way to regulate these chances. A match could only wait
and hope, and the thin match waited and hoped with a good courage,
resolved to light quickly and burn as clearly and steadily as she
possibly could, if ever her chance should come.

Pete, it seemed, had no particular use for the remaining matches in
this box. He had, in fact, quite forgotten them. For the box, very weak
and wobbly now, had been packed inside the pocket of a jacket which
Pete had replaced with a sweater a day out from New York and placed
inside a gripsack. Pete was on board a ship now, a ship bound to
Labrador, and he was using old-fashioned sulfur matches to light his
pipe against the wind up on deck.

It occurred to the thin match that she might never get her chance, even
though the box should be resurrected, because she was quite out of
sight. Even if someone opened the box again, she was wedged in so
tightly that she might not even be seen. Well, there was no use in
borrowing trouble! She knew she could not regulate the universe. She
could only wait, and so she waited, and waited....
