
Carefully, gingerly, Pete drew the first match along the side of the
box. But the oily side caused it to slip without igniting. At the
second trial the head crumbled off the stick. He threw away the useless
stick and took the second. It broke off, close to the head. He fumbled
after the head on the floor, his hands like lumps of lead. At last he
got it between his thumb and the side of the box. It would burn him, he
knew; but what was a burn? He rubbed it against the box. It flared
suddenly, died at once, giving him a vicious burn in the process, and
smoked out to a tiny, inconsiderable cinder.

Pete turned pale under the dirt of his unshaven cheeks, and reached for
his last match. He struck it, with infinite care, seven times, drawing
it along different portions of the better preserved box-side. It
fizzled at last, but that was all. The head crumbled off as the first
had done.

Pete sat there looking at the fragments of the broken box and the
useless sticks in a dumb frenzy of despair. He was done--at the end of
his rope. Then, suddenly animated, he seized the useless wreck of the
empty box and threw it on the hard earthen floor, and ground it with
his heel. He sat and stared at it. The lynx broke off a great splinter
of wood, but Pete did not notice the lynx. What was that? It looked
like a good match-head, there under the edge of the flimsy match box
now ground and crushed flat.

Almost perishing now with the bitter cold in his ungloved hands, which
made them feel like useless lumps of lead, Pete groped for it. He got
it at last in his numb fingers, and carefully gathered up a bit of the
box-side, a mere splinter. He carried the find over to the fireplace
where he had his fire ready laid and looked closely at what he had
picked up in the failing light. It was the thin match, intact. Pete’s
grinding, angry heel had only rolled her about in the dirt. Her body
was wrenched--her poor, pitiful little body, thin and crooked--but
there had been something of stiffness in that disfiguring brown streak
which she had inherited from being too near the bark.

The thin match summoned up all her resolution. The time had come for
her to fulfill her destiny....

Against his broken, begrimed fragment of the box-side, Pete scraped the
crazy, splintered, wobbly, thin match. A bright, steady little flame
sprang up at him. Not breathing, his aching hands laboriously cupped,
he reached for the under side of the fire.

The thin match slipped from between his numbed fingers and fell, but
she landed just within the fireplace. Exactly above her hung a fragment
of oily pine bark. With her last expiring fragment of will, the thin
match, now two-thirds burned away, squeezed a thin trickle of yellow
flame up until it touched the very tip of the fringed edge of that
piece of pine bark. There was a fearful instant of suspense;
then--then--a thin and growing little blaze began to run up the
bark-splinter’s edge; the fire caught and roared up the stone chimney.
Pete wept, crouching there benumbed, his great body in the ungainly
furs sagging down almost against the blaze under the stress of this
reaction.
