
He stood still for a moment, looking down, his mind almost swimming
with wonder and surmise. Old, very old it must be, for the stream
had cut its own bed out of the rock whose walls rose above him now.
Old--and yet these metal surfaces gleamed as brightly as they must have
gleamed on the day they were put together--for what purpose?

The wind sighed again down the canyon, and Dantan remembered the
Redhelms on his track. He looked around once more and then lowered
himself onto the ladder of metal pegs, testing them doubtfully before
he let his full weight come down. They held.

There might be danger down below; there might not. There was certain
danger coming after him among the twisting canyons. He reached up,
investigated briefly, and swung the door back into place. There was a
lock, he saw, and after a moment discovered how to manipulate it. So
far, the results were satisfactory. He was temporarily safe from the
Redhelms, provided he did not suffocate. There was no air intake here
that he could see, but he breathed easily enough so far. He would worry
about that when the need arose. There might be other things to worry
about before lack of air began to distress him.

He descended.

At the bottom of the shaft was another door. Its handle yielded with
no resistance this time, and Dantan stepped across the threshold into
a large, square underground chamber, lit with pale radiance that came
from the floor itself, as though light had been poured into the molten
metal when it had first been made.

The room--

Faintly he heard a distant humming, like the after-resonance of a bell,
but it died away almost instantly. The room was large, and empty except
for some sort of machine standing against the farther wall. Dantan was
not a technician. He knew guns and ships; that was enough. But the
smooth, sleek functionalism of this machine gave him an almost sensuous
feeling of pleasure.

How long had it been here? Who had built it? And for what purpose? He
could not even guess. There was a great oval screen on the wall above
what seemed to be a control board, and there were other, more enigmatic
devices.

And the screen was black--dead black, with a darkness that ate up the
light in the room and gave back nothing.

Yet there was something--

"_Sanfel_," a voice said. "_Sanfel. Coth dr'gchang. Sanfel--sthan!_

"_Sanfel ... Sanfel ... have you returned, Sanfel? Answer!_"

It was a woman's voice ... the voice of a woman used to wielding
power, quiet, somehow proud as the voice of Lucifer or Lilith might
have been, and it spoke in a tongue that scarcely half a dozen living
men could understand.... A whole great race had spoken it once; only
the shamans remembered now, and the shamans who knew it were few.
Dantan's godfather had been one. And Dantan remembered the slurring
syllables of the rituals he had learned, well enough to know what the
proud, bodiless voice was saying.

The nape of his neck prickled. Here was something he could not
understand, and he did not like it. Like an animal scenting danger he
shrank into himself, not crouching, but withdrawing, so that a smaller
man seemed to stand there, ready and waiting for the next move. Only
his eyes were not motionless. They raked the room for the unseen
speaker--for some weapon to use when the time came for weapons.

His glance came back to the dark screen above the machine. And the
voice said again, in the tongue of ancient Klanvahr:

"I am not used to waiting, Sanfel! If you hear me, speak. And speak
quickly, for the time of peril comes close now. My Enemy is strong--"

Dantan said, "Can you hear me?" His eyes did not move from the screen.

Out of that blackness the girl's voice came, after a pause. It was
imperious, and a little wary.

"You are not Sanfel. Where is he? Who are you, Martian?"
