
Abruptly it paused. He thought it had sensed the girl's presence,
somewhere in hiding. It reached for the coil of tubing with one
malformed--hand?

"Quiana," it said--its voice as gentle as a child's.

Silence. Dantan's breathing was loud in the emptiness.

"Quiana?" The tone was querulous now.

"Quiana," the monster crooned, and swung about with sudden, unexpected
agility. Moving with smooth speed, it vanished into the clouds of the
background, as the girl had vanished. For an eternity Dantan watched
colored emptiness, trying to keep himself from trembling.

Then he heard the voice again, gentle no longer, but ringing like a
bell with terrible triumph, "_Quiana!_"

And out of the swirling clouds he saw Quiana break, despair upon her
face, her sheer garments streaming behind her. After her came the
Enemy. It had unslung the tube it wore over its shoulder, and as it
lifted the weapon Quiana swerved desperately aside. Then from the coil
of tubing blind lightning ravened.

Shattering the patternless obscurity, the blaze of its color burst out,
catching Quiana in a cone of expanding, shifting brilliance. And the
despair in her eyes was suddenly more than Dantan could endure.

His hand struck out at the lever marked "door"; he swung it far over
and the veil that had masked the screen was gone. He vaulted up over
its low threshold, not seeing anything but the face and the terror of
Quiana. But it was not Quiana's name he called as he leaped.

He lunged through the Door onto soft, yielding substance that was
unlike anything he had ever felt underfoot before. He scarcely knew it.
He flung himself forward, fists clenched, ready to drive futile blows
into the monstrous mask of the Enemy. It loomed over him like a tower,
tremendous, scarcely seen through the shelter of his helmet--and then
the glare of the light-cone caught him.

It was tangible light. It flung him back with a piledriver punch that
knocked the breath from his body. And the blow was psychic as well as
physical. Shaking and reeling from the shock, Dantan shut his eyes and
fought forward, as though against a steady current too strong to breast
very long. He felt Quiana beside him, caught in the same dreadful
stream. And beyond the source of the light the Enemy stood up in stark,
inhuman silhouette.

He never saw Quiana's world. The light was too blinding. And yet, in a
subtle sense, it was not blinding to the eyes, but to the mind. Nor
was it light, Dantan thought, with some sane part of his mind. Too late
he remembered Quiana's warning that the world of Zha was not Mars or
Earth, that in Zha even light was different.

Cold and heat mingled, indescribably bewildering, shook him hard. And
beyond these were--other things. The light from the Enemy's weapon was
not born in Dantan's universe, and it had properties that light should
not have. He felt bare, emptied, a hollow shell through which radiance
streamed.

For suddenly, every cell of his body was an eye. The glaring
brilliance, the intolerable vision beat at the foundations of his
sanity. Through him the glow went pouring, washing him, nerves, bone,
flesh, brain, in floods of color that were not color, sound that was
not sound, vibration that was spawned in the shaking hells of worlds
beyond imagination.

It inundated him like a tide, and for a long, long, timeless while he
stood helpless in its surge, moving within his body and without it,
and within his mind and soul as well. The color of stars thundered in
his brain. The crawling foulness of unspeakable hues writhed along his
nerves so monstrously that he felt he could never cleanse himself of
that obscenity.

And nothing else existed--only the light that was not light, but
blasphemy.

Then it began to ebb ... faded ... grew lesser and lesser,
until--Beside him he could see Quiana now. She was no longer stumbling
in the cone of light, no longer shuddering and wavering in its
violence, but standing erect and facing the Enemy, and from her
eyes--something--poured.

Steadily the cone of brilliance waned. But still its glittering,
shining foulness poured through Dantan. He felt himself weakening, his
senses fading, as the tide of dark horror mounted through his brain.

And covered him up with its blanketing immensity.
