
Timkin was right. Contrary to all fanciful and unfounded predictions,
gold had never lost its value. True, the nations of earth had all gone
off the gold-standard in the 20th century and for a while gold was a
forgotten metal, buried in vaults.

But then it came into its own as one of the most non-corrodable metals.
When space travel came into being, an alloy of gold became the standard
coating for all equipment used on other worlds, some of which had
noxious atmospheres that could rust iron or copper in days to worthless
dust.

But gold in its alloy-hardened form defied the worst other worlds had
to offer. Thereupon gold became a metal of commerce and its value rose
even higher than its one-time value as a money standard.

And so, with his find of gold, Homer Timkin was as suddenly wealthy as
any Spanish explorer of the New World, back in earth's past.

"It's sure going to be a pleasure," crowed Timkin, "to drag this lump
of gold back to Titan!"

"Yeh, it is--for _me_!"

Timkin jumped at the sound of the voice behind him, coming out of
nowhere. He turned, gaping, to see another man in a vac-suit slowly
approaching, with a reaction pistol. Timkin could see the newcomer's
_Jetabout_ now, parked alongside his own. Timkin had been too engrossed
in his find to see the approach of the ship.

"Huck Larsoe!" said Timkin in recognition for he knew all the other
prospectors back at the Titan docks.

"Yeh, Timkin," returned Huck Larsoe, grinning. "I was the _Jetabout_
that passed you a while ago. Just before you went out of my sight, I
saw your ship suddenly scoot on a backtrack. That spelled a find to me!
So I turned and came back, and followed you up."

Timkin didn't like it. Huck Larsoe was a younger man and filled out
his vac-suit with a powerful, hulking body. His stubble of unshaven
black beard formed an unkempt fringe to the hard-bitten face that
peered out of the visor. There was something in his cold grey eyes
that froze Timkin. There was such a thing as claim-jumping here in the
lawless territory of the rings.

"You sure struck it rich," Huck Larsoe went on. "But maybe you didn't
hear me before. I said it was lucky--for _me_!"

"Y-you can't take this from me," Timkin began, his voice tinny as it
came out of the chin-transmitter to impinge on the radio vibrators at
Larsoe's ears. "It's mine! I found it!"

"Sure, you found it," agreed Larsoe. "But I'm taking it away from you,
see?"

"No!" shrilled Timkin. "That's plain robbery--piracy! I'll tell the
police back at Titan."

Larsoe leered. "And what witnesses have you got? You and me are the
only two humans around here for 50,000 miles. It'll be your word
against mine back at Titan. If I say I found it myself and you're
trying to cut in on it they'll have to believe me. Because _I'll_ have
the gold."

Timkin had no weapon. The reaction "pistol" was not a weapon at all,
merely a device for moving in space by means of short, harmless rocket
blasts. He struggled against the bigger man. Larsoe laughed as he gave
the slighter man a shove that sent him spinning off the lump and almost
into another ring body with jagged edges.

[Illustration: Larsoe laughed as he gave the slighter man a shove.]

Then, still laughing, Huck Larsoe shoved the mass of gold to his own
ship, his reaction pistol streaming red flame behind him. He turned his
mocking face.

"I ain't even going to kill you, Timkin, like I could. No need going
to the trouble. It's still your word against mine, back at Titan. You
ain't got a ghost of a chance to _prove_ this is your find."

Slowly Timkin rocketed back to his own ship. He watched Larsoe stow the
gold in his hold and cast out a mess of fossil bones, lumps of coal,
bits of machinery and pieces of carved stone.

"Here, Timkin," Larsoe chortled. "You can have this other junk of mine
now. It'll help you pay for your trip, anyways. See? I ain't such a bad
guy at heart."

And with a mocking laugh, Larsoe slipped into his cabin lock. A moment
later his ship rocketed away and was lost in black space, leaving a
broken old man behind.

Timkin floated beside his ship for long bitter minutes without the
energy to do anything. Ten years of searching and hope wasted--ten
years of hardship and toil. Fate had at last rewarded him with a
magnificent bonanza--and then had kicked him in the teeth.

Timkin was on the verge of madness. For a moment he thought of opening
his reaction pistol wide, gunning straight for the ring bodies and
seeking peace and eternal rest there.
