
But then, shudderingly, he brought himself back to sanity. The will
to live triumphed as it did in all living creatures in the universe.
He looked at the stuff which Larsoe had cast from his ship, which was
slowly drifting away, scattering.

Rousing himself, Timkin began collecting it and stowing it in his hold.
No need to let the stuff go, even if it was a mocking gift from the
hated thief. He still had to make a profit on the trip.

Timkin held one carved stone in his hand for a moment, staring at its
ancient writings. It was a triangular piece and seemed to have two sets
of writing on it. To keep his mind from plunging into black despair
Timkin tried to picture again the ancient civilization of the first
moon.

But a slight huddled figure sobbed aloud at the controls as the
_Jetabout_ left the rings and aimed for Titan.

At the Titan docks two days later Homer Timkin was calm and resigned.
There was nothing he could do. No use to put in a complaint against
Huck Larsoe, to the police. As Larsoe had said, it was one man's word
against another's. With no witnesses the legal battle could only end
with Larsoe the winner.

Sighing, Timkin hired a rocket truck and piled the museum stuff aboard
and drove to the center of Titan City. Here the Saturn Archeological
Museum reared, stately and imposing on its marble pillars.

Timkin drove to the service entrance and rang the bell. An elderly man
answered and flashed a smile of greeting.

"Well, Timkin again," he said. "Back with another load of relics from
the rings? I take it you didn't hit any bonanza then, eh?"

"Well, I--" Timkin stopped. No need to go into his story, and broadcast
his shame and misery to the universe. "No, Professor Blick. No
bonanza. But I've got a load of stuff for you to look over for your
museum."

Professor Blick, adjusting his thick glasses, came out and looked over
each item as Timkin took it off the truck.

"Our prices are still standard, Timkin," he said. "Two SS-dollars for a
specimen of coal. Three for fossil bones. Five for bits of machinery.
And ten for the carved stones."

"Why," asked Timkin curiously, "do you pay more for the stones than
anything?"

"Because if they could speak they would tell us far more about the
ancient civilization of the first moon, than any of the other items. We
have a sizeable collection now. We can't translate the writing yet. But
some day we're going to find the Rosetta Stone that will give us the
clue and open up the whole vast story."

"Rosetta Stone?" Timkin was puzzled.

The professor went on conversationally.

"Yes. You see, back on earth many centuries ago, the archeologists
of that time also found carved writings--the ancient records of the
Egyptians. And they too were a riddle.

"But one day a stone was found with not only Egyptian heiroglyphics
on it but _another language_! The text on this stone had been written
in Egyptian and then copied in the other language. And that second
language--ancient Greek--was _known_! So this enabled all the Egyptian
writing to be translated and...."

The professor's voice stopped, with a queer gurgle. Timkin stared. He
had just handed him the triangular stone which had been among Larsoe's
"gifts."

"_Timkin!_" screeched the professor. "This is _it_! This stone has
_two_ sets of writing on it. One is the unknown script of the first
moon. And the other is--oh, thank the stars!--it's early Rhean, _which
is a language we know_!"

It was all rather confusing for Timkin after that. The professor bawled
at the top of his voice and more men came rushing out. They all fell
to talking as if the greatest event in the history of the universe had
taken place. Timkin hovered on the outskirts of the group, forgotten
for the time being.

But then all the men turned to him. They looked at him as if he were
some king or some awesome potentate from another star.

"And there, gentlemen!" said Professor Blick, waving at him, "is the
man who brought the stone back!"

Timkin was in an agony of embarrassment as one by one the archeologists
came up and shook his hand silently with reverent respect in their
eyes.

"Professor," pleaded Timkin when this ordeal was over. "I--I want
to get away. Just pay me for the stone, and let me go. If it's
so important to you, maybe you could up the price a little, eh?
Maybe--uh--a hundred dollars?"

Timkin was amazed at his own audacity.
