
The professor looked at him queerly, almost pityingly, and said slowly,
"One hundred dollars? Timkin, you don't realize the value of this
stone. The museum will make you out a check for _one hundred thousand
SS-dollars_!"

Timkin stood stunned, unbelieving.

The professor smiled.

"Yes, that's what I said--one hundred thousand. If we could afford
it, we'd pay you ten times that. Actually, you see, the stone is
_priceless_. The check will be sent to you. You can go now, Timkin."

Timkin drove the rocket truck back, in a dream, and passed a red light.
The traffic cop wrote a ticket.

"That'll cost you twenty-five dollars, bud," he growled.

Timkin burst out laughing and kept laughing all the way back to the
garage. He was fined 25 dollars. It would have been an economic tragedy
before. Now it was a joke. He could pay a hundred fines like that and
still laugh.

The next day, when the check arrived at his room, Timkin knew it was
not a dream. The amount was 150,000 dollars. They had even upped the
price voluntarily.

Timkin went out, with the check in his pocket, and headed for the
_Spaceman's Nook_. He had one more piece of unfinished business to do.
He knew he would find Huck Larsoe there and saw him at a corner table.
Strangely he seemed depressed, not at all like a man who had just
brought in a fortune in gold.

"Hello, Huck!"

Larsoe looked up sourly as Timkin sat down cheerfully.

"Listen, punk, you got nothing on me," he growled.

"I know," said Timkin. "But why so glum? What did you get for
my--pardon me, _your_--gold bonanza when you cashed it in?"

Larsoe smashed his fist down on the table, spilling his drink.

"Don't talk to me about that blasted bonanza!" he roared. "You know
what it was? It was just plain rock with a film of rich gold ore over
it. A fake! A flop! I just got enough out of it to pay expenses and
that's all."

"Too bad," Timkin grinned, feeling his cup running over.

"Oh, don't go gloating," said Larsoe. "I still put one over on you. I
took the thing away from you, didn't I?"

"Sure," agreed Timkin. "But you gave me something back which was
worth--"

At this moment, Larsoe sat up, as something came over the tavern radio,
working through the hum. An announcer was saying....

"--biggest news of the day! The Saturn Museum has just announced the
find of a carved stone, from the rings, which will allow them to
translate all the hitherto unknown writings of the first moon! And in
honor of the man who brought it back from the rings, they have named
it--the _Timkin Stone_!"

Timkin was shocked himself. His name would reverberate down through
the ages now, attached to a stone as famed as the Rosetta Stone of
earth!

But the effect on Huck Larsoe was like that of a knife in his heart. He
turned slow, stunned eyes to his companion.

"Th-the Timkin Stone?" he mumbled. "What--"

Timkin drew the check out of his pocket and showed it to Larsoe.

"Yes, I brought it in. Look, they paid me one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars for it. And Huck--I hope you have a strong
heart--Huck, that stone was among the stuff _you_ gave me after
stealing my bonanza!"

"Then I made the find!" yelled Larsoe. "It's _me_ they should name the
stone after. And you've got to turn over that money to me, Timkin! It's
mine! I found the stone and...."

Timkin looked him straight in the eye and said quietly, "Any witnesses,
Huck?"