
Gannett snorted the smell from his nostrils and shrugged. Hell with it.
He thought about Reno and how he hadn't been there for nearly a year.
He thought of the dimly lighted, soft-carpeted cocktail lounges in Reno
where drinks come in long stemmed glasses and blondes in long-stemmed
legs. Reno at Christmastime, he thought. There was a town, Reno!

He grinned, showing big gold teeth that blazed out of his mouth like
the glittering grille on a Buick. He dug his feet into the hard ground
and walked the hundred feet or so to his cabin where he sometimes
slept when he didn't happen to sleep in the mine. He stripped off his
grime-sodden clothes. He stepped out of them, in fact, and stretched
luxuriously as though he hadn't felt the good joy of being unclothed
for a long time.

He got up and went to a corner of the cabin, rummaged out a pair of
dusty clogs and pushed his feet into them. Then--and they don't come
any nakeder than he was--he went outside and around the shack to the
rear where he kept his jeep and where the shower was.

He stepped into it, for it was nothing more ornate than a large oil
drum suspended on long four by sixes. He yanked on a rope that hung
down from the drum. The result of doing that made him leap out again
dripping wet and colder than a buried mother-in-law.

He shivered, eyes blinking fast. He took a deep breath. His gold
teeth went together tightly and the big muscles in his neck corded
defensively. He deliberately went under the shower again. Pawing a
sliver of laundry soap from a ledge on one of the four by sixes, he
went to work with it, and when he finally tripped the hanging rope once
more, he was a clean man.

He went into the cabin. It wasn't any warmer than the great outdoors,
but that was where his clothes were. He shaved from an old granite
basin full of cold water. After that he went to a hook on the wall and
got down a suit of clothes which looked as though it had shriveled up
waiting for somebody to wear it. The last thing he did before leaving
was to pry up one of the boards behind the door and lift out of this
hiding place a small leather bag.

The bag was filled with gold.
