
The sun was gone now. Leg-like rays of light still sprawled,
dirty-looking, in the sky over toward the California line, but aside
from these extremities, most of it was somewhere out in the Pacific.
The purplish sky was darker now. Drab. Dead, somehow.

The old jeep started nicely. It always started nicely; that was one
of the good things about a jeep. The only funny thing was that out of
its exhaust pipe in the rear came angry purplish flames. Queer flames.
Gannett stared at them, surprised.

"Even the damn jeep is sick," he muttered. He was wrong, of course, but
he had no way of knowing that. He backed around, finally, and went down
what he called his driveway, which was little more than rock-strewn
ground, until he came to a small dirt road. This led him to another,
larger dirt road, which in turn led him to route #395, which was a U.S.
Highway.

A hundred miles farther on, he came to the outskirts of Carson City. It
wasn't until he pulled into a gas station that he realized something
was wrong. Nobody jumped out to wipe his windshield. The attendant who
still leaned in the doorway of the station had a rag in his hand, but
he didn't budge. He couldn't. His face looked like weathered leather
and he was dead.

"Holy...!" whispered Gannett incredulously. He forgot about needing
gas. He jumped in the jeep and drove down the main stem and found
Police Headquarters in an old gray stone building. He knew it was
Police Headquarters for the green neon over the revolving door had
_CPD_ on it and it was still burning.

He went up the steps two at a time, banged through the swinging doors
and stamped straight to where the Sergeant sat at a desk over in the
corner by the switchboard.

"Hey, by God!" yelled Gannett to the Desk Sergeant. "There's a guy down
the street in a gas station and he's standing up in the doorway and
he's dead as a mackerel!"

Dramatic words. But the Desk Sergeant was no longer among the living
and didn't appreciate them. It took Gannett a long while to get over
that. He slowly backed away. He made the big oak doors, still backing.
He went down the stairs on legs as stiff as icicles.

He got back in his jeep and started up again. He knew there was
something terribly wrong, but before he thought about it, he knew he
had to have a drink. He pulled up in front of a saloon that had nice,
cheery, glowing lights showing through the big front window. He got out
of the jeep. He went through the swinging glass doors and straight to
the bar.

"Scotch!"

Nobody answered. The barman behind the mahogany, facing him, didn't
make a move. The barman had a dead cigarette between his cold colorless
lips. The cigarette had a half inch of ash on it. The ash looked as
though it was sculptured out of purple marble.

Gannett put both hands flat on the bar and swallowed hard. He
twisted his head and looked over the shoulder of a customer on his
left, who was leaning negligently on the bar with one elbow. There
was a half-full bottle in front of the leaning man and it had an
alert-looking horse's head stuck in the neck of it for a pouring spout.

"Excuse me, Mac," Gannett whispered.

The leaning man didn't twitch a muscle.

Gannett sucked in a deep breath. He reached. He got the bottle. He
blinked stupidly at the bottle and then he put it down very carefully
and took another breath and looked at a highball glass in front of the
leaning man. The highball glass was empty and clean, but the leaning
man's fingers were curled lightly and gracefully around it. They were
nice fingers. White fingers. Fingers that looked as if they hadn't had
to do any hard work lately. Slender, tapering, carefully manicured
fingers.

Gannett swore softly. He yanked the horse's head out and then poked
the bottle into his mouth and tilted it up. He held it until there
wasn't anything left but the very glass it was made of plus the bright
little paper label. His throat burned. He coughed. He banged the empty
bottle down on the bartop and coughed again--hard.

The leaning man stirred, seemed to turn slowly, stiffly, in a half arc
that put him face to face with Gannett. Then he went down backward and
all in one piece, like a tall tree on top of a hill on a very still
night.

He went down with the glass in his hand and, when he hit, swirls of
thick dust rose lazily from the floor and then settled back over his
rigid form like freshly falling snow blanketing something left out on
the front lawn.
