
The night was black. There wasn't a star and there wasn't a sound
except for Earth sounds, which are never very loud. Gannett sat in his
jeep with the motor running and the purple flames coming out of the
tailpipe. His hands were tight around the wheel, but the Jeep wasn't
moving. Gannett was staring off into space and his eyes looked as
though somebody had peeled them back.

He said it to himself mentally, for the first few times. Then, as if
he couldn't contain them any longer, the words tumbled out of his mouth
into the night air:

"Everybody's dead, by God!"

He drove through deserted streets until he found an all-night
drugstore. It didn't seem funny to him just yet that the streets were
deserted; that was something he would think of later. He walked into
the drugstore and went to the newsstand and picked up a copy of the
_Carson Daily Bugle_. The date struck him first. It was the wrong date;
it was three weeks ago. He dropped it and picked up another, a Reno
paper this time. Same trouble with the date. He read the headline then:

                        REDS STRIKE AT TURKEY!
                           Unveil New Weapon

He blinked at it. There was a little more--pitifully little--to the
effect that Congress had been asked for a declaration of war in order
to defend the assaulted member of the Atlantic Pact nations.

Gannett swallowed hard. He dropped the paper and turned to the clerk
who was leaning over the glass counter watching him.

"Jeez!" Gannett said. "When did all this happen? I didn't even know
about it."

He didn't get any answer from the clerk. He knew he wouldn't from the
way the clerk's eyes looked. They looked as if they should have been
under refrigeration.

"People around dead," he muttered. "By God, the Governor oughta know
about this!"

He left the drugstore and drove straight for the State Capitol
Building, which wasn't far away, for Carson City isn't very large. He
walked up the long concrete ribbon to the big stone steps. He mounted
them. He stood before the bronze doors for an instant, a feeling of awe
coming over him despite what he knew he was going to tell the Governor.
He pulled on the handle of the nearest of the bronze doors.

Nothing happened.

It was locked, of course. The Capitol is never open at three A.M.
(which was the exact time when it had happened three weeks ago--but he
didn't know that).

A feeling of rage came over Gannett slowly, like heat radiating through
soft wood. He stood on the stone steps and faced the broad expanse of
lawn, which, in the summertime, at least, was very lovely. He slowly
pulled his leather bag of gold from his coat pocket and raised it up
so he could see it. Then he turned once more to the bronze doors and
smashed the bag of gold through one of the glass panes.

"Gannett done it!" he roared. "If anybody wants to know, tell them
Gannett, by God!"

He went back to his jeep. The big, darkly hulking form of the red
brick Post Office Building went by and faded into the night. He passed
a jewelry store. He looked in. An electric mantel clock in the store
window indicated the time as nine-ten. He passed a supermarket. The
big illuminated clock on the facade said nine-seven. The clock in the
service station, where he finally pulled in for gas, pointed at nine
exactly. Cycles have to be controlled if electric clocks are to keep
correct time, but that was something else he did not know.

After he put back the gasoline hose, he left one more observation on
the silence of the night before driving to Reno. He said it loudly, and
there was angry frustration in every word of it:

"Hell with Carson City. To _hell_ with it!"
