
Approaching downtown Reno at night is a pleasant, cheerful experience.
There are lights all around, like a store selling electric fixtures. On
the right hand side of Virginia Street they glow brightly, each one a
little gaudier than the last. Big lights. Neon lights in all the colors
neon lights can come in. Signs on the fronts of the big gaming houses
that stay open until lights aren't needed any more; and the one flash
of light across Virginia Street at the intersection of Commercial Row
which had been photographed more times than the mind of man could have
conjectured:

                                 RENO
                 The Biggest Little City in the World

He drove slowly by the Happy Times Club. He could see quite a few
people inside. You wouldn't think there was anything wrong when you
looked at something like that.

At the corner of First Street, he stopped for the signal. He pulled
around a military vehicle that seemed to be waiting for the signal,
too. It was an open vehicle, painted the olive drab of the Army, and
sitting stiffly erect behind the wheel was a natty-looking first
lieutenant with his cap at just the right angle over one eye.

The signal bell up on the corner poles clanged loudly and the lights
turned green. Gannett crossed the intersection, but the lieutenant and
his military vehicle stayed behind.

He went by the Golden Bubble, which was perhaps the largest and
gaudiest of all the gaming places in Reno. Its big front, done in
glass bricks with multicolored lights behind them, looked like some
monstrous kaleidoscope built for the use of the Man in the Moon. Seen
from his jeep, through the plate glass of the wide door, the interior
of the Golden Bubble seemed to be a happy, carousing place full of the
joyous laughter of folks having a fine time. Only that wasn't so, of
course, for the only sounds to be heard were the jeep's motor and the
signal bells on the corner poles.

Gannett parked. He walked back, went slowly through the doors of the
Golden Bubble. The first thing that met his eyes was the flashing
welcome grin of the head waiter, who was dressed in a tuxedo just
inside the doors. The head waiter had his hand half out, as if to shake
the hand of Gannett as he came in. Gannett almost stuck out his own
hand in return--but not quite.

He went to the bar. He didn't look at the barman lying on the floor
with his ear in the spittoon. He shambled around the end of the bar,
took a full bottle of scotch off the backbar shelf, broke the seal and
took a long swallow. The bartender didn't notice.

After that he took the bottle with him out on the floor. He went around
a man in an overcoat who looked to be uncomfortably warm but wasn't.
He went over to a roulette table and stared the croupier straight in
the eyes. He reached for a pile of chips under the croupier's right
hand and slid them over.

"Double zero," he said.

The croupier looked bored, which was the way a croupier should look.
Gannett reached down and gave the wheel a spin and then stood back
and waited. The croupier waited. Two women and one man, on Gannett's
right, also waited. The ball clicked merrily, came to a stop. The wheel
slowed, finally rested.

It wasn't double zero. Gannett reached for the croupier's rake and
shoved his pile of chips back under the croupier's protecting right
hand.

"Lousy wheel is fixed," Gannett said.

Nobody argued with him on that.

He uncorked his scotch bottle and took a long pull. Nobody objected to
that, either, the croupier still looked bored; and the two women and
the one man waited patiently for the Day of Judgment.

Gannett went over to a cashier window and reached in and got a handful
of silver dollars. He took them to the machines over against the far
wall and stuck in a couple and pulled the two handles simultaneously.
For his investment he got back five dollars, which one of the machines
disgorged with a loud clatter. He put more dollars in. He put them
in fast and pulled the levers fast. He went down the entire row of
machines and pulled the levers as he went. He didn't linger to see what
happened at any of them.

He began to feel cold. He took out his scotch bottle again and
half emptied it. A woman who looked as if she were someone's
great-grandmother, except that her hair was bleached and fingernails
were sharp talons, and who sat in a chrome and leather chair not six
feet away from him, stared a little disapprovingly. Gannett caught the
look.

"Lady," he said defensively, "I earned me a holiday, see? It's none of
your business if I do some celebrating, is it?"

The lady didn't change her mind. She looked as though she might prefer
gin herself.

Gannett belched. He wasn't so cold now. He threw back his head and
laughed and listened to the sound of it bounce off walls. He did it
again. He was feeling fine.

He went back to the roulette wheel, got around behind it and nudged the
croupier gently. The croupier went over like a broom sliding down the
side of a wall.

Gannett picked up the little plastic rake and looked at the two women
and one man.

"Place your bets, folks," he said, in a low tone that was a pretty good
imitation of the drone of a professional man.

He separated the chips into four neat piles. He pushed a pile each at
the two women, one to the man. The last he kept for himself.

"Place your bets, folks," he repeated.

Nobody did, but that was okay anyhow. Grinning happily, he made bets
for them. One of the women--the one that was redheaded--looked to him
as if she might be a plunger. He shoved her pile of chips over onto
zero and then he gave her a friendly little wink. The other woman was
the careful type, he thought. Her chips--not all of them, of course--he
shoved for red. He disposed of the man perfunctorily: ten dollars on
plain number nine. His own bet was due a little more deliberation. He
carefully spread around five hundred dollars until the strip looked as
if eighteen people were playing it all at once.

The effort made him sweat. He reached for his bottle, emptied it, then
dropped it on the fallen croupier.

"Folks," Gannett said in an apologetic tone, "you'll have to pardon me
a minute. It seems I'm out of fuel. Don't go away; I'll be right back."

Everybody was agreeable. Gannett went back to the bar, went around
behind it.

He said to the barman: "I got a party out there, Doc. A big party, see?
The house might stand to make a mint. How's about drinks?"

The barman considered it. The barman was still considering it when
Gannett went back to the wheel with a fifth of scotch and four glasses
and a dish of olives. He made drinks. In each one he put an olive. By
this time, of course, he was getting a little loud, but nobody could
blame him for that. When the drinks were made and placed before the two
women and the man, he was ready. He grinned around, rubbed his hands
together and winked a sly little leering wink at the redhead.

The wheel spun, stopped. Zero. The redhead had brought down the house.

"By God!" whispered Gannett in frank admiration. "Lady, you sure got
luck. 'Nother little snifter just to nail it tight?"

Gannett liked the idea. He drank her drink for her and made a face
over the olive. He poured another. He made more bets for everybody and
then thought of something. Excusing himself once more, he got a roll
of quarters from the cashier cage and, breaking it open, fed them into
a big glittering juke box over in the corner. That done, he pushed
down a row of tabs and went back to the table.

Everybody seemed to be having a time. The redhead just couldn't lose.
Three separate times Gannett was forced to collect chips from other
tables in order to keep the game going, but he didn't mind. He even
said to the redhead once:

"Lady, ten more minutes and we sign the joint over to you. But have
fun; you're doing swell."

Once more he consulted the thoughtful barman, and more than once he had
to go back to the juke box and punch tabs, but that was all right. He
liked music.

At ten minutes past three in the morning, with all the chips in the
place before the lucky redhead he finished his last bottle.

He lifted his eyes and considered a crystal chandelier which hung from
the exact center of the broad ceiling. It was a beautiful chandelier.
It looked as though it might have graced the banquet hall of some
castle over in England, back in the days when England was a tight
little isle. He grinned appreciatively at it. He pitched the empty
bottle upward.

There was a crash. Half the lights in the place went out.

Bowing solemnly to the scattered immobile figures, Gannett lurched to
the big door up front. He tried a bow to the friendly floorman, but
it didn't quite go over. He banged through the doors and out into the
street.
