
Gannett groaned his aching body out of bed and padded heavily to the
window. He put his big hands on the sill and looked out. Purple snow
was falling on a quiet world. The flakes came down softly, big wet,
colored things like fluffy bits of cotton candy escaping from a circus
in the sky. There was his jeep down on the street where he had left it.
He could recognize it, for it was the only jeep on the block.

"Then it wasn't no lousy dream," he said miserably.

He went back to the bed and sat down on the edge of it. He recalled the
headlines in the paper.

"Them lousy Reds," he whispered. "They done this, sure as hell."

That made him think a little. Everybody was dead, even the redhead in
the Golden Bubble who couldn't lose.

"What the hell am I doin' alive, then?" he asked himself.

There was no answer to that. He thought of his mine, _The Lousy
Disappointment_, and wondered if, living most of the time below the
surface as he did, he had been protected from some sort of purple gas
or something that seemed to have killed off everybody else. It could
be. Some very light gas, maybe, that wouldn't seep below the surface.

"Aw, for cripe sakes!" he grunted disgustedly.

He dressed and left the room. He went downstairs. There was the lobby,
all soft, quiet carpeting and soft, quiet furniture and soft, quiet
drapes. A sheet of paper on a writing desk said _Grand Pachappa_. He
was in a hotel, then. He must have wandered into it after he left the
Golden Bubble.

He carefully avoided looking at two well-dressed women who sat in
lobby chairs, staring off into nothing, but he felt their presence
chillingly. He shivered. He made his way outside, the purple snow
coming down and giving his cheeks wet, cold caresses. He angrily
brushed them off, but they came down anyway. Above the snow, the sky
was a sodden mass of purplish gray.

He found a restaurant that was open. A few customers sat on the stools
like statues in a museum. All the coffeemakers were on the electric
stove, but they were dry and clean except one that had no bottom in it
any more and was quite discolored. Beneath it, the round electric coil
still glowed faithfully.

He grabbed up one of the clean pots and took it to the metal rinse
sink and reached for the faucet. And then his hand froze. What if the
water was tainted? He had no way of finding out if it didn't carry that
identifying purplish tint. He tried the faucet. It did.

The milk in the refrigerator was three weeks old, of course. Gannett
ended by opening a bottle of Pepsi Cola for breakfast.

The sky stayed leaden, but even so there were many things apparent
now that he hadn't seen the night before. A lack of heavy traffic on
the streets would seem to indicate that what had happened--purple gas
or whatever--had been very late at night; even so, traffic accidents
were everywhere. There was one big sedan with its front end crushed
against the First Olympic Bank. There was one cop who had died trying
to tie his right shoe--his fingers still clutched the laces. There was
a doctor (his car had a caduceus emblem on the windshield) who had just
stepped down to the street, his bag in his left hand and his right hand
on the door, ready to slam it shut. He had a serious, purposeful look
on his face that even the falling purple snow couldn't quite eradicate.

Despite the cold, sweat frosted Gannett's forehead. He made his way
to a radio and television store and kicked in a glass panel of the
front door. Stepping through to the clamor of the suddenly aroused
night-warning bell, he went directly to a TV set and turned it on.

The big screen tube flickered after a while and a scratching hum came
out of the speaker, but nothing happened. He tried all the channels.
Nothing.

He tuned in a big radio console next, going carefully and slowly across
the dial with a hand that shook. Even though the night-warning bell was
kicking up quite a racket, he could tell after a moment or two.

Nothing....
