
The sky was getting dark as Gannett left the store. The purple snow
still fell. It was then that he noticed for the first time the gay
street decorations in preparation for Christmas. Big paper bells with
plenty of glittering tinsel and electric lamps inside them.

On the corner of First and Virginia, he saw a big iron kettle of some
Salvation Army Santa. Hanging from its metal tripod, it looked quite
natural, except that it was filled with purple snow; and the Santa who
was supposed to ring his little bell was holding it stiffly over his
head. He and the bell were frozen silent.

There was a large department store. Inside, in the show window, was
a Christmas display that would delight the kiddies. There was a big
Christmas tree trimmed with every imaginable ornament.

Beneath the tree, electrically activated toy soldiers jerked robotlike
through their precise military designations, their lithographed faces
looking stern and very brave. There was a clown who did uncounted
somersaults; a lifelike doll who clapped her hands in glee. There was
an aluminum bomber with a wing-spread of three feet--it was held in the
air by almost invisible wires--and its six propellers droned in perfect
unison, making a brisk little wash that rustled the silk of the little
doll's dress. And around the base of the tree, through valley and over
mountain, into tunnel and over spiderweb trestle, was a railroad track.
It should have had busy little trains on it, except that it didn't--the
trains had been derailed at a whistle stop called North Pole.

Gannett's eyes twitched.

The sky grew darker; the purple snow continued to fall silently.
Gannett went by the Masonic Lodge, the YMCA, and crossed the little
stone bridge over the frozen Truckee River. He came to the heavy gray
stone building of First Community Church.

He stopped in front of the church and stared at it. It was a solid,
respectable-looking building. It was a very nice thing, indeed, to have
here in Reno.

"Christmas Eve," Gannett whispered through cold lips. "This is
Christmas Eve!"

He went up six purple-snow covered stone steps. He reached the top
where the stone steps ended and where the big square stone slab was,
that slab where the minister stands when the weather is fair, and
shakes hands with the congregation after the service.

Somewhere above, in the steeple, bells struck off the hour of eight. A
timing device did that. Many churches had such timing devices to save
labor. And as though that were a signal, a loudspeaker, attached way up
on the spire especially for this festive season, began to growl out
preparatory scratching noises, like a big metal monster clearing its
throat.

Gannett pulled on the wrought brass handles of the closed oaken door.
The door didn't budge. He grabbed the handles in both hands and braced
his feet. He pulled hard. The door was locked.

"God," he whispered hoarsely. "God, this is me. I gotta get in, God.
God, listen, _I gotta get in_!"

High above, in the steeple, the loudspeaker was finally ready with a
cheerful little carol.

"_God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen!_" the voices of a dead choir roared out
upon the silent city.



