
An hour later, it was Lan Barda's turn to be nervous. He watched a
needle creep into the red zone.

"Hurry, Jarth. We've been on this planet long enough. That fifth
cobalt bomb is sending the index up fast. Can't you skip these last
few?"

"Oh, no. Very unethical to leave these three here to die. Must take a
small chance, you know. Besides, see the sign on that taxi--just
married. A fine young couple. And a fine young taxi driver. Couldn't
sleep if I didn't help these three."

"Couldn't sleep thinking of the profit you'd passed up. Here, let me
take that one. We have to get out of here fast."

Jarth Rolan fluttered anxiously about the pilot until they were safely
above the poisoned atmosphere.

"How many?" he asked. "Did we fill the ship?"

Lan Barda checked off items on his clipboard. "A thousand and three,
with these last ones. You'll make a good profit."

"Not so much the profit. Oh, no. More than that involved. Ethics and
religion, Lan. Yes. With all these sla--servants, our people will
never have to use robots. They'll be relieved of routine labor and can
devote their lives to art and science. And it's all ethical--oh, yes,
for these people were doomed."

"Want to know something, Jarth?" Lan Barda bent closer and whispered
wickedly. "This ship has automatic controls. Has to. No living being
has fast enough reactions to handle an interstellar ship. All robot
driven, at least in part."

"Robots! May we be forgiven!" Jarth stared suspiciously at Lan Barda.
"Sometimes, Lan, I think you are an agnostic."

The pilot became more serious. "Maybe, Jarth. In our work, we must use
robots. We joke about it, but it goes against all galactic belief to
let a machine think for us. Maybe that's why we pilots are so
cynical."

"A galactic is always ethical," said Jarth Rolan solemnly. "This
affair, for example. We let these poor creatures of Earth handle their
own affairs with no interference until they doomed themselves. It was
unethical to intervene a minute sooner. Yes--the ethical way and I
feel better for it and proud to be a galactic."

"That's true," said Lan Barda. "A galactic wouldn't feel right, being
a member of the dominant race of the Galaxy, if he didn't help the
less fortunate."
