
Jarth Rolan had prepared a center on his estate for the slaves. The
demand was greater than the supply. He chatted happily with his wife.

"An excellent investment, Shalla--yes. And the highest group council
wants us to lease them out by the day for the present instead of
selling outright."

She nodded. "That's the fair way. Everybody can have a turn having a
slave."

"And," said Jarth, rubbing his pink hands, "we'll collect every day
and still hold title."

"Will they multiply fast," asked Shalla, "so there will be enough for
all?"

"They always did on Earth. Yes. By the time we pass our estate on to
our son, this investment will have multiplied in value."

At the center, the slaves clustered about the bulletin boards to read
the slave code. The three who had been brought aboard last stood
together. Laurent Crotier and his wife Jean were still in their
wedding clothes, and Sam the taxi driver was in uniform. They read the
seven articles of the slave code.

"We have to work twelve hours a day," Laurent observed. "And have off
every seventh day. This could be worse."

"We'll keep our eyes open and wait for our chance," Sam piped up.
"Some day we'll make a break out of here."

"Yeah," said Jean. "And remember, Frenchy, no kids."

Nine months later, Laurent, Jr., was born. Before the blessed event,
Laurent went to Jarth Rolan with a complaint.

"She can't do it, work twelve hours a day now. You have to change the
rules. By gar, if my wife die 'count of this, I goin' kill you, Jarth
Rolan."

Jarth Rolan waltzed about nervously, biting his fingernails.

"No, we do not want her to have trouble. No. She will need proper
rest. There is a meeting of the highest group council right now,
concerning this. Others have the same problem. But yes, I will relieve
her of work without waiting for the council's decision. Tell your wife
to stay home, Laurent, until the baby is born."

Laurent pushed his luck. "And after that, too. A kid got to have a
mother. I do the work for three, you let my wife take care of the
family."

"Oh, this _is_ a problem!" Jarth Rolan rubbed his fingers unhappily
over his bald scalp. "Some of the other females are in the same
condition. But it is like planting a crop--one labors hard at the
beginning to reap a great harvest later. We will work this out."

The next day, fifteen articles amending the code arrived and were
posted. Laurent read happily.

"Now," he said to Jean, "it is the law. You will stay home and have
the baby."

"'And for such further period'," she read, "'as is considered
necessary.' You sure told him off, Frenchy."

She squeezed his arm affectionately and his chest went out a little.

"And remember," she said, "this is the last one."

"Look at this rule," said Sam. "All kids must be educated. I'm only--"
he winked at them--"thirteen. It's off the job and back to school for
me."

Laurent blinked. "By gar, Sam, I think you been shaving pretty near as
long as I am. But if Jarth Rolan ask me, I say I know Sam is
thirteen."

Jarth Rolan came along to explain the amendments.

"We don't want the slaves to be ignorant. Oh, no. It will be worth
extra effort and expense to reap the harvest. The slaves will work at
many specialized tasks. Even personal servants will read and write
letters and help at business and keep accounts--yes, indeed. We must
assign some slaves to teaching."
