
About the time Laurent, Jr., started school, Laurent led a delegation
to Jarth Rolan.

"We got some complaint to make. These food servings pretty small
lately. We work hard, we have to eat more."

Jarth Rolan's facial skin had developed wrinkles, though the
galactics' life span was comparable to a human's and he was only about
forty. He fidgeted.

"I am sorry--oh, yes. Sorry. There have been delays in food
shipments--the same trouble all over. Too many excused from the work
force, you know. Most of the women are pregnant or have children, and
teachers and special assignments--but things will improve, believe me.
Yes. You will soon find an improvement. Yes--very soon."

The delegation talked it over outside Jarth Rolan's house.

"He's been letting himself go," said a woman. "Did you notice how thin
he's become? And the same with his family."

Laurent reflected. "To raise a lot of kids is hard. My father, he work
like hell all the time. Raise his own food, don't depend on nobody. I
think that land back of the center, we should plough it up and put in
some potatoes."

"On our own time?" Sam exclaimed.

Laurent chuckled. "Well, Sam, you got no kids--you just a young boy
eighteen years old. By gar, I think you have gray hair when you
twenty-one."

The others joined the laughter. Sam's lie about his age had
boomeranged--he had been kept in school and denied permission to marry
until he was officially eighteen, a few months ago.

Laurent fingered his chin thoughtfully. "I think we look over that
land. Maybe we get some time out from our regular work, we do some
farming."

Before the blowup on Earth, the galactics had made occasional landings
to gather animals and seeds of food plants. Certain centers were put
under government control to grow food for the slaves. The people at
Jarth Rolan's center saw that this arrangement was breaking down
because of the increasing slave population and the diversion of labor
to child raising. They looked over the piece of land and Laurent
okayed it. They went back to Jarth Rolan. He approved at once.

"Oh, indeed. I can obtain all the equipment you'll need. Get started
right away. We can grow a good part of our own food. Yes. I am sure it
will work out."

"We goin' need some time for work the farm," Laurent pointed out.

"Oh? I thought maybe in your spare time--"

"You want to kill us?" Sam demanded. "Put us on an extra job after
working us hard twelve hours a day?"

"But--there's so little coming in. Still, maybe you're right. Worth
the extra trouble and expense now. Building for the future--that's the
idea."
