
The highest group council was in session. One member was explaining:
"It's the custom of tipping slaves. At first, those who could get a
slave were so happy that they often gave him a few coins. Now the
custom is firmly established--anybody who doesn't tip a slave is
considered cheap. I do it and so do you."

"Of course. What's wrong with giving them a few _polins_ now and then?
Or a _dopolin_ or two when they have a baby or a wedding?"

"Nothing wrong with it, in itself. But they don't spend anything. We
supply their food and clothing; nothing else we have seems to appeal
to them. The money goes out of circulation. It's estimated that half
the money in the Galaxy is being hoarded by slaves."

"What? That's impossible. Just from those small tips?"

"Small tips, but day after day; year after year. Add up some time what
you've given and multiply by the number who've been doing it."

"Then that's behind our economic troubles. A currency shortage. Can we
take it away from them?"

"Of course not. Besides being unethical, it would turn them against
us. They wouldn't understand."

"Then we'll abolish tipping."

"Too late. What we need is an ethical way of getting back that
currency."

A new member spoke: "I understand that on Earth these slaves were
often addicted to alcohol, gambling and various alkaloids. Perhaps we
could introduce these items, under government control, of course--"

He stopped. Eight pair of eyes were blazing at him.

"You're new here," the chairman said. "If you ever make another
suggestion like that--"

They pondered. The chairman fingered some papers.

"Here's a suggestion. The slaves have been petitioning for the right
to own land. It seems to be the only thing they'll spend their money
for."

"Impossible!"

"But maybe--"

"We could limit the holdings."

"And have the land subject to condemnation by the government at a fair
price."

The chairman called for order. "Let's argue this out. Remember the
slaves will need time to work their land. Since their work day is down
to nine hours, we'll have to arrange something."
