
Membership on the highest group council had become a killing job.
Chief problem was the revision of the slave code, which had 3,697
articles. After trying for years to simplify the code, the council
members called in Loran Krovalo to fill a vacancy and take over the
job.

Loran was known and liked by galactic and slave alike for his
brilliant essays on the master-slave relationship. While he was on the
council, the Cerberan affair broke out. The Cerberans, an intelligent
saurian race from a globular cluster, exploded into the Galaxy in vast
numbers. Military action became necessary.

"We can handle them," Loran told the council. "Our factories are
mobilized and we have any number of spacemen. We have robot
instruments for fighting that are better than anything they have. We
can carry the war to their home planets."

Some of the galactics objected.

"But the use of robots is forbidden. We can't fight the Cerberans with
robot-controlled weapons."

"Don't worry, sir," Loran said kindly. "We slaves will take care of
it. Our form of religion doesn't prohibit robots unless they are in
the shape of a man. We think of real robots as being human in shape."

One of the galactics rose.

"I know you're right, but my conscience won't let me vote for robots
in any form. Therefore I am resigning from the council."

A second rose, then a third and fourth. They looked at each other, and
one spoke for the group.

"We are also resigning. I suggest that four slaves be appointed in our
places for the duration of the war. Then they will have a majority and
no galactic need violate his conscience by voting for the use of
robots."

The Cerberans were crushed, but the infested area was huge and the
invasion of the globular cluster took time. The war emergency lasted
fifty years. When it was over, the slaves called on the galactics to
take back control of the government.

But the widespread use of robot mechanisms in the war had caused a
reaction among the galactics. Their consciences simmered and a wave of
orthodoxy swept over their race. There was difficulty in persuading
galactics to leave their home planets to sit on the council, because
faster-than-light ships used robot controls.

The slaves scoured the planet that housed the council and kept two or
three seats filled with galactics for a while. But they were generally
old, and they died, and most of them were unmarried or childless.
