
He remembered how he and Caid used to smuggle a couple of fifths aboard
for the moon-run. If they caught you, it meant suspension, but there was
no harm in it, not for the blastroom men who had nothing much to do from
the time the ship acquired enough velocity for the long, long coaster
ride until they started the rockets again for Lunar landing. You could
drink a fifth, jettison the bottle through the trash lock, and sober up
before you were needed again. It was the only way to pass the time in
the cramped cubicle, unless you ruined your eyes trying to read by the
glow-lamps. Old Donegal chuckled. If he and Caid had stayed on the run,
Earth would have a ring by now, like Saturn--a ring of Old Granddad
bottles.

"You said it, Donny-boy," said the misty man by the billowing curtains.
"Who else knows the gegenschein is broken glass?"

Donegal laughed. Then he wondered what the man was doing there. The man
was lounging against the window, and his unzipped space rig draped about
him in an old familiar way. Loose plug-in connections and hose-ends
dangled about his lean body. He was freckled and grinning.

"Caid," Old Donegal breathed softly.

"What did you say, Donny?" Martha answered.

Old Donegal blinked hard and shook his head. Something let go with a
soggy snap, and the misty man was gone. I'd better take it easy on the
whiskey, he thought. You got to wait, Donegal, old lush, until Nora and
Ken get here. You can't get drunk until they're gone, or you might get
them mixed up with memories like Caid's.

Car doors slammed in the street below. Martha glanced toward the window.

"Think it's them? I wish they'd get here. I wish they'd hurry."

Martha arose and tiptoed to the window. She peered down toward the
sidewalk, put on a sharp frown. He heard a distant mutter of voices and
occasional laughter, with group-footsteps milling about on the sidewalk.
Martha murmured her disapproval and closed the window.

"Leave it open," he said.

"But the Keiths' guests are starting to come. There'll be such a
racket." She looked at him hopefully, the way she did when she prompted
his manners before company came.

Maybe it wasn't decent to listen in on a party when you were dying, he
thought. But that wasn't the reason. Donegal, your chamber-pressure's
dropping off. Your brains are in your butt-end, where a spacer's brains
belong, but your butt-end died last month. She wants the window closed
for her own sake, not yours.

"Leave it closed," he grunted. "But open it again before the moon-run
blasts off. I want to listen."

She smiled and nodded, glancing at the clock. "It'll be an hour and a
half yet. I'll watch the time."

"I hate that clock. I wish you'd throw it out. It's loud."

"It's your medicine-clock, Donny." She came back to sit down at his
bedside again. She sat in silence. The clock filled the room with its
clicking pulse.

"What time are they coming?" he asked.

"Nora and Ken? They'll be here soon. Don't fret."

"Why should I fret?" He chuckled. "That boy--he'll be a good spacer,
won't he, Martha?"

Martha said nothing, fanned at a fly that crawled across his pillow. The
fly buzzed up in an angry spiral and alighted on the ceiling. Donegal
watched it for a time. The fly had natural-born space-legs. I know your
tricks, he told it with a smile, and I learned to walk on the bottomside
of things before you were a maggot. You stand there with your magnasoles
hanging to the hull, and the rest of you's in free fall. You jerk a sole
loose, and your knee flies up to your belly, and reaction spins you
half-around and near throws your other hip out of joint if you don't jam
the foot down fast and jerk up the other. It's worse'n trying to run
through knee-deep mud with snow-shoes, and a man'll go nuts trying to
keep his arms and legs from taking off in odd directions. I know your
tricks, fly. But the fly was born with his magnasoles, and he trotted
across the ceiling like Donegal never could.

"That boy Ken--he ought to make a damn good space-engineer," wheezed the
old man.

Her silence was long, and he rolled his head toward her again. Her lips
tight, she stared down at the palm of his hand, unfolded his bony
fingers, felt the cracked calluses that still welted the shrunken skin,
calluses worn there by the linings of space gauntlets and the handles of
fuel valves, and the rungs of get-about ladders during free fall.

"I don't know if I should tell you," she said.

"Tell me what, Martha?"

She looked up slowly, scrutinizing his face. "Ken's changed his mind,
Nora says. Ken doesn't like the academy. She says he wants to go to
medical school."

Old Donegal thought it over, nodded absently. "That's fine. Space-medics
get good pay." He watched her carefully.

She lowered her eyes, rubbed at his calluses again. She shook her head
slowly. "He doesn't want to go to space."

The clock clicked loudly in the closed room.

"I thought I ought to tell you, so you won't say anything to him about
it," she added.

Old Donegal looked grayer than before. After a long silence, he rolled
his head away and looked toward the limp curtains.

"Open the window, Martha," he said.

Her tongue clucked faintly as she started to protest, but she said
nothing. After frozen seconds, she sighed and went to open it. The
curtains billowed, and a babble of conversation blew in from the terrace
of the Keith mansion. With the sound came the occasional brassy discord
of a musician tuning his instrument. She clutched the window-sash as if
she wished to slam it closed again.

"Well! Music!" grunted Old Donegal. "That's good. This is some shebang.
Good whiskey and good music and you." He chuckled, but it choked off
into a fit of coughing.

"Donny, about Ken--"

"No matter, Martha," he said hastily. "Space-medic's pay is good."

"But, Donny--" She turned from the window, stared at him briefly, then
said, "Sure, Donny, sure," and came back to sit down by his bed.

He smiled at her affectionately. She was a man's woman, was
Martha--always had been, still was. He had married her the year he had
gone to space--a lissome, wistful, old-fashioned lass, with big violet
eyes and gentle hands and gentle thoughts--and she had never complained
about the long and lonely weeks between blast-off and glide-down, when
most spacers' wives listened to the psychiatrists and soap-operas and
soon developed the symptoms that were expected of them, either because
the symptoms were _chic_, or because they felt they should do something
to earn the pity that was extended to them. "It's not so bad," Martha
had assured him. "The house keeps me busy till Nora's home from school,
and then there's a flock of kids around till dinner. Nights are a little
empty, but if there's a moon, I can always go out on the porch and look
at it and know where you are. And Nora gets out the telescope you built
her, and we make a game of it. 'Seeing if Daddy's still at the office,'
she calls it."
