
"Those were the days," he muttered.

"What, Donny?"

"Do you remember that Steve Farran song?"

She paused, frowning thoughtfully. There were a lot of Steve Farran
songs, but after a moment she picked the right one, and sang it
softly ...

    "O moon whereo'er the clouds fly,
    Beyond the willow tree,
    There is a ramblin' space guy
    I wish you'd save for me.

    "_Mare Tranquillitatis_,
    O dark and tranquil sea,
    Until he drops from heaven,
    Rest him there with thee ..."

Her voice cracked, and she laughed. Old Donegal chuckled weakly.

"Fried mush," he said. "That one made the cats wilt their ears and wail
at the moon.

"I feel real crazy," he added. "Hand me the king kong, fluff-muff."

"Keep cool, Daddy-O, you've had enough." Martha reddened and patted his
arm, looking pleased. Neither of them had talked that way, even in the
old days, but the out-dated slang brought back memories--school parties,
dances at the Rocketport Club, the early years of the war when Donegal
had jockeyed an R-43 fighter in the close-space assaults against the
Soviet satellite project. The memories were good.

A brassy blare of modern "slide" arose suddenly from the Keith terrace
as the small orchestra launched into its first number. Martha caught an
angry breath and started toward the window.

"Leave it," he said. "It's a party. Whiskey, Martha. Please--just a
small one."

She gave him a hurtful glance.

"Whiskey. Then you can call the priest."

"Donny, it's not right. You know it's not right--to bargain for such as
that."

"All right. Whiskey. Forget the priest."

She poured it for him, and helped him get it down, and then went out to
make the phone-call. Old Donegal lay shuddering over the whiskey taste
and savoring the burn in his throat. Jesus, but it was good.

You old bastard, he thought, you got no right to enjoy life when
nine-tenths of you is dead already, and the rest is foggy as a thermal
dust-rise on the lunar maria at hell-dawn. But it wasn't a bad way to
die. It ate your consciousness away from the feet up; it gnawed away the
Present, but it let you keep the Past, until everything faded and
blended. Maybe that's what Eternity was, he thought--one man's
subjective Past, all wrapped up and packaged for shipment, a single
space-time entity, a one-man microcosm of memories, when nothing else
remains.

"If I've got a soul, I made it myself," he told the gray nun at the foot
of his bed.

The nun held out a pie pan, rattled a few coins in it. "Contribute to
the Radiation Victims' Relief?" the nun purred softly.

"I know you," he said. "You're my conscience. You hang around the
officers' mess, and when we get back from a sortie, you make us pay for
the damage we did. But that was forty years ago."

The nun smiled, and her luminous eyes were on him softly. "Mother of
God!" he breathed, and reached for the whiskey. His arm obeyed. The last
drink had done him good. He had to watch his hand to see where it was
going, and squeezed the neck until his fingers whitened so that he knew
that he had it, but he got it off the table and onto his chest, and he
got the cork out with his teeth. He had a long pull at the bottle, and
it made his eyes water and his hands grow weak. But he got it back to
the table without spilling a bit, and he was proud of himself.

The room was spinning like the cabin of a gyro-gravved ship. By the time
he wrestled it to a standstill, the nun was gone. The blare of music
from the Keith terrace was louder, and laughing voices blended with it.
Chairs scraping and glasses rattling. A fine party, Keith, I'm glad you
picked today. This shebang would be the younger Keith's affair. Ronald
Tonwyler Keith, III, scion of Orbital Engineering and Construction
Company--builders of the moon-shuttle ships that made the run from the
satellite station to Luna and back.

It's good to have such important neighbors, he thought. He wished he had
been able to meet them while he was still up and about. But the Keiths'
place was walled-in, and when a Keith came out, he charged out in a
limousine with a chauffeur at the wheel, and the iron gate closed again.
The Keiths built the wall when the surrounding neighborhood began to
grow shabby with age. It had once been the best of neighborhoods, but
that was before Old Donegal lived in it. Now it consisted of sooty old
houses and rented flats, and the Keith place was really not a part of it
anymore. Nevertheless, it was really something when a pensioned blastman
could say, "I live out close to the Keiths--you know, the _Ronald_
Keiths." At least, that's what Martha always told him.

The music was so loud that he never heard the doorbell ring, but when a
lull came, he heard Nora's voice downstairs, and listened hopefully for
Ken's. But when they came up, the boy was not with them.

"Hello, skinny-britches," he greeted his daughter.

Nora grinned and came over to kiss him. Her hair dangled about his face,
and he noticed that it was blacker than usual, with the gray streaks
gone from it again.

"You smell good," he said.

"You don't, Pops. You smell like a sot. Naughty!"

"Where's Ken?"

She moistened her lips nervously and looked away. "He couldn't come. He
had to take a driver's lesson. He really couldn't help it. If he didn't
go, he'd lose his turn, and then he wouldn't finish before he goes back
to the academy." She looked at him apologetically.

"It's all right, Nora."

"If he missed it, he wouldn't get his copter license until summer."

"It's okay. Copters! Hell, the boy should be in jets by now!"

Several breaths passed in silence. She gazed absently toward the window
and shook her head. "No jets, Pop. Not for Ken."

He glowered at her. "Listen! How'll he get into space? He's got to get
his jet licenses first. Can't get in rockets without 'em."

Nora shot a quick glance at her mother. Martha rolled her eyes as if
sighing patiently. Nora went to the window to stare down toward the
Keith terrace. She tucked a cigaret between scarlet lips, lit it, blew
nervous smoke against the pane.

"Mom, can't you call them and have that racket stopped?"

"Donny says he likes it."

Nora's eyes flitted over the scene below. "Female butterflies and
puppy-dogs in sport jackets. And the cadets." She snorted. "Cadets!
Imagine Ron Keith the Third ever going to space. The old man buys his
way into the academy, and they throw a brawl as if Ronny passed the
Compets."

"Maybe he did," growled Old Donegal.

"Hah!"

"They live in a different world, I guess," Martha sighed.

"If it weren't for men like Pops, they'd never've made their fortune."

"I like the music, I tell you," grumbled the old man.

"I'm half-a-mind to go over there and tell them off," Nora murmured.

"Let them alone. Just so they'll stop the racket for blast-away."

"Look at them!--polite little pattern-cuts, all alike. They take
pre-space, because it's the thing to do. Then they quit before the
pay-off comes."

"How do you know they'll quit?"

"That party--I bet it cost six months' pay, spacer's pay," she went on,
ignoring him. "And what do real spacers get? Oley gets killed, and Pop's
pension wouldn't feed the Keiths' cat."

"You don't understand, girl."

"I lost Oley. I understand enough."
