
Tell her, old man, you're her pop. Tell her why it's worth it, if you
know. You jail yourself in a coffin-size cubicle, and a crazy beast
thunders berserk for uncontrollable seconds, and then you soar in
ominous silence for the long, long hours. Grow sweaty, filthy, sick,
miserable, idle--somewhere out in Big Empty, where Man's got no business
except the trouble he always makes for himself wherever he goes. Tell
her why it's worth it, for pay less than a good bricklayer's. Tell her
why Oley would do it again.

"It's a sucker's run, Nora," he said. "You go looking for kicks, but the
only kicks you get to keep is what Oley got. God knows why--but it's
worth it."

Nora said nothing. He opened his eyes slowly. Nora was gone. Had she
been there at all?

He blinked around at the fuzzy room, and dissolved the shifting shadows
that sometimes emerged as old friendly faces, grinning at him. He found
Martha.

"You went to sleep," said Martha. "She had to go. Kennie called. He'll
be over later, if you're not too tired."

"I'm not tired. I'm all head. There's nothing much to get tired."

"I love you, Old Donegal."

"Hold my hand again."

"I'm holding it, old man."

"Then hold me where I can feel it."

She slid a thin arm under his neck, and bent over his face to kiss him.
She was crying a little, and he was glad she could do it now without
fleeing the room.

"Can I talk about dying now?" he wondered aloud.

She pinched her lips together and shook her head.

"I lie to myself, Martha. You know how much I lie to myself?"

She nodded slowly and stroked his gray temples.

"I lie to myself about Ken, and about dying. If Ken turned spacer, I
wouldn't die--that's what I told myself. You know?"

She shook her head. "Don't talk, Donny, please."

"A man makes his own soul, Martha."

"That's not true. You shouldn't say things like that."

"A man makes his own soul, but it dies with him, unless he can pour it
into his kids and his grandchildren before he goes. I lied to myself.
Ken's a yellow-belly. Nora made him one, and the boots won't fit."

"Don't, Donny. You'll excite yourself again."

"I was going to give him the boots--the over-boots with magnasoles. But
they won't fit him. They won't ever fit him. He's a lily-livered
lap-dog, and he whines. Bring me my boots, woman."

"Donny!"

"The boots, they're in my locker in the attic. I want them."

"What on earth!"

"Bring me my goddam space boots and put them on my feet. I'm going to
wear them."

"You can't; the priest's coming."

"Well, get them anyway. What time is it? You didn't let me sleep through
the moon-run blast, did you?"

She shook her head. "It's half an hour yet ... I'll get the boots if you
promise not to make me put them on you."

"I want them on."

"You can't, until Father Paul's finished."

"Do I have to get my feet buttered?"

She sighed. "I wish you wouldn't say things like that. I wish you
wouldn't, Donny. It's sacrilege, you know it is."

"All right--'anointed'," he corrected wearily.

"Yes, you do."

"The boots, woman, the boots."

She went to get them. While she was gone, the doorbell rang, and he
heard her quick footsteps on the stairs, and then Father Paul's voice
asking about the patient. Old Donegal groaned inwardly. After the
priest, the doctor would come, at the usual time, to see if he were dead
yet. The doctor had let him come home from the hospital to die, and the
doctor was getting impatient. Why don't they let me alone? he growled.
Why don't they let me handle it in my own way, and stop making a fuss
over it? I can die and do a good job of it without a lot of outside
interference, and I wish they'd quit picking at me with syringes and
sacraments and enemas. All he wanted was a chance to listen to the
orchestra on the Keith terrace, to drink the rest of his whiskey, and to
hear the beast blast-away for the satellite on the first lap of the run
to Luna.
