
Tension, anger, helplessness--they had piled up on him, and now he was
feeling the after-effects. Vertigo, nausea, and the black confetti--a
bad spell. The whiskey--if he could only reach the whiskey. Then he
remembered he was receiving a Sacrament, and struggled to get on with
it. Tell him, old man, tell him of your various rottennesses and vile
transgressions, if you can remember some. A sin is whatever you're sorry
for, maybe. But Old Donegal, you're sorry for the wrong things, and this
young jesuitical gadget wouldn't like listening to it. I'm sorry I
didn't get it instead of Oley, and I'm sorry I fought in the war, and
I'm sorry I can't get out of this bed and take a belt to my daughter's
backside for making a puny whelp out of Ken, and I'm sorry I gave Martha
such a rough time all these years--and wound up dying in a cheap flat,
instead of giving her things like the Keiths had. I wish I had been a
sharpster, contractor, or thief ... instead of a common laboring spacer,
whose species lost its glamor after the war.

Listen, old man, you made your soul yourself, and it's yours. This young
dispenser of oils, substances, and mysteries wishes only to help you
scrape off the rough edges and gouge out the bad spots. He will not
steal it, nor distort it with his supernatural chisels, nor make fun of
it. He can take nothing away, but only cauterize and neutralize, he
says, so why not let him try? Tell him the rotten messes.

"Are you finished, my son?"

Old Donegal nodded wearily, and said what he was asked to say, and heard
the soft mutter of Latin that washed him inside and behind his ghostly
ears ... _ego te absolvo in Nomine Patris_ ... and he accepted the rest
of it lying quietly in the candlelight and the red glow of the sunset
through the window, while the priest anointed him and gave him bread,
and read the words of the soul in greeting its spouse: "I was asleep,
but my heart waked; it is the voice of my beloved calling: come to me my
love, my dove, my undefiled ..." and from beyond the closed window came
the sarcastic wail of a clarinet painting hot slides against a rhythmic
background.

It wasn't so bad, Old Donegal thought when the priest was done. He felt
like a schoolboy in a starched shirt on Sunday morning, and it wasn't a
bad feeling, though it left him weak.

The priest opened the window for him again, and repacked his bag. "Ten
minutes till blast-off," he said. "I'll see what I can do about the
racket next door."

When he was gone, Martha came back in, and he looked at her face and was
glad. She was smiling when she kissed him, and she looked less tired.

"Is it all right for me to die now?" he grunted.

"Donny, don't start that again."

"Where's the boots? You promised to bring them?"

"They're in the hall. Donny, you don't want them."

"I want them, and I want a drink of whiskey, and I want to hear them
fire the beast." He said it slow and hard, and he left no room for
argument.

When she had got the huge boots over his shrunken feet, the magnasoles
clanged against the iron bedframe and clung there, and she rolled him up
so that he could look at them, and Old Donegal chuckled inside. He felt
warm and clean and pleasantly dizzy.

"The whiskey, Martha, and for God's sake, make them stop the noise till
after the firing. Please!"

She went to the window and looked out for a long time. Then she came
back and poured him an insignificant drink.

"Well?"

"I don't know," she said. "I saw Father Paul on the terrace, talking to
somebody."

"Is it time?"

She glanced at the clock, looked at him doubtfully, and nodded. "Nearly
time."

The orchestra finished a number, but the babble of laughing voices
continued. Old Donegal sagged. "They won't do it. They're the Keiths,
Martha. Why should I ruin their party?"

She turned to stare at him, slowly shook her head. He heard someone
shouting, but then a trumpet started softly, introducing a new number.
Martha sucked in a hurt breath, pressed her hands together, and hurried
from the room.

"It's too late," he said after her.

Her footsteps stopped on the stairs. The trumpet was alone. Donegal
listened; and there was no babble of voices, and the rest of the
orchestra was silent. Only the trumpet sang--and it puzzled him, hearing
the same slow bugle-notes of the call played at the lowering of the
colors.

The trumpet stopped suddenly. Then he knew it had been for him.

A brief hush--then thunder came from the blast-station two miles to the
west. First the low reverberation, rattling the windows, then the rising
growl as the sleek beast knifed skyward on a column of blue-white hell.
It grew and grew until it drowned the distant traffic sounds and
dominated the silence outside.

_Quit crying, you old fool, you maudlin ass ..._

"My boots," he whispered, "my boots ... please ..."

"You've got them on, Donny."

He sank quietly then. He closed his eyes and let his heart go up with
the beast, and he sank into the gravity padding of the blastroom, and
Caid was with him, and Oley. And when Ronald Keith, III, instructed the
orchestra to play Blastroom Man, after the beast's rumble had waned, Old
Donegal was on his last moon-run, and he was grinning. He'd had a good
day.

Martha went to the window to stare out at the thin black trail that
curled starward above the blast-station through the twilight sky. Guests
on the terrace were watching it too.

The doorbell rang. That would be Ken, too late. She closed the window
against the chill breeze, and went back to the bed. The boots, the
heavy, clumsy boots--they clung to the bedframe, with his feet half out
of them. She took them off gently and set them out of company's sight.
Then she went to answer the door.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ March 1954. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical
    errors have been corrected without note.



