
There was a moment of stunned silence; then a rush of spectators for
the alien. The sheriff's three-hundred-and-nine-pound bulk bellied
through the shouting mob to take up a stand before the khaki-clad man.

"I always knew you was a mean one, Cecil Stump," he said, unlimbering
handcuffs, "ever since I seen you makin' up them ground-glass baits for
Joe Potter's dog. But I never thought I'd see you turn to cold-blooded
murder." He waved at the bystanders. "Clear a path through here; I'm
takin' my prisoner over to the jail."

"Jest a dad-blamed minute, Sheriff." Stump's face was pale, his
glasses were gone and one khaki shoulder strap dangled--but what was
almost a grin twisted one meaty cheek. He hid his hands behind his
back, leaned away from the cuffs. "I don't like that word 'prisoner'.
I ast you fer pertection. And better look out who you go throwin' that
word 'murder' off at, too. I ain't murdered nobody."

The sheriff blinked, turned to roar, "How's the victim, Doc?"

A small gray head rose from bending over the limp form of the Fianna.
"Deader'n a mackerel, Sheriff."

"I guess that's it. Let's go, Cecil."

"What's the charge?"

"First degree murder."

"Who'd I murder?"

"Why, you killed this here ... this stranger."

"That ain't no stranger. That's a varmint. Murder's got to do with
killin' humerns, way I understand it. You goin' to tell me that thing's
humern?"

Ten people shouted at once:

"--human as I am!"

"--intelligent being!"

"--tell me you can simply kill--"

"--must be some kind of law--"

The sheriff raised his hands, his jowls drawn down in a scowl. "What
about it, Judge Gates? Any law against Cecil Stump killing the ...
uh...?"

The judge thrust out his lower lip. "Well, let's see," he began.
"Technically--"

"Good Lord!" someone blurted. "You mean the laws on murder don't define
what constitutes--I mean, what--"

"What a humern is?" Stump snorted. "Whatever it says, it sure-bob don't
include no purple worms. That's a varmint, pure and simple. Ain't no
different killin' it than any other critter."

"Then, by God, we'll get him for malicious damage," a man called. "Or
hunting without a license--out of season!"

"--carrying concealed weapons!"

Stump went for his hip pocket, fumbled out a fat, shapeless wallet,
extracted a thumbed rectangle of folded paper, offered it.

"I'm a licensed exterminator. Got a permit to carry the gun, too.
I ain't broken no law." He grinned openly now. "Jest doin' my job,
Sheriff. And at no charge to the county."
