
A smaller man with bristly red hair flared his nostrils at Stump.
"You blood-thirsty idiot!" He raised a fist and shook it. "We'll be
a national disgrace--worse than Little Rock! Lynching's too good for
you!"

"Hold on there, Weinstein," the sheriff cut in. "Let's not go gettin'
no lynch talk started."

"Lynch, is it!" Cecil Stump bellowed, his face suddenly red. "Why, I
done a favor for every man here! Now you listen to me! What is that
thing over there?" He jerked a blunt thumb toward the judicial bench.
"It's some kind of critter from Mars or someplace--you know that as
well as me! And what's it here for? It ain't for the good of the likes
of you and me, I can tell you that. It's them or us. And this time, by
God, we got in the first lick!"

"Why you ... you ... hate-monger!"

"Now, hold on right there. I'm as liberal-minded as the next feller.
Hell, I like a nigger--and I can't hardly tell a Jew from a white man.
But when it comes to takin' in a damned purple worm and callin' it
humern--that's where I draw the line."

Sheriff Hoskins pushed between Stump and the surging front rank of the
crowd. "Stay back there! I want you to disperse, peaceably, and let the
law handle this."

"I reckon I'll push off now, Sheriff," Stump hitched up his belt.
"I figgered you might have to calm 'em down right at first, but
now they've had a chance to think it over and see I ain't broken
no law, ain't none of these law-abiding folks going to do anything
illegal--like tryin' to get rough with a licensed exterminator just
doin' his job." He stooped, retrieved his gun.

"Here, I'll take that," Sheriff Hoskins said. "You can consider your
gun license canceled--and your exterminatin' license, too."

Stump grinned again, handed the revolver over.

"Sure. I'm cooperative, Sheriff. Anything you say. Send it around to my
place when you're done with it." He pushed his way through the crowd to
the corridor door.

"The rest of you stay put!" a portly man with a head of bushy white
hair pushed his way through to the bench. "I'm calling an emergency
Town Meeting to order here and now!"
