
He banged the gavel on the scarred bench top, glanced down at the body
of the dead alien, now covered by a flag.

"Gentlemen, we've got to take fast action. If the wire services get
hold of this before we've gone on record, Willow Grove'll be a blighted
area."

"Look here, Willard," Judge Gates called, rising. "This--this mob isn't
competent to take legal action."

"Never mind what's legal, Judge. Sure, this calls for Federal
legislation--maybe a Constitutional amendment--but in the meantime,
we're going to redefine what constitutes a person within the
incorporated limits of Willow Grove!"

"That's the least we can do," a thin-faced woman snapped, glaring at
Judge Gates. "Do you think we're going to set here and condone this
outrage?"

"Nonsense!" Gates shouted. "I don't like what happened any better than
you do--but a person--well, a person's got two arms and two legs and--"

"Shape's got nothing to do with it," the chairman cut in. "Bears walk
on two legs! Dave Zawocky lost his in the war. Monkeys have hands."

"Any intelligent creature--" the woman started.

"Nope, that won't do, either; my unfortunate cousin's boy Melvin was
born an imbecile, poor lad. Now, folks, there's no time to waste. We'll
find it very difficult to formulate a satisfactory definition based
on considerations such as these. However, I think we can resolve the
question in terms that will form a basis for future legislation on the
question. It's going to make some big changes in things. Hunters aren't
going to like it--and the meat industry will be affected. But if, as
it appears, we're entering into an era of contact with ... ah ...
creatures from other worlds, we've got to get our house in order."

"You tell 'em, Senator!" someone yelled.

"We better leave this for Congress to figger out!" another voice
insisted.

"We got to do something...."

The senator held up his hands. "Quiet, everybody. There'll be reporters
here in a matter of minutes. Maybe our ordinance won't hold water. But
it'll start 'em thinking--and it'll make a lots better copy for Willow
Grove than the killing."

"What you got in mind, Senator?"

"Just this:" the Senator said solemnly. "A person is ... _any harmless
creature_...."

Feet shuffled. Someone coughed.

"What about a man who commits a violent act, then?" Judge Gates
demanded. "What's he, eh?"

"That's obvious, gentlemen," the senator said flatly. "He's vermin."
