
Commander Eagan said, "You'd better find some new way of amusing
yourself, Jones. Have you read General Order 17?"

Isobar said, "I seen it. But if you think--"

"It says," stated Eagan deliberately, "'_In order that work or rest
periods of the Dome's staff may not be disturbed, it is hereby ordered
that the playing or practicing of all or any musical instruments must
be discontinued immediately. By order of the Dome Commander_,' That
means you, Jones!"

"But, dingbust it!" keened Isobar, "it don't disturb nobody for me to
play my bagpipes! I know these lunks around here don't appreciate good
music, so I always go in my office and lock the door after me--"

"But the Dome," pointed out Commander Eagan, "has an air-conditioning
system which can't be shut off. The ungodly moans of
your--er--so-called musical instrument can be heard through the entire
structure."

He suddenly seemed to gain stature.

"No, Jones, this order is final! You cannot disrupt our entire
organization for your own--er--amusement."

"But--" said Isobar.

"No!"

Isobar wriggled desperately. Life on Luna was sorry enough already.
If now they took from him the last remaining solace he had, the last
amusement which lightened his moments of freedom--

"Look, Commander!" he pleaded, "I tell you what I'll do. I won't bother
nobody. I'll go Outside and play it--"

"Outside!" Eagan stared at him incredulously. "Are you mad? How about
the Grannies?"

Isobar knew all about the Grannies. The only mobile form of life
found by space-questing man on Earth's satellite, their name was an
abbreviation of the descriptive one applied to them by the first Lunar
exployers: Granitebacks. This was no exaggeration; if anything, it was
an understatement. For the Grannies, though possessed of certain low
intelligence, had quickly proven themselves a deadly, unyielding and
implacable foe.

Worse yet, they were an enemy almost indestructible! No man had ever
yet brought to Earth laboratories the carcass of a Grannie; science
was completely baffled in its endeavors to explain the composition of
Graniteback physiology--but it was known, from bitter experience, that
the carapace or exoskeleton of the Grannies was formed of something
harder than steel, diamond, or battleplate! This flesh could be
penetrated by no weapon known to man; neither by steel nor flame,
by electronic nor ionic wave, nor by the lethal, newly discovered
atomo-needle dispenser.

All this Isobar knew about the Grannies. Yet:

"They ain't been any Grannies seen around the Dome," he said, "for
a 'coon's age. Anyhow, if I seen any comin', I could run right back
inside--"

"No!" said Commander Eagan flatly. "Absolutely, _no_! I have no time
for such nonsense. You know the orders--obey them! And now, gentlemen,
good afternoon!"

He left. Sparks turned to Isobar, grinning.

"Well," he said, "one man's fish--hey, Jonesy? Too bad you can't play
your doodlesack any more, but frankly, I'm just as glad. Of all the
awful screeching wails--"

But Isobar Jones, generally mild and gentle, was now in a perfect
fury. His pale eyes blazed, he stomped his foot on the floor, and from
his lips poured a stream of such angry invective that Riley looked
startled. Words that, to Isobar, were the utter dregs of violent
profanity.

"Oh, dagnab it!" fumed Isobar Jones. "Oh, tarnation and dingbust!
Oh--_fiddlesticks_!"


                                  II

"And so," chuckled Riley, "he left, bubbling like a kettle on a red-hot
oven. But, boy! was he ever mad! Just about ready to bust, he was."

Some minutes had passed since Isobar had left; Riley was talking to Dr.
Loesch, head of the Dome's Physics Research Division. The older man
nodded commiseratingly.

"It is funny, yes," he agreed, "but at the same time it is not
altogether amusing. I feel sorry for him. He is a very unhappy man, our
poor Isobar."

"Yeah, I know," said Riley, "but, hell, we all get a little bit
homesick now and then. He ought to learn to--"

"Excuse me, my boy," interrupted the aged physicist, his voice gentle,
"it is not mere homesickness that troubles our friend. It is something
deeper, much more vital and serious. It is what my people call:
_weltschmertz_. There is no accurate translation in English. It means
'world sickness,' or better, 'world weariness'--something like that but
intensified a thousandfold.

"It is a deeply-rooted mental condition, sometimes a dangerous frame
of mind. Under its grip, men do wild things. Hating the world on which
they find themselves, they rebel in curious ways. Suicide ... mad acts
of valor ... deeds of cunning or knavery...."

"You mean," demanded Sparks anxiously, "Isobar ain't got all his
buttons?"

"Not that exactly. He is perfectly sane. But he is in a dark morass
of despair. He may try _anything_ to retrieve his lost happiness, rid
his soul of its dark oppression. His world-sickness is like a crying
hunger--By the way, where is he now?"

"Below, I guess. In his quarters."

"Ah, good! Perhaps he is sleeping. Let us hope so. In slumber he will
find peace and forgetfulness."

But Dr. Loesch would have been far less sanguine had some power the
"giftie gi'en" him of watching Isobar Jones at that moment.

Isobar was not asleep. Far from it. Wide awake and very much astir, he
was acting in a singularly sinister role: that of a slinking, furtive
culprit.

Returning to his private cubicle after his conversation with Dome
Commander Eagan, he had stalked straightway to the cabinet wherein was
encased his precious set of bagpipes. These he had taken from their
pegs, gazed upon defiantly, and fondled with almost parental affection.

"So I can't play you, huh?" he muttered darkly. "It disturbs the peace
o' the dingfounded, dumblasted Dome staff, does it? Well, we'll _see_
about that!"

And tucking the bag under his arm, he had cautiously slipped from the
room, down little-used corridors, and now he stood before the huge
_impervite_ gates which were the entrance to the Dome and the doorway
to Outside.

On all save those occasions when a spacecraft landed in the cradle
adjacent the gateway, these portals were doubly locked and barred. But
today they had been unbolted that the two maintenance men might venture
out. And since it was quite possible that Brown and Roberts might have
to get inside in a hurry, their bolts remained drawn. Sole guardian of
the entrance was a very bored Junior Patrolman.

Up to this worthy strode Isobar Jones, confident and assured, exuding
an aura of propriety.

"Very well, Wilkins," he said. "I'll take over now. You may go to the
meeting."

Wilkins looked at him bewilderedly.

"Huh? Whuzzat, Mr. Jones?"

Isobar's eyebrows arched.

"You mean you haven't been notified?"

"Notified of _what_?"

"Why, the general council of all Patrolmen! Weren't you told that I
would take your place here while you reported to G.H.Q.?"

"I ain't," puzzled Wilkins, "heard nothing about it. Maybe I ought to
call the office, maybe?"

And he moved the wall-audio. But Isobar said swiftly. "That--er--won't
be necessary, Wilkins. My orders were plain enough. Now, you just run
along. I'll watch this entrance for you."

"We-e-ell," said Wilkins, "if you say so. Orders is orders. But keep a
sharp eye out, Mister Jones, in case Roberts and Brown should come back
sudden-like."

"I will," promised Isobar, "don't worry."
