
Wilkins moved away. Isobar waited until the Patrolman was completely
out of sight. Then swiftly he pulled open the massive gate, slipped
through, and closed it behind him.

A flood of warmth, exhilarating after the constantly regulated
temperature of the Dome, descended upon him. Fresh air, thin, but
fragrant with the scent of growing things, made his pulses stir with
joyous abandon. He was Outside! He was Outside, in good sunlight, at
last! After six long and dreary months!

Raptly, blissfully, all thought of caution tossed to the gentle breezes
that ruffled his sparse hair, Isobar Jones stepped forward into the
lunar valley....

How long he wandered thus, carefree and utterly content, he could not
afterward say. It seemed like minutes; it must have been longer. He
only knew that the grass was green beneath his feet, the trees were a
lacy network through which warm sunlight filtered benevolently, the
chirrupings of small insects and the rustling whisper of the breezes
formed a tiny symphony of happiness through which he moved as one
charmed.

It did not occur to him that he had wandered too far from the Dome's
entrance until, strolling through an enchanting flower-decked glade, he
was startled to hear--off to his right--the sharp, explosive bark of a
Haemholtz ray pistol.

He whirled, staring about him wildly, and discovered that though his
meandering had kept him near the Dome, he had unconsciously followed
its hemispherical perimeter to a point nearly two miles from the
Gateway. By the placement of ports and windows, Isobar was able to
judge his location perfectly; he was opposite that portion of the
structure which housed Sparks' radio turret.

And the shooting? That could only be--

He did not have to name its reason, even to himself. For at that
moment, there came racing around the curve of the Dome a pair of
figures, Patrolmen clad in fatigue drab. Roberts and Brown. Roberts was
staggering, one foot dragged awkwardly as he ran; Brown's left arm,
bloodstained from shoulder to elbow, hung limply at his side, but in
his good right fist he held a spitting Haemholtz with which he tried to
cover his comrade's sluggish retreat.

And behind these two, grim, grey, gaunt figures that moved with
astonishing speed despite their massive bulk, came three ... six ... a
dozen of those lunarites whom all men feared. The Grannies!


                                  III

Simultaneously with his recognition of the pair, Joe Roberts saw him. A
gasp of relief escaped the wounded man.

"Jones! Thank the Lord! Then you picked up our cry for help? Quick,
man--where is it? Theres not a moment to waste!"

"W-where," faltered Isobar feebly, "is _what_?"

"The tank, of course! Didn't you hear our telecast? We can't possibly
make it back to the gate without an armored car. My foot's broken,
and--" Roberts stopped suddenly, an abrupt horror in his eyes. "You
don't have one! You're here _alone_! Then you didn't pick up our call?
But, why--?"

"Never mind that," snapped Isobar, "now!" Placid by nature, he could
move when urgency drove. His quick mind saw the immediateness of their
peril. Unarmed, he could not help the Patrolmen fight a delaying action
against their foes, nor could he hasten their retreat. Anyway, weapons
were useless, and time was of the essence. There was but one temporary
way of staving off disaster. "Over here ... this tree! Quick! Up you
go! Give him a lift, Brown--There! That's the stuff!"

He was the last to scramble up the gnarled bole to a tentative leafy
sanctuary. He had barely gained the security of the lowermost bough
when a thundering crash resounded, the sturdy trunk trembled beneath
his clutch. Stony claws gouged yellow parallels in the bark scant
inches beneath one kicking foot, then the Granny fell back with a thud.
The Graniteback was _not_ a climber. It was far too ungainly, much too
weighty for that.

Roberts said weakly, "Th-thanks, Jonesy! That was a close call."

"That goes for me, too, Jonesy," added Brown from an upper bough.
"But I'm afraid you just delayed matters. This tree's O.Q. as long
as it lasts, but--" He stared down upon the gathering knot of
Grannies unhappily--"it's not going to last long with that bunch of
superdreadnaughts working out on it! Hold tight, fellows! Here they
come!"

For the Grannies, who had huddled for a moment as if in telepathic
consultation, now joined forces, turned, and as one body charged
headlong toward the tree. The unified force of their attack was like
the shattering impact of a battering ram. Bark rasped and gritted
beneath the besieged men's hands, dry leaves and twigs pelted about
them in a tiny rain, tormented fibrous sinews groaned as the aged
forest monarch shuddered in agony.

Desperately they clung to their perches. Though the great tree bent, it
did not break. But when it stopped trembling, it was canted drunkenly
to one side, and the erstwhile solid earth about its base was broken
and cracked--revealing fleshy tentacles uprooted from ancient moorings!
