
Afterward, Isobar Jones said weakly, "But--dead? I don't understand.
Was it the sound-waves that killed them?"

Commander Eagan said, "No! Grannies absolutely cannot hear. That is
one thing we do know about them--though we will soon know a great deal
more, now that our biologists have a dozen carcasses to dissect, thanks
to you. But Grannies have no auditory apparatus."

"But then--what?" puzzled Isobar. "It couldn't be vibration, because
our Patrolmen tried shootin' 'em with the vibro-ray pistol, and
nothin' never happened--"

"Nevertheless," said Dr. Loesch quietly, "it _was_ vibration which
killed them, Isobar. That is, of course, only my conjecture, but I
believe subsequent study will prove I am correct.

"It was the effect of _dual_, or disharmonic vibration. You see, the
vibro-ray pistol expels an ultrasonic wave which disrupts molecular
construction sensitive to a single harmonic. The Grannies' composition
is more complex. It required the impact of two different wave-lengths,
impinging on their nerve centers at the same moment, to destroy them."

"And the bagpipe--" said Isobar with slowly dawning
comprehension--"emits two distinct tones at the same time!"

The full meaning of his words flashed upon Isobar. He turned to
Commander Eagan, sallow cheeks glowing with new color.

"Then--then what means we've licked our problem!" he cried. "We've
found a weapon that'll kill the Grannies, and it won't be necessary to
live inside Domes no more! Now we can move out into the open and live
like human beings!"

"Absolutely true!" agreed the Commander. "But _you_ will not be living
Outside, Jones. Not right away, anyway."

"H-uh? W-hat do you mean, Commander?"

"I mean," said Eagan sternly, "that regardless of results, you are
still guilty of flagrant disobedience to orders! That, as Commander of
this outpost, I cannot tolerate. You are hereby sentenced to thirty
days confinement to quarters!"

"But--" stammered Isobar--"but tarnation golly--"

"In the course of which time," continued Commander Eagan imperturbably,
"you will serve as Instructor for every man in the Dome--at double
salary!"

"You can't _do_ me like this!" wailed Isobar. "Jinky-wallopers, I
won't--Huh? What's 'at? Instructor? Instructor in _what_?"

"In the--er--art," said Eagan, "of bagpipe playing. If we are to
rid Luna of the Grannies, we must all learn how to perform on
that--er--lethal weapon. And, Jones, I think I can truthfully say that
this punishment hurts me more than it hurts you!"



