
It was about three o’clock when we arrived at the little station of
Elmer’s Dale. From there a five-mile drive brought us to a small gray
stone building in the midst of the rugged moors.

“A lonely place,” I observed.

Havering nodded.

“I shall try and get rid of it. I could never live here again.”

We unlatched the gate and were walking up the narrow path to the oak
door when a familiar figure emerged and came to meet us.

“Japp!” I ejaculated.

The Scotland Yard Inspector grinned at me in a friendly fashion before
addressing my companion.

“Mr. Havering, I think? I’ve been sent down from London to take charge
of this case, and I’d like a word with you, if I may, sir.”

“My wife——”

“I’ve seen your good lady, sir—and the housekeeper. I wont keep you a
moment, but I’m anxious to get back to the village now that I’ve seen
all there is to see here.”

“I know nothing as yet as to what—”

“Ex-actly,” said Japp soothingly. “But there are just one or two
little points I’d like your opinion about all the same. Captain
Hastings, here, he knows me, and he’ll go on up to the house and tell
them you’re coming.”

I went on to the house. I rang the bell, as Japp had closed the door
behind him. After some moments it was opened to me by a middle-aged
woman in black.

“Mr. Havering will be here in a moment,” I explained. “He has been
detained by the Inspector. I have come down with him from London to
look into the case. Perhaps you can tell me briefly what occurred last
night?”

“Come inside, sir.” She closed the door behind me, and we stood in the
dimly lighted hall. “It was after dinner last night, sir, that the man
came. He asked to see Mr. Pace, sir, and seeing that he spoke the same
way, I thought it was an American gentleman friend of Mr. Pace’s, and
I showed him into the gun-room, and then went to tell Mr. Pace. He
wouldn’t give no name, which of course was a bit odd, now I come to
think of it.

“I told Mr. Pace, and he seemed puzzled, like, but he said to the
mistress: ‘Excuse me, Zoe, while I just see what this fellow wants.’
He went off to the gun-room, and I went back to the kitchen, but after
a while I heard loud voices, as if they were quarreling, and I came
out into the hall. At the same time, the mistress she comes out too,
and just then there was a shot and then a dreadful silence. We both
ran to the gun-room door, but it was locked, and we had to go round to
the window. It was open, and there inside was Mr. Pace, all shot and
bleeding.”

“What became of the man?”

“He must have got away through the window, sir, before we got to it.”

“And then?”

“Mrs. Havering sent me to fetch the police. Five miles to walk, it
was. They came back with me; and the constable, he stayed all night;
and this morning the police gentleman from London arrived.”

“What was this man like who called to see Mr. Pace?”

The housekeeper reflected.

“He had a black beard, sir, and was about middle-aged, and had on a
light overcoat. Beyond the fact that he spoke like an American, I
didn’t notice much about him.”

“I see. Now, I wonder if I can see Mrs. Havering?”

“She’s upstairs, sir. Shall I tell her?”

“If you please. Tell her that Mr. Havering is outside with Inspector
Japp, and that the gentleman he has brought back with him from London
is anxious to speak to her as soon as possible.”

“Very good, sir.”
