
I was in a fever of impatience to get at all the facts. Japp had two
or three hours start of me, and his anxiety to be gone made me keen to
be close at his heels.

Mrs. Havering did not keep me waiting long. In a few minutes I heard a
light step descending the stairs, and looked up to see a very handsome
young woman coming toward me. She wore a flame-colored jumper, that
set off the slender boyishness of her figure. On her dark head was a
little hat of flame-colored leather. Even the present tragedy could
not dim the vitality of her personality.

I introduced myself, and she nodded in quick comprehension.

“Of course I have often heard of you and your colleague, M. Poirot.
You have done some wonderful things together, haven’t you? It was very
clever of my husband to get you so promptly. Now, will you ask me
questions? That is the easiest way, isn’t it, of getting to know all
you want to about this dreadful affair?”

“Thank you, Mrs. Havering. Now, what time was it that this man
arrived?”

“It must have been just before nine o’clock. We had finished dinner,
and were sitting over our coffee and cigarettes.”

“Your husband had already left for London?”

“Yes, he went up by the six-fifteen.”

“Did he go by car to the station, or did he walk?”

“Our own car isn’t down here. One came out from the garage in Elmer’s
Dale to fetch him in time for the train.”

“Was Mr. Pace quite his usual self?”

“Absolutely—most normal in every way.”

“Now, can you describe this visitor at all?”

“I’m afraid not. I didn’t see him. Mrs. Middleton showed him straight
into the gun-room and then came to tell my uncle.”

“What did your uncle say?”

“He seemed rather annoyed, but went off at once. It was about five
minutes later that I heard the sound of raised voices. I ran out into
the hall, and almost collided with Mrs. Middleton. Then we heard the
shot. The gun-room door was locked on the inside, and we had to go
round the house to the window. Of course that took some time, and the
murderer had been able to get well away. My poor uncle”—her voice
faltered—“had been shot through the head. I saw at once that he was
dead, and I sent Mrs. Middleton for the police straight away. I was
careful to touch nothing in the room but to leave it exactly as I
found it.”
