
Japp I found at the Matlock Arms, and he took me forthwith to see the
body. Harrington Pace was a small, spare, cleanshaven man, typically
American in appearance. He had been shot through the back of the head,
and the revolver had been discharged at close quarters.

“Turned away for a moment,” remarked Japp, “and the other fellow
snatched up a revolver and shot him. The one Mrs. Havering handed over
to us was fully loaded, and I suppose the other one was also. Curious
what darn fool things people do. Fancy keeping two loaded revolvers
hanging up on your wall!”

“What do you think of the case?” I asked as we left the gruesome
chamber behind us.

“Well, I’d got my eye on Havering to begin with.... Oh, yes,”—noting
my exclamation of astonishment,—“Havering has one or two shady
incidents in his past. When he was a boy at Oxford, there was some
funny business about the signature on one of his father’s checks. All
hushed up, of course. Then he’s pretty heavily in debt now, and
they’re the kind of debts he wouldn’t like to go to his uncle about;
whereas you may be sure the uncle’s will would be in his favor. Yes,
I’d got my eye on him, and that’s why I wanted to speak to him before
he saw his wife; but their statements dovetail all right, and I’ve
been to the station, and there’s no doubt whatever that he left by the
six-fifteen. That gets up to London about ten-thirty. He went straight
to his club, he says, and if that’s confirmed all right—why, he
couldn’t have been shooting his uncle here at nine o’clock in a black
beard!”

“Ah, yes—I was going to ask you what you thought about that beard?”

Japp winked.

“I think it grew pretty fast—grew in the five miles from Elmer’s Dale
to Hunter’s Lodge. Americans that I’ve met are mostly clean shaven. I
questioned the housekeeper first, and then her mistress, and their
stories agree all right; but I’m sorry Mrs. Havering didn’t get a look
at the fellow. She’s a smart woman, and she might have noticed
something that would set us on the track.”
