
I sat down and wrote a minute and lengthy account to Poirot. I was
able to add various further items of information before I posted the
letter.

The bullet had been extracted and was proved to have been fired from a
revolver identical in size to the one held by the police. Furthermore,
Mr. Havering’s movements on the night in question had been checked and
verified, and it was proved beyond doubt that he had actually arrived
in London by the train in question. And thirdly, a sensational
development had occurred. A city gentleman, living at Ealing, on
crossing Haven Green to get to the District Railway station that
morning, had observed a brown paper parcel stuck between the railings.
Opening it, he found that it contained a revolver. He handed the
parcel over to the local police station, and before night it was
proved to be the one we were in search of, the fellow to that given us
by Mrs. Havering. One bullet had been fired from it.

All this I added to my report. A wire from Poirot arrived while I was
at breakfast the following morning:

    Of course black-bearded man was not Havering. Only you or
    Japp would have such an idea. Wire me description of
    housekeeper and what clothes she wore this morning. Same
    of Mrs. Havering. Do not waste time taking photographs of
    interiors. They are underexposed and not in the least
    artistic.

It seemed to me that Poirot’s style was unnecessarily facetious. I
also fancied he was a shade jealous of my position on the spot, with
full facilities for handling the case. His request for a description
of the clothes worn by the two women appeared to me to be simply
ridiculous, but I complied as well as I, a mere man, was able to. At
eleven a reply wire came from Poirot:

    Advise Japp arrest housekeeper before it is too late.

Dumfounded, I took the wire to Japp. He swore softly under his breath.

“He’s the goods, M. Poirot! If he says so, there’s something in it.
And I hardly noticed the woman! I don’t know that I can go so far as
arresting her, but I’ll have her watched. We’ll go up right away and
take another look at her.”

But it was too late. Mrs. Middleton, that quiet, middle-aged woman,
who had appeared so normal and respectable, had vanished into thin
air. Her box had been left behind. It contained only ordinary wearing
apparel. There was no clue in it to her identity, or as to her
whereabouts.
