
From Mrs. Havering we elicited all the facts we could.

“I engaged her about three weeks ago, when Mrs. Emery, our former
housekeeper, left. She came to me from Mrs. Selboume’s Agency in Mount
St.—a very well-known place. I get all my servants from there. They
sent several women to see me, but this Mrs. Middleton seemed much the
nicest, and had splendid references. I engaged her on the spot, and
notified the Agency of the fact. I can’t believe that there was
anything wrong with her. She was such a nice, quiet woman.”

The thing was certainly a mystery.

While it was clear that the woman herself could not have committed the
crime, since at the moment the shot was fired Mrs. Havering was with
her in the hall, nevertheless she must have some connection with the
murder, or why should she suddenly take to her heels and bolt?

I wired the latest development to Poirot, and suggested returning to
London and making inquiries at Selbourne’s Agency. Poirot’s reply was
prompt:

    Useless to inquire at Agency. They will never have heard
    of her. Find out what vehicle took her up to Hunter’s
    Lodge when she first arrived there.

Though mystified, I was obedient. The means of transport in Elmer’s
Dale were limited. The local garage had two cars, and there were two
station flies. None of these had been requisitioned on the date in
question. I may also mention that inquiries at the Agency in London
bore out Poirot’s prognostication. No such woman as “Mrs. Middleton”
had ever been on their books. They had received the Hon. Mrs.
Havering’s application for a housekeeper, and had sent her various
applicants for the post. When she sent them the engagement fee, she
omitted to mention which woman she had selected.

    [It is suggested that the reader pause in his perusal of the story
    at this point, make his own solution of the mystery—and then see
    how close he comes to that of the author—The Editors.]

Somewhat crestfallen, I returned to London. I found Poirot established
in an armchair by the fire. He greeted me with much affection.

“_Mon ami Hastings!_ But how glad I am to see you! Veritably I have
for you a great affection! And you have enjoyed yourself? You have run
to and fro with the good Japp? You have interrogated and investigated
to your heart’s content?”

“Poirot,” I cried, “the thing’s a dark mystery! It will never be
solved.”

“It is true that we are not likely to cover ourselves with glory over
it.”

“No, indeed. It’s a hard nut to crack.”

“Oh, as far as that goes, me, I am very good at cracking the nuts! A
veritable squirrel! It is not that which embarrasses me. I know well
enough who killed Mr. Harrington Pace.”

“You know? How did you find out?”

“Your illuminating answers to my wires supplied me with the truth.....
See here, Hastings, let us examine the facts methodically and in
order. Mr. Harrington Pace is a man with a considerable fortune which
at his death will doubtless pass to his nephew—point number one. His
nephew is known to be desperately hard up—point number two. His nephew
is also known to be—shall we say a man of loose moral fiber? Point
number three!”

“But  Roger Havering is proved to have journeyed straight up to
London.”

“_Précisément!_ And therefore, as Mr. Havering left Elmer’s Dale at
six-fifteen, and since Mr. Pace cannot have been killed before he left
(or the doctor would have spotted the time of the crime as being given
wrongly when he examined the body), we conclude, quite rightly, that
Mr. Havering did _not_ shoot his uncle. But there is a Mrs. Havering,
Hastings.”

“Impossible! The housekeeper was with her when the shot was fired.”

“Ah, yes, the housekeeper. But she has disappeared.”

“She will be found.”

“I think not. There is something peculiarly elusive about that
housekeeper—don’t you think so? It struck me at once.”

“She played her part, I suppose, and then got out in the nick of
time.”

“And what was her part?”

“Well—I presume to admit her confederate, the black-bearded man.”

“Oh, no, that was not her part. Her part was what you have just
mentioned, to provide an alibi for Mrs. Havering at the moment the
shot was fired. And no one will ever find her, _mon ami_, because she
does not exist! ‘There’s no sech person,’ as your so great Shakespeare
says.”

“It was Dickens,” I murmured, smiling. “But what do you mean, Poirot?”

“I mean that Zoe Havering was an actress before her marriage, that you
and Japp only saw the housekeeper in a dark hall, a dim, middle-aged
figure in black with a faint, subdued voice, and finally that neither
you, nor Japp, nor the local police whom the housekeeper fetched, ever
saw Mrs. Middleton and her mistress at one and the same time. It was a
child’s play for that clever and daring woman. On the pretext of
summoning her mistress, she runs upstairs, slips on a bright jumper
and a hat with black curls attached which she jams down over the gray
transformation. A few deft touches, and the make-up is removed; a
slight dusting of rouge, and the brilliant Zoe Havering comes down
with her clear ringing voice.”

“But the revolver that was found at Ealing? Mrs. Havering could not
have placed it there?”

“No, that was Roger Havering’s job—but it was a mistake on their part.
It put me on the right track. A man who has committed a murder with a
revolver which he found on the spot would fling it away at once; he
would not carry it up to London with him. No, the motive was clear;
the criminals wished to focus the interest of the police on a spot far
removed from Derbyshire; they were anxious to get the police away as
soon as possible from the vicinity of Hunter’s Lodge. Of course, the
revolver found at Ealing was not the one with which Mr. Pace was shot.
Roger Havering discharged one shot from it, brought it up to London,
went straight to his club to establish his alibi, then went quickly
out to Ealing by the District Railway, a matter of about twenty
minutes only, placed the parcel where it was found and so back to
town. That charming creature his wife, quietly shoots Mr. Pace after
dinner—you remember he was shot from behind? Another significant
point, that! She reloads the revolver and puts it back in its place,
and then starts off with her desperate little comedy.”

“It’s incredible,” I murmured, fascinated. “And yet—”

“And yet it is true. _Bien sûr_, my friend, it is true! But to bring
that precious pair to justice, that is another matter. Well, Japp must
do what he can—I have written him fully; but I very much fear,
Hastings, that we shall be obliged to leave them to Fate—or _le bon
Dieu_—whichever you prefer.”

“The wicked flourish like a green bay tree,” I reminded him.

“But at a price, Hastings, always at a price, _croyez moi_!”
