
But Pattie Batch's wish for a baby went back to the very beginnings of
things. Ask Gingerbread Jenkins. Gingerbread Jenkins knows. It was
Gingerbread Jenkins who had found her, long ago--Pattie was little more
than a baby herself, then--on the Bottle River Trail; and to Gingerbread
Jenkins' astonishment the child was lugging a gun into the woods.

"Where _you_ goin'?" says Gingerbread Jenkins.

"Gunnin'."

"Gunnin', eh? What for?"

"Jutht gunnin'."

"But what you gunnin' _for_?"

"None o' your bithneth," says saucy little Pattie Batch.

"It _is_ my business," Gingerbread Jenkins declared; "an' if you don't
tell me what you're gunnin' for I'll have you home in a jiffy."

"Well," says Pattie, "I'm--gunnin'."

"What for?"

"Storks," says Pattie.

"Goin' t' _kill_ 'em?" Gingerbread inquired.

"No," says Pattie.

"What's your gun for?"

"I'm goin' t' wing a couple," says Pattie, "an' tame 'em."

That was Pattie Batch.

[Illustration]




_A GIFT NEGLECTED_


Well, well! there was only one baby at Swamp's End; and that baby Pattie
Batch had adopted. In her mind, of course: _quite_ on the sly. Nobody
could adopt Pale Peter's bartender's baby in any other way. And here was
Christmas come again! Day gone beyond the last waving pines in a cold
flush of red and gold: Christmas Eve here at last. Pattie Batch's soft
arms were still wanting; there were a thousand kisses waiting on her
tender lips for giving; her voice was all attuned to crooning sweetest
lullabys; but her heart was empty--save for a child of mist and wishes.
It was dark, now; but though the wind was still rollicking down there
was no snow blowing, and the shy stars were winking wide-eyed upon the
busy world and all the myriad mysteries it exhibited out-of-doors. The
gift of silk and fawn-skin was finished. A perfect gift: fashioned and
accomplished with all the dexterity Pattie Batch could employ. "Just as
if," she had determined, "it was for my _own_ baby." And Pattie
Batch--after an agitated glance at the clock--quickly shoed and cloaked
and hooded her sweet and blooming little self; and she listened to the
lusty wind, and she put a most adorable little nose out-of-doors to
sense the frosty weather, and she fluttered about the warm room in
search of her mittens, and then she turned down the lamp, chucked a log
in the stove, put on the dampers like a prudent householder, and, having
made quite sure that the door was latched, scampered off to town in vast
and twittering delight with the nipping frost, with the roistering wind,
the fluffy snow, the stars, the whole of God's clean world, and with
herself, too, and with the blessed Night of the year.

She was exceedingly cautious; and she was not observed--not for the
smallest flash. The thing was accomplished in mystery. Before she was
aware of it--before her heart had eased its agitation--she was safely
out again; and there, in plain view, on the table, in Pale Peter's
living-room behind the saloon, lay the gift of silk and fawn-skin for
Pale Peter's bartender's baby--a Christmas mystery for them all to solve
as best they could.

Pattie Batch peeked in at the window.

"I wonder," she mused, "if they'll _ever_--if they'll _ever in the
world_--find out I done it!"
