
Mrs. Bartender was still yawning as John Fairmeadow entered upon her
_ennui_; but when the big minister, exercising the softest sort of
caution, slipped off his gigantic pack, and deposited it with
exquisitely delicate care, and a face of deep concern, on the table, she
opened her faded eyes with interested curiosity. And as for the contents
of the pack, there's no more concealing them! The article must now be
declared and produced. It was a baby. Of course, it was a baby! The
thing has been obvious all along. John Fairmeadow's foundling: left in a
basket at the threshold of his temporary lodging-room at Big Rapids that
very morning--first to John Fairmeadow's consternation, and then to his
gleeful delight. As for the baby itself--it was presently unswathed--it
is quite beyond me to describe its excellencies of appearance and
conduct. John Fairmeadow himself couldn't make the attempt and escape
annihilation. It was a real and regular baby, however. One might
suggest, in inadequate description, that it was a plump baby; one might
add that it was a lusty baby. It had hair; it had a pucker of amazement;
its eyes, two of them, were properly disposed in its head; its hands
were of what are called rose-leaf dimensions; it had, apparently, a
fixed habit of squirming; it had no teeth. Evidently a healthy baby--a
baby that any mother might be proud of--doubtless a marvel of infantile
perfection in every respect. I should not venture to dispute such an
assertion; nor would John Fairmeadow--nor any other bold gentleman of
Swamp's End and Elegant Corners--_not in these later days_!

Mrs. Bartender, of course, lifted her languid white hands in uttermost
astonishment.

"There!" John Fairmeadow exploded, looking round like a showman. "What
d'ye think o' _that_? Eh?"

"But, Mr. Fairmeadow," the poor lady stammered, "what have you brought
it _here_ for?"

"Why not?" John Fairmeadow demanded. "Why not, indeed? It's perfectly
polite."

"What am I to _do_ with it?"

"It isn't intoxicated, my good woman," John Fairmeadow ran on, in great
wrath; "and it's never been in jail."

"But my _dear_ Mr. Fairmeadow, do be sensible; what am I to _do_ with
it?"

"Why, ah--I should think," John Fairmeadow ventured--the baby was still
sleeping like a brick--"that you might first of all--ah--resuscitate it.
Would a--a slight poke in the ribs--provoke animation?"

But the baby didn't need a poke in the ribs. It didn't need any other
sort of resuscitation. Not _that_ baby! The self-dependent, courageous,
perfectly competent and winning little rascal resuscitated itself.
Instantly, too--and positively--and apparently without the least effort
in the world. Moreover--and with remarkable directness--it demanded what
it wanted--and got it. And having been nourished to its satisfaction
from young Master Bartender's silver-mounted bottle (which John
Fairmeadow then secretly slipped into his pocket)--and having yawned in
a fashion so tremendous that Mrs. Bartender herself could never hope to
equal that infinite expression of boredom--and having smiled, and having
wriggled, and having giggled, and cooed, and attempted--actually
attempted--to get its great toe in its mouth without extraneous
assistance of any sort whatsoever--even without the slightest suggestion
that such a thing would be an amazingly engaging trick in a baby of its
age and degree--it burst into a gurgle of glee so wondrously genuine and
infectious that poor, bored Mrs. Bartender herself was quite unable to
resist it, and promptly, and publicly, and finally committed herself to
the assertion that the baby was a dear, wherever it came from.

John Fairmeadow snatched it from the table, and was about to make off
with it, when Mrs. Bartender interposed.

"My _dear_ Mr. Fairmeadow," said she, "that child will simply catch its
_death_ of cold!"

There was something handy, however--something of silk and fawn-skin--and
with this enveloping the baby John Fairmeadow swung in a roar with it to
the bar--and held it aloft in all that seething wickedness--pure symbol
of the blessed Christmas festival. And there was a sensation, of
course--a sensation beginning in vociferous ejaculations, but presently
failing to a buzz of conjecture. There were questions to follow: to
which John Fairmeadow answered that he had found the baby--that the baby
was nobody's baby--that the baby was his baby by right of finders
keepers--that the baby was everybody's baby--and that the baby would
presently be somebody's much-loved baby, _that_ he'd vouch for! The
baby, now resting content in John Fairmeadow's arms, was diffidently
approached and examined. Gingerbread Jenkins poked a finger at it, and
said, in a voice of the most inimical description, "Get out!" without
disturbing the baby's serene equanimity in the slightest. Young Billy
Lush, charging his soft, boyish voice with all the horrifying intent he
could muster, threatened to "catch" the baby, as though bent upon
devouring it on the spot; but the baby only chuckled with delight. Billy
the Beast incautiously approached a finger near the baby's stout
abdomen; and the baby--with a perfectly fearless glance into the very
depths of the Beast's frowzy beard--clutched the finger and smiled like
an angel. Long Butcher Long attempted to tweak the baby's nose; but the
effort was a ridiculous failure, practiced so clumsily on an object so
small, and the only effect was to cause the baby to achieve a tremendous
wriggle and a loud scream of laughter. These experiments were variously
repeated, but all with the same cherubic result; the baby conducted
itself with admirable self-possession and courage, as though, indeed, it
had been used, every hour of its life, to the company of riotous
lumber-jacks in town.

The inevitable happened, of course: Billy the Beast, whose pocket was
smoking with his wages, proposed the baby's health, and there was an
uproarious rush for the bar.

"Just a minute, boys!" John Fairmeadow drawled.

It was an awkward moment: but the jacks were by this time used to being
bidden by this man who was a man, and the rush was forthwith halted.

"Just a minute, boys," John Fairmeadow repeated, "for your minister!"

The baby was then held aloft in John Fairmeadow's big, kind, sensitive
hands, and from this safe perch softly smiled upon the crowd of flushed
and bearded faces all roundabout.

"Boys," John Fairmeadow drawled, significantly, "this is the only sort
of church we have in these woods."

There was a laughing stir and shuffling: but presently a tolerant
silence fell, in obedience to the custom John Fairmeadow had
established; and caps came off, and pipes were smothered.

"A little away from the bar, please," the big preacher suggested.

Pale Peter nodded to Charlie the Infidel; and the clink of glasses
ceased--and the bottles were left in peace--and the hands of the
bartender rested.

"Now, boys," said John Fairmeadow, letting the foundling fall softly
into his arms, "I'm not going to preach to you to-night, though God
knows you need it! I'm just going to pray for the baby. _Dear Father of
us wilful Children of the Vale_," he began, at once, lifting a placid,
believing face above the smiling child in his arms, "_we ask Thy
guardianship of this child. In us is no perfect counsel for him nor any
help whatsoever that he may surely apprehend. In Thine acceptable wisdom
Thou settest Thy little ones in a world where presently only Thou canst
teach them: teach Thou then this little one. Thou alone knowest the
right path for a little boy's inquiring feet: lead then this little boy.
Thou alone art saving helper to an adventuring lad: help then this lad.
Thou alone art all-perceiving and persuasive, alone art Truth Teller to
a bewildered youth and Good Example in his wondering sight: be then Good
Example and Teller of Truth to this youth. Thou alone art in the
fashioning ways of Thine own world a Maker of Men: make then of this
little child a Man. We ask no easy path for him--no unmanly way--no
indulgent tempering of the winds. We pray for no riches--for no great
deeds of his doing--for no ease at all nor any satisfaction. We ask of
Thee in his behalf good Manhood. Lead him where true men must go: lead
him where they learn the all of life; lead him where they level down and
build again; lead him where in righteous strength his hands may lift the
fallen; lead him where in anger he may strike; lead him where his tears
may fall; lead him where his heart may find a pure desire. O Almighty
God, Lover of children, Father of us all alike, make of this child, in
the measure of his service and in the stature of his soul, a Man.
Amen._"

Amen, indeed!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




_CHRISTMAS EVE AT SWAMP'S END_


As for poor little Pattie Batch, all this while, she sat alone, a
doleful heart, in the shack at the edge of the big, black woods, quite
unaware of the momentous advent of a Christmas baby at Swamp's End. The
Christmas wind was still high, still shaking the cabin, still rattling
the door, still howling like a wild beast in the night, still roaring in
the red stove; and snow was falling again--a dry dust of snow which
veiled the wondering stars. It was no longer a jolly, rollicking
Christmas wind. The gale, now, it seemed, was become inimical to the
lonely child: wild, vaunting, merciless, terrible with cold. Pattie
Batch, disconsolate, sighed more often than a tender heart could bear to
sanction in a child, and found swift visions in the glowing coals,
though no enlivening tableaux; but--dear brave and human little
one!--she presently ejaculated "Shoot it, anyhow!" and began at once to
cheer up. And she was comfortably toasting her shins, in a placid
delusion of stormy, mile-wide privacy, her mother's old-fashioned long
black skirt drawn up from her dainty toes (of which, of course, the
imminent John Fairmeadow was never permitted to be aware), when, all at
once, and clamouring above the old wind's howling, there was a
tremendous knocking at the door--a knocking so loud, and commanding, and
prolonged, that Pattie Batch jumped like a fawn in alarm, and stood for
a moment with palpitating heart and a mighty inclination to fly to the
bedroom and lock herself in. Presently, however, she mustered courage to
call "Come in!" in a sufficient tone: whereupon, the door was
immediately flung wide, and big John Fairmeadow, with a wild, dusty
blast of the gale, strode in with a gigantic basket, and slammed the
door behind him, leaving the shivering, tenacious Shadow, which had
secretly followed from Swamp's End, to keep cold vigil outside.

"Hello, there, Pattie Batch!" John Fairmeadow roared. "Merry Christmas!"

Pattie Batch stared.

"Hello, I say!" John Fairmeadow cried, again. "Merry Christmas, ye
rascal!"

Pattie Batch, gulping her delight, and quite incapable of uttering a
word, because of it, flew to the kitchen, instead of to the bedroom, and
returned with a broom, with which, while the Shadow peeked in at the
window, she brushed, and scraped, and slapped John Fairmeadow so
vigorously that John Fairmeadow scampered into a corner and stood at
bay.

"Look out, there, Polly Pry!" he shouted, in a rage; "don't you _dare_
look at my basket."

Pattie Batch had been doing nothing of the sort.

"Don't you so much as _squint_ at my basket," John Fairmeadow growled.

Pattie Batch instantly _did_, of course--and with her eyes wide and
sparkling, too. It was really something more than a squint.

"Keep your eyes off that basket, Miss Pry!" John Fairmeadow commanded,
again. "Huh!" he complained, emerging from his refuge and throwing his
mackinaw and cap on the floor; "anybody'd think there was something in
that basket for _you_."

"There ith," Pattie Batch gasped, in ecstasy.

"Is!" John Fairmeadow scornfully mocked. "Huh!"

Pattie Batch caught John Fairmeadow by the two lapels of his coat--and
she stood on tiptoe--and she wouldn't let John Fairmeadow turn his head
away--(as if John Fairmeadow cared to evade those round, glowing
eyes!)--and she looked into his gray eyes with a bewitching
conglomeration of hope, amusement, curiosity and adoring childish
affection. "There ith, too," she chuckled, her lisp getting the better
of her. "Yeth, there ith. I know _you_, Mithter Fairmeadow."

John Fairmeadow ridiculously failed to smother a chuckle in a growl.

"Doth it bite?" Pattie Batch inquired, maliciously feigning a terrific
fright.

"Nonsense!" John Fairmeadow declared; "it hasn't a tooth in its head."
He added, with one eye closed, and palms lifted: "But--aha!--just you
wait and _see_."

"Well," Pattie Batch drawled, "I th'pose it'th a turkey. It'th
thertainly _thome_thin' t' eat," she declared.

"Good _enough_ to eat, I bet you!" John Fairmeadow agreed, with the air
of having concealed in that veritable big basket the sweetest morsel in
all the world.

"Ith it a chicken?"

"Nonsense!" said John Fairmeadow; "it's fa-a-a-ar more delicious than
chicken. Hi, there, Poll Pry!" he roared, and just in time; "keep your
hands off."

"Is it anything for the house?"

"No, indeed; the house is for _it_."

Pattie Batch scowled in perplexity.

"The back yard, too," John Fairmeadow added; "and don't you forget that
this whole place--and all the world--belongs to just what's in that
basket."

"I'm sure," poor Pattie Batch mused, scratching her curls in
bewilderment, "I can't guess what it _could_ be."

Both were now staring at the basket; and at that very moment the blanket
covering--_stirred_!

"Ith a dog!" Pattie Batch exclaimed.

"Dog!" the outraged John Fairmeadow roared. "Nothing of the sort! No
_ma'am_!"

Pattie Batch clasped her hands. "It ith, too!" she cried. "I thaw it
move."

"It is _not_!"

"Ith a kitten, then."

"It is _not_ a kitten!"

Thereupon--while the Shadow, by whom John Fairmeadow had been dogged
that night, now peered with acute attention through a break in the frost
on the window-pane--thereupon, without any warning save a second slight
movement of the blanket, a sound--and not by any means a growl--the
thing was certainly not a dog--a sound proceeded from the depths of the
basket.

Pattie Batch jumped away.

"Well, well!" cried John Fairmeadow; "what's the row?"

Row, indeed! Pattie Batch was gone white; and she swayed a little, and
shivered, too, and clenched her little hands to restrain her amazing
hope. "Oh," she moaned, at last, far short of breath enough, "tell me
quick: ith it--ith it a--a----"

John Fairmeadow threw back the blanket in a most dramatic fashion; and
there, wrapped in the neglected fawn-skin cloak, all dimpled and
smiling, lay--

THE BABY!

"By George!" screamed Pattie Batch; "it _ith_ a baby!"

"Your baby," John Fairmeadow whispered. "God's Christmas gift--to you."

Pattie Batch--adorable, young mother!--reverently approached, and,
bending with parted lips, eyes shining, and hands laid upon her
trembling heart, for the first time gazed content upon the little face.
She lifted, then--and with what awe and tenderness!--the tiny mortal
from the warm basket, and pressed it, with knowing arms, against her
warmer, softer young breast. "My baby!" she crooned, her lips close to
its ear; "my little baby--my own little baby!"

[Illustration]



