
I breathed out hard, a little disgusted that big brains like Ellik and
Chon couldn't see the translucent truth. "They are just four dumb slobs
who can't get a better job, so they are hauling His Highness around
because they have to make a living the hard way."

"That doesn't quite cover it, Johnny," Chon said. "The carriers are a
completely different race."

"What's different about them?" I asked. "They've got hands to work
with, eyes to see with, noses to smell with. If you kick one of them, I
bet he'll hurt. It's just their bad luck to be dumb slobs."

Ellik grunted. "Unfortunately, Johnny, there are subtler differences.
The darker aliens, the indigo-colored ones, seem to be definitely down
further on the scale of local evolution. They must be an inferior race
to the lighter, azure species."

Chon had been looking at us and listening to everything. Finally he
said, "You can't be sure of that, Mike. You haven't seen all of the
Indigos. Some of them may not be as far down as the common carriers."

Ellik sighed. "Explorers have to make snap decisions on insufficient
data. We don't have time to see the whole damned planet before we write
up a report."

"Yes, explorers have to make snap decisions," Chon repeated to himself.
"Are you going to take a look at those buildings, see if it's a
village?"

"I thought I'd see if our blueblood friend out there wants to show it
to me," said Mike Ellik.

"He won't," I said.

They both looked at me.

"You don't have any chair and nobody to carry you," I went on. "He'll
think you're just a slob."

"Jonathan," Ellik said, "you show occasional flashes of genius."

I smiled and shrugged it off. "I know I'm not nearly as smart as you
boys. But that doesn't mean I can't think _at all_."

Ellik clapped me on the shoulder. "Of course it doesn't."

But his grip was too strong.

"Johnny," Ellik said gravely, "do you think _you_ could carry me?"

"Wait a minute. You want me to act like one of those slobs? That's
asking a lot."

"But could you?"

"Not all the way to those buildings. What was the gravity reading, Lee?"
