
The buildings weren't much to see, but they were a step above primitive
huts. They were adobe, or maybe plastic. The aliens understood the
stress principles of the dome, Ellik said, because all the buildings
had curved roofs. Unbaked pottery was what they looked like to me,
and they looked as if they would be brittle as coffee-colored chalk.
Actually, their ceramic surfaces were at least as hard as steel.

The Azure had welcomed Ellik with an outstretched hand. Mike wasn't one
to jump to conclusions, so he just held out his own hand. The native
grabbed and let it go after pulling it some.

The alien saw me apparently carrying Ellik on a seat cushion with one
hand, and he kicked me in the leg. To test my muscles, I guess. I
managed to keep from yelling or jumping. The Azure looked impressed and
the Indigos did a bad job of hiding a lot of envy and hate.

As the Indigos toted their man along on the litter and I guided Ellik's
seat cushion along the channel of magnetic feedback, the two riders
began talking. Ellik's translator collar broke the language barrier,
of course. It was a two-way communicator on a direct hook-up to our
cybernetic calculator on the ship. The brain analyzed the phonetic
structure of the alien language under various systems of logic or
anti-logic and fed the translation into Ellik's ear. Then it went
through its memory banks and played back the right sounds to translate
Ellik's talk into the alien language. I understand things like that.
I'm a pretty good mechanic.

I didn't have my translator turned on, but it seemed to me that somehow
I could understand what the plug-uglies, the Indigos, were saying.

Ellik told me that it was because all their speech was based on the
one universal humanoid sound, "mama." Everything good in the way of
nouns and verbs (there were no other particles of speech) was some
inflection of "m-m" and everything bad was "uh-m-m."

Ellik was pretty "uh-m-m."

I was _plenty_ "uh-m-m." I threatened their jobs, they thought.

They were a real miserable bunch of slobs, those Indigos.

We passed through the wide places between the houses--I wouldn't call
them streets--and saw a lot of Indigos crouched in doorways, watching
us, and Azures being toted around.

The clothing they wore was also pretty universal for sentient bipeds--a
tunic or sarong, kind of. For the Azures, it was smooth and colorful;
and for the Indigos, a loincloth of some rough, dun-colored stuff.

Ellik chinned off his translator switch and leaned down toward my ear.
"They are two distinct races, Johnny. Notice that _all_ the Indigos
are menials. There does not appear to be anything to correspond to a
freedman or even a higher-ranked house servant. The Azures treat the
Indigos only as animals."

"Slobs," I said. "Poor dumb slobs."

The nuclear flash washed over us, peppering us with a few excess
roentgens.

We couldn't look at the spaceship going up, but we knew it was going.
It was making a dawn.

The aliens were all frightened. They fell on the ground and started
praying to the ship, all of them, the Azures and the Indigos.

"What's wrong with that crazy Chinaman?" Ellik yelped.

"Lee knows what he's doing," I said.

Ellik unsnapped his communicator from his belt. "Johnny says you know
what you're doing, Chon. _Do you?_"

"I know." Chon's voice sounded right beside us, perfectly natural. Belt
communicators work just as well as those consoles. People only buy
consoles for prestige.

"Well?" Ellik demanded. "What _are_ you doing, Lee?"

I thought maybe something had gone wrong with the communicator.

Chon's voice finally reached us.

"I'm leaving you and Johnny on this planet, Mike," he said.
