
When the shadows were at their longest and the alien sun was down the
closest to the horizon without actually going under, Ellik marched up
the path shoving a new Indigo. The Azures supplied Mike with all the
flunkies he wanted to gather food and the like for him, as his natural
right. But I thought we had enough of them hanging around our quarters.
I couldn't imagine what he would want with another one.

The alien hovered at the door. Ellik kicked him in the calf to make him
understand he was to go inside.

"Look at him, Johnny," Ellik said, pushing the fellow forward. "Not a
mongoloid, would you say?"

"No."

The alien looked stupid--blue and stupid. His face was hanging there,
but it wasn't pushed out of shape any more than the faces of the
Azures. The Indigo blinked back at me. What he also looked was not
friendly.

Ellik took the Indigo's cheeks in his hand and angled the face toward
the light. "He's a half-breed, Johnny, or otherwise the gene was
recessive. He wasn't damaged before birth, only after--when he started
to breathe."

"What do you mean, Mike?"

"You ever hear of cyanosis, Johnny?"

"No."

"Well, these creatures have something like it. The Indigos don't get
enough oxygen in their blood cells. It makes them sluggish; it turns
them blue like the pictures of 'blue babies' in the old books."

"I never saw a picture like that in an old book," I said.

"Did you ever _see_ a book? Sorry, Johnny. Just kidding." Ellik
rubbed his hands together. "Well! I theorized that there is no basic
difference in the Azures and the Indigos except improper aeration of
their blood. So, you see, an Indigo is only a _sick_ Azure, and I am
going to make this Indigo _well_."

"How can you do that?"

"It's simple," Mike said irritably. "The Indigos must have a
malformation of the heart causing an abnormal communication between
the venous and arterial side of the circulation system. A little
surgery and I adjust a valve in the heart. No more communication.
Proper aeration. Enough oxygen. The deep blue color goes, leaving only
the lighter blue of the natural pigmentation. The patient feels better,
acts better, thinks better, looks better. In short, he is no longer an
Indigo but an Azure."

"Is--is this what you're going to show Lee?" I ventured.

"Of course! It proves the Indigos _aren't_ an inferior race. They are
the same as the Azures except that they are sick. Their being sick
can't reflect unfavourably on any terrestrial colored race. There is no
analogy. But I have to prove it to Chon. We're going to tape the whole
process and feed it to him."

"I think," I said, "that that might get to him."

"Sure it will." Ellik's jaw muscles flexed. "I should ruin Lee with
this thing, but I won't. I'm not a vindictive man. Lee and I will
probably be working together for years. But whenever he gets out of
line--has some stubborn idea about doing something his way--don't think
I won't remind him of this!"

Suddenly, he was smiling again. He turned to the gawking Indigo. He
pointed two fingers at him.

"_Mmr?_" Ellik asked.

The alien tapped himself on his chest cavity twice. "_Mhaw_," he gave
his name.

"_Mhaw M'i uh M'i m M'm'-uh?_" Ellik asked him, without even using the
translators.

"_M-m-M-m-M_," the alien went, slapping himself on the chest with his
opened palms.

Ellik turned to me, grinning. "I asked him if he wanted to stop being
an Indigo and become an Azure. He thinks I can do anything and he's all
for it."
