
After we fed Mhaw a dose of null-shock from our packs, Doc Ellik
started to slice him open with a ceramic knife he had borrowed from the
Azures.

But Ellik had forgotten that the alien might get frightened seeing
himself cut open, even if he couldn't feel any pain. It had never
happened to him before.

The alien lumbered to his feet, his chest hanging open, showing his
heart beating like some animal caught inside a blueberry pudding.

I drove a right cross into his jaw, and felt the jar all the way up to
my shoulder.

He melted back down onto the pallet.

"Good work, Johnny," Ellik said, stooping and starting his work.

Right away, Mhaw started to lose that Indigo color and get real
light--lighter than the Azures, in fact. None of the blue of the race
was actually in the pigmentation, Mike found out. Even the Azures
suffered some degree of improper aeration of the blood.

"You going to call Lee Chon now?" I asked Mike. "You going to show him
the tape we had running during the operation and all?"

"Not quite yet, Johnny," he said. "First I want to educate Mhaw a bit,
up to the Azure level or better. That should convince Lee."

Mhaw learned fast, probably faster than the Azures, even. Almost the
first thing he wanted was for us to stop calling him Mhaw and start
using an Azure name, Aedo.

Once a day, Ellik left our hut to take some exercise--a walk along
the alien esplanade, he called it. I used to stay with the doctored
alien, now Aedo, but we finally learned we could trust him to follow
our orders--which were to stay inside, away from the others, since we
didn't know how they would take him. So I got to walking along with
Ellik.

As dusk lengthened, we could see the spark that was our ship in its
orbit along the retreating horizon.

Ellik twisted back his head and the side of his mouth. "Look at him up
there--_look!_"

The spark burned brighter and danced in another direction.

"He's gone! He left us!" Ellik said.

"It's okay. He's still there. Just corrected the orbit a little, I
guess."

"No, no, no," Ellik said. "He started to make another try. But he got
afraid to try to go into hyperspace alone."

"He was just correcting for orbital decay."

"You don't understand, Johnny. He's a coward. That makes him dangerous.
He's getting desperate. That desperation will burst the dam of his own
weakness and wash away our hope, _our lives_."

His voice hushed. He stood staring starkly ahead, his palms
outstretched at his sides.

"Maybe he isn't _that_ cowardly," I said hopefully.
