
Angry as I was about her acting as though I were a snake, I
wished I could have thrown her certification that I was a Normal
in the freckled face of the sharp-chinned gambler at Nick's later
that night. After Shari's needling, I didn't take very kindly to
his popping off with the Law of the Pack. It's understood
wherever people gamble that psis aren't welcome.

Nick didn't like it any better than I did. "All right, Lefty," he
said to the sharp-chinned gambler. "Calm down, huh, kid? What
kinda game you think I run, huh?"

I didn't let the sour start spoil my game. I was lucky right from
the start and hit big in several hands.

Lefty, the gambler who had yelped about psi powers at the game,
dealt the tenth hand. He gave me the eight of spades in the hole.
By the fourth card I had three other spades showing, which gave
me four-fifths of a rare flush in stud poker. But by the fourth
card Lefty had given himself a pair of jacks. That drove all the
other gamblers to cover.

Lefty raised, of course, and it cost me five hundred bucks to see
my fifth card. It was a classic kind of stand-off in stud, and
the waiter stopped with his tray of drinks to press in among the
other kibitzers and watch the pay-off.

Lefty shucked out the last two cards carelessly, as if they
didn't really matter. His own fifth card made no difference--his
jacks already had a busted flush beaten. His smile was just a
little too sharp as he tossed me my last card face up and reached
for the pot with the same left-handed gesture.

I took the poker panetella out of my teeth. "All blue," I said,
turning up my hole card with the other hand.

Lefty threw the unused part of the deck to the center of the
table. "That does it, you snake!" he swore at me.

It took a second for his accusation to sink in. I started across
the table after him. If they hadn't stopped me, I would have torn
his lying throat out. Funny, but there were kibitzers on my
shoulders before I could rise an inch out of my chair.

"Down in Texas you could get shot for a crack like that, Lefty!"
I said. I guess I really yelled it.

"And in New York you can, and probably will, get your rotten
throat slit for a trick like the one _you_ just pulled," he
replied. He turned to the other gamblers, most of whom had their
hands on the edge of the table, ready to jump to their feet if it
got any rougher.

"I stacked the deck this last deal," he said coolly. He held a
palm up at their surprised mutter. "Tex's fifth card was stacked
to be a heart, gamblers. You saw him get a spade and take the
pot. I won't sit at the same table with a guy that can do that.
Telekinesis has no place in poker."

"Pretty near as bad as stacked decks," one of the gamblers
rasped. But the others weren't with him. I only had to take one
look at Nick's face.

I stood up slowly, and the hands on my shoulders didn't hold me
down any longer. "Lefty says he stacked the deck," I told them.
"I say he lies. You know there's nothing to choose between our
statements. Lefty is a cheap grandstander, and I'll settle with
him myself. Nick, I won't embarrass you tonight. This isn't your
fault. But I'll be here tomorrow night, and you had better be
glad to see me!"

"Sure, Tex," he said uncomfortably, rising with me. "Take my
seat, Shorty," he directed one of the kibitzers. He walked around
to grab me by the elbow and steer me as far away from Lefty's
truculent face as he could. At least the sharp-chinned little rat
had quit the game, too. Both of us had left our chips on the
table.

Nick wanted me to leave. "Pay me off," I insisted. He said yes a
lot quicker than I thought he would. The other gamblers could
have squawked that my chips should go into the next pot, but
apparently none of them did.

Lefty sidled out as Nick was paying me off. "Wait outside for
me," I said to him.

"Why not?" he said, sticking his chin out at me and walking out.

Nick grabbed me again. "Don't get hot, Tex," he warned me. "I
don't want a killing on my own sidewalk. Take it some place else,
huh, kid?"

"Sure," I said.

There wasn't any danger Lefty would hang around. I was big enough
to break him in two, which is exactly what I planned if I caught
up with him.
