
"Well?" I asked, as she sat silent with her elbows on the edge of
her desk and her chin propped up on her knuckles.

"You're really quite naive, aren't you, Tex?" she asked me. "Let
me give you an objective statement of what happened to you last
night."

She counted these things off on her fingers: "You won some money
at poker. A gambler said you used TK to win. He took your
winnings, and then some, away from you as the price of silence.
He warned you not to gamble any more. He claimed he was part of
an organization of psi personalities. Is that a fair statement?"

"Except for one thing," I said. "He used his psi powers on me in
a pretty dramatic fashion."

"Try Occam's razor," she suggested.

She was getting insulting. "All right," I growled, feeling my
face get red. "Prefer the simpler explanation, if you can find
one. I was prodded in the back, both in the alley and in the
office at the brownstone house. Something hit me in the gut and
tripped me up. I had a heart seizure. What's simpler than TK in
accounting for the fact this was done without a soul around?"

"I suppose I shouldn't be critical of you," she said. "It's not
your field and you haven't been exposed to the lengths to which
charlatans go, just to prove they are supermen. The simpler
explanation is that there _was_ someone else in the alley,
carefully dressed in dull black to stay invisible in the
darkness. The second prodding of a gun in your spine was pure
suggestion--you'd been so well-sold by that time you were ready
to believe anything."

"And my heart attack?"

"I can think of ten poisons that would give you the symptoms,"
Shari said. "And don't tell me you let nothing pass your lips!"
she burst out hotly as I started to speak. "I suppose you've
never had a spray hypodermic? You'd never have felt it. Don't
you see why they went to all this trouble?"

"Honestly," I said. "I can't. I'm simply not that important to
anyone in the world."

"You're not," she said dryly. "But your eight thousand dollars
was. I'd say if people can steal that much money and convince the
victim he shouldn't go to the police, it was worth their while.
You're not very likely to advertise the claim that you're a psi,
are you?"

"No," I admitted.

"And," she said wearily, standing up. "There's always the angle
that they'll con you by letting you into their imaginary 'Lodge'
and extract some kind of dues out of you in return for keeping
quiet about your so-called psi powers when you gamble. That would
serve you right," she concluded.

[Illustration:]

"For what?" I demanded, beginning to feel pretty icy.

"Being such an easy mark, for one thing," Shari said. "And for
seriously thinking that you might be a PC! That, I must confess,
I find the most comical of all. You, Tex, a PC!"

"Why is that funnier than being a TK?" I demanded, getting up.

She waved her hand impatiently. "We see a little TK here in the
lab right along," she said. "At least, there are those who seem
to have a small genuine edge on the cards that we can explain no
other way. It's small, but apparently exists. But precognition?
That's not simply mechanical or kinetic, like TK. PC is something
terrifyingly different." Her voice hushed as she said it. "It's
a kind of sensitivity that has nothing to do with mere kinetics.
It defies time!" She looked back at me. "I simply find it comical
that you thought of yourself as sensitive to that degree."

"So I've been a fool," I mused.

"In a word, yes. You're a Normal. They suckered you, if you want
the jargon."

"Wait till tonight!" I seethed, beginning to feel my anger grow
as my fear dwindled. "Let them try to pin the psi label on me!
I'll call their bluff!"

The TV-phone on Shari's desk rang, and she pressed the Accept
key.

"Let me speak with Tex," a familiar aggressive voice said. It
didn't sound as if it would stand for much nonsense.

Shari still had another look of surprise in her. "For you," she
said, arching her romantic eyebrows, and turning the instrument
around so I was facing the 'scope and screen.

Sure enough, it was Wally Bupp. "Don't do it, Tex," he warned me.

"Don't do what?"

"Don't play tonight. It won't be practical. We mean business."

"So do the laws of libel," I said. "One crack about my having psi
powers--"

"Yeah, yeah," he interrupted. "You told us about the lawsuit," he
said. "You've got six more days." I could see his hand come up to
cut the image.

"Hey!" I said. "How'd you know where to reach me?"

His sharp face split in that vicious grin. "I forgot to tell
you," he said. "Maragon is a clairvoyant, too." The image faded.

"See what I mean?" I said shakily to Shari. "They sure talk a
good game. I didn't tell a soul I was coming here. How'd they
catch me?"

"Occam's razor," she said. "How many wrong numbers did they try
first? Come back to earth!"

"That snake Lefty still worries me," I admitted, going to the
door. "Shari, I know I've acted nuts, but they nearly got me to
flip! Thanks for helping me. I couldn't have stood it to know I
was a snake. You got my mind back on the track again."

"Not enough to keep from going right back to the poker table,"
she observed.

There didn't seem any point to telling her how badly I needed the
dough. Anyway, I had to prove a point. I was a Normal. I left.
