
Shari had to pay off the 'copter when we got there. It wasn't the
brownstone I had seen the night before. This place was a
medium-sized office building, say a hundred stories or so, quite
new. There was no identification on its front other than the
street number. The Directory in the silent and unpopulated lobby
was names, all names. But Dr. Walter Bupp was one of them, in
7704. Shari and I rode the elevator to seventy-seven in chilly
silence.

The corridor was dim, with its lights on night-time setting.
Stronger light came from an open door quite a way down the hall.
It had to be Bupp's office, and it was.

Wally certainly wasn't surprised to see Shari. He shook hands
with her briefly, pushing his sharp chin out at her in his
gamecock fashion. "Your mate?" he asked me.

"Certainly not," she told him. "We're ... uh ... colleagues at
the University."

"That's not what Pheola says," he told her sourly, pointing to
chairs we could take.

"Pheola?" Shari questioned.

"A powerful PC," Wally said. "She predicted you would accompany
Tex tonight."

"Oh, _really_," Shari said scathingly.

"I was there," I told her. "She really did."

"Let's not be diverted by sideshows," Shari said. "We're here to
measure the psi powers of Tex Robertson, not to talk over the
reputed clairvoyance of some dim and misty character."

"Precognition," Wally corrected her. "Stick around, Dr. King.
Pheola will be down a little later. She thinks Tex is something
special."

That was not going to make a good interchange, so I cut in. "Dr.
King is a professional in this field--" I started.

Wally waved a disgusted hand. "We know all about Dr. King and her
field," he said. "Proving that psi powers don't exist, right, Dr.
King?"

Shari bristled. It was hard to stay friendly in any talk with
Bupp. "You know my field," she said, about twenty degrees below
zero. "I accept any and all evidence, regardless what it proves!
There's a lot of talk about psi powers, but precious little that
can ever be detected under laboratory conditions!"

"Oh, well," Wally Bupp grinned. "That's not so strange. All members of the
Lodge are cautioned to stay away from laboratories. You've been testing
Normals. What do you expect for results?"

"Then _you_ show me!" she stormed.

"Go on with you," he grinned. "I thought it was Tex's powers you
wanted tested. Mine are irrelevant."

"I _thought_ so," she said triumphantly. "Charlatan!"

For a moment the grin flickered off his face and I tensed to
catch Shari if she should start to drop. But I guess he thought
better of it.

"Some other time," he said. "Let's get this over with. Make it
simple. You may have some statistical objections to my technique
tonight, but I'm not looking for fringe effects. If this hot-eyed
swain of yours is any good at all, he'll bat a thousand." He got
a deck of cards out of his desk drawer and fanned it out face up
so that he could pluck the two of spades and the two of hearts
from the deck. The rest he put back in his desk.

He put his hands under the desk, with the two cards in them,
produced the cards again, face down, and laid them in a thin
stack on the desk before all of us.

"What's on top?" he said. "Red or black?"

"How will you score?" Shari insisted. He scowled at her and
tossed a squeeze counter across the desk.

"You score," he said. "It really isn't necessary. Tex will either
be right all the time or it won't matter."

But before I could call the top card, the office door opened
behind us. I looked around, expecting Pheola. Instead it was
Milly with the down, down hose. Only this time she was decently
dressed in a dark two-piece suit and wore make-up. She certainly
was no more talkative than before, nor did Wally introduce her.
Shari was perfectly equal to the occasion and looked through
Milly with composure. This takes about three generations of
overbreeding.

"Try it," Wally insisted. "What's on top?"

I hit it. Then I missed it. Then I hit three in a row. It wasn't
fast work, because Wally hid the cards under his desk after each
guess, shuffled the two cards around and then laid them before me
again. This went on for about twenty minutes. At that point Shari
spoke.

"That makes exactly three hundred tries," she said, looking at
the counter in her hand. "Have you been keeping score, Mr. Bupp?"

"I thought _you_ were."

"So I was," she snapped, throwing up her tiaraed head. He sure
brought out the worst in people. "Tex has been right exactly one
hundred and fifty times. He's never been more than five tries to
the good in the whole series."

"Interesting," Wally said.

I took my first decent breath in the day. "This ought to let me
off the hook," I said to him. "Are you convinced?"

He shrugged. "How about it, Milly?" he asked.

"A random sample," she said. "He doesn't want to score. He didn't
try."

Shari was ready for that one. She turned and spoke to Milly: "You
have ways of knowing what Tex was thinking?" she asked sweetly.

"Yes."

"Name any three!" Shari lashed at her furiously. The solid woman
wasn't the least bit bowled over.

"Read his mind," she said matter-of-factly. "Just like I can tell
that you're getting ready to screech 'Charlatan!' at me, and like
you think I got a cast-iron girdle and homely shoes. Well,
they're comfortable, dearie, which is more than you can say for
those high-heeled slippers of yours. That left little toe of
yours is killing you, dearie!"

Shari's lips moved, but her mouth was as empty of sound as her
face was of blood. Milly had hit the bull's-eye.

"Everybody relax a moment," Wally said. "Tell me, Dr. King,
what's your attitude toward PC?"

"I don't have any!" she snapped. "It's a phenomenon. I have as
much attitude toward it as I do toward osmosis or toward
peristalsis. None."

"Would you consider a person fortunate to possess the power of
precognition?" Wally asked her.

Shari's head came up. "If there were such a thing," she said,
much more quietly. "Yes. I should imagine that precognition would
be a powerful talent."

"If you have no emotional bias against psi as such," he went on
smoothly, "you'd be happy for Tex if he were a PC."

Her eyebrows drew together. She looked at me, veiling her violet
eyes as if to hide her thoughts from us. "I would consider Tex
quite fortunate. But only if you could show that such a thing
really existed," she said more loudly.

"How about you, Tex?" Wally asked me.

"Nuts," I said. "You can't make me like the idea of being a
snake, no matter how you dress it up." I shook my head. "Psi
powers are the mark of a diseased mind, for my dough. They're
pure poison. What have they ever done for you?" I insisted
rudely.

"Made me a surgeon," he said.

"Never!" Shari said hotly.

"Ask Tex," Wally suggested. "He felt me put a lift on his
coronary artery. I'm a TK surgeon--I've got enough TK to put
clamps on inaccessible arteries and feel out mechanical disorders
of the body. Check it. I'm on the staff at Universal Hospital."

"And what are you doing here?" she argued.

"Meeting my obligation to the Lodge," he said. "This is where I
got my training, right in this building."

"I thought that brownstone house was the Lodge," I said.

"No," he said. "That's just the Grand Master's residence. The
Lodge provides quarters for its brass. This building is the real
chapter house."

He heaved a long sigh and dug into his drawer again. "You can
beat it, Milly," he said. "Thanks."

"I know," she told him from the door. She had started out long
before he spoke. Impressive stuff, but it got a sniff from Shari.

What Wally got out of his desk had a refreshing shape and color.
It was oblong. It was green. It was money. It was, for a fact, a
stack of one thousand dollar bills.

Wally shuffled the two cards under his desk again and piled them
two-deep in front of Shari and me.

"You heard what Dr. King said," Wally reminded me. "She'll love
you no less for being a PC. Now we'll play the game a little more
realistically. Every time you guess the top card right, Tex, I'm
going to give you a thousand dollars. No strings attached. When
you miss, you give one back. But if you have none to give, you
don't have to pay. You can't lose. Maybe you can win. All set?"

"One minute," I demanded. "Shari, is this a fair test?"

She shrugged. "Why not?"

"Is it gambling?"

She smiled faintly, her first sign of relaxation. "Hardly," she
said.

"Then you don't mind if I win?"

She found a laugh this time. "You can _try_," she corrected me.

"This could be our nest egg," I said.

[Illustration]

She blushed. "If that's a proposal," she said tartly. "The answer
is 'no.'"

"I'll talk to you later," I growled. "When I'm richer!"

I looked at the back of the card on the desk. Wally was leaning
back in his swivel chair and wasn't within four feet of the
pasteboards. If there was any hanky-panky, I couldn't see how he
planned to work it.

"Heart," I said.

"Why don't you turn it over, Dr. King?" Wally suggested. "Remove
any possible chance of manipulation." It was the two of hearts
that Shari turned over. I was a thousand dollars richer.

I won the next. And the next. My stomach tightened up. Every
thousand dollars drove another nail into my coffin--went that
much farther to prove I was a snake. Well, I wasn't!

I missed the fourth one.

"Cut that out!" Wally snapped at me. I jumped a foot. I _had_
tried to miss it.

With a sickening realization of doom, I called the next four
right.

"Stop it!" Shari screeched, grabbing at the cards. "I'll
shuffle!" she announced. She hid the pasteboards from me with her
body, and took care, in putting them before me on the desk, that
I didn't see the face of the bottom card.

Her eyes were violet pools of hate and rage and she spoke to me:
"_Now_ try it!"

"Spade!" That made eight straight.

Even Shari succumbed to the ghastly fascination of it. There had
been fifty thousand dollars in the stack of bills Wally had taken
from his desk. Soon all fifty of the bills were stacked in front
of me. Except for the one time I had tried to, I had never
missed.

Lefty stuck his sharp chin at Shari. "I'd call that a fairly
convincing string," he said. "Will you concede, Dr. King?"

She gave him an awful mouthful of silence. A pitiless blackness
descended over my spirit. I looked at the money in front of me.
It had been like selling my soul to the Devil. There it was, all
that money. All I'd had to give up was any claim to being a
human--I wasn't a Normal any more. I was a psi!

Then Shari was talking, in short gasping bursts, half choking,
half sobbing. "No wonder Tex is in a whirl," she said. "I've seen
some good illusions, worked by the best light-fingered operators
in the country, but nothing to compare with this! Just let me see
you match this charade in _my_ laboratory! With _my_ apparatus!"
She meant her playing cards.

Wally was sweet and reasonable. "You dealt and shuffled most of
the hands yourself," he reminded her. "I never touched the cards.
How could I control them?" He grinned a little more sharply. "And
you can't call it TK," he went on. "Did you feel the cards move
or twitch or resist you as you shuffled them? It has to be PC."

She blew her top on that one. It's sickening to see someone you
love goaded past all endurance and break down into screams and
wild gestures.

"Aah!" she cried, shaking her head blindly. "Before I believe
that Tex Robertson can feel things that I can't feel, I'll accept
_any_ other explanation. What are those cards of yours? Small TV
screens? Is this more electronic hokum?"

Wally quietly tore one of the cards in two. "Now I understand,"
he said. "That's the real reason."

I looked my surprise at him, and Shari quieted down just a
little. "Relax, Dr. King," he advised her. "The possession of psi
powers isn't a mark of moral superiority. Part of the problem in
the Lodge is that psi powers are possessed as often by evil and
stupid people as by the good and intelligent. Yes, I know that
you think you _deserve_ precognition, Dr. King. But that ain't
the way the ball bounces. You're a Normal, Dr. King, and that's
all you'll ever be."

He got a face full of fingers for his trouble. Shari leaped to
her feet and really slapped him in the kisser. She stormed out of
there. I started to follow, but a tug at my earlobe signaled me
to stop.
