
I told her of the hours of demonstrations I had made during the
night. "The perception on scanning part of it goes on at some
subconscious level, Shari," I said. "But we had evidence that it
can be made completely conscious."

She shuddered and hugged her arms to herself. "I hate to say this
to you," she said. "But you're a freak."

I took a deep breath and smiled. "Unique is the way the Grand
Master puts it," I said, pleased with myself. "He says it has
terrific possibilities." And then it hit me, that delicious
thought that I was among the elect, that I always had been.

"What possibilities?" Shari demanded, recoiling from me. "Doing
card tricks?"

"To name a few," I said. "They feel sure I can operate directly
on the molecular chain in genes. This means we can alter heredity
to suit ourselves. Next, why not rearrange the DNA molecule in a
cancer? If you can change the genes in one cell, you can change
them in another. Knock out the ability of cancerous cells to
reproduce their own kind and the cancer disappears. A silly one:
Maragon says I can be a one-man catalytic cracking station. Pipe
a liquid through a tube within my TK range and I can make an
equilibrium reaction run uphill as the stuff flows past me. How
about a one-step operation to produce those rare drugs that now
take forty-nine separate reactions?"

"This does have a significance for science," she admitted. "The
genetic part is right down your alley. And it's not PC, is it?"

"Strictly TK," I told her. "You're the only PC in the family."

"Family?" She turned pink as I went around the desk after her. "I
told you the answer was 'no.'"

"I have inside information," I said, pulling her to me. "One of
the PC's up at the chapter house said this was what would
happen."

She didn't fight my kiss more than a couple seconds. Then it was
a pure case of self-preservation for me. This girl was a tiger.
Looks can be awfully deceiving. But she broke away from me.

"Tex!" she gasped. "Stop, honey! Suppose somebody walks in."

"A PC like you never gets _that_ kind of surprise," I lied
valiantly.

"Am I?" she whispered. "Am I really a PC?"

"That's why you locked the door," I said. "Remember?"


THE END




