
Steven did not outgrow it. When he became too big for the curly spoon
and dish and cup he demanded a knife and fork and spoon from the bureau
drawer and ate his meals from the plainest dish he could find. He ate
them with his back stubbornly turned to the television set, away from
the morning cartoons and the noontime Kiddies' Lunch Club and the
evening Happy Clown.

The Happy Clown had been an American institution for thirty years. He
was on television for an hour every night at dinner time, with puppets
and movies and live singers and dancers and his own inimitable brand
of philosophy and humor. Everybody loved the Happy Clown. He had been
several different actors in thirty years, but his makeup never changed:
the beaming face drawn in vivid colors, the rotund body that shook when
he laughed like a bowlful of Jellsies, and the chuckling infectious
laugh. The Happy Clown was always so cheerful and folksy and sincere.
He believed passionately in all the products he instructed his viewers
to buy, and one was entirely certain that he used them all himself.

He gave one much more than advertising, though. Some of his nightly
gems of wisdom (he called them nuggets) were really wonderful; they
made one think. A favorite nugget, which people were always writing
in and asking him to repeat, went like this: "We're all alike inside,
folks, and we ought to be all alike outside." The Happy Clown's
viewers were not children and adults, they were kiddies and folks.

After the Happy Clown went off the air the happy kiddies went to bed,
to lie for a while looking at the Jolly Kitten and the Dancing Dogsie,
until, lulled by the joggler, they went gently to sleep. After that
came the cowboys and spacemen, carryovers for any happy kiddies with
insomnia. For really meaty programs one had to stay up past ten.
Then the spectaculars began, and the quiz shows, and the boxing and
wrestling.

Steven did not like the Happy Clown or the Jolly Kitten or the
Dancing Dogsie. Sometimes he began to grow interested in the cowboys
or spacemen, but when they stopped in the middle of an adventure to
talk about how they could not possibly rope the steers or shoot the
asteroids without a good breakfast of Cornsies and Choko-Milko, which
everybody ate, just everybody, Steven climbed out of bed and slept on
the floor.

Steven did not like the records or the talking books, and when he went
to kiddie-garden he viewed the televised lessons with a cold eye. For
some reason which he could not have explained, he wanted to learn to
read, but they would not teach him till he was seven, and so he taught
himself, from the letters on the jarsies. But then there was nothing
to read except the newspapers and the magazines, which he puzzled over
patiently, getting most of the words right after a while. The many
advertisements were easiest; they used pictures and the simplest of
language.

His parents thought it was very cunning of him to look at the printing
like that, so wisely, as if he could read it! He said once to Harriet,
"I can read it," but she said, "Oh, Stevie, you're teasing Mumsie!"
and looked so frightened at this fresh peculiarity that the child said
gravely, "Yes, teasing." He wished he had a silent book. He knew there
were such things, but there were none at home. There were few silent
books anywhere. There were none in kiddie-garden.

Steven was not happy in kiddie-garden. The enthusiasm the other kiddies
showed for the lessons appalled him. The kiddies themselves appalled
him. They joined so passionately in the group play, clutching each
other with their hot moist hands, panting and grinning into each
others' faces. They were always clutching and panting and grinning, in
large noisy groups, with large community smiles. They confused him; he
could not tell them apart. Steven retired to a corner and turned his
back, and when they clutched and panted and grinned at him he hit them.

The kiddie-garden monitor had to report of him to his unhappy parents
that he was uncooperative and anti-social. He would not merge with
the group, he would not acquire the proper attitudes for successful
community living, he would not adjust. Most shocking of all, when the
lesson about the birdsies and beesies was telecast, he not only refused
to participate in the ensuing period of group experimentation, but lost
color and disgraced himself by being sick in his corner. It was a
painful interview. At the end of it the monitor recommended the clinic.
Richard appreciated her delicacy. The clinic would be less expensive
than private psychiatry, and after all, the manager of a supermarket
was no millionaire.

Harriet said to Richard when they were alone, "Dickie, he isn't
outgrowing it, he's getting worse! What are we going to do?" It was a
special tragedy, since Harriet was unable to have any more kiddies, and
if this one turned out wrong ...

Richard said firmly, "We'll take him to the clinic. They'll know what
to do."
