
The first thing they did to Steven was to talk to him. The psychiatrist
made him lie down on a foam rubber couch, kiddies' model, with the
Happy Clown motif on the slip-cover, and said with a beaming face,
"Now, Stevie, what seems to be the trouble?"

The boy turned his head away from the psychiatrist's shining teeth and
said, "My name's not Stevie. It's Steven." He was a thin little boy,
rather undersized. The baby fat had melted away fast when he began
to be exposed to kiddie-garden. He had dark hair and big eyes and an
uncommonly precise way of speaking for a child of five.

The psychiatrist said, "Oh, but we're going to be friends, Stevie,
and friends always use nicknames, don't they? My name's William, but
everybody calls me Willie. You can call me Uncle Willie."

The boy said politely, "I'd rather not, please."

The doctor was undismayed. "I want to help you. You believe that, don't
you, Stevie?"

The child said, "Steven. Do I have to lie down?"

The doctor said agreeably, "It's more usual to lie down, but you may
sit up if you want to. Why don't you like kiddie-garden, Steven?"

The boy sat up and regarded him warily. The doctor had a kind face, a
really kind face in spite of all those shining teeth, and Steven was
only five years old, after all, and there was nobody to talk to, and he
was desperately unhappy. Perhaps.... He said, "You'll tell them."

The doctor shook his head. "Nothing goes farther than this room,
Stevie--Steven."

The child leaned forward, pressing his knees together, hugging himself
with his arms, bowing his head. His position was almost foetal. He
said, "I'm never by myself. They never let me be by myself."

The psychiatrist said reasonably, "But nobody can live by himself,
Stevie." He had apparently forgotten Steven, and the boy did not
correct him again. "You have to learn to live with other people, to
work and play with them, to know them, and the only way you can learn
is by being with them. When you can't be with them personally, there's
always television. That's how you learn, Stevie. You can't be by
yourself."

The boy looked up and said starkly, "Never?"

The gleaming teeth showed. "But why should you want to?"

Steven said, "I don't know."

The doctor said, slowly and with emphasis, "Stevie, long before you
were born the world was a very bad place. There were wars all the time.
Do you know why?"

The boy shook his head.

"It was because people were different from each other, and didn't
understand each other, and didn't know each other. They had to learn
how to be alike, and understand, and know, so that they would be able
to live together. They learned in many ways, Stevie. One way was by
visiting each other--you've heard about the visitors who come from--"

Steven said, "You mean the Happy Tours."

"Yes. When you're twelve years old you can go on a Happy Tour. Won't
that be fun?"

Steven said, "If I could go alone."

The doctor looked at him sharply. "But you can't. Try to understand,
Stevie, you can't. Now tell me--why don't you like to be with other
people?"

Steven said, "All the time--not all the _time_."

The doctor repeated patiently, "Why?"

Steven looked at the doctor and said a very strange thing. "They touch
me." He seemed to shrink into himself. "Not just with their hands."

The doctor shook his head sadly. "Of course they do, that's just--well,
maybe you're too young to understand."

The interview went on for quite a while, and at the end of it Steven
was given a series of tests which took a week. The psychiatrist had
not told the truth; what the boy said, during the first interview and
all the tests, was fully recorded on concealed machines. The complete
transcript made a fat dossier in the office of the Clinic Director.

At the end of the tests the Director said seriously to Steven's
parents, "I'll be frank with you. You have a brilliant kiddie
here--right now he has the intelligence of a twelve-year-old--but
brilliance has to be channeled in the right direction. Just now--well,
frankly, it's channeled in the wrong direction. We'll give it a year or
so, and then if things don't clear up I'm afraid we'll have to correct
him."

Richard said through dry lips, "You mean a Steyner?"

The Director nodded. "The only thing."

Harriet shuddered and began to cry. "But there's never been anything
like that in our family! The disgrace--oh, Dickie, it would kill me!"

The Director said kindly, "There's no disgrace, Mrs. Russell.
That's a mistaken idea many people have. These things happen
occasionally--nobody knows why--and there's absolutely no disgrace in a
Steyner. Nothing is altered but the personality, and afterward you have
a happy normal kiddie who hardly remembers that anything was ever wrong
with him. Naturally nobody ever mentions it.... But there's no hurry;
in the case of a kiddie we can wait a while. Bring Stevie in once a
week; we'll try therapy first."

Being, as the Director had said, a brilliant kiddie, Steven soon
understood much of what was kept from him. It did not take him long
to learn what was making his Dadsie look stern and white and what was
making his Mumsie cry. He loved his parents and did not want them to be
unhappy, and he certainly did not want to have his head cut open, and
so he began to act. Even at five, Steven discovered in himself a fine
talent for acting. He began to conform, to adjust, to merge. He became
social and cooperative and acquired the proper attitudes for successful
community living. He gave up the old silver voluntarily, he accepted
the Youth Bed, he looked at the Happy Clown, and he did much better in
kiddie-garden. He even joined in the group experimentation and was not
sick any more, though he could not keep himself from losing color.

They were pleased with him at the clinic and after a few months
discharged him. By the time Steven was twelve and had made the Happy
Tour and joined the Happy Scouts and had a happy affair, involving
experimentation, with a neighbor's daughter, Harriet and Richard ceased
to worry about him. If sometimes he felt so tightly strung-up that a
storm of tears was his only relief, he kept the tears quiet.
