
Steven went to see Denise every day though after the first time she
was not awake to know him. The doctors were keeping her under sedation
until the head bandage could be removed. So far as Denise was to
know, she had gone to the hospital simply for a rather protracted
appendectomy. Looking at her, Steven knew that he could never leave
her. He had loved her completely; he would love her now with as much of
himself as she would need or understand.

For a while he waited to be kindly questioned, to be thoroughly
examined, to be tenderly given the shot in the arm and to awake like
her, but nobody came. Denise had apparently said nothing about him.
Some censor or other--perhaps it was the censor of love--had kept her
from even saying his name.

For a while Steven considered confessing to somebody that he was
a--what?--an unacceptable member of society. Then they would make him
like Denise. He shuddered. Did he really want to be like Denise? Some
stubborn pride in him refused it.

When Denise left the hospital for the hotel where she would stay until
the wedding, Steven was more gentle with her than ever, kinder and
more loving. He made her very happy. He made love to her again, and it
was like loving a ghost--no, it was like loving a fine beautiful body
without the ghost, without the spirit. He returned to the HYM to lie
sleepless amid the breathings and mutterings of the other young men,
turning restlessly in his bed, feeling oppressed, tormented, strung on
wires.

He rehearsed feverishly for the part of the Happy Clown, and because he
was a fine craftsman and a conscientious artist he continued to give
it all he had. The sponsors were pleased. A week before Christmas the
current Happy Clown retired and hobbled off to a nursing home. There
was no fanfare--the public was not to realize that the Happy Clown was
mortal--and Steven took over with no visible change. For five days he
played the part to perfection.

On the sixth day he performed as usual, perhaps a little better. His
commercials had a special fervor, and the sponsors exchanged happy
glances. Denise was sitting in the booth with them; she smiled at
Steven lovingly through the glass.

Steven was running a little fast tonight. The engineer made stretching
motions with his hands to slow him down, but he used up all his
material, even the nugget, with three minutes to spare. Then he said,
"All right, folks, now I have a special treat for you," and moved
quickly to the center mike. Before the sponsors, or the engineers, or
the studio audience, or anybody in the whole American nation knew what
was happening, he began rapidly to talk.

He said, "Are you all happy? You are, aren't you?--everybody's happy,
because you're all sheep! All sheep, in a nice safe pasture. All
alike--you eat alike and dress alike and think alike. If any of you has
an original thought you'd better suppress it, or they'll cut it out of
you with a knife." He leaned forward and made a horrible face at the
camera. Under the jolly makeup and the artful padding, his mouth was
shockingly twisted, and tears were running out of his eyes. "A long
sharp knife, folks!" He paused momentarily to recover his voice, which
had begun to shake. "Go on being happy, go on being sheep. Wear the
clothesies, and eat the foodsies, and don't dare think! Me--I'd rather
be dead, and damned, and in hell!"

Fortunately nobody heard the last three sentences. The paralyzed
engineer had recovered in time to cut him off during the pause, and
had signalled the stagehand to draw the curtain and the sound man to
play the Happy Clown sign-off record--loud. Steven finished himself
thoroughly, however, by repeating the same sentiments, with some others
he happened to think of, to Denise and the sponsors, when they all came
pouring out of the booth. Then he collapsed.
