
Steven's Steyner was a complete success. He recovered from it a
subdued, agreeable and thoroughly conventional young man, who had the
impression that he had suffered a nervous breakdown. He was discharged
from the Happy Hour at the end of January, innocently leaving behind
him the broken hearts of three nurses and one female physician, and
went home to his parents. During his convalescence they were patient
with him and passionately kind. In spite of the disgrace they felt, a
disgrace that would never be mentioned, they loved him even better than
before, because now he was irrevocably like them.

Denise was lost to him. The outburst in the studio, and the Steyner,
and the loss of the Happy Clown part were cumulatively too much for
her. She broke the engagement and was heard to say that Stevie Russell
had proved himself an absolute fool. He was miserable over it, though
he had only a hazy idea of what he had done or why Denny should
suddenly be so unkind to him.

The Happy Clown incident had passed off well--immediately after
it occurred, a powerful battery of comedians, including the Jolly
Kitten and the Dancing Dogsie, forgetting rivalries to rally 'round
in a crisis, went on the air to insure that it passed off well. They
made certain that every viewer should regard the whole thing as a
tremendously funny if rather mystifying joke. The viewers fell in with
this opinion easily and laughed about the sheep joke a good deal,
admiring the Happy Clown's sense of humor--a little sharp, to be sure,
not so folksy and down-to-earth as usual, but the Happy Clown could do
no wrong. They said to each other, "He laughed till he cried, did you
notice? So did I!" For a while teenagers addressed each other as, "Hi,
sheep!" (girls were, "Hi, lamb!"), and a novelty company in Des Moines
made a quick killing with scatter pins fashioned like sheep and/or
lambs.

But, around the studios Steven was dead. Steyner or no Steyner--and
of course that part of it was never openly discussed--sponsors had
long memories, and the consensus seemed to be that it was best to
let sleeping sheep lie. Steven did not care. He no longer had any
particular desire to be an actor.

Steven went to work in his father's supermarket and was happy among
the shelves of Oatsies and Cornsies and Jellsies. He got over Denise
after a while and met a girl named Frances--Franny--whom he loved and
who loved him. They were married in the summer and had a little house
with as much furniture in it as they could afford. The first thing they
bought was a television set. After all, as Stevie said, he would not
want to miss the Happy Clown.



