
With the tropism of a fish, Ness began to paddle toward the little
light at the head of Jackson's hammock, flicking his hands from the
wrists like flippers. "I got one thing against the sun," he said
quietly. "It's blanketing out the radio. I'd like us to get one more
message from Earth. We haven't tried rigging our mirror to catch radio
waves. I'd like to hear how we won the battle of Jupiter."

"If we won it," Croker said.

"Our telescopes show no more green around Jove," Ness reminded him. "We
counted 27 rainbows of Enemy cruisers 'burning.' Captain verified the
count."

"Repeat: if we won it." Croker pushed off and drifted back toward the
hammock. "If there was a real victory message they'd push it through,
even if the sun's in the way and it takes three hours to catch us.
People who win, shout."

Ness shrugged as he paddled. "One way or the other, we should be
getting the news soon from Titania station," he said. "They'll have
heard."

"If they're still alive and there ever was a Titania Station," Croker
amended, backing air violently to stop himself as he neared the
hammock. "Look, Ness, we know that the First Uranus Expedition arrived.
At least they set off their flares. But that was three years before the
War and we haven't any idea of what's happened to them since and if
they ever managed to set up housekeeping on Titania--or Ariel or Oberon
or even Miranda or Umbriel. At least if they built a station that could
raise Earth I haven't been told. Sure thing _Prospero_ hasn't heard
anything ... and we're getting close."

"I won't argue," Ness said. "Even if we raise 'em, it'll just be
hello-goodby with maybe time between for a battle report."

"And a football score and a short letter from home, ten seconds per
man as the station fades." Croker frowned and added, "If Captain had
cottoned to my idea, two of us at any rate could have got off this
express train at Uranus."

"Tell me how," Ness asked drily.

"How? Why, one of the ship's launches. Replace the fusion-head with
the cabin. Put all the chem fuel in the tanks instead of divvying it
between the ship and the launch."

"I haven't got the brain for math Copperhead has, but I can subtract,"
Ness said, referring to _Prospero's_ piloting robot. "Fully fueled, one
of the launches has a max velocity change in free-fall of 30 miles per
second. Use it all in braking and you've only taken 30 from 100. The
launch is still going past Uranus and out of the system at 70 miles a
second."

"You didn't hear all my idea," Croker said. "You put piggyback tanks
on your launch and top them off with the fuel from the other four
launches. Then you've 100 miles of braking _and_ a maneuvering reserve.
You only need to shed 90 miles, anyway. Ten miles a second's the close
circum-Uranian velocity. Go into circum-Uranian orbit and wait for
Titania to send their jeep to pick you up. Have to start the maneuver
four hours this side of Uranus, though. Take that long at 1 G to shed
it."

"Cute," Ness conceded. "Especially the jeep. But I'm glad just the same
we've got 70 per cent of our chem fuel in our ships' tanks instead of
the launches. We're on such a bull's eye course for Uranus--Copperhead
really pulled a miracle plotting our orbit--that we may need a
sidewise shove to miss her. If we slapped into that cold hydrogen soup
at our 100 mps--"

Croker shrugged. "We still could have dropped a couple of us," he said.
