
After a while she dialed the credit balance at her account. The figures
came back indicating a balance of 1300. He had left her quite a lot,
when you considered that she had televiewed to Earth. She cried hard
again because she knew that he had not had to leave her anything at
all. This made her certain (although she had known it already) that he
was not coming back.

She sat for quite a while studying the 1300 credit indicator.
She thought about using the money to buy a "pick-up-immediately
advertisement" on the omnivision. She was not sure of the rates, but
she thought the amount might even stretch to include a picture of
her. She did not know. She did not even know if she would be expected
to be nude or dressed for the picture. In the end, she decided not to
try an advertisement because there would not be time enough to employ
a reply-receiving address. All that would be accomplished would be to
put every predator within miles in possession of the address of an
Abandoned.

She took a dictator and said into it: "Dear children, I am leaving you
1300 credit." She stopped then and shook her head. The tears made it
so that she could not see, and she did not seem to be able to think.
"Correction," she sobbed "Erase preceding. Dear Children of Yan, I make
you this gift of 1300. I am sure that your excellence will continue to
deserve much more than so small a gift. I send love with this small
gift."

There could, of course, be no signature. An Abandoned had none.

She wished that she had not made the Earth call. There would have been
much more to leave them then. He had left an astonishing amount in her
account. It was almost as though he had expected her to try to get
away. She wished now that she had thought before taking action. There
might have been some way out.

She must have fallen asleep. The morning announcements came on as
usual, waking her. She listened to the instructions for that day, and
the areas announced as forbidden. She made no effort, however, to
indicate them on the day-map. She knew that, now, none of this applied
to her.

With a very great effort she got up and shut off the children's ramp,
so that they could not come down. She knew how much this would count in
her favor. Then she began, as hurriedly as she could, to collect the
things they would need. She knew that she could not possibly get the
things together in time, and that so late an effort was more likely
to count against her. She was not even close to finished when the
announcer flashed on.

Without asking who it was, she pressed the admitter. She was glad that
they had troubled to announce themselves.

She offered to go into another room while they removed the children.
They did not answer. One of them threw a sack over her. After a
moment, they took it off again and, rather apologetically, asked her
to indicate where the child-ramp control was. She showed them. Their
leader said that perhaps it would be all right for her to go into
another room if one of them went with her. When she saw the one chosen,
she put the sack back on herself. They laughed so hard at this that she
did not hear the children leave.
