
When the children had been taken out, the leader came back and removed
the sack from around her. He asked if she had applied for protection.
She showed her card.

"Well, that's too bad," he said. "Do you have any refreshment left?"

She did not dare to lie to him. She showed him. He helped himself.

"How about credits?" he asked.

"I gave it all to the ones who were here," she answered carefully. She
felt quick panic because she remembered that she had not so instructed
her account. She had merely dictated it to the children. If he didn't
find out, though, that would be all right. The dictation was proof
enough. But while she was still in this house, the credits were still
in her control.

"My credit indicator is here," she said, holding it out. He didn't take
it.

"Thanks for the refreshment," he said, getting up. "Make yourself
comfortable. The others will be here shortly."

She had nothing to do to make herself ready. She could not take
anything from this house. Sometimes they let you wear what you were
wearing, if it did not look as though you had put on your best things.
They did not always allow it, but they did sometimes. She remembered
that she had expressed strong disapproval of that to Yan, when they
were newly married. Then they both felt the same way about Abandoneds.

She indicated to her account how she wanted the 1300 disposed. Then she
waited. After a while, the Protection People came and led her out of
the house. They did not touch her or speak to her, they merely formed
a square in the center of which she walked. They led her to a records
room where an interview apparatus prepared a report on her.

"You have filed availability papers?" it asked.

"Yes," she said, and gave the file number.

"This is being checked," the apparatus said. "Have you any claims upon
the State?"

She came very close to mentioning the children. "None," she said in
a very small voice. It was difficult to remember that the interview
apparatus was not at all sensitive.

"Have you credits in your possession?" the machine asked.

"None," she said.

"You are eligible for exclusion from the slave classification in what
way?" That part of the recording seemed a bit worn. At least she did
not hear it very well.

"In no way," she replied.

"You will wait," said the machine, "until we have a report on the
availability petition which you have filed. Please take a seat."
