
Rumors of a cattle disease began to circulate several days before
official news of the full extent of the additional catastrophe was
released. That night, the British Prime Minister spoke on the BBC.
"With Her Majesty's consent," he said after reviewing the 'grave and
disquieting situation', "I have given instructions for all available
ships of the Royal Navy to put to sea immediately as an emergency
fishing fleet." Meanwhile, he continued, divers and frogmen were asked
to place their services at the disposal of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries. They would be required to "glean nourishment for the
nation from the laden larders of the deep." "Human ingenuity, skill
and tenacity will conquer yet," he concluded. The Prime Minister's
broadcast was followed by the announcement of emergency regulations for
the disposal of dead cattle.

On 16th June, the President of the United States informed an Emergency
Meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations that Professor
Braunweiler of Columbia University had perfected a method of extracting
carbon sugar from wood. All suitable industrial plants throughout
America were to be geared to the mass-production of the necessary
equipment. The United States was prepared to supply the whole world
with this equipment and with power-operated tree-felling implements on
a lend-lease basis. Teams of instructors in the use of the equipment
would be available to proceed to all parts of the world by the end
of the month. The offer, which became known as USASAW, (USA SUGAR
AID TO THE WORLD), was accepted with gratitude by all but the Soviet
delegation.

Shortly after Sugar-Aid started, a Frenchman named Dr. Muller
discovered, (in desperation, vineyards stood barren), that tree-sugar
caused a fermentation in the still-plentiful needles of coniferous
trees which, when distilled, resulted in a drink rich in alcohol and
vitamins. He gave the drink the name 'BOIGNAC' in melancholy memory of
happier days. Within six weeks, France had a surplus in the World Bank,
and a French admiral was appointed to command the NATO Mediterranean
fleet. Undoubtedly, boignac helped; yet, by the end of August, even
that could not arrest the death rate.
