
On 3rd September, a Soviet Task Force landed troops and armor at
sixteen places along the East-African coast. Moscow Radio informed
the world that 'the glorious forces of the USSR have taken this step
under the personal command of Mr. Khrushchev to safeguard Africa's rich
resources in animal life against the depredations of the Capitalist
Warmongers'. Thus, the world was told, all peaceloving peoples would be
assured an equitable and adequate supply of meat in the hard months to
come.

At an Emergency Meeting of the NATO Council immediate counter-measures
were agreed upon, but it was decided to confine retaliation to Africa
and not to use nuclear weapons unless Russia did so first. The 'British
Left', which had come into being after the Labor Party had split,
withdrew from the House of Commons in protest, and the workers of
the largest motor works in Italy assembled outside their long-closed
factory to call for strike action.

By mid-December, the war in Africa had settled down to a stalemate.
There was a good deal of patrolling; the opposing armies 'lived off
the land', in other words on what game they could bag before the other
side got it. Food-finding became more important than fighting, and
hunger closed the eyes of higher command to the proximity of the
enemy, except of course when the enemy was engaged in tracking the
same game. Reports from the front recorded these 'patrol skirmishes',
and gave account of the really violent artillery duels. Loading and
firing guns required less waning energy than infantry slogging in
the heavy country. The fact that the wide no-man's-land between the
opposing armies formed the main hunting-ground exposed friend and foe
to the same gunfire. Casualties were consequently high. The Neutral
Investigating Commission appointed after much vetoing by the United
Nations--it consisted of delegates from Costa Rica, Kashmir and
Monaco--found the situation rather confusing and withdrew to Cannes to
consider its findings.

Early in January, a British scientist invented a Very-High-Frequency
Lamp, regular exposure to which substituted a certain amount of the
energy normally absorbed in food. The equipment was fantastically
expensive to produce and was therefore available to very few people.
A portable, cheaper and far less efficient model was mass-produced
for the armed forces and essential workers. The dashing victories in
Africa, forecast by enthusiastic politicians as a certain result of
the new machine, did not however materialize. The new energy induced
in picked units was expended in a redoubled quest for food. The papers
reported increased patrol activity.

An agent planted by the Communists in the Ministry of Defense in London
succeeded in photographing the plans of the ray-lamp. Within six weeks,
a Russian version of the equipment reached the Red forces in Africa. As
a result, the stalemate became staler still. Both sides began to lose
control of their troops, which scattered over wide areas of Africa well
outside the zone of battle; game had become scarce, and pursuit led
both sides further and further afield.
