
On a swampy peninsula, formed by a hairpin bend of a crocodile-infested
river, a British and a French soldier had established their laager.
They had joined forces to hunt for edible snakes, and a few hundred
yards up-river one of them had trodden on a carelessly buried
anti-personnel mine. The soggy ground had prevented the contraption
from jumping as high as the designer had intended, and the dense,
though leafless undergrowth had screened them from the worst of the
blast.

They took it in turns to fetch water in their hats from the river and
to bathe each other's wounds. Starving and feverish, neither of them
knew for certain when the stranger joined them. He was not in uniform;
he spoke English and French so well that they both claimed him for a
fellow-countryman. He did not enlighten them, and they did not persist
in their questions. He insisted on nursing them and waiting on them. He
fetched water for them from the river, and he put clay from the river
bank on their septic wounds; he said it would heal them. The Englishman
was embarrassed to see that the stranger had tears in his eyes while he
did it. To pretend that he had not noticed, the Tommy talked about the
flipping bastards who strew flipping mines all over the flipping place.
The stranger smiled at that and said he would try to get them some
fish from the river. He was away a long time, and when the Englishman
crawled down to the river to see what had happened, he saw the stranger
on his knees on the river bank. He wanted to shout that one could not
catch flipping fish that flipping way, but then he changed his mind
and crawled back to the Frenchman. The stranger turned up a little
later with his hat full of fine fish. He wanted to light a fire to cook
them, but the Frenchman pointed up to where shells from both sides were
hissing over them, and they ate the fish raw. It tasted wonderful.

The stranger settled down to stay with them and brought fish and water
as often as they felt hungry or thirsty. When he was not otherwise
engaged, he used one of their bayonets to whittle away at pieces of
wood. Their wounds were clearing up fast and did not hurt any more.
The Frenchman insisted on giving the stranger his gascape to sleep in
because he had nothing else, and the Tommy pulled out his only spare
pair of socks because the stranger's were walked to shreds.

Sometimes the stranger left them for a few days, but he always made
sure that they had enough water and fish before he left. He came
back dusty and dirty and tired out, but he did not seem to need much
sleep. Once, when the Tommy woke in the middle of the night and wanted
a drink, he saw the stranger kneeling under a nearby tree. Flipping
shell-shock, probably. Poor bastard.
