



Interplanetary flight having been perfected, the planets and moons of
the Sol system having been colonized, Man turned his attention to the
stars.

And ran into a stone wall.

After three decades of trying, scientists reluctantly concluded that a
faster-than-light drive was an impossibility, at least within the
realm of any known theory of the Universe. They gave up.

But a government does not give up so easily, especially a unified
government which already controls the entire habitat of the human
race. _Most_ especially a psychologically and sociologically
enlightened government which sees the handwriting on the wall, and has
already noticed the first signs of racial claustrophobia--an
objectless sense of frustrated rage, increases in senseless crimes,
proliferation of perversions and vices of every kind. Like grape juice
sealed in a bottle, the human race had begun to ferment.

Therefore, the Solar Government took a slightly different point of
view towards interstellar travel--Man _must_ go to the stars. Period.
Therefore, Man _will_ go to the stars.

If the speed of light could not be exceeded, then Man would go to the
stars within that limit.

When a government with tens of billions of dollars to spend becomes
monomaniacal, Great Things can be accomplished. Also, unfortunately,
Unspeakable Horrors.

_Stage One_: A drive was developed which could propel a spaceship at
half the speed of light. This was merely a matter of technological
concentration, and several billion dollars.

_Stage Two_: A ship was built around the drive, and outfitted with
every conceivable safety device. A laser-beam communication system was
installed, so that Sol could keep in contact with the ship all the way
to Centaurus. A crew of ten carefully screened, psyched and trained
near-supermen was selected, and the ship was launched on a
sixteen-year round-trip to Centaurus.

It never came back.

Two years out, the ten near-supermen became ten raving maniacs.

But the Solar Government did not give up. The next ship contained five
near-supermen, and five near-superwomen.

They only lasted for a year and a half.

The Solar Government intensified the screening process. The next ship
was manned by ten bona-fide supermen.

They stayed sane for nearly three years.

The Solar Government sent out a ship containing five supermen and five
superwomen. In two years, they had ten super-lunatics.

The psychologists came to the unstartling conclusion that even the
cream of humanity, in a sexually balanced crew, could not stand up
psychologically to sixteen years in a small steel womb, surrounded by
billions of cubic miles of nothing.

One would have expected reasonable men to have given up.

Not the Solar Government. Monomania had produced Great Things, in the
form of a c/2 drive. It now proceeded to produce Unspeakable Horrors.

The cream of the race had failed, reasoned the Solar Government,
therefore, we will give the dregs a chance.

The fifth ship was manned by homosexuals. They lasted only six months.
A ship full of lesbians bettered that by only two weeks.

Number Seven was manned by schizophrenics. Since they were _already_
mad, they did not go crazy. Nevertheless, they did not come back.
Number Eight was catatonics. Nine was paranoids. Ten was sadists.
Eleven was masochists. Twelve was a mixed crew of sadists and
masochists. No luck.

Maybe it was because thirteen was still a mystic number, or maybe it
was merely that the Solar Government was running out of ideas. At any
rate, ship Number Thirteen was the longest shot of all.

_Background_: From the beginnings of Man, it had been known that
certain plants--mushrooms, certain cacti--produced intense
hallucinations. In the mid-twentieth century, scientists--and others
less scientifically minded--had begun to extract those hallucinogenic
compounds, chiefly mescaline and psilocybin. The next step was the
synthesis of hallucinogens--L.S.D. 25 was the first, and it was far
more powerful than the extracts.

[Illustration]

In the next few centuries, more and more different hallucinogens were
synthesized--L.S.D. 105, Johannic acid, huxleyon, baronite.

So by the time the Solar Government had decided that the crew of ship
Number Thirteen would attempt to cope with the terrible reality of
interstellar space by denying that reality, they had quite an
assortment of hallucinogens to choose from.

The one they chose was a new, as-yet-untested ("Two experiments for
the price of one," explained economy-minded officials) and
unbelievably complex compound tentatively called Omnidrene.

Omnidrene was what the name implied--a hallucinogen with all the
properties of the others, some which had proven to be all its own, and
some which were as yet unknown. As ten micrograms was one day's dose
for the average man, it was the ideal hallucinogen for a starship.

So they sealed five men and five women--they had given up on sexually
unbalanced crews--in ship Number Thirteen, along with half a ton of
Omnidrene and their fondest wishes, pointed the ship towards
Centaurus, and prayed for a miracle.

In a way they could not possibly have foreseen, they got it.
