
_Three months out_:

Brunei stepped through the stuccoed portal, and into the central
Spanish garden. He noticed that the sky was blue, with a few fleecy
white clouds.

But then, the weather was always good. They had agreed on it.

Lazar, Ingrid, Lin Pey and Vera were sitting on the green lawn
surrounding the fountain.

Daker, Joby, Linda and Donner preferred the shade, and lounged against
the white arabesqued wall which enclosed the garden on four sides,
broken only by four arched entrance portals.

The garden had been a good compromise, thought Brunei. Something for
everyone. Fresh air and sun-shine, but also the mental security
offered by the walls, which also provided shade for those who wanted
it. A fountain, a few palm trees, grass, flowers, even the little
formal Japanese rock garden that Lin Pey had insisted on.

"Hello, Ollie," said Lazar. "Nice day."

"Isn't it always?" replied Brunei. "How about a little shower?"

"Maybe tomorrow."

"I notice a lot of sleeping people today," said Brunei.

"Yes," said Lin Pey. "By now, the garden seems to be able to maintain
itself."

"You think it has a separate existence?" asked Ingrid.

"Of course not," said Vera. "Our subconscious minds are maintaining
it. It's probably here when we're all asleep."

"No way of telling _that_," said Brunei. "Besides, how can it exist
when we're asleep, when it doesn't really exist to begin with?"

"Semantics, Ollie, semantics."

Brunei took a bottle of Omnidrene out of his pocket. "Time to charge
up the old batteries again," he said.

He passed out the pills.

"I notice Marsha is still in her cabin."

"Yeah," said Lazar, "she keeps to herself a lot. No great--"

Just then, Marsha burst into the garden, screaming: "Make it go away!
Make it go away!"

Behind her slithered a gigantic black snake, with a head as big as a
horse's, and bulging red eyes.

"I thought we agreed to leave our private hallucinations in our
cabins," snapped Brunei.

"I tried! I tried! I _don't want_ it around, but it won't go away! Do
something!"

Ten feet of snake had already entered the garden. The thing seemed
endless.

"Take it easy," said Lazar. "Let's all concentrate and think it away."

They tried to erase the snake, but it just rolled its big red eyes.

"That won't work," said Vera. "Her subconscious is still fighting us.
Part of her must _want_ the snake here. We've _all_ got to be together
to erase it."

Marsha began to cry. The snake advanced another two feet.

"Oh, quiet!" rasped Lazar. "Ollie, do I have your permission to bring
my dragon into the garden? He'll make short work of the snake."

Brunei scowled. "You and your dragon.... Oh, maybe it'll work."

Instantly, the green dragon was in the garden. But it was no longer
five feet long and bovine.

It was a good twelve feet long, with cold reptilian eyes and big
yellow fangs.

It took one look at the snake, opened its powerful jaws, and belched a
huge tongue of orange flame.

The serpent was incinerated. It disappeared.

Brunei was trembling. "What happened, Lazar?" he said. "That's not the
same stupid little dragon."

"Hah ... hah...." squeaked Lazar. "He's ... uh ... grown...."

Brunei suddenly noticed that Lazar was ashen. He also noticed that the
dragon was turning in their direction.

"Get it out of here, Lazar! Get it out of here!"

Lazar nodded. The dragon flickered and went pale, but it was over a
minute before it disappeared entirely.
