
_Six months out_:

_Things_ wandered the passageways and haunted the cabins. Marsha's
snake was back. There was Lazar's dragon, which seemed to grow larger
every day. There was also a basilisk, a pterodactyl, a vampire bat
with a five-foot wingspread, an old-fashioned red spade-tailed demon
and other assorted horrors.

Even Oliver Brunei's friendly Saint Bernard had grown to monstrous
size, turned pale green, and grown large yellow fangs.

Only the Spanish garden in the common room was free of the
monstrosities. Here, the combined conscious minds of the ten crew
members were still strong enough to banish the rampaging
hallucinations.

The ten of them sat around the fountain, which seemed a shade less
sparkling.

There were even rainclouds in the sky.

"I don't like it," said Bram Daker. "It's getting completely out of
control."

"So we just have to stay in the garden, that's all," said Brunei. "The
food's all here, and so is the Omnidrene. And _they_ can't come here."

"Not yet," said Marsha.

They all shuddered.

"What went wrong?" asked Ingrid.

"Nothing," said Donner. "They didn't know what would happen when they
sent us out, so we can't say they were _wrong_."

"Very comforting," croaked Lazar. "But can someone tell me why we
can't control _them_ any more?"

"Who knows?" said Brunei. "At least we can keep them out of here.
That's--"

There was a snuffling at the wall. The head of something like a
Tyrannosaurus Rex peered over the wall at them.

"Ugh!" said Lin Pey. "I think that's a new one."

The dragon's head appeared alongside the Tyrannosaur's.

"Well, at least _there's_ a familiar face," tittered Linda.

"Very funny."

Marsha screamed. The huge black snake thrust its head through a
portal.

And the flap of leathery wings could be heard. And the smell of
sulphur.

"Come on! Come on!" shouted Brunei. "Let's get these things out of
here!"

After five minutes of intense group concentration, the last of the
horrors was banished.

"It was a lot harder this time," said Daker.

"There were more of them," said Donner.

"They're getting stronger and bolder."

"Maybe some day they'll break through, and...." Lin Pey let the
sentence hang. Everyone supplied his own ending.

"Don't be ridiculous!" snapped Brunei. "They're not real. _They can't
kill us!_"

"Maybe we should stop taking the Omnidrene?" suggested Vera, without
very much conviction.

"At _this_ point?" said Brunei. He shuddered. "If the garden
disappeared, and we had nothing but the bare ship for the next fifteen
and a half years, and we _knew_ it, and at the same time knew that we
had the Omnidrene to bring it back.... How long do you think we'd hold
off?"

"You're right," said Vera.

"We just have to stick it out," said Brunei. "Just remember: _They
can't kill us. They aren't real._"

"Yes," the crew whispered in a tiny, frail voice, "they aren't
real...."
