
The sight of starship Number Thirteen suddenly appearing out of
nowhere, and sitting itself calmly down in the middle of the Spaceport
was somewhat disconcerting to the Spaceport officials. Especially
since at the very moment it appeared, and even afterward, they
continued to have visual and laser contact with its image, over three
light-months from Earth.

However, the Solar Government itself was much more pragmatic. One
instant, starship Thirteen had been light-months from Earth, the next
it was sitting in the Spaceport. Therefore, starship Thirteen had
exceeded the speed of light somehow. Therefore, it was possible to
exceed the speed of light, and a thorough examination of the ship and
its contents would show _how_.

Therefore.... You idiots, throw a security cordon around that ship!

In such matters, the long-conditioned reflexes of the Solar Government
worked marvelously. Before the air-waves had cooled, two hundred
heavily armed soldiers had surrounded the ship.

Two hours later, the Solar co-ordinator was on the scene, with ten
Orders of Sol to present to the returning heroes, and a large
well-armored vehicle to convey them to laboratories, where they would
be gone over with the proverbial fine-tooth comb.

An honor guard of two hundred men standing at attention made a pathway
from the ship's main hatch to the armored carrier, in front of which
stood the Solar Co-ordinator, with his ten medals.

They opened the hatch.

One, two, five, seven, ten dazed and bewildered "heroes" staggered
past the honor guard, to face the Co-ordinator.

He opened his mouth to begin his welcoming speech, and start the five
years of questioning and experiments which would eventually kill five
of the crew and give Man the secret of faster-than-light drive.

But instead of speaking, he screamed.

So did two hundred heavily armed soldiers.

Because, out of starship Thirteen's main hatch sauntered a twelve-foot
green dragon, followed by a Tyrannosaurus Rex, a pterodactyl, a
vampire bat with a five-foot wingspan, an old-fashioned red,
spade-tailed demon, and finally, big as a horse's, the pop-eyed head
of an enormous black serpent....
