
I turned and banged hell-for-leather out of my room, down the ramp,
and into the control cabin, with Hanson vainly trying to lumber along
in the suction of my slipstream. As I had guessed, it was my old chum
and erstwhile roommate, Lance Biggs, at the studs. Beside him stood the
dark-haired beauty who had been Diane Hanson, and was now Mrs. L. Biggs.

I yelled, "Lance, you knobby old son-of-a-scarecrow! Where did you come
from? Where've you been? How did you two get aboard--"

Biggs--_Lieutenant_ Biggs to you, upstart!--swiveled and grinned at
me. Marriage might have worked wonders on the inner man, I wouldn't
know about that, but it had not changed his exterior in any way, shape
or form. He was still the old lean and lanky, gawky and gangling
caricature of humanity I'd always known. Tow-headed and wistful of eye
and blessed with a nervous, oversized Adam's-apple that bobbled up and
down in his throat like an undigested billiard ball.

"Hello, Sparks," he said mildly. "We came aboard at Sun City. We've
been honeymooning. But my leave is up, now, and I've reported back for
duty."

I said, "And, man! am I ever glad to see you! We've been one
hop-skip-and-jump from the loony-bin on this trip--and I don't mean
could be! We can use somebody who has a few brains--"

Biggs looked puzzled.

"Why? What seems to be the trouble?"

"Pig-headed bureaucracy, that's what!" puffed Hanson irately. "Take it
from me, son, the Major--"

Then suddenly his gaze, slipping past me, grew wary. His eyes veiled,
and his arteries stopped hardening. Without a pause he continued in a
milder tone:

"--major difficulty seems to be that we need brushin' up on the latest
space practices. We're a bit rusty, you know. So the Corporation has
assigned a very capable officer to--Why, there he is now! Come in,
Major Gilchrist!"

And in slithered the efficiency expert, glaring like a teetotaller in a
taproom. As usual, he had a nasty comment for everybody. To me he said,
"Sparks, you left your battery on! A sheer waste of valuable current,
sir--_waste_! Be kind enough to go aloft and attend to it instantly!"
Then, to the Old Man, "And you, Captain--surely you know the Company
rule against allowing women in the control cabins of space-craft?"

Biggs, having set the studs into lock-posts, slipped from the
bucket-shaped pilot's chair and walked to his wife's side. No, he
didn't exactly walk, either. Biggs' locomotion can scarcely be
dignified by that term. It is a stiff-legged sort of galumph, like an
ostrich on ice-skates. But his tone held a proper degree of uxorious
dignity.

"The _lady_, Major," he said, "is my wife."

But the old freezeroo didn't chill Gilchrist at all. He just sniffed
down his long, sharp nose at Biggs.

"And who," he demanded, "might _you_ be?"
