
It was Cap Hanson who answered. The skipper's voice was warm with
justifiable pride. "Permit me, Major. This is my son-in-law and First
Officer, Lt. Lancelot Biggs. He just reported back for active duty.
I'm sure you've heard of him. He invented the V-I unit and the uranium
speech-trap--"[1]

[Footnote 1: For previous adventures of the Interplanetary
Corporation's whackiest wisest young officer, see copies of _Fantastic
Adventures_ for 1939-40.--Ed.]

"Oh!" said Gilchrist frigidly, and stared at my chum like a vegetarian
at a hamburger. "So _you're_ Biggs? This is too bad. I had just
succeeded in training Lieutenant Todd to a point of efficiency. Now
I suppose I must start over again and teach _you_ how to manage a
spaceship!"

Imagine it! That kind of crack to Mr. Biggs, one of the brainiest
spacers who ever lifted gravs! Dick Todd was a good guy, but he wasn't
Biggs' equal by ten decimals! I held my breath and waited for the
explosion. Cap Hanson's mottled old cheeks began to glow like a neon
sign, and Diane _whooshed_ like an enraged Bunsen burner. But Biggs
spoke up hurriedly.

"Yes, sir!" he said. "Very good, sir! I'll be most grateful for your
instructions, sir!"

That was the kind of palaver Gilchrist liked. For a moment he looked
half human as a tight little smile shuddered along his lips. He said,
mollified, "That's very sensible of you, Lieutenant. We may get along,
after all. For a while I feared your--er--lucky accomplishments in the
past might--er--make you a bit difficult. Have you plotted our homeward
course?"

"Yes, sir," replied Mr. Biggs. He lifted a sheet of paper from the
chart-desk, handed it to the Major. Gilchrist studied it briefly,
lifted his gimlet eyes.

"Not bad, Lieutenant. Not bad at all. A little old-fashioned, perhaps--"

That was more than I could stand. If Biggs wouldn't take his own part,
I had to. I burst out, "But, Major, Biggs just graduated from the
Academy two years ago! How could his astrogation be 'old-fashioned'?
There's not a better plotter in space. Lance has yanked us out of more
troubles--"

"_Sparks!_" That was Biggs, warning me with his voice and with his
eyes. "Didn't the Major tell you to go turn off your batteries? You'd
better run along."

"O.Q.," I snarled. "I'm on my way. Come up and see me in my turret some
time, Lance--where the air is fresher!" And I beat it before Major
Gilchrist caught his breath.
