
Biggs nodded.

"Mm-hmm. That's what I thought, too. The course he plotted skirts the
Sun. Swings past it at a distance of only ten million miles!"

I'm a lot of things--but one of the things I am _not_ is unresponsive
to suggestion. I broke out in a hectic sweat and started for the door.

"Oh, no!" I yelped. "Maybe _he'd_ like to play pussy-wants-a-corner
with the prominences, but not _me_! The nearest I want to get to any
corona is to smoke one! The guy's nuts! I'm going to tell him--"

But Biggs grabbed my arm.

"It's no use, Sparks. I've already told him."

"You--you have?"

"Yes. And he said--" Biggs' larynx performed some incredible
involutions--"he said he knew perfectly well what he was doing."

"And so do I!" I howled. "He's plowing us smack-dab into Sol's
gravitational clutch! Well, I don't want some! I have no ambition to
become part of a sunspot!"

"No-o-o," said Biggs thoughtfully, "that's one thing we don't have
to fear. Gilchrist's mathematics are O.Q. Our velocity will be great
enough to overcome Sol's gravitation."

"But what are we going to do," I stormed, "about the heat? 6000°
Centigrade ain't exactly what I consider a cool, refreshing climate!"

"That's the trouble. I told him we'd be boiled like beans in a pot
if we passed that near Sol, but he pooh-poohed my warning. Said our
refrigerating system would keep us cool and comfortable." Biggs shook
his head helplessly. "I don't know what to do, Sparks. After all, his
word _is_ law."

I moaned. "And how long," I asked, "before we begin to french-fry in
our own carcasses?"

"About five days, Sparks. Five or six days from the current--" He
stopped suddenly. His pale eyes glowed. His larynx began leaping up and
down like a Mexican jumping bean. "_Current!_" he repeated. "But of
course! _That's it!_"

"'Scuse, please?" I demanded, puzzled.

But Biggs shook me off with an evasion.

"Not now, Sparks I can't tell you now. There's no sense in both of
us getting in trouble. But I think I know a way to convince Major
Gilchrist we must change our course."
