
To begin with, when I tried to make my daily contact with the
transmitting station on Luna I couldn't coax so much as a squeak out
of my radio apparatus. It was as lifeless as a Venusian swamp-snake on
Pluto. I sweated and swore and got under the banks to find the trouble,
but everything seemed to be O.Q. Wiring, rheos, ampies, all were jake.
But the radio wouldn't rade. It just hissed and spluttered and murmured
as feebly as a college girl in a parked car. The trouble was, I finally
discovered, it wasn't getting any juice. Nary a bit!

Meanwhile, Dick Todd audioed me from the bridge. He fumed, "Sparks, for
Pete's sake tell Garrity to turn down the thermoes! It's getting hot up
here!"

Which sentiment I could personally double in spades. Because it was
getting hot in my turret, too. My shirt was a dishrag, and my forehead
was leaking like a rented rowboat.

So I called Garrity, but the Chief Engineer spoke up before I could
ease a word in edgewise.

"Is thot you, Sparrrks?" he bellowed angrily. "It's aboot time ye were
gettin' in tooch wi' me! Whut the de'il's the motter oop therrre? Yon
contrrrol-turrret is michty nigh stewin' us in oor oon grrravy! Turrn
off the heat!"

Well, I'm not dumb. Not too dumb, anyway. Two plus two equals Lancelot
Biggs. That's why, when Capt. Hanson and Diane wilted into my turret a
few minutes later, looking like a brace of parboiled lobsters, I just
grinned at them.

Hanson's eyes were haggard with despair. He wailed, "Sparks--this awful
heat! You know what's causin' it? It's because we're gettin' too close
to the Sun, that's what! You told me Lancelot had everything under
control. Where is he?"

"If I'm not mistaken," I assured him, "he's entering now by the
portcullis gate."

And I was right. Hatless, jacketless, soaked to the belt with
perspiration but grinning triumphantly, entered Mr. Biggs. He mopped
his forehead and said amiably, "'Lo, folks! Hot, isn't it?"

Diane ran to his side fearfully. She cried, "Lancelot, you must _do_
something! Daddy says this heat means we--we're going to plunge into
the Sun! You mustn't let--"

Biggs smiled serenely.

"Now, honey, don't get excited. We're in no danger. This isn't solar
radiation. _I_ caused this heat."

Well, that didn't surprise me. I had guessed it all along. But Diane
and her papa stared at him wildly. "What?" croaked the skipper. "You
done this, son? But--but why?"

"Why, simply because--" began Biggs. But he didn't finish his
explanation. For there came a savage interruption from the doorway. And
in an angry, spiteful voice:

"Continue, Mr. Biggs!" snarled Major Gilchrist. "_Do_ continue, please!
I am most eager to learn why you performed this abominable act of
sabotage!"
