
I said, "Oh-oh!" and looked for a hole I could crawl into and drag in
after me. Mr. Biggs' grin faded. "H-hello, Major!" he faltered weakly.

"_Mister_ Biggs!" raged the efficiency expert. "May I ask _why_ you
wound a dozen coils of uninsulated wire about the _Saturn's_ hull and
connected the electrical helix so formed to the power generators? Don't
deny it, sir! I've been outside and seen your handiwork!"

Biggs said faintly, "Why, I--I--er--"

"You needn't lie to me, Mr. Biggs! I understand too well. You
deliberately established a hysteresis field around this ship in order
to create a rise in temperature--was that it? You wished to make us
believe the Sun's rays responsible for the heat--isn't that so?"

It's a long worm that has no turning. Biggs finally asserted himself.
He raised his quiet but determined eyes to those of the Corporation
official.

"Yes, sir!" he said. "That is exactly what I did."

"And why, sir?" demanded Gilchrist venomously.

"Because, sir, a close study of the course-chart has convinced me that
we are in grave peril if we continue on our present trajectory."

"What! You question my astrogation, Lieutenant?"

"Excuse me, sir, but--I do!"

Major Gilchrist's gimlet beak quivered like a saucer of gelatin; his
sallow cheeks flooded with color.

"Preposterous, young man! The _Saturn_ will skirt Sol at a distance of
twenty million miles!"

"The correct estimate, sir," disagreed Biggs gently, "is _ten_. I fear
you neglected to take into consideration the space-warp created by
Sol's tremendous mass. I have prepared alternative course instructions,
sir. With your permiss--"

"Silence, Lieutenant!" Gilchrist was wild with fury now. He had no ears
for logic. He wouldn't have listened to a first-run performance of
Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, with sound effects by the original cast.
"I've heard enough! You are guilty of having deliberately conspired
to disturb, alarm and distress your shipmates, of having maliciously
essayed an act of sabotage against your ship, and of flagrantly
disobeying the commands of a senior officer.

"Your rocket, sir! You will go below instantly, and confine yourself to
quarters under arrest!"

Lancelot Biggs said nothing. His larynx leaped, but without a word he
stripped from his breast pocket that prized golden symbol for which
all true spacemen would die, and with steady fingers surrendered it to
Gilchrist. Diane stifled an impetuous little cry. Cap Hanson, his beefy
face a wreath of anxiety, said, "But, Major--"

"I advise you, Captain," rasped Gilchrist viciously, "against defending
Mr. Biggs' piratical actions. One thing I will not tolerate is defiance
of my orders.

"Donovan--" He turned to me--"you will remove the fruits of Mr. Biggs'
labors from the _Saturn's_ hull. The heat which now inconveniences us
will vanish when we are no longer the core of an electro-magnet. But
just to make sure that no further efforts are made to beguile us into
terror created by non-existent dangers, henceforth _I_ will assume
responsibility for all electrical stores and equipment aboard. That is
all! Get to work!"

Thus ended our gay little tea-party....
