
And of course it was just as Gilchrist had said. As soon as Biggs'
fantastic maze of coils and wiring was removed from the _Saturn's_
hull, the thermometer crept back to normal. But friend Fahrenheit
wasn't the only low thing on the _Saturn_ that evening. My spirits were
_beaucoup_ slumpy when I slipped around to visit Mr. Biggs after dinner.

He was pathetically glad to see me, but apprehensive on my account.
"You--you won't get in any trouble, Sparks?"

I said, "You're under arrest, but the balloon-headed little slob didn't
say anything about solitary confinement--probably because he didn't
think of it. Lance, what the hell are we going to do? I just ran over
our figures again, and I got gooseflesh looking at them. The _Saturn's_
approaching the critical spot. If we don't do something--and damn
soon--to make Gilchrist change his mind--"

"I've been thinking feverishly, Sparks. You know my motto: 'Get the
theory first!' I thought that by heating the ship I might frighten
Gilchrist into changing course. But he caught on to my little trick."

"And we can't try it again," I fumed, "because Major Nuisance has put
all the electrical equipment under lock-and-key. In another twenty-four
hours this freighter is going to be a bake-oven--"

"I know," mourned Biggs. "And Diane--" He stopped suddenly. "Eh? What
was that? What did you say, Sparks?"

"Nothing," I told him glumly. "I was just moaning."

"Oven!" cried Biggs. "Bake-oven! Of course! Ovens aren't all
electrical. Listen--you know where the main fuel valve lies?"

"Why--why, yes. But--"

"Then get down there--quick! And shove the release lever to _Emergency
Discharge_ position!"

"And--and dump all those good tons of crude oil off into space?" I
gasped. "Lance, you've lost your mind!"

"Don't argue with me! Do what I say! Oh, something else--are you
familiar with the refrigerating system?"

"I'd better be. We're going to need it soon--"

"Go to the condensation-valve and close it. Be sure it's tight,
Sparks. Smash it if you have to!"

I stared at him stupidly. It didn't make sense, but then the brilliant
plots of Lancelot Biggs seldom do. I said hopefully, "You--you think
it'll work, Lance?"

"It has to!" he retorted grimly. "Or--but hurry!"
