
So I did what he told me. I moved the release lever of the fuel oil
emergency discharge to wide open position. I shed a salty tear as I
did it. It almost broke my economical heart to watch those tons upon
tons of thick, black goo flood from their storage tanks out through the
for'rd vent into the empty reaches of space.

Then I found the condensation-valve and jammed it as Biggs had
directed. Then, not knowing what else to do, I sat down and waited.

I didn't have to wait long. Results began resulting immediately, if
not more so. I suddenly discovered that once again--as earlier in the
day--I was sweating. I removed my coat. That didn't help. I took off
my shirt. No use. If I hadn't been dead certain that within a short
time there would be visitors to my turret, I'd have jettisoned my
southernmost garments, too. But having no desire to embarrass Mrs.
Biggs, I stood fast. And stuck fast, too, by the way!

So things started happening. The Chief audioed from the engine-room.
He hollered, "Sparrrks, thot domned heat is on again. Turrn it off; or
bi-gawd, sirrr--"

Well, Biggs hadn't said anything about an allegiance with the crew, but
it looked like a great opportunity to stir up a mild case of mutiny. So
I said placidly, "Sorry, Chief, but I can't do anything about it. Take
a gander through your _perilens_. You see that big red thing blazing
out in front of us? That's what's causing the heat."

Garrity gasped. "Ye--ye mean the Sun, Donovan?"

"We're going to pass it," I told him, "at a distance of only ten
million miles. Figure it out for yourself." And I hung up.

Then Doug Enderby called from the mess-hall. I gave him a dose of the
same medicine. Then Harkness. He screamed like a stuck pig, and began
demanding a change of trajectory. I told him, "Don't squawk to _me_
about it; tell Gilchrist. He laid the course."

And I had just blanked the screen when in raced Gilchrist himself,
followed by Cap Hanson, Diane, and Dick Todd.

"All right, Sparks!" bellowed the efficiency expert, "What are you up
to _now_? I'll see that you get busted out of the service for this!
Rank disobedience, conspiracy to break shipboard morale, plotting with
an imprisoned officer, deliberate sabotage--"

Yeah--Biggs was right! Major Horatio Gilchrist was a nice guy, in a
repulsive sort of way. I glared at him.

"Just a moment, Major!" I said boldly. "If you mean this heat, you'd
better hunt yourself up another victim. You know perfectly well Lt.
Biggs is in durance vile. And as for _my_ having done anything,
why--how could I? You assumed complete control of all electrical
equipment."

Gilchrist raged, "But--but this _heat_! Somebody has made the ship
unbearably hot again--"

"Some_body_?" I asked him shrewdly, "or some _thing_? I guess you've
forgotten, Major, that our real peril--of which Mr. Biggs warned
you--is our proximity to the Sun."

"Nonsense, sir! The Sun--"

"Is getting closer," I finished, "every minute. You have undoubtedly
looked at the ship's hull to make sure there are no wires or coils on
it?"

Some of Major Gilchrist's cockiness had oozed out of him. He said
uncertainly, "Y-yes, I did. The entire hull is thickly coated with some
glutinous substance--"
