
Oh, golly! That was one thing which hadn't occurred to me. I had just
sort of taken it for granted that the fuel I had dumped would have
whipped away into space. Silly logic on my part, for I've run the
spaceways long enough to realize that nothing ever floats away in the
void; anything you chuck from a spacevessel shares your velocity and
hangs right along by your side. But I made the finest dramatic act of
my life; gasped, and clutched at my forehead wildly.

"The oil! Migod, the oil-tanks have burst! Captain Hanson, we're
doomed!"

And the skipper, too, came through nobly. He moaned and raced to the
wall thermo, whirled from it frantically.

"A hundred an' two!" he bleated, "an' gettin' hotter every minute!
We'll be stewed like peas in a pot!"

Gilchrist's lips turned a sickly bistre. He ran his tongue over them
and faltered, "But my computations--"

"Were wrong!" I told him. "Dead wrong! Take a look at these other
figures. Lancelot Biggs' figures!"

And as I thrust the sheet of paper into his fingers, I reached out
and elbowed the audio button that establishes a complete circuit of
every chamber aboard ship. Instantly the babel of angry, frightened,
complaining voices burst upon our ears. The cries of hot and terrified
men demanding help from the bridge.

"--can't stand it a moment longer," came the cry of Enderby. "Change
course, Skipper!" And from the engine-room the roaring blast of Chief
Garrity: "Ye've no richt t' drive us t' death like this, Captain.
Change coorrse, sirrr, or by the saints, there'll be _moootiny_!"

And that did it! Major Gilchrist's nerve collapsed. His self-assurance
slipped from him like a robe from a strip-teaser's torso, and all of a
sudden he was no longer a tough, gimlet-eyed, hard-boiled efficiency
expert, but a nervous and very frightened Earth-lubber caught in the
grip of forces too strong for him.

"Into the Sun!" he babbled wildly. "The _Sun_? Oh, I mustn't die like
this! Do something, somebody! Captain, you must change the course. Use
the other set of co-ordinates. I was wrong--"

That was all I waited to hear. I shoved the new set of figures into
Todd's hands, shoved him toward the door.

"Get going, Dick! There's no time to waste! We--"

But before I could even finish, there came an interruption that turned
my spinal column to a slow trickle of icy water. The plates beneath my
feet seemed to sag momentarily, then rise and hurl themselves forward.
I slipped and fell to my hands and knees--and found it hard to rise
again! A dull weight fastened itself upon me. Nor was I the only person
so stricken. Diane had tumbled, too, and Cap Hanson was holding onto an
upright stanchion for dear life. Gilchrist lay prone on his puss, his
face a mask of terror. And the audio rasped with an ominous cry from
the bridge.

"Captain Hanson! Captain Hanson, sir, come quickly! We've been caught
by Sol's gravs!"
