
Well, it was about that time my heart began pounding the hell out of
my shoelaces. Up to now I had been disgusted and sore and fretful, but
not in the least worried. In spite of Gilchrist's pork-patedness, I had
felt a serene confidence that before danger actually threatened Lance
Biggs would find some way to wangle us out of our difficulties. But
now--

But now we were in a sorry mess indeed! Caught in a gravitational grip
thousands of times greater than Jupiter's; a million times more deadly.
Once, from afar, I had been the unwilling but horror-fascinated witness
of the fate of a ship gripped by Sol's terrific attraction. A dark
mote struggling futilely against the brazen magnet that beckoned ...
a moment's brief and hopeless essay to escape ... then a tiny, ochre
flame glinting wanly....

Such a vision must have been flashing, also, through the mind of Major
Gilchrist. For from his prostrate vantagepoint he loosed a howl of
sheer panic.

"Oh, no!" he screamed. "Oh, no! No! No! No!"

How long that monotonous denial would have continued there is no way
of guessing. But Cap Hanson, who despite all his faults has little
use for a fool and _no_ use for a coward, put an abrupt end to it.
Straining against the pressure that half-immobilized us, he lurched to
Gilchrist's side, bent and silenced the efficiency expert's wailing
with a sense-rousing slap across the cheek.

"Stop that, you damn fool!" he roared. "The audio's open! Do you want
to panic every man aboard this ship?" And as Gilchrist relapsed into
whimpering silence, he swiveled to me heavily. "Sparks, there's only
one chance. The velocity-intensifier. Tell Garrity--"

The velocity-intensifier, or V-I unit to give it its more common
name, was that device invented by Biggs which enables a spaceship to
increase its normal cruising speed to an incredible 186,000 mps--the
speed of light! I could see the Old Man's idea. Attain that velocity
and we might break free of Sol's hold. I said, "Aye, sir!" and was just
about to cry the necessary orders to the engine-room when:

"_No!_" The familiar voice of Lt. Lancelot Biggs rang through the
turret. "No, Sparks! Don't do that! It is sure death! As our speed
increases, so does our mass! We'll only accelerate our fall into the
Sun!"
