
I remembered, then, that every cabin was hooked into a round-robin
circuit, _via_ telaudio. So though it would have been humanly
impossible for Lancelot Biggs to come up to this turret now, he was as
truly with us as if he stood beside us. I cried back answer.

"But what _can_ we do, Mr. Biggs?"

And--most stunning surprise of all!--my words were echoed by the
groveling goon on the floor! Major Gilchrist, his voice cracked and
fearful, bleated, "What can we do? You must help me, Mr. Biggs! Save
me--"

[Illustration: Biggs was yelling into the speaker while Gilchrist
babbled in terror.]

Maybe I was mistaken, but I thought I could detect a ghost of a chuckle
in my gawky pal's voice. He said, "Major, according to Space Practice
Law No. 3, section _viii_, 'A space officer convicted of malfeasance,
or confined under suspicion thereof pending trial and conviction,
may not offer, suggest, or cause to be given any orders, commands or
directions which may affect his ship's course or trajectory--'"

"You're free, Mr. Biggs!" screamed Gilchrist. "Free to come and go as
you please! I was wrong! You're not under arrest any longer! But save
me! Save me--"

This time Biggs _did_ chuckle. I heard him do it. So did every man,
mouse and mess-boy aboard the _Saturn_. And--

"Very well, Major," he said. "Thank you! Todd, set the ship on the new
trajectory."

Todd said, "H-huh?"

Cap Hanson said, "W-what?"

And I croaked, "J-just ... like ... that ... Lance?"

Biggs' tone wobbled as if he were nodding his head.

"Sure. Just like that. Make the necessary stud adjustments, fire the
rockets designated in my alternative plot-chart, and shift trajectory.
That's all! And, oh, yes--you might send a couple of men outside,
Skipper, with disrupters. Have them clear the hull of that caked fuel
oil so it will be a little cooler in here.

"Honey--" He was talking to Diane now--"I'll meet you up there in a few
minutes. Wait for me!"

Major Gilchrist's eyes looked like two poached eggs. As the full
meaning of Biggs' words dawned upon him, he began roaring. But angrily.
And loudly.

"A trick! A dirty, low, mean, contemptible trick by a renegade officer!
Mr. Biggs! Mr. Biggs, sir, I am placing you under arrest again! Remain
in your quarters, sir, or--"

But Todd had already sprung to his task, I had given the orders to
Garrity's crew, and Cap Hanson handled this new threat. Again he
hunched over Gilchrist's struggling-to-rise form, and his voice was a
whiplash of scorn.

"I wouldn't, if I was you, Major!" he warned grimly. "You seem to've
forgot that a minute ago forty-odd men aboard the _Saturn_ heard you
beggin' Lance Biggs to save your scrawny hide. One more crack outa you
between now an' the day we hit Earth, an' this whole affair will be
reported to the Company, so help me Hannah!"

"And in case you think we can't _prove_ it," I assured him sweetly, "it
might interest you to know that I plugged in the audio-recorder five
minutes ago. We've got a nice little transcription of everything you've
said since you entered the turret. Would you like to hear _that_ played
at the trial?"
