
So that, boys and girls, was all. Except for a tiny conclave some time
later in Cap Hanson's quarters. Biggs was there, and Diane, and the
skipper, and of course yours truly. We were asking, and receiving, a
once-over-lightly on what to all of us save Lancelot Biggs was still a
deep, dark mystery. The Old Man said:

"So we really wasn't never in no danger at all, son? We never was going
to run afoul of the Sun?"

"Well, yes," said Biggs, "and no. We would not have fallen into the
Sun. But we _were_ in danger. Our trajectory, as plotted by Major
Gilchrist, within a few short hours would have carried us to a spot
where Sol's blazing heat might have crisped every soul aboard to a
cinder.

"It was necessary to convince Gilchrist of our peril before it was too
late to avert disaster. Heating the _Saturn_ artificially seemed the
best way to do this. I tried to make him think Sol was burning us up
yesterday, but he got wise to my little scheme for heating the ship
electrically."

"And you," I said, "got jugged. And he gathered all the electrical
equipment into his own paws. But, nevertheless, you did turn the
_Saturn_ into a stew-kettle. How?"

Biggs grinned amiably.

"Why, you ought to know, Sparks. You helped me."

"A mule," I admitted, "helps a man plow a field, but it don't know how
or why. Not that I'm a jackass, but--"

"It was very simple, really. You turned the release valve, allowing
the fuel oil to discharge from its tanks onto the outer hull. The hull
became coated with a thick layer of oil. Now, think hard! Oil in a
vacuum, heated by an outside source--"

I got it. I groaned. That's the trouble with Lance Biggs' logic. Once
you hear it explained, it always looks so easy!

I said, "A convection oven!"

"Why, yes! It's a heating principle invented by Dr. Abbot 'way back
in the Twentieth Century. A large, curved reflector--in this case the
hull of the _Saturn_--concentrates the Sun's rays on a layer of black
oil. A container, highly evacuated, retains all the heat thus formed,
raising the temperature of the 'oven' to almost any desired height."
Biggs grinned. "Our problem was not the heating of the ship. That was a
cinch. Our only hard job was convincing Gilchrist that we must change
our course before we got _too_ hot."

Cap Hanson nodded sagely.

"An' your 'space-oven' worked fine, son," he acknowledged. "But they's
still one thing I don't understand. The pressure. This ship's equipped
with artificial gravs an' all them things. But I distinctly _felt_ the
Sun's gravs grab hold of us. That's when I got the willies."

Biggs said modestly, "You can thank Sparks for that, too. He did it
when he jammed the condensation valves. Made the moisture-content
of the ship's atmosphere rise. The grav plates, being electrical by
nature, short-circuited. Thus we were all subjected to an extreme
'gravitational attraction' which was the direct result of a capacity
overload--but which under the odd circumstances every one naturally
attributed to the Sun's proximity." He smiled faintly. "You might say
it wasn't the heat--it was the humidity!"
