
So pretty soon there was a commotion in the rampway like a trained seal
stumbling around on hob-nailed stilts, a rap sounded on my door, and I
said, "Come on in, Mr. Biggs!" And sure enough, it was him.

He ambled in, grinned lazily and said, "Hi! What's new?"

"Nothing," I said, "under the Sun. Ain't you heard the adage? Look, Mr.
Biggs--you go on duty pretty soon, is that right?"

"That's right."

"Well, you don't happen," I asked him shrewdly, "to have any bright
new inventions hatching under your skull, do you? Like the uranium
time-trap, for instance, or the velocity intensifier?"

He said, "Now, Sparks--can I help it if neither of them worked exactly
as I had planned? After all--"

"Answer," I insisted, "yes or no. Do you?"

He flushed and wriggled one toe in the carpet.

"We-e-ell, not exactly. I did have a little idea I wanted to try out,
though. An anti-gravitic attachment. On the cargo lofts. It occurred to
me that--"

"Well, junk it!" I said. "Hasten, don't hobble, to the nearest
incinerator, and give your diagrams the good old heaveroo!"

He said, "Eh?" and looked faintly startled. "Eh?" he repeated. His
liquescent larynx Immelmanned. "But, why, Sparks?"

I said, "Them stripes on your sleeve, Lieutenant--they're pretty, ain't
they?"

He glanced down, fingered his triple braid proudly.

"Why--why, yes. Very pretty. I'm proud of 'em."

"But the more there are," I pointed out, "the prettier they are. Isn't
that right?"

"I--I suppose so. But what has that to do with--_Sparks_!" His voice
raised to a shout, and suddenly his pale eyes brightened. "Do you mean
that--?"

"Nothing else but. That alleged Q.O. mugg, Cooper, is a phony? He's
really an S.S.C.B. inspector. And since he's not riding the _Saturn_
for his health, I'll give you one guess who he's watching--if you
start with yourself."

Funny what emotion will do to a guy. Biggs was not the type to go into
a blue funk. I'd seen him face danger, disgrace and death, not once but
many times. Every time, he had confronted the situation calmly, coolly,
nary a quake or quiver stirring him. But here, handed good news on a
silver platter, I thought for a minute he was going to pass out.

His eyes grew stalks, and his knees began to rattle like a marimba. The
confused burble emanating from his lips resembled the vocal efforts of
a tongue-tied hippo trying to speak Choctaw. His Adam's-apple--but why
mention that monstrosity? Even _I_ don't believe the things it did, and
I saw it!

Words finally grew out of the _melange_ of gutturals, sibilants and
expectorants. Biggs' eyes receded into their sockets, became dewy and
wistful, like the orbs of an amour-smitten adolescent. His voice was
hushed and awed.

"My own ship!" he breathed. "My own command!"

"Don't cross your bridges," I reminded him, "until they're hatched.
You've still got to win your letter, chum. Two letters, in fact. I-F.
You become Skipper Biggs IF you pass the exam.

"Now, get to work. And remember--don't let on you know who this Cooper
is. Deodorant's the word!"

I gave him a shove toward the door. He disappeared in a haze of little
pink clouds. And I flopped into a seat, feeling so bad I could have
bawled like a kid, but despising myself for feeling that way.

It was selfish, I guess. Biggs deserved the honor. But somehow--well,
dammit! I sort of hated to see him leave the _Saturn_. We'd had a lot
of fun together, our bunch. Cap Hanson and Chief Garrity, Dick Todd,
the Second, and Wilson, the Third. And Biggs. And me.
