
Well, things settled down into normalcy, then. The _Saturn_ is a ten
day freighter, which meant that Cooper would have beaucoup opportunity
to judge Biggs' capabilities. So tempus fidgeted, and I fidgeted,
and the Old Man came within two spasms of a nervous breakdown, and
Biggs--as might have been expected--got his nerves on ice after that
first shock and performed his routine duties in ultra-stellar fashion.

My duties were far from exacting. Four times a day I had to contact a
Space Station to check our course, speed, and declination against Solar
Constant. That was just regulation blah, though, because with Biggs
plotting the course, we had about as much chance of getting off the
line as a rural subscriber when a juicy scandal is being discussed.

It was also my job to keep in touch with Lunar III, which daily
interlude--Joe Marlowe being the low scut he is--was the only
disturbing influence in an otherwise languid existence. Understand, I
don't believe for a minute that my gal, Maisie Belle, _was_ out with
him. She's true to me. But it was a dirty trick for him to say she was,
and beside, how the hell did he learn about that birthmark if--?

Oh, the hell with it! The fact is that time passed and pretty soon
it was the sixth day, and in just a few more days we'd dock at Mars
Central and Lt. Biggs would be Capt. Biggs.

Because if I had been idle on this shuttle, my rawboned friend had not.
Cooper had been putting him through a series of strenuous paces to test
his knowledge, ability and resourcefulness. The trajectory computations
had mysteriously disappeared, for instance, and Biggs had to compile a
new set. When he went to use the calculometer, he discovered it to be
accidentally-on-purpose "out of order." So he had to evolve the figures
from his own cranium.

Then there was the false alarm fire in the storage compartments--while
Biggs was on the bridge. And the hypos went on the blink--with Biggs on
duty. And one of the aft jets clogged. Guess who was standing watch at
the time?

That sort of thing. But Biggs came through, every time, with flying
colors. And with each succeeding success, another of the grim,
suspicious lines melted from around the corners of Inspector Cooper's
mouth, until he was beginning to look almost like a human being.
Meanwhile, Cap Hanson's face got daily ruddier, happier, and grinnier.
He was just one big smile on legs as he saw his son-in-law-to-be coming
closer and closer to the coveted stripes.

"Just four more days, Sparks!" he chortled happily to me. And then,
"Just _three_ more days! Just _two_ more--" He rubbed his hairy paws
together gleefully. "Two captains in the same family! Ain't that
somethin'? Boy, did you see the way he come through on that test
yesterday? Cooper got Garrity to cross the heat control an' grav
plates. The ship was hot an' weightless at the same time--"

"So that's what it was?" I grumbled. "Hell, who's taking this
test--Biggs or us guinea-pigs? I went soaring to the ceiling, boiling
like a kettle--and with the gravs off, I couldn't even drip sweat!"

"But Lanse fixed it!" gloried Hanson. "Spotted the trouble in three
minutes flat, and had the circuits straight before you could say
'hypertensile dynamics'! What a lad!"

"Two more days," I said. "All I hope is that I can live through it. If
Cooper gets any more whacky ideas--"

"Hrrrrumph!" came a voice from the doorway. I spun, startled.

What did my mama tell me about talking in front of a person's back? It
was Inspector Cooper!

I said, "Look, Inspector--the acoustics are lousy in this room.
Anything you heard which might have sounded like your name was
strictly coincidental."

He glared at me. Then at Cap Hanson. Then at me. And, boy, what I
mean--that guy could really glare!

"So!" he said. "_Inspector_, eh?"

Oh-oh! It dawned on me, all of a sudden--but too late--that I'd upset
the legumes with a vengeance. Calling him "Inspector," when, so far as
I was concerned, he was an officer in the Quarantine Service.

"Inspector, eh?" he repeated. And crisped Hanson's burning cheeks with
a glance. "Well, Captain, it is just as I thought. Too many years of
service have taken their toll on your discretion. When you start taking
common radiomen into your confidence--"

I did the best I could. I rallied around.

"Now, wait a minute, Inspector!" I said. "Captain Hanson didn't tell me
who you were. I--I guessed it. I'm pretty good at things like that. I
figured it out the first time I saw you. It's my psychic--"

"It will be your neck," he snarled, "if you don't shut your yap!
Well--now that you know who I am, I might as well tell you why I'm
here. I need your cooperation in giving Lieutenant Biggs his final
test."

Some of the chagrin left Hanson's eyes; his voice was hopeful.

"_Final_ test?"

"Yes. I confess to a very great respect for your First Mate, Captain
Hanson. He has proven himself capable in each of the tests offered so
far. His theoretical knowledge is matched by his physical ingenuity; I
have awarded him the highest possible grades in Astrogation, Analytical
Judgment, and General Knowledge.

"If he passes the final test, Resourcefulness, and of course the
verbal quiz on Safety Code practices, I shall take great pleasure in
submitting his name for advancement.

"This test--" He turned to me. "Will be made in your department,
Sparks. You--" He transfixed me with an icy glare. "You are sick!"

"Who, me?"

"Yes. You have--mmm, let me see!--dyspepsia!"

"It's a lie!" I said indignantly. "I haven't been near one of them
Venusian joy-joints for a year!"

"You have," repeated Cooper coldly, "a bad case of dyspepsia. Which
is another name for 'indigestion,' young man! You will develop this
ailment immediately. And since the captain of a space-going vessel
is supposed to be able to step into the breach in any emergency,
Lieutenant Biggs will be assigned the task of relieving you at your
post."

Wow! Was that a break for our side? I darned near split a lip, trying
to hide the great big grin that leaped to my gabber. If there was any
man aboard the _Saturn_ whose knowledge of radio was equal to my own,
that man was Lancelot Biggs! Why, he was the inventor of a new type of
radio transmission plate. If this were to be his "final test," he would
breeze home, win, place _and_ show!

But Cooper didn't notice the elation in my eyes, or the equal joy in
the skipper's optics. He was finishing his instructions.

"--and because you have learned who I am, Sparks, I suggest that you
make no attempt to get in touch with, or speak to, Lieutenant Biggs.
You may consider yourself confined to quarters for the duration of the
trip."

"Very good, sir," I said.

"And now--" Cooper turned to my instruments. "We shall set the stage
for Mr. Biggs' final test--" He picked up a hammer. The biggest one in
the turret. He lifted it, weighed it briefly in his paw, and then--

_Wham!_

Things clanked and clattered; glass tinkled; wires leaped from the
innards of my set and wriggled out onto the floor like tiny metal
snakes. Cap groaned, and I screamed, "Omigawd!"

"_Omigawd!_" I screamed. "Leggo! Stop it! Are you off your jets?"

"Stand back, Sparks!" warned Cooper. He raised the hammer again,
again brought it down ferociously into the entrails of my beautiful
transmission set. _Clinkety-clatter!_ Something shorted; blue fire
spat; there was a loud _pop!_ and I had to clutch my breast to make
sure it wasn't my heart. "Stand back!" he panted. "We--we've got
to--make this--a tough--test!"

"We?" I howled.

And then he was done. He stepped back and studied his work with the
pleased look of a ghoul in a graveyard.

"I think that should do the trick," he said gravely. "If he can repair
this set and get it in working order, I'll give him top grade in
Resourcefulness.

"Very well, now, Captain--you may return to the bridge and tell
Biggs that Sparks has been suddenly overcome with illness. And you,
Sparks--to your quarters. And don't forget--you're sick!"

I stared miserably at my once-perfect apparatus. I passed a hand over
my brow and tottered to the doorway.

"Maybe you think," I wailed, "I'm not?"
