
Damn! Of all the times to be interrupted. Just at the happy, crucial
moment when I was about to learn the ship to which Biggs was going to
be assigned! And some idiot had to come banging at my door!

_Thump-thump-thump!_

"Just a minute!" I howled. I switched off the unit and shoved the
mattress back into place, rumpled the sheets, tousled my hair and
pulled my shirt off. I stumbled to the door, unlocked it and stood back
yawning and rubbing my eyes as if I had just hopped out of the arms of
Morpheus. "C'mon in!" I said. "Whuzza big idea--Oh! How do you do, sir?"

My visitor was Inspector Cooper. He pushed past me into the room,
glared around suspiciously, turned and heaved me an extraordinarily
evil glare.

"What were you doing in here, Sparks? Don't lie to me! What were you
doing at the exact moment I knocked?"

Behind him, ashen-faced, stood Cap Hanson. _He_ knew about the
auxiliary unit. One more bite, and his forefinger nail would be bitten
off to the second joint.

"The _exact_ moment?" I stalled.

"That's what I said."

I held my breath, which is one way to create a most maidenly blush. I
said, "I--I respectfully decline to answer, sir. My reputation--"

"Your reputation," roared Inspector Cooper, "is not worth a damn
anyway! Answer, sir!"

I shrugged. I said, "Well, after all, you can't be court-martialed for
dreaming. You see, there was this blond kitten named Dolly. Sweet kid,
but--well, reckless. And I was--"

Cooper turned crimson, and he wasn't a bit happy.

"What! You claim you were sleeping? We distinctly heard you talking,
Donovan! Who were you talking to?"

I said plaintively, "Well--it was this way. Dolly was putting up an
argument--"

That stopped him. He glowered about the cabin once more, helplessly,
then he grunted and turned toward the door.

"Very well, Donovan. But if I ever find out you've been engaging in any
skull-duggery--Come, Captain Hanson!"

And they left, Hanson tossing me a swift "saved-by-the-bell" glance
that meant undying affection and a bonus in next month's salary. So
I muttered, "I hope you don't," and when their footsteps faded from
earshot, I made a dive for the concealed set.

But I'd missed the important part. Joe Marlowe was just signing off
when I got the phones on.

"--Captain Biggs will then lift his command," came the closing
sentence, "from Mars Central, in accordance with orders which await him
there! That is all, _Saturn_!" And he was gone.

Boy, was I nearly busting! I couldn't wait for the sonic to die away so
I could tap Biggs in the turret. "What did he say, Lanse?" I hollered.
"Cooper came pussy-footing, and I missed the message. So you're going
to get a command, eh? Congratulations? Tell me--"

My nerves were like red-hot worms as I listened for Biggs' answer. And
then--

"_Whonk!_" went my set suddenly. "Gwobble-_phweee_!"

Out of order! Again!
