
Well, that was a stinker. But I had learned _some_ things, anyway.
That Biggs was in line for a captaincy, and that his new command was
waiting for him at Mars Central. I dug a copy of Lloyd's Spaceways
out of my desk-file, and leafed through it. The information was
encouraging. Vessels land-docked at the Martian port included the
transport, _Antigone_, the lugger, _Tethys VI_, and the brand-new,
magnificent, special-extra-deluxe passenger liner, _Orestes_! Any one
of these ships would be a feather in the cap of the skipper who took
her bridge. Lancelot Biggs was getting off to a Big Start!

So I should have been very happy. For him. But I wasn't. Not
altogether. Somehow I couldn't help feeling it wouldn't be the
same ship--the _Saturn_, I mean--with Biggs no longer ambling the
quarter-deck.

A sentimental sap? Well, maybe I am. But when you have laughed and
cried and fought and triumphed and shared sadness and joy with a right,
tight, snug little gang of men, all of whom you love like brothers, you
hate to think of one of them leaving you.

And that's the way it was aboard the _Saturn_. Sure, we had our little
squabbles and fusses. Wilson is a sort of show-off, and Todd sometimes
has a tendency to let others do his work. The Old Man's not much of an
astrogator any more; after all, he's been pushing ether for more years
than I've been alive; he's not as smart and alert as some of the fresh
young brevetmen. And Biggs' genius for getting us in tough spots is
second only to his ability at getting us out again.

But we're a _team_, see? And now, with Biggs moving up the ladder, some
strange new guy would come in.

It was hot!

I'd been so busy with the crying towel, that for a few minutes I didn't
realize just how hot it was. But now, glancing at the thermometer on my
wall, I was jolted to see the mercury standing at 98 degrees!

Without pausing to recollect that the audio system was out of order,
I reached for the wall phone, bawled into it, "Ahoy, the bridge!
Something's gone wrong with the--"

That's what I meant to yell, anyway. As a matter of strict truth, I got
just as far as, "Ahoy--_blub_!"

For the moment I yanked the earpiece off the audio, a pencil of clear,
cold water shot from the instrument like a diminutive geyser! Smack in
the tonsils it slapped me--and I turned and hightailed it for the door!

My guard, a gob named Jorgens, let loose a roar as I appeared.

"Oh, no, Sparks! I got orders to keep you in your cabin!" he bellowed.

"That's what you think!" I yelled back. "I'm not going to be roast
Donovan for you or anybody! I'm hot!"

"Then maybe this will cool you down." He grabbed the firehose, pointed
it at me, turned the wheel. I wailed, and waited for the punching gout
of water to sweep me off my feet. But it didn't come! There came a
rushing sound, and from the nozzle spilled--

Air!

Jorgens dropped the hose with a howl of surprise. He gave up all idea
of stopping me. As a matter of fact, he was three steps ahead of me
by the time we hit the end of the corridor, but I beat him up the
Jacob's-ladder leading to the bridge by the simple expedient of using
his vertebrae as rungs.

Together we charged through the upper passageways, turned onto the
ramp that feeds the bridge. By now, everything had gone stark, staring
mad. All the time we were on the hoof, I kept hearing music. And every
once in awhile a wild burst of static rasped my eardrums. And the heat
increased.

It took me some minutes to realize, with a burst of horror, that the
music was coming from the radiators, the static from the darkened
electric bulbs set in the ceilings, and the heat was pouring in a
torrential flood from our air supply--the ventilating system!

We reached the bridge, shouldered the door open. But the situation
wasn't any better there. If anything, it was worse. Cap Hanson,
perspiration streaming down his red face, staining his jacket, was
bending over a calculating machine that was flickering hazily with
moving pictures! Across the room, Lieutenant Todd was masterfully
struggling to subdue the clamor of a generator that was chattering
wildly in the Universal Code. Dots and dashes!

Above the bedlam, I managed to make myself heard.

"What's wrong?" I bawled.

The Old Man acknowledged my presence with one look of torment.

"The ship's gone nuts! The heater plays music and the telephone's a
spring; there's static in the lights, and electricity in the gas jets.
The ventilators give heat and Slops just called me on his refrigerator
to tell me the gas stove is spitting ice cubes!"

Cooper, his face flaming with rage, pulled his paws from his ears long
enough to scream, "This is a disgrace to the service! Whoever caused
this should be cashiered! And by the Lord Harry--"

Just then the door opened, and into the room, with a big, friendly grin
on his pan, gangled our lanky lieutenant, Lancelot Biggs.

"Hello, folks!" he said amiably. "Sort of--sort of noisy around here,
isn't it?"

Cooper glared at him wildly.

"Biggs, get out of here! You're supposed to be up in the turret
repairing that radio set. Get along--"

Biggs smiled sort of sheepishly; his unbelievable Adam's-apple did a
loop-the-loop in his throat. He coughed gently.

"Well--er--you see," he said, "that's what made me come down here. I--I
guess I must have got a little bit mixed up in the wiring. I got the
circuits all crossed up, and--well, durn it, this is what happened!"
