
By sheer coincidence, just at that moment the air stopped hissing,
the music stopped playing, and the tumult that had been flooding the
room died away to a whisper. In a brief, horrible silence I heard
Cap Hanson gasp, "Lanse! Lanse!" and heard the incredulous snort of
Inspector Cooper.

"What? _You_ caused this, Lieutenant?"

Biggs' pale eyes shifted, and he twisted his lanky frame into a pretzel.

"R-reckon I did, sir. Couldn't seem to get things straightened out in
the turret, so I--I went down to the control room, and--and I guess I
must have turned the wrong knobs or switches or something."

His excuse dwindled into silence. But Cooper did not. Cooper loosed a
blat like a robot wired for newscasting.

"Wrong knobs! Wrong switches! Indeed, sir--" he swung to me, sweating
painfully and quivering like an electroscope in a pitchblende mine.
"Sparks, can you do anything about this--this disgraceful mess?"

I couldn't meet Biggs' eyes, nor could I meet those of Cap Hanson. I
just nodded slowly.

"I think so, sir."

"Then get to work! And as for you, Lieutenant--" His eyes burned
Biggs' pale, embarrassed face, "It will not now be necessary to
determine whether or not you are versed in Safety Code practices. You
have demonstrated very well that you are not yet capable of assuming
the rank and duties of a commanding officer. Your butter-fingered
handling of a simple, routine test has resulted in the most disgusting
contretemps it has ever been my lot to witness!"

Cap Hanson said, "But--but look, Inspector--he's only a boy! Anybody
can make a little mistake. Give him a chance to--"

"There is no place for 'boys'," snorted Cooper, "on the bridge of
space-going vessels. Lieutenant Biggs has possibilities, yes. But
I shall suggest to the S.S.C.B. that he be given another year of
intensive training--under an old, accomplished spaceman; yourself,
Captain Hanson--that he may learn resourcefulness, coolness, how to
act under stress of emergency!

"And now, gentlemen, I shall retire until we reach Mars Central.
Sparks, for God's sake quiet this bedlam as soon as possible!"

And he stalked from the bridge with as much dignity as a man can muster
with hands clapped over a pair of sweat-dripping ears.

I went below. It was a mess, but not an impossible one. I got it
straightened out in fifteen or twenty minutes. And by the time things
were back to normal, we were warping into the cradle-lists at Mars
Central Spaceport.
