
Afterward, everybody was sympathetic. Bud Wilson said, "Too bad, Biggs!
But you'll get another chance." And he went out. Dick Todd said, "Aw,
the hell with it, Lanse. You were just a little excited, that's all--"
And he left, too. And that left Biggs and the skipper and me alone in
the turret.

Biggs squirmed and said meekly, "I--I'm sorry, sir. I didn't mean to be
such an idiot. But--well, after all, I am young. And I haven't had your
experience."

The skipper still looked like a man who'd grabbed a live wire by
accident. He shook his head sadly.

"I wouldn't of thunk it of you, Lancelot, son," he grieved. "You was
always so quick at graspin' things before this. I was bankin' on you
to make it two captains in the same family. But--well, let bygones be
bygones. Next year you'll have another test. An' in the meantime, I'll
try to teach you more about how to act in emergencies."

Biggs said gratefully, "Thank you, sir. And--and Diane?"

"We won't tell her," said the Old Man promptly. "I alluz say that what
women don't know won't hurt 'em. We'll keep this to ourselves. But,
mind you!" A flash of the old fire lighted his weathered, space-faded
eyes. "But, mind--I want you to study hard durin' this next year! If
you want to win your stripes, you got to listen to a wiser head!"

"Yes, sir," said Lancelot Biggs. "I will, sir."

Then the skipper left. A great old guy. No longer listless and
lackadaisical, space-weary, but a new man, imbued with a strong,
fighting new urge. To help a young man earn his spurs. There was
something admirable in his attitude, and something a little pathetic,
too.

And after he had left, I turned to Biggs. I said, "Okay, pal--come
clean!"

He started.

"I--I beg your pardon, Sparks?"

"Come," I repeated, "clean. You can fool some of the people some of the
time, and you can fool some of the people some of the time--but you
can't fool some of the people some of the time. And I'm them. Biggs,
I know you like I know my own hangnails. I've seen you in a thousand
tight spots, and I never once knew you to go into a dither. But you
messed this one up so bad that it smelled from here to Pluto. Now I
want to know--why?"

Biggs' eyes looked like saucers. His larynx jumped up and down
painfully.

"I don't know what you mean, Bert."

"Talk," I said grimly, "or I start rumors. Why?"

And then--Lancelot Biggs grinned!

"So I made it look bad, eh, Bert?"

"Bad? Awful! That heat--great comets, pal, you nearly killed us all!
But why? I heard part of that transmission from Luna. I heard enough to
know that if you passed your final test you were going to be given a
command immediately. A ship of your own. The _Tethys_ or the _Antigone_
or the _Orestes_. All good ships--"

Biggs said quietly, "There was another one, Bert."

"What? No, there wasn't. I looked it up. There were only those three
waiting captainless in port."

"But there would have been four," he said, "if I'd passed my exam.
Sparks--Cap Hanson's a great guy, isn't he?"

"Sure. A grand old-timer. But--"

And then, suddenly, I got it! Got it, and realized what an all-around
humdinging hell of a real man Lancelot Biggs really is! I said:

"You mean--you mean that if you had earned your stripes, the Old
Man was going to be set down? And you'd be placed in command of the
_Saturn_? Is that it? Why, you--"

And I swallowed hard, and I gave him a shove. And I said, "Aw, Lanse--"

But Lancelot Biggs isn't the kind of guy you can act gooey with. He
just grinned again, and he said, "Sparks, old-timer, what do you say
you and me have a drink or three, eh?"

So we did. Double. Without soda.

