
It wasn't a long trip to the spaceport. In less than an hour the plane
dropped down to the air strip that flanked the rocket field. But it
was like flying from one civilization to another.

The city was big, almost like an Earth city. There was lots of
traffic, cars and copters and planes. All the bustle of the spaceways
stations.

But although the city looked like Earth, it smelled as dry and
alkaline as all the rest of Mars.

I found the ticket office easily enough and went in. The young clerk
barely glanced up at me. "Yes?" he said.

"I want to inquire about tickets to Earth," I said.

My hands were sweating, and I could feel my heart pounding too fast
against my ribs. But my voice sounded casual, just the way I wanted it
to sound.

"Tickets?" the clerk said. "How many?"

"Two. How much would they cost? Everything included."

"Forty-two eighty," he said. His voice was still bored. "I could give
them to you for the flight after next. Tourist class, of course...."

We didn't have that much. We were at least three hundred short.

"Isn't there any way," I said hesitantly, "that I could get them for
less? I mean, we wouldn't need insurance, would we?"

He looked up at me for the first time, startled. "You don't mean you
want them for yourself, do you?"

"Why yes. For me and my wife."

He shook his head. "I'm sorry," he said flatly. "But that would be
impossible in any case. You're too old."

He turned away from me and bent over his desk work again.

The words hung in the air. Too old ... too old ... I clutched the edge
of the desk and steadied myself and forced down the panic I could feel
rising.

"Do you mean," I said slowly, "that you wouldn't sell us tickets even
if we had the money?"

He glanced up again, obviously annoyed at my persistence. "That's
right. No passengers over seventy carried without special visas.
Medical precaution."

I just stood there. This couldn't be happening. Not after all our
years of working and saving and planning for the future. Not go back.
Not even next year. Stay here, because we were old and frail and the
ships wouldn't be bothered with us anyway.

Martha.... How could I tell her? How could I say, "We can't go home,
Martha. They won't let us."

I couldn't say it. There had to be some other way.

"Pardon me," I said to the clerk, "but who should I see about getting
a visa?"

He swept the stack of papers away with an impatient gesture and
frowned up at me.

"Over at the colonial office, I suppose," he said. "But it won't do
you any good."

I could read in his eyes what he thought of me. Of me and all the
other farmers who lived in the outlying districts and raised crops and
seldom came to the city. My clothes were old and provincial and out of
style, and so was I, to him.

"I'll try it anyway," I said.

He started to say something, then bit it back and looked away from me
again. I was keeping him from his work. I was just a rude old man
interfering with the operation of the spaceways.

Slowly I let go of the desk and turned to leave. It was hard to walk.
My knees were trembling, and my whole body shook. It was all I could
do not to cry. It angered me, the quavering in my voice and the
weakness in my legs.

I went out into the hall and looked for the directory that would point
the way to the colonial office. It wasn't far off.

I walked out onto the edge of the field and past the Earth rocket, its
silver nose pointed up at the sky. I couldn't bear to look at it for
longer than a minute.

It was only a few hundred yards to the colonial office, but it seemed
like miles.
