
I looked out past the people, across the flat red desert to the
horizon, toward the spot in the east where the Earth would rise, much
later. The dry smell of Mars had never been stronger.

The first Martians....

They were so real, those carved figures. Lewis and Martha Farwell....

"Look at them, Lewis," Martha said softly. "They're cheering us. Us!"

She was smiling. There were tears in her eyes, but her smile was
bright and proud and shining. Slowly she turned away from me and
straightened, staring out over the heads of the crowd across the
desert to the east. She stood with her head thrown back and her mouth
smiling, and she was as proudly erect as the statue that was her
likeness.

"Martha," I whispered. "How can we tell them goodbye?"

Then she turned to face me, and I could see the tears glistening in
her eyes. "We can't leave, Lewis. Not after this."

She was right, of course. We couldn't leave. We were symbols. The last
of the pioneers. The first Martians. And they had carved their symbol
in our image and made us a part of Mars forever.

I glanced down, along the rows of upturned, laughing faces, searching
for Duane. He was easy to find. He was the only one who wasn't
shouting. His eyes met mine, and I didn't have to say anything. He
knew. He climbed up beside me on the platform.

I tried to speak, but I couldn't.

"Tell him, Lewis," Martha whispered. "Tell him we can't go."

Then she was crying. Her smile was gone and her proud look was gone
and her hand crept into mine and trembled there. I put my arm around
her shoulders, but there was no way I could comfort her.

"Now we'll never go," she sobbed. "We'll never get home...."

I don't think I had ever realized, until that moment, just how much it
meant to her--getting home. Much more, perhaps, than it had ever meant
to me.

The statues were only statues. They were carved from the stone of
Mars. And Martha wanted Earth. We both wanted Earth. Home....

I looked away from her then, back to Duane. "No," I said. "We're still
going. Only--" I broke off, hearing the shouting and the cheers and
the children's laughter. "Only, how can we tell _them_?"

Duane smiled. "Don't try to, Mr. Farwell," he said softly. "Just wait
and see."

He turned, nodded to where John Emery still stood at the edge of the
platform. "All right, John."

Emery nodded too, and then he raised his hand. As he did so, the
shouting stopped and the people stood suddenly quiet, still looking up
at us.

"You all know that this is an anniversary," John Emery said. "And you
all know something else that Lewis and Martha thought they'd kept as a
surprise--that this is more than an anniversary. It's goodbye."

I stared at him. He knew. All of them knew. And then I looked at Duane
and saw that he was smiling more than ever.

"They've lived here on Mars for thirty-five years," John Emery said.
"And now they're going back to Earth."

Martha's hand tightened on mine. "Look, Lewis," she cried. "Look at
them. They're not angry. They're--they're happy for us!"

John Emery turned to face us. "Surprised?" he said.

I nodded. Martha nodded too. Behind him, the people cheered again.

"I thought you would be," Emery said. Then, "I'm not very good at
speeches, but I just wanted you to know how much we've enjoyed being
your neighbors. Don't forget us when you get back to Earth."
