
    Say! What does that jerk, _The Amphibious Android_, mean by calling
    me a "mere child"? His assertion that I'm but a youth of fifteen is
    a good way off the beam. I've been reading _Galactic Adventures_
    for the past eight years and I was nine years old when I picked up
    my first copy, so figure it out for yourself. A jug of sour _zeni_
    to him. May fire burst out in his s.f. collection and utterly
    destroy it. No! I retract that. That's too horrible a fate, even
    to visit upon _The Amphibious Android_. Let him wallow in his
    ignorance. I, _The Super Intellect_, will smile down on him and
    forgive him his sins.

    That's an interesting letter from Charlie Lane. _The Miserable
    Mutant_ has propounded an amazing theory that has set me to
    wondering. Perhaps G. A. can induce one of its authors to work
    this theory into a story. I'm reserving my four wooden nickels
    right now for the tale, if it is written. I'll even suggest a
    title--_Those Who Are Froze In The Cosmos_. How's that? Well,
    I didn't like it either.

    Once again I tear my hair and roar: GIVE US TRIMMED EDGES! Ye Ed
    must know by now that the majority of fandom is in favor of
    trimmed edges. As it is, one comes suddenly to the most interesting
    part of a story,  at the very bottom of a page and spends several
    moments feverishly attempting to gain a hold on the ragged edge
    and go on to the next passage. By the time he has accomplished
    this, he is a raving lunatic, a martyr to trimmed edges. I am not
    a crusader, as is _The Misled Biped_, but I insist on seeing
    justice done.

    As a whole, this is a fair issue. I might even call it good, if it
    were not for the artwork and stories. Ron's epic will live forever
    in my mind, although its ending was rather weak and it could have
    been developed into a more powerful tale by having the Slads all
    die in the Inferno.

    I enter my plea for longer stories. A long novel by M. S. Jensen
    would be appreciated. His last, _Dr. Higbaum's Strange
    Manifestation_, was a gem. On the other hand, short stories are
    not without merit and good old G. A. wouldn't be the same without
    them. I believe the story policy had best remain as is.

    Give Higgins a rest. His yarns are rapidly degenerating into hack,
    with only four out of the last five meeting with this reader's
    approval. I don't like to be finicky, but it seems like he isn't
    contributing his best material to G. A.

    Well, this missive is growing to huge proportions and I would like
    to see it in print, so I'd better sign off.

    Oh, yeh, almost forgot to comment on the departments. They are all
    good, with _The Reader's Opinion_ being the most interesting. Ye
    Ed's ruminations come in for a close second. Do not change the
    departments in any way, although the quiz and the _Strange
    Phenomena_ feature could be discontinued, without any great loss.

    Before I close, I wish to make a revelation which will rock the
    world. Yes, Ed, I have a secret weapon! Nothing can stand against
    this terrible invention and, with it, I could even destroy Earth,
    with Mars and Pluto thrown in for good measure. Beware, Ed, lest
    you arouse my ire and cause me, in my wrath, to unleash this vast
    force upon helpless, trusting mankind.

    Having read G. A. from cover to cover, I crawl back to my cage,
    drooling with delight. Prying up a loose stone in the center of the
    floor, I tenderly deposit the mag among the other issues of my
    golden hoard. Replacing the stone, I sigh contentedly and
    manipulate my lower lip with two fingers to indicate complete
    satisfaction. See you next issue!

                                                       Joe Carson
                                                  _The Super Intellect_

Joe carefully placed the letter in a previously addressed envelope,
mentally complimenting himself for authoring such a masterpiece.
Slapping a stamp on the back, he sealed the envelope and rushed forth
to post it at the nearest mail-box.
