
Harl and Kir-Um slowly materialized and glanced about to take stock of
their surroundings. They were on the roof of some tall building and
night pressed in all about them, relieved only by the intermittent
winking of a huge neon sign anchored on the roof.

They had come from far off Mars to draw out and discover the weaknesses
of Earth--for the Great Invasion was not far in the offing and the
Grand Councilor had deemed it wise to know in advance where best to
strike and in what manner.

Mars was in its final death throes and its inhabitants must soon
immigrate to a new world or perish. Their sister planet, Earth, was
best adapted to their particular form of life, thus it had been
selected for subjugation to their purpose.

The atoms that were Harl and Kir-Um were hurled, in a state of
fluidity, through space, to be reassembled on Earth. For the purpose of
escaping detection, they had assumed the bodies of terrestrials and now
they stood, staring triumphantly out over this world that was soon to
be theirs. The conquering hordes would follow later in spaceships, as
soon as Harl and Kir-Um had gathered the necessary data.

Harl spoke--mastering the strange vocal-cords with an ease that amazed
him. To be sure, he spoke an alien, unintelligible tongue. We translate:

"Well, Kir-Um, what now? We have arrived at our destination, but I
haven't the slightest idea what to do next."

Kir-Um pondered this a moment and eventually answered: "The situation
suggests we first descend to the surface of this world and, from there,
perhaps we can map a line of attack."

"E-e-e-ump!" Harl made the noise, which, on Mars, denoted extreme
pleasure. "Excellent, Kir-Um. How can a decadent civilization, such as
this one undoubtedly is, stand against such brilliant minds as ours?"

"You are right, as usual, Harl," Kir-Um agreed. "My analysis of the
problem was only typical of a Martian. Now, let us proceed to the base
of this crude structure."

By diligent search, they finally located a stair leading downward and
cautiously made their way into the bowels of the building.

Reaching the fifth floor, Kir-Um placed a restraining hand on Harl's
shoulder and pointed excitedly to a door at the far end of the hall.
Light streamed from beneath it and glowed faintly through the frosted
glass panel set in its upper half.

Scarcely daring to breathe, they approached the door and stood,
regarding it with apprehensive eyes. Harl noted the gold-leaf lettering
on the glass panel, but the cryptic legend had no meaning to his
Martian mind. But, to an Earthly member of that rabid army known as
scientification fans, the words would have brought a tinge of awe. For
this was the room where far-flung systems were denied existence, by one
shake of a firm, unyielding head; where the most expressive cuss-words
of super villains were brutally censored with a fiendish swipe of a
little, blue pencil--the editorial office of _Galactic Adventures_.

"Harl," Kir-Um whispered softly. "There's a _creature_ in that room! Do
you not detect its thought vibrations?"

Harl opened his mind to reception and stood a moment, as if in a
trance. His eyes slowly dilated and he gasped in astonishment.

"Yes, Kir-Um, there is a creature in there. A strange, horrible
_creature_, possessed of mad, meaningless thoughts. I--I wonder what
_it_ looks like?"
