
Kir-Um pointed to a small, oddly-shaped aperture, which undoubtedly was
some sort of device for locking the door. Hesitantly he stepped forward
and placed his eye to the hole.

Inside the room, Newt Jorgsen, the building's janitor, was hugely
enjoying the contents of a letter he had retrieved from the
wastebasket. Tears streamed from his blurry eyes and his bent, bony
shoulders shook with spasms of laughter. His gunboat feet were planted
firmly on the editor's desk and a tall bottle of beer, smuggled in
by devious means and of which Newt was inordinately fond, sat on the
floor at his side. The letter was from one Joe Carson and the mirth
it provoked almost caused Newt to spill from his precarious perch
and brought numerous, gleeful shouts of, "Oh, Yimminy!" from his
foam-flecked lips.

Kir-Um stared in amazement at this tableau and uttered a quick,
staccato, "Ickly-unc!" Luckily, Newt did not hear the Martian's
expression of surprise, but continued his perusal of the letter.

Kir-Um drew back and silently motioned Harl to look. Harl sucked in his
breath, but dutifully bent forward to the door. Newt had just placed
the bottle to his lips and Harl gasped with horror as he half-emptied
it, with one, tremendous gulp. On Mars, such wanton waste of moisture
would be punished with swift death, without benefit of trial. But this
wasn't Mars: this was Earth, the planet of abundance.

Kir-Um plucked at Harl's sleeve. "Why do we cringe at the sight of this
_creature_, Harl?" he whispered. "After all, _it_ is no more repulsive
than are these wretched bodies we have nobly assumed, for the glory
of our race. We are great, Harl. Unselfishly, we have foregone the
pleasures and conveniences of our magnificent physiques, so that our
civilization might once again take its rightful place in the destiny of
our System."

Harl's mind wistfully conjured a picture of his own, splendid body,
with its bulbous head, sleek, furry torso and many sensitive tentacles,
and he sighed heavily. "Yes, we are truly martyrs. My only regret is, I
have but nine tentacles to give for my species."

The two ceased their council of self-glorification and stood
"listening" to the thoughts of the Being inside. Their first impression
was that the Earthman was insane, so the mad cogitations of his mind
would indicate. Such random notions as: "Corner drugstore ... BEM ...
Amphibious Android ... Trimmed edges ..." had no significance to them.
But, quite suddenly, they picked up a thought that electrified their
very beings and caused a quick glance of fear to pass between them.
At the same time, it was a glance of elation, for here they had found
what was probably Earth's most invulnerable armament. Intently, they
concentrated on the astonishing thought unraveling in the creature's
brain.

Newt had reached the next to the last paragraph of Joe Carson's letter
and he was now reading it, with great enthusiasm. The hearty chuckles
it gave Newt were lost on the Martians, for they did not know the
meaning of humor. They understood only that here was the greatest force
against which they would have to contend; the biggest obstacle in the
path of the coming invasion; a barrier that would have to be battered
down and made impotent.

"This is incredible, Harl," Kir-Um whispered in awe. "Imagine it--a
weapon powerful enough to destroy all Earth! With such a thing, they
could completely annihilate our invading forces."

"It causes me no little alarm," Harl agreed. "I can't conceive
of such a fantastic weapon, but perhaps these Earthlings possess
more intelligence than we give them credit for. Perhaps they have
anticipated our invasion and have prepared for it."

"Harl," Kir-Um said with great solemnity, "I believe we are standing
in a citadel of science. A place where great, new theories and devices
are propounded and deliberated. And that _creature_ in there is the
guiding hand of this stronghold of knowledge. The letter he is reading
was undoubtedly written by the highest intellect of this world. As you
say, this genius may have foreseen our coming and moved to nullify
it. Spurred on by desperation, he created this marvelous weapon and
thought to surprise our onrushing, confident armies with an impregnable
defense. Quite by chance, we have stumbled upon this dastardly plot,
before it could be brought to bear."

"But what can we do?" Harl despaired. "The letter does not reveal the
nature of this weapon. How can we combat something of which we know
absolutely nothing? I am of the opinion we should abandon our conquest
and die a slow, peaceful death on our own aging world."

Kir-Um deliberated this advice, the deciding factor being a vision of
the Grand Councilor rising up in all his wrath and condemning the two
who had brought the bad news.

"No, Harl. The Grand Councilor might not approve of such a course.
To suggest such a thing would be to admit we have failed, and
the Councilor does not tolerate failure. Without thought of the
consequences, he might order us executed and deprive our planet of two
of its greatest minds. No, that won't do."

"We have no alternative," Harl pointed out, still whispering. "We
cannot stand against such a weapon, and better to sacrifice ourselves
than have our entire space fleet meet with destruction. If only our
armies could come through the Ato-Decomposera Twunend-Materializationa
Tutherend, perhaps we could surprise these scheming Earthlings and
overwhelm them, before they could bring this tremendous force into
play. But, unfortunately, we don't have the metal to build enough of
the machines."

Kir-Um nodded thoughtfully. "No, we can't stand against this weapon.
But we can gain possession of it and put it to our own use!"

Harl stared uncomprehendingly at Kir-Um. "You mean, ferret out this
genius and force him to divulge the plans of his invention?"

There was a gleam in Kir-Um's eye now. "Not only that, we'll secure a
working model and take it with us, to study and build from. No doubt
the weapon is complicated and, in this manner, we can gain first-hand
knowledge of its working."

"E-e-e-ump," Harl murmured softly. "Good, good, Kir-Um. It amazes me
that I didn't think of the very same thing. But, of course, you're one
hundred and thirty nine years older than I and, naturally, your mind is
more alert."

"Naturally," Kir-Um nodded. "But to get back to more vital matters....
We shall go to this Joe Carson, who, according to the thoughts of that
_creature_ inside, resides in a place called Majestic, Maine. I also
receive the impression this town is three hundred miles north of here,
in a straight line. The problem of transportation is easily solved; we
will purloin some sort of vehicle for the purpose. Once there, we shall
question this intellect, under influence of a hypnotic sleep, and lay
bare his secret. The plan will move forward of its own momentum then.
Let us go."

The two alien beings from a far world eventually gained the ground
floor and, easily forcing the, to them, crude lock, made their way out
into the night.

For a long moment, they stood, looking up at the black, impassive
sky. Something within their hearts called out to the mocking void for
reassurance; pleading for a tiny shred of encouragement. But no answer
came from the hollow emptiness that surrounded them.

Then, placing a thumb and finger to their nostrils, in the ageless
Martian gesture signifying complete unity of purpose, Harl and Kir-Um
strode forth to meet the destiny that awaited them.
