
Joe Carson glanced back uneasily at the two disheveled, unkempt
figures pedaling along wearily behind him. He was returning home
from the nearest drugstore, having purchased there all the latest
science-fiction magazines he could lay his hands on. The mysterious
strangers had appeared suddenly from a side-street, four blocks back,
and had clung doggedly to his trail, from that point on. Joe didn't
know what they were up to, but he was keeping a wary eye on them.

Harl and Kir-Um had performed a somewhat remarkable feat in driving
two stolen bicycles across three hundred odd miles of steaming,
strength-sapping, concrete highways and bumpy, bone-dry country lanes,
that weren't much more than wagon-ruts through the woods. They had made
many false starts and had fallen prey to numerous mishaps, such as
punctures and broken spokes. They had subsisted on berries, small game
and whatever food they could glean from a farmer's field. Since they
had not yet mastered the tongue of these Earth people, they couldn't
ask for food at the small road-stands that dotted the way. Nor could
they ask directions to their destination. But, by dint of stubborn
adherence to their purpose, they had, at last, arrived at the little,
prosaic town of Majestic. Covered with dust from head to foot and
ready to topple, from sheer exhaustion, they made their way through
the streets, feeling a dull conviction of defeat growing within them.
For they were unable to read the names of the streets or the numbers
of the houses lined tidily along each side, like proud soldiers.
It was night again and the uncompromising gloom only added to their
despair. The glaring street-lamps winked gleefully at their plight and
cast strange shadows to confuse their tired minds. The plain natives
who passed them paid no attention to the Martians. Being of a farming
community, they were used to seeing men encrusted with dirt and grime,
going home to a hard-earned night's rest.

Harl and Kir-Um were about ready to concede failure, when they had
turned from a side-street into the main thoroughfare. There, a thought
impinged upon their ever-receptive minds that lent new zest to their
sinking spirits. The reflection they received was:

"Boy! You're a lucky stiff, Joe Carson. You'll sure have some good
reading tonight!"

Joe Carson! The name struck a vibrant chord in their brains and sent a
feeling of elation surging through their bodies. Here was the object of
their quest. The person whom they had travelled across scores of miles
of terrifying, unfamiliar terrain to find.

Immediately they took up a close orbit in his wake, determined not to
lose this brilliant inventor of strange weapons in the darkness of the
night.

Joe was at once aware of his shadows, but he thought perhaps they
merely happened to be going his way. As block followed block, however,
with no let-up of the pursuit, he began to suspicion a dire purpose
behind their actions.

Harl and Kir-Um were slowly overtaking the object of their chase,
making no attempt to conceal themselves. Squeezing out every last bit
of energy, they matched pace with Joe, as he speeded up his pedaling in
an effort to pull away.

Joe was beginning to get a little bit scared. What could he have that
the strangers would want? Certainly not his bike, for it was worth
only a few dollars and had just about seen the end of its years of
usefulness. He laughed mentally at the fantastic thought that maybe
they were after his science-fiction magazines. Then, what?

They were approaching Joe's house now and his fear mounted steadily.
His parents were gone, away at some social function, and they wouldn't
return for three or four hours yet. There was nothing else to do, and
so Joe, philosophically deciding to let fate take its course leaped
from his bike and made a sudden dash for the shelter of the house.
