
Instantly they were after him, pounding across the dew-laden sod with
all the agility and grace of a couple of rampaging hippopotamuses. Joe
bounded through the front door and swung to snap the night-lock. At
that moment, something grasped his mind in a firm, unrelenting grip. He
no longer had any desire to resist the intruders and stood waiting for
them to enter and make him prisoner. Quickly Harl and Kir-Um forced him
into a chair and stared down at their victim with triumphant eyes.

"So," Harl panted. "At last we shall learn the secret of Joe Carson,
Earth's most amazing genius. Kir-Um, he is but a youth. I shudder at
the thought of one so young possessing so much knowledge. Could it be
that we have made a mistake?"

Kir-Um looked up at Harl reprovingly. "Do Martians ever err?" he
demanded. "No, this boy has a powerful, secret weapon and we must get
it from him, at all costs. I can't understand you, Harl. It would
seem as if you actually sympathize with these puny Earth people. The
Councilor wouldn't like to hear that, Harl. I would hate to see my best
friend put to death because he was too friendly with the enemy."

"I'm not friendly with these Earthlings, Kir-Um," Harl hastily
objected. "I merely think we should be cautious and not proceed at too
fast a pace but what we shall be lured into some sort of death trap."

"Well and good," Kir-Um nodded. "I believe we both realize our task
calls for vigilance and a meticulous sifting of fact from fancy. That
much goes unsaid. Conceding this genius is merely a boy, perhaps he is
a child prodigy or, then again, he may have invented this weapon by
accident. That is of little import, however. He has the weapon, we want
it and we shall have it."

Harl bowed humbly. "You are right again, Kir-Um. Your deductive powers
constantly amaze me. Shall we begin the questioning?"

Kir-Um wasted no time in preliminaries, but came right to the point.

"Where is your secret weapon, boy?" he snapped. He spoke in his native
Martian tongue, but the thought behind the words was quite clear in Joe
Carson's receptive mind. Joe fumbled for words and finally answered:

"Weapon? What weapon? The only kind of weapon I've got is my Daisy B-B
gun, and that's no secret. Mr. Jones, next door, found out about it
yesterday when I shot out his front room window. Boy, was he sore!"

Kir-Um nodded knowingly at Harl and said, in an aside: "He's trying to
mislead us. But he won't succeed. The truth will out."

Harl leaned forward to try his hand at the cross-examination. "You know
very well what weapon we mean, creature. You have kept your secret
well, but now you must relinquish it. Do not try to delude us with
fanciful stories and false denials."

"Somebody's been feeding you a line, chum," Joe laughed. "Your
trolley's jumped the track. Go on back to your cage, pa, and dream up
another one. You bore me."

The Martians realized the youth's mental barrier was going to be more
difficult to break through than they had anticipated. The situation
called for tact, yet the amount of time left to them necessitated a
direct attack. Kir-Um summoned all the powers of concentration at
his command and slowly, but surely, forced Joe's mind into a state
of passiveness. Satisfied, at last, the Earthling would give direct
replies to his questions, Kir-Um once more took over the interrogating
duties.

"You cannot deceive us, boy," he began. "A few days ago, you wrote a
letter to Earth's great science center, _Galactic Ventures_, I believe
it is. In this letter, you stated you possessed a secret weapon,
powerful enough to destroy this whole planet. You did not divulge the
details of this invention, but promised dire happenings to anyone
unfortunate enough to have this weapon directed upon them. We want the
plans of this amazing contrivance and you will do well to place them in
our hands, without delay."

"Oh, that," Joe's voice came dull and emotionless. "That's just a joke.
Just something I dreamed up to give the ed. a laugh."

Harl and Kir-Um didn't know what a 'laugh' was, but they did know that
they were finally making some progress. A meaningful glance passed
between them and they silently congratulated themselves for uncovering
the genius' secret in such short order.

"And these _Jokes_, creature," Harl spoke, "does anyone beside yourself
possess them?"
