
The Martians feared perhaps this strange scientist had already
distributed his weapon among his fellowmen, in preparation to resist
the coming attack. Joe's next revelation immediately justified their
fears and shocked them to the point of frustration.

"Sure. All the stf. fans have their little jokes, and they never
miss a chance to use them on some dumb ninny. Once I saw the _Misled
Biped_ pull a joke on a guy and he nearly went into epileptic fits. Of
course, it was a low-grade joke, or it would have laid him out cold as
a mackeral. You better never meet up with a fan when he's in a joking
mood, 'cause they don't have a bit of mercy and he'd probably play you
till you busted wide open."

The goggling intruders had visions of their marvelous bodies, bloated
till they were but horrible travesties of themselves, then to burst
apart like rotten bladders. Their eyes tried to pierce the forbidding
blackness of the suddenly-alive corners of the room and sandpaper
tongues darted nervously across dry lips. This bland-faced boy seated
in front of them was suddenly a repulsive gargoyle, squatting in his
evil throne and reveling in his fiendish power.

Harl coughed and made a feeble effort to compose himself. He had been
right--this was too big for them to cope with. They may as well return
to Mars and forget their dream of conquest. The Grand Councilor was a
fool for ever sending them on such a foolhardy expedition and he and
Kir-Um were still bigger fools for accepting the task. Yet, how could
they have known they would have to face a smoothly-geared organization
consisting of bloodthirsty monsters and power-mad geniuses who dreamed
up fantastic weapons just as an idle pastime? It was a plain case of
underestimation of the foe, a miserable, stupid failure.

"Don't give up so easily, Harl," Kir-Um had intercepted Harl's
unguarded thoughts and, realizing utter despair was rapidly pulling
them down to the point of bolting for the door and making a frantic
exit from this mad world, grimly purchased a new hold on his waning
optimism.

"Don't forget," he added, carefully shielding his thoughts from the
ugly Earth-creature, "once this force is in our hands, we will be
as powerful as they. More so, in fact, by virtue of our superior
intelligence and our ability to improve the _Jokes_ and make of them
weapons far surpassing the crude originals in performance. The mere
mention of a _Joke_ seems to cause a strange emotion in this youth; an
odd, violent vibrating of the entire body, accompanied by spasmodic
grunts and squeaks. Probably it is his passionate reaction to the
thought of the magnitude of his terrible deed. It is like nothing a
Martian has ever known. But it is proof this Earthling regards his own
creation with apprehensive fear and is reverently aware of its immense
potentialities. We must also realize only a portion of the population
of this world has _Jokes_ at their command, which will make our
invasion easier and our victory far more certain. True, many of us will
die, but, in the end, we will have Earth and all its wondrous resources
for our very own. Would you place your own personal valuation above the
continuation of our species, Harl? Do you respect the wishes of the
Councilor--Dibble-Ibble, bless him--or do you love your own precious
fur in preference to honor and glory? Reflect a moment, Harl, and I
know you'll see the wrongness of your decision."

Harl's chin was already halfway down to his feet and his shamed
blushing indicated he had reconsidered and repented. He still had his
doubts, but they had been squelched to a bare fraction of their former
greatness by Kir-Um's defaming tirade.

Kir-Um reminded Harl of their determination by pinching his nostrils
together and, assured of Harl's co-operation, resumed the questioning
of the youth.

"Do you have a _Joke_ with you now, creature?" he asked curiously.

"You bet," Joe replied. "I'm lousy with 'em. Wanta hear one? I got one
that'll simply kill you."

The Martians recoiled in terror.

"No," Kir-Um said sternly. "We do not wish to have the _Joke_
demonstrated on us. The first suspicious move you make, Earthling, and
you are dead. You may exhibit the _Joke_ and operate it, if you wish,
but do not direct it at us, for your life."

"Okay," Joe agreed amiably. "I'll just give you sort of a sample. Here
goes: Why did the moron plant dynamite in the dairy? He wanted to see a
boom in the ice cream industry!"

Joe bent double, clasping his hands to his stomach and emitting loud
"Haws" and raucous "Hee hees." His head bobbed back and forth like an
apple in a tub and his feet played a staccato rhythm on the carpeted
floor.
