
Harl and Kir-Um looked on in confused wonder. They could see no reason
for the boy's sudden outburst. They looked in vain for the weapon Joe
had promised to display. Then the light dawned in Kir-Um's mind and he
let go with a tremendous: "E-e-e-ump!"

"Harl!" he said excitedly. "Don't you see--it's the words! The words
are the weapon; his _Joke_, as he calls it. Imagine it--words built
into a complex pattern to form a destructive force! It is in an embryo
stage though, Harl. This creature barely averted disaster just now when
his _Joke_ back-fired on him. The pain must be excruciating, the way he
is retching and gasping for breath. We may consider ourselves lucky he
didn't aim the weapon at us. I shudder at the thought."

Harl was shuddering, too. They were indeed fortunate they were not
the object of the force Joe had unleashed, or they would probably
now be nothing but lifeless hulks, rotting on the weird world that
had betrayed them. He could not understand how words could cause
such havoc, but undoubtedly they could, for wasn't the pitiful Thing
before them even now contorted with the paralyzing torture he had
accidentally inflicted upon himself? Harl knew he could never forget
the gruesome drama he was now witnessing. Why, even the creature they
had encountered at the citadel of science must have been a victim of a
_Joke_, for he had acted in the same strange manner.

"That's the only possible explanation, Harl," Kir-Um was speaking
again. "This Earthling has discovered a way to assemble words in such a
formation as to cause a violent agitation in whatever they are directed
upon. I suspect, Harl, if this genius had received the full force of
that _Joke_, it would have shaken him apart, utterly and completely. In
other words, it would have decomposed his atoms and spread them from
here to Dibble-Ibble knows where. Now, we must learn how to form these
word patterns, thus to use them against our foe in the coming invasion.
Creature, have you a treatise on _Jokes_?"

Joe ceased his giggling and thought a moment. Yes, he did have a
treatise on jokes and they would find it in his desk upstairs. Be
sure and not touch his perpetual-motion machine, though, for it was
delicately balanced.

Kir-Um immediately dispatched Harl to procure the valuable document and
waited impatiently till his companion returned. He accepted the book
reverently and placed it safely in an inside pocket.

"Good," he muttered. "Now, creature, you will forget all that took
place here."

Joe nodded dully. "I understand. You guys are strictly from dreams. I
won't remember a thing about you when I come out of my coma."
