
The Martians walked to the door and turned to stare triumphantly at
their strange companion of the evening. There was a slight twinge
of pity in Harl's heart, as he thought of this boy as nothing but a
bunch of jumbled atoms flying helter-skelter through the universe, all
because he had made a _Joke_.

"You will awaken an hour after we leave," Kir-Um directed.

"Sixty minutes to the dot," Joe affirmed.

Harl and Kir-Um stepped through the door and breathed deeply of the
night air. It all seemed like a nightmare now, but the significant
bulge in Kir-Um's coat pocket confirmed their brief interlude with the
amazing genius, Joe Carson.

Kir-Um withdrew the book and painfully deciphered the title, by the
light streaming from a window. It read: _Joe Miller's Joke Book_. The
printer must have made a mistake, he reflected. It should read: _Joe
Carson's Joke Book_. But no matter.

In the Martians' minds, a picture formed. It was a beautiful picture.
Hundreds of sleek, fast spaceships hurtled down on Earth, forming
almost a solid sky of steel above the hapless planet. They were strange
spaceships, for apparently they carried no armament. The metal that
would have been used to equip the ships with guns had, instead, gone
into the building of more dreadnaughts of space, for they possessed a
weapon far more destructive than any bolt from a ray-gun or blast of
a disintegrator-cannon. On the bridge of each ship stood a renowned
Martian scientist, a small book clutched tightly in his hand. And
on the flagship, the Grand Councilor himself occupied the place of
honor, the original copy of the weapon open on a stand before him.
As the huge armada entered Earth's atmosphere, gigantic amplifiers
blared forth messages of doom to the inhabitants. Words with horrible
meaning assailed the ears of the population: 'Why doesn't a chicken
cross the road? It doesn't want on the other side!' 'Who was that wife
I seen you with last night? That was no wife, that was a lady!' Human
creatures screamed in agony and fell in the streets. Ghastly moans of
'Ha haw oh hee!' escaped from clenched teeth and bodies retched with
the unbearable pain of their torture. Slowly their bodies decomposed,
losing a couple of billion atoms with each convulsion. Soon, not a
human remained on Earth and this beautiful world and all its riches
passed into the hands of the proven superior species--the Martians. Ah!
It was a lovely dream. But soon it would be more than a dream--it would
be happy reality. Harl and Kir-Um both sighed together.

[Illustration: _Spacers would hover, their mighty weapons blaring forth._]

They pressed buttons concealed under their coats and slowly began to
fade, their outlines becoming indistinct and hazy. Kir-Um raised a hand
to his head in salute.

"Poor, foolish Earthlings," he murmured, "this is the end. Always
remember, if it had not been for Joe Carson's _Joke_, you would never
have found your demise. I salute you, strange creatures."

And they were gone.



