
The sense of strangling boredom never left him. Not even when the great
corona flared out of the paling blue and pulsed through the border
between earth and sky. He had never seen it before, and his absolute
ennui confirmed his decision. From the tangled roots of the flower
to the last Einsteinian closed curve there was dull sameness in the
universe. If there was a god it was only because he had never heard of
Nepenthe, Inc.

Then the multi-miled palace of death swam sluggishly into view, a fat,
tin-colored cookie can, with thousands of blind eyes.

The pilot who sat abstemiously on the edge of his seat threw a bunch
of fingers at the cookie can. He was a short, pulpy man with eyes that
looked as though they had seen stars topple and blinked for the dryness.

"Never seen anything like that hanging in the sky, did you?" he asked.

Condemeign frowned. He edged an eye toward the sun, gaudy in its
necklace of gas and stars.

"What about the moon?" he said. "What about half of that thing with its
guts coming out?"

The guide smiled gently.

"Quite impossible, Mr. Condemeign. Nepenthe is surrounded by a force
screen that could deflect a planet."

Condemeign brooded.

"With that sort of invulnerability, someone might...."

"Someone tried. And after that, even the sun wouldn't have him. He's
poking out around the Andromeda nebula, now, quite helpless, of course.
He can't turn the power off. Not in his lifetime, anyway."

A wide mouth gaped in the now faintly visible force screen through
which an ordinary blue light ray pulsed, serving as a beam, and the
tender turned slowly, pointing its narrow nose at the welcoming maw.

Condemeign watched the pilot make small, hushed motions at the
instrument. When he looked up again the airlock had closed behind them
and a wiry steel claw reached out to wrap the tender in its cradle.

He had half expected to see a winding line of neophytes clad in robes
of white writhing somewhere into a leafy nothingness with a mist-driven
tempo, perhaps from Debussy to waft them on to their Dies Irae. An
attendant helped him descend into the square steel room. His guide
paused and looked about, floating.

"A trifle businesslike and grim," he noted. "Inside there's gravity
laid on, good atmosphere. Nothing like this hot steel smell. And you
can walk. Excellent footing. Just like home."

They passed, mainly by violent swimming motions into a large hall.
Condemeign fell jerkily back on his feet, coming instantly again to
grips with the pull of gravity. Everything was steel walls fussily
disguised with a sort of furry, plastic lining laid on in thin sheets.
The guide walked him up to a desk against one wall, near a door.
Condemeign blinked at the soft blue illumination. The guide shook his
hand.

"I must be going," he said. "Glad to have met you, Mr. Condemeign."

The guide's hunched back faded through the door. Condemeign turned
listlessly to the figure at the desk. It was a woman, and before his
eyes focussed in the filmy light he got an odd impression of a brown,
papery bundle incongruous in its chiaroscuro lacings and bulgings.

"I am Miss Froon," she said. The smile that lit her face had last been
seen on Madame La Farge. It had cut its teeth on sad suttees. It was
thoroughly unoriginal.

Condemeign sighed. The perfect servant. The timeless, obsequious
recorder. Was Miss Froon, perhaps, the key to the last portal. She was
distressingly unattractive, rather flat in the chest and sported an
overly aseptic set of teeth that flashed. He noted the brown laths of
legs that poked from under the denim shorts. Miss Froon, he decided,
looked really like an underdone chicken.

Miss Froon rustled the papers before her. She tapped, almost frigidly,
on the glassy top of the desk.

"There are a few questions, Mr. Condemeign."

"Whose questions?"

Miss Froon clucked.

"Ours first, and then, if you wish, a few of yours."

Condemeign sighed and then he almost smiled. It would be a blind of
course, a subtle blind to confuse and reassure him. But then, weren't
the blind always getting kicked. Wasn't someone always dropping lead
nickels into the cups?

"The brochure mentioned nothing about questions, Miss Froon," he said.

"We do not insist upon it, Mr. Condemeign. You may answer the questions
or not. Nepenthe, Inc., as you already know, has investigated your
case. These are linking questions, Mr. Condemeign. They may be of use
to science."

So the almighty dollar had feet of clay. Even in space, between earth
and moon, beyond the one hundred thousand mile limit where the state
power ended and anarchy began, despite the insulation of distance
and depth, quite coldly independent of even the mighty barriers of
pelf, science was poking and treading about, listening and noting and
breathing down his neck. Well, what of it, he thought, finally. Life
was ceaseless obligation. He was beginning to realize that death might
be the same.

"Have you ever wanted to die before, Mr. Condemeign?" Miss Froon seemed
almost penetratingly aware of the verdict in his eyes.

"Often, Miss Froon." He lit a cigarette and watched her making the
first notations with a pencil. "It is only in late years, however, that
I have been able to afford it."

Miss Froon almost blushed. When she recovered she said: "Are you afraid
of death, Mr. Condemeign?"

"I hope so, Miss Froon. Like a certain Cardinal of Ragusa--you have
probably never heard of him--I am inclined to put a high price on
existence before it ceases." He paused and settled on the edge of the
desk, musing. "Yes, I rather hope so. There is little else to be afraid
of." He watched her through the smoke of his cigarette, blinking, a
wet stain of puny resentment and annoyance on the blotched beak. She
hesitated for an instant, but the flying fingers never stopped.

"Would you care to disclose the reason you wish to die?" she asked.

Let science in for one final peek, a last eyebrow lifting look at the
raised chemise. Why not? Even science might be persuaded that life was
unrecognizable from death except in the shifting phantasm and utterly
real land of sleep. He drew a deep breath.

"I think so, Miss Froon. It is, simply, that there is no meaning to
life, no meaning at all. I think this particular view is disguised
under a number of well-known philosophic terms and bodies of thought.
One might call it a sort of nihilistic Existentialism, to be more
concrete and specific. However," he paused and smiled charmingly and
with just a touch of sadness in his eyes, "I would not call myself
an Existentialist by any means. That sort of person playing Russian
Roulette, for instance, cannot help but manifest an interest in his
chances for life. He clings, so to speak, to even a tiny thread that
ravels enticingly from the million-threaded rope of ordinary existence.
Now, I"--Condemeign watched his left leg go back and forth in a short
arc--"I do not see the thread, though I know it is there as I know the
rope is there. Both a thread and a rope can hang a man. In fact, in
this case, they have."
