
He watched her, hoping for one flicker of interest, one sign that he
had said something original, for, beyond doubt, she was the supreme
critic, an unfailing reflection of all the prejudices that Nepenthe
had compassed, and even more. There was only the flayed blankness of
a blind wall in her eyes. He rocked, suddenly, seeming to see great
carven doors shutting him out, shoving him into the remotest corner of
a vibrant oblivion. Then, as it always had, silent Homeric laughter
saved him. He was an honest Cagliostro after all, an albuminous series
of endless, mystical passes that could never pretend to be anything
more than motion. Next question he thought. But none came, and then he
said, suddenly, "Is it painful, Miss Froon?"

Miss Froon did not bother to smile with all the prejudices of a woman
of the world. Her eyes glittered dully like a toad's and he perceived
in their depths the first awakening to him as something more than a
client, a case, a filing card to be abstracted. Miss Froon's voice,
he discovered suddenly, had more in it than the pride of neon and the
inexorable drive of continuity.

"It is never painful, Mr. Condemeign." She hesitated and then went on.
"It is sometimes interesting and often dramatic, but," and she cracked
the roast-brown crust of her face with a corpsy smile, "I think we
can safely say it is never painful. If--ah--oblivion were painful, we
should have no clients at all."

Done to a turn, he thought, and then a small man with a hint of
Mephistophelian humor glinting in his eyes and spraying off from the
sharpness of his chin, came in through the door by which his guide had
departed. He was smoking an oval cigarette and Miss Froon jumped to her
feet and filed Mr. Condemeign's papers in a wall recess before she said
anything.

"This is Mr. Condemeign, Dr. Munro," she said, turning to press a few
buttons, and Condemeign knew he had come to the end of the line.

"I am the Director of Nepenthe, Mr. Condemeign." Dr. Munro extended a
small, brown hand and Condemeign took it absently. "You have found our
establishment comfortable so far?" Condemeign nodded. Dr. Munro turned
to Miss Froon and said, "You may go, Miss Froon. It will be over an
hour before the next arrival."

"Very well, Doctor," she said and glanced up rather shyly before she
left. "You will find Mr. Condemeign interesting, I think."

"I rather thought so," the doctor said. "Yes, I rather thought so."
He nudged Condemeign with a slight pressure of his eyes down a short
passageway and presently they came out into a small domed room through
which the stars peered brightly. Dr. Munro indicated a comfortable
chair and seated himself after Condemeign.

"I could not help hearing your last question, Mr. Condemeign," the
Doctor said. "And I can assure you that Miss Froon answered correctly.
We do not accept neurotics or certifiable psychotics on Nepenthe."
Doctor Munro's eyes fixed Condemeign's with a stare of almost
unbearable morality. "We are not Torquemadas, sir, nor Satanists,
pandering to the perverted tastes of common debauchees. You will find
no connoisseurs of pain and anxiety among our--ah--staff, though if one
is ever required, I am sure that I myself could pass muster...." Doctor
Munro's eyes sharpened suddenly and a long purl of smoke went raging
past his lips. "Though, of course," he said hurriedly, "the occasion
has arisen only twice before. Both times in the case of an extremely
clever penetration of our screening system by agents of Bios. They
regretted it, of course, rather screamingly, as I remember."

"_Bios?_" Condemeign's eyebrows raised themselves the merest part of an
inch.

Dr. Munro laughed unpleasantly. He plucked at the latex lining of his
chair with quick, wrenching motions.

"Bios, Mr. Condemeign, is an organization of fanatical, reactionary
crackpots, cloudcuckoolanders and philosophical maunders who derive
their ideas from the old Hindus, holding that the taking of life for
whatever reason and in whatsoever fashion is a sin against the prime
law of the universe--so they call it--which is that life is destined
to animate all inanimate matter. They have an abhorrence of the
latter which extends to such absurdities as claiming that the planets
themselves are living creatures to absolve themselves of the horror of
even walking on inactive materials."

"I should imagine that the Biosonians would have some difficulty
reconciling themselves to clothes," remarked Condemeign dryly.

Dr. Munro chuckled, rubbing his hands.

"You are perspicacious, Mr. Condemeign. They are, of course, invariably
arrested when they appear on the streets, for they go naked. That is
the least of their depredations, however."

"There are others, more serious?"

Dr. Munro leaned back in his chair and lit the fourth or fifth oval
cigarette he had begun since meeting Condemeign.

"They recognize Nepenthe, of course, as the prime obstacle to what
they consider their main objective--the preservation and extension
of life." Doctor Munro's voice rose abruptly in annoyance. He brought
his fingers together, steepled, in what almost sounded like a violent
snap. "Mind you, wars may drench Earth and the other planets in blood.
Their contribution to the various peace funds are non-existent. Disease
and the various corruptions of mind and soul annihilate millions. One
would imagine that this absurd organization would devote its cloak and
dagger activities to wiping out such horrors, in raising the standard
of living, in forcing the various state powers to abolish poverty.
But no! No, Mr. Condemeign! This insane group of malefactors...." Dr.
Munro's palate clacked in the back of his mouth with indignation....
"This outrageous conspiracy against one of the most sacred rights of
life itself, which is, of course, to end it, can find nothing better
to do than interfere with a business which, though not legitimate in
the legal sense of the word, serves a purpose nobler than most and
certainly more artistic."

"They are really dangerous people, then?" Condemeign asked.
