
"Fanatics, sir, are seldom anything else. It is the sworn purpose of
Bios, frequently communicated to us in raffish notes and wax-sealed
manifestos delivered to us in numerous antediluvian manners, to destroy
Nepenthe."

"Rather Jesuitical," rejoined Condemeign. "In fact, hardly worth the
trouble."

Dr. Munro fussed. He peered out into the star-lit heavens nervously.
"They cannot, of course, possibly penetrate our force screens. But men
are more insidious than pointed projectiles. In fact...." He turned his
face to Condemeign's. "In fact...."

"You are rather wondering if I might not myself have waggled in an atom
bomb; that I am, myself, a Biosonian fanatic," said Condemeign. He
accepted a cigarette from Munro who leaned forward, his flashing little
eyes fastened on Condemeign's face.

"Not at all, Mr. Condemeign," Dr. Munro's lips parted in a smile. "We
can never be too sure about anything, you know, and it is possible,
ultimately inevitable, that Bios could successfully smuggle an agent or
agents past our screening." His voice dropped to a confidential level,
and Condemeign thought it might also be appealing. "I myself would not
wish to be present when that interesting event takes place. I'm just
wondering, Mr. Condemeign, whether or not you really are a fanatic." A
fluttery, almost frightened look crept into Dr. Munro's eyes. "We are
quite used to death on Nepenthe, and yet, somehow, it never seems to
lose its novelties or its terrors."

"I'm afraid I'm not a fanatic, Dr. Munro, nor an adherent of Bios."

The Doctor's eyes grew sadder.

"Somehow, I wish you were a fanatic, Mr. Condemeign. A fanatic about
something."

"Why?"

"Because a fanatic is far from being the most dangerous person in the
world." Dr. Munro's pointed chin quivered.

"And just what kind of person is, Dr. Munro?"

The Doctor rose, stubbing out his cigarette. "I think--I think ..." he
said slowly, "that every man is entitled to a few professional secrets.
And that fact is one of mine." His voice became explosive. "Come,
come, Mr. Condemeign, surely you have a better question than that. One
usually does."

Condemeign smiled. He had, of course. The obvious one. The last
surrender to the delicious, trivial preoccupation with the ordinaries.
The already flagellant skin eager for roughening against the last bark
edges of the grain. He saw himself, just once more, not abject at the
foot of the cross, but smiling into the wide bore of a pregnant pistol.
And a tiny chill shot through him, small, diffuse, but cold as the
black spaces beyond the dome.

"I really would like to know if the manner of my departure has already
been arranged."

Dr. Munro measured him with a professional eye. To Condemeign it seemed
as though invisible tapes were recording his dimensions, that hammers
and saws were already building a coffin. But there would be no coffin,
he knew. There hadn't been for hundreds of years.

"I rather think so, Mr. Condemeign," the Doctor remarked. "As you
know--as Miss Froon told you--all of the reports have not been fully
checked, but they are, most likely on my desk now. Of course, I can't
show them to you. We take special pains to...."

"I quite realize that," said Condemeign, satisfied. "Of course, I hope
that your staff has devised a suitable end."

Dr. Munro slithered close to Condemeign. He expanded. Whole ideologies,
entire universes of bulked emotion framed in his eyes.

"The best staff in the System, sir! You may be sure of it!" His voice
sank as it indicated scorn. "Nepenthe is worlds ahead of any of its
competitors. In fact, I might even say that Bios disdains to notice any
service agency of our sort except Nepenthe. Here we have the greatest
body of experts on their specialty ever gathered together under one
roof. Nepenthe has spared no expense to insure that taste, variety
and ingenuity surround every client on his way to the final goal. You
will not be surprised, Mr. Condemeign, when I tell you that literally
hundreds upon hundreds of man-hours are consumed in the devising of an
individual death, with as much care lavished on those of more moderate
income as upon those who could afford it several times over. A staff of
forty-three experts! Imagine!"

Dr. Munro's fingers rang, snapping in the air. A sort of glow haloed
his chattering face. "And every one of them an artist, a dreamer, a
virtuoso in his special subdivision of the field! Every man and woman
of the team selected from prepared lists. And then, Mr. Condemeign, to
accommodate this great body of talent thousands upon thousands of acres
of halls, corridors, playrooms, an infinitude of stages on which their
immense dramas or comedies--it is important to remember that death can
be a comedy--are contrived, controlled and brought to a denouement!"

Condemeign chuckled grimly.

"Just where is the body delivered, Dr. Munro?" It would not be an Irish
wake, he thought, with keening over the body, and a hearty toast to the
departed, rosy-cheeked and a-squat in the bier.

Dr. Munro, checked, gathered in the remnants of his dignity with a wave
of his fingers.

"There is no 'body' left, Mr. Condemeign," he said. "What is left
is discreetly disposed of in our private crematorium, and a death
certificate is secretly deposited in its proper place in the local Hall
of Records ... eh?" The Doctor started methodically and nervously as a
uniformed attendant stepped from behind a hanging. "Eh, what is it?"

"Case 27, Doctor." The man looking significantly at Condemeign.

"Oh, go ahead," Munro said petulantly. "It's all right."

"Case 27 is closed, Dr. Munro."

Condemeign blinked his eyes.

"You know, Doctor Munro, I appreciate your interest in me. I rather
imagine that you don't draw the curtains this far for everybody."

"Not for everybody, Mr. Condemeign," the Doctor said. "For you, why
not? It is not that you are interesting, Mr. Condemeign. It is,
frankly, that you are not a fanatic." He bowed gracefully.

"I'm afraid you will have to pardon me, Mr. Condemeign," the Doctor
continued. "I must report to my office. In the meantime, Sismus, here,
will show you to your room. You needn't bother too much about him. He
will merely be around to make the beds, help you dress and perform
any other little services you may desire. It is all in the brochure.
Consider Nepenthe at your disposal."
