
Sismus plucked at Condemeign's arm as the Doctor disappeared. They
walked through several interconnecting corridors, got into a gravity
tube and emerged, according to Sismus, on the other side of Nepenthe,
in an identical arrangement of passageways that reminded Condemeign of
the corridors of an ordinary space liner, opening out into staterooms.
His own room was little more than an over-sized cell, furnished with a
plain bed, a deep over-stuffed chair and several highboys. Condemeign
immediately inspected them. They were jammed full of bright-colored
lounging pajamas, the customary costume of clients of the firm. Sismus
helped him disrobe and put on a pair. Condemeign watched his clothes
swept into a disposal chute and replaced the wristwatch on his arm.

The attendant indicated an aperture in the wall beside the disposal
chute which seemed to perform most of the duties of a dumbwaiter. A
muddy-colored pair of socks fell through the aperture at the touch of a
button, as did a tall drink of gin-and-sugar.

"Your meals are served in the same way, sir," remarked Sismus, as a
small red light blinked and a bit of paper wafted in. "This is the menu
for the next meal." He handed the paper to Condemeign. "You need only
check off the items you wish and simply throw the paper back in the
slot."

Condemeign studied the really fine bill of fare. So they had abolished
days and time and the whole anachronism of boxing and correlating.
The sense of passage was to be dulled, and a fine, chaotic unconcern
inoculated, like a diffuse spray of forgetfulness coursing through the
body.

"The advantages of Nepenthe are overwhelming, Sismus," remarked
Condemeign, sipping his drink. "I am surprised that it is not run
purely as a hotel."

"Television is also laid on, sir," interrupted Sismus. "You may select
any live or recorded program you wish." He took a metal-covered book
from a shelf and handed it to Condemeign.

Condemeign flipped the pages. His eyes widened. He whistled, muttering.

"What's this ... 'The Perfumed Garden', 'Arabian Night', 'Fanny Hill'?"
He paused, breathless. Sismus was unconcerned.

"Nothing but the best of classic pornography, sir. You needn't worry.
We are outside of all the legal limits here. Will there be anything
else, Mr. Condemeign?"

"You can go, Sismus. Yes, thank you." The attendant, leaving, handed
him a guide to Nepenthe. "I'll manage, though the place is a bit
complicated." He gazed pointedly at the door and Sismus went away.

Over a second drink he examined the guide. Nepenthe, he decided, was
utterly fabulous. The rise and fall of several nations might take place
in only half the space. He selected a rococo dining hall, shaved at the
small sink and found where he wanted to go without any difficulty at
all.

There was no roof, nor a rounded dome. He sat at a small table in the
dining hall and dined with the silvery pinpoints passing overhead very
slowly as the cube tumbled end over end in its swift orbit. The meal
was sumptuous; a rasher of truffles dipped in goose butter and eked
out with an excellent and deathly dry champagne. He drank a lot of the
champagne and about an hour later it went to his head with the last of
the magnum. Two and a half quarters is a lot of champagne to drink he
mused, getting to his feet, and he wouldn't have missed a drop of it.
The novelty of not having to pay a bill took his fancy and he filled up
with a few fancy cigars at a dispensing machine and then dropped in at
a solidographic playing of a new version of Hamlet.

Leaving the theater with a jaded eye some hours later, he bumped into
a tipsy young man dressed in bright yellow pajamas who seemed to be
falling in the general direction of a large party being given in one of
the great ballrooms. The atmosphere became distinctly Louis Quatorze as
they passed under the curving archway and through a few drapes.

"Very interesting and doubtless enjoyable," Condemeign said, and
glanced at his wristwatch. "But I am afraid...."

The young man who was fair-haired and had a long, dissipated face that
verged on the degenerate, smirked.

"Nonsense, you have plenty of time. There's always plenty of time on
Nepenthe. You can't let yourself think any other way."

Condemeign pulled away gently, but the other seized him by the arm.

"Look here," he said, and grinned foolishly. "You might as well stay
here. How do you know all this isn't part of your particular exit?" He
glanced swiftly around and pointed. "See, there and there. Belted and
sworded. Maybe they're intended to pick a quarrel with you. Personally
I'd hate to go that way. It's heroic, but I just can't stand the touch
of cold steel." He reeled a little and Condemeign put out a steadying
hand. "Thanks, old chap. I didn't realize I'd had a bit too much."
