
Some revelers tore by, scattering bits of streamers and winy breaths.
A cold breeze blew suddenly through one of the ventilators and
Condemeign, half-carrying the other, went rigid. Death seemed at his
elbow, jerking and pulling and being mulishly obstinate about staying.
Death? His spine abruptly became a rod of ice. Where did it lie
for him? In that shiny door knob, quivering in immobility under the
fluorescents with frying voltage?

Was it a frozen Borgia smirk on some papier mache mask? Or did it leer
at him from the folds of a tunic that was visibly unable to perform
its office of hiding a pair of magnificent breasts? The weight in his
arms grew leaden. Could death, he thought, be approaching, lanced
and ready-levelled in the fine black eyes of the old man who was
approaching, tottering and rubbing his aged hands together. The ancient
wreck passed and Condemeign suddenly felt he could breathe.

A girl came striding out of a giggling group. She paused as Condemeign
got in her way, hefting his charge to a nearby chair.

"When did it happen?" she asked. Her gray eyes widened.

"Happen? When did what happen?"

She reached out a hand and drew it back, while the body of the young
man shuddered convulsively and one of Condemeign's supporting hands ran
suddenly red with blood. Then he saw the dagger in her hand and his
teeth chattered. The body clumped to the floor.

"Don't be so upset," the girl said. "It's probably the way he was
intended to go anyway."

"But they said it wouldn't be painful!" he protested.

She was very pretty, with a high-built head of red hair, a rather good
nose and pale cheeks. She smiled.

"I think it usually isn't," she said. "But one thing they don't tell
you is that anything really goes. There are no laws against murder on
Nepenthe, or against anything else. If you happen to get in the way of
someone who doesn't like you before the death department has a chance
to arrange their histrionics, the front office calls it cricket."

"I suppose ... I suppose," began Condemeign, wiping his sweaty forehead
with the sleeve of his pajamas, "that the death department never wastes
a good set-up." He stepped back as a couple of attendants came out of a
corner, finally, and took the body away. A few interested revelers went
back to their carousing.

"I haven't been here long enough to find out," the girl said. "But
those boys and girls are high-priced talent. And Doctor Munro is
a cagey sort. He probably has the first penny he ever made in his
counterfeiting machine as a boy." She paused, watching Condemeign's
face flicker from white to pink and back again. "Wait here a minute,"
she said, and then came back with a beaker of something alcoholic and
highly refreshing.

"I'm Firelie Gluck," she remarked, following the convulsions of his
Adam's apple as he drained the glass.

He tossed the beaker onto a pile of dead streamers and stood up.

"I'd like to know how he was killed without my knowing it," he said.

"Somebody probably slipped that dirk into him when you weren't looking.
You know, like this...." She fell against him suddenly and pinched
his ribs. Then she recovered, laughing. Condemeign shuddered. In the
thin, sharp shock of her fingers he felt the planners sculpturing death
out of dreams into quiet, almost joyous forms. Suddenly he seized her
hands and examined the fingers while she smiled up into his face. Then
he sighed with relief. There was no poison ring, no barbed, dripping
hypodermic crawling its point with icy death. Her nails were clean,
unpainted. He tore at her wrists and she giggled, writhing in his
grasp, and there was nothing there, up to the elbow, but smooth, pink
skin.

[Illustration: _Firelie Gluck fell against him suddenly and pinched
him. Condemeign shuddered, for he felt the planners sculpturing death
out of dreams into quiet, almost joyous forms._]

"Firelie Gluck," he whispered, and laughed. "I heard a name once before
like that, at a circus."

"Was she pretty?"

Condemeign stared at the hands of an old grandfather's clock across the
great room.

"She was the bearded lady," he said. He walked away from her, thumbing
his guide to Nepenthe. He hoped the drink she'd given him wasn't a
watery passport to hell, for a while at least.

The guide advertised an excursion service on the outer skin of the
great cube. He'd known about this, of course, but now he also knew how
to reach it. The trip consumed a few gravity lifts, a turn or two in
branching corridors and ended in an airlock attached to a luxurious
bar. He had a Manhattan or two while an attendant fitted a spacesuit
on him.

"You're sure you're not subject to giddiness, sir? If you are, I
wouldn't advise shutting off the magnetic shoes. The bulk of the
structure will keep you from flying away too far, but...."

"It will be quite all right," Condemeign said. He drained the last
glass and let the attendant help him to the airlock opening.

"The oxygen cartridge lasts just an hour, sir, remember that," the
attendant said.

Condemeign smiled. For him it might last two minutes. But the clock
over the bar told him that even with that, and given a few more minutes
of slow, numbing asphyxiation, he'd be able to do the job he'd come to
Nepenthe to do. In fact, if they weren't too fussy about picking up
bodies before the oxygen cylinder exhausted itself, he could do the job
dead as well as alive.

The door closed behind him and then a great glass wheel in front of
him opened and there was a little, abrupt snowfall as the air in the
chamber condensed into crystal. He inched forward to the edge of the
cube and pulled himself out on the surface.
