
In Dr. Munro's office, Firelie Gluck handed him Condemeign's
wristwatch. Munro grunted.

"You have been very useful, Miss Gluck," he said. "You are a most
intelligent and perspicacious woman." He tossed the wristwatch to the
desk top and watched it with fascination while his lips moved. "You
won't reconsider your decision?"

Firelie lit a cigarette with slow animation.

"I don't think so, Doctor. When I came to Nepenthe I had every
intention of seeing it through. I was not only bored with life, but I
had something of the same point of view that Mr. Condemeign professed."

"Yes, I know. That's why we used you. But there is more to it than
that."

Firelie fastened her eyes on the watch.

"Thank goodness there is. Just one step further, in fact. And once you
take that, even the meaningless becomes worth the effort."

"I--I don't suppose you would care to reveal exactly what you mean,"
the Doctor asked, hesitatingly.

"Not unless you want to refund more than my original down payment. Say
a million dollars more."

Dr. Munro chuckled dryly.

"Your price will come down, Miss Gluck. We'll get in touch with you on
the question when it does. Naturally, you'll have to guarantee not to
reveal it to anyone else, otherwise we might be tempted to give you a
free treatment here."

Firelie Gluck said nothing, but her eyes laughed grimly.

A buzzer sounded beneath the desk. Dr. Munro clicked a switch and
transferred his oval cigarette to the other hand.

"Yes?"

"This is Miss Froon," Miss Froon's voice, though a trifle reedy, was
pregnant with import. "I have something to report, Dr. Munro--on Mr.
Condemeign's case. Number 32."

The Doctor relaxed in his chair. A flicker of interest tinged with
bored annoyance crossed his face.

"Go ahead, Miss Froon."

There was a mechanical squawk from the instrument and then it cleared
and Miss Froon began. She seemed happiest now. When she finished, Dr.
Munro blew a long stream of smoke toward Firelie Gluck and tapped his
cigarette case. Miss Gluck lit up, settling back with a smug air of
being on the inside for the first time. It was not the least reason why
she had been willing to cooperate.

"Oh?" Dr. Munro's voice was tainted with sincere remorse. "I am sorry
to hear of it. Mr. Condemeign, of course. Was the end painful?"

Firelie turned her ears toward the blind receiver with some interest.

"I don't think so, Doctor," Miss Froon said. "Mr. Condemeign perished
of ordinary asphyxiation. He had apparently smashed the faceplate of
his helmet."

"Yes, yes, we can't have them dying like that." Dr. Munro looked at
Firelie Gluck and he winked.

There was a pause and then the mechanical voice went on:

"Isn't--isn't that rather expected, Dr. Munro, in any case? On
Nepenthe, I mean?"

The Doctor closed his eyes and then opened them wearily.

"We won't go into it, Miss Froon, but I would advise you to make a note
of the entire reports on this case and study them, say in three years
time when you graduate to the psychological department. But I will give
you a hint now on which you may ruminate. Mr. Condemeign was not only
unworthy of our services but he almost caused the total annihilation of
Nepenthe."

He heard a restrained clucking and he knew that the chicken skin had
gone white. Within a reasonable time, something else would be green.

"That's right, Miss Froon. You will immediately see the value of
attention of minute detail. You have undoubtedly very often wondered
whether or not you couldn't handle my job as well. In my opinion, Miss
Froon, you will be ready when you notice _all_ the details."

He clicked his teeth against a very long cigarette holder, waiting,
while Miss Froon crowded herself down. There was a hesitant clearing of
the metal throat and then:

"Have you any instructions for the disposal of the body, Dr. Munro?"

The Doctor made a small notation on a pad.

"I think it would be appropriate," he said finally, "if Mr. Condemeign
were found drowned and heavily bruised about the body at some beach or
other in his own city. Make the usual arrangements and.... Yes, Miss
Froon--refund the $25,000 to Mr. Condemeign's personal account. No
doubt we shall see it again when his heirs have gotten somewhat beyond
their capacities."

The click of the switch on the other end of the wire was deafening.

Firelie Gluck closed one eye.

"I don't suppose you'd care to tell me just what it's all about?"

"I'd be glad to, Miss Gluck, if...." And Dr. Munro paused
significantly, poring over her as he would a colored relief map.

Miss Gluck didn't hesitate. She crossed one leg over the other and
smiled.

"Any time you say, Doctor. I'm about ready to graduate anyway."

Dr. Munro settled back in his chair. He pressed a button and a
fuzzy-lined steel wheel rolled back on its gymbals and let them look
out on the framed earth and moon.

"You can keep a loose tongue on anything I tell you, Firelie, because
Nepenthe is only too anxious to let Bios know that we trumped their
ace again. I'd suggest Munson of International News. He's pretty
good at Sunday supplements and ghostly little television fillers. But
don't quote me. If you do, you'll find yourself in the middle of an
Egyptian passion play, or maybe Inca--I forget which culture the death
department recommended for you. Anyway, you'll be the chief victim."
He paused, leaned forward to pat her hand which lay vibrant on one of
the arms of her chair and resumed, after she nodded softly in complete
understanding.

He pointed to the watch.

"Condemeign never thought we'd examine his wristwatch of course. Very
probably he knew very little about our precautions. After all, the
only two other Bios agents we caught never got back. X-rays taken in
the tender that brought him to Nepenthe showed an intricate mechanism
concealed in the stem head. It warranted investigation, because that
was all he had on him that could cut ice. Nothing concealed in his
clothes or in various bodily orifices--you'll pardon my frankness, of
course."

"No offense," she said. "What's dangerous about a watch stem?"

"Bios couldn't bring an atom bomb aboard in any case. They couldn't
bring it inside, so they decided to work on an outside job."

"Second-story stuff?"

Dr. Munro watched the rim of the moon follow its mistress down the
solid curve of the window well. His eyes were still frightened, still
shaken by the forgotten memory of utter annihilation.

"In the little watch stem was a most ingenious device, a device for
polarizing two pieces of atom-bomb explosive that had been fired from
diametrically opposite directions at Nepenthe. Their velocity, of
course was extreme, more than sufficient to enable them to reach the
proximity point of critical mass once their courses were brought into
alignment."

Dr. Munro let a heavy glass ash tray drop on Condemeign's watch. The
stem wheel with its axle fell out and rolled, flattened and broken
on the desk top. He swept the debris together and tossed it into a
disposal chute.

"That was supposed to correlate the courses of the two oncoming,
opposing containers, each of which was able to correct its direction
when it received the proper signal from the watch stem." The Doctor
sighed. "Thank heaven, neither of them did. Condemeign would have had
to work it from outside Nepenthe--our power plants tended to blank out
the radio signal--and he couldn't, of course."

"You mean those two components were supposed to reach critical mass
just over Nepenthe?"

The Doctor whistled softly.

"I hardly think it would have blown us entirely to flinders, but
undoubtedly we would have gone out of business."
