
Miss Gluck rose and went to the round window well.

"But I still don't understand about Condemeign. You said he wasn't a
fraud at all."

Dr. Munro plucked at her hand. He hardly seemed to be concentrating on
what he was saying. He had eyes for other things.

"No, he wasn't a fraud. He was a member of Bios and he really wanted to
die, and that's why they sent him."

Miss Gluck uttered a low moan. It was not a moan of pain.

The Doctor continued.

"The watch stem was conclusive, of course. But we were curious. We
collect data, you know. We aren't entirely a cube for coining money.
That question about his reason for dying. He was a nihilist, a man
to whom nothing means anything, or who thinks it doesn't. Of course
something always does. And the thing that did was his loyalty to Bios."

Miss Gluck managed to speak. She was unquestionably a woman thirsty for
knowledge above all else. Her voice was a voice in a dream.

"Yes, I was curious about that. His loyalty to Bios, despite the fact
that he wanted to die."

Dr. Munro didn't answer for about fourteen seconds. Then he did.

"He just thought he was a nihilist. But the last thing he had to do was
a job for Bios and that was going to be his last joke on everything,
you, me, Nepenthe. Of course he didn't care for anything--and of course
he cared for something. Everyone does so long as they're alive.
Otherwise, why bother to even die?"

Firelie Gluck said nothing in reply to that. But after a minute the
Doctor said:

"Of course he had to tell the truth because he thought nothing meant
anything at all. That's why Miss Froon asked him those questions I
wrote out. What's that, Firelie? _Who cares about Miss Froon?_"

And then for about twenty minutes neither of them strictly speaking,
said anything.

Later, when Miss Gluck had gone off to the waiting tender, the Doctor
watched it blast off toward Earth. He was in a characteristic mood,
sitting rather despondently at his desk when a small aperture in the
wall behind him uttered a cheerful bleat and disgorged a sheaf of
papers on his desk. They were stamped with the tasteful insignia of the
death department and everything was there, drawings, full instructions
down to the last detail and even small paper mache figurines. He
thoughtfully erased Condemeign's and Miss Gluck's names from the folder
covers and put them aside.

In any case, science be served. And nothing would be wasted after all.
The clients whose payments fell in the parsimonious brackets, whose
incomes just barely entitled them to the right to a managed exit, would
hardly notice the difference. They would be full of the blandishments
of the brochure.

Abruptly, he brightened, as though the invisible sun had winked
impudently through the window well, as though a gate had opened on some
blue sky over a green-grown cemetery. He hummed a solemn tune, hoping
that one day he too would be a bright case in the annals. Privately, in
point of ingenuity, that would cause the death department many a fine
headache, and especially in originality, he would be near the top, he
knew.

In the meantime, to the accompaniment of its inevitable greeting, the
little aperture had delivered more work. The day was wasting.

He shook himself back to a saturnine countenance. Like all other days
it was a fine day for dying. A fine time.

What else was time for?



