
Ward’s stunned brain turned him around warily, slowly. He stared and
blinked. He saw one of the Guard’s hands dive for his service paralysis
ray gun. There was a sharp _thunggg_ from the little wiry man crouched
by the open window, and an air needle punctured the Guard’s chest. He
cried out feebly as he fell unmoving at Ward’s feet.

The remaining two froze in incredulous fear. The red-faced one seemed
abnormally affected; his eyes bulged, face twitched. The little man,
clothed in the natty pale blue garb of an air-taxi driver, motioned
with his gun. Small black eyes with rusty flecks glittered dangerously.

“You, Doc!” he clipped. “Get out the window. These puppets are liable
to go hysterical any minute.”

Hope spurted inside Ward, ran through his brain like a rat in a garret,
as he fell away from the Guards and found himself before the open
window. An air-taxi was parked there, held by the grapple rail.

The Guards were strongly conditioned, so strongly that the possibility
of Ward escaping overcame their blue funk. Desperately they sprang in a
half-hearted attack, whipping out their guns.

“Chicken-gutted jackasses!” spat the taxidriver, firing again and
plunging the first Guard moaning on his face. The big, red-skinned
Guard slewed to one side; as he fell to escape the taxidriver’s aim, he
pressed the stud of his paralysis ray. The taxidriver fell clear by a
hair’s breadth beneath the stream of blue fire. Another needle twanged.

What happened then would have appalled the most sanguine and capacious
imagination. Ward’s brain crawled; his stomach dropped with nausea and
horror. The room swirled like madness unveiling herself as the dying
Guard’s mouth opened and a tattered scream pierced the confined space.
And then the Guard’s body began to disintegrate.

Some chemical reaction process, working at astounding, chain-reaction
speed, reduced the whole body and uniform, within a few seconds, to a
small liquid puddle which vaporized leaving no sign that such a Guard
had ever existed, except the paralysis gun and a few bits of alloy.

The taxidriver said casually. “The Mo-Sanshon, Doc.”

Ward gulped. “The Mo--”

“That’s the reason they’re never found out, Doc. Suicidals. When they
suspect there’s even a dim possibility of discovery, they release a
catalyst into their blood stream. That’s what happens.”

“But surely,” choked Ward, “someone has seen--”

“What? They can never prove they’ve seen what doesn’t exist any more.
Psycho cells have always been loaded with patients who claimed to see
what wasn’t there. Come on, let’s dust out of this hole!”

_Peculiarly ancient jargon_, thought Ward, _even for a taxidriver._ He
stepped onto the narrow ramp. A cold night wind cooled his fever and
new hope strengthened him.

“Who the devil are you?” he said faintly, as the taxidriver closed the
window to the Verdict Cube and dropped down beside him in the front
seat of the open air tourist taxi.

He grinned thinly, recklessly. “Another psycho the Council hasn’t
labeled yet. Name’s Red. Red Formica. To be pedantic, you might call me
a victim of regression, an atavist. Things have got to have a tag, you
know.” He released the magnetic grapplers, and punched the controls.
The air-taxi darted out into a traffic beam, and lunged downward.

Before Ward could formulate further questions the taxi dropped heavily
down on a dark, small rooflanding on the lowest, cheapest level of the
city. He allowed himself to be led down a shabby, creaking escalator
and through a narrow corridor into an ill-lighted room, thick with the
reeking heavy drug of the Venusian bluerose. The occasional gurgle
of mind-burning _selir_-whiskey and the dull monody of a three-piece
Ionian orchestra completed the morbid setting.

A forbidden underground escapeasy!

Here, men of the lower income brackets, who couldn’t afford the
far-flung exotic worlds of the System, came to escape their monotonous,
colorless lot.

Ward gaped. Back in his small, provincial midwest college laboratory
he had never, of course, expected to end up in an escapeasy. Dim,
lethargic shadows stirred in the drugged gloom and from somewhere a
girl’s soft laughter called. The scrofulous dive was permeated with a
heavy air of solemn, self-induced asphyxiation.
