
Red led Ward to a table, and they became a part of the vaporous
shadows. “Two glasses of _satho_,” said Red familiarly. A vague form,
apparently the barkeep, glided away and returned almost immediately
with the cold, stealthy liquor.

“A toast, Doc,” said Red tightly. “To a quick victory over the
Mo-Sanshon--all ten trillion or so of them.”

Ward nodded numbly, and wondered how his thirty-eight years of academic
research could have qualified him for this. He had sweated out a
hermit’s life on the burning Martian Deserts for four years, gathering
his data on the Mo-Sanshon who filled the countless miles of catacombs
under the red clay surface. And he had considered that an all time
low--at the time.

He drank. The liquor scorched his throat and started quickly on his
brain. He belched and wiped tears from his eyes. Finally he managed to
whisper, “I’d appreciate a sort of hint as to what this is all about.”

Red’s freckled nose wrinkled. “I have a good story. Very credible. I
just want to help you. Not because I give a damn about whether humanity
stays around or not. But because I crave excitement. If you need a
reason, that’s as good as any.” He drained his glass stoically and
called for a refill.

“Real tiger-milk,” he grinned. His red hair flamed as a dancing girl
slid by with a hokohloo lamp spinning its sense-drunkening harmonies
in a jeweled hand.

“But how do you know so much about all this?” insisted Ward.

“We cabbies get around.” Which didn’t explain much. Or did it?

“But why should you believe me, when no one else does?”

“I just want to, Doc, that’s all. I think the old anarchistic culture
was better than this puking state of the proletariat we’ve got now.
Got most of my education from the past--nineteenth and early twentieth
century literature. And I live in the underground ghettos of the
present. Wishful thinking. I only hope you’re right, probably.”

“I assure you,” pleaded Ward. “I’m not a psycho.”

“I don’t give a damn whether you’re psycho or not. So am I. Anyway,
we’re killers now, gangsters. Unheard of in our perfect little futile
order. So unheard of that we’ll probably get away with it easier than
we think.”

Ward shrugged. “I’ve got some equipment that must get to Mars very
quickly, if my fight against the Mo-Sanshon is to be effective. Speed
is essential.”

“Want to get them in the heart,” said Red.

“Why ... er ... yes. Their headquarters, their center of operation.
In fact, to get the Queen Mother alone should be sufficient. The real
intelligence, I believe, is only a small inner circle of mutations.”

Red leaned over the table. His rust colored eyes shown eagerly. “Then
let’s go, Doc!”

Ward’s lips curled. “There wasn’t a chance before, let alone now.”

“I’ve got it all fixed, Doc,” said Red. “What do you think I brought
you here for?”

“I’ve been wondering,” said Ward dryly.

“We antisocials stick together here. Kind of an underground cult, you
know. And we figured it all out how we could rescue you and get you
to Mars--just as a gag you know, a little excitement. That act in the
Federal Building was just like an old two-dimensional movie I saw the
other night at the museum. Late twentieth century I think, called,
‘Hounds of the Void.’ Got the book, too.”

“But how do we get to Mars?” insisted Ward desperately. “Was that in
the movie, too?”

“Precisely,” said Red. He motioned, and Ward was stumbling and mumbling
away after the red-headed taxidriver.
