
Alingmore sat the black case on a table and reverently opened it.
A make-up kit, complete with plastimold, syntheskin and all the
accessories of modern theatre. “He’s a wizard at make-up,” bragged Red.
“He passed himself off as a Venusian fishman once, at a Federation
Council meeting. Got his artist’s license taken away from him. Now he
haunts escapeasies. He’s going to make us look like the scholastic
idiots on the floor. We’ll use their priorities and passports, and
we’ll be on Mars with the _Sol_. What do you think of ‘Hounds of the
Void’ now?”

“I can’t think very clearly,” murmured Ward, sitting down heavily on
the pneumatic couch. “Maybe it was the _satho_....”

In a matter of moments Ward found himself aboard the _Sol_, ensconced
in a special stateroom with quartzite observation dome. He was looking
at a face in the three-dim reflector that resembled Professor Limerick
more than Professor Limerick himself. “I don’t believe it,” he said to
the taxidriver who now could have passed for the assistant’s zygote
twin.

“Sure, we made it. Knew we would, Doc.” He was sprawled out on the
richly furnished gravnod bed, reading a ragged museum copy of the
“Hounds of the Void.” “These Guards and officials don’t know how to
deal with antisocials. Not enough cases in our tired order to keep them
in practice. A few old time gangsters and criminals could take over the
whole System in a jiffy. These representatives of Solar law and order
are phonies.”

Ward turned. “But the Mo-Sanshon aren’t so naive, Red. They know I’m
aboard. My disguise probably doesn’t fool them. They know I’ve got the
cage of mercenaries with me, too.” Ward looked at the plasticage on
the floor among many other cases. It contained numerous air valves and
was about a yard square. It was very heavy for its size but was easily
carried because of the levitation plate on the bottom. From inside of
it came a steady rustling and stirring.

Ward nodded. “The Mo-Sanshon will keep on trying every means they can
within apparently legitimate channels to stop me before I can release
those mercenaries inside their subterranean chasms. And that won’t be
easy for us, either. I was there four years and couldn’t get anywhere
near their headquarters. They’ve been there for centuries, aeons,
before humanoid culture evolved on either world.”

“I know,” said Red. “How different and lonely their life must be--when
you even compare it with ours. How envious and jealous they must be.
And how they must hate us, buried as they are underground, hidden from
the stars. Static, no individuality--that’s all lost in the colony. The
State is all. And someday humanity may evolve into the same death trap.
No wonder they want to destroy us. They can’t stand to see us keep on
living, even partially free. It hurts.”

Ward nodded, surprised again at Red’s heterogeneous knowledge. “But,
even assuming anthropomorphic attributes as they have somehow been able
to do, they still are insects, with instinct rather than intelligence
as we know it. They see the world, universe, their own culture with the
same prejudice, egotism, and dogma. I doubt if they can even comprehend
the physical facts of space, duration and distance, as we know it.”

“Therefore, they shouldn’t survive,” said Red with sudden savage
coldness. “They can’t know this life, Doc, and they shouldn’t live. And
neither should little guys like us if we can’t reach the stars. Here I
am, born in an age of atomics and interplanetary travel--and I’m bored.
I have to read science-fantasy from the escape literature of past
centuries to keep from going psycho. Do ordinary proletarians like me
get to go to Mars and Venus, or even Luna? Hell no! Have to have number
one priority and who gets them? Big shots with plenty of suction, and
platinum credits. Only a fraction of a percent of Earthmen have ever
been outside the ionosphere. Wait’ll the revolution, Doc. There’ll be
a spaceship on every roof landing, and two pressure suits in every
closet!”

“Won’t have to worry if the Mo-Sanshon takes over,” said Ward as he
spread some hair eradicator over his face and wiped it off with a
towel. “Annihilation is a sure cure for ennui.”

“And preferable,” said Red softly. “I ought to know.”

“Almost blastoff time,” said Ward. “Let’s strap in.”

Red went to the door and adjusted the photo cell. “That’ll have to be
turned back before it’ll function. Don’t open it unless you know who
wants it--if it’s an officer, it won’t make any difference. Be alert,
Doc. There are Mo-Sanshon on this ship!”

“Are you certain?” said Ward quickly. “How can you be?”

“I am,” said Red tensely, his lips a thin harsh line. “Very certain,
Doc.”
