
Ward breathed easier after he awoke from the effects of the sedative
and found that they had at least gotten outside Earth’s gravity without
mishap. Only the Mo-Sanshon to worry about now. That was all, just
the potential conquerors of the Solar System. Through the special
observation dome into a mind-drowning eternity of devouring blackness,
Ward gazed in awe. An expanse dotted with an eternity of coldly-cut,
unshimmering dots of light. He wasn’t new to spaceflight, but the
spectacle was inexhaustible, a bottomless cup of frigid infinity.

But Red appeared mesmerized. His face stuck to the quartz, he murmured
dreamily, “The void ... deadly emptiness and waste ... an uncharted sea
without boundaries ... when a guy’s out here, he’s a part of space and
time.... God, how I’ve wanted it ... and I never thought I could have
it ... my world’s a long way from any of this....” He turned slowly.

“Doc--I’d like to keep right on going, if I could. I’d go right on
out beyond the Asteroids, and keep on until Jupiter faded. I’d go on
out on the other side of the Life Zone until Uranus was lost. And
then--well--what would be better than just to disappear in interstellar
space?”

Ward swallowed a protein-vito concentrate and said he could think of a
few things that might be more pleasant at the moment.

“This civilization’s bad enough,” said Red. “But the Mo-Sanshon is
worse. It’s lifeless, evil and futile.”

“Right,” said Ward. “But I’ve often wondered why they haven’t conquered
man before. They have the advantage of reproduction and adaptability.
The Earth fly and the Martian _trunj_ can reproduce over twelve
trillion in six months. Their adaptability is vastly superior. They’ve
been around for a billion years or more on Earth and on Mars probably
longer. And their number of species is overwhelming--somewhere close to
a million on Earth, on Mars somewhat less. Their only trouble has been
their static culture. Permanence. But now--”

“Bugs can have their mutations, too,” finished Red.

Ward said, “That was my starting premise. That mutant intelligence has
appeared among the Mo-Sanshon and that their leadership has spread to
Earth and has influenced certain species of insects there--mainly ants,
termites, and bees. On both worlds, they’re now winning the battle of
production. They’ll be able to starve man out by taking his plants away
from him and undermine his cities, which they’re already doing at an
alarming rate. Weakened by starvation, humanoids will be subject to
disease, plague and pestilence, also brought by insects. This will be
their _coup de grace_.”

“And yet, Doc, you’ve got a way in that cage there to stop them!” Red’s
eyes were narrow lines behind dribbling paraette smoke.

“Right,” said Ward. “And these mercenaries are certain antidotes--if we
can just turn them loose among the Mo-Sanshon leaders.”

“An insect menace,” said Red. “Back in the age I prefer, they even
stopped publishing fantasy themes about insects--overworked and too
trite. And now to be a hero of an insect menace theme--”

“Was that the reason they stopped publishing that kind of stories,”
said Ward, “because it was overdone, trite? Maybe the editors were
influenced by the Mo-Sanshon, even then. Charles Fort, you’ve read him?
The excluded and the damned are marching.”

“Fort and Korzybski, my bibles, Doc. And that’s a good theory. The
insects have been the most obvious threat to man’s dominant position,
yet they were ignored, the whole idea dropped when too much publicity
was current.”

Red looked at the cage. “Mercenaries,” he said. “Ingenious as hell.
You’re a great brain, Doc.”

Ward studied the enigma that was labeled Red. There was no reason not
to trust him now. He almost had to. “Yes. I’ve managed to breed a--”

The room’s lights glowed blue and then died. Ward turned, mouth
suddenly dry and sticky. Someone was outside their door. Red’s face
was twisted, his real expression showing through the plastimold and
syntheskin make-up. It was one of burning hate. He leaped into the
middle of the room in a half crouch. “It’s one of them!” he hissed
between tight teeth. “It’s the Mo-Sanshon.”

Ward said, “How can you tell?”

“No time for dialectics,” said Red, voice trembling with emotion. “It’s
the Executive Officer of the _Sol_, no less. And you can’t keep an
Officer out. His keys’ll open the banks, anyway.”

Ward was getting callous. “Needle him, then. And he’ll disappear. They
can’t blame us for a non-existent corpse.”

“No!” grated Red. “There are others aboard. He has others waiting in
the hall. I’ve got to stay hidden, understand that, Doc. That’s the
only way I can help you, and without that help, you’ll never accomplish
anything. You’ve got to trust me. I’ll get the cage out of here and
hide it.”

“But--” began Ward.

“I’ll hide here among these crates. You let ’em in. We’ll see what
happens.”

This time the banks functioned, and Red ducked down out of sight.
The panel slid slowly into the wall. The Officer standing framed
in the opening was grossly huge, with a pasty dead white face and
expressionless glassy eyes. His voice was low and hollow. He stepped
inside and the door slid closed. Ward felt a smothering trapped cloud
enveloping him, greater than any he had known so far, thick like
poison air. Even the Executive Officer of a luxuriant space liner like
the _Sol_! The inhumanness of the creature was obvious to Ward, but
he could understand why it wouldn’t be to those uninformed. A little
insight made all the difference. Why hadn’t Red needled him as he stood
here? The cage, of course, but then--besides no one would suspect a
passenger listed as Professor Limerick, harmless botanist and--

“You will come with me, Professor Ward.” It wasn’t a question.

“You must have the wrong compartment. I’m Professor Limerick. I’m
going to study the indigenous spores along the canal at--”

“Doctor Ward, please,” the phlegmatic voice said. “You’ve suspected
we are telepathic. Now you know. It is a superior weapon. We know you
killed one of us in Washington, and that you registered as Professor
Limerick and his assistant--” the cumbersome head swayed. “By the way,
where is he?”

“In the gaming rooms,” said Ward quickly. “He ... er ... plays chess.”

“You will come with me now,” repeated the monotonous voice. The body
shifted slightly.

“Will I?” said Ward. “You have no such right. As a passenger of--”

“You are a labeled psycho. I have full authority to confine you in
a psychocell until we reach Mars. There is no other way. Our other
methods have failed. For a human male, you have rather a finely
developed mind. You will die enroute of--natural causes. A ship can
never be held responsible for what happens to a psycho’s unpredictable
nervous system in space.”

Ward’s eyes circled the room. Red! For God’s sake, Red! The cage of
mercenaries rustled. The Mo-Sanshon retreated instinctively, then
suddenly, with amazing agility, jumped between Ward and the cage. “It
is too late,” it said. “We shall take care of the cage for you. We
shall release it in space.” He reached for Ward.

He would have fought, but he knew there were others waiting outside.
Red had said so, and he believed Red. The important thing was to clear
this room long enough for Red to take the cage out and conceal it
somewhere on the great liner.

“I’ll come,” he said. It eased his badly depressed ego to admit the
obvious.
