
Blackness and indescribable pain indefinitely prolonged, intermingled
with a kind of eternity in the stygian night of the psychocell. There
was no time in the blackness, so that forever and now, all concepts of
time, merged into only pain. The Mo-Sanshon were killing him with sound.

There would be no evidence. The pain impinged with hideous slowness,
played over his nerves like liquid flame. It coursed through his veins,
his spine, until he shook and twitched with agony for which there is
no speech interpretation. It exploded again and again in his mind, and
grew steadily into a monstrous continuous hell.

He was aware of periods of screaming and slobbering. He remembered
indefinite episodes in which he was on his feet, hopping and jerking
catatonically like a mad electric marionette. Every nerve cell jiggled;
each separate nerve was erratic anguish.

Sometime later, still in the timeless blackness, he was stiffly
outstretched on his face, his lips murmuring in a salty-tasting pool,
either blood, sweat, or both, making hoarse, rattling animal noises.

What a way to die! How many others would die this way, or in even more
ingeniously inhuman ways, beneath the emotionless alien dictates of the
Mo-Sanshon!

And, sometime after that, he discovered that the ghastly torture had
stopped. His body reacted like rubber stretched to maximum, then
abruptly released. He was rolling, sobbing in an ecstasy of freedom.

He heard the sliding of a grate, and saw a narrow slit of pale light.
He couldn’t move toward the sound, and even the harsh whisper had
little reality for Ward.

“Doc. Doc. It’s me, Red. You still kicking?”

Ward listened for a long time before he finally heard a voice
resembling his. “I don’t know. I really don’t know.”

“I finally found the subsonic generator and reversed it. Have to do it
that way, gradually, or the shock kills you. Took quite a while. I hid
the cage down in the cargo hanger, and I stay down there and guarded it
most of the time. They’ve searched almost everywhere, but I keep moving
it from place to place. If you want to know how I got in good with the
duty watch down there, it cost me a hundred platinum credits. And don’t
ask me how I got the credits. You sure you’re all right now?”

“Guess so. Little weak. What are you going to do now?”

“This is the climax of the ‘Hounds of the Void’ picture,” said Red.
“The hero is going to get you out of here. I’m going to wreck the
_Sol_. In the confusion we can escape.”

“Wreck the--!” Ward subsided in the darkness, resigned.

“It’s simple, Doc. I’m going to destroy the forward fuel-injectors.
The braking rockets won’t work then, and everybody aboard will have to
bail out in air-sleds. They’ll never notice us in all the bedlam. We
hope.”

“But the cage of mercenaries...?”

“Take that along in an air-sled. We won’t be the only ones that’ll grab
up some excess luggage.”

“But Red,” whispered Ward. “You can’t do that until we get inside Mars
gravity. By that time the Executive Officer will start working on me
again. I couldn’t stand another dosage, Red.”

That thin cold laugh again. Ward didn’t know why he shuddered. “These
psychocells fool your duration sense, Doc. We’re already inside Mars
gravity. You been in there a long time. Here’s some food concentrate.
Now rest up and be ready. See you.”
