
Later, Ward’s tautly waiting senses were jarred by a thunderous
explosion. For a moment it seemed the whole ship would fall apart as
the liquid oxygen and its catalyst power units beneath the control
turret went off. Even inside the padded walls of his psychocell, Ward
could hear the repercussions of the dreadful explosions--cries and
screams of fear, horror, confusion, mass hysteria. From an inter-ship
audio in the corridor outside his cell door, he heard the Captain’s
frantic desperate tone, the voice of a man unused to emergencies.

“What has happened down there, Thomas?”

“Forward fuel-injectors completely destroyed, sir. Braking rockets
beyond repair.”

Panic was ill-concealed in the Captain’s voice now. “Break out pressure
suits. And prepare air-sleds! Neutralize gravity plates! Abandon ship
on signal!”

The _Sol_ was a doomed ship. She was well inside Mars’ maximum gravity
pull, and even its tellalloy hull couldn’t stand the unbraked friction
of its inevitable roaring drive. The neutralized gravity procedure
of the Captain was a frantic irrational command, such a method being
employed on asteroids and moons or such byway stops. The _Sol_ would
soon blister and melt and smash into Mars, a charred shell.

The door opened quickly. The Executive Officer’s gross mass filled the
glaring light of the opening. Ward struggled to his feet, hopelessly
unprepared for fight. He wasn’t an aggressive man, physically, and
had never been athletic. But he knew the theoretical value of attack,
and he leaped with all his minimized strength straight at the massive
barrel chest.

Then they were struggling in the narrow, shuddering corridor. The
creature made no sound, but fought with a stolid, elephantine power,
without emotion or expression. And Ward was like tinsel in those alien
arms. His clawing hands found no flesh, but only thick, leatheroid
syntheskin, hard and unresilient. He struggled, writhed, and struck
frantically, but nothing about this creature was vulnerable to such
an attack. His fists were bruised and smashed. The creature’s arms
tightened in inexorable jerks about him. His brain was swelling,
preparing to burst....

The sound was familiar now, the sharp _thunggg_ of Red’s needle-gun.
The plopping sound as it pierced the anthropomorphic. He felt the
creature stiffen and its arms flew away from Ward, flailing in terrible
anguish. An inhuman cry rang in his ears. He saw Red crouched there in
that tigerish, fiendish manner he had displayed in the Federal Building.

Again he was watching the incredible, reeling metamorphosis--the rapid
disintegration of that towering organism into--

Nothing remained but some buttons and a large zipper talon.

As they ran up the corridor, now growing noticeably warmer from the
terrific friction on the hull, Ward’s strength seeped slowly back into
his veins, and his eyes accustomed themselves to the light. Soon he and
Red were molecules in a surging agitated stream of a running, shouting,
stamping and utterly frantic mob. No one noticed them in the bedlam.

Suddenly Red grabbed Ward’s hand. “Trust me, Doc. I’ll take the cage.
They will recognize you, and I think I can make it all right. We’ll
both take different air-sleds. See you.”

Ward yelled--but Red was gone in the bedlam. But what could he have
said? How could he have objected? It was logically the best way.
He trusted Red because he had to. Ward fought his way through the
yammering crowds, got his pressure suit, entered an air-lock and
climbed into the spherical cramped interior of a jam-packed air-sled.

The Ensign at the controls was visibly trembling. Two ancient dowagers
were hysterically screaming like frightened parrots. A chubby,
bejeweled Martian Monel Metals representative was taking para-pills to
quiet his nerves, enough to kill a horse. He passed out. The daughter
of Vasco Von Belscon, who practically owned the Space Lines, was
clinging to a young man who was, in turn, clinging to someone else and
mumbling fearfully about the obviously untrue axiom that everything
would be all right.

“This--this sled is overcrowded,” quavered the Ensign. “Be calm and
don’t try to cause trouble. We’ll be lucky if we don’t smash up. I
don’t think our levitation plates are sufficiently heterodyned for
this great a load. And there’s no adjustment can be made at this short
notice.”

“See here,” yelled Ward, “why commit suicide then?”

The Ensign turned a wan face. “I’ll try to coast her in. Perhaps the
balance is such that a long trajectory and a crash landing is possible.”

Then the single light in the air-lock flashed twice. The lock opened,
and the air-sled catapulted out with the outrushing atmosphere. Awed,
helpless screams reverberated through the jammed interior as they
watched the upward hurtling ball of Mars. A reddish crescent blur, with
directly below a wide long crimson streak; to the side was the fading
radiance of Deimos’ disc, while to the other side the planet seems to
slumber in a darkness more profound than that of oceanic space, the
black tomb where Phobos had just died.

The many air-sleds disgorged by the _Sol_ were scattered so that only
one or two others were visible in the far distance. And plunging down
and away in a smoking trajectory that would take it almost clear around
the planet, the _Sol_ was crashing to her doom.

And, as far as Ward was concerned, so was the air-sled.

The geography of Mars was discernible. Ward saw the dead sea bottoms
of Barsoom, soon obliterated by mountains; the rusted tundras of
Taclos bordered by the thousand-mile-long, towering mountain chain of
the Aljontors passed beneath them. On the other side was the seemingly
endless red desert expanse that sloped into the artificial Cehlaz Sea
and the ancient city of Marsport, formerly Ogolkor.

“I think we can crash-land,” said the Ensign faintly. “We could be
lighter though.” Ward looked down. They were cutting through incredibly
rarefied air. The sky was cloudless, of an intensely dark blue shade
that spoke at once of a thinned atmosphere. They were crashing directly
into the great clay desert. Well, that’s where he’d been trying to get
all the time, but now he didn’t have his mercenaries with him.

The desert--a blazing expanse of ferric oxidized clay, a brilliant
red, glazed by centuries of heat and wind until it glistened like the
side of a vast porcelain bowl. Veins of millions of cracks that were
really gigantic chasms crossed it like the roadways of millions of mad
engineers. Deep down in those catacombs were the intricate, unexplored
regions of the Mo-Sanshon and practically the whole insect species
remaining on Mars. Part of the folklore and legend of the earliest
known history of surface tribes, they had been feared, revered,
studied, ignored, and ridiculed by successive stages of surface
civilization.

A strained, paralyzed silence pervaded the spheroid. Not even a whimper
broke it.

“This is it,” shouted the Ensign hysterically, and Ward closed his eyes
as a long horrible jarring grind seemed to rip his nerves to pieces....
