
The red desert was an incredible desolation of dehydrated, shimmering
emptiness before Ward’s blurred and burning eyes. Dry, gasping heat,
enhanced by thin air filled with fine particles of rust. The ancient,
devastated planet kept clinging to life; Ward had often wondered why.

The clay on which he was outstretched was like burning metal against
his bruised body. Through pain-mist, he saw the twisted wreckage of the
air-sled about a hundred feet away. Low hills that looked unbelievably
far away--everything wavering feverishly through the shimmering haze.
Then he looked down the length of his body at his right leg. It was
crushed, swollen, blue, with little sharp bone splinters edging
through tattered flesh.

He unscrewed his helmet and unzippered his pressure suit, to crawl out
of it painfully with the shattered leg. He lay, gasping, his fingers
scraping along the glazed clay. Phobos was setting in the East again.
Deimos was a crimson-rimmed eye, hesitating above the desert before
blinking out. He’d been out for quite a while. No other figures were
stirring in the yellow moonlight, the startlingly bright moonlight as
clear as Earth dusk. Probably all the passengers were dead, or there
would be some sign of life, unless those who survived had wandered away.

He gritted his teeth as tears of pain smarted in his eyes; he commenced
dragging himself along. He kept crawling. Deimos had set. A thick
darkness settled over him, and bitter cold. And, sometime later, just
as Phobos rose brightly in the rarefied air, he was stopped by a gaping
dark depth of fissure. He had gone as far as he could go toward--

--Where? There wasn’t a place for him now. He wanted to see the end of
the Mo-Sanshon’s dreams of conquest, and he wondered if he ever could,
now.

The whining of a jet-car spiraled toward him. The sound of it died, as
he saw its shadow settle on the gleaming surface of the desert clay. A
Martian make, from the sound, new style. A figure emerged and walked
toward him. Soon she was close enough to distinguish in the soft glow
of the moonlight.

An unattractive girl was very exceptional. But no less exceptional than
beauty such as this girl displayed boldly and proudly. She was running
swiftly toward him, the thin gauze garments styled by Martian women
moulding her body like wet silk. The soft thin boots of desert _jhan’s_
hide made no sound on the stone-hard clay. Her shadow elongated across
the softly glowing brilliance of the surface like shading in a Rulahn
three-dim painting.

Suddenly, intuitively, Ward’s skin crawled with horror, and he tried to
drag himself away to the edge of the bottomless crevice. Then her arms
were reaching down. Her shadow covered him like a shroud. Her hands
clutched his jacket and pulled him away from the brink of the abyss.

Ward could sense them now even before they touched him. Their alien
radiations impinged on his raw nerves now like a mental file. She
appeared so human. But then you touched her, and felt those terrible
alien tendrils in your brain, and you knew--

And from some deep reservoir he summoned the strength to act. He
grabbed frantically for those shapely, but synthetic legs.

One of them jerked out of reach, but both his hands closed over the
other. He heaved sidewise, and the beautiful bronzed torso went over
him. Half of it dangled down into the crevice. Her legs flailed for
traction. A low grunting as of effort came up stolidly from the chasm,
as he tried with rapidly waning strength to push her over. But her
arms dug in while she struggled in a frothing sea of titian-colored,
synthetic hair that shone in the moonlight like liquid copper. Great
surges of alien power battered at his rebounding mind as he fought. The
body lifted and the perfect oval face edged into view, twisted with
effort. Even, pearly teeth glistened with strain. The weird, intangible
light of the whole Mo-Sanshon shown on that rigid expressionless
face--no emotion, no human consciousness. A face from an antediluvian
hell, with instinctual motivations lost in the slime of time.

Ward called up another ounce of reserve and she cried out as she went
almost entirely over the edge of the chasm. She was clinging now
with only one leg and arm. He was pushing against that face, beating
desperately, sobbing, beating with smashed fists against a beautiful
face like thick leather.

And then something emerged into the moonlight out of the crevice.

Ward, entomologist though he was, found it hard to realize that he was
looking at a kind of Corynocoris Distinctus almost a third as large as
a human body. He fell back before it, crawling, dragging himself like a
groveling dog. Hideous, unworldly creature, with six horny legs, a pair
of popping-out eyes, two shining _ocelli_ which looked straight into
the rapidly frosting air, and a long, ferocious, quivering beak partly
hidden behind one of the forelegs. The furry, spiny horror jumped at
him. A sickening stench enveloped him as the body covered him, the
legs pinning him in as in a cage.

Ward felt something insane creeping into his consciousness. He felt his
rationality, such as remained, leaking out through his tortured eyes
like blood. He prayed for a quick death, now that Red had the cage and
would release the mercenaries. What did it matter about him? He was
washed up anyway, and--

The titan-haired pseudo-woman with her Dianaesque body and her dead
eyes, was on her feet and stood familiarly beside the distorted
crab-like Corynocoris. Very difficult to believe that they might
be from the same stalk. But Ward’s senses were dulled now. He lay
helplessly waiting. He had lost much blood and had been drained of
energy. Her form shifted hazily like a mirage. She must be desperate,
filled with burning hatred of him, burning white-hot, and her
emotionless, stolid voice was more horrible because of that.

“You did not bring the cage from the ship. But you know where it is,
and other information which we demand.” A statement. “You must come
with me to the Cavern of the Queen.”

She said nothing more, only made a gesture and the Corynocoris dragged
him away. Down into the chasm, down further than Ward dared think
about, and through corridors and labyrinthine passages that glowed with
a strange phosphorescent effulgence. And reeked with some other vague,
intangible quality of alienness that filled Ward’s fevered brain with
horror.

Mists cleared, thickened, swirled, died and solidified; consciousness
returned in degrees of awareness, stirred with nightmare. And, some
time later, he heard the toneless voice of the sexless beauty say
simply:

“Our Queen. Your conqueror.”
