
He shook foggy poisonous vapor from his head and sat up. He was in a
gigantic cavern of ominous, crushing size, a roughly arching height
that disappeared into steamy vapor. Stalactites and stalagmites barred
the openings of numerous side tunnels like monstrous teeth in gaping
mouths.

From somewhere came the monody of dripping waters. A sickening, silent
iridescence filled the chamber of horrors with a clear yellow light.
Ward’s eyes focused on--

He shrank back away from the awesome height and the narrow slit of
white light high, high above through the mist that might have been the
new Martian sun. His eyes kept returning to the thing in the middle
of the cavern floor. It rested in a transparent plastic bowl that sat
on top of a huge iridescent bell-shaped stalagmite built up through
thousands of years of dripping calcareous water.

Inside the bowl rested a giant slug-like body. It exuded a greyish glow
as it pulsed and shimmied. Two vast compound eyes looked out into the
cavern and a number of simpler eyes moved slowly about with a placid
kind of rhythm.

“The Queen,” he whispered, repeating the word of the woman-creature.
He’d thought it part of a nightmare. His whisper echoed violently
through the cavern like a rising wind of fear. The Queen of the
Mo-Sanshon. The Queen Mother. Summation, final cause, goal, archetype,
of the State.

The woman-creature moved, eyes fixed on the bowl as though
communicating.

She finally turned toward where Ward crouched helplessly on the cold,
moist stone, his crushed leg projecting out uselessly. The nerveless
face moved, gave out sounds like frost. “Our Queen has decided. You
know where the cage of mercenaries is. You had it on the _Sol_. Because
of your inferior nervous system which is so vulnerable to attack, you
will soon give us the information we want. You and the cage are all
that stands in our way.”

“I don’t know where it is,” said Ward truthfully. “So regardless of
what you do to my inferior nerves, I can’t tell you where it is.
Someone else took it with them from the _Sol_. Of course you don’t
believe me.”

The great sentient blob of breeding-brain machinery called the Queen
Mother, pulsed on without perturbation. The creature beside him
seemed unaffected; yet both of them must be trembling with fear, hate
and indecision. An organization of females. And up there was the
one Queen Mother for the lot of them who layed all the eggs of her
species, and dictated the policies for the rest. The workers, soldiers,
nurses--everyone was female. Even those who had assumed male humanoid
form, such as the Executive Officer on the _Sol_ and the Guard in the
Federal Building, they were also female.

And the male--those representatives, those voters of humanoid
cultures--where were they? They didn’t exist as such. They were simply
created as mates for the younger Queens. After the marriage flight
they died, after a brief wholly utilitarian span devoted solely to the
continuation of the Colony.

And he, Ward, a lowly Male, stood in their way. Ward reasoned that
only through intense study over centuries of time had they been able
to grasp enough humanoid concepts to even be able to recognize such an
impossible situation. He, a lowly male--part of a ruling class!

A twenty-foot, brown, chitinous form scurried ferociously out of the
shadows and rushed toward Ward. He tried to rise and escape, but his
shattered, swollen leg stopped him in a burst of blinding pain.

It was an incredibly big giant of the Myriapoda class, having a long
hard shiny body with many similar pairs of legs, each as large as
Ward’s finger. He plainly saw, without benefit of microscope now, the
pair of antennae, three pairs of mouth parts, two groups of simple
_ocelli_ which ogled him hungrily. And then Ward’s fevered, shocked
consciousness was concentrating on the poison fangs projecting out from
its first body segment.

He knew they were intended for him.
