
Verification came quickly. The woman-creature beside him simply said,
“You will be injected with a paralysis secretion. Permanent disability.
Its eggs will hatch under your skin, and the larvae will burrow into
your body. You will die many kinds of deaths, and you will tell the
Queen and the Mo-Sanshon what they want to know. You will tell where
the cage is, how the mercenaries are created and how they operate. You
will tell us where your notes and formulae are located. After that you
will die as all males learn to die--for the Mo-Sanshon.”

Ward didn’t say anything. There was nothing to say. Protestations would
be futile here. The centipede-like monstrosity waved its fangs and
edged nearer. The woman-creature spoke again.

“The Queen wishes me to say to you that your humanoid species is
unjustified in its egomania. You think humanoids the most rapidly
evolving organism in the Solar System, but that belief is not relative
enough in regards to duration. Our culture had reached a degree of
social organization more highly advanced than yours before what you
call the Tertiary epoch. Once our culture ruled a world--Mars. Why did
our culture stop, why did it not advance for thousands of years? Why
did our marvelous instinctive culture fail to conquer the System? Why
have we stood still after perfecting a type of super social science?
We simply had advanced as far as we could without benefit of violent,
drastic mutation.”

“May I ask one question,” managed Ward, “before I become food for
centipede larvae?” No reply. The centipede writhed impatiently. Ward
tried to ignore it. “How,” he asked, “do you create these imitation
human organisms?”

“Specialization. Of specialization the so-called ‘insect’ species
are the accepted genius of all species of life wherever they are
found. Given species can reproduce equal, and in many cases superior,
creations of humanoid intelligence by individual adaptation. There are
more specialized types among our kind than all other organisms in the
System combined. The Mo-Sanshon is now master of them all.”

That was, of course, true, thought Ward. There were insects that could
spin cables stronger in ratio than any alloy strands, could create
acids that undermined stone and steel, could create cities that, in
proportion, dwarfed human cities into significance; they had perfected
telepathy; they could grow wings, develop gills and live in water as
mud or marine worms, or fly in the air, or burrow into the land. Their
superiority was accomplished through specialized millions of marvelous
individual instincts.

The centipede moved close, and its _ocelli_ gazed at Ward fixedly. Its
many legs quivered. Its fangs reached out and brushed lightly over
Ward’s shrinking body.

“Where is the mercenary cage?” the voice asked again.

Ward said weakly, “I don’t know.” He thought of a nice home-loving girl
back in Midcity who could cook wonderfully and who liked babies and
whose name was Ann, before he said, “Tell the damn centipede to get it
over with.”

The centipede struck, but in the middle of its darting move a crackling
explosion hit it. Its chitinous shell curled, crackled, and the
centipede knotted up into a tight burned lump.
