
The gray pulpy mass in the bowl was shivering now, pulsing in great
heavings like a heart, dying. And then a dull growing swishing was
audible from all sides like a slowly rising wind.

Ward saw the polyglot of insect horror that was edging in through
the various tunnels and corridors. Great, jumping spiders with hairy
legs and many coal-black glittering eyes and poison fangs dripping
below. Winged Hippiscus with huge jaws working hungrily. Sharp-jawed
Paratenodera, and shining-winged Cementarium. And countless others,
though ant and termite forms dominated, with a grotesque intermingling
of anthropomorphic shapes that had assumed almost every possible degree
of distortion of human development.

And in the center of the ring stood Red with the cage unfastened.
Ward’s mouth was cotton. His heart pounded madly. His face exuded
streams of sweat. Red, a Mo-Sanshon, a rebel, a mutant. No wonder
he had talked of how he longed for freedom. How he had hated female
culture, the Mo-Sanshon! The synthesization and study had brought about
a high degree of anthroponomy, although his acquired knowledge of
human culture had been of the past rather than the present. His revolt
had been one of extremes. He came from a social system whose complete
submergence in the colony struck his individualism with horror, and he
had reacted to the opposite extreme--a worship of anarchy.

“No, Red!” Ward was screaming wildly, irrationally. “Don’t open it! If
you do--” But then the ring of monsters would anyway.

Red’s answer was to open the cage.

Shuddering, retching, Ward closed his eyes. His experiments had enabled
him to breed and evolve strains of armored, ferocious parasite insects
and germs which could be bred in millions, any number required,
and whose powers of reproduction was enormous. Soon there’d be a
stupendous army of these warrior insects who would specifically and
effectively control the Mo-Sanshon. He had perfected these mercenaries
in laboratories, and had succeeded in isolating and inbreeding, by the
most intricate processes involving ray mutation of infinitely small
genes. He had cultivated new insect-like forms, like one of our other
ancient scientists did garden peas. Armies of insects to do man’s
fighting for him against his insect enemies.

He had developed a thousand living specimens and tested them. Any
opposing species of insect, regardless of size, they devoured
immediately. The thousand were in that cage. They would sweep across
the insects they were bred to destroy and devour it in seconds, as
their own ant-prototypes stripped humans to bare skeletons in seconds.

Ward had to open his eyes again. He was crawling ... crawling ...
dragging his infected leg behind him, unconscious of the pain. Crawling
beneath a dense, black buzzing cloud of whirring wings and clicking
mandibles. The vengeful army of insect mercenaries were descending on
the helpless Queen Mother in swarms, and the ring of insects that had
been closing in were now trying frantically to escape. Many of them
did. But the mercenaries would hunt them out. They were specialized
mass killers.

And the first one they had gotten, of course, had been Red.
