
At the end of the show we drifted over to the Owl Tavern and took a
table against the north wall, behind the pool tables and across from the
bar. Doc had put his dark glasses back on, and he sat facing the wall.

Not that many people apart from the Insiders knew Doc. He hadn't been
very active since the young medical doctor had come to Cave Junction in
1948, although he never turned down anyone who came for help, and as far
as I knew he'd never lost a patient unless he was already dead when Doc
got there.

We were kidding Lew because he was still wearing his tin hat and caulked
boots from work. "You figuring on starting early in the morning?" I
asked him. Rusty and Doc laughed. It was a good joke because we rode out
to the job in my jeep, and so we'd naturally get there at the same time.

Then Rusty sat up straighter and looked over at the bar. "Hey," he said,
"Pop's talking to Burt Holden." Pop Johnson owns our outfit. He's one of
the small operators that guys like Burt are trying to squeeze out.

"Hope he don't try to rook Pop into no deals," said Lew.

Doc tipped up his bottle of beer. In Oregon they don't sell anything but
beer in the taverns. "Times change," he said. "Back in 1900 all they
wanted was gold. Now they're trying to take all the trees."

"It's the big operators like Burt," I said. "Little guys like Pop can't
cut 'em as fast as they grow. The companies don't have to reseed,
either, except on National Forest land."

"That Burt Holden was up to my place couple weeks ago," said Doc. "Darn
near caught me skinning out a deer."

"He better not yap to the game warden," said Rusty. "Them laws is for
sports and Outsiders, not us guys who need the meat."

"He wanted to buy all my timber," said Doc. "Offered me ten dollars a
thousand board feet, on the stump."

"Don't sell," I advised him. "If Burt offers that much, almost anyone
else will pay twelve."

Doc looked at me. "I'd never sell my trees. Not at any price. I got a
hundred and sixty acres of virgin stand, and that's the way it's gonna
stay. I cut up the windfalls and snags for firewood, and that's all."

"Here comes Pop," said Lew.

Pop sat down with us and had a beer. He looked worried. We didn't ask
him any questions, because we figure a man will talk if he wants to, and
if he doesn't it's his own business.

He finally unlimbered. "Burt Holden wants to buy the mill," he said,
wiping his mouth on the back of his hand.

"Buy _your_ mill?" said Lew. "Hell, his mill is five times as big, and
he's even got a burner to take care of slashings, so he don't have to
shut down in the fire season."

"He just wants the land," said Pop, "because it's near the highway. He
wants to tear down my setup and build a pulp mill."

"A _pulp_ mill!" If we could have seen Doc's eyes through the glasses I
imagine they'd have been popped open a full half inch. "Why, then
they'll be cutting down everything but the brush!"

Pop nodded. "Yeah. Size of a log don't matter when you make paper--just
so it's wood."

It seemed as though Doc was talking to himself. "They'll strip the land
down bare," he mumbled. "And the hills will wash away, and the chemicals
they use in the mill will kill the fish in the creeks and the Illinois
River."

"That's why they won't let anyone start a pulp mill near Grants Pass,"
said Pop. "Most of the town's money comes from sports who come up to the
Rogue River to fish."

Rusty set his jaw. "In the winter we _need_ them fish," he said. He was
right, too. The woods close down in the winter, on account of the snow,
and if a man can't hunt and fish he's liable to get kind of hungry. That
rocking chair money doesn't stretch very far.

"I ain't gonna sell," said Pop. "But that won't stop Burt Holden, and
any place he builds the mill around here will drain into the Illinois."

Doc pushed back his chair and stood up to his full height of five foot
four. "I'm gonna talk to Burt Holden," he said.

Rusty stood up to his six foot three. "I'll bring him over here, Doc,"
he said. "We're handy to the cue rack here, and Lew and Simmons can keep
them guys he's with off my back."

I stood up and shoved Rusty back down. I'm no taller than he is, but I
outweigh him about twenty pounds. I started working in the woods when we
still felled trees with axes and misery whips--crosscut saws to the
Outsiders. "I'll go get him," I said. "You're still mad about the show,
and you wouldn't be able to get him this far without mussing him up."

"There won't be no trouble," said Doc. "I just want to make him an
offer."
