
I went over and told Burt that Doc wanted to talk to him. The three guys
with him followed us back to the table.

Burt figured he knew what it was all about, and he just stood over Doc
and looked down on him. "If it's about your timber, Yoris," he said,
"I'll take it, but I can't pay you more than nine dollars now. Lumber's
coming down, and I'm taking a chance even at that." He rocked back and
forth on his heels and looked at Pop as though daring him to say
different.

"I still don't want to sell, Mr. Holden," said Doc. "But I've got better
than three million feet on my place, and I'll _give_ it to you if you
won't put a pulp mill anywhere in the Illinois Valley."

We were all floored at that, but Burt recovered first. He gave a nasty
laugh. "Not interested, Yoris. If you want to sell, look me up."

"Wait!" said Doc. "A pulp mill will take every tree in the Valley. In a
few years--"

"It'll make money, too," said Burt flatly.

"Money ain't everything by a long shot. It won't buy trees and creeks
and rain."

"It'll buy trees to make lumber." Burt was getting mad. "I don't want
any opposition from you, Yoris. I've had enough trouble from people who
try to hold back progress. If you don't like the way we run things here,
you can--hell, you can go back to Mars!"

It seemed to me that it was just about time to start in. I could have
taken Burt easiest, but I knew Rusty would probably swing on him first
and get in my way, so I planned to work on the two guys on Burt's right,
leaving the one on his left for Lew. I didn't want Pop to get tangled up
in it.

I don't generally wait too long after I make up my mind, but then I
noticed Rusty reaching out slowly for a cue stick, and I thought maybe
I'd better take Burt first, while Rusty got set. I never did see a guy
so one way about having something in his hands.

But Doc didn't drop out. "There ain't nothing but a few scrub trees on
Mars," he said to Burt, looking him square in the eye. "And no creeks
and no rain."

Burt curled his lip sarcastically. "The hell you say! Is that why you
didn't like it there?" You could see he was just trying to egg Doc into
saying he'd come from Mars, so he could give him the horse laugh. The
guys he was with were getting set for a fracas, but they were waiting
for Burt to lead off.

Doc didn't get caught. "But there's gold," he said, like he hadn't heard
Burt at all. "Tons of it--laying all over the ground."

I guess Burt decided to ride along. "Okay, Yoris," he said. "Tell you
what I'll do. For only one ton of Martian gold I'll agree to drop all
plans for a pulp mill, here or anywhere else. In fact, I'll get out of
business altogether."

Doc moved in like a log falling out of the loading tongs. "That's a
deal," he said. "You ready to go?"

Burt started to look disgusted, then he smiled. "Sure. Mars must be
quite a place if you came from there."

"Okay," said Doc. "You just stand up against the wall, Mr. Holden."
Burt's smile faded. He figured Doc was trying to maneuver him into a
likely position for us. But Doc cleared that up quick. "You boys get up
and stand aside," he ordered. "Get back a ways and give Mr. Holden
plenty of room." We didn't like it, but we cleared out from around the
table. A bunch from the bar and pool tables, sensing something was up,
came drifting over to watch. I could feel tension building up. "Now,"
said Doc, pointing, "you just stand right over there, Mr. Holden, and
fold your arms."

Burt didn't like the audience, and I guess he figured his plans were
backfiring when Doc didn't bluff. "You hill-happy old coot," he
snarled. "You'd better go home and sleep it off!" I grabbed hold of
Lew's arm and shook my head at Rusty. I wasn't going to interfere with
Doc now.

"You're not scared, are you, Mr. Holden?" said Doc quietly. "Just you
stand against the wall and take it easy. It won't hurt a bit."
