



[Illustration]

They're all around us. I'll call them the _slizzers_, because they
_sliz_ people. Lord only knows how long they've been on Earth, and how
many of them there are....

They're all around us, living with us. We are hardly ever aware of
their existence, because they can _make_ themselves look like us, and
do most of the time; and if they can look like us, there's really no
need for them to think like us, is there? People think and behave in
so many cockeyed ways, anyhow. Whenever a _slizzer_ fumbles a little
in his impersonation of a human being, and comes up with a puzzling
response, I suppose we just shrug and think. _He could use a good
psychiatrist._

So ... you might be one. Or your best friend, or your wife or husband,
or that nice lady next door.

They aren't killers, or rampaging monsters; quite the contrary. They
need us, something like the way we'd need maple trees if it came to
the point where maple syrup was our only food. That's why we're in no
comic-book danger of being destroyed, any more than maple trees would
be, in the circumstances I just mentioned--or are, as things go. In a
sense, we're rather well-treated and helped along a bit ... the way we
care for maple trees.

But, sometimes a man here and there will be careless, or ignorant, or
greedy ... and a maple tree will be hurt....

Think about that the next time someone is real nice to you. He may be
a _slizzer_ ... and a careless one....

How long do we live?

Right. About sixty, seventy years.

You probably don't think much about that, because that's just the way
things are. That's life. And what the hell, the doctors are increasing
our lifespan every day with new drugs and things, aren't they?

Sure.

But perhaps we'd live to be about a _thousand_, if the _slizzers_ left
us alone.

Ever stop to think how little we know about why we live? ... what it
is that takes our structure of bones and coldcuts and gives it the
function we call "life?"

Some mysterious life-substance or force the doctors haven't pinned
down yet, you say--and that's as good a definition as any.

Well, we're maple trees to the _slizzers_, and that life-stuff is the
sap we supply them. They do it mostly when we're feeling good--feeling
really terrific. It's easier to tap us that way, and there's more to
be had. (Maybe that's what makes so-called manic-depressives ... they
attract _slizzers_ when they feel tip-top; the _slizzers_ feed; and
_floo-o-m_ ... depressive.)

Like I say, think about all this next time someone treats you just
ginger-peachy, and makes you feel all warm inside.

So see how long that feeling lasts ... and who is hanging around you
at the time. Experiment. See if it doesn't happen again and again with
the same people, and if you don't usually end up wondering where in
hell your nice warm feeling went off to....
