
Henderson laughed at that idea. He had a houseboy, one Maehoe, who had
told him truthfully that Sunaku had a _tabu_ laid upon his ever
passing Cape Kini on a war-party. A _tabu_, you know, is a sort of
ceremonial prohibition, a jinx, a talismanic warning against ever
having anything to do with the thing _tabued_. It differs for every
man; it is laid upon him by the devil-devil doctor; and it may range
from a totemic prohibition against eating the flesh of his
name-animal--this sort of _tabu_ is given a new-born infant on those
mornings when the devil-devil doctor is feeling low and devoid of
originality--to warnings of dire disaster if he ever happens to speak
to one of his maternal second cousins when the moon is new. Not very
reasonable things, those _tabus_, but absolutely binding and
frequently convenient--as in this case.

Henderson had picked out his island as a site for a copra plantation
after learning about Sunaku’s tabu. It made him safe, because nobody
else wanted to poach on Sunaku’s territory and Sunaku wouldn’t raid
himself. Henderson was as safe as, he felt, so seeing Gleason full of
terror he tried to laugh him out of it.

“The wicked flee when no man pursueth,” he would quote maliciously.
“Your boys sweated blood for a good ten miles after Sunaku gave up the
chase. One of them is likely to run up his toes, by the way, Gleason.
I give him rum and he gets better. I stop it, and he gets worse.
Dammit, I wish he’d make up his mind before he drinks all the
trade-rum in stock.” To which Gleason replied unpleasantly that he did
not give a hoot in hell whether the boy died or not. Gleason was still
weak, though growing stronger, and Henderson didn’t see that he was
crazy with envy of a man who was safe and prosperous and ought to turn
out rich when his newly planted coconut trees came into bearing.

“Your nerves are bad, Gleason,” Henderson would tell him tolerantly,
and add, grinning, “The wicked flee when no man pursueth. But there’s
no use staying in a blue funk. Cheer up!”

He would march on his way, whistling, while Gleason ground his teeth.
Henderson had a kid back in school in England, and he had it figured
out that he would be a rich man just about the time a lot of money
would mean a great deal to a girl. He had it all planned out how he’d
spend his money and have a wonderful time buying frocks for her and so
on, and taking her about the Continent.

But that hasn’t anything to do with Gleason and Maehoe and Fear.
