
Maehoe was the head houseboy at Henderson’s--the boy who’d found out
about Sunaku’s personal and private _tabu_. He rather attached himself
to Gleason while Gleason was getting well. His costume consisted of an
immaculate, rather short white jacket and a gee-string, and he had at
some time past discarded a nose-plug and several ear-ornaments in
token of his ambition to become a member of the Native Constabulary of
the Solomon Islands Protectorate. If Gleason had been otherwise he
might have been amused by Maehoe.

A round and frizzy head of hair would appear above the flooring of the
veranda. It would be followed by a not particularly high forehead, the
dark-brown and invincibly sad eyes of the Malaita bushboy, and then a
wide, flat, very black nose with a dangling strip of cartilage where
the nose-plug had been removed on Maehoe’s adoption of civilization.
There would follow, then, in quick succession a wide and beaming grin,
a thick and corded neck, an absolutely immaculate white drill jacket,
and lean and gnarly brown legs--astoundingly long and very
naked-looking--with many scars from the scratches of thorns and
underbrush. Last of all, wide, splay feet, with each and every toe
prehensile, would step up on the veranda, and Maehoe would beam more
widely still and say in a hushed voice:

“I fetch’m one-fella peg, Sar?”

Gleason generally took the peg. But he did not humor Maehoe by
listening to a description of the glories of the Native Constabulary
Force of the Solomon Islands Protectorate, delivered with a vast gusto
in an amazing beche-de-mer agglomeration of supposedly English
syllables. Maehoe had been refused for the constabulary for some
reason he could never fathom, but hopefully anticipated a reversal of
the refusal at some future time. Henderson had promised to speak in
his favor, and Henderson listened to him now and again, wherefore he
worshipped Henderson and served him with an honesty that in a Malaita
bushboy was superhuman.

But Gleason hated him cordially, especially after a certain morning
when he felt a little stronger and tried to walk about a bit.
Henderson was inland, swearing at a labor gang that was clearing more
land for the planting of yet more coconut trees. Gleason walked down
to the beach, looked nervously at Cape Kini--he was always a little
nervous about Sunaku--and went aimlessly over toward the barrack
sheds, and there he suddenly heard a voice talking in English behind a
bush.

Gleason moved suspiciously to where he could look. He saw Maehoe going
through apparently aimless evolutions--now here, saying something, and
now there, replying. It was seconds before he realized that Maehoe was
practising. He was imitating his master and Gleason with great
solemnity and for his own personal pleasure.

“The wicked flee when no man pursueth,” announced Maehoe solemnly,
maltreating the words in a fashion no possible print could reproduce.
“Your boys sweated blood for good ten miles after Sunaku gave up
chase. One them likely turn up toes, Gleason--”

He went on with a vast solemnity duplicating Henderson’s speech and
even his intonation with a surprising fidelity. Gleason watched
suspiciously. Maehoe finished with Henderson’s lines, his face shining
with pleasure, and went over to a spot from where he solemnly swore in
Gleason’s own terms that he did not give a hoot in hell whether the
boy died or not. And then he returned and solemnly repeated, “Your
nerves bad, Gleason. The wicked flee when no man pursueth. But no use
staying in blue funk. Cherrup.”

He beamed at his own exactitude and wiped the sweat off his face,
happy. He considered, and set about going soberly over the whole
business again.
