
Gleason walked away, shaking with the fretful sort of rage that a
white man sometimes feels in the Solomons. It comes of too much fever,
too many pegs, and too much brooding. Gleason should have laughed,
instead of thinking savagely of innumerable forms of insult Maehoe’s
private diversion seemed to him to constitute. Or he could have done
as Henderson did when he told him about it. Henderson chuckled for
half an hour and devised a speech full of incredible words and
involved phrases, which he repeated after that whenever he could be
sure Maehoe was listening. And Henderson tried to eavesdrop and
discover Maehoe struggling with the new and to him unpronounceable
words.

He did not succeed. Henderson came down with black-water fever about
three days later, and in a week he was dead.

While he was ill, though, Gleason saw one other side of Maehoe that
eventually led to the triangular drama of Gleason and Maehoe and Fear.

It was the plantation boys, of course. Gleason should have taken them
in hand when Henderson went flat on his back, and kept the vice
sweated out of them. Idleness is not good for anybody, and especially
for recruited laborers on a Solomon Island plantation. These boys were
bushboys, from salt water villages, and two days of idleness gave them
time to remember much devilment and speculate hopefully on more.

Two days after Henderson developed black-water fever, Gleason’s four
paddlers came shivering to the house and begged to be allowed to stay
there. They were To Ba’ita boys, and the labor gangs were south
Malaita men.

“’M fella boy talk too damn much _Pau_ talk,” their leader explained
fearfully to Gleason. “I think’m _kai-kai_ ’m To Ba’ita boy plenty
damn quick.”

Gleason chewed at his nails. The thing to do, of course, was strap on
an extra revolver and go over to the barrack sheds and fill each
several and separate man with an unholy fear. It could be done
especially with the four paddlers to guard his back. Three of them
were strong enough to fight, anyhow.

Gleason did not. He assigned sleeping quarters to his men underneath
the house, and went and took a peg. During the next hour or so he took
several more. And he fretfully stopped Maehoe, who was about to give
Henderson quinine. Quinine is almost a specific for ordinary fevers,
but it is rank poison in black-water.

Next day--three days after Henderson went down--there was a tumult
down at the store-shed. A houseboy fired off a rifle and fled. A knot
of scared figures plunged for the bush and vanished. They’d tried to
loot the store.

And when recruited laborers on a Solomon Island plantation try to loot
the storehouse, it is then time for any white man who wants to keep
his head on his shoulders to take some action. The proper and approved
action--though it is strictly unlawful--is to flog every man who may
conceivably be suspected of the attempt. And it is a very good idea to
knock the others about a bit and generally act as if you are fairly
itching for them to try to rush you. And of course, thereafter you
must work them until they drop in their tracks--bullying them the
while--and make their lives a burden to them for some time to come.
Loving kindness is not understood or appreciated by salt water boys
who contemplate the ownership of a white man’s head with a yearning
wistfulness.

But Gleason had a chill, which may or may not have been the sort of
chill that comes from a blue funk on top of a fever-racked system.
Gleason did nothing whatever except go in half a dozen times to see if
Henderson was getting over his delirium with prospects of being able
to get up. And he stopped Maehoe from giving him quinine. He was just
in time.

The thing was that Sunaku had scared Gleason down to the marrow of his
soul. A timid man either gets out of the Solomons or he doesn’t last
long. Gleason had become timid. He had lost his nerve because of the
exceeding narrowness of his escape from Sunaku.
