
In consequence, when on the fourth day of Henderson’s illness the
inhabitants of the barrack sheds were observed to be talking
excitedly, Gleason went and took a peg. When, later, they vanished
suddenly, he went and took a couple more. In justice to him, it should
also be remarked that during the next hour he stopped Maehoe for the
fiftieth time from giving Henderson quinine.

But at two o’clock in the afternoon Gleason’s fear of Maehoe began.
The plantation boys had actually tried to rush the house.

A howl from Gleason’s four paddlers underneath the house was warning.
Dark figures with improvised clubs were racing across the
house-clearing, yelling. A few knives were in evidence, and many
tools, and at least one flint-lock pistol smuggled painstakingly
through the entire recruiting process and hidden in somebody’s
barrack-box.

Gleason started shooting in a panic. He dropped one--two--three of
them. His four paddlers swarmed up, gray with fear and frenziedly
ready to fight. The wave of frizzy-haired, nose-plugged caricatures of
humanity came on, screeching. Gleason shot crazily.

And Maehoe came out on the veranda with a box of dynamite in his hands
and one of Henderson’s cheroots between his teeth. He hadn’t told
Gleason about fusing the dynamite. Gleason would have stopped him, not
trusting natives with civilized weapons.

[Illustration: Maehoe grinned savagely, touched the cheroot to a
fuse-end, and flung it.]

Maehoe grinned savagely, touched the cheroot to a fuse-end, and flung
it. Before the stick went off he had flung another. With a handful of
sticks in his hand, he ran around the veranda lighting fuses as he ran
and flinging the dynamite down among the attackers.

The sticks made an awful racket when they went off. The house rocked
from the detonations. Then the veranda floor lifted and shook. The
dynamite box jolted from the floor a full six inches, coming down with
a terrific crash. Gleason’s four paddlers howled and dived over the
railing. But the dynamite did not go off and Gleason’s courage came
back suddenly. He began to shoot with steadier hands, putting bullets
in black backs that were running away again. And it may be that the
howls that followed the explosions helped to steady his hands.

There was a final detonation and a last chorus of screams. Maehoe came
back. He saw Gleason, full of courage now, firing vengefully at
fleeing figures. Maehoe went inside the house. A moment later Gleason
heard him blubbering.

Henderson had heard the shooting and the screams. The sound had
penetrated even his delirium. He had gotten up and tried to come out
with a revolver in his hand. He hadn’t quite made it. Maehoe was
lifting him back to his bunk.

Fifteen minutes later Maehoe came out again, wearing his immaculate
white drill jacket and his gee-string and nothing else except a
cheroot between his teeth. He was sobbing softly to himself and his
eyes were fixed. He took a double handful of dynamite sticks from the
box and went on down into the bush, his gnarly, lean brown legs
astonishingly prominent below the white jacket.

Five minutes later Gleason heard a dynamite stick go off. Screams
followed it. Ten minutes more, and another went off. And then, for an
hour, at odd and irregular intervals there came the crisp, crackling
detonations of dynamite, curiously echoed among the tree trunks.
Usually, after an explosion, there were howls and outcries.

Then Maehoe came back. His white drill jacket was stained with blood.
He limped a little, and there was a monstrous bruise on one temple
where a flung club had nearly downed him.

He looked at Gleason with dumb agony in his eyes, in the sort of dull
apathy which comes over a bushboy after he has gone into a frenzy akin
to hysteria, has done a lot of damage, and has accomplished nothing.

“Fella marster go die plenty damn quick,” he said dully. “No got
one-fella _mane ni ha’a mauria_. No fetch ’em stuff _puru puru_. Fella
marster go die plenty damn quick.”

He went into the house with dragging steps, leaving Gleason biting at
his finger-ends. Maehoe thought Henderson was dying because there was
no doctor and he hadn’t been given the stuff from the bottle--quinine.
The dynamite and his hysterical hunting of his fellow bushboys had
been for the purpose of working off the rage and despair that filled
him.

And Gleason, with the hair raising on his head, began to wonder what
Maehoe would do when Henderson died. He would blame it all on Gleason
for preventing his giving Henderson quinine. And Gleason began to feel
a rather horrible fear.
