
When Maehoe desperately got out the medicine bottle that afternoon and
stared dumbly at Gleason, begging for permission to administer the
medicine that had made Henderson well of other fevers, Gleason
shivered and went out of the room. He was afraid to stop Maehoe again.

And that night, because he knew Henderson was going to die, Gleason
ran away in his whaleboat. He took his own four paddlers and four of
the houseboys, whom he impressed into service by flourishing a
revolver. Maehoe knew nothing of his departure. He was hovering over
Henderson’s bunk, dumbly miserable, waiting for signs of improvement
in Henderson’s condition from the quinine. And quinine is, of course,
rank poison in black-water fever.

And that was that. Gleason should have gotten away nicely. He should
have made Uras Cove in about four days. There is a missionary there,
and unregenerate persons have convinced the neighboring tribesmen that
the particularly potent devils of the white men will consume the
vitals, bit by bit, of any man who harms a hair of his head--of which
conviction, however, the missionary is wholly ignorant. Gleason would
have been safe with him until a trading schooner came along.

But news travels fast in the bush. All that had gone on on Henderson’s
island since Gleason’s landing and before, was known for an
astonishing distance along the mainland. And with astonishing speed
that news was kept up to date. No white man knows how news does travel
in the bush, but it goes, and when it is news of a white man unarmed
or unnerved or ill there are innumerable bepainted, befrizzed and
tattooed young warriors who inspect their weapons and dream high
dreams.

So when Gleason’s whaleboat blundered into a belated fishing-canoe
some ten miles to the northwest of Henderson’s place, there was an
instant reaction. The fishing-canoe challenged. A To Ba’ita boy
answered. There was excited chatter in the fishing-canoe, caused by
his foreign manner of speech. Gleason warned it off in a white man’s
curt voice. And the fishing-canoe fled.

That opened the second act of the drama of Gleason and Maehoe and
Fear.
