
Five minutes after the fishing-canoe had vanished into utter darkness,
a few puffs of wind came from nowhere. Gleason had a sail hoisted and
prepared to beat his way up to the northwest. The boat was intended
for surf work and was a clumsy sailer, but would make better time
under sail than with unskilled oarsmen. The puffs of wind continued,
enough to tease him with the hope of a steady breeze at any minute,
but not enough to make much headway. It was utterly dark. A long, oily
swell came from offshore and pounded dully on the beach--where there
was a beach--and gurgled among mangrove roots where there was none.
There was a thin film of cloud overhead, just enough to obscure most
of the stars and make the world abysmally dark and to make the boat
seem hideously and horribly alone.

Then, from a little distance behind, there arose a dull and monotonous
throbbing thunder. Devil-devil drums, sending out a general call for
any devils that might be in the neighborhood to call at the
devil-devil house and receive instruction. Lights appeared, racing
about the village that housed the drums. Great flaring flambeaux sent
pin points of reflected light dancing upon the distant smooth swells.
There were yells and howls, and there was much activity ashore. Two
long war-boats--_la’os_--were being slid down into the dark water.

They went swiftly into the outer darkness, beyond the shore. A white
man had been sighted in a whaleboat. A To Ba’ita boy had answered a
challenge. The white man had warned the fishing-canoe off instead of
cursing it or desiring to trade with it. Therefore it was the _mane
maala_, the wounded man from Henderson’s.

The news went swiftly through the bush. The puffs of wind died down.
The whaleboat fell off from her course and rocked and rolled soggily
in the long smooth swells. Gleason began to feel little prickles at
the base of his skull. He was being hunted.

His paddlers were at work again, trying to use their unaccustomed oars
silently, when there came through the night a second dull and distant
booming. Far ahead this was, and it meant that another village was
awake and preparing to scour the surface of the sea in its greater
war canoes. Treasure was afloat. A white man’s head, and the white man
proven not invulnerable nor over-dangerous. And it seemed to Gleason,
sweating suddenly from terror, that he heard yet other drums, more
distant still.

All the dark coast began to boom with drums, both before and behind
the whaleboat. The drums, of course, were summoning the local devils
to be sent to raise hell with Gleason until the war-boats found him.
This sound tactical use of devils is universal in the Solomons. And
every village launched its boats, and every boat hunted for Gleason
with a panting enthusiasm, and Gleason went into the bluest of blue
funks.

He drove his boatmen, whimpering with terror, straight for the shore
and apparently for the very stronghold of his enemies. The sensible
thing would have been to stand out for the open sea. But one of
Henderson’s boat-boys kept Gleason’s panic from being altogether
suicide.
