
All night long the devil-devil drums beat on, and all night long the
smoky fires flared in devil-devil houses, and all night long the
war-boats hunted tirelessly. The news spread farther and yet farther
as the night wore on, until all the coast was awake and aware of what
was going on, and all the coast was joining in the hunt. But Gleason
was not caught.

When the gray dawn spread across the open sea, there was no dancing
speck afloat that could not be identified as an authentic Malaita
craft upon its unlawful occasion. Gleason had vanished.

But that same gray dawn filtered down through mangrove leaves upon
him. One of the houseboys had panted directions for a little streamlet
he knew of. It oozed its way sluggishly out between unbroken banks of
mangroves, and there was no village beside it. More, when the
whaleboat pulled into it the mangroves were found to stretch their
branches thirty or forty feet beyond the edge of the mud and to dip
their farther ends unpleasantly into the stagnant, stinking stream.
The whaleboat had been drawn far in beneath those branches, and its
sides bedecked with green. It was thoroughly hidden.

But Gleason still shook with fear, though the filtering pale light
seemed to take away some of the menace of the drums. Birds, too,
awaking in the branches overhead, seemed to drown out a little of
their rumbling threat. And as the mistiness of dawn faded into the
colorful light of early morning, one by one the devil-devil drums
ceased their booming.

But the mangrove mud stank noisomely, and little, many-times-deflected
ripples from the outer surf sucked and gurgled among the tangled
roots. The smell of mangrove mud filled his nostrils, and he waited to
be discovered.

Crouched in the whaleboat, the paddlers and Gleason alike stared
fearfully about them. The sun rose higher in the heavens. Mosquitoes
swarmed about them. The soft and indefinite humming noise of a sunlit
jungle arose to the high heavens. And all the coast was busy, looking
to see where the white man might have hid.

Toward noon, Gleason saw one warrior. He came down to the water’s edge
nearly half a mile upstream, where perhaps the mangroves gave place to
a more wholesome growth. He saw him plainly. White circles of
moistened lime had been daubed about his eyes. His hair was whitened
with the same stuff. His ear-lobes had been stretched incredibly to
hold a pleasing assortment of variegated knick-knacks, from a brass
curtain ring to slender pig bones which projected at varied angles
from his head.

He stood in plain sight for a long time, peering up and down the
stream. Even his reflection was mirror-like on the upper water. But he
did not move from the spot where he had first appeared. Mangrove
swamps remain untrod, even on such occasions as this. Leaving aside
the incredible toil traveling in them would entail, and the very real
danger of being swallowed up entire, there are such things as mangrove
ulcers which came from mangrove mud upon a man’s bare leg.

The warrior peered here and there and everywhere in silence, while
Gleason eyed him in stark panic. Suddenly he went depressedly back
into the jungle without any sign of interest or triumph, and Gleason
nearly whimpered in relief. The drooping branches outside the boat had
hidden it effectively.
