
But all that long, hot, malodorous afternoon he abode in fear. A canoe
might slip into the stream at any instant. And the report of a single
firearm, or the yell of a single man, would bring swarming hordes of
warriors....

At dusk, Gleason’s heart stopped. A canoe did come in. It came in very
softly and very quietly. There were four paddlers and one man sitting
in the stern. This was in the short, abruptly ending twilight of the
tropics. Gleason saw the canoe pass by not more than twenty yards
away. Beneath the dropping mangrove roots the whaleboat was not seen,
but there was enough light left for Gleason to recognize the man in
the stern despite new and barbaric ornamentation. It was Maehoe.

He gazed behind him and seemed satisfied. And suddenly he brought up
something from the bottom of the canoe and slipped it on. It was an
immaculate white drill jacket. And he removed certain ornaments from
about his ears and nose, and wiped the lime-streaks from about his
eyes, and spoke to his paddlers.

Gleason could piece out the words from his knowledge of the _Pau_
dialect. But before this he had swung his revolver on the four
houseboys he had impressed into service. With his eyes wild and
staring, he warned them voicelessly that at their first word he would
kill them. The words he pieced together of Maehoe’s talk increased his
terror.

Maehoe had his own paddlers under a bond of fear. Henderson’s revolver
was in his hand. And Maehoe was demanding if this was surely the
waterway that one of the houseboys with Gleason knew of. A man
answered, trembling, that it was. Maehoe ordered the paddlers to go on
upstream.

His white drill jacket dwindled to a speck which--so rapidly did the
twilight deepen--was already no more than a gray blur when he vanished
past the spot where the warrior had been seen that forenoon. Gleason
did not wait for the further deepening of the night. In a racked
whisper he ordered his paddlers to clear the whaleboat of the branches
that had decked it and to make for the open sea once more.

Sheer horror was almost paralyzing Gleason now. The whaleboat lifted
to the first of the ocean swells and made for far offshore. Night
rolled across the face of the sea and swallowed up all the world. The
whaleboat headed due north, for the open water beyond the coast.

But a dull booming set up behind it. Almost instantly the booming was
duplicated to the right and to the left. The whaleboat had been seen
before night hid it.

There followed a nightmare of terror. Three times in the next two
hours the war canoes went swiftly on past the whaleboat, with paddles
splashing in the haste of the paddlers. Once Gleason saw the dim
outline of a horrible carved prow with the wide, white-ringed eyes of
the god that was its figurehead. Once a four-man canoe blundered slap
into the whaleboat and Gleason sobbed as the spurting flames of his
revolver split the darkness, and sobbed again as a swimming man from
the overturned canoe screeched horribly when the paddlers beat him
away from the gunwale with their oar-blades.

The whaleboat turned back for the shore, then. It headed at a
panic-stricken rate in the direction of Henderson’s island plantation.
That was the last course it would be expected to take, because safety
for Gleason lay no nearer than Uras Cove to the northwest. And
Gleason, sick with terror in the stem, heard the rushing war-boats
streaking for the site of the combat and heard them yelling to one
another before they scattered to hunt again.

Of Maehoe he heard nothing. He knew, however, that that questing
person had doffed his white jacket and had replaced a nose-plug in the
cartilage between his nostrils, and had redecorated his distended
ear-lobes with divers gruesome ornaments and was in the thick of the
hunt. Maehoe was a native of this part of the world. He was not safe,
of course, among the man-hunters of another village than his own, but,
armed as he was, and with a white man afloat being hunted by war-boats
from half a dozen villages, he would be ignored until the greater game
was captured.

Dodging, drifting shadows, sweating alike with exertion and with fear,
those in the whaleboat made but little progress. They reached the
shingle beach of the plantation island two hours before dawn. By
daybreak the whaleboat was hidden. During the day Gleason saw the
still smoking ruins of the house and the store. He did not see where
Henderson was buried, of course. Maehoe would have attended to the
hiding of that burial place. A white man’s head is a white man’s head,
however it be come by, and Maehoe on deserting the plantation would
take precautions lest his late master provide a trophy for some
devil-devil house ashore.

Maehoe came back. A canoe became visible not later than five o’clock
in the afternoon, paddling steadily and openly along the sea. Its
occupants were plainly savage; befrizzed, bepainted, and going about
the business of paddling with the calm practicality of the salt-water
boy.

The canoe drove up to the shingle beach and landed. The man in the
stem shepherded the others before him--Gleason saw a glint of metal in
his hand--up among the trees. Out of sight of the water, that man
donned a white drill jacket and moved on, still driving the others
before him. Gleason saw gnarly and lean and astoundingly naked-looking
legs beneath the white jacket. Three times before sunset and darkness
he caught a glimpse of white among the trees, moving about as if
looking for signs that Gleason had returned to the ruins.

Gleason cursed himself in a whisper for having had the courage to go
and look. A white man’s boot-tracks in fresh ashes would show clearly.
When darkness fell and he saw a flambeau lighted, and saw it moving
steadily as if Maehoe had at last found his trail and was following it
by torchlight, Gleason cursed hysterically.

He drove his paddlers to their work once more. He dared not attempt to
make Uras Cove again. All the coast was up and hunting him. The
best--the only chance for him was to head southwest, heading past
Sunaku’s territory for Maramasike Pass, across it, and to the mission
at Saa.

He struck out on the course as darkness settled down upon the ocean
and all the world. And half an hour later, with the dull
reverberations of many drums dying away below the horizon, one of the
paddlers panted.

“Marster! One-fella _irora_!”

Gleason strained his ears and heard it. It was following!
