
Once, before dawn, Gleason had to fight. He got away by a miracle, but
with only four paddlers left, and he had a fresh wound in his side and
was literally mad with fear. A land breeze was blowing now and the
whaleboat crept along under sail because four men could not handle it.
It was so close to the shore that the splashing of waves among the
mangrove roots was plainly audible. Also audible were certain
hunting-cries upon the water. And--and this was the thing that crazed
Gleason--in the whaleboat’s wake and growing nearer with desperate
slowness there was the sound of paddles being dipped by exhausted,
driven men.

When in fine irony the whaleboat grounded on the sandspit beyond Cape
Kini and the sail cracked thunderously, Gleason sobbed. His remaining
paddlers waited in apathetic despair. He saw the shore looming up
darker and more forbidding than even the sea, and the whaleboat lifted
giddily and crashed again on the sandbank, and a voice sounded behind
him, nearer than the cries of the hunting war-boats....

Gleason splashed over the side, shaking in terror. He ran blindly,
fighting the swells that tried to trip him, gasping hoarsely in sheer
panic, fighting his way to the beach. There was little or no surf. The
swells oozed up on the steeply slanting beach and retreated almost
soundlessly. Gleason fought his way clear of them and plunged into
the dark trees, sobbing as he ran. He tripped and fell and picked
himself up, and ran and tripped and fell again.

The sound of the distant devil-devil drum filled him with horror. He
ran on hysterically. He was still running at dawn, when the drum
slowed up and stopped. And when the sun rolled up overhead Gleason was
three miles inland, shaking, with his revolvers naked in his hands,
staring wildly all about him.

He was up among the foothills of the inner mountains, by the bank of a
swiftly flowing little stream. He was many days’ journey from the
nearest white man, in the territory of the one native chief who would
pay most lavishly for his head. Jungle surrounded him on every side.
In that jungle, as soon as the deserted whaleboat was found, there
would be eager hunting-parties searching....

Gleason wept hysterically. He raved. He very probably prayed. And very
suddenly he slept, for the first time in two nights and two days.
