
He slept, it may be, for two hours. No more. There was a crackling of
underbrush and a rustling of leaves. Gleason woke in a cold panic and
stared with glassy eyes. He saw long, gnarly legs, astoundingly
naked-looking, moving beneath a trailing cloud of foliage. Gleason’s
revolver came up, held stiffly in a hand of ice.

He saw a frizzy, rounded head. A not particularly high forehead. The
invincibly sad, dark-brown eyes of the Malaita bushboy. A wide, flat,
and very black nose with a strip of dangling cartilage where Maehoe
had discarded a nose-plug on his adoption of civilization.

Maehoe stepped forward, looking at footprints in the mud at the
stream’s edge. He had a revolver in his hand, and there was a package
strapped about his waist from which projected the ends of half a dozen
dynamite sticks, all fused and ready. He stepped into the stream, to
cross.

In pure hysterical rage, Gleason shot him, knowing that the shot would
be heard and would bring Sunaku’s warriors eagerly to the spot.

[Illustration: Gleason raised his weapon to shoot again.]

Maehoe collapsed in the stream. He wallowed feebly in the water, then
summoned superhuman strength and crawled ashore. Dead-white and rigid,
Gleason raised his weapon to shoot again.

“One-fella marster,” gasped Maehoe, “he say fetch ’m one-fella Gleason
’m guns, ’m dynamite. Tell ’m shoot hell out of bushboy an’ give
plantation money ’m one-fella white Mary _pore_.”

He struggled to hand over his bundle. Gleason gagged. Henderson had
told Maehoe to give Gleason the guns and the dynamite and to ask him
to quell the boys and sell his plantation and send the money to his
daughter. This was what Maehoe had chased him for! This was what--“

“’M go away plenty damn quick,” gasped Maehoe, shoving the bundle
toward Gleason. “’M bad fella bushboy come. I shoot, all same
one-fella Native Constabulary....”

Gleason took the bundle in stiff fingers. Gleason’s eyes were glassy.
Maehoe grinned at him, a pain-racked, desperate grin.

“Your nerves bad, Gleason,” he pronounced in a swagger, in Henderson’s
own identical tones. “The wicked flee when no man pursueth. But no use
staying in blue funk. Cherrup.”

And then he raised his revolver feebly as Gleason heard a crackling in
the underbrush some little distance away. He thought he heard the
pattering of feet.

He was right. He did.
