
For a while, it looked as if it were going to turn out a pretty good
day. The sun rose in a cloudless sky, and the thermometer tacked to
the enclave flagstaff registered 93 degrees. When Markin got hot, it
got _hot_. By noon, Devall knew by now, they could expect something
like 110 in the shade--and then, a slow, steady decline into the low
eighties by midnight.

The botanical crew departed on time, rumbling out of camp in its two
jeeps, and Devall stood for a moment on the mess hall steps watching
them go, watching the other men head for their assigned posts.
Stubble-faced Sergeant Jolli saluted him as he trotted across the
compound to the zoo, where he would tend the little menagerie of Markin
wildlife the expedition would bring back to Earth at termination. Wiry
little Matsuoko passed by, dragging a carpenter's kit. The linguistic
team climbed into its jeep and drove off toward town, where they would
continue their studies in the Markin tongue.

They were all busy. The expedition had been on Markin just four
months; eight months was left of their time. Unless an extension of
stay came through, they'd pack up and return to Earth for six months
of furlough-cum-report-session, and then it would be on to some other
world for another year of residence.

Devall was not looking forward to leaving Markin. It was a pleasant
world, if a little on the hot side, and there was no way of knowing
what the _next_ world would be like. A frigid ball of frozen methane,
perhaps, where they would spend their year bundled into Valdez
breathing-suits and trying to make contact with some species of
intelligent ammonia-breathing molluscs. Better the devil we know,
Devall felt.

But he had to keep moving on. This was his eleventh world, and there
would be more to come. Earth had barely enough qualified survey teams
to cover ten thousand worlds half-adequately, and life abounded on
ten _million_. He would retain whichever members of the current team
satisfied him by their performance, replace those who didn't fit in,
and go off to his next job eight months from now.

He turned on the office fan and took down the logbook; unfastening the
binder, he slipped the first blank sheet into the autotype. For once he
avoided his standard blunder; he cleared his throat _before_ switching
on the autotype, thereby sparing the machine its customary difficulties
in finding a verbal equivalent for his _Br-ghhumph_!

The guidelight glowed a soft red. Devall said, "Fourth April,
two-seven-zero-five. Colonel John F. Devall recording. One hundred
nineteenth day of our stay on Markin, World 7 of System 1106-sub-a.

"Temperature, 93 at 0900; wind gentle, southerly--"

He went on at considerable length, as he did each morning. Finishing
off the required details, he gathered up the sheaf of specialty-reports
that had been left at his door the night before, and began to read
abstracts into the log; the autotype clattered merrily, and a machine
somewhere in the basement of the towering E-T Affairs Building in Rio
de Janeiro was reproducing his words as the subradio hookup transmitted
them.

It was dull work. Devall often wondered whether he might have been
ultimately happier doing simple anthropological field work, as he had
once done, instead of taking on the onerous burden of routine that an
administrative post entailed. _But someone has to shoulder the burden_,
he thought.

_Earthman's burden. We're the most advanced race; we help the others.
But no one twists our arms to come out to these worlds and share what
we have. Call it an inner compulsion._

He intended to work until noon; in the afternoon a Markin high priest
was coming to the enclave to see him, and the interview would probably
take almost till sundown. But about 1100 he was interrupted suddenly by
the sound of jeeps unexpectedly entering the compound, and he heard the
clamor of voices--both Terran voices and alien ones.

A fearful argument seemed to be in progress, but the group was too far
away and Devall's knowledge of Markin too uncertain for him to be able
to tell what was causing the rumpus. In some annoyance he snapped off
the autotype, rose from his chair, and peered through the window into
the yard.

Two jeeps had drawn up--the botanical crew, gone less than two hours.
Four natives surrounded the three Earthmen. Two of the natives clutched
barbed spears; a third was a woman, the fourth an old man. They were
all protesting hotly over something.

Devall scowled; from the pale, tense, unhappy faces of the men in the
jeep, he could tell something was very wrong. That blood-red sunset had
foretold accurately, he thought, as he dashed down the steps from his
study.

Seven pairs of eyes focussed on him as he strode toward the group:
eight glittering alien eyes, warmly golden, and six shifting, uneasy
Terran eyes.

"What's going on out here?" Devall demanded.

The aliens set up an immediate babble of noise, chattering away like a
quartet of squirrels. Devall had never seen any of them behaving this
way before.

"_Quiet!_" he roared.

In the silence that followed he said very softly, "Lieutenant Leonards,
can you tell me exactly what all this fuss is about?"

The boy looked very frightened; his jaws were stiffly clenched, his
lips bloodless. "Y-yes, sir," he said stammeringly. "Begging your
pardon, sir. I seem to have killed an alien."
