
In the relative privacy of his office, Devall faced them all
again--Leonards, sitting very quietly staring at his gleaming boots;
Meyer and Rodriguez, who had accompanied him on the ill-starred
botanizing journey. The aliens were outside; there would be time to
calm them down later.

"Okay," Devall said. "Leonards, I want you to repeat the story, exactly
as you just told it to me, and I'll get it down on the autotype. Start
talking when I point to you."

He switched on the autotype and said, "Testimony of Second Lieutenant
Paul Leonards, Botanist, delivered in presence of commanding officer on
4 April 2705." He jabbed a forefinger at Leonards.

The boy's face looked waxy, beads of sweat dotted his pale vein-traced
forehead, and his blond hair was tangled and twisted. He clamped his
lips together in an agonized grimace, scratched the back of one hand,
and finally said, "Well, we left the enclave about 0900 this morning,
bound south and westerly on a tour of the out-lying regions. Our
purpose was to collect botanical specimens. I--was in charge of the
group, which also included Sergeants Meyer and Rodriguez."

He paused. "We--we accomplished little in the first half-hour; this
immediate area had already been thoroughly covered by us anyway. But
about 0945 Meyer noticed a heavily wooded area not far to the left of
the main road, and called it to my attention. I suggested we stop and
investigate. It was impossible to penetrate the wooded area in our
jeeps, so we proceeded on foot. I left Rodriguez to keep watch over our
gear while we were gone.

"We made our way through a close-packed stand of deciduous angiosperm
trees of a species we had already studied, and found ourselves in a
secluded area of natural growth, including several species which we
could see were previously uncatalogued. We found one in particular--a
shrub consisting of a single thick succulent green stalk perhaps four
feet high, topped by a huge gold and green composite flower head. We
filmed it in detail, took scent samples, pollen prints, and removed
several leaves."

Devall broke in suddenly. "You didn't pick the flower itself? Devall
speaking."

"Of course not. It was the only specimen in the vicinity, and it's not
our practice to destroy single specimens for the sake of collecting.
But I did remove several leaves from the stalk. And the moment I did
that, a native sprang at me from behind a thick clump of ferns.

"He was armed with one of those notched spears. Meyer saw him first
and yelled, and I jumped back just as the alien came charging forward
with his spear. I managed to deflect the spear with the outside of
my arm and was not hurt. The alien fell back a few feet and shouted
something at me in his language, which I don't understand too well as
yet. Then he raised his spear and menaced me with it. I was carrying
the standard-issue radial blaster. I drew it and ordered him in his own
language to lower his spear, that we meant no harm. He ignored me and
charged a second time. I fired in self-defense, trying to destroy the
spear or at worst wound his arm, but he spun round to take the full
force of the charge, and died instantly." Leonards shrugged. "That's
about it, sir. We came back here instantly."

"Umm. Devall speaking. Sergeant Meyer, would you say this account is
substantially true?"

Meyer was a thin-faced dark-haired man who was usually smiling, but he
wasn't smiling now. "This is Sergeant Meyer. I'd say that Lieutenant
Leonards told the story substantially as it occurred. Except that the
alien didn't seem overly fierce despite his actions, in my opinion.
I myself thought he was bluffing both times he charged, and I was a
little surprised when Lieutenant Leonards shot him. That's all, sir."

Frowning, the colonel said, "Devall speaking. This has been testimony
in the matter of the alien killed today by Lieutenant Leonards." He
snapped off the autotype, stood up, and leaned forward across the desk,
staring sternly at the trio of young botanists facing him. _These next
few days are going to be my test_, he thought tensely.

"Sergeant Rodriguez, since you weren't present at the actual incident
I'll consider you relieved of all responsibility in this matter,
and your testimony won't be required. Report to Major Dudley for
re-assignment for the remainder of the week."

"Thank you, sir." Rodriguez saluted, grinned gratefully, and was gone.

"As for you two, though," Devall said heavily, "you'll both have
to be confined to base pending the outcome of the affair. I don't
need to tell you how serious this can be, whether the killing was in
self-defense or not. Plenty of peoples don't understand the concept of
self-defense." He moistened his suddenly dry lips. "I don't anticipate
too many complications growing out of this. But these are alien people
on an alien world, and their behavior is never certain."

He glanced at Leonards. "Lieutenant, I'll have to ask for your own
safety that you remain in your quarters until further notice."

"Yes, sir. Is this to be considered arrest?"

"Not yet," Devall said. "Meyer, attach yourself to the maintenance
platoon for the remainder of the day. We'll probably need your
testimony again before this business is finished. Dismissed, both of
you."

When they were gone, Devall sank back limply in his webfoam chair and
stared at his fingertips. His hands were quivering as if they had a
life of their own.

_John F. Devall, Ph.D. Anthropology, Columbia '82, commissioned Space
Service Military Wing '87, and now you're in trouble for the first
time._

_How are you going to handle it, Jack?_ he asked himself. _Can you
prove that that silver eagle really belongs on your shoulder?_

He was sweating. He felt very tired. He shut his eyes for a moment,
opened them, and said into the intercom, "Send in the Marks."
