
Five of them entered, made ceremonial bows, and ranged themselves
nervously along the far wall as if they were firing-squad candidates.
Accompanying them came Steber of the linguistics team, hastily recalled
from town to serve as an interpreter for Devall. The colonel's
knowledge of Markin was adequate but sketchy; he wanted Steber around
in case any fine points had to be dealt with in detail.

The Marks were humanoid in structure, simian in ancestry, which should
have made them close kin to the Terrans in general physiological
structure. They weren't. Their skin was a rough, coarse, pebble-grained
affair, dark-toned, running to muddy browns and occasional deep
purples. Their jaws had somehow acquired a reptilian hinge in the
course of evolution, which left them practically chinless but capable
of swallowing food in huge lumps that would strangle an Earthman. Their
eyes, liquid gold in color, were set wide on their heads, allowing
enormous peripheral vision; their noses were flat buttons, in some
cases barely perceptible.

Devall saw two younger men, obviously warriors; they had left their
weapons outside, but their jaws jutted belligerently and the darker of
the pair had virtually dislocated his jaw in rage. The woman looked
like all the Mark women, shapeless and weary behind her shabby cloak of
furs. The remaining pair were priests, one old, one _very_ old. It was
this ancient to whom Devall addressed his first remarks.

"I'm sorry that our meeting this afternoon has to be one of sorrow.
I had been looking forward to a pleasant talk. But it's not always
possible to predict what lies ahead."

"Death lay ahead for him who was killed," the old priest said in the
dry, high-pitched tone of voice that Devall knew implied anger and
scorn.

The woman let out a sudden wild ululation, half a dozen wailing words
jammed together so rapidly Devall could not translate them. "What did
she say?" he asked Steber.

The interpreter flattened his palms together thoughtfully. "She's the
woman of the man who was killed. She was--demanding revenge," he said
in English.

Apparently the two young warriors were friends of the dead man.
Devall's eyes scanned the five hostile alien faces. "This is a highly
regrettable incident," he said in Markin. "But I trust it won't affect
the warm relationship between Earthman and Markin that has prevailed so
far. This misunderstanding--"

"Blood must be atoned," said the smaller and less impressively garbed
of the two priests. He was probably the local priest, Devall thought,
and he was probably happy to have his superior on hand to back him up.

The colonel flicked sweat from his forehead. "The young man who
committed the act will certainly be disciplined. Of course you realize
that a killing in self-defense cannot be regarded as murder, but I
admit the young man did act unwisely and will suffer the consequences."
It didn't sound too satisfying to Devall, and, indeed, the aliens
hardly seemed impressed.

The high priest uttered two short, sharp syllables. They were not
words in Devall's vocabulary, and he looked over at Steber in appeal.

"He said Leonards was trespassing on sacred ground. He said the crime
they're angry about is not murder but blasphemy."

Despite the heat, Devall felt a sudden chill. _Not ... murder? This is
going to be complicated_, he realized gloomily.

To the priest he said, "Does this change the essential nature of the
case? He'll still be punished by us for his action, which can't be
condoned."

"You may punish him for murder, if you so choose," the high priest
said, speaking very slowly, so Devall would understand each word. The
widow emitted some highly terrestrial-sounding sobs; the young men
glowered stolidly. "Murder is not our concern," the high priest went
on. "He has taken life; life belongs to Them, and They withdraw it
whenever They see fit, by whatever means They care to employ. But he
has also desecrated a sacred flower on sacred ground. These are serious
crimes, to us. Added to this he has shed the blood of a Guardian,
on sacred ground. We ask you to turn him over to us for trial by a
priestly court on this double charge of blasphemy. Afterward, perhaps,
you may try him by your own laws, for whichever one of them he has
broken."

For an instant all Devall saw was the old priest's implacable leathery
face; then he turned and caught the expression of white-faced
astonishment and dismay Steber displayed.

It took several seconds for the high priest's words to sink in,
and several more before Devall came to stunned realization of the
implications. _They want to try an Earthman_, he thought numbly. _By
their own law. In their own court. And mete out their own punishment._

This had abruptly ceased being a mere local incident, an affair to
clean up, note in the log, and forget. It was no longer a matter of
simple reparations for the accidental killing of an alien.

Now, thought Devall dully, it was a matter of galactic importance. And
he was the man who had to make all the decisions.
