
He visited Leonards that evening, after the meal. By that time everyone
in the camp knew what had happened, though Devall had ordered Steber to
keep quiet about the alien demand to try Leonards themselves.

The boy looked up as Devall entered his room, and managed a soggy
salute.

"At ease, Lieutenant." Devall sat on the edge of Leonards' bed and
squinted up at him. "Son, you're in very hot water now."

"Sir, I--"

"I know. You didn't mean to pluck leaves off the sacred bramble-bush,
and you couldn't help shooting down the native who attacked you. And
if this business were as simple as all that, I'd reprimand you for
hotheadedness and let it go at that. But--"

"But what, sir?"

Devall scowled and forced himself to face the boy squarely. "But the
aliens want to try you themselves. They aren't so much concerned with
the murder as they are with your double act of blasphemy. That withered
old high priest wants to take you before an ecclesiastical court."

"You won't allow _that_, of course, will you, Colonel?" Leonards seemed
confident that such an unthinkable thing could never happen.

"I'm not so sure, Paul," Devall said quietly, deliberately using the
boy's first name.

"_What_, sir?"

"This is evidently something very serious you've committed. That high
priest is calling a priestly convocation to deal with you. They'll be
back here to get you tomorrow at noon, he said."

"But you wouldn't turn me over to them, sir! After all, I was on duty;
I had no knowledge of the offense I was committing. Why, it's none of
their business!"

"Make _them_ see that," Devall said flatly. "They're aliens. They don't
understand Terran legal codes. They don't _want_ to hear about our
laws; by theirs, you've blasphemed, and blasphemers must be punished.
This is a law-abiding race on Markin. They're an ethically advanced
society, regardless of the fact that they're not technologically
advanced. Ethically they're on the same plane we are."

Leonards looked terribly pale. "You'll turn me over to them?"

Devall shrugged. "I didn't say that. But look at it from my position.
I'm leader of a cultural and military mission. Our purpose is to live
among these people, learn their ways, guide them as much as we can
in our limited time here. We at least _try_ to make a pretense of
respecting their rights as individuals and as a species, you know.

"Well, now it's squarely on the line. Are we friends living among them
and helping them, or are we overlords grinding them under our thumbs?"

"Sir, I'd say that was an over-simplification," Leonards remarked
hesitantly.

"Maybe so. But the issue's clear enough. If we turn them down, it means
we're setting up a gulf of superiority between Earth and these aliens,
despite the big show we made about being brothers. And word will spread
to other planets. We try to sound like friends, but our actions in
the celebrated Leonards case reveal our true colors. We're arrogant,
imperialistic, patronizing, and--well, do you see?"

"So you're going to turn me over to them for trial, then," the boy said
quietly.

Devall shook his head. He felt old, very old, at fifty. "I don't know.
I haven't made up my mind yet. If I turn you over, it'll certainly set
a dangerous precedent. And if I don't--I'm not sure what will happen."
He shrugged. "I'm going to refer the case back to Earth. It isn't my
decision to make."
