
But it _was_ his decision to make, he thought, as he left the boy's
quarters and headed stiff-legged toward the communications shack. He
was on the spot, and only he could judge the complex of factors that
controlled the case. Earth would almost certainly pass the buck back to
him.

He was grateful for one thing, though: at least Leonards hadn't made
an appeal to him on family grounds. That was cause for pride, and some
relief. The fact that the boy was his nephew was something he'd have to
blot rigorously from his mind until all this was over.

The signalman was busy in the back of the shack, bent over a crowded
worktable. Devall waited a moment, cleared his throat gently, and said,
"Mr. Rory?"

Rory turned. "Yes, Colonel?"

"Put through a subradio solido to Earth for me, immediately. To
Director Thornton at the E-T Department. And yell for me when you've
made contact."

It took twenty minutes for the subspace impulse to leap out across
the light-years and find a receiver on Earth, ten minutes more for it
to pass through the relay point and on to Rio. Devall returned to the
shack to find the lambent green solido field in tune and waiting for
him. He stepped through and discovered himself standing a few feet
before the desk of the E-T Department's head. Thornton's image was
sharp, but the desk seemed to waver at the edges. Solid non-organic
objects always came through poorly.

Quickly Devall reviewed the situation. Thornton sat patiently,
unmoving, till the end of it; hands knotted rigidly, lean face set, he
might have been a statue. Finally he commented, "Unpleasant business."

"Quite."

"The alien is returning tomorrow, you say? I'm afraid that doesn't give
us much time to hold a staff meeting and explore the problem, Colonel
Devall."

"I could probably delay him a few days."

Thornton's thin lips formed a tight bloodless line. After an instant
he said, "No. Take whatever action you deem necessary, Colonel. If
the psychological pattern of the race is such that unfortunate
consequences would result if you refused to allow them to try your man,
then you must certainly turn him over. If the step can be avoided, of
course, avoid it. The man must be punished in any case."

The director smiled bleakly. "You're one of our best men, Colonel. I'm
confident you'll arrive at an ultimately satisfactory resolution to
this incident."

"Thank you, sir," Devall said, in a dry, uncertain voice. He nodded and
stepped back out of field range. Thornton's image seemed to flicker;
Devall caught one last dismissing sentence, "Report back to me when the
matter is settled," and then the field died.

He stood alone in the shabby communications shack, blinking out the
sudden darkness that rolled in over him after the solidophone's intense
light, and after a moment began to pick his way over the heaps of
equipment and out into the compound.

It was as he had expected. Thornton was a good man, but he was a
civilian appointee, subject to government control. He disliked making
top-level decisions--particularly when a colonel a few hundred
light-years away could be pitchforked into making them for him.

_Well_, he thought, _at least I notified Earth. The rest of the affair
is in my hands._

Significantly, there was a red sunset again that night.
