
He called a meeting of his top staff men for 0915 the following
morning. Work at the base had all but suspended; the linguistics team
was confined to the area, and Devall had ordered guards posted at all
exits. Violence could rise unexpectedly among even the most placid of
alien peoples; it was impossible to predict the moment when a racial
circuit-breaker would cease to function and fierce hatred burst forth.

They listened in silence to the tapes of Leonards' statements, Meyer's
comments, and the brief interview Devall had had with the five aliens.
Devall punched the cut-off stud and glanced rapidly round the table at
his men: two majors, a captain, and a quartet of lieutenants comprised
his high staff, and one of the lieutenants was confined to quarters.

"That's the picture. The old high priest is showing up here about noon
for my answer. I thought I'd toss the thing open for staff discussion
first."

Major Dudley asked for the floor.

He was a short, stocky man with dark flashing eyes, and on several
occasions in the past had been known to disagree violently with Devall
on matters of procedure. Devall had picked him for four successive
trips, despite this; the colonel believed in diversity of opinion, and
Dudley was a tremendously efficient organizer as well.

"Major?"

"Sir, it doesn't seem to me that there's any question of what action
to take. It's impossible to hand Leonards over to them for trial.
It's--un-Earthlike!"

Devall frowned. "Would you elaborate, Major?"

"Simple enough. We're the race who developed the
space-drive--therefore, we're the galaxy's most advanced race. I think
that goes without saying."

"It does not," Devall commented. "But go ahead."

Scowling, Dudley said, "Regardless of your opinion, _sir_--the aliens
we've encountered so far have all regarded us as their obvious
superiors. I don't think that can be denied--and I think it can only be
attributed to the fact that we _are_ their superiors. Well, if we give
up Leonards for trial, it cheapens our position. It makes us look weak,
spineless. We--"

"You're suggesting, then," Devall broke in, "that we hold the position
of overlords in the galaxy--and by yielding to our serfs, we may lose
all control over them. Is this your belief, Major?" Devall glared at
him.

Dudley met the colonel's angry gaze calmly. "Basically, yes. Dammit,
sir, I've tried to make you see this ever since the Hegath expedition.
We're not out here in the stars to collect butterflies and squirrels!
We--"

"Out of order," Devall snapped coldly. "This is a cultural mission as
well as a military, Major--and so long as I'm in command it remains
primarily cultural." He felt on the verge of losing his temper. He
glanced away from Dudley and said, "Major Grey, could I hear from you?"

Grey was the ship's astrogator; on land his functions were to supervise
stockade-construction and mapmaking. He was a wiry, unsmiling little
man with razor-like cheekbones and ruddy skin. "I feel we have to be
cautious, sir. Handing Leonards over would result in a tremendous loss
of Terran prestige."

"_Loss?_" Dudley burst in. "It would cripple us! We'd never be able to
hold our heads up honestly in the galaxy again if--"

Calmly Devall said, "Major Dudley, you've been ruled out of order.
Leave this meeting, Major. I'll discuss a downward revision of your
status with you later." Turning back to Grey without a further glance
at Dudley, he said, "You don't believe, Major, that such an action
would have a corresponding _favorable_ effect on our prestige in the
eyes of those worlds inclined to regard Earth uneasily?"

"That's an extremely difficult thing to determine, sir."

"Very well, then." Devall rose. "Pursuant to regulations, I've brought
this matter to the attention of authorities on Earth, and have also
offered it for open discussion among my officers. Thanks for your time,
gentlemen."

Captain Marechal said uncertainly, "Sir, won't there be any vote on our
intended course of action?"

Devall grinned coldly. "As commanding officer of this base, I'll take
the sole responsibility upon myself for the decision in this particular
matter. It may make things easier for all of us in the consequent event
of a court-martial inquiry."
