
The priest looked impossibly tiny and wrinkled, a gnome of a man whose
skin was fantastically gullied and mazed by extreme age. He wore a
green turban over his hairless head--a mark of deep mourning, Devall
knew.

The little alien bowed low, extending his pipestem arms behind his
back at a sharp angle, indicating respect. When he straightened, his
head craned back sharply, his small round eyes peering directly into
Devall's.

"The jury has been selected; the trial is ready to begin. Where is the
boy?"

Devall wished fleetingly he could have had the services of an
interpreter for this last interview. But that was impossible; this was
something he had to face alone, without help.

"The accused man is in his quarters," Devall said slowly. "First I want
to ask some questions, old one."

"Ask."

"If I give you the boy to try, will there be any chance of his
receiving the death penalty?"

"It is conceivable."

Devall scowled. "Can't you be a little more definite than that?"

"How can we know the verdict before the trial takes place?"

"Let that pass," Devall said, seeing he would get no concrete reply.
"Where would you try him?"

"Not far from here."

"Could I be present at the trial?"

"No."

Devall had learned enough of Markin grammar by now to realize that
the form of the negative the priest had employed meant literally,
I-say-_no_-and-mean-what-I-say. Moistening his lips, he said, "Suppose
I should refuse to turn Lieutenant Leonards over to you for trial? How
could I expect you people to react?"

There was a long silence. Finally the old priest said, "Would you do
such a thing?"

"I'm speaking hypothetically." (Literally, the form was
I-speak-on-a-cloud.)

"It would be very bad. We would be unable to purify the sacred garden
for many months. Also--" he added a sentence of unfamiliar words.
Devall puzzled unsuccessfully over their meaning for nearly a minute.

"What does that mean?" he asked at length. "Phrase it in different
words."

"It is the name of a ritual. _I_ would have to stand trial in the
Earthman's place--and I would die," the priest said simply. "Then my
successor would ask you all to go away."

The office seemed very quiet; the only sounds Devall heard were the
harsh breathing of the old priest and the off-key chirruping of the
cricketlike insects that infested the grass-plot outside the window.

_Appeasement_, he wondered? _Or the overlord's thumb?_

Suddenly there seemed no doubt at all in his mind of what he should do,
and he wondered how he could have hesitated.

"I hear and respect your wishes, old one," he said, in a ritual formula
of renunciation Steber had taught him. "The boy is yours. But can I ask
a favor?"

"Ask."

"He didn't know he was offending your laws. He meant well; he's
sincerely sorry for what he did. He's in your hands, now--but I want
to ask mercy on his behalf. He had no way of knowing he was offending."

"This will be seen at the trial," the old priest said coldly. "If there
is to be mercy, mercy will be shown him. I make no promises."

"Very well," Devall said. He reached for a pad and scrawled an order
remanding Lieutenant Paul Leonards to the aliens for trial, and signed
it with his full name and title. "Here. Give this to the Earthman who
let you in. He'll see to it that the boy is turned over to you."

"You are wise," the priest said. He bowed elaborately and made for the
door.

"Just one moment," Devall said desperately, as the alien opened the
door. "Another question."

"Ask," the priest said.

"You told me you'd take his place if I refused to let you have him.
Well, how about another substitute? Suppose--"

"_You_ are not acceptable to us," the priest said as if reading
Devall's mind, and left.

Five minutes later the colonel glanced out his window and saw the
solemn procession of aliens passing through the exit-posts and out of
the compound. In their midst, unprotesting, was Leonards. He didn't
look back, and Devall was glad of it.
