
After waiting until the first rush of workers had gone and the building
was quiet, Stark caught the elevator down. The overhead lights in the
compressor lock were reflected in the twin rows of breathing globes. The
green-tinted ones had to be used by Martians in the building, and the
clear ones were used by Earthmen when they were outside in the Martian
atmosphere. Stark stopped in at a little open shop down one of the many
side streets. The sign said "Closed," but he rang the bell until a
little, dried-up Martian appeared.

The storekeeper handed him a small box. Stark opened it to examine the
ring--Carol's birthday present. The single, large diamond set in the
thin precious-metal band dated back to an all-but-forgotten custom
practiced on Earth. Stark thought the engagement ring would please
Carol, though.

Standing in the compressor lock at the Chief's home later, Stark rubbed
the diamond against the sleeve of his tunic. He fumbled with his
breathing globe and then pushed the button that activated the door. The
tele-guard beyond the opening door scanned him rapidly. As he stepped
forward, a red light above the tele-guard flashed on and the door began
to close again.

Stark threw all his strength against the door and squeezed through into
the house.

Throughout the house, Stark could hear the alarm bell. A taped voice,
activated by the tele-guard, said, "Do not enter! Do not enter!"

He found Carol and the Chief in the library alone. Nearly purple with
rage, the Chief drew himself up to his full six feet.

The Chief bellowed, "Stark! Are you crazy?"

The growing feeling of sickness spread through Stark.

"Who do you think you are?" the Chief yelled. "Get back to your office
and consider yourself under arrest as a troublemaker. Give you people an
inch and you try to walk away with everything. Why, I wouldn't let you
touch my daughter if you were the last living being in the Universe!"

Carol didn't look up. She stood through it all, silently, without
moving. Stark knew now where his blind spot had been. He turned and left
them.
