

[Illustration: 0010]




THE REVOLT OF THE OYSTER


“_Our remote ancestor was probably arboreal.”_--Eminent scientist.


From his hut in the tree-top Probably Arboreal looked lazily down
a broad vista, still strewn with fallen timber as the result of a
whirlwind that had once played havoc in that part of the forest, toward
the sea. Beyond the beach of hard white sand the water lay blue and vast
and scarcely ruffled by the light morning wind. All the world and his
wife were out fishing this fine day. Probably Arboreal could see dozens
of people from where he crouched, splashing in the water or moving about
the beach; and even hear their cries borne faintly to him on the breeze.
They fished, for the most part, with their hands; and when one caught
a fish it was his custom to eat it where he caught it, standing in the
sea.

In Probably Arboreal's circle, one often bathed and breakfasted
simultaneously; if a shark or saurian were too quick for one, one
sometimes was breakfasted upon as one bathed.

In the hut next to Probably Arboreal, his neighbour, Slightly Simian,
was having an argument with Mrs. Slightly, as usual. And, as usual,
it concerned the proper manner of bringing up the children. Probably
listened with the bored distaste of a bachelor.

“I _will_ slap his feet every time he picks things up with them!”
 screamed Slightly Simian's wife, an accredited shrew, in her shrill
falsetto..

“It's _natural_ for a child to use his feet that way,” insisted the
good-natured Slightly, “and I don't intend to have the boy punished
for what's natural.” Probably Arboreal grinned; he could fancy the
expression on Old Sim's face as his friend made this characteristically
plebeian plea.

“You can understand once for all, Slightly,” said that gentleman's wife
in a tone of finality, “that I intend to supervise the bringing-up of
these children. Just because your people had neither birth nor breeding
nor manners----”

“Mrs. S.!” broke in Slightly, with a warning in his voice. “Don't you
work around to anything caudal, now, Mrs. S.! Or there'll be trouble.
You get me?”

On one occasion Mrs. Slightly had twitted her spouse with the fact
that his grandfather had a tail five inches long; she had never done
so again. Slightly Simian himself, in his moments of excitement, picked
things up with his feet, but like many other men of humble origin who
have become personages in their maturity, he did not relish having such
faults commented upon.

“Poor old Sim,” mused Probably Arboreal, as he slid down the tree and
ambled toward the beach, to be out of range of the family quarrel. “She
married him for his property, and now she's sore on him because there
isn't more of it.”

Nevertheless, in spite of the unpleasant effect of the quarrel, Probably
found his mind dwelling upon matrimony that morning. A girl with bright
red hair, into which she had tastefully braided a number of green
parrot feathers, hit him coquettishly between the shoulder blades with a
handful of wet sand and gravel as he went into the water. Ordinarily
he would either have taken no notice at all of her, or else would have
broken her wrist in a slow, dignified, manly sort of way. But this
morning he grabbed her tenderly by the hair and sentimentally ducked
her. When she was nearly drowned he released her. She came out of the
water squealing with rage like a wild-cat and bit him on the shoulder.

“Parrot Feathers,” he said to her, with an unwonted softness in his
eyes, as he clutched her by the throat and squeezed, “beware how you
trifle with a man's affections--some day I may take you seriously!”

He let the girl squirm loose, and she scrambled out upon the beach and
threw shells and jagged pieces of flint at him, with an affectation of
coyness. He chased her, caught her by the hair again, and scored the wet
skin on her arms with a sharp stone, until she screamed with the pain,
and as he did it he hummed an old love tune, for to-day there was an
April gladness in his heart.

“Probably! Probably Arboreal!” He spun around to face the girl's father,
Crooked Nose, who was contentedly munching a mullet.

“Probably,” said Crooked Nose, “you are flirting with my daughter!”

“Father!” breathed the girl, ashamed of her parent's tactlessness. “How
can you say that!”

“I want to know,” said Crooked Nose, as sternly as a man can who
is masticating mullet, “whether your intentions are serious and
honourable.”

“Oh, father!” said Parrot Feathers again. And putting her hands in front
of her face to hide her blushes she ran off. Nevertheless, she paused
when a dozen feet away and threw a piece of drift-wood at Probably
Arboreal. It hit him on the shin, and as he rubbed the spot, watching
her disappear into the forest, he murmured aloud, “Now, I wonder what
she means by that!”

“Means,” said Crooked Nose. “Don't be an ass, Probably! Don't pretend
to _me_ you don't know what the child means. You made her love you. You
have exercised your arts of fascination on an innocent young girl, and
now you have the nerve to wonder what she means. What'll you give me for
her?”

“See here, Crooked Nose,” said Probably, “don't bluster with me.” His
finer sensibilities were outraged. He did not intend to be _coerced_
into matrimony by any father, even though he were pleased with that
father's daughter. “I'm not buying any wives to-day, Crooked Nose.”

“You have hurt her market value,” said Crooked Nose, dropping his
domineering air, and affecting a willingness to reason. “Those marks
on her arms will not come off for weeks. And what man wants to marry a
scarred-up woman unless he has made the scars himself?”

“Crooked Nose,” said Probably Arboreal, angry at the whole world because
what might have been a youthful romance had been given such a sordid
turn by this disgusting father, “if you don't go away I will scar every
daughter you've got in your part of the woods. Do you get me?”

“I wish you'd look them over,” said Crooked Nose. “You might do worse
than marry all of them.”

“I'll marry none of them!” cried Probably, in a rage, and turned to go
into the sea again.

A heavy boulder hurtled past his head. He whirled about and discovered
Crooked Nose in the act of recovering his balance after having flung
it. He caught the old man half way between the beach and the edge of
the forest. The clan, including Crooked Nose's four daughters, gathered
round in a ring to watch the fight.

It was not much of a combat. When it was over, and the girls took
hold of what remained of their late parent to drag him into the woods,
Probably Arboreal stepped up to Parrot Feathers and laid his hand upon
her arm.

“Feathers,” he said, “now that there can be no question of coercion,
will you and your sisters marry me?”

She turned toward him with a sobered face. Grief had turned her from a
girl into a woman.

“Probably,” she said, “you are only making this offer out of generosity.
It is not love that prompts it. I cannot accept. As for my sisters, they
must speak for themselves.”

“You are angry with me, Feathers?”

The girl turned sadly away. Probably watched the funeral cortège winding
into the woods, and then went moodily back to the ocean. Now that she
had refused him, he desired her above all things. But how to win her?
He saw clearly that it could be no question of brute force. It had gone
beyond that. If he used force with her, it must infallibly remind her of
the unfortunate affair with her father. Some heroic action might attract
her to him again. Probably resolved to be a hero at the very earliest
opportunity.

In the meantime he would breakfast. Breakfast had already been long
delayed; and it was as true then, far back in the dim dawn of time, as
it is now, that he who does not breakfast at some time during the day
must go hungry to bed at night. Once more Probably Arboreal stepped into
the ocean--stepped in without any premonition that he was to be a hero
indeed; that he was chosen by Fate, by Destiny, by the Presiding Genius
of this planet, by whatever force or intelligence you will, to champion
the cause of all Mankind in a crucial struggle for human supremacy.

He waded into the water up to his waist, and bent forward with his arms
beneath the surface, patiently waiting. It was thus that our remote
ancestors fished. Fish ran larger in those days, as a rule. In the
deeper waters they were monstrous. The smaller fish therefore sought the
shallows where the big ones, greedy cannibals, could not follow them. A
man seldom stood in the sea as Probably Arboreal was doing more than
ten minutes without a fish brushing against him either accidentally or
because the fish thought the man was something good to eat. As soon as
a fish touched him, the man would grab for it. If he were clumsy and
missed too many fish, he starved to death. Experts survived because they
_were_ expert; by a natural process of weeding out the awkward it had
come about that men were marvellously adept. A bear who stands by the
edge of a river watching for salmon at the time of the year when they
rim up stream to spawn, and scoops them from the water with a deft
twitch of his paw, was not more quick or skillful than Probably
Arboreal.

Suddenly he pitched forward, struggling; he gave a gurgling shout, and
his head disappeared beneath the water.

When it came up again, he twisted toward the shore, with lashing arms
and something like panic on his face, and shouted:

“Oh! Oh! Oh!” he cried. “Something has me by the foot!”

Twenty or thirty men and women who heard the cry stopped fishing and
straightened up to look at him.

“Help! Help!” he shouted again. “It is pulling me out to sea!”

A knock-kneed old veteran, with long intelligent-looking mobile toes,
broke from the surf and scurried to the safety of the beach, raising the
cry:

“A god! A god! A water-god has caught Probably Arboreal!”

“More likely a devil!” cried Slightly Simian, who had followed Probably
to the water.

And all his neighbours plunged to land and left Probably Arboreal to
his fate, whatever his fate was to be. But since spectacles are always
interesting, they sat down comfortably on the beach to see how long it
would be before Probably Arboreal disappeared. Gods and devils, sharks
and octopi, were forever grabbing one of their number and making off to
deep water with him to devour him at their leisure. If the thing that
dragged the man were seen, if it showed itself to be a shark or an
octopus, a shark or an octopus it was; if it were unseen, it got the
credit of being a god or a devil.

“Help me!” begged Probably Arboreal, who was now holding his own,
although he was not able to pull himself into shallower water. “It is
not a god or a devil. It doesn't feel like one. And it isn't a shark,
because it hasn't any teeth. It is an animal like a cleft stick, and my
foot is in the cleft.”

But they did not help him. Instead, Big Mouth, a seer and _vers libre_
poet of the day, smitten suddenly with an idea, raised a chant, and
presently all the others joined in. The chant went like this:

               “Probably, he killed Crooked Nose,

               He killed him with his fists.

               And Crooked Nose, he sent his ghost to sea

               To catch his slayer by the foot!

               The ghost of Crooked Nose will drown his

                        slayer,

               Drown, drown, drown his slayer,

               The ghost of Crooked Nose will drown his

                        slayer,

               Drown his slayer in the seal”

“You are a liar, Big Mouth!” spluttered Probably Arboreal, hopping on
one foot and thrashing the water with his arms. “It is not a ghost; it
is an animal.”

But the chant kept up, growing louder and louder:

               “The ghost of Crooked Nose will drown his

                        slayer!

               Drown, drown, drown his slayer,

               Drown his slayer in the sea!”

Out of the woods came running more and more people at the noise of the
chant. And as they caught what was going on, they took up the burden of
it, until hundreds and thousands of them were singing it.

But, with a mighty turn and struggle, Probably Arboreal went under
again, as to his head and body; his feet for an instant swished into the
air, and everyone but Probably Arboreal himself saw what was hanging on
to one of them.

It was neither ghost, shark, god, nor devil. It was a monstrous oyster;
a bull oyster, evidently. All oysters were much larger in those days
than they are now, but this oyster was a giant, a mastodon, a mammoth
among oysters, even for those days.

“It is an oyster, an oyster, an oyster!” cried the crowd, as Probably
Arboreal's head and shoulders came out of the water again.

Big Mouth, the poet, naturally chagrined, and hating to yield up his
dramatic idea, tried to raise another chant:

               “The ghost of Crooked Nose went into an

                        oyster,

               The oyster caught his slayer by the foot

               To drown, drown, drown him in the sea!”

But it didn't work. The world had seen that oyster, and had recognized
it for an oyster.

“Oyster! Oyster! Oyster!” cried the crowd sternly at Big Mouth.

The bard tried to persevere, but Slightly Simian, feeling the crowd with
him, advanced menacingly and said:

“See here, Big Mouth, we know a ghost when we see one, and we know an
oyster! Yon animal is an oyster! You _sing_ that it is an oyster, or
shut up!”

“_Ghost, ghost, ghost,_” chanted Big Mouth, tentatively. But he got
no farther. Slightly Simian killed him with a club, and the matter was
settled. Literary criticism was direct, straightforward, and effective
in those days.

“But, oh, ye gods of the water, _what_ an oyster!” cried Mrs. Slightly
Simian.

And as the thought took them all, a silence fell over the multitude.
They looked at the struggling man in a new community of idea. Oysters
they had seen before, but never an oyster like this. Oysters they knew
not as food; but they had always regarded them as rather ineffectual and
harmless creatures. Yet this bold oyster was actually giving battle,
and on equal terms, to a man! Were oysters henceforth to be added to
the number of man's enemies? Were oysters about to attempt to conquer
mankind? This oyster, was he the champion of the sea, sent up out of its
depths, to grapple with mankind for supremacy?

Dimly, vaguely, as they watched the man attempt to pull the oyster
ashore, and the oyster attempt to pull the man out to sea, some sense of
the importance of this struggle was felt by mankind. Over forest, beach,
and ocean hung the sense of momentous things. A haze passed across the
face of the bright morning sun; the breeze died down; it was as if all
nature held her breath at this struggle. And if mankind upon the land
was interested, the sea was no less concerned. For, of sudden, and as
if by preconcerted signal, a hundred thousand oysters poked their heads
above the surface of the waters and turned their eyes--they had small
fiery opalescent eyes in those days--upon the combat.

At this appearance, mankind drew back with a gasp, but no word was
uttered. The visible universe, perturbed earth and bending heavens
alike, was tense and dumb. On their part, the oysters made no attempt
to go to the assistance of their champion. Nor did mankind leap to the
rescue of Probably Arboreal. Tacitly, each side, in a spirit of fair
play, agreed not to interfere; agreed to leave the combat to the
champions; agreed to abide by the issue.

But while they were stirred and held by the sense of tremendous things
impending, neither men nor oysters could be expected to understand
definitely what almost infinite things depended upon this battle. There
were no Darwins then. Evolution had not yet evolved the individual able
to catch her at it.

But she was on her way. This very struggle was one of the crucial
moments in the history of evolution. There have always been these
critical periods when the two highest species in the world were about
equal in intelligence, and it was touch and go as to which would survive
and carry on the torch, and which species would lose the lead and become
subservient. There have always been exact instants when the spirit of
progress hesitated as between the forms of life, doubtful as to which
one to make its representative.

Briefly, if the oyster conquered the man, more and more oysters,
emboldened by this success, would prey upon men. Man, in the course of a
few hundred thousand years, would become the creature of the oyster;
the oyster's slave and food. Then the highest type of life on the planet
would dwell in the sea. The civilization which was not yet would be
a marine growth when it did come; the intellectual and spiritual and
physical supremacy held by the biped would pass over to the bivalve.

Thought could not frame this concept then; neither shellfish nor
tree-dweller uttered it. But both the species felt it; they watched
Probably Arboreal and the oyster with a strangling emotion, with a
quivering intentness, that was none the less poignant because there was
no Huxley or Spencer present to interpret it for them; they thrilled and
sweat and shivered with the shaken universe, and the red sun through its
haze peered down unwinking like the vast bloodshot eye of life.

An hour had passed by in silence except for the sound of the battle,
more and more men and more and more oysters had gathered about the scene
of the struggle; the strain was telling on both champions. Probably
Arboreal had succeeded in dragging the beast some ten feet nearer the
shore, but the exertion had told upon him; he was growing tired; he was
breathing with difficulty; he had swallowed a great deal of salt water.
He too was dimly conscious of the importance of this frightful combat;
he felt himself the representative of the human race. He was desperate
but cool; he saved his breath; he opposed to the brute force of the
oyster the cunning of a man. But he was growing weaker; he felt it.

If only those for whom he was fighting would fling him some word of
encouragement! He was too proud to ask it, but he felt bitterly that
he was not supported, for he could not realize what emotion had smitten
dumb his fellow men. He had got to the place where a word of spiritual
comfort and encouragement would have meant as much as fifty pounds of
weight in his favour.

He had, in fact, arrived at the Psychological Moment. There were no
professing psychologists then; but there was psychology; and it worked
itself up into moments even as it does to-day.

Probably Arboreal's head went under the water, tears and salt ocean
mingled nauseatingly in his mouth.

“I am lost,” he gurgled.

But at that instant a shout went up--the shrill, high cry of a woman.
Even in his agony he recognized that voice--the voice of Parrot
Feathers! With a splendid rally he turned his face toward the shore.

She was struggling through the crowd, fighting her way to the front
rank with the fury of a wildcat. She had just buried her father, and
the earth was still dark and damp upon her hands, but the magnificent
creature had only one thought now. She thought only of her lover, her
heroic lover; in her nobility of soul she had been able to rise above
the pettiness of spirit which another woman might have felt; she knew no
pique or spite. Her lover was in trouble, and her place was nigh him; so
she flung a false maidenly modesty to the winds and acknowledged him and
cheered him on, careless of what the assembled world might think.

She arrived at the Psychological Moment.

“Probably! Probably!” she cried. “Don't give up! Don't give up! For my
sake!”

For her sake! The words were like fire in the veins of the struggling
hero. He made another bursting effort, and gained a yard. But the rally
had weakened him; the next instant his head went under the water once
more. Would it ever appear again? There was a long, long moment, while
all mankind strangled and gasped in sympathetic unison, and then our
hero's dripping head did emerge. It had hit a stone under water, and it
was bleeding, but it emerged. One eye was nearly closed. 4 +

“Watch him! Watch him!” shouted Parrot Feathers. “Don't let him do that
again! When he has you under water he whacks your eye with his tail.
He's trying to blind you!”

And, indeed, these seemed to be the desperate oyster's tactics. If he
could once destroy our hero's sight, the end would soon come.

“Probably--do you hear me?”

He nodded his head; he was beyond speech.

“Take a long breath and dive! Do you get me? Dive! Dive at your own
feet! Grab your feet in your hands and roll under water in a bunch! Roll
toward the beach!”'

It was a desperate manouvre, especially for a man who had already been
under water so much that morning. But the situation was critical and
called for the taking of big chances. It would either succeed--or fail.
And death was no surer if it failed than if he waited. Probably Arboreal
ceased to think; he yielded up his reasoning powers to the noble and
courageous woman on the sand; he dived and grabbed his feet and rolled.

“Again! Again!” she cried. “Another long breath and roll again!”

Her bosom heaved, as if she were actually breathing for him. To Probably
Arboreal, now all but drowned, and almost impervious to feeling, it also
seemed as if he were breathing with her lungs; and yet he hardly dared
to dive and roll again. He struggled in the water and stared at her
stupidly.

She sent her unusual and electric personality thrilling into him across
the intervening distance; she held him with her eyes, and filled him
with her spirit.

“Roll!” she commanded. “Probably! Roll!”

And under the lash of her courage, he rolled again. Three more times he
rolled... and then... unconscious, but still breathing, he was in her
arms.

As he reached the land half a million oysters sank into the sea in the
silence of defeat and despair, while from the beaches rose a mighty
shout.

The sun, as if it gestured, flung the mists from its face, and beamed
benignly.

“Back! Back! Give him air!” cried Parrot Feathers, as she addressed
herself to the task of removing the oyster from his foot.

The giant beast was dying, and its jaws were locked in the rigour of its
suffering. There was no way to remove it gently. Parrot Feathers laid
her unconscious hero's foot upon one rock, and broke the oyster loose
with another.

Incidentally she smashed Probably Arboreal's toe.

He sat up in pained surprise. Unthinkingly, as you or I would put a hurt
finger into our mouths, he put his crushed toe into his mouth. At that
period of man's history the trick was not difficult. And then----

A beatific smile spread over his face!

Man had tasted the oyster!

In half an hour, mankind was plunging into the waves searching for
oysters. The oyster's doom was sealed. His monstrous pretension that he
belonged in the van of evolutionary progress was killed forever. He had
been tasted, and found food. He would never again battle for supremacy.
Meekly he yielded to his fate. He is food to this day.

Parrot Feathers and Probably Arboreal were married after breakfast.
On the toes of their first child were ten cunning, diminutive oyster
shells. Mankind, up to that time, had had sharp toenails like the
claws of birds. But the flat, shell-like toenails, the symbols of man's
triumph over, and trampling down of, the oyster were inherited from the
children of this happy couple.

They persist to this day.




“IF WE COULD ONLY SEE”

