
Lunch finished, Mr. Ferdinand Wimple, the poet, sullenly removed his
coat and sulkily carried the dishes to the kitchen sink. He swore in a
melodious murmur, as a cat purrs, as he turned the hot water on to the
plates, and he splashed profanely with a wet dishcloth.

“I'm going to do the dishes to-day, Ferd,” announced his wife,
pleasantly enough. She was a not unpleasant-looking woman; she gave
the impression that she might, indeed, be a distinctly pleasant-looking
woman, if she could avoid seeming hurried. She would have been a pretty
woman, in fact, if she had been able to give the time to it.

When she said that she would do the dishes herself, Mr. Wimple
immediately let the dishcloth drop without another word, profane or
otherwise, and began to dry his hands, preparatory to putting on his
coat again. But she continued:

“I want you to do the twins' wash.”

“What?” cried Mr. Wimple, outraged. He ran one of his plump hands
through his thick tawny hair and stared at his wife with latent hatred
in his brown eyes... those eyes of which so many women had remarked:
“Aren't Mr. Wimple's eyes wonderful; just simply _wonderful!_ So
magnetic, if you get what I mean!” Mr. Wimple's head, by many of his
female admirers, was spoken of as “leonine.” His detractors--for who has
them not?--dwelt rather upon the physical reminder of Mr.'Wimple, which
was more suggestive of the ox.

“I said I wanted you to do the twins' wash for me,” repeated Mrs.
Wimple, awed neither by the lion's visage nor the bovine torso. Mrs.
Wimple's own hair was red; and in a quietly red-haired sort of way she
looked as if she expected her words to be heeded.

“H----!” said the poet, in a round baritone which enriched the ear as
if a harpist had plucked the lovely string of G. “H----!” But there was
more music than resolution in the sound. It floated somewhat tentatively
upon the air. Mr. Wimple was not in revolt. He was wondering if he had
the courage to revolt.

Mrs. Wimple lifted the cover of the laundry tub, which stood beside the
sink, threw in the babies' “things,” turned on the hot water, and said:

“Better shave some laundry soap and throw it in, Ferd.”

“Heavens!” declared Mr. Wimple. “To expect a man of my temperament to do
that!” But still he did not say that he would not do it.

“Someone has to do it,” contributed his wife.

“I never kicked on the dishes, Nell,” said Mr. Wimple. “But this, _this_
is too much!”

“I have been doing it for ten days, ever since the maid left. I'm
feeling rotten to-day, and you can take a turn at it, Ferd. My back
hurts.” Still Mrs. Wimple was not unpleasant; but she was obviously
determined.

“Your back!” sang Mr. Wimple, the minstrel, and shook his mane. “Your
_back_ hurts you! My _soul_ hurts _me!_ How could I go direct from
that--that damnable occupation--that most repulsive of domestic
occupations--that bourgeois occupation--to Mrs. Watson's tea this
afternoon and deliver my message?”

A shimmer of heat (perhaps from her hair) suddenly dried up whatever dew
of pleasantness remained in Mrs. Wimple's manner. “They're just as much
your twins as they are mine,” she began... but just then one of them
cried.

A fraction of a second later the other one cried.

Mrs. Wimple hurried from the kitchen and reached the living room in time
to prevent mayhem. The twins, aged one year, were painfully entangled
with one another on the floor. The twin Ronald had conceived the idea
that perhaps the twin Dugald's thumb was edible, and was testing five or
six of his newly acquired teeth upon it. Childe Dugald had been inspired
by his daemon with the notion that one of Childe Ronald's ears might be
detachable, and was endeavouring to detach it. The situation was but too
evidently distressing to both of them, but neither seemed capable of the
mental initiative necessary to end it. Even when little Ronald opened
his mouth to scream, little Dugald did not remove the thumb.

Mrs. Wimple unscrambled them, wiped their noses, gave them rattles,
rubber dolls, and goats to wreak themselves upon, and returned to the
kitchen thinking (for she did not lack her humorous gleams) that the
situation in the living room bore a certain resemblance to the situation
in the kitchen. She and Ferdinand bit and scratched figuratively, but
they had not the initiative to break loose from one another.

Mr. Wimple was shaving soap into the laundry tub, but he stopped when
she entered and sang at her: “And _why_ did the maid leave?”

“You know why she left, Ferd.”

“She left,” chanted Ferdinand, poking the twins' clothing viciously with
a wooden paddle, “because...” But what Mr. Wimple said, and the way he
said it, falls naturally into the freer sort of verse:

               “She left [sang Mr. Wimple]

               Because her discontent...

               Her individual discontent,

               Which is a part of the current general discontent

               Of all the labouring classes...

               Was constantly aggravated

          By your jarring personality,

               Mrs. Wimple!

               There is no harmony in this house,

               Mrs. Wimple;

               No harmony!”

Mrs. Wimple replied in sordid prose:

“She left because she was offered more money elsewhere, and we couldn't
afford to meet the difference.” Something like a sob vibrated through
Mr. Wimple's opulent voice as he rejoined:

“Nellie, that is a blow that I did not look for! You have stabbed me
with a poisoned weapon! Yes, Nellie, I _am_ poor! So was Edgar Poe. What
the world calls poor! I shall, in all likelihood, never be rich... what
the world calls rich. But I have my art! I have my ideals! I have my
inner life! I have my dreams! Poor? Poor? Yes, Nell! Poor! So was Robert
Burns! I am poor! I make no compromise with the mob. Nor shall I ever
debase my gift for money. No! Such as I am, I shall bear the torch that
has been intrusted to me till I fall fainting at the goal! I have a
message. To me it is precious stuff, and I shall not alloy it with the
dross called gold. Poor? Yes, Nell! And you have the heart to cast it
in my teeth! You, Nellie! You, from whom I once expected sympathy and
understanding. You, whom I chose from all the world, and took into my
life because I fancied that you, too, saw the vision! Yes, Elinor, I
dreamed _that_ once!”

