
It must be said, to the credit of incubators and science, that Marjorie
was a beautifully normal baby. Mrs. Fielding took the greatest possible
satisfaction in that. She was always ready to show Marjorie's record
charts to visitors, and it was touching to see with what motherly pride
she exhibited them. There was not another baby in the town that had
maintained such an even temperature, such a steady respiration, or such
a reliably even pulse.

Mr. Fielding was no less proud of the record. He bragged about it at the
club and tried to induce his married friends to allow their babies to
enter temperature matches with Marjorie, offering to wager two to one
that Marjorie could maintain a normal temperature for a longer time than
any baby of her age and weight.

When Marjorie reached six months Mr. Fielding decided that she deserved
a reward of merit, and he made her a present of an oak filing cabinet of
sixteen drawers, together with three thousand index cards. There was the
food drawer, with cards for every day of the year, and places on each
card to note the time of every feeding, the ounces of food taken, the
minutes Marjorie required to take the food, the formula of the food, and
the average cost of food per hour.

There was the clothing drawer, with cards on which to record the weight
of clothing worn, the temperature of the air, the number of pieces of
clothing worn, the method by which the garments were washed, and for
remarks on the comparative good effects of cotton, wool, silk, and linen
garments.

There were cards for sleep records, weight records, temperature,
respiration, and pulse records--in fact Marjorie was analyzed and
specified until one could tell at a glance just how many thousandths of
an ounce of food she consumed for each beat of her heart, or how many
times she breathed per pound of clothing worn.

Unfortunately, the nurse, Chiswick, objected. She threatened to leave.
She said her professional training had not included card systems, and
that even if she had had a modern business education, she had no time to
keep such multitudinous records. Mr. Fielding promptly engaged a private
secretary for Marjorie. Miss Vickers knew all about card index systems.
She loved two things passionately--card systems and babies.

And then, just when a record card had been allotted to every function of
Marjorie's pink and white body, a complication arose. Marjorie developed
a will and a temper.

She decided that she had reached the age when she ought to sit alone.
She looked upon the world and saw Chiswick sitting upright and Miss
Vickers sitting upright and she longed to sit upright too. For six
months she had reposed docilely upon her back or her stomach, with
occasional variations of lying on one side or the other, and she felt
that she had had enough of it. It was time to have a backbone and to
take her place as a sitter. She told Chiswick so plainly enough. When
Chiswick laid her on her back she yelled and raised her head. When
Chiswick laid her on her stomach she turned over upon her back and
raised her head and yelled. A little more and she would have been able
to sit up without aid. Her head and her neck sat up--as far as they
could. At least they flopped forward and tossed from side to side, but
her backbone would not follow. It continued to repose in placid flatness
on the pillow. Marjorie was very angry with her backbone. She got quite
purple in the face about it at times, and choked.

Chiswick was very dense. Marjorie's head and neck explained again and
again what they wanted to do, but Chiswick could not understand them.
She did not appreciate that it was ambition--she thought it was colic.
She pepperminted Marjorie until the sight of the peppermint spoon made
Marjorie tremble with rage, and when Marjorie had absorbed ounces and
ounces of peppermint water, Chiswick decided that Marjorie was past the
colic age, anyway.

Miss Vickers discovered what Marjorie wanted.

“I believe,” she said, “that the child wants to sit up,” and then
she tried it. That is why Marjorie loved Miss Vickers and hated
Chiswick--and peppermint--from that day onward.

It would have all ended there if Marjorie had been willing to
compromise, but she was not willing. The first day she might have been
willing, but when a person has cried steadily for three days and has
fought such a good fight, she feels it her right to dictate terms. She
would not compromise on an angle of forty-five degrees. She refused
to be satisfied with a plump, downy pillow at her back. She would sit
upright and alone, or yell.

Not that it mattered that she sat upright and unsupported, except that
she could not. Miss Vickers would seat her so and steady her for a
moment, but when the protecting hands were removed Marjorie unfailingly
collapsed. Sometimes she sank backward upon her pillow waving her arms
impotently, but usually she doubled disgracefully forward until her
nose bumped against her knee, or toppled to one side or the other like a
pulpy fallen idol. Her backbone was irritatingly pliable--somewhat like
a wet rag in stiffness. It was a poor affair, as backbones go. She might
quite as well not have had any. It made Marjorie remarkably angry.

She spent three entire days in a continuous round of being set up and
crumpling down again into the various bunchy shapes, and each day her
temper grew more violent. For the first time in her life she cried real
tears.

Mrs. Fielding was usually busy. Her club life was engrossing, but when,
for three days in succession, the index cards bore the words “Cried
all day,” she felt it her duty to investigate. She went to the nursery,
indignant.

“Well, mam,” said Chiswick, “I don't know how to stop her. My opinion is
that it's temper. She _will_ sit up, mam, and she can't. We set her up,
like she wants, and then she topples down and hollers. She hollers if we
do and she hollers if we don't. You can do a thing or you can leave it
undone, and there ain't nothing else you can do. There ain't anything
between them two ways. If there was we might suit her.”

“You should distract her attention,” said Mrs. Fielding.

“She won't distract,” declared Chiswick. “She made up her mind to sit
up alone--which she can't--and she gets in a temper over it, and her
temper's getting worse right along.”

Mrs. Fielding looked at her daughter doubtfully.

“Perhaps she needs a little punishment,” she suggested, “but I am not
sure that the latest authorities approve of punishment. I will let you
know. I should like to consult others before acting.”

Mrs. Fielding laid the matter before the Mothers' club at its next
meeting. She found the Mothers' club to be frankly and openly divided
on the question. Mothers who had at first held the most modern ideas had
fallen into laxly illogical methods, and instead of taking broad views
of the infant as a theoretical subject, had become rank individualists.
Mrs. Jones could talk only of Johnny Jones and Mrs. Smith argued all
questions to and from Susie Smith. Mrs. Fielding found no satisfaction
there and at length appealed to the monthly convocation of the local
federation of Women's clubs, which included the best intellect of all
the women of the city. When the federation had finished considering the
question, Mrs. Fielding found that she was one of a committee of four
appointed to direct the growth of Marjorie in mind, body, and soul.
The federation had undertaken to guide Marjorie through the pitfalls of
infancy.

Miss Martha Wiles, of the Browning club, was made chairman of the
committee; Miss Vesey, of the Higher Life circle, and Miss Loring, of
the Physical Good guild, were members of it, and Mrs. Fielding was added
at the last moment to represent the Mothers' club because the other
members of the Mothers' club said they had enough to do to look after
their own babies.

When the committee convened in the Fielding nursery to consider
Marjorie's temper, Marjorie greeted it with a sweet smile. The committee
sat on the sofa and Marjorie sat in her crib. She had conquered her
backbone and was on good terms with it and the world again.

The committee entered upon its duties enthusiastically. It began by
studying the records of Marjorie. It met daily to adopt rules and
regulations and spent hours over the card cabinet until it became
thoroughly acquainted with Marjorie's averages. Then it made out a
schedule of normal development for mind and body.

Chiswick viewed the schedule skeptically.

“It's a nice schedule, mam, I'll say that much for it,” she said, “but
if the day comes when she's entered to creep, and she don't creep, what
am I going to do about it?”

[Illustration: If the day comes when she is entered to creep and
don't... 68]

“It is your duty to see that she does creep,” said Miss Wiles.

“Very well, mam,” said Chiswick, “but may I ask one question?”

“You may. It is your duty to ask questions. Refer all your doubts to the
committee,” replied Miss Wiles.

“Then,” said Chiswick, “answer me this. On page six of the records of
the committee it says: 'Whereas, the lower strata of air in a room are
the abiding places of millions of germs; and whereas, children playing
upon the floor must breathe the said air; and whereas, children playing
upon the floor take into their mouths and convey thence to their
stomachs the said germs, as well as pins, lint, needles, buttons, and
other indigestible and highly injurious substances. Therefore, be it
resolved, that the said Marjorie Fielding shall never be allowed to
sit, lie, recline, or rest upon the floor, nor upon any rug, blanket,
or other covering upon the said floor.' What I want to know is, how the
child is to learn to creep if she isn't to be allowed on the floor.”

The committee looked at itself questioningly. Miss Loring giggled. Miss
Wiles alone saved the day.

“You will, of course,” she said, haughtily, “give the child her lessons
in creeping upon a table. Mrs. Fielding will see that one is provided.”

When the committee was gone Chiswick walked over to the crib where
Marjorie lay and looked at her doubtfully. According to the schedule a
creep was due from Marjorie in six weeks and Marjorie had only learned
the art of sitting alone. Sitting alone at seven months is not bad
progress for an incubator baby and Marjorie was rather proud of it.

“Well,” said Chiswick, “you've got to do it, and if you've got to do it
you might as well begin to learn now.”

Marjorie was lifted and deposited upon her rotund little stomach, which
protruded so much that she rocked back and forth upon it like a helpless
hobby horse. She looked up at Chiswick appealingly but saw only a stern
taskmistress.

“Lie that way a while,” said Chiswick coldly. “Get used to it,” and she
went away.

Marjorie laid her cheek on the cool sheet and thought. It was a rather
pleasant position. It gave her a comfortable compressed sensation below
the waist. She liked it but she could not afford to be idle. She raised
her head and peered around, as a tortoise peers, lengthening her neck. A
foot beyond her reach she saw her rattle. She stretched her hands for
it and only succeeded in bringing her pudgy little nose flat against the
sheet. She kicked with her feet, but even that did not bring the rattle
within reach; it only served to rock her gently to and fro on her
stomach. Marjorie needed the rattle. She had still several hundred
shakes to give it before her day's work would be complete. And the
rattle needed Marjorie; it looked forlorn and lonely. Even as she
considered the matter Marjorie found that she was raising her body on
her plump little arms. They were acting like little posts to elevate
her shoulders and head. Then, in a most phenomenal way, one knee doubled
itself and drew up under her body, and the other followed it, and she
was on her hands and knees.

From this frightfully elevated position the rattle appeared quite near,
so near that it seemed as if she could touch it. She put out a hand, and
lo! the whole fabric of herself that she had reared, collapsed, and she
was sprawled flat on the sheet.

But the rattle certainly seemed nearer. She tried it again, and this
time she put her hand forward only a little way, and followed it with
the other, but she was firmly anchored at the rear, and there was no
elasticity in her body. It would not stretch another inch. She thought
of her legs reproachfully. But for them she might even now have the
rattle. Her legs felt the reproach and wiggled with shame. They knew
they were in disgrace and they longed to come closer and nestle lovingly
against Marjorie. One of them moved forward slowly and paused. Its
fellow, fearing it was being deserted, moved up beside it, but cruel
Marjorie moved her hands forward again.

She could almost touch the rattle! One more forward movement of her legs
and--

Chiswick, turning, saw it just in time. She was beside the crib in one
bound, and her right hand pressed down upon Marjorie and squeezed her
deep into the softness of the crib, and held her there kicking and
squealing.

“Land sakes!” cried Chiswick. “You're breaking the schedule! You can't
creep now. The idea! What will that there committee say! What will
they say of you to that federation of clubs! You and me won't have no
reputation left. Don't you ever creep till I say so. Never!”

She picked up the offended Marjorie and set her upright in the end of
the crib. Marjorie rolled over upon her hands and knees. She wanted the
rattle. She scoffed at schedules. Chiswick held her down with one hand
and reached for the rattle with the other.

“Now I've got to watch you day and night,” she grumbled, “or we'll be
having resolutions made about us, and things voted, and land knows what!
You'd break the whole constitution and by-laws, you would.”

Marjorie smiled gleefully, and struggled to free herself. Chiswick tied
her to the head of the crib with a strip of antiseptic bandage; and
entered in the day book: “Tried to creep; restrained by nurse.”

[Illustration: Tied her to the head of the crib 78]

When the committee met again they passed a resolution of thanks to
Chiswick for her prompt action, and Marjorie's private secretary entered
it on the records. As she wrote the last word she looked at Marjorie and
winked, and Marjorie smiled wickedly.

There were hours when Chiswick was off duty, and then the private
secretary was left alone in charge of Marjorie, and those were hours
of riotous living. The private secretary was scientific--as a
bookkeeper--but as a nurse she was ignorantly human.

She scoffed at the Higher Life for Women; she ate candy and avoided as
much as possible her physical good. She refused to be emancipated. She
had an idea it meant something in the way of doing without lacing and
wearing shoes a size too large for one.

So when she was left alone with Marjorie they had a good time. They sat
on the floor and imbibed germs, and they did all sorts of unscientific,
retrogressive things. Perhaps that was why Marjorie remained a sweet,
cheerful baby instead of becoming a sour little old woman.

One evening when Chiswick was away the private secretary and Marjorie
were having a romp on the floor of the nursery. It was a handicap race,
a creeping match, and the private secretary was handicapped by her
skirts. The two were so interested that they did not hear the nursery
door open. When Marjorie had won the twenty-foot dash the private
secretary turned, and blushed with confusion and guilt. Mr. Fielding
stood in the doorway! A frown darkened his brow and he looked at the
private secretary with severity.

Miss Vickers sprang to her feet hastily and brushed out the folds of her
skirt.

“Well!” exclaimed Mr. Fielding. “So this is how you behave! This is what
you may be expected to do when you are trusted alone with the child!
What do you suppose Mrs. Fielding and the committee would say?”

The private secretary laughed. Marjorie laughed and clapped her hands.
Mr. Fielding frowned and picked Marjorie up. He put her in the crib, and
Marjorie, rudely taken from her playmate by this stern man, lifted up
her voice and wailed. She turned red in the face and howled. There was a
swish of silk skirts--which never should be worn in the nursery--a rush
of feet, and a hand pushed Mr. Fielding aside. With one sweep of her
arms the private secretary gathered Marjorie to her breast.

“What did you do to her?” she cried. “Much you know about babies, and
all your silly committees!”

Mr. Fielding paused irresolute. Marjorie cooed gently in her protector's
arms, and her father looked at her curiously.

“You--you don't believe in scientific motherhood?” he said to Miss
Vickers. He seemed to be asking for information; seeking light on a
question that had already raised itself in his mind.

“'Scientific' doesn't hurt any, but it needs some mother with it,” she
replied. “See her smile!” Mr. Fielding leaned forward cautiously.

“She does, doesn't she?” he said, with curiosity. “I never saw that
before. It is quite interesting.”

“It's great!” exclaimed the private secretary. “You take her a minute
and I'll show you something else.”

Mr. Fielding took her, carefully.

The private secretary clapped her hands and Marjorie looked toward her.

“Two hands, baby,” she said, and the two pink arms reached out to her.

“Well!” exclaimed Mr. Fielding, “How human!”

“See if she will do it for you,” suggested the girl.

Mr. Fielding clapped his hands. “Two hands!” he said.

Marjorie looked at him good naturedly. If he was willing to play she
could forgive everything. She reached out her hands, and jumped toward
her father. Before he knew how it happened, he had pressed his lips to
her soft cheek and her hands were entangled in his hair.

[Illustration: On his hands and knees playing peek-boo 88]

When the doorbell rang, half an hour later, Mr. Fielding was on his
hands and knees playing “peek-boo!” with Marjorie. Miss Vickers swept
her into her crib and helped him to arise hastily. Then she pushed him
toward the door.

“It is Chiswick!” she whispered. “Hurry!”

“Yes!” he whispered in return. “We--we will keep this matter private? It
is not necessary to inform any one.”

The private secretary watched him nervously while he gave Marjorie a
last, long kiss, and then she pushed him gently from the nursery. She
really had to push him out.

When Mrs. Fielding was appointed to read a paper on Scientific
Motherhood at the annual convention of the national federation of
Women's clubs, she accepted the task with due modesty but not without a
sense of complete fitness. Her mere presence in the distant convention
city would in itself be a proof of the correctness of her theories.
Under what other system could a mother leave her young baby and devote a
week's absence to club duties? She felt quite at ease, however, for
the three remaining members of the committee of four were in charge of
Marjorie's welfare, and back of the committee was the entire federation
of her city. She took the train with a grateful sense of freedom.

It was the opportunity Marjorie had been awaiting. No sooner had Mrs.
Fielding left the city than Marjorie raised her temperature two degrees,
just as an experiment. It was wonderfully successful. It made Chiswick
scurry around the nursery with distracted concern. Marjorie raised
her temperature a few degrees more and Chiswick telephoned for the
committee.

The committee came, consulted and wondered what to do. It decided to
await developments, and went away again.

As Mrs. Fielding sped toward the place where she was to exercise the
noble functions of her mind, Marjorie, in the nursery, lay in the
private secretary's arms, at times sleeping and at times with wide-open,
glassy, bright eyes. The private secretary was staying overtime, but she
did not mind it. She was glad to stay because Marjorie was fretful and
would not let Chiswick touch her.

Marjorie moved about restlessly in Miss Vickers's arms, trying fresh
positions each moment, and tossing her hot head from side to side. Her
cheeks glowed red, and the same red overspread her forehead and gleamed
through the tossed gold of her hair. Where her head touched it the
private secretary's arm burned as under a hot iron.

The private secretary--who really had no voice at all--chanted:

     “Ma-mie had a lit-tle lamb,
     Little lamb,
     Little lamb,
     Ma-mie had a lit-tle lamb,
     Its fleece was white as snow.”

Marjorie fretted. She did not want to be sung to. She did not know what
she wanted. She was not used to being abnormal in temperature,
it made her peevish, but she was lovable even so, for
through the peevishness stray smiles would creep--sick little
“please--excuse--Marjorie”--smiles, to show she had no hard feelings,
but just one great uncomfortable feeling.

“You dear, dear, _dear_ baby!” the private secretary exclaimed, and bent
and kissed the hot cheek.

It was a hard night for the private secretary but it was a treasured
night. It was blessed to feel the little hot baby resting in her arms
and to be able to give up sleep and comfort and everything for the
sleepless child.

When the sun arose Marjorie had fallen asleep, but tossed restlessly,
and on her white skin, from which the fever had retreated, thousands of
bright red spots glowed and glowed. Marjorie had the measles.

Chiswick suggested sending a hurry call for the committee, but while she
was sending it the private secretary routed Mr. Fielding from his bed.
He came to the nursery in bath robe and slippers, and dashed out again
to set the telephone bell clamoring.

Before the committee had its pompadours well under way the good old
bulky doctor was bending over Marjorie's crib.

“Very severe attack,” he said, “but not necessarily dangerous. Keep her
(and so on), give her (and so on). I'll drop in after noon.”

When the committee arrived an hour later it had nothing to do but
approve or disapprove of what had already been done. It decided to
send Mrs. Fielding bulletins. Nothing weak or exciting; just cool,
calm statements of facts. Things in the manner of reports to a fellow
committee woman.

Mrs. Fielding received the first as she was in the hands of the
reception committee.

“Marjorie has measles. No cause for alarm,” it said. She frowned. Why
should they bother her with trifles.

About noon she received another message. It read: “Patient's condition
unchanged. No cause for alarm.”

She crumpled it in her hand and threw it on the floor. It had
interrupted an inspiring conversation on the Higher Life.

When the doctor visited Marjorie about noon he sat fully five minutes
with her, which was unusually long for such a busy man, and as he left
he gravely remarked that he would drop in during the evening.

He did not like the way those red spots were fading.

When he returned he frowned. Mr. Fielding was sitting on the cribside
holding one of Marjorie's hot hands and gently passing his fingers over
her brow. The private secretary was on her knees at the other side of
the crib. But the doctor did not frown at either of these.

“I don't like her condition, at all,” he said. “Not at all. But I'll try
to pull her through. Telephone my wife I'll not be home to-night, will
you?” Marjorie lay in open-eyed listlessness, staring upward at nothing.
Her breath was short and rapid, and her heart beat like the quick
strokes of a trip hammer.

She wondered vaguely why this strange thing was happening to her, and
when the private secretary touched her she tried to smile, and only
succeeded in making white lines about her drawn, dry lips.

It was nine o'clock when Mrs. Fielding arose to read her paper before
the national convention, and as she arose she was handed a telegram. It
was from the committee.

“Patient seriously ill. Best possible medical attendance. Do not worry.”

Mrs. Fielding read it and walked to the rostrum. “President and ladies,”
 her paper began, “my child is an example of the benefits of scientific
motherhood,” but she did not read it so. As she stood facing her
audience, her paper trembled in her hand, and as she looked at the lines
written upon it they said but one thing--“Patient seriously ill.”

“President and ladies,” she began, “my child is--my child is--” The
lines vanished and she faltered. “My child,” she said, “is--is very ill
to-night. I must go, of course. You must excuse me,” and she turned and
fled.

It was rather odd that the first articulate word that Marjorie said in
her life was uttered about that time. She had grown more irritable
and had pushed away her father's hand and the drink that the private
secretary offered her.

“What do you want, little girl?” Miss Vickers asked, and Marjorie, whole
weeks ahead of her schedule, said, “Ma-ma.”



