
For an incubator baby, Marjorie handled the measles remarkably well.
After a first reluctant period when she seemed to prefer death to
disfigurement, she blossomed into exceeding spotfulness and rioted
in soda baths, and then she gently faded into her usual
pink-and-white-ness. The effect on her system was excellent, but to
Chiswick, her faithful nurse, it brought distress.

The world bows down before a sick baby, but a convalescent baby puts its
foot on the neck of the prostrate world and then pushes. Marjorie ruled.
She demanded many things. She insisted on being rocked to sleep, and
sung to, and being held while awake, and all manner of things that her
governing committee considered debilitating and antiquated, and Mrs.
Field-ing, glowing with newly found mother love, decided that Marjorie
must have them. She felt that a little petting would not harm the child,
but she was afraid of Chiswick.

Chiswick, like an incorruptible guard, was always present, and back of
Chiswick was the governing committee, and back of the committee was the
Federation of Women's Clubs, and back of that was all the great theory
of scientific motherhood and the greater theory of the Higher and Better
Life for Women. Mrs. Fielding felt that the eye of the world was upon
her, and that Chiswick was that eye. The only way to secure freedom was
to put the eye out, so she put it out. She gave Chiswick an afternoon
off.

Chiswick went reluctantly. She was a lover of duty, and she had but one
desire in life, to see Marjorie keep to her schedule.

Mrs. Fielding and Marjorie had a good time that afternoon. Marjorie
learned to put her arms around her mother's neck and to lay her face
close against her mother's face, but Chiswick wandered up and down
before the house disconsolately.

When she was let in she threw off her hat and dashed at Marjorie
greedily. She took her pulse eight times in succession and refused
supper because she wanted to get so many respirations and temperatures
that she had no time to eat.

She was just settling down to a nicely scientific evening when Mr.
Fielding entered the nursery. Mr. Fielding feared Chiswick as much as he
feared Mrs. Fielding. He cast one glance at Marjorie, sweet and clean in
her nightgown, and another at the door, and then smiled at Chiswick. It
was a guileful smile.

“Chiswick,” he said, “it is a beautiful evening.”

“Is it, sir?” she asked, coldly.

“Beautiful,” he returned with great enthusiasm. “Beautiful! I never saw
a finer night--outside.”

“You don't say!” she remarked, but her voice expressed the deepest
unconcern for the weather. Mr. Fielding moved toward Marjorie. Chiswick
quietly slipped between them.

“My!” Mr. Fielding exclaimed. “You are not looking at all well yourself,
Chiswick. You are overworking. I don't know what Mrs. Fielding can be
thinking about to let you wear yourself out so. You are so faithful,
so--”

Chiswick shook her head.

“I don't want no outing,” she said, sullenly. “I've had one. I don't
need no more. I'm well.”

“Really,” said Mr. Fielding, “a little run in this fresh evening air
would do wonders for you; wonders! It would quite set you up again. You
must think of your health, Chiswick.” He eyed Marjorie longingly.

“No, thank you,” said Chiswick. “I'll try to get along.”

“Chiswick!” said Mr. Fielding. “I insist. You may neglect your health
if you wish, but I cannot. What would Marjorie do if you should
get sick--and die? I insist that you must go out for a little
constitutional. Say for two hours, or three, if you wish.”

Chiswick balked and Mr. Fielding gently put his hand against her
shoulder and pushed her to the door. She gave a last longing glance
backward into the nursery and went. For two hours she sat desolately
on the horse block and then sadly entered the house with a cold in her
head.

Marjorie was asleep, but when she heard Chiswick's tread she sighed and
held up one soft hand. Chiswick clasped it--and took her pulse.

The next morning Miss Vickers looked up from her task of filling in
the record cards for the previous day and smiled at Chiswick. It was
unusual, for they were not the best of friends, and Chiswick hardened
instantly.

“I'm looking sick, ain't I?” she said, defiantly. “I need air, don't I?
I'll lose my complexion if I don't go out and sit a few hours on that
stone horse block, won't I? Huh! Not for you! No, mam, I'll out in
the afternoon for Mrs. Fielding, and I'll out in the evening for Mr.
Fielding, if I have to, but I won't out in no morning for no private
secretary. Not much?”

“I only thought,” said Miss Vickers, sweetly, “that perhaps you'd
like to take a little fresh air. I don't mind tending Marjorie, if you
would.”

“I wouldn't,” said Chiswick, shortly.

“Oh!” said Miss Vickers. She wrote rapidly for a few moments. “By the
way,” she said, between cards. “I forgot to tell you--” she wrote in a
temperature--“that the committee”--another card--“said that a new
sterilizer is needed”--another record written--“and said to tell you to
get one”--another card--“this morning.”

Chiswick threw the baby clothes she held in her hand upon the crib with
more than necessary violence. She jammed her hat on her head and stuck
a hat pin through it vindictively. She ran all the way to the druggist's
and back, and as she entered the house she glanced at the horse block
spitefully. Mrs. Fielding met her at the door.

“Chiswick,” she said, “I'm going to let you have another afternoon out
to-day.”

Marjorie enjoyed Chiswick's outings. She found herself in a world where
people did nice things to her, and her appetite for petting became a
vice. When entertainment stopped she doubled up her fists, closed her
eyes and yelled. Sometimes, if her demands went long unanswered, she
held her breath until she was purple in the face. Against such a
plea only Chiswick could remain obdurate. She seemed absolutely
incorruptible, but she was not. Every woman has her price.

It was an afternoon of the meeting of the federation and Mrs. Fielding
was out. Miss Vickers was out, too, and Chiswick was happy. She did not
have to take an outing.

Marjorie sat on the sterilized floor and planned the downfall of
Chiswick. She wanted to be rocked asleep, and that, like Mary's little
lamb, was against the rule. Scientific babies are laid in the crib and
go to sleep without rocking. Marjorie wept.

She began by rubbing her eyes with the back of her chubby fists and
yawning until her mouth was a little pink circle. That was to tell
Chiswick she was sleepy. Chiswick put her in the crib.

Marjorie sat up and whimpered, pausing from time to time to look at
Chiswick. Chiswick remained calm and indifferent. Marjorie lay back,
stiffened her limbs and yelled. Chiswick was not affected. Marjorie
rolled over on one side, raised her voice an octave, and shrieked,
beating the side of her crib with her fists. She became purple in the
face. Chiswick paid no attention.

Marjorie, disgusted, became suddenly quiet. She feigned meekness. She
sat up in her crib and smiled. She pretended that sleep and rocking were
farthest from her thoughts. She coaxed to be put on the floor. Chiswick
yielded so far, as a reward of merit.

Without an instant's hesitation Marjorie crept to the rocking chair that
stood in one corner of the room and tried her latest and most famous
trick. It was a trick of which she was justly proud. When she had done
it for her mother she had been deliciously hugged, and it never failed
to win a kiss from her father. True, she had always performed it with
the assistance of a crib leg, but the rocking chair looked serene.
Marjorie could stand on her own legs, with something to hold to, and she
was going to do it for Chiswick.

She raised herself on her knees by the chair, and grasped it firmly by
the seat. Cautiously she drew a foot up under her and tested her knee
strength. It was good. She raised herself carefully and slid the other
foot beside its companion, stiffened her knees and was standing upright!
It was glorious! She turned her head to see how Chiswick was taking it.
The chair failed her basely. It swung forward in an unaccountable manner
and developed a strange instability. Marjorie grasped it firmly and
it reared up in front and then dived down again. She cast an agonized
glance at Chiswick, staggered, grasped widely in the air for a firmer
support, gasped, and sat down so suddenly that the bottles in the
sterilizer on the table rattled.

The chair, released, nodded at her sagely once or twice and settled into
a motionless and fraudulent appearance of stability.

Marjorie was not to be fooled twice by the same chair. She tried it
cautiously. She put her hand on it and it swayed. She took her hand off
and it became still. It was a remarkable mechanism. She crawled around
to one side and tried it there. It was much better so. She upended
herself again, and the chair, altho it wabbled distractingly, did not
cast her off.

Chiswick was not duly impressed. She seemed to consider standing upright
quite an everyday matter. Marjorie hesitated, looked at her appealingly,
and then, to overwhelm her, released one hand and stood alone, supported
by one hand only.

Suddenly the deceitful chair began to rock again. It fell sickeningly
beneath her hand, and arose again, only to fall once more. Marjorie
trembled. If all the world should develop this instability! If cribs and
floors and walls should take to sinking and rising.

She lost faith in the inanimate. Nothing was firm and secure but strong,
warm arms, holding one firmly. She cast off her remaining clasp on the
chair and in her excitement forgot that she was standing. She had but
one thought, Chiswick and safety!

Steadying herself for a moment she reached out her arms and took a step
toward Chiswick. She swayed backward, threatening to sit down again, and
then in a rush she took three quick steps, bent forward and fell flat on
her face.

Chiswick darted toward her, but too late. Her forehead struck the hard
floor just before Chiswick reached her, and she screamed with fright. It
was true! Even the floor had proved false and had risen to strike her.
Her heart broke, and then, before she knew how, she was wrapped in
Chiswick's arms and was being rocked tumultuously. Chiswick had fallen
from scientific grace.

After that it was only a question of who could do the most to spoil
Marjorie. There was Mrs. Fielding, who was sure no one suspected her;
and Mr. Fielding, who carefully avoided publicity in his ministrations;
and Chiswick, who was severely correct when observed and weakly
indulgent when alone; and Miss Vickers, who was shamelessly indifferent
to rules. Between them Marjorie had quite a normal babyhood, and the
members of the committee were blissfully unaware of it. They regularly
reported her progress, and bragged of her scientific upbringing.

When Marjorie reached the age of two years she had cut all her teeth
and was saying words of one and one-half syllables, and stringing them
together to form sentences that no one but her loving intimates could by
any chance understand. By the direction of her governing committee she
wore frocks cut on a scientific plan that had originated in the mind of
some person who had a chronic aversion to ruffles and whose firm belief
seemed to be that only the ugly was hygienic. Marjorie wore health
garments that looked like misfit flour sacks, and health shoes that made
people stop and stare at her feet. Her garb was so highly healthful
that Marjorie should have bloomed like a rose, but she began to droop
visibly. She became pale and peevish and would not eat her bran mash
and Infant's Delight puddings. By day she was listless and by night she
slept fitfully and awakened with screams. She had no appetite. Every one
was sorry for her and did little things to please her--on the sly.

In any other child the doctor would at once have suspected a wrong
diet, but Marjorie's committee had arranged her diet and it was beyond
criticism. The doctor suggested that perhaps incubator babies
were subject to such declines. One of the strictest rules of the
committee-arranged diet was “no sweets.” Candy was absolutely forbidden.
On this point the committee was most positive.

Miss Vickers considered this a shocking cruelty. She lived largely on
chocolate creams and considered a candyless world pathetic. She pitied
Marjorie, and occasionally, when no one was looking, she smuggled a fat
chocolate into Marjorie's willing mouth. Miss Vickers believed that
a little candy was good for a child, but she was careful not to give
Marjorie more than she thought was good for her.

Mr. Fielding was of the same opinion. He could not imagine an
unsweetened childhood, and whenever he visited the nursery he smuggled
in a few soft bonbons--the kind that dissolve in the mouth and leave
no clews. Marjorie approved. She had a capacity for candy that was
phenomenal. One morning she and her mother were taking a little toddle
down the street when they passed one of those seductive candy shops in
which the basely knowing proprietor has the show windows cut so low that
the tempting display is very near the level of a two-year-old's mouth.

Marjorie stopped. She pushed her nose into flatness against the window
and gloated. She edged back and forth from one side, where there were
chocolate creams, to the other, where there were pink bonbons, and her
nose in its course made a clean streak on the dusty window glass. She
paused hesitatingly before the floury marshmallows, passed the cakes of
flat chocolate without qualms, and settled firmly and finally before the
pink bonbons.

She refused to leave the beautiful spot. When Mrs. Fielding tried to
draw her away, her nose remained against the glass and she screamed.
Mrs. Fielding glanced up and down the street guiltily. Not a committee
member was in sight. The street was untroubled by the feet of members of
the Federation of Women's Clubs. Mrs. Fielding vanished into the candy
shop. It was quite safe to leave Marjorie outside; she would remain with
her nose, and her nose seemed permanently affixed to the window.

But when Mrs. Fielding emerged with a small paper bag in her hand
Marjorie turned. The sight of one of the delicious pink lumps of
sweetness being lifted from the bag drew her away from the window, and
when the bonbon was dropped into her open mouth she was conquered. She
followed her mother gladly. Wherever that paper bag might go, Marjorie
would follow. The last bonbon disappeared before they reached home, but
Mrs. Fielding continued to carry the empty bag, and Marjorie followed
it.

“Miss Vickers,” said Mrs. Fielding, as she turned Marjorie over to her,
“you must never, _never_ allow any one to give Marjorie candy. It would
not be good for her.” Thus she tried to secure a monopoly of Marjorie's
love, and forestall any ill effects, but she did not know the depths
to which Chiswick had sunk. Concealed in her loose shirt waist was
something that rustled suspiciously like paper and that made her once
care-free conscience cringe at every rustle.

Naturally, Marjorie got too much candy. Whenever she was alone with one
of her family she found candy appearing from unsuspected places about
their persons, and she began to like confidential little parties of two.

It was truly joyful to see Marjorie eat candy. She was not greedy. At
least, she did not look greedy. She looked surprised and pleased. She
never seemed so soulful and sinless as at the moment when her pink lips
closed over a bonbon. At such a moment she seemed to forget the world
and to live in a more blessed sphere. The committee was particularly
strict about candy. It made the most positive rules against candy and
had them pasted on the walls of the nursery, and then during its calls,
each of its members skirmished to be the last to leave. The last out of
the room usually dropped a piece of candy into Marjorie's mouth.

Her indisposition was a glorious opportunity for the candy givers.
Everybody had a good excuse for going to the nursery as often as
possible, and she was in a constant glow of cherubic bliss, until the
day of reckoning came. She lay on her cot and was crudely, simply sick.
Her eyes were sunken and her cheeks varied from pale yellow to feverish
red. For the first time in her life she refused candy.

Her family and attendants and her governing committee wandered about the
nursery, each with one closed fist hiding a candy, seeking opportunities
to bend over the crib, and offer the candy to Marjorie, unseen by the
others. They made quite a procession. Someone was bending over the crib
every moment. Finally the doctor came and bent over the crib, too, and
then all the others joined him.

“That child is sick,” said the doctor, taking her from the crib and
concocting a potion.

“We knew that, doctor,” said Miss Vickers. “We knew she was quite ill.”

“Ill!” he said. “Ill! I said sick. Dog sick. She's overfed. Too much
candy.”

“Oh!” they all exclaimed. “Candy! Impossible!”

“The rules of the committee--” began the chairman.

“Did she eat 'em?” asked the doctor savagely. “If she did she ought to
be sick. It makes me sick to look at 'em.” He glared at the assembly.
“Which of you gave her candy?” he asked. There was no reply. He turned to
Marjorie.

“Like candy?” he asked.

“Yeth,” said Marjorie.

“Who gives you candy?” he inquired. Marjorie looked at the faces above
her. She selected Chiswick.

“Chithy,” she declared.

Chiswick blushed. The others looked at her in pained surprise.

“Who else gives you candy?” demanded the doctor.

“Papa,” said Marjorie.

Mr. Fielding crimsoned and avoided the eyes that frowned at him.

Miss Vickers alone spared him. She tossed her head defiantly.

“I gave her candy. Lots of it. It's good for her,” she declared.

“Who else?” demanded the doctor.

“Mamma,” said Marjorie.

Mrs. Fielding put her handkerchief to her eyes. She was afraid of the
committee and hid weakly behind her tears, knowing that they would not
attack her there, but the committee was not considering an attack. It
was preparing a graceful retreat and it oozed away before Marjorie made
its baseness known.

“Doctor,” said Mr. Fielding unsteadily, “do you think you can pull her
through?”

The doctor rumbled deep in his throat.

“Pull her through!” he growled. “Pull her through! Why don't _you_ ask
me?” he snapped at Mrs. Fielding. Mrs. Fielding wiped her eyes.

“Will she get well?” she asked.

The doctor grew scarlet.

“You ask me?” he exclaimed at Chiswick, but Chiswick only looked mutely
miserable, and the doctor turned and faced them.

“Pull her through!” he growled. “Yes, I'll pull her through. She's about
as ill as I am, but she's as sick as a dog. Stuffed with candy. I'll
prescribe--”

He turned, and, walking to the wall, tore down the rules and schedule so
carefully prepared by the committee. When he faced Mr. Fielding again he
seemed happier.

“How's your mother?” he asked.

Mr. Fielding gasped.

“My mother!” he stammered. “Why--why, she's dead.”

“How's your mother, then?” the doctor asked, turning to Mrs. Fielding.

“Mother is well, thank you.” she said.

“Good!” the doctor cried. “I prescribe one grandmother, one good,
old-fashioned grandmother. And see that she isn't any new-fangled
affair, either, or I'll turn her out and go out on the street and pick
one to suit me.”

Marjorie, pale and big-eyed, looked at him wonderingly.

“An incubator is all right when a mother won't do,” he said, “and a
mother is all right when you can't get a grandmother, but hang your
committees and your rules! The only good thing about rules is to find
exceptions to them. What this baby needs more than anything else is a
course of good, old-style grandmothering.”

He buttoned his coat and paused to pinch Marjorie's cheek.

“We know what you want don't we?” he said, and Marjorie smiled a thin,
pale smile.

“Want piece candy,” she replied.



