
He got up from the desk, stretched a little and went across the office
to the cooler in the opposite wall. His feet made no noise; he had that
quiet tread that all cats, a few men and some women achieve. His hand
interrupted the automatic cellgard and a tiny, almost hidden door in
the wall swung wide. He reached up, poked his hand in the cooler, felt
around. A little smile came into his eyes. He took his hand out of the
cooler, got up on tiptoes and looked inside. No roses. Not even one
rose.

Not even _half_ of a rose.

Chuckling, he went back to the desk and jabbed a finger at the button
over Supplies and Control.

"Hell-hips!" he rapped. "Where's all that well known and demonstrated
efficiency I've had to rake out of my ears?"

The narrow face lit up the Master Screen once more. It looked bored
now. "_Mr._ Radek, there was something?"

"Yeah. Something." Tony's voice dropped, got deadly soft. "How many
weeks since you checked the cooler, boy? There aren't any ritual roses."

"There--there aren't any?"

"That's right, Mr. Clacker. Now get away from that screen. I'm
reporting this to Central Direction." His finger jammed down on the
Supplies and Control button. He watched the Master Screen go blank and
grinned. He thought, "Shake a little, Mr. Clacker, shake a little,"
because he didn't dare even whisper to himself.

He sat down at the desk again and thought of something. His finger went
out, touched the button on the screen on the left--the _Portal Waiting_
screen.

She was still there, hunched up in one of the chairs like a small child
somebody had left in an interplanet waiting room and then gone away and
forgotten. Tony frowned once more. Damn that dame, she was spoiling his
nights.

He got up, crossed the office on silent feet, opened the door of
Executions, went down a bare, silent hall. At the levelators he waited
a moment for the platform, took it down, got off again at _Portal
Waiting_, and crossed to the foyer.

She was there, just as she'd been on the screen upstairs, only clearer,
more vivid, something witnessed instead of second hand, something with
dimension to it. She was in a big chair that could have accommodated
two like her. She had her legs tucked under her and her brown eyes that
looked up at Tony's approach weren't any larger than two full moons.

He said, "Are you Mrs. John Haley?"

The girl nodded. "They--they've got Johnny...."

"I know." Tony dropped into a chair opposite the girl. "It's late," he
said softly. "You shouldn't be here this time of night, Mrs. Haley."

The girl thought about that. "You're Mr. Radek, aren't you? In the
Execution Office?"

"Call me Tony, Mrs. Haley."

"All right, Tony. Yes, it's late. I hadn't noticed, but I suppose
you're right."

"You should go home, Mrs. Haley." He stopped, then lied a little.
"They'll let you know. You don't have to worry."

_You don't have to worry. They're bringing the guy up now, little
girl, but you don't have to worry. Old hell-hips is getting a ritual
rose now, little girl, but you don't have to worry._

As if he'd deliberately telepathed the thought, the girl said suddenly:
"Tony, is--is it true about the furious roses? I mean, if a man is
found guilty, do they--?"

"The 'furious' roses, Mrs. Haley?" He smiled. "I see. You mean because
they're so red. Yes, it's true. Ritual roses, we call them, but that's
nothing. Nothing at all. A custom only. A symbol handed down. It means
nothing."

"I know." The girl nodded again. "When we were children, we always
called them the furious roses because they were a furious red. We
always used to say that if an innocent man was executed, the furious
red rose would right away turn white, Tony. To show they'd been wrong
about him."

He shrugged. "Bedtime stories, Mrs. Haley."

"Not--not that it means anything to me, Tony. They'll find Johnny
innocent, of course. All three machines. The final machines."

_Innocent? Oh, sure._

"A man," said Tony with a vague motion of his hands. "What's the
difference what man a woman has? In the morning there's always
another--and another name. What's the difference?" He smiled a small
toy smile with eyes half closed so the girl couldn't look too closely
into them.

But it was all right, she hadn't heard. At least she wasn't balling
those big eyes of hers at him. She was looking down into her folded
hands.

He continued, "There's a war on, Mrs. Haley. It seems there's always a
war on, somehow. And everybody--you, me, the guy down the street who
skins ships for a living--we all have to remember that. And yet some
of us don't. Some of us go off on a tangent and try to sell out our
country and then there's hell to pay. And if we're found guilty, we get
the execution. The Neg-Emote."

The girl's lips began to tremble. She looked up. "Does it hurt, Tony? I
mean...."

"Physically? No, of course not." A corner of his mouth curled. "We're
humane nowadays, hadn't you heard? We just strap a man in a chair and
press a button and down comes a metal hood over him. We press some more
buttons and pull a switch or two, and that's that. No feeling, nothing.
The man's as good as new except he has no emotions any more. No
emotions whatever except personal physical pain, such as he'd need in
case somebody stepped on his toe or jabbed him with a pin. The State
wants us to protect ourselves, you see. It wouldn't want us getting
hurt because we don't feel anything."

He stopped because it was getting harder to continue. "We used to call
it 'stripping,' but that was long ago before the humane boys decided
the term was a little cruel. Now it's just Neg-Emoting. But the same
thing. Just a fancy title."

Her big eyes were suddenly eating into his. "What do they do with them,
Tony?"

He shrugged again. "Send 'em off to Training. Some can be taught this,
some that, but a living death nevertheless. What else can a traitor
expect?"

The girl began to tremble all over. "Not Johnny! They can't do that to
Johnny! He's innocent, Tony--he didn't do anything! Tony, tell them
that! Tell them to let him go...."

He put his teeth together hard. What do you say to a woman who sits
across from you, waiting the long, long wait? What do you say to a
woman like this when you see the terror--and something else--in eyes
like hers?

"You like the guy, Mrs. Haley?" he asked gently. "That's old-fashioned
as hell, you know. We all learn that way back in primaries."

But the woman wasn't listening again, wasn't caring what he'd said.
She began to whisper very softly:

"In the nights I used to be frightened. I used to lie there asleep
and dream of the ships coming down and spraying the house with the
burn-waves. And I could hear the roaring thunder of the jets and
the house would start to shake and I'd try to yell, but I couldn't.
Something inside would be choking me. And just when the burn-waves
would be coming hot through the window and licking at the walls inside
the room, I'd scream myself awake and jump up in bed and the sweat
would be pouring off me."

Tony stared, incredulous, into the big balls of fright that her eyes
had become.

"And then the lights would come on again, and there would be Johnny
lying next to me smiling a little, and his curly hair would be all
tousled from sleep, and he'd say to me, 'Baby, you've been dreaming
again. Don't you know I'm here? Don't you know I'll always be here?
Don't you know that, Baby?' And then it would be all right, and the
roaring jets would be only the dawn shift going out on Security Patrol.
And then I could go back to sleep again."

She stopped. _Portal Waiting_ had become a gray ghost of a thing with
nothing living in it, only the clouds of memory like smoke veils
swirling, drifting here and there, soon gone.

And then: "They'll let him go, Tony. He's innocent, you know. They have
to let him go."

He didn't look at her. He got up from his chair, put his hands rigidly
at his sides. Then he did look, just once, and very hard.

"Get out of here!" he growled.

"No, Tony."

He took a deep breath, turned, went across the foyer to the levelators.
As he passed under the huge Master Screen, her voice came again, but
quite thin:

"You'll let me know, Tony? You'll let me know as soon as you get word?"

He didn't answer, didn't look back, didn't do anything except
keep going to the levelators. He went upstairs, found the door of
Executions, opened it, went through, let it slam shut.
