
Things started to happen. The Master Clock over on the black desk made
a quiet blipping sound and the Emote Neutral lights went out. At once
the office was flooded with Amber Official, the working lights. Then
the Master Screen glowed and a narrow-faced man with washed-away eyes
looked out at him.

"Condemned is waiting, _Mr._ Radek," the narrow-faced man said acidly.
"Cell Two is getting dusty waiting for you, _Mr._ Radek. Very dusty."

Tony looked up. His heart wasn't in it, but he said it anyhow: "Go
chase your blonde some more, hell-hips."

He went over to the desk, banged the Supplies and Control button, held
it down. Master Screen darkened. He looked at the small square of white
paper on the black desk top.

A bill of divorcement. Like that. So in the morning the kid downstairs
could go out and get herself another mate and then she could go back to
bed again and dream some more about the roaring jets and the burn-waves.

He reached up and wiped at his forehead. She didn't have to see it
happen. Nothing in the Constitution--old or new--stated she had to see
it happen. He looked down at the matswitch that controlled the visi-lok
on the Master Screen. He clamped his teeth together and his hand went
out and flipped the switch. The office went dead.

Maybe nobody'd notice. Maybe he'd have time to slip into Cell Two and
get it over with before anybody noticed. He started across the room on
fast, silent feet.

"_Radek!_" the alternate speaker over in the corner blasted out. He
froze solid. "Radek, don't move! Stand where you are!"

Don't move? He couldn't have moved if he'd had jets on. And then the
hard voice went on again: "Central Command to Supplies and Control. Use
Emergency visi-relay. Unlock the Master Screen! This is Command 419,
Regulation Four. Signed, Countersigned."

Almost at once the Master Screen flickered into life and a hard,
severe-looking face appeared there. "Radek, turn around! Face the
screen!"

"Yes, sir." Tony turned.

"Second violation, Radek. Why?"

Tony forced a blank face. He lifted his shoulders, said: "I was over
here on my way to Cell Two for the Execution. How could I--"

"That will be all, Radek! Clear your desk. Prepare for judgment on
final machines."

Tony swallowed. He didn't move because he couldn't move.

"Well, Radek?"

He fought his face clean, kept his hands rigid at his sides. Sweat was
rolling down his back, but that was all right; Central Command couldn't
be expected to see sweat roll down a man's back under his clothing,
though a lot of people thought so.

"A suggestion, sir," he said at last.

"What?" Hard eyes bored into his own.

He let a little anxious look creep over his face. Not a guilty
look--he hoped--but the kind of anxious look a worried but innocent man
might have in a spot like this.

He said quickly: "About that visi-lok. I suggest it might have gone
into lock by itself. You see, it's one of the old-fashioned kind, the
type they used to have that worked with solenoids. We've had trouble
with them before."

That brought a little silence. The hard eyes in the screen said at
last: "Central Command to Supplies and Control. Is the visi-lok in
Executions controlled by a solenoid? Was it never changed to relay?"

Tony gulped. He looked into the Master Screen, but he remained frozen
to the floor, hardly breathing. And then a very thin voice answered
nervously:

"I--I believe that's correct, sir. I believe Executions does have the
old-fashioned solenoid. It seems there hasn't been time to change it.
I've been intending to...."

The voice was cut off. The hard eyes came back to Tony. "Decision!" the
hard voice said.

"Yes, sir?"

"Exonerated, Radek! Carry on with Execution in Cell Two." The screen
went blank.

Tony shuddered. A close one. A damned close one. That was the war for
you. Even a man's breaths are counted. He went on shaky feet over to
the cooler, reached in, got out a ritual rose, left the office end
shuffled down the hall to Cell Two.

John Edward Haley. The condemned. A thin man, Tony thought. Well, sure,
there aren't many fat men any more. Not in ordinary circumstances, that
is.

The man was sitting tensely in the chair. There was no one else in the
cell, which was as it should be, of course. Witnesses, yes--the Master
Screen up on the wall--but not here, not visible.

Tony went across the Cell. "John Edward Haley," he said.

The man moved a nervous tongue over dry lips.

"John Edward Haley, you have been sentenced for Execution. Now hear
these final words of the State as directed by Presidential order from
Responsibility Official in the City of Greater New Denver, this night."

He took two small steps toward the man in the chair. He held out the
red rose, put it in the hand of the other. Then he stepped back two
steps until his toes were just touching a small plaque built into the
floor. He looked down, read from the plaque:

"The giving of this rose. A symbol for the red of the blood of your
brothers that you have let by treason and/or treachery. A symbol that
as the rose is red, so are the unclean acts of your own hand, of your
own mind. The State has so spoken."

He looked up. A nice way to kiss a guy off. Might as well tell him he
bit his brother's finger, too, when he was a kid.

"Have you anything to say?" he asked.

The man's nervous tongue worked again. He said quickly:

"Yeah. Look, guy, just one thing. Just one favor. I don't give a damn
what happens to me. Sure, I'm guilty. So you caught me, and so I take
it. So what? A guy expects that. But the wife...."

Tony's teeth came together hard.

"... But the wife, see? She's down in _Portal Waiting_. Been there for
three nights now. I don't want her to witness this. I don't want her
to look into that Master Screen down there and see it. That's all I'm
asking, guy, and it ain't much. Just a flick of a switch is all I'm
asking. It ain't much. It ain't, is it?"

_It ain't, hey? By God!_

"When the hood comes down, she'll see it. She's bound to," the thin
man went on fast. "She'll see the flash in the Screen and she'll know
it's me, and she's never done anything to deserve that. That's all I'm
asking, guy. That's all I'm asking."

The silence in the cell was a thick thing. Tony could feel the sweat
rolling down his back again. But a different kind of a sweat now--not
a sweat for himself, a sweat for somebody else. Just one finger touch
on that visi-lok matswitch would do it. Just one finger, and the small
woman downstairs in _Portal Waiting_ wouldn't know, would have one more
instant of waiting, of hoping against hope. Of suspense. Of breathing
in the air we all breathe in, of being alive, sentient; and knowing
that her man, the thin fellow with the tousled, curly hair, was still
sentient, too.

"Well, guy?"

Tony wet his lips. "Sorry, Haley. Petition refused." The hood came
down. The Master Screen up on the wall blazed into life.
