
The snow fell as steadily as ever while Lamoureux waited for the men to
assemble. Only two were missing now--Terrill and Carvalho. McCracken
had fired again and again into the air, but these two had not returned.

Lamoureux decided finally, "It looks as if they're not coming. Gronski,
you take over for Carvalho. You'll stay here in charge of his group
while the rest of us climb the mountain."

McCracken said, "You want me to come with you, don't you, Captain?"

"I certainly do. I'm curious to know what in hell way of ruining this
expedition you'll think of next."

"Aw, now, Captain, that isn't fair. How was I to know that whole ridge
was one big animal? You wouldn't have believed it yourself. Something
over five hundred feet high, with a neck even longer. We're not used to
them that big on Earth. Here the gravity's less, so it's okay. But even
Kalinoff--"

"Don't talk to me about Kalinoff," said Lamoureux fiercely. "He's as
bad as you. That screwball!"

"We're still trying to find him, aren't we, Captain?"

"Sure, we're trying to find him, but how can we expect to do it?" Was
it his imagination, or did McCracken seem pleased? Lamoureux didn't
care. He went on, very bitterly, "He starts off by telling us that the
Mercurians are intelligent. You saw how intelligent they were. Where's
that specimen we had?"

"He got lost in the shuffle," reported Gronski.

"It's just as well. Kalinoff tells us of a landmark--two mountains
with a saddlebacked ridge between them. The ridge runs away, and our
landmark isn't a landmark any more. Then there's the weather--no rain,
no hail, no snow. Nothing but pure fresh air and nice clean sunshine."
He kicked at a snowdrift. "What's this thing supposed to be, a mirage?"

McCracken said, "I know how you feel, Captain. But about this mountain
now--do you really think we ought to climb it?"

"Why not?"

"You can't see the top from here on account of the snow. It's coming
down in bigger flakes than ever now. That means you can't see here from
the top. And as the only reason we want to climb it is to take a look
around--"

"We'll climb it anyway. Maybe it isn't snowing as hard on the other
side."

       *       *       *       *       *

They started off then, with Lamoureux barely keeping a tight enough
grip on his feelings to prevent his talking to himself. The mountain
was steep, but the gravity here being low, it was easy enough to
climb. McCracken demonstrated how easy it was by running up it full
speed. Lamoureux let him go, hoping that he would break his neck, but
McCracken's luck was too good. All he did was start a gentle landslide
that almost buried everybody else.

As they rose, they got more and more of the Sun's rays and the
temperature went up slightly. The snow turned to rain, drenching them
to the skin, and they climbed all the faster, anxious to get the job
over with.

At the top, the rain had died down to a faint drizzle. Lamoureux,
looking off into the distance, could see as through a veil a range
of sky-piercing mountains, their peaks gleaming in the Sun, their
roots cleft with deep shadowed valleys. Between almost every pair of
mountains was a saddlebacked ridge.

"Landmarks," commented Lamoureux sourly. "To hell with them."

"I told you it would be a waste of time, Captain."

"Not in the least, McCracken. After all, you _might_ have broken your
neck."

They started down again, and in a half hour were back at the line where
the rain changed to snow. Another hour took them to Gronski again.

Lamoureux shook his head. "No sign of Kalinoff."

"What do we do now?"

"We go back to the ship and carry on from there. I don't know what
steps we'll take after that, but at least we'll get back to shelter,
out of this snow."

"Which way is the ship?"

"That," said Lamoureux, "is one question we can find the answer to." He
spoke into his radio. "Haskell!"

Haskell was alert. "Yes, Captain."

"Keep your radio beam going. We're depending on it for direction."

"Sure, Captain."

Lamoureux snapped off the sending set. "Now let's get moving, before we
freeze to death."

The return trip was a slow one. Their spirits were all low, even
McCracken's. Lamoureux pictured the return to Earth, the eager, and
then disappointed, reception, and the wave of ridicule that would
follow their account of the difficulties they had encountered.

They stopped once to eat. Lamoureux estimated that they had supplies
for another two and a half months left in the ship, not counting what
would be needed for the return journey. They might as well stay here
until those supplies were used up. They might possibly find Kalinoff
during those two and a half months, although, with the Twilight Zone
of the whole planet to look in, and no decent clues, not to mention
the difficulties caused by the snow, the chances were none too bright.
Nevertheless, they would have to do their best.

The meal came to an end, and they started off again. They had gone only
a few hundred yards, when Lamoureux noticed something wrong.

"Haskell!"

There was no reply. Haskell's radio beam had been shut off.

       *       *       *       *       *

This was a little too much. Lamoureux let loose a streak of profanity
that had even McCracken staring at him in awe. Then they started out
again, trying, through the falling snow, and over the rocky ground,
to keep in as straight a line as possible toward the ship. Lamoureux
managed to sustain his spirits only by thinking of what he would do to
his cook.

Two hours later, he had an opportunity to put his plan into practice.
For out of the snow there emerged Haskell, and the men who had been
left with him at the ship. Haskell started to run toward Lamoureux the
moment he caught sight of the other group.

"Here we are, Captain! We came as fast as we could!"

Lamoureux's eyes were almost as cold as the snow. "How thoughtful of
you."

"Who else is hurt, Captain?"

"Nobody's hurt, but somebody is going to be."

Haskell looked surprised. "I don't get it. You told me to come as fast
as I could, and you said that eight of the men were badly injured."

"_I_ told you?"

"Yes, sir. I thought you were hurt yourself, sir. Your voice sounded
hoarse."

Lamoureux's jaws were clenched together so tightly in his effort to
maintain his self-control that his teeth hurt. He unclenched them. "I
don't quite understand you, Haskell. My voice is as melodious as ever.
Something else is strange, too. You ask who _else_ is hurt."

"Yes, sir. We ran across Terrill a little while ago. He got brushed by
the tail of some animal and was walking around in a real daze."

"How do you suppose we're walking? At any rate, I'm glad you found him.
See any signs of Carvalho?"

"No, sir. We left the radio beam on to guide you--"

"What's that? You're sure you left it on?"

"Positive, sir."

"Well, someone has turned it off! Someone--Oh, my God!"

It was so damn simple, and he had never even thought of it. Carvalho
was the man. Carvalho was shrewd and quiet, a man who could keep his
intentions to himself and wreck an expedition without so much as
being suspected. Subconsciously, Lamoureux hadn't quite believed in
McCracken's guilt, despite the seeming evidence against him. McCracken
had too genuine a love of horseplay, and of childish showing off.

These things were hard to pretend. You didn't put snow down somebody's
back when you were plotting to leave him marooned on a deserted planet.
And you didn't impress people by making a seventy-five foot broad jump
when you could impress them much more effectively by condemning them
to slow death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once he had thought of it, Lamoureux couldn't doubt. Carvalho had
turned off the radio beam at the ship. By now the _Astrolight_ was
probably somewhere in space, possibly proceeding to some rendezvous
with a rival expedition. Carvalho wouldn't dare appear back on Earth as
the lone passenger returning on Lamoureux's ship. But he wouldn't have
to. He could set the _Astrolight_ adrift, be "rescued" by the people
who had employed him, and come back to tell of the dangers he had
braved on Mercury.

It all fitted in. Carvalho had been the one who had tried to hamper
their work from the moment they had landed. When McCracken had shot
that Mercurian--

Lamoureux asked, "What happened then? Try to remember."

McCracken scratched his head vigorously. "I think Carvalho saw this
Mercurian and started to yell and run. I thought he was scared. That's
why I shot."

So Carvalho had really been responsible for the shooting. Lamoureux
asked, "Why didn't you report that Carvalho started to yell and run?"

"Well, Captain, you don't expect me to go around telling you things
like that about another guy?"

The words, "You fool," had been on Lamoureux's lips, but he bit them
back. After all, who had been the bigger fool, McCracken or he himself,
who had insisted that Carvalho get the radio? There was no doubt about
the answer to that one.

As for the occasion when the radio had begun to emit its mysterious
code signals, the explanation for that was simple enough, too. The
people who were in contact with Carvalho had sent their messages, not
knowing whether strangers might be listening in, but not caring either.
No one could make head or tail of the mysterious sounds but Carvalho.
McCracken had, in fact, considered the noises a new strange form of
static that had interfered when he tried to talk to Haskell.

Lamoureux felt like asking McCracken to kick him in the pants. As that
would have been bad for discipline, he substituted an order to get
started back toward the ship. There was the faintest of chances that
Carvalho had delayed, or had been forced by some accident to delay, his
departure back to Earth.

It was snowing harder than ever now, and it was difficult for Lamoureux
to see more than fifty feet ahead of him. The rim of the Sun was
blotted out so thoroughly that it was almost as dark as on a moonless
night. Nevertheless he pressed on doggedly.

It was not until six hours later, after he and the men had been
wandering around aimlessly for a long enough time to have reached the
ship and returned, that he admitted to himself that they were lost.

