
Not that it mattered a great deal. Lamoureux realized perfectly well
that by this time the _Astrolight_ was on its return journey to Earth.
All the same, it was disheartening to know that he was so completely
unable to find his way about on this planet.

The question now was what to do. They had little enough food, and not
too much in the way of other supplies. They would have to live off the
planet until some kind of rescue expedition had been organized to save
_them_. If Kalinoff had done it, they could, too. Lamoureux's face
burned as he pictured himself striding over to Kalinoff, staring at the
man solemnly, and uttering those historic words, "Dr. Livingston, I
presume." That was one scene that would never take place.

It was growing colder by the hour. That meant that they would have to
move over toward the Hot Side before the Sun sank beneath the horizon
altogether.

McCracken, the most cheerful of the lot, had a glum face as he asked,
"What do we do now, Captain?"

"First we eat, McCracken. Then we move toward the Sun. Just one word,
McCracken. You like to shoot?"

"Yes, sir."

"Save your bullets. I have an idea we're going to need them before this
little adventure of ours is finished."

Then Lamoureux sat down on a snowy rock, leaned back, and thought
everything over. It was improbable now that any of his kids would ever
get to Lunar Tech. Well, that wasn't anything to be sorry about. The
life of ease and luxury of the place had ruined more than one promising
youngster. His wife would have to get along with a single robot. It
would do her good to wait on the family for a change. As for his
relatives--to hell with them. Let them find somebody else to sponge on.

He was busy with these cheerful reflections when he heard McCracken
shout, "Hey!"

A figure loomed out of the snow ahead.

The figure paused and stared at Lamoureux.

McCracken yelled, "Hey, Captain!"

The figure came forward, bowed, and showed its teeth. "Mr. Stanley, I
presume?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Looking back at it later, Lamoureux decided that this was the most
mortifying moment of his life. He had been sent to save Kalinoff.

Instead, Kalinoff had saved him.

It was the screwball explorer, of course. Lamoureux recognized him at
once. Kalinoff was a shrimp, a fraction of an inch below five feet in
height, and he had a face like a monkey's. Having taken a good look at
him, Lamoureux felt, "My God, is this what we've been trying to rescue?"

Kalinoff was not alone. He was accompanied by a pair of penguin-like
Mercurians, who looked just as sly and acted with as little
intelligence as the one they had previously encountered. Lamoureux had
no idea how Kalinoff had managed to get along with them.

Kalinoff, it seemed, was angry. "Why in hell," he demanded, "didn't you
have sense enough to return to the ship?"

Lamoureux stared.

"You mean the _Astrolight_ is still here?"

"Of course it's here. And the radio beam is on."

"You're sure--the beam is on?"

"Of all the nitwits to let loose on an unfriendly planet, you're about
the worst. I've just told you it's on, haven't I? It's been on for the
past two hours."

Lamoureux swallowed hard. "And Carvalho?"

"There's a man who I assume is Carvalho. He's tied up. I've got a
couple of friends watching him to make sure he doesn't get away."

"Friends?"

"Like these." Kalinoff indicated the Mercurians. "Come on. I'd like to
get back to Earth. There's a girl I've got to see."

"But who--what happened to Carvalho?"

"He seemed anxious to leave, so I pushed my fist down his throat.
Incidentally, there was a radio going, with a code message."

"Short distance, radio?"

"Interplanetary. The ship's hull acted as a receiver, naturally. You
could get the message anywhere on the planet by arranging a short
distance automatic re-broadcast."

"So that's what Carvalho did."

"If I'm late this time," said Kalinoff worriedly, "she and I are
finished. She's willing to put up with dates six months in advance, but
there's a limit, and I've been late too often. And she's too nice to
lose. Get a move on, quick."

Lamoureux, in a daze, complied. They were only an hour's journey from
the ship, and, under Kalinoff's urging, they made it in forty minutes.
Carvalho, looking terrified of the two Mercurians who were standing
over him with their teeth showing, yelled, "Help!"

"Never mind him," Kalinoff ordered. "Hop into the ship."

"But what are we going to do with him?"

"Well, what's he been up to?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lamoureux explained briefly, and Kalinoff grunted. "You fellows are a
bunch of screwballs, setting out on an expedition like this without
proper equipment and proper information about Mercury." At the word
"screwballs," Lamoureux winced, but remained silent. Maybe it _was_
deserved. Kalinoff went on, "As for Carvalho, that's simple. Leave him
behind. He intended to maroon you, didn't he? Maroon him instead. But
first let him send one interplanetary radio message to his friends."

"In code? We won't know what it is!"

Kalinoff grinned. "We'll leave his punishment up to him. Suppose he
reports you've found me. Then his pals won't come for him, and he's
going to stay here indefinitely."

"What if he reports you _haven't_ been found?"

"Then they come for him, discover he's a liar, and there's hell to pay.
Either way, he's in for a lousy time."

"They'll murder him."

"Oh, no. We'll let them know that we're reporting the facts of the
case to the Interplanetary Commission. They'd never dare commit murder."

Lamoureux objected doubtfully, "Wouldn't the Mercurians kill him?"

"If he treats them right, they'll treat him right. They're not as
intelligent as I thought at first--maybe you've discovered that--but
they have their points."

"They're wonderful chess players."

"Fair," said Kalinoff critically. "Only fair. I always beat them,
but then, naturally, I'm very good. Maybe that's why they admire me.
They have great mathematical abilities, and they can visualize well,
but their language is primitive and in some ways they're halfwits.
There have been plenty of mathematical prodigies on Earth just like
them--wonders at calculating, and fools at everything else. To hell
with them. Let's get started."

"Wait a minute, Kalinoff. What about those huge beasts? Won't they be
dangerous to Carvalho?"

"Oh, them." Kalinoff chuckled. "I certainly gave you some off-beam
instructions before that radio of mine went on the blink. I really
thought at first that those two mountains I described with the
saddlebacked ridge between them would make a good landmark. Two days
afterward, I discovered that the ridges were living creatures. The
things have a habit of sheltering themselves from the Sun between a
pair of mountains. They wrap their necks around their bodies, tuck
their heads beside them, and you'd never know they were alive. They
don't move for days at a time."

"But when they _do_ move--"

"Leave them alone, and they leave you alone."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Captain asked, "What about the rain and snow?"

"I may as well clear this up once and for all. The rain and snow were
my doing. After I had told you to rely on the Mercurians and described
the landmark, I discovered that the Mercurians were nitwits and the
landmark a false alarm. That meant that, once you landed, you'd never
find me except by accident. That put it up to me to find you.

"As you may have heard, normally there's no such thing as rain or snow
on Mercury. But there is water. And there is a continual process of
transfer going on. The water flows through subterranean channels to the
Hot Side, evaporates, and is carried over in the air to the Cold Side.
There it deposits on the ground eventually as ice, melts, and goes
through the whole process again."

"Why doesn't it rain?"

"Because there's no dust in Mercury's air. The absence of a rapidly
alternating day and night means that the air doesn't circulate on the
same scale as on Earth. Practically no wind, combined with little
erosion, means little dust. The water-laden air cools off and becomes
super-saturated at the Twilight Zone. But there are no clouds, and
there's no precipitation because the water needs either dust or ions to
condense on. In a Wilson cloud chamber, an experimenter furnishes it
with ions. Here on Mercury I furnished it with dust.

"I gave the Mercurians rifles and explosive bullets, and taught them to
shoot into the air. It was quite a job, but they learned. The explosion
spreads a cloud of dust, the water condenses, and you have rain or
snow, depending on the temperature. I impressed it upon their brains,
such as they are, that the presence of human beings calls for a Fourth
of July celebration--shooting into the air. And there you are. I had
the occurrence of rain and snow reported to me, moved toward wherever
the snow was thickest, and found the ship."

"Another thing--"

"I've talked enough. That dame won't wait forever. Which will it be,
Carvalho, the Lady or the Tiger?"

They listened in curiosity as Carvalho, tight-lipped, tapped out a
short message in code. They didn't ask him what it was.

As the _Astrolight_ drove upward away from Mercury, Lamoureux had one
last glimpse of the Mercurians shooting into the air. The snow was
coming down in enormous flakes two inches across, and Carvalho, staring
after the ship, was shivering and cursing. After they reported the
facts to the Interplanetary Commission, a ship would be sent to pick
him up--but it might take some time.

"Let me tell you about this dame," said Kalinoff.

Lamoureux listened patiently, got out his contract, and waited, with
pen ready, for the interplanetary screwball's signature.



