
Ren Merton was uh trouble-huntin’ fool of uh puncher, and Sig Watson
was his first assistant. I might say that Sig was his aid-de-camp,
secretary and treasurer. Them two hombres punched cows fer uh livin’
and hunted trouble fer pastime.

If th’ combined brains of th’ two was turned to powder and put into
uh .22 ca’tridge shell it wouldn’t blow th’ bullet out of uh
six-inch pistol barrel, and if it was black powder it wouldn’t foul
th’ shell.

They punched fer th’ Triangle outfit all one summer, and then
decides to go into th’ cattle business fer themselves. Not havin’
saved enough between ’em to buy uh green hide, they decides to go
into th’ business anyway.

Magpie Simpkins was th’ sheriff at th’ time and, havin’ uh real
friendly feelin’ fer th’ boys, he don’t arrest ’em a-tall. He jist
shoots th’ hot cinch ring out of Ren’s hand, cuts th’ heifer loose
and fergets th’ whole affair.

They rides back to town, where Ren gits prodigal with his six-gun
ammunition, with th’ result that th’ atmosphere gits too warm fer
comfort, and they grabs their hosses and fogs off to th’ Seven A
ranch and go to work again.

Well, fer th’ next month they behaves fine--said month bein’ spent
on th’ roundup out in th’ Sweetgrass hills, so far from town that it
takes two days hard ridin’ to find anything except personal
animosities, which ain’t sufficient.

Th’ nearest town is Piperock. Piperock ain’t what you’d call uh
thrivin’ city--not havin’ uh Chamber of Commerce or an Ad Club, but
she manages to angle along anyway. It contains about uh hundred
human beings and a Greaser settlement.

Well, as I said before, Ren and Sig works steady fer uh while and
then collects their stipend, rolls their war-sacks and moseys to
town to revel amid th’ bright lights and enjoy th’ fruits of their
labor.

They says “Klahowya” to Buck Masterson, th’ saloon keeper, and
proceeds to pay rent on th’ saloon fixtures.

“Boys,” says Buck, “curb yore feelin’s fer this time. There’s uh
heap uh sentiment agin’ yuh both here, and if yuh behave it’s bound
to die out in uh little while. That Chink is still in th’ hospital
at Helena.”

“Pshaw!” exclaims Ren. “That’s too danged bad. But I asks yuh, Buck,
how was I to know that th’ Chink was behind that box, too? That
Greaser ducks behind it and I never once thinks that there’s room
fer two people. It surprises me so I lets th’ Greaser git away.”

“I allus told yuh,” stated Sig, “that you depends too much on th’
jump of that ol’ .41. Now, uh .45 is heavy enough that she don’t
jump. To illustrate my point clearly----”

Right then Buck cuts in and talks ’em out of it. Uh six-gun
demonstration ain’t no pink tea, especially when th’ demonstrator
has about six scoops uh hooch under his belt.

They has a few more drinks and then decides to eat, so they ambles
across th’ street to Jimmy Peyton’s Boston Chop House, th’ only
eatin’ place in th’ town. There ain’t nobody in sight, so Ren
yells--

“Jimmy, yuh lop-eared son-of-uh-sea-cook, bring us uh meenoo!”

Right then they gits uh surprise. Instead of Jimmy, with his dirty
apron and a half-smoked cigaret hangin’ out uh one side of his
mouth, out waltzes th’ swellest lookin’ female person they ever saw,
and she single-foots right up to ’em with uh smile, and then out
comes another she person, but this last one ain’t noways in th’ same
class as Number One.

They’re both wearin’ li’l dinky white aprons and uh head full uh
hair, but here th’ similarity ceases some abrupt. Th’ first one is
packin’ class by th’ ton. She’s--well, she looks uh lot like th’
lady on th’ Empire Packin’ Company’s calendar, which ol’ man Padden
has hangin’ over his bunk.

Th’ other is older by twenty years and seems sort-a sprung in th’
knees. She’s got uh forearm like Jefferies and needs uh shave. Th’
first one leans over th’ table and hands uh printed bill uh fare,
but Ren don’t read it a-tall. He says, “Thanks, ma’am,” and puts it
in his pocket.

Th’ older one grins at Sig and says, “Nice day.”

“Uh-huh,” agrees Sig. “It shore is. Don’t hardly look like it might
rain.”

Ren just sits there lookin’ at th’ pretty one, like uh chickadee
lookin’ at uh rattler. He ain’t able to even wink.

“Soup?” asks th’ lady.

“Are we?” asks Ren, turnin’ to Sig, who is also industriously sizin’
up th’ beauty show.

“Intensely,” agrees Sig, and th’ two females beat it fer th’
kitchen.

“Do you gentlemen live here?” asks th’ pretty one, when she deposits
th’ soup on th’ table.

“We--huh--yes’m I reckon yuh might say we do,” stammers Ren, tryin’
to eat soup with his fork and keep both hands out of sight.

“We don’t usually live here,” amended Sig. “But we can. You livin’
here?”

Th’ other female has jist come out of th’ kitchen and she answers:

“My cousin and I bought this place a week ago from Mr. Peyton. I am
Miss Matilda Beebee, and my cousin here is Miss Rosalind Madeline
McGuire.”

Ren spilt his soup gittin’ up and reaches out his hand.

“Pleased to meet yuh,” says he, sayin’ th’ same thing to both of
them. “I’m Sigismund Alexander Watson, and my friend here is Ren
Merton.”

“Christened,” says Ren, “Renley St. Clair Merton. I welcomes yuh to
Piperock.”

“Ren,” says Sig, when they had managed to tear themselves away from
th’ eatin’ house, “where did you git that l-e-y on Ren, and also
that St. Clair?”

“Slick-eared ’em,” grinned Ren, “jist like you did i-s-m-u-n-d and
Alexander. Do you think fer uh minute that I eats dust from any
bow-legged cow trailer when it comes to names? Not a-tall. Sabe?”

“Some filly!” states Sig. “Mama mine! Some filly!”

“We’re goin’ to have preachin’ tonight in Piperock,” states Buck, as
he slides th’ poison vial down th’ bar to th’ boys.

“What for is this preachin’?” asks Ren. “Somebody dead?”

“Nope. Jist common Gospel. I figgers to take one of th’ girls across
th’ street.”

“Asked her yet?” asks Sig, with uh grin.

Buck polished off the bar and replaced the bottles before he
replied--

“Nope--not yet.”

They imbibes their drinks and wanders out on th’ porch.

“Dog-gone!” exclaims Sig. “I reckon I leaves my quirt over to th’
restaurant. Better go and git it.”

“Th’ walk will do us good,” grins Ren. “Come on.”

“Quirt?” asks th’ pretty one. “Oh yes, you mean that thing hangin’
on your wrist don’t you?”

“I--I reckon I plumb overlooked it,” stammers Sig. “Much obliged.”

“I jist come over, ma’am,” says Ren, “to see if you’d go to th’
Gospel meetin’ with me tonight.” He looks up and he’s gazin’ into
th’ eyes of Matilda Beebee.

“Charmed,” says Matilda. “Yore pardner, Mr. Watson, might care to go
with Rosalind.”

“Ma’am,” chuckles Sig, “I takes off my hat to you as uh mind reader.
That lost quirt was jist an excuse to git over here, Sabe? I agreed
to let Ren have first choice, ma’am, and yuh shore can depend on Ren
to make no mistakes on th’ draw. Why I’ve seen that _hombre_ discard
one small pair to git uh chance to----”

“Sig,” says Ren sort-a hard like, “if we’re goin’ to church we’d
better stable them broncs.”

And when he gits Sig outside he continues:

“You dog-goned, ossified, bow-legged, paralytic son of-- Sig, what
did I ever do to you, eh?”

“Haw! Haw! Haw!” roared Sig, leanin against his horse and laughin’
so hard he almost pushes th’ bronc off its feet. “Mama mine, Renley,
when it comes to pickin’ ’em yo’re there! ‘Charmed,’ says she and
yore face looked like you’d been caught stealin’ uh sheep.”

Well, they takes th’ gentle sex to th’ meetin’, which is held in th’
old Mint dance hall, and, while Sig sits there and smiles into
Rosalind’s face like uh dyin’ calf in uh mud-hole, and gittin’ hated
fluently by th’ male portion of Piperock, pore old Ren is fidgitin’
alongside uh Matilda. Yuh could light uh match on his ears every
time he hears anybody clear their throat, and it shore did seem as
though every one in church had uh frog in their throats.

After th’ preacher gives th’ crowd th’ exit sign, Ren sort-a stalls
around with Matilda and lets th’ crowd drift out ahead. Th’
preacher, bein’ uh stranger, shakes hands with Ren and asks his
name.

“Ah,” says he. “And this is Mrs. Merton. Well, well, I shore am
pleased. May I call?”

“Shore,” grunts Ren, “What yuh got?”

“Ha, ha!” laughs th’ preacher. “Men will have their little jokes,
Mrs. Merton. You see I understand a few poker terms. Ha, ha!”

He slaps Ren on th’ shoulder, and hurries to round up another
prospect.

“Ha, ha!” snorts Ren, “---- of uh--I beg yore pardon, ma’am. You see
I didn’t----”

“How quaint,” sighs Matilda, like uh turtle-dove with uh full crop.
“Didn’t it seem comfy to be mistaken fer married folks, Renley?
Isn’t th’ moon lovely tonight. Let’s take a little walk, Renley,
it’s too lovely to go inside.”

“That moon,” says Ren, “shore is lovely. It’s full. I wish I--shore
I’d enjoy uh walk.”
