
An hour later Ren climbed th’ rickety stairs of Holt’s hotel and
busted th’ lock off their door gittin’ in. Sig is lyin’ on th’ bed,
with his leg draped over th’ foot and he’s playin’ “Good Night,
Beloved, Good Night,” sort-a soft like on his mouth harp. He rolls
his eyes at Ren and lets th’ organ slip out of his hands and slide
under th’ bed. He turns over and points at his six-shooter hangin’
on th’ wall.

“Don’t, Ren!” says he sort-a sad like, “I’m unarmed.”

“Yo’re safe,” groans Ren, sinkin’ into uh chair. “I ain’t in no
killin’ mood, Sig. I’m borderin’ on uh fit of despondency and I
needs sympathy and advice like uh calf needs milk. Honest, I feel
like uh Digger Injun would if somebody washed his neck and ears. My
liver ain’t noways fresh an’ I feels that my lights is burnin’ low.”

“When I used to be uh lawless character,” stated Sig, as he fumbled
under the bed for th’ mouth harp, “‘preachin’ allus affected me
thataway. Gospel truths seem to--don’t strike me, Renley!”

Ren slumped down in the chair and held his head in his hands.

“I knowed it, I knowed it! Dang it all, them last two drinks--”

“Did she accept yuh?” grinned Sig.

“Accept me!” wailed Ren. “Dog-gone it, Sig, she didn’t wait fer
that. She took me fer granted! She said--oh Lord! She said she
didn’t care if I did used to act wild and shoot Chinamen and
Greasers. Can yuh beat it, Sig? She gits me by th’ arm and leads me
’way off down th’ road--it was awful hot in that church and th’
hooch gits to bubblin’, and I ain’t noways to blame--leads me to
that old cottonwood tree, which th’ lightnin’ hit last summer, and
sits me down on uh log. Cripes! Why can’t lightnin’ hit twice in th’
same place? Then she--aw, I dunno--I do know that in th’ argument I
didn’t have no more chance than uh snowball in Yuma!”

“Goin’ to marry her, Ren?”

“Not by a danged sight!” wailed Ren. “Mebby she’ll marry me though.”

Sig took a deep breath and the strains uh “Moonlight” permeated the
room. Ren slipped his boot off sort-a unconcerned like and,
“_Bing!_” Sig saw it comin’ and ducked off the other side and the
boot hit the other side and started the nails.

“Hey!” yelled the voice of the harness drummer who was in the next
room. “Cut out th’ orchestra practise, you drunken sheep-herders!”

“That,” states Ren, “makes me forget personal animosities, Sig.
Here’s yore gun. Pull jist below that bunch uh cauliflower pitchers
on th’ wall paper and it’ll jist about rake his bunk. Ready?”

Th’ door of th’ opposite room closed quickly and th’ drummer padded
off down stairs and slept in uh chair.

“Sig,” says Ren, as he rolls into bed, “I’ll allus blame my downfall
on uh quirt.”

“Misspelled,” mumbled Sig. “Should ’a’ been ‘quart.’”
