
The next mornin’ Sig saddled his horse and sat down in the stable
door to roll a smoke.

“Ren, yo’re uh lucky devil,” he stated.

Ren dropped his latigo strap and stared at Sig.

“What do yuh mean?”

“Have another aig, Renley?” mimicked Sig. “Them cakes is all cold.
Let me git yuh some hot ones, Renley. Take all th’ cream yuh can
use, there’s a-plenty. Have some more nice maple sirup, Renley.”

“Sig!” Ren snapped his cinch hook and walked over to th’ door.

“When it comes to bowels of compassion, you don’t show uh gut. If
you was uh real friend you’d be figgerin’ some way to save me,
instead of passin’ out low comedy.”

“She ain’t much to look at,” agreed Sig, as he swung into th’
saddle, “but many uh kind word is often hidden by sparse whiskers.”

“----!” snorts Ren. “There’s Matilda, of th’ angel face, wavin’ at
me to come back. I wonder what she wants?”

“She probably wants to know whether you prefers uh Methodist or uh
Baptist preacher. Tell her yore folks raised yuh in th’ Mormon
faith, Ren, and you can’t consider no other. That’ll delay
proceedin’s until she can send to Utah and----”

But Ren was on his way out of town, and Sig followed suit.

Well, they goes back to th’ Seven A and goes to work again. Th’
boss, Old Man Padden, sends Sig with uh couple of other punchers to
ride th’ breaks of th’ Shell River after strays, and he keeps Ren at
home where there ain’t nothin’ to do but water some stock and go to
town after th’ mail. Sig is away fer ten days, and when he returns
he’s plumb lonesome fer company--Rosalind’s especially.

Ren is sittin’ on th’ corral fence braidin’ uh quirt when Sig rides
in.

“How’s Old Man Merton’s boy Renley?” greets Sig, yankin’ his saddle
off and hazin’ his bronc into th’ pasture. “How’s everything?”

“She’s fine,” grins Ren. “I seen her and Ricky Henderson ridin’
along th’ Dancin’ Prairie trail twice this week, and I hears that
she’s furnishin’ Buck Masterson with uh clean napkin at each meal.
Buck’s uh changed man, Sigismund. He’s usin’ ba’r ile on his boots
and bay rum on his head.”

“That ol’ pelican?” yells Sig. “If that’s all that’s tryin’ to beat
my time I’m as good as married right now.”

“I hates to tell yuh,” states Ren sadly, “but them Piperock fellers,
takin’ em as uh tribe, are shore beatin’ yore time with Rosalind. I
reckon you made uh hit th’ first time she ever saw yuh, but she’s
heard too much agin’ yuh since. I done talked with her and I finds
out that she’s partial to heroes. _Sabe?_ Nothin’ but uh heero need
apply, and, Sig, there ain’t no use you tryin’ to be one uh them.

“Anyway, yuh can’t see her before Monday. She went down to Curlew uh
few days ago, and said she would be back Monday afternoon on th’
stage.”

“Likes heroes, eh?” mused Sig. “Jist about what causes uh man to be
uh hero?”

“Uh heero,” states Ren, “is uh feller who does jist what any one
else would have done in his place, but he beat ’em to it. _Sabe?_ He
allus saves th’ girl.”

“Saves th’ girl, eh?” Sig runs his fingers down th’ creases in his
chaps and thinks deeply.

“Ren, I got a idea.”

“Shoot.”

“I’ll save Rosalind.”

“Huh!” Ren spat his cigaret out and stared at Sig. “Save her from
what?”

“You,” stated Sig, eagerlike.

“Haw! Haw! Haw! Save her from me! That’s uh hy-iu idea, Ren. What am
I supposed to be?”

“Uh desperado. Lissen. Art Miller carries money sometimes on th’
stage and almost every trip he has uh passenger or two what would
assay six bits or uh dollar, and they’re liable to be held up any
trip. Here’s th’ big idea:

“Remember them big rocks on this side of th’ Hell Gate crossin’?
Peach of uh place fer uh holdup, Ren. Now, on Monday afternoon, you
be up in them rocks, with uh mask on, and when Art drives out of th’
ford you throw down on him with yore rifle and yell, ‘Hands up!’
Mebby yuh better shoot once or twice so as to make th’ play good.
We’ll pull th’ bullets out of some ca’tridges so nobody won’t git
hurt. When you yells and shoots uh few times, here I comes across
th’ ford ridin’ like th’ devil and starts throwin’ lead and you
ducks, sabe? I’ll save th’ stage from bein’ held up and, bein’ as
Rosalind is on th’ stage, I’ll be uh hero. Ren, are yuh game to help
uh needin’ friend?”

“And mebby go to Deer Lodge and wear uh number like uh box-car,”
objected Ren sarcastically.

“Nobody’ll know yuh,” pleads Sig. “Don’t throw me down, Ren. How
many times you been to Piperock since I left?”

“Every day,” grinned Ren.

“Gosh! When is it comin’ off?”

Ren shook his head and looked thoughtful.

“There’s th’ cook yellin’ ‘supper’ now. Let’s eat.”

Ren slid off the fence and looked at Sig.

“Are yuh goin’ to help me out?” he asked pleadingly.

“I’ve decided to give it uh whirl,” stated Ren. “To make th’ play
good I’ll go to Curlew on Sunday mornin’ and circle th’ stage from
there in the mornin’, after givin’ it out that I’m on my way to
Mica. _Sabe_ th’ play, Sig? I’ll also hint that when I comes down
th’ trail I sees uh person who looks like Pete Melcher to me. Pete
is holed up somewhere in th’ west part of th’ state, but he’s liable
to start operatin’ over here any old time.”

“Good stuff!” yells Sig “It’s shore white of you, Ren. Dog-gone,
there ain’t no chance of uh slip-up and me, I’ll be th’ li’l hero
and save th’ girl, eh?”

“Don’t worry about th’ slips in th’ game,” states Ren. “If Art
Miller does rim me with his ol’ riot gun, or if I gits uh free ride
to Deer Lodge, I won’t have to marry--huh! Every cloud has uh silver
linin’, Sigismund Alexander.”
