
Th’ next mornin’, bein’ Sunday, Ren throws his saddle on his brown
mare and points off across th’ hills towards Curlew, and on Monday
mornin’ Sig puts his ridin’ gear on Old Man Padden’s best lookin’
bronc, polishes up his boots and slips off across th’ hills towards
Hell Gate Cañon.

Sig breezes across th’ hills with joy in his heart, so much joy that
he thumbs that bronc, with th’ result that he almost gits set on
foot. He has time to burn, so he decides to go out of his way to say
“hello” to Pete Gonyer. Pete lives in uh li’l cabin up in Roarin’
Gulch, and Sig ain’t been up that way fer some time. It will give
him an excuse fer bein’ seen in th’ Hell Gate hills.

He finds that Pete ain’t home, so he ambles down th’ gulch, ties up
his bronc and takes uh nap under uh bush. He sleeps about an hour
and then moves on. He ain’t got no watch, but th’ sun looks about
one o’clock, so he drops off th’ hills to th’ road and turns back
towards Piperock.

He jogs along slow ’till he gits to th’ spring near th’ Rock of
Ages, and he swings off to git uh drink. Right there he spies uh
letter layin’ near th’ spring under uh bush, and nacherally he picks
it up and looks it over.

“Huh!” says he. “Addressed to Jack Elberton, Helena. I reckon Art
must ’a’ lost it goin’ out.”

And then like anybody else would, he opens it to see who to send it
back to. He reads it through twice, takes off his hat and reads it
again. It says:

    In reply to your letter I can say that you’ve got more
    nerve than a mule. Just because I let you kiss me don’t
    prove conclusively that I love you. Also your statement
    (or hint) that I’ve got a perfectly good husband in the
    land of the living doesn’t feaze me either.

    Your threat to come to Piperock to see me is amusing. I’ve
    made a hit with a big cowboy up here, who would take you
    apart like a picture puzzle if I said the word. Take my
    advice, Jackie and forget that you ever knew    Rosalind

Sig looks at th’ letter for uh while and then stares at th’ road. He
gits up suddenly and looks at th’ hoss tracks in the road and then
hops for his bronc.

“Gosh!” says he. “Th’ stage is past!”

And he spurs up th’ hill and throws th’ quirt into that bronc and
fogs th’ hills. He’s plumb miscalculated th’ time, and by racin’ fer
three miles across th’ hills he’s got uh chance to cut in ahead of
th’ stage.

“Lord A’mighty!” he whoops, when he hits th’ road agin and sees uh
cloud uh dust still hangin’ around th’ first turn of th’ road.
“Mebby I’ll catch ’em yet. I shore got to do somethin’ to crab this
hold-up play! I can’t let Ren take uh chance like this now. Cripes!
Mebby Art is lookin’ fer uh play of this kind and he’ll fill Ren
full uh buck-shot. Git a-goin’ yuh buzzard-headed, bunch uh coyote
bait! If I can git close enough to attract Art’s attention before he
drives out of th’ ford, Ren will sabe that somethin’ has gone wrong
and keep out-a sight.”

The four hosses of th’ stage had jist finished drinkin’ as Sig races
in sight, and as they starts out th’ other side Sig waves his rifle
and starts shootin’.

That bronc wasn’t noways gun broke, so it starts sun-fishin’ at th’
first shot and bores straight fer th’ stage. Sig sees Art Miller
stand up in his seat and throw th’ whip to his leaders with one hand
and fire both barrels of his riot gun with th’ other.

Sig ducks jist in time to save his life. Art shoots uh li’l high and
when Sig ducks all he gits is th’ rakins of about six shot across
his shoulder. One shot punctures th’ brone’s ear and it shore moves
up and down a-plenty.

Th’ stage is rockin’ and swayin’ up th’ road as fast as four scared
and whipped cayuses can yank it and Art Miller is bracin’ hisself
and throwin’ leather promiscuous. Sig lost his rifle and is now
ridin’ with both hands.

Art drops his whip, wraps his lines around his arm and, in tryin’ to
put more shells in his gun, swings his team off th’ road. They go
good for about ten jumps and then they’re into th’ timber.

Natcherally th’ leaders goes on opposite sides of uh tree, with th’
result that th’ wheelers skid to one side and th’ stage turns uh
handspring. I reckon that Sig’s bronc thinks it’s uh real party fer
its benefit, ’cause it pitches right into th’ tangle and Sig lights
sittin’ down through th’ glass door of th’ stage, which is reposin’
serenely on its side when he arrives.

Sig sits there fer uh few minutes collectin’ his thoughts, when he
discovers that he’s sittin’ on somebody’s head.

“Rosalind!” is th’ first thought that comes into his head, so he
slides part way out and takes said head between his hands.

“Rosalind!” he wails. “My Gawd!”

He can’t see very plain until he climbs out and leans over th’
casing. “Speak to me, Rosalind!” he sobs. “Hu-honey, I wants yuh
to--the devil!”

A figger rises up from th’ coach, looks him in th’ eye and spits out
three perfectly good teeth.

“I begs yore pardon,” says Sig, in a dazed sort of uh way.

“Yo’re welcome,” says th’ other party, puttin’ his finger into th’
place where his teeth used to be, and lookin’ foolish.

“Uh--hu--huh!” says a voice behind them, and there stands Art
Miller.

Most of his clothes are missin’ and he’s nursin’ uh skinned elbow
and leanin’ agin’ uh wheel fer support.

“What happened, driver?” asks th’ party of th’ missin’ teeth.

Art looks over th’ wreck and then back at th’ bald head stickin’ out
of th’ stage.

“If it was yore eyes instead of yore teeth I might take th’ trouble
to explain,” he snaps. “Take uh look and form yore own conclusions.”

“We--huh--seem to have wrecked.”

“We--huh--have!” snapped Art, and then to Sig: “What do yuh mean by
stampedin’ my outfit thataway, eh? Comin’ along a-shootin’ like uh
crazy half-breed!”

“Art,” says Sig, “I shore begs yore pardon if I done wrong, but I’d
almost swear that I hears somebody yell ‘Hands up!’ at you, when you
pulls out of th’ ford, and I comes to yore rescue. Dog-gone it all,
that’s allus th’ way. When yuh tries to do uh feller uh favor he
don’t appreciate it.”

Sig looks sorry fer himself and rolls uh smoke.

“Yore hearin’ is fine,” states Art, after thinkin’ fer uh minute.
“Jist as we pulls out of th’ ford, that rattle-headed, Roman-nosed,
off leader uh mine leans back and lets th’ pinto wheeler into th’
stretchers. What I yells was--I begs yore pardon, preacher, did you
speak?”

“Please,” mumbles th’ party of th’ missin’ teeth. “Things are bad
enough without repeatin’ your former exclamations.”

“Preacher,” wonders Sig out loud. “Another preacher in th’ country?
We done got one in Piperock now, Art. One with all his teeth, too.”

“Uh-huh,” agreed Art. “But he’s uh Baptist. This’n is uh
Presbyterian. Miss Beebee’s uh Presbyterian, and she insists on her
own tribe fer th’ marriage _wau-wau_. _Sabe?_”

“When is this event due to happen?” grins Sig.

“Tonight,” states Art. “And I’ll bet Buck Masterson is runnin’ rings
around himself right now. We’re due.”

“Buck Masterson?” mumbles Sig. “I don’t see----”

“Nobody does either,” chuckles Art. “Ain’t he gittin’ uh prize
package?”

Sig grunts and wonders if some of th’ buck-shot didn’t go deeper
than just through th’ skin. He feels dazed like. Art Miller is
fumblin’ inside his shirt and finally produces a wrinkled envelope.

“I jist happened to remember it, Sig. I sees Ren Merton yesterday in
Curlew and he sends you this. Wrote it too late to mail. Li’l
surprise.”

He finished with a wink at th’ preacher person, who is huntin’
around inside th’ wrecked stage fer his teeth.

Sig opened th’ envelope and read th’ followin’ aloud:

    “Deer Sigismund:

    Me and Rosalind were married here today and send you our
    best wishes. I hated to double-cross you but I told her
    about our plans and she said that heroes were born and
    not made and that I’d be one if I saved her from a
    certain bow-legged person we both know. I asks your
    pardon and wishes to state that I wouldn’t have done it
    if I had of been sober. You can have that new quirt
    which is hangin’ over my bunk. You know how a feller
    loses his head when he’s spifflikated.

                        Yours respy
                          Renley St. Clair Merton & wife.

    P.S. The preacher what tied the not is in the stage and
    can tell you all about it. I hope you don’t kill him
    during the rescue ’cause he never asked fer a cent.”

“You--you performed a marriage in Curlew last night?” asked Sig, and
th’ preacher nods.

“Yeth thir,” he states, with his tongue explorin’ where his teeth
used to bed down. “But I never wath paid a thent.”

Sig fumbled around in his pocket for a moment and then hauled out a
small roll of bills.

“Here’s uh ten spot with my compliments, old-timer.”

“Wath he a friend of yours?” asks th’ preacher.

“Well,” says Sig, feelin’ of th’ two envelopes in his chaps pocket,
“he don’t think so, but he don’t know it all. If uh man would ask me
I’d say, yes.”

Sig recovers his horse and pulls out fer Piperock, after promisin’
Art that he’ll send help out to them. Buck is standin’ in front of
th’ saloon and as Sig rides up he yells--

“Seen anythin’ of th’ stage, Sig?”

Sig tells him about th’ smash-up and then goes in and drapes himself
over th’ bar. Ricky Henderson is there and they crooks elbows
numerous.

“Where’s Ren?” asks Ricky. “I ain’t seen him since Saturday. Him and
that Rosalind person is thicker than axle grease in January. Been
out ridin’ every day last week. I thought you had aspirations
thataway, Sig.’”

“Not me, Ricky. Yore uncle Siggie knows when he’s safe. I’m goin’
over to congratulate th’ bride, and then I’m goin’ to come back and
fill my hide with some more absent-minded juice. So long.”

He ambles across th’ street to th’ restaurant and finds Miss Matilda
tellin’ th’ Chink what to have fer supper.

“Howdy,” says Sig. “I reckon I can congratulate you on yore marriage
to Buck.”

Matilda blushes through her whiskers and smooths her skirt.

“Thanks, Sigismund. I had hopes that you and Rosalind could stand up
with us, but she’s in Curlew and won’t be back. I’ll have to git
Miss Harris. Would you like to stand up with her?”

“Ma’am,” says Sig, “while I admires such functions uh heap, I’d uh
lot rather jist sit on th’ bench and watch ’em. Rosalind is uh real
nice girl, I reckon, but her and me ain’t----”

Miss Beebee pats Sig on th’ shoulder in uh motherly way.

“Rosalind is uh nice girl but she’s got uh temper that would, when
it busts, make uh stick of dynamite sound like th’ scratchin’ of uh
sulfur match. She told me that she liked yore looks th’ first time
she ever seen yuh, Sigismund, but it’s money she wants--not love.”

“She’s done married Ren,” states Sig sarcastically.

“Already? My, my, she shore didn’t take any chances. I’ll tell you
uh secret Ricky Henderson told.”

Sig looked foolishly at her and scratched his head.

“Ricky did, eh? Jist about how much did that _hombre_ e-lucidate?”

“He came in here the other day after Renley had gone, and he told us
all about Renley being the real owner of the Triangle cattle and
also havin’ uh big interest in th’ Seven A. Oh, he told us all about
Renley. Ricky had been drinkin’, I think.”

“So Rosalind----”

“Jist a moment, Sigismund. I want to make a little confession. Her
name is not Rosalind, but Matilda. We traded names when we came up
here because mine fits her better than her own. Of course all our
friends outside of Piperock know that my name is Rosalind. Of course
when she found out all about Renley----”

“Yes’m,” agreed Sig. “She marries him fer his money. Honest, ma’am,
I feels fer both of them.”

Sig walks back across th’ street in uh dazed sort-a way and leans
against th’ bar.

“Rosalind, eh?” he snorts to himself. “Well, don’t that beat four of
uh kind. Renley is th’ owner of th’-- Gosh! There’s goin’ to be uh
noise like uh ton of dynamite in that li’l ol’ honeymoon. Huh! That
Elberton person must shore be uh collector uh knick-knacks and--I
wonder if he was drunk, too?”

Buck Masterson walks in from th’ front and ranges alongside of Sig.

“I’ve sent fer th’ preacher,” he states.

But Sig jist grunts. He’s tryin’ to visualize th’ face on Jack
Elberton, which would want to come clear to Piperock to kiss Miss
Beebee.

“Did you know her name was Rosalind?” asks Sig.

“Shee,” says Buck, and then he gits confidential and talks in uh low
tone. “Dog-gone th’ luck, Sig, I shore wish it was all over. It’s
got me so danged jumpy that I flinches at everything. I wish--huh--I
wish--say, Sig, uh feller hadn’t ought to drink whisky a-tall. He
hadn’t ought to take even one li’l friendly drink. I’ll----”

“Say,” snorts Sig, “You don’t mean to tell me that you was full when
you----”

“Fuller’n uh shepherd,” states Buck solemnly. “By cripes, I was so
full that I’d have proposed to uh--say, where yuh goin’?”

“Me?” asks Sig, turnin’ around in th’ doorway, and holdin’ up his
right hand. “I’m goin’ out to meet that preacher person and
I’m--goin’--to--sign--th’ pledge! _Sabe?_ Self-preservation is th’
first law of nature, and I’d rather be preserved than pickled. It’s
safer.”


                               The End

[Transcriber’s Note: This article appeared in the February 1917 issue
of Adventure Magazine.]