
Zero hour came and the _Argosy_ lifted until Earth was a tremendous,
curving ball below and the stars were brilliant points of light in a
black sky. The Slug cruiser swung to intercept him within the first
minute of flight but it seemed to move with unnatural slowness. It
should have been driving in at full speed and it wasn't....

"Something's up," Ground Control said. "It's coming in too slowly."

"I see that," he answered. "It must be covering something beyond it, in
your radar shadow."

It was. When he was almost free of the last traces of atmosphere he saw
the other cruiser, far out and hidden from Ground Control's radar by
the radar shadow cast by the first one.

He reported, giving its position and course as given him by the robot
astrogating unit.

"We'll have the greatest amount of time if I make turn-over now and
decelerate," he finished.

The voice of Harding came through the auxiliary speaker:

"Do so."

The _Argosy_ swung, end for end, and he decelerated. The cruiser behind
him increased its speed, making certain it would be in position to
cut off any return to Earth. The other cruiser altered its course to
intersect the point in space the _Argosy_ would soon occupy, and the
_Argosy_ was between the rapidly closing jaws of a trap.

He made reports to Ground Control at one-minute intervals. At 11:49 he
said:

"Our velocity is approaching zero. We'll be within range of the second
cruiser's blasters in two more minutes."

Harding spoke again to him:

"We'll go into the warp now. _Do not_ alter the deceleration or the
course of the ship while we're in the warp."

"I won't," he said.

There was a faint mutter from the auxiliary speaker as Harding gave
some instructions to Garvin. Engle took a last look at the viewscreen;
at blue-green Earth looming large in the center, Orion and Sirius
glittering above it and the sun burning bright and yellow on the right.
It was a scene he had observed many times before, all very familiar and
normal--

The chronometer touched 11:50 and normalcy vanished.

Earth and sun and stars fled away from him, altering in appearance
as they went, shrinking, dwindling. The seas and continents of Earth
erupted and shook and boiled before Earth faded and disappeared. The
sun changed from yellow to green to blue, to a tiny point of bright
violet light that raced away into the blackness filling the screen and
faded and disappeared as Earth had done.

Then the viewscreen was black, utterly, completely, dead black. And the
communicator that had connected him with Ground Control was silent,
without the faintest whisper of background sound or space static.

In the silence the voice of Harding as he spoke to Garvin came through
the speaker; puzzled, incredulous, almost shocked:

"Our velocity couldn't have been that great--_and the sun receded into
the ultraviolet!_"

There was the quick sound of hurrying footsteps then the more distant
sound of the computer's keys being operated at a high rate of speed. He
wanted to ask what had gone wrong but he knew no one would answer him.
And it would be a pointless question--it was obvious from Harding's
tone that he did not know, either.

He had an unpleasant feeling that Man's first venture into another
dimension had produced catastrophic results. What had caused sun and
Earth to disappear so quickly--and what force had riven and disfigured
Earth?

Then he realized the significance of Harding's statement about the sun
receding into the ultraviolet.

If the ship had been traveling at a high velocity away from the sun,
the wave length of the sun's light would have been increased in
proportion to the speed of the ship. The sun should have disappeared
in the long-wave infrared end of the spectrum, not the short-wave
ultraviolet.

With the thought came the explanation of the way the continents
and oceans of Earth had quivered and seethed. The shifting of the
spectrum range had shortened normally visible rays into invisibly
short ultraviolet radiations while at the same time formerly invisible
long infrared radiations had been shortened into visible wave
lengths. There had been a continuous displacement into and past the
ultraviolet and each wave length would have reflected best from a
different place--mountains, valleys, oceans, deserts, warm areas, cool
areas,--and the steady progression into the ultraviolet had revealed
each area in quick succession and given the appearance of agitated
movement.

So there was no catastrophe and everything had a logical explanation.
Except how they could have been approaching a sun that he had seen
clearly, visibly, racing away from them.

"Engle--" The voice of Harding came through the speaker. "We're going
back into normal space to make another observation. I don't know just
where we are but we're certain to be far from the cruisers. Don't alter
our course or velocity."

"Yes, sir," he said.

They came out of the warp at 11:53. The communicator burped suddenly
and the viewscreen came to life; a deep, dull red that brightened
quickly. A tiny coal flared up, swelling in size and shifting from red
to orange to yellow--the sun. Earth appeared as a hazy red dot that
enlarged and resolved itself into a planet with distorted continents
that trembled and changed, to resume their natural shapes and colors.
Within a few seconds the sun was shining as ever, Earth loomed large
and blue-green before them and the stars of Orion glittered unchanged
beyond. Even their position in space was the same--they had not moved.

But the Slug cruisers had.

One was very near and from its forward port came the violet haze that
always preceded a blaster beam. There was no time to escape--no chance
at all. He spoke into the mike, harsh and urgent:

"_Into the warp!_ There's a blaster beam coming--_move!_"

There was a silence from below that seemed to last an eternity, then
the sound of a switch being slapped hastily. At the same time, the
violet haze before the cruiser erupted into blue fire and the blaster
beam lanced out at them.

It struck somewhere astern. The power output needle swung jerkily as
the generators went out and the emergency batteries took the heavy
load of the shuttle's operation. There was a sensation of falling as
the ship's artificial gravity units ceased functioning. The auxiliary
speaker rattled wordlessly and there was a sound like a hard rush of
wind through it, accompanied by quick bumping sounds.

Then the speaker was still and there was no sound of any kind as the
viewscreen shifted into the ultraviolet and Earth and stars and sun
once again raced away and disappeared in the blackness.
