
He went to the control room, there to brush his fingers across the
useless control buttons and look into the viewscreen that revealed only
black and limitless Nothing.

What was the warp? Surely it must have definite physical laws of some
kind. It was difficult to imagine any kind of existence--even the black
nothing of the warp--as being utterly without rule or reason. If he
knew the laws of the warp he might find some means of survival hitherto
hidden from him.

There was only one way he could learn about the warp. He would have to
question the computer and continue questioning it until he learned or
until his time was up.

He returned to the computer and considered his next question. The
computer had calculated their positions from observations of the sun
and other stars in front of the ship--what would similar calculations
based on observations of the stars behind the ship reveal? He typed:

USE FIRST THE TRIANGULATION METHOD AND THEN THE SPECTRUM-SHIFT METHOD
TO DETERMINE OUR POSITION FROM OBSERVATIONS MADE OF THE STARS OF
OPHIUCHUS.

The answers appeared. They showed the ship to be simultaneously
speeding away from Ophiuchus and toward it.

He asked: DO THESE TWO POSITIONS COINCIDE WITH THOSE RESULTING FROM THE
OBSERVATIONS OF ORION?

YES, it answered.

Was the paradox limited to the line of flight?

He asked the computer: WHAT IS OUR POSITION, COURSE AND SPEED AS
INDICATED BY THE STARS AT RIGHT-ANGLES TO OUR FORWARD-BACKWARD COURSE;
BY THE STARS OF URSA MINOR AND CRUX?

The answer appeared on the panel: the ship was racing sideward through
the warp in two diametrically opposed directions, but at only one-third
the speed with which it was racing forward and backward.

So now the ship had four impossible positions and two different speeds.

He frowned at the computer, trying to find some clue in the new data.
He noticed, absently, that the hand of one of the dials was near zero
in the red section of the dial. He had not noticed any of the dials
registering in the danger zone before....

He jerked out of his preoccupation with apprehension and typed: TELL ME
IN NON-TECHNICAL LANGUAGE THE MEANING OF THE HAND NEAR ZERO ON THE DIAL
LABELED _MAX. ET. REF_.

It answered: ONE OF MY CIRCUITS WAS DAMAGED BY THE SUDDEN RELEASE OF
AIR PRESSURE. I WILL CEASE FUNCTIONING AT THE END OF FOUR MORE MINUTES
OF OPERATION.

He slammed the master switch to OFF. The lights on the board went out,
the various needles swung to zero, leaving the computer a mindless
structure more than ever resembling an overgrown refrigerator.

Four minutes more of operation ... and he had so many questions to
ask before he could hope to learn enough about the warp to know what
he should do. He had wasted almost an hour of the computer's limited
life, leaving it turned on when he was not using it. If only it had
told him ... but it was not the nature of a machine to voluntarily give
information. Besides, the receding hand of the dial was there for him
to see. The computer neither knew nor cared that no one had thought it
worthwhile to teach him the rudiments of its operation and maintenance.

It was 12:52. One hour and one minute left.

He put the thought aside and concentrated on the problem of finding the
key to the paradox.

What conceivable set of circumstances would cause receding stars to
have a spectrum shift that showed them to be approaching the ship? Or,
to rephrase the question, what conceivable set of circumstances would
cause approaching stars to appear to dwindle in size?

The answer came with startling suddenness and clarity:

There was no paradox--the ship was expanding.

He considered the solution, examining it for flaws of logic, and found
none. If he and the ship were expanding the wave length of light would
diminish in proportion to the increasing size of the retinas of his
eyes and the scanner plates of the transdimensional viewscreens: would
become shorter and go into the ultraviolet. At the same time, the
increasing size of himself and the ship would make the Earth and sun
relatively smaller and therefore apparently receding.

The same theory explained the two different speeds of the ship: its
length was three times its diameter so its longitudinal expansion would
proceed at three times the speed of its cross-sectional expansion.

Everything checked.

How large was the ship now?

He made a rough calculation and stared almost unbelievingly at the
results. He was a giant, more than a third of a light-year tall, in a
ship that was six light-years long and two light-years in diameter.
Far Centauri, which had required thirty years to reach in the fastest
interplanetary ship, floated seventy-one feet away in the blackness
outside the hull.

And the sun and Earth were in the room with him, going into the
shuttle's silvery focal ball.

He would have to ask the computer to make certain his theory was valid.
His time was too critically short for him to waste any of it with
speculation based on an erroneous theory.

He switched on the computer and it lighted up again. He typed rapidly:

ASSUME THIS SHIP TO BE MOTIONLESS AND EXPANDING WOULD THAT THEORY
SATISFACTORILY EXPLAIN ALL THE HITHERTO CONTRADICTORY PHENOMENA?

There was a brief pause as the computer evaluated its data, then it
answered with one word:

YES.

He switched it off again, to squander none of its short period of
usefulness until he had decided upon what his further questions should
be. At last, he had some grounds for conjecture; had learned something
about the warp the designers of the shuttle had not suspected. Their
calculations had been correct when they showed a ship would travel in
the warp at many times the normal space speed of light. But somewhere
some little factor had been overlooked--or never found--and their
precise mathematics had not indicated that the travel would be produced
by expansion.

_Nature abhors a vacuum._ And the black, empty warp was a vacuum more
perfect than any that existed in normal space. In the normal space
universe there were millions of stars in the galaxy and millions of
galaxies. In the warp there was utter Nothing. Did the physical laws of
the warp demand that matter be scattered throughout it, in emulation of
its rich neighbor in the adjoining dimension? Was the warp hungry for
matter?

He rejected the thought as fantasy. There was some explanation that the
physicists would eventually find. Perhaps there was a vast size-ratio
difference between the two dimensions; perhaps the warp was far larger
than the normal space universe and some co-universal law demanded that
objects entering it become proportionally larger.

None of that aspect of his circumstances, however, was of importance.
There was only one prime problem facing him: how to move the ship
within less than an hour to some point in the warp where his emergence
into normal space would result in neither instant nor days-away
death and where he would have the time to try to carry out the
responsibility, so suddenly placed in his hands, of delivering the
space warp shuttle to the _Thunderbolt_.

The long-range task depended upon his immediate survival. He had to
move the ship, and how did a man move a driveless ship? It might not
require a very large propulsive force--perhaps even an oxygen tank
would serve as a jet. Except that he had none.

He could use part of the air in the ship. Its sudden release should
move the ship. There was a sun very near: Alpha Centauri. If he had the
proper tools, and the time, he could cut a hole in the hull opposite
Centauri ... but he had neither the tools nor the time.

And what good would it do him if he could emerge into normal space at
the desired distance from Centauri? He would be provided with power for
the air regenerators by the solar power units but not power sufficient
to operate the shuttle. He would breathe, and eat, for a week. Then the
small amount of food on the ship would be gone and he would breathe for
another four or five weeks. And then he would die of starvation and his
driveless ship would continue its slow drift into the sun, taking his
bones and the shuttle with it.

He would have to go to Sirius and he would have to reach it the first
try or never. If he could emerge into normal space at the proper
distance from Sirius he would have power from it to operate the
communicator. The _Thunderbolt_ would come at once when it received
his message and swallow the little _Argosy_ in its enormous hold. The
return to Earth would be the swift one through the warp and the Slug
cruisers, so bold in pursuit of unarmed interplanetary ships, would
quickly cease to exist.

At 13:53 Sirius would be somewhere in or near the bow of the ship.
The ship would not have to be moved more than two thirds of its
length--twenty meters. He could do that by releasing part of the air in
the shuttle room through the sternward airlock.

How much air?

He tried to remember long-forgotten formulas. So many cubic feet of
air at such and such a pressure when released through an opening of
such and such a diameter would exert a propulsive force of.... Hell,
he didn't know. And not even the computer would be able to tell him
because there were so many unknown factors, such as the proportion of
the ship's mass lost to the Slug blasters, the irregular shape of the
airlock opening, the degree of smoothness of its metal....

He made calculations with pencil and paper. He would have to move
the ship with extreme precision. A light-hour short of the proper
distance put him too far from the sun for it to power the communicator,
a light-hour beyond put him in the sun's flaming white heart. One
light-hour out of eight point six light-years was approximately one
part out of seventy-five thousand. He would have to move the ship with
an accuracy of point aught three centimeters--one hundredth of an inch.

_One hundredth of an inch!_

He laid the pencil back down, almost numbly. He could never open and
close an airlock and move a mass of thousands of tons with an accuracy
of a hundredth of an inch. The very thought was wildly fantastic.

He was already far closer to Sirius than he would be if he tried to get
any closer. And that was over eight light-years from it.

He looked at the chronometer and saw the hands had already reached
13:20. Thirty-three minutes left to him. Sirius was near--soon it would
be in the bow of the ship--and Sirius was eight point six light-years
away.

How could he move the ship a certain distance accurate to one hundredth
of an inch? He couldn't. The answer was blunt and ugly and irrefutable:
he couldn't.

He got up and walked across the room, feeling like a man who had in
quick succession been condemned, reprieved, recondemned. He had been
projected into a situation for which he had had no preliminary training
whatever; had been made sole custodian and operator of a computer and a
space warp shuttle that he had never before been permitted to touch. He
had used the sound but not at all brilliant mind nature had given him
to solve the riddle of the paradoxes and learn where he was and where
he wanted to go. He had done quite well--he had solved every problem of
his survival and the shuttle's delivery except the last one!

He passed by the shuttle and stopped to rest his hand on the bright,
silvery focal ball. The solar system would be deep inside the ball;
the atoms of the ball larger than Earth, perhaps, and far more
impalpable than the thinnest air. The Slug cruisers would be in there,
infinitesimally tiny, waiting for him to return....

No--faulty reasoning. The solar system was as it had always been, not
diminished in size and not really in the ball. It was only that two
different points in two different dimensions coincided in the ball....

He saw the answer.

He did not have to move the ship to Sirius--he had only to move the
ball!
