
There was silence from the control room as Jayjay clambered on down
the stairwell. Fortunately, the steps had been built so that it was
possible to use them from either side, no matter which way the gravity
pull happened to be. By the time he reached the control room, he
weighed a good fifteen pounds.

Captain Atef al-Amin was staring up at the stairs as Jayjay came down.
He was jammed tightly into a space between two of the big control
cabinets, hanging head downward and looking more disheveled than
Jayjay had ever seen the usually immaculately-uniformed captain.

"Oh," said Captain Al-Amin, in English, "it's you. For a moment I
thought--" Then he waved his free hand. "Never mind. Can you get me
out of here?"

What had been the floor of the control room was now the ceiling. The
two steel cabinets which housed parts of the computer unit now
appeared to be bolted to the ceiling. They were only about five feet
high, and the space between them was far too narrow for a man to have
got in there by himself--especially a man of the captain's build. None
the less, he was in there--jammed in up to his waist. Only his upper
torso and one arm was free. The other arm was jammed in against the
wall.

Jayjay took the leap from the stairs and grabbed on to the chair that
hung from the ceiling nearby. When you only weigh fifteen pounds, you
can make Tarzan look like an amateur.

"You hurt?" he asked.

"It isn't comfortable, sure as hell," said Al-Amin. "I think my arm's
broken. Think you can get me loose?"

"I can try. Give me your hand." Jayjay took the captain's free hand
and gave it a tug. Then he released the chair he was holding, braced
both feet against the panels of the computer housings, and gave a good
pull. The captain didn't budge, but he winced a little.

"That hurt?"

"Just my arm. The pressure has cut off my blood circulation; my legs
are numb, and I can't tell if they hurt or not."

Jayjay grabbed the chair again and surveyed the situation. "Where's
your First Officer?"

"Breckner? Down in the engine room."

Jayjay didn't comment on that. If the hold was airless, it was likely
that the engine room was, too, and there was no need to worry Al-Amin
any more than necessary just now.

"Can you use a cutting torch?" the captain asked.

"Yes, but I don't think it'll be necessary," Jayjay said. "Hold on a
minute." He went back up the stairs to the officers' washroom and,
after a little search, got a container of liquid soap from the
supplies. Then he went back down to the control room. He made the jump
to the chair, holding on with one hand while he held the container of
soap with the other.

"Can you hold me up with one hand? I'll need both hands to work with."

"In this gravity? Easy. Give me your belt."

Captain Atef Al-Amin grabbed Jayjay's belt and hung on, while Jayjay
used both hands to squirt the liquid soap all over the captain from
the waist down.

It would have made a great newspaper photo. Captain Al-Amin, wedged
between two steel cabinets, hanging upside-down under a pull of
one-fifteenth standard gee, holding up his rescuer by the belt. The
rescuer, right-side-up, was squeezing a plastic container of liquid
soap and directing the stream against the captain.

When Al-Amin was thoroughly wetted with the solution, Jayjay again
braced his feet against the steel panels and pulled.

With a slick, slurping sound, the captain slid loose, and the two of
them toppled head-over-heels across the room. Jayjay was prepared for
that; he stopped them both by grasping an overhead desk-top as they
went by. Then he let go, and the two men dropped slowly to what had
been the ceiling.

"_Hoo!_" said the captain. "That's a relief! Allah!"

Jayjay took a look at the man's arm. "Radius might be broken; ulna
seems O.K. We'll splint it later. Your legs are going to tingle like
crazy when the feeling comes back."

"I know. But we have other things to worry about, Mr. Kelvin.
Evidently you and I are the only ones awake so far, and I'm in no
condition to go moving all over this spinning bucket just yet. Would
you do some reconnoitering for me?"

"Sure," said Jayjay. "Just tell me what you want."
