
Within half an hour, the news was in.

There were five men alive in the ship: Jayjay, Captain Al-Amin, Jeffry
Hull, Second Officer Vandenbosch, and Maintenance Officer Smith.
Vandenbosch had broken both legs and had to be strapped into a bunk
and given a shot of narcolene.

Jayjay had put on a spacesuit and taken a look outside. The whole rear
end of the ship was gone, and with it had gone the First Officer, the
Radio Officer, and the Engineering Officer. And, of course, the main
power plant of the ship.

Most of the cargo hold was intact, but the walls had been breached,
and the air was gone.

"Well, that's that," said Captain Al-Amin. Jayjay, Smith, Hull, and
the captain were in the control room, trying not to look glum. "I wish
I knew what happened."

"Meteor," Jayjay said flatly. "The bumper hull is fused at the edges
of the break, and the direction of motion was inward."

"I don't see how it could have got by the meteor detectors," said
Smith, a lean, sad-looking man with a badly bruised face.

"I don't either," the captain said, "but it must have. If the engines
had blown, the damage would have been quite different."

Jeffry Hull nervously took a cigarette from his pocket pack. His nose
had quit bleeding, but his eye was purpling rapidly and was almost
swollen shut.

Captain Al-Amin leaned over and gently took the cigarette from Hull's
fingers. "No smoking, I'm afraid. We'll have to conserve oxygen."

"You guys are so damn _calm_!" Hull said. His voice betrayed a surface
of anger covering a substratum of fear. "Here we are, heading away
from the Solar System at eighteen million miles an hour, and you all
act as if we were going on a picnic or something."

The observation was hardly accurate. Any group of men who went on a
picnic in the frame of mind that Jayjay and the others were in would
have produced the gloomiest outing since the Noah family took a trip
in an excursion boat.

"There's nothing to worry about," Captain Al-Amin said gently. "All we
have to do is set the screamers going, and the Interplanetary Police
will pick us up."

"Screamers?" Hull looked puzzled.

Instead of answering the implied question, the captain looked at
Smith. "Have you checked them?" He knew that Smith had, but he was
trying to quiet Hull's fears.

Smith nodded. "They're O.K." He looked at Hull. "A screamer is an
emergency radio. There's one in every compartment. You've seen them."
He pointed across the room, toward a red panel in the wall. "In
there."

"But I thought it was impossible for a spaceship in flight to contact
a planet by radio," Hull objected.

"Normally, it is," Smith admitted. "It takes too much power and too
tight a beam to get much intelligence over a distance that great from
a moving ship. But the screamers are set up for emergency purposes.
They're like flares, except that they operate on microwave frequencies
instead of visible light.

"The big radio telescopes on Luna and on the Jovian satellites can
pick them up if we beam them sunward, and the Plutonian station can
pick us up if we beam in that direction."

Hull looked much calmer. "But where do you get the power if the
engines are gone? Surely the emergency batteries won't supply that
kind of power."

"Of course not. Each screamer has its own power supply. It's a
hydrogen-oxygen fuel cell that generates a hell of a burst of power
for about thirty minutes before it burns out from the overload. It's
meant to be used only once, but it does the job."

"How do they know where to find us from a burst like that?" Hull
asked.

"Well, suppose we only had one screamer. We'd beam it toward Pluto,
since it would be easier for an IP ship to get to us from there. Since
all screamers have the same frequency--don't ask me what it is; I'm
not a radio man--the velocity of our ship will be indicated by the
Doppler Effect. That is, our motion toward or away from them can be
calculated that way. Our angular velocity with respect to them can be
checked while the screamer is going; they will know which direction
we're moving, if we're moving at an angle.

"With that information, all they have to do is find out which ship is
in that general area of the sky, which they can find out by checking
the schedule, and they can estimate approximately where we'll be. The
IP ship will come out, and when they get in the general vicinity, they
can find us with their meteor detectors. Nothing to it."

"And," Captain Al-Amin added, "since we have eight screamers still
left with us, we have plenty of reserves to call upon. There's
nothing to worry about, Mr. Hull."

"But how can you aim a beam when we're toppling end-over-end like
this?" Hull asked.

"Well, if we couldn't stop the rotation," said the captain, "we'd
broadcast instead of beaming. Anywhere within the Solar System, a
screamer can broadcast enough energy to overcome the background noise.

"The IP would have a harder time finding us, of course, but we'd be
saved eventually."

"I see," said Hull "How do we go about stopping the rotation?"

"That's the next thing on the agenda," Al-Amin said. "This seasick
roll is caused by the unevenness of the load, and I'm pretty sick of
it, myself. Smith, will you and Mr. Kelvin get out the emergency
rockets? We'll see what we can do to stabilize our platform."
