
It took better than an hour to get the ship straightened out. For the
main job, emergency rockets were set off at the appropriate spots
around the hull to counteract the rotation. The final trimming was
done with carbon dioxide fire extinguishers, which Smith and Jayjay
Kelvin used as jets.

Getting a fix on Pluto was easy enough; the lighthouse station at Styx
broadcast a strong beep sunward every ten seconds. They could also
pick up the radio lighthouses on Eros, Ceres, Luna, and Mimas.
Evidently, the one on Titan was behind the Jovian bulk.

They were ready to send their distress call.

"It's simple," Smith said as he opened the red panel in the wall of
the control room. "First we turn on the receiver." He pushed a button
marked _R_. "Then we turn these two wheels here until the pip on that
little screen is centered. That's the signal from Pluto. It comes in
strong every ten seconds, see?"

Jayjay watched with interest. He'd heard about screamers and had seen
them, but he'd never had the opportunity of observing one in action.

Like flares or bombs, they were intended for one-time use. The
instructions were printed plainly on the inside of the red door, and
Smith was simply reading off what was printed there.

"These wheels," he was saying, "line up the parabolic reflector with
the Pluto signal, you see. There. Now we've got it centered. Now, all
we have to do is make one small correction and we're all set. These
things are built so that they're fool-proof; a kid could operate it.
Watch."

Facing each other across a small gap were a pair of tapered screw
plugs, one male and one female. The male was an average of half an
inch in diameter; the female was larger and bored to fit the male.

"The female plug," Smith said, "leads to two tanks of high-pressure
gas inside this cabinet on the left. One tank of oxygen, one of
hydrogen. See how this male plug telescopes out to fit into the
female? All we have to do is thread them together, and everything is
automatic."

Jayjay was aware that Smith's explanations were meant to give Jeffry
Hull something to think about instead of his fears. Hull was basically
an Earth-hugger, and free fall did nothing to keep him calm. Evidently
his subconscious knew that he had to latch on to something to keep his
mental equilibrium, because he showed a tremendous amount of interest
in what should have been a routine operation.

"How do you mean, it's all automatic?" he asked. "What happens?"

"Well, you can't see into the female plug, but look here at the male.
See those concentric tubes leading into the interior of the cabinet on
the right? The outer one leads in the oxygen, the inner leads in the
hydrogen. We need twice as much hydrogen as oxygen, so the inner tube
has twice the volume delivery as the outer. See?"

"Yes. But what is the solid silver bar in the center of the inner
tube?"

"That's the electrical connection for the starter battery. There's a
small, short-lived chemical battery, like the ones in an ordinary
pocket radio, except that they're built to deliver a high-voltage,
high-amperage current for about a tenth of a second. That activates
the H-O cell, you see. Also, that silver stud depresses the
corresponding stud in the female plug, which turns on the gas flow
before it makes the connection with the starter battery. Follow?"

Hull didn't look as though he did, but he nodded gamely. "Then what
happens?"

"Then the hydrogen and the oxygen come together in the fuel cell and,
instead of generating heat, they generate electric current. That
current is fed into the radio unit, and the signal is sent to Pluto.
Real simple."

"I see," Hull said. "Well ... go ahead."

Smith telescoped the two leads together and began turning the collar
on the female plug.

He screwed it up as far as it would go.

And nothing happened.

"What the hell?" asked Smith of no one in particular. He tried to
twist it a little harder. Nothing happened. The threads had gone as
far as they would go.

"What's the matter?" Jayjay asked.

"Damfino. No connection. Nothing's happening. And it's as tight as it
will go."

"Are the gases flowing?" Jayjay asked.

"I don't know. These things aren't equipped with meters. They're
supposed to work automatically."

Jayjay pushed Smith aside. "Let me take a look."

Smith frowned as though he resented an ordinary passenger shoving him
around, but Jayjay ignored him. He cocked his head to one side and
looked at the connection. "Hm-m-m." He touched it with a finger. Then
he wet the finger with his tongue and touched the connection again.
"There's no gas flow, Smith."

"How do you know?" Smith was still frowning.

"There's a gap there. That tapered thread isn't in tight. If there
were any gas flowing, it would be leaking out." Before Smith could say
anything Jayjay began unscrewing the coupling. When it came apart, it
looked just the same as it had before Smith had put it together.

In the dim glow from the emergency lights, it was difficult to see
anything.

"Got an electric torch?" Jayjay asked.

Smith pushed himself away from the screamer panel and came back after
a moment with a flashlight. "Let me take a look," he said, edging
Jayjay aside. He looked over the halves of the coupling very
carefully, then said: "I don't see anything wrong. I'll try it again."

"Hold on a second," Jayjay said quietly. "Let me take a look, will
you?"

Smith handed him the torch. "Go ahead, but there's nothing wrong."
