
Twenty-three looked up at the glowing dome of the city that curved away
to the horizon. He wondered if there really was a white ball beyond it
sometimes and tiny dots of light, set in blue black. And at other times
did a ball of fire flame up there, giving light and heat and life? And
if there was this life and light up there, _why_ the great dome over the
city? _Why_ the factories and machine lines replacing it section after
section, generation after generation? The slabs that the workers fused
together this year and the next and the next, pushing back this life and
light and heat. Why not let it pour down into the city and warm all the
people? Why not go to the space out there and the depth and freedom? Why
this great shell that closed them away? For the sake of the Superfathers
maybe? And the Superfathers-plus? For the sake of the ones, like himself
maybe who worked and built? For the sake of them, so they wouldn't
become dangerous maybe and tear the great wall down and rush out into
whatever was beyond? Why else?

But it could be all a farce. They could all be working in the great dome
because they didn't know what was beyond. Who could know if they'd never
been beyond?

And so they were held under the domes with the buildings and the
machines that carried them all around in the city; held with the
plumbing and the theatres and all the intricate mechanisms that spoke to
them and fed them, that washed them and poured thoughts into their
minds, that healed them when they were sick and rested them when they
were tired. The same as they were held with the great dome. Held and
shackeled with the replacing of parts that didn't need replacing; the
making over and over again of the tiny and large pieces of the
mechanisms and the taking of the old mechanisms and the melting of them
or smashing of them to powder so that this dust or molten metal could be
fashioned again and again into the same pieces that they had been for so
many thousands of years. All this to keep them busy? All this to keep
something outside that was supposed to be destructive because once it
had been so five thousand years ago or ten or fifty? All this because
that was the way it had been for as long as the hundreds and the
thousands of years that history had been recorded?

He walked on through the silence, dimly aware now of the people moving
about him, of the automobiles rolling past, as though moved by some
invisible force. He passed row upon row of movie theatres that called to
him with invisible vibrations. He turned away.

Where was the little man?

He stopped, moving only his eyes. After a moment, he saw the little man
step out of a shop-front and stand waiting. Twenty-three, a cigarette in
his mouth, walked over and asked for a light. The little man touched a
lighter to the cigarette, at the same time dropping a packet of cards
into Twenty-three's pocket.

Twenty-three moved on. He felt the pounding of his heart. If only his
wife were asleep so he would not have to wait to look at these new
cards.

As he walked, his thoughts cried out against the silence. He glanced
suspiciously from side to side. If only he could hear the sounds of the
city. But except for human voices and music, the city had always been
silent. The human voices spoke only words written by the Superfathers,
and the music came from records that had been composed by them--all this
back when the city had first come into being. Other than these sounds
there could be only the quiet all around. No chugging motors or scraping
footsteps. No crashing engines in the sky, or pounding of steel on
stone. No shrieking of factory whistles or clanging steeple bells or
honking automobile horns. None of this to pluck and pound at nerves, to
suggest that this place was not the most soothing and gentle of all
places to be in. There were no winds to swirl and moan away into the
distance. The chirp of birds had long since been stilled, and so had the
patter of rain and the crash of thunder. There must not be any of these
sounds either to lure the imagination into some distance where danger
and excitement might be waiting.

Now he was walking toward the door of his apartment house. It swung
open. Thirty seconds later he stopped before another door. It too swung
open.

His wife stood in the middle of the room, between two traveling bags. He
moved slowly toward her and stopped just out of arm's reach.

"What's this?" He gestured toward the bags. "Where're you going?"

She stared at him for a long moment, her face set. She was of his height
and build and wore a suit the same light grey as his. Their hair cuts
were identical, their faces sharp featured and pale. They might have
been brother and sister--or two brothers, or two sisters.

"I'm going to the marriage center."

"What for?" He had tried to inject surprise into his voice. But the tone
was listless.

"The Superfather called about your dream."

Twenty-three turned away, lighted a cigarette. He should beg her to
stay, should promise to change. But the silence was in him, like a
sickness.

"A terrible thing's happening to you. I don't want any part of it." She
picked up the bags. "When you come to your senses, you know where to
reach me.... _If_ I haven't already made another contract, I _might_
come back to you."

She hesitated at the door.

"There's one thing I don't understand. You haven't begged me to stay.
You haven't broken down. You haven't threatened suicide." She paused.
"It's standard procedure, you know. It might even make me decide to wait
awhile."

"I don't want you to stay," he said. He felt a shock of surprise. It was
as though a voice had spoken from behind him.

He watched the door shut between them.
