
Dressed in his pajamas, he stood beside the metal tube, in which for so
many years he had slept his regulation sleep and dreamed his regulation
dreams. There was something of the finely made casket about this
tube--the six foot length and three foot diameter; the lid along its top
and the dull shine of the metal and the quiet of it, as though it were
asleep and lying in wait for a tired body to bring it awake so that it
could put the body to sleep and live in the dreams it would give to the
sleeper.

Beside his own tube stood its twin, where his wife had also slept and
dreamed through the years.

Leaning slightly forward, he felt the press of metal against his hip
bones, felt the tube roll an inch with his weight. He rested one hand on
the metal top, felt its warmth and smoothness, was aware of its
cleanness, like that of a surgical instrument.

Now he glanced at the glistening black panel that stood two feet high at
the tube's head; quickly checked its four illuminated dials and three
gleaming arrows and at the same time raised his hand to drop the cards
into the softly glowing slot at the panel's top.

Suddenly his hand stopped.

He bent forward.

What was this? A feeling of strangeness. Vague. Like sensing some subtle
change in a picture that has hung for twenty years above the fireplace
in one's home.

He drew closer, squinting. The dials and meters seemed to be the same as
they had yesterday and the day before and the year before.

And yet?

The dials. Larger? By a fraction? And the tiny gleaming arrows of the
meters. Barely longer? And the marks on the dials and meters? One extra
each, very faintly, like a piece of hair.

He was very still for a long moment. Then he moved around the foot of
his own sleeping tube, pushed between the two and stood at the head of
the other one.

He checked its dials and meters. They were as they had been for many
years. He stepped back to the panel of his own and pressed a button. As
the glistening metal top rose, silently, he ran his hand around the
yawning interior, felt the downy softness and the body-like warmth. Then
his hand touched a pliable metal plate. That should not be there. He
stood back, remembering the workmen who had come into the house that
morning for the routine checkup of the tubes. His wife had already left
for work and he had just stepped through the door when they had met him
in the corridor. They had gone on into the rooms and he had sensed
vaguely that something was wrong. Then he had put the feeling out of his
mind and gone to his work.

Now suddenly, he turned to the illuminated four inch square panel above
the door, read April 15, 2563. The workmen had checked a day early. He
frowned. Either the Superfather had ordered the machine changed, which
was highly improbable, because every object in the city was standardized
and any change would upset the established order, or the workmen were
tied up with the man who had given him the different dream cards.... In
any event he had to sleep in the tube that night and he definitely
wanted to dream the dreams on the cards he had just gotten from the man
on the corner.

He dropped the cards into the slot at the top of the panel, climbed into
the tube and pressed a button. The top closed over him, like a hand. He
lay still, feeling the warm clasp wash over his body. There was darkness
and silence and a cool motion of antiseptic air. He could try the first
dream. If it wasn't right, he could shut it off and sleep without
dreams.

He pressed another button.

Silence.

The sound of his regular breathing.

Then a sighing came into his mind, and a green haze. The sighing became
a soft breeze; the green, tree-covered hills rolling off to the horizon.
He relaxed, aware in a fading, sinking part of his consciousness that
the machine worked as usual. He would dream and wait and hope....

And so the wind was breathing across the land from off a vast stretch of
blue water, which broke along a sandy beach in foamy white breakers. The
surf thundered all through his body. The wind brushed against him like a
great, purring cat. He looked up at the blue sky and seemed to feel
himself rising and sinking, both at the same time, up into its depths.
As his sight touched the sun there was an explosion of brightness which
blinded him. He turned away then to the rolling green sea of hills, saw
the trees bending from the surge of wind and heard the rustling of
leaves.

And then a deep voice moved through his mind.

"Outside the city," it said, "all this exists. During the terrible
burning of the Earth back in the wars of its antiquity, the city was
built as a place of life for those who yet lived. But those people were
not aware that the Earth would come alive again and they made the city
so that no death could enter it from without and no life could escape
from within. And they turned away from the Earth and lived only with the
city so that it became their universe--to all but a very few of us. We
still held a faint awareness of what the Earth had been--this passed
down to us for many generations, in whisperings, by the wise ones of our
people, back in the beginning of the city. And in those times, we had
been in the city too long, for thousands of years. We knew that there
must be freedom beyond the walls, if we could get through. But the walls
were thick and high and without a flaw, making a sky over us. We worked
for five hundred years on a machine to get us through the wall. Now a
few of us have succeeded and more will follow us to the freedom out here
in the good land. There is room for everyone here, there are no
boundaries and no ceilings and no walls anywhere. And you may join us
some time in the near future, if you wish."

Twenty-three sighed in his sleep.

Now a great city faded into his mind. There were long, tree lined
streets and buildings, some built in rising spirals, some in spreading
squares, others in ovals, domes and curved half circles. The wind
wandered among the buildings and the bursts of green. People, dressed in
white, flowing robes or black tights, walked the streets. He could hear
their footsteps on the stone or grassy walk, could hear the hum of
vehicles rolling along the streets or flying through the air. They were
long and streamlined or short and round, or they were curved like
gondolas or squat like saucers. And they were moving at many speeds. Yet
there was order. And the air was sweet and clean. A black line of clouds
was rising across the horizon. Soon there would be lightning and thunder
and cool rain.

The deep voice touched him again. "This is the city that can be. A city
of life, open to the sky and the earth, a city in which people can find
and follow their own lives. After the wars, the cities were built to
shut out the death of Earth. But the Earth has come to life again. And
so can the cities."

The silence came while the picture changed and Twenty-three stirred,
waiting.

A figure grew in his mind, wavered, and became a woman. Twenty-three saw
the long body and the softness; saw the flowing hair and the smile as
she watched him. He saw the gentleness in her face; saw a strength under
the softness, like the storm that lies below the charged quiet of a
summer evening. Her lips moved.

"Paul. Dream your dreams for _us_." The words seemed to fall on him. He
trembled and cried out. And he felt a violent stirring in his body and a
breaking away as though he had flung himself through the walls of a
tomb.

The picture blew away while the voice continued: "She is a woman, not a
woman who half resembles a man." A pause. "When you wish to leave the
city, ask for the final card. You are welcome."

There was silence and darkness. Twenty-three stirred. He opened his
eyes. The glow from the city outside filtered into the room through the
translucent walls. He lay motionless. Paul. He was Paul. Not
Twenty-three. A man with a name. Wonder came into him, and a sense of
strength, and a willingness to remember without fear.

His mind ran back to the first mistake, almost a year past. He
remembered the horror of failure then and the terror at his being
subjected to a mistake. He remembered the inference from the Superfather
that there might be a bad strain in his blood line. He remembered taking
the dream cards that were to have set him straight, that were to have
shown him working over the machines with super speed, moving up along
the production line to its pinnacle and on up to the position of
Superfather and on up to Superfather-plus and on up to the place of
Father of The City. But the cards had been sabotaged, so that from them
into his mind had come the dreams of the trees and the oceans and the
green earth spreading off to the horizon and the expanse of blue sky.

And then the words had directed him to the little man who had given him
the cards on the street corner. They had known him, the words had said,
through what was called telepathetic screening, for ones suitable to
leave the city. He was one of those chosen, because he, like a few
others, had been unable to adjust completely to the demands of the city.
He was one of those in whom a rebellious nature had been passed down
from generation to generation, by attitudes and acts of his ancestors,
by a word spoken here and one there, by an intangible reaching out
toward the sky and the green growing things and the need to understand
who and what he was. But in him now this feeling was weak and close to
death and would die in him if it were not brought out into life of the
Earth.

Now the memories receded; he lay motionless, listening to his breathing
and his heartbeat, feeling his body press against the softness that held
him.
