
Suddenly a shaft of light fell on him through the transparent square.
Opening his eyes, he saw his wife's face staring down at him.

She moved her hand. The lid of the tube raised. He lay watching her,
feeling naked and, for a moment, helpless.

"I talked for a long while with your Superfather," she said. "I feel
better. He told me you'd promised to take the prescribed dreams
tonight."

Twenty-three turned his face away from her.

She began to undress.

"I'm going out for a walk." He stepped from the machine.

She watched him dress, her look a mixture of curiosity and fright.

When he left it was as though he were leaving an empty room and she
watched him as though he were not quite human.

The glow of the city was all around him as he walked toward the corner
where the little man stood. The telepathic advertisers reached out from
the places of entertainment, pulling at him. The voices enveloped him
for a moment so that he almost turned back to them. But then he saw, in
his mind, his arms working over the machines, saw them make a wrong
motion that smashed a gear, saw the flashing red light and the heavy,
expressionless face of the Superfather. He was aware that his memory
would be erased and the skies, and the ocean, and the green hills. His
name would be gone. Paul would die. And the city would be his tomb.

Quickly he turned down a side street, saw the small figure leaning
against the corner of the building.

Walking rapidly toward him, as though he were being chased, he saw the
lean, ruddy face smile and the deep, blue eyes look at him; heard the
voice gently say:

"Welcome, Paul."

"The last card," said Twenty-three.

The little man handed it to him, quickly. "Good luck. Turn the dials one
extra point on the control panel. Our men have made the machine ready.
It's time now."

Twenty-three thrust the card into the inner pocket of his jacket. So
that _was_ it. They _had_ changed the machine.

"One extra point," he repeated, glancing up and down the street.

"And remember," said the little man. "Destroy all the cards you've used
before. They were designed particularly for you. If you don't make it
across to us, the Superfathers will use the cards against you."

Twenty-three whirled around. The little man had gone. Twenty-three
suddenly felt weak. My God! The other cards! Left in the machine! If his
wife--!

He stood very still for a long moment, then he ran!

The door to his apartment swung open. The room beyond was empty. A light
shown faintly. He stood for a moment, listening. Silence. He stepped to
the bedroom. The top of his wife's sleeping tube was closed. He could
see her face through the transparent square, could hear her quiet
breathing.

In one quick, silent motion, he stepped to the side of his own tube,
pulling the last card from his pocket, and dropped it into the glowing
slot at the top of the black control panel. Then he turned the dials to
the extra point.

Several minutes later he pressed the button at the bottom of the control
panel. The top opened. At the same moment, he heard a step behind him.
He whirled around. The Superfather stood in the doorway. At his back
hovered the dark bulks of two other men. Twenty-three felt his muscles
lock. He saw the Superfather's dead smile and then his wife stepping
down to the floor and hurrying to the side of the Superfather.

"Those pictures," she said, shuddering. "They were so--strange."

The Superfather held his eyes on Twenty-three but spoke to the woman.
"Thank God you were strong. It was commendable of you to call us."

"I don't know what made me look at his dreams," she cried. "Maybe it was
when I asked him if he'd taken the prescribed dreams and he didn't
answer.... Anyway, I tested his machine. It was insane!"

"Dreams made by some twisted mind," the Superfather said. "Remember.
They've no real existence. Nothing lives or moves outside the city.
There were old myths but they've been dead for countless generations."
He paused. "Where _are_ the pictures?"

"I burned them."

"Good." He motioned to the men behind him. They came forward and stood
on each side of Twenty-three.

"Twenty-three," said the Superfather, "we may have to erase your
memories and your present individuality." He cleared his throat. "Our
records show that some two thousand people have disappeared in the last
five years. Your case has much to do with it.... Where'd you get the new
cards?"

Twenty-three was silent.

The Superfather pulled out a pack of cards. "Before we leave this room,
you'll be a different man. If you tell us,"--he waggled the cards in his
right hand--"this'll be your new life. You'll have dreams of outdoing
every man on the machine lines and fix your body so you'll have the
capacity to do it. You _will_ do it. You'll become a Superfather. You'll
burn to excel them. You'll push on up, become a Superfather-plus. You'll
work with ideas, ways of increasing efficiency, pushing the workmen
faster and faster. And you'll find ways of conditioning them to meet the
greater and greater demands for speed. The city and people'll be at your
fingertips. There'll be rooms of marble and gold for you. Soft carpets
and buttons to push that'll give you any desire instantly. You'll _have_
everything and _be_ everything!" He paused and took a deep breath. "All
this'll be yours if you'll tell us where you got the cards, without
forcing us to probe your mind with the electric-scalpel...."

With an effort, Twenty-three raised his eyes to the Superfather's face.

"And if I don't tell you?"

"Moving a lever back and forth twice a minute hour after hour, year
after year. Living in a bare cubicle. No entertainment. No desires." He
paused. "And no _memories_."

Twenty-three looked over the Superfather's shoulder. The last card, he
thought, is in the machine. Escape from the city. They said that, from
outside. I've got to know. No matter what they put in the machine, that
card will show first. Even if it's only for ten seconds or thirty or
sixty, or however long--I'll know.

"No," he said, "I won't tell you...."

The woman gasped and hid her face. The Superfather, scowling, made a
motion.

The two dark men took hold of Twenty-three. They lifted him into the
tube.

The Superfather dropped the second pack of cards into the panel and
pressed the button. The top closed silently, like a mouth.

Twenty-three's eyes closed; his body waited.
