
The launching was a good one. The _Rainbow 6_ rode its Saturn booster
like a bird on jet-fire wings, and the bright star of its passage
seemed to linger in the morning sky long after the booster had
fallen away. The television cameras caught the action beautifully,
and the American public, reminded once again that the noblest thing
a person can do is to risk his life for his country, looked on in
awe and admiration. The orbit was a good one too: apogee--203 miles;
perigee--191 miles. Rosemary radioed back that she was A-okay.

She was supposed to complete three orbits, then climb into the escape
capsule, jettison it and herself, re-enter the atmosphere, and
parachute into the Atlantic. There, a task force waited eagerly to pick
her up. Her mission was to orientate the satellite's weather-factor
instruments to the existent cloud patterns and jet streams. Once this
was accomplished, the telemetric readings would, through the medium of
the Main Weather Control Station in Oregon, dictate future weather.
Weather control had been in effect since the middle sixties, but the
telemetric readings of the unmanned weather-control satellites, owing
to faulty orientation, had fallen far short of the one-hundred percent
accuracy needed to make the regulation of rain and sunshine something
more than a half-realized dream, and it was hoped that the present
satellite, given a human boost, would bring the dream to fruition.

One can picture Rosemary high in the sky, faithfully carrying out her
assignment. One can see her sitting there before the instrument panel
of the _Rainbow 6_ looking at dawns and sunsets and stars. One can
see the slow drift of cloud and continent beneath her. Australia now,
and now the vast blueness of the Pacific ... and now the west coast
rising out of mists of distances and air, and beyond it, the vast green
blur of the land that gave her birth. Little Barbara Frietchie riding
on a star.... Far beneath her now, highways wind; rivers run down to
seas. Patternings of field and forest blend into pale blue-greens.
Fresh-water lakes look up at her with blue and wondering eyes. Now the
sea of night drifts forth to meet her. Bravely she sets sail upon the
dark waves in her little silvery ship. Brief night, soft sunrise, new
day.

    _I bring fresh showers for the thirsting flowers,
    From the seas and the streams;
    I bear light shade for the leaves when laid
    In their noonday dreams._

Little Barbara Frietchie riding on a star....

Jettisoning took place exactly on schedule. The weather-control
satellite continued on its orbital way, and Rosemary plummeted
earthward in the escape capsule. That much, at least, is known. But
what took place during re-entry--whether the retro rockets failed to
fire, whether the attitude controls malfunctioned, or whether the heat
shield proved to be defective--is not known and never will be known.
All that is known is that Rosemary became a falling star.

The nation mourned. The whole wide world mourned. Project Rain Dance
was discontinued. It would have been discontinued in any event, for
Rosemary had obviated any further need for it. She had done her job
well, Rosemary had, and in the doing of it, she had placed the weather
in the palm of mankind's out-stretched hand.
