
I might never have known Doctor Muñoz had it not been for the heart
attack that suddenly seized me one forenoon as I sat writing in my
room. Physicians had told me of the danger of those spells, and I knew
there was no time to be lost; so, remembering what the landlady had
said about the invalid's help of the injured workman, I dragged myself
upstairs and knocked feebly at the door above mine.

My knock was answered in good English by a curious voice some distance
to the right, asking my name and business; and these things being
stated, there came an opening of the door next to the one I had sought.

A rush of cool air greeted me; and though the day was one of the
hottest of late June, I shivered as I crossed the threshold into a
large apartment whose rich and tasteful decoration surprized me in
this nest of squalor and seediness. A folding couch now filled its
diurnal rôle of sofa, and the mahogany furniture, sumptuous hangings,
old paintings, and mellow bookshelves all bespoke a gentleman's study
rather than a boarding-house bedroom. I now saw that the hall room
above mine--the "leetle room" of bottles and machines which Mrs.
Herrero had mentioned--was merely the laboratory of the doctor; and
that his main living-quarters lay in the spacious adjoining room whose
convenient alcoves and large contiguous bathroom permitted him to hide
all dressers and obtrusively utilitarian devices. Doctor Muñoz, most
certainly, was a man of birth, cultivation, and discrimination.

The figure before me was short but exquisitely proportioned, and clad
in somewhat formal dress of perfect fit and cut. A high-bred face
of masterful though not arrogant expression was adorned by a short
iron-gray full beard, and an old-fashioned pince-nez shielded the full,
dark eyes and surmounted an aquiline nose which gave a Moorish touch to
a physiognomy otherwise dominantly Celt-Iberian. Thick, well-trimmed
hair that argued the punctual calls of a barber was parted gracefully
above a high forehead; and the whole picture was one of striking
intelligence and superior blood and breeding.

Nevertheless, as I saw Doctor Muñoz in that blast of cool air, I felt
a repugnance which nothing in his aspect could justify. Only his
lividly inclined complexion and coldness of touch could have afforded
a physical basis for this feeling, and even these things should have
been excusable considering the man's known invalidism. It might, too,
have been the singular cold that alienated me; for such chilliness was
abnormal on so hot a day, and the abnormal always excites aversion,
distrust, and fear.

But repugnance was soon forgotten in admiration, for the strange
physician's extreme skill at once became manifest despite the
ice-coldness and shakiness of his bloodless-looking hands. He clearly
understood my needs at a glance, and ministered to them with a master's
deftness; the while reassuring me in a finely modulated though oddly
hollow and timbreless voice that he was the bitterest of sworn
enemies to death, and had sunk his fortune and lost all his friends
in a lifetime of bizarre experiment devoted to its bafflement and
extirpation. Something of the benevolent fanatic seemed to reside in
him, and he rambled on almost garrulously as he sounded my chest and
mixed a suitable draft of drugs fetched from the smaller laboratory
room. Evidently he found the society of a well-born man a rare novelty
in this dingy environment, and was moved to unaccustomed speech as
memories of better days surged over him.

His voice, if queer, was at least soothing; and I could not even
perceive that he breathed as the fluent sentences rolled urbanely
out. He sought to distract my mind from my own seizure by speaking of
his theories and experiments; and I remember his tactfully consoling
me about my weak heart by insisting that will and consciousness are
stronger than organic life itself, so that if a bodily frame be
but originally healthy and carefully preserved, it may through a
scientific enhancement of these qualities retain a kind of nervous
animation despite the most serious impairments, defects, or even
absences in the battery of specific organs. He might, he half-jestingly
said, some day teach me to live--or at least to possess some kind
of conscious existence--without any heart at all! For his part, he
was afflicted with a complication of maladies requiring a very exact
regimen which included constant cold. Any marked rise in temperature
might, if prolonged, affect him fatally; and the frigidity of his
habitation--some fifty-five or fifty-six degrees Fahrenheit--was
maintained by an absorption system of ammonia cooling, the gasoline
engine whose pumps I had often heard in my room below.

Relieved of my seizure in a marvelously short while, I left the shivery
place a disciple and devotee of the gifted recluse. After that I paid
him frequent overcoated calls, listening while he told of secret
researches and almost ghastly results, and trembling a bit when I
examined the unconventional and astonishingly ancient volumes on his
shelves. I was eventually, I may add, almost cured of my disease for
all time by his skilful ministrations. It seems that he did not scorn
the incantations of the mediævalists, since he believed these cryptic
formulæ to contain rare psychological stimuli which might conceivably
have singular effects on the substance of a nervous system from which
organic pulsations had fled. I was touched by his account of the aged
Doctor Torres of Valencia, who had shared his earlier experiments
and nursed him through the great illness of eighteen years before,
whence his present disorders proceeded. No sooner had the venerable
practitioner saved his colleague than he himself succumbed to the
grim enemy he had fought. Perhaps the strain had been too great; for
Doctor Muñoz made it whisperingly clear--though not in detail--that the
methods of healing had been most extraordinary, involving scenes and
processes not welcomed by elderly and conservative Galens.
