
As the weeks passed, I observed with regret that my new friend
was indeed slowly but unmistakably losing ground physically, as
Mrs. Herrero had suggested. The livid aspect of his countenance
was intensified, his voice became more hollow and indistinct, his
muscular motions were less perfectly coördinated, and his mind and
will displayed less resilience and initiative. Of this sad change
he seemed by no means unaware, and little by little his expression
and conversation both took on a gruesome irony which restored in me
something of the subtle repulsion I had originally felt.

He developed strange caprices, acquiring a fondness for exotic
spices and Egyptian incense until his room smelled like the vault
of a sepulchered Pharaoh in the Valley of Kings. At the same time,
his demands for cold air increased, and with my aid he amplified the
ammonia piping of his room and modified the pumps and feed of his
refrigerating machine until he could keep the temperature as low as
thirty-four or forty degrees, and finally even twenty-eight degrees;
the bathroom and laboratory, of course, being less chilled, in order
that water might not freeze, and that chemical processes might not
be impeded. The tenant adjoining him complained of the icy air from
around the connecting door; so I helped him fit heavy hangings to
obviate the difficulty. A kind of growing horror, of outré and morbid
cast, seemed to possess him. He talked of death incessantly, but
laughed hollowly when such things as burial or funeral arrangements
were gently suggested.

All in all, he became a disconcerting and even gruesome companion; yet
in my gratitude for his healing, I could not well abandon him to the
strangers around him, and was careful to dust his room and attend to
his needs each day, muffled in a heavy ulster which I bought especially
for the purpose. I likewise did much of his shopping, and gasped in
bafflement at some of the chemicals he ordered from druggists and
laboratory supply houses.

An increasing and unexplained atmosphere of panic seemed to rise around
his apartment. The whole house, as I have said, had a musty odor;
but the smell in his room was worse, in spite of all the spices and
incense, and the pungent chemicals of the now incessant baths which he
insisted on taking unaided. I perceived that it must be connected with
his ailment, and shuddered when I reflected on what that ailment might
be. Mrs. Herrero crossed herself when she looked at him, and gave him
up unreservedly to me; not even letting her son Esteban continue to
run errands for him. When I suggested other physicians, the sufferer
would fly into as much of a rage as he seemed to dare to entertain.
He evidently feared the physical effect of violent emotion, yet his
will and driving force waxed rather than waned, and he refused to be
confined to his bed. The lassitude of his earlier ill days gave place
to a return of his fiery purpose, so that he seemed about to hurl
defiance at the death-demon even as that ancient enemy seized him. The
pretense of eating, always curiously like a formality with him, he
virtually abandoned; and mental power alone appeared to keep him from
total collapse.

He acquired a habit of writing long documents of some sort, which he
carefully sealed and filed with injunctions that I transmit them after
his death to certain persons whom he named--for the most part lettered
East Indians, but including also a once celebrated French physician
now generally thought dead, and about whom the most inconceivable
things had been whispered. As it happened, I burned all these papers
undelivered and unopened. His aspect and voice became utterly
frightful, and his presence almost unbearable. One September day an
unexpected glimpse of him induced an epileptic fit in a man who had
come to repair his electric desk lamp; a fit for which he prescribed
effectively while keeping himself well out of sight. That man, oddly
enough, had been through the terrors of the great war without having
incurred any fright so thorough.
