
“The Pope’s Mule,” Alphonse Daudet, translated in _Short-Story
Masterpieces_.

“Colonel Starbottle for the Plaintiff,” Bret Harte, _Harper’s
Magazine_, Mar., 1901.

“The Phonograph and the Graft,” O. Henry, in _Cabbages and Kings_.

“The King of Boyville,” William Allen White, in _Tales from
McClure’s_.

“The Bob-tailed Car,” Brander Matthews, in _The Family Tree_.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[23] Copyright, 1910, by Doubleday, Page and Co., and used by
permission.




                                   V
                          STORIES OF SETTING

               _The Outcasts of Poker Flat._--BRET HARTE
                    _Moonlight._--GUY DE MAUPASSANT


    It is the habit of my imagination to strive after as full a vision
    of the medium in which a character moves as of the character
    itself. The psychological causes which prompted me to give such
    details of Florentine life and history as I have given [in
    _Romola_] are precisely the same as those which determined me in
    giving the details of English village life in _Silas Marner_ or the
    “Dodson” life, out of which were developed the destinies of poor
    Tom and Maggie.--GEORGE ELIOT, quoted in her _Life_ by J. W. CROSS.


                          STORIES OF SETTING

“Setting consists of the circumstances, material and immaterial, in
which the characters are seen to move in the story. Its elements
are time, place, occupations, and (I lack a more expressive word)
conditions.”[24]

To be classified properly as a story of setting, a narrative must be
more than merely rich in local-color--as the characteristic environment
of a certain district, as set forth in fiction, is often called. The
true story of setting is one in which the setting has a vital bearing
on the natures or the destinies of the characters. To be sure, the
setting of a story, like the staging of a play, has an important part
in the realistic presentation of the scene, but setting assumes a
predominating part when it actually moves the characters to certain
deciding actions, as do the snow-storm in “The Outcasts of Poker Flat,”
and the soft light of the moon in “Moonlight.”

The local-color story is one which could not have been set elsewhere
without vitally changing, that is to say destroying, the story. For
example, Balzac’s “The Unknown Masterpiece” is set almost entirely
in an artist’s studio. The story would be slain by dragging it away
from that atmosphere. But it is also a story of setting, because,
whatever internal influences also affected the characters, the setting
influences their destinies--the men and the women live lives as
determined by their surroundings. “Mateo Falcone,” too, is a story of
setting, but not primarily so; for while it could have happened only
in Corsica, and the local-color is singularly vivid, it is primarily a
story of human motive and action.

Because of the powerful effect of environment upon character--in
fiction just as in real life--the reader often judges of coming events
by the feeling of the setting. The stage manager knows this, too, and
accompanies, or even forecasts, a moral crisis by having lights, music,
sounds, and other stage accessories harmonize with the mood of the
actors. Or, contrariwise, the tone of the piece may best be brought out
by a setting in contrast.

Observe how in the two stories illustrating this type the authors never
draw pictures of costumes and scenery just for the sake of description,
as beginners might do. The setting, to Harte and Maupassant, is vitally
a part of the story, and any unnecessary detail would mar the harmony
of the whole. Too much were worse than too little.

“When the characters live, move, and have their being in the setting,
the result is ‘atmosphere.’ Atmosphere is thus an effect. It is felt,
not seen. _Through_ its medium the reader must see all the action, yes,
all the details of the story. Atmosphere gives value to the tones of
fiction as in real life it does to landscape. The hills are actually
the same in cloud and in sunshine, but the eye sees them as different
through the mediate atmosphere. And so setting and characters,
perfectly adjusted, make the reader, that is to say the beholder, see
the story in the very tones the literary artist desires. A story of the
sea has an atmosphere of its own, but the atmosphere does not consist
merely of the accurately colored picture of sea and strand and sailor
and ship and sky. The whole story is informed with the _spirit_ of the
sea--its tang clings to the garments, its winds breathe through every
passage, its wonderful lights and glooms tone the whole story. Without
it the story would be a poor thing, bloodless and inert.”[25]


                        HARTE AND HIS WRITINGS

Francis Bret Harte was born in Albany, New York, August 25, 1839, of
gentle parents. Abandoning his common-school education at the age
of fifteen, he followed the lure of the gold craze to California,
but neither teaching nor mining enriched him, so in 1857 he became
a compositor on the _Golden Era_, San Francisco. He then edited the
_Californian_, and in 1864 was appointed secretary of the branch Mint,
remaining until 1870. Two years before, however, he had become editor
of the new _Overland Monthly_, where some of his best work appeared.
This position did not prove permanent, and even less so was that of the
professorship of “recent literature” in the University of California,
for in 1871 he removed to New York. In 1878 he became United States
Consul at Crefeld, Germany, and in 1880 was transferred to Glasgow,
Scotland, holding this post until 1885. His later life was spent
chiefly in London, where his brilliant talents brought him the full
recognition of _littérateurs_. He died in London, May 6, 1902.

Bret Harte was a poet, critic, novelist, and short-story writer. His
novels give him no such claim to fame as do his other writings. His
best-known dialect verses are “The Society Upon the Stanislaus,” “Jim,”
“Dickens in Camp,” “Dow’s Flat,” and “Plain Language From Truthful
James” (often called “The Heathen Chinee”). His best sketches and
short-stories include “The Luck of Roaring Camp,” “An Heiress of Red
Dog,” “Miggles,” “Tennessee’s Partner,” “M’liss,” “The Idyl of Red
Gulch,” “Brown of Calaveras,” and “The Outcasts of Poker Flat”--which
was first published in _The Overland Monthly_, January, 1869.

                   *       *       *       *       *

If artistic repression, dramatic feeling, mingled humor and pathos,
deft character drawing, a sure sense of a “good story,” and the ability
to win the reader in spite of himself--if the certain possession of all
these are marks of fictional genius, surely Bret Harte deserves the
name. For themes, he chose--and doubtless over-colored at times--the
people and the happenings of '49 during the gold craze, and not a few
have charged him with a fondness for heroes and heroines of undoubted
reputations--for evil. Social outcasts, they say, he treated too
tenderly. But Bret Harte himself effectively answered this criticism
when he said:

“When it shall be proven to him that communities are degraded and
brought to guilt and crime, suffering or destitution, from a
predominance of this quality [too much mercy]; when he shall see
pardoned ticket-of-leave men elbowing men of austere lives out of
situation and position, and the repentant Magdalen supplanting the
blameless virgin in society, then he will lay aside his pen and extend
his hand to the new Draconian discipline in fiction. But until then he
will, without claiming to be a religious man or a moralist, but simply
as an artist, reverently and humbly conform to the rules laid down by a
Great Poet, who created the parable of the ‘Prodigal Son’ and the ‘Good
Samaritan,’ whose works have lasted eighteen hundred years, and will
remain when the present writer and his generation are forgotten.”

    The secret of the American short story is the treatment of
    characteristic American life, with absolute knowledge of its
    peculiarities and sympathy with its methods; with no fastidious
    ignoring of its habitual expression, or the inchoate poetry that
    may be found even hidden in its slang; with no moral determination
    except that which may be the legitimate outcome of the story
    itself; with no more elimination than may be necessary for the
    artistic conception, and never from the fear of the fetich of
    conventionalism. Of such is the American short story of to-day--the
    germ of American literature to come.--BRET HARTE, _The Rise of the
    Short Story, Cornhill Magazine_, July, 1899.

    He expounds an important half-truth which has been too much
    neglected: that as being is greater than seeming, appearances
    are often deceitful; under the most repellent exterior a soul of
    goodness may exist. But if we study him over much, we may become
    victims of the delusion that any person whose dress and manners are
    respectable, is, to say the least, a suspicious character, while
    drunken and profane ruffians are the saints of the earth.--WALTER
    LEWIN, _The Abuse of Fiction_.

    Mr. Kipling is a great man at sentiment (though we hear more of
    his anti-sentimental side), but has he written a child-story we
    can remember as long as “The Luck of Roaring Camp,” or anything
    we shall remember as long as “The Outcasts of Poker Flat,” or
    “Tennessee’s Partner”? These things are not so exact in their
    “business” (to borrow a term from still another art), but, perhaps
    on that very account, they remain symbols of the human heart.
    They have the simplicity of classics, a simplicity in which all
    unnecessary subtleties are dissolved.--RICHARD LE GALLIENNE,
    _Rudyard Kipling: A Criticism_.

    His own style, as finally formed, leaves little to be desired;
    it is clear, flexible, virile, laconic and withal graceful. Its
    full meaning is given to every word, and occasionally, like all
    original masters of prose, he imparts into a familiar word a
    racier significance than it had possessed before. His genius is
    nowhere more unmistakable than in the handling of his stories,
    which is terse to the point of severity, yet wholly adequate;
    everything necessary to the matter in hand is told, but with an
    economy of word and phrase that betokens a powerful and radical
    conception.--JULIAN HAWTHORNE and LEONARD LEMMON, _American
    Literature_.

    Tennessee’s Partner, John Oakhurst, Yuba Bill, Kentucky, are as
    long-lived, seemingly, as any characters in nineteenth century
    fiction.... What gives these characters their lasting power? Why
    does that highly melodramatic tragedy in the hills above Poker
    Flat, with its stagy reformations, and contrasts of black sinner
    and white innocent, hold you spellbound at the thirtieth as at
    the first reading? Why does Tennessee’s Partner make you wish to
    grasp him by the hand? Bret Harte believed, apparently, that it
    was his realism which did it.... But we do not wait to be told by
    Californians, who still remember the red-shirt period, that Roaring
    Camp is not realism.... Not the realism, but the idealization, of
    this life of the Argonauts was the prize Bret Harte gained.--HENRY
    S. CANBY, _The Short Story in English_.


                FURTHER REFERENCES FOR READING ON HARTE

_Early Recollections of Bret Harte_, C. W. Stoddard, _Atlantic
Monthly_, vol. 78; _Bret Harte in California_, Noah Brooks, _Century
Magazine_, vol. 58; _American Humor and Bret Harte_, G. K. Chesterton,
_Critic_, vol. 41; _Life of Bret Harte_, T. E. Pemberton (1903); _Bret
Harte_, H. W. Boynton, in _Contemporary Men of Letters_ series (1905);
_Life of Bret Harte_, H. C. Merwin (1911).


                      THE OUTCASTS OF POKER FLAT
                             BY BRET HARTE

[Sidenote: Central character.]

[Sidenote: Crisis at once forecasted.]

[Sidenote: Preliminary setting.]

As Mr. John Oakhurst, gambler, stepped into the main street of Poker
Flat on the morning of the twenty-third of November, 1850, he was
conscious of a change in its moral atmosphere since the preceding
night. Two or three men, conversing earnestly together, ceased as he
approached, and exchanged significant glances. There was a Sabbath lull
in the air, which, in a settlement unused to Sabbath influences, looked
ominous.

[Sidenote: Physical delineation interwoven with the progress of the
story.]

[Sidenote: Summary of tone of the fundamental situation. FOUNDATION
CRISIS.]

2. Mr. Oakhurst’s calm, handsome face betrayed small concern of these
indications. Whether he was conscious of any predisposing cause, was
another question. “I reckon they’re after somebody,” he reflected;
“likely it’s me.” He returned to his pocket the handkerchief with
which he had been whipping away the red dust of Poker Flat from his
neat boots, and quietly discharged his mind of any further conjecture.

[Sidenote: Situation explained.]

[Sidenote: FOUNDATION PLOT INCIDENT.]

[Sidenote: Euphemism.]

3. In point of fact, Poker Flat was “after somebody.” It had lately
suffered the loss of several thousand dollars, two valuable horses, and
a prominent citizen. It was experiencing a spasm of virtuous reaction,
quite as lawless and ungovernable as any of the acts that had provoked
it. A secret committee had determined to rid the town of all improper
persons. This was done permanently in regard to two men who were then
hanging from the boughs of a sycamore in the gulch, and temporarily in
the banishment of certain other objectionable characters. I regret to
say that some of these were ladies. It is but due to the sex, however,
to state that their impropriety was professional, and it was only in
such easily established standards of evil that Poker Flat ventured to
sit in judgment.

[Sidenote: Note the author’s slight ironic tone, which later gives way
to simple pathos.]

4. Mr. Oakhurst was right in supposing that he was included in this
category. A few of the committee had urged hanging him as a possible
example, and a sure method of reimbursing themselves from his pockets
of the sums he had won from them. “It’s agin justice,” said Jim
Wheeler, “to let this yer young man from Roaring Camp--an entire
stranger--carry away our money.” But a crude sentiment of equity
residing in the breasts of those who had been fortunate enough to win
from Mr. Oakhurst overruled this narrower local prejudice.

[Sidenote: Character delineation.]

5. Mr. Oakhurst received his sentence with philosophic calmness, none
the less coolly that he was aware of the hesitation of his judges. He
was too much of a gambler not to accept Fate. With him life was at best
an uncertain game, and he recognized the usual percentage in favor of
the dealer.

[Sidenote: First group of characters.]

[Sidenote: First group of characters.]

[Sidenote: Climax of first crisis.]

[Sidenote: End of Introduction and groundwork.]

6. A body of armed men accompanied the deported wickedness of Poker
Flat to the outskirts of the settlement. Besides Mr. Oakhurst, who was
known to be a coolly desperate man, and for whose intimidation the
armed escort was intended, the expatriated party consisted of a young
woman familiarly known as “The Duchess”; another, who had gained the
infelicitous title of “Mother Shipton”; and “Uncle Billy,” a suspected
sluice-robber and confirmed drunkard. The cavalcade provoked no
comments from the spectators, nor was any word uttered by the escort.
Only, when the gulch which marked the uttermost limit of Poker Flat was
reached, the leader spoke briefly and to the point. The exiles were
forbidden to return at the peril of their lives.

[Sidenote: THIRD STAGE OF FIRST PLOT INCIDENT.]

[Sidenote: Is “their” well used?]


[Sidenote: Paragraph of character delineation.]

7. As the escort disappeared, their pent-up feelings found vent in a
few hysterical tears from the Duchess, some bad language from Mother
Shipton, and a Parthian volley of expletives from Uncle Billy. The
philosophic Oakhurst alone remained silent. He listened calmly to
Mother Shipton’s desire to cut somebody’s heart out, to the repeated
statements of the Duchess that she would die in the road, and to the
alarming oaths that seemed to be bumped out of Uncle Billy as he rode
forward. With the easy good-humor characteristic of his class, he
insisted upon exchanging his own riding-horse, “Five Spot,” for the
sorry mule which the Duchess rode. But even this act did not draw the
party into any closer sympathy. The young woman readjusted her somewhat
draggled plumes with a feeble, faded coquetry; Mother Shipton eyed the
possessor of “Five Spot” with malevolence, and Uncle Billy included the
whole party in one sweeping anathema.

[Sidenote: Second preliminary setting.]

[Sidenote: FOUNDATION FOR MAIN CRISIS.]

8. The road to Sandy Bar--a camp that, not having as yet experienced
the regenerating influences of Poker Flat, consequently seemed to offer
some invitation to the emigrants--lay over a steep mountain range.
It was distant a day’s severe journey. In that advanced season, the
party soon passed out of the moist, temperate regions of the foothills
into the dry, cold, bracing air of the Sierras. The trail was narrow
and difficult. At noon the Duchess, rolling out of her saddle upon
the ground, declared her intention of going no further, and the party
halted.

[Sidenote: MAIN SETTING.]

[Sidenote: Character contrasts.]

9. The spot was singularly wild and impressive. A wooded amphitheatre,
surrounded on three sides by precipitous cliffs of naked granite,
sloped gently toward the crest of another precipice that overlooked the
valley. It was, undoubtedly, the most suitable spot for a camp, had
camping been advisable. But Mr. Oakhurst knew that scarcely half the
journey to Sandy Bar was accomplished, and the party were not equipped
or provisioned for delay. This fact he pointed out to his companions
curtly, with a philosophic commentary on the folly of “throwing up
their hand before the game was played out.” But they were furnished
with liquor, which in this emergency stood them in place of food, fuel,
rest, and prescience. In spite of his remonstrances, it was not long
before they were more or less under its influence. Uncle Billy passed
rapidly from a bellicose state into one of stupor, the Duchess became
maudlin, and Mother Shipton snored. Mr. Oakhurst alone remained erect,
leaning against a rock, calmly surveying them.

[Sidenote: Setting in harmony with tone of story.]

10. Mr. Oakhurst did not drink. It interfered with a profession which
required coolness, impassiveness and presence of mind, and, in his
own language, he “couldn’t afford it.” As he gazed at his recumbent
fellow-exiles, the loneliness begotten of his pariah-trade, his habits
of life, his very vices, for the first time seriously oppressed him.
He bestirred himself in dusting his black clothes, washing his hands
and face, and other acts characteristic of his studiously neat habits,
and for a moment forgot his annoyance. The thought of deserting his
weaker and more pitiable companions never perhaps occurred to him.
Yet he could not help feeling the want of that excitement which,
singularly enough, was most conducive to that calm equanimity for which
he was notorious. He looked at the gloomy walls that rose a thousand
feet sheer above the circling pines around him; at the sky, ominously
clouded; at the valley below, already deepening into shadow. And, doing
so, suddenly he heard his own name called.

[Sidenote: Second group of characters.]

[Sidenote: OPENING OF MAIN PLOT SITUATION.]

11. A horseman slowly ascended the trail. In the fresh, open face of
the newcomer Mr. Oakhurst recognized Tom Simson, otherwise known as
“The Innocent” of Sandy Bar. He had met him some months before over
a “little game,” and had, with perfect equanimity, won the entire
fortune--amounting to some forty dollars--of that guileless youth.
After the game was finished, Mr. Oakhurst drew the youthful speculator
behind the door and thus addressed him: “Tommy, you’re a good little
man, but you can’t gamble worth a cent. Don’t try it over again.” He
then handed him his money back, pushed him gently from the room, and so
made a devoted slave of Tom Simson.

[Sidenote: Character Contrasts.]

12. There was a remembrance of this in his boyish and enthusiastic
greeting of Mr. Oakhurst. He had started, he said, to go to Poker
Flat to seek his fortune. “Alone?” No, not exactly alone; in fact (a
giggle), he had run away with Piney Woods. Didn’t Mr. Oakhurst remember
Piney? She that used to wait on the table at the Temperance House? They
had been engaged a long time, but old Jake Woods had objected, and so
they ran away, and were going to Poker Flat to be married, and here
they were. And they were tired out, and how lucky it was they had found
a place to camp, and company. All this the Innocent delivered rapidly,
while Piney, a stout, comely damsel of fifteen, emerged from behind the
pine-tree, where she had been blushing unseen, and rode to the side of
her lover.

[Sidenote: First effect of the newcomers on the tone of the first group
of characters. This furnishes the _motif_ for the story.]

13. Mr. Oakhurst seldom troubled himself with sentiment, still less
with propriety; but he had a vague idea that the situation was not
felicitous. He retained, however, his presence of mind sufficiently
to kick Uncle Billy, who was about to say something, and Uncle Billy
was sober enough to recognize in Mr. Oakhurst’s kick a superior power
that would not bear trifling. He then endeavored to dissuade Tom Simson
from delaying further, but in vain. He even pointed out the fact that
there was no provision, nor means of making a camp. But, unluckily, the
Innocent met this objection by assuring the party that he was provided
with an extra mule loaded with provisions, and by the discovery of a
rude attempt at a log-house near the trail. “Piney can stay with Mrs.
Oakhurst,” said the Innocent, pointing to the Duchess, “and I can shift
for myself.”

[Sidenote: Further effect.]

[Sidenote: FOUNDATION FOR MAIN CRISIS--NOT YET APPARENT.]

14. Nothing but Mr. Oakhurst’s admonishing foot saved Uncle Billy
from bursting into a roar of laughter. As it was, he felt compelled
to retire up the cañon until he could recover his gravity. There he
confided the joke to the tall pine-trees, with many slaps of his
leg, contortions of his face, and the usual profanity. But when
he returned to the party, he found them seated by a fire--for the
air had grown strangely chill and the sky overcast--in apparently
amicable conversation. Piney was actually talking in an impulsive,
girlish fashion to the Duchess, who was listening with an interest and
animation she had not shown for many days. The Innocent was holding
forth, apparently with equal effect, to Mr. Oakhurst and Mother
Shipton, who was actually relaxing into amiability. “Is this yer a
d--d picnic?” said Uncle Billy, with inward scorn, as he surveyed the
sylvan group, the glancing firelight, and the tethered animals in the
foreground. Suddenly an idea mingled with the alcoholic fumes that
disturbed his brain. It was apparently of a jocular nature, for he felt
impelled to slap his leg again and cram his fist into his mouth.

[Sidenote: Local color.]

15. As the shadows crept slowly up the mountain, a slight breeze rocked
the tops of the pine-trees, and moaned through their long and gloomy
aisles. The ruined cabin, patched and covered with pine-boughs, was set
apart for the ladies. As the lovers parted, they unaffectedly exchanged
a parting kiss, so honest and sincere that it might have been heard
above the swaying pines. The frail Duchess and the malevolent Mother
Shipton were probably too stunned to remark upon this last evidence
of simplicity, and so turned without a word to the hut. The fire was
replenished, the men lay down before the door, and in a few minutes
were asleep.

[Sidenote: Change--approach of main crisis.]

16. Mr. Oakhurst was a light sleeper. Toward morning he awoke benumbed
and cold. As he stirred the dying fire, the wind, which was now blowing
strongly, brought to his cheek that which caused the blood to leave
it--snow!

[Sidenote: Forecasted in ¶14.]

17. He started to his feet with the intention of awakening the
sleepers, for there was no time to lose. But turning to where Uncle
Billy had been lying, he found him gone. A suspicion leaped to his
brain and a curse to his lips. He ran to the spot where the mules
had been tethered; they were no longer there. The tracks were already
rapidly disappearing in the snow.

[Sidenote: Tone of character.]

[Sidenote: Contrast with crisis. Note casual physical description.]

[Sidenote: MAIN PLOT INCIDENT--What follows is its outgrowth.]

[Sidenote: Crisis acute.]

18. The momentary excitement brought Mr. Oakhurst back to the fire with
his usual calm. He did not waken the sleepers. The Innocent slumbered
peacefully, with a smile on his good-humored, freckled face; the virgin
Piney slept beside her frailer sisters as sweetly as though attended
by celestial guardians, and Mr. Oakhurst, drawing his blanket over
his shoulders, stroked his mustaches and waited for the dawn. It came
slowly in a whirling mist of snow-flakes, that dazzled and confused the
eye. What could be seen of the landscape appeared magically changed. He
looked over the valley, and summoned up the present and future in two
words,--“snowed in!”

[Sidenote: As the story progresses note how the physical crises and the
moral crises keep pace.]

19. A careful inventory of the provisions, which, fortunately for the
party, had been stored within the hut, and so escaped the felonious
fingers of Uncle Billy, disclosed the fact that with care and prudence
they might last ten days longer. “That is,” said Mr. Oakhurst,
_sotto voce_ to the Innocent, “if you’re willing to board us. If you
ain’t--and perhaps you’d better not--you can wait till Uncle Billy
gets back with provisions.” For some occult reason, Mr. Oakhurst could
not bring himself to disclose Uncle Billy’s rascality, and so offered
the hypothesis that he had wandered from the camp and had accidentally
stampeded the animals. He dropped a warning to the Duchess and Mother
Shipton, who of course knew the facts of their associate’s defection.
“They’ll find out the truth about us _all_ when they find out
anything,” he added, significantly, “and there’s no good frightening
them now.”

[Sidenote: Lull in crisis.]

[Sidenote: From this point the story develops gradually and by closely
knit incidents in direct succession, all growing out of the setting,
which furnishes the physical crisis.]

[Sidenote: Pseudo crisis.]

[Sidenote: Resolution of pseudo crisis.]

20. Tom Simson not only put all his worldly store at the disposal
of Mr. Oakhurst, but seemed to enjoy the prospect of their enforced
seclusion. “We’ll have a good camp for a week, and then the snow’ll
melt, and we’ll all go back together.” The cheerful gayety of the young
man, and Mr. Oakhurst’s calm infected the others. The Innocent, with
the aid of pine-boughs, extemporized a thatch for the roofless cabin,
and the Duchess directed Piney in the rearrangement of the interior
with a taste and tact that opened the blue eyes of that provincial
maiden to their fullest extent. “I reckon now you’re used to fine
things at Poker Flat,” said Piney. The Duchess turned away sharply to
conceal something that reddened her cheek through its professional
tint, and Mother Shipton requested Piney not to “chatter.” But when Mr.
Oakhurst returned from a weary search for the trail, he heard the sound
of happy laughter echoed from the rocks. He stopped in some alarm,
and his thoughts first naturally reverted to the whiskey, which he had
prudently _cachéd_. “And yet it don’t somehow sound like whiskey,”
said the gambler. It was not until he caught sight of the blazing
fire through the still blinding storm and the group around it that he
settled to the conviction that it was “square fun.”

[Sidenote: Contrast with the actual danger.]

[Sidenote: Contrast is the author’s main reliance in this story.]

[Sidenote: Contrast with character-habits. A hint of character change.]

[Sidenote: Is “Covenanter’s” well used?]

21. Whether Mr. Oakhurst had _cachéd_ his cards with the whiskey
as something debarred the free access of the community, I cannot
say. It was certain that, in Mother Shipton’s words, he “didn’t say
cards once” during the evening. Haply the time was beguiled by an
accordion, produced somewhat ostentatiously by Tom Simson from his
pack. Notwithstanding some difficulties attending the manipulation of
his instrument, Piney Woods managed to pluck several reluctant melodies
from its keys, to an accompaniment by the Innocent on a pair of bone
castanets. But the crowning festivity of the evening was reached in
a rude camp-meeting hymn, which the lovers, joining hands, sang with
great earnestness and vociferation. I fear that a certain defiant
tone and Covenanter’s swing to its chorus, rather than any devotional
quality, caused it speedily to infect the others, who at last joined in
the refrain:--

      “I’m proud to live in the service of the Lord,
      And I’m bound to die in His army.”

22. The pines rocked, the storm eddied and whirled above the miserable
group, and the flames of their altar leaped heavenward, as if in token
of the vow.

[Sidenote: Hope.]

[Sidenote: Character revelation.]

23. At midnight the storm abated, the rolling clouds parted, and the
stars glittered keenly above the sleeping camp. Mr. Oakhurst, whose
professional habits had enabled him to live on the smallest possible
amount of sleep, in dividing the watch with Tom Simson, somehow
managed to take upon himself the greater part of that duty. He excused
himself to the Innocent, by saying that he had “often been a week
without sleep.” “Doing what?” asked Tom. “Poker!” replied Oakhurst,
sententiously; “when a man gets a streak of luck,--nigger-luck,--he
don’t get tired. The luck gives in first. Luck,” continued the gambler,
reflectively, “is a mighty queer thing. All you know about it for
certain is that it’s bound to change. And it’s finding out when it’s
going to change that makes you. We’ve had a streak of bad luck since
we left Poker Flat,--you come along, and slap you get into it, too. If
you can hold your cards right along, you’re all right. For,” added the
gambler, with cheerful irrelevance:--

      “‘I’m proud to live in the service of the Lord,
      And I’m bound to die in His army’.”


[Sidenote: Note the union of setting with the progress of the story.]

[Sidenote: Contrast.]

[Sidenote: KEY TO SETTING.]

[Sidenote: Character change--a key passage.]

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

24. The third day came, and the sun, looking through the
white-curtained valley, saw the outcasts divide their slowly
decreasing store of provisions for the morning meal. It was one of the
peculiarities of that mountain climate that its rays diffused a kindly
warmth over the wintry landscape, as if in regretful commiseration of
the past. But it revealed drift on drift of snow piled high around
the hut,--a hopeless, uncharted, trackless sea of white lying below
the rocky shores to which the cast-aways still clung. Through the
marvellously clear air the smoke of the pastoral village of Poker Flat
rose miles away. Mother Shipton saw it, and from a remote pinnacle of
her rocky fastness, hurled in that direction a final malediction. It
was her last vituperative attempt, and perhaps for that reason was
invested with a certain degree of sublimity. It did her good, she
privately informed the Duchess. “Just you go out there and cuss, and
see.” She then set herself to the task of amusing “the child,” as she
and the Duchess were pleased to call Piney. Piney was no chicken, but
it was a soothing and ingenious theory of the pair thus to account for
the fact that she didn’t swear and wasn’t improper.

[Sidenote: Developing or contributory incident.]

25. When night crept up again through the gorges, the reedy notes of
the accordion rose and fell in fitful spasms and long-drawn gasps by
the flickering camp-fire. But music failed to fill entirely the aching
void left by insufficient food, and a new diversion was proposed by
Piney,--story-telling. Neither Mr. Oakhurst nor his female companions
caring to relate their personal experiences, this plan would have
failed, too, but for the Innocent. Some months before he had chanced
upon a stray copy of Mr. Pope’s ingenious translation of the Iliad. He
now proposed to narrate the principal incidents of that poem--having
thoroughly mastered the argument and fairly forgotten the words--in
the current vernacular of Sandy Bar. And so for the rest of that
night the Homeric demigods again walked the earth. Trojan bully and
wily Greek wrestled in the winds, and the great pines in the cañon
seemed to bow to the wrath of the son of Peleus. Mr. Oakhurst listened
with quiet satisfaction. Most especially was he interested in the
fate of “Ash-heels,” as the Innocent persisted in denominating the
“swift-footed Achilles.”

[Sidenote: Note upward and downward movement--alternations of hope and
despair, but a gradual deepening of the crisis.]

[Sidenote: Note the contrast between the epithet “outcasts” and the
feeling with which they are now invested.]

[Sidenote: Character progress.]

[Sidenote: Hint of later character revelation.]

[Sidenote: FIRST CHARACTER CLIMAX.]

26. So with small food and much of Homer and the accordion, a week
passed over the heads of the outcasts. The sun again forsook them, and
again from leaden skies the snow-flakes were sifted over the land.
Day by day closer around them drew the snowy circle, until at last
they looked from their prison over drifted walls of dazzling white,
that towered twenty feet above their heads. It became more and more
difficult to replenish their fires, even from the fallen trees beside
them, now half hidden in the drifts. And yet no one complained. The
lovers turned from the dreary prospect and looked into each other’s
eyes, and were happy. Mr. Oakhurst settled himself coolly to the
losing game before him. The Duchess, more cheerful than she had been,
assumed the care of Piney. Only Mother Shipton--once the strongest of
the party--seemed to sicken and fade. At midnight on the tenth day
she called Oakhurst to her side. “I’m going,” she said, in a voice of
querulous weakness, “but don’t say anything about it. Don’t waken the
kids. Take the bundle from under my head and open it.” Mr. Oakhurst did
so. It contained Mother Shipton’s rations for the last week, untouched.
“Give ’em to the child,” she said, pointing to the sleeping Piney.
“You’ve starved yourself,” said the gambler. “That’s what they call
it,” said the woman, querulously, as she lay down again, and, turning
her face to the wall, passed quietly away.

[Sidenote: PLOT INCIDENT.]

27. The accordion and the bones were put aside that day, and Homer was
forgotten. When the body of Mother Shipton had been committed to the
snow, Mr. Oakhurst took the Innocent aside, and showed him a pair of
snow-shoes, which he had fashioned from the old pack-saddle. “There’s
one chance in a hundred to save her yet,” he said, pointing to Piney;
“but it’s there,” he added, pointing toward Poker Flat. “If you can
reach there in two days she’s safe.” “And you?” asked Tom Simson. “I’ll
stay here,” was the curt reply.

[Sidenote: Preparation for climax.]

28. The lovers parted with a long embrace. “You are not going, too?”
said the Duchess, as she saw Mr. Oakhurst apparently waiting to
accompany him. “As far as the cañon,” he replied. He turned suddenly,
and kissed the Duchess, leaving her pallid face aflame, and her
trembling limbs rigid with amazement.

29. Night came, but not Mr. Oakhurst. It brought the storm again and
the whirling snow. Then the Duchess, feeding the fire, found that some
one had quietly piled beside the hut enough fuel to last a few days
longer. The tears rose to her eyes, but she hid them from Piney.

[Sidenote: Characters in full change.]

[Sidenote: Note the repression of this entire climax. Simple, quiet
sentences are enough.]

30. The women slept but little. In the morning, looking into each
other’s faces, they read their fate. Neither spoke; but Piney,
accepting the position of the stronger, drew near and placed her arm
around the Duchess’s waist. They kept this attitude for the rest of
the day. That night the storm reached its greatest fury, and, rending
asunder the protecting pines, invaded the very hut.

[Sidenote: No melodrama here.]

[Sidenote: SECOND CHARACTER CLIMAX.]

31. Toward morning they found themselves unable to feed the fire, which
gradually died away. As the embers slowly blackened, the Duchess crept
closer to Piney, and broke the silence of many hours: “Piney, can you
pray?” “No, dear,” said Piney, simply. The Duchess, without knowing
exactly why, felt relieved, and putting her head upon Piney’s shoulder,
spoke no more. And so reclining, the younger and purer pillowing the
head of her soiled sister upon her virgin breast, they fell asleep.

[Sidenote: Local color in harmony with spirit of story.]

[Sidenote: Symbolism of physical nature.]

32. The wind lulled as if it feared to waken them. Feathery drifts of
snow, shaken from the long pine-boughs, flew like white-winged birds,
and settled about them as they slept. The moon through the rifted
clouds looked down upon what had been the camp. But all human stain,
all trace of earthly travail, was hidden beneath the spotless mantle
mercifully flung from above.

[Sidenote: Poetic euphemism.]

33. They slept all that day and the next, nor did they waken when
voices and footsteps broke the silence of the camp. And when pitying
fingers brushed the snow from their wan faces, you could scarcely have
told from the equal peace that dwelt upon them, which was she that had
sinned. Even the law of Poker Flat recognized this, and turned away,
leaving them still locked in each other’s arms.

[Sidenote: MAIN CHARACTER CLIMAX, AND DENOUEMENT.]

34. But at the head of the gulch, on one of the largest pine-trees,
they found the deuce of clubs pinned to the bark with a bowie-knife. It
bore the following, written in pencil, in a firm hand:--

                           BENEATH THIS TREE
                             LIES THE BODY
                                  OF
                            JOHN OAKHURST,
                    WHO STRUCK A STREAK OF BAD LUCK
                     ON THE 23D OF NOVEMBER, 1850,
                                  AND
                         HANDED IN HIS CHECKS
                      ON THE 7TH DECEMBER, 1850.

[Sidenote: SWIFT CONCLUSION.]

And pulseless and cold, with a derringer by his side and a bullet in
his heart, though still calm as in life, beneath the snow lay he who
was at once the strongest and yet the weakest of the outcasts of Poker
Flat.


                      MAUPASSANT AND HIS WRITINGS

Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant was born in Normandy, France, in
1850. In that picturesque region he passed his youth, and returned
thither for frequent sojourns in later life. Having finished his
studies, he became an employé in the government service in Paris.
This experience, his love for athletics, and his recollections of the
Franco-Prussian war, he turned to good account in his fictional work.
His literary education was conducted by Gustave Flaubert, his uncle and
god-father, under whom he served so rigid an apprenticeship that when
he produced his first short-story, “Tallow Ball” (_Boule de Suif_),
his preceptor pronounced it a masterpiece, as indeed it is. He died in
1893, at the age of 43, by his own hand, his reason having failed after
some years of increasing depression and gloom.

Though his productive period covered only ten years, Guy de Maupassant
has left several notable novels, some fair poetry, and a large number
of remarkable short-stories. Most of his work deals more frankly with
the sordid side of life than American society approves, but many of his
short-stories are unexceptionable. Among the best of these are “The
Necklace,” “The Horla,” “Happiness,” “Vain Beauty,” “A Coward,” “A
Ghost,” “Little Soldier,” “The Wolf,” “Moonlight,” and “The Piece of
String.”

Technically, Maupassant was the most finished short-story writer
of all; but he lacked spiritual power, and so he himself missed
much of the world’s beauty, and disclosed but little to others.
Rarely can the reader feel the least throb of sympathy of the author
for his characters. Technically flawless, his work is too often
cold, and the warm ideals of a tender heart are chiefly absent. An
inflexible realist, he pressed his method farther than did Flaubert,
a really strong novelist. From life’s raw materials Maupassant wove
incomparably brilliant fiction-fabrics, equally distinguished for plot,
characterization, and style; but it cannot be said that he interpreted
life with a wholesome, uplifting spirit.

    Happy are they whom life satisfies, who can amuse themselves, and
    be content ... who have not discovered, with a vast disgust, ...
    that all things are a weariness.--GUY DE MAUPASSANT.

    He who destroys the ideal destroys himself. In art and in life
    Maupassant lived in the lower order of facts, the brutal world of
    events unrelated to a spiritual order. He drained his senses of the
    last power of sensation and reaction; he plunged headlong into the
    sensual life upon which they opened when the luminous heaven above
    the material world was obliterated. Madness always lies that way as
    a matter of physiology as well as of morals, and Maupassant went
    the tragic way of the sensualist since time began.--HAMILTON W.
    MABIE, in _The Outlook_.

    Maupassant saw life with his senses, and he reflected on it
    in a purely animal revolt, the recoil of the hurt animal. His
    observation is not, as it has been hastily assumed to be, cold; it
    is as superficially emotional as that of the average sensual man,
    and its cynicism is only another, not less superficial, kind of
    feeling. He saw life in all its details, and his soul was entangled
    in the details. He saw it without order, without recompense,
    without pity; he saw it too clearly to be duped by appearances, and
    too narrowly to distinguish any light beyond what seemed to him the
    enclosing bounds of darkness.--ARTHUR SYMONS, _Studies in Prose and
    Verse_.

    He has produced a hundred short tales and only four regular novels;
    but if the tales deserve the first place in any candid appreciation
    of his talent it is not simply because they are so much the more
    numerous: they are also more characteristic; they represent him
    best in his originality, and their brevity, extreme in some cases,
    does not prevent them from being a collection of masterpieces....
    What they have most in common is their being extremely strong, and
    after that their being extremely brutal.... M. de Maupassant sees
    human life as a terribly ugly business relieved by the comical,
    but even the comedy is for the most part the comedy of misery, of
    avidity, of ignorance, helplessness, and grossness.--HENRY JAMES,
    _Partial Portraits_.

    His short-stories are masterpieces of the art of story-telling,
    because he had a Greek sense of form, a Latin power of
    construction, and a French felicity of style. They are simple,
    most of them; direct, swift, inevitable, and inexorable in their
    straightforward movement. If art consists in the suppression of
    non-essentials, there have been few greater artists in fiction
    than Maupassant. In his Short-stories there is never a word
    wasted, and there is never an excursus. Nor is there any feebleness
    or fumbling. What he wanted to do he did, with the unerring
    certainty of Leatherstocking, hitting the bull’s-eye again and
    again. He had the abundance and the ease of the very great artists;
    and the half-dozen or the half-score of his best stories are among
    the very best Short-stories in any language.--BRANDER MATTHEWS,
    _The Philosophy of the Short-Story_.

    His firm, alert prose is so profoundly French, free from
    neologisms, strong in verbs, sober in adjectives, every sentence
    standing out with no apparent effort, no excess, like a muscle in
    the perfect body of a young athlete.... He has that sense of the
    real which so many naturalists lack, and which the care for exact
    detail does not replace.... His predilection for ordinary scenes
    and ordinary types is everywhere evident; he uses all kinds of
    settings,--a café, a furnished room, a farmyard, seen in their
    actual character without poetic transfiguration, with all their
    vulgarity, their poverty, their ugliness. And he uses, too, all
    kinds of characters,--clerks, peasants of Normandy, petty bourgeois
    of Paris and of the country. They live the empty, tragic, or
    grotesque hours of their lives; are sometimes touching, sometimes
    odious; and never achieve greatness either in heroism or in
    wickedness.

    They are not gay, these stories; and the kind of amusement they
    afford is strongly mixed with irony, pity, and contempt. Gayety,
    whether brutal, frank, mocking, or delicate, never leaves this
    bitter taste in the heart. How pitiful in its folly, in its
    vanity, in its weakness, is the humanity which loves, weeps, or
    agitates in the tales of Maupassant! There, virtue if awkward is
    never recompensed, nor vice if skillful punished; mothers are not
    always saints, nor sons always grateful and respectful; the guilty
    are often ignorant of remorse. Then are these beings immoral? To
    tell the truth, they are guided by their instincts, by events,
    submissive to the laws of necessity, and apparently released by the
    author from all responsibility.--FIRMIN ROZ, _Guy de Maupassant_,
    in WARNER’S _Library of the World’s Best Literature_.


             FURTHER REFERENCES FOR READING ON MAUPASSANT

_French Fiction of To-day_, M. S. Van de Velde (1891); _Some French
Writers_, Edward Delille (1893); _Studies in Two Literatures_, Arthur
Symons (1897); _French Literature of To-day_, Yetta Blaze de Bury
(1898); _A Century of French Fiction_, Benjamin W. Wells (1898);
_Contemporary French Novelists_, René Doumic (1899).


                             FOR ANALYSIS

                               MOONLIGHT
                            (CLAIR DE LUNE)

                         BY GUY DE MAUPASSANT

                    _Translation by The Editor_[26]

The Abbé Marignan bore well his title of Soldier of the Church. He
was a tall priest, and spare; fanatical, perpetually in a state of
spiritual exaltation, but upright of soul. His every belief was
settled, without even a thought of wavering. He imagined sincerely that
he understood his God thoroughly, that he penetrated His designs, His
will, His purposes.

2. As with long strides he promenaded the garden walk of his little
country presbytery, sometimes a question would arise in his mind:
“Why did God create that?” And, mentally taking the place of God, he
searched obstinately for the answer--and nearly always found it.
It would not have been like him to murmur, in an outburst of pious
humility: “O Lord, thy designs are impenetrable!” Rather might he say
to himself: “I am the servant of God; I ought to know the reasons for
what He does, or, if I know them not, I ought to divine them.”

3. To him all nature seemed created with a logic as absolute as it
was admirable. The “wherefore” and the “because” always corresponded
perfectly. Dawn was made to gladden our waking, the day to ripen the
crops, the rain to water them, the evening to prepare for slumber, and
the night was darkened for sleep.

4. The four seasons met perfectly all the needs of agriculture; and
to the priest it was quite inconceivable that nature had no designs,
and that, on the contrary, all living things were subjects of the same
inexorable laws of period, climate, and matter.

5. But he did hate woman! He hated her unconscionably, and by instinct
held her in contempt. Often did he repeat the words of Christ, “Woman,
what have I to do with thee?” And he would add, “One might think that
God Himself did not feel quite content with this one work of his
hands!” To him, indeed, woman was the child twelve times unclean of
whom the poet speaks. She was the temptress who had ensnared the first
man, and who constantly kept up her work of damnation--she was a
feeble, dangerous, and mysteriously troublous creature. And even more
than her accursed body did he hate her loving spirit.

6. He had often felt that women were regarding him tenderly, and even
though he knew himself to be invulnerable, it exasperated him to
recognize that need for loving which fluttered ever-present in their
hearts.

7. In his opinion, God had created woman only to tempt man and to
test him. She should never be even approached without those defensive
measures which one would take, and those fears which one would harbor,
when nearing a trap. In fact, she was precisely like a trap, with her
lips open and arms extended towards man.

8. Only toward nuns did he exercise any indulgence, for they were
rendered harmless by their vow. But he treated them harshly just the
same, because, ever-living in the depths of their pent-up and humble
hearts, he discerned that everlasting tenderness which constantly
surged up toward him, priest though he was.

9. Of all this he was conscious in their upturned glances, more
limpid with pious feeling than the looks of monks; in the spiritual
exaltations in which their sex indulged; in their ecstasies of love
toward Christ, which made the priest indignant because it was really
woman’s love, carnal love. Of this detestable tenderness he was
conscious, too, in their very docility, in the gentleness of their
voices when they addressed him, in their downcast eyes, and in their
submissive tears when he rudely rebuked them.

10. So he would shake his cassock when he left the convent door, and
stride off, stretching his legs as if fleeing before some danger.

11. Now the abbé had a niece who lived with her mother in a little
house near by. He was determined to make of her a sister of charity.

12. She was pretty, giddy, and a born tease. When he preached at
her, she laughed; and when he became angry with her, she kissed him
vehemently, pressing him to her bosom, while he would instinctively
seek to disengage himself from this embrace--which, all the same,
gave him a thrill of exquisite joy, awaking deep within his soul that
feeling of fatherhood which slumbers in every man.

13. Often as they walked together along the foot-paths through the
fields, he would talk with her of God, of his God; but she scarcely
heard him, for she was looking at the sky, the grass, the flowers, with
a joy of life which beamed from her eyes. Sometimes she would dart away
to catch some flying creature, crying as she brought it back: “See, my
uncle, how pretty it is; I should like to kiss it.” And that passion to
kiss insects, or lilac flowers, disturbed, irritated, and repelled the
priest, who recognized even in that longing the ineradicable love which
blooms perennial in the heart of woman.

14. And now one day the sacristan’s wife, who was the Abbé Marignan’s
housekeeper, cautiously told him that his niece had a lover!

15. He was dreadfully shocked, and stood gasping for breath, lather all
over his face, for he was shaving.

16. When at length he was able to think and speak, he cried: “It is not
true. You are lying, Mélanie!”

17. But the peasant woman laid her hand over her heart: “May our Lord
judge me if I am lying, _monsieur le curé_. I tell you she goes out to
meet him every night as soon as your sister is in bed. They meet each
other down by the river. You need only go there between ten o’clock and
midnight to see for yourself.”

18. He stopped rubbing his chin and began pacing the room violently, as
was his custom in times of serious thought. When at length he did try
to finish his shaving he cut himself three times, from nose to ear.

19. All day long he was silent, though almost exploding with
indignation and wrath. To his priestly rage against the power of love
was now added the indignation of a spiritual father, of a teacher, of
the guardian of souls, who has been deceived, robbed, and trifled with
by a mere child. He felt that egotistical suffocation which parents
experience when their daughter tells them that she has selected a
husband without their advice and in defiance of their wishes.

20. After dinner he tried to read a little, but he could not--he grew
more and more exasperated. When the clock struck ten, he grasped his
cane, a formidable oaken club which he always carried when he went
out at night to visit the sick. With a smile he examined this huge
cudgel, gripped it in his solid, countryman’s fist, and flourished it
menacingly in the air. Then, suddenly, with grinding teeth, he brought
it down upon a chair-back, which fell splintered to the floor.

21. He opened his door to go out; but paused upon the threshold,
surprised by such a glory of moonlight as one rarely sees.

22. And as he was endowed with an exalted soul of such a sort as the
Fathers of the Church, those poetic seers, must have possessed, he
became suddenly entranced, moved by the grand and tranquil beauty of
the pale-faced night.

23. In his little garden, all suffused with the tender radiance,
his fruit-trees, set in rows, outlined in shadows upon the paths
their slender limbs of wood, scarce clothed with verdure. The giant
honeysuckle, clinging to the house wall, exhaled its delicious, honeyed
breath--the soul of perfume seemed to hover about in the warm, clear
night.

24. He began to breathe deep, drinking in the air as drunkards drink
their wine; and he walked slowly, ravished, amazed, his niece almost
forgotten.

25. When he reached the open country he paused to gaze upon the broad
sweep of landscape, all deluged by that caressing radiance, all drowned
in that soft and sensuous charm of peaceful night. Momently the frogs
sounded out their quick metallic notes, and distant nightingales added
to the seductive moonlight their welling music, which charms to dreams
without thought--that gossamer, vibrant melody born only to mate with
kisses.

26. The Abbé moved again, his courage unaccountably failing. He felt as
though he were enfeebled, suddenly exhausted--he longed to sit down, to
linger there, to glorify God for all His works.

27. A little farther on, following the winding of the little river,
curved a row of tall poplars. Suspended about and above the banks,
enwrapping the whole sinuous course of the stream with a sort of light,
transparent down, was a fine white mist, shot through by the moon-rays,
and transmuted by them into gleaming silver.

28. The priest paused once again, stirred to the deeps of his soul by a
growing, an irresistible feeling of tenderness.

29. And a doubt, an undefined disquietude, crept over him; he
discerned the birth of one of those questions which now and again came
to him.

30. Why had God made all this? Since the night was ordained for
slumber, for unconsciousness, for repose, for forgetfulness of
everything, why should He make it lovelier than the day, sweeter than
dawn and sunset? And that star, slow-moving, seductive, more poetic
than the sun, so like to destiny, and so delicate that seemingly it was
created to irradiate things too subtle, too refined, for the greater
orb--why was it come to illumine all the shades?

31. Why did not the most accomplished of all singing birds repose now
like the others, but sing in the unquiet dark?

32. Why was this semi-veil cast over the world? Why this sighing of the
heart, this tumult of the soul, this languor of the flesh?

33. Why this show of charms, never seen by men because they are asleep?
For whose eyes was all this sublime spectacle designed, all this wealth
of poetic loveliness diffused from heaven over the earth?

34. And the Abbé did not understand it at all.

35. But there below, at the very edge of the field, under the arching
trees wet with luminous mist, two shadows appeared, walking side by
side.

36. The man was the taller, and had his arm about his sweetheart’s
neck; and from time to time he bent to kiss her forehead. They animated
suddenly the lifeless landscape, which enveloped their figures like a
divine frame fashioned expressly for them. They seemed, those two, like
a single being, the being for whom was created this tranquil, silent
night. Like a living answer, the answer which his Master had sent to
his question, they moved toward the priest.

37. Overwhelmed, his heart throbbing, he stood still, and it seemed
as though there spread before him some Biblical scene, like the loves
of Ruth and Boaz, the working out of the Lord’s will in one of those
majestic dramas set forth in the lives of the saints. The verses of the
Song of Songs, the ardent cries, the call of the body--all the glowing
romance of that poem so aflame with tenderness and love, began to sing
itself into his mind.

38. And he said to himself: “Perhaps God made nights such as this in
order to cast the veil of the ideal over the loves of men.”

39. He withdrew before this pair, who went on arm in arm. True, it was
his niece; but now he asked himself if he had not been upon the verge
of disobeying God. And, indeed, if God did not permit love, why did he
visibly encompass it with glory such as this?

40. And he fled, bewildered, almost ashamed, as if he had penetrated in
a temple wherein he had no right to enter.


                    SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS FOR STUDY

1. Precisely why do our surroundings affect our moods and actions? Give
examples from your own experience.

2. Which seems to you to be the more frequent in fiction: harmony, or
contrast of character with setting?

3. Which seems to you to be the more effective? Why?

4. Outline the motives which actuated at least three of the characters
in “The Outcasts of Poker Flat.”

5. Is the story overdrawn?

6. Is the influence of the moonlight enough to account for the change
in the priest in “Moonlight,” or must we allow something for romance?

7. Trace the several physical crises of Harte’s story from the very
beginning.

8. Do the same for the moral crises.

9. Show their inter-relation.

10. Select from a magazine a story in which setting influences in some
way the actions of the characters, and point out precisely how.


                 TEN REPRESENTATIVE STORIES OF SETTING

“A Leaf in the Storm,” Ouida, in _Stories by English Authors_.

“Mrs. Knollys,” F. J. Stimson, _Century Magazine_, Nov., 1883.

“Up the Coulée,” Hamlin Garland, in _Main Travelled Roads_.

“The Girl at Duke’s,” James W. Linn, _McClure’s Magazine_, Aug.,