
“The Wall Opposite,” Pierre Loti, translated in _Short Story
Classics, Foreign_.

“The End of the Tether,” Joseph Conrad, in _Youth_.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[24] From the author’s _Writing the Short-Story_, p. 149, which see for
a chapter on “The Setting of the Story.”

[25] _Writing the Short-Story_, pp. 151-152.

[26] Copyright, 1911, by J. B. Lippincott Co., and used by permission.




                                  VI
                        IMPRESSIONISTIC STORIES

              _The White Old Maid._--NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE
          _The Fall of the House of Usher._--EDGAR ALLAN POE


    I prefer commencing with the consideration of an _effect_. Keeping
    originality _always_ in view--for he is false to himself who
    ventures to dispense with so obvious and so easily attainable
    a source of interest--I say to myself, in the first place, “Of
    the innumerable effects or impressions of which the heart, the
    intellect, or (more generally) the soul is susceptible, what
    one shall I, on the present occasion, select?” Having chosen a
    novel first, and secondly, a vivid effect, I consider whether it
    can be best wrought by incident or tone, or the converse, or by
    peculiarity both of incident and tone--afterwards looking about me
    (or rather within) for such combinations of event or tone as shall
    best aid me in the construction of the effect.--EDGAR ALLAN POE,
    _The Philosophy of Composition_.


                        IMPRESSIONISTIC STORIES

The value of a literary term lies in the comprehensive and precise
picture which it calls up in the mind of him who reads it. So we
must seek to limit, as well as seize upon, the meaning of this word
“impressionistic.”

The first purpose in telling a story would seem to be the pleasure
or the profit of the hearer--if we exclude the bore who tells a yarn
chiefly to please himself. But a closer scrutiny of certain stories
discloses other objects of the narrator, and these may be either
subordinate or paramount to considerations of benefit or entertainment.
The most important of these artistic purposes is to reproduce in
the hearer the full effect which a certain mood, theme, character,
situation, incident, or chain of incidents, originally made upon the
story-teller himself. When he succeeds in reproducing in others his
own feeling, by such means as we shall presently study, he does so by
impressionistic means.

Poe, writing in _Graham’s Magazine_, May, 1842, says: “A skilful
literary artist has constructed a tale. If wise, he has not fashioned
his thoughts to accommodate his incidents; but having conceived, with
deliberate care, a certain unique or single _effect_ to be wrought
out, he then invents such incidents--he then combines such events--as
may best aid him in establishing the preconceived effect. If his very
initial sentence tend not to the outbringing of this effect, then he
has failed in his first step. In the whole composition there should be
no word written, of which the tendency, direct or indirect, is not to
the one preëstablished design.”

It does not seem probable that Poe meant to speak of impressionism
as constituting so much a distinct type of story as to point out its
importance as a method in all story-telling; and we must not overlook
its usefulness in this respect. Indeed, nearly all good short-stories
begin, in the mind of the author, and end, in the spirit of the reader,
with a more or less clear and unified impression. Still, certain little
fictions are, alike in theme and treatment, so decidedly conceived and
told with the purpose of leaving the reader under the spell of a mood,
a feeling, a character, or a situation, that they are IMPRESSIONISTIC
stories, rather than impressionistic STORIES.

The natural tendency for the impressionistic writer is to subordinate
incident and plot to tone--in a word, to emphasize a picture, whether
internal or external, rather than a set of happenings, which in dealing
with fiction we call the action. So an impressionistic narrative
may really tell a story of situation, crisis, and denouement, or,
as is more likely to be the case, it may tend decidedly toward the
sketch. All depends upon the nature of the theme. Thus, the _beauty of
sacrifice_ demands an action to illustrate that abnegation, and all
the accessories must serve as high-lights and shadows to bring out
this motive in strong relief; but the _tone of gloom_ may be conveyed
without even the semblance of a plot.

Now a story may produce a gloomy effect without deliberately picturing
an atmosphere of gloom--it may leave the reader with a vague,
pessimistic distaste for joy, and yet present no such picture. Or
it may marvellously delineate loneliness, without leaving that as
the final impression of the story. This is not impressionism, though
it may be very good story-telling. Impressionism is conscious art,
art prepense, and, as will be seen in the two stories presented as
examples in this section, subordinates everything to tonal effect; in
other words, the impressionistic story symbolizes in human action some
human mood or condition. For this reason such stories are often called
stories of symbolism.


                      HAWTHORNE AND HIS WRITINGS

Nathaniel Hawthorne was born in Salem, Massachusetts, July 4, 1804.
His New England ancestors bore the name Hathorne, as did the author’s
sea-captain father--also a Nathaniel--who died at Surinam, Dutch
Guiana, when his son was four years old. In 1818 the family moved
to Raymond, Maine, but most of the youth’s education was gotten at
Salem, and there his family returned in 1820. The following year he
entered Bowdoin College, from which he was graduated in 1825. At
this time--when he was twenty-one--he had already begun _Twice-Told
Tales_; it was then, too, that he inserted the _w_ into his name. He
was now writing industriously, often under a pseudonym; he also did
considerable hack and editorial work. During 1839 and a part of 1840
he served in the Boston Custom House; then he joined the Brook Farm
Community in 1841, but remained there only a short time. He married
Sophia Peabody in 1842. In 1846 he returned to the Customs service,
in Salem, remaining this time about three years. In 1853 he was
appointed by his classmate, President Pierce, as United States Consul
at Liverpool. During the more than three years of his consulship he
traveled widely in Great Britain, and later spent much time in Italy,
where some of his best work was accomplished. During the last years of
his life he wrote but intermittently, being a prey to depression and
ill health. He died at Plymouth, New Hampshire, May 19, 1864, and is
buried in the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Concord, Mass.

Nathaniel Hawthorne was a remarkable novelist, essayist, and
short-story writer. _The Scarlet Letter_ and _The Marble Faun_, are his
greatest novels. _The House of the Seven Gables_ is a series of related
sketches rather than a romance. Probably his best short-stories are
“The Birthmark,” “Rappaccini’s Daughter,” and “Drowne’s Wooden Image,”
in _Mosses From An Old Manse_; “The Gray Champion,” “The Minister’s
Black Veil,” “The Gentle Boy,” “The Great Carbuncle,” “Dr. Heidegger’s
Experiment,” “The Ambitious Guest,” “Wakefield,” and “The White Old
Maid,” from _Twice-Told Tales_; and “The Great Stone Face,” “Ethan
Brand” and “The Snow-Image,” in _The Snow-Image and other Twice-Told
Tales_. These three collections contain also many charming sketches,
while _The Wonder Book_, and _Tanglewood Tales_ are rich in interest
for younger readers.

“The White Old Maid,” given herewith in full, was first published in
the _New England Magazine_ for July, 1835, and was entitled “The Old
Maid in the Winding Sheet, by the Author of The Gray Champion.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Hawthorne enjoyed the distinction of winning in his day the almost
unanimous approval of critics both at home and abroad, and this in a
period when criticism was not a gentle art. Time, moreover, has only
added to his praises. As a fiction writer he had depth, breadth, and
height. Hawthorne alone among the fictionists of his era may justly be
said to have a philosophy of his own; his themes cover a wide range;
and the loftiness of his ideals is well recognized. As Longfellow
discerned, and generously announced as early as 1837, Hawthorne was a
poet who wrote prose. He knew a mood in nature to match every human
emotion, and in her multiform life he saw images to enforce a thousand
striking comparisons. He was a student of the soul, too, albeit a
gloomy one, for the most part. But while the sombreness of lives beset
by stern problems oppressed him, and but little humor brightens his
pages, one searches in vain for a pessimistic spirit--Hawthorne’s
knowledge of the human heart saddened him, but it did not make him
misanthropic. One feels the reality, the vital bearing, of the things
he writes about. It is impossible to read him appreciatively and not
realize the sincerity of the man, and the fine earnestness, the
upright though severe justness, with which he viewed life. Sweetness,
beauty--haunting beauty, indeed--and a certain airy lightness, were
not wanting in his work; but the big tones--resonant, solemn at times,
and inspiring always--were poetic insight, fervid intensity, and lofty
purpose. Hawthorne was a seer. The inside of things was disclosed to
him. That which he could not see, he felt. And with a classic purity of
style he worded the fantastic, gloomy, lightsome, or tragic pageantry
of his creations in sentences that live and live.

    I wish God had given me the faculty of writing a sunshiny
    book.--NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, _Letter to James T. Fields_.

    Soon to be all spirit, I have already a spiritual sense of human
    nature, and see deeply into the hearts of mankind, discovering what
    is hidden from the wisest.... My glance comprehends the crowd, and
    penetrates the breast of the solitary man.--NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE,
    _My Home Return_, in _Tales and Sketches_.

    He uses his characters, like algebraic symbols, to work out certain
    problems with; they are rather more, yet rather less, than flesh
    and blood.--H. A. BEERS, quoted in Tappan’s _Topical Notes on
    American Authors_.

    Hawthorne’s style, at its best, is one of the most perfect media
    employed by any writer using the English language. Dealing, as it
    usually does, with an immaterial subject-matter, with dream-like
    impressions, and fantastic products of the imagination, it is
    concrete without being opaque,--luminously concrete, one might
    say. No other writer that I know of has the power of making his
    fancies visible and tangible without impairing their delicate
    immateriality. If any writer can put the rainbow into words, and
    yet leave it a rainbow, surely that writer is Hawthorne.--RICHARD
    LE GALLIENNE, _Attitudes and Avowals_.

    In all his most daring fantasies Hawthorne is natural; and though
    he may project his vision far beyond the boundaries of fact,
    nowhere does he violate the laws of nature.... A brutal misuse of
    the supernatural is perhaps the very lowest degradation of the
    art of fiction. But “to mingle the marvellous rather as a slight,
    delicate, and evanescent flavour than as any actual portion of
    the substance,” to quote from the preface to the _House of the
    Seven Gables_, this is, or should be, the aim of the writer of
    Short-stories whenever his feet leave the firm ground of fact as he
    strays in the unsubstantial realms of fantasy.--BRANDER MATTHEWS,
    _The Philosophy of the Short-story_.

    Hawthorne has been called a mystic, which he was not,--and a
    psychological dreamer, which he was in very slight degree. He was
    really the ghost of New England. I do not mean the “spirit,” nor
    the “phantom,” but the ghost in the older sense in which that term
    is used, the thin, rarefied essence which is to be found somewhere
    behind the physical organization: embodied, indeed, and not by any
    means in a shadowy or diminutive earthly tabernacle, but yet only
    half embodied in it, endowed with a certain painful sense of the
    gulf between his nature and its organization, always recognizing
    the gulf, always trying to bridge it over, and always more or
    less unsuccessful in the attempt. His writings are not exactly
    spiritual writings, for there is no dominating spirit in them.
    They are ghostly writings.... I may, perhaps, accept a phrase of
    which Hawthorne himself was fond,--“the moonlight of romance,”--and
    compel it to explain something of the secret of his characteristic
    genius.--R. H. HUTTON, _Essays in Literary Criticism_.

    This, too [“The White Old Maid”], is a story, in the sense that
    something happens; and yet the real story, by which I mean the
    narrative which would logically connect and develop these events,
    is just hinted at, and is not very important. It is subordinated,
    indeed, to a new aim. “The White Old Maid” is narrative for a
    purpose, and this purpose is to suggest an impression, and to leave
    us with a vivid sensation rather than a number of remembered facts.
    In short, it is contrived, not to leave a record of such and such
    an old woman who did this or that, but rather to stamp upon our
    minds the impression of a mystery-haunted house, mysterious figures
    entering, strange words, and a terrible sorrow behind all. Towards
    such a result the structure of the plot, every bit of description,
    every carefully chosen word, directly tends.--HENRY SEIDEL CANBY,
    _The Book of the Short Story_.


              FURTHER REFERENCES FOR READING ON HAWTHORNE

_Hours in a Library_, Leslie Stephen (1874); _Study of Hawthorne_,
George Parsons Lathrop (1876); _Life_, in the _English Men of Letters_
series, Henry James (1880); _Nathaniel Hawthorne and His Wife_, Julian
Hawthorne (1885); _Life_, in the _Great Writers_ series, Moncure D.
Conway (1890); _Personal Recollections of Nathaniel Hawthorne_, Horatio
Bridge (1893); _Memories of Hawthorne_, Rose Hawthorne Lathrop (1897);
_Nathaniel Hawthorne_, Anne Fields (1899); _Life_, in the _American Men
of Letters_ series, George Edward Woodberry (1902).


                          THE WHITE OLD MAID
                        BY NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

[Sidenote: Introduction of setting, giving atmosphere of story.]

[Sidenote: FIRST PLOT SITUATION.]

The moonbeams came through two deep and narrow windows, and showed
a spacious chamber richly furnished in an antique fashion. From one
lattice the shadow of the diamond panes was thrown upon the floor; the
ghostly light, through the other, slept upon a bed, falling between the
heavy silken curtains, and illuminating the face of a young man. But,
how quietly the slumberer lay! how pale his features! and how like a
shroud the sheet was wound about his frame! Yes; it was a corpse, in
its burial clothes.

[Sidenote: This uncertainty strikes the tone of the story, which
trembles constantly between the real and the fancied, the physical
and the spirit world, keeping the reader in doubt as to whether he is
witnessing a manifestation of the supernatural or is deceived by the
mysterious atmosphere of the unusual.]

[Sidenote: TWO MAIN CHARACTERS INTRODUCED.]

2. Suddenly, the fixed features seemed to move with dark emotion.
Strange fantasy! It was but the shadow of the fringed curtain waving
betwixt the dead face and the moonlight, as the door of the chamber
opened and a girl stole softly to the bedside. Was there delusion
in the moonbeams, or did her gesture and her eye betray a gleam of
triumph, as she bent over the pale corpse--pale as itself--and pressed
her living lips to the cold ones of the dead? As she drew back from
that long kiss, her features writhed as if a proud heart were fighting
with its anguish. Again it seemed that the features of the corpse had
moved responsive to her own. Still an illusion! The silken curtain
had waved, a second time, betwixt the dead face and the moonlight, as
another fair young girl unclosed the door, and glided, ghostlike, to
the bedside. There the two maidens stood, both beautiful, with the pale
beauty of the dead between them. But she who had first entered was
proud and stately, and the other a soft and fragile thing.

[Sidenote: Note the archaic, formal language, which sets the period in
the long ago.]

3. “Away!” cried the lofty one. “Thou hadst him living! The dead is
mine!”

[Sidenote: _Motif_ of story.]

4. “Thine!” returned the other, shuddering. “Well hast thou spoken! The
dead is thine!”

5. The proud girl started, and stared into her face with a ghastly
look. But a wild and mournful expression passed across the features of
the gentle one; and weak and helpless, she sank down on the bed, her
head pillowed beside that of the corpse, and her hair mingling with his
dark locks. A creature of hope and joy, the first draught of sorrow had
bewildered her.

6. “Edith!” cried her rival.

[Sidenote: Note “of the heart.”]

7. Edith groaned, as with a sudden compassion of the heart; and
removing her cheek from the dead youth’s pillow, she stood upright,
fearfully encountering the eyes of the lofty girl.

8. “Wilt thou betray me?” said the latter calmly.

[Sidenote: Full statement of the _motif_, ending with ¶12. FOUNDATION
OF MAIN CRISIS.]

9. “Till the dead bid me speak, I will be silent,” answered Edith.
“Leave us alone together! Go, and live many years, and then return, and
tell me of thy life. He, too, will be here! Then, if thou tellest of
sufferings more than death, we will both forgive thee.”

10. “And what shall be the token?” asked the proud girl, as if her
heart acknowledged a meaning in these wild words.

11. “This lock of hair,” said Edith, lifting one of the dark,
clustering curls that lay heavily on the dead man’s brow.

[Sidenote: End of first part of story.]

12. The two maidens joined their hands over the bosom of the corpse,
and appointed a day and hour, far, far in time to come, for their next
meeting in that chamber. The statelier girl gave one deep look at the
motionless countenance, and departed--yet turned again and trembled ere
she closed the door, almost believing that her dead lover frowned upon
her. And Edith, too! Was not her white form fading into the moonlight?
Scorning her own weakness she went forth, and perceived that a negro
slave was waiting in the passage with a wax-light, which he held
between her face and his own, and regarded her, as she thought, with
an ugly expression of merriment. Lifting his torch on high, the slave
lighted her down the staircase, and undid the portal of the mansion.
The young clergyman of the town had just ascended the steps, and bowing
to the lady, passed in without a word.

[Sidenote: Second stage.]

[Sidenote: Hawthorne’s first title for this story.]

[Sidenote: Character delineation, largely mental and moral.]

[Sidenote: Key.]

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

[Sidenote: Note language of symbolism.]

[Sidenote: Key.]

13. Years, many years, rolled on; the world seemed new again, so much
older was it grown since the night when those pale girls had clasped
their hands across the bosom of the corpse. In the interval, a lonely
woman had passed from youth to extreme age, and was known by all the
town as the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet.” A taint of insanity had
affected her whole life, but so quiet, sad, and gentle, so utterly free
from violence, that she was suffered to pursue her harmless fantasies,
unmolested by the world, with whose business or pleasure she had nought
to do. She dwelt alone, and never came into the daylight, except to
follow funerals. Whenever a corpse was borne along the street in
sunshine, rain, or snow; whether a pompous train of the rich and proud
thronged after it, or few and humble were the mourners, behind them
came the lonely woman in a long white garment which the people called
her shroud. She took no place among the kindred or the friends, but
stood at the door to hear the funeral prayer, and walked in the rear of
the procession, as one whose earthly charge it was to haunt the house
of mourning, and be the shadow of affliction, and see that the dead
were duly buried. So long had this been her custom that the inhabitants
of the town deemed her a part of every funeral, as much as the coffin
pall, or the very corpse itself, and augured ill of the sinner’s
destiny unless the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet” came gliding, like a
ghost, behind. Once, it is said, she affrighted a bridal party with her
pale presence, appearing suddenly in the illuminated hall, just as the
priest was uniting a false maid to a wealthy man, before her lover had
been dead a year. Evil was the omen to that marriage! Sometimes she
stole forth by moonlight and visited the graves of venerable Integrity,
and wedded Love, and virgin Innocence, and every spot where the ashes
of a kind and faithful heart were mouldering. Over the hillocks of
those favored dead would she stretch out her arms, with a gesture, as
if she were scattering seeds; and many believed that she brought them
from the garden of Paradise; for the graves which she had visited were
green beneath the snow, and covered with sweet flowers from April to
November. Her blessing was better than a holy verse upon the tombstone.
Thus wore away her long, sad, peaceful, and fantastic life, till few
were so old as she, and the people of later generations wondered how
the dead had ever been buried, or mourners had endured their grief,
without the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet.”

[Sidenote: Third stage.]

[Sidenote: Preparation for main crisis.]

[Sidenote: Opening of MAIN PLOT INCIDENT.]

[Sidenote: Local-color.]

[Sidenote: Central setting; return to original setting.]

[Sidenote: Development of setting, and TONE OF AN EMPTY HOUSE.]

14. Still years went on, and still she followed funerals, and was not
yet summoned to her own festival of death. One afternoon the great
street of the town was all alive with business and bustle, though the
sun now gilded only the upper half of the church spire, having left
the housetops and loftiest trees in shadow. The scene was cheerful
and animated, in spite of the sombre shade between the high brick
buildings. Here were pompous merchants, in white wigs and laced
velvet; the bronzed faces of sea-captains; the foreign garb and air
of Spanish creoles; and the disdainful port of natives of Old England;
all contrasted with the rough aspect of one or two back settlers,
negotiating sales of timber from forests where axe had never sounded.
Sometimes a lady passed, swelling roundly forth in an embroidered
petticoat, balancing her steps in high-heeled shoes, and courtesying
with lofty grace to the punctilious obeisances of the gentlemen. The
life of the town seemed to have its very centre not far from an old
mansion, that stood somewhat back from the pavement, surrounded by
neglected grass, with a strange air of loneliness, rather deepened than
dispelled by the throng so near. Its site would have been suitably
occupied by a magnificent Exchange or a brick block, lettered all over
with various signs; or the large house itself might have made a noble
tavern, with the “King’s Arms” swinging before it, and guests in every
chamber, instead of the present solitude. But owing to some dispute
about the right of inheritance, the mansion had been long without a
tenant, decaying from year to year, and throwing the stately gloom of
its shadow over the busiest part of the town. Such was the scene, and
such the time, when a figure unlike any that have been described was
observed at a distance down the street.

[Sidenote: First main character.]

15. “I espy a strange sail, yonder,” remarked a Liverpool captain;
“that woman in the long white garment!”

16. The sailor seemed much struck by the object, as were several
others who, at the same moment, caught a glimpse of the figure that
had attracted his notice. Almost immediately the various topics of
conversation gave place to speculations, in an undertone, on this
unwonted occurrence.

17. “Can there be a funeral so late this afternoon?” inquired some.

18. They looked for the signs of death at every door--the sexton, the
hearse, the assemblage of black-clad relatives--all that makes up the
woful pomp of funerals. They raised their eyes, also, to the sun-gilt
spire of the church, and wondered that no clang proceeded from its
bell, which had always tolled till now when this figure appeared in the
light of day. But none had heard that a corpse was to be borne to its
home that afternoon, nor was there any token of funeral, except the
apparition of the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet.”

[Sidenote: Key.]

19. “What may this portend?” asked each man of his neighbor.

[Sidenote: Contrast.]

[Sidenote: Impressionism vivid.]

[Sidenote: Direct character description.]

[Sidenote: Contrast.]

[Sidenote: Character delineation by suggestion.]

20. All smiled as they put the question, yet with a certain trouble
in their eyes, as if pestilence or some other wide calamity were
prognosticated by the untimely intrusion among the living of one
whose presence had always been associated with death and woe. What
a comet is to the earth was that sad woman to the town. Still she
moved on, while the hum of surprise was hushed at her approach, and
the proud and the humble stood aside, that her white garment might
not wave against them. It was a long, loose robe, of spotless purity.
Its wearer appeared very old, pale, emaciated, and feeble, yet glided
onward without the unsteady pace of extreme age. At one point of her
course a little rosy boy burst forth from a door, and ran, with open
arms, towards the ghostly woman, seeming to expect a kiss from her
bloodless lips. She made a slight pause, fixing her eye upon him with
an expression of no earthly sweetness, so the child shivered and stood
awe-struck, rather than affrighted, while the Old Maid passed on.
Perhaps her garment might have been polluted even by an infant’s touch;
perhaps her kiss would have been death to the sweet boy within a year.

[Sidenote: Tone of story summarized.]

21. “She is but a shadow,” whispered the superstitious. “The child put
forth his arms and could not grasp her robe!”

[Sidenote: Crisis approaches.]

[Sidenote: The house mentioned in paragraphs 1, 12 and 14.]

22. The wonder was increased when the Old Maid passed beneath the porch
of the deserted mansion, ascended the moss-covered steps, lifted the
iron knocker, and gave three raps. The people could only conjecture
that some old remembrance, troubling her bewildered brain, had impelled
the poor woman hither to visit the friends of her youth; all gone from
their home long since and forever, unless their ghosts still haunted
it--fit company for the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet.” An elderly
man approached the steps, and, reverently uncovering his gray locks,
essayed to explain the matter.

[Sidenote: Note “None--have.”]

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

[Sidenote: First mention of name.]

23. “None, Madam,” said he, “have dwelt in this house these fifteen
years agone--no, not since the death of old Colonel Fenwicke, whose
funeral you may remember to have followed. His heirs, being ill agreed
among themselves, have let the mansion-house go to ruin.”

[Sidenote: Note atmosphere of vagueness.]

24. The Old Maid looked slowly round with a slight gesture of one hand,
and a finger of the other upon her lip, appearing more shadow-like than
ever in the obscurity of the porch. But again she lifted the hammer,
and gave, this time, a single rap. Could it be that a footstep was now
heard coming down the staircase of the old mansion, which all conceived
to have been so long untenanted? Slowly, feebly, yet heavily, like the
pace of an aged and infirm person, the step approached, more distinct
on every downward stair, till it reached the portal. The bar fell on
the inside; the door opened. One upward glance towards the church
spire, whence the sunshine had just faded, was the last that the people
saw of the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet.”

[Sidenote: Tone of mystery.]

25. “Who undid the door?” asked many.

[Sidenote: See ¶12.]

26. This question, owing to the depth of shadow beneath the porch,
no one could satisfactorily answer. Two or three aged men, while
protesting against an inference which might be drawn, affirmed that
the person within was a negro, and bore a singular resemblance to old
Cæsar, formerly a slave in the house, but freed by death some thirty
years before.

27. “Her summons has waked up a servant of the old family,” said one,
half seriously.

28. “Let us wait here,” replied another. “More guests will knock at the
door, anon. But the gate of the graveyard should be thrown open!”

[Sidenote: Preparation for climax.]

[Sidenote: No indication whence it came.]

[Sidenote: Setting.]

29. Twilight had overspread the town before the crowd began to
separate, or the comments on this incident were exhausted. One after
another was wending his way homeward, when a coach--no common spectacle
in those days--drove slowly into the street. It was an old-fashioned
equipage, hanging close to the ground, with arms on the panels,
a footman behind, and a grave, corpulent coachman seated high in
front--the whole giving an idea of solemn state and dignity. There was
something awful in the heavy rumbling of the wheels. The coach rolled
down the street, till, coming to the gateway of the deserted mansion,
it drew up, and the footman sprang to the ground.

30. “Whose grand coach is this?” asked a very inquisitive body.

[Sidenote: Three raps signify a formal demand for entrance.]

31. The footman made no reply, but ascended the steps of the old house,
gave three raps with the iron hammer, and returned to open the coach
door. An old man, possessed of the heraldic lore so common in that day,
examined the shield of arms on the panel.

[Sidenote: Setting.]

32. “Azure, a lion’s head erased, between three flower-de-luces,”
said he; then whispered the name of the family to whom these bearings
belonged. The last inheritor of his honors was recently dead, after a
long residence amid the splendor of the British court, where his birth
and wealth had given him no mean station. “He left no child,” continued
the herald, “and these arms, being in a lozenge, betoken that the coach
appertains to his widow.”

[Sidenote: SECOND MAIN CHARACTER.]

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

33. Further disclosures, perhaps, might have been made had not the
speaker suddenly been struck dumb by the stern eye of an ancient lady
who thrust forth her head from the coach, preparing to descend. As she
emerged, the people saw that her dress was magnificent, and her figure
dignified, in spite of age and infirmity--a stately ruin but with a
look, at once, of pride and wretchedness. Her strong and rigid features
had an awe about them, unlike that of the white Old Maid, but as of
something evil. She passed up the steps, leaning on a gold-headed
cane; the door swung open as she ascended--and the light of a torch
glittered on the embroidery of her dress, and gleamed on the pillars
of the porch. After a momentary pause--a glance backwards--and then a
desperate effort--she went in. The decipherer of the coat of arms had
ventured up the lowest step, and shrinking back immediately, pale and
tremulous, affirmed that the torch was held by the very image of old
Cæsar.

[Sidenote: Subordinate character of central action.]

[Sidenote: Compare ¶12.]

34. “But such a hideous grin,” added he, “was never seen on the face of
mortal man, black or white! It will haunt me till my dying day.”

[Sidenote: Note the use of shadows and twilights as accessories.]

[Sidenote: KEY.]

[Sidenote: Atmosphere--a sense of something about to occur.]

35. Meanwhile, the coach had wheeled round, with a prodigious clatter
on the pavement, and rumbled up the street, disappearing in the
twilight, while the ear still tracked its course. Scarcely was it gone,
when the people began to question whether the coach and attendants,
the ancient lady, the spectre of old Cæsar, and the Old Maid herself,
were not all a strangely combined delusion, with some dark purport in
its mystery. The whole town was astir, so that, instead of dispersing,
the crowd continually increased, and stood gazing up at the windows of
the mansion, now silvered by the brightening moon. The elders, glad
to indulge the narrative propensity of age, told of the long-faded
splendor of the family, the entertainments they had given, and the
guests, the greatest of the land, and even titled and noble ones from
abroad, who had passed beneath that portal. These graphic reminiscences
seemed to call up the ghosts of those to whom they referred. So strong
was the impression on some of the more imaginative hearers, that two
or three were seized with trembling fits, at one and the same moment,
protesting that they had distinctly heard three other raps of the iron
knocker.

[Sidenote: Contributory material.]

36. “Impossible!” exclaimed others. “See! The moon shines beneath the
porch, and shows every part of it, except in the narrow shade of that
pillar. There is no one there!”

37. “Did not the door open?” whispered one of these fanciful persons.

38. “Didst thou see it, too?” said his companion, in a startled tone.

[Sidenote: Vagueness.]

[Sidenote: Tone.]

39. But the general sentiment was opposed to the idea that a third
visitant had made application at the door of the deserted house. A
few, however, adhered to this new marvel, and even declared that a red
gleam like that of a torch had shone through the great front window,
as if the negro were lighting a guest up the staircase. This, too, was
pronounced a mere fantasy. But at once the whole multitude started, and
each man beheld his own terror painted in the faces of all the rest.

40. “What an awful thing is this!” cried they.

[Sidenote: Minor climax--preparation for main climax.]

[Sidenote: Note shifting of tenses.]

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

41. A shriek too fearfully distinct for doubt had been heard within the
mansion, breaking forth suddenly, and succeeded by a deep stillness,
as if a heart had burst in giving it utterance. The people knew not
whether to fly from the very sight of the house, or to rush trembling
in, and search out the strange mystery. Amid their confusion and
affright, they are somewhat reassured by the appearance of their
clergyman, a venerable patriarch, and equally a saint, who had taught
them and their fathers the way to heaven for more than the space of an
ordinary life-time. He was a reverend figure, with long, white hair
upon his shoulders, a white beard upon his breast, and a back so bent
over his staff that he seemed to be looking downward continually, as if
to choose a proper grave for his weary frame. It was some time before
the good old man, being deaf and of impaired intellect, could be made
to comprehend such portions of the affair as were comprehensible at
all. But, when possessed of the facts, his energies assumed unexpected
vigor.

42. “Verily,” said the old gentleman, “it will be fitting that I enter
the mansion-house of the worthy Colonel Fenwicke, lest any harm should
have befallen that true Christian woman whom ye call the ‘Old Maid in
the Winding Sheet.’”

[Sidenote: Again a shift in the manner of narration.]

43. Behold, then, the venerable clergyman ascending the steps of the
mansion, with a torch-bearer behind him. It was the elderly man who had
spoken to the Old Maid, and the same who had afterwards explained the
shield of arms and recognized the features of the negro. Like their
predecessors, they gave three raps with the iron hammer.

44. “Old Cæsar cometh not,” observed the priest. “Well I wot he no
longer doth service in this mansion.”

45. “Assuredly, then, it was something worse, in old Cæsar’s likeness!”
said the other adventurer.

[Sidenote: One who ventures.]

46. “Be it as God wills,” answered the clergyman. “See! my strength,
though it be much decayed, hath sufficed to open this heavy door. Let
us enter and pass up the staircase.”

[Sidenote: Key to tone further developed.]

47. Here occurred a singular exemplification of the dreamy state of a
very old man’s mind. As they ascended the wide flight of stairs, the
aged clergyman appeared to move with caution, occasionally standing
aside, and oftener bending his head, as it were in salutation, thus
practising all the gestures of one who makes his way through a throng.
Reaching the head of the staircase, he looked around with sad and
solemn benignity, laid aside his staff, bared his hoary locks, and was
evidently on the point of commencing a prayer.

48. “Reverend Sir,” said his attendant, who conceived this a very
suitable prelude to their further search, “would it not be well that
the people join with us in prayer?”

[Sidenote: Confusion between real and unreal further illustrated by
contributory material.]

[Sidenote: Deft introduction of central character.]

49. “Welladay!” cried the old clergyman, staring strangely around him.
“Art thou here with me, and none other? Verily, past times were present
to me, and I deemed that I was to make a funeral prayer, as many a time
heretofore, from the head of this staircase. Of a truth, I saw the
shades of many that are gone. Yea, I have prayed at their burials, one
after another, and the ‘Old Maid in the Winding Sheet’ hath seen them
to their graves!”

[Sidenote: Tone.]

[Sidenote: KEY.]

50. Being now more thoroughly awake to their present purpose, he took
his staff and struck forcibly on the floor, till there came an echo
from each deserted chamber, but no menial to answer their summons. They
therefore walked along the passage, and again paused, opposite to the
great front window through which was seen the crowd, in the shadow and
partial moonlight of the street beneath. On their right hand was the
open door of a chamber, and a closed one on their left. The clergyman
pointed his cane to the carved oak panel of the latter.

[Sidenote: Foundation situation.]

51. “Within that chamber,” observed he, “a whole life-time since, did I
sit by the death-bed of a goodly young man, who, being now at the last
gasp”--

[Sidenote: Atmosphere.]

[Sidenote: Note author’s device.]

[Sidenote: The decision must be inferred.]

[Sidenote: Tone of vagueness to the end.]

52. Apparently there was some powerful excitement in the ideas which
had now flashed across his mind. He snatched the torch from his
companion’s hand, and threw open the door with such sudden violence
that the flame was extinguished, leaving them no other light than the
moonbeams, which fell through two windows into the spacious chamber. It
was sufficient to discover all that could be known. In a high-backed
oaken armchair, upright, with her hands clasped across her heart, and
her head thrown back, sat the “Old Maid in the Winding Sheet.” The
stately dame had fallen on her knees, with her forehead on the holy
knees of the Old Maid, one hand upon the floor and the other pressed
convulsively against her heart. It clutched a lock of hair, once sable,
now discolored with a greenish mould. As the priest and layman advanced
into the chamber, the Old Maid’s features assumed such a semblance
of shifting expression that they trusted to hear the whole mystery
explained by a single word. But it was only the shadow of a tattered
curtain waving betwixt the dead face and the moonlight.

[Sidenote: CLIMAX.]

[Sidenote: Vague denouement.]

53. “Both dead!” said the venerable man. “Then who shall divulge the
secret? Methinks it glimmers to and fro in my mind, like the light and
shadow across the Old Maid’s face. And now ’tis gone!”


                             FOR ANALYSIS

                    THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER
                          BY EDGAR ALLAN POE

                                      Son cœur est un luth suspendu;
                                      Sitôt qu’on le touche il résonne.

                                                             BERANGER.


During the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn
of the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens,
I had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly dreary
tract of country; and at length found myself, as the shades of the
evening drew on, within view of the melancholy House of Usher. I know
not how it was, but, with the first glimpse of the building, a sense
of insufferable gloom pervaded my spirit. I say insufferable; for
the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half-pleasurable, because
poetic, sentiment with which the mind usually receives even the
sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible. I looked upon
the scene before me--upon the mere house, and the simple landscape
features of the domain, upon the bleak walls, upon the vacant eye-like
windows, upon a few rank sedges, and upon a few white trunks of decayed
trees--with an utter depression of soul which I can compare to no
earthly sensation more properly than to the after-dream of the reveler
upon opium: the bitter lapse into everyday life, the hideous dropping
off of the veil. There was an iciness, a sinking, a sickening of the
heart, an unredeemed dreariness of thought, which no goading of the
imagination could torture into aught of the sublime. What was it--I
paused to think--what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation
of the House of Usher? It was a mystery all insoluble; nor could I
grapple with the shadow fancies that crowded upon me as I pondered. I
was forced to fall back upon the unsatisfactory conclusion that while,
beyond doubt, there _are_ combinations of very simple natural objects
which have the power of thus affecting us, still the analysis of this
power lies among considerations beyond our depth. It was possible, I
reflected, that a mere different arrangement of the particulars of the
scene, of the details of the picture, would be sufficient to modify,
or perhaps to annihilate, its capacity for sorrowful impression, and,
acting upon this idea, I reined my horse to the precipitous brink of a
black and lurid tarn that lay in unruffled lustre by the dwelling, and
gazed down--but with a shudder even more thrilling than before--upon
the remodeled and inverted images of the gray sedge, and the ghastly
tree-stems, and the vacant and eye-like windows.

2. Nevertheless, in this mansion of gloom I now proposed to myself
a sojourn of some weeks. Its proprietor, Roderick Usher, had been
one of my boon companions in boyhood; but many years had elapsed
since our last meeting. A letter, however, had lately reached me in a
distant part of the country--a letter from him--which in its wildly
importunate nature had admitted of no other than a personal reply.
The MS. gave evidence of nervous agitation. The writer spoke of acute
bodily illness, of a mental disorder which oppressed him, and of an
earnest desire to see me, as his best and indeed his only personal
friend, with a view of attempting, by the cheerfulness of my society,
some alleviation of his malady. It was the manner in which all this,
and much more, was said--it was the apparent _heart_ that went with his
request--which allowed me no room for hesitation; and I accordingly
obeyed forthwith what I still considered a very singular summons.

3. Although as boys we had been even intimate associates, yet I really
knew little of my friend. His reserve had been always excessive and
habitual. I was aware, however, that his very ancient family had been
noted, time out of mind, for a peculiar sensibility of temperament,
displaying itself, through long ages, in many works of exalted art,
and manifested of late in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive
charity, as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies,
perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognizable
beauties, of musical science. I had learned, too, the very remarkable
fact that the stem of the Usher race, all time-honored as it was, had
put forth at no period any enduring branch; in other words, that the
entire family lay in the direct line of descent, and had always, with
a very trifling and very temporary variation, so lain. It was this
deficiency, I considered, while running over in thought the perfect
keeping of the character of the premises with the accredited character
of the people, and while speculating upon the possible influence which
the one, in the long lapse of centuries, might have exercised upon
the other,--it was this deficiency, perhaps, of collateral issue,
and the consequent undeviating transmission from sire to son of the
patrimony with the name, which had at length so identified the two as
to merge the original title of the estate in the quaint and equivocal
appellation of the “House of Usher,”--an appellation which seemed to
include, in the minds of the peasantry who used it, both the family and
the family mansion.

4. I have said that the sole effect of my somewhat childish experiment,
that of looking down within the tarn, had been to deepen the first
singular impression. There can be no doubt that the consciousness of
the rapid increase of my superstition--for why should I not so term
it?--served mainly to accelerate the increase itself. Such, I have
long known, is the paradoxical law of all sentiments having terror as
a basis. And it might have been for this reason only, that, when I
again uplifted my eyes to the house itself from its image in the pool,
there grew in my mind a strange fancy,--a fancy so ridiculous, indeed,
that I but mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which
oppressed me. I had so worked upon my imagination as really to believe
that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an atmosphere
peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity: an atmosphere
which had no affinity with the air of heaven, but which had reeked
up from the decayed trees, and the gray wall, and the silent tarn; a
pestilent and mystic vapor, dull, sluggish, faintly discernible, and
leaden-hued.

5. Shaking off from my spirit what _must_ have been a dream, I scanned
more narrowly the real aspect of the building. Its principal feature
seemed to be that of an excessive antiquity. The discoloration of ages
had been great. Minute fungi overspread the whole exterior, hanging in
a fine tangled web-work from the eaves. Yet all this was apart from any
extraordinary dilapidation. No portion of the masonry had fallen; and
there appeared to be a wild inconsistency between its still perfect
adaptation of parts and the crumbling condition of the individual
stones. In this there was much that reminded me of the specious
totality of old wood-work which has rotted for long years in some
neglected vault, with no disturbance from the breath of the external
air. Beyond this indication of extensive decay, however, the fabric
gave little token of instability. Perhaps the eye of a scrutinizing
observer might have discovered a barely perceptible fissure, which,
extending from the roof of the building in front, made its way down the
wall in a zigzag direction, until it became lost in the sullen waters
of the tarn.

6. Noticing these things, I rode over a short causeway to the house.
A servant in waiting took my horse, and I entered the Gothic archway
of the hall. A valet, of stealthy step, thence conducted me in silence
through many dark and intricate passages in my progress to the studio
of his master. Much that I encountered on the way contributed, I know
not how, to heighten the vague sentiments of which I have already
spoken. While the objects around me--while the carvings of the ceiling,
the sombre tapestries of the walls, the ebon blackness of the floors,
and the phantasmagoric armorial trophies which rattled as I strode,
were but matters of which, or to such as which, I had been accustomed
from my infancy,--while I hesitated not to acknowledge how familiar was
all this, I still wondered to find how unfamiliar were the fancies
which ordinary images were stirring up. On one of the staircases I
met the physician of the family. His countenance, I thought, wore a
mingled expression of low cunning and perplexity. He accosted me with
trepidation and passed on. The valet now threw open a door and ushered
me into the presence of his master.

7. The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty. The
windows were long, narrow, and pointed, and at so vast a distance
from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from
within. Feeble gleams of encrimsoned light made their way through the
trellised panes, and served to render sufficiently distinct the more
prominent objects around; the eye, however, struggled in vain to reach
the remoter angles of the chamber, or the recesses of the vaulted
and fretted ceiling. Dark draperies hung upon the walls. The general
furniture was profuse, comfortless, antique, and tattered. Many books
and musical instruments lay scattered about, but failed to give any
vitality to the scene. I felt that I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow.
An air of stern, deep, and irredeemable gloom hung over and pervaded
all.

8. Upon my entrance, Usher arose from a sofa on which he had been
lying at full length, and greeted me with a vivacious warmth which
had much in it, I at first thought, of an overdone cordiality,--of
the constrained effort of the _ennuyé_ man of the world. A glance,
however, at his countenance, convinced me of his perfect sincerity. We
sat down; and for some moments, while he spoke not, I gazed upon him
with a feeling half of pity, half of awe. Surely man had never before
so terribly altered, in so brief a period, as had Roderick Usher! It
was with difficulty that I could bring myself to admit the identity
of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood.
Yet the character of his face had been at all times remarkable. A
cadaverousness of complexion; an eye large, liquid, and luminous beyond
comparison; lips somewhat thin and very pallid, but of a surpassingly
beautiful curve; a nose of a delicate Hebrew model, but with a breadth
of nostril unusual in similar formations; a finely-moulded chin,
speaking, in its want of prominence, of a want of moral energy; hair
of a more than web-like softness and tenuity,--these features, with
an inordinate expansion above the regions of the temple, made up
altogether a countenance not easily to be forgotten. And now in the
mere exaggeration of the prevailing character of these features, and of
the expression they were wont to convey, lay so much of change that I
doubted to whom I spoke. The now ghastly pallor of the skin, and the
now miraculous lustre of the eye, above all things startled and even
awed me. The silken hair, too, had been suffered to grow all unheeded,
and as, in its wild gossamer texture, it floated rather than fell
about the face, I could not, even with effort, connect its arabesque
expression with any idea of simple humanity.

9. In the manner of my friend I was at once struck with an incoherence,
an inconsistency; and I soon found this to arise from a series of
feeble and futile struggles to overcome an habitual trepidancy, an
excessive nervous agitation. For something of this nature I had indeed
been prepared, no less by his letter than by reminiscences of certain
boyish traits, and by conclusions deduced from his peculiar physical
conformation and temperament. His action was alternately vivacious and
sullen. His voice varied rapidly from a tremulous indecision (when the
animal spirits seemed utterly in abeyance) to that species of energetic
concision--that abrupt, weighty, unhurried, and hollow-sounding
enunciation, that leaden, self-balanced, and perfectly modulated
guttural utterance--which may be observed in the lost drunkard, or the
irreclaimable eater of opium, during the periods of his most intense
excitement.

10. It was thus that he spoke of the object of my visit, of his earnest
desire to see me, and of the solace he expected me to afford him. He
entered at some length into what he conceived to be the nature of his
malady. It was, he said, a constitutional and a family evil, and one
for which he despaired to find a remedy,--a mere nervous affection, he
immediately added, which would undoubtedly soon pass off. It displayed
itself in a host of unnatural sensations. Some of these, as he detailed
them, interested and bewildered me; although, perhaps, the terms and
the general manner of the narration had their weight. He suffered much
from a morbid acuteness of the senses; the most insipid food was alone
endurable; he could wear only garments of certain texture; the odors
of all flowers were oppressive; his eyes were tortured by even a faint
light; and there were but peculiar sounds, and these from stringed
instruments, which did not inspire him with horror.

11. To an anomalous species of terror I found him a bounden slave. “I
shall perish,” said he, “I _must_ perish in this deplorable folly.
Thus, thus, and not otherwise, shall I be lost. I dread the events of
the future, not in themselves, but in their results. I shudder at the
thought of any, even the most trivial, incident, which may operate upon
this intolerable agitation of soul. I have, indeed, no abhorrence of
danger, except in its absolute effect,--in terror. In this unnerved, in
this pitiable condition, I feel that the period will sooner or later
arrive when I must abandon life and reason together in some struggle
with the grim phantasm, FEAR.”

12. I learned moreover at intervals, and through broken and equivocal
hints, another singular feature of his mental condition. He was
enchained by certain superstitious impressions in regard to the
dwelling which he tenanted, and whence for many years he had never
ventured forth, in regard to an influence whose supposititious force
was conveyed in terms too shadowy here to be restated,--an influence
which some peculiarities in the mere form and substance of his family
mansion had, by dint of long sufferance, he said, obtained over his
spirit; an effect which the physique of the gray walls and turrets, and
of the dim tarn into which they all looked down, had at length brought
about upon the morale of his existence.

13. He admitted, however, although with hesitation, that much of the
peculiar gloom which thus afflicted him could be traced to a more
natural and far more palpable origin,--to the severe and long-continued
illness, indeed to the evidently approaching dissolution, of a tenderly
beloved sister, his sole companion for long years, his last and only
relative on earth. “Her decease,” he said, with a bitterness which I
can never forget, “would leave him (him, the hopeless and the frail)
the last of the ancient race of the Ushers.” While he spoke, the lady
Madeline (for so was she called) passed slowly through a remote portion
of the apartment, and, without having noticed my presence, disappeared.
I regarded her with an utter astonishment not unmingled with dread, and
yet I found it impossible to account for such feelings. A sensation of
stupor oppressed me, as my eyes followed her retreating steps. When a
door, at length, closed upon her, my glance sought instinctively and
eagerly the countenance of the brother; but he had buried his face in
his hands, and I could only perceive that a far more than ordinary
wanness had overspread the emaciated fingers through which trickled
many passionate tears.

14. The disease of the lady Madeline had long baffled the skill of her
physicians. A settled apathy, a gradual wasting away of the person,
and frequent although transient affections of a partially cataleptical
character, were the unusual diagnosis. Hitherto she had steadily borne
up against the pressure of her malady, and had not betaken herself
finally to bed: but, on the closing-in of the evening of my arrival
at the house, she succumbed (as her brother told me at night with
inexpressible agitation) to the prostrating power of the destroyer; and
I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus
probably be the last I should obtain,--that the lady, at least while
living, would be seen by me no more.

15. For several days ensuing, her name was unmentioned by either Usher
or myself; and during this period I was busied in earnest endeavors to
alleviate the melancholy of my friend. We painted and read together; or
I listened, as if in a dream, to the wild improvisation of his speaking
guitar. And thus, as a closer and still closer intimacy admitted me
more unreservedly into the recesses of his spirit, the more bitterly
did I perceive the futility of all attempt at cheering a mind from
which darkness, as if an inherent positive quality, poured forth upon
all objects of the moral and physical universe, in one unceasing
radiation of gloom.

16. I shall ever bear about me a memory of the many solemn hours I
thus spent alone with the master of the House of Usher. Yet I should
fail in any attempt to convey an idea of the exact character of the
studies, or of the occupations, in which he involved me, or led me the
way. An excited and highly distempered ideality threw a sulphureous
lustre over all. His long, improvised dirges will ring forever in my
ears. Among other things, I hold painfully in mind a certain singular
perversion and amplification of the wild air of the last waltz of Von
Weber. From the paintings over which his elaborate fancy brooded,
and which grew, touch by touch, into vaguenesses at which I shuddered
the more thrillingly because I shuddered knowing not why,--from these
paintings (vivid as their images now are before me) I would in vain
endeavor to educe more than a small portion which should lie within
the compass of merely written words. By the utter simplicity, by the
nakedness of his designs, he arrested and overawed attention. If ever
mortal painted an idea, that mortal was Roderick Usher. For me at
least, in the circumstances then surrounding me, there arose, out of
the pure abstractions which the hypochondriac contrived to throw upon
his canvas, an intensity of intolerable awe, no shadow of which felt I
ever yet in the contemplation of the certainly glowing yet too concrete
reveries of Fuseli.

17. One of the phantasmagoric conceptions of my friend, partaking
not so rigidly of the spirit of abstraction, may be shadowed forth,
although feebly, in words. A small picture presented the interior of an
immensely long and rectangular vault or tunnel, with low walls, smooth,
white, and without interruption or device. Certain accessory points
of the design served well to convey the idea that this excavation
lay at an exceeding depth below the surface of the earth. No outlet
was observed in any portion of its vast extent, and no torch, or
other artificial source of light, was discernible; yet a flood of
intense rays rolled throughout, and bathed the whole in a ghastly and
inappropriate splendor.

18. I have just spoken of that morbid condition of the auditory
nerve which rendered all music intolerable to the sufferer, with the
exception of certain effects of stringed instruments. It was, perhaps,
the narrow limits to which he thus confined himself upon the guitar,
which gave birth, in great measure, to the fantastic character of his
performances. But the fervid _facility_ of his impromptus could not
be so accounted for. They must have been, and were, in the notes as
well as in the words of his wild fantasias (for he not unfrequently
accompanied himself with rhymed verbal improvisations), the result of
that intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have
previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of the
highest artificial excitement. The words of one of these rhapsodies I
have easily remembered. I was, perhaps, the more forcibly impressed
with it as he gave it, because, in the under or mystic current of its
meaning, I fancied that I perceived, and for the first time, a full
consciousness, on the part of Usher, of the tottering of his lofty
reason upon her throne. The verses, which were entitled “The Haunted
Palace,” ran very nearly, if not accurately, thus:--


                                  I.

                  In the greenest of our valleys
                    By good angels tenanted,
                  Once a fair and stately palace--
                    Radiant palace--reared its head.
                  In the monarch Thought’s dominion,
                    It stood there;
                  Never seraph spread a pinion
                    Over fabric half so fair.


                                  II.

                  Banners yellow, glorious, golden,
                    On its roof did float and flow
                  (This--all this--was in the olden
                    Time long ago),
                  And every gentle air that dallied,
                    In that sweet day,
                  Along the ramparts plumed and pallid,
                    A winged odor went away.


                                 III.

                  Wanderers in that happy valley
                    Through two luminous windows saw
                  Spirits moving musically
                    To a lute’s well-tunèd law,
                  Round about a throne, where sitting,
                    Porphyrogene,
                  In state his glory well befitting,
                    The ruler of the realm was seen.


                                  IV.

                  And all with pearl and ruby glowing
                    Was the fair palace door,
                  Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing,
                    And sparkling evermore,
                  A troop of Echoes, whose sweet duty
                    Was but to sing,
                  In voices of surpassing beauty,
                    The wit and wisdom of their king.


                                  V.

                  But evil things, in robes of sorrow,
                    Assailed the monarch’s high estate;
                  (Ah, let us mourn, for never morrow
                    Shall dawn upon him, desolate!)
                  And, round about his home, the glory
                    That blushed and bloomed
                  Is but a dim-remembered story
                    Of the old time entombed.


                                  VI.

                  And travellers now within that valley
                    Through the red-litten windows see
                  Vast forms that move fantastically
                    To a discordant melody;
                  While, like a ghastly rapid river,
                    Through the pale door,
                  A hideous throng rush out forever,
                    And laugh--but smile no more.


19. I well remember that suggestions arising from this ballad led us
into a train of thought, wherein there became manifest an opinion of
Usher’s which I mention, not so much on account of its novelty (for
other men have thought thus) as on account of the pertinacity with
which he maintained it. This opinion, in its general form, was that of
the sentience of all vegetable things. But in his disordered fancy,
the idea had assumed a more daring character, and trespassed, under
certain conditions, upon the kingdom of inorganization. I lack words
to express the full extent or the earnest _abandon_ of his persuasion.
The belief, however, was connected (as I have previously hinted) with
the gray stones of the home of his forefathers. The conditions of
the sentience had been here, he imagined, fulfilled in the method of
collocation of these stones,--in the order of their arrangement, as
well as in that of the many fungi which overspread them, and of the
decayed trees which stood around; above all, in the long undisturbed
endurance of this arrangement, and in its reduplication in the still
waters of the tarn. Its evidence--the evidence of the sentience--was to
be seen, he said (and I here started as he spoke), in the gradual yet
certain condensation of an atmosphere of their own about the waters and
the walls. The result was discoverable, he added, in that silent yet
importunate and terrible influence which for centuries had moulded the
destinies of his family, and which made _him_ what I now saw him,--what
he was. Such opinions need no comment, and I will make none.

20. Our books--the books which for years had formed no small portion
of the mental existence of the invalid--were, as might be supposed, in
strict keeping with this character of phantasm. We pored together over
such works as the Ververt and Chartreuse of Gresset; the Belphegor of
Machiavelli; the Heaven and Hell of Swedenborg; the Subterranean Voyage
of Nicholas Klimm by Holberg; the Chiromancy of Robert Flud, of Jean
D’Indaginé, and of De la Chambre; the Journey into the Blue Distance
of Tieck; and the City of the Sun of Campanella. One favorite volume
was a small octavo edition of the _Directorium Inquisitorum_, by the
Dominican Eymeric de Gironne; and there were passages in Pomponius
Mela, about the old African Satyrs and Ægipans, over which Usher would
sit dreaming for hours. His chief delight, however, was found in the
perusal of an exceedingly rare and curious book in quarto Gothic,--the
manual of a forgotten church,--the _Vigilæ Mortuorum secundum Chorum
Ecclesiæ Maguntinæ_.

21. I could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work, and of
its probable influence on the hypochondriac, when one evening, having
informed me abruptly that the lady Madeline was no more, he stated
his intention of preserving her corpse for a fortnight (previously
to its final interment), in one of the numerous vaults within the
main walls of the building. The worldly reason, however, assigned for
this singular proceeding was one which I did not feel at liberty to
dispute. The brother had been led to his resolution (so he told me) by
consideration of the unusual character of the malady of the deceased,
of certain obtrusive and eager inquiries on the part of her medical
men, and of the remote and exposed situation of the burial-ground of
the family. I will not deny that when I called to mind the sinister
countenance of the person whom I met upon the staircase, on the day of
my arrival at the house, I had no desire to oppose what I regarded as
at best but a harmless, and by no means an unnatural, precaution.

22. At the request of Usher, I personally aided him in the arrangements
for the temporary entombment. The body having been encoffined, we two
alone bore it to its rest. The vault in which we placed it (and which
had been so long unopened that our torches, half smothered in its
oppressive atmosphere, gave us little opportunity for investigation)
was small, damp, and entirely without means of admission for light;
lying, at great depth, immediately beneath that portion of the building
in which was my own sleeping apartment. It had been used apparently,
in remote feudal times, for the worst purposes of a donjon-keep,
and in later days as a place of deposit for powder, or some other
highly combustible substance, as a portion of its floor, and the
whole interior of a long archway through which we reached it, were
carefully sheathed with copper. The door, of massive iron, had been
also similarly protected. Its immense weight caused an unusually sharp
grating sound as it moved upon its hinges.

23. Having deposited our mournful burden upon tressels within this
region of horror, we partially turned aside the yet unscrewed lid
of the coffin, and looked upon the face of the tenant. A striking
similitude between the brother and sister now first arrested my
attention; and Usher, divining, perhaps, my thoughts, murmured out some
few words from which I learned that the deceased and himself had been
twins, and that sympathies of a scarcely intelligible nature had always
existed between them. Our glances, however, rested not long upon the
dead, for we could not regard her unawed. The disease which had thus
entombed the lady in the maturity of youth, had left, as usual in all
maladies of a strictly cataleptical character, the mockery of a faint
blush upon the bosom and the face, and that suspiciously lingering
smile upon the lip which is so terrible in death. We replaced and
screwed down the lid, and having secured the door of iron, made our
way, with toil, into the scarcely less gloomy apartments of the upper
portion of the house.

24. And now, some days of bitter grief having elapsed, an observable
change came over the features of the mental disorder of my friend. His
ordinary manner had vanished. His ordinary occupations were neglected
or forgotten. He roamed from chamber to chamber with hurried, unequal,
and objectless step. The pallor of his countenance had assumed, if
possible, a more ghastly hue, but the luminousness of his eye had
utterly gone out. The once occasional huskiness of his tone was heard
no more; and a tremulous quaver, as if of extreme terror, habitually
characterized his utterance. There were times, indeed, when I thought
his unceasingly agitated mind was laboring with some oppressive secret,
to divulge which he struggled for the necessary courage. At times,
again, I was obliged to resolve all into the mere inexplicable vagaries
of madness, for I beheld him gazing upon vacancy for long hours, in
an attitude of the profoundest attention, as if listening to some
imaginary sound. It was no wonder that his condition terrified--that it
infected me. I felt creeping upon me, by slow yet certain degrees, the
wild influences of his own fantastic yet impressive superstitions.

25. It was, especially, upon retiring to bed late in the night of the
seventh or eighth day after the placing of the lady Madeline within
the donjon, that I experienced the full power of such feelings. Sleep
came not near my couch, while the hours waned and waned away. I
struggled to reason off the nervousness which had dominion over me. I
endeavored to believe that much if not all of what I felt was due to
the bewildering influence of the gloomy furniture of the room,--of the
dark and tattered draperies which, tortured into motion by the breath
of a rising tempest, swayed fitfully to and fro upon the walls, and
rustled uneasily about the decorations of the bed. But my efforts were
fruitless. An irrepressible tremor gradually pervaded my frame; and at
length there sat upon my very heart an incubus of utterly causeless
alarm. Shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle, I uplifted myself
upon the pillows, and, peering earnestly within the intense darkness
of the chamber, hearkened--I know not why, except that an instinctive
spirit prompted me--to certain low and indefinite sounds which came,
through the pauses of the storm, at long intervals, I knew not whence.
Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror, unaccountable yet
unendurable, I threw on my clothes with haste (for I felt that I should
sleep no more during the night), and endeavored to arouse myself from
the pitiable condition into which I had fallen, by pacing rapidly to
and fro through the apartment.

26. I had taken but a few turns in this manner, when a light step on an
adjoining staircase arrested my attention. I presently recognized it as
that of Usher. In an instant afterward he rapped with a gentle touch at
my door, and entered, bearing a lamp. His countenance was, as usual,
cadaverously wan--but, moreover, there was a species of mad hilarity in
his eyes,--an evidently restrained hysteria in his whole demeanor. His
air appalled me--but anything was preferable to the solitude which I
had so long endured, and I even welcomed his presence as a relief.

27. “And you have not seen it?” he said abruptly, after having stared
about him for some moments in silence,--“you have not then seen
it?--but, stay! you shall.” Thus speaking, and having carefully shaded
his lamp, he hurried to one of the casements, and threw it freely open
to the storm.

28. The impetuous fury of the entering gust nearly lifted us from our
feet. It was, indeed, a tempestuous yet sternly beautiful night, and
one wildly singular in its terror and its beauty. A whirlwind had
apparently collected its force in our vicinity, for there were frequent
and violent alterations in the direction of the wind; and the exceeding
density of the clouds (which hung so low as to press upon the turrets
of the house) did not prevent our perceiving the life-like velocity
with which they flew careering from all points against each other,
without passing away into the distance. I say that even their exceeding
density did not prevent our perceiving this; yet we had no glimpse of
the moon or stars, nor was there any flashing forth of the lightning.
But the under surfaces of the huge masses of agitated vapor, as well
as all terrestrial objects immediately around us, were glowing in the
unnatural light of a faintly luminous and distinctly visible gaseous
exhalation which hung about and enshrouded the mansion.

29. “You must not--you shall not behold this!” said I shudderingly, to
Usher, as I led him with a gentle violence from the window to a seat.
“These appearances, which bewilder you, are merely electrical phenomena
not uncommon--or it may be that they have their ghastly origin in
the rank miasma of the tarn. Let us close this casement; the air is
chilling and dangerous to your frame. Here is one of your favorite
romances. I will read, and you shall listen;--and so we will pass away
this terrible night together.”

30. The antique volume which I had taken up was the “Mad Trist” of
Sir Launcelot Canning; but I had called it a favorite of Usher’s more
in sad jest than in earnest; for, in truth, there is little in its
uncouth and unimaginative prolixity which could have had interest for
the lofty and spiritual ideality of my friend. It was, however, the
only book immediately at hand; and I indulged a vague hope that the
excitement which now agitated the hypochondriac might find relief (for
the history of mental disorder is full of similar anomalies) even
in the extremeness of the folly which I should read. Could I have
judged, indeed, by the wild, overstrained air of vivacity with which he
hearkened, or apparently hearkened, to the words of the tale, I might
well have congratulated myself upon the success of my design.

31. I had arrived at that well-known portion of the story where
Ethelred, the hero of the Trist, having sought in vain for peaceable
admission into the dwelling of the hermit, proceeds to make good an
entrance by force. Here, it will be remembered, the words of the
narrative run thus:--

32. “And Ethelred, who was by nature of a doughty heart, and who was
now mighty withal on account of the powerfulness of the wine which he
had drunken, waited no longer to hold parley with the hermit, who, in
sooth, was of an obstinate and maliceful turn, but, feeling the rain
upon his shoulders, and fearing the rising of the tempest, uplifted
his mace outright and with blows made quickly room in the plankings of
the door for his gauntleted hand; and now, pulling therewith sturdily,
he so cracked, and ripped, and tore all asunder, that the noise of the
dry and hollow-sounding wood alarumed and reverberated throughout the
forest.”

33. At the termination of this sentence I started, and for a moment
paused; for it appeared to me (although I at once concluded that my
excited fancy had deceived me)--it appeared to me that from some very
remote portion of the mansion there came, indistinctly, to my ears,
what might have been in its exact similarity of character the echo (but
a stifled and dull one certainly) of the very cracking and ripping
sound which Sir Launcelot had so particularly described. It was, beyond
doubt, the coincidence alone which had arrested my attention; for,
amid the rattling of the sashes of the casements, and the ordinary
commingled noises of the still increasing storm, the sound, in itself,
had nothing, surely, which should have interested or disturbed me. I
continued the story:--

34. “But the good champion Ethelred, now entering within the door, was
so enraged and amazed to perceive no signal of the maliceful hermit;
but, in the stead thereof, a dragon of a scaly and prodigious demeanor,
and of a fiery tongue, which sate in guard before a palace with a floor
of silver; and upon the wall there hung a shield of shining brass with
this legend enwritten:--

      Who entereth herein, a conqueror hath bin;
      Who slayeth the dragon, the shield he shall win.

And Ethelred uplifted his mace, struck upon the head of the dragon,
which fell before him, and gave up his pesty breath, with a shriek so
horrid and harsh, and withal so piercing, that Ethelred had fain to
close his ears with his hands against the dreadful noise of it, the
like whereof was never before heard.”

35. Here again I paused abruptly, and now with a feeling of wild
amazement, for there could be no doubt whatever that, in this instance,
I did actually hear (although from what direction it proceeded I
found it impossible to say) a low and apparently distant, but harsh,
protracted, and most unusual screaming or grating sound,--the exact
counterpart of what my fancy had already conjured up for the dragon’s
unnatural shriek as described by the romancer.

36. Oppressed as I certainly was, upon the occurrence of this second
and most extraordinary coincidence, by a thousand conflicting
sensations, in which wonder and extreme terror were predominant, I
still retained sufficient presence of mind to avoid exciting, by any
observation, the sensitive nervousness of my companion. I was by no
means certain that he had noticed the sounds in question; although,
assuredly, a strange alteration had during the last few minutes
taken place in his demeanor. From a position fronting my own, he had
gradually brought round his chair, so as to sit with his face to the
door of the chamber; and thus I could but partially perceive his
features, although I saw that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring
inaudibly. His head had dropped upon his breast; yet I knew that he was
not asleep, from the wide and rigid opening of the eye as I caught a
glance of it in profile. The motion of his body, too, was at variance
with this idea, for he rocked from side to side with a gentle yet
constant and uniform sway. Having rapidly taken notice of all this, I
resumed the narrative of Sir Launcelot, which thus proceeded:--

37. “And now the champion, having escaped from the terrible fury of the
dragon, bethinking himself of the brazen shield, and of the breaking up
of the enchantment which was upon it, removed the carcass from out of
the way before him, and approached valorously over the silver pavement
of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall; which in sooth
tarried not for his full coming, but fell down at his feet upon the
silver floor, with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound.”

38. No sooner had these syllables passed my lips than--as if a shield
of brass had indeed, at the moment, fallen heavily upon a floor of
silver--I became aware of a distinct, hollow, metallic, and clangorous
yet apparently muffled reverberation. Completely unnerved, I leaped to
my feet; but the measured rocking movement of Usher was undisturbed.
I rushed to the chair in which he sat. His eyes were bent fixedly
before him, and throughout his whole countenance there reigned a stony
rigidity. But, as I placed my hand upon his shoulder, there came a
strong shudder over his whole person; a sickly smile quivered about his
lips; and I saw that he spoke in a low, hurried, and gibbering murmur,
as if unconscious of my presence. Bending closely over him, I at length
drank in the hideous import of his words.

39. “Not hear it?--yes, I hear it, and _have_ heard it.
Long--long--long--many minutes, many hours, many days, have I heard
it, yet I dared not--oh, pity me, miserable wretch that I am!--I
dared not--I _dared_ not speak! _We have put her living in the
tomb!_ Said I not that my senses were acute? I _now_ tell you that
I heard her first feeble movements in the hollow coffin. I heard
them--many, many days ago--yet I dared not--_I dared not speak!_ And
now--to-night--Ethelred--ha! ha!--the breaking of the hermit’s door,
and the death-cry of the dragon, and the clangor of the shield!--say
rather, the rending of her coffin, and the grating of the iron hinges
of her prison, and her struggles within the coppered archway of the
vault! Oh, whither shall I fly? Will she not be here anon? Is she not
hurrying to upbraid me for my haste? Have I not heard her footsteps
on the stair? Do I not distinguish that heavy and horrible beating
of her heart? Madman!”--here he sprang furiously to his feet, and
shrieked out his syllables, as if in the effort he were giving up his
soul--“_Madman! I tell you that she now stands without the door!_”

40. As if in the superhuman energy of his utterance there had been
found the potency of a spell, the huge antique panels to which the
speaker pointed threw slowly back, upon the instant, their ponderous
and ebony jaws. It was the work of the rushing gust--but then without
those doors there _did_ stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of the
lady Madeline of Usher! There was blood upon her white robes, and the
evidence of some bitter struggle upon every portion of her emaciated
frame. For a moment she remained trembling and reeling to and fro upon
the threshold--then, with a low moaning cry, fell heavily inward upon
the person of her brother, and, in her violent and now final death
agonies, bore him to the floor a corpse, and a victim to the terrors he
had anticipated.

41. From that chamber and from that mansion I fled aghast. The storm
was still abroad in all its wrath as I found myself crossing the old
causeway. Suddenly there shot along the path a wild light, and I turned
to see whence a gleam so unusual could have issued; for the vast house
and its shadows were alone behind me. The radiance was that of the
full, setting, and blood-red moon, which now shone vividly through that
once barely discernible fissure, of which I have before spoken as
extending from the roof of the building, in a zigzag direction, to the
base. While I gazed, this fissure rapidly widened--there came a fierce
breath of the whirlwind--the entire orb of the satellite burst at
once upon my sight--my brain reeled as I saw the mighty walls rushing
asunder--there was a long, tumultuous shouting sound like the voice
of a thousand waters--and the deep and dank tarn at my feet closed
sullenly and silently over the fragments of the “_House of Usher_.”


                    SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS FOR STUDY

1. State as briefly as possible the impression made upon you by the
story under consideration.

2. Cite passages which are most effective in making this impression.

3. Do you find any jarring elements which tend to mar the single
impression?

4. Does the story approach any types besides that of the
impressionistic?

5. Mention any weak points you discover.

6. Write about three hundred words on the merits of the story.

7. Try to find an impressionistic story in some present-day magazine.

8. Criticise Poe’s language, in general and in particular.

9. Would either of these stories be popular if written to-day by an
unknown author?

10. Would cutting improve either of these stories? If so, say where.

11. Compare Hawthorne’s style with that of Poe.

12. Which story do you prefer, and why?


              TEN REPRESENTATIVE IMPRESSIONISTIC STORIES

“The Luck of Roaring Camp,” Bret Harte, in _The Luck of Roaring
Camp and Other Stories_.

“The Father,” Björnstjerne Björnson, translated in _Stories by
Foreign Authors, Scandinavian_.

“A Journey,” Edith Wharton, in _The Greater Inclination_.

“The Brushwood Boy,” Rudyard Kipling, in _The Day’s Work_.

“The Great Stone Face,” Nathaniel Hawthorne, in _The Snow-Image and
Other Twice-Told Tales_.

“A Passion in the Desert,” Honoré de Balzac, translated in _Little
French Masterpieces, Balzac_.

“The Pit and the Pendulum,” Edgar Allan Poe, in _Tales_.

“The Silent Woman,” Leopold Kompert, translated in _Modern Ghosts_.

“Jesus Christ in Flanders,” Honoré de Balzac, translated in _Little
French Masterpieces, Balzac_.

“Silence,” Leonid Andreyev, translated in _Short-Story
Masterpieces_.




                                  VII
                           CHARACTER STUDIES

               _The Piece of String._--GUY DE MAUPASSANT
                  _The Substitute._--FRANÇOIS COPPÉE


    Most of us, in actual life, are accustomed to distinguish people
    who are worth our while from people who are not; and those of us
    who live advisedly are accustomed to shield ourselves from people
    who cannot, by the mere fact of what they are, repay us for the
    expenditure of time and energy we should have to make to know
    them. And whenever a friend of ours asks us deliberately to meet
    another friend of his, we take it for granted that our friend has
    reasons for believing that the acquaintanceship will be of benefit
    or of interest to both. Now the novelist stands in the position
    of a friend who asks us to meet certain people whom he knows; and
    he runs the risk of our losing faith in his judgment unless we
    find his people worth our while.... He ... owes us an assurance
    that they shall be even more worth while than the average actual
    person.--CLAYTON HAMILTON, _Materials and Methods of Fiction_.


                           CHARACTER STUDIES

A character-study, whether in the form of a sketch, a tale, or a
short-story, attempts to reveal individual human nature by the
unfolding of the story.

In the sketch it will be a photograph of character in a striking mood,
under stress of emotion, or just before, or during, or after a crisis
that is peculiarly suited to showing either the full character or one
of its interesting phases. Some photographs consist of bold masses of
light and shade, others are so handled as to bring out a multitude
of details. The sketch allows in a literary way the same methods of
treatment, but the typical sketch avoids unnecessary minutiæ.

The tale is also a photograph, but instead of being a single stationary
picture, it is a moving-picture, delineating character by a chain of
incidents which allow us to see what the characters are by what they
do. True to the type of the tale, it does not deal with character
crisis, but merely reveals character in a series of illuminating deeds.

In the character short-story the author’s method is more complicated,
for the whole mechanism of the story--introduction, plot, dialogue,
and conclusion--are designed to show us the characters under stress
of emotion and the results of that emotional arousement. We learn
the characters of the characters--for there is a distinction here--by
seeing how they act upon each other, how they solve problems, how they
meet the crises of life--what effect trouble or joy has upon them--and
the final outcome of it all. It is like studying a human being while
he is being subjected to a test, and observing the development of his
character, or its failure to stand the test, in that critical moment.

By this it will be seen that a character-study is a story with a
purpose--a purpose deeper than that of affording entertainment from the
plot. The finest stories are those which so interest us in the action,
or plot, of the story proper that the profound character disclosures
and changes are borne in upon us while we are watching the progress of
the story. It is this subtle balance of narrative and character-study
which presents the story-teller’s art at its best.


                          THE PIECE OF STRING
                             (LA FICELLE)

                         BY GUY DE MAUPASSANT

                      _Translation by The Editor_

[Sidenote: Introduction.]

[Sidenote: Establishes the general setting, and station in life of the
characters.]

[Sidenote: Minute observation.]

On all the roads around Goderville the peasants and their wives were
coming towards the town, for it was market-day. The men swung along at
an easy gait, their whole bodies swaying forward with every movement
of their long, twisted legs--legs misshapen by hard work: by holding
down the plough, which throws up the left shoulder while it deforms
the figure; by mowing grain, the effort of which spreads the knees too
wide apart to permit them to stand quite steady; by all the tedious
and laborious tasks of the fields. Their blue blouses, starched and
glossy as though varnished, and decorated at collar and cuffs with neat
designs in white stitching, puffed out about their bony forms just like
balloons all ready to rise, from which protruded a head, two arms, and
two legs.

[Sidenote: Characterization.]

[Sidenote: Local-color by character description.]

2. Some of the men were leading a cow or a calf at the end of a rope.
Following close behind, the wives switched the animals over the back
with branches still covered with leaves, in order to quicken their
pace. The women carried on their arms great baskets from which the
heads of chickens and ducks protruded, and they walked with a shorter,
quicker step than the men--each withered figure erect and wrapped in a
scanty little shawl pinned across her flat bosom, each head done up in
a white cloth, bound close about the hair and surmounted by a cap.

3. Now a wagonette passed, drawn by a nag at a fitful trot, grotesquely
shaking up the two men seated side by side, and the woman in the back
of the vehicle, who clutched its sides to lessen the rough jolting.

[Sidenote: Local-color.]

4. In the Goderville market-place there was a great crowd--a medley of
man and beast. The horns of the cattle, the high, long-napped hats of
the prosperous peasants, and the head-dresses of the women, rose above
the level of the throng. And the voices--sharp, shrill, squawking--rose
in a wild, incessant clamor, which was dominated now and then by a
great guffaw of laughter emitted from the robust chest of some sturdy
bumpkin, or by the long-drawn-out lowing of a cow tethered to the wall
of a house.

5. Everything there smelled of the stable--the milk, the manure, the
hay, the sweat, gave forth that acrid, offensive odor of man and animal
so peculiar to dwellers of the fields.

[Sidenote: CHIEF CHARACTER.]

[Sidenote: The Normans are said to be typically “ambitious, positive,
bold, tricky, economical.”]

[Sidenote: FOUNDATION PLOT INCIDENT.]

[Sidenote: CHIEF COMPLICATION.]

[Sidenote: RESULTANT COMPLICATION.]

6. Master Hauchecorne, of Bréauté, had just arrived at Goderville,
and was moving toward the square, when he observed a little piece
of string on the ground. Economical, like a true Norman, Master
Hauchecorne thought that everything which could be used was worth
saving; so he stooped down painfully, for he suffered from rheumatism,
picked up from the dirt the insignificant scrap of twine, and was
just about to roll it up with care when he noticed Master Malandin,
the harness-maker, standing on his doorstep looking at him. Once the
two men had had a difference over the matter of a halter, and ever
since they had remained angry with each other, cherishing their spite.
Master Hauchecorne was seized with a sort of shame at having his
enemy thus see him searching in the mud for a mere scrap of string.
He therefore hastily hid away his find in his blouse, and then in his
breeches-pocket. At the same time he pretended to be still searching
in the dirt for something which he had not been able to find. Finally
he moved on toward the market-place, his head thrust forward, his body
bent double by his pains.

[Sidenote: Local-color.]

[Sidenote: See note on ¶6.]

7. In a moment he was lost in the slowly shifting, noisy throng,
agitated by its own constant chafferings. The peasants felt of the
cows, turned away, came back again, much puzzled--always fearful of
being over-reached in the bargain, never reaching a decision, watching
the eye of the vendor, seeking ever to unmask the ruse of the man and
the defect in his animal.

8. The women, having set their huge baskets at their feet, took out
their poultry, which they laid on the ground with legs tied together,
terror-stricken eyes, and scarlet combs.

9. They listened to offers, maintaining their price with a keen air but
impassive face, or else suddenly deciding to take the counter offer,
crying out to the slowly retreating customer:

10. “It’s settled, Master Anthime, I’ll give them to you!”

11. At length, little by little, the square became empty, and when the
Angelus sounded noon, those who lived too far away to go home repaired
to the inns.

[Sidenote: Setting for main crisis.]

12. At Jourdain’s, the large hall was crowded with diners, while the
great courtyard was full of vehicles of every sort--carts, gigs,
wagonettes, tilburies, traps, nameless carriages, yellow with mud,
shapeless, patched, shafts pointing to heaven like two arms, or with
noses in the ground and backs in the air.

13. Right opposite the diners at table, the immense fireplace, all
brightly aflame, cast a lively warmth on the backs of those ranged
along the right. Three spits were turning, laden with chickens,
pigeons, and legs of mutton; and a delectable odor of roasting meat,
and of juices streaming over the browned skin, rose from the hearth,
kindled good humor and made everyone’s mouth water.

[Sidenote: Note how the author gathers the people to witness the
crisis.]

[Sidenote: _Maît’_--colloquial abbreviation for _Maître_, equal here to
“Mine Host.”]

14. All the aristocracy of the plough were eating there, at _Maît’
Jourdain’s_, inn-keeper and horse-trader--a sly fellow who had made
money.

15. The dishes went round, and, like the jugs of yellow cider, were
emptied. Everyone told of his affairs: his sales and his purchases.
They exchanged news of the crops--the weather was good for vegetables,
but a trifle wet for wheat.

[Sidenote: Approach of crisis.]

[Sidenote: Typical of their class.]

16. Suddenly the roll of a drum sounded in the courtyard before the
house. Instantly everyone was on his feet, save a few indifferent ones,
and ran to the door or to the windows, with mouth still full and napkin
in hand.

17. After the public crier had ended his tattoo, he shouted out in a
jerky voice, making his pauses at the wrong time:

[Sidenote: Preparation for crisis.]

18. “Be it known to the people of Goderville, and in general to
all--persons present at the market, that there was lost this morning,
upon the Beuzeville road between--nine and ten o’clock, a black leather
pocketbook, containing five hundred francs and some business papers.
You are requested to return it--to the mayor’s office, without delay,
or to Master Fortuné Houlbrèque of Manneville. There will be twenty
francs reward.”

19. Then the man went away. Once again was heard afar the muffled roll
of the drum and the faint voice of the crier.

20. Then they began to talk over the incident, estimating the
chances Master Houlbrèque had of recovering or of not recovering his
pocketbook. Meanwhile the meal went on.

21. They were finishing coffee when the corporal of gendarmes appeared
in the doorway.

22. He asked:

[Sidenote: Closer approach of crisis.]

23. “Master Hauchecorne of Bréauté--is he here?”

24. Master Hauchecorne, who was seated at the other end of the table,
replied:

25. “That’s me.”

26. And the corporal replied:

27. “Master Hauchecorne, will you have the goodness to go with me to
the mayor’s office. _Monsieur le maire_ would like to speak with you.”

[Sidenote: Note how throughout the author emphasizes physical
characteristics as indicating character.]

[Sidenote: Minute observation.]

28. The peasant--surprised, disturbed--drained his glass at a gulp,
got up, and, more doubled up than in the morning, because the first
steps after a rest were always particularly difficult, he started off,
repeating:

29. “That’s me, that’s me,” and he followed the corporal.

30. The mayor was awaiting him, seated in an armchair. He was the
notary of the place, a large man, grave, and pompous in speech.

[Sidenote: FULL CRISIS.]

31. “Master Hauchecorne,” said he, “you were seen to pick up this
morning, on the Beuzeville road, the pocketbook lost by Master
Houlbrèque, of Manneville.”

32. The countryman, speechless, stared at the mayor, already terrified
by this suspicion which rested upon him without his understanding why.

33. “Me, me, I picked up that pocketbook?”

34. “Yes, exactly you.”

35. “Word of honor, I ain’t even so much as seen it.”

36. “You were seen.”

37. “They saw me, me? Who’s it 'as seen me?”

[Sidenote: Note how the complication is involved by personal prejudice.]

38. “Monsieur Malandin, the harness-maker.”

39. Then the old man remembered, and understood. Reddening with rage,
he cried:

40. “Ah! he saw me, that cad! He saw me pick up this here string--look,
_m’sieu le maire_.”

41. And, fumbling at the bottom of his pocket, he pulled out the little
bit of cord.

42. But the mayor, incredulous, shook his head.

43. “You will not make me believe, Master Hauchecorne, that Monsieur
Malandin, who is a man worthy of belief, has mistaken that bit of
string for a pocketbook.”

44. The peasant, furious, raised his hand and spat to one side, thus to
attest his honor, repeating:

45. “All the same it’s the truth of the good God, the holy truth,
_m’sieu le maire_. There! Upon my soul and my salvation, I say it
again.”

46. The mayor replied:

[Sidenote: Circumstantial evidence. The miser’s character helps condemn
him unjustly.]

47. “After having picked the thing up, you even hunted a long time in
the mud to see if some piece of money had not fallen out.”

48. The good man choked with indignation and fear.

49. “How can anyone tell--how can anyone tell--lies like that to
misrepresent an honest man! How can anyone tell--”

50. However he might protest, no one believed him.

51. He was confronted with Monsieur Malandin, who repeated and
sustained his affirmation. They railed at each other for a whole hour.
At his own request, Master Hauchecorne was searched. They found nothing
upon him.

[Sidenote: Suspense.]

52. At last, the mayor, greatly perplexed, sent him away, with the
warning that he would advise the public prosecutor, and ask for orders.

53. The news had spread. When he came out of the mayor’s office the
old man was surrounded and questioned with a curiosity either serious
or bantering, but into which not the least indignation entered. And he
began to recount the history of the piece of string. No one believed
him. They laughed.

[Sidenote: Tone of story.]

54. He went on, halted by everyone, stopping his acquaintances,
renewing endlessly his recital and his protestations, showing his
pockets turned inside out to prove that he had nothing.

[Sidenote: Note Maupassant’s use of the short paragraph.]

55. They said to him:

56. “G’long, you old rascal!”

57. And he grew angry, working himself into exasperation, into a fever,
desperate at not being believed, not knowing what to do, and always
repeating his story.

58. Night came on. He must go home. He started out with three
neighbors to whom he showed the place where he had picked up the piece
of string; and all along the road he kept talking of his adventure.

59. That evening, he made a round of the village of Bréauté, in order
to tell everyone of the matter. He encountered none but unbelievers.

60. He was ill of it all night.

61. The next day, about one o’clock in the afternoon, Marius Paumelle,
a farm-hand of Master Breton’s, the market-gardener at Ymauville,
returned the pocketbook and its contents to Master Houlbrèque, of
Manneville.

[Sidenote: Apparent resolution of the complication.]

62. This man asserted, in substance, that he had found the article on
the road; but, not being able to read, he had carried it home and given
it to his employer.

63. The news spread to the suburbs. Master Hauchecorne was informed of
it. He set himself at once to journeying about and commenced to narrate
his story as completed by the denouement. He was triumphant.

64. “Wha’ made me feel bad,” he said, “wasn’t the thing itself, you
understand, but it was the lies. There’s nothing hurts you like being
blamed for a lie.”

[Sidenote: Tone of story.]

[Sidenote: FOUNDATION FOR CLIMAX.]

65. All day long he talked of his adventure, he recounted it on the
roadways to the people who passed, at the tavern to the folks who
drank, at the dismissal of church on the following Sunday. He even
button-holed strangers to tell it to them.

[Sidenote: RESULTANT COMPLICATION.]

Now, he was tranquil, and yet something else bothered him without his
being able to tell precisely what. People did not seem to be convinced.
He felt as if they gossiped behind his back.

66. On Tuesday of the following week, he went to the Goderville market,
solely impelled by the desire to relate his story. Malandin, standing
in his doorway, began to laugh when he saw him pass. Why?

67. He accosted a farmer of Criquetot who would not let him finish,
but giving him a dig in the pit of the stomach, cried out in his face,
“G’long, you great rogue!” Then he turned on his heel.

[Sidenote: Peasant simplicity.]

68. Master Hauchecorne stood speechless, growing more and more
disturbed. Why had he called him “great rogue”?

69. When seated at table at Jourdain’s tavern, he again began to
explain the affair.

70. A Montivilliers horse-dealer called out to him:

71. “Go on, go on, you old trickster, I know you, and your piece of
string!”

72. Hauchecorne stammered, “But--they--found it, the pocketbook!”

73. But the other retorted:

[Sidenote: DENOUEMENT AS TO THE RESULTANT COMPLICATION.]

[Sidenote: FINAL COMPLICATION.]

74. “Be quiet, daddy! There’s one who finds it, and one who takes it
back. No one sees it, no one recognizes it, no one is the wiser for it.”

75. The peasant sat dumbfounded. He understood at last. They accused
him of having returned the pocketbook by a confederate, an accomplice.

76. He tried to protest. Everyone at the table began to laugh.

77. He could not finish his dinner, and left amidst their mockeries.

[Sidenote: Key.]

78. He returned home, ashamed and indignant, strangled by his anger,
by his confusion, and all the more thunderstruck because, with his
Norman cunning, he was quite capable of having done the thing of which
they had accused him, and even of boasting of it as a good trick. It
appeared to him confusedly as impossible to prove his innocence, for
his trickery was well known. And he felt struck to the heart with the
injustice of the suspicion.

[Sidenote: Tone.]

[Sidenote: Key.]

79. Again he began to tell of his adventure, every day lengthening
his recital, advancing each time new proofs, more energetic
protestations, and more solemn oaths which he conjured up in his hours
of solitude--his mind was occupied solely by the story of the piece
of string. They believed him all the less as his defense became more
complicated and his reasoning more fine-spun.

[Sidenote: Complication summarized.]

80. “Ha, they are liar’s reasons!” they said behind his back.

81. He realized it; he fretted over it; he exhausted himself in futile
efforts.

82. He visibly wasted away.

83. The wags now made him recite “The Piece of String” for their
amusement, as one persuades a soldier who has been through a
campaign, to tell the story of his battles. His mind, attacked at its
foundations, began to totter.

84. Towards the end of December he took to his bed.

85. During the first days of January he died, and, in the delirium of
his mortal agony he protested his innocence, repeating:

[Sidenote: CLIMAX.]

86. “--a li’l’ piece of string ... a li’l’ piece of string ... see,
here it is, _m’sieu le maire_.”


                        COPPÉE AND HIS WRITINGS

François Edouard Joachim Coppée was born in Paris, January 12, 1842. He
was educated at the _Lycée St. Louis_, and early attracted attention
by his poetic gifts. He held office as Librarian of the Senate, and
also Guardian of the Archives at the _Comédie Française_. The honors
of membership in the French Academy and that of being decorated with
the Cross of the Legion of Honor were given him in 1883 and 1888
respectively. He died May 23, 1908.

François Coppée was a poet, dramatist, and short-story writer. The
collection _Poèmes Modernes_, published at the age of twenty-seven,
contains some remarkable work which well represents his talent. The
plays _Madame de Maintenon_ and _Le Luthier de Crémone_ rank with his
best dramatic work. Among his short-story gems are “The Sabots of
Little Wolff,” “At Table,” “Two Clowns,” “The Captain’s Vices,” “My
Friend Meurtrier,” “An Accident,” and “The Substitute.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

As a novelist, Coppée left no permanent mark upon his times, for in
this field he was far surpassed by his contemporaries; but as a writer
of little prose fictions, he stands well forward among that brilliant
group which includes those immortals of the short-story--Maupassant,
Daudet, and Mérimée. From the work of these masters, Coppée’s is well
distinguished. The Norman Maupassant drew his lines with a sharper
pencil, and, by the same token, an infinitely harder one; Daudet,
child of Provence though he was, dipped his stylus more often in the
acid of satire; and the Parisian Mérimée, though nearer than any other
to Coppée in his manner of work, was less in sympathy with his own
characters than the warmer-hearted author of “The Sabots of Little
Wolff” and “The Substitute”--which follows in a translation by the
author of this volume. Coppée was almost an idealist--certainly he
was quick to respond to the call of the ideal in his themes. Amidst
so much that is sordid and gross in French fiction, how refreshing
it is to read a master who could be truthful without wallowing,
moral without sermonizing, compassionate without sniveling, humorous
without buffooning, and always disclose in his stories the spirit of a
sympathetic lover of mankind. Like Dickens, he chose the lowly for his
characters, and like Dickens, he found poetry in their simple lives.

    In common with other modern French writers, with Daudet,
    Maupassant, and others, Coppée excels in the writing of tales.
    His prose is remarkable for the same qualities that appear in his
    poetical works: sympathy, tenderness, marked predilection for the
    weak, the humble, and especially a masterly treatment of subjects
    essentially Parisian and modern.--ROBERT SANDERSON, _François
    Coppée_, in WARNER’S _Library of the World’s Best Literature_.

    Compassion is the chief quality of this little
    masterpiece,--compassion and understanding of a primitive type
    of character. The author shows us the good in a character not
    altogether bad; and he almost makes us feel that the final
    sacrifice was justifiable. He succeeds in doing this chiefly
    because he shows us the other characters only as they appeared to
    Jean François, thus focusing the interest of the reader on this
    single character.--BRANDER MATTHEWS, _The Short-story_.

    More than Daudet, Coppée deserves the title of the French Dickens.
    A fellow member of the French Academy, José de Heredia, calls
    him “the poet of the humble, painting with sincere emotion
    his profound sympathy for the sorrows, the miseries, and the
    sacrifices of the meek.” As an artist in fiction, says Heredia,
    “Coppée possesses preëminently the gift of presenting concrete
    fact rather than abstraction,” and a “great grasp of character,”
    enabling him “to show us the human heart and intellect in full
    play and activity”--both of which endowments were the supreme
    characteristics of the author of _Nicholas Nickleby_ and _David
    Copperfield_.--MERION M. MILLER, Introduction to _The Guilty Man_.

    Contrast the touching pathos of the “Substitute,” poignant in his
    magnificent self-sacrifice, by which the man who has conquered
    his shameful past goes back willingly to the horrible life he has
    fled from, that he may save from a like degradation and from an
    inevitable moral decay the one friend he has in the world, all
    unworthy as this friend is--contrast this with the story of the
    gigantic deeds “My Friend Meurtrier” boasts about unceasingly, not
    knowing that he has been discovered in his little round of daily
    domestic duties--making the coffee of his good old mother, and
    taking her poodle out for a walk.... No doubt M. Coppée’s _contes_
    [stories] have not the sharpness of Maupassant’s nor the brilliancy
    of M. Daudet’s. But what of it? They have qualities of their own.
    They have sympathy, poetry, and a power of suggesting pictures not
    exceeded, I think, by those of either Maupassant or M. Daudet. M.
    Coppée’s street views in Paris, his interiors, his impressionist
    sketches of life under the shadow of Notre Dame, are convincingly
    successful.--BRANDER MATTHEWS, _Aspects of Fiction_.


               FURTHER REFERENCES FOR READING ON COPPÉE

Introduction to _Ten Tales by Coppée_, Brander Matthews (1890); _Books
and Play-Books_, Brander Matthews (1895); _Literary Movement in France
during the Nineteenth Century_, Georges Pellissier (1897); _Hours with
Famous Parisians_, Stuart Henry (1897).


                             FOR ANALYSIS

                            THE SUBSTITUTE
                            (LE REMPLAÇANT)

                          BY FRANÇOIS COPPÉE

                    _Translation by The Editor_[27]


He was scarcely ten years old when he was first arrested as a vagabond.

2. Thus he spoke to the judges:

3. I am called Jean François Leturc, and for six months now I’ve
been with the man who sings between two lanterns on the Place de la
Bastille, while he scrapes on a string of catgut. I repeat the chorus
with him, and then I cry out, ‘Get the collection of new songs, ten
centimes, two sous!’ He was always drunk and beat me; that’s why the
police found me the other night, in the tumble-down buildings. Before
that, I used to be with the man who sells brushes. My mother was a
laundress; she called herself Adèle. At one time a gentleman had given
her an establishment, on the ground-floor, at Montmartre. She was a
good worker and loved me well. She made money because she had the
clientele of the café waiters, and those people use lots of linen.
Sundays, she would put me to bed early to go to the ball; but week
days, she sent me to the Brothers’ school, where I learned to read.
Well, at last the _sergent-de-ville_ whose beat was up our street,
began always stopping before her window to talk to her--a fine fellow,
with the Crimean medal. They got married, and all went wrong. He didn’t
take to me, and set mamma against me. Every one boxed my ears; and it
was then that, to get away from home, I spent whole days on the Place
Clichy, where I got to know the mountebanks. My stepfather lost his
place, mamma her customers; she went to the wash-house to support her
man. It was there she got consumption--from the steam of the lye. She
died at Lariboisière. She was a good woman. Since that time I’ve lived
with the brush-seller and the catgut-scraper. Are you going to put me
in prison?”

4. He talked this way openly, cynically, like a man. He was a ragged
little rascal, as tall as a boot, with his forehead hidden under a
strange mop of yellow hair.

5. Nobody claimed him, so they sent him to the Reform School.

6. Not very intelligent, lazy, above all maladroit with his hands, he
was able to learn there only a poor trade--the reseating of chairs.
Yet he was obedient, of a nature passive and taciturn, and he did not
seem to have been too profoundly corrupted in that school of vice.
But when, having come to his seventeenth year, he was set free again
on the streets of Paris, he found there, for his misfortune, his
prison comrades, all dreadful rascals, exercising their low callings.
Some were trainers of dogs for catching rats in the sewers; some
shined shoes on ball nights in the Passage de l’Opéra; some were
amateur wrestlers, who let themselves be thrown by the Hercules of
the side-shows; some fished from rafts out in the river, in the full
sunlight. He tried all these things a little, and a few months after
he had left the house of correction he was arrested anew for a petty
theft: a pair of old shoes lifted from out an open shop-window. Result:
a year of prison at Sainte-Pélagie, where he served as valet to the
political prisoners.

[Sidenote: Revolutionary songs of 1793.]

[Sidenote: _Tu_--thou--used only in familiar address.]

7. He lived, astonished, among this group of prisoners, all very young
and negligently clad, who talked in loud voices and carried their heads
in such a solemn way. They used to meet in the cell of the eldest of
them, a fellow of some thirty years, already locked up for a long
time and apparently settled at Sainte-Pélagie: a large cell it was,
papered with colored caricatures, and from whose windows one could see
all Paris--its roofs, its clock-towers, and its domes, and far off,
the distant line of the hills, blue and vague against the sky. There
were upon the walls several shelves filled with books, and all the old
apparatus of a _salle d’armes_--broken masks, rusty foils, leather
jackets, and gloves that were losing their stuffing. It was there that
the “politicians” dined together, adding to the inevitable “soup and
beef” some fruit, cheese, and half-pints of wine that Jean François
went out to buy in a can--tumultuous repasts, interrupted by violent
disputes, where they sang in chorus at the dessert the _Carmagnole_
and _Ça ira_. They took on, however, an air of dignity on days when
they made place for a newcomer, who was at first gravely treated as
“_citizen_,” but who was the next day _tutoyed_, and called by his
nickname. They used big words there--Corporation, Solidarity, and
phrases all quite unintelligible to Jean François, such as this, for
example, which he once heard uttered imperiously by a frightful little
hunchback who scribbled on paper all night long:

8. “It is settled. The cabinet is to be thus composed: Raymond in the
Department of Education, Martial in the Interior, and I in Foreign
Affairs.”

[Sidenote: Police headquarters.]

9. Having served his time, he wandered again about Paris, under the
surveillance of the police, in the fashion of beetles that cruel
children keep flying at the end of a string. He had become one of
those fugitive and timid beings whom the law, with a sort of coquetry,
arrests and releases, turn and turn about, a little like those platonic
fishermen who, so as not to empty the pond, throw back into the water
the fish just out of the net. Without his suspecting that so much honor
was done to his wretched personality, he had a special docket in the
mysterious archives of _la rue de Jérusalem_, his name and surnames
were written in a large back-hand on the gray paper of the cover, and
the notes and reports, carefully classified, gave him these graded
appellations: “the man named Leturc,” “the prisoner Leturc,” and at
last “the convicted Leturc.”

[Sidenote: The California, a cheap eating-house in Paris.]

[Sidenote: In drawing lots for military service the higher numbers give
exemption, and this he secured by drawing “a good number.”]

[Sidenote: A receiver of stolen goods.]

10. He stayed two years out of prison, dining _à la Californie_,
sleeping in lodging-houses, and sometimes in lime-kilns, and taking
part with his fellows in endless games of pitch-penny on the
boulevards near the city gates. He wore a greasy cap on the back of his
head, carpet slippers, and a short white blouse. When he had five sous,
he had his hair curled. He danced at Constant’s at Montparnasse; bought
for two sous the jack-of-hearts or the ace-of-spades, which were used
as return checks, to resell them for four sous at the door of Bobino;
opened carriage-doors as occasion offered; led about sorry nags at the
horse-market. Of all the bad luck--in the conscription he drew a good
number. Who knows whether the atmosphere of honor which is breathed
in a regiment, whether military discipline, might not have saved
him? Caught in a haul of the police-net with the younger vagabonds
who used to rob the drunkards asleep in the streets, he denied very
energetically having taken part in their expeditions. It was perhaps
true. But his antecedents were accepted in lieu of proof, and he was
sent up for three years to Poissy. There he had to make rough toys,
had himself tattooed on the chest, and learned thieves’ slang and the
penal code. A new liberation, a new plunge into the Parisian sewer,
but very short this time, for at the end of hardly six weeks he was
again compromised in a theft by night, aggravated by violent entry,
a doubtful case in which he played an obscure rôle, half dupe and
half fence. On the whole, his complicity seemed evident, and he was
condemned to five years’ hard labor. His sorrow in this adventure was,
chiefly, to be separated from an old dog which he had picked up on a
heap of rubbish and cured of the mange. This beast loved him.

[Sidenote: Straw was stuffed into the sabots to cushion the feet.]

[Sidenote: The northwest storm-wind from the Mediterranean.]

11. Toulon, the ball on his ankle, the work in the harbor, the blows
from the staves, the wooden shoes without straw, the soup of black
beans dating from Trafalgar, no money for tobacco, and the horrible
sleep on the filthy camp-bed of the galley slave, that is what he knew
for five torrid summers and five winters blown upon by the _Mistral_.
He came out from there stunned, and was sent under surveillance
to Vernon, where he worked for some time on the river; then, an
incorrigible vagabond, he broke exile and returned again to Paris.

12. He had his savings, fifty-six francs--that is to say, time enough
to reflect. During his long absence, his old and horrible comrades
had been dispersed. He was well hidden, and slept in a loft at an old
woman’s, to whom he had represented himself as a sailor weary of the
sea, having lost his papers in a recent shipwreck, and who wished
to essay another trade. His tanned face, his calloused hands, and a
few nautical terms he let fall one time or another, made this story
sufficiently probable.

13. One day when he had risked a saunter along the streets, and
when the chance of his walk had brought him to Montmartre, where he
had been born, an unexpected memory arrested him before the door of
the Brothers’ school in which he had learned to read. Since it was
very warm, the door was open, and with a single glance the passing
incorrigible could recognize the peaceful schoolroom. Nothing was
changed: neither the bright light shining in through the large windows,
nor the crucifix over the desk, nor the rows of seats furnished with
leaden ink-stands, nor the table of weights and measures, nor the map
on which pins stuck in still pointed out the operations of some ancient
war. Heedlessly and without reflecting, Jean François read on the
blackboard these words of the Gospel, which a well-trained hand had
traced as an example of penmanship:

    Joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than
    over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance.

14. It was doubtless the hour for recreation, for the Brother professor
had left his chair, and, sitting on the edge of a table, he seemed to
be telling a story to all the _gamins_ who surrounded him, attentive
and raising their eyes. What an innocent and gay countenance was that
of the beardless young man, in long black robe, with white necktie,
with coarse, ugly shoes, and with badly cut brown hair pushed up at the
back. All those pallid faces of children of the populace which were
looking at him seemed less childlike than his, above all when, charmed
with a candid, priestly pleasantry he had made, he broke out with a
good and frank peal of laughter, which showed his teeth sound and
regular--laughter so contagious that all the scholars broke out noisily
in their turn. And it was simple and sweet, this group in the joyous
sunlight that made their clear eyes and their blonde hair shine.

15. Jean François looked at the scene some time in silence, and, for
the first time, in that savage nature all instinct and appetite, there
awoke a mysterious and tender emotion. His heart, that rude, hardened
heart, which neither the cudgel of the galley-master nor the weight
of the watchman’s heavy whip falling on his shoulders was able to
stir, beat almost to bursting. Before this spectacle, in which he saw
again his childhood, his eyes closed sadly, and, restraining a violent
gesture, a prey to the torture of regret, he walked away with great
strides.

16. The words written on the blackboard came back to him.

17. “If it were not too late, after all!” he murmured. “If I could
once more, like the others, eat my toasted bread honestly, sleep out
my sleep without nightmare? The police spy would be very clever to
recognize me now. My beard, that I shaved off down there, has grown out
now thick and strong. One can borrow somewhere in this big ant-heap,
and work is not lacking. Whoever does not go to pieces soon in the hell
of the galleys comes out agile and robust; and I have learned how to
climb the rope-ladders with loads on my back. Building is going on all
around here, and the masons need helpers. Three francs a day,--I have
never earned so much. That they should forget me, that is all I ask.”

18. He followed his courageous resolution, he was faithful to it,
and three months afterward he was another man. The master for whom
he labored cited him as his best workman. After a long day passed on
the scaffolding, in the full sun, in the dust, constantly bending and
straightening his back to take the stones from the hands of the man
below him and to pass them to the man above him, he went to get his
soup, at the cheap eating house, tired out, his legs numb, his hands
burning, and his eyelashes stuck together by the plaster, but content
with himself, and carrying his well-earned money in the knot of his
handkerchief. He went out without fear, for his white mask made him
unrecognizable, and, then, he had observed that the suspicious glance
of the policeman seldom falls on the real worker. He was silent and
sober. He slept the sound sleep of honest fatigue. He was free.

                   *       *       *       *       *

19. At last--supreme recompense!--he had a friend.

20. It was a mason’s helper like himself, named Savinien, a little
peasant from Limoges, red-cheeked, who had come to Paris with his
stick over his shoulder and his bundle on the end of it, who fled from
the liquor-dealers and went to mass on Sundays. Jean François loved
him for his piety, for his candor, for his honesty, for all that he
himself had lost, and so long ago. It was a passion profound, reserved,
disclosing itself in the care and forethought of a father. Savinien,
himself easily moved and self-loving, let things take their course,
satisfied only in that he had found a comrade who shared his horror
of the wine-shop. The two friends lived together in a furnished room,
fairly clean, but their resources were very limited; they had to take
into their room a third companion, an old man from Auvergne, sombre
and rapacious, who found a way of economizing out of his meagre wages
enough to buy some land in his own province.

21. Jean François and Savinien scarcely left each other. On days of
rest they took long walks in the environs of Paris and dined in the
open air in one of those little country inns where there are plenty
of mushrooms in the sauces and innocent enigmas on the bottoms of the
plates. There Jean François made his friend tell him all those things
of which those born in the cities are ignorant. He learned the names
of the trees, the flowers, the plants; the seasons for the different
harvests; he listened avidly to the thousand details of a farmer’s
labors: the autumn’s sowing, the winter’s work, the splendid _fêtes_ of
harvest-home and vintage, and the flails beating the ground, and the
noise of the mills by the borders of the streams, and the tired horses
led to the trough, and the morning hunting in the mists, and, above
all, the long evenings around the fire of vine-branches, shortened
by tales of wonder. He discovered in himself a spring of imagination
hitherto unsuspected, finding a singular delight in the mere recital of
these things, so gentle, calm, and monotonous.

22. One anxiety troubled him, however, that Savinien should not come
to know his past. Sometimes there escaped him a shady word of thieves’
slang, an ignoble gesture, vestiges of his horrible former existence;
and then he felt the pain of a man whose old wounds reopen, more
especially as he thought he saw then in Savinien the awakening of
an unhealthy curiosity. When the young man, already tempted by the
pleasures which Paris offers even to the poorest, questioned him about
the mysteries of the great city, Jean François feigned ignorance and
turned the conversation; but he had now conceived a vague inquietude
for the future of his friend.

23. This was not without foundation, and Savinien could not long
remain the naïve rustic he had been on his arrival in Paris. If the
gross and noisy pleasures of the wine-shop always were repugnant to
him, he was profoundly troubled by other desires full of danger for
the inexperience of his twenty years. When the spring came, he began
to seek solitude, and at first he wandered before the gayly lighted
entrances to the dancing-halls, through which he saw the girls going
in couples, without bonnets--and with their arms around each other’s
waists, whispering low. Then, one evening, when the lilacs shed their
perfume, and the appeal of the quadrilles was more entrancing, he
crossed the threshold, and after that Jean François saw him change
little by little in manners and in visage. Savinien became more
frivolous, more extravagant; often he borrowed from his friend his
miserable savings, which he forgot to repay. Jean François, feeling
himself abandoned, was both indulgent and jealous; he suffered and
kept silent. He did not think he had the right to reproach; but his
penetrating friendship had cruel and insurmountable presentiments.

24. One evening when he was climbing the stairs of his lodging,
absorbed in his preoccupations, he heard in the room he was about to
enter a dialogue of irritated voices, and he recognized one as that of
the old man from Auvergne, who lodged with him and Savinien. An old
habit of suspicion made him pause on the landing, and he listened to
learn the cause of the trouble.

25. “Yes,” said the man from Auvergne angrily, “I am sure that some one
has broken open my trunk and stolen the three louis which I had hidden
in a little box; and the man who has done this thing can only be one
of the two companions who sleep here, unless it is Maria, the servant.
This concerns you as much as me, since you are the master of the house,
and I will drag you before the judge if you do not let me at once open
up the valises of the two masons. My poor hoard! It was in its place
only yesterday; and I will tell you what it was, so that, if we find
it, no one can accuse me of lying. Oh, I know them, my three beautiful
gold pieces, and I can see them as plainly as I see you. One was a
little more worn than the others, of a slightly greenish gold, and that
had the portrait of the great Emperor; another had that of a fat old
fellow with a queue and epaulets; and the third had a Philippe with
side-whiskers. I had marked it with my teeth. No one can trick me, not
me. Do you know that I needed only two others like those to pay for my
vineyard? Come on, let us look through the things of these comrades, or
I will call the police. Make haste!”

26. “All right,” said the voice of the householder; “we’ll search with
Maria. So much the worse if you find nothing, and if the masons get
angry. It is you who have forced me to it.”

27. Jean François felt his heart fill with fear. He recalled the
poverty and the petty borrowings of Savinien, the sombre manner he had
borne the last few days. Yet he could not believe in any theft. He
heard the panting of the man from Auvergne in the ardor of his search,
and he clenched his fists against his breast as if to repress the
beatings of his heart.

28. “There they are!” suddenly screamed the victorious miser. “There
they are, my louis, my dear treasure! And in the Sunday waistcoat of
the little hypocrite from Limoges. Look, landlord! they are just as I
told you. There’s the Napoleon, and the man with the queue, and the
Philippe I had dented with my teeth. Look at the mark. Ah, the little
rascal with his saintly look! I should more likely have suspected the
other. Ah, the villain! He will have to go to the galleys!”

29. At this moment Jean François heard the well-known step of Savinien,
who was slowly mounting the stairs.

30. “He is going to his betrayal,” thought he. “Three flights. I have
time!”

31. And, pushing open the door, he entered, pale as death, into the
room where he saw the landlord and the stupefied servant in a corner,
and the man from Auvergne on his knees amid the disordered clothes,
lovingly kissing his gold pieces.

32. “Enough of this,” he said in a thick voice. “It is I who have taken
the money and who have put it in my comrade’s trunk. But that is too
disgusting. I am a thief and not a Judas. Go hunt for the police. I’ll
not try to save myself. Only, I must say a word in private to Savinien,
who is here.”

33. The little man from Limoges had, in fact, just arrived, and, seeing
his crime discovered, and believing himself lost, he stood still, his
eyes fixed, his arms drooping.

34. Jean François seized him violently about the neck as though to
embrace him; he pressed his mouth to Savinien’s ear and said to him in
a voice low and supplicating:

35. “Be quiet!”

36. Then, turning to the others:

37. “Leave me alone with him. I shall not go away, I tell you. Shut us
up, if you wish, but leave us alone.”

38. And, with a gesture of command, he showed them the door. They went
out.

39. Savinien, broken with anguish, had seated himself on a bed, and
dropped his eyes without comprehending.

40. “Listen,” said Jean François, who approached to take his hands. “I
understand you have stolen three gold pieces to buy some trifle for a
girl. That would have cost six months of prison for you. But one does
not get out of that except to go back again, and you would have become
a pillar of the police tribunals and the courts of assizes. I know all
about them. I have done seven years in the Reform School, one year
at Sainte-Pélagie, three years at Poissy, and five years at Toulon.
Now, have no fear. All is arranged. I have taken this affair on my
shoulders.”

41. “Unhappy fellow!” cried Savinien; but hope was already coming back
to his cowardly heart.

42. “When the elder brother is serving under the colors, the younger
does not go,” Jean François went on. “I’m your substitute, that’s all.
You love me a little, do you not? I am paid. Do not be a baby. Do not
refuse. They would have caught me one of these days, for I have broken
my exile. And then, you see, that life out there will be less hard for
me than for you; I know it, and shall not complain if I do not render
you this service in vain and if you swear to me that you will not do it
again. Savinien, I have loved you well, and your friendship has made me
very happy, for it is thanks to my knowing you that I have kept honest
and straight, as I might have been, perhaps, if I had had, like you, a
father to put a tool in my hands, a mother to teach me my prayers. My
only regret was that I was useless to you and that I was deceiving you
about my past. To-day I lay aside the mask in saving you. It is all
right. Come, good-bye! Do not weep; and embrace me, for already I hear
the big boots on the stairs. They are returning with the police; and we
must not seem to know each other so well before these fellows.”

43. He pressed Savinien hurriedly to his breast, and then he pushed him
away as the door opened wide.

44. It was the landlord and the man from Auvergne, who were bringing
the police. Jean François started forward to the landing and held out
his hands for the handcuffs and said, laughing:

45. “Forward, bad lot!”

46. To-day he is at Cayenne, condemned for life, as an incorrigible.


                    SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS FOR STUDY

1. Write a paragraph showing how character is affected (a) unfavorably
and (b) favorably by the two tests, as shown by these two stories.

2. In your opinion, was each character changed or merely revealed by
the crisis which occurred in each instance?

3. Which of these stories seems the more real to you?

4. Have you ever heard of a similar instance in real life? If so, cite
it.

5. Write a paragraph contrasting the trivial and the important crisis
in each story, though both led to important results.

6. Set down all the traits of character exhibited by the two leading
actors in each story.

7. Select a character-study from some book or magazine and write a
brief discussion of it.

8. Do the same for another character-study by (a) Maupassant, and (b)
Coppée.


                 TEN REPRESENTATIVE CHARACTER STUDIES

“The Captain’s Vices,” François Coppée, translated in _Ten Tales by
Coppée_.

“The Incarnation of Krishna Mulvaney,” Rudyard Kipling, in
_Soldiers Three_.

“A New England Nun,” Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, in volume of same
title.

“The Old Gentleman of the Black Stock,” Thomas Nelson Page,
_Harper’s Magazine_, Oct., 1894.

“The Sick-a-Bed Lady,” Eleanor Hallowell Abbott, in volume of same
title.

“The Insurgent,” Ludovic Halévy, translated in _Short-Story
Masterpieces_.

“Caybigan,” James Hopper, in volume of same title.

“The Liar,” Henry James, in _Short-Story Classics, American_.

“Editha,” W. D. Howells, in _Harper’s Novelettes_.

“Our Sermon Taster,” Ian Maclaren, in _Beside the Bonnie Briar
Bush_.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[27] Copyright, 1911, by J. B. Lippincott Co., and used by permission.




                                 VIII
                         PSYCHOLOGICAL STUDIES

                  _Markheim._--ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
                   _On the Stairs._--ARTHUR MORRISON


    He [the author] can sometimes rouse our intense curiosity and
    eagerness by the mere depiction of a psychological state, as Walter
    Pater has done in the case of Sebastian Storck and other personages
    of his _Imaginary Portraits_. The fact that “nothing happens”
    in stories of this kind may be precisely what most interests
    us, because we are made to understand what it is that inhibits
    action.--BLISS PERRY, _A Study of Prose Fiction_.


                         PSYCHOLOGICAL STUDIES

A subtle distinction is to be observed between the character-study and
the psychological study, but it will not be supposed that writers of
short-stories plainly label the distinction, or that the two types are
frequently, if ever, found entirely separate. In the character-study
more attention is paid to the true natures of the actors, and the
demonstration of their natures is shown in the action of the story; in
the psychological study more stress is laid upon the actual operation
of thought, feeling and purpose--it is a laboratory study of what goes
on in the human heart, to use a somewhat vague but necessary term,
under stress of crisis.

The psychological study is the most difficult because the most
penetrating of all short-story forms, and in consequence the most rare
in its perfect presentation. To show the processes of reasoning, the
interplay of motive, the power of feeling acting upon feeling, and
the intricate combinations of these, calls for the most clear-sighted
understanding of man, and the utmost skill in literary art, lest
the story be lost in a fog of tiresome analysis and discussion. In
“Markheim” and “On the Stairs,” two master story-tellers are easily
at their best, for they never obtrude their own opinions, but swiftly
and with a firm onward movement the stories disclose the true inward
workings of the unique characters, while from mood, speech, and action
we infallibly infer all the soul-processes by which their conclusions
are reached.


                               MARKHEIM
                       BY ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

[Sidenote: INTRODUCTION. Remarkable because it at once touches upon the
external crisis of the story.]

“Yes,” said the dealer, “our wind-falls are of various kinds. Some
customers are ignorant, and then I touch a dividend on my superior
knowledge. Some are dishonest,” and here he held up the candle, so
that the light fell strongly on his visitor, “and in that case,” he
continued, “I profit by my virtue.”

[Sidenote: Note double reason.]

2. Markheim had but just entered from the daylight streets, and his
eyes had not yet grown familiar with the mingled shine and darkness in
the shop. At these pointed words, and before the near presence of the
flame, he blinked painfully and looked aside.

[Sidenote: See how daringly the author plays with the reader
without arousing suspicion. Compare Stevenson’s reasoning as to the
reader’s suspicions with Dupin’s reasoning in “The Purloined Letter,”
pp. 91, 92.]

[Sidenote: Markheim has been there before.]

3. The dealer chuckled. “You come to me on Christmas-day,” he resumed,
“when you know that I am alone in my house, put up my shutters, and
make a point of refusing business. Well, you will have to pay for that;
you will have to pay for my loss of time, when I should be balancing
my books; you will have to pay, besides, for a kind of manner that I
remark in you to-day very strongly. I am the essence of discretion,
and ask no awkward questions; but when a customer can not look me in
the eye, he has to pay for it.” The dealer once more chuckled; and
then, changing to his usual business voice, though still with a note of
irony, “You can give, as usual, a clean account of how you came into
possession of the object?” he continued. “Still your uncle’s cabinet? A
remarkable collector, sir!”

4. And the little, pale, round-shouldered dealer stood almost on
tip-toe, looking over the top of his gold spectacles, and nodding his
head with every mark of disbelief. Markheim returned his gaze with one
of infinite pity, and a touch of horror.

[Sidenote: Forecast.]

[Sidenote: Insincerity evident.]

5. “This time,” he said, “you are in error. I have not come to sell,
but to buy. I have no curios to dispose of; my uncle’s cabinet is bare
to the wainscot; even were it still intact, I have done well on the
Stock Exchange, and should more likely add to it than otherwise, and my
errand to-day is simplicity itself. I seek a Christmas-present for a
lady,” he continued, waxing more fluent as he struck into the speech he
had prepared; “and certainly I owe you every excuse for thus disturbing
you upon so small a matter. But the thing was neglected yesterday; I
must produce my little compliment at dinner; and, as you very well
know, a rich marriage is not a thing to be neglected.”

6. There followed a pause, during which the dealer seemed to weigh
this statement incredulously. The ticking of many clocks among the
curious lumber of the shop, and the faint rushing of the cabs in a near
thoroughfare, filled up the interval of silence.

[Sidenote: Compare this setting, as it is gradually unfolded, with that
of Gautier’s “The Mummy’s Foot.”]

7. “Well, sir,” said the dealer, “be it so. You are an old customer
after all; and if, as you say, you have the chance of a good marriage,
far be it from me to be an obstacle. Here is a nice thing for a lady
now,” he went on, “this hand-glass--fifteenth century, warranted; comes
from a good collection, too; but I reserve the name, in the interests
of my customer, who was just like yourself, my dear sir, the nephew and
sole heir of a remarkable collector.”

[Sidenote: Analyse its nature.]

8. The dealer, while he thus ran on in his dry and biting voice, had
stooped to take the object from its place; and, as he had done so,
a shock had passed through Markheim, a start both of hand and foot,
a sudden leap of many tumultuous passions to the face. It passed as
swiftly as it came, and left no trace beyond a certain trembling of the
hand that now received the glass.

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

9. “A glass,” he said, hoarsely, and then paused, and repeated it more
clearly. “A glass? For Christmas? Surely not?”

10. “And why not?” cried the dealer. “Why not a glass?”

[Sidenote: Forecast.]

11. Markheim was looking upon him with an indefinable expression.
“You ask me why not?” he said. “Why, look here--look in it--look at
yourself! Do you like to see it? No! nor I--nor any man.”

12. The little man had jumped back when Markheim had so suddenly
confronted him with the mirror; but now, perceiving there was nothing
worse on hand, he chuckled. “Your future lady, sir, must be pretty hard
favoured,” said he.

[Sidenote: Note the working of Markheim’s morbid conscience, not yet
understood by himself.]

13. “I ask you,” said Markheim, “for a Christmas-present, and you give
me this--this damned reminder of years, and sins and follies--this
hand-conscience! Did you mean it? Had you a thought in your mind? Tell
me. It will be better for you if you do. Come, tell me about yourself.
I hazard a guess now, that you are in secret a very charitable man?”

[Sidenote: FIRST MORAL CRISIS.]

14. The dealer looked closely at his companion. It was very odd,
Markheim did not appear to be laughing; there was something in his face
like an eager sparkle of hope, but nothing of mirth.

15. “What are you driving at?” the dealer asked.

16. “Not charitable?” returned the other, gloomily. “Not charitable;
not pious; not scrupulous; unloving, unbeloved; a hand to get money, a
safe to keep it. Is that all? Dear God, man, is that all?”

17. “I will tell you what it is,” began the dealer, with some
sharpness, and then broke off again into a chuckle. “But I see this is
a love match of yours, and you have been drinking the lady’s health.”

18. “Ah!” cried Markheim, with a strange curiosity. “Ah, have you been
in love? Tell me about that.”

[Sidenote: Note change of attitude.]

19. “I,” cried the dealer. “I in love! I never had the time, nor have I
the time to-day for all this nonsense. Will you take the glass?”

[Sidenote: Analyse the forces back of Markheim’s parleying.]

20. “Where is the hurry?” returned Markheim. “It is very pleasant to
stand here talking; and life is so short and insecure that I would not
hurry away from any pleasure--no, not even from so mild a one as this.
We should rather cling, cling to what little we can get, like a man at
a cliff’s edge. Every second is a cliff, if you think upon it--a cliff
a mile high--high enough, if we fall, to dash us out of every feature
of humanity. Hence it is best to talk pleasantly. Let us talk of each
other; why should we wear this mask? Let us be confidential. Who knows,
we might become friends?”

21. “I have just one word to say to you,” said the dealer. “Either make
your purchase, or walk out of my shop.”

[Sidenote: Note how quickly Markheim follows the unconscious lead.]

22. “True, true,” said Markheim. “Enough fooling. To business. Show me
something else.”

[Sidenote: FIRST EXTERNAL CRISIS.]

23. The dealer stooped once more, this time to replace the glass upon
the shelf, his thin blonde hair falling over his eyes as he did so.
[Sidenote: Note all these.]

Markheim moved a little nearer, with one hand in the pocket of his
great-coat; he drew himself up and filled his lungs; at the same time
many different emotions were depicted together on his face--terror,
horror and resolve, fascination and a physical repulsion; and through a
haggard lift of his upper lip, his teeth looked out.

[Sidenote: He was prepared for the crime.]

24. “This, perhaps, may suit,” observed the dealer; and then, as he
began to re-arise, Markheim bounded from behind upon his victim. The
long, skewerlike dagger flashed and fell. The dealer struggled like a
hen, striking his temple on the shelf, and then tumbled on the floor in
a heap.

[Sidenote: FIRST MINOR CLIMAX.]

[Sidenote: Beginning of the internal action. Note how all external
things now begin to play upon the internal man.]

[Sidenote: Throughout, note Stevenson’s rich imagery, and also his
unusual vocabulary.]

[Sidenote: An unusual word.]

25. Time had some score of small voices in that shop, some stately and
slow as was becoming to their great age; others garrulous and hurried.
All these told out the seconds in an intricate chorus of tickings. Then
the passage of a lad’s feet, heavily running on the pavement, broke in
upon these smaller voices and startled Markheim into the consciousness
of his surroundings. He looked about him awfully. The candle stood
on the counter, its flame solemnly wagging in a draught; and by that
inconsiderable movement, the whole room was filled with noiseless
bustle and kept heaving like a sea: the tall shadows nodding, the gross
blots of darkness swelling and dwindling as with respiration, the faces
of the portraits and the china gods changing and wavering like images
in water. The inner door stood ajar, and peered into that leaguer of
shadows with a long slit of daylight like a pointing finger.

[Sidenote: Picture.]

[Sidenote: Evidence of premeditation.]

[Sidenote: Note the interplay of the outward picture and Markheim’s
mind. Keep before you always the double movement of this study as both
progress side by side, finally resulting in the predominance of the
spiritual.]

26. From these fear-stricken rovings, Markheim’s eyes returned to
the body of his victim, where it lay both humped and sprawling,
incredibly small and strangely meaner than in life. In these poor,
miserly clothes, in that ungainly attitude, the dealer lay like so much
sawdust. Markheim had feared to see it, and, lo! it was nothing. And
yet, as he gazed, this bundle of old clothes and pool of blood began
to find eloquent voices. There it must lie; there was none to work the
cunning hinges or direct the miracle of locomotion--there it must lie
till it was found. Found! ay, and then? Then would this dead flesh lift
up a cry that would ring over England, and fill the world with the
echoes of pursuit. Ay, dead, or not, this was still the enemy. “Time
was that when the brains were out,” he thought; and the first word
struck into his mind. Time, now that the deed was accomplished--time,
which had closed for the victim, had become instant and momentous for
the slayer.

27. The thought was yet in his mind, when, first one and then another,
with every variety of pace and voice--one deep as the bell from a
cathedral turret, another ringing on its treble notes the prelude of a
waltz--the clocks began to strike the hour of three in the afternoon.

[Sidenote: The old motive reasserts itself.]

[Sidenote: PLOT INCIDENT.]

[Sidenote: As fear subsides craft returns.]

[Sidenote: A significant expression.]

[Sidenote: Contrast physical and moral fear. Consider how the two are
related.]

28. The sudden outbreak of so many tongues in that dumb chamber
staggered him. He began to bestir himself, going to and fro with the
candle, beleaguered by moving shadows, and startled to the soul by
chance reflections. In many rich mirrors, some of home designs, some
from Venice or Amsterdam, he saw his face repeated and repeated, as it
were an army of spies; his own eyes met and detected him; and the sound
of his own steps, lightly as they fell, vexed the surrounding quiet.
And still as he continued to fill his pockets, his mind accused him,
with a sickening iteration, of the thousand faults of his design. He
should have chosen a more quiet hour; he should have prepared an alibi;
he should not have used a knife; he should have been more cautious, and
only bound and gagged the dealer, and not killed him; he should have
been more bold, and killed the servant also; he should have done all
things otherwise; poignant regrets, weary, incessant toiling of the
mind to change what was unchangeable, to plan what was now useless, to
be the architect of the irrevocable past. Meanwhile, and behind all
this activity, brute terrors, like scurrying of rats in a deserted
attic, filled the more remote chambers of his brain with riot; the
hand of the constable would fall heavy on his shoulder, and his nerves
would jerk like a hooked fish; or he beheld, in galloping defile, the
dock, the prison, the gallows, and the black coffin.

[Sidenote: Note the primary use of the word “rumor.”]

[Sidenote: Contrast.]

[Sidenote: Study of fear.]

[Sidenote: Impressionism.]

29. Terror of the people in the street sat down before his mind like
a besieging army. It was impossible, he thought, but that some rumor
of the struggle must have reached their ears and set on edge their
curiosity; and now, in all the neighboring houses, he divined them
sitting motionless and with uplifted ear--solitary people, condemned
to spend Christmas dwelling alone on memories of the past, and now
startlingly recalled from that tender exercise; happy family parties,
struck into silence round the table, the mother still with raised
finger: every degree and age and humor, but all, by their own hearths,
prying and hearkening and weaving the rope that was to hang him.
Sometimes it seemed to him he could not move too softly; the clink of
the tall Bohemian goblets rang out loudly like a bell; and alarmed by
the bigness of the ticking, he was tempted to stop the clocks. And
then, again, with a swift transition of his terrors, the very silence
of the place appeared a source of peril, and a thing to strike and
freeze the passerby; and he would step more boldly, and bustle aloud
among the contents of the shop, and imitate, with elaborate bravado,
the movements of a busy man at ease in his own house.

[Sidenote: An important observation.]

[Sidenote: Note how his reasoning becomes hyper-acute.]

[Sidenote: Forecast.]

30. But he was now so pulled about by different alarms that, while
one portion of his mind was still alert and cunning, another trembled
on the brink of lunacy. One hallucination in particular took a strong
hold on his credulity. The neighbor hearkening with white face beside
his window, the passerby arrested by a horrible surmise on the
pavement--these could at worst suspect, they could not know; through
the brick walls and shuttered windows only sounds could penetrate. But
here, within the house, was he alone? He knew he was; he had watched
the servant set forth sweethearting, in her poor best, “out for the
day” written in every ribbon and smile. Yes, he was alone, of course;
and yet, in the bulk of empty house above him, he could surely hear
a stir of delicate footing--he was surely conscious, inexplicably
conscious of some presence. Ay, surely; to every room and corner of the
house his imagination followed it; and now it was a faceless thing, and
yet had eyes to see with; and again it was a shadow of himself; and yet
again behold the image of the dead dealer, reinspired with cunning and
hatred.

31. At times, with a strong effort, he would glance at the open door
which still seemed to repel his eyes. [Sidenote: Note force of
“blind.”]

The house was tall, the skylight small and dirty, the day blind
with fog; and the light that filtered down to the ground story was
exceedingly faint, and showed dimly on the threshold of the shop. And
yet, in that strip of doubtful brightness, did there not hang wavering
a shadow?

[Sidenote: Pseudo crisis.]

[Sidenote: Contributory incident.]

32. Suddenly, from the street outside, a very jovial gentleman began
to beat with a staff on the shop-door, accompanying his blows with
shouts and railleries in which the dealer was continually called upon
by name. Markheim, smitten into ice, glanced at the dead man. But no!
he lay quite still; he was fled away far beyond earshot of these blows
and shoutings; he was sunk beneath seas of silence; and his name, which
would once have caught his notice above the howling of a storm, had
become an empty sound. And presently the jovial gentleman desisted from
his knocking and departed.

[Sidenote: Note “apparent.”]

[Sidenote: Key.]

33. Here was a broad hint to hurry what remained to be done, to get
forth from this accusing neighborhood, to plunge into a bath of London
multitudes, and to reach, on the other side of day, that haven of
safety and apparent innocence--his bed. One visitor had come: at any
moment another might follow and be more obstinate. To have done the
deed, and yet not to reap the profit, would be too abhorrent a failure.
The money, that was now Markheim’s concern; and as a means to that,
the keys.

[Sidenote: Note subsidence of acute fears and rise of his true mood.]

[Sidenote: Carefully consider the question of Markheim’s sanity,
judging only from the story as thus far told.]

[Sidenote: Reaction.]

34. He glanced over his shoulder at the open door, where the shadow
was still lingering and shivering; and with no conscious repugnance
of the mind, yet with a tremor of the belly, he drew near the body
of his victim. The human character had quite departed. Like a suit
half-stuffed with bran, the limbs lay scattered, the trunk doubled,
on the floor; and yet the thing repelled him. Although so dingy and
inconsiderable to the eye, he feared it might have more significance
to the touch. He took the body by the shoulders, and turned it on its
back. It was strangely light and supple, and the limbs, as if they had
been broken, fell into the oddest postures. The face was robbed of all
expression; but it was as pale as wax, and shockingly smeared with
blood about one temple. That was, for Markheim, the one displeasing
circumstance. It carried him back, upon the instant, to a certain fair
day in a fisher’s village: a gray day, a piping wind, a crowd upon the
street, the blare of brasses, the booming of drums, the nasal voice of
a ballad singer; and a boy going to and fro, buried over head in the
crowd and divided between interest and fear, until, coming out upon
the chief place of concourse, he beheld a booth and a great screen
with pictures, dismally designed, garishly colored: Brownrigg with
her apprentice; the Mannings with their murdered guest; Weare in the
death-grip of Thurtell; and a score besides of famous crimes. The thing
was as clear as an illusion; he was once again that little boy; he was
looking once again, and with the same sense of physical revolt, at
these vile pictures; he was still stunned by the thumping of the drums.
A bar of that day’s music returned upon his memory; and at that, for
the first time, a qualm came over him, a breath of nausea, a sudden
weakness of the joints, which he must instantly resist and conquer.

[Sidenote: Key. What caused this benumbed conscience?]

35. He judged it more prudent to confront than to flee from these
considerations; looking the more hardily in the dead face, bending
his mind to realize the nature and greatness of his crime. So little
a while ago that face had moved with every change of sentiment, that
pale mouth had spoken, that body had been all on fire with governable
energies; and now, and by his act, that piece of life had been
arrested, as the horologist, with interjected finger, arrests the
beating of the clock. So he reasoned in vain; he could rise to no more
remorseful consciousness; the same heart which had shuddered before
the painted effigies of crime, looked on its reality unmoved. At best,
he felt a gleam of pity for one who had been endowed in vain with all
those faculties that can make the world a garden of enchantment, one
who had never lived and who was now dead. But of penitence, no, not a
tremor.

[Sidenote: PLOT INCIDENT.]

[Sidenote: Forecast of moral crisis.]

36. With that, shaking himself clear of these considerations, he found
the keys and advanced toward the open door of the shop. Outside, it
had begun to rain smartly; and the sound of the shower upon the roof
had banished silence. Like some dripping cavern, the chambers of the
house were haunted by an incessant echoing, which filled the ear and
mingled with the ticking of the clocks. And, as Markheim approached the
door, he seemed to hear, in answer to his own cautious tread, the steps
of another foot withdrawing up the stair. The shadow still palpitated
loosely on the threshold. He threw a ton’s weight of resolve upon his
muscles, and drew back the door.

[Sidenote: Note harmony of setting with tone of approaching crisis.]

[Sidenote: Compare Stevenson’s combination of fact and fantasy with
Hawthorne’s in “The White Old Maid.”]

[Sidenote: Rise toward crisis.]

[Sidenote: Body and spirit.]

[Sidenote: A notable passage.]

37. The faint, foggy daylight glimmered dimly on the bare floor and
stairs; on the bright suit of armor posted, halbert in hand, upon the
landing; and on the dark wood-carvings, and framed pictures that hung
against the yellow panels of the wainscot. So loud was the beating of
the rain through all the house that, in Markheim’s ears, it began to
be distinguished into many different sounds. Footsteps and sighs, the
tread of regiments marching in the distance, the chink of money in the
counting, and the creaking of doors held stealthily ajar, appeared to
mingle with the patter of the drops upon the cupola and the gushing of
the water in the pipes. The sense that he was not alone grew upon him
to the verge of madness. On every side he was haunted and begirt by
presences. He heard them moving in the upper chambers; from the shop,
he heard the dead man getting to his legs; and as he began with a great
effort to mount the stairs, feet fled quietly before him and followed
stealthily behind. If he were but deaf, he thought, how tranquilly he
would possess his soul. And then again, and hearkening with every fresh
attention, he blessed himself for that unresisting sense which held the
outposts and stood a trusty sentinel upon his life. His head turned
continually on his neck; his eyes, which seemed starting from their
orbits, scouted on every side, and on every side were half-rewarded as
with the tail of something nameless, vanishing. The four-and-twenty
steps to the first floor were four-and-twenty agonies.

[Sidenote: Note the exception.]

[Sidenote: Note how suspense in the reader is maintained by disclosing
Markheim’s suspense.]

[Sidenote: Key.]

[Sidenote: Is this normal?]

38. On that first story, the doors stood ajar, three of them like three
ambushes, shaking his nerves like the throats of cannon. He could
never again, he felt, be sufficiently immured and fortified from men’s
observing eyes; he longed to be home, girt in by walls, buried among
bed-clothes, and invisible to all but God. And at that thought he
wondered a little, recollecting tales of other murderers and the fear
they were said to entertain of heavenly avengers. It was not so, at
least, with him. He feared the laws of nature, lest, in their callous
and immutable procedure, they should preserve some damning evidence
of his crime. He feared tenfold more, with a slavish, superstitious
terror, some scission in the continuity of man’s experience, some
willful illegality of nature. He played a game of skill, depending on
the rules, calculating consequence from cause; and what if nature, as
the defeated tyrant overthrew the chess-board, should break the mold of
their succession? The like had befallen Napoleon (so writers said) when
the winter changed the time of its appearance. The like might befall
Markheim: the solid walls might become transparent and reveal his
doings like those of bees in a glass hive; the stout planks might yield
under his foot like quicksands and detain him in their clutch; ay, and
there were soberer accidents that might destroy him; if, for instance,
the house should fall and imprison him beside the body of his victim;
or the house next door should fly on fire, and the firemen invade him
from all sides. These things he feared; and, in a sense, these things
might be called the hands of God reached forth against sin. But about
God himself he was at ease; his act was doubtless exceptional, but so
were his excuses, which God knew; it was there, and not among men,
that he felt sure of justice.

[Sidenote: Note action of auto-suggestion.]

[Sidenote: Remarkable relief in suspense period.]

39. When he had got safe into the drawing-room, and shut the door
behind him, he was aware of a respite from alarms. The room was
quite dismantled, uncarpeted besides, and strewn with packing cases
and incongruous furniture; several great pier-glasses, in which he
beheld himself at various angles, like an actor on the stage; many
pictures, framed and unframed, standing with their faces to the wall;
a fine Sheraton sideboard, a cabinet of marquetry, and a great old
bed, with tapestry hangings. The windows opened to the floor; but by
great good fortune the lower part of the shutters had been closed, and
this concealed him from the neighbors. Here, then, Markheim drew in a
packing case before the cabinet, and began to search among the keys. It
was a long business, for there were many; and it was irksome, besides;
for, after all, there might be nothing in the cabinet, and time was on
the wing. But the closeness of the occupation sobered him. With the
tail of his eye he saw the door--even glanced at it from time to time
directly, like a besieged commander pleased to verify the good estate
of his defenses. But in truth he was at peace. The rain falling in the
street sounded natural and pleasant. Presently, on the other side, the
notes of a piano were wakened to the music of a hymn, and voices of
many children took up the air and words. How stately, how comfortable
was the melody! How fresh the youthful voices! Markheim gave ear to it
smilingly, as he sorted out the keys; and his mind was thronged with
answerable ideas and images; church-going children and the pealing of
the high organ; children afield, bathers by the brookside, ramblers on
the brambly common, kite-flyers in the windy and cloud-navigated sky;
and then, at another cadence of the hymn, back again to church, and the
somnolence of summer Sundays, and the high genteel voice of the parson
(which he smiled a little to recall) and the painted Jacobean tombs,
and the dim lettering of the Ten Commandments in the chancel.

[Sidenote: Powerful contrast.]

[Sidenote: Approach of moral crisis.]

40. And as he sat thus, at once busy and absent, he was startled to his
feet. A flash of ice, a flash of fire, a bursting gush of blood, went
over him, and then he stood transfixed and thrilling. A step mounted
the stair slowly and steadily, and presently a hand was laid upon the
knob, and the lock clicked, and the door opened.

[Sidenote: Markheim perceives only a physical danger. Note how long he
remains dead to any moral judgment of himself.]

[Sidenote: Here is a real though unrecognized moral crisis. Fear
eventually leads to his moral triumph.]

41. Fear held Markheim in a vice. What to expect he knew not, whether
the dead man walking, or the official ministers of human justice, or
some chance witness blindly stumbling in to consign him to the gallows.
But when a face was thrust into the aperture, glanced round the room,
looked at him, nodded and smiled as if in friendly recognition, and
then withdrew again, and the door closed behind it, his fear broke
loose from his control in a hoarse cry. At the sound of this the
visitant returned.

[Sidenote: Note the symbolism of the closed door.]

42. “Did you call me?” he asked, pleasantly, and with that he entered
the room and closed the door behind him.

[Sidenote: KEY.]

[Sidenote: This states the problem.]

43. Markheim stood and gazed at him with all his eyes. Perhaps there
was a film upon his sight, but the outlines of the newcomer seemed to
change and waver like those of the idols in the wavering candle-light
of the shop; and at times he thought he knew him; and at times he
thought he bore a likeness to himself; and always, like a lump of
living terror, there lay in his bosom the conviction that this thing
was not of the earth and not of God.

44. And yet the creature had a strange air of the common-place, as he
stood looking on Markheim with a smile; and when he added: “You are
looking for the money, I believe?” it was in the tones of everyday
politeness.

45. Markheim made no answer.

46. “I should warn you,” resumed the other, “that the maid has left her
sweetheart earlier than usual and will soon be here. If Mr. Markheim be
found in this house, I need not describe to him the consequences.”

47. “You know me?” cried the murderer.

48. The visitor smiled. “You have long been a favorite of mine,” he
said; “and I have long observed and often sought to help you.”

49. “What are you?” cried Markheim: “the devil?”

[Sidenote: This is an important passage.]

50. “What I may be,” returned the other, “cannot affect the service I
propose to render you.”

[Sidenote: Forecast of Markheim’s struggle with his better self.]

51. “It can,” cried Markheim; “it does! Be helped by you? No, never;
not by you! You do not know me yet, thank God, you do not know me!”

52. “I know you,” replied the visitant, with a sort of kind severity or
rather firmness. “I know you to the soul.”

[Sidenote: Does Markheim really know himself?]

53. “Know me!” cried Markheim. “Who can do so? My life is but a
travesty and slander on myself. I have lived to belie my nature. All
men do; all men are better than this disguise that grows about and
stifles them. You see each dragged away by life, like one whom bravos
have seized and muffled in a cloak. If they had their own control--if
you could see their faces, they would be altogether different, they
would shine out for heroes and saints! I am worse than most; myself is
more overlaid; my excuse is known to me and God. But, had I the time, I
could disclose myself.”

54. “To me?” inquired the visitant.

[Sidenote: Note the author’s name for Markheim.]

[Sidenote: Seek a cause for such reasoning.]

55. “To you before all,” returned the murderer. “I supposed you were
intelligent. I thought--since you exist--you would prove a reader of
the heart. And yet you would propose to judge me by my acts! Think of
it; my acts! I was born and I have lived in a land of giants; giants
have dragged me by the wrists since I was born out of my mother--the
giants of circumstance. And you would judge me by my acts! But can you
not look within? Can you not understand that evil is hateful to me? Can
you not see within me the clear writing of conscience, never blurred by
any willful sophistry, although too often disregarded? Can you not read
me for a thing that surely must be common as humanity--the unwilling
sinner?”

[Sidenote: Note the distinction between the final importance of cause
and effect.]

[Sidenote: Contrast.]

[Sidenote: MINOR MORAL CRISIS.]

56. “All this is very feelingly expressed,” was the reply. “But it
regards me not. These points of consistency are beyond my province,
and I care not in the least by what compulsion you may have been
dragged away, so as you are but carried in the right direction. But
time flies; the servant delays, looking in the faces of the crowd and
at the pictures on the hoardings, but still she keeps moving nearer;
and remember, it is as if the gallows itself was striding toward you
through the Christmas streets! Shall I help you; I, who know all? Shall
I tell you where to find the money?”

[Sidenote: A test of Markheim’s consistency.]

57. “For what price?” asked Markheim.

58. “I offer you the service for a Christmas gift,” returned the other.

59. Markheim could not refrain from smiling with a kind of bitter
triumph. “No,” said he, “I will take nothing at your hands; if I were
dying of thirst, and it was your hand that put the pitcher to my lips,
I should find the courage to refuse. It may be credulous, but I will do
nothing to commit myself to evil.”

60. “I have no objection to a death-bed repentance,” observed the
visitant.

61. “Because you disbelieve their efficacy!” Markheim cried.

[Sidenote: Key.]

[Sidenote: Is this irony?]

62. “I do not say so,” returned the other; “but I look on these things
from a different side, and when the life is done my interest falls.
The man has lived to serve me, to spread black looks under color of
religion, or to sow tares in the wheat-field, as you do, in a course
of weak compliance with desire. Now that he draws so near to his
deliverance, he can add but one act of service--to repent, to die
smiling, and thus to build up in confidence and hope the more timorous
of my surviving followers. I am not so hard a master. Try me. Accept
my help. Please yourself in life as you have done hitherto; please
yourself more amply, spread your elbows at the board; and when the
night begins to fall and the curtains to be drawn, I tell you, for
your greater comfort, that you will find it even easy to compound your
quarrel with your conscience, and to make a truckling peace with God.
I came but now from such a death bed, and the room was full of sincere
mourners, listening to the man’s last words: and when I looked into
that face, which had been set as a flint against mercy, I found it
smiling with hope.”

[Sidenote: Markheim has judged the example.]

63. “And do you, then, suppose me such a creature?” asked Markheim. “Do
you think I have no more generous aspirations than to sin, and sin, and
sin, and, at last, sneak into heaven? My heart rises at the thought.
Is this, then, your experience of mankind? or is it because you find
me with red hands that you presume such baseness? and is this crime of
murder indeed so impious as to dry up the very springs of good?”

[Sidenote: Is this true reasoning?]

[Sidenote: Note the detached attitude.]

[Sidenote: Note paradox.]


64. “Murder is to me no special category,” replied the other. “All sins
are murder, even as all life is war. I behold your race, like starving
mariners on a raft, plucking crusts out of the hands of famine and
feeding on each other’s lives. I follow sins beyond the moment of their
acting; I find in all that the last consequence is death; and to my
eyes, the pretty maid who thwarts her mother with such taking graces on
a question of a ball, drips no less visibly with human gore than such
a murderer as yourself. Do I say that I follow sins? I follow virtues
also; they differ not by the thickness of a nail, they are both scythes
for the reaping angel of Death. Evil, for which I live, consists not in
action but in character. The bad man is dear to me; not the bad act,
whose fruits, if we could follow them far enough down the hurtling
cataract of the ages, might yet be found more blessed than those of the
rarest virtues. And it is not because you have killed a dealer, but
because you are Markheim, that I offered to forward your escape.”

[Sidenote: An unusual expression.]

[Sidenote: Note use of “of.”]

[Sidenote: Could that have been?]

65. “I will lay my heart open to you,” answered Markheim. “This crime
on which you find me is my last. On my way to it I have learned many
lessons; itself is a lesson, a momentous lesson. Hitherto I have been
driven with revolt to what I would not; I was a bond-slave to poverty,
driven and scourged. There are robust virtues that can stand in these
temptations; mine was not so: I had a thirst of pleasure. But to-day,
and out of this deed, I pluck both warning and riches--both the power
and a fresh resolve to be myself. I become in all things a free actor
in the world; I begin to see myself all changed, these hands the agents
of good, this heart at peace. Something comes over me out of the past;
something of what I have dreamed on Sabbath evenings to the sound of
the church organ, of what I forecast when I shed tears over noble
books, or talked, an innocent child, with my mother. There lies my
life; I have wandered a few years, but now I see once more my city of
destination.”

66. “You are to use this money on the Stock Exchange, I think?”
remarked the visitor; “and there, if I mistake not, you have already
lost some thousands?”

[Sidenote: Self-deception uncovered.]

67. “Ah,” said Markheim, “but this time I have a sure thing.”

68. “This time, again, you will lose,” replied the visitor, quietly.

69. “Ah, but I keep back the half!” cried Markheim.

70. “That also you will lose,” said the other.

[Sidenote: Moral crisis begins to appear to Markheim.]

[Sidenote: Self-deception still struggling.]

71. The sweat started upon Markheim’s brow. “Well, then, what matter?”
he exclaimed. “Say it be lost, say I am plunged again in poverty, shall
one part of me, and that the worse, continue until the end to override
the better? Evil and good run strong in me, haling me both ways. I
do not love the one thing, I love all. I can conceive great deeds,
renunciations, martyrdoms; and though I be fallen to such a crime as
murder, pity is no stranger to my thoughts. I pity the poor; who knows
their trials better than myself? I pity and help them; I prize love, I
love honest laughter; there is no good thing nor true thing on earth
but I love it from my heart. And are my vices only to direct my life,
and my virtues to lie without effect, like some passive lumber of the
mind? Not so; good, also, is a spring of acts.”

[Sidenote: Here the story is plainly didactic.]

72. But the visitant raised his finger. “For six-and-thirty years that
you have been in this world,” said he, “through many changes of fortune
and varieties of humor, I have watched you steadily fall. Fifteen years
ago you would have started at a theft. Three years back you would
have blenched at the name of murder. Is there any crime, is there any
cruelty or meanness, from which you still recoil?--five years from now
I shall detect you in the fact! Downward, downward, lies your way; nor
can anything but death avail to stop you.”

73. “It is true,” Markheim said, huskily, “I have in some degree
complied with evil. But it is so with all: the very saints, in the mere
exercise of living, grow less dainty, and take on the tone of their
surroundings.”

[Sidenote: Key.]

74. “I will propound to you one simple question,” said the other; “and
as you answer, I shall read to you your moral horoscope. You have grown
in many things more lax; possibly you do right to be so; and at any
account, it is the same with all men. But granting that, are you in any
one particular, however trifling, more difficult to please with your
own conduct, or do you go in all things with a looser rein?”

[Sidenote: MINOR MORAL CLIMAX.]

[Sidenote: Markheim at last sees himself.]

75. “In any one?” repeated Markheim, with an anguish of consideration.
“No,” he added, with despair, “in none! I have gone down in all.”

76. “Then,” said the visitor, “content yourself with what you are, for
you will never change; and the words of your part on this stage are
irrevocably written down.”

77. Markheim stood for a long while silent, and indeed it was the
visitor who first broke the silence. “That being so,” he said, “shall I
show you the money?”

78. “And grace?” cried Markheim.

79. “Have you not tried it?” returned the other. “Two or three years
ago, did I not see you on the platform of revival meetings, and was not
your voice the loudest in the hymn?”

80. “It is true,” said Markheim; “and I see clearly what remains for me
by way of duty. I thank you for these lessons from my soul: my eyes are
opened, and I behold myself at last for what I am.”

81. At this moment, the sharp note of the door-bell rang through the
house; and the visitant, as though this were some concerted signal for
which he had been waiting, changed at once in his demeanor.

[Sidenote: FULL MORAL CRISIS.]

[Sidenote: PHYSICAL RESULTANT CRISIS.]

[Sidenote: Final test.]

82. “The maid!” he cried. “She has returned, as I forewarned you, and
there is now before you one more difficult passage. Her master, you
must say, is ill; you must let her in, with an assured but rather
serious countenance--no smiles, no overacting, and I promise you
success! Once the girl within, and the door closed, the same dexterity
that has already rid you of the dealer will relieve you of this last
danger in your path. Thenceforward you have the whole evening--the
whole night, if needful--to ransack the treasures of the house and to
make good your safety. This is help that comes to you with the mask of
danger. Up!” he cried: “up, friend; your life hangs trembling in the
scales; up, and act!”

83. Markheim steadily regarded his counsellor. “If I be condemned to
evil acts,” he said, “there is still one door of freedom open--I can
cease from action. If my life be an ill thing, I can lay it down.
Though I be, as you say truly, at the beck of every small temptation,
I can yet, by one decisive gesture, place myself beyond the reach of
all. My love of good is damned to barrenness; it may, and let it, be!
But I have still my hatred of evil; and from that, to your galling
disappointment, you shall see that I can draw both energy and courage.”

[Sidenote: Who was the visitant?]

84. The features of the visitor began to undergo a wonderful and lovely
change; they brightened and softened with a tender triumph; and, even
as they brightened, faded and dislimned. But Markheim did not pause to
watch or understand the transformation. He opened the door and went
downstairs very slowly, thinking to himself. His past went soberly
before him; he beheld it as it was, ugly and strenuous like a dream,
random as chance-medley--a scene of defeat. Life, as he thus reviewed
it, tempted him no longer; but on the further side he perceived a quiet
haven for his bark. He paused in the passage, and looked into the
shop, where the candle still burned by the dead body. It was strangely
silent. Thoughts of the dealer swarmed into his mind, as he stood
gazing. And then the bell once more broke out into impatient clamor.

85. He confronted the maid upon the threshold with something like a
smile.

[Sidenote: MORAL CLIMAX. DENOUEMENT.]

86. “You had better go for the police,” said he: “I have killed your
master.”


                       MORRISON AND HIS WRITINGS

Arthur Morrison was born in Kent, England, in 1863. After some
experience as a clerk in the civil service, as the secretary of a
charity trust in the East End of London, and as a journalist on the
editorial staff of an evening paper, he settled down definitely to his
career as novelist and writer on oriental art. He is best known as a
journalist, however, and his familiarity with the East End has largely
contributed to his success in depicting the sordid life of London’s
“mean streets,” as the “remorseless realism” of his pictures testify.
Mr. Morrison’s literary work was in the nature of prose and verse
panegyrizing bicycles and bicycling. His principal works, apart from
several plays and magazine contributions, are _Tales of Mean Streets_;
the several _Martin Hewitt_ (detective) books; _A Child of the Jago_;
_To London Town_; _The Hole in the Wall_; _The Red Triangle_; _The
Green Eye of Goona_ (published in America as _The Green Diamond_); and
_The Painters of Japan_.

Mr. Morrison’s best fiction is not large in bulk, for his detective
stories are surpassed both in merit and in popular appeal by more than
one writer on similar themes; but in his _Tales of Mean Streets_,
which contains the appended study, “On the Stairs,” he has attained
a compressed power equalled only by the French realists and scarcely
surpassed even by them. He has brought the art of suggestion to a high
pass, his swiftness and firmness of delineation are equally effective,
and though his subjects are sordid and often depressing they live
before us as real folk.

    The introduction to _Tales of Mean Streets_ appeared in
    _Macmillan’s Magazine_ in October, 1891, where it was called
    simply, “A Street.” This sketch attracted the attention of Mr.
    W. E. Henley, who gave the young writer the benefit of his own
    knowledge and criticism; and it is to Henley and to Walter Besant
    that Mr. Morrison makes special acknowledgment for help in the
    technicalities and mechanism of his tales. Most of these _Tales of
    Mean Streets_ appeared in the _National Observer_ (while Henley was
    the editor), and a few in the _Pall Mall Budget_.--_Book Buyer_
    (London), vol. 12.

    If the modern novel about the slums, such as novels of Mr. Arthur
    Morrison, or the exceedingly able novels of Mr. Somerset Maugham,
    are intended to be sensational, I can only say that that is a noble
    and reasonable object, and that they attain it.... It may be ...
    it is necessary to have in our fiction the image of the horrible
    and hairy East-ender, merely to keep alive in us a fearful and
    childlike wonder at external peculiarities.... To summarize, our
    slum fiction is quite defensible as æsthetic fiction; it is not
    defensible as spiritual fact.--GILBERT K. CHESTERTON, _Heretics_.

    Ever seeking the clean-cut, picturesque phrase and the vivid
    word, he produced a very striking picture of the East End. But,
    nevertheless, it was not quite satisfactory and convincing. Human
    nature does not alter so much with conditions as he seems to
    think. A little less or a little more morality does not affect its
    elements.... Mr. Morrison’s strongest gift in writing is a cynicism
    that is almost brutal. With it he elaborates the features of all
    his characters till the impression is produced that one savage,
    hideous, ugly coster and one gaudy-feathered, bedizened “Jonah”
    have acted as models for all his studies of Jagodom. Moreover, his
    success has been achieved in pictures of the brutal.--_Academy_
    (London), vol. 52.

    The “mean streets” are streets in London.... [They] have found in
    Arthur Morrison an interpreter who lifts them out of their meanness
    upon the plane of a just claim to human sympathy. He lets us see
    the relief. Bill Napper, the drunken kerb-whacker, come into
    property and defending it against the rascally labor agitator,
    Scuddy Lond, mixing religious fervor and till-tapping with entire
    sincerity, Simmons and Ford, victims of their joint wife’s “jore”
    and mania for trouser-making, even the Anarchists of the Red Cow
    group, appeal to us with a sense almost of kinship because we feel
    that the figures are real. They are capital character-studies
    besides. Dickens never made a finer than the thief Scuddy Lond, or
    than Billy Chope.... The art of these stories seems flawless. Mr.
    Morrison’s gift amounts to genius.--JACOB RIIS, _Romances of “The
    Other Half,” The Book Buyer_, vol. 12.


              FURTHER REFERENCES FOR READING ON MORRISON

_Methods of Arthur Morrison_, _Academy_, vol. 50, 531; _His Work,
Academy_, vol. 52, 493; _Blackwood’s Magazine_, vol. 163, 734; _How to
Write a Short Story, Bookman_, vol. 5, 45; _Morrison as a Realist_,
H. D. Traill, _Fortnightly_, vol. 67, 65; _Reply_, A. Morrison, _New
Review_, vol. 16, 326; _Child of the Jago: True to Facts_, A. O. Jay,
_Fortnightly_, vol. 67, 324.


                             FOR ANALYSIS

                             ON THE STAIRS
                          BY ARTHUR MORRISON

The house had been “genteel.” When trade was prospering in the East
End, and the ship-fitter or block-maker thought it no shame to live in
the parish where his workshop lay, such a master had lived here. Now,
it was a tall, solid, well-bricked, ugly house, grimy and paintless in
the joinery, cracked and patched in the windows: where the front door
stood open all day long; and the womankind sat on the steps, talking
of sickness and deaths and the cost of things; and treacherous holes
lurked in the carpet of road-soil on the stairs and in the passage. For
when eight families live in a house, nobody buys a door-mat, and the
street was one of those streets that are always muddy. It smelt, too,
of many things, none of them pleasant (one was fried fish); but for all
that it was not a slum.

2. Three flights up, a gaunt woman with bare forearms stayed on her way
to listen at a door which, opening, let out a warm, fetid waft from a
close sick-room. A bent and tottering old woman stood on the threshold,
holding the door behind her.

3. “An’ is 'e no better now, Mrs. Curtis?” the gaunt woman asked, with
a nod at the opening.

4. The old woman shook her head, and pulled the door closer. Her jaw
waggled loosely in her withered chaps: “Nor won’t be; till 'e’s gone.”
Then after a certain pause, “'E’s goin’,” she said.

5. “Don’t doctor give no 'ope?”

6. “Lor’ bless ye, I don’t want to ast no doctors,” Mrs. Curtis
replied, with something not unlike a chuckle. “I’ve seed too many on
’em. The boy’s a-goin’, fast; I can see that. An’ then”--she gave the
handle another tug, and whispered--“he’s been called.” She nodded
amain; “Three seprit knocks at the bed-head las’ night; an’ I know what
_that_ means!”

7. The gaunt woman raised her brows, and nodded. “Ah, well,” she said,
“we all on us comes to it some day, sooner or later. An’ it’s often a
'appy release.”

8. The two looked into space beyond each other, the elder with a nod
and a croak. Presently the other pursued, “'E’s been a very good son,
ain’t 'e?”

9. “Ay, ay, well enough son to me,” responded the old woman, a
little peevishly; “an’ I’ll 'ave ’im put away decent, though there’s
on’y the Union for me after. I can do that, thank Gawd!” she added,
meditatively, as chin on fist she stared into the thickening dark over
the stairs.

10. “When I lost my pore 'usband,” said the gaunt woman with a certain
brightening, “I give ’im a 'ansome funeral. 'E was a Oddfeller, an’ I
got twelve pound. I 'ad a oak caufin an’ a open 'earse. There was a
kerridge for the fam’ly an’ one for 'is mates--two 'orses each, an’
feathers, an’ mutes; an’ it went the furthest way round to the cimitry.
'Wotever 'appens, Mrs. Manders,’ says the undertaker, ‘you’ll feel
as you’ve treated 'im proper; nobody can’t reproach you over that.’
An’ they couldn’t. 'E was a good 'usband to me, an’ I buried ’im
respectable.”

11. The gaunt woman exulted. The old, old story of Manders’s funeral
fell upon the other one’s ears with a freshened interest, and she
mumbled her gums ruminantly. “Bob’ll 'ave a 'ansome buryin', too,” she
said. “I can make it up, with the insurance money, an’ this, an’ that.
On’y I dunno about mutes. It’s a expense.”

12. In the East End, when a woman has not enough money to buy a thing
much desired, she does not say so in plain words; she says the thing
is an “expense,” or a “great expense.” It means the same thing, but
it sounds better. Mrs. Curtis had reckoned her resources, and found
that mutes would be an “expense.” At a cheap funeral mutes cost
half-a-sovereign and their liquor. Mrs. Manders said as much.

13. “Yus, yus, 'arf-a-sovereign,” the old woman assented. Within, the
sick feebly beat the floor with a stick. “I’m a-comin’,” she cried
shrilly; “yus, 'arf-a-sovereign, but it’s a lot, an’ I don’t see 'ow
I’m to do it--not at present.” She reached for the door-handle again,
but stopped and added, by after-thought, “Unless I don’t 'ave no
plooms.”

14. “It 'ud be a pity not to 'ave plooms. I 'ad--”

15. There were footsteps on the stairs: then a stumble and a testy
word. Mrs. Curtis peered over into the gathering dark. “Is it the
doctor, sir?” she asked. It was the doctor’s assistant; and Mrs.
Manders tramped up to the next landing as the door of the sick-room
took him in.

16. For five minutes the stairs were darker than ever. Then the
assistant, a very young man, came out again, followed by the old woman
with a candle. Mrs. Manders listened in the upper dark. “He’s sinking
fast,” said the assistant. “He _must_ have a stimulant. Dr. Mansell
ordered port wine. Where is it?” Mrs. Curtis mumbled dolorously. “I
tell you he _must_ have it,” he averred with unprofessional emphasis
(his qualification was only a month old). “The man can’t take solid
food, and his strength must be kept up somehow. Another day may make
all the difference. Is it because you can’t afford it?” “It’s a
expense--sich a expense, doctor,” the old woman pleaded. “An’ wot with
'arf-pints o’ milk an’--” She grew inarticulate, and mumbled dismally.

17. “But he must have it, Mrs. Curtis, if it’s your last shilling:
it’s the only way. If you mean you absolutely haven’t the money--” and
he paused a little awkwardly. He was not a wealthy young man--wealthy
young men do not devil for East End doctors--but he was conscious
of a certain haul of sixpences at nap the night before; and, being
inexperienced, he did not foresee the career of persecution whereon he
was entering at his own expense and of his own motion. He produced five
shillings: “If you absolutely haven’t the money, why--take this and get
a bottle--good: not at a public-house. But mind, _at once_. He should
have had it before.”

18. It would have interested him, as a matter of coincidence, to know
that his principal had been guilty of the selfsame indiscretion--even
the amount was identical--on that landing the day before. But, as Mrs.
Curtis said nothing of this, he floundered down the stair and out
into the wetter mud, pondering whether or not the beloved son of a
Congregational minister might take full credit for a deed of charity on
the proceeds of sixpenny nap. But Mrs. Curtis puffed her wrinkles, and
shook her head sagaciously as she carried in her candle. From the room
came a clink as of money falling into a teapot. And Mrs. Manders went
about her business.

19. The door was shut, and the stair a pit of blackness. Twice a lodger
passed down, and up and down, and still it did not open. Men and women
walked on the lower flights, and out at the door, and in again. From
the street a shout or a snatch of laughter floated up the pit. On the
pavement footsteps rang crisper and fewer, and from the bottom passage
there were sounds of stagger and sprawl. A demented old clock buzzed
divers hours at random, and was rebuked every twenty minutes by the
regular tread of a policeman on his beat. Finally, somebody shut the
street-door with a great bang, and the street was muffled. A key turned
inside the door on the landing, but that was all. A feeble light shone
for hours along the crack below, and then went out. The crazy old clock
went buzzing on, but nothing left that room all night. Nothing that
opened the door....

20. When next the key turned, it was to Mrs. Manders’s knock, in the
full morning; and soon the two women came out on the landing together,
Mrs. Curtis with a shapeless clump of bonnet. “Ah, 'e’s a lovely
corpse,” said Mrs. Manders. “Like wax. So was my 'usband.”

21. “I must be stirrin’,” croaked the old woman, “an’ go about the
insurance an’ the measurin’ an’ that. There’s lots to do.”

22. “Ah, there is. 'Oo are you goin’ to 'ave,--Wilkins? I 'ad Wilkins.
Better than Kedge, _I_ think: Kedge’s mutes dresses rusty, an’ their
trousis is frayed. If you was thinkin’ of 'avin’ mutes--”

23. “Yus, yus,”--with a palsied nodding,--“I’m a-goin’ to 'ave mutes: I
can do it respectable, thank Gawd!”

24. “And the plooms?”

25. “Ay, yus, and the plooms too. They ain’t sich a great expense,
after all.”


                    SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS FOR STUDY

1. What are the points of similarity between the Character-Study and
the Psychological Study?

2. Define (a) Psychology, (b) Realism.

3. Does Markheim’s change of heart seem to you to be genuine? Give your
reasons.

4. Analyze his motives fully.

5. Is the supernatural element convincing?

6. Could conscience produce the same effect as the Visitant?

7. What impression did Stevenson seek to convey by “Markheim”?

8. Fully analyze the thoughts, feelings, and motives of the mother.

9. Can you detect Morrison’s motive in writing “On the Stairs”?

10. Fully analyze one other psychological study, from any source.


               TEN REPRESENTATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL STUDIES

“A Coward,” Guy de Maupassant, translated in _The Odd Number_.

“Another Gambler,” Paul Bourget, translated in _Stories by Foreign
Authors_.

“La Bretonne,” André Theuriet, translated in _Short-Story
Masterpieces_.

“The Song of Death,” Hermann Sudermann, translated in _The Indian
Lily_.

“The Recovery,” Edith Wharton, in _Crucial Instances_.

“Billy-Boy,” John Luther Long, in volume of same title.

“The Executioner,” Honoré de Balzac, translated in _Masterpieces of
Fiction_.

“The Revolt of ‘Mother,’” Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, _Harper’s
Magazine_, vol. 81, 553.

“The Lady or the Tiger,” Frank R. Stockton, in volume of same title.

“The Man Without a Country,” Edward Everett Hale, in _Short Story
Classics, American_.


                         BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

An extended list of books and magazine articles on the short-story
will be found on pages 375-378, 426-431 of the present author’s
_Writing the Short-Story_, New York, Hinds, Hayden and Eldredge
(1909), xiv+441 pp. Most of the bibliographical references here
appended also appear in the revised edition of _Writing the
Short-Story_ (1918). Magazine articles have not been included, as
they may be found listed in the cumulative periodical indexes.
For several years, _The Writer’s Monthly_, Springfield, Mass., a
periodical for literary workers, has printed monthly a list of
magazine articles of interest to writers.

_Notes on the Influence of E. T. A. Hoffman on Edgar Allan Poe_, G.
Gruener, Modern Language Association of America (1904).

_How to Write_, Charles Sears Baldwin. Macmillan (1906). Chapters
on “How to Tell a Story,” and “How to Describe.” Based upon Bible
narratives.

_The Art of the Short-Story_, George W. Gerwig. Werner (1909). A
brief general study. Out of print.

_The Short Story in English_, Henry Seidel Canby. Holt (1909). An
exhaustive examination into the origin and development of the form.

_A History of Story Telling_, Arthur Ransome. Stokes (1909).

_Studies in Several Literatures_, Harry Thurston Peck. Dodd, Mead
(1909). Chapters on “Poe,” and “The Detective Story.”

_The Art of Writing_ (also issued under the title, _The Art of
Short Story Writing_), George Randolph Chester. The Publishers
Syndicate (1910). A collection of brief notes on all phases of the
title-subject.

_The Fiction Factory_, John Milton Edwards (pseudonym). Editor Co.
(1911). “The author tells how he conceived, planned, wrote and sold
$100,000 worth of manuscripts.”

_The Craftsmanship of Writing_, Frederic Taber Cooper. Dodd, Mead
(1912). These papers appeared serially in _The Bookman_, New York.

_The Plot of the Short Story_, Henry Albert Phillips.
Stanhope-Dodge (1912). The technique and mechanics of plot.

_The American Short Story_, C. Alphonso Smith. Ginn (1912). An
American reprint of one of the author’s lectures delivered as
Roosevelt Professor at the University of Berlin.

_The Art and Business of Story Writing_, W. B. Pitkin. Macmillan
(1912).

_The American Short Story_, Elias Lieberman. Editor Co. (1912).

_The Art of Story Writing_, J. Berg Esenwein and Mary Davoren
Chambers. Home Correspondence School (1913). A study of the shorter
fictional forms--the anecdote, fable, parable, tale, sketch, and
short-story--with outlines for study and instruction.

_The Technique of the Mystery Story_, Carolyn Wells. Home
Correspondence School (1913).

_Art in Short Story Narration_, Henry Albert Phillips.
Stanhope-Dodge (1913).

_The Art of Writing_, Preface to “The Nigger of the Narcissus,”
Joseph Conrad. Doubleday (1914).

_Short Stories in the Making_, Robert Wilson Neal. Oxford
University Press (1914).

_The Author’s Craft_, Arnold Bennett. Doran (1914)

_The Art of the Short Story_, Carol Grabo. Scribner (1914).

_The Modern Short-Story_, Lilian Notestein and Waldo H. Dunn.
Barnes (1914).

_On the Art of Writing_, A. Quiller-Couch. Putnam (1916).

_The Contemporary Short Story_, Harry T. Baker. Heath (1916).

_The Short-Story_, Barry Pain. Doran (1916). Reprint of an earlier
English edition.

_The Thirty Six Dramatic Situations_, Georges Polti. Editor Co.
(1916).

_A Handbook of Story Writing_, Blanche Colton Williams. Dodd, Mead
(1917).

_Children’s Stories and How to Tell Them_, J. Berg Esenwein and
Marietta Stockard. Home Correspondence School (1917).

_Helps for Student-Writers_, Willard E. Hawkins. The Student-Writer
Press (1917).

_The Technique of Fiction Writing_, Robert Saunders Dowst. Editor
Co. (1917).

Besides the edited collections of miscellaneous short-stories
included in the first edition of _Writing the Short-Story_, which
need not be reproduced here, are the following. In most instances
the collections are prefaced by introductory notes by the editors
named.

_The Best American Tales_, W. P. Trent and John Bell Henneman.
Crowell (1907).

_International Library of Fiction_ (3 vols.), William Patten.
Collier (1910).

_The Great English Short-Story Writers_ (2 vols.), William J. and
Coningsby W. Dawson. Harper (1910).

_The Lock and Key Library_ (10 vols.), Julian Hawthorne. This is
an expansion of the six-volume edition of _Mystery and Detective
Stories_ (6 vols.). Review of Reviews Co. (1912).

_Short-Story Masterpieces, French_ (2 vols.), J. Berg Esenwein.
Home Correspondence School (1912).

_Short-Story Masterpieces, Russian_ (2 vols.), J. Berg Esenwein.
Home Correspondence School (1913).

_A Collection of Short Stories_, L. A. Pittenger. Macmillan (1913).

_A Study of the Short Story_, Henry S. Canby. Holt (1913).

_A Book of Short Stories_, Stuart P. Sherman. Holt (1914).

_Types of the Short-Story_, Benjamin A. Heydrick. Scott, Foresman
(1914).

_The Short-Story_, E. A. Cross. McClurg (1914).

_Modern Short Stories_, Margaret Ashmun. Macmillan (1914).

_Short Stories_, Leonard Moulton. Houghton, Mifflin (1915).

_Short Stories for High Schools_, Rosa M. R. Mikels. Scribner
(1915).

_Elements of the Short Story_, E. E. Hale, Jr., and F. T. Dawson.
Holt (1915).

_Short Stories from “Life,”_ T. L. Masson. Doubleday (1916).

_Short Stories and Selections, for Use in Secondary Schools_,
Emilie K. Baker. Macmillan (1916).

_Representative Short Stories_, Nina Hart and Edna M. Perry.
Macmillan (1917).

_The Best Short Stories of 1915, and The Yearbook of the American
Short Story_, E. J. O’Brien. Small, Maynard (1916).

Similar collections by the same editor have been issued for 1916
and 1917, and others for later years are to follow.

_Atlantic Narratives_, Charles Swain Thomas. Atlantic Monthly Press
(1918).

_Index to Short Stories._ Ina TenEyck Firkins. Wilson.




                                 INDEX


In this index, names of authors are printed in small capitals and
titles of books in italics; titles of short-stories are enclosed in
quotations, and general persons and subjects are in Roman type. It
has not seemed necessary to index titles and authors which are merely
included in biographical and bibliographical notes.


              A

Action, 2, 3.

ADDISON, JOSEPH, xix.

Adventure (see Action), xvi, 3.

Anecdote, xvi, xvii, xx.

_Arabian Nights_, xviii.


             B

BALDWIN, CHARLES S., xxiv.

BALZAC, HONORÉ DE, xx, 134, 253.

BARRIE, JAMES M., 133, 215-249.

BARRETT, CHARLES RAYMOND, xxiii.

BEERS, H. A., 300.

BERANGER, 320.

Bibliography of Short-Story, xxi, 433.

BIERCE, AMBROSE, 72.

BOCCACCIO, xviii;
  _Decameron_, xvii;
  _Rinaldo_, xvii.

BURKE, EDMUND, 132.

BURTON, RICHARD, 32.

BUTLER, ELLIS PARKER, 133.


          C

CANBY, H. S., xxiv, 32, 33, 75, 76, 149, 258, 301, 302.

Characters, 4, 354, 355, 356.

Character Studies, 353-389.

CHAUCER, GEOFFREY, xviii,
  _Canterbury Tales_, xvii,
  _Pardoner’s Tale_, xvii.

CHESTERTON, GILBERT K., 424.

CODY, SHERWIN, xxiii.

Comedy, 192.

_Conte dévot_, xvi, xvii.

Contributory incident, 21, 199.

COPPÉE, FRANÇOIS, 134, 368-388.

“Courting of T’Nowhead’s Bell, The,” 219-249.

CRAWFORD, F. MARION, 72.

CRAWFORD, V. M., 137, 138.

Crisis, xxvi, 355.

CROSS, J. W., 252.

CURTIS, GEORGE WILLIAM, 70.


          D

DAUDET, ALPHONSE, 133-147.

DEFOE, DANIEL, xix.

Denouement, xxvi.

Detective Story, xix.

Developing incident (see contributory incident).

DYE, CHARITY, xxiii.


          E

EDGEWORTH, MARIA, _Moral Tales_, xix.

Egyptian tales, xv, xvi.

ELIOT, GEORGE, 252.

Emotion, Stories of, 131-190.

Episode, xvii, xix.

Essay-Stories, xix.

_Esther, Book of_, xvi.

Exercises, xxxi, 67, 129, 189, 249, 290, 351, 388, 431.


          F

_Fabliau_, xviii.

FAGUET, ÉMILE, 6.

“Fall of the House of Usher, The,” 320-351.

Fiction, Art of, xiii.

FLAUBERT, GUSTAVE, 32, 33.


          G

Ghosts, 70.

_Golden Ass, The_, Apuleius, xvi.

_Graham’s Magazine_, xxii, 295.

GRENIER, EDOUARD, 7.

GRISWOLD, HATTIE T., 218.

_Guardian_, xix.


          H

HAMILTON, CLAYTON, 354.

HAMMERTON, J. A., 218.

_Handbook of Literary Criticism_, 31.

HARTE, BRET, 133, 253, 254.

HAWTHORNE, JULIAN, 70, 258.

HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL, xix, xxii, xxiii, 33, 71, 75, 297-319.

HENRY, O., 193-215.

HIGGINSON, THOMAS WENTWORTH, xxiii.

HOFFMAN, E. A., xix, 75.

Homeric stories, xv.

Humorous Stories, 191-250.

HUTTON, R. H., 301.


          I

_Idler_, xix.

Impressionistic Stories, 293-352.

INDEPENDENT, xxiii.

IRVING, WASHINGTON, xix, 71;
  _Rip Van Winkle_, xviii.


          J

JACOBS, W. W., 108-129.

JAMES, HENRY, 137, 149, 279.

JESSUP, ALEXANDER, xxiv.

JOHNSON, SAMUEL, xix.


          K

KING, GRACE, 6, 7.

KIPLING, RUDYARD, 31, 133, 147-189, 258.


          L

LANG, ANDREW, 32, 75.

“Last Class, The,” 134, 136, 139-147.

LE GALLIENNE, RICHARD, 150, 258, 300.

LEMMON, LEONARD, 258.

LEWIN, WALTER, 257, 258.

LEWIS, E. H., xxiii.

_Lippincott’s Magazine_, xxiii.

Local color, 8, 254 (see setting).

“Lodging for the Night, A,” 32, 34-67.

LONGFELLOW, H. W., 299.


          M

MABIE, HAMILTON WRIGHT, 279.

MCINTYRE, MARION, 137.

MACLAREN, IAN, 216.

“Mateo Falcone,” 8-29, 134, 254.

MATTHEWS, BRANDER, xxiii, 75, 280, 370, 371.

“Markheim,” 32, 33, 393-422.

MAUPASSANT, GUY DE, vii, xxix, 133, 196, 254, 277-290, 356-368.

MÉRIMÉE, PROSPER, xix, xx, 4, 8-29.

Milesian Tales, xvi.

MILLER, MERION M., 370.

“Moonlight,” 253, 278, 281-290.

“Monkey’s Paw, The,” 110-129, 134.

MORRISON, ARTHUR, 422-431.

Mystery and Fantasy Stories, 69-130.


          N

NATHAN, G. J., 196.

NODIER, CHARLES, xix.

Novel, xiii.

Novelette, xx, xxvii.

_Novella_, xvii, xviii.


          O

O’BRIEN, FITZ-JAMES, 72.

“On the Stairs,” 393, 425-431.

“Outcasts of Poker Flat, The,” 253, 258-277.


          P

PATER, WALTER, 392.

PECK, HARRY THURSTON, 197.

PELLISSIER, GEORGES, 7.

PERRY, BLISS, 2, 392.

PHELPS, WILLIAM LYON, 31.

“Piece of String, The,” 356-368.

Plot, xxv.

Plot incident, 11.

POE, EDGAR ALLAN, xix, xx, xxi, xxii, xxv,
   30, 72-107, 134, 294, 295, 296, 320-351.

Psychological Studies, 391-432.

“Purloined Letter, The,” 72, 75-107.

PUSHKIN, xix.


          Q

Questions, see Exercises.


          R

_Rambler_, xix.

“Ransom of Red Chief, The,” 198-215.

Representative Stories, Lists of, 68, 130, 190, 250, 290, 351, 389, 432.

RIIS, JACOB, 424.

Romanticism, 31.

ROZ, FIRMIN, 280.

_Ruth, Book of_, 133.


          S

Sadness in Stories, viii.

SAINTSBURY, GEORGE, 7.

SANDERSON, ROBERT, 370.

_Saturday Review_, xxiii.

Scenario, xvi, xxvii.

SCOTT, SIR WALTER, xix.

Setting, Stories of, 251-290.

SHERAN, WILLIAM H., 31.

_Short History of French Literature_, 7.

Short-Story, origin of, xx;
  defined, xxv, xxvi;
  Study of, xiii, xiv.

Sketch, xxviii, 355.

SMITH, C. ALFONSO, xxiii.

SMITH, LEWIS W., xxiii.

_Spectator_, xix.

SPIELHAGEN, FRIEDRICH, xxiii.

STEELE, RICHARD, xix.

STEVENSON, ROBERT LOUIS, 29-67, 393-422.

Story-tellers, xv, xvi.

“Substitute, The,” 371-388.

SYMONS, ARTHUR, 138, 279.


          T

Tale, xv, xvii, xx, xxvii, 355.

_Taller_, xix.

TIECK, J. L., xix, 75.

To Teachers, vii.

TRENT, W. P., 137.

TWAIN, MARK, 193.


          V

VOLTAIRE, xix, 72.


          W

WARD, ARTEMUS, 193.

_Warner Library_, 6, 7, 218, 280, 370.

WEISS, JOHN, 192.

“White Old Maid, The,” 302-319.

WHITE, WILLIAM ALLEN, 193.

“Without Benefit of Clergy,” 134, 148-189.

_Writing the Short-Story_, vii, ix, xi, xxvi, 133, 253, 255.


          Z

_Zadig_, xix, 72.