
Leach spilled the contents of his poke on the rough cabin table.

“Enough,” he muttered, “to buy twenty ice pool chances. This year I’m
going to win! Each year I’ve come nearer; each year the pool has been
larger, but this year I win!”

“Don’t be too sure,” Atridge, his partner, observed.

Leach stretched himself and stepped outside. The air was almost balmy;
the sky a deep blue; the mountains stood out sharp and clear. The sap
was running in the willows, but then a willow is a foolish sort of tree
and frequently buds too soon. The creek on which their cabin was located
was frozen down to its gravel bottom. Leach looked into the sky and a
peculiar hardness grew in the muscles around his jaw. A flock of geese
was flying northward to some open body of salt water. A willow may be
foolish, but geese know.

“This year,” he repeated, “I win the ice pool!”

Atridge did not speak for several seconds.

“I think,” he finally said, “I get you. But don’t you mean this year
_we_ win the ice pool?”

“Yes, if you want to go in on it--fifty-fifty. Otherwise I’m counting on
you to keep your mouth shut!”

“I’m with you; what’s your plan?”

“We can’t lose. I’ve worked it all out. Last winter when you thought I
was brooding and maybe had cabin fever I was figuring to win the pool!”

“What’s your plan?” Atridge repeated.

“Easy! Blow the safe in Welch’s store and go down the river ahead of the
breakup. What chances has the marshal with the whole country flooded. I
know of a dozen cabins in the lower country where we can hide out.
Nobody will know whether we’ve wintered there or just arrived. Nobody
knows we’re here! And we won’t show ourselves in the camp.”

Like most prospectors he spoke of any thriving town as a camp.
Originally it had been a gold camp. From it a town had grown.

They camped on the outskirts of the community a week later. Excitement
was on the increase. It was late April and money was coming from every
part of the world. From traders and Eskimos in the North; from trappers,
miners and business men throughout Alaska to men of poverty and wealth
alike who chanced to be spending their declining years in warmer
climates. To some it merely meant thumbing a bill off a large roll; to
others it meant a sacrifice. Back of it all was the sporting blood of
another day prompting them to take a chance; whispering that they had as
good a chance to win as the next fellow. Loudly they might declare they
knew they didn’t have a chance, but the faint voice of hope whispered--

“But, maybe you have.”
