
Con Welch opened up his place of business to find the mailbox crammed
with envelopes. One, larger than the other, attracted his attention. He
opened it. A small poke of gold dropped into his hand. With it a note
which read:

    ICE POOL COMMITTEE:

    HERE’S ENOUGH PLACER GOLD TO BUY ME TWENTY CHANCES. I’M GUESSING THE
    ICE GOES OUT AS LISTED ON THE ACCOMPANYING PAPER. I EXPECT TO WIN
    THIS YEAR, SURE. I’M SENDING THIS UP BY A SIWASH THAT I KNOW IS
    HONEST. MY ADDRESS IS KLAHOWYA LANDING.

                                                       YOURS TRULY,
                                                          —MACK LEACH.

“From the lower river country, eh?” Welsh mused. Coming by messenger
there was, of course, no date or postmark. “Hang it. I wished that
Siwash had showed up in daytime. I’d like to have asked him some
questions about the lower river country. Well, Leach, here’s hoping.
Twenty chances will give you the edge on a lot of others, but the man
with one chance often wins.”

He opened a safe, already crammed with gold dust and bills, added the
contents of the poke, entered the name and times in a large book and
filed the letter away.

Men were already working on the ice. In the center of the river a tripod
had been erected. Just below it a wire had been strung across the river.
On the town side the wire was connected to a clock as well as a siren.
When the ice moved the tripod was carried against the wire. The clock
registered the exact time and the scream of the siren proclaimed the ice
was going. Then the camp went mad.

The last of the entries arrived that day. The contest was now in the lap
of Mother Nature.

Con Welch’s safe was closed and locked until the great day when the
winner appeared to collect. Robbery? The thought never occurred to any
one in camp. There hadn’t been a theft in years. Escape was too
difficult in a land where all movements of humanity must of necessity
converge at the neck of the bottle--the steamers connecting the country
with the outside world.

No telegraph line reached the camp, and yet, by a curiously circuitous
method the miners learned that the ice was beginning to break far up the
river. White Horse sent word to Vancouver and a Vancouver radio station
broadcasted the news. A local set picked it up. The camp waited. A day
or two; perhaps only a matter of hours, and the question would be
settled.

A low boom startled Con Welch. He opened his eyes and listened.

“There goes the ice!” he cried, and rushed to the window. The tripod had
not moved. He rubbed his eyes and waited. “Must have been dreaming. That
sure sounded like ice breaking!”

He returned to the warmth of his blankets and dozed off. At six o’clock
his telephone rang. A voice came crisply over the wire:

“Con, this is Kenmore speaking. How much money did you have in that
safe?”

“Roughly, twenty-five thousand dollars. Why?”

“She’s been blown. Get down here as quick as you can!”
