
A mob had surrounded his store when Con Welch arrived. Each man had made
his guess on when the ice would go out. Each felt himself robbed of
twenty-five thousand dollars. The men buzzed like hornets and they were
as greatly aroused.

“I’ve got a dozen men circling the camp,” Kenmore, the marshal,
explained. “If they’ve taken a trail out of camp we’ll catch them! Your
place ain’t so badly wrecked as it looks. The job was done by men who
know how to use powder, but don’t know much about safes!”

Con nodded.

“Half the men in camp can use powder!”

Even as they talked a deputy hurried up.

“We’ve found a trail. It ain’t much, but they went out over the ice.
There’s at least two of em!”

Twenty men were standing about, ready for the trail and spoiling for a
chance to take part, backed by authority. Kenmore picked his men.

“We’ll travel light,” he announced, “and have others follow us up with
grub. We’re taking to the ice before she goes!”

They fairly raced down the frozen surface. A half hour gained now was
equal to several hours hard work once the ice was gone.

An hour later they caught the scream of a siren behind them. It was a
sound that never ceased to thrill them. Other whistles in camp took it
up and with it came the ringing of bells and the crack of pistols and
rifles.

“I wonder who won,” a deputy wondered.

“It won’t make any difference,” Kenmore replied, “if we don’t overhaul
the crooks!”

Something cracked ahead of them. They ran swiftly and leaped an opening
in the ice. Water began to pour through, spreading slowly over the
smooth surface. It would be a tough job, returning. An hour later they
reached Boulder Creek and Kenmore threw up his hands and groaned. “They
knew what they were doing. Timed things just right. We’ve got to quit
the ice!”

“There’s a bend in the river,” one of them shouted. “If we cut across it
will save something!”

“Lead off!” the marshal ordered.

The roar grew louder. First the explosive sound of breaking ice, then
the grinding of millions of ice cakes as the flood waters lifted the ice
bodily and carried it toward the sea. Here it stranded on bars and piled
cake on cake until a dam had been formed. There it broke through the
banks and relieved for a moment of pressure, while the country was
flooded.

They crossed the bend in the river and, instead of the smooth surface
they had desired, a churning, ice dotted flood filled the course to the
banks. They ran madly, taking turns at trail breaking; helping one
another over the bad places. Minutes counted. It was a tossup whether
they could cross the flat country ahead before the water flooded it.

They cut across to the stream once more and followed along the bank.
Here the river had broken through a low mountain range after ages of
effort. Walls were of granite, scraped by the ice of thousands of years.
A panting deputy cried out with excitement--

“Look at that!”
