
Ice had choked the gorge and the river was climbing the sheer walls. But
in the midst, leaping from cake to cake, were two figures. They seemed
tiny, when compared with the vastness of the breakup. They moved with
desperation; falling, fighting, each for himself, but working toward the
jam.

One man looked up and saw the posse, but a greater danger confronted
him. Ice cakes were being sucked into a vortex that poured through an
opening in the jam. He judged his situation carefully, leaped at the
right moment and was on the jam proper. He did not look back at his
companion, but climbed upwards, knowing that if he gained the top and
the smooth ice beyond, the posse had no chance; knowing too, that if he
failed, the river would demand its toll.

No word passed among the posse as it watched. They knew the ice, these
men; knew that the might of the river was exerting tremendous pressure
to overturn the jam; knew that in the end the river would succeed.

One of the men gained the top; the other was halfway up. For an instant
the leading man was outlined sharply. He waved his hand in defiance and
far beneath a cake of ice weighing tons groaned in agony, then burst.

A man in the posse cried out at the drama, The river had won. The whole
jam was moving. Cakes and blocks shifted and the tiny figure of a man
was hurled into the stream an instant before the jam overturned. Another
dot, a thing of arms and legs, fighting a river, remained on top of the
shifting ice a moment, clawed for a niche on the bank and then fell
back. The river, with its burden of ice moved on toward the sea.

The youngest member of the posse stood where the jam had once held the
flood waters of an empire in check.

“Do you suppose...?” he ventured.

“No,” the marshal answered, pointing to a spruce log three feet through
at the butt. It was a sound timber from heart to bark but it was now a
pulpy mass being destroyed by the ice. “The only thing that’ll ever be
found, son, is the gold nuggets. And maybe the river will keep even
them. The rest will be destroyed. Well, boys, let’s go back and report.
Somebody’s out twenty-five thousand dollars.”

Eagerness to learn who won the pool spurred them on, long after muscles
cried for relief. Near camp, a supply party met them.

“Got the crooks?” one of them inquired, slipping a pack from his broad
shoulders.

“No. They’ve gone down with the ice. Say, who won this year?”

“Kind of an empty victory,” the packer replied. “According to Con
Welsh’s book it was a feller named Leach.”

In the distance the ice ground its way to the sea.

[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 1, 1928 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

