
The deputy sheriff held an ampoule under his nose and brought him to
after setting the squad car on the beamway, proceeding under remote
control toward the county seat.

The first thing Ollie thought of was his day's pay. He'd never received
it. Worse--his bedroll was left behind. And there was no stopping nor
turning on the beam way.

He complained bitterly.

"You won't need that stuff," the sharp young deputy said. "Not where
you're going."

"I suppose Rost needs it!" Ollie protested.

"He might at that. All he's got is those measily four rented acres of
tomatoes. The cannery pays him the same as if he had four hundred acres
and could pick by machine.

"About all the profit he can make is what he chisels out of his
pickers. You'll be better off in a Home, Pop, than trying to work
cheaper than a machine."

"Those Homes are prisons!"

The deputy sighed. "I know how you feel. My old grandfather cried when
we put him in. But we couldn't support him and he had no way of making
a living.

"The world changes faster than the people in it, Pop. Science all the
time lets us live longer, but faster and faster it keeps changing the
way we do things. An old guy falls so far behind the times, the only
place for him is a Home."

"But if a man wants to stay out," said Ollie, "I don't see why he
can't."

"Old guys are dangerous to the rest of us. I saw three people killed,
not long ago, trying to dodge an oldtimer who walked too slow to get
across a wide street before the lights changed against him."

"They could have slowed the signal," Ollie said. "But no! Always it's
the man who has to adapt to the machine, not the machine to the man.
The only way to get by in this world is to find some machine you just
naturally fit."

"You sound kind of bitter."

"Why not? I used to be a stock control clerk, keeping track of spare
parts supply for a nationally distributed line of machine tools. I had
twenty girls working for me. Then one day they put in a big computer."

He sighed. "No wonder these suicide salesmen do so well. If I had the
money I'd hire somebody to knock me off right now."

"Don't be stupid!" the deputy snarled. "You wouldn't be losing your
freedom if you'd had sense enough to stay out of a fight. And when you
talk about suicide salesmen, you sure prove you can't take care of
yourself!"

But the deputy was kinder than he sounded. Rather than allege
incompetence, he charged Ollie with an assault against Rost. So instead
of being remanded to the geriatricians, Ollie was kept overnight in
jail and ordered held, next morning, for want of fifty dollars bail.

An hour after bail had been set, a dapper thin faced bailbond broker
came to see him.

"Want out?"

"Sure."

"If I put up bail you'll be out."

"No Home?"

"You're classified as a criminal, ineligible for a Home till either
you're found not guilty or serve your time."

"Well, but I'm broke. I can't buy a bailbond."

"You can work it off. I'm going to spring you right now. As soon as
they let you out, meet me in the southwest corner of the park, just
across from the post office."

Ollie did. He thought his bail had been arranged by the deputy.

The broker kept him waiting in the park for half an hour, but was brisk
when he appeared.

"My name is Lansing," he said. "Come on. We're taking a little trip."

He steered Ollie to the copter tower at the park's center and with him
boarded its endless-belt manlift. They were carried ten stories to the
roof, and as they stepped off the manlift an empty copter hovered at
hand. It bore on sides and bottom an address, a phone number, and the
word _Bailbonds_, all in big letters.

The copter rose under the tower's control as soon as they'd entered it,
and continued to rise till Lansing selected a prepunched destination
card and slipped it into the auto-pilot. Then a knowing red light
winked on, the copter levelled off and headed southwest, and Lansing
took one of a pair of chintz-padded wicker seats, motioning Ollie into
the other.

"How do you like the idea of going to a Home?" he asked abruptly.

"I'd rather be dead."

"I know someone who agrees with you. A fellow with bad health who wants
to die but doesn't have the guts to do the necessary. Feel like helping
him out?"

Ollie sighed, smiled grimly, and shook his head. "No, thanks!"

"You might die yourself, Hollveg." Lansing's voice was heavy with
menace.

"I might," Ollie agreed hotly. "I might get murdered. And maybe the
same thing will happen to this supposedly sick man you want me to help
out. He may not want to die any more than I do. I've heard you suicide
salesmen do a lot of murder-for-hire."

"You've heard too much, Hollveg."

Lansing took a plushlined metal case from an inside pocket and removed
from it a filled syringe, complete with needle.

"This won't hurt," he said in a sneering imitation of a doctor. "But
it'll end your independence like a barbed wire fence."

Ollie began to sweat. "I've heard of those zombie-shots too," he said.
He looked wildly around, then controlled himself and gestured almost
calmly toward the sky, land, and water visible through the cabin's
plastic walls.

"Maybe you can put the needle away for a while," he suggested. "I'm not
going to walk out on you right now."

Lansing smiled and complied. "You may keep your health a long time
yet," he said urbanely. "If you're sensible, we might even find steady
work for you."

Ollie suppressed a shudder.

Lansing tuned in a Western on the physeo. Soon the odor of sage and
horse-sweat filled the cabin.

Ollie watched avidly. He hadn't seen enough physeo to be bored with it.

There was a mouth watering camp supper scene, with pleasant odors of
broiling beef and burning wood; and a stirring moonlit love scene with
a wholesome girl who smelled of soap and starch, and only faintly of
cosmetics.

But then came the climactic chase, a combined stampede, stage-coach
race, and Indian fight. So much alkali dust poured from the physeo that
Ollie got a fit of coughing.

He couldn't stop. After several excruciating minutes he lay down on the
floor and gasped to Lansing for a drink of water.

"There isn't any," Lansing told him sharply. "And brother, you'd better
get up from there, because you'll have to move fast when we get to
Frisco."

Without knowing what would result, Ollie made sure he neither got up
nor stopped coughing till they reached San Francisco which was fifteen
minutes later.

The pretense involved intense effort for so old a man. His voice went.
He was clammy with sweat from head to foot. His face was pale and his
hands cold.

By the time the copter reached the roof of San Francisco's Union Square
tower, Ollie was actually unable to jump out of the cabin in the thirty
seconds allotted by the remote traffic-control system. Lansing tried to
carry him out, but the result was merely a delay that damned the stream
of traffic.

A winged inspector buzzed them, took remote control of their copter,
and led it to the emergency tower at Civic center.

Ollie was taken off on a stretcher. Lansing, his urbanity washed away
in a flood of redfaced rage, was still in the copter when it rose.
And the hypo was still in his pocket; with Ollie due to get medical
attention, he hadn't been able to use it.

Ollie didn't dare stay long in the hospital. As soon as his stretcher
was set down on the receiving ward floor, he rolled out of it and with
the help of a fat steward struggled to his feet.

"Thanks," he whispered hoarsely. "I have to go now."

"You can't!" said the steward. "You haven't even been examined yet."

"It's against my religion to have to do with medicine," Ollie
improvised. "Besides, I'm perfectly well."

"Yeah? What about your voice--or lack of one?"

"A coughing spell. I'm over it now. And my voice is coming back." It
was.

The steward unbuttoned his coat and scratched his belly meditatively.
"If you don't want treatment you don't have to have it," he said
finally. "The joint's overcrowded now."

Ollie didn't congratulate himself when he got out. He was now a
fugitive from both the geriatricians and the underworld. Soon the
police would want him for bail-jumping, and meanwhile they'd grab him
for vagrancy if they caught him off skidrow.

He headed that way at once, walking over to Mission and down it toward
Third. A clock on a store-front said five twenty. He felt overdue for
supper and bed.

He counted his change--three dollars and forty-two cents. He had no
bedroll; no overcoat, either. Even in this nice summer weather it might
be a little tough for a fellow to get by on the road with so little
plunder. Eighty-six was a trifle old for the rugged life.

What he needed, of course, was a white-collar job. Not only needed, but
deserved--he was a good clerk. Therefore he should go to the Hearst
Building at Third and Market and scan the want ads posted there. As
he'd been doing when in San Francisco for forty years.

He thought of some of the many times he'd stared at that bulletin
board. He'd gone there often during the years he'd worked as a
construction timekeeper, before that skill became obsolete. Then
there'd been an interval when he'd sold rebuilt window washers--for a
firm which still owed him money. And he'd haunted the board during the
months he'd had that job in the automatic grocery, replenishing the
dispensing machines' merchandise.

None of his jobs had come from a want ad. But he had to go look. It was
a ritual.
