
The years had made the ritual a hard one for him. He could read the
fine-printed columns only with head cocked an arm's length away from a
cheap reading glass held up to them. He took a lot of room; forced a
white-capped young mechanic to peer awkwardly around him.

Embarrassed, Ollie moved out of the way. He'd begun to walk off when
the young fellow stopped him. "I don't think you saw this one, Dad," he
said, pointing.

    OLDER MEN (the ad read) without dependents needed for dangerous
    scientific experiments. If able to pass intensive physical and
    mental tests report for interview to Civilian Personnel Office,
    Short Air Force Base, Short, Utah.

"I don't know where the place is at all," Ollie complained wearily.

"Just this side of Salt Lake, on the main line," the young man said. "I
served there, so I'm curious. If you're not--well--" He shrugged and
edged away.

"Thanks, son," Ollie called after him. "I'm going to follow that up."

The young man walked on without looking back.

Ollie felt committed, not only by his offhand declaration, but by his
ritual. He'd come to look for a job; he'd found one for which he was
eligible; he must go after it.

He headed down Third Street toward the freight yards but stopped at a
skidrow restaurant for a bowl of stew and a cup of coffee. Passing an
old-fashioned catchpenny grocery he went in and bought a half-dozen
rolls to take with him. The proprietor, squat, unshaven, and swarthy,
picked out a large red apple and slipped it in with the rolls.

"Good for you," he said, smiling.

Ollie shook his head.

The grocer frowned, then replaced the apple with an orange. "Easier on
teeth," he said.

"Thank you," said Ollie, smiling. "You make me feel lucky. I'm
answering a want ad--maybe I'll get the job."

The grocer smiled vaguely. "I hope." Then his face livened. "What job?
In paper?"

"Yes." There could be no other, for a man his age.

"It says 'dangerous,'" said the grocer. "I think maybe they cut you up,
find out how you live so long. Or make you sick to try new cure.

"You find better job--or Home. That one bad." There was a slight pause.

"Look. I close soon. You sweep store, I give you dollar."

"You're a good guy," said Ollie. "But I've got three dollars now." He
showed them proudly. "You save yours for somebody who doesn't have a
job to try for."

He tucked the rolls and orange inside his shirt, marched valiantly out
of the dark little store, and continued on to the yards.

The heavy traffic there confused him briefly. Transcontinental freight
was carried in long trains of rubber-tired cars towed on elevated
beamways by remotely-controlled, nuclear-fueled steam tractors. Here at
the San Francisco yards the trains were broken up and the individual
cars hauled by turbo-tractor on city streets and suburban roads for
delivery at the addressees' doors.

The cars were huge, the noise and bustle awe-inspiring. Ollie stood
outside the main exit watching the little tractors and big cars emerge,
till a beamway bull came over, flashed a badge, and told him to move on.

He did. He was a fugitive from so many things; he couldn't afford
resentments.

He went on around the yards. They were vast. He felt sure that
somewhere there must be an unguarded entry, and set out to find it,
moving cautiously from shadow to shadow along the high plasti-board
fence.

Twice he blundered into watchmen. Once he nearly got himself run over.
But after a couple of hours he saw a bindlestiff slip through an
unguarded gate, and in half a minute he was right behind the man.

Ollie moved away from him. There was safety in solitude. Besides, he
had to find a Salt Lake train.

The sealed cars were addressed like so many packages. But he had to
have light to read by, and he risked discovery every time he moved into
the light and took his stance behind the reading glass.

There were other hazards; television beams for the yard clerks to read
numbers by, invisible beams for the bulls to catch him with, headlights
that suddenly flashed on blindingly, humped cars rolling unattended on
silent, murderous tires.

Ollie felt like an ant on a busy sidewalk, liable to be crushed under
foot at any moment.

But an added hazard helped him find his train. The bulls had read that
want ad too. They were out in force around a string of cars. He slipped
between two sleepy-looking men, checked an address, and then slipped
out again, certain every car would be inspected before departure.

A good way down the yard he hid at the base of the fence, dozing and
shivering for several hours as he lay stretched out on the dew-chilled
concrete. He checked each outbound train as it went by, and again knew
his by the bulls on it.

They were on the cowcatcher and in the cab, on the car roofs, and in
the caboose with the train-crew of three trouble-shooting mechanics.
Highlights gleamed on their weapons. Their job was to keep or get all
transients off that train--and they would if they could.

Ollie let most of the train go past. The caboose came by at about
fifteen miles an hour with a sharp-eyed guard head-and-shoulders out of
the cupola. Ollie let him get past, too--and hoped he went on looking
toward the front.

He began to hobble parallel to the train, dismayed at the stiffness
that had set in while he lay out on the damp concrete.

As the rear of the caboose drew even with him he emerged from the
shadows and dived for the coupling at the car's rear. He caught it
clumsily, tore the nail off his left ring finger, but hung on.

He tried to trot but the train dragged him. He gave a leapfrog player's
jump and landed on top of his own hands, his thighs around the
coupling, his nose against the rear platform-wall of the caboose.

The engine jerked slack out of the long train and nearly dislodged him.
One at a time he moved his hands from the coupling to the base of the
wall. He edged in a little closer. The train gathered speed.

He wasn't really on but he couldn't safely get off. He'd intended
climbing under the caboose to its rear truck, but the bulls and his own
lack of agility made this impossible so now he must ride where he was,
exposed to battering wind and searching cold as the train crossed the
High Sierras, and also exposed to the whims of the trainmen if any
should come out on the platform and look down.

He'd seen men shot off trains. But he didn't worry about it. Instead,
like the old hand he was, he tried to sleep while clinging there.
