
At Sparks the train stopped for a maintenance check. The guards formed
a perimeter but Ollie was inside it. Too stiff to move far, he stayed
in a shadow while the mechanics inspected, then he climbed under the
caboose and stretched out on a girder separating two tires of the
rearmost, six-tired truck.

The tremendous tires fanned up hot winds when rolling, and these had
warmed the steel he lay on. Before the train started he ate a roll,
sucked the orange, and stretched out face down for the speed run across
the central Nevada flatlands.

The guards stayed behind. After the train had started, one of them
shined a light directly in Ollie's eyes.

The train kept on. And he was too close to the tires to be shot at;
rubber-coated death whirled within three inches at either side of him.

As the train picked up speed he was careful to lie still, but beyond
making sure he didn't touch the tires Ollie tried to put all thought of
risk from his mind.

He saw a sudden vivid picture of his dead wife and son as they'd looked
before the undertaker fixed them. They'd been killed while travelling.
In times when to succeed was to get somewhere, they'd been killed en
route. He couldn't remember where to.

They'd died in a head-on crash caused by a stranger's error in
judgment. A thing that didn't happen any more, now that highway
vehicles were controlled by beamed energy instead of individual drivers.

The highway was one place where the human had been tested against
the machine and found inferior. The office was another. If Minna and
Charlie hadn't died so long ago, they might have lived to see him
now--a bindlestiff so low he even lacked a bindle.

Still, it was lonely with no one in the whole wide world to care
whether he lived or died.

He sighed, shifted his position, and was nearly jerked under the wheels
by sudden contact with the tire on his right.

It was over in an instant. The tire simply ripped the coat from his
back.

He still wore the sleeves. The rest was gone. Weathered thread had
saved him.
