
He had ample time to think about the irony of that before rosy
dawnlight was reflected into his face from a glittering salt-pan. He
knew then he was still west of Salt Lake City, and that Short Air Force
Base was close.

Also close, now that night had withdrawn its concealment, was
discovery. He was sure to be found when next the train stopped.

Therefore he eased himself out of his coatsleeves. He moved gingerly,
but still chanced death to improve his appearance.

The train slowed, stopped.

Someone called, "Here he is," and a redhaired Air Policeman leaned
under the caboose, looked him over, and said, "Come on out, Pop."

Ollie's legs were stiff. The airman had to help.

"You're in kind of rough shape," he said. "Where did you think you were
going?"

"Why--uh--east." Ollie cast down his eyes, ashamed even to admit he'd
once entertained the notion he might get a job.

The airman wasn't fooled. "You slipped through the train guards after
the job we've got here. Didn't you, Pop?"

"All I want is out," said Ollie stubbornly.

"Well," said the airman, "you can't get off the Base without a pass.
You'll have to go up to Civilian Personnel and get one."

"Can't I wash first?"

He could. He could also get a jeep ride to the terra-cotta headquarters
building, with a stop along the way for a canteen-cup of coffee and a
slice of bread.

When they got to headquarters the airman asked, "Tell the truth, now;
didn't you really come after this job?"

Ollie wouldn't admit he'd lied about it, so he lied again.

"I've seen some of the other guys come in after it," the airman
insisted, "and you look as good as any of them. Why not try for it, now
you're here?"

He gave Ollie a long application to fill out and left him at a desk
just outside the personnel office.

From somewhere came the clatter of a facsimile-printer, carrying the
day's message from GHQ. A boy whistled above the squawk of a superwave
radio. But otherwise the place seemed deserted at that early-morning
hour.

For lack of anything better to do, Ollie filled out the application,
leaving the job title blank. The only thing that gave him pause, aside
from the difficulty of seeing, was his arrest record, and in time he
decided to put it down just as it was, including the pending assault
charge with its implication of jumped bail.

After an hour a young captain entered the building and went to the
office marked Adjutant. A fat major gave Ollie a piercing glance and
then entered the Civilian Personnel office. At about five minutes of
eight the place suddenly boiled with military and civilian people of
all ages and both sexes.

Things quieted promptly at eight. A blond youth came out of the office,
glanced at Ollie's application form, kept it, and invited him inside.

"First thing for you," he said, "will be a physical exam."

He took Ollie to another room and turned him over to a young medic
who put him in a box like a steam cabinet, attached electrodes to his
temples, wrists, ankles, and chest, and put a helmet on his head.

For five minutes Ollie stood encased, his stomach fluttering as he
recalled the grocer's warning. He waited for the vivisection to begin.

It didn't. He was removed from his shell and handed an inked graph.

"Here's your profile," the medic said. "It's good, considering. Take it
back to the fellow who brought you here."

He did and was ushered into a glassed-in office containing two desks,
each labelled Civilian Personnel Officer. At one sat the fat major. At
the other, a tallish young civilian held Ollie's application.

"My name is Katt," the civilian said, getting up to shake hands. "This
is Major Brownwight."

The major also shook his hand. Katt placed a straightbacked chair
between the two desks, and invited Ollie to sit in it. Ollie did,
gazing uncertainly from one man to the other.

"We heard you arrived by train early this morning," Katt said.

"Yes, sir."

"You were first reported in Sparks, but I'll bet you boarded that train
in San Francisco."

"Yes, sir. What's the penalty?"

"None. I like it. It's enterprising, athletic, and even brave for a man
of your years to do that for a job. Shows resourcefulness. Also skill,
because men are trying to nip rides here from all over the United
States, but very few arrive."

"They're too old," said Major Brownwight. He turned to Katt and added,
"I still don't think it's an old man's job!"

"Well sir," said Katt, stifling a sigh, "your predecessor understood
and approved of it. These old-timers have a lower metabolic rate
than younger people, with all that that implies. They don't mind the
enforced inactivity, they won't use up so much oxygen nor need so much
food, they won't spend so many hours in sleep. All qualities we need."

"Maybe so." The major turned to Ollie and said, "I just transferred in
here. You know more about this than I do."

"I don't even know what you're talking about," Ollie told him.

"Without divulging classified information," said Katt, "for which you
are not yet cleared, I can tell you these are little one-man jobs.
Small stuff--for pioneering. That's why we want you men with lots of
patience, who're used to being alone. People without a fixed place in
society, and not too much to leave behind. A husky old itinerant like
you is just what we want."

"For what?" Ollie insisted.

"To travel--as a sort of working passenger, since piloting will of
course be mechanical--in the first manned spaceships to leave Earth for
the stars."

"Spaceships?"

"Sure. Solo spaceships. Super-fast, which means the trip will
seem relatively short while you're on it, and will give you extra
earth-years of life in the end.

"The job is much easier and less hazardous than the train ride that
brought you here. You're a natural for it. You really fit it."

"Do I, now?" A quick glow of inner warmth melted many bad years away.
Ollie grinned.

"You know," he said, "in a way that's a disappointment."

"How so?" asked the major aggressively. "Don't you want the job?"

"Yes, sir. I want it. But all these years I've been telling myself that
somewhere on this earth was a place I'd fit into, if only I could find
it. Now you tell me I fit in, but the place isn't here on Earth after
all!"

"Not right now, no," said Katt. "But you'll be back. Rich and famous,
too. No Home for you, Mr. Hollveg--you'll have a nice place of your
own."

And he did--after photographing the planets of Arcturus.



