
John Firth was an industrialist; yet far more than that,
too--politician, scientist, financier, even an artist of sorts. There
was nothing he couldn't do; and few things he didn't do superbly
well. That accounts for his philosophy. He never understood his own
superiority. He honestly believed that all men could achieve what he
had, if they set their minds to it.

"Lazy, incompetent fools!" he would say. "The world's full of them. And
they've elected a government of fools, taxing me to support the others."

As billionaires go, John Firth was very young. Six months after World
Government became an established reality, Earth ships began to explore
the skies; and in less than a year Mars, Venus and the Earth had formed
a planetary confederacy.

A new feeling came to men when the burden of war-fear was lifted from
their minds. Men were free--free for the first time in centuries. Their
full energies were channeled into invention, exploration, experiment.
The Earth was like a frontier town: booming, uproarious, lusty,
dynamic--but with a social conscience: poverty and deprivation for none
and unlimited opportunity for all. For Man--that abstract symbol of
mass humanity--it was the best of all possible worlds. Yet there were
misfits; John Firth was one of them.

"We're coddling people," he said. "We're teaching them to live on
charity, on government hand-outs--and I'm expected to pay for it all.
Cut them loose; let them sink or swim for themselves. If some of them
don't survive--well, they won't; that's all. We'd be a stronger people
if we could rid ourselves of the leeches."

He was a man of the new age,--stubbornly holding to ideas from the old.

And then the Stranger came to see him. We don't know who the Stranger
was or where he came from. A force of evil, perhaps--the symbol of
Satan refurbished and streamlined to fit the concepts of the modern
world.

"I've been reading your political pamphlets, Mr. Firth," the Stranger
said. "You hold rather--rather fascinating views."

"Now that I'm suitably flattered," Firth answered, "may I ask what
particular form of hand-out you want?"

"None. I've something for sale." The Stranger took a pamphlet out of
his pocket. "But tell me this, first: do you honestly believe what
you've written here?"

"Every word of it. If I could find my sort of world anywhere in the
universe, I'd pull up stakes in a minute and--"

"You can create your own world, Mr. Firth."

"Do you suppose I haven't tried? In every election I back my candidates
with all I have--prestige, propaganda, money. It does no good. The
fools prefer to be governed by other fools, like themselves."

"I didn't mean here, Mr. Firth." The Stranger smiled as he lit a
cigarette. "You see, my friend, I have a world for sale--a brand new
world."

"One of the asteroids?" Firth laughed bitterly. "I could have done that
years ago. They're too close to the commercial orbits. How long would
it be before one of our ships found the place? Then I'd be right back
in the system again--and a laughing stock as well."

"This is a planetoid beyond Pluto. It'll be generations before any of
our ships--"

"A frozen world? No thanks!"

"Only on the surface. It's a hollow sphere, with a granite crust half
a mile thick. Inside there's a suggestion of passageways and caverns,
which may have been made artificially. Perhaps this was an outpost of a
race which lived and died billions of years before our time."

"An archeological gold mine!"

"But Science pays so little, Mr. Firth. I'm interested in cash, not
prestige."

"Why should I pay you anything? You've told me where it is and what it
is. I can find it for myself."

The Stranger laughed. "I said beyond Pluto; that covers a lot of
space, Mr. Firth." He paused for a moment. "My price is the stock in
your Martian mines. Convert the rest of your holdings into any form of
wealth that seems convenient and usable. In your case, Mr. Firth, you
_can_ take it with you--to your own world. Think of it! No taxes; no
social problems; no unfortunate masses to prey on your conscience; no
government but your own."

That was the beginning of the dream. The seed of the idea grew in John
Firth's mind until it over-shadowed everything else. It became an
obsession, driving him so that he had no peace.
