
During the course of a year Firth and the Stranger imported and
installed the machinery to make the sphere livable: hydroponic tanks,
air machines, gravitators, electric generators and an Atomic Power
Core. In the crust of the planetoid they found enough fissionable
material to keep Firth's world running for an eternity. They laid
out the decorative landscaping, planned the living quarters, the
laboratories, the amusement hall and the university.

It is interesting to speculate how much the Stranger contributed to the
scheme; and it is an ironic speculation, for as soon as the larger idea
took shape in Firth's mind, his only logical course was to murder the
Stranger.

Firth could allow no outsider to know of the planetoid. To him it
had become far more than a means of personal escape. It was to be an
archive for the survival of John Firth's ideas, for the survival of
civilization itself. John Firth believed that sincerely.

Firth's world--that magnificent dream which was like a holy
crusade--was founded on murder, deception and greed. The reasoning of
fanaticism engenders its own kind of ruthlessness. As soon as John
Firth had disposed of the Stranger, he began to select his colonists.
Men who by his definition, were not fools. He had to make his choice
very carefully. If he misjudged his candidate and his proposition was
rejected, Firth had given away his secret. Any man who refused him had
to die. Murder was Firth's only guarantee of silence.

But he made few mistakes. John Firth was a good judge of men--his kind
of men. All of them were wealthy, ambitious, brilliant. Nearly three
hundred men and women were recruited.

They came here to escape; the record tells us that until we gag over
the repetition. But to escape what? Taxes they resented unanimously,
and restrictions on their freedom. They placed a value on the ownership
of property that we can no longer understand. But, if you read the
record closely, all that becomes superfluous. The thing they wanted to
escape was responsibility. Responsibility to their fellow men.

Physically, Firth's world was a paradise. It still is. Yet the
dissolution began before the last colonist had arrived. Here they
had assembled their wealth--in terms of machines, comforts, books,
art treasures, amusements, laboratory equipment. They were entirely
free from the burden of taxation. But, somehow, their wealth lost its
meaning.

They claimed they had not withdrawn from the world in order to
hibernate and decay among their luxuries. They wanted freedom in order
to create, to invent, to experiment as they pleased. And they had
that in Firth's world: a maximum opportunity for the development of
individual initiative. For a short time they turned out a wonderful
assortment of new gadgets and new machines, but slowly their industry
ground to a stop.

If they had faced the truth then--but they were far too human to admit
the failure of the dream. Instead, they found a scapegoat. John Firth
has left us a record of a conversation he had with Adam Boetz; it is
typical of their thinking at the time.

Boetz, as you may know, was one of the outstanding physicists of his
day; he had created and built Atomic Cores, Incorporated, until it was
the largest power company in the Confederation.

John Firth met Boetz one morning on the golf course in the recreation
cavern.

"Adam!" Firth cried, with his usual, boisterous good-humor. "I never
thought I'd find you out here at this time of day."

"Why not?" The physicist shrugged. "I'm tired, Firth. I had to do my
four hour shift in the light plant last night. Maybe I'll feel like
working in the lab tomorrow--and maybe not. I'm scheduled for a shift
in hydroponics then."

"The shifts are short, Adam, and--"

"Still too long for me. I'm not used to so much physical labor." The
physicist's lips curled in a sneer. "So very democratic, isn't it,
Firth? Back home I hired men to do that kind of work for me."

Firth clapped him heartily on the back. "But we have other
compensations, Adam. Four hours out of twenty-four is a small price to
pay for freedom."

"Twenty-eight hours a week. Remember the new labor law the Earth
government put into effect before we left? It proscribed a maximum
work week of twenty-five hours for every man. We came here to escape
restrictions, but we've saddled ourselves with more hours of manual
labor than the least skilled laborer has to do on Earth. Firth! I'm not
a manual laborer; neither is anyone else you've brought here."

"Do you want to go back?"

"What answer can I make to that? We're executives, Firth; but here
we're a brain without a body. We can formulate the orders, but we've
neither arms nor legs to carry them out."

"In other words, you're saying we should import a labor force to do our
basic work for us?"

"Why not?"

"They're the fools, Adam, the incompetents! On Earth they were the
millstones around our necks--envying us, hating us, building a prison
for us with their laws and their regulations."

"All very true, Adam, where the government is in their hands. But we
could keep them under control."

After that John Firth heard the same complaint from the others, over
and over. They said they could not take advantage of their freedom
because of the chores they had to do to keep Firth's world functioning.

Firth called a meeting of the colonists. It was the closest
approximation to a government they had; government itself was one of
the things they wanted to escape. They unanimously agreed that a labor
force had to be recruited, and they settled upon one hundred and fifty
as the necessary number, half of them to be women. Working eight hours
a day, such a force could perform the work of Firth's world, yet the
colonists would outnumber them two-to-one and the labor force would not
be large enough to constitute a threat.

"We'll insist that they marry, of course," Adam Boetz said, "and each
couple will provide us with two children, so that we shall always have
a stabilized labor supply."

"We're talking," one of the women whispered, "as if we were buying
cattle!"

"We are."

"But how can you recruit men and women under these conditions? What
inducement can you possibly offer them?"

Firth smiled. "When we find the people who meet our specifications,
they'll come; don't worry. In the days of the sailing ships the
technique was called shanghaiing."

"What specifications, Mr. Firth?"

"They must be young, strong, healthy, single--"

"And low-level morons," Adam Boetz cut in. "Imbeciles won't give us any
trouble later on."

To his other crimes, John Firth then added kidnapping; the end
justified the means. He was creating a world and that world would save
civilization. I doubt that his conscience ever troubled him.
