
Within two years the second group of colonists was established in
Firth's world. Apparently they made an easy adjustment to their new
environment. We have no record of complaints or protests. They were
docile, obedient people. They took orders well; they liked to be told
what to do; they needed very little supervision.

The first colonists were entirely free, then, of any sort of
work-responsibility. For a while they went back to work in their
laboratories or in the university--inventing, exploring, accumulating
their store of knowledge. In imperceptible stages, however, their
interest lagged, their production came to a halt again. This time they
had no excuse, no scapegoat.

We can assume that some of them faced the truth squarely and honestly,
yet they had chosen Firth's world and there was no way to turn back.
We find only one actual hint of their despondency, in a diary page
written by an unknown woman.


    _Karl stayed home again to-day. He has nearly finished the design
    for his machine, but he has no more enthusiasm to complete it. I
    know how he feels; I can't go on with my painting, either. We have
    no purpose, no goal to achieve. We sit isolated in space, counting
    over the wealth of our talent and ability; but we can make no use
    of it. I wish I knew how many of the others think as I do, but
    I'm afraid to ask._

The key to understanding them, is that last sentence. Perhaps they
all felt her disillusionment, but they had to pretend. Firth's world
couldn't be at fault. If they were dissatisfied, it was because of a
failure within themselves. At all costs, the flaw had to be hidden from
their neighbors.

Their first labor trouble was a welcome interlude in the creeping
boredom. The docile labor battalion suddenly discovered they were
being overworked. Just what they could have done in Firth's world with
shorter hours, no one knows. They staged a spotty, amateurish strike;
speakers made reference to the labor laws applicable on the Earth and
demanded better pay. To what end, it's hard for us to say. If the first
colonists had turned over all their wealth, the workers would have had
no more use for it.

John Firth was unusually alarmed by the threatened strike. He reacted
with excessive violence and the other colonists followed his lead.
Three of the leaders of the uprising were executed; others were
brutally whipped. The Outlaw Pit was built then. Thereafter, at the
first hint of any dissatisfaction, workers were condemned to it.

The violence taught the workers resentment. Silently, sullenly they
passed on their hatred to their children. The aristocracy created the
revolution, and nurtured it; for it would have made no real difference
if they had surrendered entirely to the strikers' demands.

The children of the first colonists made no pretense of using Firth's
world to advance knowledge, invention or art. They were hedonists, bred
to luxury, supported by slaves.

The slaves, for their part, felt no emotion but hatred. From their
parents they learned that the aristocracy had violated the labor law.
The children knew nothing about the law or the distant Earth where it
applied, but it was held in deep and sacred reverence.

The laboratories and the university stood empty; only the recreation
cavern held any interest for the new aristocracy. A change took place
among the slaves too. Their parents had been hand-picked morons. But
neither brilliant achievement nor the moronic mind is hereditary. Most
of the workers' children had an average intelligence; one or two would
have been classified as geniuses. To their hatred the second generation
joined intelligence, and Firth's world was ready to blow apart.

They struck the light plant first. Sudden and unexpected violence
surged through the dark, stone-walled corridors.

John Firth led a band of men against the enemy. But his attack failed
and the workers seized the Atomic Power Core--the heart of our world.
If they shut down the reactors, they would stifle not only our lights,
but the gravitators and the air machines as well; they would kill us
all.

The workers knew that. They were willing to risk suicide. Every
bargaining counter was on their side. It was John Firth who surrendered.

Firth's world died then. In the bitter depths of the Pit, John Firth
remembered what Adam Boetz had said to him so many years before,

"We've become a brain without a body. We can formulate the orders, but
we've neither arms nor legs to carry them out.

Suddenly John Firth understood the fallacy of his fanaticism. A society
was like a living body, an integrated organism of many members. No
one could function without the others. No man--no group of men--could
create an isolate world. The social equation seemed as clear to Firth
as the simplest sum in arithmetic. Each man was a part of a functioning
social unit which included them all. Each man's talent, whether it was
the plodding docility of a moron or the brilliance of genius, belonged
to all men.

In the meantime, the workers found that they could not run Firth's
world alone, either. They gloried in forbidden luxuries until they
were satiated. Shortly they became as indolent as the aristocracy had
been; and the food supply was nearly exhausted.

The treaty they made was direct and to the point: the two groups
agreed to live in equality, sharing the burden of the labor and the
accumulated wealth of knowledge. The treaty was made when you were
a child; we have perfected the technique of co-operation within one
generation. We're ready, now, to go back to Earth.

You'll be with us? Fine, Chris!

No. Please, no apologies. I understand why you intended to destroy
our ship; others have attempted it, too. No harm was done. You're
free,--entirely free ...

... The Organizer waited until he was alone in the office. Then, with
trembling, aging hands, he took the log book out of the safe and slowly
made another entry:

    _Chris was the last, I think. He accepted the lie, just as most of
    the others have. When they return to Earth, they will be sound men
    with whole minds. For them Firth's world will always stand as a
    symbol of man's highest achievement in co-operation. May this sham,
    in some small way, expiate the crime and the folly of my arrogant
    delusion._

John Firth's head dropped on his arm and his shoulders shook; but the
sobs were sobs of relief. Chris was saved; Chris would go back. That
mattered very much--for Chris was his grandson.



