
Disappointment didn't rouse Chet to a fighting pitch--it caused him to
become crafty. Slyness and deceit, the indirect weapons of the
powerless, were not attributes schooled into a student space-pilot. But
he'd learned them tied naked to a sunbaked post. That, too, is an
effective school.

He hung back, faking fatigue. Malingering brought him pokes and jerks,
made the Agvars choke him and beat him and harangue him in their sullen
mutter of clicks and growls and glottal catches. But some sense of
urgency drove them to give up their fruitless sadism after a while, and
drag him through the trail's blue mud by brute strength, two on the
neck-chain, two hauling at his waist.

He let them. Not that he was inured to pain--he just was stubborn.

He wondered, once when they all stopped at a spring for a drink and some
rest, whether their haranguing showed the Agvars were sorry they hadn't
taught him their language. Probably not, he decided; probably they
didn't want to think he could have learned it.

He'd tried, in the absence of lessons, by repeating what he heard around
him. He'd learned a few words, of course. And for a while, a couple of
villagers had seemed to enjoy and encourage his parrot-like attempts to
recite whole sentences they voiced for him. But after a few beatings,
Chet gathered that he'd only been mouthing obscenities. And that
experience, plus inertia, had made him give up the attempt.

Just as well, he now decided. If they'd known of his technical skills,
if they'd let him raise their standards, the Agvars might be carrying
bows and arrows, instead of mere slings and sticks.

Their hard luck! What they didn't know, they'd never learn from him! The
mere presence of a spaceship on the same planet gave him a buoyant
feeling of contempt.

But though contempt helped him endure that journey through the tall
mosses and taller trees, it couldn't ward off exhaustion. When the party
stopped at the foot of a sheer rock spire that rose four or five hundred
feet above the tallest growth, he collapsed and slept.
