
Had he said that aloud? Chet couldn't be sure.

He listened for his own voice. The woods were quiet. His breathing
seemed strangely loud. He held it--and heard the Agvars moving in the
woods. Rustling, scraping, crackling--grunting their guttural dialog.
Crashing! Threatening them!

"Let's go back!" he urged, trying to sound casual. But his trail was
blocked.

"Stick around," Dr. Pine suggested easily. "You--ah--you haven't said
anything we didn't know. We're going right ahead."

"But why?" Once more Chet was hotly incredulous. "To risk your life for a
few stray facts? Become a casualty while trying to _avoid_ casualties?
It doesn't make sense!"

Dr. Pine stared at his own hands as if to hide his shyness in them. "As
to the fact-seeking," he said slowly, "well ... it's a matter of
opinion. I've lost a few classmates.... Risks in research are
commonplace--and accepted as worthwhile by most people....

"And--ah--peace.... You once called it appeasement, but it isn't,
always. Well, look. If we fought those Agvars, somebody'd have to take a
patrol into their village and capture prisoners for our Intelligence,
right?"

Chet nodded dumbly.

"Well, in a way, I--ah--am the peaceful equivalent of that patrol.
The--ah--risk I run is less than if we had a war and a patrol skirmish
as part of it, though. And why in the world not take for peace a risk
we'd routinely accept in war?"

Why not? But why not minimize it, just the same. The Agvars, invisible
but noisy, were all around them, now. At any moment the woods might rain
spears.

"It would be safer with two of us," Chet said musingly. "Your knowledge
of anthropology and medicine--mine of the people--"

"Barfield, you're still on the sicklist," Commander Seymour pointed out.
He watched Chet's face for a long moment before adding, "Still--if
you're over your sick-minded need for revenge--it's possible Dr. Pine
may find you fit. It's up to him."

Chet was afraid to ask directly. He pleaded with his eyes.

Dr. Pine grinned broadly at the both. "He's ready for duty, sir," he
said.

Commander Seymour stepped back and scowled. "All right, Mr. Barfield,"
he barked, "I'll give you just three minutes to change to the uniform of
the day!"

Chet's jaw dropped. His vision, also downcast, noted the fatigues he
wore, the muddy shoes. Then he looked up, saw the twinkle in his C.O.'s
eyes, and understood.

In exactly three minutes he made the required change. He would enter the
village as he'd left it--in the undress uniform of a Man....



