
Duncan got his first shot late in the afternoon of that first day.

In the middle of the morning, two hours after they had left the farm,
they had flushed the Cytha out of its bed in a thick ravine. But there
had been no chance for a shot. Duncan saw no more than a huge black
blur fade into the bush.

Through the bake-oven afternoon, they had followed its trail, Sipar
tracking and Duncan bringing up the rear, scanning every piece of
cover, with the sun-hot rifle always held at ready.

Once they had been held up for fifteen minutes while a massive donovan
tramped back and forth, screaming, trying to work up its courage for
attack. But after a quarter hour of showing off, it decided to behave
itself and went off at a shuffling gallop.

Duncan watched it go with a lot of thankfulness. It could soak up a
lot of lead, and for all its awkwardness, it was handy with its feet
once it set itself in motion. Donovans had killed a lot of men in the
twenty years since Earthmen had come to Layard.

With the beast gone, Duncan looked around for Sipar. He found it fast
asleep beneath a hula-shrub. He kicked the native awake with something
less than gentleness and they went on again.

The bush swarmed with other animals, but they had no trouble with
them.

Sipar, despite its initial reluctance, had worked well at the
trailing. A misplaced bunch of grass, a twig bent to one side, a
displaced stone, the faintest pug mark were Sipar's stock in trade. It
worked like a lithe, well-trained hound. This bush country was its
special province; here it was at home.

With the sun dropping toward the west, they had climbed a long, steep
hill and as they neared the top of it, Duncan hissed at Sipar. The
native looked back over its shoulder in surprise. Duncan made motions
for it to stop tracking.

The native crouched and as Duncan went past it, he saw that a look of
agony was twisting its face. And in the look of agony he thought he
saw as well a touch of pleading and a trace of hatred. It's scared,
just like the rest of them, Duncan told himself. But what the native
thought or felt had no significance; what counted was the beast ahead.

Duncan went the last few yards on his belly, pushing the gun ahead of
him, the binoculars bumping on his back. Swift, vicious insects ran
out of the grass and swarmed across his hands and arms and one got on
his face and bit him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He made it to the hilltop and lay there, looking at the sweep of land
beyond. It was more of the same, more of the blistering, dusty
slogging, more of thorn and tangled ravine and awful emptiness.

He lay motionless, watching for a hint of motion, for the fitful
shadow, for any wrongness in the terrain that might be the Cytha.

But there was nothing. The land lay quiet under the declining sun. Far
on the horizon, a herd of some sort of animals was grazing, but there
was nothing else.

Then he saw the motion, just a flicker, on the knoll ahead--about
halfway up.

He laid the rifle carefully on the ground and hitched the binoculars
around. He raised them to his eyes and moved them slowly back and
forth. The animal was there where he had seen the motion.

It was resting, looking back along the way that it had come, watching
for the first sign of its trailers. Duncan tried to make out the size
and shape, but it blended with the grass and the dun soil and he could
not be sure exactly what it looked like.

He let the glasses down and now that he had located it, he could
distinguish its outline with the naked eye.

His hand reached out and slid the rifle to him. He fitted it to his
shoulder and wriggled his body for closer contact with the ground. The
cross-hairs centered on the faint outline on the knoll and then the
beast stood up.

It was not as large as he had thought it might be--perhaps a little
larger than Earth lion-size, but it certainly was no lion. It was a
square-set thing and black and inclined to lumpiness and it had an
awkward look about it, but there were strength and ferociousness as
well.

Duncan tilted the muzzle of the rifle so that the cross-hairs centered
on the massive neck. He drew in a breath and held it and began the
trigger squeeze.

The rifle bucked hard against his shoulder and the report hammered in
his head and the beast went down. It did not lurch or fall; it simply
melted down and disappeared, hidden in the grass.

"Dead center," Duncan assured himself.

He worked the mechanism and the spent cartridge case flew out. The
feeding mechanism snicked and the fresh shell clicked as it slid into
the breech.

He lay for a moment, watching. And on the knoll where the thing had
fallen, the grass was twitching as if the wind were blowing, only
there was no wind. But despite the twitching of the grass, there was
no sign of the Cytha. It did not struggle up again. It stayed where it
had fallen.

Duncan got to his feet, dug out the bandanna and mopped at his face.
He heard the soft thud of the step behind him and turned his head. It
was the tracker.

"It's all right, Sipar," he said. "You can quit worrying. I got it. We
can go home now."

       *       *       *       *       *

It had been a long, hard chase, longer than he had thought it might
be. But it had been successful and that was the thing that counted.
For the moment, the _vua_ crop was safe.

He tucked the bandanna back into his pocket, went down the slope and
started up the knoll. He reached the place where the Cytha had fallen.
There were three small gouts of torn, mangled fur and flesh lying on
the ground and there was nothing else.

He spun around and jerked his rifle up. Every nerve was screamingly
alert. He swung his head, searching for the slightest movement, for
some shape or color that was not the shape or color of the bush or
grass or ground. But there was nothing. The heat droned in the hush of
afternoon. There was not a breath of moving air. But there was
danger--a saw-toothed sense of danger close behind his neck.

"Sipar!" he called in a tense whisper, "Watch out!"

The native stood motionless, unheeding, its eyeballs rolling up until
there was only white, while the muscles stood out along its throat
like straining ropes of steel.

Duncan slowly swiveled, rifle held almost at arm's length, elbows
crooked a little, ready to bring the weapon into play in a fraction of
a second.

Nothing stirred. There was no more than emptiness--the emptiness of
sun and molten sky, of grass and scraggy bush, of a brown-and-yellow
land stretching into foreverness.

Step by step, Duncan covered the hillside and finally came back to the
place where the native squatted on its heels and moaned, rocking back
and forth, arms locked tightly across its chest, as if it tried to
cradle itself in a sort of illusory comfort.

The Earthman walked to the place where the Cytha had fallen and picked
up, one by one, the bits of bleeding flesh. They had been mangled by
his bullet. They were limp and had no shape. And it was queer, he
thought. In all his years of hunting, over many planets, he had never
known a bullet to rip out hunks of flesh.

He dropped the bloody pieces back into the grass and wiped his hand
upon his thighs. He got up a little stiffly.

He'd found no trail of blood leading through the grass, and surely an
animal with a hole of that size would leave a trail.

And as he stood there upon the hillside, with the bloody fingerprints
still wet and glistening upon the fabric of his trousers, he felt the
first cold touch of fear, as if the fingertips of fear might
momentarily, almost casually, have trailed across his heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned around and walked back to the native, reached down and shook
it.

"Snap out of it," he ordered.

He expected pleading, cowering, terror, but there was none.

Sipar got swiftly to its feet and stood looking at him and there was,
he thought, an odd glitter in its eyes.

"Get going," Duncan said. "We still have a little time. Start circling
and pick up the trail. I will cover you."

He glanced at the sun. An hour and a half still left--maybe as much as
two. There might still be time to get this buttoned up before the fall
of night.

A half mile beyond the knoll, Sipar picked up the trail again and they
went ahead, but now they traveled more cautiously, for any bush, any
rock, any clump of grass might conceal the wounded beast.

Duncan found himself on edge and cursed himself savagely for it. He'd
been in tight spots before. This was nothing new to him. There was no
reason to get himself tensed up. It was a deadly business, sure, but
he had faced others calmly and walked away from them. It was those
frontier tales he'd heard about the Cytha--the kind of superstitious
chatter that one always heard on the edge of unknown land.

He gripped the rifle tighter and went on.

No animal, he told himself, was unkillable.

Half an hour before sunset, he called a halt when they reached a
brackish waterhole. The light soon would be getting bad for shooting.
In the morning, they'd take up the trail again, and by that time the
Cytha would be at an even greater disadvantage. It would be stiff and
slow and weak. It might be even dead.

Duncan gathered wood and built a fire in the lee of a thorn-bush
thicket. Sipar waded out with the canteens and thrust them at arm's
length beneath the surface to fill them. The water still was warm and
evil-tasting, but it was fairly free of scum and a thirsty man could
drink it.

The sun went down and darkness fell quickly. They dragged more wood
out of the thicket and piled it carefully close at hand.

Duncan reached into his pocket and brought out the little bag of
rockahominy.

"Here," he said to Sipar. "Supper."

The native held one hand cupped and Duncan poured a little mound into
its palm.

"Thank you, mister," Sipar said. "Food-giver."

"Huh?" asked Duncan, then caught what the native meant. "Dive into
it," he said, almost kindly. "It isn't much, but it gives you
strength. We'll need strength tomorrow."

       *       *       *       *       *

Food-giver, eh? Trying to butter him up, perhaps. In a little while,
Sipar would start whining for him to knock off the hunt and head back
for the farm.

Although, come to think of it, he really was the food-giver to this
bunch of sexless wonders. Corn, thank God, grew well on the red and
stubborn soil of Layard--good old corn from North America. Fed to
hogs, made into corn-pone for breakfast back on Earth, and here, on
Layard, the staple food crop for a gang of shiftless varmints who
still regarded, with some good solid skepticism and round-eyed wonder,
this unorthodox idea that one should take the trouble to grow plants
to eat rather than go out and scrounge for them.

Corn from North America, he thought, growing side by side with the
_vua_ of Layard. And that was the way it went. Something from one
planet and something from another and still something further from a
third and so was built up through the wide social confederacy of space
a truly cosmic culture which in the end, in another ten thousand years
or so, might spell out some way of life with more sanity and
understanding than was evident today.

He poured a mound of rockahominy into his own hand and put the bag
back into his pocket.

"Sipar."

"Yes, mister?"

"You were not scared today when the donovan threatened to attack us."

"No, mister. The donovan would not hurt me."

"I see. You said the donovan was taboo to you. Could it be that you,
likewise, are taboo to the donovan?"

"Yes, mister. The donovan and I grew up together."

"Oh, so that's it," said Duncan.

He put a pinch of the parched and powdered corn into his mouth and
took a sip of brackish water. He chewed reflectively on the resultant
mash.

He might go ahead, he knew, and ask why and how and where Sipar and
the donovan had grown up together, but there was no point to it. This
was exactly the kind of tangle that Shotwell was forever getting
into.

Half the time, he told himself, I'm convinced the little stinkers are
doing no more than pulling our legs.

What a fantastic bunch of jerks! Not men, not women, just things. And
while there were never babies, there were children, although never
less than eight or nine years old. And if there were no babies, where
did the eight-and nine-year-olds come from?

       *       *       *       *       *

"I suppose," he said, "that these other things that are your taboos,
the stilt-birds and the screamers and the like, also grew up with
you."

"That is right, mister."

"Some playground that must have been," said Duncan.

He went on chewing, staring out into the darkness beyond the ring of
firelight.

"There's something in the thorn bush, mister."

"I didn't hear a thing."

"Little pattering. Something is running there."

Duncan listened closely. What Sipar said was true. A lot of little
things were running in the thicket.

"More than likely mice," he said.

He finished his rockahominy and took an extra swig of water, gagging
on it slightly.

"Get your rest," he told Sipar. "I'll wake you later so I can catch a
wink or two."

"Mister," Sipar said, "I will stay with you to the end."

"Well," said Duncan, somewhat startled, "that is decent of you."

"I will stay to the death," Sipar promised earnestly.

"Don't strain yourself," said Duncan.

He picked up the rifle and walked down to the waterhole.

The night was quiet and the land continued to have that empty feeling.
Empty except for the fire and the waterhole and the little micelike
animals running in the thicket.

And Sipar--Sipar lying by the fire, curled up and sound asleep
already. Naked, with not a weapon to its hand--just the naked animal,
the basic humanoid, and yet with underlying purpose that at times was
baffling. Scared and shivering this morning at mere mention of the
Cytha, yet never faltering on the trail; in pure funk back there on
the knoll where they had lost the Cytha, but now ready to go on to the
death.

Duncan went back to the fire and prodded Sipar with his toe. The
native came straight up out of sleep.

"Whose death?" asked Duncan. "Whose death were you talking of?"

"Why, ours, of course," said Sipar, and went back to sleep.

