
Up on the wall a mercury clock pulsed rhythmically, and below the floor
level sounded the faint drone of the dehydrators. Motionless, Simms sat
there. Like wildfire, Halleck had said. And the words were only too
true. The quest for perpetual youth was eternal. Earth men still envied
the two hundred year old Martians, the three hundred year old Jovians.
Tell them that these _Deleon_ Salts were both harmless and effective,
and the results would be cataclysmic.

Every person on Earth would demand some of the crystals. And in a
year....

"Where did you get these salts?" Simms asked.

For answer Halleck reached forward and plucked something from the
Venusian Service man's belt before the latter could restrain him.
Capped and sealed at both ends, it was an official mold-proof message
cylinder.

"Three weeks ago," Halleck said, tapping the cylinder with his finger,
"you left Post One with this tube bound for Venusian headquarters
at BeTaba. You were sent in person because any radio or visiscreen
communication would of course be intercepted by the Kamali Oligarchs.

"The tube contains two messages. One asks for reinforcements at the
Post because of a recent epidemic of Mold Fever. The other demands your
resignation because of insubordination. Insubordination--refusing to
obey orders. Right, isn't it?"

A knife of bitterness cut through Simms. Yes, it was right, every word
of it.

He had come here to Venus direct from the Inner-Planet Military School
on Earth. At Venus City he had waited six months before receiving
his appointment to the Venusian Colonial Service. And then, without
preamble, he had been sent to the most remote garrison in the Blue
Swamp mold country--Post One.

A week after his arrival the Commandante had ordered him to ferret out
a certain Kamali native who had rebelled against the Government, and
disable him with a paralysis gun. Somehow when Simms had come face
to face with the web-footed creature, his conscience had rebelled.
Shooting in self-defense was one thing, but crippling in cold blood
didn't seem human. He had let the Kamali go unharmed.

And a week later that same Kamali had sneaked through the impentration
walls of the Post and murdered two Service men.

"The point is," Halleck continued, "we know where you stand, and we
know we've got a good proposition ourselves. We've located a big
_Deleon_ mine near Xenthar village. That's deep mold country. All we
have to do is start a little rebellion among the Kamali tribes, wait
until they go on an expedition of war, then slip in and work the mine."

The man's eyes gleamed sardonically. But it was Gately who put the
final offer into words.

"Now then, Simms," he said huskily, "you're getting a lousy deal from
the government anyway. If you deliver that message, you'll only lose
your commission. String along with us, and we'll treat you right. What
do you say?"

Simms' face masked the battle that was waging in his soul.

"I'll think it over," he said at length.
