
Three hours later Simms lay in one of the wall bunks, wide awake.
The jetty room was in semi-darkness, lit only by the soft glow that
filtered through the ports. From the bunks opposite came the regular
breathing of Halleck and Sterns. Gately sat by the table, smoking a
cigarette.

The situation was quite clear to Simms now. He was a prisoner. The
slightest attempt on his part to escape would result in the space-rats
taking action. For it was to their interest that his message did
not get through. Post One had asked for reinforcements. Those
reinforcements coming back through the swamp would interfere with
their plans to get the rejuvenation salts.

On the other hand Halleck had spoken the truth when he said that Simms
was heading straight into disaster. Delivery of that sealed message
cylinder would mean his immediate dismissal from the Venusian Colonial
Service.

His hands dug into the blankets. Suppose he did throw in with these
three. Halleck would see that a tribal war of large proportion got
under way among the Kamalis at once. That would mean every garrison in
Blue Swamp would be in danger of complete annihilation. Post One with
its flimsy impentration walls and its men weakened by Mold Fever would
be wiped out.

All because of a few crystals. For two generations those _Deleon_ Salts
had been a mystery to Earthmen who colonized Venus. Chemists only knew
that the Kamalis used the drug to rejuvenate their bodies and prolong
life.

Once in ages past the Kamalis had been a great race with a high
culture. Then through some great catastrophe their numbers had been
decimated and made sterile. Gradually they had migrated into Blue
Swamp, and it was here no doubt that they had developed their webbed
feet and their elongated ears. Yet while the _Deleon_ Salts served to
rejuvenate their bodies, their minds had gradually atrophied. Only the
ruling Oligarchs knew the secret of using the drug without harm to
their mental powers.

Abruptly Simms tensed. Across the room Gately's head nodded in sleep.
The Venusian Service man slid to his feet, stole noiselessly across
to the three ports and closed them. From his pocket he took a small
paralysis-fume pellet, lit it and tossed it under the table.

Back in his own bunk, he pulled on his dehydration mask and waited
tensely. In sixty seconds a grey fog of vapor was swirling through the
room. In sixty seconds more Gately's body had become rigid, his right
arm suspended in space over the table.

Simms made sure his message-tube was in its place in his belt holster.
Then he crossed unchallenged to the door. An instant later he was
outside, advancing along the catwalk.

He leaped into his _jagua_ and began to paddle madly, intent only on
putting distance between himself and the jetty.

He had two alternatives: to continue on to GHQ at BeTaba, or to head
into forbidden mold country and warn Xenthar village. Either way his
own future was doomed. But without hesitation he chose the latter.
