
Mile after mile Simms fought his way along hidden channels, each of
which resembled its predecessor. At first he had no idea where Xenthar
village lay. Then, in his mind's eye, he saw again that relief-map of
the Blue Country which all Venusian Service men must commit to memory.
Xenthar lay to the east in an unexplored district.

Huge blue priest trees bowed before him and sang their aeolian litanies
as he passed. Living serpent-kelp clutched at his dugout and tried to
prevent his passage. He moved by his watch. Overhead, at exact thirty
minute intervals, successive hordes of Poleidons--_Ithiosyoria_--roared
past in great blue clouds. As each migration came he ceased paddling
and sat motionless. The slightest movement would have sent those flying
lizard birds down to attack him.

Even his dehydration mask failed to keep out the odor of mold. Mold
balls, two feet across, floated through the air like great puffs of
bluish cotton. Simms kept a wary eye trained to see that none fell on
the _jagua_. Had one done so, the sacrophytic spores would have taken
root and over-run the boat in a matter of seconds.

On and on he went through the incessant rain. Once a huge waterskipper
came, leaped over the surface of the water, its huge center eye open,
its mouth a slavering slit of orange. He dug his paddle deep and pushed
into the blue rip grass until the monster had passed.

And finally he saw it--a rectangular floating platform, constructed of
mud and thatch, anchored by a network of vine cables.

He made a landing at a small wharf and began to stride along a matting
path. Twenty feet forward, and he came face to face with a Kamali. The
little man stopped short on his webbed feet, and his huge ears flapped
ludicrously. With a low cry he turned and ran.

"I'm in for it now," Simms muttered. "That devil will warn the whole
village."

His words were a prediction. Before he had gone fifty yards more
a squad of Kamali guardsmen advanced upon him. They wore skins of
_Chabla_ cat and red headdresses formed of _patani_, the Venusian swamp
flower.

But Simms, though new to the Service, had had experience with interior
villages before. Quietly he handed over his heat gun, let his wrists be
bound, permitted himself to be escorted down the walk.

The village opened before him. Simms saw a double row of rectangular
huts formed of white _carponium_. In the center a round hut marked the
quarters of the Oligarch and before this structure a taller Kamali
stood, wearing a headdress formed of some brownish plastic.

Simms bowed and held his message-tube in his bound hands before him in
the formality expected.

"Lieutenant Simms," he said, "Sixth Venusian Colonials, bound Post One
to general headquarters at BeTaba. I bring you information, oh mighty
one, which it will pay you to hear."

The Oligarch's eyes contracted. He motioned Simms to continue.

"Three Earth men," the lieutenant said, "are headed for your village.
They...."

His voice died off. Behind the Oligarch three familiar figures suddenly
appeared in the doorway. In the foreground stood Halleck, smoking a
cigarette, eyes filled with triumph. Behind him lounged Gately and
Sterns. The heat-gun scar on the latter's face seemed deeper and redder
than before.

"I'm afraid you're too late, Simms," Halleck said. "I've already
explained to his highness that you've come to this village to steal his
_Deleon_ Salts. I think you know what that means."

Gately laughed harshly. "You were pretty smooth back at the Jetty," he
said. "But you forgot that the dehydrators would dispose of the fumes
from your paralysis-pellet in a few moments. You forgot also that we
travel by hydrocar."

Simms' fists clenched. Suddenly an overpowering urge to smash Halleck's
sneering face blinded all his reason. Before the Kamali guards could
restrain him, he threw himself forward and planted a driving blow into
the space-rat's jaw with his two lashed fists.

But that was as far as Simms got. The Oligarch spoke a quick command
then, and a rush of webbed feet sounded. Something heavy crashed down
on the lieutenant's skull. He felt himself falling--into a pit of
blackness.
