
Curiously, he was aware of no lapse of time when he opened his eyes.
He lay on the floor of the a low ceilinged room that was bare of
furnishings.

Dizziness claimed him, and it was several minutes before he could
gather sufficient strength to stand erect. He headed first for the
door. It was locked, and the two circular windows were both grilled
with stout metal bars. For the second time in a few hours Simms was a
prisoner.

He turned, surveyed the room with eyes of growing despair. An
antiquated paralysis gun hang from a peg on one wall. He tore it free
and flipped open the charge chamber. But as he had expected, it was
green with mold and quite useless.

The circular windows opened out on the extreme end of the village.
Peering between the bars, Simms saw an endless line of Kamalis padding
in from the other side of a vine screen, depositing the contents of
baskets on a growing pile of black slag. A dozen Kamalis squatted
there, pounding pieces of the slag with little flat-nosed hammers.

This then was the _Deleon_ Salt industry, the secret of which was so
jealously guarded.

Abruptly Simms found his gaze focused on a larger conical building he
had not noticed before. Even as he stared at its smooth windowless
sides, a sound emerged from it. A low drone at first, it rapidly
mounted the octaves until it became a high-pitched siren-like shriek.
The sound pulsed through the walls of the hut, bludgeoned against the
lieutenant's eardrums, seemed to eat into his very brain.

Higher and higher it mounted, until presently it had gone beyond the
hearing range. But Simms got the impression it was still climbing into
the supersonic range.

He saw then a native cross the square and head toward his hut, carrying
a dish of food. The lieutenant glanced at the old-fashioned lock on
the door, and a thought struck him. Feverishly he searched his pockets,
drew forth his watch. Made for use on all planets, the timepiece had a
magno-shielded case.

Quickly Simms unscrewed the back cover. The door creaked open, and the
Kamali thrust the dish of food inside. But in the instant before the
door clicked into position again, Simms had slipped the watch cover
between the latch and the magnetic face plate.

The intervening hours until the light outside gradually faded seemed
interminable. At length, however the square outside the hut was
blanketed in deep gloom. Simms boldly opened the door and emerged onto
the street.
