
Without a plan of any kind he headed instinctively toward the slag
pile and the tower from which that strange vibration had come. He had
reached the extreme end of the village when voices reached his ears.
Quickly Simms darted into the doorway of a near hut. The men were
Halleck and Gately!

"Why take chances?" Gately was saying. "We've got all the time in
the world, and we might as well give those salts a longer vibration
exposure. That way the Earth people who take the stuff won't feel any
bad effects for maybe two years."

Halleck swore in reply. "You fool," he said. "Don't you realize we're
working on counted time. The I.P. men are after me now on Mars and
Jupiter. We've got to work fast. Have you convinced the Oligarch?"

Gately grunted. "Yes, the whole village sets out on an expedition of
war tomorrow night."

"You told the Oligarch that neighboring tribes had been tampering with
his _Deleon_ mine?" There was growing satisfaction in Halleck's voice.

"Sure, I told him. Sterns told him, too, and the fool would be alive
now if he'd taken precautions...."

The voices became inaudible then as the men passed on. Simms stood in
his tracks undecidedly. Then a glimmer of flare lightning in the sodden
sky illuminated that strange tower just ahead. Like a magnet it drew
him forward with its power.

Crouching low, he reached its cylindrical sides. He was groping for the
entrance when his hands touched something soft and yielding. Chilled,
he waited for a second lightning flare.

It came, and it revealed the body of the third space-rat, Sterns. The
man was dead. His eyes were bulging and streams of blood were issuing
from either ear.

Bewildered, yet careful not to disturb the body, Simms completed his
circle of the tower and found the entrance. Inside he felt rather than
saw a spiral staircase leading upward. With the utmost caution he began
to climb.

He was breathing hard when he reached the top. A door barred his way.
Simms pushed it open and stood staring on the threshold.

A bluish _radite_ lamp was suspended from the ceiling. Occupying a good
half of the chamber was a huge parabolic horn, its small end converging
on a platform upon which a circular disc slowly revolved. In the center
of the disc was a rounded heap of yellow crystals.

The left wall was taken up by a switchboard, with a series of dials
staggered across a _corbite_ panel. At the right wall, facing the open
end of the parabolic horn, was a large wire cage.

Simms strode forward. The crystals on the revolving disc were _Deleon_
Salts. But what was the meaning of this other apparatus?

He peered inside the cage and stared, incredulously. _Hudrites!_ The
cage was filled with hundreds of the Venusian swamp insects.

And then abruptly something clicked in his brain like a puzzle piece
fitting into a slot. This chamber housed the mechanism that made the
rejuvenation salts adaptable to the Kamalis. The secret was vibration,
a bombardment of supersonic waves, causing a basic mutation of the
crystals' molecular structure.

The _Hudrites_ were the Venus equivalent of the Earth cricket. But
where a cricket gave off vibrations of 8,000 a second, the frequency of
a _Hudrite_ had never been measured. It was said to be more than two
million cycles.

The vibrations from these insects were picked up by the parabolic horn
and a sensitive detector and stepped up by a cyclestat. When the sound
waves struck the crystals, they responded to it at their frequency and
by its vibrations gave rise to a varying voltage. The sound waves of
the _Hudrites_ were thereby converted into electrical vibrations and
these electrical waves amplified with the aid of vacuum tubes.

The two were then united, and this bombardment of supersonic and
electrical waves changed the structure of the _Deleon_ crystals. No
doubt the Kamali Oligarchs had discovered through long experiment just
how long a vibration exposure was necessary to make the salts potent
and still not effect their mental powers. The process undoubtedly took
months of Venus time.

But the space-rats, Halleck and Gately, had no intention of waiting
that long. They planned to expose the crystals for the shortest
possible time and then sell them to unsuspecting citizens of Earth.

Another thought struck Simms. Sterns! What had killed him?
