
He had the answer an instant later. Up on the wall a warning bell
sounded and a red light flashed off and on. From a microtone speaker
sounded that same deep-toned drone. Again it began to mount swiftly up
the octaves, rising steadily to a high-pitched shriek preparing the way
for the supersonic vibrations of the _Hudrites_. The lieutenant clapped
his hands to his ears, fell to the floor in writhing agony.

Stabbing lancets of pain darted through his brain. He felt his eyes
protruding; his head seemed ready to explode. With a mighty effort he
managed to jerk on his dehydration mask, slide the protective ear-caps
into place. Even then the sensation was only partly relieved, and he
stood, heart pounding, waiting for the mad vibration to stop.

When at length it came to an end, a glance at the _Deleon_ Salts showed
him they had colored from a light yellow to a deep orange. Tiny facets
of irridescent flame now played over their surfaces.

Whatever method of utilizing the supersonic field the Kamalis used, it
was a deadly one. As the body of Sterns proved, the action of those
piezo-electric crystals was fatal to the unprotected human organism.

Simms moved to the control panel. He had the secret of the _Deleon_
Salts now. But what good would it do him. In a short time his escape
would be detected and....

But even as his gaze sped over the dials, a thought struck him. One of
those dials must control the intervals of time between each supersonic
bombardment. Another must control the frequency of the vibrations.

Boldly Simms seized a rheostat and shoved it over to its farthest
marking. He found the time dial and pushed that upward too, guessing at
the length of increase.

Then he was descending swiftly the spiral staircase to the ground
level. He skirted the main street of the village and groped his way
through inky blackness to the swamp shore.

In the gloom he made out his _jagua_. But he didn't stop here. He
ran blindly a hundred yards along the matting shore until a squat
beetle-like shape materialized out of the darkness. The space-rats'
hydrocar.

In a half minute he had the mooring line unfastened. And then splitting
the darkness about him came a shaft of white light. Simultaneously
Halleck's voice yelled:

"Get him before he gets into the car!"

There was a dull report like a melon striking, and something soft and
fuzzy whizzed past Simms' head to hit the water with a hollow plop.
A mold gun! In the relentless light of Halleck's search lamp, the
lieutenant saw the living fungus erupt into a hundred wriggling spores
that germinated in a matter of seconds.

Simms leaped into the cabin and fumbled for the starter switch. Once
a dozen years before he had driven a hydrocar on a pleasure cruise a
short distance up the Martian Central Canal. Now his fingers touched
the stud, and the motor roared into life.

But before he could press the trigger out into the swamp, he saw
Halleck leap through the water and hurl himself onto the car's hood.
The man broke the windscreen into a hundred glass fragments and thrust
a mold gun through the aperture straight into Simms' face.

But before he could press the trigger something happened. Back in
Xenthar village a mighty wailing scream pierced the air. Like a
frightened banshee the sound raced into the upper register, leaped to a
grinding, ear-shattering shriek.

Halleck dropped the mold gun and clapped his hands to his ears. On
shore the Kamalis uttered cries of pain and fell groveling as the sound
mounted into the supersonic range and the piezo-electric crystals began
their action.

With a jerk Simms swung the wheel, throwing Halleck off balance and
plummeting him into the water. The hydrocar roared out into the swamp
like a runaway comet.
