
All night Simms drove, weaving through aisles of man-high rip grass,
circling denser groves of blue priest trees and ardaleptic ferns.

At dawn he drew up at a small island, built a fire and cooked some of
the food he found packed away in a rear compartment of the hydrocar. He
rested half an hour, reentered the car and drove on at a more leisurely
speed.

There remained now only to go to GHQ at BeTaba, give his report and
hand over his message-cylinder. And when the tube was opened, he would
be through on Venus. Dismissed from the Service for insubordination.
Wherever he went, that report would follow him.

His lips compressed. There was a girl waiting for him back on
Earth--waiting until he had completed his hitch in the Service and
could graduate to the spaceways.

Abruptly his hand, reaching to his belt, stopped, and an electric shock
ran through him.

His message cylinder was gone! He must have lost it when he rested at
the little island.

For a moment he sat motionless, a cold numbness sweeping over him. He
must have that cylinder when he reported at BeTaba. That part of the
message pertaining to reenforcements for the garrison would be given
orally, of course. But the section regarding himself was different. If
he failed to deliver that letter, sooner or later he would be accused
of throwing it away. It would mean another case of--insubordination.

Suddenly he threw over the wheel and sent the hydrocar racing back in
the direction from which it had just come.

The Great Swamp faded out of his vision now. He drove with his
thoughts. And then as familiar landmarks began to rise up before him,
he realized what he was doing.

It was selfishness that had driven him along the back trail. He was
returning for a kind of personal satisfaction. Deliberately taking
chances when the stakes were higher than himself or his own feelings.

But the island lay just ahead. It would be mad to turn back now that he
had come this far. He ran the hydrocar into a little inlet, switched
off the motor and climbed out.

The coals of his campfire were still glowing. Carefully he began to
search the trampled grass. A fern writhed in the sodden wind, and a
glint of metal caught his eye. The official tube lay where it had
fallen, close to the shore.

But as Simms strode forward, a footstep sounded behind him. He
stiffened and turned. An Earth man stood there on the little beach,
hands resting triumphantly on hips, watching him.

"Halleck!"

In the swamp back of the space-rat lay a long _akimla_ canoe, filled
with Kamali tribesmen, drawn by three waterskippers, their ugly
beetle-like bodies lashed with an intricate network of harness.

There was a mold gun in Halleck's hands, and he had it leveled before
him.

Out of the corner of his eye the lieutenant was searching desperately
for a way of escape. Above him his upraised hands touched the spreading
branch of a priest tree, and he saw that its farther extremity hung
within a foot of Halleck's gun hand.

Simms seized the branch and gave it a powerful downward jerk. And in
the instant that the space-rat's weapon was pushed out of aim, he threw
himself forward in a flying tackle.

He fought desperately, aware that he had seconds in which to act and no
more. A heavy kick in the groin sent a wave of nausea surging through
him. Then his hands closed about the mold gun. He tore it free and
pounded a hard blow into the space-rat's jaw. Twice he stuck. Then as
Halleck slumped backward, he stumbled erect and trained the weapon on
the advancing Kamalis, finger tight on trigger.

"Back!" he snapped. "One move, and I fire. Get into that jitterbug
chariot of yours and get going!"
