
Mr. Smith was coming back all right, and sooner than they had dared to
hope. As soon in fact, as he could make the trip to the shack and
return. He came back dressed in clothing very different from the garb
the other white man had worn. Shining leather boots and the uniform of
the Galactic Guard, and a wide leather belt with a holster for his
needle gun.

But the gun was in his hand when, at dusk, he strode into the compound.

He said, "I am Number One, the Lord of all the Solar System, and your
ruler. Who was chief among you?"

Alwa had been in his hut, but he heard the words and came out. He
understood the words, but not their meaning. He said, "Earthling, we
welcome you back. I am the chief."

"You were the chief. Now you will serve me. I am the chief."

Alwa's old eyes were bewildered at the strangeness of this. He said, "I
will serve you, yes. All of us. But it is not fitting that an Earthling
should be chief among--"

The whisper of the needle gun. Alwa's wrinkled hands went to his scrawny
neck where, just off the center, was a sudden tiny pin prick of a hole.
A faint trickle of red coursed over the dark blue of his skin. The old
man's knees gave way under him as the rage of the poisoned needle dart
struck him, and he fell. Others started toward him.

"Back," said Mr. Smith. "Let him die slowly that you may all see what
happens to--"

But one of the chief's wives, one who did not understand the speech of
Earth, was already lifting Alwa's head. The needle gun whispered again,
and she fell forward across him.

"I am Number One," said Mr. Smith, "and Lord of all the planets. All who
oppose me, die by--"

And then, suddenly all of them were running toward him. His finger
pressed the trigger and four of them died before the avalanche of their
bodies bore him down and overwhelmed him. Nrana had been first in that
rush, and Nrana died.

The others tied the Earthling up and threw him into one of the huts. And
then, while the women began wailing for the dead, the men made council.

They elected Kallana chief and he stood before them and said, "The
Father-of-Us, the Mister Gerhardt, deceived us." There was fear and
worry in his voice and apprehension on his blue face. "If this be indeed
the Lord of whom he told us--"

"He is not a god," said another. "He is an Earthling, but there have
been such before on Venus, many many of them who came long and long ago
from the skies. Now they are all dead, killed in strife among
themselves. It is well. This last one is one of them, but he is mad."

And they talked long and the dusk grew into night while they talked of
what they must do. The gleam of firelight upon their bodies, and the
waiting drummer.

The problem was difficult. To harm one who was mad was tabu. If he was
really a god, it would be worse. Thunder and lightning from the sky
would destroy the village. Yet they dared not release him. Even if they
took the evil weapon-that-whispered-its-death and buried it, he might
find other ways to harm them. He might have another where he had gone
for the first.

Yes, it was a difficult problem for them, but the eldest and wisest of
them, one M'Ganne, gave them at last the answer.

"O Kallana," he said, "Let us give him to the _kifs_. If _they_ harm
him--" and old M'Ganne grinned a toothless, mirthless grin "--it would
be their doing and not ours."

Kallana shuddered. "It is the most horrible of all deaths. And if he is
a god--"

"If he is a god, they will not harm him. If he is mad and not a god, we
will not have harmed him. It harms not a man to tie him to a tree."

Kallana considered well, for the safety of his people was at stake.
Considering, he remembered how Alwa and Nrana had died.

He said, "It is right."

The waiting drummer began the rhythm of the council-end, and those of
the men who were young and fleet lighted torches in the fire and went
out into the forest to seek the _kifs_, who were still in their season
of marching.

And after a while, having found what they sought, they returned.

They took the Earthling out with them, then, and tied him to a tree.
They left him there, and they left the gag over his lips because they
did not wish to hear his screams when the _kifs_ came.

The cloth of the gag would be eaten, too, but by that time, there would
be no flesh under it from which a scream might come.

They left him, and went back to the compound, and the drums took up the
rhythm of propitiation to the gods for what they had done. For they had,
they knew, cut very close to the corner of a tabu--but the provocation
had been great and they hoped they would not be punished.

All night the drums would throb.
