

The town-hall had never looked finer. The platform at the end of it
was backed by a showy draping of flags; at intervals along the walls
were festoons of flags; the gallery fronts were clothed in flags; the
supporting columns were swathed in flags; all this was to impress the
stranger, for he would be there in considerable force, and in a large
degree he would be connected with the press. The house was full. The
412 fixed seats were occupied; also the 68 extra chairs which had
been packed into the aisles; the steps of the platform were occupied;
some distinguished strangers were given seats on the platform; at the
horseshoe of tables which fenced the front and sides of the platform
sat a strong force of special correspondents who had come from
everywhere. It was the best-dressed house the town had ever produced.
There were some tolerably expensive toilets there, and in several cases
the ladies who wore them had the look of being unfamiliar with that
kind of clothes. At least the town thought they had that look, but the
notion could have arisen from the town’s knowledge of the fact that
these ladies had never inhabited such clothes before.

The gold-sack stood on a little table at the front of the platform
where all the house could see it. The bulk of the house gazed at it
with a burning interest, a mouth-watering interest, a wistful and
pathetic interest; a minority of nineteen couples gazed at it tenderly,
lovingly, proprietarily, and the male half of this minority kept saying
over to themselves the moving little impromptu speeches of thankfulness
for the audience’s applause and congratulations which they were
presently going to get up and deliver. Every now and then one of these
got a piece of paper out of his vest pocket and privately glanced at it
to refresh his memory.

Of course there was a buzz of conversation going on--there always
is; but at last, when the Rev. Mr. Burgess rose and laid his hand on
the sack, he could hear his microbes gnaw, the place was so still.
He related the curious history of the sack, then went on to speak
in warm terms of Hadleyburg’s old and well-earned reputation for
spotless honesty, and of the town’s just pride in this reputation.
He said that this reputation was a treasure of priceless value; that
under Providence its value had now become inestimably enhanced, for
the recent episode had spread this fame far and wide, and thus had
focussed the eyes of the American world upon this village, and made its
name for all time, as he hoped and believed, a synonym for commercial
incorruptibility. [Applause.] “And who is to be the guardian of this
noble fame--the community as a whole? No! The responsibility is
individual, not communal. From this day forth each and every one of you
is in his own person its special guardian, and individually responsible
that no harm shall come to it. Do you--does each of you--accept this
great trust? [Tumultuous assent.] Then all is well. Transmit it to
your children and to your children’s children. To-day your purity is
beyond reproach--see to it that it shall remain so. To-day there is not
a person in your community who could be beguiled to touch a penny not
his own--see to it that you abide in this grace. [“We will! we will!”]
This is not the place to make comparisons between ourselves and other
communities--some of them ungracious towards us; they have their ways,
we have ours; let us be content. [Applause.] I am done. Under my hand,
my friends, rests a stranger’s eloquent recognition of what we are;
through him the world will always henceforth know what we are. We do
not know who he is, but in your name I utter your gratitude, and ask
you to raise your voices in indorsement.”

The house rose in a body and made the walls quake with the thunders
of its thankfulness for the space of a long minute. Then it sat down,
and Mr. Burgess took an envelope out of his pocket. The house held
its breath while he slit the envelope open and took from it a slip of
paper. He read its contents--slowly and impressively--the audience
listening with tranced attention to this magic document, each of whose
words stood for an ingot of gold:

“‘The remark which I made to the distressed stranger was this:
“You are very far from being a bad man; go, and reform.”’” Then he
continued:--“We shall know in a moment now whether the remark here
quoted corresponds with the one concealed in the sack; and if that
shall prove to be so--and it undoubtedly will--this sack of gold
belongs to a fellow-citizen who will henceforth stand before the nation
as the symbol of the special virtue which has made our town famous
throughout the land--Mr. Billson!”

The house had gotten itself all ready to burst into the proper tornado
of applause; but instead of doing it, it seemed stricken with a
paralysis; there was a deep hush for a moment or two, then a wave of
whispered murmurs swept the place--of about this tenor: “_Billson_!
oh, come, this is _too_ thin! Twenty dollars to a stranger--or
_anybody_--_Billson_! Tell it to the marines!” And now at this point
the house caught its breath all of a sudden in a new access of
astonishment, for it discovered that whereas in one part of the hall
Deacon Billson was standing up with his head meekly bowed, in another
part of it Lawyer Wilson was doing the same. There was a wondering
silence now for a while. Everybody was puzzled, and nineteen couples
were surprised and indignant.

Billson and Wilson turned and stared at each other. Billson asked,
bitingly:

“Why do _you_ rise, Mr. Wilson?”

“Because I have a right to. Perhaps you will be good enough to explain
to the house why _you_ rise.”

“With great pleasure. Because I wrote that paper.”

“It is an impudent falsity! I wrote it myself.”

It was Burgess’s turn to be paralysed. He stood looking vacantly at
first one of the men and then the other, and did not seem to know what
to do. The house was stupefied. Lawyer Wilson spoke up now, and said:

“I ask the Chair to read the name signed to that paper.”

That brought the Chair to itself, and it read out the name:

“John Wharton _Billson_.”

“There!” shouted Billson, “what have you got to say for yourself now?
And what kind of apology are you going to make to me and to this
insulted house for the imposture which you have attempted to play here?”

“No apologies are due, sir; and as for the rest of it, I publicly
charge you with pilfering my note from Mr. Burgess and substituting a
copy of it signed with your own name. There is no other way by which
you could have gotten hold of the test-remark; I alone, of living men,
possessed the secret of its wording.”

There was likely to be a scandalous state of things if this went
on; everybody noticed with distress that the shorthand scribes were
scribbling like mad; many people were crying “Chair, chair! Order!
order!” Burgess rapped with his gavel, and said:

“Let us not forget the proprieties due. There has evidently been a
mistake somewhere, but surely that is all. If Mr. Wilson gave me an
envelope--and I remember now that he did--I still have it.”

He took one out of his pocket, opened it, glanced at it, looked
surprised and worried, and stood silent a few moments. Then he waved
his hand in a wandering and mechanical way, and made an effort or two
to say something, then gave it up, despondently. Several voices cried
out:

“Read it! read it! What is it?”

So he began, in a dazed and sleep-walker fashion:

“‘The remark which I made to the unhappy stranger was this: “You are
far from being a bad man. [The house gazed at him marvelling.] Go, and
reform.”’ [Murmurs: “Amazing! what can this mean?”] This one,” said the
Chair, “is signed Thurlow G. Wilson.”

“There!” cried Wilson, “I reckon that settles it! I knew perfectly well
my note was purloined.”

“Purloined!” retorted Billson. “I’ll let you know that neither you nor
any man of your kidney must venture to--”

The Chair: “Order, gentlemen, order! Take your seats, both of you,
please.”

They obeyed, shaking their heads and grumbling angrily. The house
was profoundly puzzled; it did not know what to do with this curious
emergency. Presently Thompson got up. Thompson was the hatter. He would
have liked to be a Nineteener; but such was not for him; his stock of
hats was not considerable enough for the position. He said:

“Mr. Chairman, if I may be permitted to make a suggestion, can both of
these gentlemen be right? I put it to you, sir, can both have happened
to say the very same words to the stranger? It seems to me--”

The tanner got up and interrupted him. The tanner was a disgruntled
man; he believed himself entitled to be a Nineteener, but he couldn’t
get recognition. It made him a little unpleasant in his ways and
speech. Said he:

“Sho, _that’s_ not the point! _That_ could happen--twice in a hundred
years--but not the other thing. _Neither_ of them gave the twenty
dollars!” [A ripple of applause.]

Billson. “I did!”

Wilson. “I did!”

Then each accused the other of pilfering.

The Chair. “Order! Sit down, if you please--both of you. Neither of the
notes has been out of my possession at any moment.”

A Voice. “Good--that settles _that_!”

The Tanner. “Mr. Chairman, one thing is now plain: one of these men
has been eavesdropping under the other one’s bed, and filching family
secrets. If it is not unparliamentary to suggest it, I will remark
that both are equal to it. [The Chair. “Order! order!”] I withdraw the
remark, sir, and will confine myself to suggesting that _if_ one of
them has overheard the other reveal the test-remark to his wife, we
shall catch him now.”

A Voice. “How?”

The Tanner. “Easily. The two have not quoted the remark in exactly
the same words. You would have noticed that, if there hadn’t been a
considerable stretch of time and an exciting quarrel inserted between
the two readings.”

A Voice. “Name the difference.”

The Tanner. “The word _very_ is in Billson’s note, and not in the
other.”

Many Voices. “That’s so--he’s right!”

The Tanner. “And so, if the Chair will examine the test-remark in
the sack, we shall know which of these two frauds--[The Chair.
“Order!”]--which of these two adventurers--[The Chair. “Order!
order!”]--which of these two gentlemen--[laughter and applause]--is
entitled to wear the belt as being the first dishonest blatherskite
ever bred in this town--which he has dishonoured, and which will be a
sultry place for him from now out!” [Vigorous applause.]

Many Voices. “Open it!--open the sack!”

Mr. Burgess made a slit in the sack, slid his hand in, and brought out
an envelope. In it were a couple of folded notes. He said:

“One of these is marked, ‘Not to be examined until all written
communications which have been addressed to the Chair--if any--shall
have been read.’ The other is marked ‘_The Test_.’ Allow me. It is
worded--to wit:

“‘I do not require that the first half of the remark which was made
to me by my benefactor shall be quoted with exactness, for it was not
striking, and could be forgotten; but its closing fifteen words are
quite striking, and I think easily rememberable; unless _these_ shall
be accurately reproduced, let the applicant be regarded as an impostor.
My benefactor began by saying he seldom gave advice to anyone, but that
it always bore the hall-mark of high value when he did give it. Then he
said this--and it has never faded from my memory: ‘_You are far from
being a bad man_--’’”

Fifty Voices. “That settles it--the money’s Wilson’s! Wilson! Wilson!
Speech! Speech!”

People jumped up and crowded around Wilson, wringing his hand and
congratulating fervently--meantime the Chair was hammering with the
gavel and shouting:

“Order, gentlemen! Order! Order! Let me finish reading, please.” When
quiet was restored, the reading was resumed--as follows:

“‘_Go, and reform--or, mark my words--some day, for your sins you will
die and go to hell or Hadleyburg_--TRY AND MAKE IT THE FORMER.’”

A ghastly silence followed. First an angry cloud began to settle darkly
upon the faces of the citizenship; after a pause the cloud began to
rise, and a tickled expression tried to take its place; tried so hard
that it was only kept under with great and painful difficulty; the
reporters, the Brixtonites, and other strangers bent their heads down
and shielded their faces with their hands, and managed to hold in by
main strength and heroic courtesy. At this most inopportune time burst
upon the stillness the roar of a solitary voice--Jack Halliday’s:

“_That’s_ got the hall-mark on it!”

Then the house let go, strangers and all. Even Mr. Burgess’s gravity
broke down presently, then the audience considered itself officially
absolved from all restraint, and it made the most of its privilege. It
was a good long laugh, and a tempestuously wholehearted one, but it
ceased at last--long enough for Mr. Burgess to try to resume, and for
the people to get their eyes partially wiped; then it broke out again,
and afterward yet again; then at last Burgess was able to get out these
serious words:

“It is useless to try to disguise the fact--we find ourselves in the
presence of a matter of grave import. It involves the honour of your
town--it strikes at the town’s good name. The difference of a single
word between the test-remarks offered by Mr. Wilson and Mr. Billson was
itself a serious thing, since it indicated that one or the other of
these gentlemen had committed a theft--”

The two men were sitting limp, nerveless, crushed; but at these words
both were electrified into movement, and started to get up.

“Sit down!” said the Chair, sharply, and they obeyed. “That, as I
have said, was a serious thing. And it was--but for only one of them.
But the matter has become graver; for the honour of _both_ is now in
formidable peril. Shall I go even further, and say in inextricable
peril? _Both_ left out the crucial fifteen words.” He paused. During
several moments he allowed the pervading stillness to gather and
deepen its impressive effects, then added: “There would seem to be but
one way whereby this could happen. I ask these gentlemen--Was there
_collusion_?--_agreement_?”

A low murmur sifted through the house; its import was, “He’s got them
both.”

Billson was not used to emergencies; he sat in a helpless collapse. But
Wilson was a lawyer. He struggled to his feet, pale and worried, and
said:

“I ask the indulgence of the house while I explain this most painful
matter. I am sorry to say what I am about to say, since it must inflict
irreparable injury upon Mr. Billson, whom I have always esteemed and
respected until now, and in whose invulnerability to temptation I
entirely believed--as did you all. But for the preservation of my own
honour I must speak--and with frankness. I confess with shame--and I
now beseech your pardon for it--that I said to the ruined stranger all
of the words contained in the test-remark, including the disparaging
fifteen. [Sensation.] When the late publication was made I recalled
them, and I resolved to claim the sack of coin, for by every right
I was entitled to it. Now I will ask you to consider this point,
and weigh it well; that stranger’s gratitude to me that night knew
no bounds; he said himself that he could find no words for it that
were adequate, and that if he should ever be able he would repay me
a thousandfold. Now, then, I ask you this; could I expect--could I
believe--could I even remotely imagine--that, feeling as he did, he
would do so ungrateful a thing as to add those quite unnecessary
fifteen words to his test?--set a trap for me?--expose me as a
slanderer of my own town before my own people assembled in a public
hall? It was preposterous; it was impossible. His test would contain
only the kindly opening clause of my remark. Of that I had no shadow of
doubt. You would have thought as I did. You would not have expected a
base betrayal from one whom you had befriended and against whom you had
committed no offence. And so with perfect confidence, perfect trust,
I wrote on a piece of paper the opening words--ending with “Go, and
reform,”--and signed it. When I was about to put it in an envelope I
was called into my back office, and without thinking I left the paper
lying open on my desk.” He stopped, turned his head slowly toward
Billson, waited a moment, then added: “I ask you to note this; when I
returned, a little latter, Mr. Billson was retiring by my street door.”
[Sensation.]

In a moment Billson was on his feet and shouting:

“It’s a lie! It’s an infamous lie!”

The Chair. “Be seated, sir! Mr. Wilson has the floor.”

Billson’s friends pulled him into his seat and quieted him, and Wilson
went on:

“Those are the simple facts. My note was now lying in a different place
on the table from where I had left it. I noticed that, but attached
no importance to it, thinking a draught had blown it there. That
Mr. Billson would read a private paper was a thing which could not
occur to me; he was an honourable man, and he would be above that. If
you will allow me to say it, I think his extra word ‘_very_’ stands
explained: it is attributable to a defect of memory. I was the only man
in the world who could furnish here any detail of the test-mark--by
_honourable_ means. I have finished.”

There is nothing in the world like a persuasive speech to fuddle the
mental apparatus and upset the convictions and debauch the emotions
of an audience not practised in the tricks and delusions of oratory.
Wilson sat down victorious. The house submerged him in tides of
approving applause; friends swarmed to him and shook him by the hand
and congratulated him, and Billson was shouted down and not allowed to
say a word. The Chair hammered and hammered with its gavel, and kept
shouting:

“But let us proceed, gentlemen, let us proceed!”

At last there was a measurable degree of quiet, and the hatter said:

“But what is there to proceed with, sir, but to deliver the money?”

Voices. “That’s it! That’s it! Come forward, Wilson!”

The Hatter. “I move three cheers for Mr. Wilson, Symbol of the special
virtue which--”

The cheers burst forth before he could finish; and in the midst
of them--and in the midst of the clamour of the gavel also--some
enthusiasts mounted Wilson on a big friend’s shoulder and were going to
fetch him in triumph to the platform. The Chair’s voice now rose above
the noise:

“Order! To your places! You forget that there is still a document to
be read.” When quiet had been restored he took up the document, and
was going to read it, but laid it down again saying “I forgot; this is
not to be read until all written communications received by me have
first been read.” He took an envelope out of his pocket, removed its
enclosure, glanced at it--seemed astonished--held it out and gazed at
it--stared at it.

Twenty or thirty voices cried out

“What is it? Read it! read it!”

And he did--slowly, and wondering:

“‘The remark which I made to the stranger--[Voices. “Hello! how’s
this?”]--was this: ‘You are far from being a bad man. [Voices. “Great
Scott!”] Go, and reform.’” [Voice. “Oh, saw my leg off!”] Signed by Mr.
Pinkerton the banker.”

The pandemonium of delight which turned itself loose now was of a sort
to make the judicious weep. Those whose withers were unwrung laughed
till the tears ran down; the reporters, in throes of laughter, set down
disordered pot-hooks which would never in the world be decipherable;
and a sleeping dog jumped up scared out of its wits, and barked itself
crazy at the turmoil. All manner of cries were scattered through the
din: “We’re getting rich--_two_ Symbols of Incorruptibility!--without
counting Billson!” “_Three_!--count Shadbelly in--we can’t have too
many!” “All right--Billson’s elected!” “Alas, poor Wilson! victim of
_two_ thieves!”

A Powerful Voice. “Silence! The Chair’s fished up something more out of
its pocket.”

Voices. “Hurrah! Is it something fresh? Read it! read! read!”

The Chair [reading]. “‘The remark which I made,’ etc. ‘You are far from
being a bad man. Go,’ etc. Signed, ‘Gregory Yates.’”

Tornado of Voices. “Four Symbols!” “’Rah for Yates!” “Fish again!”

The house was in a roaring humour now, and ready to get all the fun out
of the occasion that might be in it. Several Nineteeners, looking pale
and distressed, got up and began to work their way towards the aisles,
but a score of shouts went up:

“The doors, the doors--close the doors; no Incorruptible shall leave
this place! Sit down, everybody!” The mandate was obeyed.

“Fish again! Read! read!”

The Chair fished again, and once more the familiar words began to fall
from its lips--“‘You are far from being a bad man--’”

“Name! name! What’s his name?”

“‘L. Ingoldsby Sargent.’”

“Five elected! Pile up the Symbols! Go on, go on!”

“‘You are far from being a bad--’”

“Name! name!”

“‘Nicholas Whitworth.’”

“Hooray! hooray! it’s a symbolical day!”

Somebody wailed in, and began to sing this rhyme (leaving out “it’s”)
to the lovely “Mikado” tune of “When a man’s afraid of a beautiful
maid;” the audience joined in, with joy; then, just in time, somebody
contributed another line--

   “And don’t you this forget--”

The house roared it out. A third line was at once furnished--

   “Corruptibles far from Hadleyburg are--”

The house roared that one too. As the last note died, Jack Halliday’s
voice rose high and clear, freighted with a final line--

   “But the Symbols are here, you bet!”

That was sung, with booming enthusiasm. Then the happy house started in
at the beginning and sang the four lines through twice, with immense
swing and dash, and finished up with a crashing three-times-three and a
tiger for “Hadleyburg the Incorruptible and all Symbols of it which we
shall find worthy to receive the hall-mark to-night.”

Then the shoutings at the Chair began again, all over the place:

“Go on! go on! Read! read some more! Read all you’ve got!”

“That’s it--go on! We are winning eternal celebrity!”

A dozen men got up now and began to protest. They said that this farce
was the work of some abandoned joker, and was an insult to the whole
community. Without a doubt these signatures were all forgeries--

“Sit down! sit down! Shut up! You are confessing. We’ll find your
names in the lot.”

“Mr. Chairman, how many of those envelopes have you got?”

The Chair counted.

“Together with those that have been already examined, there are
nineteen.”

A storm of derisive applause broke out.

“Perhaps they all contain the secret. I move that you open them all and
read every signature that is attached to a note of that sort--and read
also the first eight words of the note.”

“Second the motion!”

It was put and carried--uproariously. Then poor old Richards got up, and
his wife rose and stood at his side. Her head was bent down, so that
none might see that she was crying. Her husband gave her his arm, and so
supporting her, he began to speak in a quavering voice:

“My friends, you have known us two--Mary and me--all our lives, and I
think you have liked us and respected us--”

The Chair interrupted him:

“Allow me. It is quite true--that which you are saying, Mr. Richards;
this town _does_ know you two; it _does_ like you; it _does_ respect you;
more--it honours you and _loves_ you--”

Halliday’s voice rang out:

“That’s the hall-marked truth, too! If the Chair is right, let the house
speak up and say it. Rise! Now, then--hip! hip! hip!--all together!”

The house rose in mass, faced toward the old couple eagerly, filled the
air with a snow-storm of waving handkerchiefs, and delivered the cheers
with all its affectionate heart.

The Chair then continued:

“What I was going to say is this: We know your good heart, Mr. Richards,
but this is not a time for the exercise of charity toward offenders.
[Shouts of “Right! right!”] I see your generous purpose in your face,
but I cannot allow you to plead for these men--”

“But I was going to--”

“Please take your seat, Mr. Richards. We must examine the rest of these
notes--simple fairness to the men who have already been exposed requires
this. As soon as that has been done--I give you my word for this--you
shall he heard.”

Many voices. “Right!--the Chair is right--no interruption can be
permitted at this stage! Go on!--the names! the names!--according to the
terms of the motion!”

The old couple sat reluctantly down, and the husband whispered to the
wife, “It is pitifully hard to have to wait; the shame will be greater
than ever when they find we were only going to plead for _ourselves_.”

Straightway the jollity broke loose again with the reading of the names.

“‘You are far from being a bad man--’ Signature, ‘Robert J. Titmarsh.’”

“‘You are far from being a bad man--’ Signature, ‘Eliphalet Weeks.’”

“‘You are far from being a bad man--’ Signature, ‘Oscar B. Wilder.’”

At this point the house lit upon the idea of taking the eight words out
of the Chairman’s hands. He was not unthankful for that. Thenceforward
he held up each note in its turn and waited. The house droned out the
eight words in a massed and measured and musical deep volume of sound
(with a daringly close resemblance to a well-known church chant)--“You
are f-a-r from being a b-a-a-a-d man.” Then the Chair said, “Signature,
‘Archibald Wilcox.’” And so on, and so on, name after name, and
everybody had an increasingly and gloriously good time except the
wretched Nineteen. Now and then, when a particularly shining name was
called, the house made the Chair wait while it chanted the whole of the
test-remark from the beginning to the closing words, “And go to hell or
Hadleyburg--try and make it the for-or-m-e-r!” and in these special cases
they added a grand and agonised and imposing “A-a-a-a-_men_!”

The list dwindled, dwindled, dwindled, poor old Richards keeping tally of
the count, wincing when a name resembling his own was pronounced, and
waiting in miserable suspense for the time to come when it would be his
humiliating privilege to rise with Mary and finish his plea, which he was
intending to word thus: “... for until now we have never done any wrong
thing, but have gone our humble way unreproached. We are very poor, we
are old, and, have no chick nor child to help us; we were sorely tempted,
and we fell. It was my purpose when I got up before to make confession
and beg that my name might not be read out in this public place, for it
seemed to us that we could not bear it; but I was prevented. It was
just; it was our place to suffer with the rest. It has been hard for us.
It is the first time we have ever heard our name fall from any one’s
lips--sullied. Be merciful--for the sake or the better days; make our
shame as light to bear as in your charity you can.” At this point in his
reverie Mary nudged him, perceiving that his mind was absent. The house
was chanting, “You are f-a-r,” etc.

“Be ready,” Mary whispered. “Your name comes now; he has read eighteen.”

The chant ended.

“Next! next! next!” came volleying from all over the house.

Burgess put his hand into his pocket. The old couple, trembling, began
to rise. Burgess fumbled a moment, then said:

“I find I have read them all.”

Faint with joy and surprise, the couple sank into their seats, and Mary
whispered:

“Oh, bless God, we are saved!--he has lost ours--I wouldn’t give this for
a hundred of those sacks!”

The house burst out with its “Mikado” travesty, and sang it three times
with ever-increasing enthusiasm, rising to its feet when it reached for
the third time the closing line--

   “But the Symbols are here, you bet!”

and finishing up with cheers and a tiger for “Hadleyburg purity and our
eighteen immortal representatives of it.”

Then Wingate, the saddler, got up and proposed cheers “for the cleanest
man in town, the one solitary important citizen in it who didn’t try to
steal that money--Edward Richards.”

They were given with great and moving heartiness; then somebody proposed
that “Richards be elected sole Guardian and Symbol of the now Sacred
Hadleyburg Tradition, with power and right to stand up and look the whole
sarcastic world in the face.”

Passed, by acclamation; then they sang the “Mikado” again, and ended it
with--

   “And there’s _one_ Symbol left, you bet!”

There was a pause; then--

A Voice. “Now, then, who’s to get the sack?”

The Tanner (with bitter sarcasm). “That’s easy. The money has to be
divided among the eighteen Incorruptibles. They gave the suffering
stranger twenty dollars apiece--and that remark--each in his turn--it
took twenty-two minutes for the procession to move past. Staked the
stranger--total contribution, $360. All they want is just the loan
back--and interest--forty thousand dollars altogether.”

Many Voices [derisively.] “That’s it! Divvy! divvy! Be kind to the
poor--don’t keep them waiting!”

The Chair. “Order! I now offer the stranger’s remaining document.
It says: ‘If no claimant shall appear [grand chorus of groans], I
desire that you open the sack and count out the money to the principal
citizens of your town, they to take it in trust [Cries of “Oh! Oh!
Oh!”], and use it in such ways as to them shall seem best for the
propagation and preservation of your community’s noble reputation
for incorruptible honesty [more cries]--a reputation to which their
names and their efforts will add a new and far-reaching lustre.”
[Enthusiastic outburst of sarcastic applause.] That seems to be all.
No--here is a postscript:

“‘P.S.--CITIZENS OF HADLEYBURG: There _is_ no test-remark--nobody
made one. [Great sensation.] There wasn’t any pauper stranger, nor
any twenty-dollar contribution, nor any accompanying benediction
and compliment--these are all inventions. [General buzz and hum of
astonishment and delight.] Allow me to tell my story--it will take
but a word or two. I passed through your town at a certain time, and
received a deep offence which I had not earned. Any other man would
have been content to kill one or two of you and call it square, but
to me that would have been a trivial revenge, and inadequate; for the
dead do not _suffer_. Besides I could not kill you all--and, anyway,
made as I am, even that would not have satisfied me. I wanted to damage
every man in the place, and every woman--and not in their bodies or in
their estate, but in their vanity--the place where feeble and foolish
people are most vulnerable. So I disguised myself and came back and
studied you. You were easy game. You had an old and lofty reputation
for honesty, and naturally you were proud of it--it was your treasure
of treasures, the very apple of your eye. As soon as I found out that
you carefully and vigilantly kept yourselves and your children _out
of temptation_, I knew how to proceed. Why, you simple creatures, the
weakest of all weak things is a virtue which has not been tested in
the fire. I laid a plan, and gathered a list of names. My project was
to corrupt Hadleyburg the Incorruptible. My idea was to make liars
and thieves of nearly half a hundred smirchless men and women who had
never in their lives uttered a lie or stolen a penny. I was afraid of
Goodson. He was neither born nor reared in Hadleyburg. I was afraid
that if I started to operate my scheme by getting my letter laid before
you, you would say to yourselves, ‘Goodson is the only man among us who
would give away twenty dollars to a poor devil’--and then you might
not bite at my bait. But heaven took Goodson; then I knew I was safe,
and I set my trap and baited it. It may be that I shall not catch all
the men to whom I mailed the pretended test-secret, but I shall catch
the most of them, if I know Hadleyburg nature. [Voices. “Right--he got
every last one of them.”] I believe they will even steal ostensible
_gamble_-money, rather than miss, poor, tempted, and mistrained
fellows. I am hoping to eternally and everlastingly squelch your vanity
and give Hadleyburg a new renown--one that will _stick_--and spread
far. If I have succeeded, open the sack and summon the Committee on
Propagation and Preservation of the Hadleyburg Reputation.’”

A Cyclone of Voices. “Open it! Open it! The Eighteen to the front!
Committee on Propagation of the Tradition! Forward--the Incorruptibles!”

The Chair ripped the sack wide, and gathered up a handful of bright,
broad, yellow coins, shook them together, then examined them.

“Friends, they are only gilded disks of lead!”

There was a crashing outbreak of delight over this news, and when the
noise had subsided, the tanner called out:

“By right of apparent seniority in this business, Mr. Wilson is
Chairman of the Committee on Propagation of the Tradition. I suggest
that he step forward on behalf of his pals, and receive in trust the
money.”

A Hundred Voices. “Wilson! Wilson! Wilson! Speech! Speech!”

Wilson [in a voice trembling with anger]. “You will allow me to say,
and without apologies for my language, _damn_ the money!”

A Voice. “Oh, and him a Baptist!”

A Voice. “Seventeen Symbols left! Step up, gentlemen, and assume your
trust!”

There was a pause--no response.

The Saddler. “Mr. Chairman, we’ve got _one_ clean man left, anyway, out
of the late aristocracy; and he needs money, and deserves it. I move
that you appoint Jack Halliday to get up there and auction off that
sack of gilt twenty-dollar pieces, and give the result to the right
man--the man whom Hadleyburg delights to honour--Edward Richards.”

This was received with great enthusiasm, the dog taking a hand again;
the saddler started the bids at a dollar, the Brixton folk and Barnum’s
representative fought hard for it, the people cheered every jump that
the bids made, the excitement climbed moment by moment higher and
higher, the bidders got on their mettle and grew steadily more and more
daring, more and more determined, the jumps went from a dollar up to
five, then to ten, then to twenty, then fifty, then to a hundred, then--

At the beginning of the auction Richards whispered in distress to
his wife: “Oh, Mary, can we allow it? It--it--you see, it is an
honour--reward, a testimonial to purity of character, and--and--can
we allow it? Hadn’t I better get up and--Oh, Mary, what ought we
to do?--what do you think we--” [Halliday’s voice. “Fifteen I’m
bid!--fifteen for the sack!--twenty!--ah, thanks!--thirty--thanks
again! Thirty, thirty, thirty!--do I hear forty?--forty it is! Keep
the ball rolling, gentlemen, keep it rolling!--fifty!--thanks, noble
Roman!--going at fifty, fifty, fifty!--seventy!--ninety!--splendid!--a
hundred!--pile it up, pile it up!--hundred and twenty--forty!--just
in time!--hundred and fifty!--Two hundred!--superb! Do I hear two
h--thanks!--two hundred and fifty!--”]

“It is another temptation, Edward--I’m all in a tremble--but, oh, we’ve
escaped one temptation, and that ought to warn us, to--[“Six did I
hear?--thanks!--six fifty, six f--SEVEN hundred!”] And yet, Edward,
when you think--nobody susp--[“Eight hundred dollars!--hurrah!--make
it nine!--Mr. Parsons, did I hear you say--thanks!--nine!--this noble
sack of virgin lead going at only nine hundred dollars, gilding and
all--come! do I hear--a thousand!--gratefully yours!--did some one say
eleven?--a sack which is going to be the most celebrated in the whole
Uni--”] “Oh, Edward” (beginning to sob), “we are so poor!--but--but--do
as you think best--do as you think best.”

Edward fell--that is, he sat still; sat with a conscience which was not
satisfied, but which was overpowered by circumstances.

Meantime a stranger, who looked like an amateur detective gotten
up as an impossible English earl, had been watching the evening’s
proceedings with manifest interest, and with a contented expression in
his face; and he had been privately commenting to himself. He was now
soliloquising somewhat like this: “None of the Eighteen are bidding;
that is not satisfactory; I must change that--the dramatic unities
require it; they must buy the sack they tried to steal; they must pay
a heavy price, too--some of them are rich. And another thing, when I
make a mistake in Hadleyburg nature the man that puts that error upon
me is entitled to a high honorarium, and some one must pay. This poor
old Richards has brought my judgment to shame; he is an honest man:--I
don’t understand it, but I acknowledge it. Yes, he saw my deuces--_and_
with a straight flush, and by rights the pot is his. And it shall be
a jack-pot, too, if I can manage it. He disappointed me, but let that
pass.”

He was watching the bidding. At a thousand, the market broke: the
prices tumbled swiftly. He waited--and still watched. One competitor
dropped out; then another, and another. He put in a bid or two now.
When the bids had sunk to ten dollars, he added a five; some one raised
him a three; he waited a moment, then flung in a fifty-dollar jump,
and the sack was his--at $1,282. The house broke out in cheers--then
stopped; for he was on his feet, and had lifted his hand. He began to
speak.

“I desire to say a word, and ask a favour. I am a speculator in
rarities, and I have dealings with persons interested in numismatics
all over the world. I can make a profit on this purchase, just as it
stands; but there is a way, if I can get your approval, whereby I can
make every one of these leaden twenty-dollar pieces worth its face
in gold, and perhaps more. Grant me that approval, and I will give
part of my gains to your Mr. Richards, whose invulnerable probity you
have so justly and so cordially recognised to-night; his share shall
be ten thousand dollars, and I will hand him the money to-morrow.
[Great applause from the house. But the “invulnerable probity” made
the Richardses blush prettily; however, it went for modesty, and did
no harm.] If you will pass my proposition by a good majority--I would
like a two-thirds vote--I will regard that as the town’s consent, and
that is all I ask. Rarities are always helped by any device which will
rouse curiosity and compel remark. Now if I may have your permission to
stamp upon the faces of each of these ostensible coins the names of the
eighteen gentlemen who--”

Nine-tenths of the audience were on their feet in a moment--dog and
all--and the proposition was carried with a whirlwind of approving
applause and laughter.

They sat down, and all the Symbols except “Dr.” Clay Harkness got up,
violently protesting against the proposed outrage, and threatening to--

“I beg you not to threaten me,” said the stranger calmly. “I know my
legal rights, and am not accustomed to being frightened at bluster.”
[Applause.] He sat down. “Dr.” Harkness saw an opportunity here. He
was one of the two very rich men of the place, and Pinkerton was the
other. Harkness was proprietor of a mint; that is to say, a popular
patent medicine. He was running for the Legislature on one ticket, and
Pinkerton on the other. It was a close race and a hot one, and getting
hotter every day. Both had strong appetites for money; each had bought
a great tract of land, with a purpose; there was going to be a new
railway, and each wanted to be in the Legislature and help locate the
route to his own advantage; a single vote might make the decision, and
with it two or three fortunes. The stake was large, and Harkness was a
daring speculator. He was sitting close to the stranger. He leaned over
while one or another of the other Symbols was entertaining the house
with protests and appeals, and asked, in a whisper,

“What is your price for the sack?”

“Forty thousand dollars.”

“I’ll give you twenty.”

“No.”

“Twenty-five.”

“No.”

“Say thirty.”

“The price is forty thousand dollars; not a penny less.”

“All right, I’ll give it. I will come to the hotel at ten in the
morning. I don’t want it known; will see you privately.”

“Very good.” Then the stranger got up and said to the house:

“I find it late. The speeches of these gentlemen are not without merit,
not without interest, not without grace; yet if I may be excused I will
take my leave. I thank you for the great favour which you have shown me
in granting my petition. I ask the Chair to keep the sack for me until
to-morrow, and to hand these three five-hundred-dollar notes to Mr.
Richards.” They were passed up to the Chair.

“At nine I will call for the sack, and at eleven will deliver the rest
of the ten thousand to Mr. Richards in person at his home. Good-night.”

Then he slipped out, and left the audience making a vast noise,
which was composed of a mixture of cheers, the “Mikado” song,
dog-disapproval, and the chant, “You are f-a-r from being a b-a-a-d
man--a-a-a a-men!”



