
Their tracks led up the slope beside the brook, always bearing to the
left, in the direction of the Ice-Father. After an hour, he found
where they had stopped and unslung their packs, and rested long enough
to smoke a cigarette. He read the story they had left in the snow, and
then continued, Brave trotting behind him pulling the sled. A few
snowflakes began dancing in the air, and he quickened his steps. He
knew, generally, where the thieves were going, but he wanted their
tracks unobliterated in front of him. The snow fell thicker and
thicker, and it was growing dark, and he was tiring. Even Brave was
stumbling occasionally before Raud stopped, in a hollow among the
pines, to build his tiny fire and eat and feed the dog. They bedded
down together, covered by the same sleeping robes.

When he woke, the world was still black and white and gray in the
early dawn-light, and the robe that covered him and Brave was powdered
with snow, and the pine-branches above him were loaded and sagging.

The snow had completely obliterated the tracks of the four thieves,
and it was still falling. When the sled was packed and the dog
harnessed to it, they set out, keeping close to the flank of the
Ice-Father on their left.

It stopped snowing toward mid-day, and a little after, he heard a
shot, far ahead, and then two more, one upon the other. The first shot
would be the rifle of Vahr Farg's son; it was a single-loader, like
his own. The other two were from one of the light Southron rifles,
which fired a dozen shots one after another. They had shot, or shot
at, something like a deer, he supposed. That was sensible; it would
save their dried meat for the trip across the back of the Ice-Father.
And it showed that they still didn't know he was following them. He
found their tracks, some hours later.

Toward dusk, he came to a steep building-mound. It had fared better
than most of the houses of the ancient people; it rose to twenty times
a man's height and on the south-east side it was almost perpendicular.
The other side sloped, and he was able to climb to the top, and far
away, ahead of him, he saw a tiny spark appear and grow. The fire
could not be more than two hours ahead.

He built no fire that evening, but shared a slab of pemmican with
Brave, and they huddled together under the bearskin robe. The dog fell
asleep at once. For a long time, Raud sat awake, thinking.

At first, he considered resting for a while, and then pressing forward
and attacking them as they slept. He had to kill all of them to regain
the Crown; that he had taken for granted from the first. He knew what
would happen if the Government Police came into this. They would take
one Southron's word against the word of ten Northfolk, and the thieves
would simply claim the Crown as theirs and accuse him of trying to
steal it. And Dranigo and Salvadro--they seemed like good men, but
they might see this as the only way to get the Crown for
themselves.... He would have to settle the affair for himself, before
the men reached Long Valley town.

If he could do it here, it would save him and Brave the toil and
danger of climbing the Ice-Father. But could he? They had two rifles,
one an autoloader, and they had in all likelihood three negatron
pistols. After the single shot of the big rifle was fired, he had only
a knife and a hatchet and the spiked and pickaxed ice-staff, and
Brave. One of the thieves would kill him before he and Brave killed
all of them, and then the Crown would be lost. He dropped into sleep,
still thinking of what to do.

He climbed the mound of the ancient building again in the morning, and
looked long and carefully at the face of the Ice-Father. It would take
the thieves the whole day to reach that place where the two tongues of
the glacier split apart, the easiest spot to climb. They would not try
to climb that evening; Vahr, who knew the most about it, would be the
last to advise such a risk. He was sure that by going up at the
nearest point he could get to the top of the Ice-Father before dark,
and drag Brave up after him. It would be a fearful climb, and he would
have most of a day's journey after that to reach the head of the long
ravine up which the thieves would come, but when they came up, he
could be there waiting for them. He knew what the old rifle could do,
to an inch, and there were places where the thieves would be coming up
where he could stay out of blaster-range and pick them all off, even
with a single-loader.

He knew about negatron pistols, too. They shot little bullets of
energy; they were very fast, and did not drop, like a real bullet, so
that no judgment of range was needed. But the energy died quickly; the
negatrons lived only long enough to go five hundred paces and no more.
At eight hundred, he could hit a man easily. He almost felt himself
pitying Vahr Farg's son and his companions.

When he reached the tumble of rocks that had been dragged along with
and pushed out from the Ice-Father, he stopped and made up a
pack--sleeping robes, all his cartridges, as much pemmican as he could
carry, and the bag of trade-tokens. If the chase took him to Long
Valley Town, he would need money. He also coiled about his waist a
long rawhide climbing-rope, and left the sled-harness on Brave, simply
detaching the traces.

At first, they walked easily on the sloping ice. Then, as it grew
steeper, he fastened the rope to the dog's harness and advanced a
little at a time, dragging Brave up after him. Soon he was forced to
snub the rope with his ice-staff and chop steps with his hatchet.
Toward noon--at least he thought it was noon--it began snowing again,
and the valley below was blotted out in a swirl of white.

They came to a narrow ledge, where they could rest, with a wall of ice
rising sheerly above them. He would have to climb that alone, and then
pull Brave up with the rope. He started working his way up the
perpendicular face, clinging by the pick of his ice-staff, chopping
footholds with the hatchet; the pack and the slung rifle on his back
pulled at him and threatened to drag him down. At length, he dragged
himself over the edge and drove the ice-staff in.

"Up, Brave!" he called, tugging on the rope. "Good dog, Brave; come
up!"

Brave tried to jump and slipped back. He tried again, and this time
Raud snubbed the rope and held him. Below the dog pawed frantically,
until he found a paw-hold on one of the chopped-out steps. Raud hauled
on the rope, and made another snub.

It seemed like hours. It probably was; his arms were aching, and he
had lost all sense of time, or of the cold, or the danger of the narrow
ledge; he forgot about the Crown and the men who had stolen it; he
even forgot how he had come here, or that he had ever been anywhere
else. All that mattered was to get Brave up on the ledge beside him.

Finally Brave came up and got first his fore-paws and then his body
over the edge. He lay still, panting proudly, while Raud hugged him
and told him, over and over, that he was a good dog. They rested for a
long time, and Raud got a slab of pemmican from the pack and divided
it with Brave.

It was while they rested in the snow, munching, that he heard the
sound for the first time. It was faint and far away, and it sounded
like thunder, or like an avalanche beginning, and that puzzled him,
for this was not the time of year for either. As he listened, he heard
it again, and this time he recognized it--negatron pistols. It
frightened him; he wondered if the thieves had met a band of hunters.
No; if they were fighting Northfolk, there would be the reports of
firearms, too. Or might they be fighting among themselves? Remembering
the melted brass studs on Bold's collar, he became more frightened at
the thought of what a negatron-blast could do to the Crown.

The noise stopped, then started again, and he got to his feet, calling
to Brave. They were on a wide ledge that slanted upward toward the
north. It would take him closer to the top, and closer to where Vahr
and his companions would come up. Together, they started up, Raud
probing cautiously ahead of him with the ice-staff for hidden
crevasses. After a while, he came to a wide gap in the ice beside him,
slanting toward the top, its upper end lost in swirling snow. So he
and Brave began climbing, and after a while he could no longer hear
the negatron pistols.

When it was almost too dark to go farther, he suddenly found himself
on level snow, and here he made camp, digging a hole and lining it
with the sleeping robes.

The sky was clear when he woke, and a pale yellow light was glowing in
the east. For a while he lay huddled with the dog, stiff and
miserable, and then he forced himself to his feet. He ate, and fed
Brave, and then checked his rifle and made his pack.

He was sure, now, that he had a plan that would succeed. He could
reach the place where Vahr and the Southrons would come up long before
they did, and be waiting for them. In his imagination, he could see
them coming up in single file, Vahr Farg's son in the lead, and he
could imagine himself hidden behind a mound of snow, the ice-staff
upright to brace his left hand and the forestock of the rifle resting
on his outthrust thumb and the butt against his shoulder. The first
bullet would be for Vahr. He could shoot all of them, one after
another, that way....

He stopped, looking in chagrined incredulity at the tracks in front of
him--the tracks he knew so well, of one man in sealskin boots and
three men with ribbed plastic soles. Why, it couldn't be! They should
be no more than half way up the long ravine, between the two tongues
of the Ice-Father, ten miles to the north. But here they were, on the
back of the Ice-Father and crossing to the west ahead of him. They
must have climbed the sheer wall of ice, only a few miles from where
he had dragged himself and Brave to the top. Then he remembered the
negatron-blasts he had heard. While he had been chopping footholds
with a hatchet, they had been smashing tons of ice out of their way.

"Well, Brave," he said mildly. "Old Keeper wasn't so smart, after all,
was he? Come on, Brave."

The thieves were making good time. He read that from the tracks
--straight, evenly spaced, no weary heel-dragging. Once or twice, he
saw where they had stopped for a brief rest. He hoped to see their
fire in the evening.

He didn't. They wouldn't have enough fuel to make a big one, or keep
it burning long. But in the morning, as he was breaking camp, he saw
black smoke ahead.

A few times, he had been in air-boats, and had looked down on the back
of the Ice-Father, and it had looked flat. Really, it was not. There
were long ridges, sheer on one side and sloping gently on the other,
where the ice had overridden hills and low mountains, or had cracked
and one side had pushed up over the other. And there were deep gullies
where the prevailing winds had scooped away loose snow year after year
for centuries, and drifts where it had piled, many of them higher than
the building-mounds of the ancient cities. But from a distance, as
from above, they all blended into a featureless white monotony.

At last, leaving a tangle of cliffs and ravines, he looked out across
a broad stretch of nearly level snow and saw, for the first time, the
men he was following. Four tiny dots, so far that they seemed
motionless, strung out in single file. Instantly, he crouched behind a
swell in the surface and dragged Brave down beside him. One of them,
looking back, might see him, as he saw them. When they vanished behind
a snow-hill, he rose and hastened forward, to take cover again. He
kept at this all day; by alternately resting and running, be found
himself gaining on them, and toward evening, he was within
rifle-range. The man in the lead was Vahr Farg's son; even at that
distance he recognized him easily. The others were Southrons, of
course; they wore quilted garments of cloth, and quilted hoods. The
man next to Vahr, in blue, carried a rifle, as Vahr did. The man in
yellow had only an ice-staff, and the man in green, at the rear, had
the Crown on his pack, still in the bearskin bundle.

He waited, at the end of the day, until he saw the light of their
fire. Then he and Brave circled widely around their camp, and stopped
behind a snow-ridge, on the other side of an open and level stretch a
mile wide. He dug the sleeping-hole on the crest of the ridge, making
it larger than usual, and piled up a snow breastwork in front of it,
with an embrasure through which he could look or fire without being
seen.

Before daybreak, he was awake and had his pack made, and when he saw
the smoke of the thieves' campfire, he was lying behind his
breastwork, the rifle resting on its folded cover, muzzle toward the
smoke. He lay for a long time, watching, before he saw the file of
tiny dots emerge into the open.

They came forward steadily, in the same order as on the day before,
Vahr in the lead and the man with the Crown in the rear. The thieves
suspected nothing; they grew larger and larger as they approached,
until they were at the range for which he had set his sights. He
cuddled the butt of the rifle against his cheek. As the man who
carried the Crown walked under the blade of the front sight, he
squeezed the trigger.

The rifle belched pink flame and roared and pounded his shoulder. As
the muzzle was still rising, he flipped open the breech, and threw out
the empty. He inserted a fresh round.

There were only three of them, now. The man with the bearskin bundle
was down and motionless. Vahr Farg's son had gotten his rifle unslung
and uncovered. The Southron with the other rifle was slower; he was
only getting off the cover as Vahr, who must have seen the flash,
fired hastily. Too hastily; the bullet kicked up snow twenty feet to
the left. The third man had drawn his negatron pistol and was trying
to use it; thin hairlines of brilliance were jetting out from his
hand, stopping far short of their mark.

Raud closed his sights on the man with the autoloading rifle; as he
did, the man with the negatron pistol, realizing the limitations of
his weapon, was sweeping it back and forth, aiming at the snow fifty
yards in front of him. Raud couldn't see the effect of his second
shot--between him and his target, blueish light blazed and twinkled,
and dense clouds of steam rose--but he felt sure that he had missed.
He reloaded, and watched for movements on the edge of the rising
steam.

It cleared, slowly; when it did, there was nothing behind it. Even the
body of the dead man was gone. He blinked, bewildered. He'd picked
that place carefully; there had been no gully or ravine within running
distance. Then he grunted. There hadn't been--but there was now. The
negatron pistol again. The thieves were hidden in a pit they had
blasted, and they had dragged the body in with them.

He crawled back to reassure Brave, who was guarding the pack, and to
shift the pack back for some distance. Then he returned to his
embrasure in the snow-fort and resumed his watch. For a long time,
nothing happened, and then a head came briefly peeping up out of the
pit. A head under a green hood. Raud chuckled mirthlessly into his
beard. If he'd been doing that, he'd have traded hoods with the dead
man before shoving up his body to draw fire. This kept up, at
intervals, for about an hour. He was wondering if they would stay in
the pit until dark.

Then Vahr Farg's son leaped out of the pit and began running across
the snow. He had his pack, and his rifle; he ran, zig-zag, almost
directly toward where Raud was lying. Raud laughed, this time in real
amusement. The Southrons had chased Vahr out, as a buck will chase his
does in front of him when he thinks there is danger in front. If Vahr
wasn't shot, it would be safe for them to come out. If he was, it
would be no loss, and the price of the Crown would only have to be
divided in two, rather than three, shares. Vahr came to within two
hundred yards of Raud's unseen rifle, and then dropped his pack and
flung himself down behind it, covering the ridge with his rifle.

Minutes passed, and then the Southron in yellow came out and ran
forward. He had the bearskin bundle on his pack; he ran to where Vahr
lay, added his pack to Vahr's, and lay down behind it. Raud chewed his
underlip in vexation. This wasn't the way he wanted it; that fellow
had a negatron pistol, and he was close enough to use it effectively.
And he was sheltered behind the Crown; Raud was afraid to shoot. He
didn't miss what he shot at--often. But no man alive could say that he
never missed.

The other Southron, the one in blue with the autoloading rifle, came
out and advanced slowly, his weapon at the ready. Raud tensed himself
to jump, aimed carefully, and waited. When the man in blue was a
hundred yards from the pit, he shot him dead. The rifle was still
lifting from the recoil when he sprang to his feet, turned, and ran.
Before he was twenty feet away, the place where he had been exploded;
the force of the blast almost knocked him down, and steam blew past
and ahead of him. Ignoring his pack and ice-staff, he ran on, calling
to Brave to follow. The dog obeyed instantly; more negatron-blasts
were thundering and blazing and steaming on the crest of the ridge. He
swerved left, ran up another slope, and slid down the declivity
beyond into the ravine on the other side.

There he paused to eject the empty, make sure that there was no snow
in the rifle bore, and reload. The blasting had stopped by then; after
a moment, he heard the voice of Vahr Farg's son, and guessed that the
two surviving thieves had advanced to the blasted crest of the other
ridge. They'd find the pack, and his tracks and Brave's. He wondered
whether they'd come hunting for him, or turn around and go the other
way. He knew what he'd do, under the circumstances, but he doubted if
Vahr's mind would work that way. The Southron's might; he wouldn't
want to be caught between blaster-range and rifle-range of Raud the
Keeper again.

"Come, Brave," he whispered, looking quickly around and then starting
to run.

Lay a trail down this ravine for them to follow. Then get to the top
of the ridge beside it, double back, and wait for them. Let them pass,
and shoot the Southron first. By now, Vahr would have a negatron
pistol too, taken from the body of the man in blue, but it wasn't a
weapon he was accustomed to, and he'd be more than a little afraid of
it.

The ravine ended against an upthrust face of ice, at right angles to
the ridge he had just crossed; there was a V-shaped notch between
them. He turned into this; it would be a good place to get to the
top....

He found himself face to face, at fifteen feet, with Vahr Farg's son
and the Southron in yellow, coming through from the other side. They
had their packs, the Southron had the bearskin bundle, and they had
drawn negatron pistols in their hands.

Swinging up the rifle, he shot the Southron in the chest, making sure
he hit him low enough to miss the Crown. At the same time, he shouted:

"_Catch, Brave!_"

Brave never jumped for the deer or wild-ox that had been shot; always
for the one still on its feet. He launched himself straight at the
throat of Vahr Farg's son--and into the muzzle of Vahr's blaster. He
died in a blue-white flash.

Raud had reversed the heavy rifle as Brave leaped; he threw it,
butt-on, like a seal-spear, into Vahr's face. As soon as it was out of
his fingers, he was jumping forward, snatching out his knife. His left
hand found Vahr's right wrist, and he knew that he was driving the
knife into Vahr's body, over and over, trying to keep the blaster
pointed away from him and away from the body of the dead Southron. At
last, the negatron-pistol fell from Vahr's fingers, and the arm that
had been trying to fend off his knife relaxed.

He straightened and tried to stand--he had been kneeling on Vahr's
body, he found--and reeled giddily. He got to his feet and stumbled to
the other body, kneeling beside it. He tried for a long time before he
was able to detach the bearskin bundle from the dead man's pack. Then
he got the pack open, and found dried venison. He started to divide
it, and realized that there was no Brave with whom to share it. He had
just sent Brave to his death.

Well, and so? Brave had been the Keeper's dog. He had died for the
Crown, and that had been his duty. If he could have saved the Crown by
giving his own life, Raud would have died too. But he could not--if
Raud died the Crown was lost.

The sky was darkening rapidly, and the snow was whitening the body in
green. Moving slowly, he started to make camp for the night.

It was still snowing when he woke. He started to rise, wondering, at
first, where Brave was, and then he huddled back among the robes--his
own and the dead men's--and tried to go to sleep again. Finally, he
got up and ate some of his pemmican, gathered his gear and broke camp.
For a moment, and only a moment, he stood looking to the east, in the
direction he had come from. Then he turned west and started across the
snow toward the edge of the Ice-Father.
