
The snow stopped before he reached the edge, and the sun was shining
when he found a slanting way down into the valley. Then, out of the
north, a black dot appeared in the sky and grew larger, until he saw
that it was a Government airboat--one of the kind used by the men who
measured the growth of the Ice-Father. It came curving in and down
toward him, and a window slid open and a man put his head out.

"Want us to lift you down?" he asked. "We're going to Long Valley
Town. If that's where you're going, we can take you the whole way."

"Yes. That's where I'm going." He said it as though he were revealing,
for the first time, some discovery he had just made. "For your
kindness and help, I thank you."

In less time than a man could walk two miles with a pack, they were
letting down in front of the Government House in Long Valley Town.

He had never been in the Government House before. The walls were clear
glass. The floors were plastic, clean and white. Strips of bright new
lumicon ran around every room at the tops of all the walls. There were
no fires, but the great rooms were as warm as though it were a
midsummer afternoon.

Still carrying his pack and his rifle, Raud went to a desk where a
Southron in a white shirt sat.

"Has Yorn Nazvik's ship, the _Issa_, been here lately?" he asked.

"About six days ago," the Southron said, without looking up from the
papers on his desk. "She's on a trading voyage to the west now, but
Nazvik's coming back here before he goes south. Be here in about ten
days." He looked up. "You have business with Nazvik?"

Raud shook his head. "Not with Yorn Nazvik, no. My business is with
the two Starfolk who are passengers with him. Dranigo and Salvadro."

The Southron looked displeased. "Aren't you getting just a little
above yourself, old man, calling the Prince Salsavadran and the Lord
Dranigrastan by their familiar names?" he asked.

"I don't know what you're talking about. Those were the names they
gave me; I didn't know they had any others."

The Southron started to laugh, then stopped.

"And if I may ask, what is your name, and what business have you with
them?" he inquired.

Raud told him his name. "I have something for them. Something they
want very badly. If I can find a place to stay here, I will wait until
they return--"

The Southron got to his feet. "Wait here for a moment, Keeper," he
said. "I'll be back soon."

He left the desk, going into another room. After a while, he came
back. This time he was respectful.

"I was talking to the Lord Dranigrastan--whom you know as Dranigo--on
the radio. He and the Prince Salsavadran are lifting clear of the
_Issa_ in their airboat and coming back here to see you. They should
be here in about three hours. If, in the meantime, you wish to bathe
and rest, I'll find you a room. And I suppose you'll want something to
eat, too...."
