
Jones squirmed uncomfortably in his seat in the briefing room, phrasing
and rephrasing his thoughts. It seemed that no matter which arrangement
of words he chose, it still was going to be obvious that he'd flopped.
He re-examined his fingernails and selected one which was still long
enough to chew.

General Marcher concluded his current appraisal of the situation and
began calling on the various individuals with whom certain phases of
OPERATION SPACE CASE had been entrusted. Jones groaned as each arose and
gave favorable progress reports.

"The pod is completed and has been tested, sir. It will by no means be
plush, but it will be sufficiently comfortable even for the long voyage
to Ganymede."

"The guidance system is perfected to the extent that we need."

"There are no further deceleration problems to be solved."

"The crash program has been approved for the two-way rocket; it is on
the drawing board and current estimates are that the envoy can be
brought back in three years."

"Ganymede has replied to our last message; a suitable artificial
environment will be available for the envoy."

"Personnel Specialist Jones?"

Carlton gave his chin a final sweaty rub and slowly rose to his feet.
"General Marcher, sir," he choked, "I'm ... we're ... experiencing a
little difficulty finding a volunteer, so far--"

"Negative perspiration on that count, Jones," the Project Officer
interrupted. "The draft has never been abolished; we can grab anyone you
put your finger on! Now, who will it be?"

"Sir, it doesn't seem to be that so much as ... well ... sir, has any
consideration been given to perhaps sending a delegation rather than a
single envoy?"

The general smiled broadly. "Now, that is more like it! I take it you
mean you have a number of equally-qualified persons who have expressed
an intense desire to go to Ganymede, and there is no way to impartially
select one of these men over the others? This is commendable. However,
our space limitation clearly precludes sending more than one person. I'm
afraid you will just have to make your choice from a hat."

Jones turned a trifle redder. "That's not exactly the problem, either,
sir."

The general's smile wilted and became a frozen frown. "Just exactly what
are you trying to say, Jones?"

"There's no one who can meet the qualifications, sir," Jones said,
feeling sick at his stomach.

"Are you telling me that in the entire United States, there is not one
person who has a basic understanding of the twenty-four major fields?"

"I'm afraid that's right, sir."

"See me after the briefing, Jones. I'm certain that the Foremost
Personnel Specialist in the United States must have some further ideas
on this matter."

Jones sank slowly back into his seat and covered his face with his
hands. "I'm a goner," he whispered to himself. "Jones, you can be
replaced."

Dwindle, sitting on his left, suddenly punched him vigorously in the
ribs. "Say, Mr. Jones," he rattled, "I just thought of a great idea."

"Tell it to the general," Jones moaned. "Maybe then he'll realize what a
handicap I've been working under."
