
"Hi ya, Freddy," Willy said, sitting down on the bench and helping
himself to some peanuts. "Workin' a crossword puzzle?"

Freddy pocketed his pencil stub and laid aside the newspaper. "Naw, not
this time. Just playing around with one of those 'We're looking for
bright young men' ads."

"Freddy! Y'ain't thinkin' a gettin' a JOB?"

"Nothing like that," Freddy laughed. "Just, exercising my mind. Filling
out one of those little tests they always have. Helps keep a fella
sharp, you know."

"Yeh, I seen the kind. Like what has pictures and you're supposed to
find things wrong in the picture like dames with beards and dogs with
six feet?"

"Kinda like that, only this one's all written and is a little tougher.
You're supposed to send the answers in and whoever has good answers gets
to take a tougher test and whoever does good on that test gets the job.
Probably selling neckties on the corner or something."

"No kiddin'. That what it says?"

"Just says 'handsome rewards,' but that's probably close to it."

"You gonna send it in?" Willy asked.

"Naw, I just fill 'em out for fun, like I said. Can you imagine me
peddling neckties on the corner?"

"Then how d'ya know if you got the right answers?"

"Hell, I know the answers," Freddy bragged. "Like I said, this is just
exercise. Mental gymnastics. Like this last one; it was pretty tough
compared to most of them. Had some questions about things I hadn't even
thought about since college, things I'd forgotten I knew. What good's an
education if you forget what things you know?"

"That's why I never bothered," Willy agreed. "'Cause I never could
remember things so good."

"No, Willy. You've got it all wrong. I still know it, I just didn't know
I know it."

"Aw, Freddy," Willy said unhappily. "You're pullin' my leg again!"

"Suit yourself," Freddy smiled. "Hold down the bench for me, O.K.? I'll
be right back."

Willy watched Freddy until he went into the little brick building in the
center of the park, and then grabbed Freddy's newspaper and scampered
over to Oscar's bench.

"Hey, you know how Freddy's always talkin' big about how much he knows,"
Willy said breathlessly. "I got an idea how to call his bluff. He filled
out one of these tests and says he knows all the answers. Let's send
it in and see if he's as smart as he says!"

"Yeh! That's great, Willy!" Then Oscar's face darkened. "Wonder where we
can steal a stamp?"
