
"That's the last one, sir," Dwindle said six hours later as he added the
one hundred twelfth graded test to the neat stack at the left of his
desk. He stared through the thousand-plus holes in the answer key as if
expecting the holes to shift.

"And still no change in the standings?" General Marcher asked again.

"Mr. Smith still has the best grade," Dwindle answered.

"The percentages again?" the general asked.

"Over all, ninety-six per cent for Mr. Smith," Dwindle said for the
fourth time. "His lowest percentage in any one category was eighty per
cent. The next highest score was by Dr. Schmelling, who had
seventy-eight per cent, but he failed in six categories. The third
highest score was by Dr. Ranson, seventy-six per cent, failing in seven
categories. The fourth highest score was--"

"Enough. Enough," General Marcher interrupted. "I think we've found our
man, don't you, Dwindle?"

"I hope we don't have to use pressure, sir," Dwindle replied.

Jones turned from the window, from which he was observing the bums in
the park. "How can you possibly consider such a thing," he blurted, "as
to send a penniless, unemployed, dirty, ragged tramp to Ganymede as the
United States' Number One emissary?"

"Jones, perhaps I'd best clarify a point or two for you," General
Marcher said in measured tones. "We've been searching the nation over,
seeking a man who can fulfill our exacting requirements. We have found
that man. There is no doubt in my mind that Mr. Smith possesses the
greatest single store of knowledge about this planet and its people. So
far as I'm concerned, which is considerable, it doesn't matter that
this man has chosen the way of a philosopher instead of seeking an
occupation. It doesn't matter that he lacks the necessary status to be
listed on your IBM cards. It doesn't matter that you failed to find this
man, because Dwindle succeeded. And, it doesn't matter whether I ever
see you again!"

"Yes, sir," Jones said, and picked up his hat and left.

"Now, back to the business at hand, Dwindle. You say these prospects
don't know the reasons behind the test?"

"That is correct, sir. I feared there might be some temptation for the
prospects to not do their best, if they knew that success might result
in their being removed from the face of the Earth."

"Wise. Then I suggest we approach Mr. Smith on the idea, cautiously, to
determine his sentiments. If he doesn't want to go, of course, we've got
to draft him."
