
Dad strode to his easy chair by the fireplace. He sank into its
foam-rubber softness, sighing. He murmured a syllable into a tiny
ball-mike on the side of the chair. A metallic hand raised a lighted
cigarette to his lips.

"Come here, son."

Ronnie followed and sat on the hassock by Dad's feet.

"Maybe I've never really explained things to you, Ronnie. You see, you
won't always be a boy. Someday you'll have to find a way of making a
living. You've only two choices: You work for the government, like I
do, or for a corporation."

Ronnie blinked. "Mr. Davis doesn't work for the gover'ment or for a
corpor-ation."

"Mr. Davis isn't normal," Dad snapped. "He's a hermit. No decent family
would let him in their house. He grows his own food and sometimes he
takes care of gardens for people. I want you to have more than that. I
want you to have a nice home and be respected by people."

Dad puffed furiously on his cigarette.

"And you can't get ahead if people know you've been a Reader. That's
something you can't live down. No matter how hard you try, people
always stumble upon the truth."

Dad cleared his throat. "You see, when you get a job, all the
information you handle will have a classification. It'll be Restricted,
Low-Confidential, Confidential, High-Confidential, Secret, Top-Secret.
And all this information will be in writing. No matter what you do,
you'll have access to some of this information at one time or another."

"B--but why do these things have to be so secret?" Ronnie asked.

"Because of competitors, in the case of corporations--or because of
enemy nations in the case of government work. The written material you
might have access to could describe secret weapons and new processes
or plans for next year's advertising--maybe even a scheme for, er,
liquidation of a rival. If all facts and policies were made public,
there might be criticism, controversy, opposition by certain groups.
The less people know about things, the better. So we have to keep all
these things secret."

Ronnie scowled. "But if things are written down, someone has to read
them, don't they?"

"Sure, son. One person in ten thousand might reach the point where
his corporation or bureau will teach him to read. But you prove your
ability and loyalty first. By the time you're 35 or 40, they might
_want_ you to learn to read. But for young people and children--well,
it just isn't done. Why, the President himself wasn't trusted to learn
till he was nearly fifty!"

Dad straightened his shoulders. "Look at me. I'm only 30, but I've been
a messenger for Secret material already. In a few years, if things go
well, I should be handling _Top_-Secret stuff. And who knows? Maybe by
the time I'm 50 I'll be _giving_ orders instead of carrying them. Then
I'll learn to read, too. That's the right way to do it."

Ronnie shifted uncomfortably on the hassock. "But can't a Reader get a
job that's not so important. Like a barber or a plumber or--"

"Don't you understand? The barber and plumbing equipment corporations
set up their stores and hire men to work for them. You think they'd
hire a Reader? People'd say you were a spy or a subversive or that
you're crazy like old man Davis."

"Mr. Davis isn't crazy. And he isn't old. He's young, just like you,
and--"

"Ronnie!"

Dad's voice was knife-sharp and December-cold. Ronnie slipped off the
hassock as if struck physically by the fury of the voice. He sat
sprawled on his small posterior, fresh fear etched on his thin features.

"Damn it, son, how could you even _think_ of being a Reader? You've got
a life-sized, 3-D video here, and we put on the smell and touch and
heat attachments just for you. You can listen to any tape in the world
at school. Ronnie, don't you realize I'd lose my job if people knew I
had a Reader for a son?"

"B--but, Daddy--"

Dad jumped to his feet. "I hate to say it, Edith, but we've got to put
this boy in a reformatory. Maybe a good memory-wash will take some of
the nonsense out of him!"
