
Ronnie suppressed a sob. "No, Daddy, don't let them take away my brain.
Please--"

Dad stood very tall and very stiff, not even looking at him. "They
won't take your brain, just your memory for the past two years."

A corner of Mom's mouth twitched. "David, I didn't want anything like
this. I thought maybe Ronnie could have a few private psychiatric
treatments. They can do wonderful things now--permi-hypnosis, creations
of artificial psychic blocks. A memory-wash would mean that Ronnie'd
have the mind of a six-year-old child again. He'd have to start to
school all over again."

Dad returned to his chair. He buried his face in trembling hands, and
some of his anger seemed replaced by despair. "Lord, Edith, I don't
know what to do."

He looked up abruptly, as if struck by a chilling new thought. "You
can't keep a two-year memory-wash a secret. I never thought of that
before. Why, that alone would mean the end of my promotions."

Silence settled over the room, punctuated only by the ticking of the
antique clock. All movement seemed frozen, as if the room lay at the
bottom of a cold, thick sea.

"David," Mom finally said.

"Yes?"

"There's only one solution. We can't destroy two years of Ronnie's
memory--you said that yourself. So we'll have to take him to a
psychiatrist or maybe a psychoneurologist. A few short treatments--"

Dad interrupted: "But he'd _still_ remember how to read, unconsciously
anyway. Even permi-hypnosis would wear off in time. The boy can't keep
going to psychiatrists for the rest of his life."

Thoughtfully he laced his fingers together. "Edith, what kind of a book
was he reading?"

A tremor passed through Mom's slender body. "There were three books on
his bed. I'm not sure which one he was actually reading."

Dad groaned. "_Three_ of them. Did you burn them?"

"No, dear, not yet."

"Why not?"

"I don't know. Ronnie seemed to like them so much. I thought that maybe
tonight, after you d seen them--"

"Get them, damn it. Let's burn the filthy things."

Mom went to a mahogany chest in the dining room, produced three faded
volumes. She put them on the hassock at Dad's feet.

Dad gingerly turned a cover. His lips curled in disgust as if he were
touching a rotting corpse.

"Old," he mused, "--so very old. Ironic, isn't it? Our lives are being
wrecked by things that should have been destroyed and forgotten a
hundred years ago."

A sudden frown contorted his dark features.

_Tick-de-tock, tick-de-tock_, said the antique clock.

"A hundred years old," he repeated. His mouth became a hard, thin line.
"Edith, I think I know why Ronnie wanted to read, why he fell into the
trap so easily."

"What do you mean, David?"

Dad nodded at the clock, and the slow, smouldering anger returned to
his face. "It's _your_ fault, Edith. You've always liked old things.
That clock of your great-great-grandmother's. Those old prints on the
wall. That stamp collection you started for Ronnie--stamps dated way
back to the 1940's."

Mom's face paled. "I don't understand."

"You've interested Ronnie in old things. To a child in its formative
years, in a pleasant house, these things symbolize peace and security.
Ronnie's been conditioned from the very time of his birth to like old
things. It was natural for him to be attracted by books. And we were
just too stupid to realize it."

Mom whispered hoarsely, "I'm sorry, David."

Hot anger flashed in Dad's eyes. "It isn't enough to be sorry. Don't
you see what this means? Ronnie'll have to be memory-washed back to the
time of birth. He'll have to start life all over again."

"No, David, no!"

"And in my position I can't afford to have an eight-year-old son with
the mind of a new-born baby. It's got to be Abandonment, Edith, there's
no other way. The boy can start life over in a reformatory, with a
complete memory-wash. He'll never know we existed, and he'll never
bother us again."

Mom ran up to Dad. She put her hands on his shoulders. Great sobs burst
from her shaking body.

"You can't, David! I won't let--"

He slapped her then with the palm of his hand. The sound was like a
pistol shot in the hot, tight air.

Dad stood now like a colossus carved of black ice. His right hand was
still upraised, ready to strike again.

Then his hand fell. His mind seemed to be toying with a new thought, a
new concept.

He seized one of the books on the hassock.

"Edith," he said crisply, "just what was Ronnie reading? What's the
name of this book?"

"_The--The Adventures of Tom Sawyer_," said Mom through her sobs.

He grabbed the second book, held it before her shimmering vision.

"And the name of this?"

"_Tarzan of The Apes._" Mom's voice was a barely audible croak.

"Who's the author?"

"Edgar Rice Burroughs."

"And this one?"

"_The Wizard of Oz._"

"Who wrote it?"

"L. Frank Baum."

He threw the books to the floor. He stepped backward. His face was a
mask of combined sorrow, disbelief, and rage.

"_Edith._" He spat the name as if it were acid on his tongue. "Edith,
_you can read_!"
