
The shabby-looking mess of exposed parts was the original receiver that
they had labored over for ten months, adjusting and readjusting to
reduce the maddening rippling plaids of unsynchronized color scanners
to some kind of sane picture.

"Trial and error," said Nathen, "but it came out all right. The wide
band-spread of the squawks had suggested color TV from the beginning."

He walked over and touched the set. The speaker bipped slightly and
the gray screen flickered with a flash of color at the touch. The set
was awake and sensitive, tuned to receive from the great interstellar
spaceship which now circled the atmosphere.

"We wondered why there were so many bands, but when we got the set
working, and started recording and playing everything that came in, we
found we'd tapped something like a lending library line. It was all
fiction, plays."

Between the pauses in Nathen's voice, the _Times_ found himself
unconsciously listening for the sound of roaring, swiftly approaching
rocket jets.

The _Post_ asked, "How did you contact the spaceship?"

"I scanned and recorded a film copy of _Rite of Spring_, the
Disney-Stravinsky combination, and sent it back along the same line we
were receiving from. Just testing. It wouldn't get there for a good
number of years, if it got there at all, but I thought it would please
the library to get a new record in.

"Two weeks later, when we caught and slowed a new batch of recordings,
we found an answer. It was obviously meant for us. It was a flash of
the Disney being played to a large audience, and then the audience
sitting and waiting before a blank screen. The signal was very clear
and loud. We'd intercepted a spaceship. They were asking for an encore,
you see. They liked the film and wanted more...."

He smiled at them in sudden thought. "You can see them for yourself.
It's all right down the hall where the linguists are working on the
automatic translator."

The listening officer frowned and cleared his throat, and the thin
young man turned to him quickly. "No security reason why they should
not see the broadcasts, is there? Perhaps you should show them." He
said to the reporters reassuringly, "It's right down the hall. You
will be informed the moment the spaceship approaches."

The interview was very definitely over. The lank-haired, nervous young
man turned away and seated himself at the radio set while the officer
swallowed his objections and showed them dourly down the hall to a
closed door.

They opened it and fumbled into a darkened room crowded with empty
folding chairs, dominated by a glowing bright screen. The door closed
behind them, bringing total darkness.

There was the sound of reporters fumbling their way into seats around
him, but the _Times_ man remained standing, aware of an enormous
surprise, as if he had been asleep and wakened to find himself in the
wrong country.

The bright colors of the double image seemed the only real thing in the
darkened room. Even blurred as they were, he could see that the action
was subtly different, the shapes subtly not right.

_He was looking at aliens._
