
The impression was of two humans disguised, humans moving oddly,
half-dancing, half-crippled. Carefully, afraid the images would go
away, he reached up to his breast pocket, took out his polarized
glasses, rotated one lens at right angles to the other and put them on.

Immediately, the two beings came into sharp focus, real and solid,
and the screen became a wide, illusively near window through which he
watched them.

They were conversing with each other in a gray-walled room, discussing
something with restrained excitement. The large man in the green tunic
closed his purple eyes for an instant at something the other said, and
grimaced, making a motion with his fingers as if shoving something away
from him.

Mellerdrammer.

The second, smaller, with yellowish-green eyes, stepped closer, talking
more rapidly in a lower voice. The first stood very still, not trying
to interrupt.

Obviously, the proposal was some advantageous treachery, and he wanted
to be persuaded. The _Times_ groped for a chair and sat down.

Perhaps gesture is universal; desire and aversion, a leaning forward or
a leaning back, tension, relaxation. Perhaps these actors were masters.
The scenes changed, a corridor, a parklike place in what he began to
realize was a spaceship, a lecture room. There were others talking
and working, speaking to the man in the green tunic, and never was it
unclear what was happening or how they felt.

They talked a flowing language with many short vowels and shifts of
pitch, and they gestured in the heat of talk, their hands moving with
an odd lagging difference of motion, not slow, but somehow drifting.

He ignored the language, but after a time the difference in motion
began to arouse his interest. Something in the way they walked....

With an effort he pulled his mind from the plot and forced his
attention to the physical difference. Brown hair in short silky crew
cuts, varied eye colors, the colors showing clearly because their
irises were very large, their round eyes set very widely apart in
tapering light-brown faces. Their necks and shoulders were thick in a
way that would indicate unusual strength for a human, but their wrists
were narrow and their fingers long and thin and delicate.

There seemed to be more than the usual number of fingers.

Since he came in, a machine had been whirring and a voice muttering
beside him. He called his attention from counting their fingers and
looked around. Beside him sat an alert-looking man wearing earphones,
watching and listening with hawklike concentration. Beside him was a
tall streamlined box. From the screen came the sound of the alien
language. The man abruptly flipped a switch on the box, muttered a word
into a small hand-microphone and flipped the switch back with nervous
rapidity.

He reminded the _Times_ man of the earphoned interpreters at the UN.
The machine was probably a vocal translator and the mutterer a linguist
adding to its vocabulary. Near the screen were two other linguists
taking notes.
