
It showed a flash of an audience sitting before a screen and gave a
clipped chord of some familiar symphony. "Crazy about Stravinsky and
Mozart," remarked the earphoned linguist to the _Times_, resettling his
earphones. "Can't stand Gershwin. Can you beat that?" He turned his
attention back to the screen as the right sequence came on.

The _Post_, who was sitting just in front of him, turned to the _Times_
and said, "Funny how much they look like people." He was writing,
making notes to telephone his report. "What color hair did that
character have?"

"I didn't notice." He wondered if he should remind the reporter that
Nathen had said he assigned the color bands on guess, choosing the
colors that gave the most plausible images. The guests, when they
arrived, could turn out to be bright green with blue hair. Only the
gradations of color in the picture were sure, only the similarities and
contrasts, the relationship of one color to another.

From the screen came the sound of the alien language again. This race
averaged deeper voices than human. He liked deep voices. Could he write
that?

No, there was something wrong with that, too. How had Nathen
established the right sound-track pitch? Was it a matter of taking the
modulation as it came in, or some sort of hetrodyning up and down by
trial and error? Probably.

It might be safer to assume that Nathen had simply preferred deep
voices.

As he sat there, doubting, an uneasiness he had seen in Nathen came
back to add to his own uncertainty, and he remembered just how close
that uneasiness had come to something that looked like restrained fear.

"What I don't get is why he went to all the trouble of picking up TV
shows instead of just contacting them," the _News_ complained. "They're
good shows, but what's the point?"

"Maybe so we'd get to learn their language too," said the _Herald_.

On the screen now was the obviously unstaged and genuine scene of a
young alien working over a bank of apparatus. He turned and waved and
opened his mouth in the comical O shape which the _Times_ was beginning
to recognize as their equivalent of a smile, then went back to trying
to explain something about the equipment, in elaborate awkward gestures
and carefully mouthed words.

The _Times_ got up quietly, went out into the bright white stone
corridor and walked back the way he had come, thoughtfully folding his
stereo glasses and putting them away.

No one stopped him. Secrecy restrictions were ambiguous here. The
reticence of the Army seemed more a matter of habit, mere reflex, from
the fact that it had all originated in the Intelligence Department,
than any reasoned policy of keeping the landing a secret.

The main room was more crowded than he had left it. The TV camera
and sound crew stood near their apparatus, the Senator had found a
chair and was reading, and at the far end of the room eight men were
grouped in a circle of chairs, arguing something with impassioned
concentration. The _Times_ recognized a few he knew personally, eminent
names in science, workers in field theory.

A stray phrase reached him: "--reference to the universal constants as
ratio--" It was probably a discussion of ways of converting formulas
from one mathematics to another for a rapid exchange of information.

They had reason to be intent, aware of the flood of insights that novel
viewpoints could bring, if they could grasp them. He would have liked
to go over and listen, but there was too little time left before the
spaceship was due, and he had a question to ask.
