
The linguist stood listening. He whitened slowly and beckoned the other
linguists over to him and whispered to them.

Joseph Nathen looked at them with unwarranted bitter hostility while
he picked up the hand-mike, plugging it into the translator. "Joe
calling," he said quietly into it in clear, slow English. "No trick. We
don't know where you are. I am trying to get a direction fix from your
signal. Describe your surroundings to us if at all possible."

Nearby, the floodlights blazed steadily on the television platform,
ready for the official welcome of the aliens to Earth. The television
channels of the world had been alerted to set aside their scheduled
programs for an unscheduled great event. In the long room the people
waited, listening for the swelling sound of rocket jets.

This time, after the light came on, there was a long delay. The speaker
sputtered, and sputtered again, building to a steady scratching they
could barely sense as a dim voice. It came through in a few tinny words
and then wavered back to inaudibility. The machine translated in their
earphones.

"Tried ... seemed ... repair...." Suddenly it came in clearly. "Can't
tell if the auxiliary blew, too. Will try it. We might pick you up
clearly on the next try. I have the volume down. Where is the landing
port? Repeat. Where is the landing port? Where are you?"

Nathen put down the hand-mike and carefully set a dial on the recording
box, and flipped a switch, speaking over his shoulder. "This sets it to
repeat what I said the last time. It keeps repeating." Then he sat with
unnatural stillness, his head still half turned, as if he had suddenly
caught a glimpse of answer and was trying with no success whatever to
grasp it.

The green warning light cut in, the recording clicked and the playback
of Bud's face and voice appeared on the screen.

"We heard a few words, Joe, and then the receiver blew again. We're
adjusting a viewing screen to pick up the long waves that go through
the murk and convert them to visible light. We'll be able to see
out soon. The engineer says that something is wrong with the stern
jets, and the captain has had me broadcast a help call to our nearest
space base." He made the mouth O of a grin. "The message won't
reach it for some years. I trust you, Joe, but get us out of here,
will you?--They're buzzing that the screen is finally ready. Hold
everything."
