
The screen went gray, and the green light went off.

The _Times_ considered the lag required for the help call, the speaking
and recording of the message just received, the time needed to
reconvert a viewing screen.

"They work fast." He shifted uneasily, and added at random, "Something
wrong with the time factor. All wrong. They work _too_ fast."

The green light came on again immediately. Nathen half turned to him,
sliding his words hastily into the gap of time as the message was
recorded and slowed. "They're close enough for our transmission power
to blow their receiver."

If it was on Earth, why the darkness around the ship? "Maybe they see
in the high ultra-violet--the atmosphere is opaque to that band," the
_Times_ suggested hastily as the speaker began to talk in the young
extraterrestrial's voice.

It _was_ shaking now. "Stand by for the description."

They tensed, waiting. The _Times_ brought a map of the state before his
mind's eye.

"A half circle of cliffs around the horizon. A wide muddy lake swarming
with swimming things. Huge, strange white foliage all around the ship
and incredibly huge pulpy monsters attacking and eating each other on
all sides. We almost landed in the lake, right on the soft edge. The
mud can't hold the ship's weight, and we're sinking. The engineer says
we might be able to blast free, but the tubes are mud-clogged and might
blow up the ship. When can you reach us?"

The _Times_ thought vaguely of the Carboniferous Era. Nathen obviously
had seen something he had not.

"Where are they?" the _Times_ asked him quietly.

Nathen pointed to the antenna position indicators. The _Times_ let his
eyes follow the converging imaginary lines of focus out the window to
the sunlit airfield, the empty airfield, the drying concrete and green
waving grass where the lines met.

_Where the lines met. The spaceship was there!_

The fear of something unknown gripped him suddenly.

The spaceship was broadcasting again. "_Where are you? Answer if
possible! We are sinking! Where are you?_"

He saw that Nathen knew. "What is it?" the _Times_ asked hoarsely. "Are
they in another dimension or the past or on another world or what?"

Nathen was smiling bitterly, and Jacob Luke remembered that the young
man had a friend in that spaceship. "My guess is that they evolved
on a high-gravity planet, with a thin atmosphere, near a blue-white
star. Sure they see in the ultra-violet range. Our sun is abnormally
small and dim and yellow. Our atmosphere is so thick, it screens out
ultra-violet." He laughed harshly. "A good joke on us, the weird place
we evolved in, the thing it did to us!"

"Where are you?" called the alien spaceship. "Hurry, please! We're
sinking!"
