
It was with this feeling that I applied myself as a student of
philosophy at Stanford University. And the strengthening of this same
belief led me to take up teaching and embrace it as the only way of
obtaining genuine happiness. My personal philosophy was simple. I
would learn about life in all its real and symbolic meanings and then
teach it to my pupils, each of whom, I felt sure, were thirsting for
the knowledge that I was extracting from my cultural environment. I
would show them the meaning behind things. That, I felt, was the key to
successful living.

Now it seems strangely pathetic that I should have essayed such an
impossible task. But even a professor of philosophy can be mistaken and
become confused.

I remember when I first became aware of the movement. For years, we had
been drilling certain precepts into the soft, impressionable heads of
those students who came under our influence. Liberalism, some called
it, the right to take the values accumulated by society over a period
of hundreds of years and bend them to fit whatever idea or act was
contemplated. By such methods, it was possible to fit the mores to the
deed, not the deed to the mores. Oh, it was a wonderful theory, one
that promised to project all human activities entirely beyond good and
evil.

However, I digress. It was a spring morning at Berkeley, California,
when I had my first inkling of the movement. I was sitting in my office
gazing out the window and considering life in my usual contemplative
fashion. I might say I was being rather smug. I was thinking how
fortunate I was to have been graduated from Stanford with such high
honors, and how my good luck had stayed with me until I received my
doctor's degree in a famous Eastern university and came out to take an
associate professorship at the Berkeley campus.

I was watching the hurrying figures below on the crosswalks and idly
noting the brilliant green of the shrubbery and the trees and the lawn.
I was mixing up Keats with a bit of philosophy and thoroughly enjoying
myself. Knowledge is truth, truth beauty, I mused, that is all we know
on Earth, and all we need to know.

There was a knock on my door and I said come in, reluctantly abandoning
my train of thought which had just picked up Shakespeare, whom I was
going to consider as two-thirds philosopher and one-third poet. I
have never felt that the field of literature had the sole claim to
Shakespeare's greatness.
