
The uprisings arose spontaneously in all parts of the country. They
were not confined to colleges. They were not confined to any particular
group. They encompassed nearly the entire population and the fervor
aroused by their battle-cry, whichever one it might be, was beyond all
comprehension.

I could not understand either slogan's meaning--and there were others
like myself. On several occasions, I attempted to find out, but I was
beaten twice and threatened with a pistol the third time, so I gave
up all such efforts. I was never much given to any sort of physical
violence.

One night, I went home thoroughly disheartened by the state of affairs.
The university was hardly functioning. Nearly the entire faculty,
including the college president, had been drawn into one camp or the
other. Their actions were utterly abhorrent to me. If the professor
was a green-top, or Wistickian, he lectured only to green-tops. If he
belonged to the Moraddians, or white-top faction, they were the only
ones who could enter his classroom.

The two groups were so evenly divided that open violence was frowned
upon as a means of attaining whatever end they had in view. They were
biding their time and gathering strength for fresh onslaughts on each
other.

As I say, I went home feeling very discouraged. My wife was in the
kitchen preparing dinner, and I went in and sat down at the table while
she worked. The daily paper was lying on the table, its headlines
loaded with stories of bloodshed and strife throughout the nation. I
glanced through them. Lately, there seemed to be a sort of pattern
forming.

East of the Mississippi, the general slogan was emerging as the Moraddy
dufelling the Wistick. West of the Mississippi, the Wistick was
receiving the greater support. And it seemed that the younger people
and the women preferred the Moraddy, while elderly people and most men
were on the side of the Wistick.

I commented on this.

My wife answered briefly, "Of course. Anyone should know that the
Moraddy will win out." She went on with the preparations for dinner,
not looking at me.

I sat stunned for a moment. Great God in Heaven, not my wife!

"Am I to understand that you are taking any part of this seriously?" I
asked with some heat. "The whole thing is a horrible, pointless prank!"

She turned and faced me squarely. "Not to me. I say the Moraddy
will win out. I want it to--and I think you'd be wise to get on the
bandwagon while there's still time."

I realized she was serious. Dead serious. I tried a cautious query:

"Just what does the dufellation of the Wistick by the Moraddy mean?"
