
Montcalm went to the closet and found one of Millie's house dresses. He
held it out to her beseechingly.

As he did so, he was stricken with a sudden sharp feeling of regret that
she must don it. Her figure ... why Millie had never had a figure like
that! At once, he felt ashamed and disloyal and sterner than ever.

Liz rejected the proffered garment.

"I wouldn't think of adopting your alien custom of wearing clothing,"
she said sweetly.

"Now look," said Montcalm, "I don't know whether you're drunk or crazy,
but you're going to have to put something on and get out of here before
I call the police."

"I anticipated doubt," said Liz. "I'm prepared to prove my identity."

With the words, the two of them were no longer standing in the Montcalm
bedroom, but in a broad expanse of green fields and woodland, unmarred
by any habitation. Montcalm didn't recognize the spot, but it looked
vaguely like it might be somewhere in the northern part of the state.

Montcalm was dismayed to find that he was as naked as his companion!

"Oh, my Lord!" he exclaimed, trying to cover himself with a September
Morn pose.

"Oh, I'm sorry," apologized Liz, and instantly Montcalm's pajamas were
lying at his feet. He got into them hurriedly.

"How did we get here?" he asked, his astonished curiosity overcoming his
disapproval of this immodest woman.

"By a mode of transportation common to my people in planetary
atmospheres," she answered. "It's one of the things I propose to teach
your people."

She sat down cross-legged on the grass. Montcalm averted his eyes, like
the gentleman he was.

"You see," said Liz, "the people of your world are on the verge of going
to space and joining the community of worlds. It's only natural the rest
of us should wish to help you. We have a good many things to give you,
to help you control the elements and natural conditions of your world.
The weather, for example ..."

Suddenly, out of nowhere, a small cloud appeared above them and spread,
blocking out the early sun. It began to rain, hard.

The rain stopped as suddenly as it had begun and the cloud dissipated.
Montcalm stood shivering in his soaked pajamas and Liz got to her feet,
her skin glistening with moisture.

"You have a problem raising food for your population in some areas," she
said....

A small haw-apple tree near them suddenly began to grow at an amazing
rate of speed. It doubled its size in three minutes, put forth fruit
and dropped it to the ground.

"These are only a few of the things I'll give to your planet," she said.

At her words, they were back in the bedroom. This time she had been
thoughtful. Montcalm was still clad in wet pajamas.

"I don't know what sort of hypnosis this is," he began aggressively,
"but you can't fool me, young lady, into believing ..."
