
The flash brought Vann away from the Telethink console and out of the
quonset station to stare shakenly across the tangle of mangroved islands
to the west. Weyman came out a moment later, on the run, when the
teeth-jarring blast of the explosion woke him. They stood together on
the moon-bright sand and Vann relayed in four words the total of his
information.

“It fell over there,” Vann said.

A pale pinkish cloud of smoke and steam rose and drifted
phosphorescently toward a noncommittal moon.

“Second key out,” Weyman said. “That would be Dutchman’s, where the
hermit lives.”

Vann nodded, drawing minimal reassurance from the fact that there had
been no mushroom. “It shouldn’t be atomic.”

The Gulf breeze was steady out of the west, freighted with its perpetual
salt-and-mangrove smell.

“The Geigers will tell us soon enough,” Weyman said. “Not that it’ll
help us, with Ellis out in the launch.”

They looked at each other in sudden shock of joint realization.

“The launch,” Vann said. “Ellis is out there with the portable Telethink
rig. We were working out field-strength ratios for personal equipment—”

They dived for the quonset together. Vann, smaller and more agile than
the deliberate Weyman, reached the Telethink first.

“Nothing but the regular standby carrier from Washington,” Vann said.
“Ellis may have been directly under the thing when it struck. He was
working toward Dutchman’s Key, hoping for a glimpse of the hermit.”

“Maybe he wasn’t wearing the Telethink when the blast came,” Weyman
said. Then, with characteristic practicality: “Better image Washington
about this while we’re waiting for Ellis to report in. Can’t use the net
radio—we’d start a panic.”

Vann settled himself at the console.

“I’ll try. That is, if I can get across anything beyond the sort of
subliminal rot we’ve been trading lately.”

He signaled for contact and felt the Washington operator’s answering
surge of subconscious resentment at being disturbed. With the closing of
the net the now-familiar giddiness of partial rapport came on him,
together with the oppressive sense of bodily sharing.

There was a sudden trickle of saliva in his mouth and he resisted the
desire to spit.

“Washington is having a midnight snack,” Vann said. “Rotted sardines and
Limburger, I think.”

He made correction when the Washington operator radiated indignation.
“Goose liver and dill pickles, then, but you wouldn’t guess it. Salt
tastes like brass filings.”

Weyman said shortly, “Get on with it. You can clown later.”

Vann visualized the flare of explosion and winced at the panicky
hammer-and-sickled surmise that came back to him.

“How would I know?” he said aloud. “We have a man out—”

He recalled the inherent limitation of phonetics then and fell back upon
imagery, picturing Ellis’ launch heading toward an island luridly
lighted by the blast. For effect he added, on the key’s minuscule beach,
a totally imaginary shack of driftwood, complete with bearded hermit.

He knew immediately when authority arrived at the other end of the net.
There was a mental backwash of conversation that told him his orders
even before the Washington operator set himself for their relay.

“They want an eyewitness account from Ellis,” he told Weyman. “As if—”

Ellis broke into the net at that moment, radiating a hazy image—he was
still partially blinded from the glare of the blast—of a lowering key
overhung by a dwindling pall of pinkish smoke. In the foreground of
lagoon and mangroves stood a stilted shack not unlike the one Vann had
pictured, but without the hermit.

Instead, the rickety elevation of thatched porch was a blot of sable
darkness relieved only by a pair of slanted yellow eyes gleaming close
to the floor.
