
Climactically, Xaxtol entered the net then with an impact of total
information that was more than the human psyche, conditioned to
serialized thinking by years of phonetic communication, could bear.

The Washington operator screamed and tore off his helmet, requiring
restraint until he could compose himself enough to relay his message.

Ellis, in his launch, fainted dead away and ran the boat headlong
aground on the beach of Dutchman’s Key.

Vann reeled in his chair, teetering between shock and lunacy, until
Weyman caught him and slid the Telethink from his head. It was minutes
before Vann could speak; when he did, it was with a macabre flippancy
that Weyman found more convincing than any dramatics.

“It’s come,” Vann said. “There’s an interstellar ship out there with a
thousand-odd crew that would give Dali himself nightmares.”

Weyman had to shake him forcibly before he could continue.

“They’re sorry they can’t put down and help us,” Vann said. “Galactic
regulations, it seems. But they feel they should warn us that they’ve
let some sort of bloodthirsty jungle monster—a specimen they were
freighting to an interplanetary zoo—escape in a lifeboat. It’s loose
down here.”

“Dutchman’s Key,” Weyman breathed. “What kind of brute could live
through a blast like _that_?”

“It left the lifeboat before the power plant blew,” Vann said. “They’re
tracking its aura now. It’s intelligent to a degree—about on par with
ourselves, I gather—and it’s big. It’s the largest and most vicious life
form they’ve met in kilo-years of startrading.”

He frowned over a concept unsuited to words. “Longer than thousands.
Their culture goes back so far that the term doesn’t register.”

“Ellis,” Weyman said. “Tell him to sheer off. Tell him to keep away from
that island.”

Vann clapped on the Telethink helmet and felt real panic when he found
the net vacant except for a near-hysterical Washington operator.

“Aliens are off the air,” he said. “But I can’t feel Ellis.”

“Maybe he isn’t wearing his Telethink. I’ll try his launch radio.”

He had the microphone in his hand when Vann said, “They got the message
in Washington, and they’re petrified. I asked for a copter to pick up
Ellis—and the hermit, if they can reach them before this _thing_
does—but they’re thinking along different lines. They’re sending a
squadron of jet bombers with nonatomic HE to make sure the beast doesn’t
escape to the mainland and devastate the countryside.”

Weyman said incredulously, “They’ll blow the key to bits. What about
Ellis and the hermit?”

“Ellis is to evacuate him if possible. They’re giving us twenty minutes
before the jets come. After that—”

He didn’t have to finish.
