
At midnight old Charlie Trask was wading knee-deep in the eastside grass
flats of his private lagoon, methodically netting shrimp that darted to
the ooze-clouded area stirred up by his ragged wading shoes. An empty
gunny sack hung across one shoulder, ready for the coon oysters he would
pick from mangrove roots on his way back to his shack.

In his dour and antisocial way, Charlie was content. He had nearly
enough shrimp for boiling and for bait, with the prospect of coon oyster
stew in the offing. He had tobacco for his pipe and cartridges for his
single-shot .22 rifle and a batch of potent homebrew ready for the
bottling.

What more could a man want?

The blast and glare of the Morid’s landing on the western fringe of his
key jarred Charlie from his mellow mood like a clear-sky thunderbolt.
The concussion rattled what teeth remained to him and brought a distant
squall from his cat, a scarred and cynical old tom named Max, at the
shack.

_Damn rockets_, was Charlie’s instant thought. _Fool around till they
blow us all to hell._

The rosy phosphorescence drifting up from the mangroves a quarter of a
mile away colored his resentment with alarm. A blast like that could
start a fire, burn across the key and gut his shack.

Grumbling at the interruption of his midnight foray, Charlie crimped the
lid tight on his shrimp bucket and stalked back along the lagoon toward
his shack. The coon oysters would have to wait.

Five minutes later he reached his personal castle, perched on precarious
piling in a gap hewn from the mangroves. The moon made it, to Charlie, a
thing of black-and-silver beauty, with Max’s yellow eyes gleaming from
the porch floor like wicked, welcoming beacons.

Still muttering, Charlie waded out of the shallow-water ooze and stumped
in squishing shoes up the ladder to his shack. The shrimp bucket he hung
on a wall peg out of Max’s calculating reach. He found his pipe in the
kitchen and loaded and lighted it, deliberately because the capacity for
haste was not in him. His homebrew crock bubbled seductively and he took
time out to raise the grimy toweling that covered it and sniff
appreciatively.

“Ready to cap by the time I come back and get the shrimp graded,” he
told Max.

He changed his dripping brogans for a pair of snake-proof boots and took
down his .22 rifle from its pegs, not because he really imagined that
anyone might have lived through such a blast but because strangers—them
radio fellows two keys east, for instance—might take it into their heads
to come prying around.

He was halfway across the key when the drone of Ellis’ launch entering
his lagoon justified his suspicions.
