
Charlie’s investigation was soon over.

A dying plume of steam rising from a circle of battered mangroves told
him that no danger of fire impended, and he turned back in relief. It
did not occur to him that the pilot of his hypothetical rocket might be
lying desperately injured in the shallow water, at the mercy of sharks
and crocodiles. If it had, he would not have moved to help. Any fool who
got himself into such a spot, in Charlie’s rude philosophy, could get
himself out.

The drone of the launch’s engine was loud when he reached his shack. The
boat, handled by a pilot grotesque in what Charlie took at first for a
diver’s helmet, was heading directly for his landing at an unsafe speed.

“Serve him right if he shoals on a oyster bed and rips his bottom,”
Charlie said.

As if on cue, the boat swerved sharply. Its pilot came half erect, arms
flung wide in a convulsive gesture. The engine roared wildly; the boat
heeled, slamming its occupant against the right gunwale, and blasted
straight for Charlie’s shack.

Miraculously, it missed the shack’s piling and lunged half its length
upon the sand. The engine-roar died instantly. The pilot was thrown
headlong overside, goldberg helmet flying off in mid-arc, to lie stunned
at the foot of Charlie’s ladder.

Callously, Charlie stepped over Ellis’ twitching form and stumped up the
ladder to his shack. Max, who had taken to the porch rafters at the
crash of the launch, came meowing gingerly down to meet him.

“It’s all right,” Charlie told him. “Just some fool that don’t know how
to handle a boat.”

He leaned his rifle against the wall and brought a split-bamboo chair
from the kitchen. He was not too late; the bucket, when he took it from
its peg, still slithered satisfactorily with live shrimp.

The squawking of the launch radio roused Ellis. He groaned and sat up,
dazed and disoriented by the combined shock of Xaxtol’s telepathic
bombshell and his own rude landing, just as Weyman gave up his attempt
at radio contact. In the silence that fell, Ellis would have fainted
again except for the chilling knowledge that he was unarmed and afoot on
the same key with a man-eating alien monster that might make its
appearance at any moment.

He collected wits and breath to stave off the black pall of shock that
still threatened.

“Come down from there and help me push the launch off,” he called up to
Charlie Trask. “We’ve got to get off this key. Fast!”

Charlie separated a menu-sized shrimp from his bucket.

“You grounded her,” he said sourly. “Push her off yourself.”

“Listen,” Ellis said desperately. “That blast was a ship from space,
from another star. A wild animal escaped from it, something worse than
you ever dreamed of. We’ve got to get out of here before it finds us.”

Charlie grunted and chose another shrimp.

The Morid, as Xaxtol had pictured it, rose vividly in Ellis’ memory,
fanged and shaggy and insatiably voracious, a magenta-furred ursine
embodiment of blood-lust made the worst by its near-human intelligence.

He described it in dogged haste, his eyes frozen to the tangle of inland
underbrush behind the shack.

“No such varmint in these kays,” old Charlie said.

The launch radio blared again in Weyman’s voice, speaking urgently of
jet bombers and deadlines. A glance at his watch brought Ellis up from
the sand in galvanic resolution.

“In twelve minutes,” he said grimly, “a squadron of planes will pinpoint
this key and blast it out of the water. I’m not going to be eaten alive
or blown to bits arguing with you. If I can’t push the launch off alone,
I’ll swim.”

He scooped up his fallen Telethink helmet and ran for the launch. At the
fourth step his foot caught in the iron-hard stump of a mangrove root
that had been chopped off inches above the sand and he fell heavily.
Pain blinded him; his right ankle lanced with fire and went numb.

He fought to rise and fell again when the ankle collapsed under him.

“_Hell_,” he said, just before blackness claimed him for the second
time. “I’ve broken my leg!”
