
His twelve minutes had dwindled to seven when Ellis roused. He tried to
stand, his twisted ankle momentarily forgotten, and gave it up when the
mangroves spun dizzily before his eyes. He couldn’t afford to pass out
again.

He made one last-ditch bid for help.

“My leg’s broken,” he yelled up at old Charlie Trask. “Get down here and
lend a hand!”

Charlie glowered and said nothing.

Max bounded down the ladder, tail stiffly erect and scarred ears cocked
at the underbrush in baleful curiosity.

“The thing is coming this way,” Ellis called. “Your cat scents it. Will
you let us all be killed?”

Charlie Trask graded another shrimp.

Swearing bitterly, Ellis caught up his Telethink helmet and slid it over
his head. He found the net in a welter of confusion. Washington demanded
further information; Vann, at the station, was calling him frantically.
His own scramble for help-images only added to the mental babel.

On the Federation ship, confusion was nearly as rampant.

Xaxtol’s dilemma still held: he could not make planetfall—time was too
short for aid now, in any case—but neither could he, with clear Galactic
conscience, desert the harried primitives below while hope remained.

Ellis’ predicament forced Xaxtol to decision; he could only follow the
Morid’s aura and relay its progress.

It could not be helped that the relayed image was blurred of definition
and weirdly askew; the Morid’s visual and auditory range differed so
sharply from either human or Galactic that even over the ship’s
wonderfully selective telecommunicator little of the Morid’s immediate
surroundings came through clearly. Its aura arrived with a burning
intensity that turned Xaxtol and his group faint with empathetic horror,
but the fact that the Morid had just made its first kill obliterated all
detail for the moment beyond a shocking welter of blood and torn flesh.

Ellis fared a little better under the second telepathic blast than under
the first—he managed to snatch off his Telethink helmet just in time.

“The thing just killed something out there,” he yelled at Charlie Trask.
“It’s coming this way. Are you going to sit there and—”

Charlie graded his last edible shrimp, took up his bucket and went
inside. The leisurely clinking of homebrew bottles drifted after him,
clear and musical on the still, hot air.

Ellis looked at his watch and considered prayer. He had three minutes
left.
