
An hour later at the station, his ankle bandaged and his third cup of
coffee in hand, Ellis could review it all with some coherence.

“We didn’t consider the business of relative size,” he said. “Neither
did our Galactic friends. Apparently they’re small, and so are all the
species they’ve met with before. Maybe we’re something unique in the
universe, after all. And maybe it’s a good thing they didn’t land and
learn how unique.”

“It figures,” Weyman said. “Washington let it out on the air that DF
stations made a fix on the spaceship before it jumped off. It measured
only twenty-two feet.”

Vann said wonderingly, “And there were hundreds of them aboard.
Gentlemen, we are Brobdingnagians in a universe of Lilliputians.”

“I’ve been trying,” Ellis said irrelevantly, “to recall a poem I read
once in school. I’ve forgotten the author and all the verse but one
line. It goes—”

“_What rough beast is this_,” Vann quoted. “You were thinking about it
hard enough when the debacle in the brush took place. The image you
radiated was rough enough—it shocked the pants off us.”

“And off the Galactics,” Weyman said. “The shoe is on the other foot
now, I think.”

He went to the quonset door and looked out and up, listening. “Jets. The
Washington brass on its way to cross-examine us.”

“The other foot?” Vann said. “Don’t be cryptic, man. Whose foot?”

“Theirs,” Ellis said. “Don’t you see? One of these days we’ll be going
out there to make our own place in the galaxy. With our size and
disposition, how do you think we’ll seem to those gentle little people?”

Vann whistled in belated understanding.

“Rough,” he said.


                                THE END

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE


Punctuation and hyphenation have been normalized.

Minor typographical errors have been corrected.

This e-text was produced from Analog March 1962. Extensive research did
not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was
renewed.

Italicized words and phrases are presented by surrounding the text with
_underscores_; boldfaced words and phrases are surrounded with =equal
signs=.



