
We were about three thousand miles north, west and loft of Ceres
when we first sighted him. I remember that well, because I was on
the Bridge, and our Sparks, Toby Frisch, had just handed me a free
clearance report from the space commander of that planetoid.

I read it and chuckled. I said, "Sparks, this bit of transcription is
a masterpiece. Nobody expects a radioman to be good-looking or have
brains, but blue space above, man, your spelling and grammar--"

"Leave my relatives," said Sparks stiffly, "out of this. Is the message
O.Q. or ain't it?"

"Yes," I told him, "with a light sprinkling of no. Sometimes I wish we
had a good operator aboard the _Antigone_. Like one of those Donovan
brothers, for instance."

"Them guys!" sniffed Sparks. "Too wise for their britches, both of 'em.
I'm a bug-pounder, not a joke-book. If it's smart cracks you want, why
don't you buy an audio?"

It was at this point that Lt. Russ Bartlett, First Mate of our ship,
who had been shooting the azimuth through the perilens, turned and
waved to me excitedly.

"Brait, take a look! Quick! There's a man down below! On one of the
minor asteroids!"

I said, "A joke, Bartlett? You'd better check the alignment of that
perilens. That's the Man in the Moon you see."

Gunner McCoy, Bartlett's staunchest friend and admirer, looked up from
the rotor port, wrinkled his leathery, space-toughed cheeks into a
frown, and squirted mekel-juice at a distant gobboon.

"Mebbe you better look, Mr. Brait," he said. "If Russ says there's a
man there, then there's a man there."

So I looked. And to look was to act. I cut in my intercommunicating
unit and bawled a stop hypo order to Chief Lester in the engine room
below. Bartlett was right. There was a single, bulger-clad figure
sprawled on the craggy rock of a tiny asteroid hurtling beneath us. A
man who lay there quietly, did not rise, did not wave, gave no sign of
noticing our approach even when I dropped the _Antigone_ down toward
the spatial island.

Bartlett, peering through the duplicate lens, said, "Dead, Brait. He
must have cracked up. He's not moving."

But there was no wrecked spaceship anywhere around. I said, "We'll know
in a few minutes." And then the Skipper burst into the bridge, startled
and curious. "Something haywire, boys? Here, I'll take over."

He was a good man, Cap McNeally. A hardened spacehound, canny and wise
to the ways of the void, always on deck in moments of emergency. That's
why the IPS, the Corporation for which we work, had placed him in
command of the _Antigone_, finest and fastest ship in the fleet.

But I calmed his rotors. "Everything O.Q., sir," I told him. "We're
standing by to take on a space-wrecked sailor. I think."

My guess was right. A few minutes later we threw out a grapple,
space-anchored the _Aunty_, and a rescue party landed on the asteroid.
They brought back with them a sad looking specimen of the genus _Homo
sapiens_. His cheeks were drained and sunken beneath a bristling,
unkempt beard; his skin was blistered frightfully from long exposure
to solars and cosmics; his limbs were so feeble that he couldn't walk
unaided. He had to be carried.

Someone unscrewed his face-port for him. He drew a long, deep breath of
the pure _Antigone_ air. His wan eyes lighted dimly and he spoke in a
voice that was a thin husk of sound.

"Thank you, gentlemen. I had hoped that at last I might--But you meant
well, I suppose."

Which was, I thought at the time, a damned strange speech of gratitude.
But I had no time to answer. For his knees suddenly buckled beneath
him, his eyes closed. Had it not been for the friendly hands that
supported him, he would have pitched forward on his face.

Cap McNeally snapped, "Sick-bay! Snap it up, you lubbers! The man's in
bad shape. Out on his feet, cold!"

Sparks whispered, "Gosh, he looks like a corpus!" as the sailors bore
our unexpected passenger away. I stared at him disgustedly.

"Corpse." I said.

"Huh?" said Sparks.

"Corpse!" I repeated. "Corpse!"

"You," suggested Sparks, "oughta take somethin' for that indigestion,
Lootenant. My sister had it. It made her a physical reek."

It's against the rules for a Second Mate to punch a radioman. So I
kicked him. There are limits.
