
That was our first meeting with the mysterious Paul Moran. We
didn't know his name then, of course. We learned that several days
later. After Doc Jurnegan, our medico, had coaxed, bulldozed and
sulfanilamided him back off the brink of the dark and nasty.

Doc was the first to tag Moran with the adjective we all, eventually,
accepted.

"It's the damnedest thing," he told me, "I've ever seen. Brait, I'll
swear on a pile of prescriptions that he didn't have one chance in a
million of pulling through. But he's still alive!

"By rights, he should have been dead two weeks before we found him.
Do you know he was on that asteroid five solid weeks? Without food.
With only one container of water. With the oxygen reserve in his tank
practically exhausted!

"And his condition--" Jurnegan shook his head uncomprehendingly.
"Deplorable! He was dessicated, undernourished, fouled from weeks in a
bulger. Acute cyanosis alone should have killed him. But--"

I said, "The will-to-live, Doc. It's the determining factor in many a
borderline case. I've heard of men with holes in their heads you could
drive a stratoplane through who simply refused to--"

"That's just it," said Jurnegan. "He _wants_ to die! He refused to take
food. I had to feed him intravenously and force him to drink. But in
spite of his physical and mental condition, he still lives. It--it's
mysterious, Brait!"

So I went in to visit our strange passenger.

He wasn't a bad looking chap, now that his whiskers had been plowed.
Thin, of course; hollow of cheek and eye. His skin was sallow, faintly
olive; the contours of his head long and narrow, short-indexed. He was
a typical Mediterannean, if what my profs taught me is right. Medium
stature, small-boned, thin, tapering fingers. Crisp, oily hair, black
as space.

I said, "Well, you look like a new man!"--which he did, and, "You're
looking fine!" I said--which he wasn't.

He turned his head slowly, studied me with grave, questioning eyes. His
voice was faint, but low and pleasing.

"You are Mr. Brait, the Second Mate? I believe I have you to thank for
having rescued me?"

"That's all right," I told him.

"Why," he interrupted gently, "did you do it?"

I said, "Oh, come now! You've got to perk up! You get a little flesh on
your bones and you'll feel better."

But he went on, as though not hearing my words, "It was a chance. The
best chance I've had for years--a thousand years--and you took it from
me. Out there I might have found peace at last. The power cannot--it
_must_ not--extend into the depths of space."
