
His voice had risen; there was a light of madness, of strange, savage
intensity in his eyes. I felt the little hairs on the back of my neck
pringling. I knew, now, that the man had not come unscathed through his
experience. He was space crazy. Wildly, desperately so. I said, in what
I hoped was a soothing voice,

"Now, take it easy, Mr.--er--Moran, isn't it?"

The ghost of a smile touched his lips, and his body became less tense.
He said wearily, "Moran--yes. Or Ader. Or Cart--Oh, anything you
choose. It hardly seems important any more. I've had so many, many
names."

That wasn't exactly encouraging. But at least he was quieter now. And I
had to know a few things about him to put in the ship's log. I asked,
"How did you get on that asteroid, Moran? Were you space-wrecked? If
so, what was the name of your craft? The authorities will want to know."

He answered, almost mockingly, "I was marooned."

"Marooned! But--but that's criminal! Who did it? We'll have them picked
up and punished!"

"You'll do nothing of the sort. They marooned me on that asteroid
because I deserved it and I respect and thank them for it!" His voice
was rising again; higher, shriller. "I thank them, do you hear? I bless
them, a hundred, thousand, million times. Though their effort was in
vain. I was, and am, a Jonah. A Jonah, Jonah, _Jonah_!"

He sat bolt upright in bed, screaming the word defiantly. Doc Jurnegan
raced in, glanced at me reproachfully and took his patient in hand.
"You'd better go, Brait," he suggested.

So I left. The sweat on my forehead was damp and cold. I needed a drink.

When I told Cap McNeally of my experience, he nodded soberly.

"I know, Brait. I saw him before you did. And he acted just as loony
toward me. Warned me he was a Jonah--"

"I'm not superstitious," I interrupted, "but there _are_ such things
as Jonahs. Men whose very presence aboard a spaceship seems to cause
trouble, dissention, disaster. You remember that Venusian blaster on
the _Goddard III_? The survivors always swore he caused the crack-up."

"Moran's case," frowned the skipper, "is more than just superstition.
He told me that he never wanted to see Earth again. When I told him
that was too bad, that we were headed for Earth right now, he warned me
solemnly that he'd do everything in his power to prevent our getting
there. So what do you think of that?"

"I think," I said glumly, "he's nuts! And if we pay any attention to
him, we'll all be nuts, too. Well, I've got to go, Cap. I've got to
check the shield generators before we go busting into Earth's H-layer."

And I left.
