
Well, I was busy for the next four days on my job. It was a plenty
important job, and had to be done carefully. The H-layer of the
planets--the Kennelly-Heaviside layer--is a supertensioned field of
force similar in composition to the corona of a star. A wide swath
of ionized gas with high potential, serving as a shield against the
murderous Q- and ultra-violet rays that emanate from solar bodies.

But the H-layer is a barrier as well as a shield. The first
space-flight experimenters learned that, and the knowledge cost them
their lives. For their craft hit the H-layer unguarded; and where had
been a glistening ship, now was pitted, blackened metal; where had been
life, now there was charred carbon.

Now all spaceships were equipped with shield generators. They were
"generators" by courtesy only; actually they were huge condensers
fed by cable lines tied at intervals to the hull plates. The theory
was that as the craft plunged into and through the H-layer, these
condensers would absorb the excess potential, thus allowing the ship to
pass through unharmed.

And it worked swell, most of the time. Oh, every year a few ships would
get theirs--would blow out in a blue wreath of coruscating flame--but
for the most part the trip was safe enough. Except, of course, when a
condenser was in bad condition. Which was why I was giving ours a check
and double check.

Still, I could never rid myself of a queasy moment when we hit that
blanket of spark-happy ionization. Particularly when a planet was at
aphelion as Earth was now. Because at such times the H-layer was more
highly activated than usual.

And to tell the truth, I wasn't satisfied with the way my work was
going. First I hit my thumb with a monkey-wrench. It didn't hurt
the wrench, but the thumb turned pale mauve and throbbed like a
sixteen-year-old kid's pulse on his first hayride.

Then I lost a brass collar off the hull-brace, and since we didn't
carry a reserve stock I had to ask Chief Lester to make me one. By the
time that was ready, I'd busted a .44 coil cable lock, and had to
jerry-rig a substitute.

Oh, it was a headache! But I wasn't the only guy on board the _Aunty_
who was having troubles. Slops raised a howl to high heaven because his
stove went on the squeegee. Gunner McCoy stalked into the officer's
mess one afternoon demanding what such-and-such so-and-so had stripped
the gears of his pet rotor-gun. Sparks burned out three vacuum tubes
in one day, breaking contact with all transmitting stations and almost
causing us to crack up on a rogue asteroid. Even Cap McNeally was
visited by the plague. He came wailing to me, on the bridge, that the
refrigeration units in the No. 3 storage bin had broken down.

"--and we've lost a whole binfull of _clab_, Brait! Worth at least six
thousand credits on Earth. The Corporation will be mad as hell."

"That's tough," I said, "but there's nothing we can do about it. It
wasn't your fault."

He eyed me curiously. "Brait--" he said.

"Yes, Cap?"

"I've been wondering--do you think there could be anything in what
Moran said? About him being a--a--"

"Jonah?" I'd been thinking the same thing myself. "I don't know,
Skipper. I wouldn't say yes, and I wouldn't say no. But there's no
doubt about it, things have been going haywire ever since we picked him
up. I'll be glad when he lifts gravs off the _Aunty_."

Cap said petulantly, "Of course it's just nonsense. Bad luck doesn't
hang around one man like that. It's against the law of averages. Still,
I wish you'd sort of keep an eye on him for the next three days, Brait.
Till we land on Earth. I've got a notion--"

"So has Earth," I grinned. "Five of 'em. Atlantic, Pacific, Indian and
the two Etceteras. What's yours?"

"It might," frowned the skipper. "Be sabotage. He said he'd do
everything in his power to prevent our reaching Earth. And he's up and
around now."

"If you think that," I suggested, "why don't you shove him in the
clink, just to make sure?"

"Can't do it. Because I've no _proof_ he's responsible for these
occurrences, and besides, a rescued passenger is entitled to the
courtesy of the ship."
