
So that's how I assumed, in addition to the rest of my duties, the job
of watch-dogging the mysterious Paul Moran. As Cap McNeally had said,
Moran was up and about now. He had made what Doc Jurnegan claimed was
the swiftest recovery in the annals of medicine. He still looked like
a skeleton in search of a square meal. But there was sanity in his
eyes. If not always in his speech. Like that afternoon in Sparks' radio
turret, for instance.

We had been talking, Sparks and I, about space-flight. What a great
thing it was. How, only in its infancy, it was already changing man's
outlook, widening the borders of man's domain, creating a newer,
greater universe.

"We got," Sparks said, "reason to be proud of ourselves. Gee, I was
readin' in the library--"

"You," I interrupted wonderingly, "can read?"

"Comets to you, Lootenant!" sniffed Sparks. "As I was sayin' before I
was so rudely ruptured, I was readin' in the library some old books
from the Twentieth Century. Just about a hundred an' fifty years old,
mind you! They had the craziest ideas about what men would find on
other planets, if an' when they ever got there. Flame-men, an' robots,
an' all sorts of things.

"Nothin' like what we actually found. 'Course, we shouldn't laugh at
'em too much. They had no way of knowin'. We're the first people ever
traveled in space."

"No!" said Moran.

Sparks said patiently, "Well, I didn't mean us here in this room. Of
course we ain't. But I mean the people of our time."

"And I still say," said Moran gravely, "no! Man in all ages is a
creature of conceit, self-pride, self-glorification. There was
space-flight long before you lived, Sparks. A race, long dead now, from
a neighbor planet."

I said gently, "You're thinking of those pyramids found on Venus and
Mars, Moran? I know that's a puzzler to modern science. And I've read
several theories regarding their builders. But most authorities agree
that their mere presence does not necessarily imply the existence of a
single race of engineers. The pyramid is a fundamental structural form.
Any intelligent race--"

"Man," said Moran almost sadly. "Man the dreamer; Man the doubter. No,
Lieutenant, I am not speaking of theories, now. I am speaking of tales
I've heard; accounts I've read in archives long molded into dust. At
least three times in the past have civilized races spanned the void. It
was the dying Martian race that first achieved space-flight. They found
Venus a rank and stinking jungle, but on Earth certain of them set up
their new abode." He smiled quietly. "And reverted to savagery, as is
always the case when civilized men, removed from the source of their
culture, find themselves face to face with stark reality.

"Then it was the Moon-creatures who fled their airless world, spanned
the distance to nearby earth."

I said, "That's an interesting thought, Moran. It explains the
coloration of the races of man, doesn't it? I'd like to read that book
you mentioned. Where can I get it?"

He shook his head sadly.

"You can't, Lt. Brait. The last copy of it was destroyed more than
twelve centuries ago. Simon Magnus was the last man to read it as I
remember. I loaned it to him--"

He stopped abruptly. But Sparks' eyes were plate-sized and incredulous.
"--you loaned it to him?"

I spun on Sparks, angry. Jurnegan had told us to humor Moran, help him
to a complete recovery. I didn't approve of this, not a little bit. I
snapped, "That'll do, Sparks! Good Lord, man--What's the matter, Moran?"

For suddenly his face had paled, his eyes widened in horror, and he was
backing away from me. He thrust out a trembling hand, gasped hoarsely,
"Have a care, Brait! 'Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord, thy
God, in vain--'!"

Then he fled; his running footsteps clattered down the ramp, and the
echoes were strangely disturbing. Sparks stared after him, then made a
circular motion at his temple.

"Nuts!" he said. "Crazy as a loon, Lootenant."
