
Oh, he was an odd one, that Moran. Those next days are somehow garbled
in my mind. They were so full of incident that now, looking back upon
them, I can hardly distinguish between that which actually _was_, and
that which an active imagination conjured for me out of fancy.

This I do know--it was the worst trip I've ever experienced in the
_Antigone_ or any other ship. Something was always wrong. Lt. Russ
Bartlett, whose mind is as accurate as the cogs of a computing machine,
discovered to his dismay that he had made an error in calculation; that
at our present rate of speed we would miss Earth entirely and plunge
Sunward at a rate that would destroy us all. He discovered that by
sheer accident, and just in time to scream a hasty, "Cut hypos!" to the
engine room, else I wouldn't be here to tell it. Then there was that
mysterious occurrence in the galley. Our cook had a pet cat, and if it
weren't for his habit of feeding the pussy before he fed the crew, half
of us would be stiff now. Because the cat slopped up its dinner and
forthwith proceeded to give up all nine of its lives simultaneously.
Ptomaine, from faulty food tins. The first time such a thing had
happened in more than forty years!

You couldn't say Moran was behind either of these near-disasters. For
I was dogging his footsteps; I'll take my oath he was not involved.
Physically, that is. But they say a Jonah's curse works even though the
Jonah takes no actual part.

Oh, he was an odd one, that Moran. For instance, the time Sparks'
selenium plate blew out. It was Moran who got permission to use
the machine shop, construct a substitute out of a uranoid-steel
atmochamber. We used that freak audio throughout the trip, then
replaced it with a standard one when we reached Earth. Like dopes!
Because two years later that screwball First Mate of the _Saturn_
"invented" a uranium time-speech-trap exactly like the one Moran made
us. He earned a quarter million credits from it. Imagine!

Then there was the time, as we were approaching the Lunar outpost,
that our calculating machine jammed. Lieutenant Bartlett and Cap
McNeally were in a dither trying to figure the approach velocity. It's
a fifteen-minute job for the machine; a six-hour job for a man's brain.
But Moran, who happened by, glanced casually at the declension chart,
said, "Cut to forty-three at 3.05 Earth Standard, Captain. Maintain
full speed for point three five parsecs, alter declension to north one,
loft seven, fire fore jets twice--"

Having no better idea, McNeally did as Moran suggested. And we warped
past the Moon oh-oh-oh on trajectory!
