
Which put us within scant hours of Earth's H-layer. And which also
roused in me the realization that the mysterious Paul Moran was more
than the ordinary space-sailor he pretended to be. Maybe I'm snoopy,
I don't know. Anyway, I went to the radio room. I told Sparks grimly,
"You and I are going to find out just who or what this Moran guy is.
Send a message, Sparks. To Fred Bender, at Long Island Spaceport.
Tell him to find out if there's a scientist missing who answers to
this description. Five feet, seven and a half inches; a hundred and
twenty-five pounds, dark hair, brown eyes--"

The relay of that description and the subsequent reply took longer than
I had anticipated. That's why Sparks and I were among the last to learn
of the new trouble. We didn't learn until, excited, we burst onto the
bridge, confronted the skipper with our information.

"Look, Skipper!" I yelled. "No wonder 'Moran' was able to fix Sparks'
radio and set your course! Do you--"

And the Captain raised haggard eyes to me.

"Brait, where have you been? I've been audioing all over the ship for
you."

"In Sparks' cabin. Listen, though. Moran is--"

"I don't care," said the skipper wearily, "who he is. And in a
little while, nobody else will, either. Your check-up, Mr. Brait,
was a miserable failure! We are only an hour and a half out of the
H-layer--and the shield generators refuse to function!"

I just stared at him for a minute. When I caught my breath, there was
only enough of it for one word.

"Impossible!"

"Impossible, maybe," acknowledged the First Mate, "but unfortunately,
Don, the Captain's right. Three lead-in cables are broken, the
stripping is off the condenser."

"But--but everything was in perfect order an hour ago! I don't
understand! Yes, I do! Moran! He said he'd destroy us all if he got a
chance! Skipper, there's the answer. He's done it. The madman--"

Then there was a mirthful chuckle in the doorway, and Moran was
standing there looking at us, his thin lips wide in a smile.

"You're right, Brait. I _did_ do it. But I'm not a madman. I'm a happy
man. The happiest man who ever lived!" His eyes lighted triumphantly;
he stretched his arms above his head in a great, yearning gesture.
"Soon will come freedom! The great, everlasting freedom of death."

"Get him!" said the Skipper succinctly. Gunner McCoy lumbered forward,
his long, hairy arms encircled Moran's body. The Skipper pawed his
graying thatch. "This is no time for reproaches, Mr. Brait. I told you
to guard this man; for some reason you failed to do so. But now our
problem is to repair the damage he has done. Or else--"

His pause was significant. But Moran's quiet, mocking laughter
persisted.

"It is useless, Captain. Not in hours, no, not in weeks, will you
repair the damage. Don't you see--" There was a feverish light in his
eyes, a shuddering vibrancy in his voice. "Don't you see that I bring
you the greatest of all boons known to man?

"Death! Wonderful, blissful death! Death that I have sought so long ...
so hopelessly."

Those were the last words I heard for some time. I dashed from the
room, Bartlett, Sparks and McCoy at my heels. We picked up the Chief
Engineer. We covered the _Antigone_ from stern to stern. And our worst
fears were realized. It was no use. The damage Moran had done was
irreparable.

Russ Bartlett said, "There's only one way out. We mustn't try to
penetrate the Heaviside layer. We must shift trajectory, pass Earth
and remain in space until we get the shield generator operating again."

And Chief Lester said somberly, "Have you forgotten the trajectory you
planned, Lieutenant Bartlett?"

"The trajectory?"

"I thought it was unusual," rumbled the engineer, "when you called
it down to me. It's paper-thin, balanced on a knife-edge between
counter-gravitations. If we try to shift course now, we'll tear the
ship into shreds!"

I knew, now, why Moran had come up with such a ready answer when the
computer failed. He had planned well. He had deliberately forced us
into this trajectory from which there was no escape.
