
Inside the gleaming space ship, three men were seated on the
collapsible bunks. Kurt Overland, his muscular body unclad except for
shorts, was speaking in his even tone.

"Well," he said cheerfully, even his steady voice failing to conceal
the burning eagerness within him, "we're finally ready. I've just made
the last repair on the things broken by landing."

Frank Barker grinned at him from across the cell-like room, stretched
his six feet of blond-topped, lanky strength happily.

"Suits me," he said, "I'm tired of being cooped in this animated bullet
that's been home for so long."

"We had to wait," gray-haired Professor Kent said mildly, "After all,
if we are met by hostile beings, we want to be able to escape."

Kurt Overland grinned. "Maybe you're right, Professor," he said. "But
I'd hate to return to Earth and say that we'd been run off before we
had a chance to bring back proof of our expedition's success."

"That would be a calamity," Barker broke in. "Remember what a devil of
a time we had getting permission to make this flight through space.
The President told me, just before we took off, that because of the
many deaths in faulty rockets a law was being passed to forbid any more
flights. He said that it was only his influence that made it possible
for us to leave Earth on a trip to Venus, and that if we failed to make
good there would probably be no more flights for, possibly, hundreds of
years."

"So!" Professor Kent nodded his head. "Then I am glad that we did not
fail; for it is apparent that we are the vanguard of a new phase of our
civilization."

Kurt Overland stood, flexed his arms. "Well, come on, let's go," he
said. "It's time we took a look around."

The three of them slipped into their space suits, each of them
tight-breathed with eagerness to explore the second of the planets.
They were strangely silent as they dressed.

"Better slip the cover over that radi-light," Professor Kent tried to
keep his tone even. "There may be poisonous insects outside that would
be attracted by it. We will go outside without lights, then switch them
on when the port is closed."

Frank Barker moved toward the radi-light, slipped the cover over its
eternal brightness with a gloved hand. Then he joined the other two
at the port. For a long second the three of them stood shoulder to
shoulder.

"Professor Kent," Kurt Overland said softly, "please go first. It is
your right that you should be the first to step onto a world made
accessible only by your genius."

Professor Albert Kent's shoulders shook silently for a moment in great
emotion, then straightened with pride. He nodded, swung shut his visor
plate, dogged it securely.

Barker and Overland followed suit, clicked on their radio receivers.
They waited patiently for their leader, knowing the feelings that must
have been his at the moment.

And then, unsealing the port, clutching the American flag gently in
his left hand ready for its planting on Venus, Professor Kent stepped
through the port, the first human to land on the veiled planet. Behind
him, following with a clumsy speed, came Frank Barker and Kurt Overland.

"We three--" Professor Albert Kent began.
