
The visaphone sprang into life. Sam recognized the voice as that of a
woman.... "_Fleetblast calling Aeries...._"

The _Fleetblast_ lay some fifty miles ahead, a speck of light, where
the chase of her net had led her. Just to her right, closer, lay the
only near ship, the _Aeries_.

"_Aeries speaking--go ahead...._"

Before the _Aeries_ her net spurted four ribbons of flame. In a surge
of power the _Aeries_ was off, acceleration full, straining like a
hound after a rabbit. There would be no more conversation from the
_Aeries_, Sam knew, until the catch was landed.

The woman was unaware of this development, unaware that the _Aeries'_
flaming jets were bearing her far away.

"... _father is hurt ... an open wound and we have no more penicillin
X...._"

No penicillin X! No ship took to ether for the "Belt" without a supply
of that important penicillin derivative.

Sam touched the controls. This was the break, this was the luck of Sam
Knox. The jets responded with a trail of flame. He pulled alongside the
_Fleetblast_ in a few minutes.

He could spare a hundred thousand units of the drug, he figured. He got
it from the storeroom. He was quite close to the other ship, so decided
against using the ship's lifeboat, a tiny space-dory, and simply donned
his space-suit. He then yelled into the visaphone, "_Fleetblast_--open
your port ... I'm bringing the drug." He saw the lock open on the
_Fleetblast_ and opened his own, propelling himself into space and
across the void. A few guiding blasts of his hand rocket and he was
inside the lock of the other ship.

A woman helped him out of the space-suit. "Come quickly," she urged.
Sam had time to note that she was young and had red hair as he followed
her to the living quarters.

An old man lay there on a bed. His trouser had been cut away from his
right leg, revealing a crushed and bleeding condition below the knee.
Already the leg was beginning to show the faint greyness that indicated
the start of the quick infection.

The miner's name, Sam found as he treated the leg, was Timas Rorke.
There was a faint trace of Irish blood in him, responsible perhaps for
the red hair of his daughter. He lay back in the bed, complaining at
the foolishness that had put him there.

"That damned meteor! I was in too big a hurry to load it, and it
slipped and crushed my leg." Timas looked at his daughter. "What do
you say, Nancy, shall we call it a season and run back to Terra?"

"There are a few more weeks of good fishing. I can make out."

Sam looked at her, this slip of a girl who was undertaking a man's
work. For all her courage she was still a woman, slim and lissome. She
was not too tall, rounded sweetly, and well-formed. Under Sam's gaze
she lifted her eyes to his, eyes as brown as new-plowed soil.

He had been long away from women, and the sight of her set a wildness
coursing in his blood. Strong as she was he could crush her in his
arms. He had strength to take care of both of them.

She might have let him too, in other circumstances. Her eyes had
already noted the compact sturdiness of his body, noted and approved.
But he was Sam Knox, and in his hunt for men a hundred women had tried
to deceive him, so that he set his mind against this weakness, and
looked away across the room.
