
Fool! He was a fool to have not seen it sooner. The photograph of a
white-haired man stared from a lucite frame. It was Pell.

The report was true. Here was Pell, inventor of the heat rod, hiding
where the metal was mined. If he were here, he must be found, and
returned to Terra to finish the sentence he had escaped three years
before.

He might not have to finish that prison sentence. Only one thing was
certain now. In the investigation of the illegal operations of Terran
Metals Corporation, the truth had been concealed by the fact that a way
had been found to deceive the mind-probe.

When that shattering fact was discovered, that the basis of justice was
not dependable, action was swift. The mind-probe was analyzed, and the
defect removed. But the truth of the facts in the Terran Metals Trial
was now uncertain. Guilty or not, the Department of Terran Justice
wanted Pell.

Sam took a step toward the picture. The girl's voice shocked him from
these thoughts. "I don't know how to thank you, Mister--?" She paused
expectantly.

"Knox, Sam Knox."

She held out her hand. "We are so glad to know you."

"You are the first one to want to know me. I've been here a week, and
everyone seems to think I have a plague."

Timas Rorke spoke from the bed. "You must forgive us. We are a hard
people to get acquainted with, especially now."

"Why especially now?"

The visaphone buzzed. It was the _Aeries_, now alongside. Nancy went to
operate the lock.

A young man came from the lock with her. He was dark and saturnine. His
glance viewed Sam with open suspicion.

Nancy said, "Sam Knox, Ned Hawkins."

Sam held out his hand. The dark young man made no move to accept it.

Nancy said sharply, "Ned! Mr. Knox may have saved father's life. He
brought the penicillin X while you were chasing meteors."

Ned Hawkins said with surly ill grace, "Sorry. We're obliged to you,
Mr. Knox."

Sam turned to the old man on the bed. "You were about to tell me why
everyone is so suspicious."

Timas Rorke sat up in bed. His eyes blazed. "Thieves!" he said gustily.
"This season there have been thieves. Old Joe on the _Miner II_ lost an
asteroid jewel worth ten thousand credits. Somebody beat him, slipped
him chloroform, and made off with it. Been several cases like it."

Ned's dark suspicious eyes were on them. Sam crossed and picked up
Pell's picture. "Relative of yours?" he asked casually.

Hawkins slammed the flat of his hand against a bulkhead. "That does it!
What kind of miner are you that you don't know the Master Miners?" He
whirled to the old man and the girl. "Tell him nothing more."

Sam said simply, "This is my first season. How am I to know anything
with everyone so suspicious? If you need more medicine let me know." He
picked up his space-suit and went into the lock.

Nancy came quickly into the lock after him. She said in a low voice,
"Thanks for everything. You must forgive Ned. He is jealous."

Sam held the helmet to his space-suit in his hands. "If I had a claim
on you," he said swiftly, "I should be jealous, too. Not man nor devil
should take you from me." He put the helmet on and turned to the lock.

Once back in the _Wanderer_, he considered what he had learned. Pell
was here, so much had been established, and he had at last a foothold
of acquaintance among these people. That should help.
