
The ceremony that joined Sam Knox and the Order of Miners was a simple
one. There were many of the Miners in the _White Lark_, to witness
the oath of fealty, and many more watching on their visaphones. The
coldness was gone; he was one of them, and he felt the strong warmth of
their friendship. Nancy's eyes smiled at him all through the ceremony.

There was one curious thing. Ned Hawkins was not present at the
beginning of the ceremony.

The voice of Pell pronounced. "You are now one of us." Men gathered
around Sam, shaking his hand and clapping him on the back.

"_Stop the ceremony!_" It was a beautifully timed entrance, an actor's
entrance. Hawkins stood just inside the room, still in his space-suit,
holding the helmet in his hand. He came forward now, his magnetic boots
clanking on the steel floor of the _White Lark_.

Pell frowned at him. "If you have objections, you are too late. After
all, you were the one who proposed his membership. Miner Knox is one of
us now."

"Then he is subject to our law. He is no miner--he is a thief."

Pell said somberly, "That is a serious accusation."

"Old Joe died today as a result of the chloroforming and beating.
Before he died he tuned in the ceremony on the visaphone. He identified
this man as the one who beat and chloroformed him. He died soon after.
His heart couldn't stand the excitement."

Pell looked at Sam. "What have you to say?"

"Would you believe a wild tale like that? Hearsay testimony from a dead
man? It's simply an invention."

"Invention?" It was one of the Master Miners. "Why, Hawkins proposed
you for your membership."

Ned Hawkins said raspingly, "If it is all hearsay, I suppose you won't
object to a search of your ship. The Asteroid jewel that was stolen is
probably there."

The pattern was too clear to Sam. It was of course a frame, a perfect
frame, if the jewel had been planted aboard the _Wanderer_. They would
find other interesting things, too. The super-drive of the ship would
be as useful to a thief as to a Terran Justice man.

They found the jewel carelessly hidden in the _Wanderer's_ upholstery.

Sam said, "If you will put us both under the mind-probe, you will learn
the truth."

Pell frowned at him. "I know from my own experience that the mind-probe
is worthless. I was convicted once by a mind-probe trial. No, we will
have a simple trial; we will try you after the fashion of older times.
Verbal testimony, evidence, and a jury of Master Miners. We will try
you at once. Justice is swift here in the Belt."
