
Sam Knox sat hopelessly in a tiny space-dory. Through the view port
he could see the twinkling lights of the Asteroid fleet vanishing in
the distance. And in his mind he could still hear the voice of Pell,
pronouncing sentence like the tolling of some bell of doom.

"Miner Sam Knox, you will be banished forever from the Asteroid belt.
If you return, it is the duty of every Miner to ray you on sight. And,
if any befriend you, they may share your fate. Your ship and all your
possessions are forfeit. You will be placed in a small space-dory with
food and fuel for two weeks. If in that time you can come to some
larger ship or outpost of civilization, you are to be congratulated. If
not, may God have mercy on your soul."

He had lost the _Wanderer_--he had only this tiny dory and two weeks'
food. That was bad enough, the chance of wandering forever in space
without food or fuel, but worse than that was the thought that he had
failed. He had found Pell, and failed to bring him back. He sat for a
moment, face in hands, tasting the bitter failure. There was, too, an
aching sense of loss when he though of Nancy Rorke.

There was a tarpaulin over his stocks of supplies. He might as well
take inventory. He rose and went to the rear of the tiny craft. He
pulled back the tarpaulin. Curled among the supplies was a woman, her
hair a russet halo of glory. She stood discovered, shyly looking at
him. It was Nancy Rorke.

Sam wanted her. Lord, how he wanted her. He crossed and seized her in
the solid strength of his arms, crushing his lips and body against
hers. "You fool!" he breathed. "You wonderful, glorious little fool!"

She said simply, "I knew you would need me. I found which dory they
were to use and stowed away."

Now there was food and water for only a week. All but fuel was now
divisible by two. They were far from the usual space-lanes, and the
chance of passing craft was microscopically small. Somehow, Sam knew,
they must win through. Somehow he must wring defeat from failure.

They were three days out when they saw a ship. It seemed somehow
familiar, and it circled them three times before it had decelerated
enough to pull alongside the slower dory. The lock opened and Sam
propelled the tiny dory inside. Nancy said in amazement. "It is Pell's
ship. Do you suppose they know the truth?"

Sam knew it was not that when Pell opened the door of the dory. His
voice was curt. "I have extra food and fuel. The ship _Sol Shine_ is
passing between Mars and the outer planets. You should be able to
contact here at these co-ordinates at the time noted." He handed Sam a
sheet of astrographic calculations.

Nancy caught at his arm. "Why bring us this?" she asked. "Is it because
of me?"

Pell smiled at her. "No, my dear. It was not because of you--or perhaps
it was. Perhaps a woman's heart is surer judge than a jury of Miners."

He raised keen eyes to Sam. "Once they found me guilty," he said. "I
was not. I cannot rid myself of the belief that perhaps others, too,
might not be guilty."

"The others do not know you came?"

"No, else my life would be forfeit."

Sam Knox said wonderingly. "You risked that, for the sake of possible
justice?"

Pell inclined his head.

"Why go back? Come to Terra with me."

"I cannot."

"Listen, man." Sam was urgent. "I came from the Department of Terran
Justice to find you. The Terran Metals case is re-opened. The new
mind-probe is just. Come back and we will find the truth."

A strange look spread over Pell's face. "Terra! The glorious
rose-gardens of Terra." He shook himself. "I dare not, but as I have
given you life you must promise me this. You must not tell where I am
to be found."

Sam Knox said bitterly. "I promise nothing. I came to the Belt to find
you." He sidled forward. If he could reach Pell--

A dis-gun rose in Pell's hand. "Be it so. Then I must move on." He
closed the door of the dory on them and threw the release that thrust
them from the lock of his ship. He left them sitting--watching his
ship's lights recede in the darkness.

Nancy put her hand on Sam's arm. Pell's ship was now a speck of light,
vanishing in the black. "Never mind Pell. We will go to Terra together."

Sam said, "I had almost convinced him. He wants to go to Terra. You
heard him. If I could talk to him again...."

Nancy tugged at his arm. "Sam! What are you thinking of?"

He touched the controls of the space-dory, and it swung in a long
curve, doubling back.

"No! Sam, No! They will kill you if you go back. Forget Pell and come
with me to the _Sol Shine_."

Sam Knox's jaw was a ledge of granite. "I came for Pell."

The tiny dory leaped forward, nose pointed for the Asteroid Belt.
