
The child was smaller than any child could be, he thought, and turned
out with a fragile perfection more doll-like than human. Her hair
was drying rapidly to look more like spun platinum than like silver;
her dress, a mothlike wisp that changed color with mother-of-pearl
iridescence, seemed not to have been wet at all. There was a belt of
slender metal links about her tiny waist, caught with a flattened oval
buckle the size of a pocket watch.

Her lilac eyes, more blue than purple now with the shock gone out of
them, looked up at him wonderingly.

"Are you hurt?" Wesley asked. The child winced from the sound and he
lowered his voice, feeling like an ogre before such fragility. "Can you
talk yet?"

He reached out to help her and she caught his thumb with both tiny
hands and stood knee-deep in grass that barely covered his own ankles.

Her voice was as high and clear as a sleigh-bell. "Clellingherif," she
said, as if that unintelligibility settled everything.

Wesley considered her unhappily. It was not Adventure yet; he saw only
that he was saddled with a lost child who looked like a pixie and who
talked like a bird, and that he would very probably lose the rest of
his afternoon getting her off his hands.

He tried again.

"Where do you live?" It was so unlikely that her parents might have
moved to Sampson City, with its insular aloofness and its once-a-day
train, that he dismissed the idea at once.

Second thought heartened him briefly. "Are your parents staying at the
inn?"

The "inn" was a rambling, seedily genteel resort catering mainly to
retired couples and trout fishermen. He owned a half interest in it
and lived there with his Aunt Jessica, who owned the other half and
controlled both, and Miriam Harrell, who taught sixth grade at the
Sampson County school and nursed a determination to become Mrs. Wesley
Filburn. If the child's parents were new guests of his Aunt Jessica's,
his problem was solved already.

It was not so simple. The child fingered the oval buckle of her belt,
shaping a curious suggestion of pattern.

"_Mitsik_ Clellingherif," she said.

She caught Wesley's thumb again and as quickly as that they were no
longer on the banks of Sampson's Creek.

They were in a place that Wesley, for all his experience at contriving
the unlikely, could not have dreamed up in a month of trying. It was
essentially a room, not large yet seemed to extend indefinitely, that
looked at first glance like a conservatory for exotic plants and at
second like a library stocked with tables and files and endless shelves
of books. There was a sprinkling of what might have been furniture,
with here and there an erect oval that could have been either mirror or
crystal screen.

The whole was scaled to a diminution that made Wesley feel like
Gulliver in Lilliput, and through it breathed a barely perceptible
scent somewhere between honey-suckle and crushed mint.

The man and woman who came out of that improbable background seemed
to Wesley's dizzied senses hardly taller than the child who held his
thumb, but their resemblance to her was as unmistakable as their serene
air of having the situation completely in hand.

The girl's mother took her away, making admonishing birdlike sounds.
The father, as if aware of Wesley's wavering control, gripped his thumb
in turn and led him to an open expanse of soft-rugged floor large
enough to hold them both.

"Sit down," he said in unexpected sleigh-bell English.

Wesley sat, and realized finally that Adventure had come.
