
It had come to him, he discovered, because the child--Mitsik--had not
visited a world with fish before. The fascination of a sunning trout in
Sampson's Creek had proved too much for her small caution; maneuvering
for a closer look had tumbled her into the pool, and her transporter
unit did not work under water.

His rescue had placed her parents--the father's name was Clelling and
her mother's Herif, explaining her cryptic pipings--under an obligation
that seemed to demand fulfillment. It was something like letting a
genie out of his bottle and being granted a wish, except that Clelling
and Herif were no sort of djinni and their capacity for granting wishes
was strictly limited.

"A travel advisor's work is more interesting than profitable," Clelling
said. "But be assured that we shall offer as much as lies within our
means."

Embarrassed, Wesley made deprecating sounds. "I don't really want
payment. I'm more interested in knowing how and why you're here."

The information was readily given. Clelling, completely telepathic
among his own kind and nearly so with humanity--as witness his instant
grasp of English--anticipated Wesley's questions with answers that left
him dizzier than before.

"The galaxy is a more populous place than you imagine," Clelling said.
"And civilized to a degree beyond your comprehension. Transportation
and trade among so many differing worlds is a complex business
occupying the attention of millions. My wife and I deal in travel for
pleasure--we are what you would call tourist agents."

A vision of seeing Aldhafera at first hand electrified Wesley. "You're
selling star trips _here_? On Earth?"

Clelling denied it with regret. "Your world has been under observation
for years by a galactic ecological group in upstate Pennsylvania,
but you are not ready yet. Economic and social stabilization, and
elimination of war, must come before you can be admitted as a culture."

Wesley sighed and Clelling made hasty correction.

"Under the circumstances, that ban need not apply to you. We can offer
help too with the information on galactic conditions you need to lend
authenticity to your writing."

He went to a file that nestled between two feathery flowering shrubs
and drew out a glossy folder that glowed in three-dimensional
illustration as if lighted from within.

"Aldhafera," Clelling said.

Wesley took it almost reverently. The binary suns of Aldhafera _did_
have planets--not one, as he had postulated, but five--capable of
supporting life. The minor sun was negligible and all but extinct,
furnishing precisely the exotic moon he had been considering when he
first heard Mitsik piping in her pool.

"It's priceless," Wesley said. The text was undecipherable, but the
photography so perfect that his eyes misted and refused to leave it.
"It more than repays me."

Anxiety dimmed his rapture. "You did mean that I could keep it, didn't
you?"

Clelling looked abashed. "Of course. It's only a sort of tourist
travelogue.... I'll select a group of them dealing with worlds that
might interest you and see that our local outpost makes up English
translations. They will be mailed to you as they are completed."

His wife appeared out of the shrub-and-file background, leading a
chastened Mitsik, and stood beside him. Her fair head was hardly even
with the seated Wesley's shoulder.

"We mustn't leave Sonimuira out of the group," she said. Her lilac eyes
laughed with an inner, private amusement. "He'll like Sonimuira."

"Out of this group we can offer you one physical visit to the world
of your choice," Clelling said. "Each brochure will have round-trip
tear-off coupons attached. Bring them here when you have decided where
you will go."

"If I have the nerve," Wesley said. The prospect dazzled him until he
remembered his Aunt Jessica. "You'll still be here?"

"This is a permanent relay point," Clelling told him. "Our agency's
galactic transporter has been here for centuries of your time."

There was more, but none of it was clear to Wesley later. It seemed
only seconds before he was standing again on the banks of Sampson's
Creek, perhaps a hundred yards upstream from the pool from which he
had fished Mitsik. But the sun hung lower over the mountains and the
birds were choosing perches for the night; he had been "away," Wesley
estimated, for something over an hour.

It did not occur to him until he had walked back to the inn, and
discovered in the walking that he had left the Aldhaferian booklet
behind, that he might only have dozed during his stroll and dreamed it
all. The dampness of his clothing reassured him--and disturbed his Aunt
Jessica and Miriam--without eliminating that doubt.

Still later came the grimmer thought that he might even be losing his
sanity. He worried about that, too upset to finish the Aldhaferian
story he had begun, for a week.

Then the mail brought his first travelogue.
