
Charlie Birdsall, the rural carrier, blew his horn at the gate and
handed over the sealed manila packet along with a letter from Wesley's
literary agent. Charlie was a friend from high-school days and a
perennial bachelor who found Wesley's future appalling.

"Got a circular from some tourist bureau," Charlie said. "And a letter
from that agent fellow in New York. Letter's got a check for forty
dollars in it."

He shook his head darkly at Wesley's worn look. "Fellow, you better get
squared away before your lid slips. You can't write that wild stuff of
yours and stand off two women at the same time. When're you going to
learn?"

Wesley hefted his packet wistfully, wanting the privacy of his room but
reluctant to offend Charlie by rushing off.

"I have to write," he said. "And as for marrying--maybe Aunt Jessica is
right. Maybe a man wasn't meant to live alone."

Charlie snorted. "How wrong can you get? Look, a bunch of us are having
a poker sit and beers tonight at Landon's service station. Why not come
down with me, Wes?"

Wesley begged off. "Work to do, Charlie. I haven't turned in much
material lately and my agent is getting impatient."

"When you wake up some morning on a leash," Charlie said, "don't say I
didn't warn you." He put his car into gear and departed.

In his room, Wesley opened the letter first. There was a check for
forty dollars, as Charlie had said, and a terse note from his agent
that said:

    _This one just made it, as see the seedy stipend. Can you come up
    with something fresher in the way of alien settings?_

                                                               _Henry._

Wesley reserved answer until the packet was opened and his first
brochure scanned.

"I can now," he said.

His eyes filled and his hands shook with the beauty and the wonder of
it. The folder was like the one he had examined at Clelling-Herif's
way-station, but with a difference; here colors and perspective had
been rescaled to suit his familiar values, and the exposition was in
beautifully lucid English.

He fingered the round-trip coupons at the bottom of the last page.
"To _see_ a place like that," he said reverently. "If I only had the
nerve...."

But he lacked the nerve, and knew it--how ever to explain it all to
his Aunt Jessica?--and settled on the brochure as compensation in
itself. It solved his difficulties with Aldhaferian story before he had
finished the first two pages. The second planet of Aldhafera's major
twin was precisely what he had needed for his space-rover's utopia, but
with innovations wonderful to behold.

Its dominant race owned a corner on pleasant privacy that put Swift's
Laputans, with their magnetic flying island, to shame; this world was
dotted with air-borne masses of tiny, gas-filled aerophytes which
multiplied after the fashion of coral polyps to build personal estates
of any size from a few acres to whole square miles. On these luxurious
clouds, in sylvan groves and orchid gardens and dew-bright dells, lived
a benevolent race of humanoids further advanced in the gentle art of
keeping the peace with one another than humanity was ever likely to be.

Below lay an ocean world dotted with green-and-coral archipelagoes,
inhabited by a satisfactorily savage species of non-humanoids whose
evolutionary line had worked the flotation principle into its own
makeup. These monsters prowled fiercely upon the waters, following
after the cloud islands in the perennial hope of discovering one low
enough to plunder.

The contrast, for Wesley's purpose, was perfect. His hero could
land on a floating preserve, forcing it down by overload. There was
occasion for a first-class battle with the water-walkers in which he
could rescue his One Love at least twice, and a crashing denouement in
which the argonaut atoned for his injury by blasting his ship away
tenantless under robot control, so saving the day for all concerned and
making it forever impossible to betray Her people to his own.

Above all Wesley had at hand a wealth of detail, of color and
atmosphere unarguably convincing because it was true, that offered
him the idea-lode writers dream of. Ordinarily the most cautious of
workmen, Wesley flung himself into such an orgy of creation that the
Aldhaferian epic was reorganized, written and rewritten within three
days.

For Wesley, the wordage was tremendous. It ran to novelet length, and
it was all good.

"Damned good," said Wesley, who was more given to mailing his
manuscripts in fear and trembling than in confidence.
