
That confidence waned during the succeeding week when Charlie Birdsall
continued to drive past the inn with nothing more encouraging than a
wave of the hand. Miriam grew more intent in her attentions as Wesley
spent less time at his writing. His Aunt Jessica, gauging his ebbing
resistance, put the first of her matrimonial trumps on the table.

She cornered Wesley one morning just after Miriam had driven away to
school in her coupe.

"It's high time you stopped mooning around with the stars, Wesley
Filburn," his Aunt Jessica said, "and took stock of yourself. You're
thirty-two years old, you've no income except the miserable dribble you
get from your wild stories and you've no more responsibility than a
wild goat in the hills. It's time you settled down."

Wesley might have protested his independence, but his lifelong
conditioning had left him too little to discover. His Aunt Jessica had
brought him up from childhood after the death of his parents, who had
owned his half of the inn before him; he owed her a great deal for
her care and affection, as he had been told often enough to remove
any lingering doubt, and the least he could do now was heed her wiser
counsel.

"I'm too old and worn to keep the inn as it should be kept," his Aunt
Jessica went on firmly. "I'm ready to retire and live with my widowed
sister in California, but I can't go until you're safely settled with
someone who will see that you take care of your own interests. You
couldn't deny me the comfortable retirement I've earned, could you?"

Wesley couldn't. It occurred to him that his Aunt Jessica was only
fifty-five and that her retirement had been provided for out of
the net proceeds of the inn--it had always taken his share to meet
expenses--but he put the ungrateful thought away guiltily. Aunt Jessica
had earned her retirement while he idled, too busy spinning dreams to
attend to his trust. If he had had no Aunt Jessica to turn to--

"It's simple enough," his Aunt Jessica said. "I'll move in with my
sister as soon as you are married. Miriam is an excellent manager; the
two of you should have a comfortable thing of it, the tourist trade
holding up as it is."

"I suppose you're right," Wesley said. "You usually are."

Miriam _was_ a competent manager; he could picture her without strain
with her rimless spectacles clamped firmly on her adequate nose, meager
lips set while she totted up their assets. Miriam was an inch taller
than himself and a year or two older, but such details, his Aunt
Jessica was fond of saying, mattered a fig or less. It was the heart
that counted.

"All that's needed," his Aunt Jessica finished, "is telling Miriam.
Will you, or shall I?"

Some spark of repressed independence made Wesley mutter, "I'll tell
her."

It was not really necessary, he found when he sat with Miriam on the
verandah that evening and looked down over the slope of mountains
toward the handful of lights that marked out Sampson City. The weight
of his decision weighed on him so heavily that Miriam, who was nothing
if not decisive, took the initiative.

"Your Aunt Jessica is planning to retire and live with her sister in
California," she said. "Can you run the inn alone, Wesley?"

"I doubt it," Wesley said. He knew he couldn't; there were too many
prosaic but vital details, too many procurings and disbursings for his
dreamer's nature to cope with. "I was thinking that maybe you--"

"Of course I will," Miriam said. She peered in the gloom, saw his
tension and contented herself with patting his hand. "I'll resign as
soon as school is out in June. We'll be married, and I'll look after
things when Miss Filburn goes to her sister's. Is that the way you want
it, Wesley?"

Wesley wondered if it was. The spring darkness below and beyond the
inn was warm and alive, vibrant with the tantalizing nebulous promise
that had led him on like a will-o-the-wisp all his life without once
revealing itself. The romance of strange places never seen and never to
be seen called powerfully, a tocsin so familiar that his response was
as much nostalgia as longing.

His Aunt Jessica joined them on the verandah, saving any need of
further talk unnecessary. He had an impression, instantly rejected as
unworthy, that she had been listening behind the screen for the outcome
of his proposal.

"It's all settled, Miss Filburn," Miriam said comfortably. "Wesley and
I are going to be married in June."
