
The second brochure arrived next morning, again, coincidentally, with a
letter from Wesley's agent. Terse as ever, the note said:

    _Great stuff; background so convincing I dammed nearly believed in
    it myself. Shoot me another._

                                                               _Henry._

With it came a check that left Wesley faint with disbelief.

The second travelogue advertised a world vastly different from
Aldhafera's utopia. The system was Alpha Geminorum, Castor--a visual
binary subdivided into spectroscopic doubles, presenting a four-sun
family revolving in pairs about itself, a cosmic madhouse that gave
precarious shelter to only one inmate.

That planet, called Turlak, was unique in the galaxy. Caught at a
focal point between its various primaries, it suffered every extreme
of heat and cold, of grinding glacier and roaring volcano. Approach
or retreat of an ascendant sun could double a visitor's weight or
levitate him; the air itself rushed from hemisphere to hemisphere in a
continuous demoniac hurricane.

The possibilities were unlimited.

Out of them Wesley contrived for an exploring party to crash under
Turlak's freakish gravity, for a beautiful girl ecologist to be
snatched from the ship by the perpetual hurricane and for the
expedition's handsome young hydroponicist to rescue her. Because there
were no convenient inimical life forms on Turlak, Wesley threw in a
couple of logical menaces in the way of red-hot lava serpents and
bat-winged flying crocodiles whose natural element was the rushing wind.

The following week saw this thumbnail synopsis turned into another
novelet, less idyllic but more hectic than the first. He handed it
over, weighed and stamped and sealed with scotch tape, to Charlie
Birdsall on the morning of the first Monday in May.

Charlie eyed the flat packet with respect. "Looks like you're getting
the range," he said. "Wes, if you turn 'em out regular like this for
the price that last one brought, you've got it made."

He squinted appraisingly when Wesley made deprecating sounds. "I'd keep
it quiet if I was you, though. Miriam will want to renovate the inn
after you're married, maybe add a new wing."

Wesley stiffened. "How did you know?"

"The announcement was in yesterday's paper," Charlie told him.

Miriam had wasted no time, Wesley thought. Confound it, you'd almost
think she was deliberately burning his bridges behind him by making the
thing public before he could reconsider.

Charlie startled him further.

"Maybe you know what you're doing, at that," Charlie said cryptically.
"Maybe you're keen enough to know a good deal when you see one, after
all."

He put the car into gear and paused with a foot on the clutch. "So busy
talking I nearly forgot I had another one of those tourist ads for you.
What did you do, join a vacation club?"

"In a way," Wesley said. "I won't have a chance to use it, though."

"Tough," Charlie said, and drove away.
