
To distract resentful thought Wesley turned to his Adventure again,
forgetting in the fascination of his third brochure that, for him,
doom rhymed with June. The locale this time was a planet called
Porizinia, circling Alpha Bootis--Arcturus. No life existed upon the
surface of Porizinia because of her primary's tremendous heat, but
the subterranean world below was something else again. The planet was
largely igneous and so translucent, clear enough to let Arcturus light
with fairy luminescence the endless labyrinth of caverns and tunnels
that made up a nether environment all their own.

The maze was filled in its lower levels with a buried ocean that ran
in crystal tides past coral shoals where mermaid autochthons sunned
themselves in the filtered glow and sang siren songs to enchant
visitors. Those sections passable to air-breathers were carefully
designated. Wesley, fingering the round-trip coupons at the end of the
brochure, was startled to find himself eaten with the desire to see the
place at first hand.

He rejected the impulse partly because he knew the outcry his Aunt
Jessica and Miriam would set up and partly because he understood it for
what it was, an instinctive groping for an escape from the catastrophe
of June.

It was better in any case to wait, he decided, recalling the
near-impish look of Herif when she had promised that he would like the
Sonimuiran travelogue. What, he wondered, was Sonimuira like?

Before the Porizinian story was finished he had another note from his
agent:

    _The Turlak job went like a collector's item. They're screaming for
    more. Can do?_

                                                               _Henry._

Enclosed was another check that would have made Wesley drunk with
triumph but for the knowledge that June was only three weeks away.

The Porizinian story was mailed. Another brochure arrived, and another;
life became a predictable routine; half labor, half escape. Wesley
wrote and dreamed and talked briefly over the gate with Charlie
Birdsall. Now and then, too tired to sit longer at his typewriter, he
sat on the verandah at night with his Aunt Jessica and Miriam.

They did not press him now because their victory was won and their
laurels assured. May dwindled away, quiet as a candle; Wesley's account
fattened in the Sampson City bank; his agent promoted an anthology of
his later stories and suggested a novel.

Wesley, in his room, laughed hollowly. Success, now that it had come,
had an ashy taste.

The Sonimuiran booklet arrived on the twenty-fifth of May. A
newly-envious Charlie Birdsall passed it to him over the gate, and a
bombshell of disillusion with it.

"Have to admit I figured you wrong all these years," Charlie said. "You
_do_ know a good deal when you see it. Glad to see you making the most
of it, Wes."

Wesley hefted his packet. "What do you mean?"

"You know what I mean," Charlie said. "When Miss Jessica retires you'll
really have it made, with Miriam looking after the inn while you pull
in big money writing."

He stretched his underlip with thumb and forefinger and let it snap
back. "It could be as good for a man with a job like mine, if he had a
half interest in a place like this to begin with. I'd jump at it just
like you did."

Wesley was amazed and chilled. "You'd marry for _convenience_?"

"Sure," Charlie said. "There's no percentage in this romance stuff."

He went on in sudden confessional candor: "Most women figure it the
same way. I know Miriam does--she tried to hook me when I first got
my job with the post office, but the odds were all hers and I wasn't
having any. That was before you came to room with your aunt--and why
do you think she picked the inn here, anyway? Miriam's not getting any
younger and she's looking out for herself. I'm glad to see you've got
brains enough to do the same."

"Well," Wesley said. There was nothing to add to it. "Well."

"Well, I better go," Charlie said, and did.

In his room, Wesley sat with his unopened packet in his hand and
thought gray thoughts.

It was one thing to plod dutifully to doom because of loyalty to his
Aunt Jessica and an unwillingness to hurt Miriam, but another matter
entirely to be maneuvered into a selfish solution of their problems.
Miriam wanted security, however obtained. His Aunt Jessica wanted
retirement with the income that would continue to roll in as long as
the inn remained under Miriam's capable hand. The two of them had
arranged it all between them as calmly as they might have made up a
grocery list.

"Sucker," Wesley said. "If there were a way out--"

Because there was none he let it drop and opened his latest brochure.

The planet of Sonimuira circled a star listed as Beta Aquilae,
Alschain. Details of distance and placement meant nothing to the
electrified Wesley; what did register was that Herif, in venturing that
he would like Sonimuira, had made a galactic understatement.

One look sent Wesley headlong to town in his Aunt Jessica's car.
Returning an hour later, he ripped his small armful of travelogues to
pieces and--except for one page that fell behind his desk--burned them
in the backyard incinerator.

Then he disappeared in the direction of Sampson's Creek.
