

On the 17th of July, 1851, a tragedy of no little interest occurred in
one of the residences of the Colonnade in Lafayette Place.

Mr. Hasbrouck, a well-known and highly respected citizen, was attacked
in his room by an unknown assailant, and shot dead before assistance
could reach him. His murderer escaped, and the problem offered to the
police was, how to identify this person who, by some happy chance or by
the exercise of the most remarkable forethought, had left no traces
behind him, or any clue by which he could be followed.

The affair was given to a young man, named Ebenezer Gryce, to
investigate, and the story, as he tells it, is this:

       *       *       *       *       *

When, some time after midnight, I reached Lafayette Place, I found the
block lighted from end to end. Groups of excited men and women peered
from the open doorways, and mingled their shadows with those of the huge
pillars which adorn the front of this picturesque block of dwellings.

The house in which the crime had been committed was near the centre of
the row, and, long before I reached it, I had learned from more than
one source that the alarm was first given to the street by a woman's
shriek, and secondly by the shouts of an old man-servant who had
appeared, in a half-dressed condition, at the window of Mr. Hasbrouck's
room, crying "Murder! murder!"

But when I had crossed the threshold, I was astonished at the paucity of
the facts to be gleaned from the inmates themselves. The old servitor,
who was the first to talk, had only this account of the crime to give.

The family, which consisted of Mr. Hasbrouck, his wife, and three
servants, had retired for the night at the usual hour and under the
usual auspices. At eleven o'clock the lights were all extinguished, and
the whole household asleep, with the possible exception of Mr.
Hasbrouck himself, who, being a man of large business responsibilities,
was frequently troubled with insomnia.

Suddenly Mrs. Hasbrouck woke with a start. Had she dreamed the words
that were ringing in her ears, or had they been actually uttered in her
hearing? They were short, sharp words, full of terror and menace, and
she had nearly satisfied herself that she had imagined them, when there
came, from somewhere near the door, a sound she neither understood nor
could interpret, but which filled her with inexplicable terror, and made
her afraid to breathe, or even to stretch forth her hand towards her
husband, whom she supposed to be sleeping at her side. At length another
strange sound, which she was sure was not due to her imagination, drove
her to make an attempt to rouse him, when she was horrified to find that
she was alone in the bed, and her husband nowhere within reach.

Filled now with something more than nervous apprehension, she flung
herself to the floor, and tried to penetrate, with frenzied glances, the
surrounding darkness. But the blinds and shutters both having been
carefully closed by Mr. Hasbrouck before retiring, she found this
impossible, and she was about to sink in terror to the floor, when she
heard a low gasp on the other side of the room, followed by the
suppressed cry:

"God! what have I done!"

The voice was a strange one, but before the fear aroused by this fact
could culminate in a shriek of dismay, she caught the sound of
retreating footsteps, and, eagerly listening, she heard them descend the
stairs and depart by the front door.

Had she known what had occurred--had there been no doubt in her mind as
to what lay in the darkness on the other side of the room--it is likely
that, at the noise caused by the closing front door, she would have made
at once for the balcony that opened out from the window before which she
was standing, and taken one look at the flying figure below. But her
uncertainty as to what lay hidden from her by the darkness chained her
feet to the floor, and there is no knowing when she would have moved, if
a carriage had not at that moment passed down Astor Place, bringing with
it a sense of companionship which broke the spell that held her, and
gave her strength to light the gas, which was in ready reach of her
hand.

As the sudden blaze illuminated the room, revealing in a burst the old
familiar walls and well-known pieces of furniture, she felt for a moment
as if released from some heavy nightmare and restored to the common
experiences of life. But in another instant her former dread returned,
and she found herself quaking at the prospect of passing around the foot
of the bed into that part of the room which was as yet hidden from her
eyes.

But the desperation which comes with great crises finally drove her from
her retreat; and, creeping slowly forward, she cast one glance at the
floor before her, when she found her worst fears realized by the sight
of the dead body of her husband lying prone before the open doorway,
with a bullet-hole in his forehead.

Her first impulse was to shriek, but, by a powerful exercise of will,
she checked herself, and, ringing frantically for the servants who slept
on the top-floor of the house, flew to the nearest window and endeavored
to open it. But the shutters had been bolted so securely by Mr.
Hasbrouck, in his endeavor to shut out light and sound, that by the time
she had succeeded in unfastening them, all trace of the flying murderer
had vanished from the street.

Sick with grief and terror, she stepped back into the room just as the
three frightened servants descended the stairs. As they appeared in the
open doorway, she pointed at her husband's inanimate form, and then, as
if suddenly realizing in its full force the calamity which had befallen
her, she threw up her arms, and sank forward to the floor in a dead
faint.

The two women rushed to her assistance, but the old butler, bounding
over the bed, sprang to the window, and shrieked his alarm to the
street.

In the interim that followed, Mrs. Hasbrouck was revived, and the
master's body laid decently on the bed; but no pursuit was made, nor any
inquiries started likely to assist me in establishing the identity of
the assailant.

Indeed, every one, both in the house and out, seemed dazed by the
unexpected catastrophe, and as no one had any suspicions to offer as to
the probable murderer, I had a difficult task before me.

I began, in the usual way, by inspecting the scene of the murder. I
found nothing in the room, or in the condition of the body itself, which
added an iota to the knowledge already obtained. That Mr. Hasbrouck had
been in bed; that he had risen upon hearing a noise; and that he had
been shot before reaching the door, were self-evident facts. But there
was nothing to guide me further. The very simplicity of the
circumstances caused a dearth of clues, which made the difficulty of
procedure as great as any I ever encountered.

My search through the hall and down the stairs elicited nothing; and an
investigation of the bolts and bars by which the house was secured,
assured me that the assassin had either entered by the front door, or
had already been secreted in the house when it was locked up for the
night.

"I shall have to trouble Mrs. Hasbrouck for a short interview," I
hereupon announced to the trembling old servitor, who had followed me
like a dog about the house.

He made no demur, and in a few minutes I was ushered into the presence
of the newly made widow, who sat quite alone, in a large chamber in the
rear. As I crossed the threshold she looked up, and I encountered a good
plain face, without the shadow of guile in it.

"Madam," said I, "I have not come to disturb you. I will ask two or
three questions only, and then leave you to your grief. I am told that
some words came from the assassin before he delivered his fatal shot.
Did you hear these distinctly enough to tell me what they were?"

"I was sound asleep," said she, "and dreamt, as I thought, that a
fierce, strange voice cried somewhere to some one: 'Ah! you did not
expect _me_!' But I dare not say that these words were really uttered to
my husband, for he was not the man to call forth hate, and only a man in
the extremity of passion could address such an exclamation in such a
tone as rings in my memory in connection with the fatal shot which woke
me."

"But that shot was not the work of a friend," I argued. "If, as these
words seem to prove, the assassin had some other motive than gain in his
assault, then your husband had an enemy, though you never suspected it."

"Impossible!" was her steady reply, uttered in the most convincing tone.
"The man who shot him was a common burglar, and, frightened at having
been betrayed into murder, fled without looking for booty. I am sure I
heard him cry out in terror and remorse: 'God! what have I done!'"

"Was that before you left the side of the bed?"

"Yes; I did not move from my place till I heard the front door close. I
was paralyzed by my fear and dread."

"Are you in the habit of trusting to the security of a latch-lock only
in the fastening of your front door at night? I am told that the big key
was not in the lock, and that the bolt at the bottom of the door was not
drawn."

"The bolt at the bottom of the door is never drawn. Mr. Hasbrouck was so
good a man he never mistrusted any one. That is why the big lock was not
fastened. The key, not working well, he took it some days ago to the
locksmith, and when the latter failed to return it, he laughed, and said
he thought no one would ever think of meddling with his front door."

"Is there more than one night-key to your house?" I now asked.

She shook her head.

"And when did Mr. Hasbrouck last use his?"

"To-night, when he came home from prayer-meeting," she answered, and
burst into tears.

Her grief was so real and her loss so recent that I hesitated to afflict
her by further questions. So returning to the scene of the tragedy, I
stepped out upon the balcony which ran in front. Soft voices instantly
struck my ears. The neighbors on either side were grouped in front of
their own windows, and were exchanging the remarks natural under the
circumstances. I paused, as in duty bound, and listened. But I heard
nothing worth recording, and would have instantly re-entered the house,
if I had not been impressed by the appearance of a very graceful woman
who stood at my right. She was clinging to her husband, who was gazing
at one of the pillars before him in a strange, fixed way which
astonished me till he attempted to move, and then I saw that he was
blind. Instantly I remembered that there lived in this row a blind
doctor, equally celebrated for his skill and for his uncommon personal
attractions, and, greatly interested not only in his affliction, but in
the sympathy evinced for him by his young and affectionate wife, I stood
still till I heard her say in the soft and appealing tones of love:

"Come in, Constant; you have heavy duties for to-morrow, and you should
get a few hours' rest, if possible."

He came from the shadow of the pillar, and for one minute I saw his face
with the lamplight shining full upon it. It was as regular of feature as
a sculptured Adonis, and it was as white.

"Sleep!" he repeated, in the measured tones of deep but suppressed
feeling. "Sleep! with murder on the other side of the wall!" And he
stretched out his arms in a dazed way that insensibly accentuated the
horror I myself felt of the crime which had so lately taken place in the
room behind me.

She, noting the movement, took one of the groping hands in her own and
drew him gently towards her.

"This way," she urged; and, guiding him into the house, she closed the
window and drew down the shades, making the street seem darker by the
loss of her exquisite presence.

This may seem a digression, but I was at the time a young man of thirty,
and much under the dominion of woman's beauty. I was therefore slow in
leaving the balcony, and persistent in my wish to learn something of
this remarkable couple before leaving Mr. Hasbrouck's house.

The story told me was very simple. Dr. Zabriskie had not been born
blind, but had become so after a grievous illness which had stricken him
down soon after he received his diploma. Instead of succumbing to an
affliction which would have daunted most men, he expressed his intention
of practising his profession, and soon became so successful in it that
he found no difficulty in establishing himself in one of the best-paying
quarters of the city. Indeed, his intuition seemed to have developed in
a remarkable degree after his loss of sight, and he seldom, if ever,
made a mistake in diagnosis. Considering this fact, and the personal
attractions which gave him distinction, it was no wonder that he soon
became a popular physician whose presence was a benefaction and whose
word a law.

He had been engaged to be married at the time of his illness, and, when
he learned what was likely to be its results, had offered to release the
young lady from all obligation to him. But she would not be released,
and they were married. This had taken place some five years previous to
Mr. Hasbrouck's death, three of which had been spent by them in
Lafayette Place.

So much for the beautiful woman next door.

There being absolutely no clue to the assailant of Mr. Hasbrouck, I
naturally looked forward to the inquest for some evidence upon which to
work. But there seemed to be no underlying facts to this tragedy. The
most careful study into the habits and conduct of the deceased brought
nothing to light save his general beneficence and rectitude, nor was
there in his history or in that of his wife any secret or hidden
obligation calculated to provoke any such act of revenge as murder. Mrs.
Hasbrouck's surmise that the intruder was simply a burglar, and that she
had rather imagined than heard the words that pointed to the shooting as
a deed of vengeance, soon gained general credence. But, though the
police worked long and arduously in this new direction, their efforts
were without fruit, and the case bade fair to remain an unsolvable
mystery.

But the deeper the mystery the more persistently does my mind cling to
it, and some five months after the matter had been delegated to
oblivion, I found myself starting suddenly from sleep, with these words
ringing in my ears:

"_Who uttered the scream that gave the first alarm of Mr. Hasbrouck's
violent death?_"

I was in such a state of excitement that the perspiration stood out on
my forehead. Mrs. Hasbrouck's story of the occurrence returned to me,
and I remembered as distinctly as if she were then speaking, that she
had expressly stated that she did not scream when confronted by the
sight of her husband's dead body. But some one had screamed, and that
very loudly. Who was it, then? One of the maids, startled by the sudden
summons from below, or some one else--some involuntary witness of the
crime, whose testimony had been suppressed at the inquest, by fear or
influence?

The possibility of having come upon a clue even at this late day, so
fired my ambition, that I took the first opportunity of revisiting
Lafayette Place. Choosing such persons as I thought most open to my
questions, I learned that there were many who could testify to having
heard a woman's shrill scream on that memorable night just prior to the
alarm given by old Cyrus, but no one who could tell from whose lips it
had come. One fact, however, was immediately settled. It had not been
the result of the servant-women's fears. Both of the girls were positive
that they had uttered no sound, nor had they themselves heard any, till
Cyrus rushed to the window with his wild cries. As the scream, by
whomever given, was uttered before they descended the stairs, I was
convinced by these assurances that it had issued from one of the front
windows, and not from the rear of the house, where their own rooms lay.
Could it be that it had sprung from the adjoining dwelling, and that----
My thoughts went no further, but I made up my mind to visit the Doctor's
house at once.

It took some courage to do this, for the Doctor's wife had attended the
inquest, and her beauty, seen in broad daylight, had worn such an aspect
of mingled sweetness and dignity, that I hesitated to encounter it under
any circumstances likely to disturb its pure serenity. But a clue, once
grasped, cannot be lightly set aside by a true detective, and it would
have taken more than a woman's frown to stop me at this point. So I rang
Dr. Zabriskie's bell.

I am seventy years old now and am no longer daunted by the charms of a
beautiful woman, but I confess that when I found myself in the fine
reception parlor on the first-floor, I experienced no little trepidation
at the prospect of the interview which awaited me.

But as soon as the fine commanding form of the Doctor's wife crossed the
threshold, I recovered my senses and surveyed her with as direct a gaze
as my position allowed. For her aspect bespoke a degree of emotion that
astonished me; and even before I spoke I perceived her to be trembling,
though she was a woman of no little natural dignity and self-possession.

"I seem to know your face," she said, advancing courteously towards me,
"but your name"--and here she glanced at the card she held in her
hand--"is totally unfamiliar to me."

"I think you saw me some eighteen months ago," said I. "I am the
detective who gave testimony at the inquest which was held over the
remains of Mr. Hasbrouck."

I had not meant to startle her, but at this introduction of myself I saw
her naturally pale cheek turn paler, and her fine eyes, which had been
fixed curiously upon me, gradually sink to the floor.

"Great heaven!" thought I, "what is this I have stumbled upon!"

"I do not understand what business you can have with me," she presently
remarked, with a show of gentle indifference that did not in the least
deceive me.

"I do not wonder," I rejoined. "The crime which took place next door is
almost forgotten by the community, and even if it were not, I am sure
you would find it difficult to conjecture the nature of the question I
have to put to you."

"I am surprised," she began, rising in her involuntary emotion and
thereby compelling me to rise also. "How can you have any question to
ask me on this subject? Yet if you have," she continued, with a rapid
change of manner that touched my heart in spite of myself, "I shall, of
course, do my best to answer you."

There are women whose sweetest tones and most charming smiles only serve
to awaken distrust in men of my calling; but Mrs. Zabriskie was not of
this number. Her face was beautiful, but it was also candid in its
expression, and beneath the agitation which palpably disturbed her, I
was sure there lurked nothing either wicked or false. Yet I held fast by
the clue which I had grasped, as it were, in the dark, and without
knowing whither I was tending, much less whither I was leading her, I
proceeded to say:

"The question which I presume to put to you as the next-door neighbor of
Mr. Hasbrouck, is this: Who was the woman who screamed out so loudly
that the whole neighborhood heard her on the night of that gentleman's
assassination?"

The gasp she gave answered my question in a way she little realized,
and, struck as I was by the impalpable links that had led me to the
threshold of this hitherto unsolvable mystery, I was about to press my
advantage and ask another question, when she quickly started forward and
laid her hand on my lips.

Astonished, I looked at her inquiringly, but her head was turned aside,
and her eyes, fixed upon the door, showed the greatest anxiety.
Instantly I realized what she feared. Her husband was entering the
house, and she dreaded lest his ears should catch a word of our
conversation.

Not knowing what was in her mind, and unable to realize the importance
of the moment to her, I yet listened to the advance of her blind
husband with an almost painful interest. Would he enter the room where
we were, or would he pass immediately to his office in the rear? She
seemed to wonder too, and almost held her breath as he neared the door,
paused, and stood in the open doorway, with his ear turned towards us.

As for myself, I remained perfectly still, gazing at his face in mingled
surprise and apprehension. For besides its beauty, which was of a marked
order, as I have already observed, it had a touching expression which
irresistibly aroused both pity and interest in the spectator. This may
have been the result of his affliction, or it may have sprung from some
deeper cause; but, whatever its source, this look in his face produced a
strong impression upon me and interested me at once in his personality.
Would he enter? Or would he pass on? Her look of silent appeal showed me
in which direction her wishes lay, but while I answered her glance by
complete silence, I was conscious in some indistinct way that the
business I had undertaken would be better furthered by his entrance.

The blind have been often said to possess a sixth sense in place of the
one they have lost. Though I am sure we made no noise, I soon perceived
that he was aware of our presence. Stepping hastily forward he said, in
the high and vibrating tone of restrained passion:

"Helen, are you here?"

For a moment I thought she did not mean to answer, but knowing
doubtless from experience the impossibility of deceiving him, she
answered with a cheerful assent, dropping her hand as she did so from
before my lips.

He heard the slight rustle which accompanied the movement, and a look I
found it hard to comprehend flashed over his features, altering his
expression so completely that he seemed another man.

"You have some one with you," he declared, advancing another step but
with none of the uncertainty which usually accompanies the movements of
the blind. "Some dear friend," he went on, with an almost sarcastic
emphasis and a forced smile that had little of gaiety in it.

The agitated and distressed blush which answered him could have but one
interpretation. He suspected that her hand had been clasped in mine, and
she perceived his thought and knew that I perceived it also.

Drawing herself up, she moved towards him, saying in a sweet womanly
tone that to me spoke volumes:

"It is no friend, Constant, not even an acquaintance. The person whom I
now present to you is an agent from the police. He is here upon a
trivial errand which will be soon finished, when I will join you in your
office."

I knew she was but taking a choice between two evils. That she would
have saved her husband the knowledge of a detective's presence in the
house, if her self-respect would have allowed it, but neither she nor I
anticipated the effect which this presentation produced upon him.

"A police officer," he repeated, staring with his sightless eyes, as if,
in his eagerness to see, he half hoped his lost sense would return. "He
can have no trivial errand here; he has been sent by God Himself to----"

"Let me speak for you," hastily interposed his wife, springing to his
side and clasping his arm with a fervor that was equally expressive of
appeal and command. Then turning to me, she explained: "Since Mr.
Hasbrouck's unaccountable death, my husband has been laboring under an
hallucination which I have only to mention for you to recognize its
perfect absurdity. He thinks--oh! do not look like that, Constant; you
know it is an hallucination which must vanish the moment we drag it
into broad daylight--that he--_he_, the best man in all the world, was
himself the assailant of Mr. Hasbrouck."

Good God!

"I say nothing of the impossibility of this being so," she went on in a
fever of expostulation. "He is blind, and could not have delivered such
a shot even if he had desired to; besides, he had no weapon. But the
inconsistency of the thing speaks for itself, and should assure him that
his mind is unbalanced and that he is merely suffering from a shock that
was greater than we realized. He is a physician and has had many such
instances in his own practice. Why, he was very much attached to Mr.
Hasbrouck! They were the best of friends, and though he insists that he
killed him, he cannot give any reason for the deed."

At these words the Doctor's face grew stern, and he spoke like an
automaton repeating some fearful lesson.

"I killed him. I went to his room and deliberately shot him. I had
nothing against him, and my remorse is extreme. Arrest me, and let me
pay the penalty of my crime. It is the only way in which I can obtain
peace."

Shocked beyond all power of self-control by this repetition of what she
evidently considered the unhappy ravings of a madman, she let go his arm
and turned upon me in frenzy.

"Convince him!" she cried. "Convince him by your questions that he never
could have done this fearful thing."

I was laboring under great excitement myself, for I felt my youth
against me in a matter of such tragic consequence. Besides, I agreed
with her that he was in a distempered state of mind, and I hardly knew
how to deal with one so fixed in his hallucination and with so much
intelligence to support it. But the emergency was great, for he was
holding out his wrists in the evident expectation of my taking him into
instant custody; and the sight was killing his wife, who had sunk on the
floor between us, in terror and anguish.

"You say you killed Mr. Hasbrouck," I began. "Where did you get your
pistol, and what did you do with it after you left his house?"

"My husband had no pistol; never had any pistol," put in Mrs.
Zabriskie, with vehement assertion. "If I had seen him with such a
weapon----"

"I threw it away. When I left the house, I cast it as far from me as
possible, for I was frightened at what I had done, horribly frightened."

"No pistol was ever found," I answered, with a smile, forgetting for the
moment that he could not see. "If such an instrument had been found in
the street after a murder of such consequence it certainly would have
been brought to the police."

"You forget that a good pistol is valuable property," he went on
stolidly. "Some one came along before the general alarm was given; and
seeing such a treasure lying on the sidewalk, picked it up and carried
it off. Not being an honest man, he preferred to keep it to drawing the
attention of the police upon himself."

"Hum, perhaps," said I; "but where did _you_ get it. Surely you can tell
where you procured such a weapon, if, as your wife intimates, you did
not own one."

"I bought it that self-same night of a friend; a friend whom I will not
name, since he resides no longer in this country. I----" He paused;
intense passion was in his face; he turned towards his wife, and a low
cry escaped him, which made her look up in fear.

"I do not wish to go into any particulars," said he. "God forsook me and
I committed a horrible crime. When I am punished, perhaps peace will
return to me and happiness to her. I would not wish her to suffer too
long or too bitterly for my sin."

"Constant!" What love was in the cry! and what despair! It seemed to
move him and turn his thoughts for a moment into a different channel.

"Poor child!" he murmured, stretching out his hands by an irresistible
impulse towards her. But the change was but momentary, and he was soon
again the stern and determined self-accuser. "Are you going to take me
before a magistrate?" he asked. "If so, I have a few duties to perform
which you are welcome to witness."

"I have no warrant," I said; "besides, I am scarcely the one to take
such a responsibility upon myself. If, however, you persist in your
declaration, I will communicate with my superiors, who will take such
action as they think best."

"That will be still more satisfactory to me," said he; "for though I
have many times contemplated giving myself up to the authorities, I have
still much to do before I can leave my home and practice without injury
to others. Good-day; when you want me, you will find me here."

He was gone, and the poor young wife was left crouching on the floor
alone. Pitying her shame and terror, I ventured to remark that it was
not an uncommon thing for a man to confess to a crime he had never
committed, and assured her that the matter would be inquired into very
carefully before any attempt was made upon his liberty.

She thanked me, and, slowly rising, tried to regain her equanimity; but
the manner as well as the matter of her husband's self-condemnation was
too overwhelming in its nature for her to recover readily from her
emotions.

"I have long dreaded this," she acknowledged. "For months I have
foreseen that he would make some rash communication or insane avowal. If
I had dared, I would have consulted some physician about this
hallucination of his; but he was so sane on other points that I
hesitated to give my dreadful secret to the world. I kept hoping that
time and his daily pursuits would have their effect and restore him to
himself. But his illusion grows, and now I fear that nothing will ever
convince him that he did not commit the deed of which he accuses
himself. If he were not blind I would have more hope, but the blind have
so much time for brooding."

"I think he had better be indulged in his fancies for the present," I
ventured. "If he is laboring under an illusion it might be dangerous to
cross him."

"_If?_" she echoed in an indescribable tone of amazement and dread. "Can
you for a moment harbor the idea that he has spoken the truth?"

"Madam," I returned, with something of the cynicism of my later years,
"what caused you to give such an unearthly scream just before this
murder was made known to the neighborhood?"

She stared, paled, and finally began to tremble, not, as I now believe,
at the insinuation latent in my words, but at the doubts which my
question aroused in her own breast.

"Did I?" she asked; then with a great burst of candor, which seemed
inseparable from her nature, she continued: "Why do I try to mislead you
or deceive myself? I did give a shriek just before the alarm was raised
next door; but it was not from any knowledge I had of a crime having
been committed, but because I unexpectedly saw before me my husband whom
I supposed to be on his way to Poughkeepsie. He was looking very pale
and strange, and for a moment I thought I was beholding his ghost. But
he soon explained his appearance by saying that he had fallen from the
train and had been only saved by a miracle from being dismembered; and
I was just bemoaning his mishap and trying to calm him and myself, when
that terrible shout was heard next door of 'Murder! murder!' Coming so
soon after the shock he had himself experienced, it quite unnerved him,
and I think we can date his mental disturbance from that moment. For he
began almost immediately to take a morbid interest in the affair next
door, though it was weeks, if not months, before he let a word fall of
the nature of those you have just heard. Indeed it was not till I
repeated to him some of the expressions he was continually letting fall
in his sleep, that he commenced to accuse himself of crime and talk of
retribution."

"You say that your husband frightened you on that night by appearing
suddenly at the door when you thought him on his way to Poughkeepsie. Is
Dr. Zabriskie in the habit of thus going and coming alone at an hour so
late as this must have been?"

"You forget that to the blind, night is less full of perils than the
day. Often and often has my husband found his way to his patients'
houses alone after midnight; but on this especial evening he had Harry
with him. Harry was his driver, and always accompanied him when he went
any distance."

"Well, then," said I, "all we have to do is to summon Harry and hear
what he has to say concerning this affair. He surely will know whether
or not his master went into the house next door."

"Harry has left us," she said. "Dr. Zabriskie has another driver now.
Besides--(I have nothing to conceal from you)--Harry was not with him when
he returned to the house that evening, or the Doctor would not have been
without his portmanteau till the next day. Something--I have never known
what--caused them to separate, and that is why I have no answer to give
the Doctor when he accuses himself of committing a deed on that night
which is wholly out of keeping with every other act of his life."

"And have you never questioned Harry why they separated and why he
allowed his master to come home alone after the shock he had received at
the station?"

"I did not know there was any reason for doing so till long after he
left us."

"And when did he leave?"

"That I do not remember. A few weeks or possibly a few days after that
dreadful night."

"And where is he now?"

"Ah, that I have not the least means of knowing. But," she suddenly
cried, "what do you want of Harry? If he did not follow Dr. Zabriskie to
his own door, he could tell us nothing that would convince my husband
that he is laboring under an illusion."

"But he might tell us something which would convince us that Dr.
Zabriskie was not himself after the accident, that he----"

"Hush!" came from her lips in imperious tones. "I will not believe that
he shot Mr. Hasbrouck even if you prove him to have been insane at the
time. How could he? My husband is blind. It would take a man of very
keen sight to force himself into a house that was closed for the night,
and kill a man in the dark at one shot."

"Rather," cried a voice from the doorway, "it is only a blind man who
could do this. Those who trust to eyesight must be able to catch some
glimpse of the mark they aim at, and this room, as I have been told, was
without a glimmer of light. But the blind trust to sound, and as Mr.
Hasbrouck spoke----"

"Oh!" burst from the horrified wife, "is there no one to stop him when
he speaks like that?"



