

When I related to my superiors the details of the foregoing interview,
two of them coincided with the wife in thinking that Dr. Zabriskie was
in an irresponsible condition of mind which made any statement of his
questionable. But the third seemed disposed to argue the matter, and,
casting me an inquiring look, seemed to ask what my opinion was on the
subject. Answering him as if he had spoken, I gave my conclusion as
follows: That whether insane or not, Dr. Zabriskie had fired the shot
which terminated Mr. Hasbrouck's life.

It was the Inspector's own idea, but it was not shared in by the others,
one of whom had known the Doctor for years. Accordingly they compromised
by postponing all opinion till they had themselves interrogated the
Doctor, and I was detailed to bring him before them the next afternoon.

He came without reluctance, his wife accompanying him. In the short time
which elapsed between their leaving Lafayette Place and entering
Headquarters, I embraced the opportunity of observing them, and I found
the study equally exciting and interesting. His face was calm but
hopeless, and his eye, which should have shown a wild glimmer if there
was truth in his wife's hypothesis, was dark and unfathomable, but
neither frenzied nor uncertain. He spake but once and listened to
nothing, though now and then his wife moved as if to attract his
attention, and once even stole her hand toward his, in the tender hope
that he would feel its approach and accept her sympathy. But he was deaf
as well as blind; and sat wrapped up in thoughts which she, I know,
would have given worlds to penetrate.

Her countenance was not without its mystery also. She showed in every
lineament passionate concern and misery, and a deep tenderness from
which the element of fear was not absent. But she, as well as he,
betrayed that some misunderstanding, deeper than any I had previously
suspected, drew its intangible veil between them and made the near
proximity in which they sat, at once a heart-piercing delight and an
unspeakable pain. What was this misunderstanding? and what was the
character of the fear that modified her every look of love in his
direction? Her perfect indifference to my presence proved that it was
not connected with the position in which he had put himself towards the
police by his voluntary confession of crime, nor could I thus interpret
the expression of frantic question which now and then contracted her
features, as she raised her eyes towards his sightless orbs, and strove
to read, in his firm-set lips, the meaning of those assertions she could
only ascribe to a loss of reason.

The stopping of the carriage seemed to awaken both from thoughts that
separated rather than united them. He turned his face in her direction,
and she, stretching forth her hand, prepared to lead him from the
carriage, without any of that display of timidity which had been
previously evident in her manner.

As his guide she seemed to fear nothing; as his lover, everything.

"There is another and a deeper tragedy underlying the outward and
obvious one," was my inward conclusion, as I followed them into the
presence of the gentlemen awaiting them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Zabriskie's appearance was a shock to those who knew him; so was his
manner, which was calm, straightforward, and quietly determined.

"I shot Mr. Hasbrouck," was his steady affirmation, given without any
show of frenzy or desperation. "If you ask me why I did it, I cannot
answer; if you ask me how, I am ready to state all that I know
concerning the matter."

"But, Dr. Zabriskie," interposed his friend, "the why is the most
important thing for us to consider just now. If you really desire to
convince us that you committed the dreadful crime of killing a totally
inoffensive man, you should give us some reason for an act so opposed to
all your instincts and general conduct."

But the Doctor continued unmoved:

"I had no reason for murdering Mr. Hasbrouck. A hundred questions can
elicit no other reply; you had better keep to the how."

A deep-drawn breath from the wife answered the looks of the three
gentlemen to whom this suggestion was offered. "You see," that breath
seemed to protest, "that he is not in his right mind."

I began to waver in my own opinion, and yet the intuition which has
served me in cases as seemingly impenetrable as this, bade me beware of
following the general judgment.

"Ask him to inform you how he got into the house," I whispered to
Inspector D----, who sat nearest me.

Immediately the Inspector put the question I had suggested:

"By what means did you enter Mr. Hasbrouck's house at so late an hour as
this murder occurred?"

The blind doctor's head fell forward on his breast, and he hesitated for
the first and only time.

"You will not believe me," said he; "but the door was ajar when I came
to it. Such things make crime easy; it is the only excuse I have to
offer for this dreadful deed."

The front door of a respectable citizen's house ajar at half-past eleven
at night. It was a statement that fixed in all minds the conviction of
the speaker's irresponsibility. Mrs. Zabriskie's brow cleared, and her
beauty became for a moment dazzling as she held out her hands in
irrepressible relief towards those who were interrogating her husband. I
alone kept my impassibility. A possible explanation of this crime had
flashed like lightning across my mind; an explanation from which I
inwardly recoiled, even while I was forced to consider it.

"Dr. Zabriskie," remarked the Inspector who was most friendly to him,
"such old servants as those kept by Mr. Hasbrouck do not leave the front
door ajar at twelve o'clock at night."

"Yet ajar it was," repeated the blind doctor, with quiet emphasis; "and
finding it so, I went in. When I came out again, I closed it. Do you
wish me to swear to what I say? If so, I am ready."

What could we reply? To see this splendid-looking man, hallowed by an
affliction so great that in itself it called forth the compassion of the
most indifferent, accusing himself of a cold-blooded crime, in tones
that sounded dispassionate because of the will that forced their
utterance, was too painful in itself for us to indulge in any
unnecessary words. Compassion took the place of curiosity, and each and
all of us turned involuntary looks of pity upon the young wife pressing
so eagerly to his side.

"For a blind man," ventured one, "the assault was both deft and certain.
Are you accustomed to Mr. Hasbrouck's house, that you found your way
with so little difficulty to his bedroom?"

"I am accustomed----" he began.

But here his wife broke in with irrepressible passion:

"He is not accustomed to that house. He has never been beyond the
first-floor. Why, why do you question him? Do you not see----"

His hand was on her lips.

"Hush!" he commanded. "You know my skill in moving about a house; how I
sometimes deceive those who do not know me into believing that I can
see, by the readiness with which I avoid obstacles and find my way even
in strange and untried scenes. Do not try to make them think I am not in
my right mind, or you will drive me into the very condition you
deprecate."

His face, rigid, cold, and set, looked like that of a mask. Hers, drawn
with horror and filled with question that was fast taking the form of
doubt, bespoke an awful tragedy from which more that one of us recoiled.

"Can you shoot a man dead without seeing him?" asked the Superintendent,
with painful effort.

"Give me a pistol and I will show you," was the quick reply.

A low cry came from the wife. In a drawer near to every one of us there
lay a pistol, but no one moved to take it out. There was a look in the
Doctor's eye which made us fear to trust him with a pistol just then.

"We will accept your assurance that you possess a skill beyond that of
most men," returned the Superintendent. And beckoning me forward, he
whispered: "This is a case for the doctors and not for the police.
Remove him quietly, and notify Dr. Southyard of what I say."

But Dr. Zabriskie, who seemed to have an almost supernatural acuteness
of hearing, gave a violent start at this and spoke up for the first time
with real passion in his voice:

"No, no, I pray you. I can bear anything but that. Remember, gentlemen,
that I am blind; that I cannot see who is about me; that my life would
be a torture if I felt myself surrounded by spies watching to catch some
evidence of madness in me. Rather conviction at once, death, dishonor,
and obloquy. These I have incurred. These I have brought upon myself by
crime, but not this worse fate--oh! not this worse fate."

His passion was so intense and yet so confined within the bounds of
decorum, that we felt strangely impressed by it. Only the wife stood
transfixed, with the dread growing in her heart, till her white, waxen
visage seemed even more terrible to contemplate than his
passion-distorted one.

"It is not strange that my wife thinks me demented," the Doctor
continued, as if afraid of the silence that answered him. "But it is
your business to discriminate, and you should know a sane man when you
see him."

Inspector D---- no longer hesitated.

"Very well," said he, "give us the least proof that your assertions are
true, and we will lay your case before the prosecuting attorney."

"Proof? Is not a man's word----"

"No man's confession is worth much without some evidence to support it.
In your case there is none. You cannot even produce the pistol with
which you assert yourself to have committed the deed."

"True, true. I was frightened by what I had done, and the instinct of
self-preservation led me to rid myself of the weapon in any way I could.
But some one found this pistol; some one picked it up from the sidewalk
of Lafayette Place on that fatal night. Advertise for it. Offer a
reward. I will give you the money." Suddenly he appeared to realize how
all this sounded. "Alas!" cried he, "I know the story seems improbable;
all I say seems improbable; but it is not the probable things that
happen in this life, but the improbable, as you should know, who every
day dig deep into the heart of human affairs."

Were these the ravings of insanity? I began to understand the wife's
terror.

"I bought the pistol," he went on, "of--alas! I cannot tell you his name.
Everything is against me. I cannot adduce one proof; yet she, even she,
is beginning to fear that my story is true. I know it by her silence, a
silence that yawns between us like a deep and unfathomable gulf."

But at these words her voice rang out with passionate vehemence.

"No, no, it is false! I will never believe that your hands have been
plunged in blood. You are my own pure-hearted Constant, cold, perhaps,
and stern, but with no guilt upon your conscience, save in your own wild
imagination."

"Helen, you are no friend to me," he declared, pushing her gently aside.
"Believe me innocent, but say nothing to lead these others to doubt my
word."

And she said no more, but her looks spoke volumes.

The result was that he was not detained, though he prayed for instant
commitment. He seemed to dread his own home, and the surveillance to
which he instinctively knew he would henceforth be subjected. To see him
shrink from his wife's hand as she strove to lead him from the room was
sufficiently painful; but the feeling thus aroused was nothing to that
with which we observed the keen and agonized expectancy of his look as
he turned and listened for the steps of the officer who followed him.

"I shall never again know whether or not I am alone," was his final
observation as he left our presence.

       *       *       *       *       *

I said nothing to my superiors of the thoughts I had had while listening
to the above interrogatories. A theory had presented itself to my mind
which explained in some measure the mysteries of the Doctor's conduct,
but I wished for time and opportunity to test its reasonableness before
submitting it to their higher judgment. And these seemed likely to be
given me, for the Inspectors continued divided in their opinion of the
blind physician's guilt, and the District-Attorney, when told of the
affair, pooh-poohed it without mercy, and declined to stir in the matter
unless some tangible evidence were forthcoming to substantiate the poor
Doctor's self-accusations.

"If guilty, why does he shrink from giving his motives," said he, "and
if so anxious to go to the gallows, why does he suppress the very facts
calculated to send him there? He is as mad as a March hare, and it is to
an asylum he should go and not to a jail."

In this conclusion I failed to agree with him, and as time wore on my
suspicions took shape and finally ended in a fixed conviction. Dr.
Zabriskie had committed the crime he avowed, but--let me proceed a little
further with my story before I reveal what lies beyond that "but."

Notwithstanding Dr. Zabriskie's almost frenzied appeal for solitude, a
man had been placed in surveillance over him in the shape of a young
doctor skilled in diseases of the brain. This man communicated more or
less with the police, and one morning I received from him the following
extracts from the diary he had been ordered to keep.

     "The Doctor is settling into a deep melancholy from which he
     tries to rise at times, but with only indifferent success.
     Yesterday he rode around to all his patients for the purpose
     of withdrawing his services on the plea of illness. But he
     still keeps his office open, and to-day I had the opportunity
     of witnessing his reception and treatment of the many
     sufferers who came to him for aid. I think he was conscious of
     my presence, though an attempt had been made to conceal it.
     For the listening look never left his face from the moment he
     entered the room, and once he rose and passed quickly from
     wall to wall, groping with outstretched hands into every nook
     and corner, and barely escaping contact with the curtain
     behind which I was hidden. But if he suspected my presence, he
     showed no displeasure at it, wishing perhaps for a witness to
     his skill in the treatment of disease.

     "And truly I never beheld a finer manifestation of practical
     insight in cases of a more or less baffling nature than I
     beheld in him to-day. He is certainly a most wonderful
     physician, and I feel bound to record that his mind is as
     clear for business as if no shadow had fallen upon it.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "Dr. Zabriskie loves his wife, but in a way that tortures both
     himself and her. If she is gone from the house he is wretched,
     and yet when she returns he often forbears to speak to her, or
     if he does speak, it is with a constraint that hurts her more
     than his silence. I was present when she came in to-day. Her
     step, which had been eager on the stairway, flagged as she
     approached the room, and he naturally noted the change and
     gave his own interpretation to it. His face, which had been
     very pale, flushed suddenly, and a nervous trembling seized
     him which he sought in vain to hide. But by the time her tall
     and beautiful figure stood in the doorway he was his usual
     self again in all but the expression of his eyes, which stared
     straight before him in an agony of longing only to be observed
     in those who have once seen.

     "'Where have you been, Helen?' he asked, as, contrary to his
     wont, he moved to meet her.

     "'To my mother's, to Arnold & Constable's, and to the
     hospital, as you requested,' was her quick answer, made
     without faltering or embarrassment.

     "He stepped still nearer and took her hand, and as he did so
     my physician's eye noted how his finger lay over her pulse in
     seeming unconsciousness.

     "'Nowhere else?' he queried.

     "She smiled the saddest kind of smile and shook her head;
     then, remembering that he could not see this movement, she
     cried in a wistful tone:

     "'Nowhere else, Constant; I was too anxious to get back.'

     "I expected him to drop her hand at this, but he did not; and
     his finger still rested on her pulse.

     "'And whom did you see while you were gone?' he continued.

     "She told him, naming over several names.

     "'You must have enjoyed yourself,' was his cold comment, as he
     let go her hand and turned away. But his manner showed
     relief, and I could not but sympathize with the pitiable
     situation of a man who found himself forced to means like
     these for probing the heart of his young wife.

     "Yet when I turned towards her I realized that her position
     was but little happier than his. Tears are no strangers to her
     eyes, but those that welled up at this moment seemed to
     possess a bitterness that promised but little peace for her
     future. Yet she quickly dried them and busied herself with
     ministrations for his comfort.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "If I am any judge of woman, Helen Zabriskie is superior to
     most of her sex. That her husband mistrusts her is evident,
     but whether this is the result of the stand she has taken in
     his regard, or only a manifestation of dementia, I have as
     yet been unable to determine. I dread to leave them alone
     together, and yet when I presume to suggest that she should be
     on her guard in her interviews with him, she smiles very
     placidly and tells me that nothing would give her greater joy
     than to see him lift his hand against her, for that would
     argue that he is not accountable for his deeds or for his
     assertions.

     "Yet it would be a grief to see her injured by this passionate
     and unhappy man.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "You have said that you wanted all details I could give; so I
     feel bound to say, that Dr. Zabriskie tries to be considerate
     of his wife, though he often fails in the attempt. When she
     offers herself as his guide, or assists him with his mail, or
     performs any of the many acts of kindness by which she
     continually manifests her sense of his affliction, he thanks
     her with courtesy and often with kindness, yet I know she
     would willingly exchange all his set phrases for one fond
     embrace or impulsive smile of affection. That he is not in the
     full possession of his faculties would be too much to say, and
     yet upon what other hypothesis can we account for the
     inconsistencies of his conduct.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "I have before me two visions of mental suffering. At noon I
     passed the office door, and looking within, saw the figure of
     Dr. Zabriskie seated in his great chair, lost in thought or
     deep in those memories which make an abyss in one's
     consciousness. His hands, which were clenched, rested upon the
     arms of his chair, and in one of them I detected a woman's
     glove, which I had no difficulty in recognizing as one of the
     pair worn by his wife this morning. He held it as a tiger
     might hold his prey or a miser his gold, but his set features
     and sightless eyes betrayed that a conflict of emotions was
     waging within him, among which tenderness had but little
     share.

     "Though alive, as he usually is, to every sound, he was too
     absorbed at this moment to notice my presence though I had
     taken no pains to approach quietly. I therefore stood for a
     full minute watching him, till an irresistible sense of the
     shame of thus spying upon a blind man in his moments of
     secret anguish seized upon me and I turned away. But not
     before I saw his features relax in a storm of passionate
     feeling, as he rained kisses after kisses on the senseless kid
     he had so long held in his motionless grasp. Yet when an hour
     later he entered the dining-room on his wife's arm, there was
     nothing in his manner to show that he had in any way changed
     in his attitude towards her.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "The other picture was more tragic still. I have no business
     with Mrs. Zabriskie's affairs; but as I passed upstairs to my
     room an hour ago, I caught a fleeting vision of her tall form,
     with the arms thrown up over her head in a paroxysm of feeling
     which made her as oblivious to my presence as her husband had
     been several hours before. Were the words that escaped her
     lips 'Thank God we have no children!' or was this exclamation
     suggested to me by the passion and unrestrained impulse of her
     action?"

Side by side with these lines, I, Ebenezer Gryce, placed the following
extracts from my own diary:

     "Watched the Zabriskie mansion for five hours this morning,
     from the second story window of an adjoining hotel. Saw the
     Doctor when he drove away on his round of visits, and saw him
     when he returned. A colored man accompanied him.

     "To-day I followed Mrs. Zabriskie. I had a motive for this,
     the nature of which I think it wisest not to divulge. She
     went first to a house in Washington Place where I am told her
     mother lives. Here she stayed some time, after which she drove
     down to Canal Street, where she did some shopping, and later
     stopped at the hospital, into which I took the liberty of
     following her. She seemed to know many there, and passed from
     cot to cot with a smile in which I alone discerned the sadness
     of a broken heart. When she left, I left also, without having
     learned anything beyond the fact that Mrs. Zabriskie is one
     who does her duty in sorrow as in happiness. A rare and
     trustworthy woman I should say, and yet her husband does not
     trust her. Why?

            *       *       *       *       *

     "I have spent this day in accumulating details in regard to
     Dr. and Mrs. Zabriskie's life previous to the death of Mr.
     Hasbrouck. I learned from sources it would be unwise to quote
     just here, that Mrs. Zabriskie had not lacked enemies ready to
     charge her with coquetry; that while she had never sacrificed
     her dignity in public, more than one person had been heard to
     declare, that Dr. Zabriskie was fortunate in being blind,
     since the sight of his wife's beauty would have but poorly
     compensated him for the pain he would have suffered in seeing
     how that beauty was admired.

     "That all gossip is more or less tinged with exaggeration I
     have no doubt, yet when a name is mentioned in connection with
     such stories, there is usually some truth at the bottom of
     them. And a name is mentioned in this case, though I do not
     think it worth my while to repeat it here; and loth as I am to
     recognize the fact, it is a name that carries with it doubts
     that might easily account for the husband's jealousy. True, I
     have found no one who dares to hint that she still continues
     to attract attention or to bestow smiles in any direction save
     where they legally belong. For since a certain memorable night
     which we all know, neither Dr. Zabriskie nor his wife have
     been seen save in their own domestic circle, and it is not
     into such scenes that this serpent, of which I have spoken,
     ever intrudes, nor is it in places of sorrow or suffering that
     his smile shines, or his fascinations flourish.

     "And so one portion of my theory is proved to be sound. Dr.
     Zabriskie is jealous of his wife: whether with good cause or
     bad I am not prepared to decide; for her present attitude,
     clouded as it is by the tragedy in which she and her husband
     are both involved, must differ very much from that which she
     held when her life was unshadowed by doubt, and her admirers
     could be counted by the score.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "I have just found out where Harry is. As he is in service
     some miles up the river, I shall have to be absent from my
     post for several hours, but I consider the game well worth the
     candle.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "Light at last. I have seen Harry, and, by means known only to
     the police, have succeeded in making him talk. His story is
     substantially this: That on the night so often mentioned, he
     packed his master's portmanteau at eight o'clock and at ten
     called a carriage and rode with the Doctor to the Twenty-ninth
     Street station. He was told to buy tickets for Poughkeepsie
     where his master had been called in consultation, and having
     done this, hurried back to join his master on the platform.
     They had walked together as far as the cars, and Dr. Zabriskie
     was just stepping on to the train when a man pushed himself
     hurriedly between them and whispered something into his
     master's ear, which caused him to fall back and lose his
     footing. Dr. Zabriskie's body slid half under the car, but he
     was withdrawn before any harm was done, though the cars gave
     a lurch at that moment which must have frightened him
     exceedingly, for his face was white when he rose to his feet,
     and when Harry offered to assist him again on to the train, he
     refused to go and said he would return home and not attempt to
     ride to Poughkeepsie that night.

     "The gentleman, whom Harry now saw to be Mr. Stanton, an
     intimate friend of Dr. Zabriskie, smiled very queerly at this,
     and taking the Doctor's arm led him away to a carriage. Harry
     naturally followed them, but the Doctor, hearing his steps,
     turned and bade him, in a very peremptory tone, to take the
     omnibus home, and then, as if on second thought, told him to
     go to Poughkeepsie in his stead and explain to the people
     there that he was too shaken up by his mis-step to do his
     duty, and that he would be with them next morning. This seemed
     strange to Harry, but he had no reasons for disobeying his
     master's orders, and so rode to Poughkeepsie. But the Doctor
     did not follow him the next day; on the contrary he
     telegraphed for him to return, and when he got back dismissed
     him with a month's wages. This ended Harry's connection with
     the Zabriskie family.

     "A simple story bearing out what the wife has already told us;
     but it furnishes a link which may prove invaluable. Mr.
     Stanton, whose first name is Theodore, knows the real reason
     why Dr. Zabriskie returned home on the night of the
     seventeenth of July, 1851. Mr. Stanton, consequently, I must
     see, and this shall be my business to-morrow.

     "Checkmate! Theodore Stanton is not in this country. Though
     this points him out as the man from whom Dr. Zabriskie bought
     the pistol, it does not facilitate my work, which is becoming
     more and more difficult.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "Mr. Stanton's whereabouts are not even known to his most
     intimate friends. He sailed from this country most
     unexpectedly on the eighteenth of July a year ago, which was
     _the day after the murder of Mr. Hasbrouck_. It looks like a
     flight, especially as he has failed to maintain open
     communication even with his relatives. Was he the man who shot
     Mr. Hasbrouck? No; but he was the man who put the pistol in
     Dr. Zabriskie's hand that night, and, whether he did this with
     purpose or not, was evidently so alarmed at the catastrophe
     which followed that he took the first outgoing steamer to
     Europe. So far, all is clear, but there are mysteries yet to
     be solved, which will require my utmost tact. What if I should
     seek out the gentleman with whose name that of Mrs. Zabriskie
     has been linked, and see if I can in any way connect him with
     Mr. Stanton or the events of that night?

            *       *       *       *       *

     "Eureka! I have discovered that Mr. Stanton cherished a mortal
     hatred for the gentleman above mentioned. It was a covert
     feeling, but no less deadly on that account; and while it
     never led him into any extravagances, it was of force
     sufficient to account for many a secret misfortune which
     happened to that gentleman. Now, if I can prove he was the
     Mephistopheles who whispered insinuations into the ear of our
     blind Faust, I may strike a fact that will lead me out of this
     maze.

     "But how can I approach secrets so delicate without
     compromising the woman I feel bound to respect, if only for
     the devoted love she manifests for her unhappy husband!

            *       *       *       *       *

     "I shall have to appeal to Joe Smithers. This is something
     which I always hate to do, but as long as he will take money,
     and as long as he is fertile in resources for obtaining the
     truth from people I am myself unable to reach, so long must I
     make use of his cupidity and his genius. He is an honorable
     fellow in one way, and never retails as gossip what he
     acquires for our use. How will he proceed in this case, and
     by what tactics will he gain the very delicate information
     which we need? I own that I am curious to see.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "I shall really have to put down at length the incidents of
     this night. I always knew that Joe Smithers was invaluable to
     the police, but I really did not know he possessed talents of
     so high an order. He wrote me this morning that he had
     succeeded in getting Mr. T----'s promise to spend the evening
     with him, and advised me that if I desired to be present also,
     his own servant would not be at home, and that an opener of
     bottles would be required.

     "As I was very anxious to see Mr. T---- with my own eyes, I
     accepted the invitation to play the spy upon a spy, and went
     at the proper hour to Mr. Smithers's rooms, which are in the
     University Building. I found them picturesque in the extreme.
     Piles of books stacked here and there to the ceiling made
     nooks and corners which could be quite shut off by a couple of
     old pictures that were set into movable frames that swung out
     or in at the whim or convenience of the owner.

     "As I liked the dark shadows cast by these pictures, I pulled
     them both out, and made such other arrangements as appeared
     likely to facilitate the purpose I had in view, then I sat
     down and waited for the two gentlemen who were expected to
     come in together.

     "They arrived almost immediately, whereupon I rose and played
     my part with all necessary discretion. While ridding Mr. T----
     of his overcoat, I stole a look at his face. It is not a
     handsome one, but it boasts of a gay, devil-may-care
     expression which doubtless makes it dangerous to many women,
     while his manners are especially attractive, and his voice the
     richest and most persuasive that I ever heard. I contrasted
     him, almost against my will, with Dr. Zabriskie, and decided
     that with most women the former's undoubted fascinations of
     speech and bearing would outweigh the latter's great beauty
     and mental endowments; but I doubted if they would with her.

     "The conversation which immediately began was brilliant but
     desultory, for Mr. Smithers, with an airy lightness for which
     he is remarkable, introduced topic after topic, perhaps for
     the purpose of showing off Mr. T----'s versatility, and perhaps
     for the deeper and more sinister purpose of shaking the
     kaleidoscope of talk so thoroughly, that the real topic which
     we were met to discuss should not make an undue impression on
     the mind of his guest.

     "Meanwhile one, two, three bottles passed, and I saw Joe
     Smithers's eye grow calmer and that of Mr. T---- more brilliant
     and more uncertain. As the last bottle showed signs of
     failing, Joe cast me a meaning glance, and the real business
     of the evening began.

     "I shall not attempt to relate the half-dozen failures which
     Joe made in endeavoring to elicit the facts we were in search
     of, without arousing the suspicion of his visitor. I am only
     going to relate the successful attempt. They had been talking
     now for some hours, and I, who had long before been waved from
     their immediate presence, was hiding my curiosity and growing
     excitement behind one of the pictures, when suddenly I heard
     Joe say:

     "'He has the most remarkable memory I ever met. He can tell to
     a day when any notable event occurred.'

     "'Pshaw!' answered his companion, who, by the by, was known to
     pride himself upon his own memory for dates, 'I can state
     where I went and what I did on every day in the year. That may
     not embrace what you call 'notable events,' but the memory
     required is all the more remarkable, is it not?'

     "'Pooh!' was his friend's provoking reply, 'you are bluffing,
     Ben; I will never believe that.'

     "Mr. T----, who had passed by this time into that state of
     intoxication which makes persistence in an assertion a duty as
     well as a pleasure, threw back his head, and as the wreaths of
     smoke rose in airy spirals from his lips, reiterated his
     statement, and offered to submit to any test of his vaunted
     powers which the other might dictate.

     "'You have a diary----' began Joe.

     "'Which is at home,' completed the other.

     "'Will you allow me to refer to it to-morrow, if I am
     suspicious of the accuracy of your recollections?'

     "'Undoubtedly,' returned the other.

     "'Very well, then, I will wager you a cool fifty, that you
     cannot tell where you were between the hours of ten and eleven
     on a certain night which I will name.'

     "'Done!' cried the other, bringing out his pocket-book and
     laying it on the table before him.

     "Joe followed his example and then summoned me.

     "'Write a date down here,' he commanded, pushing a piece of
     paper towards me, with a look keen as the flash of a blade.
     'Any date, man,' he added, as I appeared to hesitate in the
     embarrassment I thought natural under the circumstances. 'Put
     down day, month, and year, only don't go too far back; not
     farther than two years.'

     "Smiling with the air of a flunkey admitted to the sports of
     his superiors, I wrote a line and laid it before Mr.
     Smithers, who at once pushed it with a careless gesture
     towards his companion. You can of course guess the date I made
     use of: July 17, 1851. Mr. T----, who had evidently looked upon
     this matter as mere play, flushed scarlet as he read these
     words, and for one instant looked as if he had rather flee our
     presence than answer Joe Smithers's nonchalant glance of
     inquiry.

     "'I have given my word and will keep it,' he said at last, but
     with a look in my direction that sent me reluctantly back to
     my retreat. 'I don't suppose you want names,' he went on,
     'that is, if anything I have to tell is of a delicate nature?'

     "'O no,' answered the other, 'only facts and places.'

     "'I don't think places are necessary either,' he returned. 'I
     will tell you what I did and that must serve you. I did not
     promise to give number and street.'

     "'Well, well,' Joe exclaimed; 'earn your fifty, that is all.
     Show that you remember where you were on the night of'--and
     with an admirable show of indifference he pretended to consult
     the paper between them--'the seventeenth of July, 1851, and I
     shall be satisfied.'

     "'I was at the club for one thing,' said Mr. T----; 'then I went
     to see a lady friend, where I stayed till eleven. She wore a
     blue muslin---- What is that?'

     "I had betrayed myself by a quick movement which sent a glass
     tumbler crashing to the floor. Helen Zabriskie had worn a
     blue muslin on that same night. I had noted it when I stood
     on the balcony watching her and her husband.

     "'That noise?' It was Joe who was speaking. 'You don't know
     Reuben as well as I do or you wouldn't ask. It is his
     practice, I am sorry to say, to accentuate his pleasure in
     draining my bottles, by dropping a glass at every third one.'

     "Mr. T---- went on.

     "'She was a married woman and I thought she loved me; but--and
     this is the greatest proof I can offer you that I am giving
     you a true account of that night--she had not had the slightest
     idea of the extent of my passion, and only consented to see me
     at all because she thought, poor thing, that a word from her
     would set me straight, and rid her of attentions that were
     fast becoming obnoxious. A sorry figure for a fellow to cut
     who has not been without his triumphs; but you caught me on
     the most detestable date in my calendar, and----'

     "There is where he stopped being interesting, so I will not
     waste time by quoting further. And now what reply shall I make
     when Joe Smithers asks me double his usual price, as he will
     be sure to do, next time? Has he not earned an advance? I
     really think so.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "I have spent the whole day in weaving together the facts I
     have gleaned, and the suspicions I have formed, into a
     consecutive whole likely to present my theory in a favorable
     light to my superiors. But just as I thought myself in shape
     to meet their inquiries, I received an immediate summons into
     their presence, where I was given a duty to perform of so
     extraordinary and unexpected a nature, that it effectually
     drove from my mind all my own plans for the elucidation of the
     Zabriskie mystery.

     "This was nothing more nor less than to take charge of a party
     of people who were going to the Jersey heights for the purpose
     of testing Dr. Zabriskie's skill with a pistol."



