
But to explain Cappy's pictures--crudely crayoned cartoons, really--she
had to fill in the story they illustrated. She told it while Richard
ate: how the intrepid Spaceman gallantly used his ray gun against the
villainous Martians to aid the green-haired Princess. Richard spooned up
the thrills with his mush, gazing fascinated at Cappy's colorful and
fantastic pictures, propped before him on the table. Had Ted been home,
the scene might almost have been blissful.

It might have been ... if their own tree hadn't reminded her of
Cappy's. Still, she'd almost managed to stuff her fear back into that
mental pigeon-hole before their own tree. It was unbelievable, but she'd
been glancing out the window every few minutes, so she saw it start.
Their own tree began to walk.

Down the hill it came--right there!--framed in the window behind
Richard's head, moving slowly but inexorably on a root system that
writhed along the surface. Like some ancient sculpture of Serpents
Supporting the Tree of Life. Except that it brought death ...

"Are you sick, Mommie?"

No, not sick. Just something the matter with her throat, preventing a
quick answer, leaving no way to keep Richard from turning to look out
the window.

"I think our tree is coming to play with me, Mommie."

No, no! Not Richard!

"Remember how you used to say that about Cappy? When he was really
coming to see your daddy?"

"But Daddy isn't home!"

"He'll get here, dear. Now eat your supper."

A lot to ask of an excited little boy. And the tree _was_ his friend, it
seemed. Cappy's tree had even followed the child's orders. Richard might
intercede--

No! Expose him to such danger? How could she think of it?

"Had enough to eat, dear? Wash your hands and face at the pump, and you
can stay out and play till Daddy gets home. I--I want----I may have to
see your friend, the tree, by myself ..."

"But you haven't finished my story!"

"I will when Daddy gets home. And if I'm not here, you tell Daddy to do
it."

"Where are you going, Mommie?"

"I might see Cappy, dear. Now go and wash, please!"

"Sure, Mommie. Don't cry."

Accept his kiss, even if it _is_ from a mouth rimmed with supper. And
don't rub it off till he's gone out, you damned fool. You frightened
fool. You shaking, sweating, terror-stricken fool.

Who's he going to kiss when you're not here?

The tree has stopped. Our little tree is having its supper. How nice.
Sucking sustenance direct from soil with aid of sun and air in true
plant fashion--but exhausting our mineral resources.

(How wise of Ted to make you go to those lectures! You wouldn't want to
die in ignorance, would you?)

The lecture--come on, let's go back to the lecture! Let's free our soil
from every tree or we'll not hold the joint in fee. No, not joint. A
vulgarism, teacher would say. Methinks the times are out of joint.
Aroint thee, tree!

Now a pinch. Pinch yourself hard in the same old place so it'll hurt
real bad. Then straighten your face and go stick your head out the
window. Your son is talking--your son, your sun.

Can your son be eclipsed by a tree? A matter of special spatial
relationships, and the space is shrinking, friend. The tree is only a
few hundred feet from the house. It has finished its little supper and
is now running around. Like Richard. _With_ Richard! Congenial, what?

Smile, stupid. Your son speaks. Answer him.

"What, dear?"

"I see Daddy! He just came over the hill. He's running! Can I go meet
him, Mommie?"

"No, dear. It's too far."

Too far. Far too far.

"Did you say something to me, Richard?"

"No. I was talking to the tree. I'm the Spaceman and he's the Martian.
But he doesn't want to be the Martian!"

Richard plays. Let us play. Let us play.

You're close enough to get into the game, surely. A hundred and fifty
feet, maybe. Effective range, fifty feet. Rate of motion? Projected
time-interval? Depends on which system you observe it from. Richard has
a system.

"He doesn't want to play, Mommie. He wants to see you!"

"You tell that tree your Mommie _never_ sees strangers when Daddy isn't
home!"

"I'll _make_ him wait!"

Stoutly your pot-bellied little protector prevents his protective mother
from going to pot.

"If he won't play, I'll use my ray gun on him!"

Obviously, the tree won't play. Watch your son lift empty hands, arm
himself with a weapon yet to be invented, and open fire on the advancing
foe.

"Aa-aa-aa!"

So _that's_ how a ray gun sounds!

"You're dead, tree! You're dead! Now you _can't_ play with me any more.
You're dead!"
