
At three o'clock in the morning, even a large city is quiet and dark
and almost dead. At times, the city twitches in its sleep; occasionally
it rolls over or mutters to itself. But only rarely is its slumber
shattered by a scream....

"Johnny! Hey, Johnny!" cries Chester McRae, his eyes as dull and
poisonous as two tiny toads.

"Let's make it, man ... let's split...." whispers Bartholomew Oliver,
one finger brushing his nose like a rattler nosing a dead mouse.

"I don make no move without my boys," says Oswald Williams, his hands
curled like scorpion tails.

Together they walk down the street, moving with slow insolence,
their lips curled in snarls or slack with indifference, their eyes
glittering with hidden hatreds. But they are not alone in the city.
The college boys are coming, in their dirty jeans and beer-stained
tee-shirts; so too are the lawyers, in dusty jackets and leather pants;
so come the doctors and the businessmen, on stolen motorcycles; the
bricklayers and gas station attendants, the beatniks and dope pushers,
the bankers and lifesaving instructors, the butchers, the bakers, the
candlestick makers... they are all coming, flocking into the city for
reasons not their own, wandering in twos and threes and twenties, all
of them sullen and quiet, all of them shuffling beneath darkly-hued
clouds of ill intent, all of them proud and deadly and virile, filling
the streets by the thousands now, turning the streets into rivers of
flesh....

"Hey, Johnny," says Chester, "let's cool this dump."

"Man, let's make it with the skirts," says Bartholomew.

"I don see no skirts," says Chester.

"You pig," snarls Ozzie.

The mob is monstrous now, like a pride of lion cubs, beyond count in
their number, without equal in their leonine strength, above the common
quick in their immortal pride, milling through the hot black veldt,
swarming in the city streets. Millions of them, more than the eye can
see or the mind can bear. It seems that no man sleeps, that every male
in the great city must walk tonight.

"Johnny," says Chester, "I don dig no chicks on the turf."

"Eeee, colay. What a drag," whispers Bartholomew.

"You goddam logical positivist," snarls Ozzie.
