
An uneasy sound ripples through the mob, like the angry hiss of an
injured ego, moving from street to street and swelling upward in a
sudden, angry roar ... they want their women, the dance-hall girls,
the young waitresses, the nowhere chicks in five dollar dresses,
the Spanish girls with eyes as dark as the Spanish night. And then,
as though by accident, one man looks up at the starry sky and sees
_her_--sees her standing on a balcony far above them, twenty stories
above them, up where the wind can blow her hair and billow her blue
dress like an orchid of the night.

She laughs gently, without fear, gazing down at the mindless mob of
rebels.

They laugh too, just as gently, their quiet eyes crawling over the
sight of her body, far above.

"Thass my chick," whispers Chester.

"Cool it, daddy," says Bartholomew, slipping into a pair of dark
glasses and touching his lips with the tip of his tongue. "That skirt
is private property."

"You boys may walk and talk," says Ozzie, "but you don play. You don
play with Rio's girl."

Suddenly, angry words and clenched fists erupt from the proud, quiet
millions that flood the streets. Suddenly, a roar like the roar of
lions rises up and buffets the girl in blue, the girl on the balcony.
She laughs again, for she knows that they are fighting for her.

A figure appears on the balcony, next to the girl. The figure is a man,
and he too is dressed in blue. Suddenly, just as suddenly as it began,
the fighting ceases.

"My God," whispers Chester, his cheeks gone pale, "what am I doing out
here?"

"Maybe I got the D.T.s," whispers Bartholomew, "but maybe I don't...."
He sits down on the curb and rubs his head in disbelief.

Oswald does not speak. His shame is the greatest. He slinks into the
darkness of an alley and briefly wishes for an overcoat.

The pride of lion cubs has been routed, and now they scatter, each one
scrambling for his private den of security, each one lost in a wild and
nameless fear. In twos and threes and twenties they rush back to their
homes, their wives, their endless lives.

Far above, in the apartment with the balcony, a man in blue is chiding
a girl in blue.

"That was scarcely reasonable, Dorothy."

"But Daddy, you promised to let me have them for the entire night!"

"Yes, but...."

"I wasn't really going to let them hurt themselves! Really, I wasn't!"

"But, Dorothy--you know these things can get out of hand."

"Oh, but Daddy, you know how I adore strong, quiet, proud men.
Rebellious men like Marlon."

"Yes, and you know how _I_ adore order and peace. There shall be _no_
more riots! And tomorrow our little puppets shall go back to their
'dull' lives, as you so wittily put it, and everything shall be as I
wish."
