



Pay day! I scrawled my Larry Maloney across the back of the check and
handed it to Nick, the bartender. "Leave me something to operate on,"
I told him.

Nick turned it over. "Still with the _News_?"

The question was rhetorical. I let it pass without swinging at it. I
was mentally estimating the total of the pile of tabs Nick pulled out
of the cash register, like a fighter on percentage trying to count the
house. I didn't like the figure it gave me.

Nick added them up, then added them again before he pulled some bills
out of the money drawer and said, "Here's thirty skins. Your rent
due?"

"This'll cover it. I'll do my drinking here."

I went over to a booth and sat down. I lit a cigarette. I smoked. And
waited. Presently Sherry, tall, dark and delicious, decided I was
making like a customer, and strolled over. "Would you like a menu, Mr.
Maloney?" she trilled.

"Larry to you," I reminded her. "No menu. Bring me a steak. Big.
Thick. Rare. And a plate of french fries. No salad. Bread and butter.
Coffee."

She managed at last to pull her writing hand out of mine, and I had to
repeat the order. Unless it could be turned into money, Sherry's
memory was limited strictly to the present instant.

She put in the order, then brought me a set-up. I let my eyes go over
her, real careful, for maybe the thousandth time. No doubt of it--the
lassie had a classy chassis. If she just wouldn't yak so damn much.

[Illustration: _It looked as though Hoiman's Bum would be remembered
on Mars._]

"Did you see the matches last night?" She didn't wait for my answer,
just went on with the yat-a-ta. "I spent the whole evening just glued
to my television set. I was simply enthralled. When the Horrible
Hungarian got the Flying Hackensack on--"

"Standing Hackenschmidt, Sherry!"

"--poor little Billie McElroy I wanted to--to scratch his eyes out."

I pointed out that McElroy weighed in at two forty-one and had gone on
to win the match. Sherry never heard me.

"And the way the Weeping Greek kept hitting the other fellow--the
announcer said he was throwing Judo cutlets."

"_Cuts_, not cutlets."

"But aren't Judo cutlets illegitimate?" The barest hint of a puzzled
frown tugged at her flawless brows as she poured ice water into my
glass.

"The word," I repeated, "is _cuts_. And the blow is not illegal." I
gave my eyes another treat. What a chassis. And _what_ a mind.
"Anything these days, so long as you don't kill your opponent, is
legal in wrestling."

Suddenly we had company: a little man who made scarcely a sound as he
slid into my booth and sat facing me. "Rassling, yet," he said, in
bitter tones. "What a woid. Dun't be saying it." He helped himself to
a cigarette from my pack lying on the table, and put the pack in his
pocket. He lit the cigarette, using my lighter, which he held a moment
longer than necessary before replacing it--regretfully--on the table.

He inhaled deeply. "Rassling!" he repeated. "Leave us not discuss it."
