
The two bums go in the ring, and get their instructions. Mostly the
ref makes motions. The Martian nods his head like he understands fine.
When the ref is telling them about trunnin' each other outen the ring,
the Martian makes a motion like can he trun his man up in the rafters?

The ref shakes his head no, and that seems to satisfy the Martian. The
timekeeper blows a whistle, and things start to moving. That Martian
Mangler puts down his two middle limbs, uses them like legs, and is
across the ring and swarming all over my bum while he is still taking
his foist step.

Before you know it the ref is counting one, two, three, and my bum is
trun for the foist fall. The Martian is using his middle limbs like
arms, and he has a hammerlock and an arm strangle both on my bum--and
both of them keylocked!

The ref gets them untangled, and I quick tell my bum we ain't hurt
until we get trun twict. So I tell him how to get that next fall--to
keep away from them four arms and keep circling until he gets a chance
to clamp on the pretzel bend.

The whistle blows, and this time my bum uses my head. When the Martian
Mangler gallops over to his corner, my bum has went through the ropes
and quick runs around on the apron to the other side and comes at the
Martian from behind before the goof knows what's happening.

He lets the Martian have a rabbit punch, then a forearm smash, then a
knee to his stomach. The Martian leans over, kinda sick, maybe, and
gets a knee lift to the smoosh. This softens him up good, and my bum
clamps the pretzel bend on him. That Martian squirms like an octopus,
with arms and legs flying in all directions. And you coulda knocked me
over with a subpoena when he got out of it!

Your guess is as good as mine, how he done it. But my bum is moving
fast, and he gives him some more knee lifts and a drop kick or two,
and then a hair mare, and he falls on him for a body press and gets
the count.

Each bum has got a fall. You shoulda heard them Martians there
squeaking this time--ten times as loud as when their bum won the foist
fall. But they had no squawks. These flying chandeliers they had, they
kinda bunched up to follow the action, and the light was good so the
ref couldn't make no mistake about it.

That Martian squirming out of the pretzel bend don't look so good, so
I tell my bum not to use it for the thoid fall. I tell him to give the
Martian some more of them knee lifts--he don't get along with them at
all. I tell him to folly that up with a airplane spin and a body slam.

My bum follys instructions to the alphabet, and that is just what
happens. He bangs that Martian around with elbow smashes and knee
lifts till he don't know is he on one leg or six. Then he goes in fast
and grabs him by a coupla legs and arms, holds him up in the air, and
spins him like a pinwheel.

Right away I knowed something was in the air besides that Martian
Mangler. Oi! Did things happen all to onct!

My bum slams the Martian and falls on him for the count, and wins the
thoid fall and the match. That part is okay. But while the Martian is
still up in the air I notice that all the squeaking from the Martians
has stopped all of a sudden.

So from the Martians we are getting nothing but silence, strictly
wholesale. I think maybe that's natural when their bum gets trun.

And then--plop! plop! plop!--and them flying light bulbs all drop down
flat on the mat and lay there just like the Martian bum, until they
isn't enough light in the house to see to strike a match. And then the
squeaking starts again, like a million hungry rats, and I can just
barely see them Martians starting for the ring.

I gets my bum by the arm and tells him something tells me we better
blow the joint. We blow, fast. Them Martians is mad about something
which I ain't had time to figure out, yet. My bum steps on one of them
animated light fixtures when he gets out of the ring and squashes it.
A puddle of light squirts out, and natch he steps in it. We are
scramming through that crowd like mad, and we are in the clear. But we
hear them squeaks behind us for a long time. They are follyin' the
glowing footprints my bum is leaving to point the way.


He emptied the last bottle of beer, holding it upended for a long time
waiting for the final laggard drop to detach itself. He stalled over
his drink, waiting for me to ask him what happened, so I did. He put
on his most wounded expression, and I knew then that he'd suffered a
mortal blow--to his purse.


Yeah, we got away, I made my bum trun away his flashy shoes so they
couldn't track us by them. We walked all the way back to Neopolis, the
people city. All kinds of plain and fancy rumors beat us there, so the
Colony Cops put us in protective custody until they got the straight
story.

Nobody ever saw another Martian. It seems that they got some trick
notions about theirselves. They are proud because they can walk on the
ground and don't have to fly, so they got a hearty contemp for things
that fly, like them insecks which they used for house lights.

Now, them insecks is dopes too and would give anything if they could
walk like the Martians. And the Martians know the insecks can think a
little, and it makes them feel good to have the insecks looking up to
them. Lord knows nobody else does.

So when my bum lifted their bum up in the air and spun him around like
a pinwheel it was a big insult to them. They took it that my bum was
as much as telling them that he didn't think they was any better than
them insecks flying around over the ring. And the insecks took it as a
invite to come down and try the Martians racket so that's why they all
flop into the ring and the lights go out. They was trying to walk.

That's more than the Martians can take. They swarm into the ring and
kill all the insecks. They'da killed us too, but I got smart brains
and we didn't hang around asking for it.

And now they won't have nothing to do with no people from Earth on
account of they have lost so much smoosh, the way they look at it.

We got no take from that bout. And the Colony Administrator lifts all
our scratch--said we'd gummed up Martian trade and he'da trun us in
the clink too only he didn't want to see no more of us. He wouldn'ta
even give us fare back to Earth except he said he didn't want us
anywhere on Mars.


"So that," the little promoter concluded sadly, "is why I don't like
Mars and rasslin' and Martian Mules and people who talk about such
things." His beady eyes flicked a baleful glance at Sherry, who
hovered nearby on the chance that he'd stop talking and give her an
inning.

Hoiman stood up, carefully shook the bottles to be sure that they were
empty, extracted a cigarette from the pack he'd stuck into his pocket,
and used my lighter again. He hefted it carefully, reluctantly putting
it back on the table. Then his little black eyes swivelled to the last
piece of potato on my plate--the piece he'd spared in previous raids.

"What's the matter with them fries?" he asked.

It disappeared into his mouth and he went away, munching, a dingy
little man padding along on silent, predatory feet.

He'd scarcely slipped out through the door when Sherry moved in.

"Is he really a wrestler, Larry?" she asked breathlessly.

"Him?" Even Sherry, vintage Vine Streeter that she was, should have
got the pitch. "The only thing," I told her solemnly, "that Hoiman
ever got a hammerlock on was a dollar bill!"

But Sherry wasn't listening, "Don't you just _love_ wrestling?"

I let my eyes have a treat, taking their time as they went over that
classy chassis. Then I said it. Fervently.

"Any time, Sherry! Any time."

THE END
