
The words pierced Raymond's skull, exploded and splattered within. He
winced under the barrage. Paula ignored the automatic door button, and
flung the plastic slab open with her hand.

The android followed her with its cold stare and spoke in its perfect
voice. "Madam, that dress is atrocious. I would suggest that you change
at once to your gray, princess silk, which will, at least, create the
impression of slenderness."

Paula screamed hysterically and ran out of the apartment. The android
moved swiftly to the door and called after her, "Farewell, Madam. Watch
your weight. Take care."

It pushed the button on the wall and the door swung shut.

The dreaded ultimatum had at last been carried out, and Raymond felt
helpless, numbed. Indecision settled upon him like a leaden cloak and
pulled him back against the foam-air-rest, where his head wobbled
uncomfortably. He closed his burning, blood-shot eyes, and found no
peace. He rubbed them with his free hand, and opened his vision to the
staring android.

Without any conscious thought, his arm extended in a slow, habitual
motion. The android responded automatically, plucked the empty glass
out of his hand, and said, "You drink too much, sir."

Raymond nodded irritably. "I know. You've reiterated that profound
spiritual message with monotonous irregularity."

"But you do, you know."

Raymond shouted angrily, "Shut up!"

"Very good, sir."

The android was a tall, handsome model. Its voice was deep, resonant
and faintly British. It glided over to the built-in bar and performed
rapid, indiscernible manipulations involving ice cubes, whiskey and
soda.

The android returned swiftly with the drink and served it with a
sweeping flourish. Raymond took the glass and gestured impatiently.
"Cigar."

"Very good, sir."

The android withdrew a long, brown cigar from the humidor on the small,
floating ebony end-table, placed the clipped end in Raymond's mouth,
and lit it with the tip of its forefinger, which suddenly glowed red.

It watched as Raymond puffed up several billowing, little gray clouds.
The smoke drifted towards the android, and it said: "Disgusting habit."

Raymond raised his glass, sipped the cold liquid, and remarked
bitterly, "What a pity you can't enjoy your own poisonous concoctions."

The android stepped back and stared fixedly at the man. "You are a sot,
sir."

Raymond exploded. "What!"

"S-o-t, sot. An alcoholic. A drunkard. One who imbibes intoxicating
liquors."

Raymond jumped out of the chair and threw his glass and cigar on the
carpet violently. The cigar sizzled in the midst of the foaming liquid.
He glared at the android. "You go to hell!"

"As I have repeatedly attempted to impress upon your happy, pickled
brain, sir," the android said, "It is impossible for me to go there."

"That isn't exactly what I meant."

"In that case, sir, I would suggest that hereafter you say what you
mean."

Raymond swore. He swayed uncertainly, and then dropped back into the
chair. He reached out to the floating table for a fresh cigar, jammed
it in his mouth, and chewed it nervously. He was a short, chubby man,
with brown, thinning hair, a double chin, and lines around his mouth,
where a friendly smile had recently met an untimely death.

Raymond pulled his cigar out of his mouth and stared at the wet soggy
end. He moved his head from side to side, turned his gaze on the
android, and muttered through his teeth, "You and your impeccable
androidal exterior have got to go."

The decision immediately had a relaxing effect. Raymond's moist brow
unwrinkled itself momentarily, and he almost smiled at the thought.

"Allow me to point out, sir," the android said. "That you have, to
date, invested approximately three thousand dollars in my interior and
exterior, as well."

Raymond nodded sadly. "Not to mention fifteen more easy, cardiovascular
producing payments." He placed his hand over the spot, where, deep
down, his heart was located. Satisfied that it was still there, he
said, "I've got a lot of expensive money tied up in you, but if I have
to choose between mechanical misery and matrimonial bliss, I'll settle
for Paula's brand of inhuman torture."

"That, sir, is extremely faulty, illogical, and irrational reasoning.
Typical, however, of most humans."

Raymond smiled grimly and stood up. "If you will watch closely, oh,
loyal servant, you will note that I am about to do something not so
typical of my assorted human friends."

Walking unsteadily over to the bar, he reached into a small drawer, and
withdrew a small plastic container labeled: SOBERUPPER.

"In fact," Raymond said, as he removed two pills and tossed them into
his mouth, "I must be out of my mind."

He swallowed hard, blinked, and gasped. For a moment he leaned heavily
on the bar. Then suddenly, clarity. The room was brighter. The drab
grays resolved into blue and yellow pastel panelling along the walls.
The carpeting was a rich deep blue. The polished floating ebony slab
glittered in the room.

"Come on, Android. We're heading for the big city."
