
As Raymond entered his apartment, disillusioned and exhausted, the Four
O'clock News-Facs, containing his want-ad, was sputtering out of the
receiver.

When the News-Facs had ceased its chattering, he scanned the paper,
grunted a resentful satisfaction, and slumped into his favorite chair.

He sat and fidgeted, and waited and waited, until darkness fell. But
there was no response to his ad.

Finally he said to the android, "Looks as if you and I were meant for
each other forever and ever."

"Certainly, sir," replied the android. "You need a stable, intelligent
advisor and mentor to save you from your frequent, horrifying errors
of human judgment. For instance, I could have told you in advance that
electronic butcher could not so much as cure headaches in a buzzsaw.
In short, sir, you will never find a finer, more loyal, more capable
android than myself. Put yourself entirely in my hands. I will even do
your thinking for you."

Raymond shook his head wearily, and remarked, "I am both excruciatingly
sad and divinely happy at that information."

"I am mystified at your sadness, sir, though gratified at any little
happiness I might bring into your drab, miserable existence."

Raymond said mildly, almost too mildly, "Shut up."

"Very good, sir."

With an effort the chubby man got to his feet, walked to the bar and
poured himself a long drink.

The following morning Raymond, finding his body host to a horrible
hangover, staggered into the living room, and fumbled behind the bar
for a small plastic container, which was labeled: HANGOVER-OVER.

He removed two blue pills and tossed them into his mouth.

When Raymond was half-way through his second cup of coffee, he suddenly
jumped to his feet and snapped his fingers. "I've got it. What a
tremendous, frightening idea. But it might work."

He raced over to the Televisor and put in another call to
Allied-News-Facs.

A half hour later the ad was coming out of the News-Facs machine in an
excited staccato that matched Raymond's quickening pulse.

As soon as the ad was printed, he ripped it out of the receiver:

            WILL TRADE MY CRAZY MIXED-UP ANDROID FOR YOURS.

Raymond grinned happily for the first time in days. "Ingenious."

The android said, "A complete, hopeless waste of human endeavor, sir.
However, it is quite typical of your impulsive and somewhat obnoxious
personality."

Raymond laughed. "Say anything you like, my vanishing servant. You are
not long for _my_ little world."

Thirty minutes later the automatic door-announcer sang out: "Visitor!"

Raymond set the door control on automatic. A tall, thin, haggard
looking man entered and offered his moist hand in a feeble grip. "My
name is Groober." He pointed weakly at the glistening android behind
him. "This is George."

Raymond stared hopefully at George and said, "Our android was once
fondly known as Francois, but we've since been unable to think of it as
anything but _It_."

Mr. Groober sat down with a sigh, and said in a hoarse voice, "This
idiotic robotic device has a chemurgical complex."

George, the android, stared at Raymond. "Sir, you have an extremely
high fat content."

Raymond briefly described his android to Mr. Groober, and the latter
shook his head sadly. "Looks as if they've got a lot in common."

Raymond nodded sympathetically.

The door-announcer sang out again: "Visitor!"

A little old lady entered. "I am Mrs. Quimby," she announced in a
squeaky voice. "And _this_ is Daisy."

Daisy followed her in, walking on its hands. Raymond stared curiously
at Daisy and remarked, "That's a new twist."

Mrs. Quimby said with bitterness, "That ain't all Daisy does."

Daisy suddenly collapsed to the floor, leaped to its feet, and began
jumping up and down. Its feet hit the floor with a crash; it's head hit
the ceiling with a thud; up and down, up and down.

Raymond asked, "How do you stop it? My ceiling can't take much more of
that."

Mrs. Quimby said, "Don't know. Depends on the ceiling."

"Visitor!" The door-announcer cried again in its one-word recorded glee.

A large android walked in ahead of a short, perspiring man. The android
announced, "I am Ulysses, the greatest android ever produced. This poor
creature is my old, worn out owner. I am here to find a new, strong,
vigorous owner. Which one of you is interested?"

The door-announcer sang out again and again. In two hours the little
apartment was jammed with human beings and inhuman androids. The
interviewing process no longer involved Raymond alone. It became an
interwoven, complex affair.

The confused, excited melee continued on through the night. It lasted
all through the following day and night, and on into the day after,
when the last guest left with his militaristic android counting cadence
in a loud grating voice.

Raymond mixed a strong drink and collapsed into his chair, muttering to
himself, "How utterly, utterly hopeless. There wasn't a single android
that didn't have some glaring incurable idiosyncrasy that could drive
Paula and me completely out of our minds as easily as our present
mechanized helpmate." He appealed to the cracked ceiling. "What am I
going to do?"

His android said, "You look like a tired, fat old man."

"Shut up."

The android stared at Raymond and asked, "What fiendish, diabolical,
sure-fire scheme have you devised in that tiny, inadequate human brain
of yours now, sir?"

Raymond leered at the android. Perspiration was breaking out all over
his body. His lower lip began to tremble and his cheek twitched.

Raymond tapped his forehead. "When science fails," he said in a hoarse
whisper, "there it but one method left for a poor, ignorant savage with
a primitive brain."

Moving forward swiftly, Raymond bent over, and seized the floating
ebony end-table in both hands.

"Come here, oh, modest, unassuming, subservient one. I want to bend
your ear."

Raymond lunged forward and swung. The android dodged awkwardly, and the
table top glanced off the side of its head.

For a long moment the android remained quiet and motionless. Finally it
said, "Did you ring, sir?"

The ebony slab slipped from Raymond's hands. He squinted at the android
from under drooping, red-rimmed eyelids.

The android's head remained perfectly still. Its eyes did not follow
him.

Raymond stepped over to the bar, made tinkling noises with the bottles,
and waited tensely.

Silence. Pure silence.

The stillness of the room was suddenly warm and friendly. Astonishment
swept over Raymond in a dizzy wave. He asked in an excited whisper,
"Who are you?"

The android turned towards him and bowed humbly. "Your servant, sir."



