
Norcross slumped into a chair, his mind in confusion. He heard
Drumstetter's plane as it left the ground. Plane, he thought, his
mind avoiding the problem. Plane. What a curious name, handed down
through the ages, to call a swift skip powered by Earth's magnetism. An
original plane fought the air, buoyed up by the lift of plane surfaces
in movement. When the movement stopped, it died.

Died. Death. Pseudo-life.

Scientist Norcross shuddered. His well-trained sense of humor did not
include abominations.

He took the communication from his pocket and cleared to Prime Center.
When the prim, grim face of Prime Center himself in the little disc was
sharp, Norcross reported what had happened, even to the suggestion
Drumstetter had made that he was pseudo-life.

"This is very bad," said Prime Center. "Monica Drake Lane is now
pseudo-life, too."

"God's name!"

"Took her skip into a cliff in the Sierra Mountains yesterday.
Disconnected the anti-collision. A clear case."

"What will this do to Drumstetter?"

"Nothing," said Prime Center, "unless he learns."

"Is she ready?"

"I'm sending her to you right now for indoctrination. Reports are that
Drumstetter is visiting scientists on the West Coast, and Probability
reports that he may cover the world before he returns. Do you
understand? Her indoctrination must be perfect."

"It always has been." Norcross pulled his lip. "The same limitation
will be in Monica Drake Lane?" he asked hopelessly.

"Of course," said Prime Center. "We'll keep you posted on developments."

"You'd better try women," said Norcross.

"Women, narcotics, or anything else! I'd eat a blueberry pie with my
hands behind my back at high noon," said Prime Center with fierce
obscenity, "if I thought it would do any good!"

He cut the connection.

Norcross was still under the oak tree, lost in contemplation of a color
abstraction on his little communication, when a tall blonde girl, brown
as a berry, stepped hesitantly through the hedge. She walked to him
and, when he looked up, she buried her face in her hands. He stood and
held her shoulders.

"Now, now," said Scientist Norcross, "don't cry, my dear."

"But this is so puzzling--and I wasn't crying," she answered. "What's
happened to me?"

"Sit down, Monica, and tell me what you think has happened."

"But I don't know. You see, the last I remember is walking through the
Psych Lab in San Francisco, and suddenly--suddenly, I'm in New York and
they're sending me to you. What has happened?"

"Where do you first remember being in New York?"

"In the--oh, I don't know!" She was in a flush of embarrassment.

"I'll help you, my dear. You were in the pseudo-life clinic. You
are not _exactly_ Monica Drake Lane any longer. She died. You are
pseudo-life."

Her eyes were bright and the pupils were pinpointed from shock.

"You are the pseudo-life Monica Drake Lane. To all outward appearances,
you are an exact counterpart of the girl. Inwardly? Well, your
internal organs have been simplified, and you cannot reproduce. Aside
from such minor changes, you are identical, and incidentally a much
more efficient creature than your prototype. And if your mind, which
is a very good one, was a human mind, I could not tell you this.
Pseudo-life is a most remarkable thing, but Lewis and Havinghurst
and Covalt, who developed it 300 years ago, were never able to imbue
pseudo-life with what they called the minus-one factor, which includes
the phenomenal human emotional sensitivity, among other things. Are you
feeling better now?"

"Why, yes--" Her voice trailed off.

"You are no longer a slave of your emotions," said Scientist Norcross
complacently. "None of us are."

"You--you are--?"

"Oh, yes. We generally don't speak of such things, but since I'm to
introduce you to pseudo-life, I can tell you that I died two years ago."

"I'm afraid I never did know--or Monica Drake Lane never--that is, I--"

"You _are_ Monica Drake Lane. If you will sit quietly, I'll tell you
about it." Scientist Norcross took two cigarettes from his reticule
and offered the girl one. The lip play was considered somewhat daring
between the sexes, but under the circumstances he thought the mild
narcotic would be good for her, as well as the sharpening of the senses
brought on by actually smoking together.

"When the Americans, who inhabited this continent, gained domination
of the world in the 21st Century, they consolidated their position by
carrying their customs to the ends of the Earth. For that matter, to
Alpha Centauri, if the ships did get through.

"Forgive me," he interrupted himself, "if I seem improper or even
immoral in this little talk of ours. Believe me, it's not with an easy
disregard of proprieties that I bring myself to speak of such things.

"Well, the Americans believed, and rightly so, that death is a dreadful
thing. Until Lewis and Havinghurst and Covalt developed pseudo-life,
a great deal of time and effort and money went into such things
as cemeteries--places where they literally buried their dead with
elaborate ceremonials and much anguish. They had other equally wasteful
practices, such as madhouses and jails, which were done away with when
it became practical to replace a useless person with another, who
matched the original to near absolute perfection, but without fatal
flaws of body or weaknesses of the mind.

"Emphasis has shifted since those early years, when the abnormals
were dealt with, to the comforting of human beings. Should John Davis
Drumstetter suffer greatly at the loss of his mentor, the man who
guided him in the ways of science? Of course not. He never knew I died."

Norcross puffed complacently, sending iridescent rainbow smoke rings
over the mind machine.

"And I am his fiancee," said the girl.

"Should he suffer because you died? No reason for it," said Norcross
heartily. "A psychic trauma of that nature would make him desperately
unhappy. Happiness is the proper state in life, as everyone knows.
In fact, you will make him much happier than Monica Drake Lane, the
original, ever could."

"Yes, I shall be happy," mused the girl, as if feeling a more limited
capacity for sorrow within herself. "But you spoke of a minus-one
factor."

"Yes, it takes in a lot of things. Though we are immortal, barring
accidents, and we retain all the knowledge we had as human beings, the
flaw to pseudo-life is that no original thought is possible. Students
of the matter compare it to glancing at a page in a dictionary.
Of course you don't consciously remember the words there, but in
pseudo-life you are capable of remembering and using them properly, so
to speak, but not using them creatively. That is our trouble with John
Davis Drumstetter. I was a brilliant physicist, but the understanding
of new problems is beyond my limitations, and he is beyond me."

"But I woke in New York," she said irrelevantly.

"Because your master pseudo-life file was kept there," explained
Scientist Norcross. "As a human being, you were required to visit the
psych lab every month, where your changed pattern was recorded by the
mind machine. The pseudo-life girl could never lose more than a month
of the human being's life. What was your regular appointment date?"

"The 21st."

"Let's see--you died yesterday, so that would be only three days gone.
We're very fortunate."

"But won't he notice a difference in me?"

"Absolutely not."

"Am I--still capable of love?"

Scientist Norcross blew a plume of rainbow smoke into the air.
"Suppose, my dear, we find out."

Monica Drake Lane agreed, for morality, which is essentially organized
taboo that changes as society changes, had, in the 26th Century, been
confined exclusively to eating. Scientist Norcross had often amused
himself by imagining how people of other ages would have been outraged
by the moral standards of his own era, but his famous sense of humor
was not rugged enough to be amused by the moral standards of the past.
Not, at any rate, if he had had to endure them, though he found them
sufficiently comic as history.

She built a bower, an attractive courtship custom that had been adopted
from the birds, and the day ended much more pleasantly than Scientist
Norcross had expected at lunch.
