
The reports came in from Prime Center. Drumstetter stayed in Los
Angeles two days, in San Francisco three, and then consulted with
Dowson in Honolulu. He skipped to New Zealand, back north to Japan,
and swung across Siberia with short stops at various laboratories and
universities. He was in Finland for three days with old Scientist
Theophil Gertsley, who, though little better than a witch doctor,
called himself a psychologist.

When John Davis Drumstetter set his skip down beside the live oak
tree, Scientist Norcross and Monica Drake Lane were waiting for him.
He was gaunt from hunger and weary from travel, but the expression in
his eyes was not one to be assuaged by any food cubicle. Nor was it
love he had been seeking and not found, for Prime Center had seen to
it that opportunities were offered, from austere tropical girls to the
warmth-seeking women of the north, who would even eat with a member of
the opposite sex.

He greeted Scientist Norcross and his fiancee with an offhandedness
that Norcross had not expected, and asked that he be excused from any
long immediate association with them, due to the press of uncompleted
work.

"But, Johnny," said Monica Drake Lane, "I've made a bower close by, and
you seem very tired."

"There's work to be done," said the young man firmly. "I have no time
to--Wait. I'll see your bower."

As they walked over the lush artificial grass, Scientist Norcross
explained that his results from the overdrive relay equations were in
the mind machine even now, but John Davis Drumstetter only patted him
on the shoulder in a friendly way and told him not to bother.

When they reached the bower, Scientist Norcross expected that
Drumstetter would sleep there after all, for it was an exceptionally
pleasant design. The force field was night, and the sky was filled with
adapted creatures from Mars dancing to their susurrate music, and
the air was permeated with the bitter-sweet and exciting scent of a
Venusian lake, the very odor of romance. In the background was the song
of the sea.

John Davis Drumstetter stepped out of the bower and said gently, "It's
one of the nicest I've ever seen, and we spent some happy nights in it
a year ago, didn't we, Monica?"

He kissed her gently, as he might kiss a child, and walked back to the
oak tree.

"He's behaving very oddly," reported Norcross to Prime Center, as soon
as he could, and gave the details.

"I'd give a lot to have him meet a human female," said Prime Center
wistfully.

"What shall I do?"

"Stay with him and wait," ordered Prime Center. "This is the first
time the hopes of humanity lie in one man. Remember that. We can only
serve," he added bitterly. "He hasn't tested the final limitation?
Good. Keep me informed."
