
John Davis Drumstetter stayed beside his huge mind machine for nearly a
week, and, though he was only sixty, he looked like an old man when he
greeted Monica and Norcross at the end of that time.

"The relay is finished," he announced. "It's being installed in the
_Last Hope_ now. That's what I'm calling my ship, the ship to make
mankind free of the stars. My work on Earth is nearly done."

"But, Johnny darling," said Monica Drake Lane, looking up at him
through her eyelashes, "what about our marriage?"

He looked at her with grim pity. "The bower was an old bower," he
answered. "Did you have the courage to be a unique in a patterned
world? Can you reproduce, Monica Drake Lane?"

"Oh, Johnny--"

"The final limitation!" he said. "Humans have the power to command
pseudo-life. Pseudo-life, answer! I command!"

She sank to the ground.

"No," she said, "no, Johnny, I can't have a baby. I died over a month
ago. I'm sorry you found out."

John Davis Drumstetter turned on Scientist William Manning Norcross.
"You've done no new work because you have no capacity for it. Correct?
Answer, pseudo-life, I command!"

Norcross lifted a calm face. "Why, yes," he said, "I'm pseudo-life.
Have been for over two years. But don't you worry, Johnny, it's better
this way and only natural that--"

John Davis Drumstetter paid no attention. He spoke as if explaining
to himself. "You see, they're pseudo-life, dancing to the very end of
the masquerade ball that started so long ago. It began when measurable
science, the science of finity, made a finite man, a man _nearly_
as good. It was the mental climate of an age that wanted its books
digested, and then abandoned reading for television. They froze
food and precooked it and said it was even better than garden fresh
vegetables.

"Do it the easy way, they said, never knowing that the hard way is the
only way in the last analysis. Why try to cure a neurotic when you can
make a pseudo-life of him? Don't let his grieving friends and relations
suffer; provide them with a pseudo-life. He's just the same, they said,
and he's not sick. And should a man die? Oh, no! Make a pseudo-life for
his wife and children."

"But, Johnny--"

"Be still, pseudo-life! Why bother with men who were beginning to
understand the human mind, when you can create pseudo-life? The cheap
drives out the good every time. Oh, with the kindliest intentions, with
the softest sympathies! Hide. Conceal. The truth be damned!"

"But, Johnny darling--" began Monica Drake Lane.

"Be still, pseudo-life. There's one more thing, the final capstone to
mankind's pyramid of folly." He got Prime Center on the communication.
"Answer, pseudo-life, I command. Am I the last human being on Earth?"

"Since you put it that way," said Prime Center reluctantly, "you are."

"And in the Solar System?"

"I'm afraid so."

The communication dropped from John Davis Drumstetter's hand.

"This is the logical conclusion," he said slowly. "The actors are
playing on a stage of worlds for an audience of one. At the solar
observatory on Mercury, astronomers study the Sun and send in their
reports, in case I should glance at them. In the mines of Pluto, miners
dig ore to provide a market quotation I might see in the telepapers."

He kicked the communication across the floor.

"Get out," he told them with infinite weariness. "The last human being
commands."
