
He slept for a day and had breakfast in _full public view_ under a
tree. Peeping Toms of both sexes watched him.

Prime Center appeared in person just as he finished mopping up the last
of his once-over-lightly egg. Prime Center coughed and blushed and
looked away, and John Davis Drumstetter laughed aloud, humorlessly.

"Good morning," he said cheerfully.

"Hm, yes," said Prime Center.

"Sit down. Have an egg?" A wicked light appeared in his eyes, and he
went on in a low, sinister voice, "A coddled egg, soft and white and
runny? Maybe you want to gulp some coffee? Or snap your way through
a piece of crackling toast? No?" His guest was turning pale and
sick-looking. "Well, let me finish this bacon, and state your business."

He threw back his head and slipped the bacon into his mouth. Prime
Center shuddered.

"Scientist Drumstetter," he said, keeping his gaze fixed on the trunk
of the tree, "I have come to offer you all the worlds. Yes, the whole
Solar System, including the asteroids and Pluto. You will be more
powerful than Alexander or Caesar or Stalin or O'Toole. We will create
a new office--Prime _Squared_ Center--to rule the Solar System. Do you
mind not doing that?"

John Davis Drumstetter was licking his fingers thoughtfully. He nodded.

"Then you accept?"

"No, I'm through licking my fingers. I'll give you your answer on a
systemwide communication. Arrange it, pseudo-life, immediately."

As a concession to morality, John Davis Drumstetter agreed to step
into a molecular cleanup booth. When he came out again, he spoke to the
worlds and all the ships in space:

"My friends, from now on the blind will lead the blind. Moral obliquity
has triumphed and becomes common morality." He laughed and rubbed his
nose. "I'm sorry. I was speaking to an audience of one--myself. What
I want you billions to do is to continue your work, to maintain the
system as it now stands. Pseudo-life will be replaced with pseudo-life
till the end of time. It will be a static world. It will be a
nearly-as-good world. It will be a pleasant world by your standards.
I wish you to do this, and you must, of course, obey my command. My
purpose reaches a little beyond your natural inclination; this system
will serve as a fertile warning to any beings with intelligence who may
come after me.

"I will not be with you long, myself--"

"Suicide?" asked Prime Center hopefully.

"Alpha Centauri," said John Davis Drumstetter with a chuckle. "The
colonists left because they didn't like pseudo-life, either. Good-by to
you all."

He snapped off the communication, waved to the little group under
the tree, and entered the _Last Hope_. The entry port swung closed.
The force field glowed, and then the ship was gone, leaving behind a
whirlwind of dust.

"Alpha Centauri?" asked Monica Drake Lane.

"Following the others of his wild, unstable breed," said Scientist
Norcross.

"Easy come, easy go," the girl said, shrugging.

Prime Center had the last word. "Yes, and good riddance. Human beings
have always been a nuisance."



