
Does that sound like a terribly impressive career to you? Of course not;
but I liked it. The Senators are relaxed and friendly when the guards
are around, and you learn wonderful things about what goes on behind the
scenes of government. And a Senate guard is in a position to do
favors--for newspapermen, who find a lead to a story useful; for
government officials, who sometimes base a whole campaign on one
careless, repeated remark; and for just about anyone who would like to
be in the visitors' gallery during a hot debate.

Larry Connaught, for instance. I ran into him on the street one day, and
we chatted for a moment, and he asked if it was possible to get him in
to see the upcoming foreign relations debate. It was; I called him the
next day and told him I had arranged for a pass. And he was there,
watching eagerly with his moist little eyes, when the Secretary got up
to speak and there was that sudden unexpected yell, and the handful of
Central American fanatics dragged out their weapons and began trying to
change American policy with gunpowder.

You remember the story, I suppose. There were only three of them, two
with guns, one with a hand grenade. The pistol men managed to wound two
Senators and a guard. I was right there, talking to Connaught. I spotted
the little fellow with the hand grenade and tackled him. I knocked him
down, but the grenade went flying, pin pulled, seconds ticking away. I
lunged for it. Larry Connaught was ahead of me.

The newspaper stories made heroes out of both of us. They said it was
miraculous that Larry, who had fallen right on top of the grenade, had
managed to get it away from himself and so placed that when it exploded
no one was hurt.

For it did go off--and the flying steel touched nobody. The papers
mentioned that Larry had been knocked unconscious by the blast. He was
unconscious, all right.

He didn't come to for six hours and when he woke up, he spent the next
whole day in a stupor.

I called on him the next night. He was glad to see me.

"That was a close one, Dick," he said. "Take me back to Tarawa."

I said, "I guess you saved my life, Larry."

"Nonsense, Dick! I just jumped. Lucky, that's all."

"The papers said you were terrific. They said you moved so fast, nobody
could see exactly what happened."

He made a deprecating gesture, but his wet little eyes were wary.
"Nobody was really watching, I suppose."

"I was watching," I told him flatly.

He looked at me silently for a moment.

"I was between you and the grenade," I said. "You didn't go past me,
over me, or through me. But you were on top of the grenade."

He started to shake his head.

I said, "Also, Larry, you fell _on_ the grenade. It exploded underneath
you. I know, because I was almost on top of you, and it blew you clear
off the floor of the gallery. Did you have a bulletproof vest on?"
