



The cell had been put together more efficiently than any Korvin had
ever been in. But that was only natural, he told himself sadly; the
Tr'en were an efficient people. All the preliminary reports had agreed
on that; their efficiency, as a matter of fact, was what had made
Korvin's arrival a necessity. They were well into the atomic era, and
were on the verge of developing space travel. Before long they'd be
settling the other planets of their system, and then the nearer stars.
Faster-than-light travel couldn't be far away, for the magnificently
efficient physical scientists of the Tr'en--and that would mean, in
the ordinary course of events, an invitation to join the Comity of
Planets.

An invitation, the Comity was sure, which the Tr'en would not accept.

Korvin stretched out on the cell's single bunk, a rigid affair which
was hardly meant for comfort, and sighed. He'd had three days of
isolation, with nothing to do but explore the resources of his own
mind. He'd tried some of the ancient Rhine experiments, but that was
no good; he still didn't show any particular psi talents. He couldn't
unlock the cell door with his unaided mind; he couldn't even alter the
probability of a single dust-mote's Brownian path through the somewhat
smelly air. Nor could he disappear from his cell and appear, as if by
magic, several miles away near the slightly-damaged hulk of his ship,
to the wonder and amazement of his Tr'en captors.

He could do, as a matter of fact, precisely nothing. He wished quietly
that the Tr'en had seen fit to give him a pack of cards, or a book, or
even a folder of tourist pictures. The Wonders of Tr'en, according to
all the advance reports, were likely to be pretty boring, but they'd
have been better than nothing.

In any decently-run jail, he told himself with indignation, there
would at least have been other prisoners to talk to. But on Tr'en
Korvin was all alone.

True, every night the guards came in and gave him a concentrated
lesson in the local language, but Korvin failed to get much pleasure
out of that, being unconscious at the time. But now he was equipped to
discuss almost anything from philosophy to plumbing, but there was
nobody to discuss it with. He changed position on the bunk and stared
at the walls. The Tr'en were efficient; there weren't even any
imperfections in the smooth surface to distract him.

He wasn't tired and he wasn't hungry; his captors had left him with a
full stock of food concentrates.

But he was almightily bored, and about ready to tell anything to
anyone, just for the chance at a little conversation.

As he reached this dismal conclusion, the cell door opened. Korvin got
up off the bunk in a hurry and spun around to face his visitor.

The Tr'en was tall, and slightly green.

He looked, as all the Tr'en did, vaguely humanoid--that is, if you
don't bother to examine him closely. Life in the universe appeared to
be rigidly limited to humanoid types on oxygen planets; Korvin didn't
know why, and neither did anybody else. There were a lot of theories,
but none that accounted for all the facts satisfactorily. Korvin
really didn't care about it; it was none of his business.

The Tr'en regarded him narrowly through catlike pupils. "You are
Korvin," he said.

It was a ritual, Korvin had learned. "You are of the Tr'en," he
replied. The green being nodded.

"I am Didyak of the Tr'en," he said. Amenities over with, he relaxed
slightly--but no more than slightly--and came into the cell, closing
the door behind him. Korvin thought of jumping the Tr'en, but decided
quickly against it. He was a captive, and it was unwise to assume that
his captors had no more resources than the ones he saw: a small
translucent pistollike affair in a holster at the Tr'en's side, and a
small knife in a sheath at the belt. Those Korvin could deal with; but
there might be almost anything else hidden and ready to fire on him.

"What do you want with me?" Korvin said. The Tr'en speech--apparently
there was only one language on the planet--was stiff and slightly
awkward, but easily enough learned under drug hypnosis; it was the
most rigorously logical construction of its kind Korvin had ever come
across. It reminded him of some of the mathematical metalanguages he'd
dealt with back on Earth, in training; but it was more closely and
carefully constructed than even those marvels.

"I want nothing with you," Didyak said, leaning against the
door-frame. "You have other questions?"

Korvin sighed. "What are you doing here, then?" he asked. As
conversation, it wasn't very choice; but it was, he admitted, better
than solitude.

"I am leaning against the door," Didyak said. The Tr'en literalist
approach to the smallest problems of everyday living was a little hard
to get the hang of, Korvin told himself bitterly. He thought for a
second.

"Why did you come to me?" he said at last.

Didyak beamed at him. The sight was remarkably unpleasant, involving
as it did the disclosure of the Tr'en fifty-eight teeth, mostly
pointed. Korvin stared back impassively. "I have been ordered to come
to you," Didyak said, "by the Ruler. The Ruler wishes to talk with
you."

It wasn't quite "talk"; that was a general word in the Tr'en language,
and Didyak had used a specific meaning, roughly: "gain information
from, by peaceful and vocal means." Korvin filed it away for future
reference. "Why did the Ruler not come to me?" Korvin asked.

"The Ruler is the Ruler," Didyak said, slightly discomfited. "You are
to go to him. Such is his command."

Korvin shrugged, sighed and smoothed back his hair. "I obey the
command of the Ruler," he said--another ritual. Everybody obeyed the
command of the Ruler. If you didn't, you never had a second chance to
try.

But Korvin meant exactly what he'd said. He was going to obey the
commands of the Ruler of the Tr'en--and remove the Tr'en threat from
the rest of the galaxy forever.

That, after all, was his job.
