
The Room of the Ruler was large, square and excessively brown. The
walls were dark-brown, the furnishings--a single great chair, several
kneeling-benches and a small table near the chair--were light-brown,
of some metallic substance, and even the drapes were tan. It was,
Korvin decided, much too much of a bad idea, even when the color
contrast of the Tr'en themselves were figured in.

The Ruler himself, a Tr'en over seven feet tall and correspondingly
broad, sat in the great chair, his four fingers tapping gently on the
table near him, staring at Korvin and his guards. The guards stood on
either side of their captive, looking as impassive as jade statues,
six and a half feet high.

Korvin wasn't attempting to escape. He wasn't pleading with the Ruler.
He wasn't defying the Ruler, either. He was just answering questions.

The Tr'en liked to have everything clear. They were a logical race.
The Ruler had started with Korvin's race, his name, his sex--if
any--and whether or not his appearance were normal for humanity.

Korvin was answering the last question. "Some men are larger than I
am," he said, "and some are smaller."

"Within what limits?"

Korvin shrugged. "Some are over eight feet tall," he said, "and others
under four feet." He used the Tr'en measurement scale, of course; it
didn't seem necessary, though, to mention that both extremes of height
were at the circus-freak level. "Then there is a group of humans," he
went on, "who are never more than a foot and a half in height, and
usually less than that--approximately nine or ten inches. We call
these _children_," he volunteered helpfully.

"Approximately?" the Ruler growled. "We ask for precision here," he
said. "We are scientific men. We are exact."

Korvin nodded hurriedly. "Our race is more ... more approximate," he
said apologetically.

"Slipshod," the Ruler muttered.

"Undoubtedly," Korvin agreed politely. "I'll try to do the best I can
for you."

"You will answer my questions," the Ruler said, "with exactitude." He
paused, frowning slightly. "You landed your ship on this planet," he
went on. "Why?"

"My job required it," Korvin said.

"A clumsy lie," the Ruler said. "The ship crashed; our examinations
prove that beyond any doubt."

"True," Korvin said.

"And it is your job to crash your ship?" the Ruler said. "Wasteful."

Korvin shrugged again. "What I say is true," he announced. "Do you
have tests for such matters?"

"We do," the Ruler told him. "We are an exact and a scientific race. A
machine for the testing of truth has been adjusted to your physiology.
It will be attached to you."

Korvin looked around and saw it coming through the door, pushed by two
technicians. It was large and squat and metallic, and it had wheels,
dials, blinking lights, tubes and wires, and a seat with armrests and
straps. It was obviously a form of lie-detector--and Korvin felt
himself marveling again at this race. Earth science had nothing to
match their enormous command of the physical universe; adapting a
hypnopaedic language-course to an alien being so quickly had been
wonder enough, but adapting the perilously delicate mechanisms that
necessarily made up any lie-detector machinery was almost a miracle.
The Tr'en, under other circumstances, would have been a valuable
addition to the Comity of Nations.

Being what they were, though, they could only be a menace. And
Korvin's appreciation of the size of that menace was growing hourly.

He hoped the lie-detector had been adjusted correctly. If it showed
him telling an untruth, he wasn't likely to live long, and his
job--not to mention the strongest personal inclinations--demanded most
strongly that he stay alive.

He swallowed hard. But when the technicians forced him down into the
seat, buckled straps around him, attached wires and electrodes and
elastic bands to him at appropriate places and tightened some final
screws, he made no resistance.

"We shall test the machine," the Ruler said. "In what room are you?"

"In the Room of the Ruler," Korvin said equably.

"Are you standing or sitting?"

"I am sitting," Korvin said.

"Are you a _chulad_?" the Ruler asked. A _chulad_ was a small native
pet, Korvin knew, something like a greatly magnified deathwatch
beetle.

"I am not," he said.
