
"The name of your planet is Earth?" the Ruler asked. A few minutes had
passed; the experts were clustered around the single chair. Korvin was
still strapped to the machine; a logical race makes use of a traitor,
but a logical race does not trust him.

"Sometimes," Korvin said.

"It has other names?" the Ruler said.

"It has no name," Korvin said truthfully. The Tr'en idiom was like the
Earthly one; and certainly a planet had no name. People attached names
to it, that was all. It had none of its own.

"Yet you call it Earth?" the Ruler said.

"I do," Korvin said, "for convenience."

"Do you know its location?" the Ruler said.

"Not with exactitude," Korvin said.

There was a stir. "But you can find it again," the Ruler said.

"I can," Korvin said.

"And you will tell us about it?" the Ruler went on.

"I will," Korvin said, "so far as I am able."

"We will wish to know about weapons," the Ruler said, "and about plans
and fortifications. But we must first know of the manner of decision
on this planet. Is your planet joined with others in a government or
does it exist alone?"

Korvin nearly smiled. "Both," he said.

A short silence was broken by one of the attendant experts. "We have
theorized that an underling may be permitted to make some of his own
decisions, leaving only the more extensive ones for the master. This
seems to us inefficient and liable to error, yet it is a possible
system. Is it the system you mean?"

Very sharp, Korvin told himself grimly. "It is," he said.

"Then the government which reigns over several planets is supreme,"
the Ruler said.

"It is," Korvin said.

"Who is it that governs?" the Ruler said.

The key question had, at last, been asked. Korvin felt grateful that
the logical Tr'en had determined to begin from the beginning, instead
of going off after details of armament first; it saved a lot of time.

"The answer to that question," Korvin said, "cannot be given to you."

"Any question of fact has an answer," the Ruler snapped. "A paradox is
not involved here; a government exists, and some being is the
governor. Perhaps several beings share this task; perhaps machines do
the work. But where there is a government, there is a governor. Is
this agreed?"

"Certainly," Korvin said. "It is completely obvious and true."

"The planet from which you come is part of a system of planets which
are governed, you have said," the Ruler went on.

"True," Korvin said.

"Then there is a governor for this system," the Ruler said.

"True," Korvin said again.

The ruler sighed gently. "Explain this governor to us," he said.

Korvin shrugged. "The explanation cannot be given to you."

The Ruler turned to a group of his experts and a short muttered
conversation took place. At its end the Ruler turned his gaze back to
Korvin. "Is the deficiency in you?" he said. "Are you in some way
unable to describe this government?"

"It can be described," Korvin said.

"Then you will suffer unpleasant consequences if you describe it to
us?" the Ruler went on.

"I will not," Korvin said.

It was the signal for another conference. With some satisfaction,
Korvin noticed that the Tr'en were becoming slightly puzzled; they
were no longer moving and speaking with calm assurance.

The plan was taking hold.

The Ruler had finished his conference. "You are attempting again to
confuse us," he said.

Korvin shook his head earnestly. "I am attempting," he said, "not to
confuse you."

"Then I ask for an answer," the Ruler said.

"I request that I be allowed to ask a question," Korvin said.

The Ruler hesitated, then nodded. "Ask it," he said. "We shall answer
it if we see fit to do so."

Korvin tried to look grateful. "Well, then," he said, "what is your
government?"

The Ruler beckoned to a heavy-set green being, who stepped forward
from a knot of Tr'en, inclined his head in Korvin's direction, and
began. "Our government is the only logical form of government," he
said in a high, sweet tenor. "The Ruler orders all, and his subjects
obey. In this way uniformity is gained, and this uniformity aids in
the speed of possible action and in the weight of action. All Tr'en
act instantly in the same manner. The Ruler is adopted by the previous
Ruler; in this way we are assured of a common wisdom and a steady
judgment."

"You have heard our government defined," the Ruler said. "Now, you
will define yours for us."

Korvin shook his head. "If you insist," he said, "I'll try it. But you
won't understand it."

The Ruler frowned. "We shall understand," he said. "Begin. Who governs
you?"

"None," Korvin said.

"But you are governed?"

Korvin nodded. "Yes."

"Then there is a governor," the Ruler insisted.

"True," Korvin said. "But everyone is the governor."

"Then there is no government," the Ruler said. "There is no single
decision."

"No," Korvin said equably, "there are many decisions binding on all."

"Who makes them binding?" the Ruler asked. "Who forces you to accept
these decisions? Some of them must be unfavorable to some beings?"

"Many of them are unfavorable," Korvin said. "But we are not forced to
accept them."

"Do you act against your own interests?"

Korvin shrugged. "Not knowingly," he said. The Ruler flashed a look at
the technicians handling the lie-detector. Korvin turned to see their
expression. They needed no words; the lie-detector was telling them,
perfectly obviously, that he was speaking the truth. But the truth
wasn't making any sense. "I told you you wouldn't understand it," he
said.

"It is a defect in your explanation," the Ruler almost snarled.

"My explanation is as exact as it can be," he said.

The Ruler breathed gustily. "Let us try something else," he said.
"Everyone is the governor. Do you share a single mind? A racial mind
has been theorized, though we have met with no examples--"

"Neither have we," Korvin said. "We are all individuals, like
yourselves."

"But with no single ruler to form policy, to make decisions--"

"We have no need of one," Korvin said calmly.

"Ah," the Ruler said suddenly, as if he saw daylight ahead. "And why
not?"

"We call our form of government _democracy_," Korvin said. "It means
the rule of the people. There is no need for another ruler."

One of the experts piped up suddenly. "The beings themselves rule each
other?" he said. "This is clearly impossible; for, no one being can
have the force to compel acceptance of his commands. Without his
force, there can be no effective rule."

"That is our form of government," Korvin said.

"You are lying," the expert said.

One of the technicians chimed in: "The machine tells us--"

"Then the machine is faulty," the expert said. "It will be corrected."

Korvin wondered, as the technicians argued, how long they'd take
studying the machine, before they realized it didn't have any defects
to correct. He hoped it wasn't going to be too long; he could foresee
another stretch of boredom coming. And, besides, he was getting
homesick.

It took three days--but boredom never really had a chance to set in.
Korvin found himself the object of more attention than he had hoped
for; one by one, the experts came to his cell, each with a different
method of resolving the obvious contradictions in his statements.

Some of them went away fuming. Others simply went away, puzzled.

On the third day Korvin escaped.

It wasn't very difficult; he hadn't thought it would be. Even the most
logical of thinking beings has a subconscious as well as a conscious
mind, and one of the ways of dealing with an insoluble problem is to
make the problem disappear. There were only two ways of doing that,
and killing the problem's main focus was a little more complicated.
That couldn't be done by the subconscious mind; the conscious had to
intervene somewhere. And it couldn't.

Because that would mean recognizing, fully and consciously, that the
problem _was_ insoluble. And the Tr'en weren't capable of that sort of
thinking.

Korvin thanked his lucky stars that their genius had been restricted
to the physical and mathematical. Any insight at all into the mental
sciences would have given them the key to his existence, and his
entire plan, within seconds.

But, then, it was lack of that insight that had called for this
particular plan. That, and the political structure of the Tr'en.

The same lack of insight let the Tr'en subconscious work on his
escape without any annoying distractions in the way of deep
reflection. Someone left a door unlocked and a weapon nearby--all
quite intent, Korvin was sure. Getting to the ship was a little more
complicated, but presented no new problems; he was airborne, and then
space-borne, inside of a few hours after leaving the cell.

He set his course, relaxed, and cleared his mind. He had no psionic
talents, but the men at Earth Central did; he couldn't receive
messages, but he could send them. He sent one now.

     _Mission accomplished; the Tr'en aren't about to come
     marauding out into space too soon. They've been given food
     for thought--nice indigestible food that's going to stick in
     their craws until they finally manage to digest it. But they
     can't digest it and stay what they are; you've got to be
     democratic, to some extent, to understand the idea. What
     keeps us obeying laws we ourselves make? What keeps us
     obeying laws that make things inconvenient for us? Sheer
     self-interest, of course--but try to make a Tr'en see it!_

     _With one government and one language, they just weren't
     equipped for translation. They were too efficient physically
     to try for the mental sciences at all. No mental sciences,
     no insight into my mind or their own--and that means no
     translation._

     _But--damn it--I wish I were home already._

     _I'm bored absolutely stiff!_

THE END
