
The days and weeks went on, and the charting team carried out its
orders faithfully. Judy and Jane took care of the house and allied
domestic problems, while Ned and Danny explored the planet in the
helicopter. The whole habitable area of Furbish proved to be much
the same as the part where they had landed. Further north and south,
the men reported, there was ice and snow and no life--not even of a
vegetable nature.

But still it wouldn't be safe for the girls to go exploring, their
husbands pointed out, because the surface of the planet was still
unscratched. The natives--of which there didn't seem to be more than
a couple of hundred all told--lived in caves in the hills; what else
might be lurking in more effective concealment they could not, as yet,
tell.

"If you ask me," Judy said, as the women watched their men depart on
another reconnaissance flight, "the planet is as safe as houses. The
fellows are just making sure they don't have to do any of the dirty
work."

"You may be right," Jane concurred. "In fact, I'm sure you are ... and
I'm sick of housework." For most of the labor-saving devices that made
domestic servitude a joy on Earth--according to the manufacturers, at
least--were impracticable on this remote planet, where power came in
cans and had to be conserved. The women had been told they were to
serve as integral members of the team; this was hardly their idea of
integration.

"Look, Jane!" Judy cried, inspired by an idea which, though it had
been hatching in her brain for some time, she thought best to offer
as a sudden flash of genius, "why couldn't we train one or two of the
natives to help with the housework? After all, that doesn't take much
mental ability."

"_Judy!_" Jane exclaimed, not as aghast as she pretended, for the same
concept had been trying to wheedle its way out of her subconsciousness.
"You know what the captain said!" It was only fear of authority that
motivated her reluctance; there was no question in her mind but that
any creatures who looked so much like brownies must be capable of
whatever brownies could do, and everyone knew that brownies were
marvellous for housework.

"The captain must be light years away by now! And we're not going to
see him for another four years and eight months objective time anyhow."
Judy's black eyes flashed. "Why shouldn't we try to make use of the
natives and, at the same time, uplift them? We pay taxes, don't we?"

"But ... he said something about exploitation...."

"Naturally we're not going to make slaves of them. We'll pay them ...
oh, something. Besides, the Terrestrial Government _has_ been accused
of slavery--Captain Harnick said so, didn't he? And where there's smoke
there must be fire. So I don't see why we should be penalized because
of someone else's mistake."

Jane was unable to follow this line of reasoning clearly, so she fell
back on, "We might get into trouble."

"Nonsense! The natives are obviously harmless, and we can take the
portable communications unit along with us, so the boys'll never know
we left the cottage."

"I really don't kno-o-ow."

"Nothing ventured, nothing won," Judy declared. "I'm going, even if you
aren't."

"Well, in that case, of course I can't let you go alone."

Donning their heat suits, the two girls sallied forth into the bracing
air of Furbish, ready for adventure. Not that they hadn't been outside
before, of course, but never with such definite intent to break
regulations.

It was summer and almost warm. The grass was a little bluer, the sun
a little redder, the sky a little greener. Had there been birds on
Furbish, they would have been singing. "If the natives turn out to
be intelligent enough," Judy murmured dreamily, "we could really be
queens--and kings, of course--for five years. Or even longer. The
ESS couldn't make us take another post once we'd brought the native
populace under control."

"Judy Field!" Jane's blue eyes were wide with horror.

"Oh, well," Judy apologized, "one does get carried away.... Look,
there's a native over there." She set the radio unit on the ground.
"Let's accost him. In a nice way, I mean, of course."

"Good morning, sir," she began. "We have been looking forward to making
your acquaintance.... I know he can't understand the words," she
explained to Jane, "but it's the tone of voice that counts."
