
The native glared at Judy out of malignant pink eyes, and attempted
to duck under her right arm. She sidestepped him neatly. "We are your
friends."

He tried to get past her on the other side. "We're friends!" Judy
yelled, chasseeing left. "We come in peace."

The native whirled and found Jane behind him, "Don't be
fu-fu-frightened," she quavered. "We're your fu-fu-fu-friends."

With a cry of rage, the native lowered his head and charged. He was
out-weighed, but Jane was unnerved. She fell sprawling. The native
walked across her prostrate body and made off. When he was a few
meters away, however, he paused to look at them. Apparently they had
succeeded in arousing some interest.

"Copter calling cottage!" the radio chose to announce at that moment.
"Copter calling cottage! Over to you!"

"Help, Judy!" Jane screamed. "Hay-ulp! I can't get up."

Judy ran to tug at her prostrate comrade, but Jane, although more
slender, was taller, and weighed a lot in the heat suit. Moreover, she
was so stiff with fright that she couldn't move.

The radio continued to squawk, "Copter calling cottage! Can you hear
us? What's the matter?" Judy straightened up and looked about her
wildly. "Copter calling cottage. Copter--"

She ran over to the radio and threw the switch. "Cottage to copter,"
she replied, gasping for breath. "Everything's just fine."

"Help. Ju-dee!" Jane screamed again, just before Judy switched the set
over. Judy rushed back to her fallen comrade.

"What's the _matter_?" Ned's voice demanded frantically. "Why was Jane
screaming? What's wrong? _Answer me, for God's sake!_"

Having managed to haul Jane to a sitting position, Judy wiped the hair
off her own grimy forehead, and dashed back to stoop over the radio.
"Lunch was burning!" she panted. "Everything is--"

"Ju-_dee_, he's throwing stones!"

Sure enough, the native had decided that hurling rocks at them would be
interesting and appropriate. With their huge--in his terms--terrestrial
forms, bulking even larger in the heat suits, the girls made much more
satisfactory targets than the spindling members of his own species,
though he did not classify other life-forms according to species. There
were others and then there was himself.

"Everything is under control," Judy finished. "Nothing's the matter.
_Ouch!_ Over to you." She rubbed her plump bottom and glared at the
native.

"Arrr," said the native happily. He had thrown stones before, but never
had he succeeded in hitting anyone. "Arrrrrr!" Pride of achievement
filled his scrawny bosom.

Dan's voice took over. "You're keeping something from us, Judy!"

"It's nothing, nothing!" Judy babbled. "Just spilled hot fat on my
arm--that's all. _Ouch!_ Quit it, or I'll wring your skinny neck! Over
to you."

"Arrr!" howled the native, catching Judy in the shin. "Arrr-aff!"

Two more natives came up--separately, of course--to watch. It was
rarely that Furbish had any such entertainment to offer. They regarded
the scene with interest. But somehow spectator sport, while excellent
in itself, does not give the full joy of actual participation....

"Arrr," said one, tentatively shying a stone at Jane. It got her in the
hip. "Arrr-aff!"

"Arrr!" shrieked all three natives, joyously hurling rocks. "Arrr-afff!"

"Wherever you girls are," the radio barked, "you get right back into
the cottage and stay there!"

"That's what we were trying to do," Judy snapped, "when you oafs mixed
in!"
