
Except for a few bruises, the girls were none the worse for their
experience. However, the disappointed natives soon discovered that the
cottage made an even better target for their rocks than the people.
Since the prefabs were intended for use on a variety of planets, and
hence had been built to endure storm, flood, and fire, as well as
unanticipatable indigenous disasters, the mere bouncing of rocks off
their metal and plastic sides could not inflict any serious damage,
but the incessant thumping against the walls got on the girls' nerves,
particularly as the natives' numbers, as well as their skill, seemed to
be on the increase.

It was a relief to hear the sound of the helicopter. Fortunately, the
Furbishians did not shift their attention to the vehicle or to the
husbands inside it. Not being human, they were not sportsmen, and so
preferred a large stationary target to a small moving one. They threw
stones at the men only when they got between them and the house,
which, of course, the men had to do in order to get inside.

"What _is_ this?" Dan asked, when they had finally forced their way in.
"A siege?"

"No, darling," Judy replied joyously. "A group enterprise. You see,
the natives _are_ capable of communal effort once they're given an
incentive, in spite of what old Harnick said. I told you they were
intelligent."

Both men groaned.

Since the natives' intentions were obviously not hostile, retaliatory
measures were out of the question. So the Earthmen spent the next
few days in using some of the same rocks to build a large wall some
distance away from the house, hoping that it would provide a still more
attractive target. However, there were several scores of the creatures
involved in the game by then and only part had their activities
successfully diverted.

"Well, every little bit counts," Danny tried to soothe the angry Ned,
who had been trying to show the natives that _building_ with the rocks
was more fun than _throwing_ them and, for his pains, had received a
stone in the solar plexus.

On their last mission, the two young men had been absorbed in mapping
an interesting valley in the north polar regions--a pursuit which they
had no intention of giving up. A few days after they had finished
the work, therefore, they announced their intention of taking the
helicopter out again. "And, remember, girls," Ned adjured them, "don't
go out of the house at all until we come back."

"We need fresh air," Jane said.

"The air inside is a lot fresher than out," her husband retorted,
"because it's purified. So, mind you, don't set foot out of the door
until we return."

"Except in an emergency," Judy told him.

"Maybe we'd better leave the valley for later...." Danny murmured.

"Oh, _come on_!" Ned protested. He had been dragooned into washing the
dishes several times during the weeks they'd spent at home building
the wall for the natives, and had no intention of letting the same
misfortune befall him again. "What kind of emergency could there be?"

"If Judy has her heart set on an emergency," Dan prophesied, as he
allowed himself to be led off, "there'll be an emergency."
