
"I don't know how the boys expect us to stand this," Judy remarked
querulously as she and Jane sat listening to the thumps and bumps and
"arrrs" outside.

"Well, they didn't start it.... And," Jane added, as Judy opened her
mouth, "I don't suppose they can stop it either.... It does seem to me,
though," she remarked, less out of actual observation than out of the
desire to placate, "that they aren't making as much noise as usual."

Judy went to the window. "Of course they aren't. They're dying like
flies."

"_What!_" Jane looked through the clear plastic pane. Sure enough,
many of the natives had fallen to the ground. Since they were still
writhing, they didn't seem to be actually dead; that was an academic
point, however, because they wouldn't last long, what with the other
natives stomping upon them in the excitement of the game.

"Maybe their life spans are shorter than ours?" Jane suggested.

Judy threw her a contemptuous glance. "More likely three weeks of
rock-hurling has proved too strenuous for their fragile little bodies.
And it's all our fault!" She burst into tears. "We've sapped their
energy."

"Judy!" Jane laid a hand on the other girl's arm. "I just happened to
think--since they started throwing rocks, I haven't seen any of them
gathering roots. Maybe they're just starving."

The girls looked at one another. "That's it!" Judy exclaimed. "We must
heat up lots of soup--just the thing for starving people." She began
busily to pull cans off the shelves.

"But you know, Captain Harnick said they weren't people, so maybe they
can't eat the same kinds of things we do. Our soup might be poison for
them."

"Being poisoned isn't worse than being starved." Judy expertly
manipulated a can opener. "Not much worse anyway," she amended. "It's a
chance we'll have to take."

"You mean it's a chance _they_'ll have to take." Jane herself thought
that porridge would be better, because everyone knew how mad brownies
were for porridge, but it was always easiest to let Judy have her own
way.

So, bearing a large kettle between them, the two girls staggered out
of the cottage between the flying stones--which were not coming as
thick and fast as before owing to the fact that almost half the native
populace had collapsed.

They set the kettle down by the nearest prostrate figure. "Look," Judy
said to him. "Soup. Nice soup."

The native turned a dull glance on them. "We'll have to feed him," Judy
decided. "You hold his head up, Jane."

Although she could not repress a shudder of loathing at contact with
the alien, Jane obeyed, as always. "Open your mouth, that's a good
boy," Judy told him, and opened her own mouth wide to set an example.

The native lifted his heavy, pointed head and looked down her throat
with feeble interest. "No, that's not what I mean. Drink this. Nice
soup." She prodded his lips with the dripping spoon. The lips parted
and the soup passed into the alien interior.

Suddenly the creature's eyes bulged. He began to choke loudly. "There,"
Jane cried in anguish, "you _have_ poisoned him!"

"Or maybe he doesn't eat with his mouth, like us," Judy speculated. "I
never thought of that. Perhaps I poured soup down the equivalent of his
ear."

But, once the convulsion was over, the native opened his mouth for
more. Despite Jane's cry of protest, Judy poked in another spoonful.
"Soup," she said. "Nice soup."

A faint, strange, utterly foreign expression contorted the native's
dusty violent face. He was smiling. "Arrr-aff!" he said.

"That's what they yell when they score a hit with the rocks!" Jane
exclaimed excitedly. "He likes it! But, oh, Judy, supposing it should
be poisonous to him after all!"

"Nothing ventured, nothing won," Judy repeated. "Here, have some more
soup."

"Oup," the native said. "Arrr-aff!"

Jane and Judy looked at one another proudly.

"Oup," said a wistful voice near them. "Oup?"

The stone-throwing had almost entirely stopped. "Oup?" several voices
took up the cry. "Oooooooup?"

"You'd better go put another kettle on, Jane," Judy told her.
