
"What's happened?" Ned McComb asked, as the two men came back from
their voyage. "How did you get the natives to stop throwing rocks? And
why are they standing outside chanting something like 'oup?'"

"It's supper time," Judy explained, looking up from the stove with a
flushed face. "Hand me the salt, Jane--they like a lot of salt."

"'They?' _You mean you've been feeding the natives!_"

"We couldn't let them starve," Judy replied defiantly. "And, after all,
it was all your fault they weren't gathering roots for food. If you
hadn't gone and built them that handball court...!"

Ned looked accusingly at Danny. Danny lowered his eyes. "I suppose," he
murmured to his wife, "'oup' means soup."

"You suppose correctly. And, if you two weren't such stubborn mules,
you would realize that it was very clever of them to have learned
the word. Get me the dehydrated potatoes, please, Jane; they're very
nourishing."

Danny took off his helmet and ran his hands through his thick brown
hair. "All right, so what if they do have a higher intelligence than
Furbish thought? That still doesn't make them people. Still less does
it make them our responsibility. How long are you proposing to run this
soup kitchen, dear? You know, we were left with food supplies for four,
not forty, or four hundred."

"They don't eat as much as we do," Jane put in, obviously quoting,
"because of being smaller. And there are a lot of emergency stores in
case Captain Harnick and the ship never come back, on account of being
eaten by monsters or something. You thought we didn't know about that,"
she said proudly, "but we did."

"We don't have _that_ amount of supplies, of course," Judy rushed to
inform them before either of the men could protest. "As soon as I've
got the natives organized--" Ned and Dan exchanged glances "--I plan to
teach them more efficient ways of gathering roots, so that they'll have
time for both work and play."

"And I don't suppose you had planned to organize a few to do your
housework, had you?" Dan asked penetratingly.

"Well, naturally, I would be spending a good deal of time on this
project, so I should expect to get what help I could with my regular
duties."

"The captain said--" Ned began.

"The captain said the natives weren't intelligent and he only warned us
not to make pets of them or kill them. He said fortunately we couldn't
exploit them, which, of course, I wouldn't do, even if we could.
Anyhow, I believe it was Ned who tried to get them to help build the
handball court, wasn't it?"

"What can we do?" Danny asked. "Harnick isn't here and she is."
