
"Now, remember this, girls," Ned admonished them, for the men were off
on another mission, to chart the south pole this time--not that it was
really so urgent, but the cottage had begun to take on the aspect of a
Salvation Army Mission and was no longer homelike. "Feed the natives,
if you must, but don't let any inside the house."

"How will we train them to do the housework then?" Judy wanted to know.

"It'll be a long time before you can get them to do that," Dan said
diplomatically. "Why not try to teach them English first? They'll need
to know it in order to follow your directions."

"That's true," Judy admitted.

"And it'll be a nice, healthy, out-of-doors occupation for you two."
Ned pinched his wife's pale cheek. "You've been knocking yourself out,
shug."

"I haven't worked half as hard as Judy has," Jane protested loyally.
"And she does all the thinking besides."

"Yeah," said Ned. "She sure does. Why don't you take yourself a rest
too, Jude?"

When the copter had gone, Judy sat herself down at the table with
pencil and paper. "We must compile a list of suitable words to teach
them. Let's figure out which ones are most important.... _Broom_," she
said aloud as she scribbled, "and _sink_ and _dust_ and _laundry_...."

There was a thump at the door. They looked at each other. Under the
lure of food, plus the attractions of a second handball court, the
natives had been persuaded to withdraw their athletic endeavors from
the vicinity of the house, so the knock could not be the result of a
fortuitous stone.

Jane looked out of the window. "It's a very little native, and he's
banging a can on the door. How cute!" Since there weren't enough
serving utensils, cans had been distributed to the natives to be used
as dishes. Even so, there hadn't been sufficient to go around, and the
fact that this individual had been canny enough to pre-empt one for his
exclusive use argued a superior mentality.

Judy got up and opened the door. "Oup," said the native, thrusting his
tin forward suggestively. "Oup."

"It isn't time for supper, dear."

The native gave her a winning smile, and proposed an alternative.
"Orridge," he said. "Orridge."

Both girls gasped. The natives had been fed other things besides soup,
but heretofore none had used any word other than "oup" to describe food
generically or specifically.

"Obviously he has linguistic aptitude," Judy decided. "Just the one to
start teaching English to. Come on in, dear." She opened the door wider.

"Judy! You remember what Ned--what the boys said!"

"Oh, them! I can't give English lessons outside with all the natives
throwing stones and howling. Besides, this is such a little fellow, he
couldn't matter too much. And he is in already."

Which was undeniably true. The diminutive creature was not only in but
engaged in tasting Judy's pencil. "Orridge," it said dubiously.

"No, dear. Pencil." Judy removed the implement from his grasp and made
demonstrative marks on the paper.

"En-cil," the native agreed, putting out a small, slate-blue hand for
it.

After a moment of hesitation, Judy allowed him to have the pencil. He
took the paper and made marks of his own. "Oo-dee," he said proudly,
handing the paper back to her.

His satisfaction was entirely justified, for on the paper there was a
primitive but very life-like drawing of Judy herself.

"It isn't really so surprising," she said stoutly. "After all, they do
live in caves.... And why are you wrinkling up your nose like that,
Jane?"

"Oh, not the picture--it's just that--well--I didn't like to say it,
but it is a little close in here and...." Jane looked apologetically
at the native. He beamed at her. "I expect it's a difference in
metabolism."

"I expect it's dirt," Judy contradicted. "I've often wondered whether
they'd stay the same color if they were washed. Now's my chance to find
out. How would you like a nice bath, dear?"

"Ath?" the creature repeated. "Orridge!"

"After your ath--bath, that is." Judy was already filling a large basin
with warm water.

"But, Judy, maybe he isn't washable!"

"What do you think he'll do--shrink? Or run?" Judy looked at the
native. "Come to think of it, he might run at that. Why don't you get
out some of the music tapes, Jane, and play them to distract him?"

But the native loved being bathed. He loved the music tapes. And, at
the end of his ablutions, he stood revealed as the possessor of not
only a beautiful cerulean skin, but a fine, true soprano.

By the time Ned and Dan had returned from the south pole, the
Furbishian Glee Club had been formed.
