
"I'd hoped to have come and gone before Christmas," Captain Harnick
sighed discontentedly. "These isolated outposts are so depressing at
holiday time."

"But think of the personnel, sir," the pilot told him with gentle
reproach. "They have to spend _all_ their time here."

"You're right, Wilkins," the captain admitted shamefacedly. "It's a
hard, dull life for them. And Furbish is particularly bad. Only four
people on an otherwise uninhabited planet. They must go mad with the
monotony. The weeks must seem like months, the months like years, the
years--"

"Uninhabited, did you say?" Wilkins interrupted. "I could have sworn I
saw a village down there. Of course it is growing dark, but still--aha,
there it is!"

The captain leaned forward and peered into the dusk below. "By George,
you're right! There seem to be a good two dozen houses there. Now, how
could that have happened?"

"Good solid stone buildings too--definitely not native huts."

"Of course the survey team was composed of both males and females,"
the captain muttered, "but, no, reproduction alone couldn't account
for this, not in five years, even if you do allow for the mysterious
influence of cosmic rays."

"What's all that light!" Lieutenant Wilkins exclaimed. "Damned if it
doesn't look like a Christmas tree."

It was a Christmas tree, thirty feet tall, composed of interlaced
branches and illuminated bladders. And, as the scout ship settled
gently to the ground, its occupants could hear a chorus of sweet, true
voices coming to them through the frosty air: "Ark uh er-ald an-gels
ing/ O-ry oo uh oo-orn ing;/ Eace on Urbish and ercy i-yuld...."

"It's a hallucination," the captain said, rubbing his eyes. "We've been
too long in space."

Lights came moving toward them through the darkness, and there was the
babble of excited voices. "Captain Harnick!" Ned McComb cried. "We
thought you were never coming!" All four members of the survey team
crowded around the scout ship, shaking hands and talking at once. They
looked fit, the captain noticed, although thin and strangely pale in
the torchlight.

"We have so much to tell you!" Judy cried. "So much has been happening
here we've hardly had time to turn around. I never knew five years
could pass so rapidly."

Harnick and Wilkins looked at one another. They climbed out of the
ship, and saw the choristers--a dozen small creatures in soft, lovely
hues of blue and violet, standing in a semicircle nearby, regarding
the newcomers without fear, as they continued to pipe lustily: "I-lent
ight, O-ly ight;/ All is alm, all is ight...."

"You were entirely wrong about the natives, you know." Judy linked
her arm through the captain's as she drew him through the cottage.
"They're not only remarkably intelligent, but talented. Don't they sing
beautifully? And you should see the murals they've done!"

"_The natives!_" Suspicion became certainty. "Then this," the captain
thundered, pointing to the neat rows of stone houses, "is their work.
You've enslaved them!"

"But you said there was no intelligent life on this planet, sir,"
Wilkins protested, bewildered.

The captain shrugged. "The fauna didn't seem to be intelligent, but the
preliminary survey was sketchy. We may have been mistaken. We didn't
even think they could communicate with one another."

"They couldn't," Judy told him. "It simply had never occurred to them
to communicate, because they hadn't anything to say at that time."

"But we gave them something to say," Jane added happily.

"And something to do, also," the captain grunted. "You've exploited the
poor beasts. Making them build houses and--"

"Don't misunderstand, captain," Dan said, with a peculiar smile. "The
natives aren't exploited. They love what they're doing ... and what's
being done for them."

"And besides," Ned contributed, "it was we who built the houses for
them. Shame they should have to live in caves like animals. There
aren't nearly enough buildings yet, but, after all, there were only
four of us. I think we did pretty well, considering."

"And it's been so rewarding, too." Jane flung open the door of the
prefab, as she spoke. It was, Harnick noticed, by far the least
imposing edifice in the community. "You must listen to some of the
music they've composed! Lucky thing we brought a recorder with us;
you'll undoubtedly want to take some of the tapes back with you."

"Elcome oo Urbish, entlemen," they were greeted by a bright blue
native, who was lolling in the best chair and showed no signs of
rising. "Oodee," it, or he, complained, "it's oo ot in ere."

"I've shown you how to work the thermostat, dear," Judy said gently,
as she adjusted the device. "They don't seem to have any aptitude for
mechanical things," she explained, as she removed her heat suit, "but
they're so marvellous in the arts you couldn't really ask for more."

"I'm afraid, sir," Wilkins whispered, "that the Terrestrial Government
has another colony on its hands." The captain nodded gloomily.
