
They removed their heat suits. The temperature of the room was much too
low for terrestrial comfort. And there was a peculiar odor which seemed
to be emanating from a large pot that bubbled on the stove. None of the
standard rations allotted to the team could possibly smell like that,
Harnick knew; he hoped the young people had not been experimenting with
the local vegetables. There was a regulation against that.

Either there was something wrong with the light or with his eyes,
for the faces of the four team members appeared to have a distinct
bluish tinge. On the other hand, Lieutenant Wilkins' visage seemed as
comfortably rosy as ever.

"You won't recognize the place, sir!" Ned declared enthusiastically, as
he took their suits. "We've built them tennis courts and a swimming
pool; they're as apt at sport as art."

"Only thing they don't seem to take to," Danny Field murmured, "is
work."

The other three glared. "Culture is far more important!" his wife
snapped. "And I trust you'll be able to spare us a lot more personnel
for the post," she addressed Harnick, "because we need to build a
stadium. And possibly a museum. And a school, of course."

"You don't want to go back then?" Wilkins asked curiously.

All four shook their heads. "We have a mission here now," Judy said.

"Look," Harnick protested, knowing it was no use, "the Earth
Government's intention was only to use Furbish as a fueling and repair
station."

"Fuel!" Judy snorted. "I don't know whether it would even be right to
let the government ships land here. Those coarse, uncultured crews
might contaminate our natives; they're so impressionable, you know."

"But isn't it wonderful," Jane, the peacemaker, put in, "how they've
thrived on terrestrial food. I think that must have a lot to do with
the remarkable way they've developed."

Harnick's anger was lost in shock. "You mean you've been giving them
your rations? But surely there wasn't that much food, even with the
emergency stores!"

"Well," said Judy, "they don't eat as much as we do, of course.
And you'd be surprised how tasty the native roots are. We've grown
quite fond of them; in fact, I doubt whether we'd be able to stomach
terrestrial food by now."

The odor from the pot grew stronger and even less appetizing. There was
nothing wrong with either the light, Harnick realized, or his eyes. The
faces of the four members of the survey team were really quite blue.


                                THE END

