
Elliot opened his eyes slowly. He was no longer in the Vestend, but in
a large, well-decorated office. Behind a gleaming-surfaced desk sat a
short, fat man with jowls that jiggled as he spoke, and standing to
his left was a brawny, not-too-intelligent-looking man with a heavy
spacetan.

"How do you feel, Mr. Elliot?" the fat man asked.

"All right, I guess." He rubbed the back of his head. "What happened?"

"You got in a fight. Fortunately Sam, here, got you out."

Elliot looked at his benefactor. "Thanks, pal."

Sam shrugged morosely.

The fat man steepled his fingers and leaned forward solicitously. "Tell
me--aren't you the Daniel Elliot who cracked up a spaceship in the
jungles five years ago?"

"That's me," Elliot said.

The fat man nodded. "Mr. Elliot, I understand that you were near
the Venusian Temple of Light--that you actually saw the Dragonbird
with your own eyes. Can you tell me if the thing is a robot or is it
actually alive?"

Elliot grinned. He had seen the fabulous bird from the jungle, hidden
from the Venusian priests who worshipped it, but even at a distance he
could tell the thing was alive. No robot could have moved with such
sinuous grace. "It's real," he said.

The fat man smiled unpleasantly. "I had hoped so, Mr. Elliot. I want
that bird. You're the only one who can lead me to it."

Elliot rose to his feet and glared at the fat man. "Not me, mister.
I don't like the jungle--and I don't like the idea of taking the
Venusian's pet god, either."

The fat man's eyes grew hard. "Do you know who I am?"

Elliot shook his head. It was a mistake; his neck was still sore from
the clobbering earlier, and the pain made him wince.

"You're talking to Housten Blayne," Sam said.

Elliot stared silently. He knew Housten Blayne. Blayne was the Venusian
Commissioner for the Interplanetary Trade Board.

"You were in a brawl in a tavern, Mr. Elliot," said Blayne mildly. "I
could revoke your pilot's papers for that. It might even appear that
you were--ah--intoxicated when you smashed up the _Space Needle_.
Naturally we couldn't let you take off in the _Space Needle II_, could
we?"

Elliot saw the picture then. The fight in the bar had been staged.
Blayne had shrewdly framed him in order to get him to lead him to the
Dragonbird. And the fat man could do everything he said he would.
Elliot was in his pocket.

"All right, Blayne," Elliot said stiffly. "When do we start?"

"Tuesday," Blayne said. "And I'd better warn you, Elliot, that we must
protect each other. If I don't come back from this trip, certain papers
in my safe would make things very difficult for you. If we make it,
however, you will be well paid."

"What does that mean?"

Blayne smiled. "I believe ten thousand credits will be sufficient. That
is, of course, if we actually _get_ the Dragonbird."
