
They started the next day from North Venus City, Blayne and Elliot. Sam
followed them as far as the boundary line, then waved and turned back.

The first few days of the journey weren't too bad. The little jeep
went over the mossy undergrowth almost as though a road had been built
for it. It was, Elliot reflected, a hell of a lot better way to travel
than slogging through the Venusian jungle on foot. In four days, they
covered the same ground that had taken Elliot five weeks when he'd
cracked up his ship several hundred miles to the south.

At night, the two men took shifts, one of them sleeping in the rear
of the jeep and the other standing guard, keeping his eyes peeled
for predators. Here Elliot encountered a temptation that was almost
overpowering.

It happened the first night, while Blayne slept. Elliot paced slowly
back and forth, on the lookout. Half an hour before his watch was
due to end, he heard a faint chittering sound coming from one of the
swaying whip-trees overhead.

He glanced up, and swore. One of the grapefruit-sized purple Venusian
spiders was lowering itself stealthily from the overhead branches on
thick, sticky strands of web. It hovered some eight feet above Blayne's
face--the fat, grubby face that looked evil even in sleep.

Elliot felt perspiration bursting out on himself. It would be so easy
just to let the spider descend, to crawl on Blayne's ugly face, to
inject its venom--

No. He fought the temptation, and drew his blaster. A bright spurt of
golden flame split the night, and the spider withered on its web.

Blayne was awake in an instant. "What was that?"

"I've just saved your worthless life," Elliot said tonelessly. "Spider.
Came out of the tree. Go back to sleep; you're not on duty for another
half-hour."

Blayne shuddered, rolled over--and went back to sleep.

During the day, Elliot drove. They moved further and further into the
tangle of foliage that was the Venusian jungle, while the gray clump of
buildings that was Venus City receded dimly behind them.

It was hot in the jungle, hot and moist. Elliot's hair plastered
itself to his forehead, sweat trickled into his eyes, steam fogged the
windshield. After a while, he brought the jeep to a halt.

Blayne wiped sweat from his wobbling chins and looked up. "What's going
on?"

"You drive," Elliot said. "I'm bushed."

"No," Blayne said. "You're doing the driving in this outfit. That's
your job--that's what I've hired you for. Get going. Now!"

Elliot started the jeep up again. He'd been in low straits before, but
this was about the depth in degradation. He had never hated anyone
quite so deeply as he did Blayne--and had never been in so poor a
position to do anything about it.

Pressure began to build up in him. He was a trained rocket pilot, a man
with skilled reflexes and an essential job. Somehow he'd slipped--and
it had landed him smack under Blayne's thumb. It wasn't an easy pill
to swallow. He would cheerfully have killed the fat man--except that
he knew he'd never fly a spaceship again if he returned to Venus City
without the Commissioner. Blayne had him tied up six ways from Sunday,
and it would do no good to strain at the bonds.
