
On the evening of the fourth day, disaster struck. The jeep was
bouncing over the mossy path between the great slime-covered trees
when, quite suddenly, Elliot spied something rope-like slithering down
a vine directly in the path of the car.

"_Snake!_" he yelled, and jerked the wheel to one side. The jeep
swerved.

"Watch what you're doing!" Blayne growled. But it was too late. The
right wheel hit a hidden rock, and the vehicle turned over on its side
with a rending crash.

Elliot was dazed, but he knew he still had to act fast. He sprang from
the overturned jeep, with Blayne behind him. The tree-snake that had
caused him to swerve was still coming toward them, its white fangs
dripping venom.

It sprang forward to strike, but Elliot's hand was faster. He closed
his fingers savagely around the reptile's neck. He held the head at
arm's length.

The snake's twelve-foot body whipped around Elliot's throat and chest,
pinning one arm to his side. The rocket pilot felt the dry, loathsome
odor of the reptile drifting into his nostrils, and retched. He gasped
for air and tightened his fingers on the snake's throat, drawing his
hand together as closely as he could. It was a question of which one
would hold out longer.

Elliot's eyes began to dim. What the hell was that fat fool Blayne
doing?

"_Blayne!_" he shouted.

But Blayne didn't answer. With one desperate surge of power, Elliot
clamped his fingers even tighter.

Something snapped. The snake gave one convulsive shudder and dropped
its lifeless coils from Elliot's body. He stood up, quivering with
tension.

As the snake hit the ground, a pencil beam seared the air, burning its
head off. "That's that," Housten Blayne said in relief.

Elliot whirled to face him. "Why the devil did you stand there? It
could have killed me. Why didn't you use your knife?"

Blayne shrugged. "You were doing all right. Now do something about the
car, will you?"

Elliot repressed a vivid curse and turned away. The sight of Blayne
sickened him, and he wished there were some way of exacting the revenge
Blayne merited without forfeiting the cash for the trip. There wasn't.

He bent and examined the car. "The front axle's broken," he said,
after a moment's scrutiny. "There's nothing much we can do about it out
here."

"Nothing?"

"Not unless you want to lash it together with some twigs," Elliot said
acidly.

"We can't turn back now," Blayne said. "Start loading your pack. We'll
walk the rest of the way. The Dragonbird's lair can't be too far off."

The bright glow of lust was shining in the fat man's eyes. Elliot
stared at him for a moment, then began packing.
