
A day later, they arrived at the banks of the Khathyl River, a
swirling, slow-moving, wide stream that wound lazily through most of
the continent.

Elliot and Blayne kept out of sight in the brush.

"Look out there," Elliot said. He pointed at an island a hundred yards
off shore.

"What's out that way?" Blayne asked.

"That's the temple. See the big white building? The natives never come
to this side of the river, by the way--the hunting's better over there."

"Give me the glasses," Blayne whispered.

Elliot handed the binoculars over and the fat man stared hungrily at
the island.

"See anything?"

"Just natives," Blayne said. He handed back the glasses and Elliot
looked at the little knots of mauve-skinned natives here and there on
the island.

"Don't they have any guards?"

Elliot shook his head. "No. They stick to their belief that the
Dragonbird will protect them from any invaders."

"Good," Blayne said. "So much the simpler for us. When do we get
moving?"

Elliot glanced at the man at his side, saw the desire on Blayne's face,
the greed of the hunter. "Don't be impatient," he said. "It's almost
noon now. Keep your glasses trained on the temple. Unless they've
changed the program, the Dragonbird will make an appearance at noon."

The minutes ticked past slowly. Blayne kept glancing at his watch and
looking eagerly out across the water toward the island.

At the instant the second-hand of the watch brushed past the "12,"
there was a sudden boom, as of a huge kettledrum, and the sound
reverberated hollowly out over the river. A group of natives, carrying
a dark-hued animal the size of a small sheep, marched in orderly
procession toward the temple. They laid the animal on an altar before
the door.

Another muffled boom followed.

"Here it comes," Elliot murmured.

The natives stepped back reverently, and the doors of the temple slowly
swung outward.

The Dragonbird appeared.

Blayne's astonished gasp was so loud that Elliot looked around
apprehensively. "It's _beautiful_," the fat man exclaimed. "More lovely
than I'd ever dreamed."

"It is," Elliot said grimly. He took the glasses from Blayne's
trembling fingers and focused them on the island.

The Dragonbird was walking with dignity across the little square
before the altar. It stood almost the height of a man, half-bird,
half-reptile, walking on powerful claws tipped with diamond-sharp,
gleaming talons. The brilliant sunlight glinted off its metallic
feathers, played over its shining plumage, lent brightness to the
shimmering row of scales that covered its long, swan-like neck.

"Give me back the glasses," Blayne said. He snatched them and stared.
"My God, what a beauty! He'll make a perfect trophy!"

"_Trophy?_" Elliot recoiled in amazement. "Trophy! I thought you were
going to capture it."

"Don't be a fool! How could we take a live bird the size of that one
back through the jungle? We'd need a cage of chrome steel. No, I'm
going to shoot it. We can take the head and skin back--that'll be
enough."

Elliot scowled, and felt sick. The Dragonbird--a trophy! The concept
disgusted him. He looked away, toward the island.

The Dragonbird had begun to feed on the small animal. It was ripping
into it viciously with its talons and powerful beak.

"It'll be easy," Blayne went on. "I'll put a bullet through the bird so
as not to ruin it, and then we'll use ray guns on the natives to get
rid of them."

"You'll _what_?"

"They'll never know what hit them. It's merciful that way. Lord, what a
lovely creature that is!"

Blayne raised his rifle and took careful aim.
