
The rifle hung there a long moment, as Elliot watched Blayne's pudgy
finger tightening on the trigger. Then he lowered it.

"No," he said. "I don't trust my aim. I might ruin the bird, and I'd
never forgive myself."

He handed the gun to Elliot. Elliot took it reluctantly, feeling the
coolness of the barrel, feeling the heaviness of the stock. "_You_
shoot it," Blayne said.

"No I won't," Elliot retorted. "We said nothing about--"

"That doesn't matter," said Blayne blandly. "I'm not asking you to
shoot the bird. I'm _ordering_ you to."

Hot arrows of rage danced before Elliot's eyes. He saw the
Dragonbird--now feasting on its sacrifice--saw that beautiful, noble
head pierced by a rocketing lump of metal, pictured the smoking rifle
in his hands--and he could barely check the impulse to swing the rifle
and bash in Blayne's bloated skull.

"I won't do it," he said. "I will not shoot that bird."

"You're a fool, Elliot. You know that if we don't get the bird, you
don't get paid. Why don't you--"

"_I won't do it!_"

"Very well," said Blayne coldly. "I can't waste further time arguing
with you. The bird may go back inside the temple any minute. Give me
the gun. I'll do it myself--and I'll settle with you later."

Silently, Elliot returned the gun to the fat man. Blayne took it,
cocked it, sighted along the barrel. A second time, his finger began to
tighten on the trigger.

Suddenly, in a flash of bitter insight, Elliot realized he could never
live with himself again if he allowed that finger to close on the
trigger. No matter what the cost to himself, he couldn't let this fat
butcher kill one of the most beautiful things that had ever lived,
as--as a _trophy_.

All the pent-up rage that had been building inside him since his first
meeting with Blayne exploded. Realizing exactly what the significance
of his action was, he threw up his hand and slammed it hard against the
barrel of the rifle just as Blayne fired.

The shot cracked out, breaking the silence, and a native fell. Blayne
looked at him in astonishment.

"You fool!" he shouted.

The fat man leaped up, swinging the rifle around in a buzzing arc
toward Elliot. The pilot side-stepped, and the butt whistled through
the air inches above his head. Blayne, off-balance after the swing,
fell away to one side, and Elliot sprang at him.
