
The fat man sank to one knee under Elliot's attack, but he turned out
to be stronger than the rocket man had thought--under the coating of
fat was solid muscle. Grunting, Blayne forced himself upward and hurled
Elliot away from him.

Livid hate sparkled in Blayne's eyes, and Elliot knew that his own face
was an angry mask. This was going to be a battle to the death, here on
the banks of this sluggish Venusian river.

The two men circled warily around each other. Blayne swung out one
apelike arm in a tentative offensive gesture, and Elliot danced
backward.

"You know what'll happen," Blayne shouted. "You'll rot on Venus for the
rest of your life if I don't get back!"

"I'll take that chance, Blayne. I can't let you kill that bird."

He put his head down and bulled into Blayne's midsection, ignoring
the rain of blows that descended on his neck and shoulders. He forced
Blayne back toward the water's edge, only to have to let go when the
other's fingers clawed into his throat. He pulled away, and Blayne's
fingers left bright red streaks on Elliot's flesh. Blood mingled with
sweat. A cloud of Venusian gnats descended on them, humming gently
around their heads.

Blayne's fist smashed into Elliot's stomach, but the pilot shook off
the blow and landed one in the bowl of lard that cushioned the other's
intestines. Blayne coughed and stepped backward.

Elliot leaped for him and wrapped his arms around Blayne, barely
managing to encircle the fat man's body. Then, slowly, he lifted the
struggling Blayne from the ground.

"Here ... we ... go...." he said, as he heaved the Commissioner's bulk
upward. He got Blayne as far off the ground as he could, and started to
dash him to the ground again, when the other broke Elliot's grasp.

Elliot let him go and he fell heavily. Instantly the pilot was upon
him, and the two rolled one over the other down the side of the bank
toward the river. Just at the river's edge, Elliot managed to check
their fall and broke loose. Blayne was on his feet again in an instant.

Elliot's first punch crashed through Blayne's guard. The fat man reeled
backward, lost his footing, and toppled off the embankment into the
quiet water below, shouting wildly as he fell. As he struck, he shot up
a torrent of water that splashed over Elliot's feet.

Suddenly the water was quiet no longer. There was a swirl beneath the
river's surface, and Blayne's body became the center of a tangle of
dark saurian shapes. Blayne screamed just once before the razor-sharp
teeth dragged him beneath the water. A red stain formed and drifted
slowly down the sluggish stream, and then the water was quiet once
again.
