
Elliot stood on the riverbank, gasping heavily as he fought to recover
his breath, and mopped away the blanket of gnats that had adhered
to him during the fight. He watched the streaks of red drifting
downstream, and knew that his own life was forfeit now for Blayne's.

He shook his head and turned away. There was nothing else he could have
done. He started to walk slowly back away from the river.

There was a rustling sound in the air above him. He looked up, into
the blazing sun, and a moment later was crouching in a huddled ball
on the ground. The Dragonbird was dropping gently toward him. Elliot
remembered only too well what those gleaming talons had done to the
sacrificial animal strapped to the altar.

And then--

_Do not be afraid_, a calm, silent voice said. _You have done me a
great service, Daniel Elliot._

The Dragonbird settled lightly to the ground, and Elliot saw deep
intelligence glowing in the creature's golden eyes. It seemed almost as
if the thing could read his mind.

_I can read your mind, Daniel Elliot_, came the telepathic reply.

"You--you're intelligent, then?"

There was a touch of sorrow in the mental voice as the bird said: _I
am the last of my race. We were the rulers of Venus long before your
ancestors had discovered the use of fire. But--_

After a pause, the bird continued. _Well, no matter. What happened does
not concern you. I permit myself to be worshipped by these natives.
They bring me food and keep me comfortable, and in return, I hypnotize
their enemies and keep their small island safe. It is a pleasant life,
and I am becoming old._

"How old?" Elliot asked.

_Several thousand of your years_, the Dragonbird replied.

"And you--"

The Dragonbird silenced him. _No, Daniel Elliot; I do not want to
answer questions. I am solely concerned with the debt I owe you for
saving my life. This Blayne held your future in threat. I think I can
aid you and punish him doubly by foiling his plans._

_Don't be surprised by anything you see._

The Dragonbird wavered a little, and suddenly it was a bird no longer.
Standing before Elliot, fat, ugly face and all, was--

Housten Blayne!

"Don't look so surprised, Elliot," came Blayne's snarling voice. "You'd
be surprised what a little high-powered hypnosis can do."

Elliot rubbed his eyes and looked again. It was still Blayne, a smug
smile on his heavy lips.

"I'm going to reward you," said Blayne's voice. "You and I will take
the late Mr. Blayne for every credit he's got, and we'll get those
papers out of his safe."

"But--you mean you'll take Blayne's place?" Elliot asked, feeling as if
he were in a dream.

"Temporarily." The fat figure of Blayne wavered and became the
Dragonbird again.

_Get on my back, Daniel Elliot._

Moments later, they were soaring high in the sky, heading toward Venus
City.