
The man remembered to smile. "The Prognosticator has just given
its fortnightly Prognostication. You, Mr. Schnee, are going to be
our new Ruler." He seized the young man's limp hand and shook it
enthusiastically. "And I'm sure you'll be a splendid one, too."

Gervase accepted a pale green cheroot from the dispenser. It shook in
his lips. "And what's to become of the old Ruler?"

"You're scheduled to dispose of him sometime this month. Now, Mr.
Schnee," the man went on briskly, "allow me to introduce myself. I am
Bedrich Florea, vice president of the Florea Munitions and Container
Corporation." He extracted a gleaming weapon from his brief case and
offered it to Gervase. The young man recoiled. "If you will only agree
to shoot Overlord Kipp with a Florea Semper Fidelis Gun," the executive
continued, "my corporation will be happy to place a substantial amount
of credits at your disposal in any bank you choose. Six billion, to be
exact. Now if you'll just sign here on the dotted line...." He held out
a stylus temptingly.

"Nonsense!" Gervase backed away.

"Even a Ruler can use money. Bribery for government officials, bread
and circuses for the people--oh, money's a very useful commodity, Mr.
Schnee. Shall we say seven billion?"

"I don't doubt that money is useful," Gervase replied, thinking
wistfully of seven billion credits. "But when I said 'nonsense,' I
meant the Prognosticator. The whole thing's a lot of--well, nonsense.
A whole planet of supposedly intelligent people listening to what's
nothing more, really, than an oracle! A machine can't read the future.
It's impossible."

Florea's eyes bulged. "Mr. Schnee, that's sacrilege! You
can't--confound it, sir, you can't talk that way about The Machine.
After all," he added in a more placatory manner, "let's look at this
reasonably. Machines can and do answer all the problems of our daily
life, so why shouldn't a superior machine be able to tell the future?"

"If you ask me," Gervase all but sneered, "behind the wires and
gimmicks and whatnots in The Machine, there's a secret room in which a
half-mad, half-intoxicated old priestess sits delivering her Delphic
pronouncements. Might as well have an aboveboard oracle and be done
with it."

"Now, now, Mr. Schnee--" the executive smiled with obvious
effort--"even our Ruler shouldn't flout the Authority of Machinery. Of
course, it's all right when you're alone with friends, like me, but in
public--"

The annunciator sounded again. An eager face appeared on the screen.
"Mr. Schnee," an equally eager voice said, "I'm from the _Daily
Disseminator_. How does it feel to be Ruler Prognosticate?"

There was the sound of a scuffle. His face disappeared, to be replaced
by two others. "Mr. Schnee, will you tell us in your very own words--"

As Gervase clicked off the interviewer, the vidiphone blinked. Gervase
lifted the receiver. The face of Overlord Kipp himself came into view,
pale but composed. "I understand you're the young man who is destined
to dispose of me and take my place?"
