
Florea took a cheroot of his own out of a platinum portable. "In that
case, the people probably will kill _you_ for attempting to interfere
with fate."

"But I wouldn't have done anything!" Gervase protested.

"There are sins of omission as well as commission. Come now, it's true
a Ruler's life expectancy isn't very long--at least it hasn't been for
the last few reigns--but it's longer than yours will be if you refuse
to fulfill your destiny."

"I wouldn't make a fit Ruler," Gervase said desperately. "Consider my
origins. I wouldn't tell this to anyone but you--I'm illegitimate. I
don't even know who my father is."

The other man smiled again. "It's a wise child who knows his own
father. And some of the most celebrated leaders in history have been
illegitimate. Look at William the Conqueror."

Gervase turned on the historiscope, dialed 1066 A.D., looked,
shuddered, and turned it off. "I don't think that's much of a
recommendation!"

"You see," Florea told him encouragingly, "almost anybody can be a
leader. The important thing is that he be _destined_ for leadership."

"But I'm no good! Everybody says so. I've never done a thing in my
life. My aged mother has had to work to support me."

"Time enough that you stood on your two feet, my boy!" the businessman
said, clapping the youth upon the shoulder. "And remember, destiny must
take its course."

He flung open the door. A cheering crowd stood outside. "My friends,
allow me to introduce you to your new Ruler--Gervase Schnee!"

A hoarse shout of approval went up.

"He is planning to assassinate Overlord Kipp with a Florea Semper
Fidelis Gun. Florea Semper Fidelis Guns retail from c2.98 for the
Peasant's Pistol all the way up to c1089.56 for the Super Deluxe
Conspirator's Model, but each is the best obtainable for the price. Mr.
Schnee, of course, will use the Super Deluxe model."

There were more cries, cheers and shouts.

"Thank you for your--for your confidence and support," Gervase said
brokenly. "I only hope I prove worthy of them."

Gervase lunched with Overlord Kipp the next day and was not
assassinated. The disposal was set for the coming Tuesday and announced
to the public. Gervase was so nervous, he couldn't sleep the night
before. When, early in the morning, he finally did manage to doze off,
he was awakened by the encouraging telegrams that kept pouring in.

At nine, he finally got up and dressed himself in the immaculate
black-and-silver assassin's uniform that had been custom-made for him
without charge by an eminent tailor. He was in no mood for breakfast,
so he went outside to the handsome black-and-silver limousine that
had been presented to him by a thoughtful industrialist. As he emerged
from his door, a brass band struck up the national anthem and the
crowd waiting outside broke into cheers suitably restrained to fit the
melancholy occasion.
