
There was a shocked silence and then a babble of indignant voices.
Gervase held up a weary hand. The voices stopped.

"That sort of thing just isn't done," he told the cameraman with an
Olympian smile. "Please leave as quickly as possible--all of you. I
might want to meditate."

They scuttled out backward, the cameras still grinding. Gervase pressed
the studs that shut and bolted the door.

"Whew!" said Overlord Kipp, sitting up. "I didn't think I'd be able to
stand that much longer. You're a good shot, Schnee--that blank stung
like crazy. And in a very tender spot, I might add."

"No time for chatting," Gervase said nervously. "We've got to get this
over in a hurry. Now comes the part when your friends will have to look
like real removers. I hope they can give it that professional touch."

"We are real removers in a sense," said one of the black-robed figures.
"At least, both of us have participated in removals before." They
dropped their hoods.

Gervase's mouth hung open. "Why, you're Overlord Moorhouse!" he said to
one. "And I've seen pictures of you!" he told the other. "You're the
one that came before him--Shinnick. You died before I was born--that
is, you were supposed to have died. Both of you were. Moorhouse
killed--was supposed to have killed you."

Ex-Overlord Shinnick smiled. "We're not precisely dead--only retired,
you might say. In a way, anonymity is the same as death. And Overlords
Moorhouse and Kipp--" he bowed toward them--"both had kind hearts,
like yourself. The Prognosticator didn't say we had to be killed--just
disposed of, as Kipp undoubtedly pointed out to you in your little talk
together."

"Sorry I couldn't tell you the truth," Kipp apologized as he dusted off
his uniform, "but you might have changed your mind and given us away."

"We've formed a sort of little club of dead Overlords," Shinnick
elucidated. "After all, we're the only ones with whom we can associate
safely--no danger of any one of us betraying the others."

"We're looking forward to the day when you join us, Overlord Schnee,"
Moorhouse put in eagerly, "assuming that your successor is of as
generous a nature as we, of course. Do you play bridge by any chance?"

"You'd better hurry." Gervase worriedly changed the subject as he
noticed the time on the wall chronometer. "If the four of us are
discovered, the mob would tear us all to pieces."

"Right you are," said ex-Overlord Shinnick. "Get on the stretcher,
Kipp. Bad enough we're going to have to carry you out; at least don't
expect us to lift you up."

Kipp obediently assumed a recumbent posture: Shinnick and Moorhouse
covered him with a black cloth and were preparing to march out when
Gervase recollected himself and halted them. "Wait a moment--you'd
better take off those medals first, Kipp. They come with the job."

"Grave-robber," said Kipp, reluctantly sitting up on his catafalque and
unfastening the jeweled decorations.
