
The Emergency Call had been instituted over two thousand years ago,
after a disastrous invasion of the system by beings from some unknown
part of space. Installed in all important etheradio stations, it was
to be used only in cases of extreme urgency, and at its call all
government officials were to drop everything and repair to the nearest
etheradio for instructions. In the two thousand years it had been in
effect it had sounded only three times, apart from the regular tests:
once when a giant meteor had threatened the system with destruction,
once when the unknown invaders had attempted a second attack, and
once when miners on Mira had drilled into an inner world inhabited by
creatures with hypnotic powers that threatened to enslave the planet.

The harsh wailing rose to an earsplitting crescendo, then died away,
leaving them listening tensely for the announcement. It came, shorn of
the customary formal modes of speech used in official reports:

"Set Gori, Ruler of Rona, here! Three volcanic eruptions on Rona!
Violent earthquakes in other regions! Entire planet threatened
with destruction! Am evacuating all people we have room for in our
space-ships! Send help immediately! Over."

There was hardly a pause before the Chief of the Council of Elders
began issuing orders: "Lan Yotar here! Set Gori, concentrate the rest
of your people in the nearest cities. Ros Vinla, are you listening?"

"Here!" came the voice of the Commander of the Norgan Spacefleet.

"Rush the fleet to Rona and evacuate all people. Over!"

"All Leaders of Spacefleet Squadrons, listen: Squadron I, proceed to
Center City; Squadron II, proceed to Forel; Squadron III--"

Lan Yotar snapped off the etheradio and rose. "That's all we can do
here. Come!"

Followed by the Chief Scientist, he hastened out of the Council Chamber
and down the broad corridor. Descending the steps to the landing
field, he was just in time to see his private spacecar swoop down in
its allotted place. His pilot had heard the Emergency Call and knew he
would be needed. Another spacecar landed close by and Var Dalum, the
Chief Scribe, hastily joined them.

"You're going to Rona?" he asked breathlessly.

"Yes. Come with us," said the Council Chief.

The airlock had hardly settled in its socket before the pilot took off
and the little craft zoomed up at a steep slant. The blue sky gradually
darkened and soon they were in the dead black of interplanetary space,
heading straight for the afflicted planet.

"Rona, of all planets!" whispered the Chief Scribe. "What shall we do
for food?"

The Chief Scientist shook his head. "Let's not despair till we know the
worst," he replied.

After that, silence reigned. The pilot concentrated on getting every
ounce of power out of his jets. Lan Yotar sat staring straight
ahead, his lips compressed, his arms folded. The two other officials
gazed through the transparent sidepanels, now and again sliding the
telescopic lenses into them to observe a Squadron of the Spacefleet
hastening towards their common destination.

"Surely we should see Rona by now," murmured Var Dalum.

"We should," assented Tir Latoka grimly. "And since there's obviously
such a pall of smoke over it that we can't, the situation doesn't look
any too good."

The etheradio had been silent, as it was a strict rule that only highly
necessary messages be broadcast during an emergency. It now gave voice,
unconsciously confirming the Chief Scientist's words.

"Ros Vinla here! All incoming Squadrons exercise extreme care in
landing; visibility practically nil, owing to smoke. Alter your course
to nearest clear space and come in under smoke. Squadron IV, join
Squadron VII; your objective has been destroyed. That is all."

"There's Sita," remarked the pilot, naming one of Rona's three moons.
"Once we pass her--"

In a few moments the spacecar had passed the satellite, and an
involuntary groan burst from them all. The planet was a horror. Mile
upon square mile, formerly consisting of green fields and bulging
granaries, was now a seething mass of molten lava; lakes were rapidly
disappearing in clouds of superheated steam. Over all hovered dense
masses of black smoke and volcanic ash, blowing aside now and then to
reveal the terrible scene beneath.

"Hold it here, pilot," instructed the Chief, then spoke into the
etheradio. "Lan Yotar here! My spacecar will stay by Sita till
further notice. The Chief Scientist and Chief Scribe are with me.
Communicate only when urgent. Ros Vinla, report to me when evacuation
is accomplished. That is all."

"I hear and obey," answered Ros Vinla.

For hours that seemed years, the four men sat watching the scene of
destruction through the telescopic lenses. Below them, space-ships
of every size and description plunged into the chaos and rose again
with survivors, hastening to land them on Mira, which was nearest, and
returning to pick up more unfortunates from such parts of Rona as were
not yet covered with lava or engulfed by earthquakes. Orderly Squadrons
of the Spacefleet arrived from their respective planets, landed at
their objectives, and took off with full loads of frantic Ronans.
Freighters and private craft, including spacecars no larger than the
Chief's, moved here and there, singly and in groups, darting in when
they saw a chance and saving hundreds of thousands of lives.

Finally Ros Vinla's voice sounded again, and by the fact that he had
reverted to official phraseology, all knew that the emergency had
passed:

"Greeting from Ros Vinla, Commander of the Norgan Spacefleet, to Lan
Yotar, Chief of the Council of Elders. Peace be with you. Evacuation
accomplished. That is all."

[Illustration: _The evacuation was successful._]
