
For a day and a half the full government of the Confederated Planets
of Norga had sat in an Emergency Session. Decision after decision,
concerning the welfare and temporary disposal of the Ronans had been
proposed, voted on and passed or amended.

At last they could concentrate on the problem that had been constantly
in their minds since Rona had turned from a green and smiling planet
to a hideous mass of glowing lava. Appropriately enough, it was Set
Gori, the elected Ruler of Rona, who first brought it up for official
debate. A tall and handsome figure, still wearing bandages over the
burns sustained when he insisted on remaining at his post to the last,
he rose and was granted permission to speak.

"Elders and Rulers," he said. "As we all know, Rona supplied 56% of
the food needed by our system. Rona is destroyed. What shall we do for
food?"

He sat down abruptly, whereon the Chief Scientist rose and, at a nod of
assent from the Chief Scribe, replied.

"Our unfortunate friend from Rona has put the matter in a nutshell. I
will answer as briefly: I have spent all day yesterday in conference
with my brother scientists, and we all agree there is only one
solution. As the Norgan solar system cannot supply sufficient food for
its inhabitants, we must look outside the system for a source of supply.

"I move an expedition be sent into space to find an available planet
suitable for our purpose."

"I second the motion," said the Chief Astronomer.

"All in favor--?" came the Chief's deep voice.

A forest of hands shot up.

"Carried unanimously!"

The eleven members of the Council of Elders and the Chief Scribe
conferred briefly, whereafter the Chief Scribe spoke into a recorder.
When he was through, a junior Scribe took the plastic ribbon from the
machine and inserted it in a loud-speaker, that the governing body
might hear and approve the details before it was made law:

"Decision 14 of the Council of Elders, given on the second day of the
Emergency Session, Year 3749 since the Confederation of the Planets of
Norga.

"Let this be known as our Decision:

"That a suitable spaceship be constructed for the purpose of exploring
such solar systems as are within reasonable range, and that it be
equipped with all the scientific instruments necessary for that purpose.

"That Ros Vinla, Commander of the Spacefleet of Norga, be in command of
this expedition and duly authorized to pick his own crew of scientists,
navigators, technicians, scouts or any other persons he deems necessary
to the fulfilment of his mission.

"That his mission shall be to find and report on any planets that might
be suitable for either or both of the following purposes: firstly,
to supply us with food; secondly, to provide living space for our
surplus population. He will, of course, bear in mind that the rights
of the inhabitants of these planets must be fully respected, means of
communication must be found and friendly relations established. He will
send daily reports by etheradio to the Chief Scribe.

"The Commander will in all cases await the sanction of the Council
of Elders before taking any decisive steps, save in cases of extreme
emergency, such as a surprise attack by hostile natives."

"Commander Ros Vinla, you have heard the Council's Decision?"

In the section reserved for the high officials of the government, a
tall, spare man in early middle-age rose to his feet. He wore the dark
blue undress uniform of the Norgan Spacefleet, his rank indicated by a
golden sun and circle on the chest.

"I hear and obey," he replied, in a dry, precise voice.
