
In the Chief Scribe's office, Lan Yotar paced restlessly to and fro,
watched sympathetically by Var Dalum.

"Why not sit down and relax, Lan Yotar?" he suggested mildly. "A glass
of wine?"

With a sigh the Chief of the Council of Elders sank into a padded
chair. "Thank you," he answered. "This tension is rather hard on me. I
suppose I am getting old," he added wistfully.

"You are only a hundred and eighty-six," smiled the Chief Scribe. "That
might have been considered old five or six generations ago, but our
life expectancy is increasing so rapidly I think you can safely count
on another century, at least."

Lan Yotar paid but scant attention to the comforting words, his
thoughts far away in space. "Isn't it soon time for the Commander's
daily report?" he asked. "If System A93 contains no suitable planets--"
He stopped with a sigh.

"Yes, I know," murmured Var Dalum. "I newscasted a resume of the
whole situation this morning, so the people will be prepared if the
Commander's report tonight is negative."

"I didn't hear it. Will you read it to me?"

Pulling a tablet from a rack, the Chief Scribe commenced reading.

"It is now almost four years since Commander Ros Vinla set out to
discover a planet or planets in some other solar system that would
relieve the food shortage and lack of living space now prevailing here.

"In that time the spaceship 'Norga II' has visited eleven solar systems
and reported on one hundred and thirty-nine planets. Of the latter,
one hundred and three are uninhabited and unsuitable for colonization;
nineteen can be made suitable and we have already dispatched colonists
to twelve of them. It will, however, be several years before they can
produce food to any practical amount. Of the remaining seventeen, nine
are inhabited by beings in a primitive stage of development, who are
at present hostile; we are endeavoring to establish friendly relations
with them, but, owing to their low mentality, progress will doubtless
be slow. The remaining eight are inhabited by beings similar to us and
friendly relations have been established. Unfortunately, they have very
little living space and food to spare; certainly not enough to be of
any practical help to us at present.

"Ten days ago the 'Norga II' entered the solar system marked on your
space-charts as System A93. This consists of a sun and nine planets.
Only three of these are inhabited. One of these is a dying planet, arid
and thin-aired, and it can barely support its own rapidly diminishing
population. The second is too watery to support any life except the
amphibious creatures native to it. The third is the one Commander Ros
Vinla will report on tonight.

"It is with regret I warn you that, should this planet prove unsuitable
for our purpose, the 'Norga II' will have to return to Norga
immediately. The Commander has informed me he has barely sufficient
supplies to last him the return trip. After that, time must be spent
outfitting the expedition for another trip, time we can ill afford.
Furthermore, this expedition having covered all space nearest Norga,
the second trip will require much more time to reach unexplored space
and will also be unable to cover so large a territory. We can only hope
and pray that his next and final report will be one of success."
