
Lan Yotar leaned forward and pressed the button that switched the
Commander through to the various members of the Council of Elders, all
of whom were waiting beside their etheradio sets in their homes.

"Greeting from Lan Yotar, Chief of the Council of Elders, to Ros Vinla,
Commander of the Norgan Spacefleet," he said. "Peace be with you.
Communication has been established as you requested. Proceed."

"Report on Planet No. 3 of System A93," continued the Commander. "This
planet is almost an exact replica of the Planet Rona in our own system.
It is slightly larger, but the air, water, vegetation, gravity even
the domestic animals, are similar to those of Rona. The human beings
inhabiting this planet are exact counterparts of ourselves--physically.
Mentally, they differ vastly.

"As usual, I sent one scout to make a preliminary survey. He returned
with a tale so shocking and unbelievable that I sent two other scouts
to check his statements. I took the added precaution of issuing them
rayguns, as they would probably have been attacked by these insensate
killers had their inviso-armor failed and their presence been
discovered. Their reports were similar to that of my first scout, as
follows:

"As I said before, these beings are like us physically, save that
instead of being all fair-skinned, there are many whose skin is yellow,
brown or black, these forming separate races. These races are, in turn,
divided into nations. These nations," here the Commander spoke slowly
and with great emphasis, "are constantly warring among themselves.
In the entire history of this planet, which we learned by selective
telepathy, there has never been a time when nation has not been
fighting against nation, and often one section of a nation against
another.

"This planet is ideally equipped by nature. There is an abundance of
vegetation, minerals, domestic animals and all other necessities of
life, while the undoubted ingenuity of the inhabitants has evolved many
luxuries. Unfortunately, these beings have so strange and perverted
a mentality that most of their efforts are devoted to inventing and
manufacturing new and terrible methods and engines of destruction.

"The reasons for these constant wars are so absurd and inconsistent
that it is difficult to conceive how any sane mind could put them forth
or accept them. For example, they have many religions, most of them
divided and subdivided into innumerable sects. In time past, fierce and
bloody wars have been brought about by the followers of one religion
trying to force their faith on the followers of another. Even the sects
of one religion would fight among themselves, each claiming to be the
only true interpreter of that particular faith.

"Lately they have found other excuses for wars, even more
discreditable. Where they used to fight for what passed as spiritual
and idealistic causes, they now fight for mere materialistic gain and
temporal power, cloaking them under ridiculously flimsy pretexts. One
ruler, for example, declared he was forced to make war to obtain living
space for his expanding population, at the same time offering rewards
and honors to the parents who raised the largest families! A favorite
excuse for war is for some large nation to invade and take over a small
nation on the pretext that they are protecting it against attack by
some other large nation.

"Treaties, pledges and promises mean nothing to these beings, who seem
lost to all sense of honor. Indeed, one ruler's first step in any war
was to sign a non-aggression pact with his intended victim. Hypocrisy
is rampant on this wretched planet. One large empire proclaimed itself
defender of the rights of small nations, but stood calmly by while
several small nations were conquered, taking no steps against the
aggressor until her own interests were threatened.

"Their methods of warfare are indescribably cruel and savage. All
nations indulge in the bombing of large populated centres, killing
men, women and children indiscriminately. Some of the more debased
nations even torture to death their prisoners of war.

"At present they have just finished a great war, which they call World
War II. Signs are not wanting that the victors are about to quarrel
over the spoils, which will result in a war that will stagger the
imagination. It is my respectful suggestion that we take over the
planet before this calamity occurs. Report ends."

"God of Nature! Is it possible that such beings are permitted to
exist!" exclaimed Lan Yotar. "Summon the Elders, Var Dalum."
