
The Chief Scribe flicked a switch and a large televisoscreen began to
glow. It was divided in ten sections, and in each section appeared the
face of an Elder.

"Elders of Norga," said Lan Yotar, "you have heard the report of
Commander Ros Vinla?"

"We have," replied the Elders.

"What is your pleasure as regards his suggestion?"

"I move that the Commander be ordered to exterminate the race of wicked
madmen who inhabit Planet No. 3 in System A93, and that he take over
the said planet in the name of the Confederated Planets of Norga," said
an Elder.

"I second the motion," promptly spoke up another.

"Moved by Nov Cherga, seconded by Sah Lovit, that Planet No. 3 in
System A93 by taken over by the Confederated Planets of Norga, and the
beings inhabiting it be destroyed. All in favor signify in the usual
manner." The televisoscreen showed ten right hands raised in assent.

"Commander Ros Vinla."

"Here."

"You have heard the motion. Can you carry out the destruction of the
human beings on this planet without harming the lower animals?"

"The vibratensor should do that. It creates a sound wave of such
tremendous pitch that a human brain is paralyzed by it, but it is
beyond the sound range of the more primitive brain structures."

"Is it painless?" asked Lan Yotar anxiously.

"It causes a few seconds of intense agony just before death occurs,"
answered the Commander. "May I suggest that, while it is against our
law to inflict pain, it is only right and just that these beings should
experience a little of the pain they are so willing to inflict on each
other."

"The Chief Scribe will put the motion in the form of a Decision,"
decreed Lan Yotar.

Var Dalum wrote busily for a while, then rose and handed his tablet
to the Chief of the Council of Elders, who read it through, sighed
regretfully, then read it aloud.

"Decision 14A of the Council of Elders, being an amendment to Decision
14 of the Council of Elders, during the Session of Rulers in the Year
3749 after the Confederation of the Planets of Norga.

"Let this be known as our Decision:

"That Ros Vinla, Commander of the Spacefleet of Norga, totally
exterminate the beings, saving and except the lower animals, that
inhabit Planet No. 3 in System A93, and take over the said planet in
the name of the Confederated Planets of Norga.

"Commander Ros Vinla, you have heard the Decision?"

"I hear and obey."

Unbroken silence reigned in the Chief Scribe's office. Lan Yotar sat
with his face in his hands, his lips murmuring soundless prayers to
the God of Nature. The faces of the ten Elders, reflected in the
televisoscreen, were grave and sad. Even the usually imperturbable
Chief Scribe fidgeted nervously with his tablets and from time to time
glanced impatiently at the intercommunicator.

At last the signal showed the Commander was ready to report.

"Var Dalum," said the Chief Scribe huskily.

"Greeting from Ros Vinla, Commander of the Spacefleet of Norga, to
Var Dalum, Chief Scribe of the Rulers of Norga," came the Commander's
emotionless voice. "Peace be with you. Decision 14A carried out.

"That is all."