
I got more and more mellow and talkative as time went by, but the
skipper just sat there, breathing rhial. He didn't seem to change a bit.

Something had been bothering me, though, and I finally figured out
what it was. So I stopped talking about my farming troubles, and asked
Captain Hannah a direct question.

"You say you carried an _elephant_?" I asked. "A _live_ elephant? In a
_space ship_?"

He nodded. "It's an animal," he said. "A very large animal. From Earth."

"I know all about that," I said. "We're civilized here. We're not just
a bunch of back-planet hicks, you know. We study all about the Home
Planet at school. But why--and how--would anyone take an elephant into
space?"

He stared at me for a while, then took a deep breath, and let it out
slowly. "I'll tell you," he said. "After all, it's nothing to be really
ashamed of." He pondered for a full minute. "It all started just a few
standard months ago, on Condor--over in Sector Sixty-four W."

"Sixty-four W?" I broke in. "That's clear over on the other side of the
Galaxy."

He looked at me for awhile, and then went on just as if I hadn't spoken.

"I'd been doing all right with _Delta Crucis_," he said, "and salting
away plenty of cash, but I wasn't satisfied. It was mostly short-haul
stuff--ten or twenty light years--and it was mostly run-of-the-mill
loads. Fleeder jewels, kharran, morab fur--that sort of thing, you
know. I was getting bored. They said a Delta class freighter could
carry just about anything, and I wanted to prove it. So when I heard
that a rich eccentric, one planet out, on Penguin, might have an
interesting job for me, I flitted right over.

"The Prinkip of Penguin wasn't just rich. He was _rich_ rich. Penguin
has almost twice the diameter of this planet, but it's light enough
to have about the same surface gravity. To give you an idea, its two
biggest bodies of water are about the size of the Atlantic Ocean, back
on the Earth you've studied so much about. On Penguin they call them
lakes. And the Prinkip owns the whole planet--free and clear. I should
be so lucky with _Delta Crucis_.
