
He lapsed into silence for a moment, thinking deeply. "Did you know
that there are two kinds of elephants on Earth, the African and the
Indian, and that they aren't exactly the same size?" he asked.

I shook my head. "Our schools don't go that far," I said.

He nodded. "Neither do ours. So I immediately bought an Indian
elephant. They're the kind, back on the Home planet, that you can find
tame and easy to handle. They're also the wrong kind. The only reason
I didn't head right back with it is that I was having trouble figuring
out how to carry it in the _Crucis_. Even an Indian elephant weighs
about six tons. At least, mine did. In itself, that's not a very big
load, but the trip back would take a good many months of subjective
time, and of course elephants eat on subjective time. And how they eat!
The food I carried would weigh the same as the elephant.

"I wondered how elephants would like weightlessness, so I took my
Indian elephant up on a little jaunt around Earth's satellite. The
Moon, they call it. Elephants don't like weightlessness at all." He
paused, and signaled the bartender for another drink. "I hope you never
have to clean up after a space-sick elephant," he said darkly.

"That meant that I'd have to put spin on the _Crucis_ for the entire
trip back to Penguin. It's hard enough to try to navigate in hyperspace
with spin on your ship, but that wasn't the worst of it. An elephant is
a tremendous amount of off-center load for a ship with a large fraction
of a one-gee spin on it. Too much load even to think about handling.
Even though I couldn't come up with an answer, right off hand, I went
ahead and turned in my Indian elephant on an African model. Beulah was
her name, and she was a husky girl. She weighed in at just a little
more than eight tons."

I waved my whisky glass at Captain Hannah. "But I don't see your
problem," I said. "If you put the elephant on one side and his food on
the other, there wouldn't be any off-balanced load, would there?"

"Not until the food was eaten, anyway," said the skipper witheringly,
and I subsided with a fresh drink.
