
"Beulah was kind of cute, for all of her tonnage," said the skipper.
"She had two enormous tusks, and a pair of ears like wings, and a nose
that was longer than her tail. But she was mighty friendly, after she
got to know me. She'd pick me up and carry me around, if I asked her
to. And she'd eat right out of my hand. She turned out to be even tamer
than the Indian elephant. All I had to do was figure out how to carry
her.

"For a starter, I figured like you said, to have Beulah on one side of
the cargo compartment, and her chow on the other. Then I calculated
to have my own supplies on the other two sides of the space, so that
I could move them away from her as her food stocks got smaller, and
hold the balance that way. That wasn't enough, of course, so I built a
couple of water tanks on the opposite side of the ring from Beulah.

"As you know, not much can be done about moving water around in a space
ship--it's got its own cooling chores to perform--but every little
bit helped. Finally, I jockeyed the master computer and the auxiliary
computer down and ran them on tracks, so I could slide them around
to compensate for Beulah's appetite. Some lead slugs brought the
auxiliary's weight up equal to the master's, and they also brought my
total load up to the absolute maximum that I could carry.

"It was almost enough. But a miss is as good as a mile, for a space
ship. I was stuck, and there didn't seem to be a thing I could do about
it. Even if I could have carried more weight it wouldn't have helped.
Any more mass in the cargo compartment would have thrown the c.g. too
far aft." He beckoned for more rhial.

"So what did you do?" I prompted. "You did say that you carried the
elephant, didn't you?"

"Sure. Like I said, a Delta class freighter can do almost anything.
Beulah gave me the answer herself. If you've ever lived with an
elephant, one thing becomes clear mighty fast. They're a mighty
efficient machine for converting fodder into elephant droppings. So I
made a bin on the opposite side of the compartment from Beulah, and
let her gradually fill it while she ate me out of balance. The weight
of the--what's a nice word for it?--was just enough to let me keep the
whole setup in dynamic balance."

"Compost heap?" I suggested dreamily, picturing the arrangement in my
mind. There was poetry in it. Or was it poetic justice that I had in
mind?
