
"Those sailors were good. They didn't even look surprised; they just
went to work as if they handled elephants in space every day. They
drove four lines through the ring bolts I'd welded in the spin-deck,
cast Beulah loose and hauled her over to her new spot as neat as you
please.

"Then, no nonsense, the lieutenant ordered Beulah to let loose of me.
She did, too.

"After that they left, stopping for just one drink of my good bourbon.
I didn't drink rhial then.

"I wirelessed Port Control my penalty fees and another twelve hour's
hire in the orbit, and started shifting the load. I was working on
an empty stomach, and Beulah still didn't feel hungry, so she didn't
remind me that I hadn't eaten. I almost collapsed before I got the job
done.

"Then I put spin on, which made Beulah comfortable at last, and tried
to juggle the ship into a hyper-trajectory, still without stopping for
food or sleep. It didn't take long before Beulah started squalling for
supper. After I fed her I had to adjust balance all over again. By that
time I was pushing my new twelve-hour limit, and I didn't give much
of a damn any more. I just counted to ten and pushed the button. Then
I turned in and slept until Beulah started squalling for breakfast. I
ignored her until I ate about three squares in a row, then I fed her
and adjusted balance. After that I checked my trajectory.

"It was the best I've ever made in twenty-four years of jumping. It was
beautiful.

"So I turned back in again and slept until Beulah woke me for lunch.
I didn't know it at the time, but Beulah was eating for two. That
possibility probably should have occurred to me earlier, what with the
name 'Beulah', but you can't think of everything, and there I was, the
first man to go into hyperspace with an elephant. Anyway, it didn't
even worry me, even when I found out about it. I checked the contract.
Everything seemed to be well covered. And according to my book on
elephants, Beulah should still be only a potential mother when we
reached Penguin. As a matter of fact, the whole idea made me feel just
a little bit proud. Like a father, you know?

"What with having to shift weights after every meal, and Beulah setting
the schedule for meals, I was kept mighty busy. My self-winding
wristwatch overwound itself and stopped, in spite of the advertisements
about it, and I didn't find out for almost two weeks, subjective, that
Beulah's stomach ran fast. What's more, I think she knew it. Because
when I finally woke up to what was going on, and started to run her
schedule by the clock, she didn't fuss a bit. Beulah's a clever girl.

"I was so worn out when we finally reached Penguin that I just slid
into orbit, kept spin on, laid out a couple of extra meals for Beulah
and slept the clock around. The Prinkip was mighty mad about it when
I finally turned on my radio, but I told him I had my cargo ready for
delivery and where did he want me to put it? So he calmed down and gave
me the coordinates.
