
"Of course, I had to take off the spin and shift Beulah back to the
landing deck, and there wasn't any Ionosphere Guard around to help me
if I got into any kind of trouble. So I was mighty careful. I put the
chains on Beulah again, and then set up trip ropes so I could cut her
loose without getting inside of reach of that nose of hers. Then I ran
lines back to the first set of ring bolts, so I could drag her back,
weightless, without any trouble. Beulah looked a little unhappy, but
didn't make any fuss about it all. I started to take spin off, giving
the orders to the angle jets through the computer right down in the
cargo compartment, so the old girl wouldn't worry about where I was.

"Beulah didn't squall as her weight came off this time. She just
reached down and tripped loose the chains around her ankles. Did I tell
you that she was mighty clever?"

I nodded.

"Well, she started around that spin deck after me. I punched into the
computer the maximum order for spin reduction, and started around the
spin deck to keep away from her. Beulah grabbed hold of the computer
with her nose--for support, I guess--when she got over there. She
yanked the whole thing clear off the deck, breaking its cable. _Crucis_
lurched once.

"And I ended up in the compost heap.

"With Beulah way off center, and with that last wild burst from the
jets before they cut off, the ship was gyrating in a way that made
_my_ stomach uneasy. It didn't seem to bother Beulah, though. She just
wanted to be near me. I got out of there fast, and went up onto the
bridge.

"The main computer was out, of course. I couldn't interrogate the
auxiliary computer remotely, so I had to fly that wobbling ship to a
stop by the seat of my pants. I did it, too.

"Then I went back to the cargo compartment and hauled Beulah into the
center. She didn't make any more trouble--she was sorry for what she
had done.

"The coordinates the Prinkip had given me looked almighty close to a
big pond that I didn't recall having seen before, but I was too busy
making a landing with minimum fuel to ask him about it. I finally
fought her down safely with one leg of my tripod actually in the pond,
and clouds of steam rising up around _Delta Crucis_. I call it a pond.
But on a normal-size planet it would be a good big lake.

"Anyway, I had made it safely to Penguin, and my elephant was alive and
healthy. I congratulated Beulah when I untied her, and then I took her
outside to meet the Prinkip. I think I was a little proud of myself,
and of Beulah, and of _Delta Crucis_, too."
