
At first Don Alford had some trouble locating the POSAT headquarters.
It seemed to him that the block in which the street number would fall
was occupied entirely by a huge sprawling warehouse, of concrete
construction, and almost entirely windowless. It was recessed from the
street in several places to make room for the small, shabby buildings
of a wholesale pharmacy, a printer's plant, an upholstering shop, and
was also indented by alleys lined with loading platforms.

It was at the back of one of the alleys that he finally found a door
marked with the now familiar emblem of POSAT.

He opened the frosted glass door with a feeling of misgiving, and faced
a dark flight of stairs leading to the upper floor. Somewhere above him
a buzzer sounded, evidently indicating his arrival. He picked his way
up through the murky stairwell.

The reception room was hardly a cheerful place, with its battered desk
facing the view of the empty alley, and a film of dust obscuring the
pattern of the gray-looking wallpaper and worn rug. But the light of
the summer afternoon filtering through the window scattered the gloom
somewhat, enough to help Don doubt that he would find the menace here
that he had come to expect.

The girl addressing envelopes at the desk looked very ordinary. _Not
the Mata-Hari type_, thought Don, with an inward chuckle at his own
suspicions. He handed her the letter.

She smiled. "We've been expecting you, Dr. Alford. If you'll just step
into the next room--"

She opened a door opposite the stairwell, and Don stepped through it.

The sight of the luxurious room before him struck his eyes with the
shock of a dentist's drill, so great was the contrast between it and
the shabby reception room. For a moment Don had difficulty breathing.
The rug--Don had seen one like it before, but it had been in a museum.
The paintings on the walls, ornately framed in gilt carving, were
surely old masters--of the Renaissance period, he guessed. Although he
recognized none of the pictures, he felt that he could almost name the
artists. That glowing one near the corner would probably be a Titian.
Or was it Tintorretto? He regretted for a moment the lost opportunities
of his college days, when he had passed up Art History in favor of
Operational Circuit Analysis.

The girl opened a filing cabinet, the front of which was set flush with
the wall, and, selecting a folder from it, disappeared through another
door.

Don sprang to examine the picture near the corner. It was hung at eye
level--that is, at the eye level of the average person. Don had to bend
over a bit to see it properly. He searched for a signature. Apparently
there was none. But did artists sign their pictures back in those
days? He wished he knew more about such things.

Each of the paintings was individually lighted by a fluorescent tube
held on brackets directly above it. As Don straightened up from his
scrutiny of the picture, he inadvertently hit his head against the
light. The tube, dislodged from its brackets, fell to the rug with a
muffled thud.

_Now I've done it!_ thought Don with dismay. But at least the tube
hadn't shattered.

In fact--it was still glowing brightly! His eyes registered the fact,
even while his mind refused to believe it. He raised his eyes to the
brackets. They were simple pieces of solid hardware designed to support
the tube.

There were no wires!

Don picked up the slender, glowing cylinder and held it between
trembling fingers. Although it was delivering as much light as a two
or three hundred watt bulb, it was cool to the touch. He examined it
minutely. There was no possibility of concealed batteries.

The thumping of his heart was caused not by the fact that he had never
seen a similar tube before, but because he had. He had never held
one in his hands, though. The ones which his company had produced as
experimental models had been unsuccessful at converting all of the
radioactivity into light, and had, of necessity, been heavily shielded.

Right now, two of his colleagues back in the laboratory would still
be searching for the right combination of fluorescent material
and radioactive salts with which to make the simple, efficient,
self-contained lighting unit that he was holding in his hand at this
moment!

_But this is impossible!_ he thought. _We're the only company that's
working on this, and it's secret. There can't be any in actual
production!_

And even if one had actually been successfully produced, how would it
have fallen into the possession of POSAT, an Ancient Secret Society,
The Perpetual Order of Seekers After Truth?

The conviction grew in Don's mind that here was something much deeper
and more sinister than he would be able to cope with. He should have
asked for help, should have stated his suspicions to the police or the
F.B.I. Even now--

With sudden decision, he thrust the lighting tube into his pocket and
stepped swiftly to the outer door. He grasped the knob and shook it
impatiently when it stuck and refused to turn. He yanked at it. His
impatience changed to panic. It was locked!

A soft sound behind him made him whirl about. The secretary had
entered again through the inner door. She glanced at the vacant light
bracket, then significantly at his bulging pocket. Her gaze was still
as bland and innocent as when he had entered, but to Don she no longer
seemed ordinary. Her very calmness in the face of his odd actions was
distressingly ominous.

"Our Grand Chairman will see you now," she said in a quiet voice.

Don realized that he was half crouched in the position of an animal
expecting attack. He straightened up with what dignity he could manage
to find.

She opened the inner door again and Don followed her into what he
supposed to be the office of the Grand Chairman of POSAT.

Instead he found himself on a balcony along the side of a vast room,
which must have been the interior of the warehouse that he had noted
outside. The girl motioned him toward the far end of the balcony, where
a frosted glass door marked the office of the Grand Chairman.

But Don could not will his legs to move. His heart beat at the sight of
the room below him. It was a laboratory, but a laboratory the like of
which he had never seen before. Most of the equipment was unfamiliar
to him. Whatever he did recognize was of a different design than he had
ever used, and there was something about it that convinced him that
this was more advanced. The men who bent busily over their instruments
did not raise their eyes to the figures on the balcony.

"Good Lord!" Don gasped. "That's an atomic reactor down there!" There
could be no doubt about it, even though he could see it only obscurely
through the bluish-green plastic shielding it.

His thoughts were so clamorous that he hardly realized that he had
spoken aloud, or that the door at the end of the balcony had opened.

He was only dimly aware of the approaching footsteps as he speculated
wildly on the nature of the shielding material. What could be so dense
that only an inch would provide adequate shielding and yet remain
semitransparent?

His scientist's mind applauded the genius who had developed it, even as
the alarming conviction grew that he wouldn't--couldn't--be allowed to
leave here any more. Surely no man would be allowed to leave this place
alive to tell the fantastic story to the world!

"Hello, Don," said a quiet voice beside him. "It's good to see you
again."

"Dr. Crandon!" he heard his own voice reply. "_You're_ the Grand
Chairman of POSAT?"

He felt betrayed and sick at heart. The very voice with which
Crandon had spoken conjured up visions of quiet lecture halls and
his own youthful excitement at the masterful and orderly disclosure
of scientific facts. To find him here in this mad and treacherous
place--didn't anything make sense any longer?

"I think we have rather abused you, Don," Dr. Crandon continued. His
voice sounded so gentle that Don found it hard to think there was any
evil in it. "I can see that you are suspicious of us, and--yes--afraid."
