
Don stared at the scene below him. After his initial glance to confirm
his identification of Crandon, Don could not bear to look at him.

Crandon's voice suddenly hardened, became abrupt. "You're partly right
about us, of course. I hate to think how many laws this organization
has broken. Don't condemn us yet, though. You'll be a member yourself
before the day is over."

Don was shocked by such confidence in his corruptibility.

"What do you use?" he asked bitterly. "Drugs? Hypnosis?"

Crandon sighed. "I forgot how little you know, Don. I have a long
story to tell you. You'll find it hard to believe at first. But try to
trust me. Try to believe me, as you once did. When I say that much of
what POSAT does is illegal, I do not mean immoral. We're probably the
most moral organization in the world. Get over the idea that you have
stumbled into a den of thieves."

Crandon paused as though searching for words with which to continue.

"Did you notice the paintings in the waiting room as you entered?"

Don nodded, too bewildered to speak.

"They were donated by the founder of our Organization. They were part
of his personal collection--which, incidentally, he bought from the
artists themselves. He also designed the atomic reactor we use for
power here in the laboratory."

"Then the pictures are modern," said Don, aware that his mouth was
hanging open foolishly. "I thought one was a Titian--"

"It is," said Crandon. "We have several original Titians, although I
really don't know too much about them."

"But how could a man alive _today_ buy paintings from an artist of the
Renaissance?"

"He is not alive today. POSAT is actually what our advertisements
claim--an _ancient_ secret society. Our founder has been dead for over
four centuries."

"But you said that he designed your atomic reactor."

"Yes. This particular one has been in use for only twenty years,
however."

Don's confusion was complete. Crandon looked at him kindly. "Let's
start at the beginning," he said, and Don was back again in the
classroom with the deep voice of Professor Crandon unfolding the
pages of knowledge in clear and logical manner. "Four hundred years
ago, in the time of the Italian Renaissance, a man lived who was a
super-genius. His was the kind of incredible mentality that appears not
in every generation, or even every century, but once in thousands of
years.

"Probably the man who invented what we call the phonetic alphabet was
one like him. That man lived seven thousand years ago in Mesopotamia,
and his discovery was so original, so far from the natural course
of man's thinking, that not once in the intervening seven thousand
years has that device been rediscovered. It still exists only in the
civilizations to which it has been passed on directly.

"The super-genius who was our founder was not a semanticist. He was
a physical scientist and mathematician. Starting with the meager
heritage that existed in these fields in his time, he began tackling
physical puzzles one by one. Sitting in his study, using as his
principal tool his own great mind, he invented calculus, developed the
quantum theory of light, moved on to electromagnetic radiation and what
we call Maxwell's equations--although, of course, he antedated Maxwell
by centuries--developed the special and general theories of relativity,
the tool of wave mechanics, and finally, toward the end of his life, he
mathematically derived the packing fraction that describes the binding
energy of nuclei--"

"But it can't be done," Don objected. "It's an observed phenomenon. It
hasn't been derived." Every conservative instinct that he possessed
cried out against this impossible fantasy. And yet--there sat the
reactor, sheathed in its strange shield. Crandon watched the direction
of Don's glance.

"Yes, the reactor," said Crandon. "He built one like it. It confirmed
his theories. His calculations showed him something else too. He saw
the destructive potentialities of an atomic explosion. He himself could
not have built an atomic bomb; he didn't have the facilities. But his
knowledge would have enabled other men to do so. He looked about
him. He saw a political setup of warring principalities, rival states,
intrigue, and squabbles over political power. Giving the men of his
time atomic energy would have been like handing a baby a firecracker
with a lighted fuse.

"What should he have done? Let his secrets die with him? He
didn't think so. No one else in his age could have _derived_ the
knowledge that he did. But it was an age of brilliant men. Leonardo.
Michelangelo. There were men capable of _learning_ his science, even as
men can learn it today. He gathered some of them together and founded
this society. It served two purposes. It perpetuated his discoveries
and at the same time it maintained the greatest secrecy about them. He
urged that the secrets be kept until the time when men could use them
safely. The other purpose was to make that time come about as soon as
possible."

Crandon looked at Don's unbelieving face. "How can I make you see that
it is the truth? Think of the eons that man or manlike creatures have
walked the Earth. Think what a small fraction of that time is four
hundred years. Is it so strange that atomic energy was discovered a
little early, by this displacement in time that is so tiny after all?"

"But by one man," Don argued.

Crandon shrugged. "Compared with him, Don, you and I are stupid men.
So are the scientists who slowly plodded down the same road he had
come, stumbling first on one truth and then the succeeding one. We know
that inventions and discoveries do not occur at random. Each is based
on the one that preceded it. We are all aware of the phenomenon of
simultaneous invention. The path to truth is a straight one. It is only
our own stupidity that makes it seem slow and tortuous.

"He merely followed the straight path," Crandon finished simply.
