
Don's incredulity thawed a little. It was not entirely beyond the realm
of possibility.

But if it were true! A vast panorama of possible achievements spread
before him.

"Four hundred years!" he murmured with awe. "You've had four hundred
years head-start on the rest of the world! What wonders you must have
uncovered in that time!"

"Our technical achievements may disappoint you," warned Crandon.
"Oh, they're way beyond anything that you are familiar with. You've
undoubtedly noticed the shielding material on the reactor. That's a
fairly recent development of our metallurgical department. There are
other things in the laboratory that I can't even explain to you until
you have caught up on the technical basis for understanding them.

"Our emphasis has not been on physical sciences, however, except as
they contribute to our central project. We want to change civilization
so that it can use physical science without disaster."

For a moment Don had been fired with enthusiasm. But at these words his
heart sank.

"Then you've failed," he said bitterly. "In spite of centuries of
advance warning, you've failed to change the rest of us enough to
prevent us from trying to blow ourselves off the Earth. Here we are,
still snarling and snapping at our neighbors' throats--and we've caught
up with you. We have the atomic bomb. What's POSAT been doing all that
time? Or have you found that human nature really can't be changed?"

"Come with me," said Crandon.

He led the way along the narrow balcony to another door, then down a
steep flight of stairs. He opened a door at the bottom, and Don saw
what must have been the world's largest computing machine.

"This is our answer," said Crandon. "Oh, rather, it's the tool by which
we find our answer. For two centuries we have been working on the
newest of the sciences--that of human motivation. Soon we will be ready
to put some of our new knowledge to work. But you are right in one
respect, we are working now against time. We must hurry if we are to
save our civilization. That's why you are here. We have work for you to
do. Will you join us, Don?"

"But why the hocus-pocus?" asked Don. "Why do you hide behind such a
weird front as POSAT? Why do you advertise in magazines and invite just
anyone to join? Why didn't you approach me directly, if you have work
for me to do? And if you really have the answers to our problems, why
haven't you gathered together all the scientists in the world to work
on this project--before it's too late?"

Crandon took a sighing breath. "How I wish that we could do just that!
But you forget that one of the prime purposes of our organization is
to maintain the secrecy of our discoveries until they can be safely
disclosed. We must be absolutely certain that anyone who enters this
building will have joined POSAT before he leaves. What if we approached
the wrong scientist? Centuries of accomplishment might be wasted if
they attempted either to reveal it or to exploit it!

"Do you recall the questionnaires that you answered before you were
invited here? We fed the answers to this machine and, as a result, we
know more about how you will react in any given situation than you do
yourself. Even if you should fail to join us, our secrets would be
safe with you. Of course, we miss a few of the scientists who might
be perfect material for our organization. You'd be surprised, though,
at how clever our advertisements are at attracting exactly the men we
want. With the help of our new science, we have baited our ads well,
and we know how to maintain interest. Curiosity is, to the men we want,
a powerful motivator."

"But what about the others?" asked Don. "There must be hundreds of
applicants who would be of no use to you at all."

"Oh, yes," replied Crandon. "There are the mild religious fanatics. We
enroll them as members and keep them interested by sending pamphlets in
line with their interests. We even let them contribute to our upkeep,
if they seem to want to. They never get beyond the reception room if
they come to call on us. But they are additional people through whom we
can act when the time finally comes.

"There are also the desperate people who try POSAT as a last
resort--lost ones who can't find their direction in life. For them we
put into practice some of our newly won knowledge. We rehabilitate
them--anonymously, of course. Even find jobs or patch up homes. It's
good practice for us.

"I think I've answered most of your questions, Don. But you haven't
answered mine. Will you join us?"

Don looked solemnly at the orderly array of the computer before him.
He had one more question.

"Will it really work? Can it actually tell you how to motivate the
stubborn, quarrelsome, opinionated people one finds on this Earth?"

Crandon smiled. "You're here, aren't you?"

Don nodded, his tense features relaxing.

"Enroll me as a member," he said.



