
To cover his confusion Mr. Tedder began to talk. "There, you've
just seen the Ziegler effect in action. Explain what you've just
seen and you'll be famous among men." Indeed, the cerium-iron
alloy bar had disappeared; but so had 20,000 cm. of No. 40 silver
wire, silk-insulated. But the boys--except, of course, Stetzel and
Guenther--hadn't noticed. Mr. Tedder glanced over his shoulder to the
clock, saw that it would be fifteen minutes before the class would
end, and made a quick decision in the interest of his sanity. "Class
dismissed!" he said.

There was a stupefied second while the news soaked into dormant nervous
systems. Then the boys were shouting across the room, grabbing up
books, and hurrying out into the hall to take noisy advantage of their
moment of freedom. Stetzel and Guenther, as behooved the top pupils of
the Class of '95, hurried up to Mr. Tedder to check their notes.

"The symbol for cerium is 'Ce,' isn't it?" Stetzel asked.

"Yes. But now...."

"How did you do that, Mr. Tedder?" Guenther interrupted.

"Do what?" Mr. Tedder glanced suspiciously at Guenther. Perhaps it
hadn't been those two beers.

"You had a woman dancing, right up where those solenoids were,"
Guenther said.

"That's what I saw," Stetzel substantiated. "What a movie! She sure
looked three-dimensional to me. Wow!"

"Yes," Mr. Tedder said, canceling his decision of a moment before, to
lay off beer. "That was just a little stunt I thought up to see how
many of you were paying attention. New optical principle, you know. Now
if you'll excuse me, I've got to get things ready for the next class.
And wake up Norcross on your way out, will you?"

Stetzel jarred Norcross from unconsciousness and walked out into the
hall, talking and gesturing significantly with Guenther. Norcross
unfolded himself slowly, glanced with a furtive eye toward Mr. Tedder
and the empty bench-top, and walked rapidly out of the room, down the
stairs, and into the school physician's office.

Alone, Mr. Tedder frowned at the bereft lithium battery and telegraph
key. He had pressed the key, closing the circuit, and there'd been a
spurt of flame. A strange girl had appeared, dancing on the marble top
of the demonstration bench. He'd never seen the woman before; a tall
blonde wearing very little.... What the devil! There she was again.

Mr. Coar, principal of Tech, walked toward the door to the physics
classroom, rehearsing the speech he was going to deliver upon Tedder.
"Young man, Tech does not approve of the practice of letting students
out into the halls before the end of the period. Their racket has
shaken the walls of classrooms on three floors. What have you to say
for yourself, Mr. Tedder?" Yes, that would do nicely. Mr. Coar opened
the door.
