
Mr. Tedder was leaning against a front-row desk, nodding appreciatively
as a sketchily-clad young lady danced for him. "TEDDER!" the principal
bellowed. "Stop that!"

Honey LaRue faded, and the space between telegraph key and lithium
battery was empty again.

"Stop what?" Mr. Tedder inquired, wide-eyed with innocence.

"Stop letting your classes out early so that you can spend your time
gloating over your ... your ..." Mr. Coar groped for a stinging
adjective, drew a blank, and concluded weakly, "... your movies!"

"Did you see her, too?"

"I did, indeed. You came here highly recommended by Indiana University,
Tedder; and, frankly, I didn't expect this sort of thing from you."

"Mr. Coar, I believe that I've stumbled across a novel physical
phenomenon."

"Anatomy was being studied in 1600 A.D., young man," Mr. Coar observed,
his voice dripping sarcasm, "and is scarcely any longer a 'novel
physical phenomenon'."

"Sit down, sir." Mr. Tedder offered the principal the top of a desk in
the front row. "Now, what did you expect to see when you came in here?"

"The apparatus of a physics laboratory--all those gears and coils and
tubes and ... things," Mr. Coar vaguely enumerated. "Certainly not
a...." The principal sat heavily on the desk top, bulge-eyed. On the
marble top of the demonstration bench was a Goldberg-esque network of
machinery, a perfect reproduction of the principal's uncertain notions
concerning scientific gadgetry.

"How the devil did you do that, Tedder?"

"People have been asking me all morning. I don't know. I don't think
that I did do it."

"Has that girl ..." Honey LaRue reappeared on the bench, and the air
vibrated with the drums' seductive roll "... been here before?"

"Yes, sir. Couple of boys in my class saw her, too."

"Where are they now?"

Mr. Tedder glanced up at the clock. "It's second period by now. Stetzel
is in Latin III, I believe; and Guenther's in Microbiology II."

Mr. Coar went over to the loudspeaker in the corner of the room,
pressed a button, and spoke to his secretary, up in the school office.
"Ann, send me students Guenther and Stetzel. Rooms 103 and 309." He
switched the blat-box off. He turned toward the empty demonstration
bench, wrinkled his forehead in concentration, and looked up. A pot of
geraniums was standing on the marble bench-top.

"Whew! It knows what I'm thinking about!"

"Looks that way, doesn't it."

"But nothing can do that. Not electricity, nor electronics, nor even
cybernetics."

"Nothing that we know about could, sir. What would you suggest that I
do with the screwy thing?"
