
Mr. Coar, caught off guard, made a suggestion which was more witty
than helpful. The classroom door swung open, and Stetzel and Guenther
hurried in together, vocally wondering at their release from schedule.
"Good morning, Mr. Coar; Mr. Tedder. Did you want us?" Stetzel asked.

"Did you see a woman in here?" the principal demanded.

"Yes, sir," Guenther said. "The movie, you mean."

"So you saw her, too. That rules mass hypnosis out," Mr. Coar
illogically decided, glancing suspiciously toward the young physics
instructor.

The classroom door swung open again, admitting two teachers. Mr. Percy
N. Formeller, known to two generations of biology students as Old
Preserved-In-Formaldehyde, was full of indignation at the preemption
of Guenther from his microbiology class. Miss MacIntire, Latin I-V,
followed, equally indignant over Stetzel's defection from Marcus
Porcius Cato.

"Mr. Coar," Mr. Formeller demanded, "what is the meaning of this?
Guenther left in the middle of a movie on _Trypanosoma gambiense_,
disturbing my entire class. In Technicolor, too," the biology
instructor finished, accusingly.

"And how about calling Stetzel out of my class during the Third Punic
War!" Miss MacIntire said.

Mr. Coar defended himself. "We have something here which is unique,
possibly of great value to science." Miss MacIntire sniffed. Science
was something that students elected to take instead of Latin. "I'm
happy that you two teachers came in. You may be able to help us throw
some light on our problem. You took the precaution of placing your
classes in the hands of responsible monitors, I hope?"

"Of course!" Miss MacIntire snapped.

"What is the nature of this 'unique something' that our Mr. Coar
mentioned, Mr. Tedder?" Old Preserved-In-Formaldehyde spoke as one who
seeks to calm troubled waters.

"I frankly believe it to be an unearthly life-form," Mr. Tedder said.
"Telepathic and hallucinative, by my guess, and definitely not from
this earth."

Mr. Formeller, who kept his three-year subscription to _Improbable
Stories_ a closely-guarded secret, glanced about him for the
extraterrestrial life-form. He shouted. There on the demonstration
bench was a green-skinned monster, an eight-foot tall caricature of a
Tyrantosaurus Rex, holding a nubile and light-clad young lady under
its right foreleg. There was a "thump" beside the biology teacher
as Miss MacIntire fainted to the floor. Stooping gallantly to pull
his colleague back to her feet, Mr. Formeller stopped thinking of
the telepathic, hallucinative, and green Tyrantosaurus Rex, which,
grinning, disappeared.
