
Mr. Coar stared toward the empty demonstration bench, wrinkled
his forehead in concentration, and was again rewarded by the
pot-of-geraniums-made-manifest. "See?" he asked rhetorically. "It
becomes anything you want it to."

"Curious." Mr. Formeller glared toward the table. A small, orange
insect appeared. The biology teacher bent over it and counted the
spots on the orange anterior wings. "Six spots. A real _bipunctata_,
of a common local variety, or I don't know my _Coleoptera_." An idea
struck him, and he backed rapidly away from the bench. He turned to
Mr. Tedder. "I wouldn't go too close to the thing, if I were you. It
creates these things for a purpose. I believe that this hallucinative
power, as you call it, is the logical development of protective
coloration, mimicry, and similar devices used by earthly creatures to
elude their enemies and to lure their prey."

"You mean, this beast on the table top mimics what we're thinking about
in hopes of drawing us close enough to seize us and eat us?" asked Miss
MacIntire.

"Roughly, yes." Mr. Formeller nodded. "We've no way of knowing the
metabolic processes, the thought patterns, or even the true form of
the creature. Its action in creating a pleasant picture may be as
automatic as the _Starrkrampf reflex_, or playing 'possum, is to foxes
and oppossums and _Leptinotarsum decemlineatae_." Mr. Formeller paused,
hoping that his erudition was showing.

Miss MacIntire, who had seated herself back at a third-row desk,
remarked, "I do wish that the beast were a rational creature."

There was a flurry in the air above the demonstration bench as a togaed
Greek gentleman came into being. He raised a portentious index finger,
exclaimed an involved Greek observation and disappeared.

"It can talk!" Mr. Coar marveled.

"It said, 'You've got an eel by the tail'." Miss MacIntire translated.
"Greek."

"Like having a bull by the horns, or an armful of greased pig," Stetzel
commented.

"If you'll excuse me," Guenther said, "it seems to me that the thing
has some will of its own. For one thing, whatever form it takes, that
form is not ambiguous or wavering, as an image in the mind's eye must
be."

"What's more," Stetzel continued his friend's argument, "it can say
things that are presumably not in the mind which called it into being.
For example, using Greek to explain itself--I hope that I'm being
clear--shows that the creature has imaginative power, as well as the
ability to read our minds."

Percy N. Formeller hadn't been listening. Psychological investigations
could wait until there was a good, solid foundation of physical fact on
which to build. "I wonder if it's carnivorous?" he murmured.
