
How few years comprise the history of American literature is
strikingly suggested by the fact that so much of it can be covered
by the reminiscence of a single man of letters.[1] A life beginning
in the ’20’s had actual touch in boyhood with Irving, and seized
fresh from the press the romances of Cooper. And if the history
of American literature be read more exclusively as the history of
literary development essentially American, its years are still fewer.
“I perceive,” says a foreign visitor in Austin’s story of _Joseph
Natterstrom_, “this is a very young country, but a very old people.”[2]
Some critics, indeed, have been so irritated by the spreading of
the eagle in larger pretensions as to deprecate entirely the phrase
“American literature.” Our literature, they retort, has shown no
national, essential difference from the literature of the other peoples
using the same language. How these carpers accommodate to their view
Thoreau, for instance, is not clear. But waiving other claims, the case
might almost be made out from the indigenous growth of one literary
form. Our short story, at least, is definitely American.

The significance of the short story as a new form of fiction appears
on comparison of the staple product of tales before 1835 with the
staple product thereafter. 1835 is the date of Poe’s _Berenice_. Before
it lies a period of experiment, of turning the accepted anecdotes,
short romances, historical sketches, toward something vaguely felt
after as more workmanlike. This is the period of precocious local
magazines,[3] and of that ornament of the marble-topped tables of our
grandmothers, the annual. Various in name and in color, the annual
gift-books are alike,--externally in profusion of design and gilding,
internally in serving up, as staples of their miscellany, poems and
tales. Keepsakes they were called generically in England, France, and
America; their particular style might be _Garland_ or _Gem_.[4] The
_Atlantic Souvenir_, earliest in this country, so throve during seven
years (1826–1832) as to buy and unite with itself (1833) its chief
rival, the _Token_. The utterly changed taste which smiles at these
annuals, as at the clothes of their readers, obscures the fact that
they were a medium, not only for the stories of writers forgotten long
since, but also for the earlier work of Hawthorne. By 1835 the _New
England Magazine_ had survived its infancy, and the _Southern Literary
Messenger_ was born with promise. Since then--since the realisation
of the definite form in Poe’s _Berenice_--the short story has been
explored and tested to its utmost capacity by almost every American
prose-writer of note, and by many without note, as the chief American
form of fiction. The great purveyor has been the monthly magazine.
Before 1835, then, is a period of experiment with tales; after 1835, a
period of the manifold exercise of the short story. The tales of the
former have much that is national in matter; the short stories of the
latter show nationality also in form.

Nationality, even provinciality, in subject-matter has been too much
in demand. The best modern literature knows best that it is heir of
all the ages, and that its goal should be, not local peculiarity, but
such humanity as passes place and time.[5] Therefore we have heard too
much, doubtless, of local color. At any rate, many purveyors of local
color in fiction have given us documents rather than stories. Still
there was some justice in asking of America the things of America. If
the critics who begged us to be American have not always seemed to know
clearly what they meant, still they may fairly be interpreted to mean
in general something reasonable enough,--namely, that we ought to catch
from the breadth and diversity of our new country new inspirations. The
world, then, was looking to us, in so far as it looked at all, for the
impulse from untrodden and picturesque ways, for a direct transmission
of Indians, cataracts, prairies, bayous, and Sierras. Well and good.
But, according to our abilities, we were giving the world just that.
Years before England decided that our only American writers in this
sense were Whitman, Mark Twain, and Bret Harte,--seventy years before
the third of this perversely chosen group complacently informed the
British public[6] that he was a pioneer only in the sense of making
the short story American in scenes and motives,--American writers were
exploring their country for fiction north and south, east and west,
up and down its history. What we lacked was, not appreciation of our
material, but skill in expressing it; not inspiration, but art. We had
to wait, not indeed for Bret Harte in the ’60’s, but for Poe in the
’30’s. The material was known and felt, and again and again attempted.
Nothing could expose more vividly the fallacy that new material makes
new literature. We were at school for our short story; but we had long
known what stories we had to tell. In that sense American fiction has
always been American.

For by 1830 the preference of native subjects for tales, to say nothing
of novels, is plainly marked. The example of Irving in this direction
could not fail of followers. From their beginning the early magazines
and annuals essay in fiction the legends, the history, and even the
local manners of the United States, in circles widening with the area
of the country. Thus the _Atlantic Souvenir_ for 1829, furnishing
forth in its short fictions an historical romance of mediæval France,
a moral tale in oriental setting, a melodrama of the Pacific Islands,
and a lively farce on the revolution in Peru, presented also, with
occasional attempt at native scenery, the following: _The Methodist’s
Story_, a moral situation of the anger of father and son; _Narantsauk_,
an historical tale of Baron Castine; _The Catholic_, weaving into
King Philip’s attack on Springfield the hopeless affection of a
Catholic girl and a Protestant youth--the very field of Hawthorne; and
a melodramatic _Emigrant’s Daughter_. In the same year, 1829, James
Hall, then fairly afloat on his vocation of law and his avocation
of letters, compiled, indeed largely composed, the first _Western
Souvenir_ at Vandalia, Illinois. Its most significant tales are three
of his own, set, with more careful locality than most of the seaboard
attempts, in the frontier life along the Mississippi. _The Indian
Hater_ and _Pete Featherton_ present backwoodsmen of Illinois and Ohio.
_The French Village_ is definitely a _genre_ study. Loose enough in
plot, it has in detail a delicacy and local truth not unworthy the
material of Cable. That there was a definite tendency toward native
themes is amply confirmed by the annuals of subsequent years before
1835. Besides Hawthorne’s earlier pieces in the _Token_, there had
appeared by 1831 studies of the Natchez and of the Minnesota Indians,
the Maryland Romanists, Shays’s Rebellion, the North-River Dutch, and
the Quakers. And the same tendency appears in the early magazines.
_The Western Monthly Review_, adventurously put forth by Timothy Flint
in Cincinnati, had among its few tales before 1831 an Irish-Shawnee
farce on the Big Miami, _The Hermit of the Prairies_, a romance of
French Louisiana, a rather forcible study of Simon Girty and the attack
on Bryant’s Station, and two local character sketches entitled _Mike
Shuck_ and _Colonel Plug_. To extend the period of consideration is
to record the strengthening of the tendency established by Irving
and Cooper. The books of John Pendleton Kennedy are collections of
local sketches. Mrs. Hale, praised for her fidelity to local truth,
was supported in the same ambition by Mrs. Gilman. Mrs. Kirkland’s
sketches of early Michigan are as convincing as they are vivacious.
Most of these studies emerge, if that can be said to emerge which is
occasionally fished up by the antiquary, only by force of what we have
been berated for lacking--local inspiration.

What were the forms of this evident endeavor to interpret American
life in brief fictions; and, more important, what was the form toward
which they were groping? For this inquiry the natural point of
departure is the tales of Irving. Any reappreciation of Irving would
now be officious. We know that classical serenity, alike of pathos
and of humor; and we have heard often enough that he got his style of
Addison. Indeed no attentive reader of English literature could well
fail to discern either Irving’s schooling with the finest prose of the
previous century--with Goldsmith, for instance, as well as Addison--or
the essential originality of his own prose. He is a pupil of the
_Spectator_.[7] That is a momentous fact in the history of American
literature. We know what it means in diction. What does it mean in
form? That our first eminent short fictions were written by the pupil
of a school of essayists vitally affected their structure. The matter
of the _Spectator_ suggested in England a certain type of novel;[8] its
manner was not the manner to suggest in America the short story, even
to an author whose head was full of the proper material. For though
it may be hard to prove in the face of certain novels that an essay
is one thing and a story another, it is obvious to any craftsman, _a
priori_, that the way of the essay will not lead to the short story.
And in fact it did not lead to the short story. The tales of Irving
need no praise. Composed in the manner typical of the short story,
they might have been better or worse; but they are not so composed.
It was not at random that Irving called his first collection of them
(1819–20) _The Sketch Book_. _The Wife_, for instance, is a short-story
plot; it is handled, precisely in the method of the British essay,
as an illustrative anecdote. So _The Widow and Her Son_; so _The
Pride of the Village_, most evidently in its expository introduction;
so, in essence of method, many of the others. And _Rip Van Winkle_?
Here, indeed, is a difference, but not, as may at first appear, a
significant difference. True, the descriptive beginning is modern
rather than Addisonian; romanticism had opened the eyes of the son of
the classicals; but how far the typical looseness of romanticism is
from the typical compactness of the short story may be seen in Irving’s
German tale of the _Spectre Bridegroom_, and it may be seen here. True
again, the characterisation, though often expository, is deliciously
concrete; but it is not more so than the characterisation of Sir Roger
de Coverley; nor is Rip’s conversation with his dog, for instance, in
itself the way of the short story any more than Sir Roger’s counting of
heads in church. Unity of tone there is, unity clearer than in Irving’s
models, and therefore doubtless more conscious. But Irving did not go
so far as to show his successors that the surer way to unity of tone is
unity of narrative form. Still less did he display the value of unity
of form for itself. His stories do not culminate. As there is little
emphasis on any given incident, so there is no direction of incidents
toward a single goal of action. Think of the Catskill legend done _à la
mode_. Almost any clever writer for to-morrow’s magazines would begin
with Rip’s awakening, keep the action within one day by letting the
previous twenty years transpire through Rip’s own narrative at the new
tavern, and culminate on the main disclosure. That he might easily thus
spoil _Rip Van Winkle_ is not in point. The point is that he would thus
make a typical short story, and that the _Sketch Book_ did not tend
in that direction. Nor as a whole do the _Tales of a Traveller_. Not
only is _Buckthorne and His Friends_ avowedly a sketch for a novel, but
the involved and somewhat laborious machinery of the whole collection
will not serve to move any of its separable parts in the short-story
manner. Even the _German Student_, which is potentially much nearer to
narrative singleness, has an explanatory introduction and a blurred
climax. Such few of the Italian bandit stories as show compression of
time remain otherwise, like the rest, essentially the same in form as
other romantic tales of the period. In narrative adjustment Irving did
not choose to make experiments.[9]

It is not surprising, therefore, that Irving’s influence, so far at
it is discernible in subsequent short fictions, seems rather to have
retarded than to have furthered the development toward distinct form.
Our native sense of form appears in that the short story emerged
fifteen years after the _Sketch Book_; but where we feel Irving we
feel a current from another source moving in another direction. The
short descriptive sketches composing John Pendleton Kennedy’s _Swallow
Barn_ (1832) have so slight a sequence,[10] and sometimes so clear a
capacity for self-consistent form, that it is easy to imagine them as
separate short stories of local manners; but, whether through Irving,
or directly through the literary tradition of Virginia, they keep
the way of the _Spectator_. James Hall, who had been still nearer
to the short story of local manners in his _French Village_ (1829),
was poaching on Irving’s manor in his _Village Musician_ (1831) with
evident disintegration. In Hawthorne, who, of course, was nearest of
all before Poe’s genius for form seized and fixed the short story, it
is difficult to be sure of the influence of Irving. True, Hawthorne’s
earlier historical tales, though they have far greater imaginative
realisation, are not essentially different in method from Irving’s
_Philip of Pokanoket_; but it was quite as likely Hawthorne’s natural
bent toward the descriptive essay that made his earlier development
in fiction tentative and vacillating, as any counsel from the happy,
leisurely form of the elder master. Be that as it may, Irving’s
influence in general, if not deterrent, seems at least not to have
counted positively in the development of the short story.

Rather Irving left the writers for the annuals and abortive early
magazines to feel after a form. What were the modes already accepted;
and what were their several capacities for this shaping? The moral
tale, of course, is obvious to any one who has glanced over the
literary diversions of his forbears; and this, equally of course,
had often its unity of purpose. But since the message, instead
of permeating the tale by suggestion, was commonly formulated in
expository introduction or hortatory conclusion, it did not suffice to
keep the whole in unity of form. Indeed, the moral tale was hardly a
form. It might be mere applied anecdote; it might be the bare skeleton
of a story, as likely material for a novel as for a short story; it was
often shapeless romance.[11] But two tendencies are fairly distinct.
Negatively there was a general avoidance, before Hawthorne, of allegory
or symbolism. For a moral tale allegory seems an obvious method; but
it is a method of suggestion, and these tales, with a few exceptions,
such as Austin’s _Peter Rugg_, hardly rise above the method of formal
propounding. Positively there was a natural use of oriental manner
and setting, as in Austin’s _Joseph Natterstrom_ and Paulding’s _Ben
Hadar_.[12]

Another typical ingredient of the annual salad is the yarn or
hoax-story. The significance of this as American has been often urged;
and indeed it spread with little seeding, and, as orally spontaneous,
has made a favorite diversion of the frontier. Its significance in form
is that it absolutely demands an arrangement of incidents for suspense.
The superiority of form, however, was associated, unfortunately for any
influence, with triviality of matter. Again, the annuals are full of
short historical sketches. Sometimes these are mere summary of facts or
mere anecdote, to serve as explanatory text for the steel engravings
then fashionable as “embellishments”; sometimes they are humorous
renderings of recent events;[13] more commonly they are painstaking
studies,--Delia Bacon’s, for instance, or Charlotte Sedgwick’s, in
the setting of American Colonial and Revolutionary history; most
commonly of all, whether native or foreign, modern or mediæval, they
are thorough-going romances, running often into swash-buckling and
almost always into melodrama.[14] The tendency to melodramatic variety,
with the typical looseness of romanticism, then everywhere dominant in
letters, held the historical sketches back from compactness, or even
definiteness, of form.[15] So clever a writer as Hall leaves many of
his historical pieces with the ends loose, as mere sketches for novels.
The theoretical difference between a novelette and a short story[16] is
thus practically evident throughout this phase of the annuals in lack
of focus.

Still the studies of historical environment were more promising in
themselves and also confirmed that attempt to realise the locality,
as it were, of the present or the immediate past which emerges as
_genre_ or local color. The intention of Miss Sedgwick’s _Reminiscence
of Federalism_ (1835) is the same as that of Miss Wilkins’s stories
of the same environment. Her _Mary Dyre_ comes as near in form as
Hawthorne’s _Gentle Boy_ to extracting the essence of Quakerdom. Where
her studies fail is in that vital intensity which depends most of
all on compression of place and time. Now an easier way toward this
was open through the more descriptive sketch of local manners. To
realise the genius of a place is a single aim; to keep the tale on
the one spot is almost a necessity; to keep it within a brief time by
focusing on one significant situation is a further counsel of unity
which, though it had not occurred to American writers often, could not
be long delayed. Thus, before 1835, Albert Pike had so far focused
his picturesque incidents of New Mexico as to burn an impression of
that colored frontier life; and James Hall, in spite of the bungling,
unnecessary time-lapse, had so turned his _French Village_ (1829) as to
give a single picture of French colonial manners.

Hawthorne, indeed, had gone further. His affecting _Wives of the
Dead_ (1832) is brought within the compass of a single night. If
the significance of this experiment was clear to Hawthorne, then he
must have abandoned deliberately what Poe seized as vital; for he
recurred to the method but now and then. The trend of his work is
quite different. But there is room to believe that the significance
of the form escaped him; for as to literary method, as to form,
Hawthorne seems not to see much farther than the forgotten writers
whose tales stand beside his in the annuals. An obvious defect of these
short fictions is in measure. The writers do not distinguish between
what will make a good thirty-page story and what will make a good
three-hundred-page story. They cannot gauge their material. Austin’s
_Peter Rugg_ is too long for its best effect; it is definitely a
short-story plot. Many of the others are far too short for any clear
effect; they are definitely not short-story plots, but novel plots;
they demand development of character or revolution of incidents.
Aristotle’s distinction between simple and complex plots[17] underlies
the difference between the two modern forms. Now even Hawthorne
seems not quite aware of this difference. The conception of _Roger
Malvin’s Burial_ (1832) demands more development of character than is
possible within its twenty-eight pages. The sense of artistic unity
appears in the expiation at the scene of guilt; but the deficiency
of form also appears in the long time-lapse. _Alice Doane’s Appeal_
(1835) is the hint of a tragedy, a conception not far below that of
the _Scarlet Letter_. For lack of scope the tragic import is obscured
by trivial description; it cannot emerge from the awkward mechanism
of a tale within a tale; it remains partial, not entire. Like _Alice
Doane_, _Ethan Brand_ is conceived as the culmination of a novel.
To say that either might have taken form as a short story is not to
belittle Hawthorne’s art, but to indicate his preference of method.
_Ethan Brand_ achieves a picturesqueness more vivid than is usual in
Hawthorne’s shorter pieces. The action begins, as in Hawthorne it does
not often begin, at once. The narrative skill appears in the delicate
and thoroughly characteristic device of the little boy; but imagine the
increase of purely narrative interest if Hawthorne had focused this
tale as he focused _The White Old Maid_; and then imagine _The White
Old Maid_ itself composed without the superfluous lapse of time, like
_The Wives of the Dead_. That Hawthorne seems not to have realised
distinctly the proper scope of the short story, and further that he did
not follow its typical mode when that mode seems most apt,--both these
inferences are supported by the whole trend of his habit.

For Hawthorne’s genius was not bent in the direction of narrative form.
Much of his characteristic work is rather descriptive,--_Sunday at
Home_, _Sights from a Steeple_, _Main Street_, _The Village Uncle_,--to
turn over the leaves of his collections is to be reminded how many of
his short pieces are like these.[18] Again, his habitual symbolism is
handled quite unevenly, without narrative sureness. At its best it
has a fine, permeating suggestiveness, as in _The Ambitious Guest_;
at its worst, as in _Fancy’s Show Box_, it is moral allegory hardly
above the children’s page of the religious weekly journal. Lying
between these two extremes, a great bulk of his short fictions shows
imperfect command of narrative adjustments. The delicate symbolism of
_David Swan_ is introduced, like fifty pieces in the annuals, whose
authors were incapable of Hawthorne’s fancy, by formal exposition of
the meaning. The poetry of the _Snow Image_ is crudely embodied, and
has also to be expounded after the tale is done. The lovely morality
of the _Great Stone Face_ has a form almost as for a sermon. The
point for consideration is not the ultimate merit of Hawthorne’s
tales, but simply the tendency of their habit of form. For this view
it is important to remember also his bent toward essay. Description
and essay, separately and together, sum up the character of much of
his work that was evidently most spontaneous. Perhaps nothing that
Hawthorne wrote is finer or more masterly than the introduction to the
_Scarlet Letter_. For this one masterpiece who would not give volumes
of formally perfect short stories? Yet if it is characteristic of his
genius,--and few would deny that it is,--it suggests strongly why the
development of a new form of narrative was not for him. This habit of
mind explains why the _Marble Faun_, for all the beauty of its parts,
fails to hold the impulse of its highly imaginative conception in
singleness of artistic form. In his other long pieces Hawthorne did not
so fail. The form of the novel he felt; and it gave him room for that
discursiveness which is equally natural to him and delightful to his
readers. But the form of the short story, though he achieved it now
and again--as often in his early work as in his later--he seems not
to have felt distinctly. And, whether he felt it or not, his bent and
preference were not to carry it forward.



