
For a long time blithe and fragile Miss Eunice, demure, correct in
deportment, and yet not wholly without enthusiasm, thought that day
the unluckiest in her life on which she first took into her hands that
unobtrusive yet dramatic book, “Miss Crofutt’s Missionary Labors in the
English Prisons.”

It came to her notice by mere accident, not by favor of proselyting
friends; and such was its singular material, that she at once
devoured it with avidity. As its title suggests, it was the history
of the ameliorating endeavors of a woman in criminal society, and it
contained, perforce, a large amount of tragic and pathetic incident.
But this last was so blended and involved with what Miss Eunice would
have skipped as commonplace, that she was led to digest the whole
volume,--statistics, philosophy, comments, and all. She studied the
analysis of the atmosphere of cells, the properties and waste of
wheaten flour, the cost of clothing to the general government, the whys
and wherefores of crime and evil-doing; and it was not long before
there was generated within her bosom a fine and healthy ardor to
emulate this practical and courageous pattern.

She was profoundly moved by the tales of missionary labors proper.
She was filled with joy to read that Miss Crofutt and her lieutenants
sometimes cracked and broke away the formidable husks which enveloped
divine kernels in the hearts of some of the wretches, and she
frequently wept at the stories of victories gained over monsters whose
defences of silence and stolidity had suddenly fallen into ruin above
the slow but persistent sapping of constant kindness. Acute tinglings
and chilling thrills would pervade her entire body when she read that
on Christmas every wretch seemed to become for that day, at least, a
gracious man; that the sight of a few penny tapers, or the possession
of a handful of sweet stuff, or a spray of holly, or a hot-house bloom,
would appear to convert the worst of them into children. Her heart
would swell to learn how they acted during the one poor hour of yearly
freedom in the prison-yards; that they swelled their chests; that they
ran; that they took long strides; that the singers anxiously tried
their voices, now grown husky; that the athletes wrestled only to find
their limbs stiff and their arts forgotten; that the gentlest of them
lifted their faces to the broad sky and spent the sixty minutes in a
dreadful gazing at the clouds.

The pretty student gradually became possessed with a rage. She desired
to convert some one, to recover some estray, to reform some wretch.

She regretted that she lived in America, and not in England, where the
most perfect rascals were to be found; she was sorry that the gloomy,
sin-saturated prisons which were the scenes of Miss Crofutt’s labors
must always be beyond her ken.

There was no crime in the family or the neighborhood against which she
might strive; no one whom she knew was even austere; she had never met
a brute; all her rascals were newspaper rascals. For aught she knew,
this tranquillity and good-will might go on forever, without affording
her an opportunity. She must be denied the smallest contact with these
frightful faces and figures, these bars and cages, these deformities
of the mind and heart, these curiosities of conscience, shyness,
skill, and daring; all these dramas of reclamation, all these scenes
of fervent gratitude, thankfulness, and intoxicating liberty,--all or
any of these things must never come to be the lot of her eyes; and she
gave herself up to the most poignant regret.

But one day she was astonished to discover that all of these delights
lay within half an hour’s journey of her home; and moreover, that
there was approaching an hour which was annually set apart for the
indulgence of the inmates of the prison in question. She did not stop
to ask herself, as she might well have done, how it was that she had so
completely ignored this particular institution, which was one of the
largest and best conducted in the country, especially when her desire
to visit one was so keen; but she straightway set about preparing for
her intended visit in a manner which she fancied Miss Crofutt would
have approved, had she been present.

She resolved, in the most radical sense of the word, to be
alive. She jotted on some ivory tablets, with a gold pencil, a
number of hints to assist her in her observations. For example:
“Phrenological development; size of cells; ounces of solid and
liquid; tissue-producing food; were mirrors allowed? if so, what
was the effect? jimmy and skeleton-key, character of; canary birds:
query, would not their admission into every cell animate in the human
prisoners a similar buoyancy? to urge upon the turnkeys the use of the
Spanish garrote in place of the present distressing gallows; to find
the proportion of Orthodox and Unitarian prisoners to those of other
persuasions.” But besides these and fifty other similar memoranda, the
enthusiast cast about her for something practical to do.

She hit upon the capital idea of flowers. She at once ordered from a
gardener of taste two hundred bouquets, or rather nosegays, which she
intended for distribution among the prisoners she was about to visit,
and she called upon her father for the money.

Then she began to prepare her mind. She wished to define the plan from
which she was to make her contemplations. She settled that she would be
grave and gentle. She would be exquisitely careful not to hold herself
too much aloof, and yet not to step beyond the bounds of that sweet
reserve that she conceived must have been at once Miss Crofutt’s sword
and buckler.

Her object was to awaken in the most abandoned criminals a realization
that the world, in its most benignant phase, was still open to them;
that society, having obtained a requital for their wickedness, was
ready to embrace them again on proof of their repentance.

She determined to select at the outset two or three of the most
remarkable monsters, and turn the full head of her persuasions
exclusively upon them, instead of sprinkling (as it were) the whole
community with her grace. She would arouse at first a very few, and
then a few more, and a few more, and so on _ad infinitum_.

It was on a hot July morning that she journeyed on foot over the bridge
which led to the prison, and there walked a man behind her carrying the
flowers.

Her eyes were cast down, this being the position most significant of
her spirit. Her pace was equal, firm, and rapid; she made herself
oblivious of the bustle of the streets, and she repented that her
vanity had permitted her to wear white and lavender, these making a
combination in her dress which she had been told became her well. She
had no right to embellish herself. Was she going to the races, or a
match, or a kettle-drum, that she must dandify herself with particular
shades of color? She stopped short, blushing. Would Miss Cro----.
But there was no help for it now. It was too late to turn back. She
proceeded, feeling that the odds were against her.

She approached her destination in such a way that the prison came into
view suddenly. She paused with a feeling of terror. The enormous gray
building rose far above a lofty white wall of stone, and a sense of
its prodigious strength and awful gloom overwhelmed her. On the top of
the wall, holding by an iron railing, there stood a man with a rifle
trailing behind him. He was looking down into the yard inside. His
attitude of watchfulness, his weapon, the unseen thing that was being
thus fiercely guarded, provoked in her such a revulsion that she came
to a standstill.

What in the name of mercy had she come here for? She began to tremble.
The man with the flowers came up to her and halted. From the prison
there came at this instant the loud clang of a bell, and succeeding
this a prolonged and resonant murmur which seemed to increase. Miss
Eunice looked hastily around her. There were several people who must
have heard the same sounds that reached her ears, but they were not
alarmed. In fact, one or two of them seemed to be going to the prison
direct. The courage of our philanthropist began to revive. A woman in a
brick house opposite suddenly pulled up a window-curtain and fixed an
amused and inquisitive look upon her.

This would have sent her into a thrice-heated furnace. “Come, if you
please,” she commanded the man, and she marched upon the jail.

She entered at first a series of neat offices in a wing of the
structure, and then she came to a small door made of black bars of
iron. A man stood on the farther side of this, with a bunch of large
keys. When he saw Miss Eunice he unlocked and opened the door, and she
passed through.

She found that she had entered a vast, cool, and lofty cage, one
hundred feet in diameter; it had an iron floor, and there were several
people strolling about here and there. Through several grated apertures
the sunlight streamed with strong effect, and a soft breeze swept
around the cavernous apartment.

Without the cage, before her and on either hand, were three more wings
of the building, and in these were the prisoners’ corridors.

At the moment she entered, the men were leaving their cells, and
mounting the stone stairs in regular order, on their way to the
chapel above. The noisy files went up and down and to the right and
to the left, shuffling and scraping and making a great tumult. The
men were dressed in blue, and were seen indistinctly through the
lofty gratings. From above and below and all around her there came
the metallic snapping of bolts and the rattle of moving bars; and so
significant was everything of savage repression and impending violence,
that Miss Eunice was compelled to say faintly to herself, “I am afraid
it will take a little time to get used to all this.”

She rested upon one of the seats in the rotunda while the chapel
services were being conducted, and she thus had an opportunity to
regain a portion of her lost heart. She felt wonderfully dwarfed and
belittled, and her plan of recovering souls had, in some way or other,
lost much of its feasibility. A glance at her bright flowers revived
her a little, as did also a surprising, long-drawn roar from over her
head, to the tune of “America.” The prisoners were singing.

Miss Eunice was not alone in her intended work, for there were several
other ladies, also with supplies of flowers, who with her awaited until
the prisoners should descend into the yard and be let loose before
presenting them with what they had brought. Their common purpose made
them acquainted, and by the aid of chat and sympathy they fortified
each other.

Half an hour later the five hundred men descended from the chapel to
the yard, rushing out upon its bare broad surface as you have seen a
burst of water suddenly irrigate a road-bed. A hoarse and tremendous
shout at once filled the air, and echoed against the walls like the
threat of a volcano. Some of the wretches waltzed and spun around like
dervishes, some threw somersaults, some folded their arms gravely and
marched up and down, some fraternized, some walked away pondering, some
took off their tall caps and sat down in the shade, some looked towards
the rotunda with expectation, and there were those who looked towards
it with contempt.

There led from the rotunda to the yard a flight of steps. Miss Eunice
descended these steps with a quaking heart, and a turnkey shouted to
the prisoners over her head that she and others had flowers for them.

No sooner had the words left his lips, than the men rushed up pell-mell.

This was a crucial moment.

There thronged upon Miss Eunice an army of men who were being punished
for all the crimes in the calendar. Each individual here had been caged
because he was either a highwayman, or a forger, or a burglar, or a
ruffian, or a thief, or a murderer. The unclean and frightful tide
bore down upon our terrified missionary, shrieking and whooping. Every
prisoner thrust out his hand over the head of the one in front of him,
and the foremost plucked at her dress.

She had need of courage. A sense of danger and contamination impelled
her to fly, but a gleam of reason in the midst of her distraction
enabled her to stand her ground. She forced herself to smile, though
she knew her face had grown pale.

She placed a bunch of flowers into an immense hand which projected from
a coarse blue sleeve in front of her; the owner of the hand was pushed
away so quickly by those who came after him that Miss Eunice failed to
see his face. Her tortured ear caught a rough “Thank y’, miss!” The
spirit of Miss Crofutt revived in a flash, and her disciple thereafter
possessed no lack of nerve.

She plied the crowd with flowers as long as they lasted, and a jaunty
self-possession enabled her finally to gaze without flinching at the
mass of depraved and wicked faces with which she was surrounded.
Instead of retaining her position upon the steps, she gradually
descended into the yard, as did several other visitors. She began to
feel at home; she found her tongue, and her color came back again. She
felt a warm pride in noticing with what care and respect the prisoners
treated her gifts; they carried them about with great tenderness, and
some compared them with those of their friends.

Presently she began to recall her plans. It occurred to her to select
her two or three villains. For one, she immediately pitched upon a
lean-faced wretch in front of her. He seemed to be old, for his back
was bent and he leaned upon a cane. His features were large, and
they bore an expression of profound gloom. His head was sunk upon
his breast, his lofty conical cap was pulled over his ears, and his
shapeless uniform seemed to weigh him down, so infirm was he.

Miss Eunice spoke to him. He did not hear; she spoke again. He glanced
at her like a flash, but without moving; this was at once followed by
a scrutinizing look. He raised his head, and then he turned toward her
gravely.

The solemnity of his demeanor nearly threw Miss Eunice off her balance,
but she mastered herself by beginning to talk rapidly. The prisoner
leaned over a little to hear better. Another came up, and two or three
turned around to look. She bethought herself of an incident related
in Miss Crofutt’s book, and she essayed its recital. It concerned a
lawyer who was once pleading in a French criminal court in behalf
of a man whose crime had been committed under the influence of dire
want. In his plea he described the case of another whom he knew who
had been punished with a just but short imprisonment instead of a long
one, which the judge had been at liberty to impose, but from which he
humanely refrained. Miss Eunice happily remembered the words of the
lawyer: “That man suffered like the wrong-doer that he was. He knew his
punishment was just. Therefore there lived perpetually in his breast an
impulse toward a better life which was not suppressed and stifled by
the five years he passed within the walls of the jail. He came forth
and began to labor. He toiled hard. He struggled against averted faces
and cold words, and he began to rise. He secreted nothing, faltered at
nothing, and never stumbled. He succeeded; men took off their hats to
him once more; he became wealthy, honorable, God-fearing. I, gentlemen,
am that man, that criminal.” As she quoted this last declaration, Miss
Eunice erected herself with burning eyes and touched herself proudly
upon the breast. A flush crept into her cheeks, and her nostrils
dilated, and she grew tall.

She came back to earth again, and found herself surrounded with the
prisoners. She was a little startled.

“Ah, that was good!” ejaculated the old man upon whom she had fixed her
eyes. Miss Eunice felt an inexpressible sense of delight.

Murmurs of approbation came from all of her listeners, especially from
one on her right hand. She looked around at him pleasantly.

But the smile faded from her lips on beholding him. He was extremely
tall and very powerful. He overshadowed her. His face was large,
ugly, and forbidding; his gray hair and beard were cropped close, his
eyebrows met at the bridge of his nose and overhung his large eyes like
a screen. His lips were very wide, and, being turned downwards at the
corners, they gave him a dolorous expression. His lower jaw was square
and protruding, and a pair of prodigious white ears projected from
beneath his sugar-loaf cap. He seemed to take his cue from the old man,
for he repeated his sentiment.

“Yes,” said he, with a voice which broke alternately into a roar and a
whisper, “that was a good story.”

“Y-yes,” faltered Miss Eunice, “and it has the merit of being t-rue.”

He replied with a nod, and looked absently over her head while he
rubbed the nap upon his chin with his hand. Miss Eunice discovered that
his knee touched the skirt of her dress, and she was about to move in
order to destroy this contact, when she remembered that Miss Crofutt
would probably have cherished the accident as a promoter of a valuable
personal influence, so she allowed it to remain. The lean-faced man was
not to be mentioned in the same breath with this one, therefore she
adopted the superior villain out of hand.

She began to approach him. She asked him where he lived, meaning to
discover whence he had come. He replied in the same mixture of roar
and whisper, “Six undered un one, North Wing.”

Miss Eunice grew scarlet. Presently she recovered sufficiently to
pursue some inquiries respecting the rules and customs of the prison.
She did not feel that she was interesting her friend, yet it seemed
clear that he did not wish to go away. His answers were curt, yet he
swept his cap off his head, implying by the act a certain reverence,
which Miss Eunice’s vanity permitted her to exult at. Therefore she
became more loquacious than ever. Some men came up to speak with the
prisoner, but he shook them off, and remained in an attitude of strict
attention, with his chin on his hand, looking now at the sky, now at
the ground, and now at Miss Eunice.

In handling the flowers her gloves had been stained, and she now
held them in her fingers, nervously twisting them as she talked. In
the course of time she grew short of subjects, and, as her listener
suggested nothing, several lapses occurred; in one of them she absently
spread her gloves out in her palms, meanwhile wondering how the English
girl acted under similar circumstances.

Suddenly a large hand slowly interposed itself between her eyes and her
gloves, and then withdrew, taking one of the soiled trifles with it.

She was surprised, but the surprise was pleasurable. She said nothing
at first. The prisoner gravely spread his prize out upon his own palm,
and after looking at it carefully, he rolled it up into a tight ball
and thrust it deep in an inner pocket.

This act made the philanthropist aware that she had made progress. She
rose insensibly to the elevation of patron, and she made promises to
come frequently and visit her ward and to look in upon him when he was
at work; while saying this she withdrew a little from the shade his
huge figure had supplied her with.

He thrust his hands into his pockets, but he hastily took them out
again. Still he said nothing and hung his head. It was while she was
in the mood of a conqueror that Miss Eunice went away. She felt a touch
of repugnance at stepping from before his eyes a free woman, therefore
she took pains to go when she thought he was not looking.

She pointed him out to a turnkey, who told her he was expiating the
sins of assault and burglarious entry. Outwardly Miss Eunice looked
grieved, but within she exulted that he was so emphatically a rascal.

When she emerged from the cool, shadowy, and frowning prison into the
gay sunlight, she experienced a sense of bewilderment. The significance
of a lock and a bar seemed greater on quitting them than it had when
she had perceived them first. The drama of imprisonment and punishment
oppressed her spirit with tenfold gloom now that she gazed upon the
brilliancy and freedom of the outer world. That she and everybody
around her were permitted to walk here and there at will, without
question and limit, generated within her an indefinite feeling of
gratitude; and the noise, the colors, the creaking wagons, the myriad
voices, the splendid variety and change of all things excited a
profound but at the same time a mournful satisfaction.

Midway in her return journey she was shrieked at from a carriage, which
at once approached the sidewalk. Within it were four gay maidens bound
to the Navy-Yard, from whence they were to sail, with a large party of
people of nice assortment, in an experimental steamer, which was to be
made to go with kerosene lamps, in some way. They seized upon her hands
and cajoled her. Wouldn’t she go? They were to sail down among the
islands (provided the oil made the wheels and things go round), they
were to lunch at Fort Warren, dine at Fort Independence, and dance at
Fort Winthrop. Come, please go. Oh, do! The Germanians were to furnish
the music.

Miss Eunice sighed, but shook her head. She had not yet got the air of
the prison out of her lungs, nor the figure of her robber out of her
eyes, nor the sense of horror and repulsion out of her sympathies.

At another time she would have gone to the ends of the earth with such
a happy crew, but now she only shook her head again and was resolute.
No one could wring a reason from her, and the wondering quartet drove
away.

