
Before the day went, Miss Eunice awoke to the disagreeable fact that
her plans had become shrunken and contracted, that a certain something
had curdled her spontaneity, and that her ardor had flown out at some
crevice and had left her with the dry husk of an intent.

She exerted herself to glow a little, but she failed. She talked
well at the tea-table, but she did not tell about the glove. This
matter plagued her. She ran over in her mind the various doings of
Miss Crofutt, and she could not conceal from herself that that lady
had never given a glove to one of her wretches; no, nor had she ever
permitted the smallest approach to familiarity.

Miss Eunice wept a little. She was on the eve of despairing.

In the silence of the night the idea presented itself to her with a
disagreeable baldness. There was a thief over yonder that possessed a
confidence with her.

They had found it necessary to shut this man up in iron and stone, and
to guard him with a rifle with a large leaden ball in it.

This villain was a convict. That was a terrible word, one that made her
blood chill.

She, the admired of hundreds and the beloved of a family, had done a
secret and shameful thing of which she dared not tell. In these solemn
hours the madness of her act appalled her.

She asked herself what might not the fellow do with the glove? Surely
he would exhibit it among his brutal companions, and perhaps allow it
to pass to and fro among them. They would laugh and joke with him, and
he would laugh and joke in return, and no doubt he would kiss it to
their great delight. Again, he might go to her friends, and, by working
upon their fears and by threatening an exposure of her, extort large
sums of money from them. Again, might he not harass her by constantly
appearing to her at all times and all places and making all sorts of
claims and demands? Again, might he not, with terrible ingenuity,
use it in connection with some false key or some jack-in-the-box,
or some dark-lantern, or something, in order to effect his escape;
or might he not tell the story times without count to some wretched
curiosity-hunters who would advertise her folly all over the country,
to her perpetual misery?

She became harnessed to this train of thought. She could not escape
from it. She reversed the relation that she had hoped to hold toward
such a man, and she stood in his shadow, and not he in hers.

In consequence of these ever-present fears and sensations, there
was one day, not very far in the future, that she came to have an
intolerable dread of. This day was the one on which the sentence of the
man was to expire. She felt that he would surely search for her; and
that he would find her there could be no manner of doubt, for, in her
surplus of confidence, she had told him her full name, inasmuch as he
had told her his.

When she contemplated this new source of terror, her peace of mind
fled directly. So did her plans for philanthropic labor. Not a shred
remained. The anxiety began to tell upon her, and she took to peering
out of a certain shaded window that commanded the square in front of
her house. It was not long before she remembered that for good behavior
certain days were deducted from the convicts’ terms of imprisonment.
Therefore, her ruffian might be released at a moment not anticipated by
her. He might, in fact, be discharged on any day. He might be on his
way towards her even now.

She was not very far from right, for suddenly the man did appear.

He one day turned the corner, as she was looking out at the window
fearing that she should see him, and came in a diagonal direction
across the hot, flagged square.

Miss Eunice’s pulse leaped into the hundreds. She glued her eyes upon
him. There was no mistake. There was the red face, the evil eyes, the
large mouth, the gray hair, and the massive frame.

What should she do? Should she hide? Should she raise the sash and
shriek to the police? Should she arm herself with a knife? or--what?
In the name of mercy, what? She glared into the street. He came on
steadily, and she lost him, for he passed beneath her. In a moment she
heard the jangle of the bell. She was petrified. She heard his heavy
step below. He had gone into the little reception room beside the door.
He crossed to a sofa opposite the mantel. She then heard him get up and
go to a window, then he walked about, and then sat down; probably upon
a red leather seat beside the window.

Meanwhile the servant was coming to announce him. From some impulse,
which was a strange and sudden one, she eluded the maid, and rushed
headlong upon her danger. She never remembered her descent of the
stairs. She awoke to cool contemplation of matters only to find herself
entering the room.

Had she made a mistake, after all? It was a question that was asked and
answered in a flash. This man was pretty erect and self-assured, but
she discerned in an instant that there was needed but the blue woollen
jacket and the tall cap to make him the wretch of a month before.

He said nothing. Neither did she. He stood up and occupied himself
by twisting a button upon his waistcoat. She, fearing a threat or a
demand, stood bridling to receive it. She looked at him from top to toe
with parted lips.

He glanced at her. She stepped back. He put the rim of his cap in his
mouth and bit it once or twice, and then looked out at the window.
Still neither spoke. A voice at this instant seemed impossible.

He glanced again like a flash. She shrank, and put her hands upon the
bolt. Presently he began to stir. He put out one foot, and gradually
moved forward. He made another step. He was going away. He had almost
reached the door, when Miss Eunice articulated, in a confused whisper,
“My--my glove; I wish you would give me my glove.”

He stopped, fixed his eyes upon her, and after passing his fingers up
and down upon the outside of his coat, said, with deliberation, in a
husky voice, “No, mum. I’m goin’ fur to keep it as long as I live, if
it takes two thousand years.”

“Keep it!” she stammered.

“Keep it,” he replied.

He gave her an untranslatable look. It neither frightened her nor
permitted her to demand the glove more emphatically. She felt her
cheeks and temples and her hands grow cold, and midway in the process
of fainting she saw him disappear. He vanquished quietly. Deliberation
and respect characterized his movements, and there was not so much as a
jar of the outer door.

Poor philanthropist!

This incident nearly sent her to a sick-bed. She fully expected that
her secret would appear in the newspapers in full, and she lived in
dread of the onslaught of an angry and outraged society.

The more she reflected upon what her possibilities had been and how
she had misused them, the iller and the more distressed she got. She
grew thin and spare of flesh. Her friends became frightened. They began
to dose her and to coddle her. She looked at them with eyes full of
supreme melancholy, and she frequently wept upon their shoulders.

In spite of her precautions, however, a thunderbolt slipped in.

One day her father read at the table an item that met his eye. He
repeated it aloud, on account of the peculiar statement in the last
line:--

“Detained on suspicion.--A rough-looking fellow, who gave the name
of Gorman, was arrested on the high-road to Tuxbridge Springs for
suspected complicity in some recent robberies in the neighborhood.
He was fortunately able to give a pretty clear account of his late
whereabouts, and he was permitted to depart with a caution from the
justice. Nothing was found upon him but a few coppers and an old kid
glove wrapped in a bit of paper.”

Miss Eunice’s soup spilled. This was too much, and she fainted this
time in right good earnest; and she straightway became an invalid of
the settled type. They put her to bed. The doctor told her plainly that
he knew she had a secret, but she looked at him so imploringly that he
refrained from telling his fancies; but he ordered an immediate change
of air. It was settled at once that she should go to the “Springs”--to
Tuxbridge Springs. The doctor knew there were young people there, also
plenty of dancing. So she journeyed thither with her pa and her ma and
with pillows and servants.

They were shown to their rooms, and strong porters followed with the
luggage. One of them had her huge trunk upon his shoulder. He put it
carefully upon the floor, and by so doing he disclosed the ex-prisoner
to Miss Eunice and Miss Eunice to himself. He was astonished, but
he remained silent. But she must needs be frightened and fall into
another fit of trembling. After an awkward moment he went away, while
she called to her father and begged piteously to be taken away from
Tuxbridge Springs instantly. There was no appeal. She hated, _hated_,
HATED Tuxbridge Springs, and she should die if she were forced to
remain. She rained tears. She would give no reason, but she could not
stay. No, millions on millions could not persuade her; go she must.
There was no alternative. The party quitted the place within the hour,
bag and baggage. Miss Eunice’s father was perplexed and angry, and her
mother would have been angry also if she had dared.

They went to other springs and stayed a month, but the patient’s fright
increased each day, and so did her fever. She was full of distractions.
In her dreams everybody laughed at her as the one who had flirted with
a convict. She would ever be pursued with the tale of her foolishness
and stupidity. Should she ever recover her self-respect and confidence?

She had become radically selfish. She forgot the old ideas of
noble-heartedness and self-denial, and her temper had become weak and
childish. She did not meet her puzzle face to face, but she ran away
from it with her hands over her ears. Miss Crofutt stared at her, and
therefore she threw Miss Crofutt’s book into the fire.

After two days of unceasing debate, she called her parents, and with
the greatest agitation told them _all_.

It so happened, in this case, that events, to use a railroad phrase,
made connection.

No sooner had Miss Eunice told her story than the man came again. This
time he was accompanied by a woman.

“Only get my glove away from him,” sobbed the unhappy one, “that is all
I ask!” This was a fine admission! It was thought proper to bring an
officer, and so a strong one was sent for.

Meanwhile the couple had been admitted to the parlor. Miss Eunice’s
father stationed the officer at one door, while he, with a pistol,
stood at the other. Then Miss Eunice went into the apartment. She
was wasted, weak, and nervous. The two villains got up as she came
in, and bowed. She began to tremble as usual, and laid hold upon the
mantelpiece. “How much do you want?” she gasped.

The man gave the woman a push with his forefinger. She stepped forward
quickly with her crest up. Her eyes turned, and she fixed a vixenish
look upon Miss Eunice. She suddenly shot her hand out from beneath her
shawl and extended it at full length. Across it lay Miss Eunice’s
glove, very much soiled.

“Was that thing ever yours?” demanded the woman, shrilly.

“Y-yes,” said Miss Eunice, faintly.

The woman seemed (if the apt word is to be excused) staggered. She
withdrew her hand, and looked the glove over. The man shook his head,
and began to laugh behind his hat.

“And did you ever give it to him?” pursued the woman, pointing over her
shoulder with her thumb.

Miss Eunice nodded.

“Of your own free will?”

After a moment of silence she ejaculated, in a whisper, “Yes.”

“Now wait,” said the man, coming to the front; “’nough has been said by
you.” He then addressed himself to Miss Eunice with the remains of his
laugh still illuminating his face.

“This is my wife’s sister, and she’s one of the jealous kind. I love
my wife” (here he became grave), “and I never showed her any kind of
slight that I know of. I’ve always been fair to her, and she’s always
been fair to me. Plain sailin’ so far; I never kep’ anything from
her--but this.” He reached out and took the glove from the woman, and
spread it out upon his own palm, as Miss Eunice had seen him do once
before. He looked at it thoughtfully. “I wouldn’t tell her about this;
no, never. She was never very particular to ask me; that’s where her
trust in me came in. She knowed I was above doing anything out of the
way--that is--I mean--” He stammered and blushed, and then rushed on
volubly. “But her sister here thought I paid too much attention to
it; she thought I looked at it too much, and kep’ it secret. So she
nagged and nagged, and kept the pitch boilin’ until I had to let it
out: I told ’em” (Miss Eunice shivered). “‘No,’ says she, my wife’s
sister, ‘that won’t do, Gorman. That’s chaff, and I’m too old a bird.’
Ther’fore I fetched her straight to you, so she could put the question
direct.”

He stopped a moment as if in doubt how to go on. Miss Eunice began
to open her eyes, and she released the mantel. The man resumed with
something like impressiveness:

“When you last held that,” said he, slowly, balancing the glove in his
hand, “I was a wicked man with bad intentions through and through. When
I first held it I became an honest man, with good intentions.”

A burning blush of shame covered Miss Eunice’s face and neck.

“An’ as I kep’ it my intentions went on improvin’ and improvin’,
till I made up my mind to behave myself in future, forever. Do you
understand?--forever. No backslidin’, no hitchin’, no slippin’-up. I
take occasion to say, miss, that I was beset time and again; that the
instant I set my foot outside them prison-gates, over there, my old
chums got round me; but I shook my head. ‘No,’ says I, ‘I won’t go back
on the glove.’”

Miss Eunice hung her head. The two had exchanged places, she thought;
she was the criminal and he the judge.

“An’ what is more,” continued he, with the same weight in his tone,
“I not only kep’ sight of the glove, but I kep’ sight of the generous
sperrit that gave it. I didn’t let _that_ go. I never forgot what you
meant. I knowed--I knowed,” repeated he, lifting his forefinger,--“I
knowed a time would come when there wouldn’t be any enthoosiasm, any
‘hurrah,’ and then perhaps you’d be sorry you was so kind to me; an’
the time did come.”

Miss Eunice buried her face in her hands and wept aloud.

“But did I quit the glove? No, mum. I held on to it. It was what I
fought by. I wasn’t going to give it up, because it was asked for.
All the police-officers in the city couldn’t have took it from me. I
put it deep into my pocket and I walked out. It was differcult, miss.
But I come through. The glove did it. It helped me stand out against
temptation when it was strong. If I looked at it, I remembered that
once there was a pure heart that pitied me. It cheered me up. After a
while I kinder got out of the mud. Then I got work. The glove again.
Then a girl that knowed me before I took to bad ways married me, and
no questions asked. Then I just took the glove into a dark corner and
blessed it.”

Miss Eunice was belittled.

A noise was heard in the hall-way. Miss Eunice’s father and the
policeman were going away.

The awkwardness of the succeeding silence was relieved by the moving of
the man and the woman. They had done their errand, and were going.

Said Miss Eunice, with the faint idea of making a practical apology to
her visitor, “I shall go to the prison once a week after this, I think.”

“Then may God bless ye, miss,” said the man. He came back with tears in
his eyes and took her proffered hand for an instant. Then he and his
wife’s sister went away.

Miss Eunice’s remaining spark of charity at once crackled and burst
into a flame. There is sure to be a little something that is bad in
everybody’s philanthropy when it is first put to use; it requires to be
filed down like a faulty casting before it will run without danger to
anybody. Samaritanism that goes off with half a charge is sure to do
great mischief somewhere; but Miss Eunice’s, now properly corrected,
henceforth shot off at the proper end, and inevitably hit the mark. She
purchased a new Crofutt.




BAYARD TAYLOR

1825–1878


Bayard Taylor, in the ’60’s and ’70’s, was among the best known of our
men of letters. Typical American in enterprise and resource, he gave
most of his life to foreign lands and letters. _Views Afoot_ (1846),
which has sent across the Atlantic hundreds of young Americans like him
in large ambition and small purse, was the first of a series extending
through his life. For a really Viking spirit of travel urged him over
the habitable globe, from Africa to Iceland, from California to Japan.
The store of observations first made newspaper correspondence. His
profession was journalism. Some of the material was subsequently cast
in lectures; most of it appeared finally in books. Thus his trip across
the world (1851–1853) to join Perry furnished, first, copy for the New
York “Tribune,” then many popular lectures, and finally _The Lands of
the Saracen_ (1854) and _A Visit to India, China and Japan_ (1855). His
wide knowledge of foreign societies and his intimate acquaintance with
Germany brought him naturally into public life as minister to Berlin
(1877–1878).

Admirable journalist, Taylor was not content with journalism. In 1863
at Gotha, where he had found a wife in 1857, he was deep in the study
of Goethe. From 1868–1870, after intervening travels, he gave himself
to the translation of “Faust.” Lecturing then at Cornell as Professor
of German Literature, he went back to Germany to pursue Goethe
still further at Weimar. So his knowledge of Scandinavia was of the
literature as well as of the land.

His great ambition, and doubtless his measure of success, was poetry.
From his youthful ventures in Philadelphia almost to the day of his
death he published verse; and the recognition of the public appears
in the choice of him to read the Harvard Φ Β Κ poem in 1850 and the
National Ode at the Centennial Exposition of 1876. Since his death
this part of his work has been so far slighted that there is some
need of recalling his consistently high aim and the technical mastery
evinced by performances so widely different as the delicious parodies
of _The Echo Club_ and the noble rendering of “Faust.” No criticism of
Taylor as a poet should obscure the fact that his “Faust” takes rank
with the few great verse translations.

Taylor’s versatility achieved also a lesser, but still a considerable,
success in novels and tales. The interest aroused by the lively opening
of _Who Was She?_ is sustained with no little art. Perhaps the import
would be more poignant if it were less dangerously near to abstract
proposition; but it is very human.




WHO WAS SHE?

    [_From the “Atlantic Monthly” September, 1874_]


Come, now, there may as well be an end of this! Every time I meet your
eyes squarely, I detect the question just slipping out of them. If
you had spoken it, or even boldly looked it; if you had shown in your
motions the least sign of a fussy or fidgety concern on my account;
if this were not the evening of my birthday, and you the only friend
who remembered it; if confession were not good for the soul, though
harder than sin to some people, of whom I am one,--well, if all reasons
were not at this instant converged into a focus, and burning me rather
violently, in that region where the seat of emotion is supposed to lie,
I should keep my trouble to myself.

Yes, I have fifty times had it on my mind to tell you the whole story.
But who can be certain that his best friend will not smile--or, what
is worse, cherish a kind of charitable pity ever afterwards--when
the external forms of a very serious kind of passion seem trivial,
fantastic, foolish? And the worst of all is that the heroic part which
I imagined I was playing proves to have been almost the reverse. The
only comfort which I can find in my humiliation is that I am capable of
feeling it. There isn’t a bit of a paradox in this, as you will see;
but I only mention it, now, to prepare you for, maybe, a little morbid
sensitiveness of my moral nerves.

The documents are all in this portfolio, under my elbow. I had just
read them again completely through, when you were announced. You may
examine them as you like, afterwards: for the present, fill your glass,
take another Cabaña, and keep silent until my “ghastly tale” has
reached its most lamentable conclusion.

The beginning of it was at Wampsocket Springs, three years ago last
summer. I suppose most unmarried men who have reached, or passed, the
age of thirty--and I was then thirty-three--experience a milder return
of their adolescent warmth, a kind of fainter second spring, since
the first has not fulfilled its promise. Of course, I wasn’t clearly
conscious of this at the time: who is? But I had had my youthful
passion and my tragic disappointment, as you know: I had looked far
enough into what Thackeray used to call the cryptic mysteries, to save
me from the Scylla of dissipation, and yet preserved enough of natural
nature to keep me out of the Pharisaic Charybdis. My devotion to my
legal studies had already brought me a mild distinction; the paternal
legacy was a good nest-egg for the incubation of wealth,--in short, I
was a fair, respectable “party,” desirable to the humbler mammas, and
not to be despised by the haughty exclusives.

The fashionable hotel at the Springs holds three hundred, and it
was packed. I had meant to lounge there for a fortnight and then
finish my holidays at Long Branch; but eighty, at least, out of
the three hundred, were young and moved lightly in muslin. With my
years and experience I felt so safe, that to walk, talk, or dance
with them became simply a luxury, such as I had never--at least so
freely--possessed before. My name and standing, known to some families,
were agreeably exaggerated to the others, and I enjoyed that supreme
satisfaction which a man always feels when he discovers, or imagines,
that he is popular in society. There is a kind of premonitory apology
implied in my saying this, I am aware. You must remember that I am
culprit, and culprit’s counsel, at the same time.

You have never been at Wampsocket? Well, the hills sweep around in
a crescent, on the northern side, and four or five radiating glens,
descending from them, unite just above the village. The central one,
leading to a water-fall (called “Minne-hehe” by the irreverent young
people, because there is so little of it), is the fashionable drive
and promenade; but the second ravine on the left, steep, crooked, and
cumbered with bowlders which have tumbled from somewhere and lodged in
the most extraordinary groupings, became my favorite walk of a morning.
There was a footpath in it, well-trodden at first, but gradually fading
out as it became more like a ladder than a path, and I soon discovered
that no other city feet than mine were likely to scale a certain rough
slope which seemed the end of the ravine. With the aid of the tough
laurel-stems I climbed to the top, passed through a cleft as narrow as
a doorway, and presently found myself in a little upper dell, as wild
and sweet and strange as one of the pictures that haunts us on the
brink of sleep.

There was a pond--no, rather a bowl--of water in the centre; hardly
twenty yards across, yet the sky in it was so pure and far down that
the circle of rocks and summer foliage inclosing it seemed like a
little planetary ring, floating off alone through space. I can’t
explain the charm of the spot, nor the selfishness which instantly
suggested that I should keep the discovery to myself. Ten years
earlier, I should have looked around for some fair spirit to be my
“minister,” but now--

One forenoon--I think it was the third or fourth time I had visited the
place--I was startled to find the dint of a heel in the earth, half-way
up the slope. There had been rain during the night and the earth was
still moist and soft. It was the mark of a woman’s boot, only to be
distinguished from that of a walking-stick by its semicircular form. A
little higher, I found the outline of a foot, not so small as to awake
an ecstasy, but with a suggestion of lightness, elasticity, and grace.
If hands were thrust through holes in a board-fence, and nothing of the
attached bodies seen, I can easily imagine that some would attract and
others repel us: with footprints the impression is weaker, of course,
but we cannot escape it. I am not sure whether I wanted to find the
unknown wearer of the boot within my precious personal solitude: I was
afraid I should see her, while passing through the rocky crevice, and
yet was disappointed when I found no one.

But on the flat, warm rock overhanging the tarn--my special throne--lay
some withering wild-flowers, and a book! I looked up and down, right
and left: there was not the slightest sign of another human life than
mine. Then I lay down for a quarter of an hour, and listened: there
were only the noises of bird and squirrel, as before. At last, I took
up the book, the flat breadth of which suggested only sketches. There
were, indeed, some tolerable studies of rocks and trees on the first
pages; a few not very striking caricatures, which seemed to have been
commenced as portraits, but recalled no faces I knew; then a number of
fragmentary notes, written in pencil. I found no name, from first to
last; only, under the sketches, a monogram so complicated and laborious
that the initials could hardly be discovered unless one already knew
them.

The writing was a woman’s, but it had surely taken its character
from certain features of her own: it was clear, firm, individual. It
had nothing of that air of general debility which usually marks the
manuscript of young ladies, yet its firmness was far removed from the
stiff, conventional slope which all Englishwomen seem to acquire in
youth and retain through life. I don’t see how any man in my situation
could have helped reading a few lines--if only for the sake of
restoring lost property. But I was drawn on, and on, and finished by
reading all: thence, since no further harm could be done, I re-read,
pondering over certain passages until they stayed with me. Here they
are, as I set them down, that evening, on the back of a legal blank.

“It makes a great deal of difference whether we wear social forms as
bracelets or handcuffs.”

“Can we not still be wholly our independent selves, even while doing,
in the main, as others do? I know two who are so; but they are
married.”

“The men who admire these bold, dashing young girls treat them like
weaker copies of themselves. And yet they boast of what they call
‘experience!’”

“I wonder if any one felt the exquisite beauty of the noon as I did,
to-day? A faint appreciation of sunsets and storms is taught us in
youth, and kept alive by novels and flirtations; but the broad,
imperial splendor of this summer noon!--and myself standing alone in
it,--yes, utterly alone!”

“The men I seek _must_ exist: where are they? How make an acquaintance,
when one obsequiously bows himself away, as I advance? The fault is
surely not all on my side.”

There was much more, intimate enough to inspire me with a keen interest
in the writer, yet not sufficiently so to make my perusal a painful
indiscretion. I yielded to the impulse of the moment, took out my
pencil, and wrote a dozen lines on one of the blank pages. They ran
something in this wise:--

    “IGNOTUS IGNOTÆ!--You have bestowed without intending it, and I
    have taken without your knowledge. Do not regret the accident which
    has enriched another. This concealed idyl of the hills was mine,
    as I supposed, but I acknowledge your equal right to it. Shall we
    share the possession, or will you banish me?”

There was a frank advance, tempered by a proper caution, I fancied, in
the words I wrote. It was evident that she was unmarried, but outside
of that certainty there lay a vast range of possibilities, some of them
alarming enough. However, if any nearer acquaintance should arise out
of the incident, the next step must be taken by her. Was I one of the
men she sought? I almost imagined so--certainly hoped so.

I laid the book on the rock, as I had found it, bestowed another keen
scrutiny on the lonely landscape, and then descended the ravine. That
evening, I went early to the ladies’ parlor, chatted more than usual
with the various damsels whom I knew, and watched with a new interest
those whom I knew not. My mind, involuntarily, had already created
a picture of the unknown. She might be twenty-five, I thought: a
reflective habit of mind would hardly be developed before that age.
Tall and stately, of course; distinctly proud in her bearing, and
somewhat reserved in her manners. Why she should have large dark eyes,
with long dark lashes, I could not tell; but so I seemed to see her.
Quite forgetting that I was (or had meant to be) _Ignotus_, I found
myself staring rather significantly at one or the other of the young
ladies, in whom I discovered some slight general resemblance to the
imaginary character. My fancies, I must confess, played strange pranks
with me. They had been kept in a coop so many years, that now, when
I suddenly turned them loose, their rickety attempts at flight quite
bewildered me.

No! there was no use in expecting a sudden discovery. I went to the
glen betimes, next morning: the book was gone, and so were the faded
flowers, but some of the latter were scattered over the top of another
rock, a few yards from mine. Ha! this means that I am not to withdraw,
I said to myself: she makes room for me! But how to surprise her?--for
by this time I was fully resolved to make her acquaintance, even though
she might turn out to be forty, scraggy and sandy-haired.

I knew no other way so likely as that of visiting the glen at all times
of the day. I even went so far as to write a line of greeting, with a
regret that our visits had not yet coincided, and laid it under a stone
on the top of _her_ rock. The note disappeared, but there was no answer
in its place. Then I suddenly remembered her fondness for the noon
hours, at which time she was “utterly alone.” The hotel _table d’hôte_
was at one o’clock: her family, doubtless, dined later, in their own
rooms. Why, this gave me, at least, her place in society! The question
of age, to be sure, remained unsettled; but all else was safe.

The next day I took a late and large breakfast, and sacrificed my
dinner. Before noon the guests had all straggled back to the hotel from
glen and grove and lane, so bright and hot was the sunshine. Indeed, I
could hardly have supported the reverberation of heat from the sides of
the ravine, but for a fixed belief that I should be successful. While
crossing the narrow meadow upon which it opened, I caught a glimpse of
something white among the thickets higher up. A moment later, it had
vanished, and I quickened my pace, feeling the beginning of an absurd
nervous excitement in my limbs. At the next turn, there it was again!
but only for another moment. I paused, exulting, and wiped my drenched
forehead. “She cannot escape me!” I murmured between the deep draughts
of cooler air I inhaled in the shadow of a rock.

A few hundred steps more brought me to the foot of the steep ascent,
where I had counted on overtaking her. I was too late for that, but
the dry, baked soil had surely been crumbled and dislodged, here and
there, by a rapid foot. I followed, in reckless haste, snatching at the
laurel-branches right and left, and paying little heed to my footing.
About one third of the way up I slipped, fell, caught a bush which
snapped at the root, slid, whirled over, and before I fairly knew what
had happened, I was lying doubled up at the bottom of the slope.

I rose, made two steps forward, and then sat down with a groan of
pain; my left ankle was badly sprained, in addition to various
minor scratches and bruises. There was a revulsion of feeling, of
course,--instant, complete, and hideous. I fairly hated the Unknown.
“Fool that I was!” I exclaimed, in the theatrical manner, dashing the
palm of my hand softly against my brow: “lured to this by the fair
traitress! But, no!--not fair: she shows the artfulness of faded,
desperate spinsterhood; she is all compact of enamel, ‘liquid bloom of
youth’ and hair-dye!”

There was a fierce comfort in this thought, but it couldn’t help me
out of the scrape. I dared not sit still, lest a sunstroke should
be added, and there was no resource but to hop or crawl down the
rugged path, in the hope of finding a forked sapling from which I
could extemporize a crutch. With endless pain and trouble I reached a
thicket, and was feebly working on a branch with my pen-knife, when the
sound of a heavy footstep surprised me.

A brown harvest-hand, in straw hat and shirt-sleeves, presently
appeared. He grinned when he saw me, and the thick snub of his nose
would have seemed like a sneer at any other time.

“Are you the gentleman that got hurt?” he asked. “Is it pretty
tolerable bad?”

“Who said I was hurt?” I cried, in astonishment.

“One of your town-women from the hotel--I reckon she was. I was binding
oats, in the field over the ridge; but I haven’t lost no time in comin’
here.”

While I was stupidly staring at this announcement, he whipped out a big
clasp knife, and in a few minutes fashioned me a practicable crutch.
Then, taking me by the other arm, he set me in motion towards the
village.

Grateful as I was for the man’s help, he aggravated me by his
ignorance. When I asked if he knew the lady, he answered: “It’s more’n
likely _you_ know her better.” But where did she come from? Down from
the hill, he guessed, but it might ha’ been up the road. How did she
look? was she old or young? what was the color of her eyes? of her
hair? There, now, I was too much for him. When a woman kept one o’
them speckled veils over her face, turned her head away, and held her
parasol between, how were you to know her from Adam? I declare to you,
I couldn’t arrive at one positive particular. Even when he affirmed
that she was tall, he added, the next instant: “Now I come to think on
it, she stepped mighty quick; so I guess she must ha’ been short.”

By the time we reached the hotel, I was in a state of fever; opiates
and lotions had their will of me for the rest of the day. I was glad
to escape the worry of questions, and the conventional sympathy
expressed in inflections of the voice which are meant to soothe, and
only exasperate. The next morning, as I lay upon my sofa, restful,
patient, and properly cheerful, the waiter entered with a bouquet of
wild flowers.

“Who sent them?” I asked.

“I found them outside your door, sir. Maybe there’s a card; yes, here’s
a bit o’ paper.”

I opened the twisted slip he handed me, and read: “From your dell--and
mine.” I took the flowers; among them were two or three rare and
beautiful varieties, which I had only found in that one spot. Fool,
again! I noiselessly kissed, while pretending to smell them, had them
placed on a stand within reach, and fell into a state of quiet and
agreeable contemplation.

Tell me, yourself, whether any male human being is ever too old for
sentiment, provided that it strikes him at the right time and in the
right way! What did that bunch of wild flowers betoken? Knowledge,
first; then, sympathy; and finally, encouragement, at least. Of course
she had seen my accident, from above; of course she had sent the
harvest laborer to aid me home. It was quite natural she should imagine
some special, romantic interest in the lonely dell, on my part, and the
gift took additional value from her conjecture.

Four days afterwards, there was a hop in the large dining-room of
the hotel. Early in the morning, a fresh bouquet had been left at my
door. I was tired of my enforced idleness, eager to discover the fair
unknown, (she was again fair, to my fancy!) and I determined to go
down, believing that a cane and a crimson velvet slipper on the left
foot would provoke a glance of sympathy from certain eyes, and thus
enable me to detect them.

The fact was, the sympathy was much too general and effusive.
Everybody, it seemed, came to me with kindly greetings; seats were
vacated at my approach, even fat Mrs. Huxter insisting on my taking her
warm place, at the head of the room. But Bob Leroy,--you know him,--as
gallant a gentleman as ever lived, put me down at the right point, and
kept me there. He only meant to divert me, yet gave me the only place
where I could quietly inspect all the younger ladies, as dance or
supper brought them near.

One of the dances was an old-fashioned cotillon, and one of the
figures, the “coquette,” brought every one, in turn, before me. I
received a pleasant word or two from those whom I knew, and a long,
kind, silent glance from Miss May Danvers. Where had been my eyes? She
was tall, stately, twenty-five, had large dark eyes, and long dark
lashes! Again the changes of the dance brought her near me; I threw
(or strove to throw) unutterable meanings into my eyes, and cast them
upon hers. She seemed startled, looked suddenly away, looked back to
me, and--blushed. I knew her for what is called “a nice girl”--that is,
tolerably frank, gently feminine, and not dangerously intelligent. Was
it possible that I had overlooked so much character and intellect?

As the cotillon closed, she was again in my neighborhood, and her
partner led her in my direction. I was rising painfully from my
chair, when Bob Leroy pushed me down again, whisked another seat from
somewhere, planted it at my side, and there she was!

She knew who was her neighbor, I plainly saw; but instead of turning
towards me, she began to fan herself in a nervous way and to fidget
with the buttons of her gloves. I grew impatient.

“Miss Danvers!” I said, at last.

“Oh!” was all her answer, as she looked at me for a moment.

“Where are your thoughts?” I asked.

Then she turned, with wide, astonished eyes, coloring softly up to the
roots of her hair. My heart gave a sudden leap.

“How can you tell, if I cannot?” she asked.

“May I guess?”

She made a slight inclination of the head, saying nothing. I was then
quite sure.

“The second ravine, to the left of the main drive?”

This time she actually started; her color became deeper, and a leaf of
the ivory fan snapped between her fingers.

“Let there be no more a secret!” I exclaimed. “Your flowers have
brought me your messages; I knew I should find you”--

Full of certainty, I was speaking in a low, impassioned voice. She
cut me short by rising from her seat; I felt that she was both angry
and alarmed. Fisher, of Philadelphia, jostling right and left in his
haste, made his way towards her. She fairly snatched his arm, clung to
it with a warmth I had never seen expressed in a ball-room, and began
to whisper in his ear. It was not five minutes before he came to me,
alone, with a very stern face, bent down, and said:--

“If you have discovered our secret, you will keep silent. You are
certainly a gentleman.”

I bowed, coldly and savagely. There was a draft from the open window;
my ankle became suddenly weary and painful, and I went to bed. Can you
believe that I didn’t guess, immediately, what it all meant? In a vague
way, I fancied that I had been premature in my attempt to drop our
mutual incognito, and that Fisher, a rival lover, was jealous of me.
This was rather flattering than otherwise; but when I limped down to
the ladies’ parlor, the next day, no Miss Danvers was to be seen. I did
not venture to ask for her; it might seem importunate, and a woman of
so much hidden capacity was evidently not to be wooed in the ordinary
way.

So another night passed by; and then, with the morning, came a letter
which made me feel, at the same instant, like a fool and a hero. It had
been dropped in the Wampsocket post-office, was legibly addressed to me
and delivered with some other letters which had arrived by the night
mail. Here it is; listen!

    “NOTO IGNOTA!--Haste is not a gift of the gods, and you have been
    impatient, with the usual result. I was almost prepared for this,
    and thus am not wholly disappointed. In a day or two more you will
    discover your mistake, which, so far as I can learn, has done no
    particular harm. If you wish to find _me_, there is only one way
    to seek me; should I tell you what it is, I should run the risk
    of losing you,--that is, I should preclude the manifestation of
    a certain quality which I hope to find in the man who may--or,
    rather, must--be my friend. This sounds enigmatical, yet you have
    read enough of my nature, as written in those random notes in my
    sketch-book, to guess, at least, how much I require. Only this let
    me add: mere guessing is useless.

    “Being unknown, I can write freely. If you find me, I shall be
    justified; if not, I shall hardly need to blush, even to myself,
    over a futile experiment.

    “It is possible for me to learn enough of your life, henceforth, to
    direct my relation towards you. This may be the end; if so, I shall
    know it soon. I shall also know whether you continue to seek me.
    Trusting in your honor as a man, I must ask you to trust in mine,
    as a woman.”

I _did_ discover my mistake, as the Unknown promised. There had been
a secret betrothal between Fisher and Miss Danvers; and singularly
enough, the momentous question and answer had been given in the very
ravine leading to my upper dell! The two meant to keep the matter to
themselves, but therein, it seems, I thwarted them; there was a little
opposition on the part of their respective families, but all was
amicably settled before I left Wampsocket.

The letter made a very deep impression upon me. What was the one way
to find her? What could it be but the triumph that follows ambitious
toil,--the manifestation of all my best qualities, as a man? Be she
old or young, plain or beautiful, I reflected, hers is surely a nature
worth knowing, and its candid intelligence conceals no hazards for me.
I have sought her rashly, blundered, betrayed that I set her lower,
in my thoughts, than her actual self: let me now adopt the opposite
course, seek her openly no longer, go back to my tasks, and, following
my own aims vigorously and cheerfully, restore that respect which she
seemed to be on the point of losing. For, consciously or not, she had
communicated to me a doubt, implied in the very expression of her own
strength and pride. She had meant to address me as an equal, yet,
despite herself, took a stand a little above that which she accorded to
me.

I came back to New York earlier than usual, worked steadily at
my profession and with increasing success, and began to accept
opportunities (which I had previously declined) of making myself
personally known to the great, impressible, fickle, tyrannical public.
One or two of my speeches in the hall of the Cooper Institute, on
various occasions--as you may perhaps remember--gave me a good headway
with the party, and were the chief cause of my nomination for the State
office which I still hold. (There, on the table, lies a resignation,
written to-day, but not yet signed. We’ll talk of it, afterwards.)
Several months passed by, and no further letter reached me. I gave up
much of my time to society, moved familiarly in more than one province
of the kingdom here, and vastly extended my acquaintance, especially
among the women; but not one of them betrayed the mysterious something
or other--really I can’t explain precisely what it was!--which I was
looking for. In fact, the more I endeavored quietly to study the sex,
the more confused I became.

At last, I was subjected to the usual onslaught from the strong-minded.
A small but formidable committee entered my office one morning and
demanded a categorical declaration of my principles. What my views
on the subject were, I knew very well; they were clear and decided;
and yet, I hesitated to declare them! It wasn’t a temptation of Saint
Anthony--that is, turned the other way--and the belligerent attitude
of the dames did not alarm me in the least; but _she_! What was _her_
position? How could I best please her? It flashed upon my mind, while
Mrs. ---- was making her formal speech, that I had taken no step for
months without a vague, secret reference to _her_. So, I strove to be
courteous, friendly, and agreeably noncommittal; begged for further
documents, and promised to reply by letter, in a few days.

I was hardly surprised to find the well-known hand on the envelope of
a letter, shortly afterwards. I held it for a minute in my palm, with
an absurd hope that I might sympathetically feel its character, before
breaking the seal. Then I read it with a great sense of relief.

    “I have never assumed to guide a man, except towards the full
    exercise of his powers. It is not opinion in action, but opinion in
    a state of idleness or indifference, which repels me. I am deeply
    glad that you have gained so much since you left the country. If,
    in shaping your course, you have thought of me, I will frankly
    say that, _to that extent_, you have drawn nearer. Am I mistaken
    in conjecturing that you wish to know my relation to the movement
    concerning which you were recently interrogated? In this, as in
    other instances which may come, I must beg you to consider me only
    as a spectator. The more my own views may seem likely to sway your
    action, the less I shall be inclined to declare them. If you find
    this cold or unwomanly, remember that it is not easy!”

Yes! I felt that I had certainly drawn much nearer to her. And from
this time on, her imaginary face and form became other than they
were. She was twenty-eight--three years older; a very little above
the middle height, but not tall; serene, rather than stately, in her
movements; with a calm, almost grave face, relieved by the sweetness
of the full, firm lips; and finally eyes of pure, limpid gray, such as
we fancy belonged to the Venus of Milo. I found her, thus, much more
attractive than with the dark eyes and lashes,--but she did not make
her appearance in the circles which I frequented.

Another year slipped away. As an official personage, my importance
increased, but I was careful not to exaggerate it to myself. Many have
wondered (perhaps you among the rest) at my success, seeing that I
possess no remarkable abilities. If I have any secret, it is simply
this--doing faithfully, with all my might, whatever I undertake. Nine
tenths of our politicians become inflated and careless, after the
first few years, and are easily forgotten when they once lose place.
I am a little surprised, now, that I had so much patience with the
Unknown. I was too important, at least, to be played with; too mature
to be subjected to a longer test; too earnest, as I had proved, to be
doubted, or thrown aside without a further explanation.

Growing tired, at last, of silent waiting, I bethought me of
advertising. A carefully-written “Personal,” in which _Ignotus_
informed _Ignota_ of the necessity of his communicating with her,
appeared simultaneously in the Tribune, Herald, World, and Times. I
renewed the advertisement as the time expired without an answer, and I
think it was about the end of the third week before one came, through
the post, as before.

Ah, yes! I had forgotten. See! my advertisement is pasted on the note,
as a heading or motto for the manuscript lines. I don’t know why the
printed slip should give me a particular feeling of humiliation as I
look at it, but such is the fact. What she wrote is all I need read to
you:--

    “I could not, at first, be certain that this was meant for me.
    If I were to explain to you why I have not written for so long
    a time, I might give you one of the few clews which I insist on
    keeping in my own hands. In your public capacity, you have been
    (so far as a woman may judge) upright, independent, wholly manly:
    in your relations with other men I learn nothing of you that is
    not honorable: towards women you are kind, chivalrous, no doubt,
    overflowing with the _usual_ social refinements, but-- Here,
    again, I run hard upon the absolute necessity of silence. The way
    to me, if you care to traverse it, is so simple, so very simple!
    Yet, after what I have written, I cannot even wave my hand in the
    direction of it, without certain self-contempt. When I feel free to
    tell you, we shall draw apart and remain unknown forever.

    “You desire to write? I do not prohibit it. I have heretofore made
    no arrangement for hearing from you, in turn, because I could not
    discover that any advantage would accrue from it. But it seems only
    fair, I confess, and you dare not think me capricious. So, three
    days hence, at six o’clock in the evening, a trusty messenger of
    mine will call at your door. If you have anything to give her for
    me, the act of giving it must be the sign of a compact on your
    part, that you will allow her to leave immediately, unquestioned
    and unfollowed.”

You look puzzled, I see: you don’t catch the real drift of her words?
Well,--that’s a melancholy encouragement. Neither did I, at the
time: it was plain that I had disappointed her in some way, and my
intercourse with, or manner towards, women, had something to do with
it. In vain I ran over as much of my later social life as I could
recall. There had been no special attention, nothing to mislead a
susceptible heart; on the other side, certainly no rudeness, no want of
“chivalrous” (she used the word!) respect and attention. What, in the
name of all the gods, was the matter?

In spite of all my efforts to grow clearer, I was obliged to write
my letter in a rather muddled state of mind. I had _so_ much to say!
sixteen folio pages, I was sure, would only suffice for an introduction
to the case; yet, when the creamy vellum lay before me and the moist
pen drew my fingers towards it, I sat stock dumb for half an hour. I
wrote, finally, in a half-desperate mood, without regard to coherency
or logic. Here’s a rough draft of a part of the letter, and a single
passage from it will be enough:--

    “I can conceive of no simpler way to you than the knowledge of your
    name and address. I have drawn airy images of you, but they do not
    become incarnate, and I am not sure that I should recognize you
    in the brief moment of passing. Your nature is not of those which
    are instantly legible. As an abstract power, it has wrought in
    my life and it continually moves my heart with desires which are
    unsatisfactory because so vague and ignorant. Let me offer you,
    personally, my gratitude, my earnest friendship: you would laugh if
    I were _now_ to offer more.”

Stay! here is another fragment, more reckless in tone:--

    “I want to find the woman whom I can love--who can love me. But
    this is a masquerade where the features are hidden, the voice
    disguised, even the hands grotesquely gloved. Come! I will venture
    more than I ever thought was possible to me. You shall know my
    deepest nature as I myself seem to know it. Then, give me the
    commonest chance of learning yours, through an intercourse which
    shall leave both free, should we not feel the closing of the
    inevitable bond!”

After I had written that, the pages filled rapidly. When the appointed
hour arrived, a bulky epistle, in a strong linen envelope, sealed with
five wax seals, was waiting on my table. Precisely at six there was an
announcement: the door opened, and a little outside, in the shadow, I
saw an old woman, in a threadbare dress of rusty black.

“Come in!” I said.

“The letter!” answered a husky voice. She stretched out a bony hand,
without moving a step.

“It is for a lady--very important business,” said I, taking up the
letter; “are you sure that there is no mistake?”

She drew her hand under the shawl, turned without a word, and moved
towards the hall door.

“Stop!” I cried: “I beg a thousand pardons! Take it--take it! You are
the right messenger!”

She clutched it, and was instantly gone.

Several days passed, and I gradually became so nervous and uneasy that
I was on the point of inserting another “Personal” in the daily papers,
when the answer arrived. It was brief and mysterious; you shall hear
the whole of it.

    “I thank you. Your letter is a sacred confidence which I pray you
    never to regret. You nature is sound and good. You ask no more
    than is reasonable, and I have no real right to refuse. In the one
    respect which I have hinted, _I_ may have been unskillful or too
    narrowly cautious: I must have the certainty of this. Therefore, as
    a generous favor, give me six months more! At the end of that time
    I will write to you again. Have patience with these brief lines:
    another word might be a word too much.”

You notice the change in her tone? The letter gave me the strongest
impression of a new, warm, almost anxious interest on her part. My
fancies, as first at Wampsocket, began to play all sorts of singular
pranks: sometimes she was rich and of an old family, sometimes
moderately poor and obscure, but always the same calm, reposeful
face and clear gray eyes. I ceased looking for her in society, quite
sure that I should not find her, and nursed a wild expectation of
suddenly meeting her, face to face, in the most unlikely places
and under startling circumstances. However, the end of it all was
patience,--patience for six months.

There’s not much more to tell; but this last letter is hard for me to
read. It came punctually, to a day. I knew it would, and at the last I
began to dread the time, as if a heavy note were falling due, and I had
no funds to meet it. My head was in a whirl when I broke the seal. The
fact in it stared at me blankly, at once, but it was a long time before
the words and sentences became intelligible.

    “The stipulated time has come, and our hidden romance is at an end.
    Had I taken this resolution a year ago, it would have saved me many
    vain hopes, and you, perhaps, a little uncertainty. Forgive me,
    first, if you can, and then hear the explanation!

    “You wished for a personal interview: _you have had, not one, but
    many_. We have met, in society, talked face to face, discussed
    the weather, the opera, toilettes, Queechy, Aurora Floyd, Long
    Branch and Newport, and exchanged a weary amount of fashionable
    gossip; and you never guessed that I was governed by any deeper
    interest! I have purposely uttered ridiculous platitudes, and
    you were as smilingly courteous as if you enjoyed them: I have
    let fall remarks whose hollowness and selfishness could not have
    escaped you, and have waited in vain for a word of sharp, honest,
    manly reproof. Your manner to me was unexceptionable, as it was to
    all other women: but there lies the source of my disappointment,
    of--yes,--of my sorrow!

    “You appreciate, I cannot doubt, the qualities in woman which men
    value in one another,--culture, independence of thought, a high and
    earnest apprehension of life; but you know not how to seek them.
    It is not true that a mature and unperverted woman is flattered by
    receiving only the general obsequiousness which most men give to
    the whole sex. In the man who contradicts and strives with her, she
    discovers a truer interest, a nobler respect. The empty-headed,
    spindle-shanked youths who dance admirably, understand something of
    billiards, much less of horses, and still less of navigation, soon
    grow inexpressibly wearisome to us; but the men who adopt their
    social courtesy, never seeking to arouse, uplift, instruct us, are
    a bitter disappointment.

    “What would have been the end, had you really found me? Certainly
    a sincere, satisfying friendship. No mysterious magnetic force has
    drawn you to me or held you near me, nor has my experiment inspired
    me with an interest which cannot be given up without a personal
    pang. I am grieved, for the sake of all men and all women. Yet,
    understand me! I mean no slightest reproach. I esteem and honor you
    for what you are. Farewell!”

There! Nothing could be kinder in tone, nothing more humiliating in
substance. I was sore and offended for a few days; but I soon began to
see, and ever more and more clearly, that she was wholly right. I was
sure, also, that any further attempt to correspond with her would be
vain. It all comes of taking society just as we find it, and supposing
that conventional courtesy is the only safe ground on which men and
women can meet.

The fact is--there’s no use in hiding it from myself (and I see, by
your face, that the letter cuts into your own conscience)--she is a
free, courageous, independent character, and--I am not.

But who _was_ she?




HENRY CUYLER BUNNER

1855–1896


From early manhood until his death H. C. Bunner was the editor of
“Puck.” Those who appreciated the flavor of _Airs from Arcady_ and
_Rowen_, and who knew of “Puck” only that it was our most popular comic
weekly, felt here an incongruity. If they had followed the editorial
page, they would have found dignity no less than pungency, and might
have comprehended the man as more than a maker of delicate verses and
more than a humorist. In the ordinary sense he was hardly a humorist.
Humor was large in him, but all suffused with fancy. Loving New York
as Charles Lamb loved London, he was even more like Lamb in that his
quip habitually carried a sentiment springing from human sympathy.
This ultimate quality reconciled the others of a singularly original
composition.

His fiction shows all these traits, and also a nice sense of form. He
was a student of Boccaccio; he experimented with various adaptations,
as in _The Third Figure of the Cotillion_ with the method of Irving;
and, though his preference was for freer and more spontaneous
structure, he was keenly aware, as in the story below, of the value of
the unities.




THE LOVE-LETTERS OF SMITH

    [_From “Short Sixes,” copyright, 1890, by Keppler and Schwarzmann;
    reprinted here by their special permission_]


When the little seamstress had climbed to her room in the story over
the top story of the great brick tenement house in which she lived, she
was quite tired out. If you do not understand what a story over a top
story is, you must remember that there are no limits to human greed,
and hardly any to the height of tenement houses. When the man who owned
that seven-story tenement found that he could rent another floor, he
found no difficulty in persuading the guardians of our building laws to
let him clap another story on the roof, like a cabin on the deck of a
ship; and in the southeasterly of the four apartments on this floor the
little seamstress lived. You could just see the top of her window from
the street--the huge cornice that had capped the original front, and
that served as her window-sill now, quite hid all the lower part of the
story on top of the top-story.

The little seamstress was scarcely thirty years old, but she was
such an old-fashioned little body in so many of her looks and ways
that I had almost spelled her sempstress, after the fashion of our
grandmothers. She had been a comely body, too; and would have been
still, if she had not been thin and pale and anxious-eyed.

She was tired out to-night because she had been working hard all day
for a lady who lived far up in the “New Wards” beyond Harlem River,
and after the long journey home, she had to climb seven flights of
tenement-house stairs. She was too tired, both in body and in mind, to
cook the two little chops she had brought home. She would save them
for breakfast, she thought. So she made herself a cup of tea on the
miniature stove, and ate a slice of dry bread with it. It was too much
trouble to make toast.

But after dinner she watered her flowers. She was never too tired
for that: and the six pots of geraniums that caught the south sun
on the top of the cornice did their best to repay her. Then she sat
down in her rocking-chair by the window and looked out. Her eyry was
high above all the other buildings, and she could look across some
low roofs opposite, and see the further end of Tompkins Square, with
its sparse Spring green showing faintly through the dusk. The eternal
roar of the city floated up to her and vaguely troubled her. She was
a country girl, and although she had lived for ten years in New York,
she had never grown used to that ceaseless murmur. To-night she felt
the languor of the new season as well as the heaviness of physical
exhaustion. She was almost too tired to go to bed.

She thought of the hard day done and the hard day to be begun after the
night spent on the hard little bed. She thought of the peaceful days in
the country, when she taught school in the Massachusetts village where
she was born. She thought of a hundred small slights that she had to
bear from people better fed than bred. She thought of the sweet green
fields that she rarely saw nowadays. She thought of the long journey
forth and back that must begin and end her morrow’s work, and she
wondered if her employer would think to offer to pay her fare. Then she
pulled herself together. She must think of more agreeable things, or
she could not sleep. And as the only agreeable things she had to think
about were her flowers, she looked at the garden on top of the cornice.

A peculiar gritting noise made her look down, and she saw a cylindrical
object that glittered in the twilight, advancing in an irregular and
uncertain manner toward her flower-pots. Looking closer, she saw that
it was a pewter beer-mug, which somebody in the next apartment was
pushing with a two-foot rule. On top of the beer-mug was a piece of
paper, and on this paper was written, in a sprawling, half-formed hand:

                    _porter
                    pleas excuse the libberty And
                    drink it_

The seamstress started up in terror, and shut the window. She
remembered that there was a man in the next apartment. She had seen
him on the stairs, on Sundays. He seemed a grave, decent person;
but--he must be drunk. She sat down on her bed, all a-tremble. Then she
reasoned with herself. The man was drunk, that was all. He probably
would not annoy her further. And if he did, she had only to retreat
to Mrs. Mulvaney’s apartment in the rear, and Mr. Mulvaney, who was a
highly respectable man and worked in a boiler-shop, would protect her.
So, being a poor woman who had already had occasion to excuse--and
refuse--two or three “libberties” of like sort, she made up her mind to
go to bed like a reasonable seamstress, and she did. She was rewarded,
for when her light was out, she could see in the moonlight that the
two-foot rule appeared again, with one joint bent back, hitched itself
into the mug-handle, and withdrew the mug.

The next day was a hard one for the little seamstress, and she hardly
thought of the affair of the night before until the same hour had come
around again, and she sat once more by her window. Then she smiled at
the remembrance. “Poor fellow,” she said in her charitable heart, “I’ve
no doubt he’s _awfully_ ashamed of it now. Perhaps he was never tipsy
before. Perhaps he didn’t know there was a lone woman in here to be
frightened.”

Just then she heard a gritting sound. She looked down. The pewter pot
was in front of her, and the two-foot rule was slowly retiring. On the
pot was a piece of paper, and on the paper was:

                    _porter
                    good for the helth
                    it makes meet_

This time the little seamstress shut her window with a bang of
indignation. The color rose to her pale cheeks. She thought that she
would go down to see the janitor at once. Then she remembered the seven
flights of stairs; and she resolved to see the janitor in the morning.
Then she went to bed and saw the mug drawn back just as it had been
drawn back the night before.

The morning came, but, somehow, the seamstress did not care to complain
to the janitor. She hated to make trouble--and the janitor might
think--and--and--well, if the wretch did it again she would speak to
him herself, and that would settle it.

And so, on the next night, which was a Thursday, the little seamstress
sat down by her window, resolved to settle the matter. And she had not
sat there long, rocking in the creaking little rocking-chair which she
had brought with her from her old home, when the pewter pot hove in
sight, with a piece of paper on the top.

This time the legend read:

                    _Perhaps you are afrade i will
                    adress you
                    i am not that kind_

The seamstress did not quite know whether to laugh or to cry. But she
felt that the time had come for speech. She leaned out of her window
and addressed the twilight heaven.

“Mr.--Mr.--sir--I--will you _please_ put your head out of the window so
that I can speak to you?”

The silence of the other room was undisturbed. The seamstress drew
back, blushing. But before she could nerve herself for another attack,
a piece of paper appeared on the end of the two-foot rule.

                    _when i Say a thing i
                    mene it
                    i have Sed i would not
                    Adress you and i
                    Will not_

What was the little seamstress to do? She stood by the window and
thought hard about it. Should she complain to the janitor? But the
creature was perfectly respectful. No doubt he meant to be kind.
He certainly was kind, to waste these pots of porter on her. She
remembered the last time--and the first--that she had drunk porter.
It was at home, when she was a young girl, after she had had the
diphtheria. She remembered how good it was, and how it had given her
back her strength. And without one thought of what she was doing, she
lifted the pot of porter and took one little reminiscent sip--two
little reminiscent sips--and became aware of her utter fall and defeat.
She blushed now as she had never blushed before, put the pot down,
closed the window, and fled to her bed like a deer to the woods.

And when the porter arrived the next night, bearing the simple appeal:

                    _Dont be afrade of it
                    drink it all_

the little seamstress arose and grasped the pot firmly by the handle,
and poured its contents over the earth around her largest geranium. She
poured the contents out to the last drop, and then she dropped the pot,
and ran back and sat on her bed and cried, with her face hid in her
hands.

“Now,” she said to herself, “you’ve done it! And you’re just as nasty
and hard-hearted and suspicious and mean as--as pusley!”

And she wept to think of her hardness of heart. “He will never give me
a chance to say I am sorry,” she thought. And, really, she might have
spoken kindly to the poor man, and told him that she was much obliged
to him, but that he really mustn’t ask her to drink porter with him.

“But it’s all over and done now,” she said to herself as she sat at her
window on Saturday night. And then she looked at the cornice, and saw
the faithful little pewter pot travelling slowly toward her.

She was conquered. This act of Christian forbearance was too much for
her kindly spirit. She read the inscription on the paper:

                    _porter is good for Flours
                    but better for Fokes_

and she lifted the pot to her lips, which were not half so red as her
cheeks, and took a good, hearty, grateful draught.

She sipped in thoughtful silence after this first plunge, and presently
she was surprised to find the bottom of the pot in full view.

On the table at her side a few pearl buttons were screwed up in a bit
of white paper. She untwisted the paper and smoothed it out, and wrote
in a tremulous hand--she _could_ write a very neat hand--

                    _Thanks._

This she laid on the top of the pot, and in a moment the bent two-foot
rule appeared and drew the mail-carriage home. Then she sat still,
enjoying the warm glow of the porter, which seemed to have permeated
her entire being with a heat that was not at all like the unpleasant
and oppressive heat of the atmosphere, an atmosphere heavy with the
Spring damp. A gritting on the tin aroused her. A piece of paper lay
under her eyes.

                    _fine groing weather
                                    Smith_

it said.

Now it is unlikely that in the whole round and range of conversational
commonplaces there was one other greeting that could have induced
the seamstress to continue the exchange of communications. But this
simple and homely phrase touched her country heart. What did “_groing
weather_” matter to the toilers in this waste of brick and mortar? This
stranger must be, like herself, a country-bred soul, longing for the
new green and the upturned brown mould of the country fields. She took
up the paper, and wrote under the first message:

                    _Fine_

But that seemed curt; _for_ she added: “_for_” what? She did not know.
At last in desperation she put down _potatos_. The piece of paper was
withdrawn and came back with an addition:

                    _Too mist for potatos._

And when the little seamstress had read this, and grasped the fact
that _m-i-s-t_ represented the writer’s pronunciation of “moist,”
she laughed softly to herself. A man whose mind, at such a time, was
seriously bent upon potatos, was not a man to be feared. She found a
half-sheet of notepaper, and wrote:

    _I lived in a small village before I came to New York, but I am
    afraid I do not know much about farming. Are you a farmer?_

The answer came:

                    _have ben most Every thing
                    farmed a Spel in Maine
                                          Smith_

As she read this, the seamstress heard a church clock strike nine.

“Bless me, is it so late?” she cried, and she hurriedly penciled _Good
Night_, thrust the paper out, and closed the window. But a few minutes
later, passing by, she saw yet another bit of paper on the cornice,
fluttering in the evening breeze. It said only _good nite_, and after
a moment’s hesitation, the little seamstress took it in and gave it
shelter.

       *       *       *       *       *

After this, they were the best of friends. Every evening the pot
appeared, and while the seamstress drank from it at her window, Mr.
Smith drank from its twin at his; and notes were exchanged as rapidly
as Mr. Smith’s early education permitted. They told each other their
histories, and Mr. Smith’s was one of travel and variety, which he
seemed to consider quite a matter of course. He had followed the
sea, he had farmed, he had been a logger and a hunter in the Maine
woods. Now he was foreman of an East River lumber yard, and he was
prospering. In a year or two he would have enough laid by to go home
to Bucksport and buy a share in a ship-building business. All this
dribbled out in the course of a jerky but variegated correspondence,
in which autobiographic details were mixed with reflections, moral and
philosophical.

A few samples will give an idea of Mr. Smith’s style:

                    _i was one trip to van demens
                    land_

To which the seamstress replied:

                    _It must have been very interesting._

But Mr. Smith disposed of this subject very briefly:

                    _it wornt_

Further he vouchsafed:

                    _i seen a Chinese cook in
                    hong kong could cook flap jacks
                    like your Mother_

                    _a mishnery that sells Rum
                    is the menest of Gods crechers_

                    _a bulfite is not what it is
                    cract up to Be_

                    _the dagos are wussen the
                    brutes_

                    _i am 6 1¾
                    but my Father was 6 foot 4_

The seamstress had taught school one Winter, and she could not refrain
from making an attempt to reform Mr. Smith’s orthography. One evening,
in answer to this communication:

                    _i killd a Bare in Maine 600
                    lbs waight_

she wrote:

                    _Isn’t it generally spelled Bear?_

but she gave up the attempt when he responded:

                    _a bare is a mene animle any
                    way you spel him_

The Spring wore on, and the Summer came, and still the evening drink
and the evening correspondence brightened the close of each day for
the little seamstress. And the draught of porter put her to sleep each
night, giving her a calmer rest than she had ever known during her stay
in the noisy city; and it began, moreover, to make a little “_meet_”
for her. And then the thought that she was going to have an hour of
pleasant companionship somehow gave her courage to cook and eat her
little dinner, however tired she was. The seamstress’s cheeks began to
blossom with the June roses.

And all this time Mr. Smith kept his vow of silence unbroken, though
the seamstress sometimes tempted him with little ejaculations and
exclamations to which he might have responded. He was silent and
invisible. Only the smoke of his pipe, and the clink of his mug as he
set it down on the cornice, told her that a living, material Smith was
her correspondent. They never met on the stairs, for their hours of
coming and going did not coincide. Once or twice they passed each other
in the street--but Mr. Smith looked straight ahead of him, about a foot
over her head. The little seamstress thought he was a very fine-looking
man, with his six feet one and three-quarters and his thick brown
beard. Most people would have called him plain.

Once she spoke to him. She was coming home one Summer evening, and a
gang of corner-loafers stopped her and demanded money to buy beer,
as is their custom. Before she had time to be frightened, Mr. Smith
appeared--whence, she knew not--scattered the gang like chaff, and,
collaring two of the human hyenas, kicked them, with deliberate,
ponderous, alternate kicks, until they writhed in ineffable agony.
When he let them crawl away, she turned to him and thanked him warmly,
looking very pretty now, with the color in her cheeks. But Mr. Smith
answered no word. He stared over her head, grew red in the face,
fidgeted nervously, but held his peace until his eyes fell on a rotund
Teuton, passing by.

“Say, Dutchy!” he roared.

The German stood aghast.

“I ain’t got nothing to write with!” thundered Mr. Smith, looking him
in the eye. And then the man of his word passed on his way.

And so the Summer went on, and the two correspondents chatted silently
from window to window, hid from sight of all the world below by the
friendly cornice. And they looked out over the roof, and saw the green
of Tompkins Square grow darker and dustier as the months went on.

Mr. Smith was given to Sunday trips into the suburbs, and he never came
back without a bunch of daisies or black-eyed Susans or, later, asters
or golden-rod for the little seamstress. Sometimes, with a sagacity
rare in his sex, he brought her a whole plant, with fresh loam for
potting.

He gave her also a reel in a bottle, which, he wrote, he had “_maid_”
himself, and some coral, and a dried flying-fish, that was somewhat
fearful to look upon, with its sword-like fins and its hollow eyes. At
first, she could not go to sleep with that flying-fish hanging on the
wall.

But he surprised the little seamstress very much one cool September
evening, when he shoved this letter along the cornice:

    _Respected and Honored Madam_:

    _Having long and vainly sought an opportunity to convey to you the
    expression of my sentiments I now avail myself of the privilege
    of epistolary communication to acquaint you with the fact that
    the Emotions, which you have raised in my breast, are those which
    should point to Connubial Love and Affection rather than to simple
    Friendship. In short, Madam, I have the Honor to approach you with
    a Proposal, the acceptance of which will fill me with ecstatic
    Gratitude, and enable me to extend to you those Protecting Cares,
    which the Matrimonial Bond makes at once the Duty and the Privilege
    of him, who would, at no distant date, lead to the Hymeneal Altar
    one whose charms and virtues should suffice to kindle its Flames,
    without extraneous Aid_

                                     _I remain, Dear Madam,
                                             Your Humble Servant and
                                            Ardent Adorer, I. Smith_

The little seamstress gazed at this letter a long time. Perhaps she was
wondering in what Ready Letter-Writer of the last century Mr. Smith
had found his form. Perhaps she was amazed at the results of his first
attempt at punctuation. Perhaps she was thinking of something else, for
there were tears in her eyes and a smile on her small mouth.

But it must have been a long time, and Mr. Smith must have grown
nervous, for presently another communication came along the line where
the top of the cornice was worn smooth. It read:

                    _If not understood will you
                    mary me_

The little seamstress seized a piece of paper and wrote:

                    _If I say Yes, will you speak to me?_

Then she rose and passed it out to him, leaning out of the window, and
their faces met.




HAROLD FREDERIC

1856–1898


Harold Frederic was bred and schooled, at college and at journalism,
in Central New York. His fictions were almost all written in London
during the later years of his correspondence with the “New York Times.”
The most popular of these, _The Damnation of Theron Ware_, shows him
stronger in the novel. His own fondness for his short stories is due in
part, doubtless, to their being closer to his native soil; but the one
reprinted below shows also a distinct appreciation of the form.




THE EVE OF THE FOURTH

    [_From “In the Sixties,” copyright, 1893, 1894, 1897, by Charles
    Scribner’s Sons, authorized publishers of Harold Frederic’s works;
    reprinted here by special arrangement with them_]


It was well on toward evening before this Third of July all at once
made itself gloriously different from other days in my mind.

There was a very long afternoon, I remember, hot and overcast, with
continual threats of rain, which never came to anything. The other
boys were too excited about the morrow to care for present play. They
sat instead along the edge of the broad platform-stoop in front of
Delos Ingersoll’s grocery-store, their brown feet swinging at varying
heights above the sidewalk, and bragged about the manner in which they
contemplated celebrating the anniversary of their Independence. Most of
the elder lads were very independent indeed; they were already secure
in the parental permission to stay up all night, so that the Fourth
might be ushered in with its full quota of ceremonial. The smaller
urchins pretended that they also had this permission, or were sure
of getting it. Little Denny Cregan attracted admiring attention by
vowing that he should remain out, even if his father chased him with a
policeman all around the ward, and he had to go and live in a cave in
the gulf until he was grown up.

My inferiority to these companions of mine depressed me. They were
allowed to go without shoes and stockings; they wore loose and
comfortable old clothes, and were under no responsibility to keep them
dry or clean or whole; they had their pockets literally bulging now
with all sorts of portentous engines of noise and racket--huge brown
“double-enders,” bound with waxed cord; long, slim, vicious-looking
“nigger-chasers;” big “Union torpedoes,” covered with clay, which made
a report like a horse-pistol, and were invaluable for frightening
farmers’ horses; and so on through an extended catalogue of recondite
and sinister explosives upon which I looked with awe, as their owners
from time to time exhibited them with the proud simplicity of those
accustomed to greatness. Several of these boys also possessed toy
cannons, which would be brought forth at twilight. They spoke firmly of
ramming them to the muzzle with grass, to produce a greater noise--even
if it burst them and killed everybody.

By comparison, my lot was one of abasement. I was a solitary child, and
a victim to conventions. A blue necktie was daily pinned under my Byron
collar, and there were gilt buttons on my zouave jacket. When we were
away in the pasture playground near the gulf, and I ventured to take
off my foot-gear, every dry old thistle-point in the whole territory
seemed to arrange itself to be stepped upon by my whitened and tender
soles. I could not swim; so, while my lithe, bold comrades dived out of
sight under the deep water, and darted about chasing one another far
beyond their depth, I paddled ignobly around the “baby-hole” close to
the bank, in the warm and muddy shallows.

Especially apparent was my state of humiliation on this July afternoon.
I had no “double-enders,” nor might hope for any. The mere thought of
a private cannon seemed monstrous and unnatural to me. By some unknown
process of reasoning my mother had years before reached the theory that
a good boy ought to have two ten-cent packs of small fire-crackers on
the Fourth of July. Four or five succeeding anniversaries had hardened
this theory into an orthodox tenet of faith, with all its observances
rigidly fixed. The fire-crackers were bought for me overnight, and
placed on the hall table. Beside them lay a long rod of punk. When I
hastened down and out in the morning, with these ceremonial implements
in my hands, the hired girl would give me, in an old kettle, some
embers from the wood-fire in the summer kitchen. Thus furnished, I
went into the front yard, and in solemn solitude fired off these
crackers one by one. Those which, by reason of having lost their
tails, were only fit for “fizzes,” I saved till after breakfast. With
the exhaustion of these, I fell reluctantly back upon the public for
entertainment. I could see the soldiers, hear the band and the oration,
and in the evening, if it didn’t rain, enjoy the fireworks; but my
own contribution to the patriotic noise was always over before the
breakfast dishes had been washed.

My mother scorned the little paper torpedoes as flippant and wasteful
things. You merely threw one of them, and it went off, she said,
and there you were. I don’t know that I ever grasped this objection
in its entirety, but it impressed my whole childhood with its
unanswerableness. Years and years afterward, when my own children asked
for torpedoes, I found myself unconsciously advising against them on
quite the maternal lines. Nor was it easy to budge the good lady from
her position on the great two-packs issue. I seem to recall having
successfully undermined it once or twice, but two was the rule. When
I called her attention to the fact that our neighbor, Tom Hemingway,
thought nothing of exploding a whole pack at a time inside their
wash-boiler, she was not dazzled, but only replied: “Wilful waste makes
woful want.”

Of course the idea of the Hemingways ever knowing what want meant
was absurd. They lived a dozen doors or so from us, in a big white
house with stately white columns rising from veranda to gable across
the whole front, and a large garden, flowers and shrubs in front,
fruit-trees and vegetables behind. Squire Hemingway was the most
important man in our part of the town. I know now that he was never
anything more than United States Commissioner of Deeds, but in those
days, when he walked down the street with his gold-headed cane,
his blanket-shawl folded over his arm, and his severe, dignified,
close-shaven face held well up in the air, I seemed to behold a
companion of Presidents.

This great man had two sons. The elder of them, De Witt Hemingway, was
a man grown, and was at the front. I had seen him march away, over a
year before, with a bright drawn sword, at the side of his company. The
other son, Tom, was my senior by only a twelvemonth. He was by nature
proud, but often consented to consort with me when the selection of
other available associates was at low ebb.

It was to this Tom that I listened with most envious eagerness, in
front of the grocery-store, on the afternoon of which I speak. He did
not sit on the stoop with the others--no one expected quite that degree
of condescension--but leaned nonchalantly against a post, whittling
out a new ramrod for his cannon. He said that this year he was not
going to have any ordinary fire-crackers at all; they, he added with
a meaning glance at me, were only fit for girls. He might do a little
in “double-enders,” but his real point would be in “ringers”--an
incredible giant variety of cracker, Turkey-red like the other, but
in size almost a rolling-pin. Some of these he would fire off singly,
between volleys from his cannon. But a good many he intended to
explode, in bunches say of six, inside the tin wash-boiler, brought out
into the middle of the road for that purpose. It would doubtless blow
the old thing sky-high, but that didn’t matter. They could get a new
one.

Even as he spoke, the big bell in the tower of the town-hall burst
forth in a loud clangor of swift-repeated strokes. It was half a mile
away, but the moist air brought the urgent, clamorous sounds to our
ears as if the belfry had stood close above us. We sprang off the stoop
and stood poised, waiting to hear the number of the ward struck, and
ready to scamper off on the instant if the fire was anywhere in our
part of the town. But the excited peal went on and on, without a pause.
It became obvious that this meant something besides a fire. Perhaps
some of us wondered vaguely what that something might be, but as a body
our interest had lapsed. Billy Norris, who was the son of poor parents,
but could whip even Tom Hemingway, said he had been told that the
German boys on the other side of the gulf were coming over to “rush” us
on the following day, and that we ought all to collect nails to fire at
them from our cannon. This we pledged ourselves to do--the bell keeping
up its throbbing tumult ceaselessly.

Suddenly we saw the familiar figure of Johnson running up the street
toward us. What his first name was I never knew. To every one, little
or big, he was just Johnson. He and his family had moved into our town
after the war began; I fancy they moved away again before it ended.
I do not even know what he did for a living. But he seemed always
drunk, always turbulently good-natured, and always shouting out the
news at the top of his lungs. I cannot pretend to guess how he found
out everything as he did, or why, having found it out, he straightway
rushed homeward, scattering the intelligence as he ran. Most probably
Johnson was moulded by Nature as a town-crier, but was born by accident
some generations after the race of bellmen had disappeared. Our
neighborhood did not like him; our mothers did not know Mrs. Johnson,
and we boys behaved with snobbish roughness to his children. He seemed
not to mind this at all, but came up unwearyingly to shout out the
tidings of the day for our benefit.

“Vicksburg’s fell! Vicksburg’s fell!” was what we heard him yelling as
he approached.

Delos Ingersoll and his hired boy ran out of the grocery. Doors opened
along the street and heads were thrust inquiringly out.

“Vicksburg’s fell!” he kept hoarsely proclaiming, his arms waving in
the air, as he staggered along at a dog-trot past us, and went into the
saloon next to the grocery.

I cannot say how definite an idea these tidings conveyed to our boyish
minds. I have a notion that at the time I assumed that Vicksburg had
something to do with Gettysburg, where I knew, from the talk of my
elders, that an awful fight had been proceeding since the middle of the
week. Doubtless this confusion was aided by the fact that an hour or so
later, on that same wonderful day, the wire brought us word that this
terrible battle on Pennsylvanian soil had at last taken the form of a
Union victory. It is difficult now to see how we could have known both
these things on the Third of July--that is to say, before the people
actually concerned seemed to have been sure of them. Perhaps it was
only inspired guesswork, but I know that my town went wild over the
news, and that the clouds overhead cleared away as if by magic.

The sun did well to spread that summer sky at eventide with all the
pageantry of color the spectrum knows. It would have been preposterous
that such a day should slink off in dull, Quaker drabs. Men were
shouting in the streets now. The old cannon left over from the Mexican
war had been dragged out on to the rickety covered river-bridge, and
was frightening the fishes, and shaking the dry, worm-eaten rafters, as
fast as the swab and rammer could work. Our town bandsmen were playing
as they had never played before, down in the square in front of the
post-office. The management of the Universe could not hurl enough wild
fireworks into the exultant sunset to fit our mood.

The very air was filled with the scent of triumph--the spirit of
conquest. It seemed only natural that I should march off to my mother
and quite collectedly tell her that I desired to stay out all night
with the other boys. I had never dreamed of daring to prefer such a
request in other years. Now I was scarcely conscious of surprise when
she gave her permission, adding with a smile that I would be glad
enough to come in and go to bed before half the night was over.

I steeled my heart after supper with the proud resolve that if the
night turned out to be as protracted as one of those Lapland winter
nights we read about in the geography, I still would not surrender.

The boys outside were not so excited over the tidings of my
unlooked-for victory as I had expected them to be. They received the
news, in fact, with a rather mortifying stoicism. Tom Hemingway,
however, took enough interest in the affair to suggest that, instead
of spending my twenty cents in paltry fire-crackers, I might go down
town and buy another can of powder for his cannon. By doing so, he
pointed out, I would be a part-proprietor, as it were, of the night’s
performance, and would be entitled to occasionally touch the cannon
off. This generosity affected me, and I hastened down the long
hill-street to show myself worthy of it, repeating the instruction of
“Kentucky Bear-Hunter-coarse-grain” over and over again to myself as I
went.

Half-way on my journey I overtook a person whom, even in the gathering
twilight, I recognized as Miss Stratford, the school-teacher. She also
was walking down the hill and rapidly. It did not need the sight of a
letter in her hand to tell me that she was going to the post-office. In
those cruel war-days everybody went to the post-office. I myself went
regularly to get our mail, and to exchange shin-plasters for one-cent
stamps with which to buy yeast and other commodities that called for
minute fractional currency.

Although I was very fond of Miss Stratford--I still recall her gentle
eyes, and pretty, rounded, dark face, in its frame of long, black
curls, with tender liking--I now coldly resolved to hurry past,
pretending not to know her. It was a mean thing to do; Miss Stratford
had always been good to me, shining in that respect in brilliant
contrast to my other teachers, whom I hated bitterly. Still, the
“Kentucky Bear-Hunter-coarse-grain” was too important a matter to wait
upon any mere female friendships, and I quickened my pace into a trot,
hoping to scurry by unrecognized.

“Oh, Andrew! is that you?” I heard her call out as I ran past. For the
instant I thought of rushing on, quite as if I had not heard. Then I
stopped and walked beside her.

“I am going to stay up all night: mother says I may; and I am going to
fire off Tom Hemingway’s big cannon every fourth time, straight through
till breakfast time,” I announced to her loftily.

“Dear me! I ought to be proud to be seen walking with such an important
citizen,” she answered, with kindly playfulness. She added more
gravely, after a moment’s pause: “Then Tom is out playing with the
other boys, is he?”

“Why, of course!” I responded. “He always lets us stand around when he
fires off his cannon. He’s got some ‘ringers’ this year too.”

I heard Miss Stratford murmur an impulsive “Thank God!” under her
breath.

Full as the day had been of surprises, I could not help wondering that
the fact of Tom’s ringers should stir up such profound emotions in the
teacher’s breast. Since the subject so interested her, I went on with
a long catalogue of Tom’s other pyrotechnic possessions, and from that
to an account of his almost supernatural collection of postage-stamps.
In a few minutes more I am sure I should have revealed to her the great
secret of my life, which was my determination, in case I came to assume
the victorious rôle and rank of Napoleon, to immediately make Tom a
Marshal of the Empire.

But we had reached the post-office square. I had never before seen it
so full of people.

Even to my boyish eyes the tragic line of division which cleft this
crowd in twain was apparent. On one side, over by the Seminary, the
youngsters had lighted a bonfire, and were running about it--some of
the bolder ones jumping through it in frolicsome recklessness. Close
by stood the band, now valiantly thumping out “John Brown’s Body” upon
the noisy night air. It was quite dark by this time, but the musicians
knew the tune by heart. So did the throng about them, and sang it with
lusty fervor. The doors of the saloon toward the corner of the square
were flung wide open. Two black streams of men kept in motion under the
radiance of the big reflector-lamp over these doors--one going in, one
coming out. They slapped one another on the back as they passed, with
exultant screams and shouts. Every once in a while, when movement was
for the instant blocked, some voice lifted above the others would begin
a “Hip-hip-hip-hip--” and then would come a roar that fairly drowned
the music.

On the post-office side of the square there was no bonfire. No one
raised a cheer. A densely packed mass of men and women stood in
front of the big square stone building, with its closed doors, and
curtained windows upon which, from time to time, the shadow of some
passing clerk, bareheaded and hurried, would be momentarily thrown.
They waited in silence for the night mail to be sorted. If they spoke
to one another, it was in whispers--as if they had been standing with
uncovered heads at a funeral service in a graveyard. The dim light
reflected over from the bonfire, or down from the shaded windows of
the post-office, showed solemn, hard-lined, anxious faces. Their lips
scarcely moved when they muttered little low-toned remarks to their
neighbors. They spoke from the side of the mouth, and only on one
subject.

“He went all through Fredericksburg without a scratch--”

“He looks so much like me--General Palmer told my brother he’d have
known his hide in a tan-yard--”

“He’s been gone--let’s see--it was a year some time last April--”

“He was counting on a furlough the first of this month. I suppose
nobody got one as things turned out--”

“He said, ‘No; it ain’t my style. I’ll fight as much as you like, but I
won’t be nigger-waiter for no man, captain or no captain’--”

Thus I heard the scattered murmurs among the grown-up heads above me,
as we pushed into the outskirts of the throng, and stood there, waiting
for the rest. There was no sentence without a “he” in it. A stranger
might have fancied that they were all talking of one man. I knew
better. They were the fathers and mothers, the sisters, brothers, wives
of the men whose regiments had been in that horrible three days’ fight
at Gettysburg. Each was thinking and speaking of his own, and took it
for granted the others would understand. For that matter, they all
did understand. The town knew the name and family of every one of the
twelve-score sons she had in this battle.

It is not very clear to me now why people all went to the post-office
to wait for the evening papers that came in from the nearest big city.
Nowadays they would be brought in bulk and sold on the street before
the mail-bags had reached the post-office. Apparently that had not yet
been thought of in our slow old town.

The band across the square had started up afresh with “Annie
Lisle”--the sweet old refrain of “Wave willows, murmur waters,” comes
back to me now after a quarter-century of forgetfulness--when all at
once there was a sharp forward movement of the crowd. The doors had
been thrown open, and the hallway was on the instant filled with a
swarming multitude. The band had stopped as suddenly as it began, and
no more cheering was heard. We could see whole troops of dark forms
scudding toward us from the other side of the square.

“Run in for me--that’s a good boy--ask for Dr. Stratford’s mail,” the
teacher whispered, bending over me.

It seemed an age before I finally got back to her, with the paper in
its postmarked wrapper buttoned up inside my jacket. I had never been
in so fierce and determined a crowd before, and I emerged from it at
last, confused in wits and panting for breath. I was still looking
about through the gloom in a foolish way for Miss Stratford, when I
felt her hand laid sharply on my shoulder.

“Well--where is it?--did nothing come?” she asked, her voice trembling
with eagerness, and the eyes which I had thought so soft and dove-like
flashing down upon me as if she were Miss Pritchard, and I had been
caught chewing gum in school.

I drew the paper out from under my roundabout, and gave it to her. She
grasped it, and thrust a finger under the cover to tear it off. Then
she hesitated for a moment, and looked about her. “Come where there is
some light,” she said, and started up the street. Although she seemed
to have spoken more to herself than to me, I followed her in silence,
close to her side.

For a long way the sidewalk in front of every lighted store-window was
thronged with a group of people clustered tight about some one who had
a paper, and was reading from it aloud. Beside broken snatches of this
monologue, we caught, now groans of sorrow and horror, now exclamations
of proud approval, and even the beginnings of cheers, broken in upon by
a general “’Sh-h!” as we hurried past outside the curb.

It was under a lamp in the little park nearly half-way up the hill that
Miss Stratford stopped, and spread the paper open. I see her still,
white-faced, under the flickering gaslight, her black curls making
a strange dark bar between the pale-straw hat and the white of her
shoulder shawl and muslin dress, her hands trembling as they held up
the extended sheet. She scanned the columns swiftly, skimmingly for a
time, as I could see by the way she moved her round chin up and down.
Then she came to a part which called for closer reading. The paper
shook perceptibly now, as she bent her eyes upon it. Then all at once
it fell from her hands, and without a sound she walked away.

I picked the paper up and followed her along the gravelled path. It was
like pursuing a ghost, so weirdly white did her summer attire now look
to my frightened eyes, with such a swift and deathly silence did she
move. The path upon which we were described a circle touching the four
sides of the square. She did not quit it when the intersection with
our street was reached, but followed straight round again toward the
point where we had entered the park. This, too, in turn, she passed,
gliding noiselessly forward under the black arches of the overhanging
elms. The suggestion that she did not know she was going round and
round in a ring startled my brain. I would have run up to her now if I
had dared.

Suddenly she turned, and saw that I was behind her. She sank slowly
into one of the garden-seats, by the path, and held out for a moment
a hesitating hand toward me. I went up at this and looked into her
face. Shadowed as it was, the change I saw there chilled my blood. It
was like the face of some one I had never seen before, with fixed,
wide-open, staring eyes which seemed to look beyond me through the
darkness, upon some terrible sight no other could see.

“Go--run and tell--Tom--to go home! His brother--his brother has
been killed,” she said to me, choking over the words as if they hurt
her throat, and still with the same strange dry-eyed, far-away gaze
covering yet not seeing me.

I held out the paper for her to take, but she made no sign, and I
gingerly laid it on the seat beside her. I hung about for a minute or
two longer, imagining that she might have something else to say--but no
word came. Then, with a feebly inopportune “Well, good-by,” I started
off alone up the hill.

It was a distinct relief to find that my companions were congregated at
the lower end of the common, instead of their accustomed haunt farther
up near my home, for the walk had been a lonely one, and I was deeply
depressed by what had happened. Tom, it seems, had been called away
some quarter of an hour before. All the boys knew of the calamity which
had befallen the Hemingways. We talked about it, from time to time, as
we loaded and fired the cannon which Tom had obligingly turned over
to my friends. It had been out of deference to the feelings of the
stricken household that they had betaken themselves and their racket
off to the remote corner of the common. The solemnity of the occasion
silenced criticism upon my conduct in forgetting to buy the powder.
“There would be enough as long as it lasted,” Billy Norris said, with
philosophic decision.

We speculated upon the likelihood of De Witt Hemingway’s being given a
military funeral. These mournful pageants had by this time become such
familiar things to us that the prospect of one more had no element of
excitement in it, save as it involved a gloomy sort of distinction for
Tom. He would ride in the first mourning-carriage with his parents,
and this would associate us, as we walked along ahead of the band,
with the most intimate aspects of the demonstration. We regretted now
that the soldier company which we had so long projected remained still
unorganized. Had it been otherwise we would probably have been awarded
the right of the line in the procession. Some one suggested that it was
not too late--and we promptly bound ourselves to meet after breakfast
next day to organize and begin drilling. If we worked at this night
and day, and our parents instantaneously provided us with uniforms and
guns, we should be in time. It was also arranged that we should be
called the De Witt C. Hemingway Fire Zouaves, and that Billy Norris
should be side captain. The chief command would, of course, be reserved
for Tom. We would specially salute him as he rode past in the closed
carriage, and then fall in behind, forming his honorary escort.

None of us had known the dead officer closely, owing to his advanced
age. He was seven or eight years older than even Tom. But the more
elderly among our group had seen him play base-ball in the academy
nine, and our neighborhood was still alive with legends of his early
audacity and skill in collecting barrels and dry-goods boxes at night
for election bonfires. It was remembered that once he carried away a
whole front-stoop from the house of a little German tailor on one of
the back streets. As we stood around the heated cannon, in the great
black solitude of the common, our fancies pictured this redoubtable
young man once more among us--not in his blue uniform, with crimson
sash and sword laid by his side, and the gauntlets drawn over his
lifeless hands, but as a taller and glorified Tom, in a roundabout
jacket and copper-toed boots, giving the law on this his playground.
The very cannon at our feet had once been his. The night air became
peopled with ghosts of his contemporaries--handsome boys who had grown
up before us, and had gone away to lay down their lives in far-off
Virginia or Tennessee.

These heroic shades brought drowsiness in their train. We lapsed into
long silences, punctuated by yawns, when it was not our turn to ram and
touch off the cannon. Finally some of us stretched ourselves out on the
grass, in the warm darkness, to wait comfortably for this turn to come.

What did come instead was daybreak--finding Billy Norris and myself
alone constant to our all-night vow. We sat up and shivered as we
rubbed our eyes. The morning air had a chilling freshness that went
to my bones--and these, moreover, were filled with those novel aches
and stiffnesses which beds were invented to prevent. We stood up,
stretching out our arms, and gaping at the pearl-and-rose beginnings of
the sunrise in the eastern sky. The other boys had all gone home, and
taken the cannon with them. Only scraps of torn paper and tiny patches
of burnt grass marked the site of our celebration.

My first weak impulse was to march home without delay, and get into bed
as quickly as might be. But Billy Norris looked so finely resolute and
resourceful that I hesitated to suggest this, and said nothing, leaving
the initiative to him. One could see, by the most casual glance, that
he was superior to mere considerations of unseasonableness in hours.
I remembered now that he was one of that remarkable body of boys,
the paper-carriers, who rose when all others were asleep in their
warm nests, and trudged about long before breakfast distributing the
_Clarion_ among the well-to-do households. This fact had given him his
position in our neighborhood as quite the next in leadership to Tom
Hemingway.

He presently outlined his plans to me, after having tried the centre
of light on the horizon, where soon the sun would be, by an old brass
compass he had in his pocket--a process which enabled him, he said, to
tell pretty well what time it was. The paper wouldn’t be out for nearly
two hours yet--and if it were not for the fact of a great battle, there
would have been no paper at all on this glorious anniversary--but he
thought we would go down-town and see what was going on around about
the newspaper office. Forthwith we started. He cheered my faint spirits
by assuring me that I would soon cease to be sleepy, and would, in
fact, feel better than usual. I dragged my feet along at his side,
waiting for this revival to come, and meantime furtively yawning
against my sleeve.

Billy seemed to have dreamed a good deal, during our nap on the common,
about the De Witt C. Hemingway Fire Zouaves. At least he had now in
his head a marvellously elaborated system of organization, which he
unfolded as we went along. I felt that I had never before realized his
greatness, his born genius for command. His scheme halted nowhere. He
allotted offices with discriminating firmness; he treated the question
of uniforms and guns as a trivial detail which would settle itself;
he spoke with calm confidence of our offering our services to the
Republic in the autumn; his clear vision saw even the materials for a
fife-and-drum corps among the German boys in the back streets. It was
true that I appeared personally to play a meagre part in these great
projects; the most that was said about me was that I might make a fair
third-corporal. But Fate had thrown in my way such a wonderful chance
of becoming intimate with Billy that I made sure I should swiftly
advance in rank--the more so as I discerned in the background of his
thoughts, as it were, a grim determination to make short work of Tom
Hemingway’s aristocratic pretensions, once the funeral was over.

We were forced to make a detour of the park on our way down, because
Billy observed some half-dozen Irish boys at play with a cannon inside,
whom he knew to be hostile. If there had been only four, he said, he
would have gone in and routed them. He could whip any two of them, he
added, with one hand tied behind his back. I listened with admiration.
Billy was not tall, but he possessed great thickness of chest and
length of arm. His skin was so dark that we canvassed the theory from
time to time of his having Indian blood. He did not discourage this,
and he admitted himself that he was double-jointed.

The streets of the business part of the town, into which we now made
our way, were quite deserted. We went around into the yard behind the
printing-office, where the carrier-boys were wont to wait for the press
to get to work; and Billy displayed some impatience at discovering that
here too there was no one. It was now broad daylight, but through the
windows of the composing-room we could see some of the printers still
setting type by kerosene lamps.

We seated ourselves at the end of the yard on a big, flat, smooth-faced
stone, and Billy produced from his pocket a number of “em” quads, so
he called them, with which the carriers had learned from the printers’
boys to play a very beautiful game. You shook the pieces of metal in
your hands and threw them on the stone; your score depended upon the
number of nicked sides that were turned uppermost. We played this game
in the interest of good-fellowship for a little. Then Billy told me
that the carriers always played it for pennies, and that it was unmanly
for us to do otherwise. He had no pennies at that precise moment, but
would pay at the end of the week what he had lost; in the meantime
there was my twenty cents to go on with. After this Billy threw so many
nicks uppermost that my courage gave way, and I made an attempt to stop
the game; but a single remark from him as to the military destiny
which he was reserving for me, if I only displayed true soldierly nerve
and grit, sufficed to quiet me once more, and the play went on. I had
now only five cents left.

Suddenly a shadow interposed itself between the sunlight and the stone.
I looked up, to behold a small boy with bare arms and a blackened apron
standing over me, watching our game. There was a great deal of ink on
his face and hands, and a hardened, not to say rakish expression in his
eye.

“Why don’t you ‘jeff’ with somebody of your own size?” he demanded of
Billy after having looked me over critically.

He was not nearly so big as Billy, and I expected to see the latter
instantly rise and crush him, but Billy only laughed and said we were
playing for fun; he was going to give me all my money back. I was
rejoiced to hear this, but still felt surprised at the propitiatory
manner Billy adopted toward this diminutive inky boy. It was not the
demeanor befitting a side-captain--and what made it worse was that the
strange boy loftily declined to be cajoled by it. He sniffed when Billy
told him about the military company we were forming; he coldly shook
his head, with a curt “Nixie!” when invited to join it; and he laughed
aloud at hearing the name our organization was to bear.

“He ain’t dead at all--that De Witt Hemingway,” he said, with jeering
contempt.

“Hain’t he though!” exclaimed Billy. “The news come last night. Tom had
to go home--his mother sent for him--on account of it!”

“I’ll bet you a quarter he ain’t dead,” responded the practical inky
boy. “Money up, though!”

“I’ve only got fifteen cents. I’ll bet you that, though,” rejoined
Billy, producing my torn and dishevelled shin-plasters.

“All right! Wait here!” said the boy, running off to the building
and disappearing through the door. There was barely time for me to
learn from my companion that this printer’s apprentice was called
“the devil,” and could not only whistle between his teeth and crack
his fingers, but chew tobacco, when he reappeared, with a long narrow
strip of paper in his hand. This he held out for us to see, indicating
with an ebon forefinger the special paragraph we were to read. Billy
looked at it sharply, for several moments in silence. Then he said to
me: “What does it say there? I must ’a’ got some powder in my eyes last
night.”

I read this paragraph aloud, not without an unworthy feeling that the
inky boy would now respect me deeply:

    “CORRECTION. Lieutenant De Witt C. Hemingway, of Company A, --th
    New York, reported in earlier despatches among the killed, is
    uninjured. The officer killed is Lieutenant Carl Heinninge, Company
    F, same regiment.”

Billy’s face visibly lengthened as I read this out, and he felt us
both looking at him. He made a pretence of examining the slip of paper
again, but in a half-hearted way. Then he ruefully handed over the
fifteen cents and, rising from the stone, shook himself.

“Them Dutchmen never was no good!” was what he said.

The inky boy had put the money in the pocket under his apron, and
grinned now with as much enjoyment as dignity would permit him to show.
He did not seem to mind any longer the original source of his winnings,
and it was apparent that I could not with decency recall it to him.
Some odd impulse prompted me, however, to ask him if I might have the
paper he had in his hand. He was magnanimous enough to present me with
the proof-sheet on the spot. Then with another grin he turned and left
us.

Billy stood sullenly kicking with his bare toes into a sand-heap by the
stone. He would not answer me when I spoke to him. It flashed across my
perceptive faculties that he was not such a great man, after all, as
I had imagined. In another instant or two it had become quite clear to
me that I had no admiration for him whatever. Without a word I turned
on my heel and walked determinedly out of the yard and into the street,
homeward bent.

All at once I quickened my pace; something had occurred to me. The
purpose thus conceived grew so swiftly that soon I found myself
running. Up the hill I sped, and straight through the park. If the
Irish boys shouted after me I knew it not, but dashed on heedless of
all else save the one idea. I only halted, breathless and panting, when
I stood on Dr. Stratford’s doorstep, and heard the night-bell inside
jangling shrilly in response to my excited pull.

As I waited, I pictured to myself the old doctor as he would presently
come down, half-dressed and pulling on his coat as he advanced. He
would ask, eagerly, “Who is sick? Where am I to go?” and I would calmly
reply that he unduly alarmed himself, and that I had a message for his
daughter. He would, of course, ask me what it was, and I, politely but
firmly, would decline to explain to any one but the lady in person.
Just what might ensue was not clear--but I beheld myself throughout
commanding the situation, at once benevolent, polished, and inexorable.

The door opened with unlooked-for promptness, while my self-complacent
vision still hung in midair. Instead of the bald and spectacled old
doctor, there confronted me a white-faced, solemn-eyed lady in a black
dress, whom I did not seem to know. I stared at her, tongue-tied, till
she said, in a low, grave voice, “Well, Andrew, what is it?”

Then of course I saw that it was Miss Stratford, my teacher, the
person whom I had come to see. Some vague sense of what the sleepless
night had meant in this house came to me as I gazed confusedly at her
mourning, and heard the echo of her sad tones in my ears.

“Is some one ill?” she asked again.

“No; some one--some one is very well!” I managed to reply, lifting my
eyes again to her wan face. The spectacle of its drawn lines and pallor
all at once assailed my wearied and overtaxed nerves with crushing
weight. I felt myself beginning to whimper, and rushing tears scalded
my eyes. Something inside my breast seemed to be dragging me down
through the stoop.

I have now only the recollection of Miss Stratford’s kneeling by my
side, with a supporting arm around me, and of her thus unrolling and
reading the proof-paper I had in my hand. We were in the hall now,
instead of on the stoop, and there was a long silence. Then she put her
head on my shoulder and wept. I could hear and feel her sobs as if they
were my own.

“I--I didn’t think you’d cry--that you’d be so sorry,” I heard myself
saying, at last, in despondent self-defence.

Miss Stratford lifted her head and, still kneeling as she was, put a
finger under my chin to make me look her in her face. Lo! the eyes were
laughing through their tears; the whole countenance was radiant once
more with the light of happy youth and with that other glory which
youth knows only once.

“Why, Andrew, boy,” she said, trembling, smiling, sobbing, beaming all
at once, “didn’t you know that people cry for very joy sometimes?”

And as I shook my head she bent down and kissed me.




BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

    [Since any list approaching a complete bibliography would be unduly
    long, these suggestions are merely for the convenience of those
    who, without special research, wish to read further and compare.
    They remain after rejection of many essays that seem hardly to
    advance the discussion.]


    =Cairns, William B.=, _On the Development of American Literature
        from 1815 to 1833_, with especial reference to periodicals;
        Bulletin of the University of Wisconsin, Philology and
        Literature Series, volume i, no. 1, pages 1–87.

    =Canby, Henry Seidel=, _The Short Story_; Yale Studies in English,
        xii (revised as introduction to _The Book of the Short Story_,
        edited by Alexander Jessup and Henry Seidel Canby).

    =Chassang, A.=, _Histoire du Roman ... dans l’Antiquité Grecque et
        Latine_; Paris (2d ed.), 1862.

    =Gilbert, E.=, _Le Roman en France pendant le xix^e Siècle_; Paris
        (2d ed.), 1896.

    =Hart, Walter Morris=, _The Evolution of the Short Story_; address
        delivered before the Alumni Association of Haverford College,
        June 12, 1901.

    =Matthews, Brander=, _The Philosophy of the Short Story_; New
        York, 1901. (This, the standard essay on the subject, is now
        published separately, with notes and a few striking references.)

    =Moland et d’Héricault=, _Nouvelles Françoises en Prose du
        xiii^{me} Siècle_; Paris, 1856 (l’Empereur Constant, Amis
        et Amile, le Roi Flore et la Belle Jehane, la Comtesse de
        Ponthieu, Aucassin et Nicolette; introduction, notes).

    =Morris, William=, _Old French Romances done into English by
        William Morris_, with introduction by Joseph Jacobs; London,
        1896 (translation of the same tales as in the preceding, except
        Aucassin and Nicolette).

    =Peck, Harry Thurston=, _Trimalchio’s Dinner_ by Petronius Arbiter,
        translated from the original Latin, with an introduction and
        bibliographical appendix; New York, 1898. (The introduction
        discusses prose fiction in Greece and Rome.)

    =Perry, Bliss=, _A Study of Prose Fiction_; Boston, 1902.




FOOTNOTES


[1] Donald G. Mitchell, _American Lands and Letters_.

[2] _Literary Papers of William Austin_, Boston, 1890, page 43.

[3] See Prof. William B. Cairns, _On the Development of American
Literature from 1815 to 1833, with especial reference to periodicals_;
Bulletin of the University of Wisconsin, Philology and Literature
Series, volume i, No. 1.

[4] For a pungent characterisation of the annuals, see Prof. Henry A.
Beers’s life of N. P. Willis (American Men of Letters), pages 77 and
following.

[5] Fromentin (_Un Été dans le Sahara_, page 59; _Une Année dans le
Sahel_, pages 215 and following) lays this down for painting.

[6] Bret Harte, _The Rise of the Short Story_, Cornhill Magazine, July,