
Xen came sluggishly awake, feeling the warmth penetrate his mass. The
time of heat had come again, the time to search for what would halt the
hunger that ached through every inch of him.

Slowly, his cold-stiffened mass flowed forward from its hiding place in
the warmth-holding sand. The heat melted the stiffness out of him and
he began to slide across the sand, his alert senses functioning again.
Sense of touch led him across rocks and over ridges easily. The touchy
sense of vibration waited apprehensively for movement that would
shake the ground. And the third sense, the one that could be called
only "sense" or "sense of knowing," functioned as always without his
understanding. Today, this third sense told Xen, was different from
other days.

Extra-cautious, Xen oozed over rocky barriers in the direction that his
"sense" told him held food. Once he felt a slight tremor, and in terror
flooded out over the rock into thin, transparent nothing. He waited
several degrees of heat, but no further movement touched the sensitive
receivers in his mass.

A falling rock, he decided, collecting himself and starting forward
again. He slithered down rocky walls, pouring almost like water when
the drop was long and drawing together at the bottom. When his feeling
of touch warned him of the shade whose coolness might solidify him and
leave him helpless in the open, he drew hurriedly away and changed
direction.

Finally, he reached an open spot that was likely to contain food.
His mass ached for something to consume, but he flooded himself thin
again and waited, feeling. There was no vibration through the surface,
nor did his "sense" tell him of anything other than the possibility
of nourishment. Xen hesitated only a degree of heat before bubbling
excitedly into the open space.

Touch found him something edible almost immediately--he flowed around
and over it, absorbing it hungrily. His mass dissolved it almost
immediately and ached for more. He slid thin, reaching out in every
direction until contact was made, then absorbing the food instantly and
moving on.
