
Xen was in the process of absorbing a plant when the vibration sense
alerted him. Terror shot through him and he spread thinly across thirty
feet of ground and lay motionless, his "sense" telling him frantically
that a Sting was hunting nearby.

He lay for many degrees of heat, waiting. Sense of vibration and
knowing both told him that the Sting was approaching, but uncertainly,
searching. Then both senses reacted startledly to a new danger on the
other side. New movement! A new feeling that his "sense" could not
understand.

The Sting was approaching at an angle that would inevitably bring it in
contact with Xen. Absorption was the penalty for being caught. Xen was
resigned to death, for he could not possibly escape the Sting. And now
there was this new sensation on the other side of him. Whatever it was,
he had no idea; but likely it was as voracious as the Sting.

Now the new thing vibrated jerkily around him and stopped between him
and the Sting. The vibrations from the eager Sting accelerated rapidly,
eagerly, as it flowed over the ground. Then, for no reason except that
the new creature had moved slightly, the Sting recoiled. The jerks were
plainly recorded through the earth to Xen; and as he felt the heavy
jar, his "sense" told him that the danger from the Sting was past. The
Sting was dead.

Xen drew himself together and considered that.

The new thing vibrated jerkily the place from which Xen had first felt
it move. It must be solid as the rocks to move so jerkily, Xen thought.
The Sting-killer drew itself back under the enormous rock and ceased to
move.

Curiosity drew Xen forward, fear dragged him back. He spread thin and
drew together with uncertainty. At last, he oozed forward carefully
until he reached the rock. The Sting-killer was pressed back under the
rock, where touch told Xen a tiny amount of the cold-carrying shade
remained. Xen puzzled at that. Why should this creature hide from the
life-giving suns?

He reached out and absorbed a plant thoughtfully. This thing was
different from the liquid structures he had always known. If it was
solid where they were liquid, perhaps then it was also opposite in its
needs. Maybe this Sting-killer needed cold instead of heat.

While Xen was considering this difficult thought, the Sting-killer
began to move again.
