
Xen, following the Sting-killer curiously, put together all that he had
learned. This creature was different from himself. It needed shade. It
had killed his enemy, which was possibly also its own enemy. Now it was
trying to reach the shade, but its progress grew steadily slower.

He considered that progress. The only thing he could liken it to was
one of his own kind, caught out in the time of cold, trying to reach
the heat-retaining sands, slowly congealing into a solid mass and
dying. This, then, was the reverse process. Perhaps the Sting-killer
would become liquid after a certain degree of heat.

Xen's sense of knowing warned him gently about too much wandering
in the open, where countless Stings could be hiding. He drew back,
unwilling to stop following this interesting creature. The Sting-killer
vibrated the ground and lay still suddenly. Xen waited for a "sense" of
death but none came. This might be for the new thing a stage similar to
that when one of Xen's own kind became unable to move from the cold,
but still lived and feared.

Caught between his own fear and a very strange sensation that he could
not interpret, Xen waited a degree of heat. Then he oozed forward and
spread himself over the still shape, until it floated within him. When
he flowed over one part, the thing struggled pitiably. Xen drew back
startedly and the movement ceased. Carefully, he retraced his course,
leaving the part free. This time there was no struggling.

Spurred by fear of Stings, Xen began to flow across the land, letting
his "Sense" guide him to the coldness. He slithered up slopes, poured
over steep drops, always collecting himself in time to catch his burden.

He found a place that would stay cold until the next time of heat
and halted in front of it, his anxiety evident in the way he spread
and collected himself, back and forth. At last he inched forward,
feeling the agony of the cold bite into every cell. Bunching himself
behind the Sting-killer, he made it flow along him until it broke
free and lay upon the shaded rock. Xen drew back as hurriedly as his
already-sluggish mass would allow. He spread thin across the earth and
let the heat liquefy his body again....
