
They had stopped their play and eating as Kaiser approached and now
most of them swam in to shore and stood in the water, staring and
piping. They varied in size from small seal-pups to full-grown adults.
Some chewed on bunches of water weed, which they manipulated with their
lips and drew into their mouths.

They had mammalian characteristics, Kaiser had noted before, so it
was not difficult to distinguish the females from the males. The
proportion was roughly fifty-fifty.

Several of the bolder males climbed up beside Kaiser and began pawing
his plastic clothing. Kaiser stood still and tried to keep his
breathing shallow, for their odor was almost more than he could bear.
One native smeared Kaiser's face with an exploring paw and Kaiser
gagged and pushed him roughly away. He was bound by regulations to
display no hostility to newly discovered natives, but he couldn't take
much more of this.

A young female splashed water on two young males who stood near and
they turned with shrill pipings and chased her into the water. The
entire group seemed to lose interest in Kaiser and joined in the chase,
or went back to other diversions of their own. Kaiser's inspectors
followed.

They were a mindless lot, Kaiser observed. The river supplied them with
an easy existence, with food and living space, and apparently they had
few natural enemies.

Kaiser walked away, following the long slow bend of the river, and
came to a collection of perhaps two hundred dwellings built in three
haphazard rows along the river bank. He took time to study their
construction more closely this time.

They were all round domes, little more than the height of a man, built
of blocks that appeared to be mud, packed with river weed and sand. How
they were able to dry these to give them the necessary solidity, Kaiser
did not know. He had found no signs that they knew how to use fire, and
all apparent evidence was against their having it. They then had to
have sunlight. Maybe it rained less during certain seasons.

The domes' construction was based on a series of four arches built in a
circle. When the base covering the periphery had been laid, four others
were built on and between them, and continued in successive tiers until
the top was reached. Each tier thus furnished support for the next
above. No other framework was needed. The final tier formed the roof.
They made sound shelters, but Kaiser had peered into several and found
them dark and dank--and as smelly as the natives themselves.

The few loungers in the village paid little attention to Kaiser and
he wandered through the irregular streets until he became bored and
returned to the scout.

The _Soscites II_ sent little that helped during the next twelve hours
and Kaiser occupied his time trying again to repair the damage to the
scout.

The job appeared maddeningly simply. As the scout had glided in for
a soft landing, its metal bottom had ridden a concealed rock and bent
inward. The bent metal had carried up with it the tube supplying the
fuel pump and flattened it against the motor casing.
