
As dusk fell, Kaiser set up his tent a few hundred yards back from the
native settlement. All apprehension about how his stomach would react
to the river weed had left him. Apparently it could be assimilated by
his digestive system. Lying on his air mattress, he felt thoroughly at
peace with this world.

Once, just before dropping off to sleep, he heard the snuffling noise
of some large animal outside his tent and picked up a pistol, just in
case. However, the first jolt of the guard-wire charge discouraged the
beast and Kaiser heard it shuffle away, making puzzled mewing sounds as
it went.

The next morning, Kaiser left off all his clothes except a pair of
shorts and went swimming in the river. The seal-people were already in
the water when he arrived and were very friendly.

That friendliness nearly resulted in disaster. The natives crowded
around as he swam--they maneuvered with an otter-like proficiency--and
often nudged him with their bodies when they came too close. He had
difficulty keeping afloat and soon turned and started back. As he
neared the river edge, a playful female grabbed him by the ankle and
pulled him under.

Kaiser tried to break her hold, but she evidently thought he was
clowning and wrapped her warm furred arms around him and held him
helpless. They sank deeper.

When his breath threatened to burst from his lungs in a stream of
bubbles, and he still could not free himself, Kaiser brought his knee
up into her stomach and her grip loosened abruptly. He reached the
surface, choking and coughing, and swam blindly toward shore until his
feet hit the river bottom.

As he stood on the bank, getting his breath, the natives were quiet and
seemed to be looking at him reproachfully. He stood for a time, trying
to think of a way to explain the necessity of what he had done, but
there was none. He shrugged helplessly.

There was no longer anything to be gained by staying here--if they
had the tools he needed, he had no way of finding out or asking for
them--and he packed and started back to the scout.

Kaiser's good spirits returned on his return journey. He had enjoyed
the relief from the tedium of spending day after day in the scout, and
now he enjoyed the exercise of pulling the mudsled. Above the waist,
he wore only the harness and the large, soft drops of rain against his
bare skin were pleasant to feel.

When he reached the scout, Kaiser began to unload the sled. The
tarpaulin caught on the edge of a runner and he gave it a tug to free
it. To his amazement, the heavy sled turned completely over, spilling
the equipment to the ground.

Perplexed, Kaiser stooped and began replacing the spilled articles in
the tarp. They felt exceptionally light. He paused again, and suddenly
his eyes widened.
