
Charles pulled Chuck Mead, fighting and struggling all the way, into
his own world and together they stood on Hobson's Hill, overlooking
the town. "Scares me silly every time I make that crossing," Charles
confessed breathlessly.

Chuck's fingers still clutched his arm, digging painfully into the
flesh as though he expected the ground to crumble away at any moment.

"You're okay now," Charles reassured him. He pressed the switches
on the square of black boxes and the humming noise ceased. The arch
collapsed. "Just look around you and see if this isn't a different
world. You'll notice we have a Finlay's Lumber Company here, which you
don't have in your world. That's only one minor difference. Come on
home with me and I'll give you all the proof you could want."

Charles Mead's home was a spacious villa set well back from the road
in pleasant handsomely kept grounds. They went inside and Charles led
the way upstairs to the den, a bright, paneled room at the back of the
house.

"Nice place," Chuck said, awed.

"I suppose it is," Charles agreed. "Sit down. We've got a lot to talk
about."

He poured drinks from a well-stocked cabinet and settled in an easy
chair. "Now, then, I want to know if you're really convinced of this
business of other worlds."

"Sure," Chuck said, "unless you've got me doped or hypnotized or I'm
dreaming or something. It all _seems_ real enough."

"It _is_ real." Ice cubes clicked as Charles tilted his glass and
drank. "Now let's get down to business. Just listen to what I have to
say and don't interrupt. I want you to think for a moment about those
times in your life when you've had to make a decision or choose between
two alternative courses of action which would affect your whole life.
Have you ever wondered, when you've made your choice, what would have
happened if you had chosen the other alternative? For instance, if you
arrived at a situation where two jobs were available and you chose one,
wouldn't you sometimes wonder how things would have been if you had
chosen the other job?

"I think I can show you," he continued, "that when we reach such
situations and finally select a course of action, _we also take the
other course at the same time_. I'm going to try to prove to you that
an alternative world somehow comes into existence in which you live
your other life. As a matter of fact, you and I sprang from one of
these decisive moments. I'm pretty sure I know which one, too."
