
He cut short his guest's protests with a quick wave of his hand.
"You really can't argue with me about it. You've seen _two_ worlds
already--surely you don't think it ends there? After all, we live in an
infinite universe; why shouldn't we be infinite creatures living out
the infinite possibilities of our lives? Still, to return to you and
me--your wife's name is Kathy, isn't it?"

"Yeah. Is yours?"

"My wife is called Estelle. Does that mean anything to you?"

Chuck put down his drink and straightened suddenly. "You mean Estelle
Defoe?"

"That's right. If you want to make sure we're talking about the same
girl, go look out the window."

Chuck stood up and leaned over the sill. Outside, surrounded by the
close-trimmed green lawn, was a swimming pool. Beside the pool, a
shapely blonde was stretched out face down on a red towel like some
bright, beautiful calendar girl. She wore the bottom half of a green
striped bikini; the top half lay on the grass beside her.

"My God! That's Estelle, all right!" Chuck exclaimed. "I'd know her
anywhere. Still got that terrific figure, too!"

"I suppose she is hard to forget after--how long? Just over seven
years, isn't it? Isn't that how long you've been married?"

"How did you know?"

"Can't you guess? Remember, seven or eight years ago, how you tortured
yourself choosing between two girls--Estelle or Kathy? Remember how
hard it was arriving at a decision?"

"It wasn't too difficult. I chose Kathy."

"I know," Charles said, smiling. "I was left with Estelle. Or perhaps
it was the other way round. Don't you see: _I am you and you are me!_
If there's any difference between us, it's only what the last seven
years have done to us. It was one of those decisions I spoke of, when
one of us followed one path, leaving the other to explore the other
path."

"That's crazy! I happen to know Estelle married a major in the Army
years ago and went out West to live."

"In your world, maybe," Charles said, "but the one in this world
married me."
