
Chuck looked enviously out of the window. "Lucky you." He made a
gesture that took in the room, the girl, the magnificent house, the
beautiful garden. "Did Estelle make you rich, too?"

"Not the way you seem to be figuring. Her father gave me a job in his
electronics business and I did some profitable research for him. Now
I'm a partner in the firm. We have a big plant on the other side of
town. As a matter of fact, it was while I was in the lab out there that
I stumbled on these alternate worlds. By sheer accident, I crossed into
another world and almost scared myself to death.

"By the way," he went on, "what happened to you after you married
Kathy? I often wondered what it would have been like being married to
her."

"It's all right, I guess," Chuck said. "We got married and bought a
house. A couple of years ago, I went into business on my own--Hi-Fi and
TV repairs. Business isn't too bad." He flashed another look at the
golden girl sunning herself by the pool. "Estelle hasn't changed much
in all these years," he said nostalgically. "She's still as beautiful
as ever."

Then he banged his glass down hard on the window sill. "You must be
trying to put something over on me! What's the gag?"

"There's no gag," Charles assured him. "Besides, there's more to come."

"Like what?"

"I mentioned earlier about this being an infinite universe. There
_must_ be more than just the world you live in and the world I live in.
Think it over--millions of everybody making decisions all the time,
following one path and discarding another--there must be millions of
worlds! An infinite number of them!"

Chuck drained his glass and went back to the cabinet to help himself.

"It's not just a theory," Charles insisted. "I _know_ there's more than
just our two worlds. I've seen a couple of them. I could even take you
to them. And every time anyone makes a decision, new ones spring into
existence. Do you follow me?"

"I guess so," Chuck said. "As much as anyone can follow a thing like
that."

"I'm still not finished--"

"Hold it," Chuck cut in abruptly. "Before we get tangled up any
further, what am _I_ doing here?"
