
"I had to tell someone," Charles said. "I couldn't keep a thing like
this to myself, yet who could I tell? I thought it over and said
nothing to anyone in this world, because it suddenly occurred to me
that the best person to confide in was one of my hundreds of selves."

"Quit it," Chuck begged. "You'll drive me nuts--you and your hundreds
of selves!"

"You're one of them," Charles reminded him. "The others all exist
somewhere. I just happened to reach _you_ by accident. When I started
down Hobson's Hill, I didn't know which Charles Mead would be in the
town. After all, I've made dozens of big decisions in the past few
years. There must be plenty of other Charles Meads in existence."

"That still doesn't explain why you brought _me_ here. Don't tell me
you intend to round up all the different versions of yourself. If so,
count me out!"

"You're getting warm," Charles said. "If you'll bear with me a little
longer, I'll stretch your imagination again."

Chuck groaned and settled down resignedly in the armchair.

"If there really are all these worlds," Charles began, "and I can't see
why there shouldn't be, then a world must exist where there's a Charles
Mead who never made a wrong decision! A Charles Mead who did everything
right, who never made a wrong move in his life! Of course there must
also be one of us who never made a _right_ decision--to say nothing
of all the endless varieties between the two extreme cases. But, of
course, I'm not concerned with them."

Chuck stood watching the sleeping girl by the ornamental pool, looking
back, thinking back over seven years. Then he went over to the cabinet
and poured himself another drink--a strong one. "So what if there is a
perfect Charles Mead somewhere? What about him?"

"I'd like to see him," Charles said. "I'd like to see such a world.
Wouldn't you?"

"In your place? Not a chance! What's wrong with the world you're in
now? It looks good to me. A lot better than mine--beautiful wife, big
house, big shot in the company...."

"It's a matter of what you're used to," Charles said dryly. "I hope
you don't mind me saying this--we are brothers, more rather than
less--when I called on you, I'm sure I heard you fighting with Kathy.
Do you fight often?"

"I guess we do," Chuck said, "from time to time."

"Estelle and I fight all the time. I still regret marrying her, even
though I got rich because of it. Anyway, we don't get along. We don't
even try to manage. There were plenty of times when I regretted not
marrying Kathy. She seemed to me to be a nice homy, comfortable sort of
kid."

"I hope you're not going to suggest we trade places," Chuck said.

"Of course not. I told you--I'm searching for the _perfect_ world.
Charles Mead's Utopia!" He raised his glass in a mock toast. "Want to
come along?"
