
Chuck Mead was silent, looking out of the window on to the lawn. The
girl by the pool stirred briefly in her sunny slumber. "Weren't you
ever happy with Estelle?" he asked.

Charles shrugged. "I suppose I was at first. But we soon grew tired of
each other. I was tied up with the business and Estelle wanted a good
time."

"It's funny," Chuck said wistfully, "but when Kathy and I started to
drift apart, I began to have Estelle on my mind all the time. I used
to imagine how much better things would have been if I'd married her
instead."

"I guess we both made a poor choice. Probably the perfect Charles Mead
didn't choose either girl."

"If _I_ failed with Kathy and _you_ failed with Estelle, I wouldn't be
surprised if the Charles Mead who--ah--got away didn't fail in some
other world. Kathy and Estelle were a couple of nice kids. Maybe it
wasn't their fault entirely. Maybe it was the fault of Charles and
Chuck Mead."

"Possibly," said Charles a little wearily. "But that sort of argument
gets us nowhere. You still can't disprove that there isn't a perfect
Charles Mead somewhere."

"I doubt if he's perfect," Chuck said. "Making the correct decisions
all the time doesn't necessarily make him perfect. Besides, even if you
did meet him, it wouldn't alter _you_ in any way. You'd be the same
person you are now."

"I'd still like to find him."

"I'll bet you wouldn't know him if you saw him. And you might waste a
whole lifetime looking. Then, if you did find him, what makes you think
he'd want _you_ hanging around?"

"At least, if he did kick me out, I'd know he'd made the absolutely
correct decision," Charles said, smiling.

"Well, don't count me in on your search. If you take my advice, you'll
smash your invention or whatever it is and stay in your own world.
There's nothing to be gained by exploring the paths you _might_ have
followed."

"What's to be gained by not going?"

"That's up to you. You can stay and make the best of your own world."

"You're a fine one to talk. Are you going back to your own life--to
Kathy? Even though you don't get along with her?"
