
Koosh drooped his eye-stalks in agreement. "Except that the chances of
accident would be increased somewhat. But now, let us leave here. This
gravel punches through my sandal and hurts my foot."

On the street, they paused to consider their next move. While they
stood there debating, a seedy, stoop-shouldered human came shuffling
along the walk and passed between them unheedingly, mumbling something
about, "Need dough. Gotta get wine money...."

The Shisti casually watched him out of sight around the corner, then
said, "Astounding, Thuko, astounding. He gave no indication of having
seen us. I must admit I don't completely understand it."

"Who does?" countered Thuko. "It is something that science cannot
satisfactorily explain. All the savants know is that most of these
Earthlings do not believe in our existence, and somehow that nonbelief
acts to prevent them from acknowledging the evidence of their senses
that we are among them. Furthermore, wherever we go, if even one human
in the immediate vicinity refuses to accept our reality, then we are
apparent to none, though we stand before a thousand.

"The same thing applies to the ship. Not only that, but suppose I steal
an object right out of the hands of a human and place it elsewhere. To
his mind it ceases to exist--never did exist. There was nothing to move
it; it could not move itself; so his weak intellect takes the easiest
way out by rejecting the whole affair.

"All in all, we are about as safe as we could be. As long as there is
one non-believer somewhere near us."

"It is a good thing," remarked Koosh. "The Earthmen might resent us if
they knew of our presence."

"Yes." Thuko abruptly dismissed the subject and said, "I am
increasingly aware of the pangs of hunger. Perhaps we could best launch
our sojourn on Earth with a festive orgy at some food emporium."

Koosh liked the idea and forthwith they hopped off in search of a
supermarket, of which they had heard much from returning vacationers.
Enough to start them drooling in anticipation.

In the first two blocks they bounded past a dozen or more pedestrians,
each of whom paid them no attention.

Five blocks more and they found what they were looking for. It bore the
name of a well-known chain, though the colorful sign was meaningless to
the Shisti and his assistant, since the Martians had never taken the
trouble to learn any of Earth's multifarious languages, either written
or spoken.

They entered, and at once their organs of scent were assailed by such a
profusion of saliva inspiring odors that Koosh all but collapsed in an
ague of rapture. He grasped a wheeled contrivance for support.

Thuko wasted no time in such preliminaries, but hopped frantically down
the aisle into the produce department, grabbed a huge cabbage and began
eating with all the gusto of a circus fat lady down to her last three
hundred pounds.

Nearby the produce clerk leaned drowsily against the sacked potato
display, enjoying the respite offered by a mid-morning slack period.
Oblivious to the theft of the cabbage and the crunching sounds
resultant therefrom, he speculatively eyed an under-dressed blonde
tripping by the window.

Thuko finished the vegetable and without pause started on a stalk of
bananas. Meanwhile, in another aisle, Koosh had discovered the delights
of Gro-Pup and was well into his second box. There was a lifetime of
near-starvation to counterbalance, and if that could be done in one
short year this voracious team would obviously accomplish it.

They moved slowly along the shelves, stowing away incredible amounts
of food and drink. When at last their paths met in the canned goods
section, Thuko picked up one of the cylindrical objects and stared at
it, thinking. Koosh waited patiently. A minute passed and it seemed the
problem would defeat the Assistant Shisti. But then his eye was caught
by the butcher wielding a cleaver on a side of beef.

Bells rang in Thuko's head. He hopped behind the meat counter, obtained
a second cleaver from its hanging place and returned. Great was his
triumph as he lopped off the tops of two of the containers, spattering
Koosh with stewed tomatoes. With hunger redoubled by the delay, the
Martians emptied can after can of fruits, vegetables, juices and meats,
tossing the decapitated tins behind them in the aisle.

A plumpish woman shopper approached, waddling along unhurriedly,
pausing occasionally to squint at a grocery list and take an item from
the shelves. As she neared Koosh and Thuko, she reached out for a can
of peas and in so doing brought her hand against the back of Koosh's
head.

Koosh grunted in annoyance and moved his head out of the way. The woman
made another try and this time secured the can of peas. She placed it
in her cart and moved on, apparently unaware that anything out of the
ordinary had happened.

Not much later she would develop leprosy. For that, incredible as it
seems, was just how every leper throughout time had contracted the
disease. By coming in accidental contact with a vacationing Martian.

The Martians did not know of it, of course. But even if they had, it
would have made no difference to them. Should it be their worry if a
blundering Earthian caught from them an incurable ailment? One which to
them was not even a disease? Obviously not.

The Shisti and his assistant went on eating, squealing in delight with
the first delicious taste of each new food.
