
The beginning of their second day on Earth found Koosh and Thuko
hopping along the street in quest of new pleasures. The air was damp
and raw. Overhead a leaden sky threatened the world below, hinting at
the unpleasant equinoctial weather soon to come. But the two Martians
took no notice, accustomed as they were to the awful winds and cold of
their home planet. This was paradise in comparison.

Koosh reddled a little song with his eye-stalks as they bounded through
downtown traffic, but took care not to lose himself in it to the point
of coming down in the path of one of the whizzing cars. The terrifying
machines did not need to believe in their existence to smash them to
bloody pulp.

In front of a swank hotel, Thuko called a halt and motioned with a
tendril. "This would be a likely place to find thrilling luxuries.
My friend Yemma told me that on his vacation he lived a month in the
kitchen of one of these structures and when he came out was so fat he
could scarcely hop."

Koosh dribbled spittle. "Wonderful, wonderful. We shall outdo Yemma. We
shall spend three months and come out fat even in our tendrils!"

Thuko opened the door and they entered. The lobby was empty except
for a clerk behind the desk, who was at the moment engrossed in a
newspaper. Ignoring him, they crossed the room in panic haste as a
faint but delectable fragrance floated into their scent organs.

The spacious dining hall was crowded with humanity. At one table a
tall, thin man was speaking into a microphone, while all eyes turned
in his direction. Most raptly attentive of all were the great number
of youthful diners, who seemed to regard the speaker with an awe that
bordered on worship.

Onto this scene came Koosh and Thuko, hot on the trail of eatables and
drinkables. Spying the door to the kitchen, they hurried toward it
between the tables, gabbling at each other in passionate conjecture at
the delicacies awaiting them.

They were little prepared for the furor that followed.

It began at the first table they passed. A woman sitting there glanced
their way, pointed at them, opened her mouth in a piercing scream and
fainted dead away on the floor.

The man with her jumped to his feet, shouting something in a hoarse
voice. It sounded like: "They're here! It's finally happened! Now let's
see them call us crazy!"

Others stood up, attracted by the hubbub. They craned to see; and when
they did, they too began yelling and gesticulating, until the dining
hall was one vast sea of sound and motion.

The Shisti and his assistant hesitated, hopped forward again, stopped
finally in utter confusion. For the first time on this planet, fear
caught at them. Could this truly be? Was it really possible that they
had been detected? Did all of these humans believe in the Martians'
existence?

Plainly, they did.

"We must flee, Koosh!" Thuko bawled in terror. "Return to the ship!"
And suiting action to words, he turned and went leaping back the way
they had come. Koosh followed close on his heel, with an alacrity
unusual for that individual.

"Wait! Wait, please!" someone called. "We won't harm you!"

Others took it up. But of course Koosh and Thuko did not understand.
They rushed on. And the crowd poured after them like a tidal wave,
pleading with them to stop.

Through the lobby, out the front entrance, down the steps, the Martians
hopped with speed born of desperation. They started across the street,
unheeding of the traffic, intent only on escape from their howling
pursuers. Consequently they did not see the huge truck bearing down on
them.

Nor did the driver of the truck see them. Not that he was unalert. No,
it was merely that he did not believe in Martians. Just as dozens of
other motorists and pedestrians close around did not believe in them.

The truck rolled forward. There was a crunching, squishing sound. A
blue fluid spattered over the hood and chunks of spongy flesh rained
down under the wheels as the delicately built aliens came apart in a
thousand pieces. An eye-stalk, twitching violently, bounced off the cab
roof.

The truck rumbled on, the driver whistling a cheery tune. Bits of Koosh
and Thuko rode with him, caught in the grill. So ended the Shisti and
Assistant Shisti's vacation on Earth....
