
I went straight to the pawn shop. I slammed the glass door behind me,
hard enough so that I thought it'd shatter, and then I stalked over to
the counter. The old man was nowhere in sight. I banged my fist on the
wooden counter top.

"Hey!" I yelled.

"Just a minute."

I sucked in a deep breath, held it until I thought I'd burst.

"Hey!" I bellowed.

"All right, all right."

He came from the back of the store. He wore glasses, and he had a shock
of black, unruly hair that toppled onto his forehead, giving his thin
face a disheveled look.

"Where's your boss?" I asked.

"What?" He lifted his eye-shade, stared at me curiously. "Who?"

"Your boss. The fat guy with the bald head and the mustache."

He stared at me for another moment. "I don't know what you're talking
about," he said at last.

"Look," I said, "your boss. The little guy who sold me the typewriter."

"What typewriter?" he asked blankly.

"The typewriter! My God, man, don't you know anything that goes on
around here? The Remington Noiseless portable. The one that was in the
window."

"A Remington? In my window?"

"Yes," I said patiently. "Right in your window." I pointed without
turning around. "Right out there in your window. There. In the window."

"You're mistaken," he said.

"I'm not mistaken. Don't be foolish. I came in here this afternoon and
bought a typewriter. A Remington Noiseless portable. It cost me five
dollars, and...."

He shook his head vigorously. "Oh, no, no. You're mistaken."

"Oh hell, there's no sense talking to you. When will your boss be back?"

"I have no boss," he said indignantly. "I am my own boss. I _own_ this
shop."

"Oh," I said, "I see. Well, this fat guy probably works for you then.
Is he out to supper?"

His eyes narrowed. "There is no fat guy working for me. There is nobody
working for me. I work alone."

"Huh?"

"I-work-alone," he said slowly, as if he were repeating the sentence
for a sub-level moron.

"Alone?" I gulped hard.

"Alone," he said firmly.

"Oh."

"Was there anything else I could do for you, sir?" he asked bitingly.
"Before I close for the evening?"

"No. No, thank you. Thank you." I turned and walked out of the shop.
On the sidewalk, I stopped to look up at the numbers on the door. They
seemed to be the same numbers. And the three gold gilt balls hanging
over the doorway seemed the same, too. I shrugged. Perhaps I'd been
wrong. There were a lot of pawn shops on Third Avenue, and maybe I'd
just stumbled into the wrong one, being a little worked up and all. I
started walking, stopping at the next pawn shop, ready to go in.

I noticed that the grillwork fence was already up. Gone for the day. I
kept walking, stopped at two more closed, fenced shops and then decided
I'd let it go for tonight. I'd start again early in the morning,
looking for the fat old man with the bald head and the mustache. I'd
find him then, and straighten this all out.

I went back to my room.

The typewriter was sitting where I'd left it.

I snatched the sheet of paper from the roller, tossed it onto the
floor. I put a new sheet into the machine, and sat down to type what
I wanted to type, knowing damned well I'd get Poe instead. I typed
without looking at the sheet of paper, afraid almost at what I knew
would be there. _The Murders In The Rue Morgue_, maybe. Or _Ulalume_,
if the machine had forgotten I didn't write poetry.

I opened my eyes and stopped typing. I looked at what I'd written.

_The day was crisp and clear, with the promise of a mild afternoon
in the air. It was the beginning of April, and Spring rustled her
greenness and yawned leisurely. I walked along happily._

"Well, I'll be damned," I said.

I leaned back, fully expecting some answer from the machine. There
was none. I poked my forefinger at the shift key, tapped the space bar
tentatively, rolled the roller, swung the carriage, sniffed at the
ribbon.

"Have you gone?" I asked the typewriter.

There was no answer. I sighed happily and started to work, typing
twelve pages of lousy prose which I tossed into the wastebasket. But I
was happier than I'd been since I bought the infernal machine.
