
He was so shaken by this conclusion that he quickly retreated to
safety, closing the airlock. The birds stayed outside. They were
arguing between themselves. He could tell by the gesticulations they
made with their heads. Once Pisces I attacked Pisces II viciously,
raking him mercilessly with sharp talons. Pisces II fought back
ferociously. They rolled over and over in the sand. Ingomar threw a
switch that gave him communication outside the ship, and yelled at them.

They stopped fighting at once. He said, "Have you two lost your minds?"

Pisces II laughed. "Now how could one lose his mind? It goes with him
everywhere."

"All right," Ingomar said. "I meant, have you become insane?"

"Of course not," Pisces I said. "We are peaceful entities. We
intentionally developed this argument to break the monotony of life
here."

"Is it so bad as that?"

"It is terrible. Will you take us aboard?"

Ingomar did not answer, but switched the communicator off and busied
himself with recording his observations. He took advantage of their
continued presence and took photographs.

Finally, after several hours, they leapt into the air and flew away
toward the distant mountains. Ingomar was sorry to see them leave, and
more than once checked his instruments for signs of a coming storm in
case they were right. But nothing outside had changed.

After they had left he opened the ship and stepped outside, taking
readings with instruments to record the character of the planet. He
trudged through the eternally drifting sand, looking for some sign of
life. No plants, insects, animals anywhere. Only the fine, mobile sand,
occasionally an outcropping of rock not yet eroded away. And the heat!
Ingomar was forced to turn the controls of his environment suit almost
all the way up to keep comfortable. Then, when the sun receded behind
the ghostly barren mountains, the cold came creeping in. Ingomar turned
his controls in the other direction, while walking back to his ship. He
was afraid he would not keep the cold outside.

The landscape, with the sun's absence, was dark and fearful. Shadows
moved in the wind, shadows of drifting sand that took on the
shapes of monsters lurking in the darkness. Ingomar was not one to
frighten easily, but the night took on such ominous sighs and moans
and movements that his imagination began to magnify them beyond
recognition. When he finally saw the ship loom up before him he ran,
stumbling toward it. He fumbled in the darkness for the control knob
to open the lock and found it at last. He leapt inside, accompanied by
a cold blast of wind and sand, and stood there panting, hearing his
heart pound in his ears.

The night was long and lonely. He was too far from civilization for
his radio equipment to bring the comfort of familiar sounds. He tried
to read, but found concentration impossible. He thought of the birds,
wondering where they were now, how they kept from freezing to death at
night. He rewrote his notes, adding remembered facts and impressions.
Finally he decided sleep was the most painless way of spending the
night, and swallowed a small capsule designed to induce total sleep for
at least six hours.
