
Pisces II snorted through his beak, and scratched in the sand.
"Stupidity," he said. "There is no other word for it."

"Yes, there is," Pisces I answered, somewhat sharply. "In fact, there
are several possible words. Bravery. Desperation. Actually I think
it is a combination of both. I am sure that you are aware how rare
intelligent life is in the universe. When you heard of us, you rushed
out here at once. I would call it bravery to go beyond the sound of the
voices of your kind. You are desperate because you are lonely in an
almost empty universe."

"We must help him," said Pisces II.

"Of course. But first let's make him comfortable. It will be a long
wait."

"Thank you," Ingomar said, moved by their sympathy. "But you cannot
help. Or do you have a way to send messages?"

"Yes, in a way," Pisces II said, "You see...."

Pisces I lifted a huge wing and knocked Pisces II in the sand. He
turned to Ingomar. "Do you promise to take us with you, if we should
succeed in getting help?"

Ingomar did not think it over. "Yes," he said.

"Then we will do it. But first we must make you comfortable. Do you
have equipment for shelter, besides the ship?"

"Yes, there is the bubble. It can be expanded to become a house."

"Get it," Pisces II said.

Ingomar did. He dragged it outside and began to unfold it, in
preparation for inflation. But Pisces II stopped him. "Not here," he
said. "It will be a long time. Our calculation is that it will take at
least forty-five days to get help. The trip from your planet alone is
at least forty days. You will not wish to stare at your toppled ship
for so long. I suggest we go beyond the first knoll."

Pisces I laughed and said to Ingomar, "For once he is using his brain.
We will carry it."

He grasped the bubble in his claws, flapped his enormous wings and
sailed off. Soon he returned, and among the three of them all his food
and books and any equipment he might need was carried over the knoll
out of sight of the wrecked ship.

"We will not return," they said, "until the rescue ship arrives. So
make yourself comfortable. Do not stray too far from the ship. This is
the most miserable planet in the universe. Give us plenty of time. We
know we can summon help, but we do not know how long it will take. We
may need as many as seventy-five days."

Ingomar settled down to wait.
