
Next day Channing took off for the nearest sub-space center and a
few hours later he was in Mr. Folan's office at Planet Enterprises,
gingerly balancing his cap on his knee. Mr. Folan's sleek head nodded
as Channing made his points and when he was finished the executive
pressed a buzzer and called for the file.

"You realize, Mr. Channing," he said conversationally, as he turned
over the pages, "that what you are asking will be a most expensive
undertaking."

"I know that," Channing said eagerly, "but upklin seeds are such a
sure-fire proposition that I thought Planet Enterprises might be
willing to do the job on a percentage basis."

Mr. Folan wrote some figures on the margin of the folder and considered
deeply. "Yes," he said at last, "I think it would work out on a
seventy-thirty split."

"Seventy-thirty?"

Mr. Folan inclined his head graciously. "Seventy per cent for Planet
Enterprises and thirty for yourself."

Channing said slowly, "That's a bit steep."

In a few brisk words, Mr. Folan showed just why he was an executive of
Planet Enterprises, Inc. He gave Channing the figures for transforming
the planet's characteristics to those of Jupiter; he told him what
acreage of upklin seeds he could grow and the exact profit to be
expected. Channing's share should be about one hundred and fifty
thousand credits per crop.

Fighting a rearguard battle, Channing said, "Your three hundred and
fifty thousand won't look so bad on the balance sheet, either."

Folan reeled off his figures again with practiced glibness. Channing
had the sudden suspicion that his proposition wasn't entirely
unexpected. But the figures sounded reasonable and he had to admit that
Planet Enterprises was risking a great deal of money.

"Then there is the not inconsiderable cost of your own metamorphosis,
Mr. Channing," Folan added.

"Huh?" said Channing.

There followed the most excruciating half-hour of Channing's life.
Proposition followed explanation, counter-explanation followed
counter-proposition. At the end of that time he emerged from the office
with a stricken look and a small white card. The blonde receptionist
read the look correctly and definitely and finally crossed him off her
list.
