
Folan's jaw dropped. It was a question he'd never expected to hear from
any of the men who had taken the terrible choice for the glittering
reward he held out to them. Most of them had picked up their vouchers
and asked the way to the nearest tavern; many of the alien races did
not find alcohol compatible with their metabolisms. A few had inquired
tentatively about his current receptionist. Planet Enterprises had a
big turnover in pretty receptionists, but they didn't lose them to
men who had been unhuman horrors for five years. One big red-haired
character had wanted to start a private war against the Sirians, whose
brother he had been until two days previously. But none of them had
wanted to go back.

He said, "It's possible, Mr. Channing. But I must tell you that a
second metamorphosis is very expensive--and it's permanent."

"You mean if I become a Jube again, I must stay one?"

The executive nodded.

Channing gestured toward the payment voucher.

"You said it was expensive. Is there enough there to cover it?"

Folan looked curiously at him. "Yes, more than enough."

He waited to hear what the big man would say next.

Channing licked dry lips. A terrible doubt assailed him. Maybe Aln
Muh had been metamorphosed too. Maybe she had returned to her former
self--whatever that may have been--while he sat here.

He looked down at the big, freckled hands resting on his knees. They
were trembling and his palms felt moist. Without looking up, he asked,
"Is the period of metamorphosis, always for a term of five years?"

"Invariably. No other term is possible in the present state of our
knowledge of the technique--except permanency."

A great sigh escaped Channing. That was all right, then. Aln Muh was
genuinely a Jube. The agent had told him about her--mentioned her by
name, he remembered now--had said that she was upklin farming on the
neighboring planet. If she had been metamorphosed, she would have been
taken from him more than a year ago.

He tossed his cap on the table decisively and stood up.

"All right. I'll take the permanent treatment."
