



Fra Rafael drew the llama-wool blanket closer about his narrow
shoulders, shivering in the cold wind that screamed down from Huascan.
His face held great pain. I rose, walked to the door of the hut and
peered through fog at the shadowy haunted lands that lifted toward the
sky--the Cordilleras that make a rampart along Peru's eastern border.

"There's nothing," I said. "Only the fog, Fra Rafael."

He made the sign of the cross on his breast. "It is the fog that
brings the--the terror," he said. "I tell you, _Senor_ White, I have
seen strange things these last few months--impossible things. You are
a scientist. Though we are not of the same religion, you also know
that there are powers not of this earth."

I didn't answer, so he went on: "Three months ago it began, after the
earthquake. A native girl disappeared. She was seen going into the
mountains, toward Huascan along the Pass, and she did not come back. I
sent men out to find her. They went up the Pass, found the fog grew
thicker and thicker until they were blind and could see nothing. Fear
came to them and they fled back down the mountain. A week later
another girl vanished. We found her footprints."

"The same canyon?"

"_Si_, and the same result. Now seven girls have gone, one after the
other, all in the same way. And I, _Senor_ White--" Fra Rafael's pale,
tired face was sad as he glanced down at the stumps of his legs--"I
could not follow, as you see. Four years ago an avalanche crippled me.
My bishop told me to return to Lima, but I prevailed on him to let me
remain here for these natives are my people, _Senor_. They know and
trust me. The loss of my legs has not altered that."

I nodded. "I can see the difficulty now, though."

"Exactly. I cannot go to Huascan and find out what has happened to the
girls. The natives--well, I chose four of the strongest and bravest
and asked them to take me up the Pass. I thought that I could overcome
their superstitions. But I was not successful."

"How far did you go?" I asked.

"A few miles, not more than that. The fog grew thicker, until we were
blinded by it, and the way was dangerous. I could not make the men go
on." Fra Rafael closed his eyes wearily. "They talked of old Inca gods
and devils--Manco Capac and Oello Huaco, the Children of the Sun. They
are very much afraid, _Senor_ White. They huddle together like sheep
and believe that an ancient god has returned and is taking them away
one by one. And--one by one they _are_ taken."

"Only young girls," I mused. "And no coercion is used, apparently.
What's up toward Huascan?"

"Nothing but wild llamas and the condors. And snow, cold, desolation.
These are the Andes, my friend."

"Okay," I said. "It sounds interesting. As an anthropologist I owe it
to the Foundation to investigate. Besides, I'm curious. Superficially,
there is nothing very strange about the affair. Seven girls have
disappeared in the unusually heavy fogs we've had ever since the
earthquake. Nothing more."

I smiled at him. "However, I think I'll take a look around and see
what's so attractive about Huascan."

"I shall pray for you," he said. "Perhaps--well, _Senor_, for all the
loss of my legs, I am not a weak man. I can stand much hardship. I can
ride a burro."

"I don't doubt your willingness, Fra Rafael," I said. "But it's
necessary to be practical. It's dangerous and it's cold up there. Your
presence would only handicap me. Alone, I can go faster--remember, I
don't know how far I'll have to travel."

The priest sighed. "I suppose you are right. When--"

"Now. My burro's packed."

"Your porters?"

"They won't go," I said wryly. "They've been talking to your
villagers. It doesn't matter. I'll go it alone." I put out my hand,
and Fra Rafael gripped it strongly.

"_Vaya con Dios_," he said.

I went out into the bright Peruvian sunlight. The Indios were standing
in straggling knots, pretending not to watch me. My porters were
nowhere in evidence. I grinned, yelled a sardonic goodbye, and started
to lead the burro toward the Pass.

The fog vanished as the sun rose, but it still lay in the mountain
canyons toward the west. A condor circled against the sky. In the
thin, sharp air the sound of a distant rock-fall was distinctly
audible.

White Huascan towered far away. A shadow fell on me as I entered the
Pass. The burro plodded on, patient and obedient. I felt a little
chill; the fog began to thicken.

Yes, the Indios had talked to me. I knew their language, their old
religion. Bastard descendants of the Incas, they still preserved a
deep-rooted belief in the ancient gods of their ancient race, who had
fallen with Huayna Capac, the Great Inca, a year before Pizarro came
raging into Peru. I knew the Quichua--the old tongue of the mother
race--and so I learned more than I might have otherwise.

Yet I had not learned much. The Indios said that _something_ had come
into the mountains near Huascan. They were willing to talk about it,
but they knew little. They shrugged with apathetic fatalism. _It_
called the young virgins, no doubt for a sacrifice. _Quien sabe?_
Certainly the strange, thickening fog was not of this earth. Never
before in the history of mankind had there been such a fog. It was, of
course, the earthquake that had brought the--the Visitant. And it was
folly to seek it out.

Well, I was an anthropologist and knew the value of even such slight
clues as this. Moreover, my job for the Foundation was done. My
specimens had been sent through to Callao by pack-train, and my notes
were safe with Fra Rafael. Also, I was young and the lure of far
places and their mysteries was hot in my blood. I hoped I'd find
something odd--even dangerous--at Huascan.

I was young. Therefore, somewhat of a fool....

The first night I camped in a little cave, sheltered from the wind and
snug enough in my fleece-lined sleeping-bag. There were no insects at
this height. It was impossible to make a fire for there was no wood. I
worried a bit about the burro freezing in the night.

But he survived, and I repacked him the next morning with rather
absurd cheerfulness. The fog was thick, yes, but not impenetrable.

There were tracks in the snow where the wind had not covered them. A
girl had left the village the day before my arrival, which made my
task all the easier. So I went up into that vast, desolate silence,
the fog closing in steadily, getting thicker and thicker, the trail
getting narrower until at last it was a mere track.

And then I was moving blind. I had to feel my way, step by step,
leading the burro. Occasional tracks showed through the mist, showed
that the native girl had walked swiftly--had run in places--so I
assumed that the fog was less dense when she had come by this way. As
it happened, I was quite wrong about that....

We were on a narrow path above a gorge when I lost the burro. I heard
a scrambling and clashing of hoofs on rock behind me. The rope jerked
out of my hand and the animal cried out almost articulately as it went
over. I stood frozen, pressing against the stone, listening to the
sound of the burro's fall. Finally the distant noise died in a faint
trickling of snow and gravel that faded into utter silence. So thick
was the fog that I had seen nothing.

I felt my way back to where the path had crumbled and rotten rock had
given way under the burro's weight. It was possible for me to retrace
my steps, but I did not. I was sure that my destination could not be
much further. A lightly clad native girl could not have gone so far as
Huascan itself. No, probably that day I would reach my goal.

So I went on, feeling my way through the thick silent fog. I was able
to see only a few inches ahead of me for hours. Then, abruptly the
trail grew clearer. Until, at last I was moving in the shadowless,
unearthly mist over hard-packed snow, following the clearly marked
footprints of a girl's sandals.

Then they vanished without warning, those prints, and I stood
hesitant, staring around. I could see nothing, but a brighter glow in
the misty canopy overhead marked the sun's position.

I knelt and brushed away the snow with my hands, hoping to undo the
wind's concealing work. But I found no more footprints. Finally I took
my bearings as well as I could and ploughed ahead in the general
direction the girl had been traveling.

My compass told me I was heading due north.

The fog was a living, sentient thing now, secretive, shrouding the
secret that lay beyond its gray wall.

Suddenly I was conscious of a change. An electric tingle coursed
through my body. Abruptly the fog-wall brightened. Dimly, as through a
translucent pane, I could make out vague images ahead of me.

I began to move toward the images--and suddenly the fog was gone!

Before me lay a valley. Blue-white moss carpeted it except where
reddish boulders broke the blueness. Here and there were trees--at
least I assumed they were trees, despite their unfamiliar outline.
They were like banyans, having dozens of trunks narrow as bamboo.
Blue-leafed, they stood like immense bird-cages on the pallid moss.
The fog closed in behind the valley and above it. It was like being in
a huge sun-lit cavern.

I turned my head, saw a gray wall behind me. Beneath my feet the snow
was melting and running in tiny, trickling rivulets among the moss.
The air was warm and stimulating as wine.

A strange and abrupt change. Impossibly strange! I walked toward one
of the trees, stopped at a reddish boulder to examine it. And surprise
caught at my throat. It was an artifact--a crumbling ruin, the remnant
of an ancient structure whose original appearance I could not fathom.
The stone seemed iron-hard. There were traces of inscription on it,
but eroded to illegibility. And I never did learn the history of those
enigmatic ruins.... They did not originate on Earth.

There was no sign of the native girl, and the resilient moss retained
no tracks. I stood there, staring around, wondering what to do now. I
was tense with excitement. But there was little to see. Just that
valley covering perhaps a half-mile before the fog closed in around
it.

Beyond that--I did not know what lay beyond that.

I went on, into the valley, eyeing my surroundings curiously in the
shadowless light that filtered through the shifting roof of fog.
Foolishly, I expected to discover Incan artifacts. The crumbled red
stones should have warned me. They were, I think, harder than metal,
yet they had been here long enough for the elements to erode them into
featureless shards. Had they been of earthly origin they would have
antedated Mankind--antedated even the Neanderthaler man.

Curious how our minds are conditioned to run in anthropomorphic lines.
I was, though I did not know it, walking through a land that had its
beginnings outside the known universe. The blue trees hinted at that.
The crimson ruins told me that clearly. The atmospheric
conditions--the fog, the warmth high up in the Cordilleras--were
certainly not natural. Yet I thought the explanation lay in some
geological warp, volcanic activity, subterranean gas-vents....

My vision reached a half-mile, no farther. As I went on, the misty
horizon receded. The valley was larger than I had imagined. It was
like Elysium, where the shades of dead men stroll in the Garden of
Proserpine. Streamlets ran through the blue moss at intervals, chill
as death from the snowy plains hidden in the fog. "A sleepy world of
streams...."

The ruins altered in appearance as I went on. The red blocks were
still present, but there were now also remnants of other structures,
made by a different culture, I thought.

The blue trees grew more numerous. Leafy vines covered most of them
now, saffron-tinted, making each strange tree a little room, screened
by the lattice of the vines. As I passed close to one a faint clicking
sounded, incongruously like the tapping of typewriter keys, but
muffled. I saw movement and turned, my hand going to the pistol in my
belt.

The Thing came out of a tree-hut and halted, watching me. I _felt_ it
watching me--though _it had no eyes_!

It was a sphere of what seemed to be translucent plastic, glowing with
shifting rainbow colors. And I sensed sentience--intelligence--in its
horribly human attitude of watchful hesitation. Four feet in diameter
it was, and featureless save for three ivory elastic tentacles that
supported it and a fringe of long, whip-like cilia about its
diameter--its waist, I thought.

It looked at me, eyeless and cryptic. The shifting colors crawled over
the plastic globe. Then it began to roll forward on the three
supporting tentacles with a queer, swift gliding motion. I stepped
back, jerking out my gun and leveling it.

"Stop," I said, my voice shrill. "Stop!"

It stopped, quite as though it understood my words or the gesture of
menace. The cilia fluttered about its spherical body. Bands of lambent
color flashed. I could not rid myself of the curious certainty, that
it was trying to communicate with me.

Abruptly it came forward again purposefully. I tensed and stepped
back, holding the gun aimed. My finger was tightening on the trigger
when the Thing stopped.

I backed off, nervously tense, but the creature did not follow. After
I had got about fifty yards away it turned back and retreated into the
hut-like structure in the banyan tree. After that I watched the trees
warily as I passed them, but there were no other visitations of that
nature.

Scientists are reluctant to relinquish their so-called logic. As I
walked I tried to rationalize the creature, to explain it in the light
of current knowledge. That it had been alive was certain. Yet it was
not protoplasmic in nature. A plant, developed by mutation? Perhaps.
But that theory did not satisfy me for the Thing had possessed
intelligence, though of what order I did not know.

But there were the seven native girls, I reminded myself. My job was
to find them, and quickly, too.

I did, at last, find them. Six of them, anyway. They were sitting in a
row on the blue moss, facing one of the red blocks of stone, their
backs toward me. As I mounted a little rise I saw them, motionless as
bronze statues, and as rigid.

I went down toward them, tense with excitement, expectancy. Odd that
six native girls, sitting in a row, should fill me with such feeling.
They were so motionless that I wondered as I approached them, if they
were dead....

But they were not. Nor were they--in the true sense of the
word--alive.

I gripped one by the bare shoulder, found the flesh surprisingly cold
and the girl seemed not to feel my touch. I swung her around to face
me, and her black, empty eyes looked off into the far distance. Her
lips were tightly compressed, slightly cyanosed. The pupils of her
eyes were inordinately dilated, as if she was drugged.

Indian style, she squatted cross-legged, like the others. As I pulled
her around, she toppled down on the moss, making no effort to stop
herself. For a moment she lay there. Then with slow, puppet-like
motions, she returned to her former position and resumed that blank
staring into space.

I looked at the others. They were alike in their sleep-like
withdrawal. It seemed as if their minds had been sucked out of them,
that their very selves were elsewhere. It was a fantastic diagnosis,
of course. But the trouble with those girls was nothing a physician
could understand. It was psychic in nature, obviously.

I turned to the first one and slapped her cheeks. "Wake up!" I
commanded. "You must obey me! Waken--"

But she gave no sign of feeling, of seeing. I lit a match, and her eyes
focused on the flame. But the size of her pupils did not alter....

A shudder racked me. Then, abruptly I sensed movement behind me. I
turned....

Over the blue moss the seventh Indio girl was coming toward us.
"Miranda!" I said. "Can you hear me?" Fra Rafael had told me her name.
Her feet, I saw, were bare and white frost-bite blotches marked them.
But she did not seem to feel any pain as she walked.

Then I became aware that this was not a simple Indio girl. Something
deep within my soul suddenly shrank back with instinctive revulsion.
My skin seemed to crawl with a sort of terror. I began to shake so
that it was difficult to draw my gun from its holster.

There was just this young native girl walking slowly toward me, her
face quite expressionless, her black eyes fixed on emptiness. Yet she
was not like other Indios, not like the six other girls sitting behind
me. I can only liken her to a lamp in which a hot flame burned. The
others were lamps that were dead, unlit.

The flame in her was not one that had been kindled on this earth, or
in this universe, or in this space-time continuum, either. There was
life in the girl who had been Miranda Valle--but it was not _human_
life!

Some distant, skeptical corner of my brain told me that this was pure
insanity, that I was deluded, hallucinated. Yes, I knew that. But it
did not seem to matter. The girl who was walking so quietly across the
blue yielding moss had wrapped about her, like an invisible,
intangible veil, something of the alienage that men, through the eons,
have called divinity. No mere human, I thought, could touch her.
