
But I felt fear, loathing--emotions not associated with divinity. I
watched, knowing that presently she would look at me, would realize my
presence. Then--well, my mind would not go beyond that point....

She came forward and quietly seated herself with the others, at the
end of the line. Her body stiffened rigidly. Then, the veil of terror
seemed to leave her, like a cloak falling away. Abruptly she was just
an Indio girl, empty and drained as the others, mindless and
motionless.

The girl beside her rose suddenly with a slow, fluid motion. And the
crawling horror hit me again.... The Alien Power had not left! It had
merely transferred itself to another body!

And this second body was as dreadful to my senses as the first had
been. In some subtly monstrous way its terror impressed itself on my
brain, though all the while there was nothing overt, nothing _visibly_
wrong. The strange landscape, bounded by fog, was not actually
abnormal, considering its location, high in the Andes. The blue moss,
the weird trees; they were strange, but possible. Even the seven
native girls were a normal part of the scene. It was the sense of an
alien presence that caused my terror--a fear of the unknown....

As the newly "possessed" girl rose, I turned and fled, deathly sick,
feeling caught in the grip of nightmare. Once I stumbled and fell. As
I scrambled wildly to my feet I looked back.

The girl was watching me, her face tiny and far away. Then, suddenly,
abruptly it was close. She stood within a few feet of me! I had not
moved nor seen her move, but we were all close together again--the
seven girls and I....

Hypnosis? Something of that sort. She had drawn me back to her, my
mind blacked out and unresisting. I could not move. I could only stand
motionless while that Alien being dwelling within human flesh reached
out and thrust frigid fingers into my soul. I could feel my mind laid
open, spread out like a map before the inhuman gaze that scanned it.
It was blasphemous and shameful, and I could not move or resist!

I was flung aside as the psychic grip that held me relaxed. I could
not think clearly. That remote delving into my brain had made me
blind, sick, frantic. I remember running....

But I remember very little of what followed. There are vague pictures
of blue moss and twisted trees, of coiling fog that wrapped itself
about me, trying futilely to hold me back. And always there was the
sense of a dark and nameless horror just beyond vision, hidden from
me--though I was not hidden from its eyeless gaze!

I remember reaching the wall of fog, saw it loomed before me, plunged
into it, raced through cold grayness, snow crunching beneath my boots.
I recall emerging again into that misty valley of Abaddon....

When I regained complete consciousness I was with Lhar.

A coolness as of limpid water moved through my mind, cleansing it,
washing away the horror, soothing and comforting me. I was lying on my
back looking up at an arabesque pattern of blue and saffron;
gray-silver light filtered through a lacy, filigree. I was still weak
but the blind terror no longer gripped me.

I was inside a hut formed by the trunks of one of the banyan-like
trees. Slowly, weakly I rose on one elbow. The room was empty except
for a curious flower that grew from the dirt floor beside me. I looked
at it dazedly.

And so I met Lhar.... She was of purest white, the white of alabaster,
but with a texture and warmth that stone does not have. In
shape--well, she seemed to be a great flower, an unopened tulip-like
blossom five feet or so tall. The petals were closely enfolded,
concealing whatever sort of body lay hidden beneath, and at the base
was a convoluted pedestal that gave the odd impression of a ruffled,
tiny skirt. Even now I cannot describe Lhar coherently. A flower,
yes--but very much more than that. Even in that first glimpse I knew
that Lhar was more than just a flower....

I was not afraid of her. She had saved me, I knew, and I felt complete
trust in her. I lay back as she spoke to me telepathically, her words
and thoughts forming within my brain....

"You are well now, though still weak. But it is useless for you to try
to escape from this valley. No one can escape. The Other has powers I
do not know, and those powers will keep you here."

I said, "You are--?"

A name formed within my mind. "Lhar. I am not of your world."

A shudder shook her. And her distress forced itself on me. I stood up,
swaying with weakness. Lhar drew back, moving with a swaying, bobbing
gait oddly like a curtsey.

Behind me a clicking sounded. I turned, saw the many-colored sphere
force itself through the banyan-trunks. Instinctively my hand went to
my gun. But a thought from Lhar halted me.

"It will not harm you. It is my servant." She hesitated, groping for a
word. "A machine. A robot. It will not harm you."

I said, "Is it intelligent?"

"Yes. But it is not alive. Our people made it. We have many such
machines."

The robot swayed toward me, the rim of cilia flashing and twisting.
Lhar said, "It speaks thus, without words or thought...." She paused,
watching the sphere, and I sensed dejection in her manner.

The robot turned to me. The cilia twisted lightly about my arm,
tugging me toward Lhar. I said, "What does it want?"

"It knows that I am dying," Lhar said.

That shocked me. "Dying? No!"

"It is true. Here in this alien world I do not have my usual food. So
I will die. To survive I need the blood of mammals. But there are none
here save those seven the Other has taken. And I cannot use them for
they are now spoiled."

I didn't ask Lhar what sort of mammals she had in her own world.
"That's what the robot wanted when it tried to stop me before, isn't
it?"

"He wanted you to help me, yes. But you are weak from the shock you
have had. I cannot ask you--"

I said, "How much blood do you need?"

At her answer, I said, "All right. You saved my life; I must do the
same for you. I can spare that much blood easily. Go ahead."

She bowed toward me, a fluttering white flame in the dimness of the
tree-room. A tendril flicked out from among her petals, wrapped itself
about my arm. It felt cool, gentle as a woman's hand. I felt no pain.

"You must rest now," Lhar said. "I will go away but I shall not be
long."

The robot clicked and chattered, shifting on its tentacle legs. I
watched it, saying, "Lhar, this can't be true. Why am I--believing
impossible things?"

"I have given you peace," she told me. "Your mind was dangerously
close to madness. I have drugged you a little, physically; so your
emotions will not be strong for a while. It was necessary to save your
sanity."

It was true that my mind felt--was drugged the word? My thoughts were
clear enough, but I felt as if I were submerged in transparent but
dark water. There was an odd sense of existing in a dream. I
remembered Swinburne's lines:

    _Here, where the world is quiet,
       Here, where all trouble seems
     Dead winds' and spent waves' riot
       In doubtful dreams of dreams...._

"What is this place?" I asked.

Lhar bent toward me. "I do not know if I can explain. It is not quite
clear to me. The robot knows. He is a reasoning machine. Wait...."
She turned to the sphere. Its cilia fluttered in quick, complicated
signals.

Lhar turned back to me. "Do you know much of the nature of Time? That
it is curved, moves in a spiral...."

She went on to explain, but much of her explanation I did not
understand. Yet I gathered enough to realize that this valley was not
of Earth. Or, rather, it was not of the earth I knew.

"You have geological disturbances, I know. The strata are tumbled
about, mixed one with another--"

I remembered what Fra Rafael had said about an earthquake, three
months before. Lhar nodded toward me.

"But this was a time-slip. The space-time continuum is also subject to
great strains and stresses. It buckled, and strata--Time-sectors--were
thrust up to mingle with others. This valley belongs to another age,
as do I and the machine, and also--the Other."

She told me what had happened.... There had been no warning. One
moment she had been in her own World, her own Time. The next, she was
here, with her robot. And with the Other....

"I do not know the origin of the Other. I may have lived in either
your future or your past. This valley, with its ruined stone
structures, is probably part of your future. I had never heard of such
a place before. The Other may be of the future also. Its shape I do
not know...."
