
The sun was sliding down the horizon and old Ezra stared at it with
bulging eyes--stared as if he could not gaze enough. Far out on the
moors reared up the great oak tree, like a gibbet, now only a decaying
shell. There Solomon Kane halted.

Old Ezra writhed in his captor's grasp and made inarticulate noises.

"Over a year ago," said Solomon Kane, "you, fearing that your insane
cousin Gideon would tell men of your cruelties to him, brought him away
from the swamp by the very trail by which we came, and murdered him
here in the night."

Ezra cringed and snarled.

"You can not prove this lie!"

Kane spoke a few words to an agile villager. The youth clambered up the
rotting bole of the tree and from a crevice, high up, dragged something
that fell with a clatter at the feet of the miser. Ezra went limp with
a terrible shriek.

The object was a man's skeleton, the skull cleft.

"You--how knew you this? You are Satan!" gibbered old Ezra.

Kane folded his arms.

"The thing I fought last night told me this thing as we reeled in
battle, and I followed it to this tree. _For the fiend is Gideon's
ghost._"

Ezra shrieked again and fought savagely.

"You knew," said Kane somberly, "you knew what thing did these deeds.
You feared the ghost of the maniac, and that is why you chose to leave
his body on the fen instead of concealing it in the swamp. For you knew
the ghost would haunt the place of his death. He was insane in life,
and in death he did not know where to find his slayer; else he had come
to you in your hut. He hates no man but you, but his mazed spirit can
not tell one man from another, and he slays all, lest he let his killer
escape. Yet he will know you and rest in peace forever after. Hate hath
made of his ghost a solid thing that can rend and slay, and though he
feared you terribly in life, in death he fears you not."

Kane halted. He glanced at the sun.

"All this I had from Gideon's ghost, in his yammerings and his
whisperings and his shrieking silences. Naught but your death will lay
that ghost."

Ezra listened in breathless silence and Kane pronounced the words of
his doom.

"A hard thing it is," said Kane somberly, "to sentence a man to death
in cold blood and in such a manner as I have in mind, but you must die
that others may live--and God knoweth you deserve death.

"You shall not die by noose, bullet or sword, but at the talons of him
you slew--for naught else will satiate him."

At these words Ezra's brain shattered, his knees gave way and he
fell groveling and screaming for death, begging them to burn him at
the stake, to flay him alive. Kane's face was set like death, and the
villagers, the fear rousing their cruelty, bound the screeching wretch
to the oak tree, and one of them bade him make his peace with God. But
Ezra made no answer, shrieking in a high shrill voice with unbearable
monotony. Then the villager would have struck the miser across the
face, but Kane stayed him.

"Let him make his peace with Satan, whom he is more like to meet," said
the Puritan grimly. "The sun is about to set. Loose his cords so that
he may work loose by dark, since it is better to meet death free and
unshackled than bound like a sacrifice."

As they turned to leave him, old Ezra yammered and gibbered unhuman
sounds and then fell silent, staring at the sun with terrible intensity.

They walked away across the fen, and Kane flung a last look at the
grotesque form bound to the tree, seeming in the uncertain light like
a great fungus growing to the bole. And suddenly the miser screamed
hideously:

"Death! Death! There are skulls in the stars!"

"Life was good to him, though he was gnarled and churlish and evil,"
Kane sighed. "Mayhap God has a place for such souls where fire and
sacrifice may cleanse them of their dross as fire cleans the forest of
fungous things. Yet my heart is heavy within me."

"Nay, sir," one of the villagers spoke, "you have done but the will of
God, and good alone shall come of this night's deed."

"Nay," answered Kane heavily, "I know not--I know not."
