
Well, this day in particular, Nathanial Evergood stationed himself,
poised like a pointer, at his window, camera in hand, invention in
place, waiting impatiently for the first likely subject to appear.
And, shameful as it must seem, this evil and obscene old man was quite
noticeably drooling, right from one side of his pinched little mouth.

He heard the saucy click of her heels on the pavement a full thirty
seconds before she swung gracefully into his myopic line of sight. She
was blondish. Not _too_ blond, understand, but just blond enough. And
she was a true-blue blond at heart, if you know what I mean.

Shutter: set, at 1/200 of a second; diaphragm: f/5.6; film;
Real-lifecolor; rangefinder: superimposed. Click. Click, click, click!
Four shots, four beautiful pictures, in color, too, before she was
gone on down the street.

With incredible speed this evil and obscene old man descended from his
window perch and scuttered back to his little cubby hole. He darkened
the room and unloaded the automatic sheet film holder. No attempt can
be made to describe the gnawing impatience that Nathanial Evergood felt
as he sloshed the sensitized emulsions through the series of solutions
for the precise time required for true color rendition, as, after
ninety long minutes, he washed the sheets, and finally held them up to
the light for a first wide-eyed look.

She was there, alright, his swaying blond. She was there. _All_ of her!

Well sir, after filling his eyes--and his evil little mind--with the
four lovely images of the girl, Nathanial Evergood rushed to the
downtown camera shop, and wrote out a large check for their entire
supply of Real-lifecolor film. Then, back on the street, madly
clicking, clicking, clicking. Every pretty girl that came along.
_Every_ single one!

Oh, he had a time for himself, did this evil, obscene old man.

The next day was Sunday, happily for his designing brain, and there was
no work. After a full night in his cubby hole developing sheet after
sheet of color film, Nathanial went to the beach and, as you must know
by now, set his camera shutter clicking like a miniature machine gun.

And, again, the results were spectacular, to put it mildly. The
collection grew and grew and grew, and Nathanial Evergood was never
wearier, or never happier. What an evil, obscene man he was!

Now, if Nathanial had stuck to his camera and to his wonderful
invention, this story might never have been written. But, evil and
obscene as he was, he soon began to dream of new worlds to conquer.

Simple as it had been to apply the principle of astigmatism to
photography--and with such marvelous results--why not apply this same
principle to his eyeglasses? This would eliminate the annoying delay of
taking pictures, then developing and viewing them. To say nothing of
the terrific expense involved.

Usually, when writers say, "No sooner said than done", it is often a
gross exaggeration. But Nathanial _was_ quick about it, nevertheless.

In short order, the problems of focus, image distortion and aberrations
were ironed out, and Nathanial ventured once again out into the street
to give his newest brain-child its dry-run, so to speak.

The glasses worked all right. They worked just fine. And Nathanial
Evergood, in a leering ecstasy, raced up and down the streets, peering
with his watery and overworked eyes this way and that, up and down, all
around and back again. For the next day or so Nathanial was busy as a
bee attending every beauty contest and fashion show in town, and even
found time for a quick run out to the girl's school.
