
The third day following the initial tests of his new seeing-eye
glasses, Nathanial suddenly observed there were an uncommon lot of
nicely constructed young ladies right in his own department at the
office. An opportunist, if ever there was one, Nathanial thought
it just might be fun to give the remarkable spectacles a chance to
separate the women from the girls, and the girls from the children.

This he did and although his work suffered, he spent the better part
of the day classifying the office help in various categories, and
learning there were at least two ladies who fell in no classification
whatsoever. It was the nicest day he had spent at the office in quite
some time, he decided.

Not long after that the strain brought on by the frequent changes from
his normal reading glasses to the prism spectacles became so intense
that he decided there was really no good reason why he shouldn't
just wear them--the new ones, of course--all the time. The better to
preserve his vision, and the better to pursue his avocation.

So, he did.

And therein lay the downfall of Nathanial Evergood.

For, you see, the climax of our story comes a month later, on a sunny
July day, when Nathanial made his decision to take a short stroll among
the mid-day lady shoppers downtown.

Understand, with those glasses of his, Nathanial had become so
accustomed to seeing his fellow creatures _au natural_, as it were,
that it was on the verge of becoming almost commonplace. But, evil and
obscene as he was, it was still highly diverting yet.

At any rate, on this particular day, Nathanial had made his way no more
than a couple of hundred feet from his front door when a heavy hand was
clamped on his shoulder and a rough voice growled, "Where you think
_you're_ going, you scrawny old buzzard? You oughta know better."

Nathanial Evergood spun about, suddenly petrified. The uniform, of
course, was invisible, and the man was no raving beauty, he'd have
said. But there was no mistaking the ugly gun and the shiny badge and
the authoritative tone of voice.

"I _beg_ your pardon," Nathanial spluttered indignantly. "Just what is
the meaning of this ridiculous outrage?"

The beefy Irish cop was even more indignant, though. "Now, just look at
yourself. I've seen absent-minded old timers parading down the street
with no shoes on, or even no pants on. But just look at yourself; not a
_stitch_ on!"

Nathanial Evergood looked down at himself in sudden horrified
realization, and looked back up as quickly. "But ... but," he began,
"everybody else...." But then, of course, he had to stop.

Well, the upshot of it all was that the officer hauled him back into
his rooms to get some clothes on before carting him down to the station
house. As it was before they entered the apartment, Nathanial stood to
get ten days probation or a token fine for forgetting all his clothes,
Irish cops being ordinarily an understanding lot.

But, when confronted by the staggering array of unclad femininity, this
Irishman flushed a deep red, spewed an amazed Irish blasphemy, and then
roared like a lion.

And don't think the officer didn't check the evidence carefully--with
the proper degree of loathing, of course--before shoving Nathanial
unceremoniously down the street to call the paddy wagon. Of a
certainty, things went much worse for the evil, obscene Nathanial
Evergood than they might have, had not this righteously outraged
policeman done his duty as he saw it.
