
And he was right. That was that. But the funny part of it was that,
forced to a showdown, Lancelot Biggs came through!

The first meal out, which was lunch served at noon Earthtime, I
went down to the dining hall thinking anything might happen and
expecting the worst. I got the shock of my life, and shocks are a not
inconsiderable part of the life of a spacelugger radioman.

Mr. Lancelot Slops had pulled a banquet out of the hat! We had fried
chicken with cream gravy, hot biscuits, candied yams, a side dish of
stewed _clab_, Creole style, raisin pie, and the best damn coffee ever
served on the wallowing old _Saturn_.

What the other men of the crew thought, I have no idea. They didn't
say. Every man-jack of 'em was so busy shoveling grub into his puss
that the conversation was dead as a Martian herring. But after I'd
bulged my belt to the last notch with fried pullet, I waddled into the
galley and confronted Mr. Biggs.

"Biggs," I said accusingly, "you've been holding out on us! Why didn't
you tell us before you could cook a meal like that?"

He shuffled his feet sheepishly. He said, "Was it all right, Sparks?"

"All right? It was terrific! I haven't had such a feed since I was a
kid."

He looked relieved. "I'm glad. Because, you see, that was the first
meal I ever cooked."

"It was the first--_what!_"

"Mmm-hmm! But there were lots of cook books here in the galley. And
I figured so long as I had to do it, I might as well do it right--"
He grinned at me shyly. Once in a while I wondered, briefly, whether
any of us understood this strange, lanky genius, Lancelot Biggs. This
was one of the times. "I--I found it rather interesting, Sparks, to
tell you the truth. It is, just as I told Cap Hanson, just a matter of
elementary chemistry. The pots and pans are the test-tubes; the stove
is a huge Bunsen burner."

I said admiringly, "I'll hand you one thing, Mr. Biggs. You believe in
sticking to theories, don't you?"

"But of course. 'Get the theory first'; that's the big secret of
success in any undertaking." He looked pleased and a little excited,
too. "We're going to have a good trip home, Sparks. There's plenty of
food here to experiment with. And in the holds--"

It was just then that I caught my number being buzzed on the
intercommunicating audio. I cut through and yelled, "Sparks speaking.
What's up?"

"Sparks?" It was my relief man calling from the radio room. "You'd
better come up here on the double. A message from Sun City, and I think
it's bad news."

"Right with you," I hollered. I snapped a brief "See you later!" to
Biggs and raced up the Jacob's ladder to the turret. My relief man was
there, also Cap Hanson and the second-in-command, Lt. Todd. All three
of them looked a bit grim and a bit glum and quite a bit apprehensive.
My relief shoved a wire flimsy into my hand. It was a cipher message
from Sun City spaceport. I knew the code as well as I know English and
Universal, so I read it aloud.

"HANSON COMMANDER IPS SATURN EN ROUTE VENUS-EARTH. TURN BACK
IMMEDIATELY FOR CONVOY. PIRATE HAKE REPORTED ON COORDINATES THREE
FIFTEEN PLUS NINE OH NINE YOUR TRAJECTORY." It was signed, "Allonby,
Comm. S.S.C.B."

I stared at Cap Hanson, wondering if my face were as queasy as my tummy
felt. I said, "Hake! Runt Hake!"

Hanson said, "Yes, but that's not the worst of it, Sparks. Tell him,
Mr. Todd."

Todd wet his lips and faltered, "We--we're in a serious spot, Sparks.
We accelerated to max twenty minutes ago and cut motors for the free
run. And since we had--or thought we had--almost nine days of idleness,
I told Chief Engineer Garrity he could take down that number. Three
hypatomic that's been missing."

That still didn't make sense. I said, "So he took it down? So what? He
can put it together again, can't he?"

"No. He found the casing worn, melted it down for a recast. We--we
can't recase it for at least two days!"
