
For the sake of you Earthlubbers who don't get the lingo, let me say it
in words of one syllable. We were in a hell of a jam! The hypatomics
are the motors that operate spacecraft. In this case, one of them had
shown signs of weakness. With the ship "free wheeling," so to speak,
in space, the engineers had taken down the faulty motor, discovered it
needed remoulding, and had melted down the casing. As Todd had said, it
would take at least two days--probably more--to recast the moulding,
put the hyp together again, so we could blast.

But the worst of if was--Hake! Runt Hake. There are pirates and pirates
in the wide transverses between the planets. Some of them are good
guys, that is, if an outlaw can ever be considered a "good guy." Like
Lark O'Day, for instance, that gay, smiling bandit who always gave
lugger captains a signed receipt for the cargoes he stole, and who had
once let a tramp freighter go through untouched because the Captain
acknowledged his life savings were wrapped up in the cargo. Who had
once stopped a passenger superliner for the express purpose of stealing
a single kiss from its charming passenger, the newly crowned "Miss
Universe."

But others were skunks and dogs and--well, think of the nastiest things
you can think of. Then multiply by ten, add infinity, and you have Runt
Hake.

Runt Hake was a killer. A throwback to the rotten old days when men's
first thoughts were of death and, war and violence. He was a pirate
not so much because of the value of the cargoes he lifted as because
he liked to do battle. And he had a sadistic strain in him somewhere.
His idea of good clean fun was to board a freighter--like the
_Saturn_--unload the cargo at his convenience, then blast a slow leak
through the outer hull.

After--I might mention--having first removed all lifeskiffs and bulgers
from the ill-fated victim. Once, in the asteroid Sargossa, I saw a ship
that had been scuttled by Runt Hake's cutthroat crew. Its crew still
remained with the ship. But not as recognizable human beings. As raw
and frozen clots of pressured flesh.

Oh, a swell guy, this Runt Hake. And now we, disabled and helpless,
were drifting right into the trajectory where he awaited us.

Cap Hanson said grimly, "There's nothin' much that we can do about it,
of course. We've got one six millimeter rotor-gun for'rd. We'll give
him that."

"And get ourselves blown to atoms," interjected Todd, "with his
pierce-guns. No, Skipper, that's no good. But how about the Ampie? If
we set out our Ampie, maybe--"

An "Ampie" is that strange, energy-devouring beast from Venus whose
inordinate appetite for electrical power forms a shield for spaceships
penetrating the Heaviside layers of the various planets. It wasn't
altogether a bad idea. But Hanson shook his head.

"No. It wouldn't work. An Ampie couldn't take a heat ray. There's
only one thing to do. Send word for the convoy to come on the
double-quick--and hope it reaches us before we run into Hake."

That was my cue. I shoved the relief man to hell off the bench and got
the wobble-bug going. And, mister, I filled the ether with SOS's--and
added a couple of PDQ's for good measure. I picked up an acknowledgment
from Sun City, and threw them a hasty explanation. They wired back that
the convoy cruiser would make all haste, and to not be frightened....

Ha! Can I help it if my knees chatter?
