
There was one thing you could absolutely depend on Lancelot Biggs to
do. And that was--stick his nose in at the wrong minute. For as we
three were giving the sob-towel the good old go-over, the door popped
open and who gangled in but Mr. Slops, First-Mate-and-Bottle-Washer!
His face, in contrast to ours, was radiant with joy and delight. He had
a grin on his phizz that stretched from here to there and back again.
He chortled, "Hey, Cap--"

"Go 'way!" mourned Cap Hanson. "I'm thinking."

"But, look!" Biggs opened one hamlike paw. And there was a wee, gray
ship-mouse. He placed it on the floor before him. "Look what I found in
the No. 4 Bin. It acts so darned funny--"

"Go 'way!" repeated the skipper, still gloomily. "If you make me lose
my temper--"

Biggs said, "But he _does_ act funny--" And to tell you the truth, the
little mouse did. Usually, you know, a mouse is the scaredyest thing
alive. Put him down in a place like this, surrounded by giant humans,
and he'll run like mad to the darkest corner.

But this little twerp didn't run. Matter of fact, he deliberately moved
to the man nearest him, Todd, that was, and began to nuzzle himself
against Todd's shoe! Just as if the Lieutenant were an old and loved
acquaintance! Mr. Biggs chuckled again.

"See that? Do you know what makes him act that way, Skipper? I'll tell
you. It's the prol--"

"_Mister Biggs!_" The Old Man's face was fiery red with rage. "This is
no time for nonsense. Within hours, or perhaps minutes, we may all be
dead! Now, for the last time, get out of here!"

Biggs, sort of stunned, said, "Y-yes, sir!" He retrieved his
curiously-acting little pet from where it rubbed its soft muzzle
against Todd's shoelaces, put it in his pocket, and backed out the
doorway. As he went he tossed me a beseeching wigwag. I nodded; then
when no one was paying me any neverminds, joined him in the runway
outside.

"What's the matter, Sparks?" he demanded.

I gave it to him, both barrels. He had a right to know. Every man has
a right to know when it's bye-bye time. "But don't tell the crew," I
warned. "The Old Man'll do that if he thinks best."

Biggs' eyes were huge and round. "Runt Hake! Gee, no wonder the Skipper
was cross." He plunged into one of his characteristic silences. Then,
suddenly, "Hey!"

"Hey, what?"

"They say Hake is a show-off. Likes to crack the whip on captured
ships, ordering up big meals and so on before he scuttles it--"

"Well?" I said. "You think you're going to poison him, maybe? Don't be
a dope. He'll make you swallow a pussfull of everything you serve him."

"Never mind. I'm not sure my idea is any good--yet! But have you got a
book on physiochemistry?"

"In my office."

"Swell. Get it for me, will you? I'll explain later."

Well, I got him the book and he jammed it into his pocket and
disappeared toward the galley, jogging along like a stork on stilts.
But I had no time, now, to laugh at Biggs' physical or mental
peculiarities.

Because my ears had just caught a sound they did not want to catch.
The sound of metal grating on metal near the off-port. The banging of
a mailed fist on _permalloy_, the asthmatic wheeze of the airlock, a
sailor's shout ending in a choked gurgle--

I charged back into the radioroom. "Cap," I yelled, "at the airlock!
Somebody. It must be--"

It was. Runt Hake and his pirates.
