
You wouldn't think, to look at Runt Hake, that he was a killer. True,
he held a hand pierce gun on us as he approached, moving smoothly,
lightly, up the runway. A half dozen men behind him also held their
side arms poised, ready for action, while another half dozen deployed
down the side corridors toward the engine rooms and control turrets.
But as Hake came nearer he tossed back the quartzite headpiece of his
bulger, and I saw that his hair was wheat-gold, his lips curved into
something like a tender smile, his cheeks smooth, soft, boyish.

His voice was gentle, too. He said, "You offer no resistance, Captain?
That is wise."

Cap Hanson said, "Hake, I surrender my ship to you freely. But do not
harm my men. That is all I ask. My men do not deserve--"

"But, Captain!" The slender little pirate's eye-brows lifted archly.
"Surely you are a little premature in your pleas? We have just arrived.
There are so many, many things to be done before we--ah--enjoy our
little pleasures."

And then, as he said that, I saw why men cursed the name of Runt Hake.
It was not in his face. His golden hair, his pink cheeks, his soft
mouth--all these were but gilding for the rottenness within him. The
real Hake was in his eyes. Those dancing, glinting, gloating eyes that
leaped into swift, flaming delight as he hinted at that which was to
come.

He was a devil. A pint-sized devil, perhaps, but a devil nonetheless.
I knew, now, that the stories were all true; that we could expect no
mercy of this man. He would amuse himself with us for a while, toying
with us in feline fashion. Then he would leave. And we would stay. Like
the broken things I had seen in the Sargossa.

He was speaking again. Softly, melodiously, as if he were a warrant
officer at some cargo port on Earth rather than a midspace pirate
appraising his "take".

"The cargo, of course, Captain, is mine. Even now my men will be
transferring it to my ship beside yours. But there are a few other
things we will do while aboard. It is lonely, being in space for
months on end. And we do not dine luxuriously. You have, I suppose,
a well-stocked larder? With fine foods; wines, perhaps, to tempt the
palate?"

Hanson tried again.

"We have, Hake. And they are all yours if you'll promise me the men
will be unharmed." He hesitated. "Take me along as hostage, if you want
to. That'll be all right. But--"

"But, no, Captain! That would never do. I think you had best
remain--with your men." Again there was that tiny, dancing light in
Hake's eyes. "You see, many know my name, Captain, and I understand I
have a small reputation. But none have ever seen my face--and lived. It
would be unfortunate if I were to be identified, would it not?"

He turned to his followers.

"Disarm them," he designated us negligently. "And when the cargo has
been transferred, have our men come in to dine. We will dine aboard the
_Saturn_."
