
You Earthlubbers will think this part strange, maybe? That we showed no
more resistance than this to Hake's invasion? Well, I don't blame you.
I've read _Martian Tales_ and _Spaceways Weekly_, too. The writers for
those mags would like you to believe that every freighter captain is
a horny-fisted John Paul Jones. But think it over! The _Saturn_ was a
lumbering old cow compared to Hake's streamliner. Hanson had adopted
the only sane policy. To placate the pirate, be nice to him, hope we
could stall off his scuttling plans until the S.S.C.B. cruiser reached
us.

So for more than two hours, unarmed and disconsolate, we of the
_Saturn_ sat around and diddled our fingers while Hake's men, using our
engine crew, the wipers and blasters, for porters, transferred the more
valuable parts of our cargo to their ship. They didn't take the bulk
stuff. Just small necessities that could be fenced from a hideout on
one of the rogue asteroids.

Meanwhile, Runt Hake had made at least one special trip. Down to the
galley. He took Todd and Cap and me along so he could keep an eye on
us. Down there we found Lancelot Biggs, quietly reading.

Hake said in that soft purr of his, "You--you're the cook on this ship?"

Biggs answered, "Mmm-hmm."

"You will address me," suggested the little outlaw, "as 'Sir.' Very
well, Slops. I want you to prepare a meal for us. A _good_ meal. Fresh
meats and vegetables. You have no idea--" He drawled this last to
Hanson. "How one wearies of canned concentrates."

Hanson just glowered. But Biggs looked confused. He said, "I--I'll
have to get produce from the storage bins if you want a big meal. This
galley's small--" He looked about him helplessly.

Hake nodded. "That is granted. But, mind you, attempt no
medieval--ah--toxicological exploits. I remember the chef of the
_Spica_ tried something of the sort. Poor lad! He screamed horribly ...
I shall never forget it."

[Illustration: "MIND YOU," SAID THE PIRATE ICILY, "NO FANCY MEDICI
FLAVORING TO THIS MEAL."]

I bet he wouldn't! The louse. But I hoped, now, that Biggs would
understand I had been right. He couldn't pull any funny business on
Runt and get away with it.

He seemed to understand, all right. He said, goggling, "I'll do the
best I can--sir. It will take a little time, of course."

"We have time and to spare," agreed Hake. "A good meal, that is what we
want. And now, gentlemen--?"

He motioned us toward the turret room. We started to leave the galley.
I was the last to pass through the door. As I did so, I felt a fumbling
at my side. Mr. Biggs was shoving something into my pocket. He
whispered in my ear, "Sparks--give each of our men a piece. Tell them
to chew it!"
