
And then--hold your hats, folks!--and then Runt Hake's soft mouth began
to twitch! Yes, twitch! It pursed up like the mouth of a kid, his eyes
wrinkled, and he began to blubber!

"Hurt them?" he complained. "Me hurt them? Why, I wouldn't do a thing
like that! I love them! They're my pals." And he tossed his pierce gun
away, reached out and patted Biggs' cheek!

Beside me I heard Lt. Todd whisper hoarsely, "Good gods of Greece,
what is this!" I myself was stunned for a moment. But I had sense
enough to stoop down and get Runt Hake's gun before this crazy
interlude had passed. "He's blown his fuses!" I squalled. "Grab him,
Todd! Mr. Biggs, come with me! You and I will round up his crew--"

But Biggs said quietly, "Take your time, Sparks. There's no hurry. See?"

He stepped to the wall; flicked on the visiplate that showed the
interior of the mess hall. And there, where a moment before, a
grim-faced score of space pirates had maintained watch over our crew,
now our crew were standing staring with blank, uncomprehending faces
at twenty men who looked and acted for all the world like affectionate
puppies!

They were hugging each other, patting each other's arms and faces,
murmuring soft words of endearment. It was stupefying. More than
that--it was embarrassing! Off in one corner a bearded, one-eyed outlaw
dandled a companion on his knee. Another burly bruiser, big enough to
tear a man in half with his bare hands, was playing piggy-back with a
buddy!

I gulped and stared and gulped again. I choked, "But, what--what--"

Biggs said suddenly, "Sparks! You didn't give the Skipper a piece of
that pepsin!"

"I didn't get a chance. But how--"

Then I saw. The Skipper and Runt Hake were sitting in the same chair,
murmuring soft words of tenderness at each other, stroking each other's
hair fondly. Just as I looked, the Old Man leaned forward and gave the
pirate a big, juicy kiss on the forehead!

And just then there came a welcome interruption. The audio throbbed to
electric life; a brusque voice rasped, "Calling the _Saturn! Saturn_,
ahoy! S.S.C.B. Cruiser _Iris_ calling. Stand by! We'll come alongside
you in twenty minutes...."
