
When the Governor entered the reception room he came in unexpectedly, as
Father Maurice was leaning forward with one of Mike's red hands clasped
in his two white ones. Mike was wiping his eyes with his coat sleeve.

The Governor paused in the doorway and coughed. His visitors started in
surprise, and then arose.

It was Father Maurice who stated their errand, his seamed face turned
upward to the serious eyes of the Governor; and as he proceeded,
choosing his quaint Frenchified English carefully, the Governor's face
became grave. He motioned them to their chairs.

He was a gray haired man, and his face was the face of a nobleman.
Clear, gray eyes were set deep under his brows, and his mouth was a
straight line of uncompromising honesty. He sat with one knee thrown
over the other. With one hand he fingered a pen on the desk at his side;
the other he ran again and again through the hair that stood in masses
on his head. His face was long, and the cheekbones protruded. His nose
was power, and his chin was resistance.

He listened silently until Father

Maurice had ended. Then he laid the pen carefully by the inkstand,
unfolded his gaunt limbs, and arose.

“No,” he said slowly. “I cannot interfere.”

“But his wife? His mother?” asked the priest.

“He should have considered them before,” said the Governor sadly. “If
you prepare a petition, I will consider it, but I cannot offer you
any hope. They all come to me with the same plea--the wife and the
mother--but they do not take the wife and the mother into account when
the blow is struck. It is late to think of them when the prison door is
closed. You will pardon me, father, but I am very tired to-night.”

He extended his hand, in token that the interview was at an end, and
Mike arose from his chair in the shadow. He stood awkwardly turning
his hat while the Governor shook the priest's hand, and then shuffled
forward to be dismissed.

“Good night, sir,” said the Governor. “I did not hear your name--”

“Murphy,” said the priest quickly--“Michael Murphy. He is the father of
the boy.”

The Governor looked the old man over carefully, and the old man's eyes
fell under his keen glances.

“Mike Murphy?” asked the Governor slowly. “Are you the Mike Murphy
who used to go to old No. 3 school in Harmontown, forty--no, nearly
fifty--years ago? There was a Mike Murphy sat on my bench. Are you the
boy they called Red Head?”

The old man tried to answer. His lips formed the words, but his voice
did not come. He nodded his head.

“Be seated, gentlemen,” said the Governor, and Father Maurice sat down
hopefully. Mike Murphy dropped into a chair with deeper dejection.

[Illustration: 23]

“Well, well!” The Governor nodded his head slowly, his gray eyes
searching the ruddy face before him. “So you are the Mike Murphy who
used to drub me?”

He smiled grimly. His eyes strayed from the old man's face, and their
glance was lost in the air above his head. He smiled again, as he sat
with the fingers of his left hand pressing the thin skin into a roll
above his cheek bone, for he recalled an incident of his boyhood.

The Governor had once been an arrant little coward. His mother lived in
the big white house two blocks above the schoolhouse, on the opposite
side of the street. Red Head Mike lived across the alley in a shanty.
The Governor's mother bought milk of Mrs. Murphy, and Red Head brought
it every evening.

Red Head was a wonderful boy. He was the first to go barefoot in the
spring, picking his way with painful carefulness over the clods in
the street. He was the only boy who chewed tobacco. The others chewed
licorice or purple thistle tops, but Red Head had the real thing. He
even smoked a real pipe without dire consequences, and laughed at the
other boys' mild substitutes of corn silk and “lady cigars”; and the
way he swore was a liberal education. All the boys swore more or less,
especially when they were behind the barn smoking com silk, but they
knew it was not natural It was a puny imitation, but the Red Head
article sounded right.

But it was when it came to fighting that Red Head had proved his right
to the worship of the world. He could lick any two boys in the school.
The Governor, who was plain Willie Gary then, could not fight at all.
His early youth was one great fear of being whipped. The smallest boys
in the school were accustomed to practice on him until they gained
sufficient dexterity or courage to attack one another. He had a hundred
opprobrious nicknames, which he accepted meekly. “Cry-baby” was the
favorite. When he was attacked he hid his face in his arm and bawled,
leaning his arm against any convenient fence or tree, while his
tormentor drubbed his back at pleasure. He was happy when he could sneak
home unmolested. The chiefest of his tormentors was Red Head, but there
was no partiality. All the boys drubbed him.

One day Mrs. Gary made him a pair of breeches. They were good, stout
breeches of dove colored corduroy, and his mother was proud of them.
So was Willie. As he walked to school he felt that every one saw and
admired them He felt as conspicuous as when, in a dream, he went to
school in his night dress, but he felt more comfortable.

[Illustration: 26]

He took his seat in the school room proudly, and when he was called to
the blackboard to do a sum he walked with a strut. He felt that even
the big boys--the wonderful youths who had money to jingle in their
pockets--observed him, and he blushed as he imagined the eyes of the
little women on the girls' side of the room following him.

As he crossed the floor, the legs of his breeches rubbed against each
other, giving forth the crisp corduroy sound of “Whist--whist--whist.”
 It could be heard in the farthest corner. All the scholars looked up from
their slates or books. He caught Bessie Clayton's eye upon him, and his
cheek flamed. She had blue eyes and yellow curls, and snubbed him daily.

Even the teacher glanced at his new breeches. Willie paused in his sum
and looked at them with satisfaction himself. Then he walked back to his
bench, and the corduroy spoke again--“Whist--whist--whist.” It was as
musical as the clumping of a new pair of red topped boots.

As he slid into his place on his bench, Red Head turned his face and
made a mouth.

“Don't you think you're smart, Whistle Breeches?” he whispered.

“Whist--whist,” said the breeches in reply, as Willie moved, and every
eye in the school seemed to gaze on him, not enviously as before, but
sneeringly. Who'd want whistle breeches?

[Illustration: 31]

When the recess bell rang, Willie walked to the playground with short
steps, but still the corduroy whistled. Two boys behind him laughed,
and Willie burned with shame. They must be laughing at his new breeches.
Bessie Clayton passed him, and he stood motionless, crowded against the
wall, until she was out of hearing.

He paused in the doorway timidly. Red Head was standing just outside,
one shoulder turned toward Freckles Redmond. It was the signal for a
fight, and the small boys were crowded about them.

“Aw, you're one yourself,” Red Head was saying, “an' you dassan't say
it agin. I dare you to say it,” he cried, but he caught sight of Willie.
“Huh!” he shouted. “Look here, fellers! Here's Whistle Breeches. Let's
spit on 'em!”

The boys crowded into the entry and spat on them. Red Head pulled
Willie's hair twice, drawing his head forward as he would pull a bell
rope.

“Don't he think he's smart?” “Wouldn't have 'em!” “Whistle Breeches!
Whistle Breeches!” they shouted in derision, and Willie whimpered and
edged into a corner.

“Don't you do that,” he said in a choking voice. “I'll tell teacher, I
will!”

Red Head stuck his freckled face close and shoved him with a warlike
shoulder. His fists were doubled, and he jabbed Willie with his elbow.

“Aw, you tell him, then, why don't you, Whistle Breeches?” he inquired.
“Jist you tell him, an' I'll punch your face off.”

He drew his arm back and feinted, Willie crooked his elbow to hide his
face.

“Aw, come on, fellers,” said Red Head with deep disgust. “What's the
use of foolin' with him? He ain't nothin' but a cry-baby in whistle
breeches. He ain't no fun.”



