
The next morning we saddles our burros and starts for town. We’re out
uh spuds, and we needs some drill steel. Magpie leads the procession,
setting on the rump of uh fuzzy-looking jackass. He’s wearing that
hard hat, green and red shirt—he sheds his vest—and on his hands he
wears them gray gloves. He sure is uh thing to see. Even the burros
acts bashful around him.

“I reckon I’ll make the inhabitants uh Piperock set up and take
notice,” he states, admiring himself.

He sets the pot-shaped hat on the peak of his head, and brushes off
that loco shirt with his gloves.

“Yes,” says I. “All I hope is that they don’t set up with uh gun in
their hands. You sure look like uh cross between uh lodge-pole
Christmas tree and uh zebra.”

We pilgrims down to the main road, and ambles through the dust in the
direction of Piperock. We comes to uh turn in the road, where we sees
uh man setting alongside on uh rock. He’s all humped up, with his head
between his hands, and don’t look up until I hails him. Then we
recognizes him as being Chuck Warner, puncher for the Cross-J. I never
did know just how to take that feller. He never growed none to speak
of from his waist on down, and I figures that he’s the
honestest-looking liar I ever met. He sets there on that rock,
sad-like, but when he sizes up our outfit his eyes gets bigger and he
sort uh gasps:

“My ——! It must be true!”

“Too true,” I replies, glancing at Magpie. “Too true.”

He gets off the rock and wobbles over to us. His eyes are blood-shot,
like he’d been dallying unduly with the cheerful fluid, and he squints
at Magpie.

“It’s Magpie Simpkins in disguise, Chuck,” says I.

“Huh,” says he, sort uh relieved like. “Maybe I ain’t so bad as I
thought. You fellers got time to help out uh pilgrim in doubt?”

“Your obedient servants,” says I. “Lead us to the doubt.”

He turns and ambles off across the country, and me and Magpie is right
behind him. About two hundred yards from the road he stops and points
across an open spot.

“That’s my bronc,” he states. “Yessir, that’s my little hawse, but,
but—say, what in —— is on that rope uh mine, eh?”

“Fluttering fool-hens!” explodes Magpie, fanning himself with his
civilized hat.

I looks and swallers uh chaw uh natural leaf.

“Do—do you see it, too?” asks Chuck.

“Just exactly,” states Magpie. “What is it?”

“If it ain’t the granddaddy uh all blue grouse I’ll eat my hat,”
orates Chuck. “Yuh see I been down to Piperock for three days, trying
to bust Buck’s wheel, and drink all the hooch in town. I comes along
the road this morning, singing merrily, when I happens to see that
busted crate in the road. I pulls up to see what it is, and my bronc
danged near dumps me off. He’s scared at something in the brush, and
when I spurs him over to see what it is, we scares out that blasted
thing!

“Not being responsible for my actions I takes down my rope and
proceeds to annex the thing. Between that thing and my bronc, they
makes life miserable for me, so I gets off and leaves ’em to their
fate. The rope is wound around the bush between ’em so they can’t do
nothing but stand there and contemplate each other.”

“I don’t reckon there’s any doubt about it being uh grown bird,”
states Magpie, fussing with uh cigaret.

“Your perceptions are wide open, Magpie,” nods Chuck. “Wonder where it
flew from. It ain’t no grouse nor yet it don’t partake of any of the
requirements of the fool-hen. It might uh been uh hummingbird about
the time this here world was started.”

“She’s sure uh hummer,” I agrees. “If I’d been born with uh neck like
that I’d uh died from delirium tremens years ago.”

“I’d opine that somebody done lost that crate off uh wagon, and maybe
there’s something around to tell what and whose it is,” says Magpie.

We all pilgrims back to the road, and Chuck leads us to the busted
bunch uh slats. On one side it says—

                            DO NOT TEASE.

On the other side, in letters uh foot high, it says—

                    MAGPIE SIMPKINS
                             PIPEROCK
                                MONTANA

We reads it over several times, and then Magpie steps back, cocks his
yaller hat over one eye, sticks his thumbs in his belt and snorts—

“That is Cassie!”

“Make it Caspar,” says I. “It’s uh male cassowary, Magpie.”

“Huh!” snorts Chuck. “You wise guys knowed all the time what it was,
didn’t yuh? What yuh going to do with the thing? What in —— is it
anyway?”

“That thing, Chuck,” says I, “is what uh man buys in the East when
he’s drunk up seven hundred dollars’ worth uh mixed hooch. Cassowary
is uh French word what means, ‘something yuh bought when you’re too
drunk to consider the expense and necessity.’”

“I always did like the French language,” states Chuck. “It sure is
expressive that-away, ’cause yuh don’t have to say much to mean uh
whole lot. My mother was French. Name was Jones. Yuh pronounces it
‘Hones,’ the J being silent like the Q in cassowary.”

“Well,” says I, “we got to do something, and, being as it belongs to
you, Magpie, I reckon yuh better suggest.”

But Magpie sucks away on that cigaret, and shakes his head.

“I’d admire to hear all about it,” states Chuck. “There must be uh
deep and dark mystery about that bird, Magpie. If I knowed the details
about that bird’s past, maybe I could help yuh out.”

Magpie is willing to receive help—as usual—so he sets down there and
tells Chuck all about it —what he can remember.

“How much do yuh think yuh paid for it?” asks Chuck. “You sure ought
to remember that part of it.”

“Dang me if I know,” replies Magpie. “Couple uh hundred, most likely.
What yuh got on your mind, Chuck?”

“Say, what good is uh cassowary? If she was worth something to
humanity we might peddle the blasted thing. If folks had an idea it
was—cripes!”

“What’s the exciting thought, Chuck?” I asks, but Chuck begins to roll
uh fresh cigaret and grin to himself. Pretty soon he busts out
laughing and slaps his quirt across his chaps.

“By cripes,” he chuckles. “It won’t cost nothing to try.”

“Try what?” asks Magpie.

“Say, if you gets your two hundred back will yuh give me all I can
make over that?”

“You answered your own question, Chuck,” declares Magpie. “You get us
two hundred for that overgrown fool-hen and you can have the rest.
What yuh going to do?”

“That’s my business, Magpie. You and Ike go along about your business,
and don’t peep—no matter what happens. Sabe? Here comes the stage.”

Art Miller swings his four broncs around in front of us, and looks us
over, sort uh grouchy like.

“Howdy, Art,” says Magpie. “What yuh doing these days—distributing
poultry?”

Art spits over his off-wheeler, and considers the busted crate.

“Did yuh see what comes in that there box?” he asks, and we nods. “Did
ye ever hear it crow?”

We all shakes our heads, and Art puts his hat on the brake lever and
fumbles for his tobacco.

“Sounds like ——!” he snorts. “We was going along, sleepy like, when it
crows. Runaway. Lost the crate out the wagon.”

“Uh-huh,” agrees Magpie. “Crate busted and canary flew.”

“Canary!” Art spits out the word like he’d pulled uh slug from his old
pipe. “Magpie Simpkins, you can get the dangdest things sent to you.
What yuh going to use that thing for?”

“Art,” says Chuck, chiding like, “you neglected your duty as uh
stage-driver when yuh let that piece uh valuable freight get away.”

“Well, go ahead and say it,” replies Art, resigned like.

“Can you forget that you ever had that bird in your care?” asks Chuck.

“Audibly or mentally, Chuck?” asks Art.

“Audibly.”

“I hope to some day.”

“Be worth uh five spot, and no questions asked, Art.”

“I never seen it,” states Art. “What’s the idea?”

“You fellers are as inquisitive as an old maid,” replies Chuck. “All I
asks is silence, and plenty of that. I’ll pay the bills.”

“We’re as silent as the tomb, eh, Magpie?” says Art. “You ain’t got
nothing against me.”

“Nothing but admiration, Art. Chuck, do what you please with that
hooch-hen, and we’ll go on to town. I don’t sabe your play, young
feller, but I’m for it all the way from the ace to the deuce.”

We got our stuff at Piperock, and pilgrims right back home. The crate
and bird are gone when we returns.

“I wish I knowed what Chuck aims to do?” says Magpie, as we goes past
the spot.

“And bust up our chances to get back that two hundred,” says I. “If
you didn’t hunger and thirst for information so hard, Magpie, I’d be
living uh life uh ease right now. You always wants to monkey with the
wheels uh progress.”
