
About five days later “Scenery” Sims and “Dirty Shirt” Jones pilgrims
up our way and stops to eat. They asks the usual questions and gets
answered.

“Magpie, did yuh ever see uh railami?” asks Dirty Shirt.

“Uh-uh which?”

“Uh railami. Didn’t yuh ever hear of one?”

“Oh, yes. I used to raise ’em.”

“You did not!” squeaks Scenery “There’s only one specimen left on
earth today. Sabe?”

“Meaning you, I reckon, Scenery,” says I. “You’re the only specimen I
ever seen that might fit that cognomen.”

“No, not me!” snaps Scenery. “If yuh don’t know and recognize one when
yuh see it, maybe you’ll wish yuh did.”

There ain’t much left to say, except unpleasant things, so they says
“Klahowya” and departs.

“Railami,” says Magpie, after they’re gone. “Never heard the name
before. The way Scenery pronounces it makes it sound like uh
hare-lipped Piegan with hay fever trying to make uh noise like uh
blowsnake.”

“It can’t be uh serious condition,” I replies. “It sure can’t amount
to much if Scenery and Dirty Shirt knows what it is, so I ain’t
worrying about it none, Magpie.”

The next day bringeth forth “Half Mile” Smith and “Tellurium” Woods.
They rides in and partakes of bacon and beans.

“What you fellers doing up this way?” asks Magpie. “Seems like me and
Ike is being honored lately. Scenery and Dirty Shirt was up to see us
yesterday.”

“Crazy as bedbugs, too,” says I. “They was looking for—say, Magpie,
what was that word?”

“Railami.”

Half Mile and Tellurium looks foolish like at each other and then back
at us.

“You know what it is?” asks Tellurium, but me and Magpie has to plead
total ignorance.

“You looking for it, too, Tellurium?” I asks.

He rubs the bald spot on top of his head, and grins.

“Uh-huh. She’s worth looking for.”

“We hate to have to ask questions,” I states.

“Worth uh thousand dollars,” says Tellurium. “Uh cold thousand.”

“So is sixty ounces uh gold, too, but that don’t tell nothing but the
value,” orates Magpie. “Speak up, you’re among friends.”

“I wouldn’t,” states Half Mile. “No use letting everybody in on it,
Tellurium. If they don’t know about it we hadn’t ought to lessen our
chances by telling.”

We thanks ’em heartily for the information, and they rides away.
Magpie gets out his dictionary and ponders deep like over it, but
shakes his head.

“It ain’t in the book, Ike. Must be uh foreign substance.”

The next day comes old Judge Steele and Ricky Henderson. They salutes
us, and gets off to rest their saddles.

“How’s law and justice, Judge?” asks Magpie. “You fellers hunting for
uh railami?”

“Huh!” snorts the judge, like he didn’t hear, and glances at Ricky.

“Railami,” repeats Magpie.

“Why—uh—you seen any?” asks the judge.

“I’ve quit drinking, Judge,” says Magpie. “I’m sure I’d uh seen one
next, and I tapers off just in time.”

“Well, well!” exclaims the judge. “Ricky, I reckon me and you had
better be going on. We’re looking for uh couple uh strays. Two red
cows. Seen anything of ’em up here, Magpie?”

We disclaims all credit for seeing two red cows, and they departs.

“Somebody’s uh heap crazy around here, Ike,” states Magpie. “Either
they’re crazy to look for uh thing with uh name like that, or we’re
crazy for not looking. Let’s me and you go over on Roaring Crick
tomorrow and do uh little gophering on that quartz seam. Maybe we’ll
meet uh railami on the trail, eh?”

Me and Magpie gets enthusiastic over the way that quartz seam shows
up, and when we leaves there we’re out uh grub. Magpie suggests that
we pilgrims to Piperock and get uh banquet uh ham and aigs, and I’m
right with him, so we points our burros toward town.

Magpie is still wearing that yaller hard hat. The burro he’s riding
turns its head once in uh while and looks back. It sizes him up,
shakes its ears, sad-like, and pilgrims on. Magpie sure is dressed up
like uh plush horse, and all he needs is uh cane to be uh cripple for
life.

There seems to be uh certain degree of excitement in Piperock, when we
arrives. Chuck Warner is setting on his bronc out there in the middle
of the street, and he’s surrounded with uh crowd. Lying down in the
dusty road is that blasted bird that Magpie bought, and uh rope runs
from Chuck’s saddle to its long neck. The bird seems to be the coolest
thing in town.

“What do yuh reckon to do with it, Chuck?” asks Dirty Shirt, and
everybody seems interested.

“Danged if I know,” replies Chuck. “I ain’t never seen nothing like it
before. It just comes busting along down the road, and I hangs my rope
on it. Wish I knowed what she is.”

“How much do yuh want for it, Mister Warner?” asks Judge Steele,
looking the critter over, and fumbling in his pocket.

“You don’t want it, do yuh, Judge?” laughs Masterson. “You couldn’t
eat it.”

“I don’t know what she’s worth, Judge,” states Chuck. “Ain’t she some
whopper of uh piece uh poultry? What do yuh reckon she’s worth?”

“I’ll give yuh ten dollars for it,” squeaks Scenery Sims. “I’d give uh
ten just to own uh thing like that.”

“The —— yuh would!” snorts Half Mile. “I’ll give fifteen.”

“Fifteen—fifteen—fifteen,” chants Chuck. “Who’ll give twenty?”

“I’ll make it twenty,” yells Ricky Henderson.

“Poultry’s going up!” whoops Chuck, standing up in his stirrups.

“Who’ll give Ricky uh raise?”

“I makes it worth thirty,” states the judge.

“Forty!” yelps Tellurium.

“Whoa!” whoops Chuck. “Wait uh minute. What’s the idea uh getting all
heated up over uh overgrown fool-hen on stilts. First thing we knows
there’ll be sorrow in our city. I got uh good scheme. I’ll make a
hundred tickets at five dollars each, and raffle the blamed thing. You
fellers can gamble your heads off if yuh feels inclined.”

That seems to suit the crowd, so Chuck puts the bird in Buck
Masterson’s stable, and him and some of the rest gets busy on making
tickets.

Me and Magpie sets there on the sidewalk and wonders what them Jaspers
want of that bird. Art Miller comes over, but he don’t know any more
than we do.

“How comes it that everybody covets that monstrosity, Art?” I asks,
but Art shakes his head, and digs his toes in the dirt.

“Danged if I know, Ike. I never seen folks so crazy before. I felt
that there’s something in the wind for several days. Tellurium, Half
Mile, Scenery, Ricky, Dirty Shirt and Judge Steele has been in
conference several times up in the judge’s office. Here comes
Tellurium. Maybe he’ll tell us what it means.”
