
Tellurium sets down with us for uh minute, and then gets up and turns
around three times, like uh losing gambler does to change his luck.

“I’d admire to know what you wants that freak bird for, Tellurium?”
states Art.

“You would, eh?” chuckles Tellurium, hauling some pieces uh paper out
of his pocket, and putting ’em into another. “You would, eh? Don’t you
know, Art?”

“I wouldn’t ask if I did.”

Tellurium fusses around in his inside pocket, and hauls out uh piece
uh writing paper.

“I reckon the tickets are all sold now, so it won’t do no harm to let
yuh know,” says he, handing Art the paper. “I done invested
seventy-five on my luck, but I reckon you fellers are too late to even
buy one ticket. When I left Judge Steele and Half Mile was quarreling
over who gets the last number. Read that letter and be sorry yuh
didn’t buy no chances. We don’t know who it was written to, but we
figures that it was some uh them citified prospectors what was through
here uh short time ago. We found it on the floor in Buck’s place, and
that’s what brought us up to your place that day, Ike.”

The three of us groups there on the sidewalk and reads what is left of
that epistle. The top and one corner is torn off, but that is how she
reads from that on down:

    —little information. Some geologist friends of mine were
    down in that country last Summer, and they brought me the
    track of a bird—dried in alkali mud. The measurements and
    peculiar arrangement of the toes show it to be the track
    of a Railami, a bird that is believed to have been extinct
    for many years. The imprint is of recent times—not over
    six months—and without a doubt, in the vicinity of the
    town of Piperock lives and roams a specimen of this rare
    bird. It greatly resembles an ostrich in size and
    characteristics, but as there are no ostriches in that
    country, it would be difficult to mistake anything else
    for this rare bird. I would be willing to give one
    thousand dollars for this specimen alive, and will gladly
    welcome any information you can send me. Very truly yours,

                              C. Ewein Church, New York, N. Y.

“My ——!” snorts Magpie. “Here we’ve had uh thousand dollars running
loose around here and didn’t know it. Ain’t that the limit?”

“Just uh case of grasping an opportunity when she comes your way,”
chuckles Tellurium, looking at his tickets again. “Some of us are wide
awake around here.”

“Uh-huh,” I agrees. “As far as I’m concerned I tries to get my regular
sleep.”

Tellurium pilgrims back across the street, and pretty soon we opines
that we might as well go and see what’s doing, so we enters Buck’s
place. Chuck leads the bird in, and ties it to uh leg of the
pool-table. The bird squats down on the floor, and Chuck mounts uh
chair.

“Gents,” says he, yelling for order. “We are gathered together here to
raffle off uh bird that nobody seems to know nothing about. I puts my
rope on it and, being it don’t show no brand, I claims it as mine. Am
I right?”

“According to law, Chuck,” admits the judge.

“Being all things is so we will proceed to raffle off said bird.
Gents, will the first number out of the hat win the bird or will we
draw more before the lucky number comes to view?”

“Make it three draws,” squeaks Scenery. “Third number out wins.”

The bunch seems satisfied, so Chuck takes up the hat with the numbers
in, and begins to shake ’em up.

“Who will do the drawing?” asks the judge. “We got to have this all
according to law.”

“You can’t, Judge,” states Tellurium. “You got too many chances. Let’s
get somebody what ain’t got no interest. Let Ike Harper do it.”

I didn’t want to be mixed up in the thing uh-tall, but uh feller can’t
refuse uh simple request like that, so I moves into position.

“Let her go, Ike,” squeaks Scenery. “If you draws my number I’ll make
you uh present of uh calf.”

“Just uh minute!” yells the judge. “That sounds to me like he was
trying to bribe or coerce the drawee. Scenery, you keep your mouth
shut. I’d be willing to make Mister Harper uh present of uh calf if he
drawed my number, but I ain’t proclaiming it.”

I reaches up twice and tears up the two numbers that I draws.

“This one tells the tale,” says somebody, excited like, as I pulls it
out and hands it to Chuck.

He unfolds it and squints hard at the number, turning it around and
around.

“Number—uh—say, Ike, what number is that?”

“Looks like uh sixteen to me,” says I, and Scenery whoops:

“That’s mi-i-i-i-ine! I got sixte-e-e-e-e-en! Whooe-e-e-e-e!”

“Wait uh minute!” howls Chuck. “Maybe I was wrong, Ike, but take uh
look at it the other way. If that ain’t uh nine——”

“That’s mine!” whoops Dirty Shirt. “Dog-gone, I knowed——”

“Looks like ninety-one,” says I.

“My number! My number,” whoops the judge. “Ninety-one wins!”

The judge comes clawing his way to the front, and the whole crowd
starts milling around me.

“Ouch!” yelps Ricky, above the noise. “Let loose! Wow! That danged
pelican bit me on the leg!”

“I claims that bird,” yells the judge. “Lead her out to me, Ricky.”

“Like —— he will!” howls Scenery, climbing up on the bar, and shaking
his number under the judge’s nose. “Just because you misrepresents the
law, Judge, it don’t give yuh no rights to take property away from
honest men.”

“Let’s live in peace and harmony,” states Buck Masterson, sliding his
double-barreled shotgun across the bar, and covering the crowd.
“Everybody shut up and listen to me! Look at the tickets in the hat
and maybe yuh can settle this argument.”

“Your wisdom is to be applauded, Buck,” says Chuck. “Sheath that
cemetery promoter, and we’ll rest easier and think clearer. Ricky,
give me that hat with the tickets in.”

“Where’s your danged hat?” asks Ricky, down on his hands and knees
under the table. “If it was down here—let loose, you cross between uh
Shanghai rooster and uh giraffe! Huh!”

Ricky’s hand comes up over the table-top, and produces one square of
white paper.

“Your hat’s still here, Chuck, but that danged bird has ate up all the
tickets except that number thirteen. I took that away from him
and—ouch! Yuh will, will yuh!”

“_Biff! Coo-oo-orlook._”

Ricky must uh kicked that bird for getting familiar, ’cause it comes
right up into our midst with dangerous intent written on its
countenance.
