
The Consolator touched a hidden switch atop his desk and one of the
black onyx walls rippled and seemed to dissolve in mist. A replica of
Earth swam through the haze and into view. "Earth. Such an incredibly
small planet, Joseph. But the heart of the Galaxy none the less."
The replica seemed to swell in size and geographical details became
apparent. "Earth. Once a world of gentle, rolling plains, winding
rivers, thick forests, wide oceans and soaring mountains. Just like any
other habitable planet. And now look at it. One solid mass of buildings
and machines, Joseph. We've drained the oceans and filled in their beds
with metal. We've destroyed the forests and the rolling plains and
planted the land for miles above and below with throbbing inorganic
monsters. We've hollowed out the very mountains to make more space.
Space for nine hundred billion people, Joseph. And still we are cramped
almost beyond belief. We need to expand a hundredfold. But we cannot.
There simply is no room left.

"No room for the living, Joseph, and this means no more room for the
dead, either. Here, let me show you." The scene changed, showing first
a huge building, and then, the bottom floor of the edifice. "This is
one of our larger buildings, Joseph. It is more than fifty miles long
and one hundred miles wide. The bottom floor alone is more than one
quarter mile high. This huge space is completely filled with cubes two
inches square. Each cube holds the ashes of one human being who wished
to find his final resting place on Earth."

Consolator Steen made a motion of resignation. "Notice that I said 'on
Earth,' Joseph, and not 'in Earth.' This is our 'pauper's field,' the
burial ground of those devoted souls who could not afford to be buried
_in_ the Earth itself."

Joseph Krieg frowned. "But surely underneath the building...."

"Underneath the bottom floor of that building are the bodies of many
millions more, Joseph, just as there are bodies under all of our
buildings. Bodies of those wealthy few who could afford to escape
cremation and find surcease of life in the loamy substance of the Earth
itself. I shudder to tell you how tightly packed they are, of the
skin-tight coffins which we had to devise, of the geometrical tricks
involved in jamming as many bodies as possible in the least amount of
space. And yet, it _is_ burial, and it is _in_ the Earth itself. No
granite monuments, of course, no vases of flowers, no green grass. Just
a perpetual flame burning in the main lobby of the building, and a
micro-film file available somewhere listing the vital statistics of all
those souls whose remains lie in the basement--or below."

Krieg's face was furrowed with a heavy frown. Steen's words had been
as shocking to the man as Steen had hoped they would be. "But the
Parks...."

"Ah, yes, Joseph. The Parks...." Consolator Steen leaned forward
slightly. The fish was sniffing at the bait quite properly now. "Our
Parks, which are the one remaining link with the past. Those green and
grassy meadows in the midst of our metallic forests. The last places
on Earth where you can be buried out in the open, with flowers over
your head and birds singing above. You want to be buried in one of the
Parks, don't you Joseph?" When the man nodded briefly, Steen continued.
"Which Park, Joseph?"

"Manhattan...."

Steen drew himself up with a sudden, silent movement. The fish had
taken a good look at the bait. Now to remove it from sight for a while.
Steen closed his eyes briefly, then raised a hand as if to brush away
a sudden tear. "I'm sorry, Joe. Very sorry indeed. I was afraid that
was what you wanted, and yet, there was always...." He blinked his
eyes. "Manhattan Park is impossible, Joe. Confucius Park in Hong Kong,
perhaps. I think there are still same plots available in Frogner Park
in Oslo. I'm certain that we could get you into Amundsen Park at the
South Pole. But Manhattan.... No, Joe. That's one dream I'm afraid
you'll just have to give up."

"Why?" Joseph Krieg asked quietly but determinedly.

"Have you ever seen it, Joe? I thought not. It's perhaps the most
beautiful part of this most beautiful planet in the Galaxy. Would you
like to see Manhattan?"

_Manhattan._ Steen was quite aware that to Joseph Krieg this was a
word of a hundred thousand associations, each of them connected with
love, security, devotion and repose. It was like asking a starving man
if he would care for something to eat.

Steen did not even wait for a reply. "I think it could be managed, as a
special favor. Permission to enter Manhattan Park is difficult to get,
you know, but I think this once...." Steen turned to Braun. "Put a call
through to the President's office...."
