
Atop grassy knolls, supple willows trailed languid branches to the
ground. Silver-throated birds sang secret melodies while bees hummed
a scarcely audible background. Narrow graveled paths wound through
this gentle landscape, now hugging the edge of a tinkling stream, now
plunging through carpets of gorgeous flowers. The three men sat silent
on a rough stone bench observing the pastoral scene.

Finally Consolator Steen spoke softly. "I understand how you feel,
Joe. The first time any of us sees it, we are afflicted with silence.
Its beauty is almost painful, the memories it invokes almost beyond
bearing. Lincoln is buried there, just beyond that hillock; Landowski
not far from him. Shakespeare's grave is there to the right, and close
by is the body of Sharon, the poet of the Galaxy. Einstein's final
resting place is a mile or so away, and near to it you'll find Chi Wan,
who gave us Stardrive. Humanity's Valhalla, Joe."

Joseph Krieg had not cried openly since childhood, and yet now there
were tears in his eyes. "This has always been my dream...."

Consolator Steen placed a friendly arm around the man's shoulders.
"Yes, now you have seen it. Your dream has come true." He paused for
just a moment, then said, "And now, Joe, perhaps we had better go."

Joseph Krieg turned towards the man with an abrupt motion. "Go? Why
should we go? We've been here scarcely ten minutes."

"Because the longer you stay, the harder it will be for you to leave,
Joe. And the less attractive the other parks will seem to you. So, I'd
like for us to leave at once." His voice became businesslike. "First,
I'd like to show you Hong Kong, and then...."

"I don't want to see Hong Kong, or any place else. This is where I want
to be buried, Steen. Whatever the price is, I'll pay."

Consolator Steen sighed deeply. "I don't think you understand, Joe.
It isn't a matter of price. Manhattan is simply not available to you,
for the reason that it is not for sale. I know that you have heard
otherwise; I am sure that rumors have reached your ears that burial
in Manhattan could be effected for a mere trillion credits. But these
fantastic tales are incorrect--for two reasons.

"The first reason, Joe, is a financial one. To the average man, a mere
million credits is such a gigantic, unobtainable sum that he is sure
anything in the Galaxy could be obtained for a trillion. This is not
so, as you and I both know. Why, a million credits will scarcely get
you a burial in a two-inch-square cube in the bottom floor of one of
our huge buildings. Remember? I called those huge bargain basements
'pauper's fields.' And that they are--available to those poor people
throughout the Universe who have only a few millions to their names.
Incredible, isn't it?

"A trillion credits? Why, it takes a hundred billion to make you
eligible for burial _under_ one of the buildings, where you're packed
in like a sardine with millions of other bodies. And how many people
in the Galaxy can lay their hands on a hundred billion credits? The
answer, Joe, is too many people indeed. Some of them have so much more
money than that, they can actually afford to be buried in one of the
Parks.

"A trillion credits? Yes, that will get you buried in Hong Kong Park,
or in Frogner, or Amundsen. But not for long. You can rent a temporary
grave in Hong Kong, for example, for a mere billion credits a day. At
that rate, for a trillion credits, you'd stay buried on Earth for less
than three years, and then your body would have to be moved elsewhere.
Very few people can afford to purchase a permanent plot in one of
these parks. But they are available--at a cost of something like one
quadrillion credits. And just how many men in the Galaxy _have_ a
quadrillion credits or so?"

Consolator Steen knew the answer to this question exactly--he also knew
that Joseph Krieg was one of these men. Krieg could have afforded a
quadrillion credits, but it would have exhausted his fortune. Steen
waited until he was sure that the other man was deep in mental turmoil
and then he continued, his voice now softer, less commercial sounding.
"And having given you 'the prices,' so to speak, of the lesser
treasures, I will now surprise you by saying that the entry ticket to
Manhattan Park is free."

Joseph Krieg looked at the man intently, a curious fire of hope in his
eyes. "Free?"

Steen nodded. "And because it is free, it is unobtainable. It is not
generally known, Joe, but the only way one can be buried in Manhattan
Park is by permission of the Galactic Congress. Only certified heroes
are so honored, and they are few and far between. Remember the great
bacteriologist Manuel de Artega? It took the Galactic Congress more
than fifty years of debate after he died to decide to let him in--but
after all, the only claim to fame he had was that he saved a few
trillion lives from the Green Plague. He was buried here some thirteen
years ago. There has been no one since, and no one in sight."

Steen patted the man on the shoulder. "Now, come along, Joe. I want you
to take a look at Amundsen Park before you make up your mind. It's not
at all cold at the Pole these days--lovely flowers, trees...."

"No!" Joseph Krieg cried, standing up. Steen and Braun both rose too.
"There must be a way!"

The Consolator smiled inwardly. _The fish was responding
magnificently. Now to push the bait just a little closer...._

"Now, now, Joe. You mustn't get upset about this. The other Parks are
just as fine, I assure you," Steen murmured in consolation.

Krieg shook his head. "You can't tell me that sometime or other someone
didn't buy his way into Manhattan. It stands to reason...."

"Now, Joe. You're taking this much too hard...."

"I tell you, I know people. And that's all the Galactic Congress is
made up of--people. Tell me the truth, Steen. Has anyone ever bribed
his way into this Park?"

Steen frowned and turned his head slightly away from the man. _Just a
flick or two more of the line...._
