
The sleeping creature stirred uneasily, as though sensing the approach
of danger. The Triomed froze into immobility. It was unlikely that he
could be seen, he knew, though the sense of sight was only a synthesized
abstraction to him. It was not one of his own proper senses, but he had
been able to detect at long distance that almost every living creature
on this planet received impressions through certain specialized organs
mounted on and within their structure. There were plants, of course, as
there were on Triom, but they were unimportant.

There were viruses, too, and he had been afraid when he had discovered
this fact that he had arrived too late. But the first attempts at
establishing communication had relieved the Triomed of his fears. The
indigenous viruses were primitive; not at all like his own illustrious
ancestors of ancient Triom.

The sleeping biped relaxed and the Triomed inched forward again, a flat,
almost two dimensional smear of glistening matter on the floor in front
of the biped.

From high above the planet's night side, the Triomed had sensed the
city. He had absorbed its shape and size and meaning while his craft
settled through the heavy, oxygen-rich air. It was not enough that his
instruments told of suitable hosts. He was a scientist and believed in
absolute proof. Also, he had been in space long--without the
satisfaction of a host--and he yearned for the rapport, the domination
of a warm-blooded creature.

There had been a dark segment in the brilliant pattern of the city. An
island of solitude amid the myriad confluences. It was there that he had
landed his tiny probe ship and hidden it among the thickly wooded
glades. Almost immediately he had sensed the nearness of many creatures.
Insects, plants, warm-blooded quadrupeds and bipeds. There had been
machines and buildings and winding roadways among the trees. Darkness
had covered his progress until at last he found himself near the
sleeping creature, ready to infiltrate and take command.
