
The glistening shape elongated, became a thread-like tendril of almost
gossamer thickness. It touched the flesh of the sleeper and thrilled
with pleasure. Cautiously, the Triomed moved up the hairy leg, an
invisible strand of alien life close to the warm skin. Presently, the
strand found the opening it sought. It slithered imperceptibly into the
moist warmth of the sleeper's nostril, moved through the tear-duct into
the space behind the eyeball. Here it probed through muscle and membrane
along the base of the brain, seeking the pineal gland.

And found it, penetrated it, coiling like a microscopic serpent within
the gland. A surge of pleasure went through the Triomed. Here was
safety. The host was large, powerful and vibrant with life. Quickly, the
Triomed established dominance. It was shockingly easy. The creature's
mind was immature, primitive. Briefly it struggled and then died as the
alien poisoned the identity centers of the brain.

New sensations poured in through unfamiliar sense organs. Sounds of the
faraway city, small sounds from the many living creatures in the
darkness. Smells and sights and pressures from all about him presented
themselves--were evaluated and recorded in the atomic structure of the
Triomed.

He was now equipped, he reflected with satisfaction, to carry out
further exploration. In the guise of the indigenous biped he could roam
among the natives at will. He remained in a sitting position, however,
while he familiarized himself with his host.

He had two articulated appendages fixed to the trunk at a point near and
below the skull-case. These ended in complex extremities consisting of
five jointed fingers. The same pattern was repeated at the lower end of
the trunk, but the extremities were suited there for the carrying of the
creature's considerable weight. Within the trunk were the customary
viscera generally associated with warm-blooded beings: lungs,
intestines, stomach, liver, bladder, reproductive organs and assorted
ducted and ductless glands. It was apparent to the Triomed that his
present body was in excellent health. He was greatly pleased.

After some careful experiments, the Triomed rose. If there was a proper
method of egress from the cubicle in which he found himself, it was not
imprinted on the biped's brain. For a moment this gave the alien pause.
He could, of course, determine the proper method by a tedious process of
trial and error, but that would take time and he had no desire to waste
the hours of darkness. One wall, he noted, consisted of vertical risers
fixed in the substance of the floor and ceiling. Beyond, he could see
the darkling woods and the sky-glow of the city. The answer, then, was
simple force. He did not doubt there was strength enough in the host's
musculature to distort the risers.

His assumption was quite correct.
