
Stepping through the bent risers, he picked his way along a narrow
walkway lined with cubicles similar to the one he had left. Within them,
dark shapes moved or lay sleeping. Some were alert, others were not. But
none gave an alarm. The Triomed reached the end of the walk, scaled a
fence easily and stood on a surface of wet grass that sloped away from
the low dark building toward the woods.

Behind him he heard a shout. A narrow beam of light pierced the night,
swinging to and fro with a searching motion. He had a fleeting glimpse
of a small biped running down the walk toward the cubicle he had
deserted.

The Triomed broke toward the wood with a long loping pace that covered
the ground with unbelievable swiftness. The probing light did not find
him. Once among the trees he paused and took his bearings. The woods
were not thick. He could see the lights of the city through the foliage.
They began at the very edge of the trees, where a wide open area could
be discerned. Wheeled vehicles moved past with breathtaking speed.

If there was pursuit, it was inefficient, for the Triomed moved through
the woods undisturbed until he stood at the edge of the avenue,
sheltered by the shadow of a large tree. Most of the traffic was
vehicular, he noted. There were few pedestrians. From the noise and odor
he classified the vehicles as being powered by internal combustion
engines burning hydro-carbons. Primitive. That was good, he reflected.
When the fleets of Triom descended on this planet, there would be no
science worthy of the name to oppose them.

He waited until there was an interval in the traffic, and then stepped
out confidently, crossing the avenue. As he reached the opposite side he
heard a screech of brakes and a garbled, choking sound. He did not turn
to discover the source of the disturbance until he had reached the
shelter of a building on the far side of the walk bordering the street.

A vehicle had stopped at an oblique angle to the lane in which it was
travelling, and its single occupant, a very pale-faced biped was
goggling stupidly in the direction of the hidden Triomed.

For the first time, the alien being felt a twinge of apprehension.
Certainly he had done nothing out of the ordinary in crossing the open
space on foot? But perhaps there were tribal taboos and traditions among
the natives that could not be ignored without attracting attention.

The Triomed promised himself that he would exercise more caution in such
matters. Too much depended on this reconnaissance to allow it to be
disturbed by carelessness.

He worked his way through the shadows between the many buildings until
the wide highway was far behind him. He was very aware of the teeming
life all about him--in the buildings, in the vehicles on the streets.
Still, some odd impulse that stemmed from the numbed brain of his host
rather than his own, kept him fairly hidden. This, he decided with
something akin to annoyance, was not as it should be. If his survey were
to be of any value, he must roam at will and without fear of detection,
secure in his disguise.
