
Presently he came upon a street where streams of bipeds jostled one
another, each seemingly intent upon its own particular incomprehensible
errands. For a long while he watched from the shelter of an alley
doorway, classifying and integrating the information his host's sharp
eyes brought him. It was miraculous. Hosts of every size and description
were in abundance--an unlimited supply of them. Enough for the whole
population of Triom. It was beyond belief, but he could not doubt. And
this was but a single concentration. A single city. From the
stratosphere he had seen hundreds of similar cities. Paradise! He
envisioned the fleets of Triom descending, the Triomeds emerging and
infiltrating. The thoughts brought pride and anticipation. It had been
so easy....

He decided not to linger. He felt now that he had his proofs and that he
should return at once to his ship. Triom must be told immediately. The
communicator in the ship could carry the message as soon as the craft
reached a suitable distance from planetary mass. He would return, send
the ship aloft, dispatch his message and then return to his host to
await the others of his race.

His decision made, he stepped confidently out into the throng of bipeds,
seeking the shortest route back to his hidden craft.

The result was instantaneous and amazing.

The crowd drew back with a howling, shrieking noise, leaving him
standing in the center of a circle of dead white faces.

Behind the first row of bipeds, he could see others running in every
direction, and screaming at the top of their voices. The racket,
combined with the noises of the city, was most unpleasant. The Triomed
began to be afraid.

[Illustration]

He broke into a rapid walk, and the crowd parted before him with much
louder screeching. Here and there a biped, apparently braver than the
rest, made threatening motions with bundles or knotted fists. A package
struck him on the shoulder.

The Triomed began to run. He noted for the first time that he towered
head and shoulders over most of the bipeds nearby, and his host's brain
interpreted the smells of hate and fear all about him.

The crowd scattered wildly at his approach, but he was being followed.
Panic began to clutch at the alien. What had he done wrong? Somewhere a
wailing sound began--vehicles with glaring red lights swept past him
with vicious, explosive noises. He felt a stinging pain in one leg, and
glanced down to see it streaked with red.

Ahead of him a line of bipeds all clothed in identical blue sacs of
fabric had formed, spilling from the vehicles as they halted. The
Triomed stopped, sensing mortal danger. Behind him, the mob rumbled.
Ahead the blue bipeds stood holding artifacts that the Triomed did not
for an instant doubt were weapons.

No street opened on either side of him. He was trapped between the
weapons, the mob, and two tall buildings. He hesitated only for a
moment. With a desperate leap, he reached the second level of windows of
the building nearest him and clung there, gasping.

A white-faced creature appeared and began poking at him with a steel rod
that burned like fire when it touched his host's flesh. The creature
screamed shrilly all the while.

With a sob, the Triomed swung himself onto the window ledge and began
climbing upward, toward the roof of the building. It was slow work and
the pain in his leg and burned shoulder slowed him down. He dare not
free himself of his host now, for he was much too far from his ship to
be able to return in his natural form.
