
There were searchlights in the street below, probing at him as he clung
to the sheer facade of the building. Panic drove him upward. A
continuous, wailing roar rose from the canyon below, a fear-laden
hideous cacophony. The Triomed felt himself weak with terror, part of
which was his host's and part of which stemmed from within himself. The
terror and fear of not knowing what had gone wrong and why he stood now
in such peril.

At last he reached the roof. He heaved himself over the parapet and lay
for a moment, flanks heaving painfully. Then he stiffened with a new
fear. He was not alone. The roof was occupied. A score or more of armed
bipeds blocked him into a triangular corner of the roof. He got to his
feet and stumbled backward. Their weapons were aimed at him. He
retreated until the parapet stopped him, warning of the sheer drop to
the street far below.

A figure separated itself from the armed mass. A flash of recognition
came--partially his own, partially his host's. It was the small biped he
had seen in the searchlight beam running toward the cubicle he had
deserted so long ago it seemed.

The small creature began speaking, making soft, soothing noises,
advancing all the while, a tiny glass vial in his hands.

Without knowing why, the Triomed felt his lips pull away from his teeth
in a snarl. He heard a deep, rumbling growling sound in his own throat.
The biped stopped, and the Triomed could smell his sudden fear.

He felt a surge of incomprehensible rage come over him--he crouched
menacingly.

The creature took a step closer. Another. The Triomed tensed.

The creature was within reach, extending the vial. The alien could see
that it was tipped with a sliver of steel. He sprang--

The weapons crashed. The alien felt the thudding impact of projectiles
penetrating the brain case. In a panic he began to extrude from the
pineal gland. If death overcame the host while he had rapport, he, too,
would die. And if he died, Triom would die.

He felt his huge body totter. There was another blast from the weapons
and he sensed the projectile coming--with what seemed to be agonizing
slowness to his quickened senses. It was spinning in the darkness. It
struck the eye, smashed it, moved inward, along the base of the
brain....

The Triomed felt one deep, searing agony that was his alone as the
bullet crushed him. The hot metal acrid touch was the last thing he knew
before death came....
