

"Mother," then said Will, "why will you keep on thinking she's alive?  If
she were but dead, we need never name her name again.  We've never heard
nought on her since father wrote her that letter; we never knew whether
she got it or not.  She'd left her place before then.  Many a one dies
in--"

"Oh, my lad! dunnot speak so to me, or my heart will break outright,"
said his mother, with a sort of cry.  Then she calmed herself, for she
yearned to persuade him to her own belief.  "Thou never asked, and
thou'rt too like thy father for me to tell without asking--but it were
all to be near Lizzie's old place that I settled down on this side o'
Manchester; and the very day at after we came, I went to her old missus,
and asked to speak a word wi' her.  I had a strong mind to cast it up to
her, that she should ha' sent my poor lass away, without telling on it to
us first; but she were in black, and looked so sad I could na' find in my
heart to threep it up.  But I did ask her a bit about our Lizzie.  The
master would have turned her away at a day's warning (he's gone to
t'other place; I hope he'll meet wi' more mercy there than he showed our
Lizzie--I do), and when the missus asked her should she write to us, she
says Lizzie shook her head; and when she speered at her again, the poor
lass went down on her knees, and begged her not, for she said it would
break my heart (as it has done, Will--God knows it has)," said the poor
mother, choking with her struggle to keep down her hard overmastering
grief, "and her father would curse her--Oh, God, teach me to be patient."
She could not speak for a few minutes--"and the lass threatened, and said
she'd go drown herself in the canal, if the missus wrote home--and so--

"Well!  I'd got a trace of my child--the missus thought she'd gone to th'
workhouse to be nursed; and there I went--and there, sure enough, she had
been--and they'd turned her out as she were strong, and told her she were
young enough to work--but whatten kind o' work would be open to her, lad,
and her baby to keep?"

Will listened to his mother's tale with deep sympathy, not unmixed with
the old bitter shame.  But the opening of her heart had unlocked his, and
after awhile he spoke--

"Mother!  I think I'd e'en better go home.  Tom can stay wi' thee.  I
know I should stay too, but I cannot stay in peace so near--her--without
craving to see her--Susan Palmer, I mean."

"Has the old Mr. Palmer thou telled me on a daughter?" asked Mrs. Leigh.

"Ay, he has.  And I love her above a bit.  And it's because I love her I
want to leave Manchester.  That's all."

Mrs. Leigh tried to understand this speech for some time, but found it
difficult of interpretation.

"Why shouldst thou not tell her thou lov'st her?  Thou'rt a likely lad,
and sure o' work.  Thou'lt have Upclose at my death; and as for that, I
could let thee have it now, and keep mysel' by doing a bit of charring.
It seems to me a very backwards sort o' way of winning her to think of
leaving Manchester."

"Oh, mother, she's so gentle and so good--she's downright holy.  She's
never known a touch of sin; and can I ask her to marry me, knowing what
we do about Lizzie, and fearing worse?  I doubt if one like her could
ever care for me; but if she knew about my sister, it would put a gulf
between us, and she'd shudder up at the thought of crossing it.  You
don't know how good she is, mother!"

"Will, Will! if she's so good as thou say'st, she'll have pity on such as
my Lizzie.  If she has no pity for such, she's a cruel Pharisee, and
thou'rt best without her."

But he only shook his head, and sighed; and for the time the conversation
dropped.

But a new idea sprang up in Mrs. Leigh's head.  She thought that she
would go and see Susan Palmer, and speak up for Will, and tell her the
truth about Lizzie; and according to her pity for the poor sinner, would
she be worthy or unworthy of him.  She resolved to go the very next
afternoon, but without telling any one of her plan.  Accordingly she
looked out the Sunday clothes she had never before had the heart to
unpack since she came to Manchester, but which she now desired to appear
in, in order to do credit to Will.  She put on her old-fashioned black
mode bonnet, trimmed with real lace; her scarlet cloth cloak, which she
had had ever since she was married; and, always spotlessly clean, she set
forth on her unauthorised embassy.  She knew the Palmers lived in Crown
Street, though where she had heard it she could not tell; and modestly
asking her way, she arrived in the street about a quarter to four
o'clock.  She stopped to enquire the exact number, and the woman whom she
addressed told her that Susan Palmer's school would not be loosed till
four, and asked her to step in and wait until then at her house.

"For," said she, smiling, "them that wants Susan Palmer wants a kind
friend of ours; so we, in a manner, call cousins.  Sit down, missus, sit
down.  I'll wipe the chair, so that it shanna dirty your cloak.  My
mother used to wear them bright cloaks, and they're right gradely things
again a green field."

"Han ye known Susan Palmer long?" asked Mrs. Leigh, pleased with the
admiration of her cloak.

"Ever since they comed to live in our street.  Our Sally goes to her
school."

"Whatten sort of a lass is she, for I ha' never seen her?"

"Well, as for looks, I cannot say.  It's so long since I first knowed
her, that I've clean forgotten what I thought of her then.  My master
says he never saw such a smile for gladdening the heart.  But maybe it's
not looks you're asking about.  The best thing I can say of her looks is,
that she's just one a stranger would stop in the street to ask help from
if he needed it.  All the little childer creeps as close as they can to
her; she'll have as many as three or four hanging to her apron all at
once."

"Is she cocket at all?"

"Cocket, bless you! you never saw a creature less set up in all your
life.  Her father's cocket enough.  No! she's not cocket any way.  You've
not heard much of Susan Palmer, I reckon, if you think she's cocket.
She's just one to come quietly in, and do the very thing most wanted;
little things, maybe, that any one could do, but that few would think on,
for another.  She'll bring her thimble wi' her, and mend up after the
childer o' nights; and she writes all Betty Harker's letters to her
grandchild out at service; and she's in nobody's way, and that's a great
matter, I take it.  Here's the childer running past!  School is loosed.
You'll find her now, missus, ready to hear and to help.  But we none on
us frab her by going near her in school-time."

Poor Mrs. Leigh's heart began to beat, and she could almost have turned
round and gone home again.  Her country breeding had made her shy of
strangers, and this Susan Palmer appeared to her like a real born lady by
all accounts.  So she knocked with a timid feeling at the indicated door,
and when it was opened, dropped a simple curtsey without speaking.  Susan
had her little niece in her arms, curled up with fond endearment against
her breast, but she put her gently down to the ground, and instantly
placed a chair in the best corner of the room for Mrs. Leigh, when she
told her who she was.  "It's not Will as has asked me to come," said the
mother, apologetically; "I'd a wish just to speak to you myself!"

Susan coloured up to her temples, and stooped to pick up the little
toddling girl.  In a minute or two Mrs. Leigh began again.

"Will thinks you would na respect us if you knew all; but I think you
could na help feeling for us in the sorrow God has put upon us; so I just
put on my bonnet, and came off unknownst to the lads.  Every one says
you're very good, and that the Lord has keeped you from falling from His
ways; but maybe you've never yet been tried and tempted as some is.  I'm
perhaps speaking too plain, but my heart's welly broken, and I can't be
choice in my words as them who are happy can.  Well now!  I'll tell you
the truth.  Will dreads you to hear it, but I'll just tell it you.  You
mun know--" but here the poor woman's words failed her, and she could do
nothing but sit rocking herself backwards and forwards, with sad eyes,
straight-gazing into Susan's face, as if they tried to tell the tale of
agony which the quivering lips refused to utter.  Those wretched, stony
eyes forced the tears down Susan's cheeks, and, as if this sympathy gave
the mother strength, she went on in a low voice--"I had a daughter once,
my heart's darling.  Her father thought I made too much on her, and that
she'd grow marred staying at home; so he said she mun go among strangers
and learn to rough it.  She were young, and liked the thought of seeing a
bit of the world; and her father heard on a place in Manchester.  Well!
I'll not weary you.  That poor girl were led astray; and first thing we
heard on it, was when a letter of her father's was sent back by her
missus, saying she'd left her place, or, to speak right, the master had
turned her into the street soon as he had heard of her condition--and she
not seventeen!"

She now cried aloud; and Susan wept too.  The little child looked up into
their faces, and, catching their sorrow, began to whimper and wail.  Susan
took it softly up, and hiding her face in its little neck, tried to
restrain her tears, and think of comfort for the mother.  At last she
said--

"Where is she now?"

"Lass!  I dunnot know," said Mrs. Leigh, checking her sobs to communicate
this addition to her distress.  "Mrs. Lomax telled me she went--"

"Mrs. Lomax--what Mrs. Lomax?"

"Her as lives in Brabazon Street.  She telled me my poor wench went to
the workhouse fra there.  I'll not speak again the dead; but if her
father would but ha' letten me--but he were one who had no notion--no,
I'll not say that; best say nought.  He forgave her on his death-bed.  I
daresay I did na go th' right way to work."

"Will you hold the child for me one instant?" said Susan.

"Ay, if it will come to me.  Childer used to be fond on me till I got the
sad look on my face that scares them, I think."

But the little girl clung to Susan; so she carried it upstairs with her.
Mrs. Leigh sat by herself--how long she did not know.

Susan came down with a bundle of far-worn baby-clothes.

"You must listen to me a bit, and not think too much about what I'm going
to tell you.  Nanny is not my niece, nor any kin to me, that I know of.  I
used to go out working by the day.  One night, as I came home, I thought
some woman was following me; I turned to look.  The woman, before I could
see her face (for she turned it to one side), offered me something.  I
held out my arms by instinct; she dropped a bundle into them, with a
bursting sob that went straight to my heart.  It was a baby.  I looked
round again; but the woman was gone.  She had run away as quick as
lightning.  There was a little packet of clothes--very few--and as if
they were made out of its mother's gowns, for they were large patterns to
buy for a baby.  I was always fond of babies; and I had not my wits about
me, father says; for it was very cold, and when I'd seen as well as I
could (for it was past ten) that there was no one in the street, I
brought it in and warmed it.  Father was very angry when he came, and
said he'd take it to the workhouse the next morning, and flyted me sadly
about it.  But when morning came I could not bear to part with it; it had
slept in my arms all night; and I've heard what workhouse bringing-up is.
So I told father I'd give up going out working and stay at home and keep
school, if I might only keep the baby; and, after a while, he said if I
earned enough for him to have his comforts, he'd let me; but he's never
taken to her.  Now, don't tremble so--I've but a little more to tell--and
maybe I'm wrong in telling it; but I used to work next door to Mrs.
Lomax's, in Brabazon Street, and the servants were all thick together;
and I heard about Bessy (they called her) being sent away.  I don't know
that ever I saw her; but the time would be about fitting to this child's
age, and I've sometimes fancied it was hers.  And now, will you look at
the little clothes that came with her--bless her!"

But Mrs. Leigh had fainted.  The strange joy and shame, and gushing love
for the little child, had overpowered her; it was some time before Susan
could bring her round.  There she was all trembling, sick with impatience
to look at the little frocks.  Among them was a slip of paper which Susan
had forgotten to name, that had been pinned to the bundle.  On it was
scrawled in a round stiff hand--

"Call her Anne.  She does not cry much, and takes a deal of notice.  God
bless you and forgive me."

The writing was no clue at all; the name "Anne," common though it was,
seemed something to build upon.  But Mrs. Leigh recognised one of the
frocks instantly, as being made out of a part of a gown that she and her
daughter had bought together in Rochdale.

She stood up, and stretched out her hands in the attitude of blessing
over Susan's bent head.

"God bless you, and show you His mercy in your need, as you have shown it
to this little child."

She took the little creature in her arms, and smoothed away her sad looks
to a smile, and kissed it fondly, saying over and over again, "Nanny,
Nanny, my little Nanny."  At last the child was soothed, and looked in
her face and smiled back again.

"It has her eyes," said she to Susan.

"I never saw her to the best of my knowledge.  I think it must be hers by
the frock.  But where can she be?"

"God knows," said Mrs. Leigh; "I dare not think she's dead.  I'm sure she
isn't."

"No; she's not dead.  Every now and then a little packet is thrust in
under our door, with, may be, two half-crowns in it; once it was half-a-
sovereign.  Altogether I've got seven-and-thirty shillings wrapped up for
Nanny.  I never touch it, but I've often thought the poor mother feels
near to God when she brings this money.  Father wanted to set the
policeman to watch, but I said No; for I was afraid if she was watched
she might not come, and it seemed such a holy thing to be checking her
in, I could not find in my heart to do it."

"Oh, if we could but find her!  I'd take her in my arms, and we'd just
lie down and die together."

"Nay, don't speak so!" said Susan, gently; "for all that's come and gone,
she may turn right at last.  Mary Magdalen did, you know."

"Eh! but I were nearer right about thee than Will.  He thought you would
never look on him again if you knew about Lizzie.  But thou'rt not a
Pharisee."

"I'm sorry he thought I could be so hard," said Susan in a low voice, and
colouring up.  Then Mrs. Leigh was alarmed, and, in her motherly anxiety,
she began to fear lest she had injured Will in Susan's estimation.

"You see Will thinks so much of you--gold would not be good enough for
you to walk on, in his eye.  He said you'd never look at him as he was,
let alone his being brother to my poor wench.  He loves you so, it makes
him think meanly on everything belonging to himself, as not fit to come
near ye; but he's a good lad, and a good son.  Thou'lt be a happy woman
if thou'lt have him, so don't let my words go against him--don't!"

But Susan hung her head, and made no answer.  She had not known until now
that Will thought so earnestly and seriously about her; and even now she
felt afraid that Mrs. Leigh's words promised her too much happiness, and
that they could not be true.  At any rate, the instinct of modesty made
her shrink from saying anything which might seem like a confession of her
own feelings to a third person.  Accordingly she turned the conversation
on the child.

"I am sure he could not help loving Nanny," said she.  "There never was
such a good little darling; don't you think she'd win his heart if he
knew she was his niece, and perhaps bring him to think kindly on his
sister?"

"I dunnot know," said Mrs. Leigh, shaking her head.  "He has a turn in
his eye like his father, that makes me--He's right down good though.  But
you see, I've never been a good one at managing folk; one severe look
turns me sick, and then I say just the wrong thing, I'm so fluttered.  Now
I should like nothing better than to take Nancy home with me, but Tom
knows nothing but that his sister is dead, and I've not the knack of
speaking rightly to Will.  I dare not do it, and that's the truth.  But
you mun not think badly of Will.  He's so good hissel, that he can't
understand how any one can do wrong; and, above all, I'm sure he loves
you dearly."

"I don't think I could part with Nancy," said Susan, anxious to stop this
revelation of Will's attachment to herself.  "He'll come round to her
soon; he can't fail; and I'll keep a sharp look-out after the poor
mother, and try and catch her the next time she comes with her little
parcels of money."

"Ay, lass; we mun get hold of her; my Lizzie.  I love thee dearly for thy
kindness to her child: but, if thou canst catch her for me, I'll pray for
thee when I'm too near my death to speak words; and, while I live, I'll
serve thee next to her--she mun come first, thou know'st.  God bless
thee, lass.  My heart is lighter by a deal than it was when I comed in.
Them lads will be looking for me home, and I mun go, and leave this
little sweet one" (kissing it).  "If I can take courage, I'll tell Will
all that has come and gone between us two.  He may come and see thee,
mayn't he?"

"Father will be very glad to see him, I'm sure," replied Susan.  The way
in which this was spoken satisfied Mrs. Leigh's anxious heart that she
had done Will no harm by what she had said; and, with many a kiss to the
little one, and one more fervent tearful blessing on Susan, she went
homewards.



