
A moment later, Jason Cramer entered. The young man closed the door
behind him and put his arm around her. Without protest, she turned and
buried her face in his chest. For a while, she could not talk but could
only weep.

Finally, she released herself from his embrace and said, "Why is it,
Jason, that every time I need a man to cry against, James is not with
me but you are?"

"Because he is the one who makes you cry," he said. "And I love you."

"And James," she said, "loves only himself."

"You didn't give me the proper response, Jane. I said I loved you."

She kissed him, though lightly, and murmured, "I think I love you. But
I'm not allowed to. Please forget what I said. I mean it."

She walked away from him. Jason Cramer, after making sure that he had
no lipstick on his face or uniform, followed her.

Entering the laboratory, Jane Carroad ignored her husband's glare
and sat down in the chair in the middle of the room. Immediately
thereafter, the Secretary of Science and two Security bodyguards
entered.

The Secretary was a stocky dark man of about fifty. He had very thick
black eyebrows that looked like pieces of fur pasted above his eyes.
He radiated the assurance that he was master, in control of all in the
room. Yet, he did not, as was nervously expected by James Carroad and
Jason Cramer, take offense because Jane did not rise from the chair to
greet him. He gave her a smile, patted her hand, and said, "Is it true
you will bear a male baby?"

"That is what the tests indicate," she said.

"Good. Another valuable citizen. A scientist, perhaps. With its genetic
background...."

Annoyed because his wife had occupied the center of the stage for
too long, Doctor James Carroad loudly cleared his throat. He said,
"Citizens, honored Secretary, I've asked you here for a demonstration
because I believe that what I have to show you is of utmost importance
to the State's future. I have here the secret of what constitutes a
good, or bad, citizen of the State."

He paused for effect, which he was getting, and then continued, "As
you know, I--and my associates, of course--have perfected an infallible
and swift method whereby an enemy spy or deviationist citizen may be
unmasked. This method has been in use for three years. During that
time, it has exposed many thousands as espionage agents, as traitors,
as potential traitors."

The Secretary looked interested. He also looked at his wristwatch.
Doctor Carroad refused to notice; he talked on at the same pace. He
could justify any amount of time he took, and he intended to use as
much as possible.
