
"My Department of Electroencephalographic Research first produced the
devices delicate enough to detect the so-called rho waves emanated by
the human brain. The rho or semantic waves. After ten years of hard
work, I correlated the action of the rho waves in a particular human
brain with the action of the individual's voice mechanisms. That meant,
of course, that we had a device which mankind has long dreamed of.
A--pardon the term--mind-reading machine."

Carroad purposely avoided scientific terminology. The Secretary did
have a Ph.D. in political science, but he knew very little of any
biological science.

Jason Cramer, at a snap of the fingers by Carroad, wheeled a large
round shining machine to a spot about two feet in front of Jane.
It resembled a weird metallic antelope, for it had a long flexible
neck at the end of which was an oval and eyeless head with two
prongs like horns. These pointed at Jane's skull. On the side of the
machine--Cervus III--was a round glass tube. The oscilloscope.

Carroad said, "We no longer have to attach electrodes to the subject's
head. We've made that method obsolete. Cervus' prongs pick up rho
waves without direct contact. It is also able to cut out 99.99% of the
'noise' that had hampered us in previous research."

Yes, thought Jane, and why don't you tell them that it was Jason Cramer
who made that possible, instead of allowing them to think it was you?

At that moment, she reached the peak of her hate for him. She wished
that the swelling sleeper within her was not Carroad's but Cramer's.
And, wishing that, she knew that she must be falling in love with
Cramer.

Carroad's voice slashed into her thoughts.

"And so, using the detected rho waves, which can be matched against
definite objective words, we get a verbal picture of what is going in
the subject's mind at the conscious level."

He gave an order to Cramer, and Cramer twisted a dial on the small
control board on the side of Cervus.

"The machine is now set for semantic relations," Carroad said.

"Jane!" he added so sharply that she was startled. "Repeat this
sentence after me! Silently!"

He then gave her a much-quoted phrase from one of the speeches of
the Secretary himself. She repressed her scorn of him because of his
flattery and dutifully concentrated on thinking the phrase. At the same
time, she was aware that her tongue was moving in a noiseless lock-step
with the thoughts.

The round tube on the side of Cervus glowed and then began flashing
with many twisting threads of light.

"The trained eye," said Carroad, "can interpret those waveforms. But we
have a surprise for you to whom the patterns are meaningless. We have
perfected a means whereby a technician with a minimum of training may
operate Cervus."
