
Carroad pointed a finger downwards. Cramer, slowly, his jaws set,
twisted the flexible neck of Cervus so that the pronged head pointed
directly at Jane's distended stomach. He adjusted controls on the
board. Immediately the oscilloscope danced with many intricate figures
that were so different from the previous forms that even the untutored
eyes of the Secretary could perceive the change.

"Citizens," said Carroad, "for some time after we'd discovered the
rho waves in the adult and infant, we searched for their presence in
the brain of the unborn child. We had no success for a long time. But
that was not because the rho waves did not exist in the embryo. No,
it was because we did not have delicate enough instruments. However,
a few weeks ago, we succeeded in building one. I experimented upon
my unborn child, and I detected weak traces of the rho waves. Thus,
I demonstrated that the ability to form words is present, though in
undeveloped form, even in the eight-month embryo.

"You're probably wondering what this means. This knowledge does not
enable us to make the infant or the unborn speak any sooner. True. But
what it does allow us to do is...."

Jane, who had been getting more tense with every word, became rigid.
Would he allow this to be done to his own son, his own flesh and blood?
Would he permit his child to become a half-robot, an obedient slave to
the State, incapable in certain fields of wielding the power of free
will? The factor that most marked men from the beasts and the machine?

Numbly, she knew he would.

"... to probe well-defined areas in the undeveloped mind and there
to stamp into it certain inhibitory paths. These inhibitions,
preconditioned reflexes, as it were, will not, of course, take effect
until the child has learned a language. And developed the concepts of
citizen and State.

"But, once that is done, the correlation between the semantic waves and
the inhibitions is such that the subject is unable to harbor any doubts
about the teachings of the State. Or those who interpret the will of
the State for its citizens.

"It is not necessary to perform any direct or physical surgery upon
the unborn. The reflexes will be installed by Cervus III within a few
minutes. As you see, Cervus cannot only receive; it can also transmit.
Place a recording inside that receptacle beneath the 'speaker, actuate
it, and, in a short time, you have traced in the grooves of the
brain--if you will pardon an unscientific comparison--the voice of the
State."

There was a silence. Jane and Cramer were unsuccessful in hiding their
repulsion, but the others did not notice them. The Secretary and his
bodyguards were staring at Carroad.
