
After several minutes, the Secretary broke the silence.

"Doctor Carroad, are you sure that this treatment will not harm the
creative abilities of the child? After all, we might make a first-class
citizen, in the political sense, out of your child. Yet, we might wreck
his potentialities as a first-class scientist. If we do that to our
children, we lose out in the technological race. Not to mention the
military. We need great generals, too."

"Absolutely not!" replied Carroad, so loudly and flatly that the
Secretary was taken aback. "My computations, rechecked at least a dozen
times, show there is no danger whatsoever. The only part of the brain
affected, a very small area, has nothing to do with the creative
functions. To convince you, I am going to perform the first operation
upon my own son. Surely, I could do nothing more persuasive than that."

"Yes," said the Secretary, stroking his massive chin. "By the way, can
this be done also to the adult?"

"Unfortunately, no," said Carroad.

"Then, we will have to wait a number of years to determine if your
theory is correct. And, if we go ahead on the assumption that the
theory is correct, and treat every unborn child in the country, we
will have spent a tremendous amount of money and time. If you are not
correct...."

"I can't be wrong!" said Carroad. His face began to flush, and he
shook. Then, suddenly, his face was its normal color, and he was
smiling.

_Always in control_, thought Jane. _Of himself and, if circumstances
would allow, of everybody._

"We don't have to build any extra machines," said Carroad. "A certain
amount will be built, anyway, to detect traitors and enemies. These
can be used in hospitals, when not in use elsewhere, to condition the
unborn. Wait. I will show you how simple, inexpensive, and swift the
operation is."

He gestured to Cramer. Cramer, the muscles twitching at the corners
of his mouth, looked at Jane. His eyes tried desperately to tell her
that he had to obey Carroad's orders. But, if he did, would he be
understood, would he be forgiven?

Jane could only sit in the chair with a face as smooth and unmoving
as a robot's and allow him to decide for himself without one sign of
dissent or consent from her. What, after all, could either do unless
they wished to die?

Cramer adjusted the controls.

Even though Jane knew she would feel nothing, she trembled as if a fist
were poised to strike.
