
Bright peaks and valleys danced on the face of the oscilloscope.
Carroad, watching them, gave orders to Cramer to move the prongs in
minute spirals. When he had located the area he wished, he told Cramer
to stop.

"We have just located the exact chain of neurones which are to be
altered. You will hear nothing from the speaker because the embryo,
of course, has no language. However, to show you some slight portion
of Cervus' capabilities, Cramer will stimulate the area responsible
for the rho waves before we begin the so-called inhibiting. Watch
the 'scope. You'll see the waves go from a regular pulse into a wild
dance."

The cyclopean eye of the oscilloscope became a field of crazed lines,
leaping like a horde of barefooted and wire-thin fakirs on a bed of hot
coals.

And a voice boomed out, "_Nu'sey! Nu'sey! Wanna d'ink!_"

Jane cried out, "God, what was that?"

The Secretary was startled; Cramer's face paled; Carroad was frozen.

But he recovered quickly, and he spoke sharply. "Cramer, you must have
shifted the prongs so they picked up Jane's thoughts."

"I--I never touched them."

"Those were not my thoughts," said Jane.

"Something's wrong," said Carroad, needlessly. "Here. I'll do the
adjusting."

He bent the prongs a fraction, checked the controls, and then turned
the power on again.

The mechanical voice of Cervus spoke again.

"_What do you mean? What're you saying? My father is not crazy! He's a
great scientist, a hero of the State. What do you mean? Not any more?_"

The Secretary leaped up from the chair and shouted above Cervus' voice,
"What is this?"

Carroad turned the machine off and said, "I--I don't know."

Jane had never seen him so shaken.

"Well, find out! That's your business!"

Carroad's hand shook; one eye began to twitch. But he bent again to the
adjustment of the dials. He directed the exceedingly narrow beam along
the area from which the semantic waves originated. Only a high-pitched
gabble emerged from the speaker, for Carroad had increased the speed.
It was as if he were afraid to hear the normal rate of speech.

Jane's eyes began to widen. A thought was dawning palely, but horribly,
on the horizon of her mind. If, by some intuition, she was just
beginning to see the truth.... But no, that could not be.
