
But, as Carroad worked, as the beam moved, as the power was raised or
lowered, so did the voice, though always the same in tone and speed,
change in phrase. Carroad had slowed the speed of detection, and
individual words could be heard. And it was obvious that the age level
of the speaker was fluctuating. Yet, throughout the swiftly leaping
sentences, there was a sameness, an identity of personality. Sometimes,
it was a baby just learning the language. At other times, it was an
adolescent or young boy.

"Well, man, what is it?" bellowed the Secretary.

The mysterious voice had struck sparks off even his iron nerves.

Jane answered for her husband.

"I'll tell you what it is. It's the voice of my unborn son."

"Jane, you're insane!" said Carroad.

"No, I'm not, though I wish I were."

"_God, he's at the window!_" boomed the voice. "_And he has a knife!
What can I do? What can I do?_"

"Turn that off until I get through talking," said Jane. "Then, you can
listen again and see if what I'm saying isn't true."

Carroad stood like a statue, his hand extended towards the toggle
switch but not reaching it. Cramer reached past him and flicked the
switch.

"James," she said, speaking slowly and with difficulty. "You want
to make robots out of everyone. Except, of course, yourself and the
State's leaders. But what if I told you that you don't have to do
that? That Nature or God or whatever you care to call the Creator, has
anticipated you? And done so by several billion years?

"No, don't look at me that way. You'll see what I mean. Now, look. The
only one whose thoughts you could possible have tapped is our son.
Yet, it's impossible for an unborn baby to have a knowledge of speech.
Nevertheless, you heard thoughts, originated by a boy, seeming to run
from the first years of speech up to those of an adolescent. You have
to admit that, even if you don't know what it means.

"Well, I do."

Tears running down her cheeks, choking, she said, "Maybe I see the
truth where you don't because I'm closer to my baby. It's part of me.
Oh, I know you'll say I'm talking like a silly woman. Maybe. Anyway,
I think that what we've heard means that we--all of humanity without
exception--_are_ machines. Not steel and electrical robots, no, but
still machines of flesh, engines whose behavior, motives, and very
thoughts, conscious or unconscious, spring from the playing of protein
tapes in our brains."

"What the hell are you talking about?" said Carroad.

"If I'm right, we are in hell," she said. "Through no fault or choice
of ours. Listen to me before you shut your ears because you don't want
to hear, can't hear."
