
"Memories are not recordings of what has happened in our past. Nor do
we act as we will. We speak and behave according to our 'memories,'
which are not recorded _after_ the fact. They're recorded _before_
the fact. Our actions are such because our memories tell us to do
such. Each of us is set like a clockwork doll. Oh, not independently,
but intermeshed, working together, synchronized as a masterclock or
masterplan decrees.

"And, all this time, we think we are creatures of free will and chance.
But we do not know there isn't such a thing as chance, that all is
plotted and foretold, and we are sliding over the world, through time,
in predetermined grooves. We, body and mind, are walking recordings.
Deep within our cells, a molecular needle follows the grooves, and we
follow the needle.

"Somehow, this experiment has ripped the cover from the machine, showed
us the tape, stimulated it into working long before it was supposed to."

Suddenly, she began laughing. And, between laughing and gasping, she
said, "What am I saying? It can't be an accident. If we have discovered
that we're puppets, it's because we're supposed to do so."

"Jane, Jane!" said Carroad. "You're wild, wild! Foolish woman's
intuition! You're supposed to be a scientist! Stop talking! Control
yourself!"

The Secretary bellowed for silence, and, after a minute, succeeded. He
said, "Mrs. Carroad, please continue. We'll get to the bottom of this."

He, too, was pale and wide-eyed. But he had not gotten to his position
by refusing to attack.

She ordered Cramer to run the beam again over the previous areas. He
was to speed up the process and slow down only when she so directed.

The result was a stream of unintelligibilities. Occasionally, when
Cramer slowed Cervus at a gesture from Jane, it broke into a rate of
speech they could understand. And, when it did, they trembled. They
could not deny that they were speeding over the life thoughts of a
growing male named James Carroad, Junior. Even at the velocity at which
they traveled and the great jumps in time that the machine had to make
in order to cover the track quickly, they could tell that.
