

The end of February was suddenly very hot. Almond blossom was falling
like pink snow, in the touch of the smallest breeze. The mauve, silky
little anemones were out, the asphodels tall in bud, and the sea was
cornflower blue.

Juliet had ceased to trouble about anything. Now, most of the day, she
and the child were naked in the sun, and it was all she wanted.
Sometimes she went down to the sea to bathe: often she wandered in the
gullies where the sun shone in, and she was out of sight. Sometimes she
saw a peasant with an ass, and he saw her. But she went so simply and
quietly with her child; and the fame of the sun's healing power, for the
soul as well as for the body, had already spread among the people; so
that there was no excitement.

The child and she were now both tanned with a rosy-golden tan, all over.
"I am another being!" she said to herself, as she looked at her red-gold
breasts and thighs.

The child too was another creature, with a peculiar quiet, sun-darkened
absorption. Now he played by himself in silence, and she hardly need
notice him. He seemed no longer to know, when he was alone.

There was not a breeze, and the sea was ultramarine. She sat by the
great silver paw of the cypress tree, drowsed in the sun, but her
breasts alert, full of sap. She was becoming aware that an activity was
rousing in her, an activity which would carry her into a new way of
life. Still she did not want to be aware. She knew well enough the vast
cold apparatus of civilisation, so difficult to evade.

The child had gone a few yards down the rocky path, round the great
sprawling of a cactus. She had seen him, a real gold-brown infant of the
winds, with burnt gold hair and red cheeks, collecting the speckled
pitcher-flowers and laying them in rows. He could balance now, and was
quick for his own emergencies, like an absorbed young animal playing
silent.

Suddenly she heard him speaking: _Look Mummy_! _Mummy look_! A note in
his bird-like voice made her lean forward sharply.

Her heart stood still. He was looking over his naked little shoulder at
her, and pointing with a loose little hand at a snake which had reared
itself up a yard away from him, and was opening its mouth so that its
forked, soft tongue flickered black like a shadow, uttering a short
hiss.

"Look! Mummy!"

"Yes, darling, it's a snake!" came the slow, deep voice.

He looked at her, his wide blue eyes uncertain whether to be afraid or
not. Some stillness of the sun in her reassured him.

"Snake!" he chirped.

"Yes, darling! Don't touch it, it can bite."

The snake had sunk down, and was reaching away from the coils in which
it had been basking asleep, and slowly was easing its long, gold-brown
body into the rocks, with slow curves. The boy turned and watched it in
silence. Then he said:--

"Snake going!"

"Yes! Let it go. It likes to be alone."

He still watched the slow, easing length as the creature drew itself
apathetic out of sight.

"Snake gone back," he said.

"Yes, it's gone back. Come to Mummy a moment."

He came and sat with his plump, naked little body on her naked lap, and
she smoothed his burnt, bright hair. She said nothing, feeling that
everything was passed. The curious soothing power of the sun filled her,
filled the whole place like a charm, and the snake was part of the
place, along with her and the child.

Another day, in the dry stone wall of one of the olive terraces, she saw
a black snake horizontally creeping.

"Marinina," she said, "I saw a black snake. Are they harmful?"

"Ah, the black snakes, no! But the yellow ones, yes! If the yellow ones
bite you, you die. But they frighten me, they frighten me, even the
black ones, when I see one."

Juliet still went to the cypress tree with the child. But she always
looked carefully round before she sat down, examining everywhere where
the child might go. Then she would lie and turn to the sun again, her
tanned, pear-shaped breasts pointing up. She would take no thought for
the morrow. She refused to think outside her garden, and she could not
write letters. She would tell the nurse to write.



