

She knew him, in the distance, perfectly. He was a rather fat, very
broad fellow of about thirty-five, and he chewed large mouthfuls of
bread. His wife was stiff and dark faced, handsome, sombre. They had no
children. So much Juliet had learned.

The peasant worked a great deal alone, on the opposite podere. His
clothes were always very clean and cared-for, white trousers and a
coloured shirt, and an old straw hat. Both he and his wife had that air
of quiet superiority which belongs to individuals, not to a class.

His attraction was in his vitality, the peculiar quick energy which gave
a charm to his movements, stout and broad as he was. In the early days
before she took to the sun, Juliet had met him suddenly, among the
rocks, when she had scrambled over to the next podere. He had been aware
of her before she saw him, so that when she did look up, he took off his
hat, gazing at her with shyness and pride, from his big blue eyes. His
face was broad, sunburnt, he had a cropped brown moustache and thick
brown eyebrows, nearly as thick as his moustache, meeting under his low,
wide brow.

"Oh!" she said. "Can I walk here?"

"Surely!" he replied, with that peculiar hot haste which characterised
his movement. "My padrone would wish you to walk wherever you like on
his land."

And he pressed back his head in the quick, vivid shy generosity of his
nature. She had gone on quickly. But instantly she had recognised the
violent generosity of his blood, and the equally violent _farouche_
shyness.

Since then she had seen him in the distance every day, and she came to
realise that he was one who lived a good deal to himself, like a quick
animal, and that his wife loved him intensely, with a jealousy that was
almost hate; because, probably, he wanted to give himself still, still
further, beyond where she could take him.

One day, when a group of peasants sat under a tree, she had seen him
dancing quick and gay with a child--his wife watching darkly.

Gradually Juliet and he had become intimate, across the distance. They
were aware of one another. She knew, in the morning, the moment he
arrived with his ass. And the moment she went out on to the balcony he
turned to look. But they never saluted. Yet she missed him when he did
not come to work on the podere.

Once, in the hot morning when she had been walking naked, deep in the
gully between the two estates, she had come upon him, as he was bending
down, with his powerful shoulders, picking up wood to pile on his
motionless, waiting donkey. He saw her as he lifted his flushed face,
and she was backing away. A flame went over his eyes, and a flame flew
over her body, melting her bones. But she backed away behind the bushes,
silently, and retreated whence she had come. And she wondered a little
resentfully over the silence in which he could work, hidden in the bushy
places. He had that wild animal faculty.

Since then there had been a definite pain of consciousness in the body
of each of them, though neither would admit it, and they gave no sign of
recognition. But the man's wife was instinctively aware.

And Juliet had thought: Why shouldn't I meet this man for an hour, and
bear his child? Why should I have to identify my life with a man's life?
Why not meet him for an hour, as long as the desire lasts, and no more?
There is already the spark between us.

But she had never made any sign. And now she saw him looking up, from
where he sat by the white cloth, opposite his black-clad wife, looking
up at Maurice. The wife turned and looked too, saturnine.

And Juliet felt a grudge come over her. She would have to bear Maurice's
child again. She had seen it in her husband's eyes. And she knew it from
his answer, when she spoke to him.

"Will you walk about in the sun, too, without your clothes?" she asked
him.

"Why--er--yes! Yes, I should like to, while I'm here--I suppose it's
quite private?"

There was a gleam in his eyes, a desperate kind of courage of his
desire, and a glance at the alert lifting of her breasts in her wrapper.
In his way, he was a man, too, he faced the world and was not entirely
quenched in his male courage. He would dare to walk in the sun, even
ridiculously.

But he smelled of the world, and all its fetters and its mongrel
cowering. He was branded with the brand that is not a hallmark.

Ripe now, and brown-rosy all over with the sun, and with a heart like a
fallen rose, she had wanted to go down to the hot, shy peasant and bear
his child. Her sentiments had fallen like petals. She had seen the
flushed blood in the burnt face, and the flame in the southern blue
eyes, and the answer in her had been a gush of fire. He would have been
a procreative sun-bath to her, and she wanted it.

Nevertheless, her next child would be Maurice's. The fatal chain of
continuity would cause it.