
He couldn't have been anyone else but the spy. The gun, in the first
place. The fact that he looked harried and upset and terribly nervous,
in the second place. And, of course, the fact that he came from the
elevator shaft.

Looking back, I think he must have been just as startled as I when we
came face to face like that. We formed a brief tableau, both of us
open-mouthed and wide-eyed.

Unfortunately, he recovered first.

He closed the emergency door behind him, quickly but quietly. His gun
stopped waving around and instead pointed directly at my middle. "Don't
move!" he whispered harshly. "Don't make a sound!"

I did exactly as I was told. I didn't move and I didn't make a sound.
Which left me quite free to study him.

He was rather short, perhaps three inches shorter than me, with a bony
high-cheekboned face featuring deepset eyes and a thin-lipped mouth. He
wore gray slacks and shirt, with brown slippers on his feet. He looked
exactly like a spy ... which is to say that he _didn't_ look like a
spy, he looked overpoweringly ordinary. More than anything else, he
reminded me of a rather taciturn milkman who used to make deliveries to
my parents' apartment.

His gaze darted this way and that. Then he motioned with his free hand
at the descending stairs and whispered, "Where do they go?"

I had to clear my throat before I could speak. "All the way down," I
said.

"Good," he said--just as we both heard a sudden raucous squealing from
perhaps four flights down, a squealing which could be nothing but the
opening of a hall door. It was followed by the heavy thud of ascending
boots. The Army!

But if I had any visions of imminent rescue, the spy dashed them. He
said, "Where do you live?"

"One fifty-three," I said. This was a desperate and dangerous man.
I knew my only slim chance of safety lay in answering his questions
promptly, cooperating with him until and unless I saw a chance to
either escape or capture him.

"All right," he whispered. "Go on." He prodded me with the gun.

And so we went back up the stairs to one fifty-three, and stopped at
the door. He stood close behind me, the gun pressed against my back,
and grated in my ear, "I'll have this gun in my pocket. If you make one
false move I'll kill you. Now, we're going to your apartment. We're
friends, just strolling along together. You got that?"

I nodded.

"All right. Let's go."

We went. I have never in my life seen that long hall quite so empty as
it was right then. No one came out of any of the apartments, no one
emerged from any of the branch halls. We walked to my apartment. I
thumbed the door open and we went inside.

Once the door was closed behind us, he visibly relaxed, sagging against
the door, his gun hand hanging limp at his side, a nervous smile
playing across his lips.

I looked at him, judging the distance between us, wondering if I could
leap at him before he could bring the gun up again. But he must have
read my intentions on my face. He straightened, shaking his head. He
said, "Don't try it. I don't want to kill you. I don't want to kill
anybody, but I will if I have to. We'll just wait here together until
the hue and cry passes us. Then I'll tie you up, so you won't be able
to sic your Army on me too soon, and I'll leave. If you don't try any
silly heroics, nothing will happen to you."

"You'll never get away," I told him. "The whole Project is alerted."

"You let me worry about that," he said. He licked his lips. "You got
any chico coffee?"

"Yes."

"Make me a cup. And don't get any bright ideas about dousing me with
boiling water."

"I only have my day's allotment," I protested. "Just enough for two
cups, lunch and dinner."

"Two cups is fine," he said. "One for each of us."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now I had yet another grudge against this blasted spy. Which
reminded me again of Linda. From the looks of things, I wasn't _ever_
going to get to her place. By now she was probably in mourning for me
and might even have the Sanitation Staff searching for my remains.

As I made the chico, he asked me questions. My name first, and then,
"What do you do for a living?"

I thought fast. "I'm an ore-sled dispatcher," I said. That was a lie,
of course, but I'd heard enough about ore-sled dispatching from Linda
to be able to maintain the fiction should he question me further about
it.

Actually, I was a gymnast instructor. The subjects I taught included
wrestling, judo and karati--talents I would prefer to disclose to him
in my own fashion, when the time came.

He was quiet for a moment. "What about radiation level on the
ore-sleds?"

I had no idea what he was talking about, and admitted as much.

"When they come back," he said. "How much radiation do they pick up?
Don't you people ever test them?"

"Of course not," I told him. I was on secure ground now, with Linda's
information to guide me. "All radiation is cleared from the sleds and
their cargo before they're brought into the building."

"I know that," he said impatiently. "But don't you ever check them
before de-radiating them?"

"No. Why should we?"

"To find out how far the radiation level outside has dropped."

"For what? Who cares about that?"

He frowned bitterly. "The same answer," he muttered, more to himself
than to me. "The same answer every time. You people have crawled into
your caves and you're ready to stay in them forever."

I looked around at my apartment. "Rather a well-appointed cave," I told
him.

"But a cave nevertheless." He leaned toward me, his eyes gleaming with
a fanatical flame. "Don't you ever wish to get Outside?"

Incredible! I nearly poured boiling water all over myself. "Outside? Of
course not!"

"The same thing," he grumbled, "over and over again. Always the same
stupidity. Listen, you! Do you realize how long it took man to get out
of the caves? The long slow painful creep of progress, for millennia,
before he ever made that first step from the cave?"

"I have no idea," I told him.

"I'll tell you this," he said belligerently. "A lot longer than it
took for him to turn around and go right back into the cave again." He
started pacing the floor, waving the gun around in an agitated fashion
as he talked. "Is this the _natural_ life of man? It is not. Is this
even a _desirable_ life for man? It is _definitely_ not." He spun back
to face me, pointing the gun at me again, but this time he pointed
it as though it were a finger, not a gun. "Listen, you," he snapped.
"Man was progressing. For all his stupidities and excesses, he was
growing up. His dreams were getting bigger and grander and better all
the time. He was planning to tackle _space_! The moon first, and then
the planets, and finally the stars. The whole universe was out there,
waiting to be plucked like an apple from a tank. And Man was reaching
out for it." He glared as though daring me to doubt it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I decided that this man was doubly dangerous. Not only was he a spy,
he was also a lunatic. So I had two reasons for humoring him. I nodded
politely.

"So what happened?" he demanded, and immediately answered himself.
"I'll tell you what happened! Just as he was about to make that first
giant step, Man got a hotfoot. That's all it was, just a little
hotfoot. So what did Man do? I'll tell you what he did. He turned
around and he ran all the way back to the cave he started from, his
tail between his legs. _That's_ what he did!"

To say that all of this was incomprehensible would be an extreme
understatement. I fulfilled my obligation to this insane dialogue by
saying, "Here's your coffee."

"Put it on the table," he said, switching instantly from raving maniac
to watchful spy.

I put it on the table. He drank deep, then carried the cup across the
room and sat down in my favorite chair. He studied me narrowly, and
suddenly said, "What did they tell you I was? A spy?"

"Of course," I said.

He grinned bitterly, with one side of his mouth. "Of course. The damn
fools! Spy! What do you suppose I'm going to spy on?"

He asked the question so violently and urgently that I knew I had to
answer quickly and well, or the maniac would return. "I--I wouldn't
know, exactly," I stammered. "Military equipment, I suppose."

"Military equipment? _What_ military equipment? Your Army is supplied
with uniforms, whistles and hand guns, and that's about it."

"The defenses--" I started.

"The defenses," he interrupted me, "are non-existent. If you mean the
rocket launchers on the roof, they're rusted through with age. And what
other defenses are there? None."

"If you say so," I replied stiffly. The Army claimed that we had
adequate defense equipment. I chose to believe the Army over an enemy
spy.

"Your people send out spies, too, don't they?" he demanded.

"Well, of course."

"And what are _they_ supposed to spy on?"

"Well--" It was such a pointless question, it seemed silly to even
answer it. "They're supposed to look for indications of an attack by
one of the other projects."

"And do they find any indications, ever?"

"I'm sure I don't know," I told him frostily. "That would be classified
information."

"You bet it would," he said, with malicious glee. "All right, if that's
what _your_ spies are doing, and if _I'm_ a spy, then it follows that
I'm doing the same thing, right?"

"I don't follow you," I admitted.

"If I'm a spy," he said impatiently, "then I'm supposed to look for
indications of an attack by you people on my Project."

I shrugged. "If that's your job," I said, "then that's your job."

He got suddenly red-faced, and jumped to his feet. "That's _not_ my
job, you blatant idiot!" he shouted. "I'm not a spy! If I _were_ a spy,
_then_ that would be my job!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The maniac had returned, in full force. "All right," I said hastily.
"All right, whatever you say."

He glowered at me a moment longer, then shouted, "Bah!" and dropped
back into the chair.

He breathed rather heavily for a while, glaring at the floor, then
looked at me again. "All right, listen. What if I were to tell you that
I _had_ found indications that you people were planning to attack my
Project?"

I stared at him. "That's impossible!" I cried. "We aren't planning to
attack anybody! We just want to be left in peace!"

"How do I know that?" he demanded.

"It's the truth! What would we want to attack anybody for?"

"Ah hah!" He sat forward, tensed, pointing the gun at me like a finger
again. "Now, then," he said. "If you know it doesn't make any sense for
this Project to attack any other project, then why in the world should
you think _they_ might see some advantage in attacking _you_?"

I shook my head, dumbfounded. "I can't answer a question like that," I
said. "How do I know what they're thinking?"

"They're human beings, aren't they?" he cried. "Like you? Like me? Like
all the other people in this mausoleum?"

"Now, wait a minute--"

"No!" he shouted. "You wait a minute! I want to tell you something. You
think I'm a spy. That blundering Army of yours thinks I'm a spy. That
fathead who turned me in thinks I'm a spy. But I'm _not_ a spy, and I'm
going to tell you what I am."

I waited, looking as attentive as possible.

"I come," he said, "from a Project about eighty miles north of here.
I came here by foot, without any sort of radiation shield at all to
protect me."

The maniac was back. I didn't say a word. I didn't want to set off the
violence that was so obviously in this lunatic.

"The radiation level," he went on, "is way down. It's practically as
low as it was before the Atom War. I don't know how long it's been
that low, but I would guess about ten years, at the very least." He
leaned forward again, urgent and serious. "The world is safe out there
now. Man can come back out of the cave again. He can start building
the dreams again. And this time he can build better, because he has
the horrible example of the recent past to guide him away from the
pitfalls. There's no need any longer for the Projects."

And that was like saying there's no need any longer for stomachs, but I
didn't say so. I didn't say anything at all.

"I'm a trained atomic engineer," he went on. "In my project, I worked
on the reactor. Theoretically, I believed that there was a chance the
radiation Outside was lessening by now, though we had no idea exactly
how much radiation had been released by the Atom War. But I wanted
to test the theory, and the Commission wouldn't let me. They claimed
public safety, but I knew better. If the Outside were safe and the
Projects were no longer needed, then the Commission was out of a job,
and they knew it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, I went ahead with the test anyway, and I was caught at it. For
my punishment, I was banned from the Project. They kicked me out,
telling me if I thought it was safe Outside I could live Outside. And
if it really was safe, I could come back and tell them. Except that
they also made it clear that I would be shot if I tried to get back in,
because I would be carrying deadly radiation."

He smiled bitterly. "They had it all their own way," he said. "But it
_is_ safe out there, I'm living proof of it. I lived Outside for five
months. And gradually I realized I had to tell others. I had to spread
the word that Man could have his world back. I didn't dare try to get
back into my own Project; I would have been recognized and shot before
I could say a word. So I came here."

He paused to finish the cup of chico that I should have had with lunch.
"I knew better," he continued, "than to simply walk into the building
and announce that I came from Outside. Man has an instinctive distrust
for strangers anyway; the Projects only intensify it. Once again, I
would have been shot. So I've been working in a more devious way. I
snuck into the Project--not a difficult thing for a man with no metal
on his person, no radiation shield cocooning him--and for the last two
months I've been wandering around the building talking with people. I
strike up a conversation. I try to plant a few seeds of doubt about the
deadliness of Outside, and I hope that at least a few of the people I
talk to will begin to wonder, as I once did."

Two months! This spy, by his own admission, had been in the Project two
months before being detected. I'd never heard of such a thing, and I
hoped I'd never hear of such a thing again.

"Things worked out pretty well," he said, "until today. I said
something wrong--I'm still not sure what--and the man I was talking to
hollered for Army, shouted I was a spy." He pounded the chair arm. "But
I'm not a spy! And it's the truth, Outside is safe!" He glared suddenly
at the window. "Why've you got that drape up there?"

"The window broke down," I explained. "It's stuck at transparent."

"Transparent? Fine!" He got up from the chair, strode across the room,
and ripped the drape down from the window.

I cowered away from the sun-glare, turning my back to the window.

"Come over here!" he shouted. When I didn't move, he snarled, "Get up
and come over here, or I swear I'll shoot!"

And he would have, it was plain in his voice. I got to my feet,
hesitant, and walked trembling to the window, squinting against the
glare.

"Look out there," he ordered. "Look!"

I looked.

