
The next morning, very early, Amy turned on the fluor with unsteady
fingers. What a horrid dream it had been! She could hardly believe that
it hadn't been real and that she was safe and sound in her own bedroom
after all.

Outside, the noise that had wakened her--the jagged, unearthly
caterwauling of a couple of tomcats promenading in the moonlight--came
again. Ordinarily it was a noise Amy disliked very much--the poor
things always sounded as if they were in deadly agony--but now she
was glad to hear it. Heavens, if it hadn't been for those cats crying
and waking her up, she might still be asleep and dreaming. Dreaming
about--about--_blood_....

She turned the ceiling selector to "summer sky," lay back on her
pillow, and tried to relax. It was her favorite of all the ceilings
her bedroom had, so lovely and calm and blue, and right now she needed
something lovely and calm. One thing was sure, she wasn't going to
stand this much longer. She didn't believe in pampering herself, but,
if she had that dream once more she was going to take Bjornson's advice
and see a mental hygienist.

She'd think about something pleasant. Amy tried to fix her mind on her
gardening, on how well her plants were doing, but it wasn't a success.
When she tried to keep her thoughts on her Venusian Rambler (why did
they call it a Rambler?--it was turning into a large, stocky, compact
bush more like an outsized Camellia than anything else Amy Dinsmore
could think of), they kept veering back to her dream and all that--all
that--

Well, then she'd think about Robert. She was a lucky woman to have
a nephew like him. She'd worked out several menus, all the things
he liked best, but she wished she could think of something a little
different. There were so few kinds of meat, when everything was said
and done. Lamb and beef and musk ox and bollo and pork. And she always
thought bollo was stringy and tough.

Gradually Amy's nerves began to quiet. The cats had grown quiet too,
except for an occasional outburst that sounded like lightning made
audible. Her thoughts drifted lazily from Robert to her soap carving.
After a while she went to sleep....

The morning was sunny and bright, and she felt almost ashamed of
herself for having let a dream affect her so seriously. She had
finished her matutinal inspection of the hothouse and the succulent
growing-shed and had started back to the house when she came on a
bundle lying by the hothouse wall. At first she didn't recognize it for
what it was, and stooped over it, poking at it with a stick.

After an instant she straightened, nauseated, remembering where she had
last seen that ginger-colored fur. The bundle was the not very bulky
remains--bones, and some patches of hide--of a cat. Hadn't there been
some pieces of white fur too?--of two cats.

She'd better call Hjalmar. It might be dangerous. There must be some
wild animal living near her hothouse, a lynx or ferret or wildcat or
stoat. Mrs. Dinsmore wasn't strong on zoology, but she knew exactly
what sort of an animal she had in mind--something lithe and dark and
blood-thirsty. Goodness. It was quite frightening.

On the other hand, Robert would be in port in a couple of days. If
she asked Hjalmar to help her, he'd either make an enormous masculine
fuss over it (she still remembered the time she'd asked him to put up
a towel rack for her and he'd arrived with a set of socket wrenches, a
hand electric drill, four pairs of pliers, and a portable arc welding
outfit) or he'd pooh-pooh and pish-tush her into silence. Either way,
it wouldn't be satisfactory. She'd wait for Robert; Robert was so
comforting. If only she didn't have more of those dreams!
