
Despite her apprehensions, her next night's slumber was profound and
sweet. She hadn't felt so rested and refreshed in weeks. She put the
somni-spray (maybe if she'd thought to use it before she wouldn't have
had those horrid nightmares) back in the closet and decided that she'd
do some soap carving after breakfast. She felt in the mood for it, and
Robert would be disappointed if she didn't have something new to show
him that she'd carved since he had last been in port. Besides, she
might be able to think of the special dish she wanted to make for him
while she was working: she'd found from experience that some of her
best culinary ideas came to her while she was making a statuette or
plaque out of soap.

The meal concluded, she got out her set of modeling knives and a couple
of cakes of soap. Soap was rather hard to get, since most people used
synthetic detergents nowadays, but she knew a little store in Perth
Amboy that carried it. This last batch had a lovely texture.

Amy rotated the living room on its axis until the light was exactly
right, and then sat down in front of her carving desk. What should she
make? A statuette? A plaque? A plaque in low relief, a plaque of a
flower. Somehow, she didn't want to think about animals right now.

She had sketched in the conventionalized Hermodactylus and was
beginning to pick it out carefully from the background when it occurred
to her that she hadn't been down to the hothouse this morning to see
her plants.

Why, that would never do, she mustn't neglect them, it was terribly
important. Important. (Her head hurt; how dizzy she felt!) She'd better
go at once, she'd better ... go.... Cake of soap in one hand, knife
in the other, panting a little, Amy set out toward her plants in a
stumbling run.

She was half-way to the hothouse before it occurred to her to question
the impulse which had taken her incontinently from her carving and
set her in blind motion toward the hothouse, and by then it was too
late. She was no longer a free agent in any sense of the term. The
mental grip which had taken the rabbit and the cats to their death
had tightened on her inescapably. Remote from her body, in a glassy
paralysis of fear and impotence, Amy watched her feet moving briskly
down the path.

Oh, if she could only cry out, call Hjalmar! She felt the muscles of
her throat straining, but no sound came. And now she was standing
before the hothouse, and her hand had opened the door.

The Rambler was waiting for her. Very slowly, like a man flexing his
arm, it reached out one of the stocky branches toward her. Amy saw that
at the end of the branch, well hidden under the dark green, glossy
leaves, was a slender, translucent, hollow thorn. It was about the size
of the hypodermic needle the doctor had used when, in her last year's
physical examination, he'd taken a sample of blood.

Amy knew exactly what was going to happen. First the hollow thorn,
until her veins were dry, and then the slowly opening maw, gaping above
the big, swollen, meter-wide base the thick leaves of the Rambler had
served to conceal. It would take a long time, but Hjalmar would never
miss her before it was too late.

[Illustration: _She knew exactly what was going to happen._]

The Rambler's branch moved delicately over the surface of Amy's right
wrist, the one with the modeling knife. The other branches were
drooping limply away from the purple-pink of its swollen base, waiting,
while it hunted the exact spot. It hesitated for an instant and
then--Amy's mouth drew into a soundless Oh of pain--struck home.

A dark fluid began to stain the hollow thorn. For just a fraction
of a second the Rambler's mental grip on Amy Dinsmore relaxed; she
could feel its blind concentration on its own black enjoyment. And in
that fraction of a second Amy threw the cake of soap in her left hand
straight into the Rambler's fleshy maw.

The Rambler gripped at her mind again, but it was a disturbed and
feeble grip. Its branches began to move around the fleshy bole they
had shielded, slowly, and then in a furious heaving. The thorn which
had entered her wrist was jaggedly withdrawn. Amy, her wrist streaming
blood, stared at the Rambler for a moment and then lunged at it with
the menacing knife.
