
The city was typical of a non-mechanical culture. Narrow, packed-dirt
streets twisted between ramshackle huts. A few two-story buildings
threatened to collapse at any minute. A stench filled the air, so strong
that Fannia's filter couldn't quite eradicate it. The Cascellans
bounded ahead of the heavily laden Earthmen, dashing around like a pack
of playful puppies. Their knives glittered and clanked.

The chief's house was the only three-story building in the city. The
tall spire of the cache was right behind it.

"If you come in peace," the chief said when they entered, "you are
welcome." He was a middle-aged Cascellan with at least fifteen knives
strapped to various parts of his person. He squatted cross-legged on a
raised dais.

"We are privileged," Fannia said. He remembered from the hypnotic
language lesson that "chief" on Cascella meant more than it usually did
on Earth. The chief here was a combination of king, high priest, deity
and bravest warrior.

"We have a few simple gifts here," Fannia added, placing the gewgaws at
the king's feet. "Will his majesty accept?"

"No," the king said. "We accept no gifts." Was that the unique social
structure? Fannia wondered. It certainly was not human. "We are a
warrior race. What we want, we take."

Fannia sat cross-legged in front of the dais and exchanged conversation
with the king while Donnaught played with the spurned toys. Trying to
overcome the initial bad impression, Fannia told the chief about the
stars and other worlds, since simple people usually liked fables. He
spoke of the ship, not mentioning yet that it was out of fuel. He spoke
of Cascella, telling the chief how its fame was known throughout the
Galaxy.

"That is as it should be," the chief said proudly. "We are a race of
warriors, the like of which has never been seen. Every man of us dies
fighting."

"You must have fought some great wars," Fannia said politely, wondering
what idiot had written up the galactic report.

"I have not fought a war for many years," the chief said. "We are united
now, and all our enemies have joined us."

Bit by bit, Fannia led up to the matter of the fuel.

"What is this 'fuel'?" the chief asked, haltingly because there was no
equivalent for it in the Cascellan language.

"It makes our ship go."

"And where is it?"

"In the metal spire," Fannia said. "If you would just allow us--"

"In the holy shrine?" the chief exclaimed, shocked. "The tall metal
church which the gods left here long ago?"

"Yeah," Fannia said sadly, knowing what was coming. "I guess that's
it."

"It is sacrilege for an outworlder to go near it," the chief said. "I
forbid it."

"We need the fuel." Fannia was getting tired of sitting cross-legged.
Space armor wasn't built for complicated postures. "The spire was put
here for such emergencies."

"Strangers, know that I am god of my people, as well as their leader. If
you dare approach the sacred temple, there will be war."

"I was afraid of that," Fannia said, getting to his feet.

"And since we are a race of warriors," the chief said, "at my command,
every fighting man of the planet will move against you. More will come
from the hills and from across the rivers."

Abruptly, the chief drew a knife. It must have been a signal, because
every native in the room did the same.
