
Now, when we first arrived here, and cleaned up on the Ground Dwellers
and established them in their proper subservient position, the Thinkers
were our leaders. It was they who had figured out the whole invasion,
had headed the Sixty Hastgunt Flight, and had worked out the tactics
and logistics of the Great Conquest. But once we were settled and
things were going smoothly, they called a last General Meeting and
told us that their part was finished, and that now they were going to
retire to the Far Colony and go on with their Thinking. Since then, if
a problem arises that our own Council can't handle, one of us has to
fly to the Far Colony and obtain the advice of a Thinker. They live
together there with their families (supported of course by all of
us) and spend all their time in study and research. It is one of the
natural advantages of us Real People that we have these specialized
Thinkers to do all our intellectual and cultural tasks and teach us
what we need to know, leaving us others free for the truly satisfying
functions of government and commerce.

Never in all the ganaths since that last General Meeting had a Thinker
been seen among us, and that so august a being should condescend to
attend a mere phph game was unbelievable. Yet there he was--easily
recognizable, naturally, since all Thinkers have long white hair and
long white beards. (Even the female Thinkers--though some heretics say
their beards are artificial.) In fact, that is the way one knows that
a new Thinker has been born. Soon after birth his hair and beard begin
to grow, both white, and as soon as he is weaned we fly him to the Far
Colony to be reared and educated by his own. If a Thinker has a child
who isn't one, they send him back to us.

As soon as the spectators realized that a Thinker was among them, the
excitement reached boiling point. The Ground Dwellers almost went
crazy--for, of all things, the Thinker had seated himself not in the
perches of honor of the Real People, in front, but in the Ground
Dwellers' bleachers. We ourselves noticed all the scrambling and
heaving, and when some of us flew over to investigate we could hardly
believe our eyes.

When I say scrambling and heaving, I don't mean they were mobbing him.
They're much too afraid of us for that, and anyway their reverence for
the Thinkers is positively religious--much more so than ours. After
all the Thinkers are simply specialized members of our own race, and
though we revere them we could scarcely worship them, as the Ground
Dwellers do. No, they were clearing a respectful space all around him,
but then they kept gazing at him in awe, half of them falling on their
knees in his presence. I sneaked a glance at the phph players, and as
I suspected they were looking anything but happy. Phph champions are
pretty vain. They don't care for rival attractions.

One of our party--it was Sephar, who as usual pushed himself
forward--bowed to the Thinker and asked if he wouldn't be more
comfortable among us. But he shook his white head and said no, he could
see better where he was. (I wonder if Thinkers may not have a bit of
vanity too, and if he wasn't enjoying seeing all those poor creatures
prostrate themselves around him!)

"Then will Your Honor join us when the game is over?" persisted Sephar.
"If you would enter my poor pit of a dwelling, it would overwhelm me
with pleasure to have you feast with us."

His poor pit of a dwelling, indeed! I wish you could see the palace he
lived in--the roof-opening is plated with solid nagh!
