
I was just about bursting with indignation, but I should have known you
can trust a Thinker to deflate a fellow like that.

"Thank you, brother," he said mildly, "but I'm here doing some research
and I'll have to fly back right after the game."

Sephar opened his mouth to argue, but by that time I had him by the
wing and I pulled him back--he said rudely, I say firmly. "Do you want
to give us a bad name for presumption, brother?" I whispered. "Don't
interfere with a Thinker when he's Thinking!"

Some of the rest of us nodded agreement, so Sephar shut up. But he had
a nasty gleam in his eye and I braced myself for trouble later. We
bowed and returned to our places. Thanks to Sephar and his performance,
I missed the last throw Gral made, which lost him the contest. But I
heard the moan from the spectators who weren't watching the Thinker
instead, so I knew he'd lobbed a too-high one. It must have been a
humdinger--one of the throws into space. I glanced back as I was flying
away, and the Thinker was standing up and gazing intently after it.
Well, I thought to myself, imagine a Thinker getting worked up over a
phph throw!

The game was over soon after that, and Hodnuth went around collecting
his pledges while Gral was being consoled by his backers. When I got
a chance to look again where the Thinker had been sitting, he had
disappeared.

The one who hadn't disappeared was Sephar. He was waiting for me, just
as I'd expected.

"Not here!" I snarled at him. "Do you want the Ground Dwellers to see
Real People in a brawl?"

So we adjourned to Marnag's courtyard, which was the nearest dueling
place, and it was a nice little fight, and I won. Quite a group
gathered around, and I was pleased to see that several of my friends
were making bets on me. Some of Sephar's sycophants lugged him off
to the hospital to have a fractured wing-tip treated. The rest came
home with me and we spent our winnings on a good dinner with plenty of
mastonyi to wash it down.

Several of us speculated about the Thinker, and we wondered if his
"research" wasn't a fake and if he'd just decided to enjoy a game like
the rest of us.

"After all," Marnag pointed out, "he might be only a boy. You can't
tell with a Thinker. I suppose young Thinkers can be frivolous and
rebellious like our own youngsters."

Nipar, who is something of a wag, yelled: "Hey, listen to Marnag--he's
Thinking! Come on, Marnag, are you really a Thinker in disguise? Let's
see if that green hair of yours is dyed--you could have shaved the
beard!"

And he poured a pitcher of mastonyi right over Marnag's head to find
out if the color would come off. After that, the party got really
rough, and I don't remember the rest of it.
