
A whole ganath after that, the Thinkers sent one of their messengers
to tell us in the Council that we were summoned to a meeting in the
Far Colony. That doesn't happen often, so we knew something extremely
important must be up. I for one was all of a twitter.

Not one of us connected the summons with that Thinker who had come to
the phph contest between Gral and Hodnuth. That was our stupidity. We
should have guessed it when we found the two champions had been sent
for also. Gral flew next to me on the trip, and of all things, both
he and Hodnuth were carrying with them several phph pebbles which the
Thinkers had ordered them to bring along.

It's hard to tell the Thinkers apart--at least for us who aren't
Thinkers--but I recognized the one who had been at the game. He sat
right by Hledo, who always acts as their spokesman when we consult them
about anything.

"Welcome and thank you for coming so promptly," Hledo began. "Did you
two phph players bring the pebbles?"

Gral and Hodnuth handed over the load, and Hledo passed it on to the
one we knew.

"This is Myrwan," Hledo said, "and he will tell you the urgent thing he
has Thought."

"I became interested a long time ago," Myrwan began in the rather rusty
voice all the Thinkers except Hledo have--they spend most of their time
in study and meditation, and don't talk much among themselves--"in a
question that seems never to have occurred to any of Us.

"Where do phph pebbles go when they are thrown beyond our feeble
gravity and escape into outer space? What becomes of them in the end?
And who, if anyone, collects them, and what conclusions about them and
our world do such persons draw?"

I raised my hand to ask a question, and Myrwan nodded.

"I don't understand." I said politely. (Meaning he was being too
abstruse for any of us, for it is understood that there is no keener
apprehension in the council than my own.) "Is Your Honor implying that
there exist outside our world other intelligences that would be capable
of observing and drawing conclusions from the pebbles?"

"Exactly. I know that the general belief is that it is impossible that
extraplanetary beings can exist, least of all intelligent beings. That
was the belief of my own colleagues until I gave them the results of my
recent Thought. It is the reason We have summoned you here.

"For some time now We have been receiving peculiar radio waves from
outside the world. We have considered them merely manifestations of
random radiation from other planets and stars. But now they have
suddenly become--shall I say rhythmical? Measured? Directional?
They leave the impression that someone, or something, is trying to
communicate with us.

"The astronomers among Us have become more and more concerned. We have
finally been led to the reluctant belief that Our former theories have
been wrong--that this actually is not the only inhabited planet.

"Now, I need not tell you how disastrous it would be for us if that
were true. If there _are_ intelligent beings on other planets, if they
are trying to communicate with us, then the next step would be that
they would try to visit us."

Marnag raised his hand.

"What harm would that do? If such beings exist, and if they could come
here, why couldn't we go there too--wherever it is--and wouldn't that
enrich our lives? Of course I'm not a Thinker--" I had a fleeting
vision of Nipar and the pitcher of mastonyi!--"but I'm a Real Man and I
can see no reason why it would hurt us to find we are not alone in the
universe."

"No," said Myrwan dryly. "You are not a Thinker, my friend. We enjoy
here a completely stable civilization. It is the best of all possible
social systems. We do not want it disturbed."

"I see," said Marnag, and several others nodded. I confess that a
heretical idea crossed my mind--that any such disturbance might well
dethrone the Thinkers first of all--but I suppressed it. Myrwan went on:

"And that is where the phph pebbles come in. In the course of my
researches on these previously unknown waves, I began to wonder what,
if anything, had initiated the interest of outsiders in our planet,
assuming that outsiders exist. Certainly we had made no move toward
trying either to reach or to communicate with any putative dwellers on
other planets. There had been no major changes on our planet that could
have enlisted the attention of outside astronomers, even granting that
they have telescopes as powerful as our own.

"Only one thing, so far as I can ascertain, has ever left this planet
for outer space. And that was the phph pebbles.

"We call them pebbles. To beings who might consider us giants--and if
there really are intelligent beings in other worlds they might well
be of an entirely different size from us, though no less dangerous
for all that--they might seem huge meteors. Suppose that, though most
of them would undoubtedly burn up and all of them be considerably
reduced before they struck another planet as meteorites, some of them
at least might still be sufficiently large to be analyzed chemically?
And suppose that where they struck there existed beings capable of
analyzing them?"
