
This was getting a little deep for anybody not a Thinker to take in.
Several Council members raised their hands plaintively and so indicated.

"All right, I'll try to make it plainer," Myrwan said. "Let us pretend
that instead of the little fragments of space debris that fall
harmlessly in the annual meteor showers here, we were pelted with
enormous chunks of matter, perhaps causing major damage to property and
life. Wouldn't We immediately undertake an intensive study to determine
whence they came, and of what, precisely, they consisted?

"And if We found that these residual meteorites contained material
indicating their origin in an inhabited world--still worse, in a world
sufficiently evolved to entail the possibility or probability that its
highest life-forms might be intelligent or even civilized--wouldn't we
take steps at once to investigate? Moreover, wouldn't we be outraged to
the point where our primary object would be to avenge ourselves?

"Of course we would. And so of course would any beings on other
planets, under similar circumstances."

"You mean," Marnag asked, "that if beings came here from space they
would attack us?"

"That too. But even if that were not their reaction, curiosity alone
could be enough to spur them on to exploration."

"But--but what can we do?" quavered old Gantes. He is really growing
too senile to be on the Council much longer.

"We can discourage them. And we can mislead them."

"How?"

"We can make certain that nothing reaches them in the future which
gives them the least sign that any but the lowest forms of life, if
even those, exist in our world.

"I studied this whole question systematically, as We always do. I came
to the conclusion that only the phph pebbles could possibly betray us.
I attended a phph game to see for myself if a pebble actually could
be thrown with sufficient force to become, as it were, an artificial
meteor. I found that it could. Indeed, I saw Gral make such a throw."

Gral looked stricken. He fell flat on his face, groveling before the
Thinkers.

"Oh, Your Reverences," he cried, "I never dreamt--I never--"

"Get up, Gral," Myrwan ordered. "Nobody's blaming you. Nobody expects
anyone but a Thinker to Think."

"We'll make it a rule from now on to hold our shots. We'll bar anyone
from the game forever who lobs a pebble too hard," Hodnuth promised
fervently.

"Far from it," said Myrwan. "On the contrary, in the future you must
concentrate on supra-gravity shots. Give extra points to anyone who
performs one."

"Why?" several of us murmured, completely bewildered.

"Because I have already analyzed three pebbles I brought back with me
from the game. With the ones you have brought, I shall be able to make
further tests. If they confirm my previous findings, I Think We shall
be able to mislead any potential attackers.

"Every phph pebble henceforth will be doctored. To use any unauthorized
pebble will become a felony. What has happened in the past we can't
change, but there may still be time to save ourselves. From this time
forth there are going to be more 'meteors' shot off our atmosphere than
ever before--and every one of them is going to tell a completely false
story about conditions in their place of origin.

"Of course We _may_ be entirely wrong. These new waves may be due
to purely physical causes. Other planets may all be as devoid of
intelligent life as We have always assumed. But if there is the
faintest possibility--and I feel there is--that we are in danger, it
would be fatal not to take such measures as we can to avert it."

"What's in the pebbles now that could tell anything about us?" Gral
asked. "And if something is, how could you alter it?"
