
Myrwan froze up a little. The Thinkers don't like to have us ask
detailed questions. But he realized that Gral was still upset, and
answered kindly.

"It wouldn't mean a lot to you if I told you. But you can understand
this much--chemical analysis of the pebbles I've looked at so far shows
fragments of embedded fossils."

"Of plants, you mean?"

Myrwan smiled.

"Plants don't become fossilized," he said. "In one pebble there was
a microscopic piece of a metal knife. In another there was half of a
fossilized tooth. Ground Dweller relics, true, but human. You must
remember that all the hills around here from which you gather the
pebbles are really million-ganath-old burial places of the Ground
Dwellers. We haven't bothered to dig up most of them because we're so
rich in prehistoric remains, with our immensely old civilization, that
we have all the fossils and ancient artifacts we need.

"But let's imagine an alien civilization a great deal younger than
ours. Let's imagine that in even one of those pebbles--which would be
meteorites to them--even a minute trace of that kind of thing should be
left. What would they Think?--for they would have to have Thinkers too,
to be civilized at all.

"I'll tell you what they'd Think. They'd decide that somewhere out in
space there is a rich, undiscovered planet full of valuable knowledge
and, even better, valuable artifacts. Probably a world with a culture
much more advanced than their own. And they'd try hard to trace the
direction from which those meteorites came, and to calculate the
distance. Then suppose they had some means of transportation in space.

"_That_ may well be what these new radio waves mean. They may be
attempts at communication--if we were foolish enough to respond to
them. We don't dare to take any chances.

"So from now on there are going to be swarms and swarms of those
meteoroids--and every one of them is going to be a real artifact on
its own--a _manufactured_ one, made according to Our specifications,
carrying an unmistakable message. A false one!

"They will be cunningly constructed from forms of matter injurious to
any conceivable variety of life. We'll cover them all. And they'll
be barren of even the most primitive bacteria. They will carry in
themselves a silent warning: 'Approach the planet from which these come
at peril of your instant death ... not matter what kind of being you
are!' That should save us forever."

I'd been wondering why Sephar had kept his big mouth shut all this
time. To my way of feeling, he should never have been with us at
all. He would never have been a Council member if he hadn't been a
multibilibaire. But I'd won a fair fight with him, and officially we
had to be friends, so I hadn't protested when I found he was included
in the summons.

But now the big blowhard had to put his two grocs' worth.

"Your Reverence--Your Honor--" he spluttered. "May I ask a question?"

"Certainly, brother."

"Since players have been lobbing pebbles out into space for thousands
and thousands of ganaths, and as Your Honor says, some of them must
long ago have landed somewhere, who knows what dead give-aways may have
been in any of them?"

"Is that your question?"

"No, I have two. First, why haven't these intelligent beings whose
existence you're presupposing--" I saw Myrwan's face set, and I knew
he'd noted that rude and insulting word, but I managed to conceal my
smile--"why haven't they come here before this? And since they haven't
come, if they're smart enough to figure out our whereabouts why aren't
they also smart enough to realize the difference between the old
pebbles and these new ones, and to know that we're putting something
over on them?"

We sometimes say that though the Thinkers are of course overwhelmingly
our superiors mentally, they lack the emotional control which is the
great characteristic of the rest of us Real People. I wish those
scandalmongers could have seen Myrwan then. His face was as white as
his beard and his wings quivered, but he let Sephar have his say out
and he answered him very quietly.

"As to your first question, brother," (and if anybody ever called me
"brother" in that tone I'd know it was a case of fight or run) "the
only logical reason is that it must be only recently that such beings
have reached a state of culture where they are able to analyze the
pebbles and draw the right conclusions from them.

"And the answer to your second question is that we can only hope. Hope
that all of the pebbles already in their possession are free of--shall
we say, incriminating evidence? All we can guarantee is that all they
find in the future will be. Does that answer you satisfactorily?"

"It will have to," muttered Sephar sullenly. I moved away from him and
was glad to notice that I was not the only one.

"What I have said to you," continued the Thinker calmly, "you may
communicate to any of the Real People you wish. You will naturally
keep it from the Ground Dwellers; there is no reason to agitate them
at present. Time enough for that if we should ever need them as
soldiers--which I devoutly hope we never shall."

"But who will make the artificial pebbles if the Ground Dwellers aren't
to know about them?" asked Marnag. "What about our slogan--'Thought
from the Thinkers, government and administration from the Real People,
technical skill and heavy labor from the Ground Dwellers'?"

"_We_ shall handle that. When you go home, tell Earnig I want to see
him at once. Brief him first. He and his Bureau will see that the job
is done, and the Ground Dwellers needn't be told just what they are
making. They'll be delighted to hear that We are planning a new kind of
phph pebble to increase the interest of the game--they love it whenever
one is batted clear away."
