
The attack alarm roared through the Spartan corridor. He ducked through
the nearest door into a vacant bedroom and under the heavy steel table.
Somebody else floundered under the table a moment later, and a third
person tried to join them.

The firstcomer roared: "Get out and find your own shelter! I don't
propose to be crowded out by you or to crowd you out either and see
your ugly blood and brains if there's a hit. Go, now!"

"Forgive me, sir! At once, sir!" the latecomer wailed; and scrambled
away as the alarm continued to roar.

Reuben gasped at the "sirs" and looked at his neighbor. It was May!
Trapped, no doubt, on an inspection tour of the level.

"Sir," he said respectfully, "if you wish to be alone, I can find
another room."

"You may stay with me for company. Are you one of mine?" There was
power in the general's voice and on his craggy face.

"Yes, sir. May's man Reuben, of the eighty-third level, Atomist."

May surveyed him, and Reuben noted that there were pouches of skin
depending from cheekbones and the jaw line--dead-looking, coarse-pored
skin.

"You're a well-made boy, Reuben. Do you have women?"

"Yes, sir," said Reuben hastily. "One after another--I _always_ have
women. I'm making up at this time to a charming thing called Selene.
Well-rounded, yet firm, soft but supple, with long red hair and long
white legs--"

"Spare me the details," muttered the general. "It takes all kinds.
An Atomist, you said. That has a future, to be sure. I myself was a
Controller long ago. The calling seems to have gone out of fashion--"

Abruptly the alarm stopped. The silence was hard to bear.

May swallowed and went on: "--for some reason or other. Why don't
youngsters elect for Controller any more? Why didn't you, for instance?"

Reuben wished he could be saved by a direct hit. The binoculars,
Selene, the raid, and now he was supposed to make intelligent
conversation with a general.

"I really don't know, sir," he said miserably. "At the time there
seemed to be very little difference--Controller, Atomist, Missiler,
Maintainer. We have a saying, 'The buttons are different,' which
usually ends any conversation on the subject."

"Indeed?" asked May distractedly. His face was thinly filmed with
sweat. "Do you suppose Ellay intends to clobber us this time?" he
asked almost hoarsely. "It's been some weeks since they made a maximum
effort, hasn't it?"

"Four," said Reuben. "I remember because one of my best Servers was
killed by a falling corridor roof--the only fatality and it had to
happen to my team!"

He laughed nervously and realized that he was talking like a fool, but
May seemed not to notice.

Far below them, there was a series of screaming whistles as the
interceptors were loosed to begin their intricate, double basketwork
wall of defense in a towering cylinder about Denv.

"Go on, Reuben," said May. "That was most interesting." His eyes were
searching the underside of the steel table.

Reuben averted his own eyes from the frightened face, feeling some
awe drain out of him. Under a table with a general! It didn't seem so
strange now.

"Perhaps, sir, you can tell me what a puzzling thing, that happened
this afternoon, means. A fellow--Rudolph's man Almon, of the
eighty-ninth level--gave me a pair of binoculars that flashed in my
eyes and then went opaque. Has your wide experience--"

May laughed hoarsely and said in a shaky voice: "That old trick! He
was photographing your retinas for the blood-vessel pattern. One of
Rudolph's men, eh? I'm glad you spoke to me; I'm old enough to spot a
revival like that. Perhaps my good friend Rudolph plans--"

There was a thudding volley in the air and then a faint jar. One had
got through, exploding, from the feel of it, far down at the foot of
Denv.

The alarm roared again, in bursts that meant all clear; only one flight
of missiles and that disposed of.
