
The Atomist and the general climbed out from under the table; May's
secretary popped through the door. The general waved him out again and
leaned heavily on the table, his arms quivering. Reuben hastily brought
a chair.

"A glass of water," said May.

The Atomist brought it. He saw the general wash down what looked like a
triple dose of XXX--green capsules which it was better to leave alone.

May said after a moment: "That's better. And don't look so shocked,
youngster; you don't know the strain we're under. It's only a temporary
measure which I shall discontinue as soon as things ease up a bit. I
was saying that perhaps my good friend Rudolph plans to substitute one
of his men for one of mine. Tell me, how long has this fellow Almon
been a friend of yours?"

"He struck up an acquaintance with me only last week. I should have
realized--"

"You certainly should have. One week. Time enough and more. By now
you've been photographed, your fingerprints taken, your voice recorded
and your gait studied without your knowledge. Only the retinascope is
difficult, but one must risk it for a real double. Have you killed your
man, Reuben?"

He nodded; It had been a silly brawl two years ago over precedence at
the refectory; he disliked being reminded of it.

"Good," said May grimly. "The way these things are done, your double
kills you in a secluded spot, disposes of your body and takes over your
role. We shall reverse it. You will kill the double and take over _his_
role."

The powerful, methodical voice ticked off possibilities and
contingencies, measures, and countermeasures. Reuben absorbed them
and felt his awe return. Perhaps May had not really been frightened
under the table; perhaps it had been he reading his own terror in the
general's face. May was actually talking to him of backgrounds and
policies. "Up from the eighty-third level!" he swore to himself as the
great names were uttered.

"My good friend Rudolph, of course, wants the five stars. You would
not know this, but the man who wears the stars is now eighty years old
and failing fast. I consider myself a likely candidate to replace him.
So, evidently, must Rudolph. No doubt he plans to have your double
perpetrate some horrible blunder on the eve of the election, and the
discredit would reflect on me. Now what you and I must do--"

You and I--May's man Reuben and May--up from the eighty-third! Up from
the bare corridors and cheerless bedrooms to marble halls and vaulted
chambers! From the clatter of the crowded refectory to small and
glowing restaurants where you had your own table and servant and where
music came softly from the walls! Up from the scramble to win this
woman or that, by wit or charm or the poor bribes you could afford,
to the eminence from which you could calmly command your pick of the
beauty of Denv! From the moiling intrigue of tripping your fellow
Atomist and guarding against him tripping you to the heroic thrust and
parry of generals!

Up from the eighty-third!

Then May dismissed him with a speech whose implications were
deliriously exciting. "I need an able man and a young one, Reuben.
Perhaps I've waited too long looking for him. If you do well in this
touchy business, I'll consider you very seriously for an important task
I have in mind."
