
It was 2349. Reuben sprang from bed and stood by the door, his pistol
silenced and ready. At 2350 a naked man slipped swiftly into the room,
heading for the bed as he raised a ten-centimeter poignard. He stopped
in dismay when he realized that the bed was empty.

Reuben killed him with a bullet through the throat.

"But he doesn't look a bit like me," he said in bewilderment, closely
examining the face. "Just in a general way."

Selene said dully: "Almon told me people always say that when they see
their doubles. It's funny, isn't it? He looks just like you, really."

"How was my body to be disposed of?"

She produced a small flat box. "A shadow suit. You were to be left here
and somebody would come tomorrow."

"We won't disappoint him." Reuben pulled the web of the shadow suit
over his double and turned on the power. In the half-lit room, it was a
perfect disappearance; by daylight it would be less perfect. "They'll
ask why the body was shot instead of knifed. Tell them you shot me with
the gun from under the pillow. Just say I heard the double come in and
you were afraid there might have been a struggle."

She listlessly asked: "How do you know I won't betray you?"

"You won't, Selene." His voice bit. "You're _broken_."

She nodded vaguely, started to say something and then went out without
saying it.

Reuben luxuriously stretched in his narrow bed. Later, his beds would
be wider and softer, he thought. He drifted into sleep on a half-formed
thought that some day he might vote with other generals on the man to
wear the five stars--or even wear them himself, Master of Denv.

He slept healthily through the morning alarm and arrived late at his
regular twentieth-level station. He saw his superior, May's man Oscar
of the eighty-fifth level, Atomist, ostentatiously take his name. Let
him!

Oscar assembled his crew for a grim announcement: "We are going to even
the score, and perhaps a little better, with Ellay. At sunset there
will be three flights of missiles from Deck One."

There was a joyous murmur and Reuben trotted off on his task.

All forenoon he was occupied with drawing plutonium slugs from
hyper-suspicious storekeepers in the great rock-quarried vaults, and
seeing them through countless audits and assays all the way to Weapons
Assembly. Oscar supervised the scores there who assembled the curved
slugs and the explosive lenses into sixty-kilogram warheads.

In mid-afternoon there was an incident. Reuben saw Oscar step aside
for a moment to speak to a Maintainer whose guard fell on one of the
Assembly Servers, and dragged him away as he pleaded innocence. He had
been detected in sabotage. When the warheads were in and the Missilers
seated, waiting at their boards, the two Atomists rode up to the
eighty-third's refectory.

The news of a near-maximum effort was in the air; it was electric.
Reuben heard on all sides in tones of self-congratulation: "We'll
clobber them tonight!"

"That Server you caught," he said to Oscar. "What was he up to?"

His commander stared. "Are you trying to learn my job? Don't try it, I
warn you. If my black marks against you aren't enough, I could always
arrange for some fissionable material in your custody to go astray."

"No, no! I was just wondering why people do something like that."

Oscar sniffed doubtfully. "He's probably insane, like all the Angelos.
I've heard the climate does it to them. You're not a Maintainer or a
Controller. Why worry about it?"

"They'll brainburn him, I suppose?"

"I suppose. _Listen!_"
