
Reuben found himself in a vast apartment with May, who was bubbling and
chuckling uncontrollably until he popped three of the green capsules
into his mouth hurriedly.

"This means the eclipse for years of my good friend Rudolph," he
crowed. "His game was to have your double sabotage the attack warheads
and so make it appear that my organization is rotten with spies. The
double must have been under post-hypnotic, primed to admit everything.
Rudolph was so sure of himself that he made his accusations before the
attack, the fool!"

He fumbled out the green capsules again.

"Sir," said Reuben, alarmed.

"Only temporary," May muttered, and swallowed a fourth. "But you're
right. You leave them alone. There are big things to be done in your
time, not in mine. I told you I needed a young man who could claw his
way to the top. Rudolph's a fool. He doesn't need the capsules because
he doesn't ask questions. Funny, I thought a coup like the double
affair would hit me hard, but I don't feel a thing. It's not like the
old days. I used to plan and plan, and when the trap went _snap_ it was
better than this stuff. But now I don't feel a thing."

He leaned forward from his chair; the pupils of his eyes were black
bullets.

"Do you want to _work_?" he demanded. "Do you want your world stood on
its head and your brains to crack and do the only worthwhile job there
is to do? Answer me!"

"Sir, I am a loyal May's man. I want to obey your orders and use my
ability to the full."

"Good enough," said the general. "You've got brains, you've got push.
I'll do the spade work. I won't last long enough to push it through.
You'll have to follow. Ever been outside of Denv?"

Reuben stiffened.

"I'm not accusing you of being a spy. It's really all right to go
outside of Denv. I've been outside. There isn't much to see at first--a
lot of ground pocked and torn up by shorts and overs from Ellay and us.
Farther out, especially east, it's different. Grass, trees, flowers.
Places where you could grow food.

"When I went outside, it troubled me. It made me ask questions. I
wanted to know how we started. Yes--started. _It wasn't always like
this._ Somebody built Denv. Am I getting the idea across to you? _It
wasn't always like this!_

"Somebody set up the reactors to breed uranium and make plutonium.
Somebody tooled us up for the missiles. Somebody wired the boards to
control them. Somebody started the hydroponics tanks.

"I've dug through the archives. Maybe I found something. I saw
mountains of strength reports, ration reports, supply reports, and yet
I never got back to the beginning. I found a piece of paper and maybe
I understood it and maybe I didn't. It was about the water of the
Colorado River and who should get how much of it. How can you divide
water in a river? But it could have been the start of Denv, Ellay, and
the missile attacks."

The general shook his head, puzzled, and went on: "I don't see clearly
what's ahead. I want to make peace between Denv and Ellay, but I don't
know how to start or what it will be like. I think it must mean not
firing, not even making any more weapons. Maybe it means that some of
us, or a lot of us, will go out of Denv and live a different kind of
life. That's why I've clawed my way up. That's why I need a young man
who can claw with the best of them. Tell me what you think."

"I think," said Reuben measuredly, "it's magnificent--the salvation of
Denv. I'll back you to my dying breath if you'll let me."

May smiled tiredly and leaned back in the chair as Reuben tip-toed out.
