
The court was in session: the people of the City of New York
against ... against an assortment of outcasts--drunks, derelicts,
cripples, beggars--the "undesirables" that had been rounded up by the
police in the past twenty-four hours. The people of the City of New
York against a pen full of men whose only crimes, for the most part,
were sickness, lack of hope and failure to possess the ID cards which
everyone needed and which, somehow, they had been denied.

How? Julie wondered. How could anyone not have an ID? Even if you lost
your card you could get a new one simply by paying a fine. Even if you
had been in prison you got a new card when you were released. You had
to have a card! Everyone had to....

A court attendant called out: "Garcia, Miguel!" and a small,
dark-complexioned man walked out of the detention pen and stood meekly
before the judge.

The clerk of the court read the charge, rattling it off in the
sing-song jargon of court clerks, his words slurred together into one
almost unintelligible burst of sound. There was a pause, and silence in
the courtroom.

"Well?" said the magistrate, "how do you plead?" His voice sounded
kindly. He sat high on his bench, hunched into his black robe, and
looked down with apparent benignancy on the little man who stood
silently before him.

The audience was hushed. It watched hopefully and waited.

Julie could sense the intense excitement in Stan as he leaned forward,
straining to catch every detail of the scene, anxious not to miss a
thing.

She heard a giggle, then Stan's hearty laugh, then a loud burst of
laughter. She opened her eyes.

The defendant was shrugging his shoulders in bewilderment. He turned
half-way around to look at the laughing audience, a sheepish grin on
his face.

The magistrate smiled his appreciation of the humorous response to his
question. "So, you can't make up your mind?" he said in a seemingly
friendly and sympathetic way. "Well, I'll tell you what I'll do,
Miguel. I'll give you thirty days in the city's hotel to think it over."

Laughter and applause filled the room. The judge nodded his head in
a little bow of acknowledgement. Miguel Garcia was led away, still
smiling, obviously ignorant of what was happening. Miguel Garcia
apparently did not understand English.

Stan was happily filling in the first line of his scorecard. His face
was flushed. His eyes were bright. A satisfied smile lingered on his
lips.

"Stan, let's leave," Julie said.

Stan laughed in disbelief. "Are you kidding? The fun's just starting."

"Please, Stan. I ... I don't feel well."

"Oh? I'm sorry, honey." It was a formality, like saying 'I beg your
pardon' to a stranger you bump into in a crowd. There was no concern in
Stan's voice. The second case was being presented, and his attention
was rapt upon the clerk and the object of the proceedings, an old white
haired derelict.

"Stan, please!" Julie insisted.

"Look, honey," Stan said impatiently, "we can't leave now, even if we
wanted to. They don't give back the IDs until after it's all over."

A sharp burst of laughter brought his attention abruptly back to the
action up front. The old man had dropped his hat and an attendant had
kicked it away from him. The white haired castoff shuffled across the
room to retrieve it.

"I missed something!" Stan said, testily. He turned to his neighbor and
was hurriedly filled in on what had happened.

"Well, _I'm_ leaving!" Julie said. She got up and edged her way out
to the aisle. Stan made no protest. He was concentrating on the
performance up front.

Julie hurried up the aisle and pushed through the pack of people
standing in the back of the room. She found the usher at the door. "I'd
like to leave," she told the girl. "May I please have my ID?"

The usher's face was expressionless, her voice efficiently official.
"ID cards will be returned at the conclusion of the session."

"But I want to leave now!" Julie protested. "I don't want to see any
more of this!"

"No cards can be returned until the session is concluded," the usher
recited. It was a final decree of official policy. There could be no
arguing, no appeal from the decision. There was no alternative but to
abide by it.

Julie returned to her seat. She squeezed past a barricade of knees,
rousing disgruntled comments from several of the spectators.

Stan glanced up at her as she settled back into the seat at his side.
It was only a glance, and then his eyes were fixed once again on the
magistrate, the attendants, and the "undesirable" being judged.
