
Minutes passed. Hours. Julie suffered the time in silence. She saw
and heard, but could hardly believe, the unrestrained sadism of the
giggling, laughing, applauding, cheering, jeering audience. What kind
of people were these, who laughed at the pain and humiliation of
others? What did they find amusing in the ruin of human life?

They laughed when a partially paralyzed hunchback limped before the
judge and pleaded guilty to a charge of ogling girls in a public park.
They roared with hilarity when the magistrate suspended sentence and
commented that a more appropriate charge would have been that of
defacing public property. They applauded lustily when he said to the
arresting officer, "Bring him in on that one tomorrow and I'll throw
the book at him!"

They laughed when an alcoholic appeared, twitching and brushing
imaginary creatures from his torn jacket. They howled gleefully when
he whimpered and sobbed like a small boy having a nightmare.

They laughed when the magistrate said his fountain pen had run out of
ink and, looking into the detention pen, inquired, "Would any of you
blue bloods care to make a donation?"

They laughed when a court attendant read a complaint which charged that
the defendant, a small skinny man, had attacked the arresting officer,
and that the officer (six-three, two hundred and ten pounds) had used
reasonable force in defending himself. The man's broken arm was in a
sling and bandages covered twelve stitches in his scalp.

The audience laughed. They gloated. They sat in judgment of their
fellow men and called for punishment--the more severe, the better.

At last, the detention pen was empty. The last "undesirable" was
brought before the bench. He was a small, pathetic looking man dressed
in sailor's dungarees. He spoke Norwegian and clumsily tried to explain
his predicament with the few words of English that he knew.

"Stop gibbering!" the judge shouted at him. The magistrate's facade
of kindliness had long since disappeared. He turned to the arresting
officer. "Do you speak that language?" He made it sound like a disgrace
to be able to speak Norwegian.

The officer shook his head.

"Neither do I," the magistrate said, with obvious pride that he was not
contaminated by such knowledge. He arbitrarily ordered the man held
until he learned to make himself understood; the hearing to take place
when that had been accomplished. The sailor was led away.

The Show was over.

"That's the end of it, folks," the judge said, genially. He tapped his
gavel and rose from his seat. The courtroom rang with lusty applause.

The judge hurried through the door to his chambers and the applause
died out. The people started to leave. Their animated discussions of
the evening's events dinned through the room in a babble of noise.
