
Julie's head throbbed painfully and there was a queasy feeling in her
stomach. She thirsted for fresh air.

Slowly, the mob of spectators formed a procession in the aisle. Slowly,
the column of people moved toward the exit. Slowly, slowly, Julie was
pushed along with the crowd.

The line paused as each person stopped at the door and waited until his
ID card was located and returned to him. Then the procession would take
another step forward. And pause again. And again. Occasionally, an ID
could not be found and its owner was requested to step aside and allow
the line to move on while the search for his card continued. And there
was another step forward.

Stan held Julie's hand to prevent the pressing crowd from separating
them. "How'd you like it?" he asked. He was aglow with satisfaction,
tired by the long evening's excitement but with a pleasant weariness of
accomplishment. "It's a terrific show, isn't it?"

Julie did not answer him. She wanted to break away and run and run and
run and run! She inched along with the rest of the procession.

At last they reached the door. They told the usher their names and she
methodically checked through the cards in her file. The procession
behind them waited.

Julie's ID card was quickly found and returned to her, but the usher
reported some difficulty in finding Stan's card. He was asked to
step aside, please, and let the line go through. He protested at the
inconvenience, then sullenly joined a few other people waiting for
their cards in the rear of the court.

Julie stood impatiently in the doorway. She watched Stan strike up
a grumbling conversation with another detained person. It was the
moon-faced man who had been sitting in front of them. For a fleeting
moment she thought of the old adage about "birds of a feather".

She waited. People filed past her in a steady stream, from the
courtroom, across the lobby, out through the street door. Watching
them--smiles and pleasant conversation, civilized small talk and
serious debate of the merit of the evening's fare, as if it were a
dramatic work of art. She clenched her teeth and prayed that Stan would
hurry up.

Soon the flow of people stopped. Still no Stan. Julie waited.

Some twenty minutes later, an attendant came out of the courtroom. He
went past Julie, then paused at the door, turned and came over to her.
"Waiting for someone, miss?"

"Yes. My friend. They seem to have misplaced his ID card."

The attendant smiled and shook his head. "You might as well go on home,
miss. If he's still in there, he won't be coming out for some time."

"I'll wait," Julie said.

"You don't understand, miss. He won't be out tonight."

"What are you talking about? He's just waiting till they find his ID,
and it couldn't have gotten up and...."

"Seventeen IDs were lost," the attendant explained. "Those people in
there can't get them back. They're going to have to go to Caracas or
Milan to apply for new cards."

"Don't be silly!" Julie scoffed. "You don't have to go to another city
to apply for a new card! All you have to do is file a claim and pay the
fine."

"These are special cases," the attendant said uneasily. He seemed
reluctant to talk about it.

Julie frowned. "What's special about them? Their ID cards were lost,
weren't they?"

"Look, miss, all I know is every time an ID is lost in there," he
nodded toward the courtroom, "they've gotta go out of the country to
apply for a new one. That's all I can tell you."

"But why out of the...?"

"The reassignment orders are being drawn up right now," the attendant
said. He led Julie to the street exit. "So you'd better go home and
forget that fellow."

Confusion and a vicarious fear made Julie shiver. "Will he ... will
they get new cards?"

The attendant shrugged. "They might--some day." He touched her arm. His
voice was low, barely audible. "Was this your first time at the Show?"

Julie nodded.

"How did you like it?"

"I ... I ..." She shook her head.

The attendant smiled at her gently. "Don't ever be a third-timer." He
released her arm and hurried away down the street.

Julie puzzled over his parting remark as she went out into the foul
smelling night and walked away from the courthouse. Suddenly, the
street before her dimmed as the lights on the huge marquee blinked out.
She turned and looked back at the entrance of the court, now dark and
deserted. And then she understood.

She remembered the moon-faced man's observation about the scarcity of
third-timers. She understood how the "undesirables" lost their ID cards
and why so many could not speak English. She understood the apparent
cruelty of the sentences meted out to them, too.

The answer was on the marquee. As she looked back at it, only the
raised letters on the canopy were visible, shining luminously in the
darkness: "_judge not, that ye be not judged_". And she recalled the
quotation on the program: "_For with what judgement ye judge, ye shall
be judged._"



