
Carter Hagen regarded the envelope with speculation. Sam smiled. "If
you're wondering how much I left you, Carter, I'll say this: You might
get it all."

Hagen strove to appear nonchalant but his eyes widened regardless. Sam
enjoyed this. He said, "Yes, you'll have as much chance as anyone else."

"You mean as much chance as any of your relatives?"

"I mean what I said--as much as anyone. I've given them no more
consideration than anyone else."

Carter Hagen stared, puzzled. "I'm afraid I don't understand you."

"I didn't expect you to, but that will come later. I'll tell you this
much, though. No one will be barred. The winner will take all, and the
winner may be anyone on this planet. My one regret is that I won't be
around to see who gets the jackpot."

Carter Hagen dutifully pocketed the will and left. He returned on other
business a week later. Sam Chipfellow's first question was, "Well, what
did you think of it?"

"Think of what?"

"My will."

Carter Hagen straightened to an indignant five-foot-six. "Mr.
Chipfellow, I don't like having my integrity questioned. Your will was
in a sealed envelope. You instructed me to read it after your death. If
you think I'm the sort of man who would violate a trust--"

Sam put a drink into his attorney's hand. "Here, take this. Calm down."

Carter Hagen gulped the drink and allowed his feathers to smooth down.
As he set down his glass, Sam leaned back and said, "Now that that's
over, let's get on with it. Tell me--what did you think of my will?"

The attorney flushed. It was no use trying to fool Chipfellow. He was a
master at that damned thought business. "I--I did look at it. I couldn't
resist the temptation. The envelope was so easily opened."

Sam was regarding him keenly but without anger. "I know you're a crook,
Hagen, but no more so than most people. So don't sit there cringing."

"This will is--well, amazing, and getting an advance look didn't help me
a bit unless--" Hagen looked up hopefully. "--unless you're willing to
give me a slight clue--"

"I'll give you nothing. You take your chances along with the rest."

Hagen sighed. "As to the will itself, all I can say is that it's bound
to cause a sensation."

"I think so too," Sam said, his eyes turning a trifle sad. "It's too bad
a man has to die just at the most interesting point of his life."

"You'll live for years, Mr. Chipfellow. You're in fine condition."

"Cut it out. You're itching for me to shuffle off so you can get a crack
at what I'm leaving behind."

"Why, Mr.--"

"Shut up and have another drink."
