
Carter Hagen did not have long to wait as life-times go. Eighteen months
later, Sam Chipfellow dropped dead while walking in his garden. The news
was broadcast immediately but the stir it caused was nothing to the
worldwide reaction that came a few days later.

This was after all the relatives, all those who thought they had a faint
chance of proving themselves relatives, and representatives of the
press, radio, and video, gathered in the late Sam Chipfellow's mansion
to hear the reading of the will. Carter Hagen, seeking to control his
excitement, stood before a microphone installed for the benefit of those
who couldn't get in.

He said, "This is the last will and testament of Samuel Chipfellow,
deceased. As his lawyer, it becomes my duty to--"

An angry murmur went up from those assembled. Exclamations of
impatience. "Come on! Get on with it. Quit making a speech and read the
will, we can't wait all day!"

"Quiet, please, and give me your closest attention. I will read slowly
so all may hear. This is Mr. Chipfellow's last testament:

"_I, Samuel B. Chipfellow, have made a great deal of money during my
active years. The time now comes when I must decide what will become of
it after my death. I have made my decision, but I remain in the peculiar
position of still not knowing what will become of it. Frankly, I'm of
the opinion that no one will ever benefit from it--that it will remain
in the place I have secreted it until the end of time._"

A murmur went up from the crowd.

"A treasure hunt!" someone cried. "I wonder if they'll distribute maps!"

Carter Hagen raised his hand. "Please! Let's have a little more order or
the reading will not continue."

The room quieted and Hagen's droning voice was again raised:

"_This place consists of a vault I have had erected upon my grounds.
This vault, I assure you, is burglar-proof, weather-proof,
cyclone-proof, tornado-proof, bomb-proof. Time will have no effect upon
its walls. It could conceivably be thrown free in some great volcanic
upheaval but even then the contents would remain inaccessible._

"_There is only one way the vault can be opened. Its lock is sensitized
to respond to a thought. That's what I said--a thought. I have selected
a single, definite, clear-cut thought to which the combination will
respond._

"_There is a stone bench in front of the vault door and I decree that
any person who wishes, may sit down on this bench and direct his or her
thought at the door. If it is the correct one, the door will open and
the person causing this to happen shall then be the possessor of all my
worldly wealth which lies inside._

"_Because of the number of persons who will no doubt wish to try their
luck, I decree further that each shall be given thirty seconds in which
to project their thought. A force of six men shall be hired to supervise
the operation and handle the crowds in the neighborhood of the vault. A
trust fund has been already set up to pay this group. The balance of my
wealth lies awaiting the lucky thinker in the vault--all save this
estate itself, an item of trifling value in comparison to the rest,
which I bequeath to the State with the stipulation that the other terms
of the will are rigidly carried out._

"_And so, good luck to everyone in the world. May one of you succeed in
opening my vault--although I doubt it. Samuel B. Chipfellow. P.S. The
thought-throwing shall begin one week after the reading of the will. I
add this as a precaution to keep everyone from rushing to the vault
after this will is read. You might kill each other in the stampede. S.
B. C._"

There was a rush regardless. Reporters knocked each other down getting
to the battery of phones set up to carry the news around the world. And
Sam Chipfellow's will pushed all else off the video screens and the
front pages.
