
During the following weeks, millions were made through the sale of
Chipfellow's thought to the gullible. Great commercial activity began in
the area surrounding the estate as arrangements were made to accommodate
the hundreds of thousands who were heading in that direction.

A line began forming immediately at the gate to Chipfellow's Folly and a
brisk market got under way in positions therein. The going figure of the
first hundred positions was in the neighborhood of ten thousand dollars.
A man three thousand thoughts away was offered a thousand dollars two
days before the week was up, and on the last day, the woman at the head
of the line sold her position for eighteen thousand dollars.

There were many learned roundtables and discussions as to the nature of
Chipfellow's thought. The majority leaned to the belief that it would be
scientific in nature because Chipfellow was the world's greatest
scientist.

This appeared to give scientifically trained brains the edge and those
fortunate in this respect spent long hours learning what they could of
Chipfellow's life, trying to divine his performance in the realm of
thought.

So intense was the interest created that scarcely anyone paid attention
to the activities of Chipfellow's closer relatives. They sued to break
the will but met with defeat. The verdict was rendered speedily, after
which the judge who made the ruling declared a recess and bought the
eleven thousandth position in line for five hundred dollars.

On the morning of the appointed day, the gates were opened and the line
moved toward the vault. The first man took his seat on the bench. A
stopwatch clicked. A great silence settled over the watchers. This
lasted for thirty seconds after which the watch clicked again. The man
got up from the bench eighteen thousand dollars poorer.

The vault had not opened.

Nor did it open the next day, the next, nor the next. A week passed, a
month, six months. And at the end of that time it was estimated that
more than twenty-five thousand people had tried their luck and failed.

Each failure was greeted with a public sigh of relief--relief from both
those who were waiting for a turn and those who were getting rich from
the commercial enterprises abutting upon the Chipfellow estate.

There was a motel, a hotel, a few night clubs, a lot of restaurants, a
hastily constructed bus terminal, an airport and several turned into
parking lots at a dollar a head.

The line was a permanent thing and it was soon necessary to build a
cement walk because the ever-present hopeful were standing in a ditch a
foot deep.

There also continued to be an active business in positions, a group of
professional standers having sprung up, each with an assistant to bring
food and coffee and keep track of the ever fluctuating market in
positions.

And still no one opened Chipfellow's vault.

It was conceded that the big endowment funds had the inside track
because they had the money to hire the best brains in the world; men who
were almost as able scientifically as had been Chipfellow himself but
unfortunately hadn't made as much money. The monied interests also had
access to the robot calculators that turned out far more plausible
thoughts than there were positions in the line.

A year passed. The vault remained locked.
