
By that time the number of those who had tried and failed, and were
naturally disgruntled, was large enough to be heard, so a rumor got
about that the whole thing was a vast hoax--a mean joke perpetrated upon
the helpless public by a lousy old crook who hadn't any money in the
first place.

Vituperative editorials were written--by editors who had stood in line
and thrown futile thoughts at the great door. These editorials were
vigorously rebutted by editors and columnists who as yet had not had a
chance to try for the jackpot.

One senator, who had tried and missed, introduced a law making it
illegal to sit on a stone bench and hurl a thought at a door.

There were enough congressional failures to pass the law. It went to the
Supreme Court, but was tossed out because they said you couldn't pass a
law prohibiting a man from thinking.

And still the vault remained closed.

Until Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, farm people impoverished by reverses, spent
their last ten dollars for two thoughts and waited out the hours and the
days in line. Their daughter Susan, aged nine, waited with them,
passing the time by telling her doll fairy tales and wondering what the
world looked like to a bird flying high up over a tree top. Susan was
glad when her mother and father reached the bench because then they all
could go home and see how her pet rabbit was doing.

Mr. Wilson hurled his thought and moved on with drooping shoulders. Mrs.
Wilson threw hers and was told to leave the bench. The guard looked at
Susan. "Your turn," he said.

"But I haven't got any thought," Susan said. "I just want to go home."

This made no sense to the guard. The line was being held up. People were
grumbling. The guard said, "All right, but that was silly. You could
have sold your position for good money. Run along with your mother and
father."

Susan started away. Then she looked at the vault which certainly
resembled a mausoleum and said, "Wait--I have too got a little thought,"
and she popped onto the bench.

The guard frowned and snapped his stop watch.

Susan screwed her eyes tight shut. She tried to see an angel with big
white wings like she sometimes saw in her dreams and she also tried to
visualize a white-haired, jolly-faced little man as she considered Mr.
Chipfellow to be. Her lips moved soundlessly as she said,

_Dear God and all the angels--please have pity on poor Mr. Chipfellow
for dying and please make him happy in heaven._

Then Susan got off the bench quickly to run after her mother and father
who had not waited.

There was the sound of metal grinding upon metal and the great door was
swinging open.


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Imagination_ April 1956. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical
    errors have been corrected without note.



