
Bigelow watched suspiciously after her until she was well out of
hearing.

"Now," he began, "a week ago we started digging around the crater on
the East Coast where some great pre-Atomic cities once stood...."

Bigelow paused excitedly.

Ruskin sighed. It was much too nice a day....

"... and there we came upon THREE pre-Atomic books!"

Bigelow paused again.

"A wonderful find," Ruskin said, without enthusiasm.

"More wonderful than you think, Commissioner."

Bigelow squared his shoulders dramatically.

"Two of them were much like the other pre-Atomic books in the museums,
but the third...."

Bigelow was bursting with excitement.

"... the third had pictures in it!"

Ruskin straightened up.

"Amazing!"

Never before had a pre-Atomic book been found with pictures. Artists
had painted their own versions drawn from the few meager written
descriptions....

"How many pictures, Bigelow?"

"Plenty, but just one would be enough to shake the foundations of our
social world!"

He opened his briefcase and pulled out a small book protected by its
own cloth cover. He opened to a marked page.

"Just take a look at this!"

Ruskin took the book and stared curiously at a picture showing a
dressed up dog sitting in a chair patting a human on the head. The
caption read: MAN'S BEST FRIEND GETS REWARD.

Ruskin glanced back at Bigelow.

"I don't understand," he said slowly. "Is it some kind of joke-book?"

Bigelow grinned narrowly.

"A very bitter joke, Commissioner. A joke of Mother Nature's."

"I'm still not sure I understand...."

"I think you do, Commissioner," Bigelow countered quickly. "Now so many
of the things we couldn't understand become clear to us. The naked
animal on the floor in the picture is our ancestor, and the hairless
thing in the chair is our dog!"

Ruskin shook his head.

"Impossible!"

"Not at all! In the lower animal and plant orders more amazing
mutations occurred during the Atomic Wars--we just never noticed
because they didn't touch us closely."

Ruskin's mind rushed over the implications, all the frightful and
carefully ignored aberrations of the Atomic blasts.

If it was true, and he still wouldn't let himself be convinced, it
would be a tremendous blow to the morale of Society. And it was his
duty to protect the well-being of Society. He must decide ... now ...
for Society....

"This is a very delicate problem, Bigelow," he said finally.

"I know, Commissioner."

"You've come upon something ... fantastic."

"Thank you, Commissioner."

"We must handle this very carefully."

"I understand."

"Good. Leave the book with me ... for security reasons ... and I'll
figure how to handle it."

"Well...."

"Of course, I'll see that you get all the credit you deserve."

Bigelow rose.

"Very well, Commissioner. I'll leave it in your hands."

He left with the air of a man just conquering the world.
