
The thoughts of Marcius Kemble did not go unheard. Unknown to the
rest of the solar system, Pluto had its inhabitants. To Earth men,
these would be very strange beings, not alone in appearance but in
composition. Their heads were roughly triangular, widening upward from
a pointed chin and resting on thin, yet strong, necks above equally
strong and spindly man-like bodies. They were mainly composed of
elements which became solid only at very low temperatures.

Thus it was that one of these beings sat before a radio-like device and
perspired in the extreme cold of the room. His long pointed ears were
depressed by the weight of a shiny metal cap and his too-large eyes
held a look of worried consternation. The reason for his consternation
was the thoughts of the ex-dictator of Mars.

The wearer of the cap shot a series of rapid sounds at the other
occupant of the room.

He said, in effect, "I have received thought emanations from the
direction of the great plain, rather garbled. The being is probably
a giant from some other world, for his thoughts are alien and he
evidently considers it within his power to crush the mountains which
house us!"

The other made a negative gesture with a slender hand. "Don't you think
it is more likely that it is a trick of the enemy to frighten us, Gor?
They have tried such things before, you know."

Gor was quiet while he peered into the eyepiece of an instrument; then
he replied, "We will soon know. Tower Three has made contact, giving us
the exact location, and the inquisitors have now gone to work on him."

For a while, the two Plutonians busied themselves with their various
machines, then Gor spoke again. "You are radiating sorrow, Bakar. What
troubles you?"

Bakar sighed. "I was thinking of the ancient pictures of Ahndee in the
days when its orbit was much nearer the sun, and we, the inhabitants
of Ahndee, were happy in our beautiful cities.

"Now, the two remaining great nations hide, one from the other, beneath
the mountains, and neither can break the defenses of the other, but
still we try. What is the use of it?"

"Careful, Bakar," Gor looked sternly at the other. "The Four may have
you in the thought beam. You know that The Four lead us along this path
because it is the only choice, the path shown in the future machine.

"In the time you speak of," Gor went on, "the people were no better off
than we of today. Because they did not have the future machine, they
had failures. They wandered from the way and their failures turned them
back to the course provided by the natural law. Now we know for what we
are bound and, if we work toward that end, can know no failures."

A strange light came into Bakar's eyes, but he said nothing.

Shortly thereafter, a voice drifted into the room. It was a mild voice,
but it was also old and wise.

The voice said, "This is Nel, one of The Four. The being on the plain
has been probed and analyzed and has been found to be a creature of the
carbon class from the inner worlds. He has sought to deceive us in the
manner in which he has deceived his own, but we have seen all.

"The being is of a race called man and is named Mah Shuss Kem Bil. He
is clothed in a type of space armour which embodies an air purifier,
good for a period of time long enough to transport him to the fourth
planet at half the speed of light, and is protected against cold by
electric and tonic stimulants which do not produce heat, but only
suspend the sensation of cold. Therefore we may come in contact with
him without fear of burns.

"Since the future machine indicates that he must be sent back into
space, and since there is no place for him in our world, he will be
disposed of at once. Tower Two will dispatch two ships. The man will be
instructed in the operation of one of the ships and sent on his way.
The pilots will return in the other ship. That is all."

For a long moment, quiet filled the room.

Gor was uneasy as he said, "Well, Bakar, have you not heard? It is your
duty to dispatch the ships. Why do you hesitate?"

Bakar sprung to his feet, a small weapon clutched in his claw-like
hand. "No!" he hissed, "I will not obey the machine. I am going to
prove to you, and to all, that it can be wrong. You know of the soft
places in the plain, Gor. It is a wonder that the man did not land
in one of these, considering that there are more of these than solid
ground. But he will weary of waiting for the ships, which he has
been informed of, and begin to wander. He cannot go far before he is
swallowed up, sinking deeper and deeper. Then we shall see if the
future machine is always right!"

Gor said nothing, but a slight smile came to his lips, a rather ironic
one.

It was much later when Gor again spoke. He turned from his position
at the thought receiver and said, "News for you, Bakar. I have just
received thought that the man is on his way."

Bakar visibly started, and Gor continued, "How many times have you
complied with an order from The Four and pressed the button that
informs second in command that you had done so? Force of habit caused
you to perform it this time, Bakar. The order went on, through second
in command."

He added softly, "The future machine never lies!"
