
Marcius Kemble stood upon the frozen plain and waited. A satanic smile
lighted his face and the cry for revenge was in his heart. He somehow
felt that the thoughts had not lied, that they would send the promised
ship. Then he would be free again, blasting back to quench his thirst
for revenge against the Combine. His face became flushed and the
temperature within his suit became perceptibly greater, as he formed
his fanatical plans. While he waited, the leaders of the Combine, in
his mind, suffered and died a thousand times.

The coming of the ships was swift. One moment there was nothing; the
next, they rested upon the plain before him. Marcius was surprised to
note that they were very small, as compared to others he had seen. So
much the better, he thought, to elude the space patrol.

He also marveled at the fact that the creatures coming toward him from
the ships were lightly clothed, and that they could speak to him
through his mind.

"Do not fear us," came the thought. "You must come with us into one of
the craft, to learn of the controls."

Inside the ship, Marcius found that "learning of the controls" was much
simpler than he had thought it would be.

He sat in the pilot's seat, hands on the controls and eyes closed. A
thousand times more effective than words, thoughts came to him, and he
flew the Plutonian ship through every condition and position that could
ever be encountered, even though he never left the place at which the
ship had come to rest on the plain. Mental instruction.

It all ended with Marcius Kemble, condemned dictator of Mars, soaring
away from Pluto forever, still enclosed in his space suit because the
air within the ship was never meant for the lungs of men, and heading
toward earth, toward the fulfillment of his evil plans.

As the atmosphere of Pluto fell away behind him, Marcius wondered that
he felt no acceleration. Then he remembered a faint something which
he had detected in the thoughts of his instructor, something about
increased momentum being induced into each individual atom, so that
each retained its normal position to that of every other.

But Marcius was not the kind to spend much time on thinking of such
complicated matters. Instead, he lapsed into an ecstasy of evil dreams,
dreams in which he was again the mighty monarch, this time of Earth.
