
As the little ship drove on through space, Marcius pictured himself
walking in on the members of the Council--he would have gained his
rightful place as ruler by then, of course--and chuckled at the
expressions he imagined on their faces, mouths hanging open, eyes many
times too large, and their heads hanging nearly to their belts.

Someone was kneeling before him. It was the Martian member and his eyes
were tightly closed against the stinging tears while his thin hands
were clasped before him, praying to Marcius to have mercy.

Marcius was about to order them strung end to end and dangled, for the
rest of their lives from an over-hanging cliff, when he became aware
of his present surroundings with a start. Time to start decelerating.

Sighing, he reached for the proper lever and pulled it back.

For a moment, nothing happened. Then the ship seemed to shake itself
and Marcius was half lifted from his seat. It couldn't be! The
decelerating force should act equally on his body and the ship. How,
then, could he be thrown forward?

Something bumped lightly against his helmet and drifted on by. Only
for a moment did he stare blankly at the little silvery sphere, then
the nose of the ship came away with a weird plopping hiss, and he was
jerked through the opening by the force of the escaping air.

In confusion, he tried to swing his body around so that he could see
what had happened. He twisted his shoulders around, but his hips turned
equally in an opposite direction. To halt one meant to halt the other.
He tried kicking his legs back hard, but only succeeded in arching
his body and wrenching his back. Desperately, he began kicking and
squirming like a mad dancer. Each motion depended upon an equal and
opposite motion of his body.

[Illustration: _He began kicking and squirming like a mad dancer._]

In the midst of his struggles, his heel struck on something and started
him spinning, head over heels. It was the ship. The combined gravities
of the ship and his own body had brought them together again, and he
was revolving about the heavier object in a close orbit, and he was
turning end for end, now.

Marcius could not feel the motion. It seemed as if the universe were
turning about his stationary body, rising at his head and setting at
his feet.

He saw the ship then, but it was no longer a ship. It dawned on him why
the Plutonians had never ventured much nearer the sun, and why, after
they had known all about him, they had let him go.

Receding from him, was a perfect sphere of liquid mercury, once the
hard hull of a space ship, covered with a thin layer of water that had
once been windows, with small pieces of solid material floating on the
surface. It was only a natural law that it should revert to this form
when deprived of the sub-temperatures of Pluto.

Yes, Marcius Kemble saw it all now, but too late. He remembered a
demonstration he had seen when a child. A man had poured mercury into
a mold and cooled it to near absolute zero. When withdrawn from the
mold, it had been a little bell that gave a clear tone.

Why hadn't he thought of it before? The cold bodies of the Plutonians
enabled them to handle such metals as he would handle steel! They made
their ships and machines of such things as mercury and ice, and perhaps
a few materials unknown to man, but all of a low melting point. Why
should they do otherwise, when the extreme cold of Pluto made those
things as hard as steel? It was even doubtful if they could produce
enough heat to melt steel or even glass, or if they could produce a
substance able to retain such fires.

A hot rage began to boil within him. The Plutonians had known it all
along! With their science they could have kept him alive until they had
learned how to build a ship that would not melt from the heat of the
sun.

Now, Marcius Kemble's unretarded speed carried him through the orbit of
the earth while it was still many thousands of miles distant. He began
to feel the boiling heat of the sun and realized what it would be like
when the insulation of his space suit gave way to that awful heat, but
he decided that he would never live to suffer it. Better to let the
vacuum of space draw his life from him quickly and painlessly.

Slowly, he reached up to unscrew his helmet. He gave it a slight tug,
then twisted with all his might. The helmet did not budge. For a moment
he could not think clearly. Then it came to him. The air pressure
within the suit was so great, in relation to the vacuum of space, that
it bound the threads together with a friction that he could never hope
to overcome!

With fear-filled eyes, he watched the hot disk of the sun expand around
him as he fell toward it.

The system would soon be rid of Marcius Kemble.