
               The little guy comes into the bar just as
            the first Marscast is about to start. He scoffs
            at scientific facts and keeps mumbling about--

                           THE FROGS OF MARS

                             By Roger Dee

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              April 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


There was nothing special about the little man who came into Larry's
place, unless it might have been his air of vague familiarity and the
mixed expression on his face. He looked disgusted and defensive and at
the same time a little resentful, with a dash of something else thrown
in which none of us recognized until later.

I'd have mistaken him for another reporter from the _Advertiser_
across the street if the five newsmen already at the bar hadn't given
each other a blank look that meant only one thing: none of them knew
him. Neither did Larry, who was trying to bring in the first broadcast
from Mars on the television set bracketed to the wall over his whiskey
stock, and who wasn't pleased at having his little after-hours party
crashed.

"The bar's closed," Larry said. His tone didn't invite argument. "City
ordinance. No customers after 1:00 a.m."

The little man looked at the clock, which said 3:15, and then at the
front windows which were shuttered tight. Then he looked at the six of
us sitting at the bar with our drinks.

"I'll have bourbon and water," he said. He sat down at the end of the
bar on the stool next to mine and looked at his reflection in the
mirror without approval.

Larry got the look that bartenders get with troublesome customers.

"The bar's closed," he said again. "It's a city--"

"Water on the side," the little man said. "Don't mix it."

Abe Marker, who does sports for the _Advertiser_, got up and checked
the front-door lock. The thumb-catch hadn't been thrown, so Abe put it
on and came back to the bar.

"Nobody else will wander in," he said. "Make with the t-v, Larry.
You're holding up the show."

Larry looked stubborn.

"It's after 1:00 a.m.," he said. "And that door was supposed to be
locked. There's a city ordinance--"

"You're breaking it already," the little man said, looking at us. He
didn't seem angry, just weary and disgusted. "Not that I give a damn.
All I want is a bourbon and water."

"Better give it to him, Larry," Willard Saxton said from down the bar.
Willard is the _Advertiser's_ science editor and is an authority on the
planets, especially Mars. "He'll probably turn you in if you throw him
out."

Larry muttered and looked mulish, but he rang up the little man's money
and gave him a bourbon and water. The little guy drank it and looked
at himself in the bar mirror with an expression that was just short
of being a sneer. Larry grunted and went back to fiddling with the
television set.

Abe Marker came over and sat down on the stool to my left.

"They're doing this all over town tonight," he said, explaining to the
little man across me. "The bars have to observe curfew as usual, but
most of them are letting a few regular customers stay late to see the
Marscast. Everybody is anxious to know what Colonel Sanderson and his
crew found up there, so--"

"They're going to be disappointed," the little man said. He sounded
sour but positive. "Mars ain't what people think it is, not by a hell
of a sight. It stinks."

We all looked up at that, and somebody snickered.

"Have you been to Mars, sir?"

The little man didn't seem to mind when we laughed.

"Maybe," he said, and shoved his shot glass forward. "Another bourbon,
bartender."

       *       *       *       *       *

The station announcer came on screen then and told us what we already
knew, that contact with Colonel Sanderson's party was delayed because
of transmission difficulties. The Sanderson expedition would leave Mars
for Earth in two more days, when the current opposition was completed,
but in the meantime the program sponsors appreciated the interest shown
by their public and would relay the broadcast to us as soon as contact
was established.

A film cartoon featuring a lizard named Freddie came on next, and Larry
turned down the sound so he could hear orders for refills. The little
man drank his bourbon and water and sneered at his reflection in the
mirror; none of us paid him any further attention, but talk started up
again along the bar.

Somebody at the other end asked how long it took a television signal
to travel across all that space, and choked on his drink when Willard
Saxton told him.

"My God," he said when he stopped coughing. "You mean Mars is so far
away it takes three minutes just to _see_ it?"

All of us laughed at that but Larry and the little man at the end of
the bar.

"What I'm wondering," somebody else said, "Is how the colonel and his
boys feel after breathing nothing but canned air for a year."

"Maybe the air up there is better than our scientists think," Abe
Marker said. He winked at us and looked at the little man on my right.
"How about it, friend? Is the air good on Mars?"

"Breathable, but not good," the little guy said. "It smells like dead
fish."

Silence fell along the bar while we waited for a straight man to raise
his head.

Willard Saxton took the bait. "And why should it smell so, may I ask?"

"Because Mars is lousy with fish," the little man said. "And because
when fish die, they stink."

Larry did a brisk business for a few minutes while we sized the little
guy up again. He definitely wasn't drunk, but the task of deciding
whether he was being dead-pan-comic or just nasty was a sort of
challenge that called for thought.

"But you'd need extensive oceans to support so many fish," Willard
Saxton argued, still taking it seriously. "And if Mars had oceans we'd
have seen them long ago. They reflect light."

"Mars is too level for oceans," the little man said. "The water spreads
out thin to make one big marsh, and you can't see it because the weeds
that grow up from the bottom camouflage it."

Somebody down the bar said, "This gets curiouser and curiouser," and
everybody laughed again but Willard and Larry and the little comic.
Somebody else asked if he was a professional and what show was he on,
but he didn't answer. He just pushed his shot glass forward instead.

"Another bourbon," he said.

The announcer came on screen again when the lizard cartoon went off
and said that the Mars party's signal was beginning to come through
and that as soon as it cleared up they would put it on the cable. Then
he told us about a new kind of pretzel prepared with a special salt
guaranteed not to give us hardening of the arteries, and after that we
had another film cartoon. This one was about two crows at a circus, but
nobody could follow it because Larry turned down the sound again.

Between his third and fourth stingers Willard Saxton--who had a
reputation to uphold, being science editor of the _Advertiser_--had
made up his mind by now to put the little man in his place. It burned
him brown to see this character drinking bourbon and sneering at
himself in the mirror and not caring a damn what we thought, and it put
Willard under a sort of obligation to show him up.

"Reliable tests have conclusively proved," Willard said, "that the
atmosphere of Mars contains only minute traces of water vapor, and that
its oxygen content is less than one-hundredth the density necessary to
sustain human life. Spectroanalysis findings--"

"A spectroanalysis of Earth from Mars," the little man said, "shows
nothing beyond our Heaviside layer, and proves that we can't live here
because nothing can breathe pure ozone."

       *       *       *       *       *

He finished his bourbon and made chains of wet rings on the bartop with
his glass. The mixed look on his face was so strong that for a moment I
almost thought of the name for it.

Willard stalled for time by ordering another stinger--a double, this
time--and Abe Marker took over.

"How about those pictures of Martian dust storms the boys at Palomar
make?" Abe asked. "You can't have dust storms on a marshy planet, can
you?"

"Those aren't dust storms," the little man said. "They're clouds of
gnats."

"_Gnats?_" we all said at once, and somebody down the bar,
quicker-witted than the rest of us, added: "Gnats to you too, Charlie!"

"A fact," the little man said, but not as if he cared. "They travel in
swarms thousands of miles wide, and they bite like hell."

We sat and watched the two voiceless crows flap through the television
cartoon for a while. Nobody spoke until the film was over and the
screen went blank, when the little man caught Larry's eye and held up
one finger.

"Bourbon," he said.

We heard a confused muttering of voices in the background and waited
expectantly for Colonel Sanderson to speak to us from Mars, but
apparently the network people were still having trouble with their
transmission beam. The screen stayed blank.

"You left out the interesting part, Charlie," somebody called from down
the bar. "The Martian natives. How about them?"

"There aren't any--as you'd know them," the little man said. He seemed
to grow thoughtful for a moment. "But they are intelligent. They do
things you couldn't do."

"Such as what?" somebody asked.

The little man shrugged. "Teleport. They're good at it too."

Saxton let out a laugh. "That would make them more intelligent than
us!" he said. "What do these Martians look like?"

The little man screwed up his face distastefully. "Frogs."

The reporter who had asked about natives got choked on his drink and
had to be pounded on the back. On my left, Abe Marker leaned against
the bar to look past me at the little guy.

"Frogs we got now," he said admiringly. "By the billions?"

"There are more frogs on Mars," the little man said, "than there are
gnats and fish together, and they never stop croaking. You'd have to
hear it to believe it."

The television screen lit up suddenly, chopping off conversation, and
we were watching the first Marscast in history.

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Sanderson himself was talking. He looked the way Stanley must
have looked when he found Livingstone, gaunt and bearded and jumpy; and
his crew, lined up behind him before the ship's pickup camera, were in
no better shape. The lot of them stared hungrily out at us as if they
had just found a peephole into Heaven and couldn't wait to see if
there was a gate farther along the fence.

"... established conceptions of Martian areography are completely
erroneous," the colonel was saying. "There are no drifting deserts
of sand or howling typhoons of ferrous dust. We can show you actual
conditions better by camera, I think, than they could be detailed in
words."

The view jumped to another camera aimed from an outside port, and we
saw Mars. Colonel Sanderson's voice kept up a running commentary behind
the scene, but we only half heard him.

The ship rested in about two feet of water. Around it the whole world
curved up to the horizon in a shallow concave sweep like the inside of
a great rusty bowl, lined with knee-high reeds that grew as far as the
eye could see out of a knee-deep marsh. A fist-sized sun hung low in
the sky, its glare dulled to a muddy crimson by a shimmering cloud of
gnats that whirled and danced to infinity. There was a sort of vast,
featureless roaring in the background that sounded like Niagara at two
hundred yards, not deafening but loud enough to force Colonel Sanderson
to raise his voice.

"The frog noise is worst," he was saying. "It drives us to the point
of insanity at times.... One member of our party has succumbed to it
already, a machinist named Willkins who disappeared two weeks ago.
Apparently the poor fellow drowned himself in the marsh, since no trace
of him has been found since."

That was when I realized why the little man on the stool beside me
looked so familiar--because I had seen his pictures in the papers,
along with the rest of Sanderson's crew, a thousand times during the
past year. The mixed expression on his face made sense now, too; he
wasn't only disgusted and defensive, he was _guilty_.

"So that's how you knew what it was like," I said. "You couldn't stick
it out with the others, so you jumped ship. You deserted!"

He gave me a hangdog look. "It's not deserting unless the country is at
war," he said. "It's just going over the hill, A.W.O.L."

The television roar got louder, and when I looked up the ship's
cameraman was doing a close-up for our benefit. He panned the shot
downward until we seemed to be standing ten feet above the marsh, and
at that distance I could see plainly what it was that caused the uproar.

The water between the reddish-brown reeds was thick with huge frogs,
all blinking and croaking like mad.

I remember thinking then that you couldn't really blame a man for
jumping ship in a hole like that. It was bad enough to be stuck
thirty-odd million miles from home, so far that light itself needed
three minutes to--

"Hey, wait up!" I said to the little guy, who was sneering at himself
in the mirror again. "If you went A.W.O.L. up there, then how the hell
did you get back _here_?"

I didn't find out.

The guy was gone. He had been standing there so close I could have
touched him, but now he was gone. I looked around quick. Nobody else
seemed to have noticed. All eyes were on the TV screen.

Then I saw it. On the floor. Two wet marks--right where the guy should
have been, where he _was_. Two wet marks that had a funny shape to
them--web-like.

I felt my throat tighten at the thought. I shook my head. What was
going through it was fantastic, impossible and downright lunacy. There
was an intelligent life-form on Mars--beings that looked like frogs
and could teleport. Could they also mimic human shape temporarily?
Especially if they got hold of one for a model--say a missing
crewman....

"Hey! Where are you going? Don't you want to see the Marscast?"

I was walking to the door. I looked back at the barkeep. "I've seen
enough, Larry, I got things to do."

He shrugged. "Yeh, what?"

"Like hunting frogs," I told him as I shoved the door open. "I got a
hunch we'll be doing a lot of that before very long...."
