
That was a way of looking at it that I had never thought of before.
And Joe had a point. Now you take old Barney Muhlenberg, the town
drunk. I knew Barney when he was a boy, and a more sober,
adventure-seeking young rascal you never saw. But by then all the
frontiers had dried up, it was between wars, and the only adventure
Barney could find was in the bottom of a bottle. Barney was one of
those poor folks born fifty years too late.

Or you take Miss Alice Markey, the history teacher at Fremont High.
She's an old spinster--frail, white-haired, and a little bit crabby
now. You'd never believe it but she used to be the romantic type.
Somehow, the right man just never came along, but she's never given up
hoping either.

Sure, you wouldn't believe it to look at them. But that's how people
are, down underneath. All dreams and wishful thinking.

"It's tough, Joe," I says, "but what can you do about it?"

It always seemed to me that you weren't going to help people by
letting them fall asleep on a couch at fifty dollars a nap and trying
to convince them they should give up their dreams.

"You've got to give people something _positive_!" Joe says, hitting an
end table with his fist so an ashtray jumps off.

I sat up and began to take notice. Once Joe had an idea, he usually
did something about it.

"You got something in mind," I accused.

He stopped pacing and pointed his pipe at me like it was the working
end of a twenty-two rifle. "I got an idea, Harry," he says, the genius
showing in his eyes like the dollar signs in a cash register. "I'm
going to make a machine during my vacation and...."

And then Marge is in the doorway, dishtowel in her hand and little
anger spots in her cheeks. "Joseph Shannon!" she says, stamping her
foot. "You know perfectly well what we're going to do and where we're
going to go on your vacation!"

Joe's mouth got set and I could see a storm blowing up so I struggled
to my feet and got my hat. "That was awful nice chili, Missus
Shannon," I says, and it isn't much more than two seconds later when
I'm out the front door and walking up the sidewalk.
