
About two weeks passed and I couldn't stay away any longer. I got back
to town, took a look around, and then went down to the station to wait
for Joe to come in on the flyer. I figured somebody ought to be there
to break it to him gently.

He gets off the train looking happy and successful and I figure he's
made arrangements to put a _Paradise_ booth in every city, town, and
crossroads in the nation.

"Why, hello, Harry," he says when he sees me, and gives me the old
professional smile and handshake that really ain't the old Joe at all.
"Any cabs around?"

"No, there ain't no cabs around."

Something in the way I says it makes him give me a sharp look. "How
come? There's always a couple to meet the flyer."

"There ain't none this time," I says. "No cab drivers."

"No cab drivers?"

"Ain't no need for 'em any more," I says. "Ain't no people in town to
use cabs. Town's empty. Everybody's gone."

He looks kinda green and says: "What do you mean, everybody's gone?"

I shrugs and starts walking back to town. "Everybody took off," I
says. "Your _Paradise_ booths were real popular."

He still looks blank so I give it to him straight. I had first thought
about it when Wally Claus disappeared. It occurs to me then that
everybody has times when they wish they could crawl out from under and
quietly disappear. You see, Joe had assumed that some people were
adjusted to society and some weren't. Well, actually _nobody_ is, it's
just a difference of degree.

Once Wally took off, it sorta burst the dam. More and more people
sneaked into the booths, dropped in a quarter, and _whisht_--they were
a billion miles away.

It was lonely and dark in town. No street lamps, of course. There was
nobody down at the power plant to work the switches. And there weren't
any lights in the houses 'cause there wasn't anybody around.

"I can't imagine _everybody_ going," Joe says, biting his lip. "What
about all the kids?"

"I kinda think they were among the first," I says. I waves at the
starry sky. "There's probably a planet up there some place where
there's nothing but hot rods and football stadiums. And I suppose
there's one section of the universe fenced off for all the Junior
Spacemen that'll be roaming around it."

Anybody you could think of mighta had a reason for leaving, I told
him. The boys at Schultz's probably took off for a world where Marilyn
Monroe has a thousand twin sisters; and Johnny Douglas, the ace at
Kelly's Bowling Alley, is probably located on a world where it's
impossible to bowl anything but a three hundred game.

By then, we were in front of Joe's house. It was as dark and curtained
as the others.
