
He had long wondered about the door in the back of the library, and
now, as Crifer sat cross-legged on one of the dusty tables, reading
machine and book on astronomy or stars in his lap, Rikud approached the
door.

"What's in here?" he demanded.

"It's a door, I think," said Crifer.

"I know, but what's beyond it?"

"Beyond it? Oh, you mean _through_ the door."

"Yes."

"Well," Crifer scratched his head, "I don't think anyone ever opened
it. It's only a door."

"I will," said Rikud.

"You will what?"

"Open it. Open the door and look inside."

A long pause. Then, "Can you do it?"

"I think so."

"You can't, probably. How can anyone go where no one has been before?
There's nothing. It just isn't. It's only a door, Rikud."

"No--" Rikud began, but the words faded off into a sharp intake of
breath. Rikud had turned the knob and pushed. The door opened silently,
and Crifer said, "Doors are variable, too, I think."

Rikud saw a small room, perhaps half a dozen paces across, at the other
end of which was another door, just like the first. Halfway across,
Rikud heard a voice not unlike that of the reading machine.

He missed the beginning, but then:

    --therefore, permit no unauthorized persons to go through this
    door. The machinery in the next room is your protection against the
    rigors of space. A thousand years from now, journey's end, you may
    have discarded it for something better--who knows? But if you have
    not, then here is your protection. As nearly as possible, this ship
    is a perfect, self-sustaining world. It is more than that: it is
    human-sustaining as well. Try to hurt yourself and the ship will
    not permit it--within limits, of course. But you can damage the
    ship, and to avoid any possibility of that, no unauthorized persons
    are to be permitted through this door--

Rikud gave the voice up as hopeless. There were too many confusing
words. What in the world was an unauthorized person? More interesting
than that, however, was the second door. Would it lead to another
voice? Rikud hoped that it wouldn't.

When he opened the door a strange new noise filled his ears, a gentle
humming, punctuated by a _throb-throb-throb_ which sounded not unlike
the booming of the engines last week, except that this new sound didn't
blast nearly so loudly against his eardrums. And what met Rikud's
eyes--he blinked and looked again, but it was still there--cogs and
gears and wheels and nameless things all strange and beautiful because
they shone with a luster unfamiliar to him.

"Odd," Rikud said aloud. Then he thought, "Now there's a good word, but
no one quite seems to know its meaning."

Odder still was the third door. Rikud suddenly thought there might
exist an endless succession of them, especially when the third one
opened on a bare tunnel which led to yet another door.

Only this one was different. In it Rikud saw the viewport. But how? The
viewport stood on the other end of the world. It did seem smaller, and,
although it looked out on the garden, Rikud sensed that the topography
was different. Then the garden extended even farther than he had
thought. It was endless, extending all the way to a ridge of mounds way
off in the distance.

And this door one could walk through, into the garden. Rikud put his
hand on the door, all the while watching the garden through the new
viewport. He began to turn the handle.

Then he trembled.

What would he do out in the garden?

He couldn't go alone. He'd die of the strangeness. It was a silly
thought; no one ever died of anything until he was a hundred. Rikud
couldn't fathom the rapid thumping of his heart. And Rikud's mouth felt
dry; he wanted to swallow, but couldn't.

Slowly, he took his hand off the door lever. He made his way back
through the tunnel and then through the room of machinery and finally
through the little room with the confusing voice to Crifer.

By the time he reached the lame-footed man, Rikud was running. He did
not dare once to look back. He stood shaking at Crifer's side, and
sweat covered him in a clammy film. He never wanted to look at the
garden again. Not when he knew there was a door through which he could
walk and then might find himself in the garden.

It was so big.
