
The colony on the second planet of Sirius existed solely due to one of
those vicious circles of progress. Just as iron is needed to make the
steel to build the tools and equipment necessary to mine the raw iron
ore, so this colony was needed to mine the precious mineral that made
such colonies possible in the first place.

The mineral was called Praesodynimium, a polysyllabic mouthful which
meant simply that it was an unstable crystalline isotope of sodium
that broke down eventually into ordinary sodium (hence "prae-":before;
"sod-":sodium), which was possessed of extreme kinetic potentials
("dyn-":power), and was first extracted from sodium compounds by a
Canadian scientist ("-imium" instead of the more American "-inum" or
even "-um").

This crystal had the happy habit of electrical allergy. When
subjected to even a mild electric current, it avoided the consequent
shakeup of its electronic juxtaposition by simply vanishing from
normal space until the power was turned off. The nice part about its
disappearance--from an astronaut's point of view--was that the crystal
took not only itself, but objects within a certain radius along with
it. It turned out that a crystal of Praesodynimium the moderate size
of a sixteen-inch softball would warp a ninety-foot spaceship into
hyperspace without even breathing hard. Of course, it would warp
anything _else_ within a fifty-foot radius, too; so it was only turned
on after the ship had ascended beyond planetary atmosphere, lest a
large scoop of landing-field, not to mention a few members of the
ground crew, be carried away with the ship.

In her eagerness to investigate the now-attainable stars, Earth had
soon exhausted her sources of the mineral. Worse, the crystal, being
unstable, had a half-life of only twenty-five years. That meant that a
ship using it had a full-range radial margin of about five years before
the crystal ceased warping the ship-inclusive area.

Until some way was discovered to get into hyperspace without using
Praesodynimium--and its actual function was as much a mystery to
scientists as an automobile's cause-and-effect is to a lot of drivers;
very few people can describe the esoteric relationships between the
turning of the ignition key and the turning of the rear wheels--the
mineral was worth ten times its weight in uranium 235.

Sirius II had been found to be as rife with the mineral as a candy
store is with calories. Hence the colony.

For so long as the ore held out the planet would be regarded with
fond respect and esteem by any and all persons who had investments,
relatives or even just interest in the Space Age and its contingent
programs.

       *       *       *       *       *

So it was with considerable trepidation that Earth received the news
that the mines on Sirius were no longer being worked. Oh, yes, there
was still ore--enough to keep the planet profitable for another
century. The trouble was the miners. They weren't coming out of the
mines anymore. And no one who went inside to look for them was ever
seen again, either.

Naturally, mining slacked off. The men refused to set foot in the mines
until somebody found out what had happened to their predecessors.

So the officials of the colony resurrected a scanner-beam and
roborocket from the cellar of the spacefield warehouse and storage
depot. They sent the rocket into an orbit matching planetary rotation.
In effect it simply hovered over the mines while it scanned the area
for uncatalogued alien life.

And when they brought the rocket down and checked the microtape
against the file of known species on the planet, they found that no
such beast had ever been catalogued. Its life-pulse gave a reading of
point-nine-nine-nine.

Since life-pulses are catalogued on a decimal scale based on the
numeral one (with Man rated at point-oh-five-oh), the colonial
administration staff immediately ordered the mines officially closed
and off-limits. This brought no results on Sirius II which had not been
already achieved, but the declaration made the miners feel a little
less guilty over their dereliction of duty.

An SOS was swiftly sent to Earth, explaining the situation in detail
and requesting instructions.

Earth sent word to hang on, keep calm and leave the mines closed until
an investigation could be made--all of which the colony was trying to
do anyway.

A duplicate of the microtape had been transmitted along with the SOS.
Earth had checked the pattern against every known species filed in
U.S. Naval Space Corps Alien-Contact Library, a collection of the
vast alien multitude gathered by Space Zoologists in the methodical
colonization and exploration of the universe. It was found to be not
only _unknown_ anywhere in the thus-far-explored cosmos, but totally
_unlike_ any life-pulse previously encountered.

Earth decided the only way to get any satisfaction would be by the
unorthodox method of sending in a Space Zoologist to Contact the alien,
though this would be the first time in the history of Contact that this
had ever been done on an already-settled planet.

And so the badly frightened colony lingered behind bolted doors, and
peered through locked windows at the sky--awaiting the arrival of Jerry
Norcriss, and praying he'd locate the alien and tell them how it might
be dealt with....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Begging your pardon, sir," grinned the tech, doing some last-minute
fiddling with the machine, "but you never had it so good." Jerry dabbed
at the cold sweat-film on his forehead and upper lip, and nodded
silently.

In all his previous Contacts, done before any colonization was even
attempted, things were a bit more rustic. His present environs
were luxury compared to those setups. If the six-month orbit of the
roborocket found the planet safe for humans, well and good; Jerry did
not have to go. But if a new life-form were spotted--one that did not
correspond in life-pulse to any known species--then it was Jerry's job
to land on the planet and Learn the beast, to determine its probable
menace, if any, to man.

The tech was referring to the fact that Jerry's usual base of
operations was out on the sward beside the tailfin of the rocket, the
only power-source on a non-colonized planet. There, in his Contact
helmet, relaxed upon his padded couch, he would let his mind be
sent right into that of the alien, to Learn it from the inside out.
Here, though, on a settled world, his accommodations were pleasantly
out of the ordinary. He was in the solarium of the town's research
laboratory-hospital. He gazed up through quartz panes at soothing blue
skies, in air-conditioned comfort spoiled only by a fugitive scent of
disinfectant lingering in the building.

Some half-dozen curious members of the building's staff were gathered
in the room. None of them had ever seen a man go into Contact before.
In vain the tech had assured them, before Jerry's arrival, that there
was nothing to be seen. Jerry would lie on the couch and adjust the
helmet upon his head, and then the tech would throw a switch. And for
forty minutes there would be nothing to see except Jerry's silent
supine body.

Later, of course, the information transmitted by Jerry's mind through
the helmet pickups to the machine would be translated into English.
Then they could all read about the new animal. That would be the
interesting part, for them; not this senseless staring at the young
man, white-haired at thirty-plus, who would, so far as they'd be able
to tell, merely doze off for an uneventful forty-minute nap.

For Jerry, however, things would be anything but dull for those forty
minutes.

Once the process was begun, there was no way known even to the
discoverer of the Contact principle to extend or reduce the
time-period. When Jerry's mind had traveled to that of the alien, he
would remain there for the full time. Anything that happened to the
alien in that period would also happen to Jerry. Including death.

If the alien somehow perished with Jerry "aboard," as it were, the
group in the solarium would wait in vain for him ever to bestir himself
and rise from the couch again.

Jerry, fighting the waves of nausea that burned in the pit of his
stomach, lay there in his helmet and waited for the tech to finish
adjusting the machine.

A scanner-beam, sent toward the suspected locale from the solarium, had
instantly retriggered that same green blip in response, as jagged and
powerful as before. Jerry would soon be sent right into the center of
the response-area, and his mind imbedded in the brain of the alien.

"Hurry it up, will you?" Jerry called over to the tech, trying not to
shout.

"Ready, sir," the other man said abruptly. "Are you all set?"

"All set, Ensign," Jerry replied, then shut his eyes to the clear blue
sky and the stares of the curious and let his mind relax for the brief
shock of transport....

A flare of lightning, silent, white and cold in his mind--and Jerry
Norcriss was in Contact....

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the nurses, crisp and efficient in white starched cotton, took
a hesitant step toward the figure on the couch, then spoke to the tech
without looking at him, intensely. "What are his chances? It's so
important that he succeed!"

About to brush her off with a noncommittal reply, the tech turned his
gaze from the control panel to meet, turning to face him, a pair of the
deepest blue eyes he'd ever seen, and a smooth-skinned serious face
beneath a short-cropped tangle of bright yellow hair. The eyes were
troubled. His manner softened instantly.

Trying not to show the sudden warmth he felt, he pointed with offhand
authority at the tall metal machine, its face alive with leaping lights
and quivering indicator needles.

"This'll tell the story, one way or the other," he said. "A Space
Zoologist's chances are always fifty-fifty. He either succeeds and
returns in perfect health, or he fails and doesn't return at all.
But whatever data he picks up in Contact will be punched onto the
microtape. It may help us deal with the menace. Or it may not."

She looked surprised. "Then this is simply a recorder? I'd thought it
was the thing that sent his mind out to the mine area...." She faltered
on the last few words, and looked more concerned than ever.

The tech was tempted to ask her about it, but decided to stay on the
neutral ground of simple mechanics for a while. "No, his mind sends
itself. That is, the helmet triggers a certain brain-center; his mind
follows a scanner-beam directed toward the alien and he Contacts. After
that, this machine could be turned off, so far as maintaining Contact
goes. After a forty-minute interim, his mind would return to his
body by itself. The brain-center gets triggered sort of like a muscle
reacts to a blow. It gets paralyzed for a certain time. Forty minutes.
Beyond that limit, or short of it, no Contact or breaking of Contact is
possible...."

His voice trailed off as he realized her responsive nods were
abstracted and vague, her thoughts elsewhere. "Look," he said
awkwardly, "I'm no psyche-man, but--maybe it'd help if you talked about
it."

A faint smile touched her mouth. "I didn't realize it showed."

He grinned and shrugged.

"My name's Jana," she said. "Jana Corby." She was trying to ease some
of the natural tension between strangers.

"Bob Ryder," said the tech. He stood and waited for her to make the
next move.

"My father--" she said, and for the first time, some of the tension
behind her eyes flowed over into her voice. "My father was one of the
miners. He was on the morning shift. The day the men didn't come home
was the day before my wedding."

Bob frowned. "I don't understand."

       *       *       *       *       *

She blinked at the moisture that had come to her eyes, and flashed
him a sad little smile. "I'm sorry. I was telescoping events. You
see, with Dad missing, I postponed the ceremony, naturally, till I
could learn what had happened. Jim--that's Jim Herrick, my fiance--was
wonderfully understanding about it. He's a miner, too. On the
night-shift, thank God. But if Lieutenant Norcriss doesn't succeed--if
he can't find a way to destroy this beast, whatever it is--we can't get
married, ever."

Bob shook his head slowly. "You can't? I don't follow."

"You're in the Space Corps," she said. "Maybe you don't know about
interstellar colonies. It costs plenty to send people to the stars. The
investors want some kind of guarantees for their money. So we're all
signed to a ten-year contract. If we fail to fulfill the terms we're
sent back to Earth on the next ship going that way."

"Well--I know you're still within the limit," said Bob, "but how does
this upset your marriage plans?"

"We go where we're sent," she said simply. "If this colony fails, we'll
be sent to a new planet. It may not be the same one. I'll be sent where
they need nurses, Jim where they need miners."

Bob felt funny, talking against the colonial program, but the weary
despair in the girl's eyes outweighed economic considerations. "You
could both renege on your contracts."

"And go back to Earth together?" Jana shook her head. "I couldn't do
that, for Jim's sake. He's spent his life at mining, and this is the
kind of mining he knows best: Praesodynimium. And there just _is_ no
more on Earth."

"He could get something else," said Bob.

"I know. But he might not be happy. After a while, he might blame me
for it. Or I'd blame myself. Either way, things just wouldn't be the
same. I--I suppose you think I'm foolish, feeling so strongly about
him?"

Bob said softly, "Honey, any guy would cut his arm off to get a girl
like you. Myself included."

Embarrassed, she looked once more toward the silent figure upon the
couch. "You're very kind."

"Not kind," said the tech. "Wistful."

Behind them, a myriad banks of lights and switches flickered, shifted
with electric monotony, slowly recording the details, down to the most
minute sensory awareness, of the Contact between Jerry Norcriss and the
alien....

