



Alice McNearby was washing breakfast dishes and looking out the
kitchen window at the November sky when she first spied Dobie. The way
he was sneaking up to the house she knew he had killed something.

She dried her hands on her apron and tried to put down the suspicion
that gnawed at the edge of her mind as she went to the door. During
the past month Dobie had killed a cat, a pheasant, two rabbits and a
field mouse and it seemed it would be only a question of time until he
got one of the chickens or even one of the suckling pigs. That would
be all Mac would need to throw one of his wild spells and he'd
probably take a gun to Dobie as he had threatened to do. To make it
worse, Dobie seemed to know how Mac felt and often growled at him. Mac
didn't growl back but the look in her husband's eyes was enough to
convince her Dobie's continued existence was in doubt.

It was a wonder to Alice that Mac hadn't done away with him already,
judging from the comfort she derived from the dog. Dobie never
fretted, never whined and seemed so appreciative of everything she did
for him. She had scolded him for his killing but found herself unable
to put her heart in it because he seemed to love it so. Instead, she
always managed to clear any bones away before Mac returned from town
or came up from the barn and she was thankful he seemed as yet unaware
of the brown dog's hunting nature.

Now it appeared she'd have to cover up for the dog once again and she
opened the door. Dobie was under a bush half way across the barn yard,
his kill still in his mouth. He was circling around, and she knew
he'd soon be on his stomach enjoying his feast.

[Illustration]

"Dobie!" she called in a low voice, hoping it would not carry to the
barn.

Dobie's ears came up. He looked her way.

"Dobie!... Come here, Dobie!"

The dog was undecided, looking at her, unmoving for a moment. Then his
tail started flicking, he lowered his head and came up to her.

Then she saw what he had in his mouth and her blood stopped and only a
great effort on the part of her heart started it going again.

It was a human hand, blood still oozing from the severed wrist.

"_Dobie!_"

The way she said it, the way she looked--something made the dog drop
the hand. It fell to the ground, limp, palm down.

Dobie, head hung, tail down, ventured forward, nuzzled her hand. But
Alice could not tear her eyes from the thing on the cold ground. She
had cared for Dobie like a baby ever since someone dropped him off
out in the country and she had adopted the name Dobie because a
passing child had called him that and it seemed like a good name ...
and she loved him.

But this, this hand. That was too much.

She looked around, saw a milk pail, put it open end down over the hand
and carried two large rocks from the garden border to put on top to
secure it. She didn't want it to be gone when she brought Mac back to
see it.

She heard her ring on the telephone--rather early for Mrs. Swearingen
or Mrs. Abbey wasn't it?--but ignored it. There was something else she
had to do and do quickly. For the first time in months she felt
thankful for Mac's presence. Surely he would know what to do. Though
it was cold, she was unmindful of the fact that she did not wear a
coat as she hurried to the barn; she was thinking instead that perhaps
she should have answered the phone in case it might have been someone
other than her women friends, possibly something in connection with
the severed hand. She shuddered as she remembered how it had looked.

Alice found Mac in the loft. He had a forkful of hay over the opening
when he saw her below. He stopped, narrowed his eyes before he slowly
brought the hay back to the loft floor and leaned on the pitchfork.

"Dobie's found something," she said and wished her voice hadn't
quavered so.

Mac spat a blob of tobacco on the floor above her. "He's a no-good
dog," he said. "Scares the pigs. Always sneakin' around. Ought to be
rid of him. Should have got 'round to it before this. What did he
find?"

"A hand." She swallowed ... and shivered.

"A what?"

"A hand. A human hand." She suddenly took pride in the fact that she
was telling him something he didn't know and that he was interested.
"I don't know where he got it."

Mac put down the fork and lowered his burly frame over the edge of the
opening and came down the ladder without a word. He followed her up to
the house and she was thankful Dobie was nowhere around. When he
kicked over the pail she was gratified to hear his sharp intake of
breath.

"By God!" he said, staring down at it. Then he flicked it over with
his boot. "By God!" he said again. Alice had never seen him so
agitated.

He turned to her, his eyes narrower than she had ever seen them. "You
take a good look at it?"

She nodded, looked down at the way the fingers were bent upward as if
the hand were holding an invisible ball. She heard Mac spit, looked at
him running his fingers along his stubbled jaw.

"It ain't human," he said. "Anybody with any sense could see that.
It's got six fingers."
