
Alice agreed and, wondering what Mac would say if he came home and
found the hand gone, started looking for it. But surely Mac would
understand about the hand, she thought. I'll explain to him the
urgency of it, that one of the aliens needs it to live and be useful.

She looked in the obvious places, in the storeroom just off the
kitchen, in the cellar, then in the house itself, in Mac's room and
through his things, and even in the attic, though she knew it couldn't
be there. She became frantic then, paced by the alien's necessity for
his hand, and did not bother to straighten things up after she looked.
It simply couldn't be in the house. But where else? She went out and
told the alien she could not find it but that she would look in the
barn.

In the end she could find it nowhere and when she told the alien he
seemed as disappointed as she.

"I have seen you searching," he said. "I want to thank you for your
trouble."

"I'm awfully sorry," she said. "I don't know where Mac could have hid
it. When he comes home I'll ask him."

"I'll wait for him," the alien said. "It's imperative we have the
hand. It is the only thing standing in the way of our leaving your
planet. Your husband will know where it is and return it to us."

"I'm sure he will," she said, hoping she was right but knowing how
stubborn Mac could be. Then she got to worrying about what would
happen if he would refuse and as she went back to the house with Dobie
at her side she was overcome with the shakes.

She did not get her composure back until she had drunk a cup of
steaming hot coffee. Then she looked at the clock, saw it was eleven
and that she had spent nearly two hours looking for the hand. She saw,
too, that the figure was still in the yard, standing there motionless,
like something carved out of stone.

Her husband drove in at mid-night and it seemed an eternity between
the time the engine stopped and he entered the house.

From the way he looked at her he was surprised to find her still in
the kitchen.

"You still up?" His face was flushed, his tongue thick.

"Mac," she said, not knowing how to begin. "Where is that hand?"

"You still worried about that?" He took off his coat and threw it on
the table.

"But Mac! They've come after it."

He looked at her dully. "Who's come after it?"

"The aliens--from the ship. There's one of them in the yard. Look out
the window."

He turned around and saw the stationary figure in the yard. He took a
deep breath. "So that's one of 'em, eh?" He laughed in a way that
chilled her, then went to the cupboard and reached for his shotgun on
the wall next to it.

Alice put her hand on his shoulders and he stopped before he touched
the gun.

"Listen, Mac. They need that hand. It belongs to one of their men and
they need it because they're going to put it back on and it will be as
good as new. Then they're going to leave."

He looked down at her with bloodshot, narrow eyes and she could see
where tobacco had run out of the corner of his mouth and the only
thing she could think of was what it would look like on the overalls
when she'd wash them.

"That thing out there," Mac said, "ain't got no business 'round here
scarin' the pigs and chickens. And I aim to get it."

"I wish you had told me where the hand is," Alice said, her eyes
scalded with tears. "I tried to find it. I looked everywhere. If I had
found it I would have given it to him and now they'd be gone."

He shoved her from him rudely. "Jest like a woman to do a thing like that.
And without even askin' me." He was breathing hard and he moved to the
window to look at the alien again. "You, out there. You want that hand,
eh?" He laughed again, then turned to her. "You looked for it. That's what
you said. Well, you jest looked in the wrong place. I hid it good." He
went over to his coat and withdrew a newspaper-wrapped package from one of
the pockets. He unfolded it on the table. It was the hand.

"Please take it out to him, Mac," Alice said. "He's waiting for it."

His face was sour and his lips a sneer. "Give it to him, hell," he
said. "Dobie brought it here, didn't he? I've a mind to let Dobie have
it."

"No, No!"

Mac put his hands on the table, stared down at the hand and shook his
head. "But Dobie don't deserve it."

He picked up the hand and a queasiness prevented Alice from looking
directly at it.

"It's a matter of time," she pleaded. "Please take it to them. They've
got to have it right away or they can't use it. She heard the clink of
one of the stove lids and watched in horror as Mac dropped the hand
through the hole into the fire beneath. She was suddenly sick. During
it all she could hear was Mac's laughter.

"Git on upstairs," he said a few minutes later. "Git on up to bed."
