
I was sitting there in my bachelor apartment, drinking a can of
beer and trying to work a crossword puzzle to get sleepy. I wasn't
especially jittery like the groom is always supposed to be on the eve
of his wedding. Just wide awake at midnight, wanting to get sleepy so I
could get some real rest when I went to bed.

Just sitting there trying to think of a two-letter word for "sun-god."
And that made me think of the gold in Betty's hair when the sun was on
it at the beach. And pretty soon I was just staring into space, aching
for Betty, wishing the next twelve hours of my life would vanish and we
could be together, heading for our little cottage at the lake.

Staring into space.... Then it wasn't just space. There were these two
big ball bearings in front of me, about three feet in diameter, if you
could say they had a diameter. They looked like ball bearings because
their surfaces were shiny, mirrorlike steel. But they had unevenly
spaced, smooth bumps. Something like the random knobs on a potato, so
they weren't really round at all.

The light from my lamp reflected crazily, and my own image gaped back
at me from their distorted, reflecting curves. Like the fun-mirrors at
the crazy-house, only crazier ... and not funny at all. Fear is never
funny. And I was afraid. I'll swear I could _taste_ the terror. It was
salty on my tongue. When I tried to cry out, the roof of my mouth felt
like old concrete.

Then one of them spoke. "It's alive! Intelligent! It senses our
presence!"

I was receiving pure thought, not words. But man thinks only in words.
And their thoughts fished suitable words from my subconscious to frame
them for my assimilation.

Telepathy? Impossible! What common points of reference could I have
with these two unthinkably alien life-forms?

The answer whipped back at me on an intuitive, sub-vocal level: Thought
is a universal energy manifestation. _Language is only the clumsy
vehicle for thought._

Between me and the aliens lay no such barrier.

"Obviously intelligent," the other agreed. "Feel those gamma
radiations? Too bad they're so weak. It would be interesting if he
could communicate with us."

I stammered aloud, "But--but I _can_ communicate with you. I understand
every--"

They were paying no attention to my raspy words. "Yes, that's typical
of these ancient, organic life-forms. As I recall, they use some form
of physical vibration of their gaseous medium for communicating among
themselves--"

"Speaking of which," the other interrupted, "this particular gaseous
medium seems to contain oxygen. We'd best not remain overlong or we'll
corrode and catch hell when we return."

"Exude a little nickel if it irritates you. We'll catch hell anyway
when mother--"

Yes, that's the word that came to me!

"--discovers _when_ we've been. I'm curious about these flesh and blood
creatures. I wonder who invented this clumsy monstrosity."
