
He meant me. He rolled a foot nearer, and the other followed with an
uncertain wobble. "I turned out better in the third grade."

"Liar! You nearly flunked meta-plastics."

"Well, you did flunk it, so who are you to--?"

"Just don't be over-critical. I think this one looks fairly practical.
Well-balanced--"

"That's just what I mean. Observe the unimaginative bisymmetry. Two
arms, two legs, two eyes, five fingers on each hand, five toes on each
foot. Surely, the inventor was a mechanic and no artist. In this light
gravity there was no need for--"

"And how would you improve the design, your high-and-mightiness?"

"First let's remove the covering."

My clothes left my body gently, but with the sound of violent tearing.
In two seconds I sat naked, my garments laid back like split bandages.

I shouted, "See here, for God's sakes!"

The aliens had made no visible move, yet they had wielded powerful
forces to strip everything I wore from my body, shirt, slacks,
underwear and even my shoes ... without so much as pinching my flesh.

I leaped to my feet naked as a straw. They were between me and the
door, but they seemed so clumsy.

"Watch it! He's alarmed. Don't let him escape!"

"Try and stop me!" I screamed, tensing my muscles for a leap over the
pair of intruders. Suddenly the air about my sweating body seemed to
thicken to the viscosity of molasses. I could breathe it all right, but
quick motion was denied me. My grand leap died before my right foot
left the floor. I retreated to my chair in slow-motion panic, sinking
slowly through the clabbered atmosphere, to a sitting position on my
torn clothing.

"Yes, a very clumsy, unesthetic life-form. In fact the bisymmetry
fairly nauseates me. Granted that the two arms are practical, doubtless
one or the other does 90% of all work. So why have them of equal
importance? See here, I'll demonstrate...."

"Wait!" the other cautioned. "This is a sentient creature. You can't
operate without...."

"Of course not!"

Something buzzed in my spine, and I blanked out. For the space of one
breath, it seemed.

"There, that's better."

"I guess I must agree with you."

A faint tingle in my left arm caused me to stare at it. Unbelievingly!
Its length was the same, but its diameter was reduced to two-thirds,
and there were two fingers missing on the hand. The opposable thumb
remained, but it now had more the appearance of a claw than a human
hand. I tried to scream, but the sound was a glutinous bubble of air
that never reached my lips.

"How about the pedal appendages?"

"Well--" there was some hesitation. "Considering the method of
locomotion, bisymmetry seems more justified there. However, why
bilateral? Why not quadrilateral?"

"Because the organs of sight face only one way."

"I can fix that, too."

My spine buzzed, and when I looked down again a flood of peculiar
changes had taken place. My ankles terminated in the middle of my feet,
and my heels had disappeared. In their place were toes.

"You see, with the double-hinged knee-joint, he can travel forward or
backward now without pivoting...."

Then I became aware that I could _look_ forward and backward at the
same time.

"That thing in the middle is certainly superfluous."

"Yes."

Buzz!

It was gone.

"A tentacle fastened, say, to the right hip-bone could be very useful."

Buzz!

My right hip tingled. From it protruded a whip-like appendage some
eight feet long, brown and leathery, tapering to the diameter of a
pencil and terminating in a pink flesh-pad richly supplied with sensory
buds. I could feel every hair in the nap of the carpet on which it
rested--feel, taste, smell and hear! Four sense organs in one!

"Now we are making progress!" came the exclamation.

Buzz! Buzz! Buzz!

The instant-seeming anesthetic moments came upon me in quick
succession, and each left me bereft of some standard, human equipment
or in the possession of some extra-normal addition to my anatomy--with
no more sensation than the slight tingle I have mentioned.

From their mental remarks I conclude that I lost my vermiform appendix,
tonsils and a mole on my left shoulder blade. Most of the other items
which I acquired were too grotesque to describe further.

"The two additional cardiac structures and the adrenal adjustments
should assure some likelihood of immortality," one of the intruders was
explaining.

"Which would probably bring about over-population in ten generations,"
the other reminded him.

"Ah, yes. I should compensate for that."

Buzz, and he did!

"I'm corroding."

"Exude some chrome as I told you."

"I think I hear mother calling, anyway. Let's go before she--"
