
Carrying on with this thought, it followed inevitably that every father
had a father, and so on. In fact, thought Blitt, when you considered
the matter rightly, everyone alive was the direct descendant of untold
numbers of fathers, down through the ages, all descending, one after
another, father to son. And so backward, unquestionably, into the
unrecognizable and perhaps simian fathers of the past.

This thought, on the face of it not particularly profound, struck
young Blitt like a blow. He saw that since each man had a father, and
so on and so on, it ought to be possible to construct the genealogy of
every person now alive. In short, it should be possible to trace your
family back, father by father, to the beginning of time.

And of course it was. For that was the era of the time scanner. And
with a time scanner, it would be possible to document your family tree
with perfect accuracy. You could find out exactly from whom you had
sprung.

And so Thatcher Blitt made his fortune. He saw clearly at the beginning
what most of us see only now, and he patented it. He was aware not only
of the deep-rooted sense of snobbishness that exists in many people,
but also of the simple yet profound force of curiosity. Who exactly,
one says to oneself, _was_ my forty-times-great-great-grandfather? A
Roman Legionary? A Viking? A pyramid builder? One of Xenophon's Ten
Thousand? Or was he, perhaps (for it is always possible), Alexander the
Great?

Thatcher Blitt had a product to sell. And sell he did, for other
reasons that he alone had noted at the beginning. The races of mankind
have twisted and turned with incredible complexity over the years; the
numbers of people have been enormous.

With thirty thousand years in which to work, it was impossible that
there was not, somewhere along the line, a famous ancestor for
everybody. A minor king would often suffice, or even a general in some
forgotten army. And if these direct ancestors were not enough, it was
fairly simple to establish close blood kinship with famous men. The
blood lines of Man, you see, begin with a very few people. In all of
ancient Greece, in the time of Pericles, there were only a few thousand
families.

Seeing all this, Thatcher Blitt became a busy man. It was necessary not
only to patent his idea, but to produce the enormous capital needed
to found a large organization. The cost of the time scanner was at
first prohibitive, but gradually that obstacle was overcome, only for
Thatcher to find that the government for many years prevented him from
using it. Yet Blitt was indomitable. And eventually, after years of
heart-rending waiting, Genealogy, Inc., began operations.
