
It was a tremendous success. Within months, the very name of the
company and its taut slogan, "An Ancestor for Everybody," became
household words. There was but one immediate drawback. It soon became
apparent that, without going back very far into the past, it was
sometimes impossible to tell who was really the next father in line.
The mothers were certain, but the fathers were something else again.
This was a ponderable point.

But Blitt refused to be discouraged. He set various electronic
engineers to work on the impasse and a solution was found. An ingenious
device which tested blood electronically through the scanner--based
on the different sine waves of the blood groups--saved the day. That
invention was the last push Genealogy, Inc., was ever to need. It
rolled on to become one of the richest and, for a long while, most
exclusive corporations in the world.

Yet it was still many years before Thatcher Blitt himself had time to
rest. There were patent infringements to be fought, new developments
in the labs to be watched, new ways to be found to make the long and
arduous task of father-tracing easier and more economical. Hence he was
well past sixty when he at last had time to begin considering himself.

He had become by this time a moderately offensive man. Surrounded as
he had been all these years by pomp and luxury, by impressive names
and extraordinary family trees, he had succumbed at last. He became
unbearably name-conscious.

He began by regrouping his friends according to their ancestries. His
infrequent parties were characterized by his almost Parliamentarian
system of seating. No doubt, all this had been in Thatcher Blitt to
begin with--it may well be, in perhaps varying quantities, in all of
us--but it grew with him, prospered with him. Yet in all those years he
never once inspected his own forebears.

You may well ask, was he afraid? One answers, one does not know. But at
any rate, the fact remains that Thatcher Blitt, at the age of 67, was
one of the few rich men in the world who did not know who exactly their
ancestors had been.
