
And so, at last, we come to the day when Thatcher Blitt was sitting
alone in his office, one languid hand draped vacantly over his brow,
listening with deep satisfaction to the hum and click of the enormous
operations which were going on in the building around him.

What moved him that day remains uncertain. Perhaps it was that, from
where he was sitting, he could see row upon row of action pictures of
famous men which had been taken from his time scanners. Or perhaps it
was simply that this profound question had been gnawing at him all
these years, deeper and deeper, and on this day broke out into the
light.

But whatever the reason, at 11:02 that morning, he leaped vitally from
his chair. He summoned Cathcart, his chief assistant, and gave him the
immortal command.

"Cathcart!" he grated, stung to the core of his being. "Who am I?"

Cathcart rushed off to find out.

There followed some of the most taut and fateful days in the brilliant
history of Genealogy, Inc. Father-tracing is, of course, a painstaking
business. But it was not long before word had begun to filter out to
interested people.

The first interesting discovery made was a man called Blott, in
eighteenth century England. (No explanation was ever given for the
name's alteration from Blott to Blitt. Certain snide individuals
took this to mean that the name had been changed as a means to avoid
prosecution, or some such, and immediately began making light remarks
about the Blotts on old Blitt's escutcheon.) This Blott had the
distinction of having been a wineseller of considerable funds.

This reputedly did not sit well with Thatcher Blitt. Merchants, he
snapped, however successful, are not worthy of note. He wanted empire
builders. He wanted, at the very least, a name he had heard about. A
name that appeared in the histories.

His workers furiously scanned back into the past.

Months went by before the next name appeared. In 9th century England,
there was a wandering minstrel named John (last name unprintable) who
achieved considerable notoriety as a ballad singer, before dying an
unnatural death in the boudoir of a lady of high fashion. Although
the details of this man's life were of extreme interest, they did
not impress the old man. He was, on the contrary, rather shaken. A
minstrel. And a rogue to boot.

There were shakeups in Genealogy, Inc. Cathcart was replaced by a man
named Jukes, a highly competent man despite his interesting family
name. Jukes forged ahead full steam past the birth of Christ (no
relation). But he was well into ancient Egypt before the search began
to take on the nature of a crisis.
