
Up until then, there was simply nobody. Or to be more precise, nobody
but _nobodies_. It was incredible, all the laws of chance were against
it, but there was, actually, not a single ancestor of note. And no
way of faking one, for Thatcher Blitt couldn't be fooled by his own
methods. What there was was simply an unending line of peasants,
serfs, an occasional foot soldier or leather worker. Past John the
ballad-singer, there was no one at all worth reporting to the old man.

This situation would not continue, of course. There were so few
families for men to spring from. The entire Gallic nation, for example,
a great section of present-day France, sprang from the family of one
lone man in the north of France in the days before Christ. Every native
Frenchman, therefore, was at least the son of a king. It was impossible
for Thatcher Blitt to be less.

So the hunt went on from day to day, past ancient Greece, past
Jarmo, past the wheel and metals and farming and on even past all
civilization, outward and backward into the cold primordial wastes of
northern Germany.

And still there was nothing. Though Jukes lived in daily fear of losing
his job, there was nothing to do but press on. In Germany, he reduced
Blitt's ancestor to a slovenly little man who was one of only three
men in the entire tribe, or family, one of three in an area which now
contains millions. But Blitt's ancestor, true to form, was simply a
member of the tribe. As was his father before him.

Yet onward it went. Westward back into the French caves, southward
into Spain and across the unrecognizable Mediterranean into a verdant
North Africa, backward in time past even the Cro-Magnons, and yet ever
backward, 30,000 years, 35,000, with old Blitt reduced now practically
to gibbering and still never an exceptional forebear.

There came a time when Jukes had at last, inevitably, to face the old
man. He had scanned back as far as he could. The latest ancestor he had
unearthed for Blitt was a hairy creature who did not walk erect. And
yet, even here, Blitt refused to concede.

"It may be," he howled, "it _must_ be that my ancestor _was_ the first
man to walk erect or light a fire--to do _something_."

It was not until Jukes pointed out that all those things had been
already examined and found hopeless that Blitt finally gave in. Blitt
was a relative, of course, of the first man to stand erect, the man
with the first human brain. But so was everybody else on the face of
the Earth. There was truly nowhere else to explore. What would be found
now would be only the common history of mankind.

Blitt retired to his chambers and refused to be seen.
