
The clerk sighed as he looked around, but his partner was busy.
"Someone seems to have blown a nova, sir," he condescended to explain.
"It says here your ultimate destination is Altair IV."

"Quite right, quite right," said Winstead. "Going out there to see what
the sales possibilities are for--"

"And they sent you _here_ from Epseri? That can't be, sir."

"But--they told me--don't you Agency people take care of picking out
the routes?"

"Yes, sir, of course. Beyond the local Terran sphere of travel, there
are very few scheduled flights and most of them are for important
cargo. That's why your ticket simply shows your ultimate destination,
and that's why the Interstellar Travel Agency was developed--to arrange
for the traveler's progress by stages."

"Yes," said Winstead. "That is how they explained it to me."

The clerk met his worried gaze for a few moments before shaking himself
slightly. He prodded the ticket on the counter between him and Winstead
with a disdainful forefinger.

"Let me put it as simply as possible, Mr.--uh--Winstead," he said very
patiently. "Somebody at your last stop sent you in the wrong direction."

"But--but--you just said it went by stages. I realize I can't go in
a direct line. It depends on whether you can find me the right ship,
doesn't it?"

The young man glanced about once more for help, but none was available.

"We'll see what we can do," he said, examining the ticket sourly. He
thumbed a button to roll out a length of note paper from a slot in the
counter top and scribbled upon it with his lectropen. "Now, if you will
please accompany that young lady to the Agency hotel with those other
travelers, we will notify you the moment a desirable ship is scheduled
to leave."

Winstead thanked him gratefully and turned away to locate his baggage.
Under the conditions imposed by space travel, only the barest minimum
was permitted. Even so, some little time was required to find his
bag--an unlikely occurrence that the clerk accepted with a resigned air.

Finally, with the half dozen who also would be traveling onward,
Winstead was off to the hotel and a day's rest.

As a matter of fact, it was three days' rest, before he was summoned.
He was, perhaps by intent, confronted upon his arrival by a different
clerk, a solid, square-faced girl. Winstead's nervous questions were
reflected unanswered from a shield of impervious calm. He received all
the information the Agency seemed to feel was good for him and was sent
out with a personal guide.

The guide delivered him to a thick thing named the _Stellar Streak_,
clearly a workhorse freighter. Somehow, it never did become plain to
Winstead until after he had emerged from his acceleration net that the
destination was Topaz IV.

"But, Captain!" he protested. "Are you sure the people at the spaceport
have not made some mistake? That is more or less the direction I came
from."

The pilot stared impatiently at the papers thrust under his nose.

"Can't say, sir. We have our work cut out just to take the ship to
where they tell us. Only reason we carry passengers is that regulations
require cooperation with the Agency. Don't believe in it myself."
