
He flicked ash from his cigar and inquired whether Winstead had
retained quarters aboard the _Stellar Streak_. He was undaunted by the
negative reply.

"Never mind," he said heartily. "We're too small to have an Agency
hotel here, but I'll fix you up a place to stay in town."

They left Winstead's bag under the desk and set off by dilapidated
groundcar for Topaz City. This turned out to be a crude, sprawling
village of adobe walls and corrugated plastic roofs. The varied colors
of the roofs contrasted in desperate gaiety with the dun walls. As soon
as Callahan skidded to a halt, the car was enveloped by its own dust
cloud.

"Phew!" coughed Callahan. "Some day they're gonna have to pave the
street!"

Winstead pulled out a handkerchief to mop his tear-flooded eyes. His
thin chest heaved and he spat out muddy saliva.

"I'm sorry about that," apologized Callahan. "Tell you what--we don't
have much civilization yet, but we do have a little cocktail lounge.
Come along an' I'll get you somethin' to clear your throat."

The traveler allowed himself to be helped out of the car and guided
along the "street" to a low building marked by a small parking jam.
Most of the men and women that passed them on the way shouted out a
greeting to his companion. They dressed with little distinction between
the sexes in rough shirts, boots, and pants of a narrower pattern than
Winstead's conservative suit. He was introduced to six or seven people
he never expected to lay eyes upon again.

_Frontier culture_, he deduced. _Where humans are rare, each one counts
for more._

The first thing he saw in the lounge was the girl guitarist. She was
the only woman he had yet seen who was not wearing pants. In fact, it
had hardly occurred to him that there might be someone in town who was
not connected with the mines. This girl was hardly connected to her own
brief costume.

The second thing he saw was a wall of friendly, weather-beaten faces,
turning his way in response to Callahan's cheerful whoop. The third was
a man-size drink somebody thrust at him.

After listening for quite a while to a repertoire of apparently ribald
songs, most of them too local in humor for Winstead to follow, the
traveler was led by Callahan to a sort of restaurant just down the
street.

Winstead thought later that he had eaten something there, but what it
might have been he forgot as soon as they returned to the cocktail
lounge, for a bottle-swinging brawl broke out almost immediately in a
far corner. After a form of order had been restored, there was a girl
who danced; and presently Callahan was shaking him up and down on a
spine-stiffening bed in a small, darkened room.

Winstead promptly discovered that he had, indeed, eaten. When he
recovered, he followed Callahan out on wobbly legs to seek a remedy.
It was a bright, sunny day, but he could not even guess at the local
time. A little while after they had been successful in finding the
remedy, he forgot about it.

"Take care of Bobby Winstead for me a little while, George," he heard
Callahan say to someone. "I gotta stop out at the port to check a ship
for him. Be right back."
