
The hospitality shown him shamed Winstead into inquiring where he might
cash a traveler's check. With the proceeds, he was permitted to buy
about one round in a dozen, and to join in the singing. He was eagerly
pumped between stops along the street for the latest news of Terra. His
least little knowledge was of interest to those he encountered.

At one point, he came to himself in the midst of drawing a current
dress design on the bar for one of the girls. Callahan, whose return he
had missed, dissuaded the lady from taking his charge home with her as
a gesture of pure gratitude. He declared that Winstead had just enough
time for a nap.

Winstead's next awakening was in the echo of a terrified scream.

A light was turned on and he discovered that the man-eating vine which
had been strangling him was in reality an acceleration net. The face
that floated before him was clean-shaven and anxious.

With considerable mental effort, Winstead deduced that the face was
inquiring as to his health.

"Quite ... fine ... thank ... you," he answered with difficulty.
"Haven't we met somewhere?"

"Sure! Last week, Mr. Winstead, when we took you to Topaz IV," said the
face.

Winstead tried shaking his head. It did not hurt--very much--but he
felt that his thinking was terribly slow. Then things began to click.
He recognized the man as the second pilot of the _Stellar Queen_. It
might have been easier had the spacer not been standing upside down to
Winstead's twisted position.

He groped dizzily for a question that would not make him sound a
complete idiot. The pilot saved him.

"Callahan, back on Topaz IV," he volunteered, "asked us to tell you the
best routing he could figure was to go on with us to Queen Bess III.
It's a busy spaceport, so he thinks you can make better connections."

"Oh. I ... see," murmured Winstead.

Unzipping the opening of his net, he floated himself out gingerly.

"I hope it's all right, Mr. Winstead," said the spacer. "I know you
went in there on an Altair IV destination, but old Callahan seemed to
think he was sending you to Fomalhaut VIII. To tell the truth, I think
he was a little over-fueled."

"I ... didn't notice," said Winstead. "Tell me--how long were you down
at Topaz?"

"Three days," the spacer told him. "They sure took a liking to you
there, Mr. Winstead. A big crowd brought you out to the spaceport with
Callahan. We found your bag under his desk by ourselves, but I don't
know where you got that orange suit."

Winstead looked down at his clothing for the first time and flinched.

"But that was yesterday," continued the pilot. "You ought to be feeling
like some chow by now, eh? Hey wait--the door is down here, Mr.
Winstead!"

In six days, including one of landing maneuvers, they reached Queen
Bess III, a very Terran world that was a minor crossroads of space
travel.

Here, Winstead bade farewell to the _Stellar Queen_. His first stop
was the communications office. He left a message to be transmitted to
Callahan on Topaz IV by "fastest means"--_i. e._, by the next spaceship
headed that way. He said, simply, "Thanks for everything."
