
He found a good many travelers wandering about the clean, beautifully
furnished waiting room of the Agency here. Winstead sank into a softly
upholstered armchair, opened his bag, and began to sort out his papers.
No sooner did he look up from this task than there appeared before him
a pleasantly smiling, gray-haired man. He was about Winstead's height,
but chunky and full of bounce.

"My name is John Aubrey," he announced. "I trust I can be of service.
Are you stopping here on Bessie?"

"No, I--I'm just passing through," said Winstead. "I assume you are the
Agency official here?"

"One of them," Aubrey said. "Ah, your papers? Thank you. We can just
step this way into my office if you like."

He threaded his way between chairs, tables, and occasional travelers
to one of a row of offices. It was the size of a large closet, but
cheerfully decorated. Aubrey gave Winstead a chair and sat himself down
behind an extremely modern desk to commit the required formalities upon
the traveler's papers. The ultimate destination ticket Winstead had
included gave him pause.

"Well, well, well!" he exclaimed. "Achernar X! Really! You must be with
the government, I suppose? Or a scientist? As I recall, Achernar is
rather blue for human use, except our research outpost there, isn't it?"

"I--er--I am engaged in a little research," said Winstead. "You did
very well to remember the place offhand."

"It _is_ a long way out. Interesting. I wonder how I can get you there.
Someone seems to have sent you--well, no matter. Just leave it to me.
You'll be staying at our hotel, of course? Might as well, since you
have paid for the service, eh? I'll have you flown over right away."

An aircar carried Winstead to the roof of a hotel overlooking a
considerable metropolis. Having left his bag in his room, he found his
way to the hotel department store and ordered another suit. He spent
the rest of the afternoon sightseeing and decided that he might just
as well have been on Terra. When he sat down to an excellent dinner
that evening, he discovered that his appetite, unfortunately, had not
recovered from his stay on Topaz IV.

He was awakened before dawn by the soft chime of his bedside screen. A
touch of the button brought on the happy features of Aubrey.

_Does he never rest?_ thought Winstead.

He pushed the audio button and answered.

"Good morning, Mr. Winstead," said the Agency man brightly. "Sorry to
call so early, but I was extremely lucky to find you a passage toward
Achernar."

"Not sure I want to go," Winstead muttered into his pillow.

Aubrey, apparently not hearing him, bubbled merrily on. There would be
an aircar on the hotel roof for Winstead in half an hour. Haste was
necessary because the ship was leaving from a spaceport fifty miles
outside the city. Indeed, Winstead could count himself fortunate to
have had the chance so quickly. Aubrey had found it only by checking
all the private spacelines. After all, Achernar was a long way off.

Winstead thanked him blearily before switching off. He then dialed
the hotel store, but got no more answer than he expected. Giving up
thoughts of his new suit, he rose and struggled into his clothes.
