
Queen Bess had not yet poked her corona above the horizon when the
aircar delivered him to a little island spaceport south of the city.
A stocky, taciturn shadow met him. They walked silently out to a ship
that towered darkly overhead.

"No inside elevator?" asked Winstead, peering at the skeleton framework
rising beside the ship.

"Too much load."

They rode a creaking platform up through the chilly breeze until
Winstead thought they would go past the nose of the monster. Clutching
his bag in one hand and the single railing in the other, he edged
across a narrow gangway to an airlock. Inside, he followed the crewman
down a short, three-foot-diameter shaft to a square chamber, catching
his bag on the ladder no more than a few times.

In the more adequate light here, the spacer was revealed as a swarthy
man with a muscular, dark-stubbled face. He wore tight trousers and
shirt of navy blue and a knit cap that might once have been white. With
a preoccupied air, he pulled open a small door on the bulkhead at chest
level.

"Let's have your bag," he said.

Winstead handed it over. The spacer shoved it into what seemed to be a
spacious compartment in spite of the yard-square door.

"Now you," he said. "I'll give you a hand up."

"Up where?" asked Winstead innocently.

"In there. That's your acceleration compartment. Plenty of room.
Armored, air-conditioned, has its own emergency rations of air and
water."

Winstead stooped to peer into the opening. It was deeper than he had
thought, but a three-foot square was not much of a cross section. All
surfaces inside were thickly padded and springy to the touch.

"Here's the light switch," the spacer said, turning on a soft interior
light. "The rest of the facilities and instructions are on this plate
beside the hatch. Okay now, grab that handhold up there so you go in
feet first. Alley-oop!"

_As long as I don't come out that way_, thought Winstead, sliding into
the compartment with surprising ease. He twisted around and discovered
that the door had a small window.

"Make yourself comfortable," said the spacer. "Just don't forget to
close the hatch when the takeoff buzzer sounds. You'd better listen for
it."

He turned away. Winstead saw him look into several other little windows
along the bulkhead.

"Are there other passengers?" asked Winstead.

"No. Just checking to see if all my crew stayed. Always seems to be one
that slides down the pipe before takeoff. Dunno why they sign on if
they don't like the risk."

"What--what risk?"

"Didn't the Agency tell you? We've got nothing below here but tanks
of concentrated landing fuel for the station on Gelbchen II. The idea
makes some of them nervous now and then. They talk quiet, they walk
quiet, and they wouldn't wear an orange suit."

He pulled open a door and nodded in gloomy satisfaction when the
compartment proved to be empty.

"_Is_ it dangerous?" asked Winstead.
