
The spacer gnawed upon a very short thumbnail. "What's dangerous?"
he retorted at last. "You can get killed any day under a downcoming
aircar."

Winstead considered. "Where's the captain?" he inquired.

"I'm the captain."

"But--aren't you preparing to blast off?"

"I generally let my second pilot do it," said the spacer.

"But why? I thought--"

"Why? Because I own the ship, that's why."

"What has that got to do with it?" said Winstead. "I should think you'd
want all the more to handle it yourself!"

"Listen--I sweated out years in space, saving the price of this can.
If she blows up, d'you think I want to know that I did it? There's the
buzzer. Button up!"

He pulled himself into a compartment like Winstead's and clapped the
door shut. Winstead, beginning to perspire gently, found the safety
straps, secured himself, and awaited the worst.

The _Leaky Dipper_ sped through interstellar space for five silent and
introverted days before reaching the little yellow sun named Gelbchen.
The highlight of the flight was the day one of the crew dropped his
mess tray on the deck, causing one faint, one case of palpitations, and
one fist fight, in approximately that order.

The captain spent two days groping his way into an orbit about the
second planet. When he announced that the cargo would be pumped into a
number of small local tankers that had risen from the surface to meet
them, Winstead volunteered to go down in the first one.

"Don't blame you," said the swarthy spacer. "I'd like to go too. Don't
worry--they'll be good and careful landing. The stuff's that much more
expensive now that it's been freighted out here."

"That is a--a great relief," said Winstead. "It's been very
interesting. Good-by and good luck!"

"Likewise," said the captain.

_If I ever meet Aubrey again!_ thought Winstead.

On the surface of the planet, he met with a thriving community that
lived in a peculiar milieu blended of well-being and isolation. The
spaceport was a center for refueling and repair. It was supported by
mines and mills, and by just enough agricultural organization to get
by. The standard of living was comfortably high because of the services
rendered and charged for; but some of the customs struck Winstead as
being almost too informal.

"I think you're pulling my leg!" exclaimed the slim blonde at the
Agency counter when Winstead was escorted in from the field. "Nobody
would travel on the _Leaky Dipper_ without being paid for it. You must
have real nerve!"

She leaned uninhibitedly across the counter and planted a kiss on his
cheek. He could not help noticing that she was not slim everywhere.

"I assure you, Miss--er--here are my papers."

"Oh, those! Let me see, I have a stamp somewhere in one of my drawers."
