
She rummaged through several hiding places under the counter. Winstead
thought of the compartments on the _Leaky Dipper_. He leaned wearily on
one elbow.

"Oh, well, it's time to close up anyway," the girl decided. She swept
his papers into a drawer, after a fast glance at them. "We can fix
these up tomorrow, Bob."

"You are a very quick reader," Winstead said.

"It said 'Robert L.,' didn't it? That's all I was looking for--your
name. Mine's Carole, just to keep things straight. Now, since no more
ships are due and no passengers can leave tonight, let's get out of
here."

Winstead looked around, but the mechanic who had brought him in from
the field had long since disappeared. Other clerks went about their own
affairs in the background without showing any interest in him.

Carole hoisted herself onto the counter and twisted across in a swirl
of skirts. There was no way for Winstead to avoid catching her. He saw
that she was not really slim _anywhere_.

Grabbing his hand, she set off at a smart pace. He had just time to
hook his bag off the counter as they passed it.

"You'll be wanting a place to stay," she said. "I'll bet you never
slept well on that spaceship."

This so neatly paralleled Winstead's own opinion that he rejected a
half-formed impulse to drag his feet.

They dashed pell-mell through a wide exit from the building to a
parking lot. Carole led the way to a monstrous groundcar that looked as
if its mother had been frightened by a truck. A moment later, they were
boosting up to stellar speed along a more-or-less paved road to the
city.

"They call it 'Junction,'" Carole informed him. "You'd think they
could have picked a better name for the only real city on the planet."

They buzzed through a narrow band of suburbs, along the edge of an open
square and decelerated at a well-lighted avenue that looked like an
entertainment section. Winstead noted that most of the men and women
strolling past the taverns and theaters were dressed in work clothes.

"Just finishing their shifts, like me," Carole explained.

She slowed the monster a bit more upon entering a side street. They
came to a section of four- and five-storied buildings whose metal
curtain walls had the air of business offices. It developed immediately
that they were apartment houses.

Carole pulled into an opening in a row of parked vehicles similar to
hers. Winstead got out quickly, since his hostess seemed about to
crawl across his lap to reach the door. He stared at the groundcar
meditatively.

"Awful heap, isn't it?" said the blonde. "They have to make them that
way here, so they can be converted for trucking. The spaceships count
on Gelbchen II; everything else--including us--is what can be scraped
up to do the job. Well, come on in!"

_I really must be very tired_, Winstead thought as he meekly followed
the girl into the lobby of the building.
