
Inside, two youths in coveralls were lounging on wooden chairs of
austere design. One leaped to his feet at the sight of Carole. As he
strode toward them, Winstead glanced over his shoulder to make sure of
the door.

Turning back, he was just in time to find the young man seizing Carole
in an enthusiastic embrace. The two melted together in a passionate
kiss. Then the young man stepped back, checked his wristwatch and
dashed for the door.

"Good night, kid," he called to her over his shoulder.

Carole waved jauntily. She took Winstead by the elbow.

"That was Wilfie," she explained. "We'll be getting married if we can
ever get our job shifts straightened out. I hope I didn't make him
late, poor boy--it was his only chance to see me until tomorrow."

Winstead was hardly aware of having been steered into an elevator. When
they reached the second floor, Carole led him a few steps along the
hall. She used a simple light-key to open an apartment door. Winstead
followed her inside wordlessly.

"Let me take your bag," she said. "In here is the bedroom. I'll bet
you didn't have that much room on the spaceship."

"Well...."

"Now let's go in the kitchen and see what we can get you for dinner. I
might as well feed you, since I figure to charge you fifty credits for
the night."

Winstead remained silent by a considerable effort.

He wondered what his expression showed. Carole did not seem to notice
anything. She prattled on about the folly of trying to find a room
in one of the few hotels boasted by the city of Junction. Most of
them, she claimed, would be full of carousing spacers. Meanwhile, she
rummaged through a frozen food unit.

Winstead agreed to something in a foil package without knowing what.
She popped it into an automatic infra-red heater. He allowed himself to
be led by the hand to a large chair in the living room.

"There's the entertainment program for the TV," she told him. "Not that
we have much here--most of it is old tapes from Terra. Make yourself
comfortable while I change."

She pattered off into the bedroom, leaving Winstead weighing the
program in a limp hand. He looked around the room. There were two doors
to rooms or exits he had not been shown. What he had seen or could
examine from where he sat was very comfortably furnished, with a
resilient carpet substitute from wall to wall and new-looking furniture
of the simple Gelbchen style. Carole seemed partial to reds and other
bright colors. Only the pastels of the walls had prevented a disaster.

_Is it worth fifty credits?_ he asked himself. _On the other hand, if
I go out looking for a hotel, will I just happen to have a hard time
getting a ship?_

He glanced indecisively at the door to the bedroom into which Carole
had vanished. It had been left slightly ajar. About the time he became
aware of this, a tinny chime began to sound from the direction of the
kitchen.

It continued until Winstead realized that he would have to investigate
for himself. He entered the kitchen to find that the automatic heater
had flipped up a small sign saying, "_Hot!_"
