
He guessed the right button to get the door of the appliance open,
looked around until he located a tray and tongs, and removed his
dinner. Further search supplied him with cutlery. He opened the foil,
discovering that he had chosen a meal of roast beef with mashed
potatoes and two vegetables he had never seen on Terra.

Carole still had not appeared, so he carried his tray out to the dining
area, which was furnished with bronze-colored metal chairs and table.
It looked like a dinner for one, he reflected, but he was on a strange
planet. As he hesitated, the bedroom door was flung back and footsteps
sounded behind him.

"Go ahead and enjoy it," called Carole. "Wine in the sideboard there.
Then make yourself at home for the night."

Winstead turned. The girl was bending to zip the front of one shoe. She
was clad in coveralls of a yellow that made Winstead blink.

"I'm off," she announced cheerfully. "Got a second-shift job as an
ambulance driver. I tell you, it's one big rat race to meet expenses on
Gelbchen II! It helps when I can bring home guests from the spaceport,
but Wilfie wants me to cut that out when we get married."

She waved and bustled out to the elevator.

Winstead wondered whether he had said good night.

He discovered after some minutes that he was leaning on the table
with one thumb in the hot potatoes. He sat down, examining his thumb
attentively. After due consideration, he licked off the potato, found a
fork, and began to prod dubiously at the local idea of vegetables....

He awoke next morning with a start of surprise at finding himself in
neither a net nor a padded compartment. The bed was soft. It invited
him to roll over for another half hour's snooze in the faintly perfumed
room.

Perfume?

Bedroom ... _Carole!_

Winstead sat straight up as full memory returned.

Everything was quiet. He threw back the electric blanket, checked a
clock that must be set to planetary time, and decided that it was early
morning. The window filters yielded to trial-and-error manipulation,
flooding the room with cheerful sunlight not unlike that of a Terran
summer morning. Winstead walked softly to the door and opened it a
crack. The room outside remained dim and silent.

He washed in the adjoining bathroom and dressed rapidly. Feeling better
prepared for the day, he sallied out to seek breakfast. The first sight
that met his eyes was that of Carole sleeping on a couch under an
aquamarine blanket she had plugged in at the socket of a floor lamp.

The thought of fifty credits restrained the impulse to pat her blonde
head in commiseration. He thought of it a little more, thereby fighting
down a mild attack of conscience over appropriating the bed.

_After all_, he thought, _here I have to get my own breakfast. She's
probably tired out, but that's the reward of moonlighting. It's her
planet, not mine._
