
Winstead tiptoed to the kitchen door, slipped furtively through, and
closed the door as quietly as possible behind him.

Two men eating breakfast at a small table looked up at him amiably.

"Gaagh!" said Winstead.

"Good morning," replied one man, who wore a rather feminine dressing
gown.

The other, a ruddy, farmerish individual, grunted past a mouthful of
toast.

"I beg your pardon," Winstead said.

"You must be another star traveler," said the gentleman in the dressing
gown. "We knew there must be one when we saw Carole on the couch. I
hope she gets you out of here quicker than she's finding a ship for me."

"You have been waiting for a spaceship?" Winstead asked.

"Over two weeks now," said the other. "The kid's fair enough about it,
I must admit. She can't ship me toward Epseri, so she's been giving me
a discount on my room."

"Sit down and have some eggs," invited the farmer type. "Brought 'em
into town myself, along with my other produce."

Winstead eyed the platter of fried eggs. They were entirely too large
to have come from chickens, but they looked good. He decided not to ask
any questions.

It developed after he joined them at the table that the farmer was
in the habit of boarding with Carole whenever he came to Junction on
business. The traveler, one Cecil Feigelson, excused his borrowing
Carole's robe on grounds of the scanty baggage allowed space travelers
and the fact that he had been hanging about for so long. They assured
him that he looked fine in pink.

Winstead drained his cup of coffee substitute, considered having
another.

"You know," he said thoughtfully, "it hardly seems necessary to spend
all that time finding a ship headed for Epseri. I--uh--happen to be
going that way too. I suspect that a good, close look at the schedules
down at the spaceport might show us a way."

"But Carole is the clerk in charge."

"I also happen to know a little about how it's done," said Winstead
quietly. He added, "From traveling so much you know."

"Well, if you think anything can be done, I'm all for it."

"When the kid wakes up, she could drive you down," suggested the farmer.

"That should require only a moment to arrange," said Winstead, rising
to fill a pitcher with ice water. _Fifty credits a night!_ he thought.
_Wait till I get my hands on her shipping schedules!_

Hardly five minutes later, they all spilled out of the elevator into
the lobby. Carole was still rather damp and angry. Cecil Feigelson's
suitcase zipper was only three-quarters closed. Fortunately, he was
wearing pants under the girl's dressing gown, which clashed horribly
with Winstead's rumpled orange suit.

"Hey!" someone yelped as they blazed through the lobby.

Young Wilfie catapulted from a chair where he appeared to have been
dozing.

_Doesn't he have a home?_ wondered Winstead.
