
By the time they reached Carole's groundcar outside, the youth had
somehow inserted himself into the group in place of the farmer.
Winstead set the machine in motion while the others were scrambling for
seats.

"Do you know how to drive one of these, friend?" asked Feigelson.

"I am an expert groundcar operator," Winstead assured him.

Unfortunately, he was soon forced to admit, he was accustomed to
Terran cars that floated on cushions of air. Although bumps in the
spaceport road encouraged a good deal of floating at the speed he was
making, the Gelbchen vehicle was really designed for less intermittent
wheel-to-ground contact.

The trip seemed shorter, though, than it had the previous evening.
Winstead skidded to a halt at their destination and discovered that he
was perspiring slightly. His passengers were in a frank sweat and lost
several yards trailing him into the terminal and over to the Agency
counter.

When they arrived, still quite pale, Winstead was already up to his
elbows in shipping schedules and blank forms. A few passing clerks
glanced curiously at Feigelson's frilly pink dressing gown, but they
were used to outworld garb.

"Wait! That's my Galatlas you're tearing apart!" Carole protested
breathlessly.

"How would you know, my dear?" asked Winstead, riffling the pages
furiously. "Hah! Just as I thought--this cruise ship down here for
supplies, the _Virgo_, is listed to make New Ceres next. The Galatlas
shows that New Ceres is halfway to Epseri, Feigelson!"

"Wilfie!" wailed Carole. "Make him stop tearing the place apart like a
saloon! Look at that stack of folders spilled all over the floor!"

Wilfie bestirred himself, but he was handicapped by being on the other
side of the counter with Carole and Feigelson.

"What do you think you're doing?" he demanded truculently. "Where did
you come from, anyway?"

"I came from Terra," said Winstead, pausing in filling out a form, "and
I am more than ready to return. Combining a vacation with a business
inspection trip occasionally becomes too exciting for a man of my
years."

"Inspection trip?" echoed Carole, freezing.

"My hobby," said Winstead. "It keeps one in touch with the people
who make the Agency go. This place, now, is the most slapdash,
disorganized--Young man! You quit one of your jobs and take over this
branch of the Interstellar Travel Agency. Don't argue--of course you
can! What is your full name?"

"_Me?_" gasped Wilfie. "Wilfred Evans."

"All right, Evans, you're hired. You'll be able to get married and put
a stop to all this nonsense of renting rooms while ships go out without
our passengers."

"What authority have you to--" began Carole indignantly.

"The first test of a chief agent," said Winstead, scribbling upon a
business card, "is to know when to tell an assistant manager to button
her hatch."

Wilfie accepted the card and glanced at both print and scribbling.

"Button your hatch!" he ordered Carole over his shoulder.
