
An hour and over a hundred and fifty feet later, MacNamara wheezed as he
swung over the bulkhead at the base of _Valier's_ third and top stage.
His aching limbs persuaded him to take a breather. After all, his
complete inspection of the day before really made a final preflight
unnecessary, and passing near the frigid oxygen tanks was a day's work
in itself. He listened to the innumerable noises around and below him.
The clicks and hums near him meant that Ruiz, having given up following
him, was checking out the flight controls, with power on only in the top
stage. From below came a vibrational rushing noise, nearly subsonic,
which told him of the fueling operation. He thought of the electrical
relays governing the fuel input and shuddered. He violently disliked the
idea of having hot wires near fuel of any kind, and rocket fuel in
particular.

MacNamara swept his light over his wrist watch. Fifteen after. Logan
should be along soon, he thought, and hastened to finish checking the
conduits, servos, pumps and hydraulic actuators below the cabin level.
This done, he crawled up the final ladder to the cabin, or "dome."

"Well," cried a cheerful voice, "if it isn't our grimy Irishman."

MacNamara shook the sweat from his brow and muttered, "Irishman, is it?
How about 'Logan'? That's a good Scandinavian name."

"How about Logan? He's great, as usual. Just look at me, Mac. What a
specimen!" Logan, the inevitable optimist, bounced out of his
acceleration couch and spread his arms wide as if to show the world what
a superman he, Carl Logan, was. The gesture and its intimations made
MacNamara smile. Logan wasn't much over five feet tall, and his flight
suit made him look like a bald pussycat. His small physique covered a
fantastic set of reflexes, however, and Logan's sense of humor was a
quality of utmost importance. He hadn't an enemy in the world. His enemy
was out of this world by definition; Logan wanted to conquer space and,
so far, was doing just that.

"O.K., O.K. Laugh. Just remember this, Gargantua; I may not be tall, but
I sure am skinny." MacNamara smiled again, nodding agreement. "Well,
don't everybody talk at once. How is she, Mac?"

"With luck," answered MacNamara, "we might get ten feet off the turf."
He paused for effect. "Seriously, Carl, she never looked better. You
could take her up right now. Say, where's Johnny? I thought you'd just
be checking in to the medics; looks like everybody's early today."

"He's probably over in some corner, making out his will. He was down
below a while ago with a face a mile long."

_Probably_, thought Mac, _he's still thinking about the_ Wyld. _Why did
I have to bring that up?_ Aloud, he said, "I ought to check the ground
crew. Did you bring the forms?"

"Nope. Just my magnificent self. If anything had gone astray, they'd
have told you."

"All the same, I think I'll go down and question the troops. Don't leave
without me." He clambered out onto the catwalk, leaving the air lock
open. The sun was riding higher every minute. In a little over an hour,
he'd be a thousand miles away--vertically. The knot in his stomach began
to form again. He wasn't scared, exactly; he kept telling himself
"excited" was a nicer word.

The inspection forms signed, Mac held a short interrogation with the
crew chief. The grizzled lieutenant, commissioned because of his long
experience and responsibilities, gave _Valier_ a clean bill of health.
Each engine of the booster stage had been fired separately, before dawn.
A cubic foot of mercury seemed to roll from Mac's shoulders as he saw
Logan and Ruiz lounging at the bottom of the lift; there wasn't anything
to worry about. He recalled feeling the tension before the other three
flights, then chided himself. _Ya, ya, scared-y cat. Well, why not? It's
a helluva risk every time you make a shot, in spite of all the
propaganda. Hooey; if you didn't know everything's O.K., you wouldn't be
getting ready to make the shot. Yeah, but you never can tell_----He
stopped his inward battle and forced some spring into his step as he
moved toward Logan and Ruiz.

"I've tried my best to abort this big bug, but I can't find anything
amiss."

"That's Granny MacNamara for you," jibed Logan. "Always trying to find
fault." He winked at Ruiz and rubbed his hands together. "Well--tennis,
anyone?"

Mac knew without asking that Logan, for all his apparent indifference,
had painstakingly gone over every phase of the flight, checking
distribution, radar, final instructions from Operations, weather, _et
al_. Ruiz, as usual, watched and took notes as Logan gathered data.
