
At minus fifteen minutes, the trio was in the dome, checking personal
equipment, while outside, the scaffolding ponderously slid away, section
by section.

There was little time for soliloquies of _to go, or not to go_; within
the quarter-hour, Captain Ruiz and Majors MacNamara and Logan would be
in readiness for the final count-down. With the emergency bail-out
equipment checked, the men busied themselves on another continuity test
of the myriad circuits spread like a human neural system throughout the
ship. All relays, servo systems and instrument leads were in perfect
condition as expected, and the trio was settled comfortably in
acceleration couches with minutes to spare.

Logan contacted Ground Control a few seconds after the minus-three
minute signal, informing all and sundry that Gridley could fire when
ready. MacNamara sighed, thinking that if Logan's humor wasn't exactly
original, it was surely tenacious.

The ship was brought to dim half-life at minus one minute by Logan's
agile fingers, and as the final countdown rasped in his headset, Mac
felt his innards wrestle among themselves.

_Valier_ bellowed her enthusiasm suddenly, lifting her eight
thousand-odd tons from the ground almost instantly. Inside, her
occupants grimaced helplessly as they watched various instruments guide
tiny pointers across calibrated faces. Mac's throat mike threatened to
crush his Adam's apple, weighing five times its usual few ounces. Of his
senses, sound was the one that dominated him; an intolerable, continuous
explosion from the motors racked his mind like tidal waves of formic
acid. He forced himself to overcome the numbness which his brain cast up
to defend itself. Then, as quickly as it had begun, _Valier_ fell
deafeningly silent; that meant Mach 1 was passed.

It was an eternity before stage one separated. The loss of the empty
hulk was hardly felt as _Valier_ streaked high over the Texas border.
Ruiz, watching the radarscope, saw Lubbock slide into focus miles below.
_Next stop, Fort Worth_, he thought. _I used to drive that in five
hours._ The jagged line of the caprock told him they were well on their
way to Fort Worth already.

The altimeter showed slightly over forty-two miles when stage two
detached itself. Logan, in constant contact with White Sands, was
informed that they were tracking perfectly as _Valier_ arrowed over
central Texas toward rendezvous at the doughnut. The exhausted lower
stages were forgotten now; only the second stage was of any concern
anyway. The radar boys tracked it all the way down, ready to detonate it
high in the air if its huge 'chutes wafted it near any inhabited
community.

The motors of stage three blasted for a carefully calculated few
seconds, then cut out automatically. With the destitution of his weight,
Mac felt his spirits soar also. They were almost in orbit, now, climbing
at a slight angle with a velocity sufficient to carry them around Earth
forever, a streamlined, tiny satellite.

After the first few moments of disorientation, rocket crews found that a
weightless condition gave them, ambiguously, a buoyant feeling. Only the
doughnut crew had really adapted to this condition, living as they did
without the effects of gravity for hours at a time every day. The
temporary "housing" was rotated for comfort of the crews during rest
periods, but while moving the plates and girders of the giant doughnut
into place, they had no such luxuries. For these men, weightlessness
became an integral part of their activities, but the rocket crews were
subjected to this phenomenon only during the few hours needed to
rendezvous, unload the cargo, and coast back after another initial
period of acceleration.

Hence, Mac felt a strange elation when he tapped his fingers on the arm
of his couch and saw his arm float upward, due to reaction from the tap.

Against all regulations, Logan unstrapped himself and motioned his
comrades to do the same. This unorthodox seventh-inning stretch was
prohibited because it left the pilot's arm-rest controls without an
operator, hence could prove disastrous if, through some malfunction, the
ship should veer off course.

The autopilot functioned perfectly, however, and Logan trusted it to the
point of insouciance. The three men lounged in midair, grinning
foolishly as they "swam" about the tiny cabin. No more satisfying
stretch was ever enjoyed.

A few minutes of this was enough. Ruiz was the first to gingerly pull
himself into his couch and his companions followed. Not a word had
passed between them, since they were at all times in contact with
monitor stations spaced across the world below. The first time they had
enjoyed this irregular horseplay, on the second trip, Logan had made the
mistake of saying, "Race you to the air lock!", and was hard put to
explain those words. Nor could Logan switch to "intercom only," since a
sudden radio silence would create anxiety below. Only their heavy
breathing would indicate unusual activity to Earthside.
