
They were nearing the intercept point, a thousand miles above the
Atlantic, when they realized their predicament.

"I'm in a fix, Carl," said Ruiz, meaning that he had tentatively fixed a
position of intercept. "Correct our elevation; we're point-nine degrees
high."

"Right-o. Correction in five seconds from my mark--mark!"

For slight corrections in the flight path, small steering motors were
utilized. These motors were located near the rear lip of _Valier's_
conical cargo section on retractable booms. Extension of the motors with
no resultant air friction gave a longer pivot arm and consequently
better efficiency. Mac pressed the "Aux. Steer" stud and immediately
three amber lights winked on in their respective instrument consoles.

Carl Logan fired the twelve o'clock motor briefly--only it didn't fire.
The change in momentum wouldn't be much in any case, but it was always
perceptible by feel and by instrument. There was no change.

Logan tried the firing circuit again, and again. Still _Valier_ streaked
along, now miles above the intended point of intercept. By this time,
the embryo space station was quite near, sailing along in the 'scope
beneath them. It slowly moved toward the top of the 'scope, passing
_Valier_ in its slightly higher relative velocity.

"We've got troubles, Mac--find 'em!" Logan had finally lost the
devil-may-care attitude, but that fact was small consolation to
MacNamara.

"Keep your mitts off those firing studs, Carl," he growled, unstrapping
himself quickly. The malfunction was definitely in the auxiliary motor
setup, he thought. A common trouble? It wouldn't pay to find out. If the
other motors fired, it would only throw them farther off-course. If
worst came to worst, they could roll _Valier_ over and use the six
o'clock auxiliary; there was a small arc through which the motors could
turn on their mounts. But the trouble was unknown, and they might end up
rifling or pinwheeling if they didn't let bad enough alone.

During his mental trouble-shooting, Mac was busily worming his bulk into
a balloonish-looking suit identical to those worn by the doughnut's
construction crew. Ruiz gave him some aid, helping him thrust his arms
past the spring-folded elbow joints. For some reason, the legs gave less
trouble. Within a fumbling few moments, he was ready for work.

He glanced at Logan through his visor, feeling a vicious pleasure over
the beads of sweat on Logan's forehead. Time he sweated a little,
thought the mechanic.

A final check of his headset followed, after which Mac oozed into the
Lilliputian air lock at the bottom, now rear, wall of the cabin. He
nodded to Ruiz, who secured the air lock, then adjusted his suit control
to force a little pressure into his suit. Gradually the suit became
livable. Then he cracked the other air-lock valve and allowed pressure
to leak out around him.

His suit puffed out with soft popping noises and Mac heard the last
vestige of air hiss out of the chamber. He found the hatchway too tight
for comfort and had a moment of fear when his tool pack caught in the
orifice, wedging him neatly. He could hear Logan and Ruiz through his
earphones, explaining their plight to Ground Control. They wanted to
know why in blue blazes _Valier_ hadn't contacted the doughnut when it
came within range, and Logan had no defense save preoccupation with his
own plight. Belatedly, Ruiz made radio contact with the doughnut, which
was still well within range. All this time, Mac busied himself with his
inspection light, tracing the electrical leads to the small, turbine
operated auxiliary motor fuel pumps.

"Mac?" Logan's voice startled him. "Can you brace yourself? I'm going to
try to match velocities with the doughnut. Won't take over one 'g' for a
few seconds."

"Wait a minute." He looked wildly about him. _Valier_ hadn't been built
with a view toward stowaways; and every cubic inch of space was crammed
with something, except for the passageway with its ladder, leading up
from the main motor section. Well, if it wasn't over a "g," he could
hang on to the ladder. Suit weighs another fifty pounds, though. My
weight plus fifty, he thought. "Give me a chance to get set," he said
aloud. He hooked one bulbous leg over a ladder rung and braced the other
against a lower rung, hugging the ladder with both arms. "Any time you
say, but kill it if you hear me holler!"

"Then five seconds from my mark--mark!" Mac tightened his grip, and then
sagged backward as the main motors fired. The vibrations shook him
slightly but deeply, and he fought to keep his hold. He felt his back
creak and pop with the sudden surge of weight. Then the motors shut off,
and Mac skidded several feet up the ladder. No matter how fast a man's
reactions were, they couldn't be applied quickly enough to keep him from
starting an involuntary leap after bracing against a suddenly removed
gravity load. "All over, Mac. You O.K.?"

"Guess so, but I feel like a ping-pong ball. How're we sittin'?"

"Just fine," Ruiz cut in. "Find anything?"

"Not yet." Mac started his search anew. Everything seemed in perfect
order up to the turbine pumps. Then, he feared, the trouble was near the
little motors. That was tough, really tough. With the motors retracted
it was next to impossible to get to them, past their hydraulically
operated booms and actuators. Extended, he'd have to go outside. He
cringed from the thought, although he knew that there was little to fear
if he linked himself to the ship.

He peered along the beam of light, searching for some telltale
discoloration in wiring, or a gleaming icy patch which would indicate a
fuel leak. "Might be the firing plugs," he muttered.

"Let's hope not. Where are you, Mac? Maybe you better give us a
blow-by-blow." Logan sounded worried.

"Good idea. Right now I'm at the nine o'clock actuator. Nothing so far."
He looked around himself, forgetting for the moment how he was supposed
to get past the equipment to the other auxiliary motor stations.

"Johnny," he said slowly, "I think you'd best break out the tapes.
Auxiliary motor system; you'll find them under power plant." Months
before, MacNamara had made a complete set of tape recordings of his own
voice, recorded as he made a thorough-going rundown of every system and
its components. This was a personal innovation which his fellow flight
engineers considered folly. Extra weight, they scoffed. Undue
complication. Mac nodded and went on with his impromptu speechmaking; a
professional psychiatrist might have said, correctly, that Mac felt an
unconscious need for supervision, a forgivable deficiency dating back to
his cadet days. Mac simply claimed that the best of men could forget or
omit when alone with a few million dollars' worth of Uncle's equipment.
This way he could remind himself of each step to be taken ahead of time,
in his own way.

The co-pilot rushed to comply. Mac, waiting, suddenly remembered how to
get past his obstacle. Internal braces which helped keep the tanks
rigidly in place on Earth were of little use while in "freeloading," or
gravity-less, state. The braces were removable, and Mac had loosened a
single wing-nut to let the brace swing loose when he heard Johnny Ruiz's
answer.

"Ready with your tape, Mac. Where shall I start it?"

"Run it through 'til you get to a blank spot, then another, then stop
it." He was certain he didn't really need the tape, but it was a
maintenance aid and he was determined to use it.

He heard a click, then a hum, as the recorder was jacked into his
headset circuit. Immediately, a familiar voice began a slow dissertation
on power leads from the dome, speeded up in the space of a second or two
to a high-pitched alien gibberish, then to a faint scream. He began
squirming around the turbine tanks, got past the first brace, and turned
to attach it again. Of course it wasn't necessary, but--"PLAY IT SAFE"
was embroidered on his brain by years of maintenance experience; back in
his old maintenance squadron, he'd been called "the old lady" instead of
"the old man," due to his insistence on precautions.

Ruiz slowed the tape suddenly, on cue, and Mac heard himself saying,
"... Brace back in its slot and pin it. Be careful of those linkages on
the turbine pumps. Now crawl around to the next brace and unpin it."
Pause, scraping noises, and a muttered oath. "Pin sticks, but it won't
without a load on it." It didn't.

He worked slower than he had on the ground, fumbling with the heavy
gloves and cursing mightily. His voice rambled on, warning him of
obstacles and reminding him about minor points that could give trouble.
He listened carefully, discarding each suggestion.

Floating near the twelve o'clock auxiliary, Mac peered at each tubing
connection, tugging and twisting. "Wait a minute," he said. His light
flashed out at the motor, riding perched on its swivel, limned against
cold, hard points of light that were the stars. His heart gave a bound.
"I think I've found it!" His other voice droned on morbidly. "Turn that
thing off a minute, Johnny. Listen; there's a lead to the twelve o'clock
fuel valve solenoid that looks like ... yes, I'm sure of it. It's pulled
away from a bracket and looks like it might be charred." Mac twisted
around to view the wiring better.

"Can you fix it?"

"Oh, sure, if that's all there is wrong. But I'd rather do the work with
the motors retracted. Tell you what; retract them about forty-five
degrees when I give the word."
