
Mac judged the distance the booms would cover during semiretraction and
half floated, half crawled out of the way. He found himself breathing
heavily, despite the freeload conditions. His suit was simply too
cumbersome. The thought came to him that he didn't even know how long
he'd been out of the dome. His breathing oxygen gauge showed half empty,
so he must have been on the job for around a half hour. He rationed his
supply a bit, hoping he could finish the job without a refill.

"O.K., Johnny, you can run the tape again. And retract the motors while
you're at it." He heard the tape start again on its course, watching the
booms.

They leaped inward, then, and Mac felt a crushing blow across his back.
He shook his head groggily and yelled.

He tried to scramble from his place between motor and turbine fuel lines
without success; he was trapped like a wild animal by the heavy actuator
which had swung past his head. He heard himself say, "And be sure to
stay clear of the actuator. It swings through a ninety-degree arc when
it's operated."

"Oh, shut up! I know it; I just judged it wrong." The tape moved on
unperturbedly, reminding him to inspect the actuator bearings and
extension rods.

"Mac," came Logan's voice, "you might try to hurry it. If you can't get
it fixed in an hour or two, we'll have to try rolling _Valier_ down to
the doughnut. But it's up to you, fella. Take your time."

"Well, you might help me a bit by raising this hydraulic unit offa my
shoulders. Lucky it didn't squash me." The actuator stayed where it was.
"Johnny! Carl! Do you read me?" No answer. Obviously, the actuator had
smashed his transmitter, but left the receiver section intact. Then all
he could hope for would be a suspicion from one of the others that all
was not well. If they asked him any questions and he failed to reply,
they'd figure something was wrong. Well, he couldn't count on that.

He struggled with his vulcanized suit, trying to squeeze from under the
actuator. If I'd had them retract it completely, he thought, I'd be a
dead man. It was a tight squeeze, but he inched his way out of the trap
by using every ounce of strength at his command. If his suit tore, he'd
know it in a hurry.

Gasping for breath, Mac drew himself into a crouch and regarded the
offending wire. His flashlight still operated, and he could see the
heavy insulation which had been scraped away. No charring; then it must
have been the extension rods that had scissored through the insulation.
The wire hung together by a thread, the strands of metal severed
completely. He groped for his tool kit, trying to ignore the voice in
his headset.

"Well, that takes care of the actuators. Now for these dinky motors. The
swivel mounts have to work without any lubricant, so look for
indications of wear and--"

Mac cursed under his breath. He sounded so cocksure, so all-knowing. He
felt like beating himself. His earlier self, who had blithely toured
_Valier_ trailing the microphone wires without any real premonition of
trouble. It always happens to the other guy--Not this time, chum, he
reminded himself.

The gloves were systematically foiling his attempts to withdraw the coil
of wire at his side. The tool kit was the ultimate in maintenance work,
compact and complete with extension handles for the cutters and
wrenches. Everything was there, but practically impossible to use. His
fingers finally closed over the wire; he jerked it out and with it the
splice tool. The little pliers caromed from the brace above him and
sailed out toward the motor, beyond the ship. He watched, horrified, as
the tool slowly cartwheeled away into space.

"All right," he muttered, "scratch one splice tool. It was also my only
pair of pliers, but I'll manage." He knew he could use the wire cutters
in a pinch. "In a pinch," he repeated. "Oh, that's a hot one. That's
about all that's happened this trip, so far. Pinch me, pinch the
wiring--What a pinch!"
