
Holding the roll of wire tightly in one hand, he grasped the cutters and
pulled them from the kit with utmost care. He unrolled a foot-long
section of wire and clipped it off, laying his flashlight in the tool
kit so that it would shine out in front of him. He managed to attach the
tiny splice lugs by pinching them with the cutters, then moved
cautiously to the wire which still drooped from the jumble of machinery.
"Drooped" wasn't precisely the word; actually the wire had been bent
into its position and stayed that way.

As the harried major reached for the brace on which the wire had been
bracketed, his tool kit vomited flashlight, wrenches and screwdrivers,
leaving him in total darkness. His cursing was regular, now, monotonous
and uninspired. There was another pencil light in the kit, snapped
tightly to the case, and Mac reached for the whole business. The spare
light was a maintenance problem in itself. Question: How to retrieve a
fountain pen sized object, when it's held by a small snap and the
retriever is encumbered by three pairs of arctic mittens?

Mac saw his errant flashlight out of the corner of his eye, its beam
fastened on a collapsed screw driver while both swam sluggishly toward
the inspection ladder. He located the pencil light and jerked it loose,
holding the short wire and cutters in his other hand.

This, Mac knew, was the crucial point. If he could splice the wire
hanging in front of him, _Valier_ would once more be in perfect shape.
He would have welcomed an extra hand or two, as he straddled a brace and
shoved the tiny flash between his headpiece and shoulder fabric. The
wire should be stripped, he knew, but he hadn't the tools. They were
scarcely ten feet from him, but could have rested atop the Kremlin for
all the good they did him. He got most of the strands of one end of wire
shoved into a splice lug, and called it good enough. It was like trying
to thread a needle whose eye was deeper than it was wide, while in a
diving suit, using the business end of a paintbrush to start the thread.

He withdrew one hand and searched the kit for friction tape. It might be
mentioned that an insulating tape which would be adhesive at minus two
hundred degrees centigrade yet keep its properties at plus one thousand,
was the near culmination of chemical science. Silicon plastic research
provided the adhesive, an inert gum which changed almost none through a
fantastic range of temperatures and pressures. The tape Mac used to
insure his connection had an asbestos base, with adhesive gum insinuated
into the tape. He wrapped the wire tightly, then bound it to the brace.
He noticed his visor fogging up and felt a faint, giddy sensation.
Anoxemia! He let the tape drift as he reached for his regulator dial.
_What a fool he was_, he thought, _to starve his lungs_. He turned the
dial to emergency maximum and gulped precious liters of oxygen-helium
mixture. The gauge showed a store of the gas which might possibly be
enough to last him, if nothing else went wrong; perhaps ten minutes.

The pencil flash, mercifully, still rested in a fold of his shoulder
joint fabric. The insulation tape floated near his waist; he grabbed it
and stowed it between his knee and the brace, then reached once again
for the wiring.

This time the splice went on without a hitch. He pinched the splice lug
and taped the whole works feverishly. It was done; he had won. The trip
back should take only a couple of minutes. Replacing the wire cutters in
his kit, he held the pencil flash before him and started retracing his
route.

He passed the twelve o'clock brace, pinned it in place again and saw one
of his tools floating to the right of his head. He gathered it in and
swept his tiny flash around in search of other jetsam from his tool kit.
He collected a wrench and the skittish flashlight, started toward the
last brace between him and the ladder, and felt his legs go limp. He
wasn't particularly alarmed about it; his arms and vision failed him
too, but his brain hadn't enough incoming oxygen to care much, one way
or the other. The few remaining feet seemed to lengthen into a sewerlike
passageway, then vanished as did all else as his perceptions died.
