
Captain Leonard Brown, USAF, hunched over the instruments in the cramped
control cabin which, being the only available space in the ship, doubled
as living quarters. A larger man would have found the arrangement
impossible. Brown, being 5' 2" and weighing 105 pounds found it merely
intolerable.

At the moment he was temporarily able to forget his discomfort, however.
The many tiny dials and indicators told a story all their own to Brown's
trained vision.

"Just another half hour," he whispered to himself. "Just thirty more
minutes and I'll land. It may be just a dead planet but I'll still be
the first."

There really wasn't a great deal for Brown to do. The ship was
self-guided. The Air Force had trusted robot mechanisms more than human
reactions.

Thus Brown's entire active contribution to the flight consisted in
watching the dials (which recorded everything so even watching them was
unnecessary) and in pressing the button which would cause the ship to
start its return journey.

Of course the scientists could have constructed another mechanism to
press the button and made it a completely robot ship. But despite their
frailties and imperfections, human beings have certain advantages.
Humans can talk. Machines may see and detect far more than their human
creators but all they can do is record. They can neither interpret nor
satisfactorily describe.

Brown was present not only to report a human's reactions to the first
Mars flight; he was also along to see that which the machines might
miss.

"We've never satisfactorily defined life," one of his instructors had
told Brown shortly after he started the three grueling years of training
which had been necessary, "so we can't very well build a foolproof
machine for detecting it. That's why we've left room for 105 pounds of
dead weight."

"Meaning me?"

"Meaning you."

"And I'm your foolproof machine for detecting life?"

"Let's say you're the closest we can come to it at present. We're
banking everything on this first trip. It'll be at least eighteen
months later before we can get a second ship into space. So it's up to
you to get everything you can ... some evidence of life, preferably
animal, if possible. With public support it'll be a hell of a lot easier
squeezing appropriations out of Congress for the next ship and to get
public support we need the biggest possible play in the newspapers. If
anything is newsworthy on Mars it should be evidence of life ... even
plant life."

So here he was, 105 pounds of concentrated knowledge and anticipation,
itching with the desire for action and also from more basic causes
having to do with two months confinement in a small space with a minimum
of water.

"Life is most probable at the poles," the instructor had said. "You
won't be able to stay long so we'll try to set you down right at the
South Pole. You won't have room to bring back specimens. So keep your
eyes open and absorb everything you see. Don't forget anything. What you
bring back in your mind weighs nothing."


"It's just sitting there," the observing banks reported, "and the red
flame has gone out."

"Is it safe now?" enquired the speculative bank.

"In what way?"

"Is it safe to go near that thing?"

"It's very huge," ventured the observing banks unasked. There was a stir
of activity which encompassed practically all except the most simple
units and which lasted for perhaps five minutes while the speculative
bank's last question was processed.

Finally the interpretive bank reluctantly admitted, "We can't arrive at
a positive answer. Too many unknown elements are present. We don't know
for sure what caused the flame, when it might start again, or what, if
anything, is inside."

"But you said it was a work of intelligence. Doesn't that mean Rell
would be inside?"

"Not necessarily. They could have constructed the thing to operate
itself."

It was just then that the observing banks reported, "It's opening."

The speculative bank quickly responded, "This is an emergency. We must
be able to observe from close up. We'll have to approach it."

"The entire mind?" enquired the disciplinary corps.

The speculative bank hesitated. "No, we'll need to split up. One-fifth
of us will go, the rest remain here. It's a short distance and we'll
still be able to continue in complete contact."

Those who were to go were quickly sorted out and Raeillo/ee13 was quite
thrilled to find he and Raellu//2 were included in the scouting party.

The group set off briskly toward their objective but had moved hardly
one hundred yards when a vertigo seemed to overtake them. Raeillo/ee13
found himself swimming helplessly in a vortex of darkness and isolation,
blanked off from not only the group-mind and his bank but also from
Raellu//2. Frantically he grasped for some sort of stasis, but
dependence on the group-mind was too ingrained and he was unable to stir
his long-dormant powers of sight and education.

Then the isolation cleared to be replaced by a brief impression of chaos
with perhaps a tinge of alienness. Another instant of vertigo followed
and then everything was normal once more as the comfortable familiar
mesh took hold.

"What was that?" Even the speculative bank sounded frightened.

"Sorry." The usually silent meshing bank sounded abashed. "We weren't
prepared for that. Some sort of thought wave is issuing from the opening
and it disrupted the group mesh till we were able to take it into
calculation and rebuild the mesh around it."

"Thought wave? Then there _are_ Rell in that thing."

"Do not compute before the mesh is set," the interpretive bank
cautioned. "The presence of Rell, while extremely probable, is not yet
entirely certain."

Without waiting for a suggestion from elsewhere the disciplinary group
ordered the entire mind forward.

Perhaps, in time of stress, dormant qualities tend to emerge,
Raeillo/ee13 mused. Certainly everyone, himself included, appeared to be
exercising speculative qualities. Not that specialization isn't a
marvelous blessing, he hastily added, in case the disciplinary corps
might be scanning his bank. But the disciplinary corps itself was as
fascinated by the phenomenon ahead as Raeillo/ee13.

Emerging from the infinitely huge upright thing was a mobile being, also
infinitely huge. Not that they were the same size. The mobile one was
small enough to fit easily through the opening in the lower portion of
the larger. But beyond a certain point words lose meaning and infinitely
huge was the closest measurement the tiny Rell could find for either the
upright pointed thing or the knobby one which had emerged and was
quickly identified as the source of the disrupting thought patterns.
