
Leonard Brown was enjoying himself thoroughly. The inside of a space
suit can scarcely be termed comfortable but at least you can move around
in it and Brown was making the most of this sensation after two months
cramped in his tiny cell. He was, in fact, comporting himself much as a
three-year-old might have done after a similar release.

But before long he settled down to the serious business of observing and
mentally recording everything in sight.

There were none of the mysterious 'canals' in view, which was
disappointing; one piece of glamour the publicity boys would necessarily
forego until the next trip. The ice cap itself, if such it could be
called, was almost equally disappointing. On Earth it would have been
dismissed as a mere frost patch, if this section was typical. For a
radius of many yards the ground was blasted bare by the action of the
exhaust and nowhere in sight did there appear to be more than the
flimsiest covering of white over the brown sandy soil.

"Not even lichens," muttered Brown in disgust.

But disgust cannot long stand against the magic of a fresh new planet
and Brown continued his avid, though barren, search until hunger forced
his return to the ship. He had been able to detect no life and was
completely unaware of his close proximity to the planet's dominant
species. It had been considered neither practical nor particularly
desirable to build a microscope into the space suit. Simplicity and the
least possible weight had been the watchwords here as with everything
designed to go aboard the ship.

In any case, a microscope would have done Brown little good in trying to
detect the submicroscopic beings of the Rell.


The Rell, who had somewhat lost their fear of Brown, hastily retreated
when they saw him returning to the still awesome ship.

"But are you _sure_ he's _completely_ self-powered?" the speculative
bank queried. "No Rell inside him at all?"

"There are many Rell-like beings in various parts of him," replied the
interpretive bank. "Some help digest his food, others are predators, and
still others their enemies. But most are too big and clumsy to have
developed intelligence, and even the small ones appear completely
mindless."

"But where do the thought waves come from? We all felt them."

"It's hard to accept but we are almost forced to conclude they are
emanating from the mobile unit itself, or rather from the living part
within the cocoon."

"You're positive they aren't the product of some of the Rell-beings
inside?"

"Almost positive. The mesh insists not. In fact, it claims this is an
un-Rell like type of intelligence, though that appears to be a
contradiction in terms. The thought pattern is completely outside our
experience. In fact, it is so alien we haven't broken it down yet to the
meaning behind it."

"But if the Rell inside are too large to have developed intelligence,
how could this gigantic monster in which they live have done so?"

"We cannot yet say. Remember, the theory that intelligence cannot
develop in creatures above a certain size is unproven, even though never
before challenged. We've watched other races die through failure to
adapt to change so apparently it is true of Rell-like creatures on this
world. But who can say about organisms on another world or of the
unprecedented size of this one? Completely different physical laws may
apply."

It was later that afternoon after the Rell had spent much time observing
Brown while Brown was busy observing the landscape that the interpretive
bank made the triumphant announcement, "We have it! We've broken the
thought waves down to their meanings and know what he's thinking. What
would you like to know first?"

"Check and see if there are any Rell inside the other thing or on his
home world. They might have constructed him."

"Apparently there are none, or at least no intelligent Rell, on his
world. We can't guide his mind but the memory bank recorded all the
thoughts we've received and some time ago he was thinking of something
he termed 'vermin'. Apparently these are sometimes Rell-like creatures,
although far larger. He regards them as a great nuisance, but mindless.
The big thing, by the way, he calls a 'ship' and it is utterly lifeless.
We needn't fear the flame until this creature leaves."

"What about him? What is he like?"

"That's the most exciting part! He thought of his bodily needs once and
we glimpsed a concept dealing with his physical construction. It's
incredible! His body is composed almost entirely of water ... there's
enough water in him alone to prolong the life of the Rell many ages.
Further, the air in his 'ship' is heavily impregnated with moisture and
he even has reserve supplies of water for his needs."


At this, not only Raeillo/ee13, but all except perhaps the most
responsible units felt a shiver of primitive longing and perhaps even
greed. Not for millennia had there been such a plentitude of water so
close!

"Then can't we appropriate at least part of it?" asked the speculative
bank.

"Unfortunately both the 'man', as he calls himself, and his 'ship' are
sealed so tightly that we could not penetrate either. Worse yet, almost
half his time here is already gone. We don't quite understand his
purpose here. His thoughts seem to say he is searching for Rell for some
unfathomable reason yet he seems to know nothing of the Rell and cannot
even detect us."
