
It was too intense. Part of Ronny wanted to escape and be alone, and
that part withdrew and wanted to play something. Ronny sat in the
grass and played with his toes like a much younger child.

Part of Ronny that was Doctor Revert Purcell sat on the edge of a
prison cot, concentrating on secret unpublished equations of biogenic
stability which he wanted to pass on to the responsible hands of young
researchers in the concealed-research chain. He was using the way of
thinking which they had told him was the telepathic sending of ideas
to anyone ready to receive. It was odd that he himself could never
tell when he was sending. Probably a matter of age. They had started
trying to teach him when he was already too old for anything so
different.

The water tap, four feet away, was dripping steadily, and it was hard
for Purcell to concentrate, so intense was his thirst. He wondered if
he could gather strength to walk that far. He was sitting up and that
was good, but the struggle to raise himself that far had left him
dizzy and trembling. If he tried to stand, the effort would surely
interrupt his transmitting of equations and all the data he had not
sent yet.

Would the man with the keys who looked in the door twice a day care
whether Purcell died with dignity? He was the only audience, and his
expression never changed when Purcell asked him to point out to the
authorities that he was not being given anything to eat. It was funny
to Purcell to find that he wanted the respect of any audience to his
dying, even of a man without response who treated him as if he were
already a corpse.

Perhaps the man would respond if Purcell said, "I have changed my
mind. I will tell."

But if he said that, he would lose his own respect.

At the biochemists' and bio-physicists' convention, the reporter had
asked him if any of his researches could be applied to warfare.

He had answered with no feeling of danger, knowing that what he did
was common practice among research men, sure that it was an
unchallengeable right.

"Some of them can, but those I keep to myself."

The reporter remained dead-pan. "For instance?"

"Well, I have to choose something that won't reveal how it's done now,
but--ah--for example, a way of cheaply mass-producing specific
antitoxins against any germ. It sounds harmless if you don't think
about it, but actually it would make germ warfare the most deadly and
inexpensive weapon yet developed, for it would make it possible to
prevent the backspread of contagion into a country's own troops,
without much expense. There would be hell to pay if anyone ever let
that out." Then he had added, trying to get the reporter to understand
enough to change his cynical unimpressed expression, "You understand,
germs are cheap--there would be a new plague to spread every time
some pipsqueak biologist mutated a new germ. It isn't even expensive
or difficult, as atom bombs are."

The headline was: "Scientist Refuses to Give Secret of Weapon to
Government."
