
Government men came and asked him if this was correct, and on having
it confirmed pointed out that he had an obligation. The research
foundations where he had worked were subsidized by government money.
He had been deferred from military service during his early years of
study and work so he could become a scientist, instead of having to
fight or die on the battlefield.

"This might be so," he had said. "I am making an attempt to serve
mankind by doing as much good and as little damage as possible. If you
don't mind, I'd rather use my own judgment about what constitutes
service."

The statement seemed too blunt the minute he had said it, and he
recognized that it had implications that his judgment was superior to
that of the government. It probably was the most antagonizing thing
that could have been said, but he could see no other possible
statement, for it represented precisely what he thought.

[Illustration]

There were bigger headlines about that interview, and when he
stepped outside his building for lunch the next day, several small
gangs of patriots arrived with the proclaimed purpose of persuading
him to tell. They fought each other for the privilege.

The police had rescued him after he had lost several front teeth and
had one eye badly gouged. They then left him to the care of the prison
doctor in protective custody. Two days later, after having been
questioned several times on his attitude toward revealing the parts of
his research he had kept secret, he was transferred to a place that
looked like a military jail, and left alone. He was not told what his
status was.

When someone came and asked him questions about his attitude, Purcell
felt quite sure that what they were doing to him was illegal. He
stated that he was going on a hunger strike until he was allowed to
have visitors and see a lawyer.

The next time the dinner hour arrived, they gave him nothing to eat.
There had been no food in the cell since, and that was probably two
weeks ago. He was not sure just how long, for during part of the
second week his memory had become garbled. He dimly remembered
something that might have been delirium, which could have lasted more
than one day.

Perhaps the military who wanted the antitoxins for germ warfare were
waiting quietly for him either to talk or die.
