
Ronny got up from the grass and went into the kitchen, stumbling in
his walk like a beginning toddler.

"Choc-mil?" he said to his mother.

She poured him some and teased gently, "What's the matter, Ronny--back
to baby-talk?"

He looked at her with big solemn eyes and drank slowly, not answering.

In the cell somewhere distant, Dr. Purcell, famous biochemist, began
waveringly trying to rise to his feet, unable to remember hunger as
anything separate from him that could ever be ended, but weakly
wanting a glass of water. Ronny could not feed him with the chocolate
milk. Even though this was another himself, the body that was drinking
was not the one that was thirsty.

He wandered out into the backyard again, carrying the glass.

"Bang," he said deceptively, pointing with his hand in case his mother
was looking. "Bang." Everything had to seem usual; he was sure of
that. This was too big a thing, and too private, to tell a grownup.

On the way back from the sink, Dr. Purcell slipped and fell and hit
his head against the edge of the iron cot. Ronny felt the edge gashing
through skin and into bone, and then a relaxing blankness inside his
head, like falling asleep suddenly when they are telling you a fairy
story while you want to stay awake to find out what happened next.

"Bang," said Ronny vaguely, pointing at a tree. "Bang." He was ashamed
because he had fallen down in the cell and hurt his head and become
just Ronny again before he had finished sending out his equations. He
tried to make believe he was alive again, but it didn't work.

You could never make-believe anything to a real good finish. They
never ended neatly--there was always something unfinished, and
something that would go right on after the end.

It would have been nice if the jailers had come in and he had been
able to say something noble to them before dying, to show that he was
brave.

"Bang," he said randomly, pointing his finger at his head, and then
jerked his hand away as if it had burned him. He had become the wrong
person that time. The feel of a bullet jolting the side of his head
was startling and unpleasant, even if not real, and the flash of
someone's vindictive anger and self-pity while pulling a trigger....
_My wife will be sorry she ever...._ He didn't like that kind of
make-believe. It felt unsafe to do it without making up a story first.

Ronny decided to be Indian braves again. They weren't very real, and
when they were, they had simple straightforward emotions about courage
and skill and pride and friendship that he would like.
