
A man was leaning his arms on the fence, watching him. "Nice day."
_What's the matter, kid, are you an esper?_

"Hul-lo." Ronny stood on one foot and watched him. _Just making
believe. I only want to play. They make it too serious, having all
these troubles._

"Good countryside." The man gestured at the back yards, all opened in
together with tangled bushes here and there to crouch behind, when
other kids were there to play hide and seek, and with trees to climb.
_It can be the Universe if you pick and choose who to be, and don't
let wrong choices make you shut off from it. You can make yourself
learn from this if you are strong enough. Who have you been?_

Ronny stood on the other foot and scratched the back of his leg with
his toes. He didn't want to remember. He always forgot right away, but
this grownup was confident and young and strong-looking, and meant
something when he talked, not like most grownups.

"I was playing Indian." _I was an old chief, captured by enemies,
trying to pass on to other warriors the wisdom of my life before I
died._ He made believe he was the chief a little to show the young man
what he was talking about.

"Purcell!" The man drew in his breath between his teeth, and his face
paled. He pulled back from reaching Ronny with his feelings, like
holding his breath in. "Good game." _You can learn from him. Don't
leave him shut off, I beg you. You can let him influence you without
being pulled off your own course. He was a good man. You were honored,
and I envy the man you will be if you contacted him on resonant
similarities._

The grownup looked frightened. _But you are too young. You'll block
him out and lose him. Kids have to grow and learn at their own speed._

Then he looked less afraid, but uncertain, and his thoughts struggled
against each other. _Their own speed. But there should be someone
alive with Purcell's pattern and memories. We loved him. Kids should
grow at their own speed, but.... How strong are you, Ronny? Can you
move ahead of the normal growth pattern?_

Grownups always want you to do something. Ronny stared back, clenching
his hands and moving his feet uneasily.

The thoughts were open to him. _Do you want to be the old chief again,
Ronny? Be him often, so you can learn to know what he knew? (And feel
as he felt. It would be a stiff dose for a kid.) It will be rich and
exciting, full of memories and skills. (But hard to chew. I'm doing
this for Purcell, Ronny, not for you. You have to make up your own
mind.)_

"That was a good game. Are you going to play it any more?"
