
She looked out the window at the 'dozer and crew. Danny Stern was still
waving his arms; the log was almost in place. "George and May Wright
were killed last night. So was Farelli. If George and May had had a
child, the monster would have trampled it too--it went right through
their cabin like cardboard. It isn't fair to bring a baby into--"

Farrel said, "Fair, Mary? Maybe it isn't fair _not_ to have one. _Not_
to bring it into being and give it a chance. Life's always a gamble--"

"_It_ doesn't exist," Mary said. She smiled. "Don't try circumlocution
on me, Doc. I'm not religious. I don't believe that spermatozoa and an
ovum, if not allowed to cuddle up together, add up to murder."

"That isn't what I meant--"

"You were getting around to it--which means you've run out of good
arguments."

"No. I've a few left." Farrel looked at the two stubborn faces: Mary's,
pleasant and pretty, but set as steel; Ralph's, uncomfortable,
thoughtful, but mirroring his definite willingness to follow his wife's
lead.

Farrel cleared his throat. "You know how important it is that this
colony be established? You know that, don't you? In twenty years or so
the ships will start arriving. Hundreds of them. Because we sent a
message back to Earth saying we'd found a habitable planet. Thousands of
people from Earth, coming here to the new world we're supposed to get
busy and carve out for them. We were selected for that task--first of
judging the right planet, then of working it over. Engineers, chemists,
agronomists, all of us--we're the task force. We've got to do the job.
We've got to test, plant, breed, re-balance, create. There'll be a lot
of trial and error. We've got to work out a way of life, so the
thousands who will follow can be introduced safely and painlessly into
the--well, into the organism. And we'll need new blood for the jobs
ahead. We'll need young people--"

Mary said, "A few years one way or the other won't matter much, Doc.
Five or six years from now this place will be a lot safer. Then we women
will start producing. But not now."

"It won't work that way," Farrel said. "We're none of us kids any
longer. I'm fifty-five. Ralph, you're forty-three. I realize that I must
be getting old to think of you as young. Mary, you're thirty-seven. We
took a long time getting here. Fourteen years. We left an Earth that's
dying of radioactive poisoning, and we all got a mild dose of that. The
radiation we absorbed in space, little as it was, didn't help any. And
that sun up there--" again he nodded at the port--"isn't any help
either. Periodically it throws off some pretty damned funny stuff.

"Frankly, we're worried. We don't know whether or not we _can_ have
children. Or _normal_ children. We've got to find out. If our genes have
been bollixed up, we've got to find out why and how and get to work on
it immediately. It may be unpleasant. It may be heart-breaking. But
those who will come here in twenty years will have absorbed much more of
Earth's radioactivity than we did, and an equal amount of the space
stuff, and this sun will be waiting for them.... We'll have to know what
we can do for them."

"I'm not a walking laboratory, Doc," Mary said.

"I'm afraid you are, Mary. All of you are."

Mary set her lips and stared out the port.

"It's got to be done, Mary."

She didn't answer.

"It's going to be done."

"Choose someone else," she said.

"That's what they all say."

She said, "I guess this is one thing you doctors and psychologists
didn't figure on, Doc."

"Not at first," Farrel said. "But we've given it some thought."

MacGuire had installed the button convenient to Farrel's right hand,
just below the level of the desk-top. Farrel pressed it. Ralph and Mary
Pornsen slumped in their chairs. The door opened, and Doctor John J.
MacGuire and Ted Harris, the Exodus VII's chief psychologist, came in.
