
Forell’s exhibition was done as Finley reached his ship and started
strapping his parachute around the back of his thighs. As he snapped
the shoulder and crotch straps together at his waist, his placid blue
eyes swept the mechanic.

“If anybody’s got any insurance they want to collect, come on and take
a ride,” he said with a grin. “Draw a chute, and hop in.”

The men glanced at each other beneath bent heads.

“I got to fix up Sixty-nine right away, sir,” the chief said awkwardly,
and the crew men had excuses.

Finley nodded. He was not surprized. Nevertheless, the lines were a bit
deeper, from nostrils to mouth, and his mouth a little thinner, as he
climbed up on the trailing edge of the left wing, and worked himself
ahead to the pilot’s cockpit.

The Larkin was a two-motored bomber, one motor set on each lower wing,
just far enough from the pilot’s cockpit to allow the propellers to
rotate. As it was, the tips of the big six-foot sticks almost grazed
the cowling of the compartment, which jutted forth in front of the
wings. It was a four-ton ship, with a wingspread of more than eighty
feet. Two years before it had been king of its kind; now it was
obsolete.

Finley’s hand dropped to the two throttles alongside his seat, and in a
second the left-hand Liberty was turning up fifteen hundred as his eyes
swept the instruments. Then the-right hand motor went into full cry,
and his eyes read the tale of the needles before him.

He nodded to the crew men, and after they had pulled the wheelblocks he
turned the ship on a dime by giving the right motor full gun. The aged
Larkin swept around to the left and, as it faced the field, Finley cut
the throttle.

Kink Forell was about to land, but he was coming down toward the
northern edge of the field in a nose dive. Fifty feet above the trees
the scout swept upward, and on its back. As it came swooping out of the
loop its under-carriage seemed to graze the trees. It zoomed upward,
banking as it rose, until it hung in the sky with idling motor, left
wing pointed at the ground. It dropped almost straight downward in a
vertical side-slip, straightening just above the ground.

It skidded wildly from side to side as Forell fishtailed it, and landed
lightly on three points.

“Landing out of a loop,” thought Finley. “He’ll get bawled out for
that, but he won’t mind.”

He could see the Kink now as he came up to the group of distinguished
guests to receive congratulations. Tall and slim and smiling, the sun
glinting from his red hair, he’d laughingly deprecate the compliments
which he loved so well.

Finley taxied out, turned his ship and shoved both throttles ahead. He
leaned against the wheel, and got the nose down as the Larkin bumped
massively along the ground. As he eased it off the ground, however, it
suddenly became easy to fly-- the controls answered the mere hint of
pressure on the wheel.

Finley’s square face was set and his eyes abstracted, as he circled the
field for altitude. There was no doubt that most of the men on the
field suddenly lost their wild desire to take a flight when it was
Finley who invited them. Perhaps it was accidental, but--

Of course, he had had a streak of bad luck lately. Four wrecks, as a
matter of fact, in a little more than a month. It was just a run of
accidents, of course. On that forced landing the wheels had hit a log
and the ship turned over. Another time, one of those ---- reversible
pitch propellers had suddenly gone into its negative position ten feet
above the ground and snapped the nose down. The other crashes had been
right on the field--bad air currents. When a man got into a run of luck
of that kind he’d crash into an oasis with the whole Sahara desert to
land on.

Perhaps that was the reason for his flying assignments, too. Like this
Larkin, for instance. When the Larkin was a brand-new wonder he had
been chief test pilot. In fact, he had been responsible for setting
those motors on the wings themselves. They had been trussed up between
upper and lower wings then. Five miles an hour more speed and greater
ease of handling had been the results of that suggestion. That was the
sort of stuff Kink Forell could do. He’d be even better with more
experience.

Suddenly Finley’s mouth widened in a wintry grin. When he and this
Larkin had taken their first flight they had been kings, with a
thousand people watching admiringly. Now they were limping through the
sky--a couple of has-beens.

It was starting to darken a little. The sun was down, and it was time
to land. He eased the great ship down over the trees and leveled off
with both motors cut to idling. It was slowing, now. Time to pull back
on the wheel.

As he pulled the wheel back the ship settled. But, as it dropped, there
was no contact with the earth. Finley, suddenly tense, felt the
sickening rush downward. It was a full ten feet before the wheels found
the earth, and there was a crash as the huge plane staggered back into
the air. His hand found the throttles in a split second, and the
Libertys were roaring. The ship settled again, and he fought it off the
ground for a taut ten seconds. Gradually it picked up flying speed, and
then he dared to look back.

A crumpled wheel marked the spot where he had hit. Doubtlessly the rest
of the under-carriage was an ugly mess of splintered struts and a
crushed wheel.

There was wild excitement on the line as the Larkin thundered low
across the field. They were pointing, jumping up and down, pointing to
the under-carriages of other ships. The Larkin was vibrating so that
Finley himself was bounced from his seat, at times, against his loose
belt. The wreck of the under-carriage had weakened the basic
spar-structure of the entire ship.

“Do they think I’m a ---- fool?” Finley raged suddenly, and the
fingernails of his free hand dug into the flesh.

“Steady, now,” he advised himself, and throttled the wild uprising
within him.

There was but one thing to do. He couldn’t land four tons at fifty
miles an hour, without wheels. And the Larkin wasn’t worth saving,
anyhow.

It was so left-wing heavy now that it took all the strength in Finley’s
powerful shoulders to keep it on an level keel, and the vibration was
so terrific that he could see the wing tips oscillate. The
thousand-pound motors seemed to be striving to tear themselves loose,
and each landing and flying wire gave an illusion of being a dozen.

If only the old hulk would hang together for five minutes! That would
get him over the vast expanse of Wilbur Wright Field, seven miles
north. He circled houses and avoided traveled roads as he fought
desperately to keep his stricken ship in the air. It was weakening
fast. At any moment it was liable to tear itself apart. He must not let
it fall in a thickly settled section.

As he reached the edge of the vast airdrome, seven miles outside of
Dayton, it was impossible to keep the left wing up at all. The Larkin
was like a bird with a broken wing, falling sidewise.

He unstrapped his belt, holding to the wheel as he tried to keep the
nose up. Facing the rear of the ship, one hand on the wheel behind him,
he gathered himself.

To slip would be fatal now. Those two propellers were like buzz-saws
and should he be thrown into either of them he would be carved up as
butter by a knife.

One foot was on the seat. Directly ahead of him was the bomb
compartment, its top three feet below the upper wing, even with the
back of his seat. Eight long feet away was the observer’s cockpit, a
round hole in the wide fuselage.

Using one leg as propelling force, he loosed his grasp on the wheel and
hurled himself forward, sliding on his stomach across the bomb
compartment. Instantly the great bomber fell into a whirling spin. He
was being hurled off his perch as his hands found the cowling around
the cockpit, and he hung there desperately, dragging himself forward.

The spin was terrific now, due to the wingheaviness, and four tons were
screwing earthward in a hell of shrieking wires. He fought to one knee,
then got one foot on the fuselage.

Just as one hand found the ripcord ring he was hurled from his ship
like a drop of water flung from a speeding wheel. An uncontrollable,
strangled cry of fear escaped him as he found himself in space with a
pack which was supposed to open on his back.

He fell end over end as he forced himself to count a full, slow five.
His brain was numb, but the one idea which gripped him was that he must
avoid that ship.

He jerked the ripcord, and with a sob of relief felt the little pilot
chute snap out. The next second it had pulled the folds of glistening
silk from the bag, and his body was jerked double as the shoulder
springs rose.

His waist was sore as a boil as he swung in sickening arcs below the
chute. Sometimes he was even with it. As the pendulum-like rushes
through the air slackened, a great ball of fire burst from the ground.

The Larkin had made its last flight.

He was nearing the ground now, and it seemed to be coming up to meet
him with ever-increasing speed. Fifteen feet a second, that was the
speed of the drop, but now, less than a hundred feet high, it seemed
terrific. He was close to the hangars, too, but he’d hit the ground
before he was blown against them.

His hands grasped the shroudlines which ran from the harness to the
edges of the big silk umbrella, and he loosened his muscles. As he hit
the ground he pulled his body upward, and bent his knees like a man who
lands from a jump.

He snapped off his harness before the breeze could drag him, and had
the billowing silk in hand as Captain Adams puffed up to him.

“What happened?” gurgled the captain. “Or do you always come down that
way?”

Finley wet his lips with his tongue. Seemed as if he did always come
down that way, at that.

“Wiped the under-carriage off at McCook,” he drawled equably. “There’s
a ship landing to bring me home right now, I guess. Will you have the
boys clean up the fire?”

“Sure. Want a drink?”

He did, but he shook his head. Somehow he wanted to escape before the
other officers at Wilbur Wright gathered around to ask questions.

“That’s Dick Redding, I think, after me.”

He walked out to meet the McCook ship, and Redding, who had succeeded
Finley as chief test pilot, motioned to the rear cockpit. As Finley got
in, Redding threw a “Glad you got out all right!” over his shoulder,
and took off without delay.
