
As they walked side by side, back at McCook, from the line to the
flying office Finley could barely restrain himself from bursting into
wild self-condemnation. Why was wiry, weatherbeaten little Redding so
quiet? Finley wondered as he threw cheerful answers to the questions
which bombarded him from mechanics.

“Well,” Redding said finally, “The Larkin’s not much loss, at that. She
was due.”

“Uh-huh. But I ought to be given twenty kicks in the pants and the
booby prize! Thinking about everything else but flying! When that
pocket hit me I was in dreamland.”

They were going up the steps, and as they approached the door of the
office some one was talking as if he were laying down the law.

“--kill himself, I tell you! There’s something the matter with him!
Why, how in ---- could--”

Redding fairly threw himself in front of Finley, and pushed the door
open. Sudden silence fell over the four flyers who were lounging around
on the desks.

“Got out without a scratch, eh?” queried fat, blond “Brad” Sparks.
“Well, you can’t kick!”

Kink Forell’s loud laugh rang out.

“Let’s see, Finley, this makes you a German ace, doesn’t it? You’ve
brought down five American ships within a month.”

“That’s nothing,” Redding slid in. “I once--”

“---- if you haven’t got the world’s record for short landings!” The
vibrant youngster went on loudly. “When you land a ship, it doesn’t
roll a foot!”

Finley despised himself for the inclination he had to answer the cocky
Forell in blazing words. It was hard to control himself.

“Sort of hard on wheels, though, my method is,” he said slowly, a set
smile on his face.

“Prettiest landing I ever saw!” gibed Forell, hard mockery in his eyes.
“Perfect dive, great leveling off, tail skid down just as she was
losing speed--ten feet in the air! Boy! What a darb that one was! I
never--”

“Shut up, Kink!” snapped Redding. “Come on Jim, let’s get the report
out of the way and shoot it over!”

“Why don’t you issue muzzles along with helmets around here?” snapped
Forell, his eyes flashing his resentment at the curt command. “I
suppose I hurt the poor old boy’s feelings, eh? I’m sorry, papa, if I
caused any tears.”

“Are you going to talk all day, for ----’s sake?” exploded Redding.
“For the love of Mike get out of here until this report’s fixed up,
will you?”

“No. I’m not ready yet. Listen, Finley, though, on the level. You ought
to get out of this flying game. You get old young in this racket, and
you’ll kill yourself before you know it. I’ll bet the flight surgeon’d
find more things wrong with your eyes than--”

“Oh, ----,” breathed big Franklin wearily. He darted a look at Finley,
who was seated at the desk. “Say, Kink, I need a little advice, too.
Have you any suggestions to make as to how I can improve my
cross-country?”

“---- if you don’t need some, at that!” the youngster shot back
nastily. “You get lost enough. Well, so long. I’m going to town. Better
take my tip, papa, on the doc.”

He slammed the door after him. Brad Sparks’ round, good-natured face
wore a frown as he remarked--

“In just about six months the Kink’s going to know so much that he
won’t be worth a single, solitary ----!”

As Finley took up the pen, the labored conversation of the others
reached his brain without making sense, as the knowledge smote him that
they were trying to avoid hurting his feelings, and were sore at Kink
for that reason. He, Jim Finley, who’d been flying bamboo kites-before
they’d ever seen a plane, and was leading flights of bomb-laden
Capronis across the mountains when they thought a ninety horsepower
Jenny was the only airplane in the world! They didn’t kid him-- didn’t
kid him when the favorite trophy of McCook Field was an elaborate
bronze shield whereon were engraved, with great pomp and ceremony, the
names of the men who pulled really classic bones!

----, they were sorry for him!

He got very drunk that night with Frankie DeShields, a jovial airman
whose firm belief it was that any landing from which one emerged alive
was a good landing, and that there were no good flyers dead nor poor
ones alive.

Finley’s head was throbbing dully next morning as he went through
reports listlessly. It was ten o’clock when the telephone rang. He
stiffened as he recognized the voice which reached his ears.

“Jim? Major Carrol, Jim. How about dropping over right away for your
six hundred and nine?”

“Why, doc, I just had my semi-annual three months ago. It’s not due
until--”

“I know it, but we’re getting at ’em early this time to ease the rush.
Come right over, eh? Good.”

There was a curious constriction around his heart as he walked to the
hospital. He wondered whether the doctor thought he’d fallen for that
stuff about starting the regular physical examinations earlier? Why in
---- couldn’t anybody around the field come out in the open, and say
what they had to say, with no bones about it?

The spry, scrawny little medico kept up the bluff, though, and filled
out long questionnaires and put the big flyer through the revolving
chair and went over his scarred body from feet to ears. Finley,
outwardly placid, felt the growing tautness of every nerve within him.
Why bother with all this junk? Why not get to the most important item
at once, instead of stalking around?

“All O.K.!” the chipper little doctor said cheerily. His eyes were
glinting behind his sparkling glasses. “Now we’ll take a peek at the
eyes, and we’ll be through.”

In a moment Finley had the end of two twenty-foot strings in his hands,
attached to two small, movable uprights which ran on runners in a
lighted box on the wall. Straining his eyes to the utmost, he strove to
adjust those small sticks until they were side by side. The major,
silent and intent, made him do it three times, and then set him to
peering through special lenses and trying to adjust them until a line
of light cut the center of an electric bulb squarely. He peered through
a stereoscope, and picked out different shades of pink and red from a
collection of colored yarns. Finally, he was in front of the vision
chart.

His eyes watered with the effort he made to read the twenty-twenty
line, and there was perspiration on his forehead as he tried to pick
out letter after letter from that blurred mass. He was weak as a kitten
when he followed the major into the office.

The kindly medical man settled himself behind his desk.

“Jim, I’ve got to take you off flying.”

Finley’s tongue licked his parched lips as he stared at the major, like
a man paralyzed.

“Your vision is way below normal--possibly due to overstrain--and more
important still, your muscle balance is out of plumb. Your stereoscopic
vision is imperfect. It may be curable with rest, or it may be simply
the natural result of growing a little older. Anyhow, I must take you
off.”

“But, doc, can’t you get a waiver from Washington? Once before--”

“In that case, Jim, I couldn’t recommend it. You can fly as an
observer, of course.” Finley took the blow standing up.

“Sure. I won’t lose--any pay.”

He could scarcely comprehend the full meaning of what had happened as
he walked slowly to the mess-hall. He was numb, somehow, mind and body.
As the babble of voices from within reached him he gathered himself,
and forced himself to lounge in and nod smilingly to a couple of
visiting flyers. When he settled himself at the long table which the
test pilots gathered around, he saw the unspoken question in the eyes
of Redding, Sparks and the others.

“Well,” he drawled. “You boys seem to be eating with a corpse.”

“Huh?” barked Redding.

“Just saw the doc,” Finley went on, his eyes busy with his plate as he
shook three times as much salt on it as he wanted. “It seems that my
dandruff is gradually making me just a shell of my former self, and the
left tonsil, I believe, is about to explode. And my halitosis--why,
it’s a wonder I’m alive!”

“What happened?” demanded Brad Sparks, looking squarely into Finley’s
eyes.

“I’m taken off flying,” Finley said calmly.

“I told you so!”

It was Kink Forell, just taking his seat.

“So you took my tip, eh? I knew it was the thing to do. You’d of killed
yourself in another week. You get old young in this game!”

Finley’s brows knit. ---- the weakness which made him bridle at every
cocky word of Forell’s. The red-head had his goat. Just then his words
had been a crow of triumph, Finley thought, because he, Forell, had
called the turn.

“I wish to ---- you’d get old enough soon to keep your mouth shut once
in a while,” Fairbanks told him levelly, but the Kink did not resent
it. He was in high good humor.

“Conversation,” he said airily, “is the spice of a meal.”

Finley went through his office work mechanically that afternoon, and at
four o’clock he was through. He got up from his desk wearily, lighted a
cigaret and stared out of the window at the flying field. The Kink was
testing a new monoplane pursuit job. The trim, shining little plane was
cavorting madly through the sky, like a dragon-fly at play. It
frolicked among the silvery, cumulous clouds, and as it darted in and
out, hung on its back and dived furiously in joyous exuberance, Finley
suddenly sat down at his desk again. His eyes were still staring
unseeingly out of the window.

For a moment his mouth worked, then was still. He leaned on the desk.
At thirty-five he was a discard in the flying deck--an outcast from the
kingdom he had helped to build, part of which he had ruled.

“And now, gentlemen, I want to introduce undoubtedly the greatest
big-ship pilot in America.”

His head dropped to his folded arms. That afternoon was his Gethsemane,
and he got very drunk again that night.
