
As the weeks passed his tranquil exterior was not entirely assumed. It
wasn’t as bad as he had thought, and the ache within him became only a
dull one. Dick Redding took over the big-ship work after Brad Sparks
was killed, and Finley was always a passenger on test flights. His
judgment of performance, and analysis of it, was as accurate as ever,
which helped his self-esteem. It warded off the time when the ground
would be his exclusive habitat, and the work of the air would go
completely past him.

Nevertheless, the pride of the pilot, which passeth all understanding,
was strong within him, and there was no earthly eminence which could
replace what he had lost.

And Kink Forell never missed an opportunity to remind him of what he
had lost. The Kink was going wild. His callous kidding of Finley,
unrelieved by any undercurrent of humorous raillery, had crystallized
the growing weariness of the little group of flyers with Forell and all
his works. The brilliant youngster sensed the change in feeling toward
him, and something indomitable in him made him deliberately pursue the
course which had caused it.

He received no more casual compliments about a particularly skillful
bit of work, so he went wild trying to force them from the taciturn
airmen. His flying brought frequent gasps from even the old-timers, and
scarcely a day passed, toward the end of the month, when Forell’s
matchless airmanship was not a topic of conversation--when he was not
around.

Finley’s animosity toward him grew in strength. That the Kink was like
an annoying hornet, buzzing around him constantly in an endeavor to
sting him, was not important. Forell grew to blame Finley for his
ostracism, and never missed an opportunity to get in a dig. That didn’t
matter. A fat-headed young fool like Forell couldn’t affect Finley’s
peace of mind for a moment.

Rather, the older man’s dislike was the result of his utter contempt
for Forell’s blind insanity. There was a bird with a brilliant future,
he reflected a thousand times, who was throwing away his chances for an
ideal life, through sheer egotism. A born aerial engineer, a flying
genius, young, handsome, loving his work--why, the Kink could be one of
the biggest men in the service, and an asset to it.

But because he was a stubborn, unbearably conceited brat, a year or so
would see him dead, or an outcast, unless he mended his ways. Never had
he been so cocky and domineering, nor his tongue so nasty, as now, when
the dislike of his fellow-pilots was something tangible in the very
atmosphere.

But he was showing the strain, Finley observed when he met him one
Saturday morning in the adjutant’s office. The Kink’s lean face was
thinner, he was somewhat pale, and there was an unhealthy glitter in
his eyes as he said--

“What are you doing here?”

“Got to see the major at ten.”

“That’s funny as ----! So’ve I! What does he want with the two of us?”

“You go in together,” the adjutant informed them. “Shoot!”

The C.O. was standing behind his desk, a paper in his hands.

“Morning, gentlemen. Get ready to take off in a Briston as soon as you
can pack a bag,” he said crisply. “The reserve squadron down at
Nashville are dedicating a hangar they’ve built on some lot they’ve
leased for a flying field. They’re getting a couple of Jennies to get
in flying practise on. There’s a banquet tonight. Forell, you give ’em
a flying exhibition this afternoon. Finley, they want you for a speech
at the banquet tonight. Don’t go crazy, Forell--just give ’em a little
show.

“Better start right away. It’s a two hour and a half trip. You’ll be
put up down there. If you’re having a good time, you needn’t come back
until Monday morning.

“Good luck. That’s all.”

“Boy, this’ll be fun!” Forell chuckled jubilantly as they went out.
“Ever been in Nashville? They sure have good-looking Janes there, and
we’ll be cocks of the walk. You’re not too old to like the women, are
you?”

“How soon can you be ready?” demanded Finley. “I’ll be set in half an
hour.”

“Me too. Let’s hope you don’t crash as a speechmaker, anyhow! I do the
flying and you tell ’em how, eh?”

“See you in half an hour.”

They took off promptly in the trim observation plane. It was of
duralumin construction, and capable of any kind of acrobatic work. It
could do a hundred and fifty miles an hour on the level, and
represented the last word in a two-seated fighting plane.

Finley, like all pilots, was uncomfortable without his own hand at the
stick, but Forell was not called on to meet any emergencies as they
roared down the Big Miami to its junction with the Ohio, thence down
that majestically muddy stream to a point above Louisville where they
cut southwest across the Kentucky mountains until they hit the
Louisville-Nashville railroad. From there it was but a half-hour run
across the brooding, wooded hills to their destination.
