
Tom stopped beside Bart on the narrow strip of red sand at the edge of
the vast blue plain of smooth water. The water came right up to their
feet without movement, just small ripples that lapped the red sand. The
air was clean and brisk, and the wind was soft on his cheek.

Bart arched his thick chest and pulled in a great lung full of air.
"This is wonderful. Makes a man feel alive again." He yanked the
zipper on his coveralls and pulled them off. Then he jumped in the air,
swinging his thick arms.

Tom grinned at the calisthenics as he peeled off his own coveralls. The
sun was warm on his bare white skin.

Bart had pulled off his boots and with just his shorts left, charged
into the water, and made a flat smashing dive. He leaped and splashed
the water like a porpoise.

Tom grinned at him, and just as he had done during most of his boyhood
on Earth, took a gulp of air and dived down into the clear silent
depths to the twenty foot deep bottom. He drifted slowly among the
rocks. Bart drifted beside him as the seconds ticked by. Tom wished
this was Earth and there were some fish to hunt in the clear water with
a three pronged spear. Then, as his lungs seemed bursting and he had
to have air, he put his feet against the bottom and shoved himself to
the surface. Several seconds later, Bart burst through the surface and
bobbed beside him. They floated until they got their wind back.

"You don't use a suit and oxygen tanks," Bart said. "You couldn't stay
under two seconds if you did."

"I learned to hunt as a boy," Tom said. "I even had to make my own
spear out of scraps. Kids don't have the credits for suits and stuff."

"No sport to it with a suit," Bart said, as they paddled lazily along
with their heads up, toward shore. "As bad as hunting animals with
rifles. They killed off all the animals with guns, now they're fishing
out the seas with suits."

"Yeah," Tom answered, "might as well buy the fish from the hatcheries
as to go after them with a portable sub."

They dived under, and worked their way along the bottom toward shore,
coming up for air, then diving again, until they were back to the beach.

They walked out and dropped on the sand to rest, the sun warm on them.

"Notice the water?" Tom asked.

"Yeah," Bart said, "no waves. Calm as hell. Can't be waves without a
moon to pull them."

"Doesn't seem to be as salty as the seas at home, either," Tom said.

"Yeah, I noticed that too. Must not be as much salt in the ground as at
home."

"Could be it's a young planet that hasn't had much time to wash it out
of the ground, too," Tom said.

They rested in silence for a few minutes, the only sound all about them
was the wind blowing across the empty land.

Then Bart jumped to his feet and started pulling on his clothes. "Come
on, Tom," he said, "Let's take a look around while it's still light."

After they dressed, Bart led the way along the strip of red sand
towards the ridge. The tangled mass of yellow-green vegetation grew
right down to the strip of red sand, and in some places, grew right
over it to stop at the sea.

"I'll be darned," Tom said, stopping at the edge of the plants. The
ferns covered the ground solidly; small ones, medium ones, big ones. He
crashed back into the thicker growth and kicked some of it aside with
his boot. The cloud of dust choked him for a minute.

Bart came crashing in to Tom. "What you got?"

"Look," Tom said. "All these dead ferns underneath, then just the
sand. They haven't decayed." He searched under the dead growth. "The
dead ones just fall down underneath and the live ones just grow on
top. There's not only no life here, but no decay either. Just ferns. I
wonder if Willie was right."

"Don't ask me," Bart said. "Come on, let's look from that ridge."

They followed the sand around the impassable vegetation to the
ridge and scrambled a little way up the barren red rocks. As far as
they could see over the flat land, it was covered with the sickly
yellow-green of the ferns.

They looked out and rested, then noting the sun was getting close
to the horizon, they made their way back to the huge grey splotched
aluminum hulk of their ship.

As Tom was about to follow Bart up the ladder, he noticed a solitary
figure sitting at the edge of the sea.

"Hey, Willie," he hollered, "Come to chow." His voice echoed in the
quiet. The figure waved and Tom turned back to join him. He sat down on
a small boulder near where Willie was sitting and lit his tiny pipe.

Willie was sitting leaning back against a rock, and gazing dreamily out
to sea. He didn't notice Tom.

"Hey, Willie," Tom said, puffing on his pipe.

Willie started and turned to Tom. "Oh, hi, Tom. I didn't know you'd
come out."

"You wouldn't," Tom laughed, "not in that daydream. Thinking of some
gal back home?"

"No, just thinking," Willie said. "Find anything interesting?"

"Just a lot of rock and ferns," he answered.

"Notice how the dead plants just pack under and don't decay?" Willie
asked.

"Yeah," Tom puffed his pipe. "Looks like your idea of seeds drifting
through space is as good as any to explain it. Sure is an odd place.
Full grown plants, but no decay and no sign of evolution."

"This is a wonderful place," Willie said as he leaned back against the
rock. "I'd like to stay here for ten years."

"Why?" Tom asked. The red of the sunset was fading from the high
clouds, turning them dark grey.

"Because it's so quiet." Willie smiled at him. "This is the quietest
place I've ever been in. Does something to you."

"You should have been a colonist," Tom said, "then you could live on a
place like this and farm it."

"I'm going to, someday," Willie answered. "I'm saving my pay to buy a
charter and I'm going to buy a place like this."

Tom blew out a cloud of smoke. Seems like every guy working on crowded
Earth had the same dream. A little farm on a distant planet. But few
of them ever did anything about it. It was a nice dream to relieve the
monotony of working, but a hell of a lot of hard work if you actually
did it.

"I've even got seeds I saved when I was working on the truck farms of
the West," Willie talked on, more to himself than Tom, "I saved them
from some of the biggest and heaviest producing plants. I've got
tomatoes, beans, corn, squash. They'll make a fine beginning."

Tom thought of Willie leaving the safety and comfort of living that
was found only in the crowded cities of Earth. "Think you'd like the
loneliness of farming?" he asked.

Willie spoke with conviction. "There's nothing I'd like more. That's
why I started star mapping, to get out of the mobs. That's why I'm out
here."

"Dinner's on," Pudge called from the ship.

Tom knocked the ashes out of his pipe. "Let's eat." He led the way to
the ship.
