
The meal was eaten in an appreciative silence, for Pudge had spread a
feast of celebration. When the last of the unaccustomed delicacies was
gone, they pushed their plates away.

"Boy," Bart grunted out as he lit his pipe, "I haven't eaten like that
since the last time I was hunting. Say, Tom, what say you and I go
fishing on the Florida coast when we get back. We can get a fish a day
down there."

"We'll do that," Tom said without conviction. He knew when they got
back they would go their different ways in the eternal quest of
spacemen back home.

"I'm due to get a bigger ship when I get back," Bart said expansively,
"and I'm sure going to have Pudge for my cook. How about you, Tom?
You're due to step up, now. Want to be my navigator?"

"Sure," Tom said, surprised.

"We'll really do some star mapping," Bart said. "With a bigger and
newer ship, we can go clear to the end of the galaxy. Who knows what
we'll find for the Astral Service."

"What about me?" Willie said. "Am I going to be retired as your First
Mate?"

Tom looked at Willie, he had almost forgotten Willie was there because
he was so quiet. Willie was trying to look bright and happy, but even
through the happy haze, Tom could see he looked tired and depressed.
The wine hadn't done a thing for him, and his dinner was only half
eaten.

Bart had looked down at his plate, frowning, at Willie's question. He
knocked out the ashes of his pipe and tossed it on the table. He looked
Willie squarely in the eye. "I was going to save it until we got back,
but since you asked, I'll give it to you straight. Willie, I'm sending
you back for a check-up when we get in. You can't seem to do a darn
thing anymore, without having somebody doublecheck it. Tom and I have
had to navigate the ship most of this trip, when you were supposed to
do it. There's no place out here for a man that can't do his job. It
puts too much on the others. I think you need a long rest or something."

Willie sat there, his face white, blinking his eyes rapidly. Then he
lurched to the door, his chair spinning behind him. Pudge got up and
went to the galley.

"What the hell did you do that for?" Tom asked Bart. "Why didn't you
kid him along and give it to him easy when we got back. It would have
been easier on his feelings."

"That's not my way," Bart said. "He asked me and I gave it to him
straight. He's no good out here anymore. In fact, he's dangerous. If
something should come up that needs quick action, we'd all be wiped out
by the time he called me."

"Okay," Tom said. "It was honest, and it was truthful. But it sure as
hell hurt him. I'm going to see him and try to ease it over."

"You'll be a good first mate, Tom," Bart said. "But don't baby the crew
too much. They've either got it or they haven't."

Tom went down the narrow passageway to Willie's cabin and knocked on
the door. When he didn't get an answer, he opened the door. Willie was
lying on his bunk with his face to the wall. He didn't move as Tom sat
in the chair.

"Hey, Willie," Tom said. "You got company. I come in to shoot the
breeze with you."

Willie turned over reluctantly. "I'm sorry, Tom. I hate Bart's guts.
He's always so goddam right." Willie clasped his hands behind his head
on the pillow, and stared at the ceiling. "He'll wash me out of this
job and then what will I do? I've failed at everything else I've tried
to do. It's the people, Tom. I can't do anything in front of people.
What am I going to do when they ground me? I can't stand the crowds of
people on Earth." He rolled over against the wall.

Tom worked his big knuckled long fingers together. "Maybe it won't
amount to anything. The brass will just put you on another ship."

"Not if he puts in that report," Willie said, his voice muffled
against the wall.

Tom sat there. There was nothing more to say. Willie was right. "Well,
I'll see you on the morning." He got up. "Maybe we can go for a hike or
something." When Willie didn't answer, he went out and carefully shut
the door behind him.

In his own bunk, he tried to think of something else, but the problem
of Willie bothered him for a long, restless time. Then it was morning
and the clock was chiming.

Pudge came in to the table where Tom and Bart were waiting for
breakfast. "Some one's been in the stores. A couple of cases of
emergency rations are missing. It must have been in the night."

"What the hell," Bart said, jumping up. "In the stores?"

"Where's Willie?" Tom said, getting up.

"Who cares," Bart said. "There's no one on this planet but us. Who'd
get into our stores? Or what?"

"That's what I mean," Tom said angrily. "Where's Willie?"

Bart gave him a startled glance, then led the way to Willie's cabin. He
wasn't there. They went through the ship. They dropped out of the lock,
one after the other, into the blinding sunlight and looked around.
Willie was gone.

"We'd better find him before he gets too far," Tom said. "I've got a
hunch he's not coming back. That's why the food."

"I'll wring the little coward's neck," Bart said as he led the way
along the one trail of footprints they had all made to the sand by the
sea. They scattered out, calling and looking. Tom, on a hunch, headed
for the shoulder of the mountain that jutted out in the sea, while
Bart and Pudge went the other way.
