
The sun was high in the clear blue sky when Tom at last came around the
point to the little cove a stream had made in the side of the mountain.
He walked up the narrow sandy bank between the red cliffs until a short
way in, he found the cases of food and a pile of blankets. His yell
echoed off the red cliffs several times before he looked up to see
Willie standing on top of the cliff twenty feet above him.

"Come on back to the ship, Willie," Tom called as though Willie was
just out for a walk. "We're going to blast off this afternoon. Got to
head home."

"I'm not coming back," Willie said. "I'm staying here."

"Be reasonable," Tom shouted, "you can't stay here. Come on back to the
ship."

"I'm going to live here. I'm going to colonize," Willie said.

"What?" Tom's voice was unbelieving.

"I'm going to live here," Willie repeated. "Tom, give me your word you
won't force me to go back and I'll come down so we can talk."

"O.K.," Tom said, "you have my word."

"Bart isn't around, is he?" Willie slid down the cliff in a shower of
loose rock and dirt.

"You can't stay here, Willie," Tom began, "how are you going to live,
to eat?"

"I've got my seeds," Willie said dreamily. "I'll have a real farm." He
waved vaguely at the ferns. "Look at the stuff grow. The climate is
ideal. I'll build a hut and farm enough to eat."

"Willie," Tom said, trying another angle. "There are no other people
here. What'll you do if you get sick or need help?"

"I won't get sick and I won't need help," Willie said. "That's why
I want to stay here, 'cause there aren't any people. I can have a
thousand acres all to myself. I can stake out a whole square mile and
live right in the middle of it." He laughed like a little kid. "Tom,
this is what I've wanted all my life. Why should I go back to Earth and
then try to come back later, I'm staying here, now."

Tom had the feeling he was trying to argue with an ostrich with its
head in the sand. What would Willie do for food if his crops failed
when the emergency rations were gone? Willie was gambling his life for
a dream, but he didn't know it. Willie saw only what he wanted to see,
disregarding everything else. Arguing was useless. The only way they
could get Willie back aboard was to carry him back.

"Well, okay, Willie," Tom said. "I'll go back and tell Bart. But I'll
get him to hold the ship until tomorrow if you should change your mind."

"I won't," Willie said. "So long, Tom." He held out his hand. "You've
been a swell guy."

Tom took the hand and shook it.

"So long, Willie. I'll be back someday, to see how you're making out."
He started back down the narrow beach. Along the way, he decided
that they would have to catch Willie and take him back to Earth for
hospitalization. Coming back with Bart wouldn't be breaking his word.
That had only been for the time he had talked to Willie.

Bart heard Tom's report in his usual way. "Let's go," was his only
comment.

They climbed up the crumbling red rock and followed the edge of the
cliff. They climbed over the small boulders, around the huge ones,
endlessly finding the way blocked, but each time going back a little
and by going around, finding a new way that was clear. The sun was
halfway to the western horizon when they stopped to rest on a pile of
small boulders near the top. Tom leaned back against the rock behind
him. A trickle of sweat ran down his ribs from his armpit under his
coveralls.

Bart snorted through his nose. "It'll be dark soon." He wiped his arm
across his forehead, the sweat making a dark stain on the sleeve. "Damn
that fool Willie. He'll pay for this when we get him back to Earth. He
must be crazy or something."

"My God," Tom said. "Is that finally dawning on you?"

Bart looked up at Tom, his dark brown eyes small in his broad
sweat-streaked face. As he continued to stare at Tom without saying
anything, Tom felt the stir of annoyance, then the beginning of hot
tempered anger. They sat and waited, looking for the movement Willie
would make if he showed himself. Nothing stirred in the yellow-green
ferns below. After an hour of watching, Bart got to his feet.

"He's holed up somewhere and pulled the hole in after him. Let's get
down there and drag him out." He started back down the ridge the way
they had come up.

Halfway down, as they stopped for a breather, Tom noted the height
of the sun. It was going to be dark before they could work their way
back to the ship. A low bank of rolling grey clouds lay all along the
straight horizon line of the sea; as the sun sank behind the clouds, it
turned the edges of them to fiery red.

Bart hurried down the ridge, watching only for a glimpse of Willie, but
Tom looked at the sunset occasionally, trying to store up the memory of
the color for the months ahead.

As they reached the stream cliff, Tom stopped Bart.

"Bart, I've got an idea. It's almost dark. Willie will think we've
headed back to get to the ship before it's too dark to find our way.
He's probably sitting on a rock, watching the sunset and daydreaming.
Let's look on the edge of this little cliff where it ends at the sea."

"O.K.," Bart said, leading the way. The only light left was the
reflected red light of the clouds that made long dark shadows behind
the rocks.

They came around the rocks, onto the cliff point overlooking the sea
and the cove, and there was Willie, sitting with his back to a big
rock, his chin resting on his cupped hands, gazing dreamily out to sea.

"Willie!" Bart shouted, lunging for him.

Willie jerked around to see them, then he was up and sliding down the
loose rock into the shadowy cove below.

"Grab him, Tom," Bart shouted as he went sliding and falling down, the
loose rock after him.

Tom jumped down the rocks to the bottom and slid to a stop, the loose
rocks rolling down around him, but Willie was deep in the ferns with
only his head and shoulders showing.

Bart had the automatic pistol out and pointed at Willie. "Stop you
crazy fool, or I'll shoot," he shouted, his voice echoing off the
cliffs. Willie only crashed into the ferns more desperately.

Bart raised the automatic and fired a burst of shots, the sharp
explosions echoing shatteringly around them. Tom made a flying tackle
and smashed into Bart. They went down in the ferns, struggling for the
gun, until Bart managed to roll and push his way to his feet.

"Knock it off," Bart shouted. "What the hell are you trying to do?"

"Keep you from killing him," Tom shouted back as he got to his feet.

"I wasn't trying to kill him," Bart snapped. "I was trying to scare him
into stopping so we could grab him, now he's got clean away in those
damn ferns." He waved a hand helplessly at the mass of dark vegetation.
Willie was gone all right. "Now we'll have to spend days hunting for
that lunatic. Next time let me handle it. I'm the captain of this
expedition."

"Okay," Tom said angrily, "but let's catch him, not kill him. He hasn't
done anything, just wants to be alone, that's all."

"He's deserted," Bart said, "and he signed articles, so that's a crime.
How the hell am I going to explain a lost crewman when we go back. And
on my first trip as captain."

"That's your worry," Tom said. "He's colonizing, not deserting."

"You should have been a lawyer," Bart said as he put the gun in his
holster. "But this isn't getting that screwball aboard." He groped in
the pocket of his coveralls and pulled out a small packlight. The white
searchbeam lit up the ferns around them with glaring brightness. "Come
on, let's try to find him." He led the way into the ferns.

They hunted through the ferns, forcing their way every step. The
searchbeam was only good for a few feet in the dense growth. They knew
Willie was close, but in the ferns they could almost step on him and
not know it.

At last Bart gave up. "Let's go back to the ship. We'll come back in
the morning, when it's light." Following him along the beach toward the
ship, Tom had the feeling that in the morning might be too late. Willie
might have been hit by the burst of shots, or he might take off in the
ferns so far they never could find him.
