
Tom rolled out of his bunk at the first bell, wincing at his sore
muscles. After getting the first aid kit from the bathroom, he quietly
walked down the narrow passageway and out into the bright sunlight.
As he walked through the grey ash to the strip of red sand, the quiet
was like a blanket over everything, after the soft hum of the living
ship. The breeze blew softly against his face, hummed past his ears,
and rustled the ferns. The sea was glass smooth as far as he could see
across its surface, smooth right up to where the water turned deep
green as it got shallower. He could understand why Willie wanted to
stay here. It was a perfect place for anyone who loved solitude and
there was probably none like it in the whole system.

He thought of how a man could live here, with no one to bother him,
nothing to buy, no need to do any more than just produce enough food to
live. A little shack to keep off the rain, a little field to grow food.

But there would be no one to talk to, no one to share experiences and
troubles and little triumphs, no one to laugh with, no challenge to
overcome, no excitement.

"Not for me," Tom said aloud, and his voice was strange in the quiet.
"Boy, this place puts a spell on a guy, almost hypnotizes him." He
laughed aloud. "Even got me talking to myself." He hurried on to hunt
for Willie.

Then he came to the little cove where Willie had his camp. The pile of
food and blankets was still there. Willie was there, too. He was lying
half in the pool of water. As Tom crunched over the sand and knelt
beside him, Willie opened his eyes.

"Hi, Tom," he said faintly. "I'm glad you came alone."

"Hi, Willie," Tom said as he looked at the thin chest with the small
neat hole low on the left side. "So he did shoot you, didn't he." He
opened the first aid kit. "I'll get you back to the ship and you'll be
O.K." He started putting a dressing on the wound.

Willie looked at him with his bright blue eyes. "Never mind, Tom. I
just got to stay here in spite of the Captain." His voice was so low
Tom had to lean closer to hear him. Willie coughed slightly and winced
with the pain.

Tom finished the bandage. He knew there was nothing he could do; Willie
was hurt inside and only a doctor could help him. But there were no
doctors here. He wanted to do something for him to make him more
comfortable. He started to put an arm under him to move him out of the
pool. "I'll get you out of this water," he said.

"No. Tom," Willie said. "Leave me here. I crawled all night to get
here. I want to die in this pool."

"In the water?" Tom said in surprise.

"Yes, in the water. Don't you understand? I thought you would." He
stared up at the white tracing of the clouds in the sky.

Tom waited, silently. He knelt there, the sun burning hot on his back.

"I wanted to stay," Willie said. "I had to stay. Didn't you feel
anything about this planet, Tom?"

Tom thought a moment. "I did feel a little," he admitted. "On the way
over here. Like it would be a nice place to live."

"That's it," Willie smiled. "Don't you see. Here was this planet, ripe
for life, but without life. Then the seeds of the ferns got blown off
Earth and drifted here. But it needed more, it needed animal life to
complete the cycle.

"Then we got 'blown off Earth.' Bart for the glory, Pudge for the ride,
you for the excitement, and me--me--because I had to, I guess. Because
I couldn't stand it back there. Seeds, all four of us, and not knowing
it. That's why we had to land. That's why one of us had to stay and I
guess it was just me. Now the rest of you can go back to Earth."

Willie coughed, much longer this time. Then he lay back exhausted.
"Tom," he whispered, "look at the edge of my camp. In the ferns."

Tom walked over to the edge of the camp. He looked at the yellow-green
ferns, wondering what Willie meant. Then he saw it. The faint steaming
from the packed dead ferns under the growing ones, the spreading dark
spot, the already darker green of the plants growing around the spot.

Willie had brought the seeds of decay with him, as well as the seeds of
life. The dead plants were decaying for the first time on this planet.
This spot would spread until the whole planet was covered with dark
green; and life would be as it was on Earth.

Tom went back to Willie and stood looking down at him. Then he knelt
and gently closed Willie's eyelids. He thought of moving him, digging
him a shallow grave. But kneeling there in the silent cove, he had the
hunch that maybe there was more to this. Willie had wanted to stay in
the little pool. The stream came down off the ridge through the pool to
the sea. Maybe if Willie stayed there, the bacteria of his body would
live on, and be washed into the sea. The water was warm and there were
no enemies to destroy them and there were plants to feed them. Perhaps,
Willie was right. Maybe he _was_ the seed of life coming to this
planet; and in a million years men might walk these shores.

Tom straightened up. He took a deep breath and looked around the little
cove, and then back to Willie.

"It's your planet, now, Willie. Willie's Planet from now on. What Bart
put in the log and what spacemen will call it as they go by, will be
two different things. Or did you know that in your heart, too." He was
silent a moment. "So long, Willie. Go with God."

He turned and crunched along the sand towards the ship.



