
Dinner was a silent affair that period. There were a few low-voiced
exchanges, but they only seemed to deepen the waiting stillness.

And the cold grew apace. You could see your breath, and your thin
garments were of little help.

The meal was over, and the groups of friends were beginning to drift
out of the refectory, when the intercoms woke up again. This chamber
had a vision screen. Not an eye stirred from Director Samuel Vesey as
he looked out of it.

His lips were firm and his voice steady, but there was a gleam of sweat
on the ebony skin--despite the cold. He stared directly before him and
spoke:

"Attention, all personnel. Emergency situation. Your attention, please."

After a moment, he seemed to relax formality and spoke as if face to
face. "You've all noticed our trouble. Something has gone wrong with
the heating plant, and Dr. Jahangir's crew haven't located the trouble
so far.

"Now there's no reason for panic. The extrapolated curve of temperature
decline indicates that, at worst, it'll level off at about zero
Centigrade. That won't be fun, but we can stand it till the difficulty
has been found. Everyone is advised to dress as warmly as possible.
Food and air plant crews are going on emergency status. All projects
requiring energy sources are cancelled till further notice.

"According to the meters, there's nothing wrong with the pile. It's
still putting out as much heat as it always has. But somehow, that heat
isn't getting to us as it should. The engineers are checking the pipes
now.

"I'll have a stat of the findings made up and issued. Suggestions are
welcome, but please take them to my office--the engineers have their
own work to do. Above all, don't panic! This is a nuisance, I know, but
there's no reason to be afraid.

"All personnel not needed at once, stand by. The following specialists
please report to me--"

He read off the list, all physicists, and closed his talk with a forced
grin and thumbs up.

As if it had broken a dam, the message released a babble of words.
Gilchrist saw Catherine striding out of the room and hastened after her.

"Where are you going?" he asked.

"Where do you think?" she replied. "To put on six layers of clothes."

He nodded. "Best thing. I'll come along, if I may--my room's near
yours."

A woman, still in her smock, was trying to comfort a child that
shivered and cried. A Malayan geologist stood with teeth clattering in
his jaws. An engineer snarled when someone tried to question him and
ran on down the corridor.

"What do you think?" asked Gilchrist inanely.

"I don't have any thoughts about the heating plant," said Catherine.
Her voice held a thin edge. "I'm too busy worrying about food and air."

Gilchrist's tongue was thick and dry in his mouth. The biochemistry of
food creation and oxygen renewal died when it got even chilly.
