
Finished dressing, they looked at each other in helplessness. Now what?

The temperature approached its minimum in a nosedive. There had
always been a delicate equilibrium; it couldn't be otherwise, when
the interior of the domes was kept at nearly 240 degrees above the
surrounding world. The nuclear pile devoted most of its output to
maintaining that balance, with only a fraction going to the electric
generators.

Gilchrist thrust hands which were mottled blue with cold into his
pockets. Breath smoked white before him. Already a thin layer of
hoarfrost was on ceiling and furniture.

"How long can we stand this?" he asked.

"I don't know," said Catherine. "Not too long, I should think, since
nobody has adequate clothes. The children should ... suffer ... pretty
quickly. Too much drain on body energy." She clamped her lips together.
"Use your mental training. You can ignore this till it begins actually
breaking down your physique."

Gilchrist made an effort, but couldn't do it. He could stop shivering,
but the chill dank on his skin, and the cold sucked in by his nose,
were still there in his consciousness, like a nightmare riding him.

"They'll be dehumidifying the air," said Catherine. "That'll help
some." She began walking down the hall. "I want to see what they're
doing about the food and oxy sections."

A small mob had had the same idea. It swirled and mumbled in the hall
outside the service rooms. A pair of hard-looking young engineers armed
with monkey wrenches stood guard.

Catherine wormed her way through the crowd and smiled at them. Their
exasperation dissolved, and one of them, a thickset red-head by the
name of O'Mallory, actually grinned. Gilchrist, standing moodily behind
the girl, could hardly blame him.

"How's it going in there?" she asked.

"Well, now, I suppose the Old Man _is_ being sort of slow about his
bulletins," said O'Mallory. "It's under control here."

"But what are they doing?"

"Rigging electric heaters, of course. It'll take all the juice we have
to maintain these rooms at the right temperature, so I'm afraid they'll
be cutting off light and power to the rest of the Hill."

She frowned. "It's the only thing, I suppose. But what about the
people?"

"They'll have to jam together in the refectories and clubrooms. That'll
help keep 'em warm."

"Any idea what the trouble is?"

O'Mallory scowled. "We'll get it fixed," he said.

"That means you don't know." She spoke it calmly.

"The pile's all right," he said. "We telemetered it. I'd'a done that
myself, but you know how it is--" He puffed himself up a trifle. "They
need a couple husky chaps to keep the crowd orderly. Anyhow, the pile's
still putting out just as it should, still at 500 degrees like it ought
to be. In fact, it's even a bit warmer than that; why, I don't know."

Gilchrist cleared his throat. "Th-th-then the trouble is with the ...
heating pipes," he faltered.

"How did you ever guess?" asked O'Mallory with elaborate sarcasm.

"Lay off him," said Catherine. "We're all having a tough time."

Gilchrist bit his lip. It wasn't enough to be a tongue-tied idiot, he
seemed to need a woman's protection.

"Trouble is, of course," said O'Mallory, "the pipes are buried in
insulation, behind good solid plastic. They'll be hard to get at."

"Whoever designed this farce ought to have to live in it," said his
companion savagely.

"The same design's worked on Titan with no trouble at all," declared
O'Mallory.

Catherine's face took on a grimness. "There never was much point in
making these outer-planet domes capable of quick repair," she said. "If
something goes wrong, the personnel are likely to be dead before they
can fix it."

"Now, now, that's no way to talk," smiled O'Mallory. "Look, I get off
duty at 0800. Care to have a drink with me then?"

Catherine smiled back. "If the bar's operating, sure."

Gilchrist wandered numbly after her as she left.

The cold gnawed at him. He rubbed his ears, unsure about frostbite. Odd
how fast you got tired--It was hard to think.

"I'd better get back to my lab and put things away before they turn off
the electricity to it," he said.

"Good idea. Might as well tidy up in my own place." Something flickered
darkly in the girl's eyes. "It'll take our minds off--"

Off gloom, and cold, and the domes turned to blocks of ice, and a final
night gaping before all men. Off the chasm of loneliness between the
Hill and the Earth.

They were back in the chemical section when Alemán came out of his lab.
The little man's olive skin had turned a dirty gray.

"What is it?" Gilchrist stopped, and something knotted hard in his guts.

"_Madre de Díos--_" Alemán licked sandy lips. "We are finished."

"It's not that bad," said Catherine.

"You do not understand!" he shrieked. "Come here!"

They followed him into his laboratory. He mumbled words about having
checked a hunch, but it was his hands they watched. Those picked up a
Geiger counter and brought it over to a wall and traced the path of a
buried heating pipe.

The clicking roared out.
