
"Beta emission," said Gilchrist. His mouth felt cottony.

"How intense?" whispered Catherine.

Gilchrist set up an integrating counter and let it run for a while.
"Low," he said. "But the dosage is cumulative. A week of this, and
we'll begin to show the effects. A month, and we're dead."

"There's always some small beta emission from the pipes," said the
girl. "A little tritium gets formed down in the pile room.
It's ... never been enough to matter."

"Somehow, the pile's beginning to make more H-3, then." Gilchrist sat
down on a bench and stared blankly at the floor.

"The laws of nature--" Alemán had calmed down a bit, but his eyes were
rimmed with white.

"Yes?" asked Catherine when he stopped. She spoke mostly to fend off
the silence.

"I 'ave sometimes thought ... what we know in science is so leetle. It
may be the whole universe, it has been in a ... a most improbable state
for the past few billion years." Alemán met her gaze as if pleading
to be called a liar. "It may be that what we thought to be the laws of
nature, those were only a leetle statistical fluctuation."

"And now we're going back onto the probability curve?" muttered
Gilchrist. He shook himself. "No, damn it. I won't accept that till I
must. There's got to be some rational explanation."

"Leakage in the pipes?" ventured Catherine.

"We'd know that. Nor does it account for the radiation. No, it's--" His
voice twisted up on him, and he groped out a cigaret. "It's something
natural."

"What is natural?" said Alemán. "How do we know, leetle creeping things
as we are, living only by the grace of God? We 'ave come one long way
from home." His vision strayed to the viewport with a kind of horror.

_Yes_, thought Gilchrist in the chilled darkness of his mind, _yes, we
have come far. Four and a half billion kilometers further out from the
sun. The planet-sized moon of a world which could swallow ours whole
without noticing. A thin hydrogen atmosphere, glaciers of nitrogen
which turn to rivers when it warms up, ammonia snow, and a temperature
not far above absolute zero. What do we know? What is this arrogance of
ours which insists that the truth on Earth is also the truth on the rim
of space?_

No!

He stood up, shuddering with cold, and said slowly: "We'd better go see
Dr. Vesey. He has to know, and maybe they haven't thought to check the
radiation. And then--"

Catherine stood waiting.

"Then we have to think our way out of this mess," he finished lamely.
"Let's, uh, start from the beginning. Think back how th-th-the heating
plant works."
