
The rooms stank.

Some ninety human beings were jammed together in three long chambers
and an adjacent kitchen. The ventilators could not quite handle that
load.

They stood huddled together, children to the inside, while those on
the rim of the pack hugged their shoulders and clenched teeth between
blue lips. Little was said. So far there was calm of a sort--enough
personnel had had intensive mind training to be a steadying influence;
but it was a thin membrane stretched near breaking.

As he came in, Gilchrist thought of a scene from Dante's hell.
Somewhere in that dense mass, a child was sobbing. The lights were
dim--he wondered why--and distorted faces were whittled out of thick
shadow.

"G-g-get inside ... in front of me," he said to Catherine.

"I'll be all right," answered the girl. "It's a fact that women can
stand cold better than men."

Alemán chuckled thinly. "But our Thomas is well padded against it," he
said.

Gilchrist winced. He himself made jokes about his figure, but it was
a cover-up. Then he wondered why he should care; they'd all be dead
anyway, before long.

A colleague, Danton, turned empty eyes on them as they joined the rest.
"Any word?" he asked.

"They're working on it," said Catherine shortly.

"God! Won't they hurry up? I've got a wife and kid. And we can't even
sleep, it's so cold."

Yes, thought Gilchrist, that would be another angle. Weariness to eat
away strength and hope ... radiation would work fast on people in a
depressed state.

"They could at least give us a heater in here!" exclaimed Danton. His
tone was raw. Shadows muffled his face and body.

"All the juice we can spare is going to the food and air plants. No use
being warm if you starve or suffocate," said Catherine.

"I know, I know. But--Well, why aren't we getting more light? There
ought to be enough current to heat the plants and still furnish a
decent glow in here."

"Something else--" Gilchrist hesitated. "Something else is operating,
then, and sucking a lot of power. I don't know what."

"They say the pile itself is as hot as ever. Why can't we run a pipe
directly from it?"

"And get a mess of fast neutrons?" Catherine's voice died. After
all ... they were being irradiated as they stood here and trembled.

"We've got batteries!" It was almost a snarl from Danton's throat.
"Batteries enough to keep us going comfortably for days. Why not use
them?"

"And suppose the trouble hasn't been fixed by the time they're
drained?" challenged Gilchrist.

"Don't say that!"

"Take it easy," advised another man.

Danton bit his lip and faced away, mumbling to himself.

A baby began to cry. There seemed no way of quieting it.

"Turn that bloody brat off!" The tone came saw-toothed from somewhere
in the pack.

"Shut up!" A woman's voice, close to hysteria.

Gilchrist realized that his teeth were rattling. He forced them to
stop. The air was foul in his nostrils.

He thought of beaches under a flooding sun, of summer meadows and a
long sweaty walk down dusty roads, he thought of birds and blue sky.
But it was no good. None of it was real.

The reality was here, just beyond the walls, where Neptune hung ashen
above glittering snow that was not snow, where a thin poisonous wind
whimpered between barren snags, where the dark and the cold flowed
triumphantly close. The reality would be a block of solid gas, a
hundred human corpses locked in it like flies in amber, it would be
death and the end of all things.

He spoke slowly, through numbed lips: "Why has man always supposed that
God cared?"

"We don't know if He does or not," said Catherine. "But man cares,
isn't that enough?"

"Not when the next nearest man is so far away," said Alemán, trying to
smile. "I will believe in God; man is too small."

Danton turned around again. "Then why won't He help us now?" he cried.
"Why won't He at least save the children?"

"I said God cared," answered Alemán quietly, "not that He will do our
work for us."

"Stow the theology, you two," said Catherine. "We're going to pieces in
here. Can't somebody start a song?"

Alemán nodded. "Who has a guitar?" When there was no response, he began
singing a capella:

    "_La cucaracha, la cucaracha,
    Ya no quiere caminar--_"

Voices joined in, self-consciously. They found themselves too few, and
the song died.

Catherine rubbed her fingers together. "Even my pockets are cold now,"
she said wryly.

Gilchrist surprised himself; he took her hands in his. "That may help,"
he said.

"Why, thank you, Sir Galahad," she laughed. "You--Oh. Hey, there!"

O'Mallory, off guard detail now that everyone was assembled here, came
over. He looked even bulkier than before in half a dozen layers of
clothing. Gilchrist, who had been prepared to stand impotently in the
background while the engineer distributed blarney, was almost relieved
to see the fear on him. _He_ knew!

"Any word?" asked Catherine.

"Not yet," he muttered.

"Why 'ave we so leetle light?" inquired Alemán. "What is it that draws
the current so much? Surely not the heaters."

"No. It's the pump. The air-intake pump down in the pile room."
O'Mallory's voice grew higher. "It's working overtime, sucking in more
hydrogen. Don't ask me why! I don't know! Nobody does!"

"Wait," said Catherine eagerly. "If the room's losing its warm gas, and
having to replace it from the cold stuff outside, would that account
for the trouble we're having?"

"No," said O'Mallory dully. "We can't figure out where the hydrogen's
disappearing to, and anyway it shouldn't make that much difference. The
energy output down there's about what it's supposed to be, you know."

Gilchrist stood trying to think. His brain felt gelid.

But damn it, damn it, damn it, there must be a rational answer. He
couldn't believe they had blundered into an ugly unknown facet of the
cosmos. Natural law was the same, here or in the farthest galaxy--it
had to be.

Item, he thought wearily. The pile was operating as usual, except that
somehow hydrogen was being lost abnormally fast and therefore the pump
had to bring in more from Triton's air. But--

--Item. That couldn't be due to a leak in the heating pipes, because
they were still at their ordinary pressure.

--Item. The gas in the pipes included some radioactive isotope.
Nevertheless--

--Item. It could not be hydrogen-3, because the pile was working
normally and its neutron leakage just wasn't enough to produce that
much. Therefore, some other element was involved.

Carbon? There was a little methane vapor in Triton's atmosphere. But
not enough. Anyway, carbon-13 was a stable isotope, and the pile-room
conditions wouldn't produce carbon-14. Unless--

_Wait a minute!_ Something flickered on the edge of awareness.

Danton had buttonholed O'Mallory. "We were talking about using the
battery banks," he said.

The engineer shrugged. "And what happens after they're used up? No,
we're keeping them as a last resort." His grin was hideous. "We could
get six or seven comfortable days out of them."

"Then let's have them! If you thumb-fingered idiots haven't fixed the
system by then, you deserve to die."

"And you'll die right along with us, laddybuck." O'Mallory bristled.
"Don't think the black gang's loafing. We're taking the cold and the
radiation as much as you are--"

"_Radiation?_"

Faces turned around. Gilchrist saw eyes gleam white. The word rose in a
roar, and a woman screamed.

"Shut up!" bawled O'Mallory frantically. "Shut up!"

Danton shouted and swung at him. The engineer shook his head and hit
back. As Danton lurched, a man rabbit-punched O'Mallory from behind.

Gilchrist yanked Catherine away. The mob spilled over, a sudden storm.
He heard a table splinter.

Someone leaped at him. He had been an educated man, a most scientific
and urbane man, but he had just been told that hard radiation was
pouring through his body and he ran about and howled. Gilchrist
had a glimpse of an unshaven face drawn into a long thin box with
terror, then he hit. The man came on, ignoring blows, his own fists
windmilling. Gilchrist lowered his head and tried clumsily to take the
fury on his arms. Catherine, he thought dizzily, Catherine was at least
behind him.

The man yelled. He sat down hard and gripped his stomach, retching.
Alemán laughed shortly. "A good kick is advisable in such unsporting
circumstances, _mi amigo_."

"Come on," gasped Catherine. "We've got to get help."

They fled down a tunnel of blackness. The riot noise faded behind, and
there was only the hollow slapping of their feet.

Lights burned ahead, Vesey's office. A pair of engineer guards tried to
halt them. Gilchrist choked out an explanation.

Vesey emerged and swore luridly, out of hurt and bewilderment at his
own people. "And we haven't a tear gas bomb or a needler in the place!"
He brooded a moment, then whirled on Jahangir, who had come out behind
him. "Get a tank of compressed ammonia gas from the chem section and
give 'em a few squirts if they're still kicking up when you arrive.
That ought to quiet them without doing any permanent damage."

The chief nodded and bounded off with his subordinates. In this
gravity, one man could carry a good-sized tank.

Vesey beat a fist into his palm. There was agony on his face.

Catherine laid a hand on his arm. "You've no choice," she said gently.
"Ammonia is rough stuff, but it would be worse if children started
getting trampled."

Gilchrist, leaning against the wall, straightened. It was as if a bolt
had snapped home within him. His shout hurt their eardrums.

"_Ammonia!_"

"Yes," said Vesey dully. "What about it?" Breath smoked from his mouth,
and his skin was rough with gooseflesh.

"I--I--I--It's your ... y-y-your _answer_!"
