
They had set up a heater in his laboratory so he could work, but the
test was quickly made. Gilchrist turned from his apparatus and nodded,
grinning with victory. "That settles the matter. This sample from the
pile room proves it. The air down there is about half ammonia."

Vesey looked red-eyed at him. There hadn't been much harm done in the
riot, but there had been a bad few minutes. "How's it work?" he asked.
"I'm no chemist."

Alemán opened his mouth, then bowed grandly. "You tell him, Thomas. It
is your moment."

Gilchrist took out a cigaret. He would have liked to make a cavalier
performance of it, with Catherine watching, but his chilled fingers
were clumsy and he dropped the little cylinder. She laughed and picked
it up for him.

"Simple," he said. With technicalities to discuss, he could speak well
enough, even when his eyes kept straying to the girl. "What we have
down there is a Haber process chamber. It's a method for manufacturing
ammonia out of nitrogen and hydrogen--obsolete now, but still of
interest to physical chemists like myself.

"I haven't tested this sample for nitrogen yet, but there's got to be
some, because ammonia is NH_{3}. Obviously, there's a vein of solid
nitrogen down under the Hill. As the heat from the pile room penetrated
downward, this slowly warmed up. Some of it turned gaseous, generating
terrific pressure; and finally that pressure forced the gas up into the
pile room.

"Now, when you have a nitrogen-hydrogen mixture at 500 degrees and 600
atmospheres, in the presence of a suitable catalyst, you get about a 45
percent yield of ammonia--"

"You looked that up," said Catherine accusingly.

He chuckled. "My dear girl," he said, "there are two ways to know a
thing: you can know it, or you can know where to look it up. I prefer
the latter." After a moment: "Naturally, this combination decreases
the total volume of gas; so the pump has to pull in more hydrogen from
outside to satisfy its barystat, and more nitrogen is welling from
below all the time. We've been operating quite an efficient little
ammonia factory down there, though it should reach equilibrium as to
pressure and yield pretty soon.

"The Haber process catalyst, incidentally, is spongy iron with certain
promoters--potassium and aluminum oxides are excellent ones. In other
words, it so happened that the Hill is a natural Haber catalyst, which
is why we've had this trouble."

"And I suppose the reaction is endothermic and absorbs heat?" asked
Catherine.

"No ... as a matter of fact, it's exothermic, which is why the pile
is actually a little hotter than usual, and that in spite of having
to warm up all that outside air. But ammonia does have a considerably
higher specific heat than hydrogen. So, while the gas in our pipes has
the same caloric content, it has a lower temperature."

"Ummm--" Vesey rubbed his chin. "And the radiation?"

"Nitrogen plus neutrons gives carbon-14, a beta emitter."

"All right," said Catherine. "Now tell us how to repair the situation."

Her tone was light--after all, the answer was obvious--but it didn't
escape Gilchrist that she _had_ asked him to speak. Or was he thinking
wishfully?

"We turn off the pile, empty the pipes, and go into the room in
spacesuits," he said. "Probably the simplest thing would be to drill
an outlet for the nitrogen vein and drop a thermite bomb down
there ... that should flush it out in a hurry. Or maybe we can lay an
impermeable floor. In any event, it shouldn't take more than a few
days, which the batteries will see us through. Then we can go back to
operation as usual."

Vesey nodded. "I'll put Jahangir on it right away." He stood up and
extended his hand. "As for you, Dr. Gilchrist, you've saved all our
lives and--"

"Shucks." His cheeks felt hot. "It was my own neck too."

Before his self-confidence could evaporate, he turned to Catherine.
"Since we can't get back to work for a few days, how about going down
to the bar for a drink? I believe it'll soon be functioning again.
And, uh, there'll doubtless be a dance to celebrate later--"

"I didn't know you could dance," she said.

"I can't," he blurted.

They went out together. It is not merely inorganic reactions which
require a catalyst.



