Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from the March 1953 issue of Galaxy. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
    publication was renewed.


                                games


                         By KATHERINE MacLEAN


     It is a tough assignment for a child to know where a
     daydream ends and impossibility begins!


                        Illustrated by ASHMAN

       *       *       *       *       *




Ronny was playing by himself, which meant he was two tribes of Indians
having a war.

"Bang," he muttered, firing an imaginary rifle. He decided that it was
a time in history before the white people had sold the Indians any
guns, and changed the rifle into a bow. "Wizz_thunk_," he substituted,
mimicking from an Indian film on TV the graphic sound of an arrow
striking flesh.

"Oof." He folded down onto the grass, moaning, "Uhhhooh ..." and
relaxing into defeat and death.

"Want some chocolate milk, Ronny?" asked his mother's voice from the
kitchen.

"No, thanks," he called back, climbing to his feet to be another man.
"Wizzthunk, wizzthunk," he added to the flights of arrows as the best
archer in the tribe. "Last arrow. Wizzzz," he said, missing one enemy
for realism. He addressed another battling brave. "Who has more
arrows? They are coming too close. No time--I'll have to use my
knife." He drew the imaginary knife, ducking an arrow as it shot
close.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he was the tribal chief standing somewhere else, and he saw that
the warriors left alive were outnumbered.

"We must retreat. We cannot leave our tribe without warriors to
protect the women."

Ronny decided that the chief was heroically wounded, his voice
wavering from weakness. He had been propping himself against a tree to
appear unharmed, but now he moved so that his braves could see he was
pinned to the trunk by an arrow and could not walk. They cried out.

He said, "Leave me and escape. But remember...." No words came, just
the feeling of being what he was, a dying old eagle, a chief of
warriors, speaking to young warriors who would need advice of seasoned
humor and moderation to carry them through their young battles. He had
to finish the sentence, tell them something wise.

Ronny tried harder, pulling the feeling around him like a cloak of
resignation and pride, leaning indifferently against the tree where
the arrow had pinned him, hearing dimly in anticipation the sound of
his aged voice conquering weakness to speak wisely of what they needed
to be told. They had many battles ahead of them, and the battles
would be against odds, with so many dead already.

They must watch and wait, be flexible and tenacious, determined and
persistent--but not too rash, subtle and indirect--not cowardly, and
above all be patient with the triumph of the enemy and not maddened
into suicidal direct attack.

His stomach hurt with the arrow wound, and his braves waited to hear
his words. He had to sum a part of his life's experience in words.
Ronny tried harder to build the scene realistically. Then suddenly it
was real. He was the man.

_He was an old man, guide and adviser in an oblique battle against
great odds. He was dying of something and his stomach hurt with a
knotted ache, like hunger, and he was thirsty. He had refused to let
the young men make the sacrifice of trying to rescue him. He was
hostage in the jail and dying, because he would not surrender to the
enemy nor cease to fight them. He smiled and said, "Remember to live
like other men, but--remember to remember."_

And then he was saying things that could not be put into words,
complex feelings that were ways of taking bad situations that made
them easier to smile at, and then sentences that were not sentences,
but single alphabet letters pushing each other with signs, with a
feeling of being connected like two halves of a swing, one side moving
up when the other moved down, or like swings or like cogs and
pendulums inside a clock, only without the cogs, just with the push.

It wasn't adding or multiplication, and it used letters instead of
numbers, but Ronny knew it was some kind of arithmetic.

And he wasn't Ronny.

He was an old man, teaching young men, and the old man did not know
about Ronny. He thought sadly how little he would be able to convey to
the young men, and he remembered more, trying to sum long memories and
much living into a few direct thoughts. And Ronny was the old man and
himself, both at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was too intense. Part of Ronny wanted to escape and be alone, and
that part withdrew and wanted to play something. Ronny sat in the
grass and played with his toes like a much younger child.

Part of Ronny that was Doctor Revert Purcell sat on the edge of a
prison cot, concentrating on secret unpublished equations of biogenic
stability which he wanted to pass on to the responsible hands of young
researchers in the concealed-research chain. He was using the way of
thinking which they had told him was the telepathic sending of ideas
to anyone ready to receive. It was odd that he himself could never
tell when he was sending. Probably a matter of age. They had started
trying to teach him when he was already too old for anything so
different.

The water tap, four feet away, was dripping steadily, and it was hard
for Purcell to concentrate, so intense was his thirst. He wondered if
he could gather strength to walk that far. He was sitting up and that
was good, but the struggle to raise himself that far had left him
dizzy and trembling. If he tried to stand, the effort would surely
interrupt his transmitting of equations and all the data he had not
sent yet.

Would the man with the keys who looked in the door twice a day care
whether Purcell died with dignity? He was the only audience, and his
expression never changed when Purcell asked him to point out to the
authorities that he was not being given anything to eat. It was funny
to Purcell to find that he wanted the respect of any audience to his
dying, even of a man without response who treated him as if he were
already a corpse.

Perhaps the man would respond if Purcell said, "I have changed my
mind. I will tell."

But if he said that, he would lose his own respect.

At the biochemists' and bio-physicists' convention, the reporter had
asked him if any of his researches could be applied to warfare.

He had answered with no feeling of danger, knowing that what he did
was common practice among research men, sure that it was an
unchallengeable right.

"Some of them can, but those I keep to myself."

The reporter remained dead-pan. "For instance?"

"Well, I have to choose something that won't reveal how it's done now,
but--ah--for example, a way of cheaply mass-producing specific
antitoxins against any germ. It sounds harmless if you don't think
about it, but actually it would make germ warfare the most deadly and
inexpensive weapon yet developed, for it would make it possible to
prevent the backspread of contagion into a country's own troops,
without much expense. There would be hell to pay if anyone ever let
that out." Then he had added, trying to get the reporter to understand
enough to change his cynical unimpressed expression, "You understand,
germs are cheap--there would be a new plague to spread every time
some pipsqueak biologist mutated a new germ. It isn't even expensive
or difficult, as atom bombs are."

The headline was: "Scientist Refuses to Give Secret of Weapon to
Government."

       *       *       *       *       *

Government men came and asked him if this was correct, and on having
it confirmed pointed out that he had an obligation. The research
foundations where he had worked were subsidized by government money.
He had been deferred from military service during his early years of
study and work so he could become a scientist, instead of having to
fight or die on the battlefield.

"This might be so," he had said. "I am making an attempt to serve
mankind by doing as much good and as little damage as possible. If you
don't mind, I'd rather use my own judgment about what constitutes
service."

The statement seemed too blunt the minute he had said it, and he
recognized that it had implications that his judgment was superior to
that of the government. It probably was the most antagonizing thing
that could have been said, but he could see no other possible
statement, for it represented precisely what he thought.

[Illustration]

There were bigger headlines about that interview, and when he
stepped outside his building for lunch the next day, several small
gangs of patriots arrived with the proclaimed purpose of persuading
him to tell. They fought each other for the privilege.

The police had rescued him after he had lost several front teeth and
had one eye badly gouged. They then left him to the care of the prison
doctor in protective custody. Two days later, after having been
questioned several times on his attitude toward revealing the parts of
his research he had kept secret, he was transferred to a place that
looked like a military jail, and left alone. He was not told what his
status was.

When someone came and asked him questions about his attitude, Purcell
felt quite sure that what they were doing to him was illegal. He
stated that he was going on a hunger strike until he was allowed to
have visitors and see a lawyer.

The next time the dinner hour arrived, they gave him nothing to eat.
There had been no food in the cell since, and that was probably two
weeks ago. He was not sure just how long, for during part of the
second week his memory had become garbled. He dimly remembered
something that might have been delirium, which could have lasted more
than one day.

Perhaps the military who wanted the antitoxins for germ warfare were
waiting quietly for him either to talk or die.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ronny got up from the grass and went into the kitchen, stumbling in
his walk like a beginning toddler.

"Choc-mil?" he said to his mother.

She poured him some and teased gently, "What's the matter, Ronny--back
to baby-talk?"

He looked at her with big solemn eyes and drank slowly, not answering.

In the cell somewhere distant, Dr. Purcell, famous biochemist, began
waveringly trying to rise to his feet, unable to remember hunger as
anything separate from him that could ever be ended, but weakly
wanting a glass of water. Ronny could not feed him with the chocolate
milk. Even though this was another himself, the body that was drinking
was not the one that was thirsty.

He wandered out into the backyard again, carrying the glass.

"Bang," he said deceptively, pointing with his hand in case his mother
was looking. "Bang." Everything had to seem usual; he was sure of
that. This was too big a thing, and too private, to tell a grownup.

On the way back from the sink, Dr. Purcell slipped and fell and hit
his head against the edge of the iron cot. Ronny felt the edge gashing
through skin and into bone, and then a relaxing blankness inside his
head, like falling asleep suddenly when they are telling you a fairy
story while you want to stay awake to find out what happened next.

"Bang," said Ronny vaguely, pointing at a tree. "Bang." He was ashamed
because he had fallen down in the cell and hurt his head and become
just Ronny again before he had finished sending out his equations. He
tried to make believe he was alive again, but it didn't work.

You could never make-believe anything to a real good finish. They
never ended neatly--there was always something unfinished, and
something that would go right on after the end.

It would have been nice if the jailers had come in and he had been
able to say something noble to them before dying, to show that he was
brave.

"Bang," he said randomly, pointing his finger at his head, and then
jerked his hand away as if it had burned him. He had become the wrong
person that time. The feel of a bullet jolting the side of his head
was startling and unpleasant, even if not real, and the flash of
someone's vindictive anger and self-pity while pulling a trigger....
_My wife will be sorry she ever...._ He didn't like that kind of
make-believe. It felt unsafe to do it without making up a story first.

Ronny decided to be Indian braves again. They weren't very real, and
when they were, they had simple straightforward emotions about courage
and skill and pride and friendship that he would like.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man was leaning his arms on the fence, watching him. "Nice day."
_What's the matter, kid, are you an esper?_

"Hul-lo." Ronny stood on one foot and watched him. _Just making
believe. I only want to play. They make it too serious, having all
these troubles._

"Good countryside." The man gestured at the back yards, all opened in
together with tangled bushes here and there to crouch behind, when
other kids were there to play hide and seek, and with trees to climb.
_It can be the Universe if you pick and choose who to be, and don't
let wrong choices make you shut off from it. You can make yourself
learn from this if you are strong enough. Who have you been?_

Ronny stood on the other foot and scratched the back of his leg with
his toes. He didn't want to remember. He always forgot right away, but
this grownup was confident and young and strong-looking, and meant
something when he talked, not like most grownups.

"I was playing Indian." _I was an old chief, captured by enemies,
trying to pass on to other warriors the wisdom of my life before I
died._ He made believe he was the chief a little to show the young man
what he was talking about.

"Purcell!" The man drew in his breath between his teeth, and his face
paled. He pulled back from reaching Ronny with his feelings, like
holding his breath in. "Good game." _You can learn from him. Don't
leave him shut off, I beg you. You can let him influence you without
being pulled off your own course. He was a good man. You were honored,
and I envy the man you will be if you contacted him on resonant
similarities._

The grownup looked frightened. _But you are too young. You'll block
him out and lose him. Kids have to grow and learn at their own speed._

Then he looked less afraid, but uncertain, and his thoughts struggled
against each other. _Their own speed. But there should be someone
alive with Purcell's pattern and memories. We loved him. Kids should
grow at their own speed, but.... How strong are you, Ronny? Can you
move ahead of the normal growth pattern?_

Grownups always want you to do something. Ronny stared back, clenching
his hands and moving his feet uneasily.

The thoughts were open to him. _Do you want to be the old chief again,
Ronny? Be him often, so you can learn to know what he knew? (And feel
as he felt. It would be a stiff dose for a kid.) It will be rich and
exciting, full of memories and skills. (But hard to chew. I'm doing
this for Purcell, Ronny, not for you. You have to make up your own
mind.)_

"That was a good game. Are you going to play it any more?"

       *       *       *       *       *

His mother would not like it. She would feel the difference in him, as
much as if he had read one of the books she kept away from him, books
that were supposed to be for adults only. The difference would hurt
her. He was being bad, like eating between meals. But to know what
grownups knew....

He tightened his fists and looked down at the grass. "I'll play it
some more."

The young man smiled, still pale and holding half his feelings back
behind a dam. _Then mesh with me a moment. Let me in._

He was in with the thought, feeling Ronny's confused consent,
reassuring him by not thinking or looking around inside while sending
out a single call, _Purcell, Doc_, that found the combination key to
Ronny's guarded yesterdays and last nights and ten minutes agos.
_Ronny, I'll set that door, Purcell's memories, open for you. You
can't close it, but feel like this about it_--and he planted in a
strong set, _questioning, cool, open, a feeling of absorbing without
words ... it will give information when you need it, like a
dictionary._

The grownup straightened away from the fence, preparing to walk off.
Behind a dam pressed grief and anger for the death of the man he
called Purcell.

"And any time you want to _be_ the old chief, at any age he lived,
just make believe you are him."

Grief and anger pressed more strongly against the dam, and the man
turned and left rapidly, letting his thoughts flicker and scatter
through private memories that Ronny did not share, that no one shared,
breaking thought contact with everyone so that the man could be alone
in his own mind to have his feelings in private.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ronny picked up the empty glass that had held his chocolate milk from
the back steps where he had left it and went inside. As he stepped
into the kitchen, he knew what another kitchen had looked like for a
five-year-old child who had been Purcell ninety years ago. There had
been an iron sink, and a brown-and-green-spotted faucet, and the glass
had been heavier and transparent, like real glass.

Ronny reached up and put the colored plastic tumbler down.

"That was a nice young man, dear. What did he say to you?"

Ronny looked up at his mamma, comparing her with the remembered mamma
of fifty years ago. He loved the other one, too.

"He tol' me he's glad I play Indian."

                                                  --KATHERINE MacLEAN

       *       *       *       *       *





