
The prosecutor flipped the switch from off to on. Then he folded his
arms and waited until all the forty-three meters ceased their dancing
and went back to zero. That done, he turned to the jury.

"In this machine rests the proof of the crime charged against the
defendant," he said dramatically, patting the smooth gray side of the
machine. "This machine will tell you _all_ you need to know about the
murder. Oh, to be sure, I shall show you the corpus delicti presently;
but _why_ and _how_ this crime was committed shall be revealed only by
this machine's stimulation of the deceased's brain. _She will herself
relate who her killer was!_"

There was a shocked gasp from the jurors and the spectators in the
court room when the prosecutor pulled back the sheet from the body,
uncovering her head and chest. "The jury will note that the government
has removed her skull down to her eyebrows so that we could contact her
brain's recordings with the machine's probe. The jury will also note
the four bullet holes in the deceased's chest, which we intend to prove
were put there by John Bork."

"I missed twice," said John Bork, nodding.

"Silence!" shouted the suddenly enraged judge. "This court depends
entirely on the Very Complicated Monstrous Proximilator machine for
its evidence." He turned to the jury, still seething. "The jury will
completely disregard the defendant's utterly uncalled-for admission.
Proceed, Mr. Prosecutor."

The prosecutor fastened the ground cable of the machine to Fannie's big
toe by means of an immense alligator clamp. Then taking the bulbous
radio-frequency probe in his hand he said portentously, "Now we shall
search for the memory-recording of Fannie Bork's moment of death!"

He touched her brain lightly with the probe.

Those seeing it for the first time were chilled by the dead body's
sudden animation.

"Oh, Winston!" cooed dead Fannie Bork, her aims raising from the cot to
embrace an invisible something. She kissed. "You tastes good!"

The prosecutor moved the probe.

"George?" called Fannie, her slim arms searching at the side of her
cot. "I didn't hear you leave, George." She relaxed. "Oh, I hope he
found his shoes."

"He didn't though," contributed John Bork.

The prosecutor moved the probe, hurrying on by emotion-stirred quavers:
Angelo, Moose, Maudie, Deacon and Quasimodo.

"Speed, darlin', what's your _hurry_?" asked Fannie in her plaintive,
metallic voice as she held out her hands beseechingly.

"I never got to know him very well," interjected John Bork. "His visits
were all so short."

The prosecutor moved his probe.

"Bork! Bork!"

"Ah," said the prosecutor. "Now we are getting down to cases. I shall
try that spot again."

"Bork! Bork!"

"She's not calling for me," advised Bork. "She just had a cold that
week."
