
"It's useless. You can't enter here."

"Why do you oppose me?" Bart tested the unseen wall, but found no
weakness in its structure.

"We don't care for your sort."

"Is that so. And how have you classified me?"

"As a coward. A suicide. A man of meager resources."

"I'm nothing of the kind. In the first place, I did not commit suicide."
Bart wished he could kick at the invisible wall. "I willed myself away
from an imperfect shell. I severed the mind from the body."

"Why?"

"Because I had cancer of the larynx, and I'd never have been able to
talk again. I'd be less than a man."

"You are less than a man now." There was a long period of no exchange.
Bart decided he had not made himself clear. "I didn't want to live
without being able to communicate with other men and women."

"Communicate. Communicate. There are a million ways to communicate.
Michelangelo communicated, Bach, Beethoven, yes, Elvis Presley
communicates. Hemingway, Martha Graham, actors, dancers, even a baby
communicates!"

"But speech ..."

"Speech is the least dependable method of all. Few people can explain
their love, their pain, their innermost feelings in words. And often a
man speaks his thoughts, and having spoken them, finds he really thinks
the opposite. No, this is second-rate expression and my opinion of you
has not been altered by your feeble argument."

The other fellow's thoughts came over the wall, pounding against Bart's
sub-conscious. "You consider yourself a man of great intelligence," it
went on, "but your lack of imagination makes you less than mediocre. And
as for your mind-power, well, you see you cannot cross my mental
barrier."

"That's not entirely conclusive. There may be a catalyst here in this
area which works in conjunction with your thought-processes and not
mine. You're familiar with conditions here, while I only know the
earth."

"You are hardly a challenge to me. However, to satisfy you that you have
practically no control, let us make a test on your home ground."

"All right. You propose the test."

"Let us see ... if you can re-enter your former body while I am willing
you to stay here, on the other side of that wall."

"Ahah. You're trying to trick me."

"I knew before I proposed my plan you would make exactly that excuse in
order to escape my challenge. Even in excuses you lacked imagination."

"Okay, it's a deal." Bart was mad. "Start concentrating. I'll show you
the power of my mind, both now and after I resume that shell." Bart was
furious. He tried to leave the place by the wall. He seemed stuck. There
were waves like laughter vibrating against the glass. Bart strained and
saw that he had come away a little. He tried again and again. There was
a little more distance gained. He tried to build the picture of the
operating-room in his mind and while he was doing this a flash of Vivian
exploded his mind. With that quick image, he felt himself free to drift
downward.

There indeed was the hospital. Bart hurried to the operating-room,
hovering near the ceiling light, watching the operating team below.

"He's gone, doctor." The anesthetist looked at Jonas. "Respiration's
stopped altogether."

_No_, thought Bart. _Don't close me out now._

"Let's open the chest and massage the heart."

_Yes. Yes._

"I think it's futile, doctor."

"We can try."

_Good old Jonas._ Bart floated to the table and forced himself into the
shell which lay white and unmoving under the penetrating light from
above. It wasn't easy, Bart tried to move the heavy hand, but it was
quite numb.

"Not a thing. Might as well quit."

_Holsclaw's in a hurry. Damn him._

"I'll massage a little longer."

Bart pushed at the leaden eyelid. No go. _Come on, come on._ He felt a
convulsive chill, a throbbing in his head.

"I'm getting a pulse." Jonas' voice was excited.

Bart knew there was a searing pain in his throat, but shutting it out of
his consciousness was the steady, thumping beat of his own heart.


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Science Fiction Stories_
    September 1958. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.



