
The corridor was emptying out rapidly. Glen could hear smashing noises
from the ground floor.

Apparently the People were already in the building, beginning their day
of destruction. He thought gratefully of his private apartment, tucked
away in the impregnable heart of Government House. Of course, it was
closed off to him too on this day; but at least it was safe from the
mob. They would get mainly the chaff to destroy.

"I'm heading for the upper levels," Hillary said. "Even if the
safeties open later up there, it takes longer for the mob to penetrate.
There's enough breakable and burnable stuff at the first few levels to
keep them busy for a while. Coming?"

Glen had just seen Joan Bourne emerge from her office and lock the
door. He headed toward her. "I'm going to stay near some out-of-the-way
safety in this area and hop in when it first opens. I don't feel like
running from the People," he called back with a bravado he did not
really feel.

"Suit yourself." Hillary was already at the stairs. He paused for a
moment. "And good luck."

"Thanks," Glen said. "Good hiding."

Joan had been listening, and met him in the middle of the corridor. "I
think you've got the right idea, Glen. Want some company?"

He smiled, and brushed her cheek with his lips. "You know the answer to
that, Joan. For life."

"This is _hardly_ the day to bring that up again." She took his arm,
and they turned off down a side corridor. "Besides, I thought our
relationship was very nice as it is," she pouted.

"It is. I'm just greedy."

The side passageway took them deeper into the labyrinth that was
Government House. Glen had hardly ever been out of it. He had
been born and brought up in the great central area that surrounded
Government Park, now sealed off from both the People and the Civil
Servants. Apart from a vacation trip to another city's Government
House, this had been Glen's entire world. And two years ago he had
passed the Examinations and become a full-fledged CS, with all the
privileges--and perils, he was now realizing--that that entailed.

They turned into another corridor, went past a bank of
elevators--turned off for the day, as all the elevators were in the
official section of the building--and went up a long flight of stairs.

Glen stopped at the third level.

"This looks like as good a spot as any to wait for the first
safety-holes to open. It's out of the way. And there's a hole right
here, according to the map. It'll be opening in twenty minutes. The
mob should be busy down there for longer than that." They located the
almost invisible key square, and Glen pressed his Class-6 key to it.
"Just on the chance they might have given us a break," he said half
apologetically.

"Apparently they haven't," Joan murmured. "Let's see if my Class-5 has
any better luck." She pressed her own key to the square, but the panel
still refused to slide back. Class-5 shelters in this area were often
combined with those for Class-6.
