
Glen looked at her quizzically. "Joan, we graduated at the same
time, and you're already Class-5--Job Consultation--while I'm still
Class-6--Secondary School Allocation. How do you do it?"

"Brains, personality and talent. Hadn't you noticed?" She pressed close
to him.

He kissed her. "Mmm, yes. But I still don't see...."

"Darling," she said, "Joan Bourne is a young lady destined to go far.
And fast."

"You seem so different from the other girls here though, Joan." He
blushed. "You didn't happen to come from ... Outside. Er ... from the
People, that is?"

"I grew up in Block 6, Section A, overlooking the statue of Martyr
Sherman Adams in Government Park. Just two blocks down from you, if I
remember your records correctly."

"You've had access to my records?"

"Class-5 always does to Class-6's. And I took a special interest in
you, my dear." She stroked his cheek.

"Then you're forgiven the snooping," Glen smiled. "But to think I was
being so polite and discreet about asking your origins!"

"Not many take the Exams and come to Civil Service from Outside any
more, sweet. Just as not many from here decide to go out and try their
luck in the big world. Generally we stay on our side of the fence, and
they stay on theirs. Except for the Day, of course. And then it's all
one-way traffic."

"But I've heard some CS people go Outside for their vacation. I never
have, of course, but...."

"Oh, yes, quite a few do. You're taken in a CS plane to another
Government House, where you won't be known in the city outside. You
are given appropriate papers and emerge from the House during business
hours. You mingle with the People, just like one of them. And when
vacation's over, back to the House for Job Consultation or Welfare
Benefits or whatever you want to trump up. Show your true papers, and
you're whisked back to your own cozy womb." She smiled reminiscently.
"Outside is an interesting experience."

This annoyed Glen obscurely. He put his arm around her. "I don't want
you going Outside again. At least, not without me."

"Oh, the People are just people. Except for today...."
