
"Well, well, the Bourne from which no traveler returneth! Hope I'm not
interrupting anything, my dear. Anything important, that is." At this
unexpected voice, Glen let go of Joan and spun to face the intruder.
It was a Class-2 High Official named Duckpath, whom he had heard speak
at a few Government banquets. He dropped his fists, which he had
unconsciously raised.

"Mustn't be so nervous, young man," Duckpath said, swaying slightly. He
was obviously quite drunk. "How are you, Joanie?" He patted her rump
affectionately and gave her a smacking kiss. Joan looked both annoyed
and amused. Glen flushed, but said nothing.

After a moment of contemplating the new arrival, Joan said, "Well,
Ducks, what brings you down to the lower echelons?"

"Oh, pleasure, pleasure, my dear. Wanted to see all the fun and games.
Usually pretty dull on top, you know." He winked at her, then cocked an
ear. "Sounds like the rabble are getting warmer, too."

Glen listened, and realized he had been hearing all along a dim
muttering which was now clearly getting louder. A distinct crash
sounded, and he was sure he smelled smoke.

"Come on, Joan," he said, tugging at her arm. "Let's get into the
shelter. It must be time now."

"Young man, you _are_ obstreperous, aren't you?" Duckpath interposed
himself between Glen and Joan. "Be calm, be calm. As you may know, my
key will open any of the lower echelon's shelters, and at any time.
Yours is not due to open for five minutes yet, for example, but at the
touch of this--" he flashed his Class-2 key--"all barriers will fall
before us. And I like the scent of danger. Just the scent, of course.
Now--" he motioned to Glen--"if you will just stand by that stairway,
you will be able to see them in plenty of time for us all to get into
shelter. You two shall be my guests. It will be very cozy." He giggled.

Glen scowled, but did as he was told.

It was true that the stairs were the obvious place for the onslaught.
They led both up and down. He assumed Duckpath had come down them, but
of course the People were still below, although apparently working
their way rapidly to the stairs. The only other way up to this area was
through one of the secret passageways, which the mob would not know
about.

Another crash echoed up the stairwell, much louder this time. A wisp of
smoke curled lazily in the air in front of him.

Glen fingered the caked blood on his cheek. Things he had never
questioned before seemed utterly meaningless and cruel now. His
irritation with Duckpath bubbled over, and he said sourly, "What
madness! This whole procedure is incredibly stupid and wasteful."

Joan glanced at Duckpath with raised eyebrows, but said nothing.
That gentleman at first stiffened, then relaxed and said blandly, "I
wouldn't criticize the Government too much, my boy. It gives us all we
have. And it can take it away also." He smiled. "This is not madness,
but sheer sanity. You must have been neglecting your Political Science
courses."

"Sanity! It's murder and destruction," Glen muttered.

"You know very well, young man, that all that is being destroyed is
easily replaced. _Will_ be replaced tomorrow, in fact. Ours is an
opulent, productive society." Duckpath's smile deepened into a smirk.
"All the important documents, all the valuables, are safely locked away
in the central section. And the good that is being done today!" He
became rapturous. "The People are led by us, led by the nose. We decide
where they will go to school, where they will live, which job they will
get, how many children they may have. Soon we will decide when they are
to die. We have the power." His eyes glistened.

"And in return we give them security. The population is balanced,
the country productive, the old cared for; there is medical service
for all. Everything is arranged for the best by the great complex of
Government Houses all over the world. Everything is in the hands of the
Government." Duckpath was panting slightly. "Everything is in _our_
hands."
