
"If everything is so perfect, why this?" Glen gestured toward the cloud
of smoke seeping through the entrance to the stairway.

"It's only the office furnishings. The building itself won't burn,"
Joan murmured.

Duckpath gave her a little squeeze. "Our callow young friend is talking
about the hatred, I believe, Joanie. The urge of the People to destroy
and kill. Well, it is only natural." He belched softly. "These People
are aware that their lives are woven from threads held in Government
House. And though they are well cared for, they resent it. They resent
having to file into this building and be allocated to this and that.
They want someone to take care of them, but they resent their loss of
freedom. They resent our power.

"So this is their day. It comes once every four years. The day that
gives them the illusion that they have some control over us, the day
of Mob Rule. This is the day they can express all their locked-up
frustrations, all their fury at the State which feeds and clothes
them and watches over them. They can batter down and smash and burn."
Duckpath stared at Glen and seemed to sober a little. "Yes, they
can even kill. They cannot bring guns or knives here, but they can
use fire and fists and stones. And that is even better for boiling
away their hostilities. The hotheads among the People will go so
far as to kill, and that will cool them. But they will get only
the fumble-fingered and feeble-witted. The rest will take care of
themselves." He paused for a moment, breathless. "Do you realize we
haven't had even the sniff of a revolution in four hundred years? No
civil strife at all. No _change_ of any kind." He laughed. "This is
Sheep's Day ... their day to be wolves."

"Glen, you'd better watch the stairs," Joan said, her face taut.

Glen started. Duckpath's harangue had distracted him, and somehow
chilled him too. He peered down the stairwell. There were People at the
end of the lower corridor, milling around and shouting.

"We've got to get to shelter," he said, hurrying toward Joan.

Duckpath began to talk again. "This is nothing new. The Romans had a
word for it, and a day for it, too. A day when the laws were abandoned
and society was turned upside down. A day when the people cast off the
bonds of civilization and order. A day of Misrule. They even had a King
of Misrule. I rather like that. I might be such a King." He struck a
pose. "King of Misrule!" He turned with a grand gesture to Joan. "And
you are my...."

A rock crashed against the side of his head. Another exploded on the
wall next to Glen.

"The secret passageways, Glen!" Joan screamed. "They've come up the
other way. The maps must have been accurate this time."

There was a knot of men at the far bend of the corridor. They carried
torches, and clumps of stones in sacks at their waists. Obviously they
were not the dilettantes of People's Day. They were after more than the
crash of furniture.

"Get the dame, boys!" one of them yelled. They charged forward.
Duckpath was lying across the entrance to the shelter, and the mob was
almost on him.

"We've got to take the stairway, Joan!" Glen cried, fumbling at her arm.

"His key, his key!" She knelt beside Duckpath and pulled the key out
of his hand. The High Official stirred, but did not speak. An amazing
amount of blood had already accumulated on the floor around him.
