
The Dimellian was larger than life and twice as ugly. It was an
idealized, self-glorified mental image Harrell faced.

The captured Dimellian was about five feet tall, thick-shouldered, with
sturdy, corded arms and supplementary tentacles sprouting from its
shoulders; its skin was green and leathery, dotted with toad-like warts.

Harrell now saw a creature close to nine feet tall, swaggering, with a
mighty barrel of a chest and a huge broad-sword clutched in one of its
arms. The tentacles writhed purposefully.

"You know why I'm here, alien. I want to know certain facts. And I'm
not getting out of your mind until I've wrung them from you."

The alien's lipless mouth curved in a bleak smile. "Big words, little
Earthman. But first you'll have to vanquish _me_."

And the Dimellian stepped forward.

Harrell met the downcrashing blow of the alien's broad-sword fully; the
shock of impact sent numbing shivers up his arm as far as his shoulder
but he held on and turned aside the blow. It wasn't fair; the Dimellian
had a vaster reach than he could ever hope for....

No! He saw there was no reason why he couldn't control the size of
his own mental image. Instantly he was 10 feet high and advancing
remorselessly toward the alien.

Swords clashed clangorously, the forest-birds screamed. Harrell drove
the alien back ... back....

And the Dimellian was eleven feet high.

"We can keep this up forever," Harrell said. "Getting larger and
larger. This is only a mental conflict." He shot up until he again
towered a foot above the alien's head. He swung downward two-handedly
with the machete....

The alien vanished.

And reappeared five feet to the right, "Enough of this foolishness,
Earthman. Physical conflict will be endless stalemate, since we're only
mental projections. You're beaten; there's no possible way you can
defeat me, or I defeat you. Don't waste your time and mine. Get out of
my mind!"

Harrell shook his head doggedly. "I'm in here to do a job and I'm not
leaving until I've done it." He sprang forward, sword high, and thrust
down at the grinning Dimellian.

Again the Dimellian sidestepped. Harrell's sword cut air.

"Don't tire yourself out, Earthman," the alien said mockingly, and
vanished.

Harrell stood alone in the heart of the steaming jungle, leaning on his
sword. Maybe he was only a mental projection, he thought, but a mental
projection could still get thoroughly drenched with its own mental
sweat.

The castle still gleamed enigmatically on the distant mountain. He
couldn't get there by walking--at least, it hadn't seemed to draw any
nearer during his jaunt through the jungle. Hand-to-hand combat with
the alien appeared fruitless. A fight in which both participants could
change size at will, vanish, reappear, and do other such things was as
pointless as a game of poker with every card wild.

But there had to be a way. Mental attack? Perhaps _that_ would crumble
the alien's defenses.

He sent out a beam of thought, directed up at the castle. _Can you hear
me, alien?_

Mental laughter echoed mockingly back. _Of course, Earthman. What
troubles you?_

Harrell made no reply. He stood silently, concentrating, marshalling
his powers. Then he hurled a bolt of mental energy with all his
strength toward the mocking voice.

The jungle shuddered as it struck home. The ground lurched wildly,
like an animal's back; trees tumbled, the sky bent. Harrell saw he had
scored a hit; the alien's concentration had wavered, distorting the
scenery.

But there was quick recovery. Again the mocking laughter. Harrell knew
that the alien had shrugged off the blow.

And then the counterblow.

It caught Harrell unawares and sent him spinning back a dozen feet,
to land in a tangled heap beneath a dangling nest of vines. His head
rocked, seemed ready to split apart. He sensed the alien readying a
second offensive drive, and set up counterscreens.

This time he was ready. He diverted the attack easily, and shook his
head to clear it. The score was even: one stunning blow apiece. But he
had recovered and so had the alien.

Harrell aimed another blow and felt the alien sweep it aside. Back came
the answering barrage of mental force; Harrell blocked it.

_Stalemate again_, the alien said.

_We're evenly matched_, Harrell replied. _But I'll beat you._ He looked
up at the far-off castle on the mountainside. _I'll beat you yet._

_That remains to be proven, troublesome Earthman._
