
Six identical Harrells--identical in size, shape, form, purpose.
They would attack the Dimellian simultaneously. Or, at least,
five of them would, creating a diversionary action while the
sixth--Harrell-original--made a frontal assault on the castle.

Harrell-original faced his five duplicates and briefly instructed each
in his job. They were like puppets.

"Harrell-one, you're to attack in conjunction with Harrell-two, on the
mental level. Take turns heaving mental bolts at the alien. While one
of you is recharging, the other is to unload. That won't give him time
to get any sort of defense organized and certainly no counter-attack.

"Harrell-three and Harrell-four, you're to attack physically, one armed
with sword and one with blaster, from opposite sides at once. _That_
ought to keep him busy, while he's fighting off the rest of you.

"Harrell-five, your job is to serve as front runner--to find the
Dimellian and engage him in conversation while the other four are
getting ready to attack. Make him angry; get him concerned about what
you're saying. The instant his defenses drop the other four of you jump
in. All of you got that?"

They nodded in unison.

"Good. Meanwhile I'll make an assault on the castle and maybe I can get
through with you five running interference for me."

He dismissed them and they set out in different directions. He didn't
want the Dimellian to find out what was up; if the alien saw the
strategy and had time to create duplicates of its own the conflict
would end in stalemate again.

Harrell waited, while his five duplicates went into action.

Through the mental link with Harrell-five, he listened as his
duplicates said, "The time has come to finish you off, alien. I'm glad
I found you. That acid trick almost got me but not quite."

"A pity," the alien replied. "I was hoping the ruse would finish you.
It's becoming quite irritating, having you in here. You're starting to
bore me."

"Just you wait, you overstuffed wart-hog. I'll have those tentacles of
yours clipped soon enough."

"Empty words, Earthman. You've run out of strategies; your best course
is to get out of my mind and forget this entire silly affair."

"Oh, no. I'll have those secrets pried out of you quicker than you
think."

"How?"

"I'm not giving away _my_ secrets, alien. I'm here after yours."

Harrell readied himself. He gave the signal: _now_.

Harrell-one and Harrell-three appeared. Harrell-one loosed a
bombardment of mental force that shook the alien; Harrell-three dashed
forward, wielding a machete.

Harrell-two and Harrell-four went into action, Harrell-two following up
with a second mental bolt, Harrell-four firing a blaster. The bedeviled
alien looked from side to side, not knowing where to defend himself
first.

The scenery began to rock. The alien was going down.

Harrell took to the air.

Levitating easily above the jungle, he found the castle and zeroed
in on it. As he dropped downward it changed--from a vaulting proud
collection of spires and battlements to a blocky square building and
from that into an armored box with a padlock.

The Dimellian stood before it, struggling with the five duplicate
Harrells.

Harrell stepped past--_through_--the writhing group. The Dimellian's
defenses were down. The secrets were unguarded.

He wrenched the padlock off with a contemptuous twist of his hand. The
box sprang open. Inside lay documents, neatly typed, ready for his eye.

The alien uttered a mighty howl. The forest dissolved; the universe
swirled around Harrell's head.
