
She slept. When she awoke again, she heard a new voice. A voice she
couldn't place. It said, "Hello, Margaret. Where are you?"

"Who ... Fred!"

"Margaret?"

"Y-yes."

"Your voice is different."

"So is yours. At first I couldn't think who was speaking to me!"

"It's strange it took us so long to realize that our voices would be
different."

She said shakily, "We're more accustomed to thinking of how we look."

He was silent. His mind had been on the same thing.

"Your new voice isn't bad, Fred," she said after a moment. "I like it.
It's a little deeper, a little more resonant. It will go well with your
personality. The Doctor has done a good job."

"I'm trying to think whether I like yours. I don't know. I suppose I'm
the kind of guy who likes best what he's used to."

"I know. That's why I didn't want him to change my looks."

Again silence.

She said, "Fred?"

"I'm still here."

"Have you talked to him about it?"

"He's talked to me. He's told me about your being worried."

"Don't you think it matters?"

"Yes, I suppose it does. He told me he could do a good technical
job--leave us with regular features and unblemished skins."

"That isn't what I want," she said fiercely. "I don't want the kind of
regular features that come out of physiology books. I want my own
features. I don't care so much about the voice, but I want my own face
back!"

"That's a lot to ask for. Hasn't he done enough for us?"

"No. Nothing counts unless I have that. Do--do you think that I'm being
silly?"

"Well--"

"I don't want to be beautiful, because I know you don't want me to be."

He sounded amazed. "Whoever told you that?"

"Do you think that after living with you for two years, I don't know? If
you had wanted a beautiful wife, you'd have married one. Instead, you
chose me. You wanted to be the good-looking one of the family. You're
vain, Fred. Don't try to deny it, because it would be no use. You're
vain. Not that I mind it, but you are."

"Are you feeling all right, Margaret? You sound--overwrought."

"I'm not. I'm being very logical. If I were either ugly or beautiful,
you'd hate me. If I were ugly, people would pity you, and you wouldn't
be able to stand that. And if I were beautiful, they might forget about
you. I'm just plain enough for them to wonder why you ever married
anyone so ordinary. I'm just the kind of person to supply background for
you."
