
When the door had closed behind the pair, Miss Beaver busied herself
making the child more comfortable for the night. She smoothed out the
cool linen sheets, drawing them taut under the wasted little body. She
bathed the hot face with water and alcohol. To all her ministrations the
child submitted in a kind of lethargy, speaking no word, making no sign
that he had noticed a different attendant. When she had quite finished,
he breathed a long sigh of relaxation; his quivering, weak little body
went suddenly limp, and Miss Beaver had a good scare as she bent over
him, trying to bring back that weary and reluctant spirit to its
exhausted mortal domicile.

It was by then nearly half past seven. The child lay supine;
heavy-lidded eyes half opened upon this tormentress who had somehow
succeeded in calling him back into the dimly lighted room from the
shadows of Lethe's alluring banks. Miss Beaver, kneeling beside young
Frank's bed, talked tenderly to him in a soft monotone. She made all
manner of gratuitous promises, if only Frank would try like a good boy
to get well. She told him firmly that he could, if he wanted to. She
made her suggestions with gently persuasive voice, coloring all she said
with the warmth of a heart peculiarly open to the unknown needs of the
listless child. To those unknown needs she opened wide her spirit,
crying within for enlightenment and help.

While she was thus occupied, she became aware of that sensation of being
watched that is so startling when one considers oneself alone. Without
rising, she turned her face quickly from the pillow of young Frank and
looked across the bed. A member of the household about whom Doctor
Parris had neglected to tell her was standing there, one finger on his
lips which, though firm, wore a reassuring smile that immediately
conveyed his warm friendliness. He was a well preserved elderly
gentleman of aristocratic mien, clad in a bright blue garment of odd
cut, his neck wound about with spotlessly white linen in lieu of a
starched collar. His high nose, raised cheek-bones, flashing black eyes
and olive skin contrasted in lively fashion with a heavy mane of white
hair. His eyes as well as his lips conveyed a kindliness which Miss
Beaver's answering smile reciprocated.

Tapping his lips again with admonitory forefinger, the old gentleman now
produced, with a broad smile, something from beneath his right arm.
Leaning down, he set this carefully beside the listless child. As he put
it down, it gave a whining little cry.

Young Frank's eyes widened incredulously. Miss Beaver kept him under
intent regard as he turned his dark head on the pillow to see what it
was that was sitting on the bed.

"Oh!" he cried in a kind of rapture and put one thin white hand outside
the covers to touch the small creature that now stood wagging a brief
tail in friendly fashion. "Is it mine?"

The child looked up at the old gentleman who once more, with serious
mien and a significant movement of his head toward the door, gestured
for silence. The boy's eyes blinked once or twice; then with a weak but
ecstatic smile he laid a pale hand upon the furry coat of the little dog
that began to bounce about, licking the hand that caressed it.

Miss Beaver told herself that the old gentleman had found a way to lay
hold on young Frank's reluctant spirit. She watched color creep into the
boy's face as he cuddled the little dog blissfully, and she drew a deep
breath of heart-felt relief when the heavy eyelids drooped and the boy
slipped off into a natural sleep, nothing like the heavy coma from which
she had struggled so hard to bring him back earlier that night.

She looked up thankfully to meet the understanding gaze of the old
gentleman who with that gesture of admonishment bent over and picked up
the dog, tucked it under his blue-sleeved arm and went across the room
to the door. He did not speak but Miss Beaver received the vivid
impression that his visit would be repeated the following night; it was
as if her sensitive intuitions could receive and register a wordless
message from that other sympathetic soul.

The following morning found the lad refreshed and improved. His first
waking thought was for the dog and in reply to his cautiously whispered
inquiry Miss Beaver whispered back that his grandfather (the strong
family resemblance made her sure it had been the boy's wise grandfather
who had found a means of rousing the child from an all-but-fatal
lethargy) had taken it with him but would bring it again that night.
Miss Beaver wondered at herself for promising this but felt somehow sure
that old Mr. Wiley would bring the pup without fail. She believed that
she had read indomitable determination in those piercing black eyes; she
knew inwardly that he would not rest until he had found that thing which
would give young Frank renewed interest in living.

Although the child appeared, if anything, a trifle less apathetic the
following day and Miss Beaver felt that each succeeding visit of old Mr.
Wiley with the fox-terrier would give the lad another push toward
convalescence, yet the nurse did not feel inclined to mention openly
that secret visit in the dead of night. The old gentleman's finger
tapping his gravely smiling lips was one thing that restrained her; the
other was the irritation betrayed, ingenuously enough, by the boy's
mother during her early morning visit to the sickroom.
