
Young Mrs. Wiley looked especially pretty in a pleated jade sports
skirt, a white pullover sweater, a jade beret on her fair hair. Under
one arm she carried a small white Pomeranian about whose neck flared a
matching wide jade satin bow.

"Well, how is Francis this morning?" she inquired briskly with the
determined manner of one dutifully performing an unpleasant task. "He
looks better, doesn't he?"

Miss Beaver, to whom this inquiry was addressed, nodded shortly.

The boy did not look at his pretty young mother after his first
indifferent glance as she entered the room. He lay in silence with
closed eyes and compressed lips, a most unchildlike expression on his
thin boyish face.

"Look, Francis! See how sweet Kiki looks with this big green bow!"

Mrs. Wiley dropped the Pomeranian on the bed. The dog snarled and
snapped viciously. Frank thrust out one hand and gave the animal a
pettish push. Bestowing a hard, cold glare on her son, Mrs. Wiley
snatched up the growling dog in high indignation.

"There! I ask you, nurse, if that child isn't just unnatural. I thought
boys liked dogs. Francis is queer. I believe he actually hates Kiki."
She lifted the dog against her face, permitting it to loll its pink
tongue against her carefully rouged cheek. "Pwecious ... Was it muvver's
own pwecious ikkle Kiki? Francis," she addressed her son sharply,
"you'll have to get over your nasty ugliness to poor little Kiki. It's a
shame, the way you hate dogs!"

"But I don't hate dogs!" cried the boy vehemently, his voice breaking
with indignant resentment. "It's just Kiki. I'd love to have a little
dog of my very own, Mother. If you'd only let me have a little dog of my
very own!" The faint voice died away in a sick wail. The boy's eyelids
closed tightly against gushing tears.

Mrs. Wiley gave a short exclamation of impatience.

"Francis has the idea that a dirty mongrel would be nicer than a
beautiful pedigreed dog like Kiki," she cried disgustedly.

"But why not try letting him have a dog of his own?" asked Miss Beaver
ill-advisedly, her interest getting the better of her. "Perhaps it would
give him interest enough ..."

"Nonsense!" snapped Mrs. Wiley sharply. "I won't have street mutts
wandering around the house to irritate poor little Kiki. Nasty smelly
common mongrels with fleas. Indeed not. I'm surprised at you, nurse, for
making the suggestion."

With that, young Mrs. Wiley removed her vivid presence from the room,
leaving Miss Beaver shrugging her shoulders and raising her eyebrows.
And the little boy crying softly, the sheet pulled over his dark head.

"What's all this, Frankie?" asked the father's voice.

"_She_ won't let me have a dog of my own," sobbed the boy, coming out
from under the concealing sheet, lips a-quiver, eyes humid.

Miss Beaver's lips compressed. He called his mother "She" as if she were
an outsider....

Frank Wiley III stood for a moment looking at his son, then let himself
gently down on the edge of the bed, laying one big palm on the little
chap's hot forehead. He did not speak, just sat and stroked the fevered
brow with tenderness. On his face a dark look brooded. His eyes were
absent, unhappy.

"Daddy, why couldn't I have just a _little_ puppy of my own?"

The father replied with obvious effort.

"You know, Frankie, we have one small dog already," said he with forced
lightness.

"Oh! Kiki!"

"Couldn't you manage to make friends with Kiki?"

"_She_ doesn't really want Kiki to like me, Daddy." (Wise beyond his
years, marvelled Miss Beaver.) "Kiki doesn't really like little boys."

"Oh, my God, Frankie, don't go to crying again! Don't you see that Daddy
can't quarrel with Mother over a dog? Try to get well, old man, and
we'll see then what we can do. How about a pony, son?"

The little boy disappeared under the sheet, refusing to reply. Miss
Beaver could not bear his convulsive, hardly-controlled sobs, and turned
an accusing face upon Frank Wiley III.

"Is it possible," she asked icily, "that Frank's mother would actually
refuse him so small a thing as a puppy, if it meant the merest chance of
his getting better?"

The face turned to hers was gloomy, the voice impatient.

"Oh, good God! Was ever a man in such a damnable situation? My dear Miss
Beaver, ask the doctor to tell you how much influence I have in this
household, before you blame me for not taking a firm stand with a woman
as nervous and temperamental as Mrs. Wiley. I'd give my life willingly
to bring my boy back to health but unhappily I'm not like the founders
of our family. Some day I'll show you our family album. You'll find it
easy to trace the strong resemblance Frankie has to his forebears. Its
the damnably high spirit he gets from them that is so stubbornly killing
him now."
