
He rose, wheeled about and went to the door. Paused. Still with that
brooding dark look on his face he turned to her again.

"If my death would make it any easier for Frank, I wouldn't hesitate a
moment. I'm a failure. It wouldn't matter. But I feel that by living and
watching over him I'm standing between my boy's development as an
individual, and the subtlest, softest peril that could possibly threaten
him. I would rather he died, if he cannot bring about what he wills for
his own development. As for me, I ... I am a dead man walking futilely
among the living."

With that, he swung out of the room.

Miss Beaver knelt by the boy's bed, murmuring persuasively to him as she
strove to make him check his hysterical sobs.

"Frankie, you really must stop crying. You're too big a chap to cry and
it only makes you worse. If you're a good boy to-day and eat your food,
I'll let your grandfather bring the little dog tonight," she promised
rashly.

The sheet turned down and Frank's reddened face peered at her
plaintively.

"That was my _great_-grandfather," he assured her gravely.

"Well, great or great-great, it's all the same," she conceded
good-humoredly.

"Do you really think he'll bring Spot tonight?"

"Of course he will. But you must eat your meals, take a long nap, and
stop crying."

"Oh, I promise!" the boy cried eagerly.

The day, Miss Beaver was told later, was uneventful. She had remained
with the day nurse until Doctor Parris had made his visit. The doctor
had been much pleased to find his small patient in good spirits and
congratulated himself upon having put Miss Beaver on the case.

"If our young friend continues to improve like this, Miss Beaver," he
joked, "we'll have him playing football within a month." He lowered his
voice for her ear only. "Has anything particular come under your notice
that might account for this agreeable change?"

Miss Beaver's forehead wrinkled slightly. She regarded the doctor from
narrowed, thoughtful eyes.

"Tell me, Doctor Parris, if it isn't asking too much, why Mr. Wiley is a
Man-Afraid-of-his-Wife?"

The doctor could not repress an involuntary chuckle.

"Come now, nurse, don't you think you're asking rather a good deal?"

"No, I don't," retorted Miss Beaver shortly. "Nor do you think so,
either. What I'm trying to get at is, why Mr. Wiley lets Mrs. Wiley
prevent him from giving Frank a puppy that he wants?"

The doctor regarded her thoughtfully.

"So it's a pup the boy wants. Ha, hum!" he uttered.

"I'm asking you," she repeated impatiently.

"Oh! Eh! Well! Mrs. Wiley, you have undoubtedly discerned, is one of
those self-centered egotists who simply cannot permit people to live any
way but her way. She won't have another dog in the house because it
might interfere with the comfort of that silly damn--excuse me--Pom of
hers. If Frank were a bit older and could feign a penchant for the Pom
and his mother got the idea that the animal's affection might be
alienated from her, she would at once get the child another dog, just to
keep him away from Kiki."

"All of which sounds subtle but isn't very helpful," decided Miss Beaver
with unflattering directness. "I've told Mr. Wiley that I thought a dog
might interest his son and Mr. Wiley replies that his wife won't let him
get one. There is something more behind this and it's obvious you don't
want to tell me."

"Oh, hang it, nurse! You always manage to get your own way with me,
don't you? I'll probably have to marry you one of these days, so I can
keep the upper hand," he grinned. "Well, then, Wiley is a weak sister
and oughtn't to be. He's completely under his chorus-girl wife's thumb.
He lost a good bit in Wall Street and what's left is in her name, so
he's got to watch his step until he's recouped his losses.

"If he were like his father or his grandfather ... but he isn't,"
snapped the doctor vexedly. "Now, this boy here, he's a throw-back,
young Frank is. He's the spittin' image of the founder of the family and
I'm willing to wager he's got the grit and determination that once
endowed old Frank Wiley I."

"I've observed," murmured Miss Beaver, "that you and his father call the
boy Frank, while his mother refers to him as Francis."

"That's her hifalutin way of putting on the dog, nurse," Doctor Parris
grinned wickedly. "His name on the birth certificate is Frank but she'd
make a girlish Francis of him if she had her own way. For some reason
she isn't getting it. Her husband sticks to the old family name of Frank
and the boy won't answer to Francis.

"She has a healthy respect for the first old Frank Wiley. If you were to
see the family album, nurse, you'd be quick to catch the look in the old
boy's eyes. Nobody ever put anything over on that lad, believe me."

"I've no doubt of that," thought Miss Beaver to herself, the indomitable
countenance of her midnight visitor clear before her mind's eye. It was
astonishing, that strong family resemblance. Aloud she snapped: "Family
album, indeed! What I'm after is to get permission for this child to
have a pet. I'm positive it would make all the difference in the world
to him."

"You won't get permission, nurse. Mrs. Frank won't have any other pets
around to bother precious Kiki," he said grimly.

"Not if it's a matter of life or death?" she persisted.

"She would laugh at your putting it just that way," growled the doctor,
an absent expression stealing over his kindly face.

"Well, we'll see what we'll see," observed Miss Beaver cryptically, her
mouth an ominous tight red line.
