
The doctor suddenly spoke close to her ear, an odd note in his voice.
"I'm going to prescribe something very unusual, nurse. Tomorrow night a
covered basket will be delivered here for you. Take it into the boy's
room and open it if he wakens during the night. Understand?"

"I can't say I do, Dr. Parris."

"You will," he promised. "I'll take that basket and its contents when I
come around for my morning call. Unless," he told her grimly, "I can see
my way to make the prescription stick."

It was with the utmost anxiety that Miss Beaver awaited the coming that
night of old Mr. Wiley. The day nurse had told her that Frank had eaten
a good lunch and what for him was a hearty supper. He had agreed to
sleep if he were awakened the moment Spot arrived, and Miss Beaver had
accepted his whispered offer. To her relief, he fell asleep immediately,
natural color on his thin cheeks.

Mr. Wiley's light tap came on the door panel. She met his grave smile
with a soft exclamation of welcome. The small dog was tucked under one
arm and he paused to warn her with that admonitory touch of one finger
to his lips that the secret of his visits must be preserved. She nodded
comprehension, leaned over the sleeping boy and whispered softly in his
ear.

He stirred, opened drowsy eyes. Then he pulled himself up on his pillow,
reaching thin hands out to the spotted dog which nipped playfully at
him.

"Isn't he wonderful? When may I have him all the time?"

"When you're well and don't need a night nurse," promised Miss Beaver
rashly and was rewarded by a broad smile from the courtly old gentleman
who tipped back his white-maned head and laughed silently but
whole-heartedly.

"I'll get well at once, nurse. Don't you think I might be well enough
tomorrow? Or the day after? Not," he added politely, making Miss
Beaver's heart ache with his childish apology, "not that I want you to
leave, you know."

"That will be for the doctor to decide, Frank. But the more you eat and
sleep and grow happy in your heart, the faster you'll get well," advised
Miss Beaver earnestly.

For a long happy hour young Frank fraternized with the fox-terrier while
the old gentleman sat silently observing him, a grimly humorous smile
hovering about his firm lips. Then the boy's eyes began to cloud
sleepily and much to Miss Beaver's surprise and pleasure Frank
relinquished his canine playmate and fell asleep, a blissful smile
curving his childish mouth as he breathed with soft regularity.

Then old Mr. Wiley picked up the puppy, tucked it under one blue-clad
arm and again admonishing Miss Beaver with a finger athwart his lips,
tiptoed from the room, closing the door behind very gently.

The nurse thought with a sigh of relief that the old gentleman had
looked both pleased and gratified. She herself could hardly wait for
morning, and for the day to pass, and was both pleased and encouraged
herself when she went on duty the next night. Frank had asked to sit up
for supper and when Miss Beaver entered the room he manfully refused the
day nurse's assistance back to bed. The day nurse's up-lifted brows
betrayed her astonishment at the sudden turn for the better the young
patient had taken.

"I'm almost well," piped up Frank Wiley IV, the moment the door closed
behind the day nurse. "Tomorrow, the doctor says, I can sit out in the
garden in the sun. Couldn't I have Spot then?"

"You just leave that to me," said Miss Beaver determinedly. "I may have
much to say about your keeping Spot, Frank."

In her heart she was in reality panic-stricken for she knew that pretty
Mrs. Wiley would indifferently laugh off the idea that ownership of a
dog could mean returned health to her little son. Upon Frank Wiley III
Miss Beaver felt no reliance could be placed; he was an uxorious
weakling. Her unfounded hope rested on old Mr. Wiley alone; old Mr.
Wiley whose firm mouth and implacable dark eyes made her feel that he,
and he alone, held the key to the situation. That he had realized young
Frank's need and had filled it, albeit in secret, gave her to believe
that he would also furnish such good reason for yielding to young
Frank's boyish yearning as would make Mrs. Frank retire in disorder from
any contest of clashing wills.

But when the old gentleman stepped into the room that night he did not
carry the little dog under his arm; what he had was something bulkier.
He stopped beside the basket which had been sent to Miss Beaver and
which she had not yet opened. He leaned down and released the lid. A
little fox-terrier jumped out and stood, one small paw upheld, its head
cocked to one side.

Miss Beaver drew in a quick gasping breath of admiring amazement at what
she realized was the doctor's unusual prescription. If only old Mr.
Wiley would stand by, to uphold it, she felt that the boy would recover.
She drew his attention with a gesture.

"See how nicely our patient's coming along, Mr. Wiley," she whispered.
"Oh, please, won't you make them let him keep the little dog Doctor
Parris sent him? You can. I know you can."
