
Old Mr. Wiley leaned over the bed, apparently taking pleased note of the
faint color on the boy's cheeks. He smiled with obvious satisfaction. He
lifted his head, met Miss Beaver's pleading eyes, and nodded
emphatically. Then he slackened his hold on whatever he had tucked under
one arm and deposited it at the foot of the bed, meeting Miss Beaver's
questioning eyes with a significant narrowing of his own. She looked at
the thing, then up at him, puzzled. What he had brought in was one of
those huge, plush-covered atrocities with tall ivory letters on the
front that proclaimed it to be a Family Album. She surmised that this
must be the album which the doctor had said she should look over to note
how closely the small boy in the bed resembled his ancestors.

With a light gesture old Mr. Wiley relegated the album to the
background, his glance seeking the fox-terrier that still hesitated in
the middle of the room. Miss Beaver understood. She gently wakened the
small patient, who sat up rubbing sleepy eyes expectantly. The dog,
sensing a play-mate, bounded upon the bed and began lapping at Frank's
eager fingers with small whimperings.

"He loves me. Don't you, Spot? Look, nurse. He has black spots over his
eyes, bigger than I remembered them. And he seems littler tonight,
doesn't he? But he knows me. Gee, I wish I could keep him all the time."

Old Mr. Wiley sat silently in a comfortable chair at the shadowy back of
the room as he had done on his previous visits but his severe old
features softened as he watched the happy child and the antics of the
little dog. When at last Frank's eyes grew humid and heavy with sleep,
and he began to slip down on his pillow, he clung to his canine
playmate, refusing to relinquish the puppy which had cuddled cosily
against him.

Old Mr. Wiley's heavy brows lifted into a straight line over his high
nose. A grimly ironical smile drew up the corners of his mouth. He made
a gesture of resignation. His humorously twinkling eyes met the
consternation in Miss Beaver's but he appeared pleased and unmoved at
the prospect of the dog's remaining with the boy. He rose from his
comfortable chair, drew a deep breath, again touched the admonitory
finger to his lips and withdrew, still smiling. The door closed quietly
behind his stately blue-clad figure.

Miss Beaver told herself agitatedly that he had no business to throw the
onus of the whole situation onto her shoulders; but even while she
resented this high-handed behavior she was inwardly aware with one of
her strong intuitions that old Mr. Wiley knew indubitably what he was
about, and that at the psychological moment he would justify her in
permitting the dog to remain with young Frank.

She was in no hurry the following morning to turn over her patient to
the day nurse and lingered on in the hope that Doctor Parris would
appear early enough to get the dog away, as he had half hinted. That he
would do his best to make the prescription stick she saw immediately
after he took a single look at young Frank who sat up nimbly, his color
normal for the first time in weeks. The suppressed excitement in the
atmosphere Doctor Parris could hardly be expected to understand until
the boy drew back the covers to show the inquisitive black nose and
beady eyes hidden beneath.

"Gee, Doctor Parris, isn't he just the cutest dog you ever saw?"
chuckled young Frank. "Oh, gosh, here _she_ comes!"

The cover was whipped over the dog, whose whimpers subsided with
uncommonly good sense. Perhaps young Mrs. Wiley might not have felt the
puppy's presence but Kiki's sharp nose was not so easily put upon. Kiki,
with a shrill bark, scrambled from her arms and leaped upon the bed
where he began scratching furiously at the cover which Frank was holding
desperately but vainly against this unexpected onslaught.

"What on earth ..." began his mother, her eyes going from Kiki to Miss
Beaver's harried expression. "Oh! A nasty little dog right in Francis's
bed! Francis, push it out! It's probably full of fleas. How did that
nasty little mongrel get in here?"

"This pup isn't a mongrel, Mrs. Wiley," snapped the doctor. "Anyone can
see with half an eye it's a pedigreed animal."

She disregarded him. "Frank! Come here! Nurse, you should have known
better than to allow that horrid little mutt...."

Frank Wiley III almost ran into the room, obviously distressed over
something quite different from his wife's trouble.

"Somebody has meddled with one of our family portraits," he cried with
obvious agitation. "It's been damaged...."

"Oh, bother the family portraits!" shrilled his wife, highly
exasperated. "Look at the nasty common dog this nurse has let Francis
have right in his bed! I never heard of such nerve! Call Mason! Have him
put this dog out immediately!"

"I'll take the dog, if it's to be put out," growled Doctor Parris. "I
know a good dog when I see one," he muttered resentfully.

"Let _me_ see that dog!" exclaimed Frank Wiley III in a strangely grave
voice. He pushed the frantically excited Kiki from the bed to the floor.
He drew back the cover from the little dog huddled apprehensively
against young Frank's thin body. "Oh, good Lord! It's incredible! It
just isn't possible!"

"Isn't it?" snapped his wife, looking with distastefully wrinkled nose
at her husband's chalky face, wide staring eyes. "Well, here it is and
out it goes. Ring for Mason, Frank, at once. I want this dirty little
mongrel out!"
