
Miss Beaver deciphered the small label at the front of the massive
frame. The painting was a portrait of Frank Wiley I, the founder of the
Wiley family. Her eyes rose higher to really look at the picture for the
first time since she had been in the house. It was the living likeness
of old Mr. Wiley and it almost seemed to her that, as she stared, one of
his eyelids quivered slightly as if in recognition of her belated
admiration for his diplomatic procedure. Beside him on the painted table
one of his fine hands lay negligently or rather, seemed to be lying
higher than the table proper, resting on ... was it just bare canvas?

"Look for yourself, Florry! Where is the fox-terrier that was painted
sitting on the table under Grandfather's hand?"

Young Mrs. Wiley stared pallidly at the likeness of the founder of the
Wiley clan. "White paint," she conjectured. Then, peering closer at the
canvas: "Somebody's scraped off the paint where the dog used to be."

Stiff and grim, his own man now, her husband faced her.

"Does my boy keep that dog?"

Behind them sounded a low exclamation. At the head of the staircase
stood young Frank, the puppy tucked securely under one arm.

"Nobody's going to take away my little dog that Great-grandfather Wiley
brought me," cried the lad stoutly, black eyes flashing, thin face
determined and unyielding.

"Don't let that dog come near me!" screamed Mrs. Frank and went into a
genuine attack of hysteria. "He isn't _real_!"

Doctor Parris exchanged a look with Miss Beaver, whose face was pale but
contented.

"I always knew you were psychic," he whispered, brows drawn into a
puzzled scowl. "That's how the old gentleman, God rest his wilful soul,
could get through."

"I wondered that he never spoke a single word! Now that it's over, I
think I'm going to faint," decided Miss Beaver shakily.

"Nonsense," snapped the doctor with scant courtesy. "But _she_ is well
scared, thank God. I hardly think she will interfere much in future with
young Frank. And by the looks of him, the boy's father has had his
backbone stiffened considerably."

"That painted dog?" whispered Miss Beaver's tremulous lips.

"Eh? Yes. Ah, yes, the dog," murmured the doctor, too casually.

"You--you--dared!" uttered Miss Beaver incoherently under her breath.

"Not altogether," he protested against her ear.

He pointed upward. Miss Beaver's eyes followed that gesture and met the
admonitory, inscrutable, but very gratified pictured eyes of old Mr.
Wiley.

