
Presently he heard a hail, and then saw the three lights coming
toward him. Three of them; that meant nobody had been devoured by
saber-toothed pipicacas, or whatever cockeyed carnivores there were on
this Turkish bath of a world. That was good. If anybody killed any of
them--big, slow-thinking Davies, the chubby, drawling Hale--or Burford
in particular--Shoemaker wanted it to be him.

That was Burford now. "Seen any elephants?"

Damn him. There went Shoemaker's idea of asking casually if they'd seen
any little green creatures around. Burford was feeling sharp tonight,
and he'd pounce on that like a cat.

The three slogged into the circle of light. They looked a little tired,
even the whipcord-lean Burford. Their boots were crusted with blue-gray
mud almost to the knees.

"Have any trouble finding your way back?" Shoemaker asked. Davies shook
his big head slowly. He looked a little surprised. "No.... No, there's
a river up yonder about a mile, you know. We saw it when we landed...."

"Jim was out cold at the time," Burford put in. He grinned nastily at
Shoemaker.

"So we just followed it up a ways and then back," Davies finished,
putting his knapsack down on the galley table. He sat down heavily. "We
didn't see a thing ... not a thing. Looks like we'll have to pick up
the ship and use it to cruise around ... but we can't spare much fuel,
you know." He looked reproachfully at Shoemaker. "We used up so much
correcting course every time you shut off the engines...."

Shoemaker felt himself getting hot. "Well, if you three commissars
hadn't heaved out my Scotch--"

"Okay, okay, break it up," said Hale boredly. He let his soft bulk down
into a chair. Burford stood up, leaning against the bulkhead.

"You hear anything on the radio, Shoemaker?" Hale asked.

Shoemaker shook his head. "Had it on all day," he said. "Not a peep."

"I don't get it," Burford said. "Radio signals started practically as
soon as we hit atmosphere. They wavered, but we traced them down right
about here. Then, as soon as we landed, they quit. There's something
funny about that."

"Well, now," said Davies, wagging his head, "I wouldn't exactly say it
was _funny_, Charley.... Now you take us, there might be any number
of reasons why we'd quit signaling, if it was the Venusians landing
on Earth instead of us the other way around...." He sighed. "But it
comes to this, boys. If there are any animals on Venus, intelligent or
otherwise, it makes no never-mind, we've got to find 'em. We got to
have _some_ kind o' specimens to take back, or we're sunk. You remember
how much trouble we had, just getting the Supreme Council to subsidize
us at all...."

Shoemaker remembered. Davies' math was all right; it was the only
language he really knew his way around in. And he had the fuel, and the
motor. All he needed was money to build a ship. But he'd picked the
wrong time for it.

It had been just five years after the end of World War III when Davies
had started making plans for his ship. The World Federation was only
four and a half years old, and still bogged down in a quagmire of
difficulties. What with two Balkan and three Indian principalities
still "unreconstructed," ousted officials of other retarded nations
raising hell with underground movements, the world rearming for still
another war--plus a smashed, half-starving empire, smouldering with
atomic fire, to deal with--the Supreme Council had little time or money
to give to space flight.

Davies, though, had had his first and only non-mathematical idea, and
it was a good one. This is the way it added up. The World Federation
argued, reasonably, that the only way to police the world effectively
against the possibility of another war was for everybody to come into
the W. F. But the hold-out nations in Europe and America, who had
been neutral during the last conflict--and were powerful out of all
proportion simply because they had--plus the millions of emigres who
had set up shop in South America and Africa, replied that the W. F.
wasn't going to police _them_, and that they'd sooner _have_ another
war and, furthermore, that if the W. F. thought it could win it, let
them go ahead and drop the first bomb.

The result was an impasse that was throwing the World's Cultural
Rehabilitation Program all out of kilter. Well, said Davies, suppose
it were possible to prove to the reactionary nations that Venus was
habitable--wouldn't they jump at the chance to avoid World War IV by
moving out entirely? Then the W. F. would be able to go about its
business, organizing the Earth into One World--until it was so strong
that the Venus colony would be a pushover, and serve them right.

Meanwhile, what if there were intelligent life on Venus--intelligent
enough to be a new source of cheap labor, now that every world citizen
was demanding that his working day be cut immediately to five hours?

The bored Bureau Chief to whom Davies had talked had nodded
thoughtfully and said there might be something in it, and a few months
later Davies had been set up as head of a new Department, with a wholly
inadequate appropriation.

Burford and Hale had been assigned to the project by the North American
Labor Bureau, and Shoemaker, appealed to by Davies, had joined up
principally because it was a tough job. Then they'd gone to work,
spending the money in driblets as they got it. They'd had to revise
the specifications downward half a dozen times, and when they were
through, the _Space Queen_ was a rule-of-thumb monstrosity that only a
mechanical genius could hold together. Shoemaker was the genius.
