
He had to admit to a certain apprehension, though, as he sat on watch
in the sallyport the next evening. Land, sea and sky were the same
slimy monotone; the occasional breath of wind that came in from the
ocean bore the same broad hint of decaying marine life. It had been
just about this time last night when that--

Restless, he got up and tramped around the ship. On the seaward side,
beyond the huge muzzles of the rocket tubes, the greenish sand sloped
downward abruptly in a six-foot embankment to the stagnant edge of the
water. There was nothing out there, not even a ripple.

To landward, there was nothing but mud.

He sat down again, looked dubiously at his half-finished quart, decided
to let it rest awhile. The glass had a green tinge from the sand around
it. Resolutely, he turned his mind to the exploring party, tramping
around in that godforsaken wilderness again. Well, what do you think,
Shoemaker? he asked himself. How long will it take those supermen
to give up their little paper-chase? Two more days? Three? A week?
Shoemaker, he answered, I don't know and at this point I don't give a
damn. I got more important things to worry about.

That seemed to settle that. He stared gloomily at the bottle, then
picked it up and drank.

When he lowered the bottle again, pushing the cap shut with his thumb,
the little green man was there.

No, it was a different one this time. Rigid with shock, he could still
see that this one was fatter around the middle and had shorter whiskers.

But the expression was the same. Like a fiend on his way to a
dismemberment party.

He found his voice. "Where did you come from?"

The little man smiled unpleasantly. "Mud and moss," he said.

Shoemaker wanted to yell. Holding a conversation with a hunk of mist, a
non-existent goblin! He hardly recognized his own voice when he said,
"What do you want?"

The green man walked toward him. "Heaved out my Scotch," he said, and
leered.

Shoemaker did yell. Leaping to his feet, flinging his arms wide, he
bellowed like a wounded carabao. The bottle slipped out of his fingers
and looped gracefully into the sea. The goblin turned his head to
follow it.

Then, astonishingly, he looked at Shoemaker, said, "It'll come back,"
and dived in after the bottle.

Neither of them came up, though Shoemaker hung onto the frame of the
sallyport and watched for half an hour.
