
It had to look good, so when Burford grabbed for him he stepped back
and swung a hearty right into the middle of Burford's face.

Burford staggered, but kept on coming. He clipped Shoemaker's jaw
glancingly, swung again and missed, then gave him a beauty in the eye.

Shoemaker aimed for the midriff and got it. "Uff!" said Burford. Then
Hale tackled him from behind and the three of them were all over him.

[Illustration: _Every time he tore loose they brought him down again._]

Shoemaker writhed, kicking, biting and using his elbows, but every
time he tore loose they brought him down again. After a while he was
beginning to wonder if he could get away even if he really meant it.
Then, somehow, Davies got a half Nelson on him and bore down. Shoemaker
decided it was time to quit.

He looked at his opponents. Burford had a black eye and several
assorted contusions, Hale a puffed and bleeding cheek. He couldn't see
Davies' face, but the pants-leg stretched out beside his own was ripped
and hanging down over the boot, revealing a hairy thigh. Shoemaker felt
pretty good.

"Whuff," said Burford, gazing at him with a new respect. He got up
carefully, walked over to the sick-box and came back with a box of
powders and a glass of water.

He knelt. Shoemaker glared at him. Burford said, "Okay, baby, open
your mouth or we'll pry it open. Hold his head, Lou." Davies' big hand
clasped Shoemaker's skull, and Burford pried at his lower jaw. The
instant his lips parted, Burford tilted the powder into his mouth, then
pushed it shut again. Shoemaker's eyes bulged. "Swallow," said Burford
remorselessly, and grabbed Shoemaker's nose between a horny finger and
thumb.

Shoemaker swallowed. "Now you get the water," Burford said, and held
the glass to his lips. Shoemaker drank, meekly.

Burford stood up. "Well," he said uncertainly, "that's that." Davies
let go of Shoemaker and eased out from under him. Then he stood beside
Burford and Hale, and all three looked down at Shoemaker.

There were real tears in Shoemaker's eyes--from having his nose pinched
in Burford's vise-like grip--and his face looked drawn. Slowly, like an
old man, he got to his feet, walked to the table and sat down.

"Now, Jim," Davies began hesitantly, "don't take on. It isn't so bad.
You'll be a better man for it, you know. You'll prob'ly gain weight and
everything. Now, Jim--"

Shoemaker wasn't listening. His eyes were rigid and glassy, his jaw
lax. Slowly he began to tremble. He slumped over and hit the deck with
a thud, still jerking.

"Good Lord!" exploded Burford.

"What is it?" Hale demanded.

"Mitchel's reaction," said Burford. "Hasn't happened twice in thirty
years. I never thought--"

"Is it dangerous, Charley?"

"Lord, yes. Wait till I get the handbook." Shoemaker heard his quick
steps, then pages being riffled.

When he thought it was safe, Shoemaker sneaked a look out of one
eye. The other two men were pressed close to Burford, staring over
his shoulders. Their backs were to him, but he kept jerking his body
occasionally anyway, just to be on the safe side.

"Treatment," said Burford hoarsely, "extended rest on soft diet,
diathermy, u. v. irradiation, hourly injection of--Hell, we can't do
that. We haven't got half the stuff."

"What happens if he don't get it, Charley?" said Davies nervously. "I
mean to say, how long--"

Burford flipped pages. "General debility, progressing rapidly, followed
by heart stoppage and death after four to ten weeks."

"Oh, my," said Davies. "What'll we do, Charley? I mean--"

"Wait a minute, here. Are you sure he's got what you think?" asked Hale
skeptically. "How do you know he's not faking?"

"Faking!" said Burford. "Well--he's got all the symptoms." He riffled
pages. "Immediate unconsciousness, violent tremors--oh-oh. Look at
this."

The two heads craned forward eagerly. There was a moment of silence,
and then Hale giggled. "Well, if he does _that_, I'll believe you!"

"Yes," said Davies seriously, "but, if he's unconscious, how can he--"

Burford glanced at the handbook again. "He should be coming to any time
now," he said loudly. "When he does, we'll know for sure."
