
Shoemaker grinned to himself. He knew that section of the Medical
Handbook by heart. _Patient remains unconscious and cannot_ be roused
for twenty minutes to one-half hour.... He kept his eyes closed and
waited, jerking occasionally, for what he judged was a good twenty
minutes, then another five for good measure. When he opened them again,
he saw Davies' anxious face a few inches away, flanked by Burford's and
Hale's.

"He's coming out of it!" said Burford. "How do you feel, old man?"

"Wha--?" said Shoemaker.

"You've had a little stroke," said Burford mendaciously. "Help me get
him up.... You'll be all right, Jim, but you've got to do just as we
tell you."

"Poisoned me," Shoemaker gasped, suffering himself to be hoisted limply
erect.

"No, no," Davies protested. "We're trying to help you, Jimmy boy. Just
go with Charley, that's right. Here, take this bottle, Charley."

Even Shoemaker was a little startled by what followed.

When they returned, Burford nodded solemnly. "It was blue, all right,"
he said.

"Poisoned me!" said Shoemaker, allowing himself to speak a little more
emphatically.

"Oh, hell!" said Burford, lifting Shoemaker's quaking body into a
chair. "So we poisoned you. We didn't mean to do it. Question is now,
what's to be done?"

"Why, we've got to get him to a hospital," said Davies. "Got to start
back to Earth immediately. Uh--but, Charley, will he be well enough to
work on the trip?"

"It _might_ not kill him," said Burford grimly. "But what about us? Are
we going to go back empty-handed?"

"Oh, my," said Davies. "I forgot for a minute. No, we _can't_ do that.
But look here, Charley--if he dies while we're still here, how're we
going to get back without him?"

"We'll have to, that's all," said Burford.

"Check," said Hale.

"Well, I got to admit you boys are right," said Davies promptly, with
a long face. "Never had to make a more difficult decision in my life.
Poor old Jim! When I think--"

He stopped with a gasp as Shoemaker rose to his feet, swelling visibly
with rage. "When _I_ think," said Shoemaker loudly, "of the chances
I've had--" he found himself encumbered by the broken halves of the
capsule under his tongue, and spat them out violently--"to strangle
the whole murdering crew of you quietly in your sleep--" His fingers
curled. He started toward Davies slowly, on stiff legs.

Burford was staring at the capsule-halves on the deck. Suddenly he
bent and picked them up, saw the faint blue stain that still clung to
their edges. Light broke over his face. "Methylene blue!" he said. "You
knew--you hid this in your mouth and swallowed it. Why, you old--"

"I did," said Shoemaker, "and now I'm going to make _you_ swallow it."
He stepped forward and swung a vigorous right that knocked Burford
through the open door.

Hale had picked up a chair. Shoemaker ducked aside as it whooshed
down, meanwhile kicking Hale in the stomach. Then he looked around for
Davies, but the latter, it seemed, was behind him. Something tapped
Shoemaker on the back of the skull, and then everything faded away in
gray mist....
