
Anthony went next to see the priest.

"How many people do you know?"

"I know all of them."

"That has to be doubted," said Anthony after a moment.

"I've had twenty different stations. And when you hear five thousand
confessions a year for forty years, you by no means know all about
people, but you do know all people."

"I do not mean types. I mean persons."

"Oh, I know a dozen or so well, a few thousands somewhat less."

"Would it be possible to know a hundred thousand people, a half
million?"

"A mentalist might know that many to recognize; I don't know the limit.
But darkened man has a limit set on everything."

"Could a somehow emancipated man know more?"

"The only emancipated man is the corporally dead man. And the dead man,
if he attains the beatific vision, knows all other persons who have
ever been since time began."

"All the billions?"

"All."

"With the same brain?"

"No. But with the same mind."

"Then wouldn't even a believer have to admit that the mind which we
have now is only a token mind? Would not any connection it would have
with a completely comprehensive mind be very tenuous? Would we really
be the same person if so changed? It is like saying a bucket would hold
the ocean if it were fulfilled, which only means filled full. How could
it be the same mind?"

"I don't know."

Anthony went to see a psychologist.

"How many people do you know, Dr. Shirm?"

"I could be crabby and say that I know as many as I want to; but
it wouldn't be the truth. I rather like people, which is odd in my
profession. What is it that you really want to know?"

"How many people can one man know?"

"It doesn't matter very much. People mostly overestimate the number of
their acquaintances. What is it that you are trying to ask me?"

"Could one man know everyone?"

"Naturally not. But unnaturally he might seem to. There is a delusion
to this effect accompanied by an euphoria, and it is called--"

"I don't want to know what it is called. Why do specialists use Latin
and Greek?"

"One part hokum, and two parts need; there simply not being enough
letters in the alphabet of exposition without them. It is as difficult
to name concepts as children, and we search our brains as a new mother
does. It will not do to call two children or two concepts by one name."

"Thank you. I doubt that this is delusion, and it is not accompanied by
euphoria."
