
He had to confide in someone.

He spoke to Wellington who also worked in his room. "I know a girl in
Beirut who is just going to bed. It is evening there now, you know."

"That so? Why don't they get their time straightened out? I met a girl
last night that's cute as a correlator key, and kind of shaped like
one. She doesn't know yet that I work in the center and am a restricted
person. I'm not going to tell her. Let her find out for herself."

It was no good trying to tell things to Wellington. Wellington never
listened. And then Anthony got a summons to Colonel Peter Cooper, which
always increased his apprehension.

"Anthony," said the colonel, "I want you to tell me if you discern
anything unusual. That is really your job, to report anything unusual.
The other, the paper shuffling, is just something to keep your idle
hands busy. Now tell me clearly if anything unusual has come to your
notice."

"Sir, it has." And then he blurted it all out. "I know everybody! I
know everybody in the world. I know them all in their billions, every
person. It has me worried sick."

"Yes, yes, Anthony. But tell me, have you noticed anything _odd_? It is
your duty to tell me if you have."

"But I have just told you! In some manner I know every person in
the world. I know the people in Transvaal, I know the people in
Guatemala. I know _everybody_."

"Yes, Anthony, we realize that. And it may take a little getting used
to. But that isn't what I mean. Have you (besides that thing that seems
out of the way to you) noticed anything unusual, anything that seems
out of place, a little bit wrong?"

"Ah--besides that and your reaction to it, no, sir. Nothing else odd.
I might ask, though, how odd can a thing get? But other than that--no,
sir."

"Good, Anthony. Now remember, if you sense anything odd about anything
at all, come and tell me. No matter how trivial it is, if you feel that
something is just a little bit out of place, then report it at once. Do
you understand that?"

"Yes, sir."

But he couldn't help wondering what it might be that the colonel would
consider a little bit odd.

Anthony left the center and walked. He shouldn't have. He knew that
they became impatient with him when he wandered off from his work.

"But I have to think. I have all the people in the world in my brain,
and still I am not able to think. This power should have come to
someone able to take advantage of it."

He went into the Plugged Nickel Bar, but the man on duty knew him for
a restricted person from the filter center, and would not serve him.

He wandered disconsolately about the city. "I know the people in Omaha
and those in Omsk. What queer names have the towns of the earth! I know
everyone in the world, and when anyone is born or dies. And Colonel
Cooper did not find it unusual. Yet I am to be on the lookout for
things unusual. The question rises, would I know an odd thing if I met
it?"
