

   Francis Marion Crawford, the youngest of the four
   children of the well-known sculptor Thomas Crawford,
   was born in Rome, educated by a French governess;
   then at St Paul's School, Concord, N.H.; in the
   quiet country village of Hatfield Regis, under an
   English tutor; at Trinity College, Cambridge, where
   they thought him a mathematician in those days; at
   Heidelberg and Karlsruhe, and at the University of
   Rome, where a special interest in Oriental languages
   sent him to India with the idea of preparing for a
   professorship.

   At one time in India hard times nearly forced him
   into enlistment in the British army, but a chance
   opening sent him as editor of the _Indian Herald_ to
   Allahabad. It was during the next eighteen months
   that he met at Simla the hero of his first novel,
   "Mr. Isaacs." "If it had not been for him," Mr.
   Crawford has been known to say, "I might at this
   moment be a professor of Sanskrit in some American
   college;" for that idea persisted after his return
   to the United States, where he entered Harvard for
   special study of the subject.

   But from the May evening when the story of the
   interesting man at Simla was first told in a club
   smoking-room overlooking Madison Square, Mr. Crawford's
   life has been one of hard literary work. He returned to
   Italy in 1883, spent most of the next year in
   Constantinople, where he was married to a daughter
   of General Berdan. From 1885 he has made his home in
   Sorrento, Italy, visiting America at intervals.

   "Mr. Isaacs," published in 1882, was followed almost
   at once by "Dr. Claudius." Then _The Atlantic
   Monthly_ claimed a serial, "A Roman Singer," in
   1883. Since that time the list of his novels has
   been increased to thirty-two, besides the historical
   and descriptive works entitled "Ave Roma Immortalis"
   and "The Rulers of the South."

   To Mr. Crawford, the development of a story and of
   the character which suggested it, is the preeminent
   thing. As the critics say:--

     "He is an artist, a born story-teller and
     colourist, imaginative and dramatic, virile and
     vivid."

   His wide range as a traveller has contributed doubtless
   to another characteristic quality:--

     "... his strength in unexcelled portraits of odd
     characters and his magical skill in seeming to make
     his readers witnesses of the spectacles."

   His intimate knowledge of many countries has resulted in
   an unequalled series of brilliant romances, including
   varied characters from the old families of Rome, the
   glassblowers of Venice, the silversmiths of Rome, the
   cigarette makers of Munich, the court of old Madrid, the
   Turks of Stamboul and the Bosphorus, simple sailors on the
   coast of Spain, Americans of modern New York and Bar Harbor,
   to Crusaders of the twelfth century. But whether the scene
   be in modern India, rural England, the Black Forest, or the
   palaces of Babylon, the story seizes on the imagination and
   fascinates the reader.

     "The romantic reader will find here a tale of love
     passionate and pure; the student of character, the
     subtle analysis and deft portrayal he loves; the
     historian will approve its conscientious historic
     accuracy; the lover of adventure will find his
     blood stir and pulses quicken as he reads."
