
I hadn't. We had been fine-combing the broad windswept plain in front
of the ship, looking for archaeological remains. The planet was
uninhabited, or so we thought after running a quick check--but Max Feld
had discovered relics of a dead race, an exciting find, and we had all
fanned out to help him in his search for more.

We had been heading toward a flat mountain wall that rose abruptly from
the desert about a mile from the ship when--from nowhere--the creature
appeared, towering above the desert like a dinosaur dropped from the
skies.

But no dinosaur ever looked like this one. Sixty feet high, its skin a
loathsome gray-green quivering jelly with thick hairy cilia projecting,
its vat-like mouth gaping toothily, its cold, hard eyes flicking back
and forth, searching for us as we flattened ourselves out of sight, it
was an utterly ghastly being. Evolution had gone wild on this planet.

And we were cut off from the ship, hemmed between the mountain wall and
the creature.

"What are we going to do?" Clyde Hamner whispered. "He's going to smell
us out pretty soon."

As he spoke, the monster began to move--_flowing_, it seemed, like some
vast protozoan.

"I'm going to blast it," I said, as it oozed closer to us. Cautiously,
I lifted my Webley from its shoulder-holster, turned the beam to
_Full_, began to squeeze the firing-stud.

A bright white-hot beam of force leaped from the nozzle and speared the
creature's eye. It howled, seemed to leap in the air, thrashed around--

And changed.

It became a boiling mass of amorphous protoplasm, writhing and
billowing on the sand. I fired again into the mass--again and again,
and the alien creature continued to shift its form. I was cold with
horror, but I kept up the firing. My bolts seemed to be absorbed into
the fluid mass without effect, but at least I had halted the oozing
advance.

It reached one final hideous stage: a giant mouth, opening before us
like the gate of hell. A mouth, nothing more. It yawned in front of us--

Then advanced.

I felt noxious vapors shoot out, bathing my thermosuit, and I saw
a gargling larynx feet across. I fired, again and again, into the
monster's throat.

My companions were firing too. We seemed to have halted the thing's
advance. It paused some twenty feet from us, a wall of mouth.

Then it disappeared.

It blinked out of sight the way it had come--instantaneously. For a
moment I didn't realize what had happened, and fired three useless
charges into the space where the monster had been.

"It's gone," Hamner exclaimed.

My hands were trembling--me, who had stood up to Venusian mudworms
without a whimper, who had fought the giant fleas of Rigel IX. I was
shaking all over. Sweat was running down my entire body, and the wiper
of my faceplate was going crazy trying to blot my forehead.

Then I heard dull groans coming from up ahead. One final grunt, then
silence. They had been coming from Max Feld.

Looking around cautiously, I rose to my feet. There was no sign of the
creature. I ran to where Max lay.

The plump paleontologist was sprawled flat in the sand, face down. I
bent, yanked him over, peered in his facemask. His eyes were open,
staring--and lifeless.
