
It wasn't till we got back to the ship that we could open his spacesuit
and confirm what I thought I saw on his face.

Doc Graves pronounced it finally: "He's dead. Heart attack. What the
devil did you _see_ out there, anyway?"

Quickly I described it. When I was finished the medic shivered. "Lord!
No wonder Max had an attack. What a nightmare!"

Donaldson, the anthropologist, appeared from somewhere in the back of
the ship. Seeing Max's body, he said, "What happened?"

"We were attacked on the desert. Max was the only casualty. The thing
didn't touch us--it just stood there and changed shape. Max must have
died of fright."

Donaldson scowled. He was a wry, taciturn individual with a coldness
about him that I didn't like. I could pretty much guess what he would
say. No expression of grief, or anything like that.

"It's going to look bad for you, Doc, when it's discovered we had a man
with a weak heart in the crew."

The medic stiffened. "I checked Max's heart before we left. It was as
good as anyone's. But the shock of seeing that thing--"

"Yeah," Don Forster said angrily. "You'd have been shivering in your
boots too if that thing had popped out of nowhere right over _your_
left shoulder."

"Keep your remarks to yourself, Forster. I signed on for the
Exploratory Team with the same understanding any of you did--that we
were going into alien, uncharted worlds and could expect to meet up
with anything. Anything at all. Fright's a mere emotional reaction.
Adults--as you supposedly are--should be able to control it."

I felt like hitting him, but I restrained myself. That ordeal out on
the desert had left me drained, nerves raw and shaken. I shrugged and
looked away.

"Well?" Hamner said. "What do we do? Go home?"

It was said half as a joke, but I saw from the look on young Leo
Mickens' face that he was perfectly willing to take the suggestion
seriously and get off Pollux V as fast as he could.

To forestall any trouble, I said, "It's a tempting idea. But I don't
think it would look good on our records."

"You're right," Hamner agreed. "We stay. We stay until we know what
that thing is, where it came from, and how we can lick it."
