
When we returned, I saw the tense faces of the men in the ship ease.

"All right," Donaldson said. "We've both been out there and come
back. I say we ought to investigate this place fully. There's been a
high-level civilization here at one time, and--"

"Suppose it's this monster that killed off that civilization?" Forster
suggested.

"Then it's our duty to investigate it," I had to say. "Even at the cost
of our lives." Here I agreed with Donaldson; monster or no, it was our
job to fathom the secrets of this dead world.

We agreed to explore in twos, rather than risk the customary
complement of six all at once. Two men would go out; five remain
within, three of them space-suited and ready to leave the ship to
answer any emergency call.

Mickens and Forster drew the first assignment. They suited up and
left. Tensely, we proceeded about our shipside duties, cataloguing
information from our previous stops, performing routine tasks, busying
ourselves desperately in unimportant work to take our minds off the men
who were out on that desert together.

An hour later, Forster returned. Alone.

His face was pale, his eyes bulging, and almost before he stepped from
the airlock we knew what must have happened.

"Where's Mickens?" I asked, breaking the terrible hush in the cabin.

"Dead," he said hollowly. "We--we got to the mountain, and--God, it was
awful!"

He sank down in an acceleration cradle and started to sob. Doc Graves
fumbled at his belt, drew out a neurotab, forced it between the boy's
quivering lips. He calmed; color returned to his face.

"Tell us about it," Hamner urged gently.

"We reached the back end of the plain, and Leo suggested we try the
mountain. He thought he saw a sort of cave somewhere back in there, and
wanted to have a look. We had to go over that sharp rock shelf to get
in there.

"So we started to scale the cliff. We were about a hundred feet up, and
going along a path maybe four feet wide, when--when--" He shuddered,
then forced himself to go on. "The monster appeared. It popped out of
nowhere right in front of Leo. He was taken by surprise and toppled
over the edge. I managed to hang on."

"Were you attacked?" I asked.

"No. It vanished, right after Leo fell off. I went down to look at him.
His facemask had broken. I left him there."

I glanced around at the tight-jawed, hard faces of my crewmates. No one
said a word--but we all knew the job that faced us now. We couldn't
leave Pollux V until we'd discovered the nature of the beast that
menaced us--even if it cost us our lives. We couldn't go back to Earth
and send some other guys in to do the job. That wasn't the way the
Exploratory Wing operated. We had a tradition to uphold.
