
We drew lots, and Hamner and Donaldson went out there to recover
Mickens' body. They encountered no hazards, and brought young Mickens'
shattered body back. We buried it next to Max's. The monster had taken
a toll of two already, without actually touching either.

It was almost like some evil plan unfolding to wipe us out one by one.
I didn't like it--but I didn't have anything too concrete to base it
on, not till the fifth day.

I was teamed with Donaldson again, and I felt strangely confident
about our safety. So far the monster had yet to materialize any time
Donaldson was out on the plain. That fact had been in the back of my
mind for quite a while. It was the only clue I had.

We prowled over the plain, which by now had been pretty well
finetoothed, and then I suggested we try the cave where Mickens had met
his fate.

"I don't like the idea," Donaldson said, eyeing the narrow shelf of
rock we would have to walk across. "You remember what happened to
Mickens, and--"

I laughed harshly. "Don't tell me you're beginning to believe in this
monster of ours?"

"Of course not. Mickens simply had an attack of vertigo and toppled
off; Forster's active imagination supplied the monster. But that shelf
looks treacherous. I'd just as soon not go up there."

"You're not talking like an Exploratory Wing man, Donaldson. But it's
okay with me if you want to wait down here. That cave might be a
goldmine of artifacts. We ought at least to have a look."

His hard face dropped within his mask. "No--I couldn't let you go
alone. You win," he said. "Let's try the cave."

We began the climb--and it was, I saw, a deadly road. It narrowed
dizzyingly--and while the drop was only a hundred feet, which a man
could survive if he landed right, spacesuits weren't made to take falls
of that sort. And without a suit, a man was instantly dead on this
methane-ammonia atmosphere world.

We were about ten feet out on the ledge, I in the lead and Donaldson
behind me, when I heard him gasp.

"Great God! There it is!"

I felt him lurch against me in sudden terror, nearly heaving me into
the abyss, but somehow I steadied myself, dropped to my knees, hung on.
I turned.

He had avoided a fall too. But I saw no monster.

"Where is it?" I asked.

"It came out of the air right next to me--just popped out of the
void and vanished again. I saw it, though." His voice was hoarse. "I
apologize for everything I've said. The thing is real. If it weren't
for your sure footing we'd both have gone the way Mickens did."

He seemed almost hysterical. There was no sign of the monster, but I
wasn't going to take any chances out on this ribbon of rock with a
hysterical man.

"Let's go back," I said. "We'll try to get to the cave some other time."

"All right," Donaldson said, shaken. We turned and inched our way back
along the shelf to safety, and half-ran to the sanctuary of the ship.

But once we were inside and I was thinking clearly again, I began to
sprout some suspicions.
