
I reasoned it out very carefully. Every time Donaldson had gone out
previously, the monster had failed to show. There wasn't another man
aboard ship who hadn't had some encounter with the thing. And some of
them were remarking about Donaldson's apparent luck.

So this time we're out on the shelf, and the monster _does_ show
up--but Donaldson's the only one who sees him, after staunchly denying
its existence all along. It seemed to me that it might only have been
pretense, that he had faked seeing the monster for some reason of his
own.

I didn't know what that could be. But I had some ideas. Donaldson,
after all, had been a member of the first party to explore Pollux V,
the day before the exploration that killed Max. I had remained on the
ship while that group had been out.

Suppose, I thought, Donaldson had found something on that first trip,
something that he hadn't bothered to tell the rest of us about.
Something he might want badly enough to kill all of us for.

It was pretty far-fetched, but it was worth a try. I decided to explore
Donaldson's cabin.

Ordinarily we respected privacy to an extreme degree aboard the ship.
I had never been in Donaldson's cabin before--he never invited anyone
in, and naturally I never went uninvited. But this was a special case,
I felt.

The door was locked, but it's not hard to coerce a magneplate into
opening if you know how they work. Donaldson was in the ship's lab and
I hoped he'd stay out of my way till I had a good look around.

The room was just like any of ours, filled with the usual things--a
shelf of reference books, a file of musictapes, some minifilms, other
things to help to pass away the long hours between planets. It seemed
neat, precise, uncluttered, just as Donaldson himself was crisp and
reserved.

I moved around the room very carefully, looking for anything out of the
ordinary. And then I found it.

It was a black box, nothing more, about four inches square. It was
sitting on one of his shelves. Just a bare black box, a little cube of
metal--but _what_ metal!

Beyond the blackness was a strange unearthly shimmer, an eye-teasing
pattern of shifting molecules within the metal itself. The box had a
sleek, alien appearance. I knew it hadn't been in the cabin when we
left Earth.

With a sudden rush of excitement I realized my mad guess had been
right. Donaldson _had_ found something and kept news of it back from
the rest of us. And perhaps it was linked to the deaths of Max Feld and
Leo Mickens.

Cautiously I reached out to examine the box. I lifted it. It was oddly
heavy, and strange to the touch.

But no sooner did I have it in my hands when the door opened behind me.
Donaldson had come back.
