
"What are you doing with that?" he shouted.

"I--"

He crossed the cabin at top speed and seized the box from my hands. And
suddenly the monster appeared.

It materialized right in the cabin, between Donaldson and me, its vast
bulk pressing against the walls. I felt its noisome breath on me,
sensed its evil reek.

"Donaldson!"

But Donaldson was no longer there. I was alone in the cabin with the
creature.

I backed away into the far corner, my mouth working in terror. I tried
to call for help, but couldn't get a word out. And the beast squirmed
and changed like a vast amoeba, writhing and twisting from one grey
oily shape to another.

I sank to the floor, numb with horror--and then realized that the
monster wasn't approaching.

It was just staying there, making faces at me.

Making faces. Like a bogeyman.

It was trying to scare me to death. That was how Max Feld had died,
that was how Leo Mickens had died.

But I wasn't going to die that way.

I rose and confronted the thing. It just remained in the middle of the
cabin, blotting everything out behind it, stretching from wall to wall
and floor to ceiling, changing from one hell-shape to another and
hoping I'd curl up and die.

I stepped forward.

Cautiously I touched the monster's writhing surface. It was like
touching a cloud. I sank right in.

The monster changed, took the dragon form again--much smaller, of
course, to fit the cabin. Teeth gnashed the air before my nose--but
didn't bite into my throat as they promised to do. Nervelessly I stood
my ground.

Then I waded into the heart of the monster, right into its middle with
the grey oiliness billowing out all around me. There seemed to be
nothing material, nothing to grapple hold of. It was like fighting a
dream.

But then I hit something solid. My groping hands closed around warm
flesh. I started to squeeze.

I had a throat. A living core of flesh within the monster? It might be.
I constricted my fingers, dug them in, heard strangled gasps coming
from further in. I couldn't see, but I hung on.

Then a human voice said, "Damn you--you're choking me!" And the monster
thinned.

Through the diminishing smoke of the dream-creature, I saw Donaldson,
and I was clutching his throat. He still held the black box in his
hand, but it was slipping from his grasp, slipping....

He dropped it. It clattered to the floor and I kicked it far across
the cabin.

The monster vanished completely.
