
It was eleven o'clock. Outside it was snowing, and so I remained in
Pigalle's, loath to leave, and killing the time with a book. Pigalle's
was one of those basement eating places in New York's West Thirties, a
comfy, tight, cosy sort of a cellar. An Italian table d'hote, of course,
though not like the usual; it had more character and less popularity.
You seldom saw a blond skin there, the place being unknown to the
night-tramping hordes of avid New Yorkers who crowd into all the
"foreign" places and devour all the foreign food they can find. Mostly
the _habitues_ were French and Italian, gentle, noisy people who did,
in their way, slight damage to the fine arts. By nine-thirty, they were
done eating and gone; almost all the lights were turned out and chairs
were piled up on the tables, out of the way of the early morning mop.
By ten Pigalle and his wife and several others, mostly sculptors, scene
painters and musicians, were gathered beneath the light at the main
table and had begun their nightly game of poker. From then on it was
slim gambling and loud, staccato chatter in French and Italian.

At eleven, then, this night, the cautious door-bell tinkled. Some kind
of a world knocking at mine and wanting to get in, I thought. Some kind
of an adventure out there, demanding to be encountered; some kind of a
soul pounding at the walls of my soul. Every time the doorbell tinkles,
whoever has this Show is setting a new scene. Or, no. The wall opens
and the genie slips through, spreads his rug on the ground and begins
to make new magic before your very eyes. Never a doorbell rang yet, I
thought, that didn't bring a bit of heaven or hell--or mere
purgatory--with it.

At eleven the doorbell tinkled and the fat little
waitress-maid-scrubwoman-second cook, a Lombard wench by the name, the
sweet ineffable name of Philomene, waddled over and opened the door a
tiny space. Pigalle occasionally sold liquor without a license; hence
his caution as to visitors. She let in an odd apparition; with doubts,
I thought; certainly with mutterings and rolling of her black eyes. At
any rate she knew him, whether for well or ill.

The man cast his eyes around, saw that the only open table save the
poker table was the one I held, and came and sat down opposite me. With
a slightly insolent motion he dragged his chair around sidewise, turned
his shoulder to me and stared across the room at a gaudy lithograph of
the good ship Isabella bound for Naples, eighty-five dollars first
class. Philomene, with a porky look, asked him what he wished.

He announced in French that he desired of all things to "strangle a
parrokeet." This was some absurd slang for saying he wanted an absinthe.

He was a gaunt, tall, round-shouldered, queer old fellow with a gray
beard and a matted moustache, colored with the brown stain of cigarette
smoke. As ugly, I thought, as ugly as--oh, Socrates. And yet with
something lovable about him. And his combination of dress was certainly
odd enough: a frayed, cutaway coat with extremely long tails, dripping
wet and dangling cylindrically like sections of melted stovepipe; mussy,
baggy old gray trousers; a blue plush waistcoat; a black, but clean
muffler pinned tight up under his chin with a safety pin of the
brassiest; and a broad-brimmed black slouch hat, so broad of brim that
he walked forever in its shadow. This hat he kept on all the time. His
hands were long and clean and white--the virile, sensitive hands of a
poet, I thought. The eyes were the fascinating feature of the man. I
said to myself right away, "This man is a mystic." Though they burned
brightly in their sockets, they had a trick of turning abruptly dim; a
sort of film or veil, closed over them. "Druid or old Celt," I murmured.
"Give him a bit of mistletoe and he'd call his gods right down into my
_demi-tasse_ and scare the poker game into fits."

He swallowed his whole glass of absinthe in five gulps--a performance
that it would make a cow shudder to watch--threw back his head, and,
with a hoarse burr, called for another. This time he spoke English; but
the burr was decidedly Scotch. Pigalle now looked around at him--gross,
pleasant, Provencal Pigalle--and nodded; then went on placidly shuffling
the tiny cards in his great fat hands.

When the second absinthe came the old man took it slowly; settled
himself back on his shoulder-blades and the tail of his spine, and
pulled his hat down level with his eyes, as if he intended to spend
a considerable time with us. He called for a package of French
cigarettes--_cigarettes jaunes_--and proceeded to color his moustache
a riper brown. "Now my adventure has knocked and come in," I thought.
"If he is my adventure, I cannot help him--nor can I keep him off. He
is the _primum mobile_. It is up to him."

Suddenly my ears were shocked with a sharp argument between two young
fellows at the poker table. No, it was not about the game. One said
something; the other shrieked his answer; the first shouted back; the
second in a violent burst that had a finality about it slammed down his
cards and said something curt, with a solemn rolling of his eyes.

To my amazement, the odd old fish across from me boomed out with equal
violence: "_Ben trovato_!" None of them paid any attention to him.

I may have shown some of my surprise at his action, for he turned
suddenly to me, and asked: "Did you understand what he said?"

I replied that I did not.

"He said, roughly translated: 'Sufficient unto eternity is the glory of
the hour.' Yes. And it is true. Sufficient unto eternity is the glory of
the hour, young man. There's many an artist who must--" he stopped short
and began biting his finger ends.

My mind reverted to Bernhardt's film and the question about the moth.
"Who must--what?" I prodded. "Content himself with this catch phrase?"

"Content himself? Damnation, no! Must feel the keener triumph in a piece
of work, young man, just because it _is_ perishable." He thumped the
table and breathed hard. I got the full paregoric reek of his drink.
"What is this stork-legged Verlaine going to say?" I thought to myself.
But he contented himself with breathing for a few moments and that odd
film dropped over his eyes. "Just because the thing is ended, and dies
out of men's minds almost as soon as it is ended"--he seemed to be
feeling slowly for the words--"_if_ the work was right, was masterly
done, there's a sort of higher joy in knowing that it triumphed--and was
suddenly gone--like a sunset, like a light on the water, like a summer."
He asked abruptly: "You think I have 'spiders on my ceiling'--you think
I am crazy?"

"On the contrary. Can you make this clearer to me, this--?"

"My agreement that sufficient unto eternity is the glory of the hour?"
He sipped his absinthe. "With your patience. Let me see. I can give you
a favorite example of mine, about a friend of mine named Andy
Gordon--something like a story?" Now in his eyes there was an eager
shine.

"Go on."

"You know, my friend, I am Highland Scotch." (He pronounced it Heeland.)
"I may be queer. That all depends. But don't be alarmed at the way I put
things. I am not out of my head. Now this yarn about Andy Gordon.
Remember," said he, tapping the table with his long white finger, and
smiling at me in a charming manner, "sufficient unto eternity is the
glory of the hour. By the way, that young fellow over there who said
that is a violoncellist. 'Grand ducal 'cello to the imperial violin,'
you know."

I reconsidered him in the wink of an eye. He is not Socrates and he
is not Verlaine, I said to myself. This old lovable scarecrow is the
Ancient Mariner, and he is going to hold me with his glittering eye
and I am going to listen like a three years' child. The very fellow:
the "skinny hand," the "long gray beard"--and doubtless, too, the
true Ancient Mariner smelled of tobacco and drink. Certainly he talked
poetry. And so did my old man, miraculously, almost without effort. So
I sat back and listened, while he told his story.

