
The next afternoon at tea-time he took the daguerreotype to his Aunt
Lucretia. She received it with her slow, uncertain, frail old hands,
lifting it to the light.

"Why, that little old picture of Allison!" she said. "I had forgotten we
had it. Where did you find it? It was William's." She stared at it with
the pitiful look the eyes of the old show at reawakening memories. "I
always thought your Uncle William was in love with her," she confided,
"although he never told us so."

"Miss Allison Clyde?" Mark questioned, and Miss Lucretia nodded faintly,
marveling:

"Why, didn't you know!"

"And was Miss Allison in love with Uncle William?"

Miss Lucretia answered doubtfully:

"I don't know. She was a child. She never said so."

"Did she ever, later on, have a love-affair?"

His aunt shook her head.

"Not that I know of. She was always so taken up with her own household.
They were very close to each other, a very united family."

"It is a wonderful little face," Mark said, looking down at the
daguerreotype.

"She was only a child then," Lucretia repeated, "not more than fifteen."
Her eyes became reminiscent. "She was still so young, only seventeen,
when he died. When he came home, he knew he had not long to live. He
used to sit out here and watch her as she moved about. He never talked
much, but the look in his eyes was," Aunt Lucretia stated in her quiet
way, "very moving."

Mark heard a step, and glanced up to see Miss Allison Clyde herself
standing beside them, looking down at them with a smile.

"To whom am I indebted for this honor? That funny little old ambrotype!
Where did you unearth it, Lucretia?"

"It was Brother William's," Lucretia explained, with her gentle
melancholy. "Mark found it in his room and asked me about it."

Mark looked to see some revelation in Miss Allison Clyde's face, but
found none. Her kindly smile had not faded or changed except to take
on a shade of amusement as she picked up the ambrotype.

"How proud I was of that mantilla!" she said. "I remember it so well.
It was green. Do you recall it, Lucretia?"

Miss Lucretia nodded, her frail hands busy with the tea-cups.

"I do. And the turban with the green plume you wore with it."

Mark glanced from the picture of the child to the face of the woman
whose youth was past. Was it tragedy for her, he wondered, that she
had never known in its fullness the meaning of love and home? Or was
she happy burning with her own diffusing light full of the warmth of
humanity, loving, and giving to all the world instead of one lover?

Miss Lucretia interrupted his reverie.

"I suppose you are going over to see Stella this evening, and we old
people shall have to amuse ourselves without you as best we can."

Mark lifted his Lowestoft tea-cup and set it down again before he
answered slowly:

"No, I think not. I am going to stay and have some music with Miss
Allison."

He wondered why Miss Allison had made Stella seem suddenly hard, new,
almost crude, like the modern furniture in the drawing-room beside the
fine old mahogany, with its simple decoration and tone of time.

It was that evening, which he had decided should be his last, that,
when their music was over, he handed Miss Allison Clyde a sheet of
manuscript music.

"Since you liked it," he said.

She took it, a faint color coming in her cheek. It was the manuscript
of the fifth song of his cycle, "Evening," and he had dedicated it to
her. Involuntarily she moved to give it back to him.

"No, not to me. You are too kind. But you must dedicate it to youth."

He nodded, with his smile.

"So I have: to the woman who has youth in her heart." Then he drew
out the package of letters. "And these," he said in a lower voice,
"are yours also." He handed them to her silently.

"Mine?" She turned over the package in doubtful wonder.

"I found them in the desk with the daguerreotype. When you open them
you will understand."

Turning from the doorway for a last good night, Mark saw Miss Allison,
as he always afterward remembered her, standing by the tall mantel in
the candle-light with the unopened package of Uncle William's letters
in her hand.




ZELIG[17]

BY BENJAMIN ROSENBLATT

From _The Bellman_

[17] Copyright, 1915, by The Bellman Company. Copyright, 1916, by
     Benjamin Rosenblatt.


Old Zelig was eyed askance by his brethren. No one deigned to call him
"Reb" Zelig, nor to prefix to his name the American equivalent--"Mr."
"The old one is a barrel with a stave missing," knowingly declared his
neighbors. "He never spends a cent; and he belongs nowheres." For "to
belong," on New York's East Side, is of no slight importance. It means
being a member in one of the numberless congregations. Every decent Jew
must join "A Society for Burying Its Members," to be provided at least
with a narrow cell at the end of the long road. Zelig was not even a
member of one of these. "Alone, like a stone," his wife often sighed.

In the cloakshop where Zelig worked he stood daily, brandishing his
heavy iron on the sizzling cloth, hardly ever glancing about him. The
workmen despised him, for during a strike he returned to work after
two days' absence. He could not be idle, and thought with dread of the
Saturday that would bring him no pay envelope.

His very appearance seemed alien to his brethren. His figure was tall,
and of cast-iron mold. When he stared stupidly at something, he looked
like a blind Samson. His gray hair was long, and it fell in disheveled
curls on gigantic shoulders somewhat inclined to stoop. His shabby
clothes hung loosely on him; and, both summer and winter, the same old
cap covered his massive head.

He had spent most of his life in a sequestered village in Little Russia,
where he tilled the soil and even wore the national peasant costume.
When his son and only child, a poor widower with a boy of twelve on
his hands, emigrated to America, the father's heart bled. Yet he chose
to stay in his native village at all hazards, and to die there. One day,
however, a letter arrived from the son that he was sick; this sad news
was followed by words of a more cheerful nature--"and your grandson
Moses goes to public school. He is almost an American; and he is not
forced to forget the God of Israel. He will soon be confirmed. His Bar
Mitsva is near." Zelig's wife wept three days and nights upon the
receipt of this letter. The old man said little; but he began to sell
his few possessions.

To face the world outside his village spelled agony to the poor rustic.
Still he thought he would get used to the new home which his son had
chosen. But the strange journey with locomotive and steamship bewildered
him dreadfully; and the clamor of the metropolis, into which he was
flung pell-mell, altogether stupefied him. With a vacant air he regarded
the Pandemonium, and a petrifaction of his inner being seemed to take
place. He became "a barrel with a stave missing." No spark of animation
visited his eye. Only one thought survived in his brain, and one desire
pulsed in his heart: to save money enough for himself and family to
hurry back to his native village. Blind and dead to everything, he moved
about with a dumb, lacerating pain in his heart,--he longed for home.
Before he found steady employment, he walked daily with titanic strides
through the entire length of Manhattan, while children and even adults
often slunk into byways to let him pass. Like a huge monster he seemed,
with an arrow in his vitals.

In the shop where he found a job at last, the workmen feared him at
first; but, ultimately finding him a harmless giant, they more than once
hurled their sarcasms at his head. Of the many men and women employed
there, only one person had the distinction of getting fellowship from
old Zelig. That person was the Gentile watchman or janitor of the shop,
a little blond Pole with an open mouth and frightened eyes. And many
were the witticisms aimed at this uncouth pair. "The big one looks like
an elephant," the joker of the shop would say; "only he likes to be fed
on pennies instead of peanuts."

"Oi, oi, his nose would betray him," the "philosopher" of the shop
chimed in; and during the dinner hour he would expatiate thus: "You
see, money is his blood. He starves himself to have enough dollars to
go back to his home: the Pole told me all about it. And why should he
stay here? Freedom of religion means nothing to him, he never goes to
synagogue; and freedom of the press? Bah--he never even reads the
conservative Tageblatt!"

Old Zelig met such gibes with stoicism. Only rarely would he turn up
the whites of his eyes, as if in the act of ejaculation; but he would
soon contract his heavy brows into a scowl and emphasize the last with
a heavy thump of his sizzling iron.

When the frightful cry of the massacred Jews in Russia rang across
the Atlantic, and the Ghetto of Manhattan paraded one day through
the narrow streets draped in black, through the erstwhile clamorous
thoroughfares steeped in silence, stores and shops bolted, a wail of
anguish issuing from every door and window--the only one remaining
in his shop that day was old Zelig. His fellow-workmen did not call
upon him to join the procession. They felt the incongruity of "this
brute" in line with mourners in muffled tread. And the Gentile watchman
reported the next day that the moment the funeral dirge of the music
echoed from a distant street, Zelig snatched off the greasy cap he
always wore, and in confusion instantly put it on again. "All the rest
of the day," the Pole related with awe, "he looked wilder than ever,
and so thumped with his iron on the cloth that I feared the building
would come down."

But Zelig paid little heed to what was said about him. He dedicated his
existence to the saving of his earnings, and only feared that he might
be compelled to spend some of them. More than once his wife would be
appalled in the dark of night by the silhouette of old Zelig in
nightdress, sitting up in bed and counting a bundle of bank notes which
he always replaced under his pillow. She frequently upbraided him for
his niggardly nature, for his warding off all requests outside the
pittance for household expense. She pleaded, exhorted, wailed. He
invariably answered: "I haven't a cent by my soul." She pointed to the
bare walls, the broken furniture, their beggarly attire.

"Our son is ill," she moaned. "He needs special food and rest; and our
grandson is no more a baby; he'll soon need money for his studies. Dark
is my world; you are killing both of them."

Zelig's color vanished; his old hands shook with emotion. The poor woman
thought herself successful, but the next moment he would gasp: "Not a
cent by my soul."

One day old Zelig was called from his shop, because his son had a sudden
severe attack; and, as he ascended the stairs of his home, a neighbor
shouted: "Run for a doctor; the patient cannot be revived." A voice as
if from a tomb suddenly sounded in reply, "I haven't a cent by my soul."

The hallway was crowded with the ragged tenants of the house, mostly
women and children; from far off were heard the rhythmic cries of the
mother. The old man stood for a moment as if chilled from the roots
of his hair to the tips of his fingers. Then the neighbors heard his
sepulchral mumble: "I'll have to borrow somewheres, beg some one," as
he retreated down the stairs. He brought a physician; and when the
grandson asked for money to go for the medicine, Zelig snatched the
prescription and hurried away, still murmuring: "I'll have to borrow,
I'll have to beg."

Late that night, the neighbors heard a wail issuing from old Zelig's
apartment; and they understood that the son was no more.

Zelig's purse was considerably thinned. He drew from it with palsied
fingers for all burial expenses, looking about him in a dazed way.
Mechanically he performed the Hebrew rites for the dead, which his
neighbors taught him. He took a knife and made a deep gash in his
shabby coat; then he removed his shoes, seated himself on the floor,
and bowed his poor old head, tearless, benumbed.

The shop stared when the old man appeared after the prescribed three
days' absence. Even the Pole dared not come near him. A film seemed to
coat his glaring eye; deep wrinkles contracted his features, and his
muscular frame appeared to shrink even as one looked. From that day on,
he began to starve himself more than ever. The passion for sailing back
to Russia, "to die at home at last," lost but little of its original
intensity. Yet there was something now which by a feeble thread bound
him to the New World.

In a little mound on the Base Achaim, the "House of Life," under
a tombstone engraved with old Hebrew script, a part of himself lay
buried. But he kept his thoughts away from that mound. How long and
untiringly he kept on saving! Age gained on him with rapid strides.
He had little strength left for work, but his dream of home seemed
nearing its realization. Only a few more weeks, a few more months!
And the thought sent a glow of warmth to his frozen frame. He would
even condescend now to speak to his wife concerning the plans he had
formed for their future welfare, more especially when she revived her
pecuniary complaints.

"See what you have made of us, of the poor child," she often argued,
pointing to the almost grown grandson. "Since he left school, he works
for you, and what will be the end?"

At this, Zelig's heart would suddenly clutch, as if conscious of some
indistinct, remote fear. His answers touching the grandson were abrupt,
incoherent, as of one who replies to a question unintelligible to him
and is in constant dread lest his interlocutor should detect it.

Bitter misgivings concerning the boy began to mingle with the reveries
of the old man. At first, he hardly gave a thought to him. The boy grew
noiselessly. The ever-surging tide of secular studies that runs so high
on the East Side caught this boy in its wave. He was quietly preparing
himself for college. In his eagerness to accumulate the required sum,
Zelig paid little heed to what was going on around him; and now, on
the point of victory, he became aware with growing dread of something
abrewing out of the common. He sniffed suspiciously; and one evening
he overheard the boy talking to grandma about his hatred of Russian
despotism, about his determination to remain in the States. He ended by
entreating her to plead with grandpa to promise him the money necessary
for a college education.

Old Zelig swooped down upon them with wild eyes. "Much you need it,
you stupid," he thundered at the youngster in unrestrained fury. "You
will continue your studies in Russia, durak, stupid." His timid wife,
however, seemed suddenly to gather courage and she exploded: "Yes, you
should give your savings for the child's education here. Woe is me, in
the Russian universities no Jewish children are taken."

Old Zelig's face grew purple. He rose and abruptly seated himself again.
Then he rushed madly, with a raised, menacing arm, at the boy in whom he
saw the formidable foe--the foe he had so long been dreading.

But the old woman was quick to interpose with a piercing shriek: "You
madman, look at the sick child; you forget from what our son died, going
out like a flickering candle."

That night Zelig tossed feverishly on his bed. He could not sleep. For
the first time, it dawned upon him what his wife meant by pointing to
the sickly appearance of the child. When the boy's father died, the
physician declared that the cause was tuberculosis.

He rose to his feet. Beads of cold sweat glistened on his forehead,
trickled down his cheeks, his beard. He stood pale and panting. Like a
startling sound, the thought entered his mind--the boy, what should be
done with the boy?

The dim, blue night gleamed in through the windows. All was shrouded
in the city silence, which yet has a peculiar, monotonous ring in
it. Somewhere, an infant awoke with a sickly cry which ended in a
suffocating cough. The grizzled old man bestirred himself, and with
hasty steps he tiptoed to the place where the boy lay. For a time
he stood gazing on the pinched features, the under-sized body of the
lad; then he raised one hand, passed it lightly over the boy's hair,
stroking his cheeks and chin. The boy opened his eyes, looked for a
moment at the shriveled form bending over him, then he petulantly
closed them again.

"You hate to look at granpa, he is your enemy, eh?" The aged man's
voice shook, and sounded like that of the child's awaking in the night.
The boy made no answer; but the old man noticed how the frail body
shook, how the tears rolled, washing the sunken cheeks.

For some moments he stood mute, then his form literally shrank to that
of a child's as he bent over the ear of the boy and whispered hoarsely:
"You are weeping, eh? Granpa is your enemy, you stupid! To-morrow I will
give you the money for the college. You hate to look at granpa; he is
your enemy, eh?"




THE SURVIVORS[18]

_A Memorial Day Story_

BY ELSIE SINGMASTER

From _The Outlook_

[18] Copyright, 1915, by The Outlook Company. Copyright, 1916, by Elsie
     Singmaster Lewars


In the year 1868, when Memorial Day was instituted, Fosterville had
thirty-five men in its parade. Fosterville was a border town; in it
enthusiasm had run high, and many more men had enlisted than those
required by the draft. All the men were on the same side but Adam
Foust, who, slipping away, joined himself to the troops of his mother's
Southern State. It could not have been any great trial for Adam to fight
against most of his companions in Fosterville, for there was only one of
them with whom he did not quarrel. That one was his cousin Henry, from
whom he was inseparable, and of whose friendship for any other boys he
was intensely jealous. Henry was a frank, open-hearted lad who would
have lived on good terms with the whole world if Adam had allowed him
to.

Adam did not return to Fosterville until the morning of the first
Memorial Day, of whose establishment he was unaware. He had been ill
for months, and it was only now that he had earned enough to make his
way home. He was slightly lame, and he had lost two fingers of his left
hand. He got down from the train at the station, and found himself at
once in a great crowd. He knew no one, and no one seemed to know him.
Without asking any questions, he started up the street. He meant to go,
first of all, to the house of his cousin Henry, and then to set about
making arrangements to resume his long-interrupted business, that of a
saddler, which he could still follow in spite of his injury.

As he hurried along he heard the sound of band music, and realized that
some sort of a procession was advancing. With the throng about him he
pressed to the curb. The tune was one which he hated; the colors he
hated also; the marchers, all but one, he had never liked. There was
Newton Towne, with a sergeant's stripe on his blue sleeve; there was
Edward Green, a captain; there was Peter Allinson, a color-bearer. At
their head, taller, handsomer, dearer than ever to Adam's jealous eyes,
walked Henry Foust. In an instant of forgetfulness Adam waved his hand.
But Henry did not see; Adam chose to think that he saw and would not
answer. The veterans passed, and Adam drew back and was lost in the
crowd.

But Adam had a parade of his own. In the evening, when the music and the
speeches were over and the half-dozen graves of those of Fosterville's
young men who had been brought home had been heaped with flowers, and
Fosterville sat on doorsteps and porches talking about the day, Adam put
on a gray uniform and walked from one end of the village to the other.
These were people who had known him always; the word flew from step to
step. Many persons spoke to him, some laughed, and a few jeered. To no
one did Adam pay any heed. Past the house of Newton Towne, past the
store of Ed Green, past the wide lawn of Henry Foust, walked Adam, his
hands clasped behind his back, as though to make more perpendicular than
perpendicularity itself that stiff backbone. Henry Foust ran down the
steps and out to the gate.

"Oh, Adam!" cried he.

Adam stopped, stock-still. He could see Peter Allinson and Newton Towne,
and even Ed Green, on Henry's porch. They were all having ice-cream and
cake together.

"Well, what?" said he, roughly.

"Won't you shake hands with me?"

"No," said Adam.

"Won't you come in?"

"Never."

Still Henry persisted.

"Some one might do you harm, Adam."

"Let them!" said Adam.

Then Adam walked on alone. Adam walked alone for forty years.

Not only on Memorial Day did he don his gray uniform and make the
rounds of the village. When the Fosterville Grand Army Post met on
Friday evenings in the post room, Adam managed to meet most of the
members either going or returning. He and his gray suit became gradually
so familiar to the village that no one turned his head or glanced up
from book or paper to see him go by. He had from time to time a new
suit, and he ordered from somewhere in the South a succession of gray,
broad-brimmed military hats. The farther the war sank into the past,
the straighter grew old Adam's back, the prouder his head. Sometimes,
early in the forty years, the acquaintances of his childhood, especially
the women, remonstrated with him.

"The war's over, Adam," they would say. "Can't you forget it?"

"Those G.A.R. fellows don't forget it," Adam would answer. "They haven't
changed their principles. Why should I change mine?"

"But you might make up with Henry."

"That's nobody's business but my own."

"But when you were children you were never separated. Make up, Adam."

"When Henry needs me, I'll help him," said Adam.

"Henry will never need you. Look at all he's got!"

"Well, then, I don't need him," declared Adam, as he walked away. He
went back to his saddler shop, where he sat all day stitching. He had
ample time to think of Henry and the past.

"Brought up like twins!" he would say. "Sharing like brothers! Now
he has a fine business and a fine house and fine children, and I have
nothing. But I have my principles. I ain't never truckled to him. Some
day he'll need me, you'll see!"

As Adam grew older, it became more and more certain that Henry would
never need him for anything. Henry tried again and again to make
friends, but Adam would have none of him. He talked more and more to
himself as he sat at his work.

"Used to help him over the brook and bait his hook for him. Even built
corn-cob houses for him to knock down, that much littler he was than me.
Stepped out of the race when I found he wanted Annie. He might ask me
for _something_!" Adam seemed often to be growing childish.

By the year 1875 fifteen of Fosterville's thirty-five veterans had died.
The men who survived the war were, for the most part, not strong men,
and weaknesses established in prisons and on long marches asserted
themselves. Fifteen times the Fosterville Post paraded to the cemetery
and read its committal service and fired its salute. For these parades
Adam did not put on his gray uniform.

During the next twenty years deaths were fewer. Fosterville prospered
as never before; it built factories and an electric car line. Of all
its enterprises Henry Foust was at the head. He enlarged his house and
bought farms and grew handsomer as he grew older. Everybody loved him;
all Fosterville, except Adam, sought his company. It seemed sometimes
as though Adam would almost die from loneliness and jealousy.

"Henry Foust sittin' with Ed Green!" said Adam to himself, as though he
could never accustom his eyes to this phenomenon. "Henry consortin' with
Newt Towne!"

The Grand Army post also grew in importance. It paraded each year with
more ceremony; it imported fine music and great speakers for Memorial
Day.

Presently the sad procession to the cemetery began once more. There
was a long, cold winter, with many cases of pneumonia, and three
veterans succumbed; there was an intensely hot summer, and twice in
one month the post read its committal service and fired its salute.
A few years more, and the post numbered but three. Past them still
on post evenings walked Adam, head in air, hands clasped behind his
back. There was Edward Green, round, fat, who puffed and panted; there
was Newton Towne, who walked, in spite of palsy, as though he had won
the battle of Gettysburg; there was, last of all, Henry Foust, who at
seventy-five was hale and strong. Usually a tall son walked beside him,
or a grandchild clung to his hand. He was almost never alone; it was
as though every one who knew him tried to have as much as possible of
his company. Past him with a grave nod walked Adam. Adam was two years
older than Henry; it required more and more stretching of arms behind
his back to keep his shoulders straight.

In April Newton Towne was taken ill and died. Edward Green was
terrified, though he considered himself, in spite of his shortness
of breath, a strong man.

"Don't let anything happen to you, Henry," he would say. "Don't let
anything get you, Henry. I can't march alone."

"I'll be there," Henry would reassure him. Only one look at Henry, and
the most alarmed would have been comforted.

"It would kill me to march alone," said Edward Green.

As if Fosterville realized that it could not continue long to show
its devotion to its veterans, it made this year special preparations
for Memorial Day. The Fosterville Band practiced elaborate music, the
children were drilled in marching. The children were to precede the
veterans to the cemetery and were to scatter flowers over the graves.
Houses were gayly decorated, flags and banners floated in the pleasant
spring breeze. Early in the morning carriages and wagons began to bring
in the country folk.

Adam Foust realized as well as Fosterville that the parades of veterans
were drawing to their close.

"This may be the last time I can show my principles," said he, with grim
setting of his lips. "I will put on my gray coat early in the morning."

Though the two veterans were to march to the cemetery, carriages were
provided to bring them home. Fosterville meant to be as careful as
possible of its treasures.

"I don't need any carriage to ride in, like Ed Green," said Adam
proudly. "I could march out and back. Perhaps Ed Green will have to ride
out as well as back."

But Edward Green neither rode nor walked. The day turned suddenly warm,
the heat and excitement accelerated his already rapid breathing, and the
doctor forbade his setting foot to the ground.

"But I will!" cried Edward, in whom the spirit of war still lived.

"No," said the doctor.

"Then I will ride."

"You will stay in bed," said the doctor.

So without Edward Green the parade was formed. Before the court-house
waited the band, and the long line of school-children, and the burgess,
and the fire company, and the distinguished stranger who was to make
the address, until Henry Foust appeared, in his blue suit, with his flag
on his breast and his bouquet in his hand. On each side of him walked
a tall, middle-aged son, who seemed to hand him over reluctantly to the
marshal, who was to escort him to his place. Smilingly he spoke to the
marshal, but he was the only one who smiled or spoke. For an instant men
and women broke off in the middle of their sentences, a husky something
in their throats; children looked up at him with awe. Even his own
grand-children did not dare to wave or call from their places in the
ranks. Then the storm of cheers broke.

Round the next corner Adam Foust waited. He was clad in his gray
uniform--those who looked at him closely saw with astonishment that it
was a new uniform; his brows met in a frown, his gray moustache seemed
to bristle.

"How he hates them!" said one citizen of Fosterville to another. "Just
look at poor Adam!"

"Used to bait his hook for him," Adam was saying. "Used to carry him
pick-a-back! Used to go halves with him on everything. Now he walks
with Ed Green!"

Adam pressed forward to the curb. The band was playing "Marching Through
Georgia," which he hated; everybody was cheering. The volume of sound
was deafening.

"Cheering Ed Green!" said Adam. "Fat! Lazy! Didn't have a wound. Dare
say he hid behind a tree! Dare say--"

The band was in sight now, the back of the drum-major appeared, then
all the musicians swung round the corner. After them came the little
children with their flowers and their shining faces.

"Him and Ed Green next," said old Adam.

But Henry walked alone. Adam's whole body jerked in his astonishment.
He heard some one say that Edward Green was sick, that the doctor had
forbidden him to march, or even to ride. As he pressed nearer the curb
he heard the admiring comments of the crowd.

"Isn't he magnificent!"

"See his beautiful flowers! His grandchildren always send him his
flowers."

"He's our first citizen."

"He's mine!" Adam wanted to cry out. "He's mine!"

Never had Adam felt so miserable, so jealous, so heartsick. His eyes
were filled with the great figure. Henry was, in truth, magnificent,
not only in himself, but in what he represented. He seemed symbolic
of a great era of the past, and at the same time of a new age which
was advancing. Old Adam understood all his glory.

"He's mine!" said old Adam again, foolishly.

Then Adam leaned forward with startled, staring eyes. Henry had bowed
and smiled in answer to the cheers. Across the street his own house
was a mass of color--red, white, and blue over windows and doors, gay
dresses on the porch. On each side the pavement was crowded with a
shouting multitude. Surely no hero had ever had a more glorious passage
through the streets of his birthplace!

But old Adam saw that Henry's face blanched, that there appeared
suddenly upon it an expression of intolerable pain. For an instant
Henry's step faltered and grew uncertain.

Then old Adam began to behave like a wild man. He pushed himself
through the crowd, he flung himself upon the rope as though to tear
it down, he called out, "Wait! wait!" Frightened women, fearful of some
sinister purpose, tried to grasp and hold him. No man was immediately
at hand, or Adam would have been seized and taken away. As for the
feeble women--Adam shook them off and laughed at them.

"Let me go, you geese!" said he.

A mounted marshal saw him and rode down upon him; men started from under
the ropes to pursue him. But Adam eluded them or outdistanced them. He
strode across an open space with a surety which gave no hint of the
terrible beating of his heart, until he reached the side of Henry. Him
he greeted, breathlessly and with terrible eagerness.

"Henry," said he, gasping, "Henry, do you want me to walk along?"

Henry saw the alarmed crowds, he saw the marshal's hand stretched
to seize Adam, he saw most clearly of all the tearful eyes under the
beetling brows. Henry's voice shook, but he made himself clear.

"It's all right," said he to the marshal. "Let him be."

"I saw you were alone," said Adam. "I said, 'Henry needs me.' I know
what it is to be alone. I--"

But Adam did not finish his sentence. He found a hand on his, a blue
arm linked tightly in his gray arm, he felt himself moved along amid
thunderous roars of sound.

"Of course I need you!" said Henry. "I've needed you all along."

Then, old but young, their lives almost ended, but themselves immortal,
united, to be divided no more, amid an ever-thickening sound of cheers,
the two marched down the street.




THE YELLOW CAT[19]

BY WILBUR DANIEL STEELE

From _Harper's Magazine_

[19] Copyright 1915, by Harper and Brothers. Copyright, 1916, by Wilbur
     Daniel Steele.


At least once in my life I have had the good fortune to board a deserted
vessel at sea. I say "good fortune" because it has left me the memory
of a singular impression. I have felt a ghost of the same thing two or
three times since then, when peeping through the doorway of an abandoned
house.

Now that vessel was not dead. She was a good vessel, a sound vessel,
even a handsome vessel, in her blunt-bowed, coastwise way. She sailed
under four lowers across as blue and glittering a sea as I have ever
known, and there was not a point in her sailing that one could lay a
finger upon as wrong. And yet, passing that schooner at two miles, one
knew, somehow, that no hand was on her wheel. Sometimes I can imagine
a vessel, stricken like that, moving over the empty spaces of the sea,
carrying it off quite well were it not for that indefinable suggestion
of a stagger; and I can think of all those ocean gods, in whom no
landsman will ever believe, looking at one another and tapping their
foreheads with just the shadow of a smile.

I wonder if they all scream--these ships that have lost their souls?
Mine screamed. We heard her voice, like nothing I have ever heard
before, when we rowed under her counter to read her name--the
_Marionnette_ it was, of Halifax. I remember how it made me shiver,
there in the full blaze of the sun, to hear her going on so, railing
and screaming in that stark fashion. And I remember, too, how our
footsteps, pattering through the vacant internals in search of that
haggard utterance, made me think of the footsteps of hurrying warders
roused in the night.

And we found a parrot in a cage; that was all. It wanted water. We
gave it water and went away to look things over, keeping pretty close
together, all of us. In the quarters the table was set for four. Two
men had begun to eat, by the evidence of the plates. Nowhere in the
vessel was there any sign of disorder, except one sea-chest broken out,
evidently in haste. Her papers were gone and the stern davits were
empty. That is how the case stood that day, and that is how it has
stood to this. I saw this same _Marionnette_ a week later, tied up
to a Hoboken dock, where she awaited news from her owners; but even
there, in the midst of all the water-front bustle, I could not get rid
of the feeling that she was still very far away--in a sort of shippish
other-world.

The thing happens now and then. Sometimes half a dozen years will go by
without a solitary wanderer of this sort crossing the ocean paths, and
then in a single season perhaps several of them will turn up: vacant
waifs, impassive and mysterious--a quarter-column of tidings tucked away
on the second page of the evening paper.

That is where I read the story about the _Abbie Rose_. I recollect how
painfully awkward and out-of-place it looked there, cramped between
ruled black edges and smelling of landsman's ink--this thing that had
to do essentially with air and vast colored spaces. I forget the exact
words of the heading--something like "Abandoned Craft Picked Up At
Sea"--but I still have the clipping itself, couched in the formal patter
of the marine-news writer:

"The first hint of another mystery of the sea came in to-day when
the schooner _Abbie Rose_ dropped anchor in the upper river, manned
only by a crew of one. It appears that the out-bound freighter _Mercury_
sighted the _Abbie Rose_ off Block Island on Thursday last, acting
in a suspicious manner. A boat-party sent aboard found the schooner
in perfect order and condition, sailing under four lower sails, the
topsails being pursed up to the mastheads but not stowed. With the
exception of a yellow cat, the vessel was found to be utterly deserted,
though her small boat still hung in the davits. No evidences of disorder
were visible in any part of the craft. The dishes were washed up, the
stove in the galley was still slightly warm to the touch, everything in
its proper place with the exception of the vessel's papers, which were
not to be found.

"All indications being for fair weather, Captain Rohmer of the _Mercury_
detailed two of his company to bring the find back to this port, a
distance of one hundred and fifteen miles. The only man available with
a knowledge of the fore-and-aft rig was Stewart McCord, the second
engineer. A seaman by the name of Bjoernsen was sent with him. McCord
arrived this noon, after a very heavy voyage of five days, reporting
that Bjoernsen had fallen overboard while shaking out the foretopsail.
McCord himself showed evidences of the hardships he has passed through,
being almost a nervous wreck."

Stewart McCord! Yes, Stewart McCord would have a knowledge of the
fore-and-aft rig, or of almost anything else connected with the
affairs of the sea. It happened that I used to know this fellow. I
had even been quite chummy with him in the old days--that is, to
the extent of drinking too many beers with him in certain hot-country
ports. I remembered him as a stolid and deliberate sort of a person,
with an amazing hodge-podge of learning, a stamp collection, and a
theory about the effects of tropical sunshine on the Caucasian race,
to which I have listened half of more than one night, stretched out
naked on a freighter's deck. He had not impressed me as a fellow who
would be bothered by his nerves.

And there was another thing about the story which struck me as rather
queer. Perhaps it is a relic of my seafaring days, but I have always
been a conscientious reader of the weather reports; and I could remember
no weather in the past week sufficient to shake a man out of a top,
especially a man by the name of Bjoernsen--a thorough-going seafaring
name.

I was destined to hear more of this in the evening from the ancient
boatman who rowed me out on the upper river. He had been to sea in his
day. He knew enough to wonder about this thing, even to indulge in a
little superstitious awe about it.

"No sir-ee. Something _happened_ to them four chaps. And another
thing--"

I fancied I heard a sea-bird whining in the darkness overhead. A shape
moved out of the gloom ahead, passed to the left, lofty and silent, and
merged once more with the gloom behind--a barge at anchor, with the
sea-grass clinging around her water-line.

"Funny about that other chap," the old fellow speculated. "Bjoernsen--I
b'lieve he called 'im. Now that story sounds to me kind of--" He
feathered his oars with a suspicious jerk and peered at me. "This McCord
a friend of yourn?" he inquired.

"In a way," I said.

"Hm-m--well--" He turned on his thwart to squint ahead. "There she is,"
he announced, with something of relief, I thought.

It was hard at that time of night to make anything but a black blotch
out of the _Abbie Rose_. Of course I could see that she was pot-bellied,
like the rest of the coastwise sisterhood. And that McCord had not
stowed his topsails. I could make them out, pursed at the mastheads
and hanging down as far as the cross-trees, like huge, over-ripe pears.
Then I recollected that he had found them so--probably had not touched
them since; a queer way to leave tops, it seemed to me. I could see also
the glowing tip of a cigar floating restlessly along the farther rail. I
called: "McCord! Oh, McCord!"

The spark came swimming across the deck. "Hello! Hello there--ah--"
There was a note of querulous uneasiness there that somehow jarred with
my remembrance of this man.

"Ridgeway," I explained.

He echoed the name uncertainly, still with that suggestion of
peevishness, hanging over the rail and peering down at us. "Oh! By
gracious!" he exclaimed, abruptly. "I'm glad to see you, Ridgeway. I
had a boatman coming out before this, but I guess--well, I guess he'll
be along. By gracious! I'm glad--"

"I'll not keep you," I told the gnome, putting the money in his palm
and reaching for the rail. McCord lent me a hand on my wrist. Then
when I stood squarely on the deck beside him he appeared to forget my
presence, leaned forward heavily on the rail, and squinted after my
waning boatman.

"Ahoy--boat!" he called out, sharply, shielding his lips with his
hands. His violence seemed to bring him out of the blank, for he fell
immediately to puffing strongly at his cigar and explaining in rather
a shame-voiced way that he was beginning to think his own boatman had
"passed him up."

"Come in and have a nip," he urged with an abrupt heartiness, clapping
me on the shoulder.

"So you've--" I did not say what I had intended. I was thinking that
in the old days McCord had made rather a fetish of touching nothing
stronger than beer. Neither had he been of the shoulder-clapping sort.
"So you've got something aboard?" I shifted.

"Dead men's liquor," he chuckled. It gave me a queer feeling in the
pit of my stomach to hear him. I began to wish I had not come, but
there was nothing for it now but to follow him into the afterhouse.
The cabin itself might have been nine feet square, with three bunks
occupying the port side. To the right opened the master's stateroom,
and a door in the forward bulkhead led to the galley.

I took in these features at a casual glance. Then, hardly knowing why
I did it, I began to examine them with greater care.

"Have you a match?" I asked. My voice sounded very small, as though
something unheard of had happened to all the air.

"Smoke?" he asked. "I'll get you a cigar."

"No." I took the proffered match, scratched it on the side of the galley
door, and passed out. There seemed to be a thousand pans there, throwing
my match back at me from every wall of the box-like compartment. Even
McCord's eyes, in the doorway, were large and round and shining. He
probably thought me crazy. Perhaps I was, a little. I ran the match
along close to the ceiling and came upon a rusty hook a little aport
of the center.

"There," I said. "Was there anything hanging from this--er--say a
parrot--or something, McCord?" The match burned my fingers and went
out.

"What do you mean?" McCord demanded from the doorway. I got myself back
into the comfortable yellow glow of the cabin before I answered, and
then it was a question.

"Do you happen to know anything about this craft's personal history?"

"No. What are you talking about! Why?"

"Well, I do," I offered. "For one thing, she's changed her name.
And it happens this isn't the first time she's--well, damn it all,
fourteen years ago I helped pick up this whatever-she-is off the
Virginia Capes--in the same sort of condition. There you are!" I was
yapping like a nerve-strung puppy.

McCord leaned forward with his hands on the table, bringing his face
beneath the fan of the hanging-lamp. For the first time I could mark
how shockingly it had changed. It was almost colorless. The jaw had
somehow lost its old-time security and the eyes seemed to be loose
in their sockets. I had expected him to start at my announcement; he
only blinked at the light.

"I am not surprised," he remarked at length. "After what I've seen and
heard--". He lifted his fist and brought it down with a sudden crash on
the table. "Man--let's have a nip!"

He was off before I could say a word, fumbling out of sight in the
narrow state-room. Presently he reappeared, holding a glass in either
hand and a dark bottle hugged between his elbows. Putting the glasses
down, he held up the bottle between his eyes and the lamp, and its
shadow, falling across his face, green and luminous at the core, gave
him a ghastly look--like a mutilation or an unspeakable birth-mark. He
shook the bottle gently and chuckled his "Dead men's liquor" again.
Then he poured two half-glasses of the clear gin, swallowed his portion,
and sat down.

"A parrot," he mused, a little of the liquor's color creeping into his
cheeks. "No, this time it was a cat, Ridgeway. A yellow cat. She was--"

"_Was?_" I caught him up. "What's happened--what's become of her?"

"Vanished. Evaporated. I haven't seen her since night before last, when
I caught her trying to lower the boat--"

"_Stop it!_" It was I who banged the table now, without any of the
reserve of decency. "McCord, you're drunk--_drunk_, I tell you. A _cat_!
Let a _cat_ throw you off your head like this! She's probably hiding out
below this minute, on affairs of her own."

"Hiding?" He regarded me for a moment with the queer superiority of
the damned. "I guess you don't realize how many times I've been over
this hulk, from decks to keelson, with a mallet and a foot-rule."

"Or fallen overboard," I shifted, with less assurance. "Like this fellow
Bjoernsen. By the way, McCord--". I stopped there on account of the look
in his eyes.

He reached out, poured himself a shot, swallowed it, and got up to
shuffle about the confined quarters. I watched their restless
circuit--my friend and his jumping shadow. He stopped and bent forward
to examine a Sunday-supplement chromo tacked on the wall, and the two
heads drew together, as though there were something to whisper. Of a
sudden I seemed to hear the old gnome croaking, "Now that story sounds
to me kind of--"

McCord straightened up and turned to face me.

"What do you know about Bjoernsen?" he demanded.

"Well--only what they had you saying in the papers," I told him.

"Pshaw!" He snapped his fingers, tossing the affair aside. "I found her
log," he announced in quite another voice.

"You did, eh? I judged, from what I read in the paper, that there was't
a sign."

"No, no; I happened on this the other night, under the mattress in
there." He jerked his head toward the state-room. "Wait!" I heard him
knocking things over in the dark and mumbling at them. After a moment
he came out and threw on the table a long, cloth-covered ledger, of
the common commercial sort. It lay open at about the middle, showing
close script running indiscriminately across the column ruling.

"When I said 'log,'" he went on, "I guess I was going it a little
strong. At least, I wouldn't want that sort of log found around _my_
vessel. Let's call it a personal record. Here's his picture,
somewhere--". He shook the book by its back and a common kodak blueprint
fluttered to the table. It was the likeness of a solid man with a
paunch, a huge square beard, small squinting eyes, and a bald head.
"What do you make of him--a writing chap?"

"From the nose down, yes," I estimated. "From the nose up, he will 'tend
to his own business if you will 'tend to yours, strictly."

McCord slapped his thigh. "By gracious! that's the fellow! He hates the
Chinaman. He knows as well as anything he ought not to put down in black
and white how intolerably he hates the Chinaman, and yet he must sneak
off to his cubby-hole and suck his pencil, and--and how is it Stevenson
has it?--the 'agony of composition,' you remember. Can you imagine the
fellow, Ridgeway, bundling down here with the fever on him--"

"About the Chinaman," I broke in. "I think you said something about a
Chinaman?"

"Yes. The cook, he must have been. I gather he wasn't the master's
pick, by the reading-matter here. Probably clapped on to him by the
owners--shifted from one of their others at the last moment; a queer
trick. Listen." He picked up the book and, running over the pages with
a selective thumb, read:

"'_August second_. First part, moderate southwesterly breeze--' and so
forth--er--but here he comes to it:

"'Anything can happen to a man at sea, even a funeral. In special to a
Chinyman, who is of no account to social welfare, being a barbarian as
I look at it.'

"Something of a philosopher, you see. And did you get the reserve in
that 'even a funeral?' An artist, I tell you. But wait; let me catch
him a bit wilder. Here:

"'I'll get that mustard-colored ---- [This is back a couple of days.]
Never can hear the ---- coming, in them carpet slippers. Turned round
and found him standing right to my back this morning. Could have stuck
a knife into me easy. "Look here!" says I, and fetched him a tap on the
ear that will make him walk louder next time, I warrant. He could have
stuck a knife into me easy.'

"A clear case of moral funk, I should say. Can you imagine the fellow,
Ridgeway--"

"Yes; oh, yes." I was ready with a phrase of my own. "A man handicapped
with an imagination. You see he can't quite understand this 'barbarian,'
who has him beaten by about thirty centuries of civilization--and his
imagination has to have something to chew on, something to hit--a 'tap
on the ear,' you know."

"By gracious! that's the ticket!" McCord pounded his knee. "And now
we've got another chap going to pieces--Peters, he calls him. Refuses
to eat dinner on August the third, claiming he caught the Chink making
passes over the chowder-pot with his thumb. Can you believe it,
Ridgeway--in this very cabin here?" Then he went on with a suggestion
of haste, as though he had somehow made a slip. "Well, at any rate, the
disease seems to be catching. Next day it's Bach, the second seaman, who
begins to feel the gaff. Listen:

"'Back he comes to me to-night, complaining he's being watched. He
claims the ---- has got the evil eye. Says he can see you through a
two-inch bulkhead, and the like. The Chink's laying in his bunk, turned
the other way. "Why don't you go aboard of him," says I. The Dutcher
says nothing, but goes over to his own bunk and feels under the straw.
When he comes back he's looking queer. "By God!" says he, "the devil has
swiped my gun!"... Now if that's true there is going to be hell to pay
in this vessel very quick. I figure I'm still master of this vessel.'"

"The evil eye," I grunted. "Consciences gone wrong there somewhere."

"Not altogether, Ridgeway. I can see that yellow man peeking. Now
just figure yourself, say, eight thousand miles from home, out on
the water alone with a crowd of heathen fanatics crazy from fright,
looking around for guns and so on. Don't you believe you'd keep an
eye around the corners, kind of--eh? I'll bet a hat he was taking it
all in, lying there in his bunk, 'turned the other way.' Eh? I pity
the poor cuss--Well, there's only one more entry after that. He's
good and mad. Here:

"'Now, by God! this is the end. My gun's gone, too; right out from under
lock and key, by God! I been talking with Bach this morning. Not to let
on, I had him in to clean my lamp. There's more ways than one, he says,
and so do I.'"

McCord closed the book and dropped it on the table.

"Finis," he said. "The rest is blank paper."

"Well!" I will confess I felt much better than I had for some time past.
"There's _one_ 'mystery of the sea' gone to pot, at any rate. And now,
if you don't mind, I think I'll have another of your nips, McCord."

He pushed my glass across the table and got up, and behind his back his
shoulder rose to scour the corners of the room, like an incorruptible
sentinel. I forgot to take up my gin, watching him. After an uneasy
minute or so he came back to the table and pressed the tip of a
forefinger on the book.

"Ridgeway," he said, "you don't seem to understand. This particular
'mystery of the sea' hasn't been scratched yet--not even _scratched_,
Ridgeway." He sat down and leaned forward, fixing me with a didactic
finger. "What happened?"

"Well, I have an idea the 'barbarian' got them, when it came to the
pinch."

"And let the--remains over the side?"

"I should say."

"And then they came back and got the 'barbarian' and let _him_ over the
side, eh? There were none left, you remember."

"Oh, good Lord, I don't know!" I flared with a childish resentment at
this catechising of his. But his finger remained there, challenging.

"I do," he announced. "The Chinaman put them over the side, as we have
said. And then, after that, he died--of wounds about the head."

"So?" I had still sarcasm.

"You will remember," he went on, "that the skipper did not happen to
mention a cat, a _yellow_ cat, in his confessions."

"McCord," I begged him, "please drop it. Why in thunder _should_ he
mention a cat?"

"True. Why _should_ he mention a cat? I think one of the reasons why
he should _not_ mention a cat is because there did not happen to be a
cat aboard at that time."

"Oh, all right!" I reached out and pulled the bottle to my side of the
table. Then I took out my watch. "If you don't mind," I suggested, "I
think we'd better be going ashore. I've got to get to my office rather
early in the morning. What do you say?"

He said nothing for the moment, but his finger had dropped. He leaned
back and stared straight into the core of the light above, his eyes
squinting.

"He would have been from the south of China, probably." He seemed to
be talking to himself. "There's a considerable sprinkling of the belief
down there, I've heard. It's an uncanny business--this transmigration
of souls--"

Personally, I had had enough of it. McCord's fingers came groping across
the table for the bottle. I picked it up hastily and let it go through
the open companionway, where it died with a faint gurgle, out somewhere
on the river.

"Now," I said to him, shaking the vagrant wrist, "either you come ashore
with me or you go in there and get under the blankets. You're drunk,
McCord--_drunk_. Do you hear me?"

"Ridgeway," he pronounced, bringing his eyes down to me and speaking
very slowly. "You're a fool, if you can't see better than that. I'm not
drunk. I'm sick. I haven't slept for three nights--and now I can't. And
you say--you--" He went to pieces very suddenly, jumped up, pounded the
legs of his chair on the decking, and shouted at me: "And you say that,
you--you landlubber, you office coddler! You're so comfortably sure
that everything in the world is cut and dried. Come back to the water
again and learn how to wonder--and stop talking like a damn fool. Do
you know where--. Is there anything in your municipal budget to tell
me where Bjoernsen went? Listen!" He sat down, waving me to do the same,
and went on with a sort of desperate repression.

"It happened on the first night after we took this hellion. I'd stood
the wheel most of the afternoon--off and on, that is, because she sails
herself uncommonly well. Just put her on a reach, you know, and she
carries it off pretty well--"

"I know," I nodded.

"Well, we mugged up about seven o'clock. There was a good deal of canned
stuff in the galley, and Bjoernsen wasn't a bad hand with a kettle--a
thoroughgoing Square-head he was--tall and lean and yellow-haired, with
little fat, round cheeks and a white mustache. Not a bad chap at all.
He took the wheel to stand till midnight, and I turned in, but I didn't
drop off for quite a spell. I could hear his boots wandering around over
my head, padding off forward, coming back again. I heard him whistling
now and then--an outlandish air. Occasionally I could see the shadow of
his head waving in a block of moonlight that lay on the decking right
down there in front of the state-room door. It came from the companion;
the cabin was dark because we were going easy on the oil. They hadn't
left a great deal, for some reason or other."

McCord leaned back and described with his finger where the illumination
had cut the decking.

"There! I could see it from my bunk, as I lay, you understand. I must
have almost dropped off once when I heard him fiddling around out here
in the cabin, and then he said something in a whisper, just to find out
if I was still awake, I suppose. I asked him what the matter was. He
came and poked his head in the door."

"'The breeze is going out,' says he. 'I was wondering if we couldn't get
a little more sail on her.' Only I can't give you his fierce Square-head
tang. 'How about the tops?' he suggested.

"I was so sleepy I didn't care, and I told him so. 'All right,' he says,
'but I thought I might shake out one of them tops.' Then I heard him
blow at something outside. 'Scat, you--!' Then: 'This cat's going to
set me crazy, Mr. McCord,' he says, 'following me around everywhere.' He
gave a kick, and I saw something yellow floating across the moonlight.
It never made a sound--just floated. You wouldn't have known it ever lit
anywhere, just like--"

McCord stopped and drummed a few beats on the table with his fist, as
though to bring himself back to the straight narrative.

"I went to sleep," he began again. "I dreamed about a lot of things. I
woke up sweating. You know how glad you are to wake up after a dream
like that and find none of it is so? Well, I turned over and settled to
go off again, and then I got a little more awake and thought to myself
it must be pretty near time for me to go on deck. I scratched a match
and looked at my watch. 'That fellow must be either a good chap or
asleep,' I said to myself. And I rolled out quick and went above-decks.
He wasn't at the wheel. I called him: 'Bjoernsen! Bjoernsen!' No answer."

McCord was really telling a story now. He paused for a long moment, one
hand shielding an ear and his eyeballs turned far up.

"That was the first time I really went over the hulk," he ran on. "I
got out a lantern and started at the forward end of the hold, and I
worked aft, and there was nothing there. Not a sign, or a stain,
or a scrap of clothing, or anything. You may believe that I began to
feel funny inside. I went over the decks and the rails and the house
itself--inch by inch. Not a trace. I went out aft again. The cat sat
on the wheel-box, washing her face. I hadn't noticed the scar on her
head before, running down between her ears--rather a new scar--three
or four days old, I should say. It looked ghastly and blue-white in
the flat moonlight. I ran over and grabbed her up to heave her over
the side--you understand how upset I was. Now you know a cat will
squirm around and grab something when you hold it like that, generally
speaking. This one didn't. She just drooped and began to purr and looked
up at me out of her moonlit eyes under that scar. I dropped her on the
deck and backed off. You remember Bjoernsen had _kicked_ her--and I
didn't want anything like that happening to--"

The narrator turned upon me with a sudden heat, leaned over and shook
his finger before my face.

"There you go!" he cried. "You, with your stout stone buildings and your
policemen and your neighborhood church--you're so damn sure. But I'd
just like to see you out there, alone, with the moon setting, and all
the lights gone tall and queer, and a shipmate--" He lifted his hand
overhead, the finger-tips pressed together and then suddenly separated
as though he had released an impalpable something into the air.

"Go on," I told him.

"I felt more like you do, when it got light again, and warm and
sunshiny. I said 'Bah!' to the whole business. I even fed the cat, and
I slept awhile on the roof of the house--I was so sure. We lay dead most
of the day, without a streak of air. But that night--! Well, that night
I hadn't got over being sure yet. It takes quite a jolt, you know, to
shake loose several dozen generations. A fair, steady breeze had come
along, the glass was high, she was staying herself like a doll, and so
I figured I could get a little rest lying below in the bunk, even if I
didn't sleep.

"I tried not to sleep, in case something should come up--a squall or the
like. But I think I must have dropped off once or twice. I remember I
heard something fiddling around in the galley, and I hollered 'Scat!'
and everything was quiet again. I rolled over and lay on my left side,
staring at that square of moonlight outside my door for a long time.
You'll think it was a dream--what I saw there."

"Go on," I said.

"Call this table-top the spot of light, roughly," he said. He placed a
finger-tip at about the middle of the forward edge and drew it slowly
toward the center. "Here, what would correspond with the upper side of
the companion-way, there came down very gradually the shadow of a tail.
I watched it streaking out there across the deck, wiggling the slightest
bit now and then. When it had come down about half-way across the light,
the solid part of the animal--its shadow, you understand--began to
appear, quite big and round. But how could she hang there, done up in a
ball, from the hatch?"

He shifted his finger back to the edge of the table and puddled it
around to signify the shadowed body.

"I fished my gun out from behind my back. You see I was feeling
funny again. Then I started to slide one foot over the edge of the bunk,
always with my eyes on that shadow. Now I swear I didn't make the sound
of a pin dropping, but I had no more than moved a muscle when that
shadowed thing twisted itself around in a flash--and there on the floor
before me was the profile of a man's head, upside down, listening--a
man's head with a tail of hair."

McCord got up hastily and stepped in front of the state-room door, where
he bent down and scratched a match.

"See," he said, holding the tiny flame above a splintered scar on the
boards. "You wouldn't think a man would be fool enough to shoot at a
shadow?"

He came back and sat down.

"It seemed to me all hell had shaken loose. You've no idea, Ridgeway,
the rumpus a gun raises in a box like this. I found out afterward the
slug ricochetted into the galley, bringing down a couple of pans--and
that helped. Oh yes, I got out of here quick enough. I stood there, half
out of the companion, with my hands on the hatch and the gun between
them, and my shadow running off across the top of the house shivering
before my eyes like a dry leaf. There wasn't a whisper of sound in the
world--just the pale water floating past and the sails towering up like
a pair of twittering ghosts. And everything that crazy color--

"Well, in a minute I saw it, just abreast of the mainmast, crouched down
in the shadow of the weather rail, sneaking off forward very slowly.
This time I took a good long sight before I let go. Did you ever happen
to see black-powder smoke in the moonlight? It puffed out perfectly
round, like a big, pale balloon, this did, and for a second something
was bounding through it--without a sound, you understand--something a
shade solider than the smoke and big as a cow, it looked to me. It
passed from the weather side to the lee and ducked behind the sweep of
the mainsail like _that_--" McCord snapped his thumb and forefinger
under the light.

"Go on," I said. "What did you do then?"

McCord regarded me for an instant from beneath his lids, uncertain. His
fist hung above the table. "You're--" He hesitated, his lips working
vacantly. A forefinger came out of the fist and gesticulated before my
face. "If you're laughing, why, damn me, I'll--"

"Go on," I repeated. "What did you do then?"

"I followed the thing." He was still watching me sullenly. "I got up
and went forward along the roof of the house, so as to have an eye on
either rail. You understand, this business had to be done with. I kept
straight along. Every shadow I wasn't absolutely sure of I _made_ sure
of--point-blank. And I rounded the thing up at the very stem--sitting
on the butt of the bowsprit, Ridgeway, washing her yellow face under
the moon. I didn't make any bones about it this time. I put the bad end
of that gun against the scar on her head and squeezed the trigger. It
snicked on an empty shell. I tell you a fact; I was almost deafened by
the report that didn't come.

"She followed me aft. I couldn't get away from her. I went and sat on
the wheel-box and she came and sat on the edge of the house, facing me.
And there we stayed for upwards of an hour, without moving. Finally she
went over and stuck her paw in the water-pan I'd set out for her; then
she raised her head and looked at me and yawled. At sun-down there'd
been two quarts of water in that pan. You wouldn't think a cat could
get away with two quarts of water in--"

He broke off again and considered me with a sort of weary defiance.

"What's the use?" He spread out his hands in a gesture of hopelessness.
"I knew you wouldn't believe it when I started. You _couldn't_. It would
be a kind of blasphemy against the sacred institution of pavements.
You're too damn smug, Ridgeway. I can't shake you. You haven't sat two
days and two nights, keeping your eyes open by sheer teeth-gritting,
until they got used to it and wouldn't shut any more. When I tell you
I found that yellow thing snooping around the davits, and three bights
of the boat-fall loosened out, plain on deck--you grin behind your
collar. When I tell you she padded off forward and evaporated--flickered
back to hell and hasn't been seen since, then--why, you explain to
yourself that I'm drunk. I tell you--" He jerked his head back abruptly
and turned to face the companionway, his lips still apart. He listened
so for a moment, then he shook himself out of it and went on:

"I tell you, Ridgeway, I've been over this hulk with a foot-rule.
There's not a cubic inch I haven't accounted for, not a plank I--"

This time he got up and moved a step toward the companion, where he
stood with his head bent forward and slightly to the side. After what
might have been twenty seconds of this he whispered, "Do you hear?"

Far and far away down the reach a ferry-boat lifted its infinitesimal
wail, and then the silence of the night river came down once more,
profound and inscrutable A corner of the wick above my head sputtered
a little--that was all.

"Hear what?" I whispered back. He lifted a cautious finger toward the
opening.

"Somebody. Listen."

The man's faculties must have been keyed up to the pitch of his nerves,
for to me the night remained as voiceless as a subterranean cavern. I
became intensely irritated with him; within my mind I cried out against
this infatuated pantomime of his. And then, of a sudden, there _was_ a
sound--the dying rumor of a ripple, somewhere in the outside darkness,
as though an object had been let into the water with extreme care.

"You heard?"

I nodded. The ticking of the watch in my vest pocket came to my ears,
shucking off the leisurely seconds, while McCord's fingernails gnawed
at the palms of his hands. The man was really sick. He wheeled on me
and cried out, "My God! Ridgeway--why don't we go out?"

I, for one, refused to be a fool. I passed him and climbed out of the
opening; he followed far enough to lean his elbows on the hatch, his
feet and legs still within the secure glow of the cabin.

"You see, there's nothing." My wave of assurance was possibly a little
over-done.

"Over there," he muttered, jerking his head toward the shore lights.
"Something swimming."

I moved to the corner of the house and listened.

"River thieves," I argued. "The place is full of--"

"_Ridgeway. Look behind you!_"

Perhaps it _is_ the pavements--but no matter; I am not ordinarily a
jumping sort. And yet there was something in the quality of that voice
beyond my shoulder that brought the sweat stinging through the pores
of my scalp even while I was in the act of turning.

A cat sat there on the hatch, expressionless and immobile in the gloom.

I did not say anything. I turned and went below. McCord was there
already, standing on the farther side of the table. After a moment or
so the cat followed and sat on her haunches at the foot of the ladder
and stared at us without winking.

"I think she wants something to eat," I said to McCord.

He lit a lantern and went into the galley. Returning with a chunk of
salt beef, he threw it into the farther corner. The cat went over and
began to tear at it, her muscles playing with convulsive shadow-lines
under the sagging yellow hide.

And now it was she who listened, to something beyond the reach of even
McCord's faculties, her neck stiff and her ears flattened. I looked at
McCord and found him brooding at the animal with a sort of listless
malevolence. "_Quick_! She has kittens somewhere about." I shook his
elbow sharply. "When she starts, now--"

"You don't seem to understand," he mumbled. "It wouldn't be any use."

She had turned now and was making for the ladder with the soundless
agility of her race. I grasped McCord's wrist and dragged him after
me, the lantern banging against his knees. When we came up the cat was
already amidships, a scarcely discernible shadow at the margin of our
lantern's ring. She stopped and looked back at us with her luminous
eyes, appeared to hesitate, uneasy at our pursuit of her, shifted here
and there with quick, soft bounds, and stopped to fawn with her back
arched at the foot of the mast. Then she was off with an amazing
suddenness into the shadows forward.

"Lively now!" I yelled at McCord. He came pounding along behind me,
still protesting that it was of no use. Abreast of the foremast I took
the lantern from him to hold above my head.

"You see," he complained, peering here and there over the illuminated
deck. "I tell you, Ridgeway, this thing--" But my eyes were in another
quarter, and I slapped him on the shoulder.

"An engineer--an engineer to the core," I cried at him. "Look aloft,
man."

Our quarry was almost to the cross-trees, clambering the shrouds with
a smartness no sailor has ever come to, her yellow body, cut by the
moving shadows of the ratlines, a queer sight against the mat of the
night. McCord closed his mouth and opened it again for two words: "By
gracious!" The following instant he had the lantern and was after her.
I watched him go up above my head--a ponderous, swaying climber into
the sky--come to the cross-trees, and squat there with his knees clamped
around the mast. The clear star of the lantern shot this way and that
for a moment, then it disappeared and in its place there sprang out
a bag of yellow light, like a fire-balloon at anchor in the heavens.
I could see the shadows of his head and hands moving monstrously over
the inner surface of the sail, and muffled exclamations without meaning
came down to me. After a moment he drew out his head and called: "All
right--they're here. Heads! there below!"

I ducked at his warning, and something spanked on the planking a yard
from my feet. I stepped over to the vague blur on the deck and picked
up a slipper--a slipper covered with some woven straw stuff and soled
with a matted felt, perhaps a half-inch thick. Another struck somewhere
abaft the mast, and then McCord reappeared above and began to stagger
down the shrouds. Under his left arm he hugged a curious assortment of
litter, a sheaf of papers, a brace of revolvers, a gray kimono, and a
soiled apron.

"Well," he said when he had come to deck, "I feel like a man who has
gone to hell and come back again. You know I'd come to the place where I
really believed that about the cat. When you think of it--By gracious!
we haven't come so far from the jungle, after all."

We went aft and below and sat down at the table as we had been. McCord
broke a prolonged silence.

"I'm sort of glad he got away--poor cuss! He's probably climbing up
a wharf this minute, shivering and scared to death. Over toward the
gas-tanks, by the way he was swimming. By gracious! now that the world's
turned over straight again, I feel I could sleep a solid week. Poor
cuss! can you imagine him, Ridgeway--"

"Yes," I broke in. "I think I can. He must have lost his nerve when
he made out your smoke and shinnied up there to stow away, taking the
ship's papers with him He would have attached some profound importance
to them--remember, the 'barbarian,' eight thousand miles from home.
Probably couldn't read a word. I suppose the cat followed him--the
traditional source of food He must have wanted water badly."

"I should say! He wouldn't have taken the chances he did."

"Well," I announced, "at any rate, I can say it now--there's another
'mystery of the sea' gone to pot."

McCord lifted his heavy lids.

"No," he mumbled. "The mystery is that a man who has been to sea all
his life could sail around for three days with a man bundled up in his
top and not know it. When I think of him peeking down at me--and playing
off that damn cat--probably without realizing it--scared to death--by
gracious! Ridgeway, there was a pair of funks aboard this craft, eh?
Wow--yow--I could sleep--"

"I should think you could."

McCord did not answer.

"By the way," I speculated. "I guess you were right about Bjoernsen,
McCord--that is, his fooling with the foretop. He must have been caught
all of a bunch, eh?"

Again McCord failed to answer. I looked up, mildly surprised, and found
his head hanging back over his chair and his mouth opened wide. He was
asleep.





THE BOUNTY-JUMPER[20]

By MARY SYNON

From _Scribner's Magazine_

[20] Copyright, 1915, by Charles Scribner's Sons. Copyright, 1916, by
     Mary Synon.


    "... While faith, that in the mire was fain to wallow,
        Returns at last to find
    The cold fanes desolate, the niches hollow,
        The windows dim and blind,

    "And strown with ruins around, the shattered relic
        Of unregardful youth,
    Where shapes of beauty once, with tongues angelic,
        Whispered the runes of Truth."

            --_From "The Burden of Lost Souls_."


On the day before Isador Framberg's body was brought back to Chicago
from Vera Cruz, James Thorold's appointment as ambassador to Forsland
was confirmed by the Senate of the United States. Living, Isador
Framberg might never have wedged into the affairs of nations and the
destinies of James Thorold. Marines in the navy do not intrigue with
chances of knee-breeches at the Court of St. Jerome. More than miles
lie between Forquier Street and the Lake Shore Drive. Dead, Isador
Framberg became, as dead men sometimes become, the archangel of a
nation, standing with flaming sword at the gateway to James Thorold's
paradise.

For ten years the Forsland embassy had been the goal of James Thorold's
ambition. A man past seventy, head of a great importing establishment,
he had shown interest in public affairs only within the decade, although
his very build, tall, erect, commanding, and his manner suavely
courteous and untouched by futile haste, seemed to have equipped him
with a natural bent for public life. Marrying late in life, he seemed
to have found his bent more tardily than did other men. But he had
invested wealth, influence, and wisdom in the future of men who, come
to power, were paying him with this grant of his desire. The news,
coming to him unofficially but authoritatively from Washington, set
him to cabling his wife and daughter in Paris and telegraphing his son
whose steamer was just docking in New York. The boy's answer, delayed
in transit and announcing that he was already on his way to Chicago,
came with the morning newspapers and hurried his father through their
contents in order that he might be on time to meet Peter at the station.

The newspapers, chronicling Thorold's appointment briefly, were heavy
with harbingering of the funeral procession of the boy who had fallen
a fortnight before in the American navy's attack upon Vera Cruz. The
relative values that editors placed upon the marine's death and his own
honoring nettled Thorold. Ambassadors to the Court of St. Jerome were
not chosen from Chicago every day, he reasoned, finding Isador Framberg
already the fly in the amber of his contentment. To change the current
of his thought he read over Peter's telegram, smiling at the exuberant
message of joy in which the boy had vaunted the family glory. The yellow
slip drove home to James Thorold the realization of how largely Peter's
young enthusiasm was responsible for the whetting of his father's desire
to take part in public affairs. For Peter's praise James Thorold would
have moved mountains; and Peter's praise had a way of following the man
on horseback. Thorold's eager anticipation of the boy's pride in him
sped his course through rosy mists of hope as his motor-car threaded
the bright drive and through the crowded Parkway toward the Rush Street
bridge.

A cloud drifted across the sky of his serenity, however, as a blockade
of traffic delayed his car in front of the old Adams homestead, rising
among lilacs that flooded half city square with fragrance. The old
house, famous beyond its own day for Judge Adams's friendship with
Abraham Lincoln and the history-making sessions that the little group
of Illinois idealists had held within its walls, loomed gray above the
flowering shrubs, a saddening reminder of days that James Thorold must
have known; but Thorold, glimpsing the place, turned away from it in a
movement so swift as to betoken some resentment and gave heed instead
to the long line of motors rolling smoothly toward the city's heart.

Over the bridge and through the packed streets of the down-town
district Thorold, shaken from his revery of power and Peter, watched
the film that Chicago unrolled for the boulevard pilgrims. The boats
in the river, the long switch-tracks of the railroads, the tall
grain-elevators, the low warehouses from which drifted alluring
odors of spices linked for James Thorold the older city of his youth
with the newer one of his age as the street linked one division of the
city's geography with another. They were the means by which Chicago had
risen from the sand-flats of the fifties to the Michigan Avenue of the
present, that wide street of the high skyline that fronted the world
as it faced the Great Lakes, squarely, solidly, openly. They were the
means, too, by which James Thorold had augmented his fortune until it
had acquired the power to send him to Forsland. To him, however, they
represented not ladders to prosperity but a social condition of a
passing generation, the Chicago of the seventies, a city distinctively
American in population and in ideals, a youthful city of a single
standard of endeavor, a pleasant place that had been swallowed by the
Chicago of the present, that many-tentacled monster of heterogeneous
races, that affected him as it did so many of the older residents,
with an overwhelming sensation of revolt against its sprawling lack
of cohesion. Even the material advantages that had accrued to him from
the growth of the city could not reconcile James Thorold to the fact
that the elements of the city's growth came from the races of men whom
he held in contempt. What mattered it, he reasoned, that Chicago waxed
huge when her grossness came from the unassimilated, indigestible mass
of Latins and Greeks, Poles and Russians, Czechs, Bulgars, Jews, who
filled the streets, the factories, and the schools?

The prejudice, always strong within him, rose higher as he found his
machine blocked again, this time by the crowd that stood across Jackson
Boulevard at La Salle Street. Even after the peremptory order of a
mounted police officer had cleared the way for him James Thorold frowned
on the lines of men and women pressed back against the curbstones. The
thought that they were waiting the coming of the body of that boy who
had died in Mexico added to his annoyance the realization that he would
have to fight his way through another crowd at the station if he wished
to reach the train-shed where Peter's train would come. The struggle was
spared him, however, by the recognition of a newspaper reporter who took
it for granted that the ambassador to Forsland had come to meet the
funeral cortege of the marine and who led him through a labyrinthine
passage that brought him past the gates and under the glass dome of the
train-shed.

Left alone, Thorold paced the platform a little apart from the group
of men who had evidently been delegated to represent the city. Some
of them he knew. Others of them, men of Isador Framberg's people and
of the ten tribes of Israel, he did not care to know. He turned away
from them to watch the people beyond the gates. Thousands of faces,
typical of every nation of Europe and some of the lands of Asia, fair
Norsemen and Teutons, olive-skinned Italians and men and women of the
swarthier peoples of Palestine, Poles, Finns, Lithuanians, Russians,
Bulgars, Bohemians, units of that mass which had welded in the city
of the Great Lakes of America, looked out from behind the iron fence.
The tensity written on their faces, eager yet awed, brought back to
James Thorold another time when men and women had stood within a
Chicago railway terminal waiting for a funeral cortege, the time when
Illinois waited in sorrow to take Abraham Lincoln, dead, to her heart.
The memory of that other day of dirges linked itself suddenly in the
mind of James Thorold with the picture of the lilacs blooming in the
yard of the Adams homestead on the parkway, that old house where Abraham
Lincoln had been wont to come; and the fusing recollections spun the
ambassador to Forsland upon his heel and sent him far down the platform,
where he stood, gloomily apart, until the limited, rolling in from the
end of the yards, brought him hastening to its side.

Peter Thorold was the first to alight.

A boy of sixteen, fair-haired, blue-eyed, ruddy-cheeked, springing
from the platform of the Pullman into his father's arms, he brought
with him the atmosphere of high adventure. In height, in poise of
shoulders, in bearing, in a certain trick of lifting his chin, he
was a replica of the dignified man who welcomed him with deep emotion;
but a difference--of dream rather than of dogma--in the quality of their
temperaments accoladed the boy. It was not only that his voice thrilled
with the higher enthusiasms of youth. It held besides an inflexibility
of tone that James Thorold's lacked. Its timbre told that Peter
Thorold's spirit had been tempered in a furnace fierier than the one
which had given forth the older man's. The voice rang out now in excited
pleasure as the boy gripped his father's shoulders. "Oh, but it's good
to see you again, dad," he cried. "You're a great old boy, and I'm proud
of you, sir. Think of it!" he almost shouted. "Ambassador to Forsland!
Say, but that's bully!" He slipped his arm around his father's shoulder,
while James Thorold watched him with eyes that shone with joy. "What do
you call an ambassador?" he demanded laughingly.

"Fortunately," the older man said, "there is no title accompanying the
office."

"Well, I should think not," the boy exclaimed. "Oh, dad, isn't it the
greatest thing in the world that you're to represent the United States
of America?"

James Thorold smiled. "No doubt," he said dryly. His gaze passed his
son to glimpse the crowd at the gate, frantic now with excitement, all
looking forward toward some point on the platform just beyond where the
man and boy were standing. "These United States of America have grown
past my thought of them," he added. The boy caught up the idea eagerly.
"Haven't they, though?" he demanded. "And isn't it wonderful to think
that it's all the same old America, 'the land of the free and the home
of the brave?' Gee, but it's good to be back in it again. I came up
into New York alongside the battleship that brought our boys home from
Mexico," he went on, "and, oh, say, dad, you should have seen that
harbor! I've seen a lot of things for a fellow," he pursued with a touch
of boyish boastfulness, "but I never saw anything in all my life like
that port yesterday. People, and people, and people, waiting, and flags
at half-mast, and a band off somewhere playing a funeral march, and that
battleship with the dead sailors--the fellows who died for our country
at Vera Cruz, you know--creeping up to the dock. Oh, it was--well, I
cried!" He made confession proudly, then hastened into less personal
narrative.

"One of them came from Chicago here," he said. "He was only nineteen
years old, and he was one of the first on the beach after the order to
cross to the customhouse. He lived over on Forquier Street, one of the
men was telling me--there are six of them, the guard of honor for him,
on the train--and his name was Isador Framberg. He was born in Russia,
too, in Kiev, the place of the massacres, you remember. See, dad, here
comes the guard!"

Peter Thorold swung his father around until he faced six uniformed
men who fell into step as they went forward toward the baggage-car.
"It's too bad, isn't it," the boy continued, "that any of the boys had
to die down in that greaser town? But, if they did, I'm proud that we
proved up that Chicago had a hero to send. Aren't you, dad?" James
Thorold did not answer. Peter's hands closed over his arm. "It reminds
me," he said, lowering his voice as they came closer to the place where
the marines stood beside the iron carrier that awaited the casket of
Isador Framberg's body, "of something the tutor at Westbury taught us
in Greek last year, something in a funeral oration that a fellow in
Athens made on the men who died in the Peloponnesian War. 'Such was
the end of these men,'" he quoted slowly, pausing now and then for a
word while his father looked wonderingly upon his rapt fervor, "'and
they were worthy of Athens. The living need not desire to have a more
heroic spirit. I would have you fix your eyes upon the greatness of
Athens, until you become filled with the love of her; and, when you
are impressed by the spectacle of her glory, reflect that this empire
has been acquired by men who knew their duty and who had the courage
to do it, who in the hour of conflict had the fear of dishonor always
present to them.'" With the solemnity of the chant the young voice
went on while the flag-covered casket was lifted from car to bier.
"'For the whole earth is the sepulchre of famous men; not only are
they commemorated by columns and inscriptions in their own country,
but in foreign lands there dwells also an unwritten memorial of them,
graven not in stone but in the hearts of men. Make them your examples,
and, esteeming courage to be freedom and freedom to be happiness, do
not weigh too nicely the perils of war.'"

He pulled off his cap, tucking it under his arm and dragging his
father with him to follow the men who had fallen in behind the marines
as they moved forward toward the gates and the silent crowd beyond.
Almost unwillingly James Thorold doffed his hat. The words of Peter's
unexpected declamation of Pericles's oration resounded in his ears.
"Once before," he said to the boy, "I heard that speech. Judge Adams
said it one night to Abraham Lincoln."

"Father!" Peter's eyes flashed back from the cortege to meet James
Thorold's. "I never knew that you knew Abraham Lincoln." His tone
betokened an impression of having been cheated of some joy the older
man had been hoarding. But James Thorold's voice held no joy. "Yes,"
he said. "I knew him."

The gates, sliding back, opened the way for the officers who led the
procession with which Isador Framberg came back to the city of his
adoption. The crowd yawned to give space to the guard of honor, walking
erectly beside the flag-draped coffin, to the mourners, men and women
alien as if they had come from Kiev but yesterday, to the little group
of men, public officials and rabbis, who trailed in their wake, and to
James Thorold and Peter, reverently following. Then it closed in upon
the cortege, urging it silently down the broad stairways and out into
the street where other crowds fell in with the strange procession.
Surging away after the shabby hearse, drawn by its listless horses and
attended by the marines, the crowd left the Thorolds, father and son,
on the pavement beside the station. "Don't you want to go?" There was
a wistfulness in Peter's voice that told his father that the boy had
sensed some lack of responsiveness in him. "He's going to lie in state
to-day at the city hall. Don't you think we should go, dad?" Not Peter's
query but Peter's eyes won his father's answer. "After a while," he
promised. "Then let's find a breakfast," the boy laughed. "I spent my
last dollar sending you that telegram."

All the way over to his father's club on Michigan Avenue, and all
through the breakfast that he ordered with lusty young appetite, Peter
kept up a running fire of reminiscence of his European adventures. That
the fire held grapeshot for his father when he talked of the latter's
worthiness for the ambassadorship to Forsland he could not guess; but
he found that he was pouring salt in a wound when he went back to
comment upon Isador Framberg's death. "Why make so much of a boy who
happened to be at Vera Cruz?" the older man said at last, nettled that
even his son found greater occasion for commendation in the circumstance
of the Forquier Street hero than in his father's selection to the most
important diplomatic post in the gift of the government. Peter's brows
rose swiftly at his father's annoyance. He opened his lips for argument,
then swiftly changed his intention. "Tell me about Judge Adams, dad," he
said, bungling over his desire to change the topic, "the fellow who knew
his Pericles."

"It's too long a story," James Thorold said. He watched Peter closely
in the fashion of an advocate studying the characteristics of a judge.
The boy's idealism, his vivid young patriotism, his eager championship
of those elements of the new America that his father contemned, had
fired his personality with a glaze that left James Thorold's smoothly
diplomatic fingers wandering over its surface, unable to hold it within
his grasp. He had a story to tell Peter--some time--a story of Judge
Adams, of the house among the lilacs, of days of war, of Abraham
Lincoln; but the time for its telling must wait upon circumstance that
would make Peter Thorold more ready to understand weakness and failure
than he now seemed. Consciously James Thorold took a change of venue
from Peter Thorold of the visions to Peter Thorold of the inevitable
disillusions. But to the former he made concession. "Shall we go to the
city hall now?" he asked as they rose from the table.

The city hall, a massive white granite pile covering half of the square
east of La Salle Street and north of Washington and meeting its twin
of the county building to form a solid mass of masonry, flaunted black
drapings over the doorways through which James Thorold and his son
entered. Through a wide corridor of bronze and marble they found their
way, passing a few stragglers from the great crowd that had filled the
lower floors of the huge structures when Isador Framberg's body had
been brought from its hearse and carried to the centre of the aisles,
the place where the intersecting thoroughfares met. Under a great bronze
lamp stood the catafalque, covered with the Stars and Stripes and
guarded by the men of the fleet.

Peter Thorold, pressing forward, took his place, his cap thrust under
his arm, at the foot of the bier, giving his tribute of silence to the
boy who had died for his country. But James Thorold went aside to stand
beside an elevator-shaft. Had his son watched him as he was watching
Peter, he would have seen the swift emotions that took their way across
his father's face. He would have seen the older man's look dilate with
the strained horror of one who gazed back through the dimming years to
see a ghost. He would have seen sorrow, and grief, and a great remorse
rising to James Thorold's eyes. He might even have seen the shadow of
another bier cast upon the retina of his father's sight. He might have
seen through his father's watching the memory of another man who had
once lain on the very spot where Isador Framberg was lying, a man who
had died for his country after he had lived to set his country among the
free nations of the earth. But Peter Thorold saw only the boy who had
gone from a Forquier Street tenement to the Mexican sands that he might
prove by his dying that, with Irish, and Germans, and French, he too,
the lad who had been born in Kiev of the massacres, was an American.

With the surge of strange emotions flooding his heart, Peter Thorold
crossed to where his father stood apart. The tide of his thought
overflowed the shore of prose and landed his expression high on a
cliff of poetry. No chance, but the urging of his own exalted mood,
brought him the last lines of Moody's "Ode in Time of Hesitation":

    "Then on your guiltier head
    Shall our intolerable self-disdain
    Wreak suddenly its anger and its pain;
    For manifest in that disastrous light
    We shall discern the right
    And do it, tardily.--O ye who lead,
       Take heed!
    Blindness we may forgive, but baseness we will smite."

But to the older man, seeing as he stood the picture of that other
catafalque to which he had crept one night in the lilac time of a year
nearly a half century agone, the words flung anathema. He leaned back
against the bronze grating of the shaft with a sudden look of age that
brought Peter's protective arm to his shoulder. Then, with Peter
following, he went out to the sun-bright street.

Like a man in a daze he dismissed his car, crossing pavements under
Peter's guiding until he came to the building where the fortunes of
the great Thorold mercantile business were administered. Through the
outer room, where clerks looked up in surprise at the appearance which
their chief presented on the morning when they had learned of the
Forsland embassy, he led Peter until they came to the room where he
had reigned for twenty years. It was a room that had always mirrored
James Thorold to his son. Tall bookcases, stiff, old-fashioned, held
long rows of legal works, books on history, essays on ethical topics,
and bound volumes of periodicals. Except for its maps, it was a lawyer's
room, although James Thorold never claimed either legal ability or legal
standing. Peter seldom entered it without interest in its possibilities
of entertainment, but to-day his father's strange and sudden
preoccupation of manner ingulfed all the boy's thought. "What is it,
dad?" he asked, a tightening fear screwing down upon his brain as he
noted the change that had come over the mask that James Thorold's
face held to the world.

James Thorold made him no answer. He was standing at the wide walnut
table, turning over and over in his hands the letters which his
secretary had left for his perusal. Finally, he opened one of them,
the bulkiest. He scanned it for a moment, then flung it upon the floor.
Then he began to pace the room till in his striding he struck his foot
against the paper he had cast aside. He picked it up, tossing it toward
Peter. The boy turned from his strained watching of his father's face
to read the letter. It was the official notification of the Senate's
confirmation of the President's appointment of James Thorold as
ambassador to the Court of St. Jerome.

"Why, father!" Incredulity heightened the boyishness in Peter's tone.
James Thorold wheeled around until he faced him. "Peter," he said
huskily, "there's something you'll have to know before I go to
Forsland--if ever I go to Forsland. You'll have to decide." The boy
shrank from the ominous cadence of the words. "Why, I can't judge for
you, dad," he said awkwardly. "Our children are always our ultimate
judges," James Thorold said.

"I have sometimes wondered," he went on, speaking to himself rather than
to the puzzled boy, "how the disciples who met Christ but who did not go
his way with him to the end felt when they heard he had died. I knew a
great man once, Peter. I went his way for a little while, then I took my
own. I saw them bring him, dead, over the way they have brought that boy
to-day. I came down to the court-house that night, and there, just where
that boy lies, Peter, I made a promise that I have not kept."

Again he resumed his pacing, speaking as he went, sometimes in low
tones, sometimes with tensity of voice, always as if urged by some force
that was driving him from silence. The boy, leaning forward at the edge
of the chair, watched his father through the first part of the story.
Before the end came he turned away.

"You remember," James Thorold began, his voice pleading patience,
"that I've told you I came to Chicago from Ohio before the war? I was
older than you then, Peter, but I was something of a hero-worshipper,
too. Judge Adams was my hero in those troublous times of the fifties.
I knew him only by sight for a long time, watching him go in and out of
the big white house where he lived. After a time I came to know him. I
was clerking in a coffee-importing house during the day and studying law
at night. Judge Adams took me into his office. He took me among his
friends. Abraham Lincoln was one of them.

"I remember the night I met Lincoln. Judge Adams had talked of him
often. He had been talking of him that day. 'Greatness,' he had said,
'is the holding of a great dream, not for yourself, but for others.
Abraham Lincoln has the dream. He has heard the voice, and seen the
vision, and he is climbing up to Sinai. You must meet him, James.'
That night I met him in the old white house.

"We were in the front parlor of the old house," James Thorold continued,
resetting the scene until his only listener knew that it was more real
to him than the room through which he paced, "when some one said, 'Mr.
Lincoln.' I looked up to see a tall, awkward man standing in the arched
doorway. Other men have said that they had to know Lincoln a long time
to feel his greatness. My shame is the greater that I felt his greatness
on the instant when I met his eyes.

"There was talk of war that night. Lincoln did not join in it, I
remember, although I do not recall what he said. But when he rose to go
I went with him. We walked down the street past dooryards where lilacs
were blooming, keeping together till we crossed the river. There our
ways parted. I told him a little of what Judge Adams had said of him.
He laughed at the praise, waving it away from himself. 'It's a good
thought, though,' he said, 'a great dream for others. But we need more
than the dreaming, my friend. When the time comes, will you be ready?'

"I held out my hand to him in pledge.

"My way home that night took me past the armory where the Zouaves, the
boys whom Ellsworth trained, were drilling. You remember Ellsworth's
story, Peter? He was the first officer to die in the war." The boy
nodded solemnly, and the man went on. "With Abraham Lincoln's voice
ringing in my ears I enlisted.

"Years afterward, when Abraham Lincoln was President, war came. I'd seen
Lincoln often in the years between." James Thorold stopped his restless
pacing and stood at the end of the table away from Peter, leaning over
it slightly, as he seemed to keep up his story with difficulty. "He came
often to Judge Adams's house. There were evenings when the three of us
sat in the parlor with the dusk drifting in from the lake, and spoke of
the future of the nation. Judge Adams thought war inevitable. Abraham
Lincoln thought it could be averted. They both dreaded it. I was young,
and I hoped for it. 'What'll you do, Jim, if war should come?' they
asked me once. 'I'd go as a private,' I told them.

"If the war had come then I should have gone with the first regiment
out. But when the call sounded Ellsworth had gone to New York and the
Zouaves had merged with another regiment. I didn't go with them in the
beginning because I told myself that I wanted to be with the first troop
that went from Illinois to the front. I didn't join until after Lincoln
had sent out his call for volunteers.

"You see," he explained to the silent boy, "I had left Judge Adams's
office and struck out for myself. Chicago was showing me golden
opportunities. Before me, if I stayed, stretched a wide road of
success."

"And you didn't go?" Peter interrupted his father for the first time.
"I thought--" His voice broke.

"I went," James Thorold said. "The regiment, the Nineteenth, was at the
border when Lincoln gave the call. There was a bounty being offered to
join it. I would have gone anyhow, but I thought that I might just as
well take the money. I was giving up so much to go, I reasoned. And so
I took the bounty. The provost marshal gave me the money in the office
right across the square from the old court-house. I put it in the bank
before I started south.

"I left Chicago that night with a great thrill. I was going to fight
for a great cause, for Abraham Lincoln's great dream, for the country
my father had died for in Mexico, that my grandfather had fought for at
Lundy's Lane. I think," he said, "that if I might have gone right down
to the fighting, I'd have stood the test. But when I came to Tennessee
the regiment had gone stale. We waited, and waited. Every day I lost a
little interest. Every day the routine dragged a little harder. I had
time to see what opportunities I had left back here in Chicago. I wasn't
afraid of the fighting. But the sheer hatred of what I came to call the
uselessness of war gnawed at my soul. I kept thinking of the ways in
which I might shape my destiny if only I were free. I kept thinking of
the thousand roads to wealth, to personal success, that Chicago held
for me. One night I took my chance. I slipped past the lines."

"Father!" The boy's voice throbbed with pain. His eyes, dilated with
horror at the realization of the older man's admission, fixed their gaze
accusingly on James Thorold. "You weren't a--a deserter?" He breathed
the word fearfully.

"I was a bounty-jumper."

"Oh!" Peter Thorold's shoulders drooped as if under the force of a vital
blow. Vaguely as he knew the term, the boy knew only too well the burden
of disgrace that it carried. Once, in school, he had heard an old tutor
apply it to some character of history whom he had especially despised.
Again, in a home where he had visited, he had heard another old man use
the phrase in contempt for some local personage who had attempted to
seek public office. Bounty-jumper! Its province expressed to the lad's
mind a layer of the inferno beneath the one reserved for the Benedict
Arnolds and the Aaron Burrs. Vainly he bugled to his own troops of
self-control; but they, too, were deserters in the calamity. He flung
his arms across the table, surrendering to his sobs.

Almost impassively James Thorold watched him, as if he himself had gone
so far back into his thought of the past that he could not bridge the
gap to Peter now. With some thought of crossing the chasm he took up his
tale of dishonor. Punctuated by the boy's sobs it went on.

"I came back to Chicago and drew the money from the bank. I knew I
couldn't go back to the practise of law. I changed my name to Thorold
and started in business as an army contractor. I made money. The money
that's made us rich, the money that's sending me to Forsland"--a
bitterness not in his voice before edged his mention of the
embassy--"came from that bounty that the provost marshal gave me."

He turned his back upon the sobbing boy, walking over to the window
and staring outward upon the April brightness of the noonday ere he
spoke again. "You know of the Nineteenth's record? They were at
Nashville, and they were at Chattanooga after my colonel came back,
dead. I went out of Chicago when his body was brought in. Then Turchin
took command of the brigade. The Nineteenth went into the big fights.
They were at Chickamauga. Benton fell there. He'd been in Judge Adams's
office with me. After I'd come back he'd joined the regiment. The day
the news of Chickamauga came I met Judge Adams on Washington Street.
He knew me. He looked at me as Peter might have looked at Judas."

Slowly Peter Thorold raised his head from his arms, staring at the
man beside the window. James Thorold met his look with sombre sorrow.
"Don't think I've had no punishment," he said. "Remember that I loved
Judge Adams. And I loved Abraham Lincoln."

"Oh, no, no!" The boy's choked utterance came in protest. "If you'd
really cared for them you wouldn't have failed them."

"I have prayed," his father said, "that you may never know the grief of
having failed the men you have loved. There's no heavier woe, Peter."
Again his gaze went from the boy, from the room, from the present. "I
did not see Abraham Lincoln again until he was dead," he said. "They
brought him back and set his bier in the old court-house. The night he
lay there I went in past the guards and looked long upon the face of him
who had been my friend. I saw the sadness and the sorrow, the greatness
and the glory, that life and death had sculptured there. He had dreamed
and he had done. When the time had come he had been ready. I knelt
beside his coffin; and I promised God and Abraham Lincoln that I would,
before I died, make atonement for the faith I had broken."

Peter's sobbing had died down to husky flutterings of breath, but he
kept his face averted from the man at the other side of the table.
"I meant to make some sort of reparation," James Thorold explained,
listlessness falling like twilight on his mood as if the sun had gone
down on his power, "but I was always so busy, so busy. And there seemed
no real occasion for sacrifice. I never sought public office or public
honors till I thought you wanted me to have them, Peter." He turned
directly to the boy, but the boy did not move. "I was so glad of
Forsland--yesterday. Through all these years I have told myself that,
after all, I had done no great wrong. But sometimes, when the bands were
playing and the flags were flying, I knew that I had turned away from
the Grail after I had looked upon it. I knew it to-day when I stood
beside that boy's coffin. I had said that times change. I know now that
only the time changes. The spirit does not die, but it's a stream that
goes underground to come up, a clear spring, in unexpected places. My
father died in Mexico. I failed my country. And Isador Framberg dies
at Vera Cruz."

"For our country," the boy said bitterly.

"And his own," his father added. "For him, for his people, for all these
who walk in darkness Abraham Lincoln died. The gleam of his torch shone
far down their lands. His message brought them here. They have known him
even as I, who walked with him in life, did not know him until to-day.
And they are paying him. That dead boy is their offering to him, their
message that they are the Americans."

Into Peter Thorold's eyes, as he looked upon his father, leaped a flash
of blue fire. Searchingly he stared into the face of the older man as
Galahad might have gazed upon a sorrowing Percival. "You're going to
give up Forsland?" he breathed, touching the paper on the table. "I gave
up Forsland," James Thorold said, "when I saw you at Isador Framberg's
side. I knew that I was not worthy to represent your America--and his."
He held out his hands to Peter longingly. The boy's strong one closed
over them. Peter Thorold, sighting the mansion of his father's soul, saw
that the other man had passed the portals of confession into an empire
of expiation mightier than the Court of St. Jerome.




THE YEARBOOK OF THE AMERICAN SHORT STORY FOR 1914 AND 1915




THE ROLL OF HONOR FOR 1914


BUZZELL, FRANCIS.
  Addie Erb and Her Girl Lottie.

CONRAD, JOSEPH.
  Laughing Anne.
  The Planter of Malata.

DWIGHT, H.G.
  The Leopard of the Sea.

FREEMAN, MARY E. WILKINS-.
  Daniel and Little Dan'l.

GALSWORTHY, JOHN.
  A Simple Tale.

GEROULD, KATHARINE FULLERTON.
  The Dominant Strain.
  The Toad and the Jewel.
  The Tortoise.
  The Triple Mirror.

GORDON, ARMISTEAD C.
  Maje.

HOPPER, JAMES.
  The Night School.

JOHNSTON, CALVIN.
  Traitors Both.

LONG, JOHN LUTHER.
  The Sandwich-Man.

MORRIS, GOUVERNEUR.
  When the Devil Was Better.

POST, MELVILLE DAVISSON.
  A Twilight Adventure.
  The Doomdorf Mystery.

RICHTER, CONRAD.
  Brothers of No Kin.

SINGMASTER, ELSIE.
  The Ishmaelite.

SYNON, MARY.
  The Bravest Son.

WHARTON, EDITH.
  The Triumph of Night.

NOTE.--"The Roll of Honor for 1914" is based on the reading of the eight
periodicals listed on page 288.

[Transcriber's Note: See "INDEX OF SHORT STORIES FOR 1914 AND 1915" for
the page 288 list of periodicals from 1914.]




THE ROLL OF HONOR FOR 1915


ALLEN, FREDERICK LEWIS.
  Madame Zaranova.

ANONYMOUS.
  Safety in Numbers.

ARCOS, RENE.
  One Evening--The Meeting.

AUMONIER, STACY.
  *The Friends.

BLACKWOOD, ALGERNON.
  The Other Wing.

BROWN, ALICE.
  The Return of Martha.

BROWN, KATHARINE HOLLAND.
  The Old-Fashioned Gift.

BURT, MAXWELL STRUTHERS.
  *The Water-Hole.

BUTLER, KATHARINE.
  *In No Strange Land.

BYRNE, DONN.
  *The Wake.

CANFIELD, DOROTHY.
  *Flint and Fire.

CHILD, RICHARD WASHBURN.
  Not in the Dispatches.

COBB, IRVIN S.
  *Blacker Than Sin.

COLCORD, LINCOLN.
  A Life and a Ship.
  Rescue at Sea.

COLUM, PADRAIC.
  *A Woman of the West.

COMFORT, WILL LEVINGTON.
  *Chautonville.

COWDERY, ALICE.
  Chains.

DAY, MARY LOUISE.
  His Surrender.

DIX, BEULAH MARIE.
  *Across the Border.

DUNCAN, NORMAN.
  A Nice Little Morsel o' Dog Meat.

DUNNING, HAROLD WOLCOTT.
  The Little Captain.

DUNSANY, LORD.
  *A Story of Land and Sea.
  *The Exiles' Club.
  The Three Infernal Jokes.

DWIGGINS, W.A.
  *La Derniere Mobilisation.

DWYER, JAMES FRANCIS.
  *The Citizen.

EARLE, MARY TRACY.
  "The Tropic Bird."

EWERS, HANNS HEINZ.
  The Spider.

FINCH, LUCINE.
  The Woman Who Waited.

FITCH, ANITA.
  Colin McCabe: Renegade.

FORMAN, HENRY JAMES.
  The Monk and the Stranger.

FREEMAN, MARY E. WILKINS-.
  Emancipation.

GALSWORTHY, JOHN.
  *Ultima Thule.

GEROULD, KATHARINE FULLERTON.
  Blue Bonnet.
  *Martin's Hollow.
  *Miss Marriott and the Faun.
  *Sea-Green.
  The Penalties of Artemis.

GIBBON, PERCEVAL.
  *The Town of His Dream.

GREGG, FRANCES.
  *Whose Dog--?

HALL, GERTRUDE.
  *An Epilogue.

HALL, WILBUR.
  The Fiddler of Glory Hole.

HAMPTON, EDGAR LLOYD.
  Finsen.

HARRIS, BURT.
  The Truth.

HECHT, BEN.
  Depths.
  Gratitude.
  *Life.

HOPPER, JAMES.
  Forty Years Hence.

HUGHES, RUPERT.
  *Michaeleen! Michaelawn!
  Sent For Out.

HURST, FANNIE.
  Ever Ever Green.
  *Rolling Stock.
  *T.B.

JOHNSON, ARTHUR.
  *Mr. Eberdeen's House.

JOHNSTON, CALVIN.
  Promise Lands.

JORDAN, VIRGIL.
  *Vengeance Is Mine!

KAUN, ALEXANDER S.
  Gratitude.

KOIZUMI, K.
  *Uguisu. (A Japanese Nightingale).

LYON, HARRIS MERTON.
  The Son of Santa Claus.
  *The Weaver Who Clad the Summer.

McINTYRE, JOHN T.
  The Hand of Glory.

MITCHELL, MARY ESTHER.
  A New England Pippa.

MUILENBURG, WALTER J.
  *Heart of Youth.
  *The Prairie.

MYERS, WALTER L.
  *Mates.

NICHOLS, WILLIAM T.
  The Other Woman.

NOYES, NEWBOLD.
  *The End of the Path.

O'BRIEN, SEUMAS.
  *The House in the Valley.
  *The Whale and the Grasshopper.

O'REILLY, MARY BOYLE.
  *In Berlin.

PAINE, GUSTAVUS S.
  "Here He Is."

PALMER, VANCE.
  The Law of the Dark.

PICKTHALL, MARJORIE L.C.
  Stories.

POST, MELVILLE DAVISSON.
  The New Administration.

ROBERTSON, MORGAN.
  *The Poison Ship.

ROOF, KATHARINE METCALF.
  *The Waiting Years.

ROSENBLATT, BENJAMIN.
  *Zelig.

SINGMASTER, ELSIE.
  *The Survivors.

SMITH, GORDON ARTHUR.
  *Jeanne, the Maid.

SNEDDON, ROBERT W.
  One Mother.
  The Musician.

STEELE, WILBUR DANIEL.
  A Matter of Education.
  *On Moon Hill.
  *Romance.
  *The Yellow Cat.

STRINGER, ARTHUR.
  *The Ivy and the Tower.

SYNON, MARY.
  *The Bounty-Jumper.

WALLACE, EDGAR.
  The Greater Battle.

WALPOLE, HUGH.
  *The Twisted Inn.

WESTON, GEORGE.
  *The Martial Mood of M'sieur.

WHARTON, EDITH.
  Coming Home.

WHITE, WILLIAM ALLEN.
  *The Gods Arrive.

WINSLOW, HORATIO.
  The Wonderful City.




MAGAZINE AVERAGES FOR 1915


_The following table includes the averages of all American magazines
published during 1915 of which complete files for the period covered
were placed at my disposal. One, two, and three asterisks are employed
to indicate relative distinction. "Three-asterisk stories" are of
somewhat permanent literary value._


______________________________________________________________________
MAGAZINES                | NO OF     | NO OF         | PERCENTAGE OF  |
                         | STORIES   | DISTINCTIVE   | DISTINCTIVE    |
                         | PUBLISHED | STORIES       | STORIES        |
                         |           | PUBLISHED     | PUBLISHED      |
                         |           |_______________|________________|
                         |           |  * | ** | *** |   * | ** | *** |
_________________________|___________|____|____|_____|_____|____|_____|
American Magazine        |    53     | 23 | 11 |   3 |  43 | 21 |   6 |
Associated Sunday        |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
  Magazines              |    39     |  9 |  2 |   1 |  24 |  5 |   3 |
  (Jan-May See also      |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
  Every Week)            |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
Atlantic Monthly         |    24     | 16 |  8 |   2 |  67 | 33 |   8 |
Bellman                  |    39     | 20 | 11 |   7 |  51 | 28 |  18 |
Black Cat                |   108     |  8 |  0 |   0 |   7 |  0 |   0 |
Bruno Chap Books         |     7     |  3 |  0 |   0 |  43 |  0 |   0 |
Century Magazine         |    53     | 32 | 15 |   7 |  60 | 28 |  13 |
Collier's Weekly         |   142     | 46 | 21 |   9 |  32 | 15 |   6 |
Delineator               |    30     |  7 |  3 |   1 |  23 |  7 |   3 |
Everybody's Magazine     |    46     | 13 |  3 |   1 |  28 |  6 |   2 |
Every Week (See also     |    77     | 23 |  2 |   1 |  30 |  3 |   2 |
  Associated Sunday      |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
  Magazines)             |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
Forum                    |    13     | 12 |  6 |   3 |  92 | 46 |  23 |
Good Housekeeping        |    42     |  4 |  1 |   1 |  10 |  2 |   2 |
Harper's Bazar           |    23     |  6 |  4 |   0 |  26 | 17 |   0 |
Harper's Magazine        |   101     | 56 | 28 |  12 |  56 | 28 |  12 |
Harper's Weekly          |    25     | 18 |  4 |   0 |  72 | 16 |   0 |
Illustrated Sunday       |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
  Magazine               |   182     | 59 | 27 |  16 |  32 | 15 |   9 |
  Or excluding reprints  |   169     | 46 | 15 |   5 |  27 |  9 |   3 |
International            |    17     | 10 |  5 |   2 |  59 | 29 |  12 |
Ladies' Home Journal     |    42     |  8 |  3 |   1 |  19 |  7 |   3 |
Life                     |    68     | 10 |  0 |   0 |  15 |  0 |   0 |
Lippincott's and         |           |    |    |     |     |    |     |
    McBride's Magazines  |    98     | 36 |  6 |   1 |  36 |  6 |   1 |
Little Review            |     9     |  9 |  5 |   5 | 100 | 56 |  56 |
McClure's Magazine       |    63     | 22 |  9 |   0 |  35 | 14 |   0 |
Masses                   |    10     |  7 |  3 |   1 |  70 | 30 |  10 |
Metropolitan             |    47     | 24 |  7 |   5 |  51 | 15 |  11 |
Midland                  |    10     | 10 |  7 |   3 | 100 | 70 |  30 |
Munsey's Magazine        |    48     |  4 |  1 |   0 |   8 |  2 |   0 |
National Sunday Magazine |    22     |  9 |  5 |   0 |  41 | 23 |   0 |
New Republic             |     9     |  7 |  3 |   1 |  78 | 33 |  11 |
Outlook                  |     9     |  6 |  4 |   1 |  67 | 44 |  11 |
Pictorial Review         |    68     | 15 |  4 |   1 |  22 |  6 |   1 |
Saturday Evening Post    |   162     | 29 | 12 |   6 |  18 |  7 |   4 |
Scribner's Magazine      |    52     | 37 | 24 |   7 |  71 | 46 |  13 |
Smart Set                |   242     | 34 | 12 |   3 |  14 |  5 |   1 |
Sunset Magazine          |    42     | 13 |  3 |   0 |  31 |  7 |   0 |
Woman's Home Companion   |    49     |  4 |  0 |   0 |   8 |  0 |   0 |
______________________________________________________________________|


_The following tables indicate the rank, during 1915, by number and
percentage of distinctive stories published, of the eighteen periodicals
coming within the scope of my examination which have published during
the past year over twenty-five stories and which have exceeded an
average of 15% in stories of distinction. The lists exclude reprints._


BY PERCENTAGE OF DISTINCTIVE STORIES

 1.  Scribner's Magazine                   71%
 2.  Century Magazine                      60%
 3.  Harper's Magazine                     56%
 4.  Metropolitan                          51%
 5.  Bellman                               51%
 6.  American Magazine                     43%
 7.  Lippincott's and McBride's Magazines  36%
 8.  McClure's Magazine                    35%
 9.  Collier's Weekly                      32%
10.  Sunset Magazine                       31%
11.  Every Week                            30%
12.  Everybody's Magazine                  28%
13.  Illustrated Sunday Magazine           27%
14.  Associated Sunday  Magazine           24%
       (excluding Every Week)
15.  Delineator                            23%
16.  Pictorial Review                      22%
17.  Ladies' Home Journal                  19%
18.  Saturday Evening Post                 18%


BY NUMBER OF DISTINCTIVE STORIES

 1.  Harper's Magazine                      56
 2.  Illustrated Sunday Magazine            46
 3.  Collier's  Weekly                      46
 4.  Scribner's Magazine                    37
 5.  Lippincott's and McBride's Magazines   36
 6.  Century Magazine                       32
 7.  Saturday Evening Post                  29
 8.  Metropolitan                           24
 9.  American Magazine                      23
10.  Every Week                             23
11.  McClure's Magazine                     22
12.  Bellman                                20
13.  Pictorial Review                       15
14.  Sunset Magazine                        13
15.  Everybody's Magazine                   13
16.  Associated Sunday Magazine
       (excluding Every Week)                9
17.  Ladies' Home Journal                    8
18.  Delineator                              7

_The following periodicals have published during 1915 ten or more
"two-asterisk stories." The list excludes reprints._

 1.  Harper's Magazine                      28
 2.  Scribner's Magazine                    24
 3.  Collier's Weekly                       21
 4.  Illustrated Sunday Magazine            15
 5.  Century Magazine                       15
 6.  Saturday Evening Post                  12
 7.  Smart Set                              12
 8.  Bellman                                11
 9.  American Magazine                      11


_The following periodicals have published during 1915 three or more
"three-asterisk stories." The list excludes reprints._

 1.  Harper's Magazine                      12
 2.  Collier's Weekly                        9
 3.  Scribner's Magazine                     7
 4.  Century Magazine                        7
 5.  Bellman                                 7
 6.  Saturday Evening Post                   6
 7.  Little Review                           5
 8.  Metropolitan                            5
 9.  Illustrated Sunday Magazine             5
10.  Midland                                 3
11.  Forum                                   3
12.  American Magazine                       3
13.  Smart Set                               3


_The best short story of the year is "Zelig," by Benjamin Rosenblatt,
published in The Bellman._

_Ties in the above lists have been decided by taking relative rank in
other lists into account._




INDEX OF SHORT STORIES FOR 1914 AND 1915


_All short stones published in the following magazines during 1914 are
listed in this index._

Atlantic Monthly.
Century Magazine.
Collier's Weekly.
Forum.
Harper's Magazine.
Metropolitan Magazine.
Saturday Evening Post.
Scribner's Magazine.

_All short stories published in the following magazines and newspapers
during 1915 are indexed._

American Magazine.
Associated Sunday Magazines.
  (_January to May, excluding stories in_ Every Week, _q.v._).
Atlantic Monthly.
Bellman.
Boston Evening Transcript.
Boston Daily Advertiser.
Bruno Chap Books.
Century Magazine.
Collier's Weekly.
Delineator.
Everybody's Magazine.
Every Week.
Fabulist.
Forum.
Harper's Bazar.
Harper's Magazine.
Harper's Weekly.
Illustrated Sunday Magazine.
International.*
Ladies' Home Journal.
Lippincott's Magazine.
Little Review.
McBride's Magazine.
McClure's Magazine.
Masses.
Metropolitan.
Midland.
National Sunday Magazine.
New Republic.
Outlook.
Pictorial Review.
Reedy's Mirror.
Saturday Evening Post.
Scribner's Magazine.
Sunset Magazine.

_Short stories, of distinction only, published in the following
magazines during 1915 are indexed._

Black Cat.
Bruno's Weekly.
Chicago Sunday Tribune.
Cosmopolitan.
Good Housekeeping.
Greenwich Village.
Hearst's Magazine.
Life.
Munsey's Magazine.
Smart Set.
Woman's Home Companion.

_One, two, or three asterisks are prefixed to the titles of stories to
indicate distinction. Three asterisks prefixed to a title indicate the
more or less permanent literary value of a story, and entitle it to a
place on the annual "Roll of Honor."_

_The following abbreviations are used in the index:--_

_Am._        American Magazine
_A.S.M._     Associated Sunday Magazines
_Atl._       Atlantic Monthly
_B.C._       Black Cat
_B.C.B._     Bruno Chap Books
_B.D.A._     Boston Daily Advertiser
_Bel._       Bellman
_B.E.T._     Boston Evening Transcript
_Brun. W._   Bruno's Weekly
_Cen._       Century Magazine
_Ch. Trib._  Chicago Sunday Tribune
_Col._       Collier's Weekly
_Cos._       Cosmopolitan Magazine
_Del._       Delineator
_Ev._        Everybody's Magazine
_E.W._       Every Week
_Fab._       Fabulist
_For._       Forum
_G.H._       Good Housekeeping
_G.V._       Greenwich Village
_Harp. B._   Harper's Bazar
_Harp. M._   Harper's Magazine
_Harp. W._   Harper's Weekly
_Int._       International
_I.S.M._     Illustrated Sunday Magazine
_L.H.J._     Ladies' Home Journal
_Lip._       Lippincott's Magazine
_Lit. R._    Little Review
_McB._       McBride's Magazine
_McC._       McClure's Magazine
_Met._       Metropolitan
_Mid._       Midland
_Mir._       Reedy's Mirror
_Mun._       Munsey's Magazine
_N. Rep._    New Republic
_N.S.M._     National Sunday Magazine
_Outl._      Outlook
_Pict. R._   Pictorial Review
_Scr._       Scribner's Magazine
_S.E.P._     Saturday Evening Post
_S.S._       Smart Set
_Sun._       Sunset Magazine
_W.H.C._     Woman's Home Companion
_'14._       1914
_'15._       1915


A

A., 1.
  The Broken Wheel. I.S.M. April 4, '15.

ABBOTT, AVERY.
  "And They Lived Happily ----." Del. Aug., '15.
  *The Powerful Wobberjohn. Mid. Dec., '15.

ABBOTT, ELEANOR HALLOWELL.
  Man of My Dreams. Col. Sept. 4, '15.
  Tinsel-Toes. Met. Dec., '14.

ABBOTT, KEENE.
  "Every Summer." Harp. M. June, '15.
  **In the Switch-yard. Harp. M. March, '15.
  *"Maybe Wild Parsnips." Harp. M. July, '14.
  **Silent Battle. Mid. Jan., '15.

ABBOTT, MABEL.
  The Advantage. Mun. May, '15.

ABDULLAH, ACHMED.
  **Black Lily. Lip. July, '15.
  *The Flowering Stone. Lip. April, '15.
  **The Infidel. Lip. Jan., '15.
  *The Man Who Wished. McB. Sept., '15.
  *The Rock Whence Ye Were Hewn. Lip. Feb., '15.

ADAMS, FRANK R.
  *Buster. S.S. Oct., '15.

ADAMS, SAMUEL HOPKINS.
  The Fairy Princess. Ev. Aug., '15.

ADAMS, WILL.
  Betting on Shorty. Col. Jan. 3, '14.
  Mix-ups in Troop J. Col. Feb. 28, '14.
  Off-Agin-on-Agin Finnegan. Col. July 25, '14.
  Shorty's Victorious Maneuvers. Col. Jan. 24, '14.

ADDISON, THOMAS.
  Educated Sausages. Lip. Feb., '15.
  The Taming of Aunt Maria. Lip. May, '15.

ALEXANDER, H.B.
  **The Pixie. Mid. Feb., '15.

ALEXANDER, HELEN.
  Her Own Life. Harp. M. Sept., '14.

ALLEN, FREDERICK LEWIS.
  Cart Before the Horse. Cen. Oct., '15.
  ***Madame Zaranova. Bel. Dec. 18, '15.

ALLEN, IRVING R.
  What in the World Do You Want? I.S.M. Jan. 24, '15.

ALLEN, JAMES LANE.
  **A Cathedral Singer. Cen. May, '14.

ALLEN, LEWIS.
  Jessop's Valet. I.S.M. Nov. 14, '15.
  "Oh, Pearl!" I.S.M. April 18, '15.
  The Lady and the Veil. I.S.M. June 6, '15.
  Tweedledum and Tweedledee. I.S.M. March 14, '15.
  Why Can't You? I.S.M. April 4, '15.

ALLEN, MARYLAND.
  The Strayed Reveler. Sun. May, '15.
  Torry the Man-Maker. S.E.P. Oct. 3, '14.

ALLEN, WILLIS BOYD.
  *The End of His Rope. S.S. May, '15.

ALLENSON, A.C.
  Pandora the Resolute. McB. Nov., '15.
  Second-Chance Lidcote. Lip. April, '15.
  The Morrow Man. A.S.M. Feb. 7, '15.
  The Snail Man. McB. Dec., '15.

ALTENBERG, PETER.
  *Music. Brun. W. Oct. 7, '15.

AMID, JOHN.
  A Turkey-Yard Napoleon. Del. July, '15.
  Beefsteak _vs._ Bankruptcy. Col. Jan. 10, '14.

ANDERSON, ELIZABETH.
  Fried Onions. Del. June, '15.

ANDERSON, FREDERICK IRVING.
  An All-Star Cast. S.E.P. Jan. 24, '14.
  The Alchemists. S.E.P. Jan. 2, '15.
  The Angle of Refraction. S.E.P. Aug. 14, '15.
  The Ingenue. S.E.P. Feb. 27, '15.
  The Makeshift. S.E.P. Sept. 5, '14.
  The Man Who Couldn't Go Home. S.E.P. March 28, '14.
  *The Unknown Masterpiece. S.E.P. June 5, '15.
  *Vanities. S.E.P. Nov. 14, '14.

ANDERSON, SHERWOOD.
  *Sister. Lit. R. Dec., '15.
  The Rabbit-pen. Harp. M. July, '14.

ANDERSON, WILLIAM ASHLEY.
  The Dryad of Reouw Straits. Ev. March, '15.
  *The Fight in Buddha's Caldron. Ev. April, '15.

ANDREWS, MARY RAYMOND SHIPMAN.
  Achilles the Butler. Scr. Sept., '14.
  **Coals of Fire. Scr. Jan., '15.
  Her Fling. S.E.P. Dec. 19, '14.
  **Peace on Earth. N.S.M. Dec. 12, '15.
  *The Fete of M'sieur Bob. Scr. March, '14.
  *The Star-Spangled Banner. Del. July, '15.
  *The Three Things. L.H.J. Nov.-Dec., '15.
  *The Very Lilac One. Scr. Dec., '15.

ANONYMOUS.
  Broke! or The Busted Lady. McC. June, '15.
  *Immortality. S.S. Aug., '15.
  ***Safety in Numbers. N. Rep. July 10, '15.
  The Brief Career of Matty Vandam. A.S.M. April 18, '15.
  **The Killing of Different Man. N. Rep. Aug. 28, '15.
  *The Manicure Girl. N. Rep. July 3, '15.
  *The Parable of the Red Hag. S.S. Aug., '15.
  The Triple Entente. A.S.M. Feb. 14, '15.
  The Woman Behind the Bottle. McC. July, '15.
  Twelve Dollars. McC. July, '15.
  Twelve Years With Alcohol. McC. Oct., '15.

APPLE, E. ALBERT.
  Santa Claus by Special Delivery. I.S.M. Dec. 12, '15.

ARCOS, RENE.
  ***One Evening--The Meeting. Int. Jan., '15.

ARMSTRONG, EVERHARDT.
  *Zelda. S.S. Feb., '15.

ARNOLD, EDWIN L.
  The Treasure Maid. I.S.M. July 4, '15.

ARNY, GRACE LEA.
  The Hope Chest. McB. Nov., '15.

ARTZYBASHEV, MICHAEL.
  *The Revolutionist. Met. Aug., '15.

"ASHE, ELIZABETH."
  Blue Reefers. Atl. Nov., '14.
  *The Glory-Box. Atl. Dec., '14.

ASKUE, RUSSELL PETTIS.
  Myself and Conrad Grines. Lip. Feb., '15.

AUMONIER, STACY.
  ***The Friends. Cen. Oct., '15.
  *The Preposterous Princess. S.S. Aug., '15.

AUSTIN, F. BRITTEN.
  **Nerves. Col. Nov. 14, '14.

AVERCHENKO, ARKADYI.
  *A Spiritual Drama: The Life of Man. N. Rep. Nov. 6, '15.


B

B., R.H. and O., G.R.
  *Thicker Than Water. Life. Nov. 25, '15.

BACHELLER, IRVING.
  *Left Behind. Col. Oct. 30, '15.
  *The Hero of Sam Hill. Col. Sept. 4, '15.

BACON, JOSEPHINE DASKAM.
  Darby and Joan, Limited. S.E.P. Nov. 14, '14.
  *The Fly in the Ointment. L.H.J. Aug., '15.
  The Test. S.E.P. May 16, '14.

BAILEY, CAROLYN SHERWIN.
  Orphan No. 873. Del. Jan., '15.

BAILEY, TEMPLE.
  A Rebellious Grandmother. Harp. M. Sept., '14.
  **Made in Germany. Scr. June, '15.
  Petronella. Harp. M. Jan., '14.
  The Man Who Was Never a Boy. Col. Oct. 10, '14.

BAILLIE-GROHMAN, O.
  **Seppel. For. Nov., '14.

BAKER, KATHARINE.
  For Distinguished Conduct. For. Jan., '14.

BAKER, RAY STANNARD.
  **The Last Phase of the Great War. Am. Jan., '15.

BAKER, VIRGINIA.
  Grandfather Crane Invokes the Aid of Sorcery. Atl. Oct., '14.
  The Afternoon Ride of Paul Revere Columbus Dobbs. Atl. Aug., '14.

BALL, WALTER SAVAGE.
  *A Stranger in Town. Harp. W. Feb. 27, '15.

BALMER, EDWIN.
  'Mid the Flotsam of the Seas. S.E.P. Sept. 11, '15.
  *Over the Sheer. Met. April, '15.
  Radames of the Rock Cut. E.W. Aug. 23, '15.
  *The Black Star. Met. Feb., '14.
  The Celluloid Hero. E.W. Nov. 22, '15.
  The Ordeal of Silence. N.S.M. Jan. 10, '15.

BANCROFT, ALBERTA.
  The Nurses of Alwyn. Sun. Sept., '15.

BARBOUR, RALPH HENRY.
  Artichokes to Herbs. Ev. Feb., '15.
  Flood-Tide. McC. May, '15.
  Looking After Christine. L.H.J. June, '15.
  The Last Hurdle. L.H.J. Oct., '15.
  The Man Up-Stairs. Pict. R. Feb., '15.

BARCYNSKA, THE COUNTESS.
  Mothers of Men. Sun. March, '15.
  *The Dark Hour. Sun. Nov., '15.
  **The King Passes. Sun. Dec., '15.
  *The Understudy. Harp. W. Aug. 7, '15.

BARNETT, JOHN.
  The Man Who Paid. I.S.M. June 6, '15.

BARNEY, JR., CHARLES GORHAM.
  *The Leper. G.V. May 20, '15.

BARTLETT, FREDERICK ORIN.
  The Young Man Who Was Always There. L.H.J. June, '15.

BASCOM, LOUISE RAND.
  *The White Shoes. Harp. M. Nov., '14.

BATES, KATHARINE LEE.
  *A Spanish Elopement. Harp. M. March, '15.

BATES, SYLVIA CHATFIELD.
  *The Canterbury Candlestick. W.H.C. Aug., '15.

BAURY, LOUIS.
  What is "Life"? I.S.M. Jan. 17, '15.

BEARD, WOLCOTT LE CLEAR.
  Her Friend, Sergeant John. Scrib. April, '14.

BEASLEY, N.B.
  The Greater Love. I.S.M. Dec. 12, '15.

BEERBOHM, MAX.
  *James Pethel. Cen. Jan., '15.

BEERE, ROSE KIDD.
  A Rally on the Colors. Col. May 30, '14.

BEFFEL, JOHN NICHOLAS.
  *The Mysterious Foot. S.S. Feb., '15.

BEGBIE, HAROLD.
  *The Motto Over the Mantelpiece. Del. Dec., '15.

BELL, J.J.
  A Packet of Letters. McB. Sept., '15.
  Miss Tobey's Matchmaking. I.S.M. Sept. 12, '15.
  The Christmas Rush. McB. Dec., '15.
  **The Ghost. Bel. Dec. 11, '15.
  The Second Youth of Austin Service. Bel. Feb. 27, '15.

BENEFIELD, BARRY.
  *Soldiers of Time. Scrib. April, '14.
  *The Serpent. Cen. July, '15.
  *Wind in the Pines. Scrib. Oct., '14.

BENNETT, ENOCH ARNOLD.
  The Life of Nash Nicklin. Met. Sept., '15.
  The Muscovy Ducks. Met. July, 15.

BENSON, CLAUDE E.
  The Wild Man's Justice. Col. Oct. 3, '14.

BENTLEY, EDMUND C.
  The Clever Cockatoo. Met. July, '14.
  The Inoffensive Captain. Met. March, '14.

BERGENGREN, RALPH.
  The "Ultra-Violet Madonna." Cent. Jan., '14.

BEST, MOLLIE.
  **The Sinews of Peace. Am. Jan., '15.
  **What Worried Him. Am. Aug., '15.

BEYMER, WILLIAM GILMORE.
  **Go In and Out the Window. Met. Jan., '14.
  The Six-Day Sharp-Shooter. Harp. M. Oct., '14.

BICKNELL, BERNICE.
  The Shepherd Man. Col. April 11, '14.

BINGHAM, EDFRID A.
  Brixtonite No. 76. Lip. March, '15.

BIRCHALL, SARA HAMILTON.
  The Changing Pierrot. I.S.M. Nov. 21, '15.
  **The Girl Who Got On to Her Job. I.S.M. Nov. 28, '15.

"BIRMINGHAM, GEORGE A." (CANON JAMES O. HANNAY.)
  Sir Isaac's Ragamuffins. McC. April, '15.
  The Argonauts: Sonny. S.E.P. June 20, '14.

BISHOP, WILL.
  Comrades in the Making. Sun. June, '15.

BLACKWOOD, ALGERNON.
  **An Egyptian Hornet. Mir. March 19, '15.
  ***The Other Wing. McB. Nov., '15.
  **The Wings of Horus. Cen. Nov., '14.

"BLISS, REGINALD." (_See_ WELLS, H.G.)

BOSHER, KATE LANGLEY.
  Horatio. Harp. M. Oct., '15.

BOUCICAULT, RUTH HOLT.
  The Rendezvous. I.S.M. March 21, '15.

BOYCE, NEITH.
  *Funerals. Harp. W. May 15, '15.
  *Maddalena Speaks. For. Jan., '14.
  The Faithful Wife. Harp. W. Jan. 2, '15.
  *The Inlaid Chest. Harp. W. Jan. 16, '15.
  *The Return. Harp. W. Jan. 9, '15.
  *Thirty Years. Harp W. May 22, '15.

BOYESEN, ALGERNON.
  *The Puppet Show. S.S. Feb., '15.

BRADLEY, HARRIET LEWIS.
  The Second Voice. Atl. March, '14.

BRADY, CYRUS TOWNSEND.
  *And Thus He Came. Pict. R. Dec., '15.

BRAINERD, ELEANOR HOYT.
  Cutting Out Skirts. Pict. R. Jan., '15.
  The Amateur Bridegroom. Pict. R. Nov., '15.

BRALEY, BERTON.
  Delivering the Goods. I.S.M. June 6, '15.
  Putting It Over Handel. I.S.M. May 9, '15.
  Sherlocking the Tango King. I.S.M. July 25, '15.
  Switching the Line. I.S.M. March 28, '15.
  The Wise Shift. I.S.M. Aug. 15, '15.
  Three Rousing Cheers. I.S.M. Aug. 8, '15.

BRAY, MARY.
  It Might Have Been Worse. I.S.M. April 18, '15.

BRENNER, WALTER D.
  "Putting One Over." Col. Aug. 15, '14.
  Tweedy's Tryout. Col. March 27, '15.

BRONSON-HOWARD, GEORGE. (_See_ HOWARD, GEORGE BRONSON-).

BROOKE, L.
  *Knives and Forks. Scrib. Nov., '14.

BROOKS, WALTER R.
  *Harden's Chance. For. Dec., '15.

BROWN, ALICE.
  **A Mind-Cure. Harp. M. Aug., '14.
  **The Flags on the Tower. Harp. M. April, '15.
  **The House With the Tower. Harp. M. May, '14.
  *The Lost Cup. W.H.C. April, '15.
  ***The Return of Martha. Harp. M. Aug., '15.
  *The Unbroken Dynasty. Del. March, '15.
  **Wedding-gifts. Harp. M. Nov., '15.

BROWN, KATHARINE HOLLAND.
  Alice's Child. Scr. March, '15.
  *Brewster Blood. Scr. Jan., '15.
  *Raw Prose. Scr. May, '14.
  **The First-born. Scr. Dec., '15.
  *The Girl Who Was Talked About. E.W. May 3, '15.
  *The High Cost of Honor. E.W. Oct. 11, '15.
  *The New Nest. Cen. Feb., '14.
  ***The Old-Fashioned Gift. A.S.M. Jan. 17, '15.
  *The Quality of Genius. Cen. March, '14.
  *The Ragged Edge of Forty. Scrib. Dec., '14.

BROWN, MAY BELLEVILLE.
  Scotch Ann. Sun. Nov., '15.

BRUBAKER, HOWARD.
  An Experiment in Journalism. Harp. M. March,'14.
  An Imaginary Vacation. Harp. M. May, '14.
  Aunt Mary, Preferred. Harp. M. Oct., '15.
  Dividing Up. Harp. M. Jan., '15.
  Enemy Wanted. Harp. M. March, '15.
  Malady Aforethought. Harp. M. April, '15.
  Mumping the Mumps. Harp. M. June, '15.
  Nipper's Crowded Hour. Harp. M. Oct., '14.
  *Ranny Discovers America. Harp. M. Sept., '14.
  The Battle of Frogtown Harbor. Harp. M. July, '15.
  *The Intemperate Zone. Harp. M. Dec., '15.
  *The Power of the Press. Harp. M. Dec., '14.
  The Way of the Reformer. Harp. M. Sept., '15.
  Twenty-three Dollars. Harp. M. April, '15.

BRUNO, GUIDO.
  *Diogenes in Our Village. Brun. W. Nov. 13, '15.
  *Four Dollars and Ninety-five Cents. B.C.B. Special Series, '15.
  *Hassan and His Wives. G.V. April 28, '15.
  *Just Love. G.V. Aug. 15, '15.
  *The Peace Was Broken. Brun. W. Oct. 21, '15.
  *The Tragedy in the Birdhouse. B.C.B. Special Series. No. 4, '15.
  *Three Dollars and Sixty Cents. B.C.B. Special Series, '15.

BRYSON, LYMAN.
  Courage. I.S.M. Jan. 3, '15.
  In His Own House. I.S.M. Jan. 24, '15.
  *The Horse Heaver. Life. Aug. 12, '15.
  The Yellow Streak. I.S.M. May 2, '15.

BUFFUM, GEORGE T.
  *The Low-Burned Candle. G.H. March, '15.

BULGER, BOZEMAN.
  A Pinch Hit in Vaudeville. S.E.P. Sept. 25, '15.
  The Bolivar. S.E.P. Nov. 27, '15.
  The Fainting Finish. Ev. April, '15.
  The Ladder Gal. S.E.P. Oct. 23, '15.

BULLARD, ARTHUR.
  The Escape of Tommy Waite. Harp. M. Aug., '14.

BULLOCK, WILLIAM.
  The Fence Breaker. Col. March 13, '15.

BUNNER, HENRY CUYLER.
  A Plain Girl. Scr. Dec., '14.

BUREN, EVELYN VAN.
  Dorothea's Diary of Life. Cen. Jan., '14.

BURGESS, GELETT.
  **War the Creator. Col. July 17-24, '15.

BURHANS, VIOLA.
  A Million for Sara. Lip. July, '15.
  An Adventure in Duplicity. Lip. March, '15.
  Love's Death Test. Col. Jan. 30, '15.
  The Swords of Her Neighbors. McB. Nov., '15.
  The Tack-Hammer Instinct. Col. July 3, '15.
  The Ungiven Kiss. Col. Nov. 27, '15.

BURNET, DANA.
  A Dumb-Waiter Destiny. Harp. M. Aug., '15.
  *Sobs. E.W. July 12, '15.
  "X." Harp. M. Dec., '15.

BURNETT, FRANCES HODGSON.
  **The Little Hunchback Zia. Cen. Dec., '15.

BURNHAM, NELSON.
  Mandy's Methods. Col. Sept. 5, '14.

BURR, AMELIA JOSEPHINE.
  Humanizing Sylvia. Bel. April 17, '15.
  Light of Other Days. Bel. May 15, '15.
  The Game at Bay. Bel. Oct. 9, '15.
  *The Invasion of Reality. Cen. April, '14.
  *The Reed of Pan. Cen. Mar., '15.

BURROWS, DUDLEY.
  *A Latter-Day Cyrano. McB. Sept., '15.
  Geraniums. Lip. Aug., '15.

BURROWS, ETHELBERT D.
  A Mighty Man Was He. Lip. March, '15.
  Jamaica Ginger. Lip. May, '15.

BURT, MAXWELL STRUTHERS.
  ***The Water-Hole. Scr. July, '15.

BURTON, GEORGE LEE.
  As Seen By His Bride. I.S.M. Jan. 17, '15.

BURTON, RICHARD.
  Ladies First. Bel. Aug. 21, '15.

BUTLER, ELLIS PARKER.
  **Hidden Treasure. Am. March, '15.
  **Miss Kimpton's Bones. Lip. Jan., '15.
  Mr. Busby's Telephone Affinity. N.S.M. June 27, '15.
  Mr. Middlemay's Alibi. Pict. R. April, '15.
  *Swatty. Am. May, '15.
  Teacher's Pet. Am. April, '15.
  *The Demigod. Am. Sept., '15.
  *The Gray-Green Platypus. Ev. Nov., '15.
  *The Murderers. Am. Dec., '15.
  The Son and Father Movement. Am. June, '15.
  The Unscrambling. E.W. July 12, '15.
  When John Fixed the Cuckoo Clock. E.W. May 10, '15.

BUTLER, KATHARINE.
  ***In No Strange Land. Atl. March, '15.

BUZZELL, ARTHUR L.
  The Peace Advocate. Am. Nov., '15.

BUZZELL, FRANCIS.
  ***Addie Erb and Her Girl Lottie. Cen. Nov., '14. I.S.M. Oct. 10, '15.

BYRNE, DONN.
  **Biplane No. 2. Cen. Sept., '14.
  Eve and the Gopher. McB. Dec., '15.
  *The Balance of Might. McB. Oct., '15.
  ***The Wake. Harp. M. Oct., '15.

