
Stan flipped the pages of the book. He had still been unable to put
his finger on the point at which Kellonia had ceased to be a planet of
free citizens and become the planetary prison he had found himself on.

There had been no sudden change--no dramatic incident, such as the
high spots in the history of his native Khloris. Here, things had just
drifted from freedom to servitude, with the people dropping their
rights as a man discards outworn clothing.

He leaned back, lowering the book. Kell's planet, he remembered, had
been one of the first star colonies to be founded after the discovery
of the interstellar drive. Settlers had flocked to get passage to the
new, fertile world.

During the first three hundred years, people had spread over the
planet, but the frontier stage had passed and the land of promise had
stabilized, adopted laws, embraced the arts and sciences. One by one,
frontier farms had given way to mechanized food-producing land,
worked by trained technical teams and administered by professional
management.

Kellonia had entered the age of industrialized culture, with the large
individual owner a disappearing species.

Unnoticed and unregretted, the easy freedom of the frontier was
discarded and lost. One by one, the rights enjoyed by the original
settlers became regarded as privileges. One by one, the privileges
were restricted, limited by license, eliminated as unsuitable or even
dangerous to the new Kellonian culture.

Little by little, the large group became the individual of law and
culture, with the single person becoming a mere cipher.

Members of groups--even members of the governing council itself--found
themselves unable to make any but the most minor decisions. Precedent
dictated each move. And precedent developed into iron-hard tradition.

In fact, Stan thought, the culture seemed now to be completely
self-controlled--self-sustaining. The people were mere cells, who
conformed--or were eliminated.

Again, he picked up the book, looking casually through its pages.
Detail was unimportant here. There was, he realized with a feeling of
frustration, only a sort of dull pattern, with no significant detail
apparent.
