
With a jerk, Stan came to the present. He slopped water over his
hands.

"Too bad I can't do something like that myself," he thought. "I'd like
to tell a few people to go out and drown themselves, right now." He
grinned ruefully.

"Only one trouble. I can't. Probably just a lot of rumor, anyway."

But there was something behind those stories of the Special Corps, he
was sure. They didn't get official publicity, but there were pages of
history that seemed somehow incomplete. There must have been someone
around with a lot more than the usual ability to get things done, but
whoever he had been, he was never mentioned.

He shrugged and turned away from the washstand.

"Hope that bell rings pretty soon," he told himself. "I'd better get
chow and go to work before I really go nuts."

[Illustration]

A demonstrator had the back off from one of the big Lambert-Howell
sprayers. As the man started to point out a feed assembly, another
prisoner stepped directly in front of Graham.

Stan shook his head impatiently and moved aside. Again, the man was in
front of him, blocking his view. Again, Stan moved.

The third time the man blocked his view, Stan touched his shoulder.

"Hey, Chum," he said mildly, "how about holding still a while. The
rest of us would sort of like to see, too."

For several seconds, the other froze. Then he whirled, to present a
scowling face.

"Who you pushing around, little rat? Keep your greasy paws to
yourself, see." He turned again, then took a sudden, heavy step back.

Stan moved his foot aside and the man's heel banged down on the stone
floor. For a heartbeat, Stan regarded the fellow consideringly, then
he shook his head.

"Stay in orbit, remember?" he told himself. He moved aside, going to
the other side of the group around the fabricator.

Now he remembered the man. Val Vernay had been working on the
fabricators when Stan had come to the shop.

Somehow, he had never run an acceptable program, but he hung around
the demonstrations, unable to comprehend the explanations--resentful
of those who showed aptitude.

He glanced aside as Stan moved, then pushed his way across until he
was again in front of the smaller man. Stan sighed resignedly.

Again, the heavy foot crashed toward the rear. This time, the
temptation was too great. Deftly, Stan swung his toe through a small
arc, sweeping Vernay's ankle aside and putting the man off balance.

He moved quickly away, further trapping the ankle and getting clear of
the flailing arms.

For a breathless instant, Vernay tried to hop on one foot, his arms
windmilling as he fought to regain his balance. Then he crashed to the
floor, his head banging violently against the stones.

Stan looked at the body in consternation. He had merely intended to
make the fellow look a little silly.

"Hope he's got a hard head," he told himself.

The workroom guard came up warily.

"What's all this?"

"I don't know, sir." Stan managed a vaguely puzzled look. "First thing
I knew, he was swinging his arms all over the place. Then he went
down. Maybe he had a fit, huh?"

"Yeah." The guard was sardonic. "Yeah, maybe he had a fit. Well, no
more trouble out of him for a while." He raised his voice.

"Hey, you over by the first-aid kit. Grab that stretcher."

Big Carl Marlo was in his bunk when Stan came into the cell. He looked
up with a grin.

"Hey, kid, you start at the top, huh?"

"What do you mean?"

"This Vernay, what else? Like I said, you start at the top. I didn't
think you got it when I told you about the muscle racket. How'd I know
you was already figuring something?" Marlo shook his head admiringly.

"Real nice job, too. You take it easy, set this chump up, and there
you are. Only you get a real big fish. Think you can handle this guy
again?"

Stan blinked. "Look," he said, "punch in some more data, will you? And
run it by real slow. I'm way off co-ordinates."

"Huh? What you--Oh, I get you." Marlo frowned.

"Now don't go telling me you don't know about this Vernay. Don't give
me you ain't figured how you can land a big job with Janzel Equipment.
You know me--Big Carl. I don't talk, remember?" He looked at the blank
expression on Stan's face.

"Besides, there ain't a guy in the walls, don't figure this deal by
now. Man, you just don't know how many guys been watching that
Vernay."

Stan walked across the cell and sat down on his bunk.

"Look," he said patiently, "let's just say I'm some stupid kid from
off planet. Maybe I don't get things so well. Now, what's this all
about?"

Marlo shrugged. "So all right, but for some guy don't know what he's
doing, you sure pick 'em pretty. Well, anyway, here's the layout.

"See, this guy, Vernay, is one of Janzel's big strong-arms. Real salt
and butter guy. Been pushing them poor apes of theirs all over the
place, see. Don't know too much about the business, but they tell him
some mug's not putting out, Vernay goes over and bends the guy around
his machine a while, he should maybe work faster. See what I mean?"

Stan frowned distastefully and Marlo held up a hand.

"Oh, that's all right," he said. "This is what they pay this guy for.
But he gets to like his work too well, know what I mean? So here a
while back, he gets on some machine tender. Leans all over this poor
guy. Well, the fab nurse ends up turning in his tickets, and this, the
joes don't go for so good." He jerked a shoulder.

"Oh, Janzel tries to kill the squawk, but it's no go. The joes push
the button and here's Vernay." He grinned.

"They manage to get it knocked to some kinda manslaughter, but
Vernay's still got time to pick up, so they pull wires and get him up
here. It ain't no rest home, but it ain't no madhouse neither, like
some of them places." His eyes clouded.

"Oogh, when I think of some of the holes--" He waved a hand.

"So anyway, like you see, Vernay's got plenty of muscle, but he's kind
of low in the brain department. Maybe they thought something might
drill through the skull up here, but that don't work either. I guess
Janzel'd about as soon get another pretty boy, but they know they'll
lose too much face, they dump him right away.

"Then you come along and just about split the chump's conk just so's
he'll stay out of your light, see?" He shook his head slowly.

"Only thing, that don't solve nothing. He comes out of the bone-house
in a couple days, and he ain't gonna like you at all. See what I
mean?"

"Yeah." Stan examined his fingernails.

"Yeah," he repeated. "You make it all nice and clear." He got up and
went to the washstand.

"Whatcha gonna do, Georgie, boy?" he chanted. "Guess I'll just have to
give him a free lesson in breakfalls. He won't like it too well, but
he could use lots of practice."
