
It took Vernay more than a couple of days to get out of the hospital.
As time went by, Stan became more and more conscious of the
speculative looks he was getting from prisoners and guards alike.

He stood watching, as a maintenance engineer tore into the vitals of a
Lambert-Howell. Around him was space--a full meter on all sides. It
was, he realized, a distinction--symbolic accolade for anyone who had
the temerity to down a man like Vernay. It was also a gesture of
caution. No one was anxious to block the view of a man who had downed
a vicious fighter with an unobtrusive gesture. And no one was anxious
to be too close when Vernay might come by.

What sort of man was Vernay, Stan wondered. Of course, he was familiar
with the appearance of the tall, blond. He could easily visualize the
insolent, sleepy looking eyes--the careless weave of the heavy
shoulders. And he'd heard a lot about the man's actions.

But these could mean anything. Was the man actually as clumsy and
inept as he'd seemed? Was he simply a powerful oaf, who relied on pure
strength and savagery? Or was he a cunning fighter, who had made one
contemptuously careless mistake?

"Well," the maintenance man was saying, "that's the way you set those
upper coils. Remember, each one has its own field angle, and you've
got to set 'em down to within a tenth of a degree. Otherwise, you'll
never get a sharp focus and your spray'll make a real mess." He swept
his glance over the group.

"You use the manual when you set these things up," he added. "Don't go
depending on your memory. You can play some pretty dirty tricks on
yourself that way." He looked thoughtfully at the array of coils.

"And don't go using any gravito clamps around these things when the
back's off. They don't like it. It makes 'em do nasty things." He
flipped his wrist up, looking at his watch.

"All right, that's it. Let's go eat." He snapped a cover back in place
and swung down from the catwalk.

Stan turned away. No tools to put away tonight, he thought. Didn't
need 'em all afternoon. He smiled. And no column to fall into, either.
This was the weekly free night.

He walked out of the shop, following a group of prisoners through the
archway into the main yard. Another small group followed him, keeping
a decent interval behind.

Someone drew a sharp breath.

"Hey, look! Over there."

Stan followed the direction indicated by a dozen abruptly turned
heads. Vernay was lounging in the shadow of the archway. He smiled
tigerishly and sauntered toward Stan. The group of prisoners melted
away, to form a rough semicircle. From somewhere, others were
appearing.

"So all right, little rat," Vernay said softly, "you've had a lot of
fun these last few days, eh? Big man around the yard, huh? Yeah! Well,
it's going to stop." He massaged his right hand with the thumb and
fingers of his left, then stretched out his arms, flexing his fingers.

"Real smart little fella," he added. "Knows all kinds of little
tricks. Got anything to say before I open you up for inspection?"

Stan faced him, his feet a few inches apart, his knees slightly bent.
He folded his arms without interlacing them.

"Look, Vernay," he said. "I'm not looking for any fight, but if you
force one, I'll break you all to pieces. I didn't mean to bust your
head the first time, but I can do it on purpose if I have to. Why
don't we just forget it?"

Vernay looked dazed for an instant, then recovered and laughed
derisively.

"You trying to crawl out and still look good? No, no. You made your
brags. Now we'll have a little dance." He took a step forward.

"Come on, baby, just stay there. I'm going to unscrew your head."

He came closer, then reached out, his hand open.

Stan looked at the hand incredulously. No one could be that careless.
For an instant, he almost spun away from a suspected trap. Then he
decided the man was in no position for a counter. A try for a simple
hand hold couldn't do a bit of harm.

His right hand darted up, gripping the outstretched hand before him.
He jerked down, clamped the hand with his left, then pressed up and
took a quick step forward.

With a startled cry of pain, Vernay spun around and bent toward the
ground. Stan carried the motion through with a sudden surge that
forced the big man's face almost to the stones. Abruptly, Vernay
twisted and kicked, trying to tear away. There was a ripping noise and
he screamed thinly, then slumped to the pavement.

Stan looked down at him in bewilderment. It had been too easy, he
thought. Something had to be wrong. The imprisoned hand twitched and
was flaccid. He let it go and stepped back.

For a few seconds, Vernay lay quietly, then he struggled into violent
motion. He scrambled to get to his feet, his left hand groping at his
belt. Stan caught the glint of polished steel. He stepped quickly
around the man, poising himself.

It was no use, he thought. This would have to be decisive. He brought
his two hands up to his shoulder, then swung them like an axe,
stepping into the swing as Vernay got his feet under him.

The impact of the blow brought Vernay to a standing position. As the
man stood swaying, Stan swung his hands again.

Vernay's back arched and for an instant he was rigid. Then he stumbled
forward, to pitch against the wall.

Briefly, he was braced upright against the wall, his left hand high on
the stones, the scalpel glittering. Then the hand relaxed and the
sliver of steel clattered to the paving. Slowly, the man slid down, to
melt into a shapeless heap in the gutter.

Stan sighed, then shook his head and wiped an arm across his eyes.

There was a concerted sigh behind him.

"Go ahead, kid," someone muttered. "Give him the boots. Big phony
hadda go trying a knife."

Stan turned. "No use," he said wearily. "I just hope he's still
alive."

"I don't get it," said someone. "He wants this guy alive?"

Someone else laughed shortly. "Maybe he just likes to make it tough on
himself. Hey, look out! The joes."

As the crowd faded into the nowhere from whence most of it had come, a
guard approached Stan warily.

"Now, look, Graham," he said cautiously, "I gotta throw you in the
hole. You know that, huh?"

Stan nodded listlessly.

"Yeah," he said. "I suppose so."

"Look, fellow, it won't be too long. He jumped you, so they'll have
you out of there real soon." The guard was apologetic.

"Besides, they'll probably offer you his job at Janzel. Get you clear
out of here. Only don't give me a hard time. All you'll get is both of
us flashed."

"Yeah, I know." Stan held out an arm. "Come on, let's go."
