
Stan watched as the chief test engineer waved a hand.

"Two hundred twenty gravs," the man said. "Full swing completed on
both axes. That's it. Ease off your tractors."

He looked closely at his panel of meters, then got off his stool and
stretched.

"No evidence of strain. Looks as though all components are good." He
turned, looking at the test operators.

"Let's get this place cleaned up."

The sense of disorientation set up by the tractors was subsiding. Stan
got to his feet and looked at his companion.

Dachmann nodded at him.

"Well," he said slowly, "Golzer can get off the hook now. His run'll
be approved. Suppose we get back on the job."

He led the way out of the blockhouse tunnel.

A car was pulling up at the entrance. A heavy, square face looked from
a rear window and a large hand beckoned.

"Dachmann, Graham. Over here."

"Oh, oh." Dachmann sighed. "Here's trouble. Wizow doesn't come out
here unless he's got something."

The blocky production chief looked coldly at them as they approached
the car.

"It'll be a lot better," he growled, "if you two clear through my
office before you start wandering all over the grounds." He looked at
Stan.

"Got a problem for you. Maybe we'll get some action out of you on this
one." He held out a few sheets of paper.

"Hold up over in the components line." He jabbed at a sheet with a
forefinger.

"Take a trip over there and kick it up." He glanced at Dachmann. "Got
another one for you."

Stan took the papers, studying them. Then he looked up. There was very
little question as to the bottleneck here. Each material shortage
traced back to one machine. He frowned.

"Maintenance people checked over that machine yet?" he asked.

Wizow shrugged impassively. "You're a staffman," he said coldly.
"Been on parole to us long enough, you should know what to do, so I'm
not going to tell you how. Just get to the trouble and fix it. All I
want is production. Leave the smart talk to the technical people." He
turned.

"Get in, Dachmann. I've got a headache for you."

Stan examined the tabulated sheets again. The offending machine was in
building nine thirty-two. Number forty-one.

He walked over to the parking lot and climbed on the skip-about he had
bought on his first pay day. The machine purred into life as he
touched a button and he raised the platform a few inches off the
ground, then spun about, to glide across the field toward block nine.
