
Fabricator number forty-one was a multiple. A single programming head
actuated eight spinaret assemblies, which could deliver completed
module assemblies into carriers in an almost continuous stream. It was
idling.

Stan visualized the flow chart of the machine as he approached. Then
he paused. The operator was sitting at the programming punch,
carefully going over a long streamer of tape. Stan frowned and looked
at his watch. By this time, the tapes should be ready and the machine
in full operation. But this man was obviously still setting up.

He continued to watch as the operator laboriously compared the tape
with a blueprint before him. There was something familiar in the
sharp, hungry-looking features. The fellow turned to look closely at
the print and Stan nodded.

"Now I remember," he told himself. "Sornal. Wondered what happened to
him. Never saw him after the first day up in Opertal."

Sornal came to the end of the tape, then scrabbled about and found the
beginning. He commenced rechecking against the print. Stan shook his
head in annoyance.

"How many times is he going to have to check that thing?" he asked
himself. He walked toward the man.

"Got trouble?"

Sornal looked up, then cringed away from him.

"I'll get it going right away," he whined. "Honest! Just want to make
sure everything's right."

"You've already checked your tape. I've been watching you."

Sornal flinched and looked away.

"Yeah, but these things is tricky. You get some of this stuff out of
tolerance, it can wreck a whole ship. They got to be right."

"So, why not a sample run-through? Then you can run test on a real
piece."

"This is a very complicated device. Can't check those internal
tolerance without you put in on proof load. These got to be right the
first time."

Stan shook his head wearily.

"Look. Get up. I'll give your tape a run-through, then we'll pull a
sample and check it out. Got a helper?"

"Some place around here." Sornal got out of his chair and stood,
looking at the floor.

Stan picked up the tape and sat down.

[Illustration]

"All right, go find him then. And bring him over here while I run out
the sample. We can make with the talk after that."
