
The tape was perfect, with neither patch nor correction. Stan finally
raised his head, growling to himself.

"Guy's competent enough at programming, anyway. Now, what's wrong with
him?"

He snapped the power switch from stand-by to on, then waited as the
indicators came up. Delicately, he turned a couple of microdrive dials
till the needles settled on their red lines. Then he opened the
control head, poked the tape in, and punched the starter lever.

The tape clicked steadily through the head. Stan kept his eyes moving
about as he checked the meters.

The tape ran out of the head and dropped into the catcher basket and
hydraulics squished as a delivery arm set a small block on the sample
table. Stan picked it up, turning it over to examine it.

It was a simple, rectangular block of black material, about the size
of a cigarette lighter. On five sides were intricate patterns of
silvery connector dots. An identifying number covered the sixth.
Inside, Stan knew, lay complex circuitry, traced into the insulation.
Tiny dots of alloy formed critical junctions, connected by minute,
sprayed-in threads of conductor material. He glanced around.

Sornal watched anxiously. He looked at the little module block as
though it were alive and dangerous.

"Here," Stan told him, "stick this in the test jig and run it."

Sornal carefully set the block into an aperture, then reached for a
switch. His hand seemed to freeze on the switch for a moment, then he
looked back at Stan and snapped it on. Needles rose from their pins,
flickered, then steadied.

Sornal appeared to gain a little confidence. He turned a dial, noted
the readings on a few meters, then twisted another dial. Finally, he
faced around.

"Looks all right," he said reluctantly, "only--"

"Looks all right, period." Stan turned to the helper.

"Get that machine rolling," he ordered. "And keep your eyes on those
meters. Let's get this run finished right." He moved his head.

"Come on, friend, I'll buy you a mug of tea."

Sornal backed away.

"You ain't gonna--Look, ain't I seen you some place before? Look, I
just--"

"I said I'd buy you a mug of tea. Then, we'll talk, and that's all. I
mean it."

"I just got outta--Listen, I can't take it so good any more, see?"

"Don't worry. We aren't going to have any games this morning. Come on,
let's go."

When Sornal started talking, the flow of words was almost continuous.

He had come to Kellonia almost four years before, on a standard
one-year contract. For over twenty years, he'd moved around, working
in space-yards over the galaxy. He'd worked on short contracts,
banking his profits on his home planet. And he'd planned to finally
return to his original home on Thorwald, use his considerable savings
to buy a small business, and settle down to semi-retirement.

But an offer of highly attractive rates had brought him to Kellonia
for one last contract with Janzel.

"They got my papers somewhere around here," he said, "only I can't get
'em back any more." He shook his head wearily and went on.

Everything had gone smoothly for the first half of his contract
period. He'd drawn impressively large checks and deposited them. And
after thinking it over, he had indicated he would like an extension.

"That was when they nailed me down," he said. "There was just that one
bad run, only that was the job that sneaked through the inspection and
went bust at Proof."

"Blowup?"

Sornal grinned sourly.

"Blowup, you want to know? Even took out one of the tractor supports.
Real mess. Oh, you think they weren't mad about that!"

"You say there was just one bad run? Then everything came out normally
again?"

"Yeah. I ran a check, see? Test sample was perfect Beautiful. So then
the power went off for a while. Crew was working around. Well, they
found the trouble and cleared it, just before lunch time. I went ahead
and finished my run. It was only ten gyro assemblies--control job.

"I don't know--guess they were out of balance. Maybe the shaft alloys
came out wrong. Anyway, I finished the run and went for chow. Came
back and set up a new run."

He stared into his cup.

"Along about quitting time, they came after me. Mister, I don't like
to think of that! I been beat up a lot since, but them's just little
reminders. Those guys really enjoyed their work!"

Sornal shuddered and set his cup down. Finally, he sighed and
continued.

He had left the hospital, muttering grim threats of the legal action
he would take. And he'd limped over to file a complaint at the
Federation Residency.

"I didn't get there. Next thing I knew, I was in some cell." He looked
up at Stan.

"Now I know where I see you. You're in that van, going out of some
jail."

"Yeah." Stan nodded, looking at his own empty cup.

"Tell me something," he said slowly. "When that maintenance crew was
working around your machine, did they have a gravito clamp!"

"Clamp? Yeah ... yeah, I suppose they might have. Use 'em a lot around
here when they've got heavy stuff, and those guys had a lot of stuff
to move."

"I see. Wonder if the field head got pointed at your machine?"

"I don't think ... I dunno, I didn't watch 'em close." Sornal looked
sharply at Stan.

"You mean, they mighta--"

"Well, what could cause a temporary misflow?"

"Yeah!" Sornal bobbed his head slowly. "Funny I didn't think of that."

"So anyway, you went up to Opertal?"

"Yeah. Had me for evasion of obligation. Said I owed the company
plenty for the damage done by the blowup. Claimed I'd tried to run
out.

"They wouldn't let me in the machine shop up there. Had me out hauling
stuff for the landscape crew. Then, they paroled me back here. Back to
the machines again, only I ain't a contract man any more. Junior
machinist. Oh, it's better than helper, I guess, only they don't pay
much." Sornal pushed himself away from the table.

"I'm going to be real careful with my work from now on," he said.
"They got me for quite a while, but that sentence'll run out one of
these days. I'll get me out of parole and pay off that claim, then I'm
getting out of here. They aren't hanging another one on me."

"Only one trouble," Stan told him. "You're getting so careful, you're
setting yourself up."

"Huh?"

"Yeah. They'll tack you down for malingering if you don't watch it."
Stan got to his feet.

"Tell you what you do. Run things just as you did when you were a
contract man. Only one thing--if any crew comes around, pull a sample
after they leave. And check it. You know how to check for magnetic and
gravitic deviations. Do that, then go ahead with your run. Now go back
to your machine. I'm going to do a little work."

He strode out of the refreshment room, watched Sornal as he took over
the production run, then swung around and walked over to the Personnel
office.

"Like to see the package on a man named Sornal," he told the clerk.

The man hesitated. "We aren't supposed to release a whole file. I can
look up any specific information for you."

Stan frowned. "Don't argue with me. I want to see this guy's package.
Need his complete history. Now get it."

The clerk started to make an objection, then turned and went to the
files. He flipped an index, then punched a combination of numbers on
his selector. Finally, he came back with a folder.

Stan took it and flopped it open on the counter.

"All right, now just stay here while I go through this. I'll give it
back in a few minutes."

He looked through the records, looking closely at one exhibit.

"Wow!" he told himself silently.

"Eleven thousand, six hundred ninety-two interstells. Only way he'll
ever pay that off is by making a big dent in his savings."

He flipped the paper over, noting the details of the determination of
responsibility.

As he examined the payroll data, he nodded. It all balanced out
nicely. They'd get several years of production out of the man for bare
subsistence.

"Very neat," he told himself.

He closed the folder and handed it back to the clerk.

"All right, that's all I need." He glanced at the clock.

"Guess I'll check out for lunch."

He walked out of the office. This one, he thought, could be broken
wide open by a Guard investigation. Sornal would get his freedom, and
there might be sizable damages.

"Now it would be nice," Stan muttered, "if I could work out something
for myself."
