
The Guard sergeant was an old-timer--and a methodical man. He listened
impassively, then reached under his desk. For a few seconds, his hand
was hidden, then he picked up a pen.

"Now, let's get this straight. What did you say your name was?"

"Graham. Stanley Graham. I--"

The sergeant had pulled a form to him. He bent over, writing slowly.

"Graham, Stanley. All right. Now, where do you live?"

One by one, he went through the maze of blanks, insisting on getting
no other information than that called for by the specific space he was
working on. Finally, he put down the pen and leaned back.

"All right, now how about this other man you mention?" He pulled
another form to him.

Stan was becoming a trifle impatient. He answered the questions on
Sornal, managing to furnish information for most of the blank spaces
on the sergeant's form.

The man dragged a still different form to him.

"All right, now what's this exact complaint?"

Stan went through Sornal's history, quoting figures and dates from the
Personnel files he had read. The sergeant listened noncommittally,
stopping him frequently to get repetitions.

At last, he looked up.

"Got any documents to back up this story?"

Stan coughed impatiently.

"No, of course not. I can't pull a file out of Personnel and just
carry it up here. It's on file, though. I just got through reading the
working file and there's a private file on the guy, too, that would
really bust things wide open."

The sergeant smiled sourly.

"Maybe it would. I suppose they'd pull it right out and hand it over,
too."

He spun his chair around and fished a book from a shelf behind his
desk.

"Here." He put the book on the corner of the desk. "Here is the
regulation on this sort of situation."

He pointed out words, one at a time.

It was a long regulation, filled with complex terminology. It forbade
seizure of records in any manner not definitely authorized by local
statute. The sergeant went through it, getting full value from each
word.

At last his finger came away from the page.

"Those are private records, you're talking about. On this planet, the
law protects corporate records to the fullest extent. We'd have to
have positive evidence that an incriminating document was in
existence. We'd have to define its location and content within fairly
narrow limits. Then we'd have to go before a local determinator and
request authority for an examination of that document."

He slammed the book shut.

"And if we failed to find the document in question, or if it wasn't
actually incriminating, the injured corporation could slap us with a
juicy damage claim." He looked at Stan coldly.

"If you want, I can get the local statute and let you look that over,
too." He paused briefly and non-expectantly.

"On the other hand, we are obligated to protect the interests of
galactic citizens." He looked pointedly at the insigne on Stan's
pocket, then held out a tablet.

"Here. Suppose you sit down over there at that table and write out the
complaint in your own handwriting. I'll pass it along."

Stan looked at the tablet for a moment.

"Oh--Suppose I manage to get copies of the records on this. Do you
think you could do anything then?"

"If you can bring in documentary evidence, that'll make a case; we'll
take action, of course. That's what we're here for." The sergeant
tapped impassively on the tablet.

"Want to make a written statement?"

"Skip it," Stan told him wearily, "I don't want to waste any more
time."

As he turned away, he thought he noticed a faint flicker of
disappointment on the sergeant's face before the man bent over his
desk.
