
He hardly noticed his surroundings as he walked back into the
Personnel building.

At first, there was a dull resentment--a free-floating rage--which
failed to find focus, but sought for outlet in any direction.

The trouble was, he thought, in the formal way of doing things. It
didn't really matter, he told himself, whether anything really got
done or not--so long as an approved routine was followed.

Only the wrong people used direct, effective methods.

The anger remained nondirectional, simply swelling and surging in all
directions at once. There were too many targets and it was a torturing
pressure, rather than a dynamic force.

He thought of his brief explosion, then grunted in self-ridicule. He'd
implied he could just pick up Sornal's record file, bring it in, and
throw it before that sergeant. And for just a flash, he'd really
thought of it as a simple possibility.

"Maybe," he told himself, "one of those Special Corpsmen could do
something like that, but I don't see any of them around, trying it."

He looked around, startled. Somehow, he had passed the gate,
identified himself, parked the skip-about, and come inside--all
without remembering his actions.

"Well," he asked himself, "what do I do now? Just become some sort of
thing?"

He walked into the outer office and a clerk looked up at him.

"Oh, Mr. Graham. The chief wants to see you." She touched a button and
a gate opened.

"You know the way."

"Yes. I do. Wonder what he wants."

The woman shook her head and returned to her work.

"He didn't say. Just said to tell you to see him when you came in."

Stan walked through the short corridor, stopping in front of a door.
Down in the corner of the pebbled glass, neat, small letters spelled
out the name--H. R. Mauson.

He tapped on the glass.

"Come in." The Personnel chief glanced up as the door opened.

"Oh, Stanley. Sit down."

Stan lowered himself to the padded seat, then leaned back. It was one
of those deep armchairs which invite relaxation.

The official touched a button, then leaned forward.

"Tell me, Stanley," he said gently, "what were you doing in the
Federation Building a few minutes ago?"

Stan tried to lift a hand in a casual gesture, but it seemed stuck to
the chair. He exerted more force, then twisted his body. But his arms
and legs refused to move away from the upholstery. Mauson smiled.

"Just a little precaution, Stanley. A gravito unit, you see. It may be
unnecessary, but you do have a reputation for a certain--shall we say,
competence. Although you have never demonstrated your abilities here,
I see no reason for taking foolish chances." His smile faded.

"Now, suppose you tell me all about that visit you made to the
Federation Building."

Stan forced himself to relax. Have to be careful, he thought. He
forced a grin to his face.

"Lunch," he said casually. "The Interstellar Room has a reputation all
over Talburg, you know." He laughed easily.

"Truth is, I got sort of homesick. Got a sudden urge to have a good
dish of _delsau_. It's a sort of preserve we really enjoy at home."

"Now, now." Mauson closed his eyes. "Try again. You should be able to
do better than that." He tapped at some notes.

"You were assigned to straighten out that man, Sornal, weren't you?"

"Yes. I was, and I did." Stan found he had enough freedom to move his
head. "He was just suffering from--"

Mauson coughed dryly. "I have a report on that, too. You fed him some
tea, talked for a while, then left him."

Again, he tapped at his notes.

"Then you came here and demanded the man's Personnel file. You read
that and went directly to the Federation Building. Now, I'm not a
completely stupid man. Don't try to make me believe you just wanted
some exotic food."

He poked a switch.

"Wizow, will you step in here, please?"

"Yes, Mauson?" The blocky production chief loomed through a door.

He glanced at Stan.

"Oh. You got him in here, then?"

"Yes. Oh, he came in by himself. But now, he's trying to be a little
coy. Suppose you reason with him."

"Pleasure."

Wizow strode forward to stand over the chair. He struck one hand into
the palm of the other, twisting his wrist at each blow. For the first
time since Stan had known him, he had a faint smile on his face.

"I don't like you, Graham," he said. "I didn't like you the first time
I saw you, and you haven't done a thing to change that first
impression.

"Thought you had something funny about you, the way you've always
coddled the workmen. Looked as though you were running some sort of
popularity contest." Again, he punched his palm.

"And then, there were those suggestions of yours. Smart words--always
pushing the wrong people off balance, like other staffmen." The smile
became one-sided.

"You know, you haven't made yourself too popular around here. Not with
the people that count. I've been getting complaints.

"A good staffman doesn't act the way you do. Good man sees to it the
workers work. They don't have to like him--they just get on the job
when he's around. Know what'll happen if they slack off.

"And a good staffman leaves the thinking to guys that get paid to do
it. He follows established procedure."

He leaned close to Stan, frowning.

"What are you? Some kind of Federation plant?"

Abruptly, his right hand flashed out, to crash against Stan's cheek. A
heavy finger trailed across one eye, bringing a sudden spurt of tears.
The hand moved back, poised for a more solid blow.

Stan's head bounced back against the chair, then forward again.

[Illustration]

And the diffuse fury in him coalesced and burst into novalike flame.
It had a single target. It focused. He glared at the big man.

"Those hands," he snapped. "Get them to your side!

"Now, get over into that corner. Move when I tell you!"

For an instant, Wizow stood immobile. The frown faded, leaving the
heavy face empty.

He tried to raise his hand again, then gave a little sob of hopeless
rage and moved back, one slow, reluctant step at a time, until he was
wedged into a corner of the room.

"That's good," Stan told him. "Now stay there. And keep quiet."

He turned toward Mauson.

"You. Turn off that gravito unit. Then sit still."

He pushed himself out of the chair as the constraining force was
removed.

"Now," he growled, "you can kick it in again. Give it a little power,
too, while you're at it." He wheeled around.

"All right," he snapped at Wizow, "turn around. Get into that chair."

He watched as the big body was pressed into the cushions. Wizow's face
showed strain. Stan went around Mauson's desk.

"I said a little power." He reached down and gave the gravito control
an abrupt twist.

Wizow's mouth popped open, agony showing in his eyes. Stan grinned
tightly and eased off on the knob.

"I really should spin this thing up to a proof load," he said. "Might
be interesting to see what kind of an assembly job they did on you.
But we'll just leave you this way. All you've got to do is keep quiet.
You're deaf, dumb, and blind, you understand?" He turned on Mauson.

"Now, for you--" His voice trailed off.

The man was sitting like a puppet whose controlling strings had been
cut. Stan's blazing fury started to burn down.

These minds, he suddenly realized, had been virtually paralyzed. He
didn't need anything to tie them down. All he had to do was point his
finger. They'd jump. He shook his head.

"Funny," he told himself. "All you have to do is be a little forceful.
Why didn't somebody tell me about this?" He looked calculatingly at
Mauson.

"Tell you what we're gonna do," he said rhythmically. "Get your car
over here. You know, the shielded job. We don't want anyone snapping
at us with flashers." His voice hardened.

"Come on," he ordered, "get on that box. Tell 'em you want that car."
