
Peter Larchmont, M.D., was smoking a quick cigarette by an open
fire-escape door on the third floor. He turned as Lorry came down the
corridor, flipped his cigarette down into the alley and grinned. "Women
shouldn't float on rubber heels," he said. "A man should have warning."

Lorry came close. "Kiss me. Kiss me--hard."

Pete kissed her, then held her away. "You're trembling. Anticipation,
pet?" He looked into her face and the grin faded. "Lorry, what is it?"

"Pete--Pete. I'm crazy. I've gone mad. Hold me."

He could have laughed, but he had looked closely into her eyes and he
was a doctor. He didn't laugh. "Tell me. Just stand here. I'll hang onto
you and you tell me."

"The babies--they've gone mad." She clung to him. "Not exactly that.
Something's taken them over. Something terrible. Oh, Pete! Nobody would
believe me."

"I believe the end result," he said, quietly. "That's what I'm for,
angel. When you shake like this I'll always believe. But I'll have to
know more. And I'll hunt for an answer."

"There isn't any answer, Pete. I _know_."

"We'll still look. Tell me more, first."

"There isn't any more." Her eyes widened as she stared into his with the
shock of a new thought. "Oh, Lord! One of them talked to me, but maybe
he--or it--won't talk to you. Then you'll never know for sure! You'll
think I'm ..."

"Stop it. Quit predicting what I'll do. Let's go to the nursery."

They went to the nursery and stayed there for three-quarters of an
hour. They left with the tinny laughter filling their minds--and the
last words of the monstrous entity.

"We'll say no more, of course. Perhaps even this incident has been
indiscreet. But it's in the form of a celebration. Never before has a
whole swarm gotten through. Only a single entity on rare occasions."

Pete leaned against the corridor wall and wiped his face with the sleeve
of his jacket. "We're the only ones who know," he said.

"Or ever will know." Lorry pushed back a lock of his curly hair. She
wanted to kiss him, but this didn't seem to be the place or the time.

"We can never tell anyone."

"We'd look foolish."

"We've got a horror on our hands and we can't pass it on."

"What are we going to do?" Lorry asked.

"I don't know. Let's recap a little. Got a cigarette?"

They went to the fire door and dragged long and deep on two from Lorry's
pack. "They'll be quiet from now on. No more talking--just baby
squalls."

"And thirty little assassins will go into thirty homes," Lorry said.
"All dressed in soft pink and blue, all filled with hatred. Waiting,
biding their time, growing more clever." She shuddered.

"The electric chair will get them all, eventually."

"But how many will they get in the meantime?"

Pete put his arms around her and drew her close and whispered into her
ear. "There's nothing we can do--nothing."

"We've got to do something." Lorry heard again the thin, brittle
laughter following her, taunting her.

"It was a bad dream. It didn't happen. We'll just have to sleep it off."

She put her cheek against his. The rising stubble of his beard scratched
her face. She was grateful for the rough touch of solid reality.

Pete said, "The shock will wear out of our minds. Time will pass. After
a while, we won't believe it ourselves."

"That's what I'm afraid of."

"It's got to be that way."

"We've got to do something."

Pete lowered his arm wearily. "Yeah--we've got to do something. Where
there's nothing that can be done. What are we--miracle workers?"

"We've got to do something."

"Sure--finish out the watch and then get some sleep."
