
The councilman edged forward an inch. "And you really think Dreamland
is the most humane confinement possible?"

"Well," I hedged, "it's the most humane we've found yet. I suppose
living through a--uh--movie with full sensory participation for year
after year can get boring."

"I should think so," Coleman said emphatically. "Warden, don't you
sometimes feel the old system where the prisoners had the diversions
of riots, solitary confinement, television, and jailbreaks may have
made time easier to serve? Do these men ever think they are _actually_
living these vicarious adventures?"

That was a question that made all of us in the Dreamland service
uneasy. "No, Councilman, they don't. They know they aren't really
Alexander of Macedonia, Tarzan, Casanova, or Buffalo Bill. They are
conscious of all the time that is being spent out of their real lives;
they know they have relatives and friends outside the dream. They know,
unless--"

Coleman lifted a dark eyebrow above a black iris. "Unless?"

I cleared my throat. "Unless they go mad and really believe the dream
they are living. But as you know, sir, the rate of madness among
Dreamland inmates is only slightly above the norm for the population as
a whole."

"How do prisoners like that adjust to reality?"

Was he deliberately trying to ask tough questions? "They don't. They
think they are having some kind of delusion. Many of them become
schizoid and pretend to go along with reality while secretly 'knowing'
it to be a lie."

Coleman removed a pocket secretary and broke it open. "About these new
free-choice models--do you think they genuinely are an improvement over
the old fixed-image machines?"

"Yes, sir," I replied. "By letting the prisoner project his own
imagination onto the sense tapes and giving him a limited amount of
alternatives to a situation, we can observe whether he is conforming to
society to a larger extent."

"I'm glad you said that, Walker," Councilman Coleman told me warmly.
"As I said, I've been following your career closely, and if you
get through the next twenty-four-hour period as you have through
the foregoing part of your Dream, you will be awakened at this time
tomorrow. Congratulations!"

I sat there and took it.

He was telling _me_, the superintendent of Dreamland, that my own
life here was only a Dream such as I fed to my own prisoners. It was
unbelievably absurd, a queasy little joke of some kind. But I didn't
deny it.
