
If it _were_ true, if I had forgotten that everything that happened was
only a Dream, and if I admitted it, the councilman would know I was
mad. _It couldn't be true._ Yet--

Hadn't I thought about it ever since I had been appointed warden and
transferred from my personnel job at the plant?

Whenever I had come upon two people talking, and it seemed as if I had
come upon those same two people talking the same talk before, hadn't I
wondered for an instant if it couldn't be a Dream, not reality at all?

Once I had experienced a Dream for five or ten minutes. I was driving
a ground car down a spidery road made into a dismal tunnel by weeping
trees, a dank, lavender maze. I had known at the time it was a Dream,
but still, as the moments passed, I became more intent on the
difficult road before me, my blocky hands on the steering wheel, thick
fingers typing out the pattern of motion on the drive buttons.

I could remember that. Maybe I couldn't remember being shoved into the
prison vault for so many years for such and such a crime.

I didn't really believe this, not then, but I couldn't afford to make
a mistake, even if it were only some sort of intemperate test--as I
was confident it was, with a sweet, throbbing fury against the man who
would employ such a jagged broadsword for prying in his bureaucratic
majesty.

"I've always thought," I said, "that it would be a good idea to show
a prisoner what the modern penal system was all about by giving him a
Dream in which he dreamed about Dreamland itself."

"Yes, indeed," Coleman concurred. Just that and no more.

I leaned intimately across my beautiful oak desk. "I've thought that
projecting officials into the Dream and letting them talk with the
prisoners might be a more effective form of investigation than mere
observation."

"I should say so," Coleman remarked, and got up.

I _had_ to get more out of him, some proof, some clue beyond the
preposterous announcement he had made.

"I'll see you tomorrow at this time then, Walker." The councilman
nodded curtly and turned to leave my office.

I held onto the sides of my desk to keep from diving over and teaching
him to change his concept of humor.

The day was starting. If I got through it, giving a good show, I would
be released from my Dream, he had said smugly.

But if this was a dream, did I want probation to reality?
