
Horbit was a twitchy little man whose business tunic was the same
rodent color as his hair. He had a pronounced tic in his left cheek. "I
have to get back," he told me with compelling earnestness.

"Mr. Horbit--Eddie--" I said, glancing at his file projected on my desk
pad, "I can't put you back into a Dream. You served your full time for
your crime. The maximum."

"But I haven't adjusted to society!"

"Eddie, I can shorten sentences, but I can't expand them beyond the
limit set by the courts."

A tear of frustration spilled out of his left eye with the next twitch.
"But Warden, sir, my psychiatrist said that I was unable to cope with
reality. Come on now, Warden, you don't want a guy who can't cope with
reality running around loose." He paused, puzzled. "Hell, I don't
know why I can't express myself like I used to."

He could express himself much better in his Dream. He had been Abraham
Lincoln in his Dream, I saw. He had lived the life right up to the
night when he was taking in _An American Cousin_ at the Ford Theater.
Horbit couldn't accept history that he had no more life to live. He
only knew that if in his delirium he could gain Dreamland once more, he
could get back to the hard realities of dealing with the problems of
Reconstruction.

"_Please_," he begged.

I looked up from the file. "I'm sorry, Eddie."

His eyes narrowed, both of them, on the next twitch. "Warden, I can
always go out and commit another anti-social act."

"I'm afraid not, Eddie. The file shows you are capable of only one
crime. And you don't have a wife any more, and she doesn't have a
lover."

Horbit laughed. "Your files aren't infallible, Warden."

With one gesture, he ripped open his tunic and tore into his own flesh.
No, not his own flesh. Pseudo-flesh. He took out the gun that was
underneath.

"The beamer is made of X-ray-transparent plastic, Warden, but it works
as well as one made of steel and lead."

"Now that you've got it in here," I said in time with the pulse in my
throat, "what are you going to do with it?"

"I'm going to make you go down to the vaults and put me back to sleep,
Warden."

I nodded. "I suppose you can do that. But what's to prevent me from
waking you up as soon as I've taken away your gun?"

"This!" He tossed a sheet of paper onto my desk.

"What's this?" I asked unnecessarily. I could read it.

"A confession that you accepted a bribe to put me back to sleep,"
Horbit said, his tic beating out a feverish tempo. "As soon as you've
signed it, I'll use your phone to have it telefaxed to the Registrar of
Private Documents."

I had to admire the thought behind the idea. Horbit was convinced that
I was only a figment of his unfocused imagination, but he was playing
the game with uncompromising logic, trusting that even madness had hard
and tight rules behind it.

There was also something else I admired about the plan.

It could work.

Once he fed that document to the archives, I would be obligated to help
him even without the gun. My word would probably be taken that I had
been forced to do it at gunpoint, but there would always be doubts,
enough to wreck my career when it came time for promotion.

Nothing like this had ever happened in my years as warden.
