
They came. There were the hysterical relatives, the wives and mothers
and brothers who demanded that their kin be Awakened because they were
special cases, not really guilty, or needed at home, or possessed of
such awesome talents and qualities as to be exempt from the laws of
lesser men.

Once in a while I granted a parole for a prisoner to see a dying mother
or if some important project was falling apart without his help, but
most of the time I just sat with my eyes propped open, letting a sea of
vindictive screeching and beseeching wailings wash around me.

The relatives and legal talent were spaced with hungry-eyed mystics
who were convinced they could contemplate God and their navels
both conscientiously as an incarnation of Gautama. To risk sounding
religiously intolerant, I usually kicked these out pretty swiftly.

The onetime inmate who wanted back in after a reprieve was fairly rare.
Few of them ever got _that_ crazy.

But it was my luck to get another the same day, _the_ day for me, as
Horbit.

Paulson was a tall, lean man with sad eyes. The clock above his sharp
shoulder bone said five till noon. I didn't expect him to take much out
of my lunch hour.

"Warden," Paulson said, "I've decided to give myself up. I murdered a
blind beggar the other night."

"For his pencils?" I asked.

Paulson shifted uneasily. "No, sir. For his money. I needed some extra
cash and I was stronger than he was, so why shouldn't I take it?"

I examined the projection of his file. He was an embezzler, not a
violent man. He had served his time and been released. Conceivably he
might embezzle again, but the Committee saw to it that temptation was
never again placed in his path. He would not commit a crime of violence.

"Look, Paulson," I said, a trifle testily, "if you have so little
conscience as to kill a blind old man for a few dollars, where do you
suddenly get enough guilt feelings to cause you to give yourself up?"

Paulson tried his insufficient best to smile evilly. "It wasn't
conscience, Warden. I never lie awake a minute whenever I kill
anybody. It's just--well, Dreaming isn't so bad. Last time I was Allen
Pinkerton, the detective. It was exciting. A lot more exciting than the
kind of life I lead."

I nodded solemnly. "Yes, no doubt strangling old men in the streets can
be pretty dull for a red-blooded man of action."

"Yes," Paulson said earnestly, "it does get to be a humdrum routine.
I've been experimenting with all sorts of murders, but I just don't
seem to get much of a kick out of them now. I'd like to try it from the
other end as Pinkerton again. Of course, if you can't arrange it, I
guess I'll have to go out and see what I can do with, say, an ax." His
eye glittered almost convincingly.

"Paulson, you know I could have you watched night and day if I thought
you really were a murderer. But I can't send you back to the sleep
vaults without proof and conviction for a crime."

"That doesn't sound very reasonable," Paulson objected. "Turning loose
a homicidal maniac who is offering to go back to the vaults of his own
free will just because you lack a little trifling proof of his guilt."

"Sure," I told him, "but I don't want to share the same noose with you.
My job is to keep the innocent out and the convicted in. And I do my
job, Paulson."

"But you have to! If you don't, I'll have to go out and establish my
guilt with another crime. Do you want a crime on your hands, Warden?"

I studied his record. There was a chance, just a chance....

"Do you want to wait voluntarily in the detention quarters?" I asked
him.

He agreed readily enough.

I watched him out of the office and rang for lunch.

The news on the wall video was dull as usual. A man got tired of
hearing peace, safety, prosperity and brotherly love all the time. I
dug into my strained spinach, raw hamburger, and chewed up my white
pill, my red pill, my ebony pill, and my second white pill. The gin and
tomato juice took the taste away.

I was ready for the afternoon session.
