
Horbit was sitting in his detention quarters idly flicking through
a book tape on the Civil War when I found him. The tic in his cheek
marked time with every new page.

"President Lincoln," I said reverently.

Horbit looked up, his eyes set in a clever new way. "_You_ call me
that. Does it mean I am recovering? You don't mean now that I'm getting
back my right senses?"

"Mr. President, the situation you find yourself in now is something
stranger and more evil than any madness. I am not a phantom of your
mind--I am a _real_ man. This wild, distorted place is a _real_ place."

"Do you think you can pull the wool over my eyes, you scamp? Mine eyes
have seen the glory."

"Yes, sir." I sat down beside him and looked earnestly into his
twitching face. "But I know you have always believed in the occult."

He nodded slowly. "I _have_ often suspected this was hell."

"Not quite, sir. The occult has its own rigid laws. It is perfectly
scientific. This world is in another dimension--one that is not length,
breadth or thickness--but a real one nevertheless."

"An interesting theory. Go ahead."

"This world is more scientifically advanced than the one you come
from--and this advanced science has fallen into the hands of a
well-meaning despot."

Horbit nodded again. "The Jefferson Davis type."

He didn't understand Lincoln's beliefs very well, but I pretended to
go along with him. "Yes, sir. He--our leader--doubts your abilities as
President. He is not above meddling in the affairs of an alien world
if he believes he is doing good. He has convicted you to this world in
that belief."

He chuckled. "Many of my countrymen share his convictions."

"Maybe," I said. "But many here do not. I don't. I know you must return
to guide the Reconstruction. But first you must convince our leader of
your worth."

"How am I going to accomplish that?" Horbit asked worriedly.

"You are going to have a companion from now on, an agent of the leader,
who will pretend to be something he isn't. You must pretend to believe
in what he claims to be, and convince him of your high intelligence,
moral responsibilities, and qualities of leadership."

"Yes," Horbit said thoughtfully, "yes. I must try to curb my tendency
for telling off-color jokes. My wife is always nagging me about that."
