
I saw Horbit and Paulson happily off in each other's company. Paulson
was no longer bored by a reality in which he was matching wits with
the first master criminal of the paratime universe, and Horbit was no
longer hopeless in his quest to gain another reality because he knew
he was not merely insane now.

It was a pair of fantastic stories that no man in his right mind would
believe--but that didn't make them invalid to a brace of ex-Sleepers.
They _wanted_ to believe them. The stories gave them what they were
after--without me having to break the law and put them to sleep for
crimes they hadn't committed.

They would find out some day that I had lied to them, but maybe by that
time they would have realized this world wasn't so bad.

Fortunately, I was confident from their psych records that they were
both incapable of ending their little game by homicide, no matter how
justified they might think it was.

"Hey, Warden," Captain Keller bellowed as I approached my office
door, "when are you going to let me throw that stiff Coleman into the
sleepy-bye vaults? He's still sitting in there on your furniture as
smug as you please."

"You don't sound as if you like our distinguished visitor very well," I
remarked.

"It's not that. I just don't think he deserves any special privileges.
Besides, it was guys like him that took away our nightsticks. My boys
didn't like that. Look at me--I'm defenseless!"

I looked at his square figure. "Not quite, Captain, not quite."

Now was the time.

I stretched out my wet palm toward the door.

Was or was not Coleman telling the truth when he said this life of mine
was itself only a Dream? If it was, did I want to finish my last day
with the right decision so I could return to some alien reality? Or did
I deliberately want to make a mistake so I could continue living the
opiate of my Dream?

Then, as I touched the door, I knew the only decision that could have
any meaning for me.

Councilman Coleman didn't look as if he had moved since I had left him.
He was unwrinkled, unperspiring, his eyes and mustache crisp as ever.
He smiled at me briefly in supreme confidence.

I changed my decision then, in that moment. And, in the next, changed
it back to my original choice.

"Coleman," I said, "you can get out of here. As warden, I'm granting
you a five-year probation."

The councilman stood up swiftly, his eyes catching little sparks
of yellow light. "I don't approve of your decision, Warden. Not at
all. Unless you alter it, I'll be forced to convince the rest of the
Committee that your decisions are becoming faulty, that you are losing
your grip just as all your predecessors did."

My muscles relaxed in a spasm and it took the fresh flow of adrenalin
to get me to the chair behind my desk. I took a pill. I took two pills.

"Tell me, Councilman, what happened to the offer to release me from
this phony Dream? Now you are talking as if _this_ world was the _real_
one."

Coleman parted his lips, but then the planes of his face shifted into
another pattern. "You never believed me."

"Almost, but not quite. You knew I was on the narrow edge in this kind
of job, but I'm not as far out as you seemed to have thought."

"I can still wreck your career, you know."

"I don't think so. That would constitute a misuse of authority, and
the next time you turn up before me, I'm going to give you _life_ in
Dreamland."

Coleman sat back down suddenly.

"You don't want life as a Sleeper, do you?" I pursued. "You did want
a relatively _short_ sentence of a few months or a few years. I can
think of two reasons why. The answer is probably a combination of
both. In the first place, you are a joy-popper with Dreams--you don't
want to live out your life in one, but you like a brief Dream every
few years like an occasional dose of a narcotic. In the second place,
you probably have political reasons for wanting to hide out somewhere
in safety for the next few years. The world isn't as placid as the
newscasts sometimes make it seem."
