
Alice had her doubts. "I'm not so sure the board will approve of this,"
she said. Dr. MacNare, somewhat exasperated, said, "What makes you
think that? Pavlov experimented with his dog, physiological experiments
with rats, rabbits, and other animals go on all the time. There's
nothing cruel about it."

"Just the same...." Alice said. So Dr. MacNare cautiously resisted the
impulse to talk about his paper with his fellow professors and his most
intelligent students. Instead, he merely turned his paper in to the
board at the earliest opportunity and kept silent, waiting for their
decision.

He hadn't long to wait. On the last Friday of September he received
a note requesting his presence in the board room at three o'clock on
Monday. He rushed home after his last class and told Alice about it.

"Let's hope their decision is favorable," she said.

"It has to be," Dr. MacNare answered with conviction.

He spent the week-end making plans. "They'll probably assign me a
machinist and a couple of electronics experts from the hill," he told
Alice. "I can use graduate students for work with the animals. I hope
they give me Dr. Munitz from Psych as a consultant, because I like
him much better than Veerhof. By early spring we should have things
rolling."

Monday at three o'clock on the dot, Dr. MacNare knocked on the door of
the board room, and entered. He was not unfamiliar with it, nor with
the faces around the massive walnut conference table. Always before he
had known what to expect--a brief commendation for the revisions in his
textbook on calculus for its fifth printing, a nice speech from the
president about his good work as a prelude to a salary raise--quiet,
expected things. Nothing unanticipated had ever happened here.

Now, as he entered, he sensed a difference. All eyes were fixed on him,
but not with admiration or friendliness. They were fixed more in the
manner of a restaurateur watching the approach of a cockroach along
the surface of the counter.

Suddenly the room seemed hot and stuffy. The confidence in Dr.
MacNare's expression evaporated. He glanced back toward the door as
though wishing to escape.

"So it's _you_!" the president said, setting the tone of what followed.

"This is _yours_?" the president added, picking up the neatly typed
manuscript, glancing at it, and dropping it back on the table as though
it were something unclean.

Dr. MacNare nodded, and cleared his throat nervously to say yes, but
didn't get the chance.

"We--all of us--are amazed and shocked," the president said. "Of
course, we understand that psychology is not your field, and you
probably were thinking only from the mathematical viewpoint. We are
agreed on that. What you propose, though...." He shook his head slowly.
"It's not only out of the question, but I'm afraid I'm going to have
to request that you forget the whole thing--put this paper where no
one can see it, preferably destroy it. I'm sorry, Dr. MacNare, but the
university simply cannot afford to be associated with such a thing even
remotely. I'll put it bluntly because I feel strongly about it, as do
the other members of the Board. _If this paper is published or in any
way comes to light, we will be forced to request your resignation from
the faculty._"

"But why?" Dr. MacNare asked in complete bewilderment.

"Why?" another board member exploded, slapping the table. "It's the
most inhuman thing I ever heard of, strapping a newborn animal onto
some kind of frame and tying its legs to control levers, with the
intention of never letting it free. The most fiendish and inhuman
torture imaginable! If you didn't have such an outstanding record I
would be for demanding your resignation at once."

"But that's not true!" Dr. MacNare said. "It's not torture! Not in any
way! Didn't you read the paper? Didn't you understand that--"

"I read it," the man said. "We all read it. Every word."

"Then you should have understood--" Dr. MacNare said.

"We read it," the man repeated, "and we discussed some aspects of it
with Dr. Veerhof without bringing your paper into it, nor your name."

"Oh," Dr. MacNare said. "Veerhof...."

"He says experiments, very careful experiments, have already been
conducted along the lines of getting an animal to understand a symbol
system and it can't be done. The nerve paths aren't there. Your line of
research, besides being inhumanly cruel, would accomplish nothing."

"Oh," Dr. MacNare said, his eyes flashing. "So you know all about the
results of an experiment in an untried field without performing the
experiments!"

"According to Dr. Veerhof that field is not untried but rather well
explored," the board member said. "Giving an animal the means to make
vocal sounds would not enable it to form a symbol system."

"I disagree," Dr. MacNare said, seething. "My studies indicate
clearly--"

"I think," the president said with a firmness that demanded the floor,
"our position has been made very clear, Dr. MacNare. The matter is now
closed. Permanently. I hope you will have the good sense, if I may
use such a strong term, to forget the whole thing. For the good of
your career and your very nice wife and son. That is all." He held the
manuscript toward Dr. MacNare.
