
To Alice MacNare, just the presence of the animals in her husband's
study brought the research project into reality. As the days passed
that romantic feeling became fact.

"We're going to have to do together," Joe MacNare told her at the end
of the first week, "what a team of a dozen specialists in separate
fields should be doing. Our first job, before we can do anything else,
is to study the natural movements of each species and translate them
into patterns of robot directives."

"Robot directives?"

"I visualize it this way," Dr. MacNare said. "The animal will be
strapped comfortably in a frame so that its body can't move but its
legs can. Its legs will be attached to four separate, free-moving
levers which make a different electrical contact for every position.
Each electrical contact, or control switch, will cause the robot body
to do one specific thing, such as move a leg, utter some particular
sound through its voice box, or move just one finger. Can you visualize
that, Alice?"

Alice nodded.

"Okay. Now, one leg has to be used for nothing but voice sounds. That
leaves three legs for control of the movements of the robot body. In
body movement there will be simultaneous movements and sequences.
A simple sequence can be controlled by one leg. All movements of
the robot will have to be reduced to not more than three concurrent
sequences of movement of the animal's legs. Our problem, then, is to
make the unlearned and the most natural movements of the legs of the
animal control the robot body's movements in a functional manner."

Endless hours were consumed in this initial study and mapping. Alice
worked at it while her husband was at the university and Paul was at
school. Dr. MacNare rushed home each day to go over what she had done
and continue the work himself.

He grew more and more grudging of the time his classes took. In
December he finally wrote to the three technical journals that had been
expecting papers from him for publication during the year that he would
be too busy to do them.

By January the initial phase of research was well enough along so
that Dr. MacNare could begin planning the robot. For this he set up a
workshop in the garage.

In early February he finished what he called the "test frame." After
Paul had gone to bed, Dr. MacNare brought the test frame into the study
from the garage. To Alice it looked very much like the insides of a
radio.

She watched while he placed a husky-looking male white rat in the body
harness fastened to the framework of aluminum and tied its legs to
small metal rods.

Nothing happened except that the rat kept trying to get free, and the
small metal rods tied to its feet kept moving in pivot sockets.

"Now!" Dr. MacNare said excitedly, flicking a small toggle switch on
the side of the assembly.

Immediately a succession of vocal sounds erupted from the speaker. They
followed one another, making no sensible word.

"_He's_ doing that," Dr. MacNare said triumphantly.

"If we left him in that, do you think he'd eventually associate his
movements with the sounds?"

"It's possible. But that would be more on the order of what we do when
we drive a car. To some extent a car becomes an extension of the body,
but you're always aware that your hands are on the steering wheel, your
foot on the gas pedal or brake. You extend your awareness consciously.
You interpret a slight tremble in the steering wheel as a shimmy in
the front wheels. You're oriented primarily to your body and only
secondarily to the car as an extension of you."

Alice closed her eyes for a moment. "Mm hm," she said.

"And that's the best we could get, using a rat that knows already it's
a rat."

Alice stared at the struggling rat, her eyes round with comprehension,
while the loudspeaker in the test frame said, "Ag-pr-ds-raf-os-dg...."

Dr. MacNare shut off the sound and began freeing the rat.

"By starting with a newborn animal and never letting it know what it
is," he said, "we can get a complete extension of the animal into the
machine, in its orientation. So complete that if you took it out of
the machine after it grew up, it would have no more idea of what had
happened than--than your brain if it were taken out of your head and
put on a table!"

"Now I'm getting that _feeling_ again, Joe," Alice said, laughing
nervously. "When you said that about my brain I thought, 'Or my soul?'"

Dr. MacNare put the rat back in its cage.

"There might be a valid analogy there," he said slowly. "If we have
a soul that survives after death, what is it like? It probably
interprets its surroundings in terms of its former orientation in the
body."

"That's a little of what I mean," Alice said. "I can't help it, Joe.
Sometimes I feel so sorry for whatever baby animal you'll eventually
use, that I want to cry. I feel so sorry for it, because _we will never
dare let it know what it really is_!"

"That's true. Which brings up another line of research that should be
the work of one expert on the team I ought to have for this. As it is,
I'll turn it over to you to do while I build the robot."

"What's that?"

"Opiates," Dr. MacNare said. "What we want is an opiate that can be
used on a small animal every few days, so that we can take it out of
the robot, bathe it, and put it back again without its knowing about
it. There probably is no ideal drug. We'll have to test the more
promising ones."

Later that night, as they lay beside each other in the silence and
darkness of their bedroom, Dr. MacNare sighed deeply.

"So many problems," he said. "I sometimes wonder if we can solve them
all. _See_ them all...."

To Alice MacNare, later, that night in early February marked the end of
the first phase of research--the point where two alternative futures
hung in the balance, and either could have been taken. That night
she might have said, there in the darkness, "Let's drop it," and her
husband might have agreed.

She thought of saying it. She even opened her mouth to say it. But her
husband's soft snores suddenly broke the silence of the night. The
moment of return had passed.
