
"Don't forget, Joe," Alice said at dinner. "Tonight's the party at
Professor Long's."

"How can I forget with you reminding me?" Dr. MacNare said, winking at
his son.

"And you, Paul," Alice said. "I don't want you leaving the house. You
understand? You can watch TV, and I want you in bed by nine thirty."

"Ah, Mom!" Paul protested. "Nine thirty?" He suppressed a grin. He had
a party of his own planned.

"And you can wipe the dishes for me. We have to be at Professor Long's
by eight o'clock."

"I'll help you," Dr. MacNare said.

"No, you have to get ready. Besides don't you have to look up something
for one of the faculty?"

"I'd forgotten," said Dr. MacNare. "Thanks for reminding me."

After dinner he went directly to the study. Adam was sitting on the
floor playing with his wooden blocks. They were alphabet blocks, but he
didn't know that yet. The summer project was going to be teaching him
the alphabet. Already, though, he preferred placing them in straight
rows rather than stacking them up.

At seven o'clock Alice rapped on the door to the study.

"Time to get dressed, Joe," she called.

"You'll be all right while we're gone, Adam?" Dr. MacNare said.

"I be all right, papa," Adam said. "I sleep."

"That's good," Dr. MacNare said. "I'll turn out the light."

At the door he waited until Adam had sat down in the chair he always
slept on, and settled himself. Then he pushed the switch just to the
right of the door and went out.

"Hurry, dear," Alice called.

"I'm hurrying," Dr. MacNare protested--and, for the first time, he
forgot to lock the study door.

The bathroom was next to the study, the wall between them soundproofed
by a ceiling-high bookshelf in the study filled with thousands of
books. On the other side was the master bedroom, with a closet with
sliding panels that opened both on the bedroom and the bathroom. These
sliding panels were partly open, so that Dr. MacNare and Alice could
talk.

"Did you lock the study door?"

"Of course," Dr. MacNare said. "But I'll check before we leave."

"How is Adam taking being alone tonight?" Alice called.

"Okay," Dr. MacNare said. "Damn!"

"What's the matter, Joe?"

"I forgot to get razor blades."

The conversation died down.

Alice MacNare finished dressing.

"Aren't you ready yet, Joe?" she called. "It's almost a quarter to
eight."

"Be right with you. I nicked myself shaving with an old blade. The
bleeding's almost stopped now."

Alice went into the living room. Paul had turned on the TV and was
sprawled out on the rug.

"You be sure and stay home, and be in bed by nine thirty, Paul," she
said. "Promise?"

"Ah, Mom," he protested. "Well, all right."

Dr. MacNare came into the room, still working on his tie. A moment
later they went out the front door. They had been gone less than five
minutes when there was a knock. Paul jumped to his feet and opened the
door.

"Hi, Fred, Tony, Bill," he said.

The boys, all nine years old, sprawled on the rug and watched
television. It became eight o'clock, eight thirty, and finally five
minutes to nine. The commercial began.

"Where's your bathroom?" Tony asked.

"In there," Paul said, pointing vaguely at the doorway to the hall.

Tony got up off the floor and went into the hall. He saw several doors,
all looking much alike. He picked one and opened it. It was dark
inside. He felt along the wall for a light switch and found it. Light
flooded the room. He stared at what he saw for perhaps ten seconds,
then turned and ran down the hall to the living room.

"Say, Paul!" he said. "You never said anything about having a real
honest to gosh robot!"

"What are you talking about?" Paul said.

"In that room in there!" Tony said. "Come on. I'll show you!"

The TV program forgotten, Paul, Fred, and Bill crowded after him. A
moment later they stood in the doorway to the study, staring in awe at
the strange figure of metal that sat motionless in a chair across the
room.

Adam, it seems certain, was asleep, and had not been wakened by this
intrusion nor the turning on of the light.

"Gee!" Paul said. "It belongs to Dad. We'd better get out of here."

"Naw," Tony said with a feeling of proprietorship at having been the
original discoverer. "Let's take a look. He'll never know about it."

They crossed the room slowly, until they were close up to the robot
figure, marveling at it, moving around it.

"Say!" Bill whispered, pointing. "What's that in there? It looks like
a white rat with its head stuck into that kind of helmet thing."

They stared at it a moment.

"Maybe it's dead. Let's see."

"How you going to find out?"

"See those hinges on the cover?" Tony said importantly. "Watch." With
cautious skill he opened the transparent back half of the dome, and
reached in, wrapping his fingers around the white rat.

He was unable to get it loose, but he succeeded in pulling its head
free of the helmet.

At the same time Adam awoke.

"Ouch!" Tony cried, jerking his hand away. "He bit me!"

"He's alive all right," Bill said. "Look at him glare!" He prodded the
body of the rat and pulled his hand away quickly as the rat lunged.

"Gee, look at its eyes," Paul said nervously. "They're getting
blood-shot."

"Dirty old rat!" Tony said vindictively, jabbing at the rat with his
finger and evading the snapping teeth.

"Get its head back in there!" Paul said desperately. "I don't want papa
to find out we were in here!" He reached in, driven by desperation,
pressing the rat's head between his fingers and forcing it back into
the tight fitting helmet.

Immediately screaming sounds erupted from the lips of the robot. (It
was determined by later examination that only when the rat's body was
completely where it should be were the circuits operable.)

"Let's get out of here!" Tony shouted, and dived for the door, thereby
saving his life.

"Yeah! Let's get out of here!" Fred shouted as the robot figure rose to
its feet. Terror enabled him to escape.

Bill and Paul delayed an instant too long. Metal fingers seized them.
Bill's arm snapped halfway between shoulder and elbow. He screamed with
pain and struggled to free himself.

Paul was unable to scream. Metal fingers gripped his shoulder, with
a metal thumb thrust deeply against his larynx, paralyzing his vocal
cords.

Fred and Tony had run into the front room. There they waited, ready to
start running again. They could hear Bill's screams. They could hear
a male voice jabbering nonsense, and finally repeating over and over
again, "Oh my, oh my, oh my," in a tone all the more horrible because
it portrayed no emotion whatever.

Then there was silence.

The silence lasted several minutes. Then Bill began to sniffle, rubbing
his knuckles in his eyes. "I wanta go home," he whimpered.

"Me too."

They took each other's hand and tiptoed to the front door, watching the
open doorway to the hall. When they reached the front door Tony opened
it, and when it was open they ran, not stopping to close the door
behind them.
