
Again he was moving. Something made his legs move. He walked on through
the shrouds of Death until he felt a taut singing in his nerves. An
irrational fear sprang out in him, cascading down his spine, and Cully
shuddered. Ahead there was some_thing_. Two motives: get there because
it (they?) calls; get there because you must.

_Where is it?_

The mind-voice was excited, demanding. Something was out there,
besides the sameness. Cully walked on, trailing gold. The death-curtain
parted ...

An undulating garden of blue-and-gold streamers suddenly drifted toward
him on an unfelt current. Cully was held, entranced. They flowed before
him, their colors dazzling, hypnotic.

_Come closer, Earthling_, the manythoughts spoke inside his head,
soothingly.

_Here it is!_ Cully's mind shouted.

Cully's mind was held, hypnotized, but his body moved of its own
volition.

He moved again. His mind and the manythoughts' spoke:
fulfillment--almost. There was one action left that must be completed.

Cully's arms moved. They detached the small black box from his pack. He
moved on into the midst of the weaving, gold-laced plants. Little
spicules licked out from their flexing stalks and jabbed, unsensed, into
Cully's body to draw nourishment. From the manythoughts came the sense
of complete fulfillment.

From Cully's mind came further orders.

_Lie down._ It was a collective concept. _Lie still. We are friends._

He could not understand. They were speaking words; words were beyond
him. His head shook in despair. The voices were implanting an emotion of
horror at what his hands were doing, but he had no control over his
body. It was as if it were not his.

The black box was now lying in the sand among the streaming plants.
Cully's fingers reached out and caressed a small panel. A soundless
'click' ran through the murkiness. The strangely beautiful, gold-laced
blue plants began a writhing dance. Their spicules withdrew and jabbed,
withdrew and jabbed. A rending, silent scream tore the quiet waters.

_NO!_ they cried. It was a negative command, mixed in with the terrible
screaming. _Turn it off!_

"Stop it, stop it!" Cully tried to say, but there were no words. He
tried to cover his ears within the helmet, but the cries went on.
Emotions roiled the water: pain, hurt, reproach. Cully sobbed. Something
was wrong here; something was killing the plants--the beautiful blue
things! The plants were withering, dying. He looked up at them,
stupefied, not understanding, tears streaming down his face. What did
they want from him? What had he done ...

_Where is it?_

A different direction materialized; a new concept of desire.
