
At the end of two hours, they were no closer. They had translated
dozens of titles and sniffed so many substances that their olfactory
senses had given up in disgust.

"Let's talk this over," Hellman said, sitting on a box marked:
VORMITISH--GOOD AS IT SOUNDS!

"Sure," Casker said, sprawling out on the floor. "Talk."

"If we could deduce what kind of creatures inhabited this planet, we'd
know what kind of food they ate, and whether it's likely to be edible
for us."

"All we do know is that they wrote a lot of lousy advertising copy."

Hellman ignored that. "What kind of intelligent beings would evolve on
a planet that is all mountains?"

"Stupid ones!" Casker said.

That was no help. But Hellman found that he couldn't draw any
inferences from the mountains. It didn't tell him if the late Helgans
ate silicates or proteins or iodine-base foods or anything.

"Now look," Hellman said, "we'll have to work this out by pure
logic--Are you listening to me?"

"Sure," Casker said.

"Okay. There's an old proverb that covers our situation perfectly:
'One man's meat is another man's poison.'"

"Yeah," Casker said. He was positive his stomach had shrunk to
approximately the size of a marble.

"We can assume, first, that their meat is our meat."

Casker wrenched himself away from a vision of five juicy roast beefs
dancing tantalizingly before him. "What if their meat is our _poison_?
What then?"

"Then," Hellman said, "we will assume that their poison is our meat."

"And what happens if their meat _and_ their poison are our poison?"

"We starve."

"All right," Casker said, standing up. "Which assumption do we start
with?"

"Well, there's no sense in asking for trouble. This _is_ an oxygen
planet, if that means anything. Let's assume that we can eat some
basic food of theirs. If we can't we'll start on their poisons."

"If we live that long," Casker said.

Hellman began to translate labels. They discarded such brands as
ANDROGYNITES' DELIGHT AND VERBELL--FOR LONGER, CURLIER, MORE SENSITIVE
ANTENNAE, until they found a small gray box, about six inches by three
by three. It was called VALKORIN'S UNIVERSAL TASTE TREAT, FOR ALL
DIGESTIVE CAPACITIES.

"This looks as good as any," Hellman said. He opened the box.

Casker leaned over and sniffed. "No odor."
