
Casker watched his partner wander off among the cans, bottles and
cases. He wondered vaguely where Hellman got the energy, and decided
that he was just too cerebral to know when he was starving.

"Here's something," Hellman called out, standing in front of a large
yellow vat.

"What does it say?" Casker asked.

"Little bit hard to translate. But rendered freely, it reads:
MORISHILLE'S VOOZY, WITH LACTO-ECTO ADDED FOR A NEW TASTE SENSATION.
EVERYONE DRINKS VOOZY. GOOD BEFORE AND AFTER MEALS, NO UNPLEASANT
AFTER-EFFECTS. GOOD FOR CHILDREN! THE DRINK OF THE UNIVERSE!"

"That sounds good," Casker admitted, thinking that Hellman might not
be so stupid after all.

"This should tell us once and for all if their meat _is_ our meat,"
Hellman said. "This Voozy seems to be the closest thing to a universal
drink I've found yet."

"Maybe," Casker said hopefully, "maybe it's just plain water!"

"We'll see." Hellman pried open the lid with the edge of the burner.

Within the vat was a crystal-clear liquid.

"No odor," Casker said, bending over the vat.

The crystal liquid lifted to meet him.

Casker retreated so rapidly that he fell over a box. Hellman helped
him to his feet, and they approached the vat again. As they came near,
the liquid lifted itself three feet into the air and moved toward
them.

"What've you done now?" Casker asked, moving back carefully. The
liquid flowed slowly over the side of the vat. It began to flow toward
him.

"Hellman!" Casker shrieked.

Hellman was standing to one side, perspiration pouring down his face,
reading his dictionary with a preoccupied frown.

"Guess I bumbled the translation," he said.

"Do something!" Casker shouted. The liquid was trying to back him into
a corner.

"Nothing I can do," Hellman said, reading on. "Ah, here's the error.
It doesn't say 'Everyone drinks Voozy.' Wrong subject. 'Voozy drinks
_everyone_.' That tells us something! The Helgans must have soaked
liquid in through their pores. Naturally, they would prefer to be
drunk, instead of to drink."

Casker tried to dodge around the liquid, but it cut him off with a
merry gurgle. Desperately he picked up a small bale and threw it at
the Voozy. The Voozy caught the bale and drank it. Then it discarded
that and turned back to Casker.

Hellman tossed another box. The Voozy drank this one and a third and
fourth that Casker threw in. Then, apparently exhausted, it flowed
back into its vat.

Casker clapped down the lid and sat on it, trembling violently.

"Not so good," Hellman said. "We've been taking it for granted that
the Helgans had eating habits like us. But, of course, it doesn't
necessarily--"

"No, it doesn't. No, sir, it certainly doesn't. I guess we can see
that it doesn't. Anyone can see that it doesn't--"

"Stop that," Hellman ordered sternly. "We've no time for hysteria."

"Sorry." Casker slowly moved away from the Voozy vat.

"I guess we'll have to assume that their meat is our poison," Hellman
said thoughtfully. "So now we'll see if their poison is our meat."

Casker didn't say anything. He was wondering what would have happened
if the Voozy had drunk him.

In the corner, the rubbery block was still giggling to itself.
