
He flung it open just as the expanding glob reached him. On the other
side of the room, he heard a door slam shut. Hellman didn't wait any
longer. He sprinted through and slammed the door behind him.

He stood for a moment, panting, the burner in his hand. He hadn't
realized how weak he was. That sprint had cut his reserves of energy
dangerously close to the collapsing point. At least Casker had made
it, too, though.

But he was still in trouble.

The Plugger poured merrily through the blasted lock, into the room.
Hellman tried a practice shot on it, but the Plugger was evidently
impervious ... as, he realized, a good plugger should be.

It was showing no signs of fatigue.

Hellman hurried to the far wall. The door was locked, as the others
had been, so he burned out the lock and went through.

How far could the glob expand? How much was two cubic vims? Two cubic
miles, perhaps? For all he knew, the Plugger was used to repair faults
in the crusts of planets.

In the next room, Hellman stopped to catch his breath. He remembered
that the building was circular. He would burn his way through the
remaining doors and join Casker. They would burn their way outside
and....

Casker didn't have a burner!

Hellman turned white with shock. Casker had made it into the room on
the right, because they had burned it open earlier. The Plugger was
undoubtedly oozing into that room, through the shattered lock ... and
Casker couldn't get out! The Plugger was on his left, a locked door on
his right!

Rallying his remaining strength, Hellman began to run. Boxes seemed to
get in his way purposefully, tripping him, slowing him down. He
blasted the next door and hurried on to the next. And the next. And
the next.

The Plugger couldn't expand _completely_ into Casker's room!

Or could it?

The wedge-shaped rooms, each a segment of a circle, seemed to stretch
before him forever, a jumbled montage of locked doors, alien goods,
more doors, more goods. Hellman fell over a crate, got to his feet and
fell again. He had reached the limit of his strength, and passed it.
But Casker was his friend.

Besides, without a pilot, he'd never get off the place.

Hellman struggled through two more rooms on trembling legs and then
collapsed in front of a third.

"Is that you, Hellman?" he heard Casker ask, from the other side of
the door.

"You all right?" Hellman managed to gasp.

"Haven't much room in here," Casker said, "but the Plugger's stopped
growing. Hellman, get me out of here!"
