
Hellman lay on the floor panting. "Moment," he said.

"Moment, hell!" Casker shouted. "Get me out. I've found water!"

"What? How?"

"Get me out of here!"

Hellman tried to stand up, but his legs weren't cooperating. "What
happened?" he asked.

"When I saw that glob filling the room, I figured I'd try to start up
the Super Custom Transport. Thought maybe it could knock down the door
and get me out. So I pumped it full of high-gain Integor fuel."

"Yes?" Hellman said, still trying to get his legs under control.

"That Super Custom Transport is an animal, Hellman! And the Integor
fuel is water! Now get me out!"

Hellman lay back with a contented sigh. If he had had a little more
time, he would have worked out the whole thing himself, by pure logic.
But it was all very apparent now. The most efficient machine to go
over those vertical, razor-sharp mountains would be an animal,
probably with retractable suckers. It was kept in hibernation between
trips; and if it drank water, the other products designed for it would
be palatable, too. Of course they still didn't know much about the
late inhabitants, but undoubtedly....

"Burn down that door!" Casker shrieked, his voice breaking.

Hellman was pondering the irony of it all. If one man's meat--_and_
his poison--are your poison, then try eating something else. So
simple, really.

But there was one thing that still bothered him.

"How did you know it was an Earth-type animal?" he asked.

"Its breath, stupid! It inhales and exhales and smells as if it's
eaten onions!" There was a sound of cans falling and bottles
shattering. "Now hurry!"

"What's wrong?" Hellman asked, finally getting to his feet and poising
the burner.

"The Custom Super Transport. It's got me cornered behind a pile of
cases. Hellman, it seems to think that I'm _its_ meat!"

Broiled with the burner--well done for Hellman, medium rare for
Casker--it was their meat, with enough left over for the trip back to
Calao.

                                                       --ROBERT SHECKLEY
