
Harry and Jed walked out of the barracks into the night air. Fisher
paused and breathed deeply, then turned to face Jed. "You always been
able to mind-talk with you mother?" he asked.

"Why, shore," Jed replied. "Most folks back home kin. Shore saves a
heap o' walkin' over them hills."

"And did the lights go out when you talked that way?" Harry inquired.

"Well now, I don't rightly know," Jed said. "Only place what has them
lights close by is Paulsburg and that's thutty miles from Owl Creek
and us folks ain't got much truck fer them big cities. Don't reckon
any of us ever been there more 'n three-four times in our whole lives.
But it shore happens in Paulsburg whenever we gossip thataway. Never
thought nothin' of it afore, though. Reckon, now that I study on it a
mite, it's 'cause we got to use more of the power to reach across them
hills. Ma once said she reckoned us Cromwells could mind-talk with the
Empereer of all Roosha if'n we had to. 'Course, we'd be straining our
heads a mite fer all that distance 'cause Ma says Roosha and England
is a heap further from Bluebird Gulch 'n even Madison. Or Fore
McGruder, I reckon."

Harry though quietly for a moment.

"When was the last time you talked with your mother that way?" he
asked.

"Don't rightly know or remember jest when it wuz," Jed replied. "Seems
like it wuz 'bout the fust week we wuz here. One night, in the
barracks, I kinda got homesick I reckon, 'cause that wuz the day I got
cussed out for the first time in my whole, entire life."

Harry smacked his clenched fist into his hand. "That's it," he cried.
"That's it. That was the night the lights went out three time in the
barracks. The night Weisbaum made us take the five-mile moonlight hike
because he thought someone was fooling with the lights."

He grabbed Jed by the arm. "That was the night, wasn't it, Jed?"

"Come to think of it," Jed replied, "I reckon it wuz. There wuz such a
hurrah when the lights keep a-goin' out, I never did get to hear what
Ma had to say. 'N by the time we got back from that little walk, I
plumb fergot to ask her.

"You know somethin' Harry, I plumb fergot what would happen to them
lights. By gosh, I reckon I wuz the one what got us all in trouble. I
jest reckon I better go 'n tell the fellers I'm sorry 'bout that."

Fisher grabbed his sleeve. "Oh no you don't," he snapped. "You're
coming with me."

Ten minutes later, two slightly scared recruits stood on the steps
leading to the post commander's quarters. Jed started back down the
steps. Harry held tightly to his arm. "Come on," he whispered
savagely, "we're going to talk with the colonel, Jed. Now don't you go
getting chicken on me, you hear."

"Harry, I ain't never even see'd no colonel, much less 'n talk to
one," Jed said, "and I reckon I jest as soon not, if'n you don't
mind."

"I do mind," Harry snapped and pulled Jed up to the door.

Their ring was answered by a pretty, teenaged girl. She smiled
inquiringly at the two young soldiers.

"Miss," Harry stammered, "we'd like to talk with Colonel Cartwright,
please."

The girl turned into the house. "Dad," she called, "someone to see
you."

Colonel William Cartwright came to the door. The light from the room
glinted off the silver eagle on his collar. He looked at the two young
soldiers. "What can I do for you men?" he asked.

"Sir," Harry answered with a stiff salute and a quavering voice, "I'm
Private Harry Fisher and this is Private Jediah Cromwell, sir."

The colonel returned the salute. "All right, at ease. What do you
want?"

Harry gulped and took a firm grip on his courage. "Sir," he barked
out, "are your house lights all in good working order?"

"What?" Cartwright exploded. "What the devil are you talking about,
soldier?"

"Sir, we've got to show you something right now," Harry stammered.
"It's urgent, colonel."

"Now see here Fisher," the colonel said, "we've got proper channels
for any problems you might have and I don't take care of those things
at my quarters. I have an office in post headquarters and with the
permission of your company commander, you can see my adjutant during
duty hours. Or the chaplain."

"Please, sir," Harry gulped. "It's awfully important."

"Well," the colonel hesitated, "this is most unusual."

"Yes, sir, it is most unusual," Harry agreed.

"All right," the post commander sighed, "what is it?"

"Sir, are your house lights all working?" Harry repeated.

"Now look here, Fisher, if this is some sort of a gag, I'll see
that...."

"No, sir," Harry repeated strenuously, "I really mean the question."

The colonel glanced back over his shoulder into the house. He turned
back to the pair. "Yes, the lights appear to be all functioning."

Harry turned to Jed. "Talk to your mother, Jed," he whispered.

Jed shut his eyes. "Ma," he thought, "it's me agin!"

The lights went out all over the colonel's quarters.

Colonel Cartwright gasped and stared at the mountain boy standing with
his eyes closed.

"All right, Jed," Harry said, "break it off."

"Jest a minute, Ma," Jed thought, "Harry wants me." He opened his eyes
and the lights came on.

"How did he do it?" the colonel breathed.

"He thought them out, sir," Harry said.

"He ... WHAT?" Cartwright spluttered.

"That's right, sir," Harry repeated. "He 'thought' them out. Jed, get
Ma on the line again."

Jed shut his eyes. The lights went out again.

Colonel Cartwright sagged against the door jamb. He moaned, "How long
has this one been running around loose?"

"Colonel," Harry said cautiously, "he does the same thing with radios,
telephones, cars, anything requiring electrical power. He just shuts
it off."

The post commander looked stunned.

"That's not all either, sir," Harry continued. "He can 'think' bullets
to a target."

"Come in the house," the colonel said weakly. "That's an order,
soldiers."
