
Nevan entered the Lucky Bull, a medium-priced bar near the Olathe City
spaceport, and ordered a glass of chocolate milk before finding a table
near the rear of the main room.  In the early days after Annexation,
he'd heard, bars had carried alcoholic beverages almost exclusively,
and Sandemans were made fun of for drinking only the non-alcoholic
variety, but by the time he'd started frequenting bars as an excellent
source of information, the sweet high-energy beverages Sandemans
preferred were as normal as alcohol.

If he had Owajima figured correctly, someone at one of his last two or
three stops should have been in his target's network, and contacted
him.  Even if, as Nevan thought probable, Owajima was working on the
Bracei case, he'd make time to have a presumed assassin investigated.
That was why Nevan had made no secret of his last destinations,
following his flight plans precisely as he'd filed them.  That, and the
fact that a Sandeman hired killer shouldn't display the subtleties and
precautions that would mark him as having had Imperial training of any
sort, particularly a field agent's training; the two simply didn't go
together.

A tall man in Marine service dress with captain's bars approached
Nevan's table, carrying a drink.  "Mind if I join you, warrior?" he
asked.

"If you wish, Captain."

The other sat, looking him over; Nevan returned the scrutiny, waiting.

"I'm Kim Johansen, of SecuDiv," the Marine said at last.  "You're Vance
DarLowrie, just in on the Last Resort?"

Nevan nodded.  "I am, Captain Johansen.  What of it?"

"If you're what rumor calls you and your ship's name implies, I'd
advise you to lay low.  The Baron here takes a dim view of assassins."

"Most people do, except those who have need of one.  I thank you for
your concern, though; I will be careful."

"Good."  Johansen sipped at his drink, frowned.  "A warrior of your
clan saved my life during the war.  I feel a certain obligation to
repay that debt, even if I don't particularly approve of your
occupation myself."

"There's no proof I'm what you guess."

"The fact you don't deny it will be enough for most."  Johansen showed
brief distaste, swallowed the rest of his drink, and rose.  "I can't
wish you luck, since that'd mean wishing someone else dead.  But I can
wish it for your clan, and I do."

Nevan rose to bow.  "I will pass your wishes, and word of your
repayment, to the Lowrie.  Go in peace, Captain Johansen--and please
accept my wishes for your well-being.  Whatever you think of me or my
profession--" most Imperials were as dubious of field agents as they
were of assassins--"I want only the best for the Empire and its
officers."

"Sandemans don't lie, so I accept that," Johansen said.  Then,
grudgingly, "Thank you, warrior."  With that he left, abruptly.

Nevan allowed himself a small smile, then went to get more chocolate
milk. Not too promising so far, but he hadn't been here long, either.

Perhaps half an hour after he returned to his table, another man
approached, this one in an expensive suit.  "Vance DarLowrie?"

"Yes."  Nevan recognized the type; a businesser who'd made enemies and
wanted either protection or one of them eliminated.  "I am not
available at the moment."

"You have other employment?"

"That's none of your concern."

The businesser sat.  "It is if your target is Kiyoshi Owajima, as I've
heard.  I have reason to want him . . . out of the picture."

"Oh?"  Nevan remained noncommittal, but allowed himself to show a trace
of interest.  "I understand he's an Imperial officer--a dangerous
target. Killing him would earn the death penalty or life
imprisonment--death, if done simply for pay.  That's a foolish risk,
when there are any number of almost riskless targets around."

"I can tell you where he's going when he finishes his current mission."

"Interesting, if true," Nevan acknowledged.

"It's true," the businesser said.

Reading his face and body language, Nevan agreed.  The man knew, was
eager to say--and would report to Owajima as soon as he could.  Nevan
made himself look skeptical, which wasn't hard; this was obviously a
setup.  "Even if he were my target, which I do not say, I would want
more than your unsupported word.  Will you submit to truth drugs, or
shall I use Sandeman methods?"

"Torture, you mean."  The businesser grimaced.  "In my position, I
don't dare submit to truth drugs.  And I've no desire to use my pain to
convince you I'm telling the truth."

Nevan shrugged.  "Those are the alternatives."  He didn't particularly
like torture himself, and especially disliked using it on one of a
field agent's network.  But an enemy would have no hesitation, and
until he caught up with Owajima--or was caught himself--he was acting
in that capacity. "If you are convinced Owajima is my target, and you
wish to assist me in finding him, you will choose one.  Otherwise, you
will depart."

The businesser looked angry, but Nevan could see he'd expected
something of the sort.  "The torture, then.  When and where?"

"My ship, now."  Nevan stood.  "Come along."
