
Nevan had to land at the New Tokyo civilian spaceport, but he was
likeliest to be able to get current information about Owajima at the
nearby Imperial Navy base, so he rented a car and drove the twenty
kilometers north. He'd been on so many worlds that he didn't find
Nippon-Ni particularly remarkable, though he was pleased that the
temperature was high enough he didn't need a jacket.  And the smell of
chocolate chip cookies or a close local equivalent coming from a shop
he passed was tempting enough to make his mouth water, but he kept
going; Nevan DarLeras' fondness for those was well enough known in the
wrong circles that he didn't dare indulge it when he was under cover.

Things were definitely not going his way, he decided as he neared the
base.  Traffic was too heavy for a normal workday, and he found out why
when he got close to the main gate: a banner over the road welcomed
visitors to the annual Base Open House.  Nevan addressed a caustic,
"Why me?" to the gods he only half-believed in, but it might look
suspicious if he turned and left; instead, he kept going with traffic,
which took him to a parking area that would need major help to look
like a lawn again after being used this way.

There wasn't anything useful he could accomplish during an open house,
with all the base offices closed, so he decided he might as well bow to
the inevitable and try to enjoy himself.  Such events did have their
good points; the various units' hospitality stands tried to outdo each
other, so the quality and variety of food and drink available was truly
impressive.  He should be able to find treats he liked almost as well
as chocolate chip cookies, but ones that wouldn't blow his cover.  He
walked toward the exhibit-covered landing field, glad that he'd kept
his identity as a Sandeman warrior; as crowded as the area was, he was
given plenty of room to move.  He was impressed despite himself by the
exhibits, too.  Whoever was in charge of this open house had managed to
get a heavy destroyer for a static display--and while those were
nowhere near as big as the kilometer-diameter battle cruisers, which
were far too big to land, they were quite big enough to have the
visitors making awed comments.

Curious, Nevan walked around the ship until he found its ID--and then
he sent another caustic comment to one of the newest gods.  *Dammit,
Kelly, if you want me to deliver your blades to Owajima, how about some
cooperation instead of all these problems?*

The destroyer was the IHD Warleader Riordan, a ship from the Fiftieth
Fleet, which meant it was crewed primarily by Sandemans.  That was bad
enough, but a good percentage on this particular ship were from Clan
Leras, so even the ones not directly related to him would know him on
sight.  And they weren't IntelDiv; they wouldn't know not to recognize
him.  He turned and began walking away, hoping against hope that the
crew was still all aboard ship.  He'd been lucky enough not to get
caught in such a situation during his active career; maybe that luck
would hold long enough for him to get out of this one.

"Nevan!"

The happy voice from behind him made it all too clear his luck had
changed.  He turned and bowed respectfully to the approaching
warriors'-woman in Imperial Marine service black.  "Good day, Lady
Morna.  You're looking well."

She looked at him with affectionate appraisal, and shook her head
ruefully.  "I can't say the same for you, I'm afraid.  How long have
you been on the meds?"

"Almost a month," Nevan admitted.  He might have been able to get away
with lying to another w'woman, but the lady Morna could tell--whether
by looking or by some form of Talent--almost to the day how long a
warrior had been using anti-need medications.  And she didn't approve
of them being used any longer than was absolutely necessary.

"I thought so.  Are you going to be around long enough for me to give
you a natural release?"

Nevan was tempted, but he shook his head.  He'd have to leave as soon
as he could; now that his cover was blown, he had no choice but to give
up this try and start over.  "I'm afraid I have to get back to Terra."

Morna nodded, glancing at the synthiskin-covered cheek.  "Of course; I
didn't realize.  But when you do, promise me that you'll find a w'woman
or warrior and get a decent natural release."

"I will, lady," Nevan replied, grateful for her understanding.  "Or a
Traiti; some of the Palace Guard have given me good combat releases."

"That will do."  Morna smiled at him.  "At least you haven't gone six
months on the meds, the way you had when I first met you!  But can you
stay a little while?  Our autochef bakes good cookies.  Including
chocolate chip."

Nevan chuckled, deciding that an hour or so shouldn't really make any
difference.  "I'd like that; thanks."
