
The receiver in Owajima's ear chimed softly; he turned on his throat
mike--not the surgically implanted comm unit many ranking Imperials
were given, but the external type used as far back as pre-atomic
times--and answered. "Owajima here."

"DarLowrie went to the open house, Colonel--and one of those on the
destroyer static display recognized him.  His name is Nevan, and he has
accepted an invitation to visit the ship."

"Nevan!" Owajima exclaimed.  "What clan, do you know?"

"It was not said, but the largest clan group aboard is from Leras."

"Ah."  Owajima was silent for several seconds, absorbing that.  "Is
there a tattoo on his right cheek?"

"There is not."

"Interesting--thank you.  I will need some assistance after all, it
appears; I would like to get into his ship with as few traces as
possible."

"An entry specialist will be with you in ten minutes.  Is there
anything else?"

"Not at the moment.  Owajima out."  So his pursuer's true name was
Nevan, Owajima thought, troubled.  And the ship's largest contingent
was from Leras. Knowing both Sandemans and the unconditional nature of
the personal fealty oath, he found it hard to believe his pursuer's
identity.  What had gone wrong, to turn a Sandeman warrior from
thakur-na to renegade assassin?

Or . . . had anything?  If Nevan had either deserted or harmed his
chosen lady, it would have been all over the news channels, and there
had been nothing.  The likelihood, then, was that he was on a mission
for her--a mission that somehow concerned him.

Owajima smiled slowly at that.  Very well, he would take all possible
precautions, though he no longer believed they would be necessary.
Nevan DarLeras had a powerful and trained Talent, something "Vance
DarLowrie" had shown no traces of--so he was not using either that or
Ranger Losinj's position to simplify his mission.  An exercise of some
sort, then--security, in all probability.  If true, it could be proven
easily, Owajima thought, and he would have the pleasure of meeting his
predecessor.
