
Nevan enjoyed both the cookies and the talk, though he kept an eye on
the time and didn't let himself relax too much.  Owajima was alerted
now, and field agents tended to have a rather violent reaction to
someone stalking them for unknown purposes.  Nevan couldn't blame them;
he'd reacted the same way when one of his net had warned him someone
was on his trail.  About the best such a pursuer could expect,
unless @ was able to ambush the agent first, was that the agent wanted
information enough to use a non-lethal form of attack or defense--until
@ learned enough to satisfy @'s curiosity, at least.

But Nevan was able to put the hazards of his mission in the back of his
mind while he caught up on news from home.  His first son, with the
lady Dallas, was doing well in his warrior training, though both he and
his half-brother--Nevan's with the lady Morna, who looked more than a
little smug, telling him--were giving Sean and Ellen fits trying to
keep up.  Nevan couldn't help laughing; Sean and Ellen had fostered
him, too, and he remembered how good they were--and how frustrated Sean
got--with a child-warrior's hyperactivity.  Other news was almost as
interesting to him, if less personal: the warrior Leslie had broken his
leg in war games with the Combat Division Marines stationed at Shangri-La
Base, and the clan had been asked to train more assault-lander
pilots.

The hour was all too short, but Nevan didn't let himself stretch his
visit beyond that point.  He left the destroyer after a final promise
to Morna that he would get off the meds as soon as he could, then made
his way through even thicker crowds to his rented car.

He spent the drive back to his ship going over his options.  Things
didn't look quite as unpromising as they had earlier, even though it
still seemed that he would have to go back to Terra for a fresh start.
This time, he reminded himself, at least the start wouldn't be from
zero; he had a name and a reputation to work with, and a few days to
dig out some background would give him more data.

He had resigned himself to starting over by the time he got back to the
spaceport.  Not even the sight of half a decade secret police making no
secret of their surveillance of his ship disturbed him; he grinned at
them as he palmed open the outer hatch of his ship, giving Owajima
points for letting the locals handle the presumed assassin.  He'd just
have to take more precautions the next time around--  Oh, gods, the
inner hatch was ajar, and he hadn't left it that way!

He barely had time to spot a stunner muzzle in the opening and start
reaching for his needler before his ambusher fired and he slumped to
the airlock deck.
