
When Nevan woke, he was spread-eagled, tied to his bunk with a
grim-faced Oriental man holding a gun on him.  That should have been
frightening, but Nevan couldn't help grinning; the feel of air on his
cheek instead of synthiskin agreed with the tiny indications he could
read from his captor. Owajima was disciplined, beautifully so, but not
well enough to hide everything.  "I'm honored to meet you, Colonel
Owajima.  Either I'm losing my edge, or you're about to take over the
top-ever rating; I should've seen some sign of your entry on the outer
lock."

"If you had, it would be I who was losing my edge.  However, I will
take that as a compliment from one who still holds that ranking.  Drop
your mind-shield."

"What?  Ohhh."  Nevan did so, surprised for an instant though he knew
he shouldn't be.  Since his chosen lady had discovered psionic Talent
in humans nine years ago, it had been found that strong Talent was
generally linked to strong abilities in one or more other fields.  That
wasn't a direct correlation, since there were multi-field geniuses with
none at all, and people with no conventional talents and powerful
Talent--but well over ninety percent of the time, conventional and
psionic abilities went together. Owajima wouldn't be the top-rated
field agent without exceptional ability--of both types.

*Also, unlike most Sandemans,* came Owajima's amused thought, *I was
eager for Talent training.  We both know it is impossible to lie,
mind-to-mind, so: you are still thakur-na to Ranger Losinj and on a
mission for her?*

*I am, though the mission is partly for her, partly for myself,* Nevan
confirmed.  *Stay linked while I report; she'll want to commend you
personally.*  He sensed Owajima's agreement, and reached for his chosen
lady. *Thakur?*

*Here, thakur-na,* was the immediate response--then Nevan shared her
amusement as she 'felt' his bonds.  *You are satisfied with security,
then.*

*It's tight,* Nevan confirmed.  *And I'm really impressed by Major
Owajima's skill.  He got past my ship defenses without leaving a trace.
It was a beautiful ambush.*

*It is he I sense linked with you?*

*Yes, Thakur.*

Nevan felt her attention center on the other.  *I am pleased to make
your acquaintance, Major,* she sent.  *I apologize for any difficulties
you experienced as a result of Nevan's pursuit; his purpose, at my
request, was to test the security protecting field agents, including
his target's self-protection.  As you heard, he is satisfied.  So am I,
and since you proved able to stop him, I will place a commendation in
your records.*

*Thank you, sir.*  Owajima smiled.  *It is good to know our protections
are adequate against one of the warrior Nevan's ability; any other,
then, could penetrate them only by chance.*

*True.*  Corina projected amusement.  *Are you on assignment?*

*No, sir.  I have just finished a post-mission leave, and have been
ordered to Terra for a tour with OSI.*

*You won't like it,* Nevan predicted.  *Assignments think they're doing
us a favor when they give us a planetside tour--a rest break, I heard
one call it--but those always bored me.*

*If it gets too bad, Major,* the Ranger sent sympathetically, *see me,
and I will have you given a field assignment.  It is the least I can do
after setting Nevan on your trail.*

*I will, sir, and thank you.*

*Before I break contact, thakur-na, is there anything further you
need?*

*Not really, Thakur--if you don't have anything else for me, I'll offer
Major Owajima a ride back to Terra.*

*That will be fine.  Enjoy the trip--I must endure this reception for
Duke Shirley.  Until your return, thakur-na.*

*Until then, Thakur.*  The contact ended, and Nevan grinned up at his
captor.  "Satisfied, Major?"

"Perfectly, warrior.  And I will accept your offer of a ride."  Owajima
holstered his gun, then undid Nevan's bonds.  "I have wished to meet
you for some time; I regret only the circumstances."

Nevan sat up, rubbing his wrists.  "Same here, maybe more so.  I was
after you in particular because my bio-father left you his personal
weapons when he died last month."

"Oh?  Knowing Sandemans, I assume there was a reason."

"Uh-huh.  He was the one you gave need-release to on Piper's World."

"Ah."  Owajima smiled.  "I should not have broken cover to do so, but I
had seen one warrior die that way when we were prisoners of the Traiti,
and I could not let another go through such agony unaided."

"That's what he told me, not long after I finished my agent's training.
Do you need to get anything before we go?"

"No.  Had you been the enemy I originally thought, by now you would
have been dead and your ship confiscated for my trip, to be turned in
to the Navy at the Antarctica base.  My things are already aboard."

Nevan chuckled.  "Good thinking.  Unnecessary, since this baby already
belongs to the Navy, but I like the plan."  He led the way to his
ship's control room, got clearance for takeoff, and set course for
Terra.  Then he escorted his guest to the ship's small lounge.  "I've
followed your career for a long time, Major," he said, getting coffee
for each of them.  "It's been brilliant--at times incredible.  Like
getting into this ship without leaving traces."

Owajima smiled.  "I left traces, warrior.  Not many, and not
significant to one without the training we share, but enough that you
would have observed them.  My particular Talent specialty, however, is
singularly appropriate for one in this field."  His smile grew.  "I
can, when I desire, make myself and my handiwork unnoticeable.  It
takes a particularly strong mind-shield to block that ability even
partially; you saw nothing because I wished you not to."

Nevan nodded, returning the smile.  "That makes me feel better.  I got
blown when I visited the base--didn't know about the open house, and
ran into some clan-mates.  I was afraid I'd let that distract me--but
if you were using Talent, that wasn't my problem.  Mind showing me how
it works?"

"Not at all, though since you are already aware of me, the effect will
not be complete."

If that was incomplete, Nevan thought seconds later, Kiyoshi Owajima
must be capable of practically turning invisible.  He knew the other
was there, could see him perfectly well--but it was almost impossible
to pay any attention to him.  "Nice!  I could've used that quite a few
times."

Owajima became noticeable again.  "It is less effective against a
number of people, particularly when--as you did--they know I am
present.  But against few, or those who have not already seen me when I
begin using it, you are quite correct; it is most effective."

"Too bad you can't teach it to all the agents."  But that, Nevan knew,
wasn't possible; while mind-screen, or the stronger mind-shield, and
telepathy were common to everyone with Talent, the specialized aspects
varied widely from person to person.  "Would you like to see your
inheritance?"

"Very much.  The needler and blades in the clothing storage?"

Nevan chuckled.  "That's them.  Do you want to get them, or shall I?"

"There is no further need to invade your privacy, warrior."

"Nevan is fine--I'll go get them, then."  He did so, grinning to
himself.  He'd been favorably impressed by the reports of Owajima's
accomplishments; he was even more favorably impressed by the man
himself.  Not too many standard humans could take out a Sandeman
warrior, even using Talent!

Returning to the lounge, he gave Owajima the box holding the weapons.
"Here you are, Major.  Use them in good health."

"I shall, whenever my cover does not prohibit the use of Sandeman
weapons. And call me Kiyoshi, please."  Owajima smiled.  "I think this
will be an enjoyable trip, and that by its end we will be friends."

"I think so, too.  Do you have a family?"

"I am married, but we do not yet have children.  You?"

"Two sons, both warriors--one with the lady Dallas, one with the lady
Morna.  My foster-parents are fostering both of them, as well.  I've
got a holo, if you'd like to see."

"Very much."  Owajima accepted the small folder, settling in for an
enjoyable discussion.




END







