
Mangler grunted. "It's not the constant use that demands extra
equipment. It's the fact that it takes time for a man to run down what
he needs, borrow it, set it up, and then return it."

"You'll have to continue that way for a bit; we're over our budget now."

"By forty thousand?"

"Almost."

Mangler sat back with a derisive gesture. "And I know why," he said
with scorn.

"Indeed?"

"I do. You've sent through an appropriation for fifty thousand for your
own fool--"

"I'm no fool, Mangler!"

"You are."

"If so, you are an opinionated idiot!"

"My opinion is quite valid."

"In your own opinion, your own opinion is valid. Stop defining 'A' in
terms of 'A', Mangler; if I did that you'd be the first to scorn my
definitions."

"What in the devil do you know about atomics anyway?"

"Only what you've taught me; if I'm a fool, it's your fault. What do
you know about business?"

"Enough to make a time study and add up to four. Enough to balance the
price of equipment against the lost man-hours because of the lack of
it, and come up with a mathematical decision."

"But an eminently impractical decision; blood cannot be extracted from
a radish."

"No, but you can dig up a bunch of radishes, sell them, and buy a pint
of blood."

"That takes time. Just wait. As soon as we catch up with our budget--"

"If you hadn't sent through that appropriation--"

"I have that right."

"For what?"

"A device that, first, is needed right in our laboratory and, second,
will eventually bring in millions once it is developed in large size."

"And may I ask the nature of this marvelous instrument?"

"Mangler, what would be the ultimate worth of a device that can extract
the radioactivity of--"

"Worth billions, but it can't be--"

"Exactly. Such a device would be worth billions."

"Trillions. Any number you want. It just ain't practical. In words
of one syllable that even you can understand such a process does not
exist--nor can such a device be made."

"This decision of yours is, I gather, final?"

"It is no decision of mine. It is the opinion of every scientist worthy
of the name."

"Who, of course, know all there is to know?" sneered Newton.

"Extracting the radioactivity from a radioactive substance is
impossible."

"Come, now, Doctor Mangler. There were learned gentlemen who proved
conclusively that no vehicle heavier than air could ever get off the
ground under its own power."

"Granted. Using the same mathematics it is possible to prove that
the bumblebee is aerodynamically impossible. The half-life of a
radioelement is set by the nuclear structure of the element. What you
are stating is that the half-life of any radioelement can be cut down--"

"Not at all. I'm stating that I intend to purchase a machine that will
completely remove radioactivity regardless of half-life."
