
Mangler sneered. "Tell me, Newton, if you were to put a lump of radium
before this machine, would it turn out to be stable radium--or convert
itself all the way down the radioactive ladder to inert lead in the
same instant?"

"This is the sort of hypothetical question you always enjoy tossing
around, Mangler. I suggest that you procure a half pound or so of
radium and we'll try it."

"Then you have only rumor to go on?"

"Look, Mangler, let's make a premise or two. You'll not deny that I
know what a Geiger counter is, and how it is used?"

"I'll grant that."

"All right then. Now, I've been shown a machine and a sample of
radioactive material. I've been permitted to test this radioactive
sample extensively. In fact I had it here for a few hours, using
our own test equipment and it was definitely radioactive. This is
established to your satisfaction?"

"Go on."

"Then this sample was placed in the machine and within a matter of a
minute or so the sample was returned to me, inert and cold."

"May I ask whether there might have been a substitution of sample?"
asked Mangler with a sneer.

"No, there was not. I have it here," and Newton tossed a lump of stuff
on the desk.

"Carnotite ore," said Mangler picking it up and looking at it through
a jeweler's loupe that he took from his vest pocket. "Or at least what
appears to be."

"I put my own mark on it," said Newton complacently.

Mangler eyed Newton coldly. He started to say something but stopped
before he began.

Newton smiled serenely and went on: "This is merely a pilot model," he
said. "With a bit of development, the device can be made to work on a
large scale. We can decontaminate our by-products; we can render safe
any radioactive area. Why, the value of machinery we toss out every
month will pay for it in a short time. Time and time again something in
the hot-cave breaks down. Last week it was five hundred dollars worth
of analytical balance, discarded because of a broken bearing worth
about a dollar and a half. It wouldn't work right, and it was so hot
that no one could repair it safely. Think of it!"

"As you said before, such a machine would be worth billions. But no
such machine can possibly exist."

"You're certain of this?"

"Of course I'm certain."

"Which means, naturally, that you know all there is to know."

"I know what is the common knowledge of the topmost scientists of the
world."

"Including the recent discoveries of the men who work behind the iron
curtain?"

"Russia has no corner on brains."

"Nor have we; just remember that."

"So this miraculous gadget came from Russia?"

"It did."

"Indeed!"

"Don't scoff. Doctor Velikof escaped with his life."

"And the machine, of course."

"Yes. He stole the pilot model and escaped."

"Go on, Newton." Mangler's use of Phillip Newton's last name was
scornful; a sore spot frequently rubbed raw. Mangler used it in this
same scornful tone whenever Newton tried to invade the premises of
science. Mangler's tone inferred that Newton was identifying himself
with Sir Isaac Newton; it was on the same level of ridicule as calling
a bald man 'Curly'.
