
"Doctor Velikof wanted out. He escaped with no more than his clothing
and the machine--it fits into a small metal cabinet--because he knew
that it would bring him enough money here to permit his comfortable
escape and ultimate freedom. Even now he is not free from danger
because the Soviet agents are everywhere, and doubtless most of them
are on the lookout for him."

"Naturally," nodded Mangler in a soft voice.

"He came to me because he knew I was investigated and cleared for
secret data by the Government and therefore could have no connection
with the Soviet. He was extremely cautious at first, but he's relaxed
since. Why, it was at least three weeks before he would show me his
machine."

"Which you swallowed, hook, line, and sinker."

"But not without careful investigation."

"Such as?"

"I've seen it work!" snapped Newton.

"This I'd like to see myself."

"I'd take you along tomorrow excepting for one thing."

"Tomorrow?"

"I'm giving Doctor Velikof the voucher and taking possession of the
machine tomorrow morning at ten ack emma."

"And your objections?"

"You'd foul up the deal."

"How?"

"Like most of your ilk, you'd want to spend a few years investigating
the properties of the machine. You'd have someone make a mathematical
analysis of the process, want to test it on this and that, and then
you'd priff around for six more months before you decided whether to
pay off now or a year from now. In the meantime Doctor Velikof would be
in great danger, if not dead by then."

"And if I promise not to interfere?"

"Under those circumstances--"

Mangler eyed Newton calculatingly. "Will you put in writing a statement
that you are inviting me to witness this affair under the single
provision that I interfere in no way, shape, or fashion with your
business deal with this Doctor Velikof?"

"I'll be most happy to."

"Good," said Mangler with a smile. "This will be double protection;
if I interfere and louse up the deal, you'll be able to clip me. If I
don't bother to keep you out of a sucker's bait, you won't be able to
blame your mistake on my silence."

"That's a deal."

"Deal," said Mangler.

Mangler turned and left the office. His passage along the corridor was
followed by the eyes of the office force, and when Newton called for
his secretary to come in for dictation, there was a general cleaning of
desks. The primary cause for another mild paper shortage was expected
to arise at any moment now.
