
Newton rapped at the hotel door and the door opened after a minute. It
opened a mere crack first, then it swung wide as Doctor Velikof saw
Phillip Newton. "Come in," he said in a rather thick accent. Then he
saw Mangler and frowned. He started to swing the door shut; he looked
at Newton with a half-trapped expression which was as though he felt
that a trusted friend had betrayed him.

"Don't worry," said Newton cheerfully; "this is Doctor Howard Mangler."

"How do you do?" inquired the Russian uncertainly.

"Fine, thank you," responded Mangler.

"Doctor Mangler is safe; I can--"

"Now that I know his name I know," said Doctor Velikof. "He works with
you."

"That's right."

"However, I'd have preferred it otherwise. Yet he is here," said
Velikof in a resigned tone.

"You can be sure that your secret is safe with him."

"This I am sure of," nodded the Russian quickly. "Yet the best of
intentions sometimes--you understand? I have no lack of faith in you,
Doctor Mangler; in fact I'd have been most happy to meet you under
other circumstances. But like most questions of security, the safest
secret is one which is not labelled secret, and which is known only to
the absolute minority."

Mangler nodded. "I know very well how this thing can affect you. Have
no fear; I'm here only as a curious physicist who wants to see the
first machine in operation--a machine that apparently does what cannot
be done."

"I'll be glad to show it to you," said Velikof smoothly. To Newton he
said: "Everything is ready?"

"Of course," nodded Newton. He reached into an inside pocket and
produced an envelope which he handed to Velikof. "Sorry that it must be
in certified check, Doctor Velikof."

"I understand; it is as sound as cash."

"I assure you it is."

Velikof nodded and then looked at Mangler. "You are skeptical," he said
sincerely. "But only because you do not understand."

Mangler nodded cynically. "According to what is known about
radioactivity, you are about to violate something of a universal law."

Velikof shook his head. "Universal laws cannot be violated. When a
universal law obstructs scientific achievement, the thing to do is to
work it so that the universal law can be turned around to operate in
your favor."

"And," said Mangler pointedly, "one can sometimes evade the law for a
period of time during which one can get away with some amazing things.
But always the law catches up with one."

"You do not believe--?"

"Frankly, no. But I'm willing to be shown."

"Then come!" and Velikof led the two Americans from the reception room
of the hotel suite to the bedroom. "There it is," he said proudly.
