
There it was. Mangler eyed the set-up critically. Scientist,
experimenter, and practical engineer, Mangler looked the equipment
over with his experienced eye. The stuff had been set up on one of
the long portable tables used by hotels to furnish display tables in
conventions and the like; and the construction of the table precluded
any under-cover fancywork. Smooth but bare boards were set upon sturdy
horses; a single line-cord led from a wall socket to a small metal case
studded with convenience outlets in which several A.C. operated gadgets
were plugged. Standard as could be.

At one end of the table was a rather expensive analytical balance. Next
to it was a volumetric graduate and system to measure the true volume
of an irregular solid to a remarkable degree of precision. Not content
to use these pieces for the purpose, the third equipment on the table
was a simple but accurate equipment for measuring the specific gravity
of solids. There was a spectrometer and its associated gear, the use
of which could give an extremely close estimate of the composition of
a sample. A small sliver taken from a larger sample could be tested
and from the proportion of sample to sliver, the elemental structure
of the larger sample could be obtained. Some electrical equipment came
next, specific resistivity, magnetic moment, dielectric constant,
piezo-electric axes.

"We do not use them all on every sample," said Velikof. "One could
hardly measure the dielectric constant of a block of radiosilver, for
instance."

"But silver--like all metals--still has a dielectric constant."

"Of course. And a block of copper has an index of refraction. These
are scientific measurements and concepts and not practical for this
purpose; here we work in the concrete and not the abstract."

Mangler shrugged. The next bits of equipment he recognized; one was a
counting-rate meter that had the nameplate of a popular manufacturer of
scientific equipment. Next to it was a portable Geiger counter, which
had the inventory-plate of General Atomic Research screwed to the panel.

"That's here on lend-lease," said Newton cheerfully.

Mangler nodded again. From what he could see, Velikof's equipment was
beyond reproach. Used under the eyes of Newton, nothing short of a
hidden cyclotron could create a false impression of radioactivity in
an inert sample. Used in front of Mangler, not even a hidden cyclotron
could be used to falsify any evidence.

But it was the final item on the board that interested Mangler. It
was a small, leatherette-covered case with a suitcase handle on one
side. It had a panel across the face which was covered with dials
etched in Russian characters. Below the characters indicating the
function of the several dials, someone (either Velikof or Newton) had
used a grease-pencil to letter in the English equivalent, of mass, of
volume, of the various factors that are the measurements of matter.
And the bottom row of dials could be set to the activity-constant of
radioactive emanations, alpha, beta, and gamma.
