
The case came open in the middle; this control panel and its insides
filled one half of the split case. The other half was open behind it,
and it was obvious that the equipment standing next to the control
panel fitted neatly into the open half of the carrying case.

The base of this equipment was a larger cylinder made up of an
electromagnet. The core was laminated, the ends of the laminations
showed across the flat dome of the cylinder. The coil of wire came up
even with the top of the laminations so that little of the surface of
the cylinder could be seen. The bottom was a flat circle of metal large
enough to extend beyond the coil; it made a neat base. Rising from the
metal base were three metal struts that passed up (almost touching the
outside of the electromagnet) to a superstructure above the flat face
of the laminated core of the magnet. It was obvious that the sample
would rest on this flat face.

The three struts held a spiral of glass tubing that was terminated in
electrodes similar to the terminals of a neon sign tubing; these were
connected to the cable that led from the gear to the control box. Atop
the glass spiral was a flat circle of aluminum.

"Radioactivity is a state of instability in the nucleus," explained
Velikof.

Mangler nodded. Velikof had said nothing that could not be obtained
from a fundamental book on atomics, circa 1935.

"The condition known as half-life obtains because of the statistical
nature of atomic structure. Any single atom is not radioactive; it
is only in an instable state in which it contains more than enough
energy to hold it together. When it ejects this excess energy, it is
radioactive only for that instant. Then it becomes a stable nucleus.
But when a statistical quantity of such atoms are present--and
any gross matter no matter how minute will contain a statistical
quantity--there is always some number of atoms in the radioactive state
of ejecting the excess energy. Some do it quickly; others take their
time.

"In order to remove the excess energy all at once it is necessary to
control the nuclear particles themselves."

"Which--up to now--has not been done," suggested Mangler.

"Right," beamed Velikof. "An instable atom can be considered as a
billiard table with the balls in motion. The stable state consists of
the balls at rest. In the radioactive atom, the balls contain a total
excess energy sufficient to drive any one of the balls from the table
but this excess energy is divided among them. Until the random motion
of the components and the attendant transfer of energy from one to the
other results in one component eventually containing this excess energy
all to itself, nothing happens. Then, when this does happen, the ball
has enough energy to leave the place--in other words, the particle is
ejected."

"Fundamental," said Mangler. "But how do you control the nuclear
particles with this equipment?"

"By inserting the radioactive sample in fields which work on the
electrostatic, the momentomagnetic, and the mechanogravitic properties
of the nucleus."

"This I've got to see," said Mangler.
