
Velikof nodded. From a heavy metal case he took a small lump of stuff
that looked like a piece of ore. He handed the long tongs to Mangler,
who viewed the sample from a safe distance through a piece of leaded
glass conveniently placed on the table.

"You expect trickery," said Velikof. His tone suggested that he was
unhappy that Mangler did not believe him. "Mark it if you like."

"I'd like to, but I'd rather not get that close to hot stuff."

"Then inspect it carefully and note anything characteristic about its
structure. That way you can be sure."

"Just put the show on the road," said Mangler.

"All right."

Velikof tested the sample before the Geiger and the counting rate
meter. From readings obtained, he set the dials on the control box.
Then Velikof spent many minutes weighing, measuring, and testing the
sample, transferring mass, volume, and so forth to the proper dials on
the box. He re-tested the sample before the counters and rechecked his
dial-settings, which he did not have to change.

"You will notice that the radioactivity has not diminished in the
half-hour I've used to measure the sample," said Velikof.

Mangler chuckled. "The intensity there," he said with a wave at the
counters, "is such that any short-term half-life radioactive you could
get would have started off hotter than Oak Ridge itself. Go ahead."

Velikof lifted the top aluminum plate and set the sample on the
laminated end of the electromagnet. With the top plate back in place,
the sample could be seen through the coils of the glass spiral.

"Now!" said Velikof sharply. He thrust in a small switch on the
instrument panel.

There came a faint sizzle of corona and the top circular plate showed
a few leakage-spikes from some sharp edges. There was a general, but
very gentle tugging at iron-containing items in the pockets; the sample
moved a bit.

A meter moved swiftly up the scale towards a red line and as it reached
the line, the coils of glass flared with blinding brilliance and a
faint, metallic 'Ting!' rang from the equipment.

Velikof laughed. "I know best of all that we should not look at it,"
he said; "but even I cannot avoid it."

Mangler looked towards the ceiling. There was a spiral image that moved
with his eyes, a scintillating retained impression that changed in
color from flaming green to beautiful blue to blood red, then white,
then blue, then green again. It faded slowly; it appeared in changing
color behind the closed eyelids, it became bright again and died again
and faded away to return. Looking at the sample, the retained color
in the eye-image matched the equipment and registered with the glass
spiral and made it look as though it were still glowing.

Velikof lifted the top plate and took the sample out with his bare
hands. He handed it to Mangler and said: "Test it!"

It was dead.
