
Mangler looked at it, then looked at the equipment. "This I've got to
inspect," he said in a low voice.

Velikof smiled. "Now you believe."

"I'd never believe it possible."

Newton smiled self-confidently. "We'll have plenty of time to see what
makes it tick," he said.

"But where does the activity go?" asked Mangler.

"It is changed into harmless radiations of mere light, a bit of
electrostatic discharge, and a burst of magnetic field," said Velikof.
"All energy has an equivalent wavelength; by inserting the proper
equivalent wavelength artificially and exciting the material properly,
the energetic radiation is heterodyned into harmless energy which can
be dissipated easily."

"Amazing! Have you another sample?"

"No, unfortunately. Radioisotopes cost money. Why?"

"I'd like to try it again."

"You may do it at your laboratory. This machine is now yours."

"Then let's take it out of here--quick! I've got work to do!"

Newton smiled. "We'd like another check-out on the process," he said.

"Well, we can go through the mere motions," said Velikof slowly.

"Oh, no," said Newton. "I've a sample here with me."

"With you?" exploded Mangler. "That's dangerous, you idiot."

"Not at all," smiled Newton taking a small flat case from his pocket.
It was heavy; lead. He pried it open on the table with a long
screwdriver and lifted a small sample out of the case with the tongs.
"Now we can do it again," he said happily.

The counters chattered happily as Newton held the sample in front of
the probes.

Velikof looked at his watch. "Would you like to try it?" he asked
nervously. "The banks close at noon today, you know."

"You have a half-hour. Then, there's always tomorrow."

Velikof shook his head. "Tomorrow I must be gone," he said; "there are
men who would kill me for what I've done."

Newton smiled. "You have a good half-hour. I'd like some instructions.
Please?"

Velikof nodded. "You do it," he said. "But please hurry."

"The measurements take time."

"I know. But--well, go ahead."

Newton nodded and put the sample on the scales. His hands fumbled a bit
and he started over--

"Please hurry."

"I guess that's close enough," said Newton. He set the mass dial,
looked at it, looked back at the balance, then shrugged. He dunked the
sample in the volumetric graduate, flashed it through the electrical
bridges, and made the appropriate settings on the dials of the control
box.

"You're being rather sloppy," said Mangler pointedly.

"I fear he has been too sloppy," said Velikof. "But we have too little
time to repeat."

"You set the radioactive constants," said Newton to Mangler. Mangler
thought for a moment and then set them; and his setting was precise.

"Now!" said Newton. He thrust the switch home.
