
He moved surely now, the details of location well in mind. A low placed
locker when opened spilled out the gleaming metalized space suit which
was prop number one in this stage play. A little nervously Frane
fumbled with the unfamiliar garment.

The officer watched with dull eyes as the killer prepared to don it.
"How--how many--men alive back there?"

"Subtract three. That leaves eighteen, doesn't it? And you can write
them off as soon as I get these pajamas on."

"Don't spill the air! For the love of Jupiter, don't spill the air! You
have the ship. Why murder us all?"

"Orders. I don't make them, I just carry them out. For money. Big
money. That's why I'm here. I'm reliable. Besides, your men might break
out and pester me. They're locked in their quarters."

"You mean you're alone?"

"I'm your man, space boy," Frane said with flat boastfulness. He caught
up a strange webbed garment of nylon yarn. "What do you call this fish
net? It was in the suit locker."

"You wouldn't know about that, you earthbound slug. We call it
spaceman's underwear. Didn't your buddies tell you about it?"

Frane shrugged, started to discard it and changed his mind. "Better put
it on me, I guess. I suppose it's pretty cold when the air goes out."

Through twisted, motionless lips, the navigator told him, "Very cold.
Absolute cold. You won't live if you spill the air." Frane said
nothing. The spaceman watched the killer strip off his clothes, slip
into the net garment and redress himself. Wool slacks snugged in at the
ankles and belted tightly to a felt jacket with a tight, soft collar.
Now he proceeded with the space suit.

"With enough air a man can live for weeks in one of these," Frane
lectured to dispel a depressed feeling of confinement, as he tugged
the bulky space garment up and fastened it around his neck. "And I got
plenty of air, see?" He uncoiled the length of silicon-plastic hose and
plugged one end into the bubble helmet, the other into the wall valve
of the control cabin.

"How do you intend to navigate this craft?" the officer asked with
honest curiosity.

After a moment's reflection Frane could see no reason to conceal the
procedure. He felt like talking. He had often talked to his victims
before. Foolishly, perhaps, but his victims had never lived to repeat
the conversations. Nor would this one.

"We'll be boarded in about twenty hours. They told me they couldn't
trail too closely or your radar would have alerted you. They'll have
their own crew to take over."

"Suppose they don't show up at all?" the officer needled.

"They will. Don't you worry your silly little head over that."

"But if they don't?" the prostrate man insisted. "You know, when you
blow the main valves you can't close them again from the inside. You
may have plenty of air for that suit, but how will you eat? Breathing
is just one problem in a space suit."

"They'll be here inside of twenty hours, I told you."

"And you'll be dead."

"Why?"

"Because they double-crossed you good. Sure, they'll get the fattest
cargo this can ever carried. But your share of it will be a shove
outside. You'll be just as damned dead as I'll be."

"How did they cross me up?"

A ghost of a smile distorted the swollen face that had once been lean
and handsome. "Find out," he said simply.

In spite of himself Frane checked back on his procedure. Purposely or
otherwise, could they have left out some essential step in order to
reduce the number of splits on the cargo? He ticked off the steps of
his project and could find no reasonable omission. Carefully he fitted
on the bubble, opened the oxygen valve and made the meter read what
they had told him.

The hiss told him he was getting gas, but surprisingly, there was no
perceptible motion of air in the helmet. Clever inlet baffles prevented
the chilly drafts that had plagued pioneer spacemen with head colds and
sneezes.

He was sweating already, but, he reflected, it wouldn't do any harm to
store up a little body heat against the hours of this absolute zero
they talked about.
