
He checked the chronometer which he'd strapped to the wrist of his
suit. "Right on time," he shouted in order to be heard through the
plastic bubble. His bulky hand paused clumsily on the master air outlet
valve switch. He raised his other arm in a derisive farewell gesture.

"Quick-frozen space punks!" he shouted. "Get them cheap from Frane
Lewis, wholesale triggerman." He laughed hoarsely as he jabbed the
switch.

The sound of air rushing from vents never intended to be opened in
space, screeched a shrill requiem even through the thick curved helmet.
As the sound grew fainter his suit bulged out and threw him off
balance. He toppled over and landed face down on the dying navigator.
For one grisly second the swollen, contorted face with bulging eyes
glared at him, then he rolled away in a convulsed panic that ripped his
air hose from its connection.

The hiss stopped, and almost instantly his rapid respiration fouled
the air of his tiny headspace. Frantic, mitted hands fought the slender
hose back over the nipple, struggled with the safety clamp, and once
again the sweet air dribbled into his lungs.

He realized now there must have been an automatic valve in the air
inlet, which had held his pressure until the connection was remade,
with a trace of new respect for the breed of spacemen, he wondered
about the poor fools who had suffered and died to provide the
improvements of this self-contained bit of earth environment. He
was now the only living speck of life on the desolated craft he had
betrayed to the frigid airlessness of space.

Frigid? The exertion had sweat running down his face so freely that
his snug neckband was soaked already. His hand came up and rapped the
bubble in an unconscious, futile motion intended to rub out the salty
sweat from his stinging eyes and tortured head wound.

Strange. The cold was not penetrating at all. Even at the several
points where his body and limbs made contact with the distended space
suit, no sensation of coolness struck through. His feet were moist and
hot on the heavy cork soles.

He stared briefly at the two bodies near his feet. They were beyond
explaining anything. The smell of death came back to his nostrils.
Right through his helmet? There was no smell out there. The smell was
in here. With him. Power of suggestion? The navigator had said he would
die. Sure. A safe statement. Nobody lived forever. But he'd live long
enough to enjoy his cut of this little deal.

His cut. The officer had said it would be a shove out into space. The
death smell. His own death, perhaps. He laughed softly, and the sound
of his voice thudded back to his ears like the intimate murmurings of a
stethoscope. It was intimate in here. Every little whisper of breath he
took rustled loudly.

Deliberately he cleared his throat and coughed. The sound was almost
metallic. It hurt his ears. Mingled with the tepid moisture of his own
breath was the faint odor of the powerful dessicant that ringed the
base of the helmet.

His eyes dropped to the row of tiny dials set just within eye-range
under his chin. Suit pressure, O. K. Oxygen, O. K. Humidity--the needle
lay right on the red line. Well, when he stopped sweating from his
scare that should drop off. Body temperature, one hundred one.

One-oh-one? Ninety-eight plus, he remembered from upper school hygiene,
was normal. Over a hundred was not so good.

Sit down, Frane. Relax. Get your breathing slowed down. Cool off.

He took the captain's comfortable chair before the low control panel.
He stared out into the incredible blackness of space, out where not the
tiniest diffusion from the starlight eased the utter darkness between
constellations.

Somewhere in the ship's electric generation system a moving part,
brittle with the cold and contracted within its bearing, vibrated
briefly and shattered. The control-room twilight flared and died out
into a shadowless night.

Frane had the sensation of being projected out among the stars.
Loneliness pushed in on him. He realized cynically that even the two
corpses had been better than this isolation.
