
After a moment his pupils expanded so widely that the stars seemed to
grow larger, rushing in to meet the plunging space ship. The luminous
needles and dial faces of his helmet instruments became glaring little
lanterns.

Everything normal except humidity, slightly over the red line, and
temperature. Temperature: 102.5 F., he read. He wished fervently that
he hadn't put on that last garment. Spaceman's underwear, it was
called. Or maybe it would have been better to--

An uneasy thought crept into the back of his head, and he strained his
smarting eyes down at the temperature gauge. In only a minute or two it
had advanced one tenth degree to 102.6 F.

Now his breath rasped more rapidly as he gasped more oxygen. Pressure
was down slightly. He moved to the valve and adjusted it. On an impulse
he opened it wide for a second. The pressure needle pegged, his ears
popped, but no coolness came from the baffled intake. He normalized
the pressure again.

The hose must be double-walled, he thought. The air should at least
have had the coolness of its own expansion. He wiggled inside his
sweat-sopping clothes. Why didn't the perspiration dry off and cool
him? The answer came with uncomfortable clarity. Where could the body
moisture go? Where, for that matter, could the body heat go?

Temperature: 102.9 F.

Frane Lewis was no coward, but his hands began plucking nervously at
the space suit. The previously tough, folds of shiny, impermeable
fabric were now distended into a rock-like rigidity.

He stood up suddenly, and his feet squished in his sandals. The sweat
was a puddle up over his toes. He was getting weak and thirsty. Very
thirsty. He felt he must have no more water in him. He stood in a
trancelike state for minutes staring blindly into the heavens. His mind
wouldn't work right. He hurt. He itched. He craved water, gallons of it.

Then he stopped sweating. He had been deliberately keeping his eyes off
the temperature dial, forcing his mind away from a problem he didn't
understand, when he felt his face go dry. The caked streaks of salt
made his skin feel stiff and itchy.

Temperature: 104.3 F.

Frane now knew he was sick. At that rate of increase he couldn't last
much longer. His head was buzzing, and the fantasies of fever were
flashing lights across his bleared vision. He strove to fight off the
hallucinations. He focussed his eyes on the dim-faced chronometer and
realized with a start that he had endured over three hours of his
vigil. Perhaps he could last out. Whatever the fever was, it must ease
off sometime.

He staggered to the oxygen control, eased it open to full again and
watched the temperature needle for minutes. He became dazed. Then his
eyes came alive again, and he stared. Temperature: 104.5 F.

His hands drifted listlessly to the control again. This time he
throttled it down, down, below normal pressure. Slowly, slower than the
minute hand of a watch, the needle climbed on. Why? _Why?_

His swollen tongue licked at dry lips. He couldn't swallow any more.
Around his neck a salty puddle burned a ring of itching hell fire.

He choked down more on the air valve. It didn't make sense to him, but
if more oxygen raised his temperature faster, then less should do the
opposite. At 104.5 F a man doesn't always think straight.
