
At first his heart pounded loudly in protest. His breathing became
quick and shallow. With staring, grateful eyes he watched the needle
settle a tenth of a degree and stay there. The mental relief was almost
overwhelming. Had there been moisture left in his tear ducts Frane
would have cried. But now, with the strained concentration gone he
became fuzzy. He slipped in and out of consciousness, and dead faces
began drifting past his eyes.

This wouldn't do. He had one more job left. He looked at his
chronometer. In another eight minutes he must throw the drive lever
and kill all acceleration. The pirate ship's orbital prediction was
based on this timed interruption of the freighter's drive. So much as
two minutes off, he had been impressed, would make their search hours
longer, since they were approaching from the rear at an angle.

He sagged into the pilot's chair again, but sitting down was no good.
Instantly the ghost faces began their parade, and the death smell,
mingled with the saturated dessicant's rank stink threatened to
strangle him. The belly full of rations he had force-fed himself to
sustain him the twenty hours of waiting pressed heavily against his
heaving diaphragm.

He gained his feet, stood with his hand on the fuel lever control and
stared fixedly at his chronometer. Two minutes.

The navigator's swollen face, eyes bulging, stared into his helmet.

"Get out of my way. Got to see my watch. Get--"

He brushed at the phantom as if it were a cloud of gnats. He was
confident now. The temperature gauge showed his body heat to be
constant at 104.4 F. Thirty seconds now and he could give himself over
to his fever dreams. Twenty seconds.

The broken jawed image persisted mistily. But now the face was
repaired. It was the young tense face before he had crushed it with his
blaster. It had that hard, determined look on it.

The fire in his body swept up into his brain. The bodyless image spoke
softly, "You're going to die. You are going to move the fuel control
the wrong way. You can't remember which way they said to move it. It
isn't marked. You can't remember."

"Yes, I can!" The chronometer said twelve seconds.

"You made one mistake. You put on your clothes over the spaceman's
underwear. Your body heat can't escape. Your brain is burning up. You
can't remember about the lever. You will move it the wrong way."

"So what? Then I'll move it the other way," Frane screamed.

The tiny clock zeroed. Frane pressed the lever away from him. That was
the way to stop any earth vehicle--pressure forward on the air brake
pedal. He shoved hard.

The rockets roared out full blast far behind him. The building
acceleration caught him and flung him stumbling back against the
bulkhead. Then the firing took on complete departure blast rate.

Pinned like a butterfly specimen, eight G's smashed Frane Lewis' space
suit against the metal wall. Lewis, being free inside the suit, was
pressed hard against the interior of its back side.

The cold he had been seeking struck through the wet, felt lining and
his exterior clothes. The thickly corded spaceman's underwear delayed
the frost momentarily, but then the sweat froze. The death smell seized
his throat. Dimly he knew what was happening, but he felt only heat.
The sear of an atomic furnace burning his shoulders, buttocks, leg
calves, through into his spine.

The heat--the terrible sear of space cold.