of Lord Hauncher, with whom young Cavalcadour had made his debut as an
artist. He had nothing to refuse to his master, Mirobolant, and would
impress himself to be useful to a gourmet so distinguished as Monsieur
Timmins. Fitz went away as pleased as Punch with this encomium of the
great Mirobolant, and was one of those who voted against the decreasing
of Mirobolant's salary, when the measure was proposed by Mr. Parings,
Colonel Close, and the Screw party in the committee of the club.

Faithful to the promise of his great master, the youthful Cavalcadour
called in Lilliput Street the next day. A rich crimson velvet waistcoat,
with buttons of blue glass and gold, a variegated blue satin stock, over
which a graceful mosaic chain hung in glittering folds, a white hat
worn on one side of his long curling ringlets, redolent with the most
delightful hair-oil--one of those white hats which looks as if it had
been just skinned--and a pair of gloves not exactly of the color of
beurre frais, but of beurre that has been up the chimney, with a natty
cane with a gilt knob, completed the upper part at any rate, of the
costume of the young fellow whom the page introduced to Mrs. Timmins.

Her mamma and she had been just having a dispute about the
gooseberry-cream when Cavalcadour arrived. His presence silenced Mrs.
Gashleigh; and Rosa, in carrying on a conversation with him in the
French language--which she had acquired perfectly in an elegant
finishing establishment in Kensington Square--had a great advantage
over her mother, who could only pursue the dialogue with very much
difficulty, eying one or other interlocutor with an alarmed and
suspicious look, and gasping out "We" whenever she thought a proper
opportunity arose for the use of that affirmative.

"I have two leetl menus weez me," said Cavalcadour to Mrs. Gashleigh.

"Minews--yes,--oh, indeed?" answered the lady.

"Two little cartes."

"Oh, two carts! Oh, we," she said. "Coming, I suppose?" And she looked
out of the window to see if they were there.

Cavalcadour smiled. He produced from a pocket-book a pink paper and
a blue paper, on which he had written two bills of fare--the last two
which he had composed for the lamented Hauncher--and he handed these
over to Mrs. Fitzroy.

The poor little woman was dreadfully puzzled with these documents, (she
has them in her possession still,) and began to read from the pink one
as follows:--

                        "DINER POUR 16 PERSONNES.

                       Potage (clair) a la Rigodon.
                       Do. a la Prince de Tombuctou.

                              Deux Poissons.

            Saumon de Severne                 Rougets Gratines
             a la Boadicee.                    a la Cleopatre.

                               Deux Releves.

              Le Chapeau-a-trois-cornes farci a la Robespierre.
                        Le Tire-botte a l'Odalisque.

                               Six Entrees.
                   Saute de Hannetons a l'Epingliere.
                     Cotelettes a la Megatherium.
                  Bourrasque de Veau a la Palsambleu.
            Laitances de Carpe en goguette a la Reine Pomare.
            Turban de Volaille a l'Archeveque de Cantorbery."

And so on with the entremets, and hors d'oeuvres, and the rotis, and the
releves.

"Madame will see that the dinners are quite simple," said M.
Cavalcadour.

"Oh, quite!" said Rosa, dreadfully puzzled.

"Which would Madame like?"

"Which would we like, mamma?" Rosa asked; adding, as if after a little
thought, "I think, sir, we should prefer the blue one." At which Mrs.
Gashleigh nodded as knowingly as she could; though pink or blue, I defy
anybody to know what these cooks mean by their jargon.

"If you please, Madame, we will go down below and examine the scene of
operations," Monsieur Cavalcadour said; and so he was marshalled down
the stairs to the kitchen, which he didn't like to name, and appeared
before the cook in all his splendor.

He cast a rapid glance round the premises, and a smile of something like
contempt lighted up his features. "Will you bring pen and ink, if
you please, and I will write down a few of the articles which will be
necessary for us? We shall require, if you please, eight more stew-pans,
a couple of braising-pans, eight saute-pans, six bainmarie-pans, a
freezing-pot with accessories, and a few more articles of which I will
inscribe the names." And Mr. Cavalcadour did so, dashing down, with the
rapidity of genius, a tremendous list of ironmongery goods, which he
handed over to Mrs. Timmins. She and her mamma were quite frightened by
the awful catalogue.

"I will call three days hence and superintend the progress of matters;
and we will make the stock for the soup the day before the dinner."

"Don't you think, sir," here interposed Mrs. Gashleigh, "that one
soup--a fine rich mock-turtle, such as I have seen in the best houses in
the West of England, and such as the late Lord Fortyskewer--"

"You will get what is wanted for the soups, if you please," Mr.
Cavalcadour continued, not heeding this interruption, and as bold as a
captain on his own quarter-deck: "for the stock of clear soup, you will
get a leg of beef, a leg of veal, and a ham."

"We, munseer," said the cook, dropping a terrified curtsy: "a leg of
beef, a leg of veal, and a ham."

"You can't serve a leg of veal at a party," said Mrs. Gashleigh; "and a
leg of beef is not a company dish."

"Madame, they are to make the stock of the clear soup," Mr. Cavalcadour
said.

"WHAT!" cried Mrs. Gashleigh; and the cook repeated his former
expression.

"Never, whilst I am in this house," cried out Mrs. Gashleigh,
indignantly; "never in a Christian ENGLISH household; never shall such
sinful waste be permitted by ME. If you wish me to dine, Rosa, you must
get a dinner less EXPENSIVE. The Right Honorable Lord Fortyskewer could
dine, sir, without these wicked luxuries, and I presume my daughter's
guests can."

"Madame is perfectly at liberty to decide," said M. Cavalcadour. "I came
to oblige Madame and my good friend Mirobolant, not myself."

"Thank you, sir, I think it WILL be too expensive," Rosa stammered in a
great flutter; "but I am very much obliged to you."

"Il n'y a point d'obligation, Madame," said Monsieur Alcide Camille
Cavalcadour in his most superb manner; and, making a splendid bow to the
lady of the house, was respectfully conducted to the upper regions by
little Buttons, leaving Rosa frightened, the cook amazed and silent, and
Mrs. Gashleigh boiling with indignation against the dresser.

Up to that moment, Mrs. Blowser, the cook, who had come out of
Devonshire with Mrs. Gashleigh (of course that lady garrisoned
her daughter's house with servants, and expected them to give her
information of everything which took place there) up to that moment, I
say, the cook had been quite contented with that subterraneous station
which she occupied in life, and had a pride in keeping her kitchen neat,
bright, and clean. It was, in her opinion, the comfortablest room in the
house (we all thought so when we came down of a night to smoke there),
and the handsomest kitchen in Lilliput Street.

But after the visit of Cavalcadour, the cook became quite discontented
and uneasy in her mind. She talked in a melancholy manner over the
area-railings to the cooks at twenty-three and twenty-five. She stepped
over the way, and conferred with the cook there. She made inquiries at
the baker's and at other places about the kitchens in the great
houses in Brobdingnag Gardens, and how many spits, bangmarry-pans, and
stoo-pans they had. She thought she could not do with an occasional
help, but must have a kitchen-maid. And she was often discovered by
a gentleman of the police force, who was, I believe, her cousin, and
occasionally visited her when Mrs. Gashleigh was not in the house or
spying it:--she was discovered seated with MRS. RUNDELL in her lap,
its leaves bespattered with her tears. "My pease be gone, Pelisse,"
she said, "zins I zaw that ther Franchman!" And it was all the faithful
fellow could do to console her.

"---- the dinner!" said Timmins, in a rage at last. "Having it cooked
in the house is out of the question. The bother of it, and the row your
mother makes, are enough to drive one mad. It won't happen again, I
can promise you, Rosa. Order it at Fubsby's, at once. You can have
everything from Fubsby's--from footmen to saltspoons. Let's go and order
it at Fubsby's."

"Darling, if you don't mind the expense, and it will be any relief to
you, let us do as you wish," Rosa said; and she put on her bonnet, and
they went off to the grand cook and confectioner of the Brobdingnag
quarter.



