
Mr. Pathis whipped the papers out of his briefcase and spread them in
front of Carrin.

"If you'll just sign here, sir."

"Well," Carrin said, "I'm not sure. I'd like to give the boy a start in
life, not saddle him with--"

"But my dear sir," Pathis interposed, "this is for your son as well. He
lives here, doesn't he? He has a right to enjoy the luxuries, the
marvels of science."

"Sure," Carrin said. "Only--"

"Why, sir, today the average man is living like a king. A hundred years
ago the richest man in the world couldn't buy what any ordinary citizen
possesses at present. You mustn't look upon it as a debt. It's an
investment."

"That's true," Carrin said dubiously.

He thought about his son and his rocket ship models, his star charts,
his maps. Would it be right? he asked himself.

"What's wrong?" Pathis asked cheerfully.

"Well, I was just wondering," Carrin said. "Signing over my son's
earnings--you don't think I'm getting in a little too deep, do you?"

"Too deep? My dear sir!" Pathis exploded into laughter. "Do you know
Mellon down the block? Well, don't say I said it, but he's already
mortgaged his grandchildren's salary for their full life-expectancy!
And he doesn't have half the goods he's made up his mind to own! We'll
work out something for him. Service to the customer is our job and we
know it well."

Carrin wavered visibly.

"And after you're gone, sir, they'll all belong to your son."

That was true, Carrin thought. His son would have all the marvelous
things that filled the house. And after all, it was only thirty years
out of a life expectancy of a hundred and fifty.

He signed with a flourish.

"Excellent!" Pathis said. "And by the way, has your home got an A. E.
Master-operator?"

It hadn't. Pathis explained that a Master-operator was new this year, a
stupendous advance in scientific engineering. It was designed to take
over all the functions of housecleaning and cooking, without its owner
having to lift a finger.

"Instead of running around all day, pushing half a dozen different
buttons, with the Master-operator all you have to do is push _one_! A
remarkable achievement!"

Since it was only five hundred and thirty-five dollars, Carrin signed
for one, having it added to his son's debt.

Right's right, he thought, walking Pathis to the door. This house will
be Billy's some day. His and his wife's. They certainly will want
everything up-to-date.

Just one button, he thought. That _would_ be a time-saver!
