
Murdock refused to look back as the boys left the stands. He went
across the field, past the school buildings, on toward the main
sections of the base--the business part, where the life-line to the
space station and the moon was maintained. A job, he told himself, was
a job. It was a word he would never have used six ships and fifteen
years before.

The storm flag was up on the control tower, he saw. Worse, the guy
cables were all tight, anchoring the three-stage ships firmly down in
their blast deflection pits. There were no tractors or tankers on the
rocket field to service the big ships. He stared through the thickening
gloom toward the bay, but there was no activity there, either. The
stage recovery boats were all in port, with their handling cranes
folded down. Obviously, no flight was scheduled.

It didn't fit with predictions. Hurricane Greta was hustling northward
out to sea, and the low ceiling and high winds were supposed to be
the tag end of that disturbance, due to clear by mid-day. This didn't
look that way; it looked more as if the weather men on the station had
goofed for the first time in ten years.

Murdock stared down the line toward his own ship, set apart from the
others, swaying slightly as the wind hit it. Getting it up through the
weather was going to be hell, even if he got clearance, but he couldn't
wait much longer. Greta had already put him four days behind his
normal schedule, and he'd been counting on making the trip today.

There was a flash bulletin posted outside the weather shack, surrounded
by a group of young majors and colonels from the pilot squad. Murdock
stepped around them and into the building. He was glad to see that the
man on duty was Collins, one of the few technicians left over from the
old days on the Island.

Collins looked up from his scowling study of the maps and saluted
casually without rising. "Hi, Tommy. How's the hog business?"

"Lousy," Murdock told him. "I'm going to have a hungry bunch of pigs
if I don't get another load down. What gives with the storm signals? I
thought Greta blew over."

Collins pawed the last cigarette out of a pack and shook his head as he
lighted up. "This is Hulda, they tell me. Our geniuses on the station
missed it--claimed Hulda was covered by Greta until she grew bigger.
We're just beginning to feel her. No flights for maybe five days more."

"Hell!" It was worse than Murdock had feared. He twisted the weather
maps to study them, unbelievingly. Unlike the newer pilots, he'd spent
enough time in the weather shack to be able to read a map or a radar
screen almost as well as Collins. "The station couldn't have goofed
that much, Bill!"

"Did, though. Something's funny up there. Bailey and the other brass
are holding some pow-wow about it now, over at Communications. It's
boiling up to a first-class mess."

One of the teletypes began chattering, and Collins turned to it.
Murdock moved outside where a thin rain was beginning to fall, whipping
about in the gusts of wind. He headed for the control tower, knowing it
was probably useless. In that, he was right; no clearances for flight
could be given without General Bailey's okay, and Bailey was still tied
up in conference, apparently.

He borrowed a raincape and went out across the field toward his ship.
The rain was getting heavier, and the _Mollyann_ was grunting and
creaking in her pit as he neared her. The guying had been well enough
done, however, and she was in no danger that he could see. He checked
the pit gauges and records. She'd been loaded with a cargo of heavy
machinery, and her stage tanks were fully fueled. At least, if he could
get clearance, she was ready to go. She was the oldest ship on the
field, but her friction-burned skin covered sound construction and he
had supervised her last overhaul himself.

Then he felt the wind picking up again, and his stomach knotted. He
moved around to the more sheltered side of the ship, cursing the
meteorologists on the station. If they'd predicted this correctly, he
could have arranged to take off during the comparative lull between
storms. Even that would have been bad enough, but now....

Abruptly, a ragged klaxon shrieked through the air in a series of
short bursts, sounding assembly for the pilots. Murdock hesitated,
then shrugged and headed out into the rain. He could ignore the signal
if he chose, since he'd been on detached duty for years, except when
actually scheduled for flight; yet it was probably his best chance to
see Bailey. He slogged along while the other pilots trotted across the
field toward Briefing on the double. Even now, covered with slickers
and tramping through mud, they seemed to be on parade drill, as if a
drum were beating out the time for them.
