
Murdock found a seat at the rear, separate from the others, out of
old habit. Up front, an improvised crap game was going on; elsewhere,
they were huddled in little groups, their young faces too bright and
confident. Nobody noticed him until Colonel Lawrence Hennings glanced
up from the crap game. "Hi, Tommy. Want in?"

Murdock shook his head, smiling briefly. "Can't afford it this week,"
he explained.

A cat could look at royalty; and royalty was free to look at or speak
to anyone--even a man who ferried garbage for the station. At the
moment, Hennings was king, even in this crowd of self-determined
heroes. There was always one man who was the top dog. Hennings' current
position seemed as inevitable as Murdock's own had become.

Damn it, someone had to carry the waste down from the station. The
men up there couldn't just shove it out into space to have it follow
their orbit and pile up around them; shooting it back to burn up in
Earth's atmosphere had been suggested, but that took more fuel in the
long run than bringing it down by ship. With nearly eight hundred men
in the doubly expanded station, there was a lot of garbage, too. The
job was as important as carrying the supplies up, and took just as much
piloting skill. Only there was no band playing when the garbage ship
took off, and there could never be a hero's mantle over the garbage man.

It had simply been his bad luck that he was pilot for the first load
back. The heat of landing leaked through the red-hot skin of the cargo
section, and the wastes boiled and steamed through the whole ship
and plated themselves against the hull when it began to cool, until
no amount of washing could clean it completely; after that, the ship
was considered good for nothing but the carrying of garbage down and
lifting such things as machine parts, where the smell wouldn't matter.
He'd gone on detached duty at once, exiled from the pilot shack; it was
probably only imagination, but the other men swore they couldn't sleep
in the same room with him.

He'd made something of a joke of it at first, while he waited for his
transfer at the end of the year. He'd finally consented to a second
year when they couldn't get anyone else for the job. And by the end
of five years of it, he knew he was stuck; even a transfer wouldn't
erase his reputation as the garbage man, or give him the promotions
and chances for leadership the others got. Oh, there were advantages in
freedom, but if there had been anything outside of the service he could
do....

The side door opened suddenly and General Bailey came in. He looked
older than his forty years, and the expression on his face sobered
the pilots almost at once. He took his time in dropping to the chair
behind the table, giving them a chance to come to order. Murdock braced
himself, watching as the man took out a cigarette. Then, as it was
tapped sharply on the table to pack the end, he nodded. It was going
to be a call for volunteers! The picture of the weather outside raced
through his mind, twisting at his stomach, but he slid forward on his
seat, ready to stand at once.

"At ease, men." Bailey took his time lighting the cigarette, and then
plunged into things. "A lot of you have been cursing the station for
their forecast. Well, you can forget that--we're damned lucky they
could spot Hulda at all. They're in bad shape. Know what acrolein is?
You've all had courses in atmospherics. How about it?"

The answer came out in pieces from several of the pilots. Acrolein was
one of the thirty-odd poisons that had to be filtered from the air in
the station, though it presented no problem in the huge atmosphere of
Earth. It could get into the air from the overcooking of an egg or the
burning of several proteins. "You can get it from some of the plastics,
too," one of the men added.

Bailey nodded. "You can. And that's the way they got it, from an
accident in the shops. They got enough to overload their filters, and
the replacements aren't enough to handle it. They're all being poisoned
up there--just enough to muddle their thinking at first, but getting
worse all the time. They can't wait for Hulda to pass. They've got to
have new filters at once. And that means--"

"Sir!" Hennings was on his feet, standing like a lance in a saddle
boot. "Speaking for my crew, I ask permission to deliver whatever the
station needs."

Murdock had been caught short by Hennings' sudden move, but now he
was up, protesting. His voice sounded as hollow as he felt after the
ringing tones of the younger man. "I'm overdue already on schedule, and
by all rights--"

Bailey cut him off, nodding to Hennings. "Thank you, Colonel. We'll
begin loading at once, while Control works out your tapes. All right,
dismissed!" Then finally he turned to Murdock. "Thanks, Tom. I'll
record your offer, but there's no time for us to unload your ship
first. Afraid you're grounded for the storm."

He went out quickly, with Hennings following jauntily at his heels.
