
The others were beginning to leave, grumbling with a certain admiration
at Hennings' jumping the gun on them. Murdock trailed along, since
there was no chance for him to change the orders now. He wondered what
excuse would have been used if he'd been first to volunteer and if his
ship had been empty. The choice of pilot had probably been made before
the token request for volunteers, and he was certain that his name
hadn't been considered.

The storm seemed to have let up when he started across the field, but
it was only a lull. Before he could reach the shelter of the weather
shack, it began pelting down again, harder than ever. He stopped
inside the door to shake off some of the wetness. Collins was intently
studying one of the radar screens where a remote pickup was showing
conditions, alternately working a calculator and yelling into a phone.
He looked up, made a desperate motion with his fingers for a cigarette,
and went back to the phone.

Murdock shoved a lighted smoke toward him, then pulled a stool up
to the window where he could watch the field. By rights, he should
be heading back to his farm, to do what he could there; but he had
no intention of leaving before the take-off. Lifting a ship in this
weather was mostly theory. It had been done once on the Island, but the
big ships were still too unstable to make it anything but a desperate
emergency measure. He'd discussed it with the pilot after that trip,
and he'd spent a lot of time trying to work out a method in case he had
to try it, but Hennings had his sympathy now. It took more than courage
and confidence to handle this situation.

He studied the storm, trying to get the feel of it. During his first
two years back here, he'd spent a lot of his free time flying a light
plane, and some of the weather had been fairly bad. It gave him some
idea of what Hennings had to face; he wondered whether the younger
pilot realized what was coming.

Sodium lights were blazing on the field, he saw, clustered about
Hennings' _Jennilee_, and men were slipping and sliding around in
the mud, getting her ready and loading the filter packs. Two men were
being run up on a lift to the crew entrance; Hennings carried both a
co-pilot and a radio man, though many of the pilots now used only a
single crewman.

Collins looked up from the phone. "Fifteen minutes to zero," he
reported.

Murdock grunted in surprise. He'd expected the take-off to be two hours
later, on the next swing of the station. It must mean that orders for
loading the ship had been given before Bailey came into Briefing. It
confirmed his suspicion that the pilot had been picked in advance.

A few minutes later, Hennings appeared, marching across the field
toward the lift in the middle of a small group. Several of them rode up
with him. As the lift began creaking backward, the pilot stood poised
in the lock, grinning for the photographers. Naturally, the press had
been tipped off; the service had learned long before that maximum
publicity helped in getting the fattest possible appropriations.

When the lock was finally sealed and the field cleared, Murdock bent
over the counter to study the radar screens. The storm was apparently
erratic, from the hazy configurations he could see. Zero would be a
poor choice for the take-off, though, from what he could estimate.
Hennings would be smarter to delay and make manual corrections on his
tape.

Then the klaxon went on, signalling the take-off. The last man on the
field was darting for cover. From the blast pit, a dull, sickly red
began to shine as the rockets were started. Murdock swore. The fool was
taking off on schedule, trusting to his tapes!

The smoky red exhaust ran up the spectrum to blue, and the ship
began to tremble faintly. The sound rose to crescendo. Now the
_Jennilee_ started to lift. Wind hit it, throwing it toward the
side of the pit. The wings of the top stage caught most of the force,
and the whole ship was tilting--the worst thing that could happen. They
should have swivelled the ship around to put the wings parallel to most
of the storm, instead of bucking it.

Murdock heard Collins' breath catch harshly, but suddenly the worst
danger was over. A lull for a second or so gave Hennings his chance.
He was at least riding his controls over the automatics. The blast
deflection vanes shot the blue flame sidewise, and the ship shifted its
bottom, righting itself. It was beginning to make its real climb now.
The wings near the top literally vibrated like the arms of a tuning
fork, and the blast trail was ragged. Yet she rose, her blast roar
rising and falling as the wind altered, blowing some of the sound away
from the watchers.

Now the Doppler effect began to be noticeable, and the sound dropped
in pitch as the _Jennilee_ fought her way up. The overcast of
scudding clouds hid all but the bright anger of the exhaust.

Murdock turned with the technician to another radar screen. Unlike
those in Control, it wasn't set properly to catch the ship, but a hazy
figure showed in one edge. "Right into some of the nastiest stuff
blowing!" Collins swore.




                              CHAPTER II


He was right. The timing had been as bad as possible. The blob of light
on the screen was obviously being buffeted about. Something seemed to
hit the top and jerk it.

The screen went blank, then lighted again. Collins had shifted his
connections, to patch into the signal Control was watching. The blip of
the _Jennilee_ was now dead center, trying to tilt into a normal
synergy curve. "Take it up, damn it!" Murdock swore hotly. This was
no time to swing around the Earth until after the ship was above the
storm. The tape for the automatic pilot should have been cut for a
high first ascension. If Hennings was panicking and overriding it back
to the familiar orbit....

As if the pilot heard him, the blip began rising again. It twisted and
bucked. Something seemed to separate from it. There was a scattering
of tiny white dots on the screen, drifting behind the ship. Murdock
couldn't figure them. Then he forgot them as the first stage let go and
began falling backward from the ship, heading on its great arc toward
the ocean. Recovery would be rough. Now the second stage blasted out.
And finally, the ship was above the storm and could begin to track
toward its goal.

Abruptly the speaker in the corner snapped into life, and Hennings'
voice sounded from it. "_Jennilee_ to Base. Cancel the harps and
haloes! We're in the clear!"

Collins snapped his hand down against a switch, killing the speaker.
"Hotshot!" he said thickly, and yet there was a touch of admiration in
his voice. "Ten years ago, they couldn't build ships to take what he
gave it. So that makes him a tin god on wheels. Got a cigarette, Tommy?"

Murdock handed him the package and picked up the slicker again. He'd
seen enough. The ship should have no further trouble, except for minor
orbital corrections, well within the pilot's ability. For that matter,
while Collins' statement was true enough, Hennings deserved a lot of
the credit. And if he had to boast a little--well, maybe he deserved
credit for the ability to snap back to normal after the pounding his
body and nerves must have taken.
