
In the recreation hall, some of the pilots were busy exaggerating the
dangers of the take-off for the newsmen, making it sound as if no
parallel feat had been performed in all history. Murdock found a phone
where he had some privacy and put through a call to let Pete and Sheila
know when he'd be back--and that he was returning without a load.
They'd already heard the news, however. He cut the call short and went
out across the soggy field, cursing as his shoes filled with water.
From the auditorium of the school, he could hear the band practicing;
he wondered for a moment whether the drumbeat could make the cadets
feel like heroes as they moved through mud with shoes that squished at
every step. It had no such lifting effect on him.

The parking lot beyond the drill grounds was almost deserted, and
his big truck seemed to huddle into the wind like a lonely old bull
buffalo. He started the turbine and opened the cab heater, kicking off
his sodden shoes. The dampness in the air brought out the smell of
refuse and pigs from the rear, but he was used to it; anyhow, it was
better than the machine-human-chemical stench of the space station.

Driving took most of his attention. The truck showed little wind-sway
and the roads were nearly deserted, but vision was limited and the
windshield kept steaming up, in spite of the silicone coating. He
crawled along, grumbling to himself at the allocation of money for
tourist superhighways at the expense of the back roads.

A little ways beyond the base, he was in farm country. It was totally
unlike the picture of things he'd had originally. He'd expected only
palm trees and citrus groves in Florida, though he'd known vaguely
that it was one of the major cattle-producing states. This part wasn't
exactly like the Iowa section where he'd grown up, but it wasn't so
different, either.

Pete Crane had introduced him to it. At the time, Pete was retiring
after twenty years of service and looking for something to do. He'd
found a small farm twenty miles from Base and had approached Murdock
with the hope of getting the station garbage for food for the hogs
he planned to buy. The contractor who took care of the Base garbage
wouldn't touch the dehydrated, slightly scorched refuse, and disposal
had always been a problem.

They ended up as partners, with permanent rights to all the station
wastes. Pete's sister, Sheila, joined them to keep house for them. It
beat living in hotels and offered the first hope for the future Murdock
had. Unless his application for Moon service was accepted--which seemed
unlikely, since he was already at the age limit of thirty-five--he had
no other plans for his own compulsory twenty-year retirement. The farm
also gave some purpose to his job as garbage collector for the station.

For two years, everything went well. Maybe they grew over-confident
then. They sank everything into new buildings and more livestock. When
the neighboring farm suddenly became available, they used all their
credit in swinging the mortgage, leaving no margin for trouble. And
trouble came when Pete was caught in front of a tractor that somehow
slipped into gear; he was hospitalized for five weeks, and his medical
insurance was only enough for a fraction of the cost. Now, with Hulda
cancelling the critically necessary trip to the station....
