
The truck bumped over the last half mile and into the farm-yard.
Murdock parked it near the front door and jumped out. He let out a yell
and made a bee-line for the kerosene heater, trying to get his feet
warm on the floor near it. The house was better built than many in
Florida, but that wasn't saying much. Even with the heater going, it
was probably warmer in their new pig sty.

Sheila came through the dining room from the kitchen, spotted his wet
feet, and darted for his bedroom. In a second she was back with dry
clothes. "Change in here where it's warm. I'll have lunch ready in a
couple of minutes," she told him, holding her face up for a kiss.

Sheila wasn't a beautiful woman and apparently didn't care. Murdock's
mother would probably have called her plain good looks "wholesome," and
referred to her slightly overweight body as "healthy." He only knew
that she looked good to him, enough shorter to be comfortable, eyes
pleasantly blue, and hair some shade of brown that seemed to fit her.

He pulled her to him snugly, but she wriggled away after a brief kiss.
"Pete's in town, trying to get help. He'll be back any minute," she
warned him.

He grinned and let her go. They'd gone through the romantic binge of
discovering each other long enough ago to be comfortable with each
other now, except for the occasional arguments when she didn't want to
wait. Mostly, though, she had accepted their agreement. In eight more
months he'd be thirty-six and too old for assignment on the Moon; if
he didn't make that, they'd get married. But he had no intention of
leaving her tied to him if he did leave, since the chance of taking her
along was almost nil. Pete had backed him up on his decision, too.

He slipped into coveralls and dry boots and went out to the dining
room, where a hot meal was waiting. At least their credit was good
at the local grocery between paydays. He filled her in on what
had happened while they ate. At the hour mark, he switched on the
television to the news. It was filled with the station emergency and
rescue, of course. Most of it seemed to be devoted to pictures of
Hennings entering the ship and a highly colored account of the flight.
But at least he learned that the flight had been completed. It made
good publicity for the service. A sound track of a band playing the
_Heroes' March_ had been spliced into the movies. Maybe that was
good publicity, too. He had to admit that Hennings fitted the music
better than he could have done.

For a moment, the racket of the wind outside died, and another sound
reached his ears. The hogs knew it was past feeding time and were
kicking up a fuss. Murdock grimaced. He shoved away from the table,
feeling almost guilty at having stuffed himself, and dug rain clothes
out of the back closet. He hated going out in the weather again, but
the animals had to be pacified.

They heard him coming and set up more of a racket. He bent against the
wind and made a dash for it, getting his feet wet again in a puddle.
But the inside of the building was warmer than the house, as he had
expected. He lifted the cover of the mash cooker and began ladling out
the food into the troughs. His pail was scraping the bottom of the
cooker, while the sleek Poland China hogs fought and shoved toward
the spot where he was emptying it. They'd been on half rations since
yesterday, and they were obviously hungry.

He stopped when he had used half of what was in the cooker and headed
for the next building. On the way, he paused for a futile look in the
big storage shed, but he knew the answer. Pete had used the last bag
of grain in cooking the day's food. They'd exhausted the last of the
waste from the station earlier and had to fall back on the precious
commercial feed usually only used as a supplement. Damn Greta and
double damn Hulda! If the weekly predictions had been right, he could
have wangled clearance for a flight ahead of schedule, before the
storms, and they wouldn't be in this mess.

It was worse in the brooder house. The sows seemed to know that milk
for their sucklings depended on their feeding. They received a somewhat
larger portion, but it disappeared from the troughs as he watched.
The animals fought for the last scraps and then began rushing about
looking for more. They were smart enough to know he was the source of
it, and they stared at him, expressing their demands in eloquent hog
language. They weren't like other animals. Cows were too stupid to
realize they'd been gypped, sheep were always yelling even when things
went well. But hogs could pretty nearly swear in English when they felt
robbed, as these did. Even the sucklings were squealing unhappily in
sympathy with their mothers.
