
Murdock heard the door open behind him and turned to see Pete coming
in, drenched to the skin. He looked worn out, and his back was still
stiff from the accident, though he'd made a fine recovery. "Hi, Tom.
Sis told me what happened at the field. Good thing, too. This stuff's
no good for flights. How long till it clears?"

"Five days!" Murdock told him, and saw the older man flinch. The hogs
might not starve to death in that time, but they'd suffer, as well as
losing weight that would be hard to put back. He had no idea of how it
would affect the milk supply for the little pigs, and he didn't want to
guess.

They left the squealing hogs and slogged back to the house to change
before Pete would report on his luck in town. It seemed to be all bad.
They could get a loan against the mature hogs or they could sell some,
but with the week-end coming up they would have to wait for money until
they would no longer need it. Their credit at the only feed and grain
store was used up.

Murdock frowned at that. "You mean Barr wouldn't let us have enough to
carry us over in an emergency like this? After all our business with
him?"

"Barr's gone north on some business," Pete reported. "His
brother-in-law's running things. Claims he can't take the
responsibility. Offered to lend me twenty bucks himself if I needed it,
but no credit from the store. And he can't locate Barr. Darn it, if I
hadn't had to get in front of that tractor--"

"If!" Sheila snorted. "If I hadn't insisted you two pay the hospital in
full, or if I hadn't splurged on spring clothes.... How much can we get
for my car?"

Pete shrugged. "About half enough, but not till maybe Tuesday or
Wednesday, after title transfer. I already asked at Circle Chevy. How
about getting the weather reports, Sheila? With our luck, the center of
Hulda might pass right here!"

There seemed no immediate danger of that, though. Hulda was following
Greta, due to swing out to sea, and they'd miss the worst of her.
Anyhow, Murdock knew that Bill Collins would call them if the farm
was in danger. But with predictions gone sour from the station, they
couldn't be sure. The new buildings were supposed to be hurricane
proof, but....

They spent the afternoon trying to play canasta and listening to the
rain and wind, until Pete slapped the cards back in the drawer in
disgust. They ate early, dawdling over the food to kill time. Finally,
the two men went out reluctantly. This time they scraped the bottom of
the cookers dry. There was no sense in trying to spread the little food
further and thinner.

How would a hero feel when a hog looked at him with hungry eyes? Or
would the band playing destiny in his head drown out the frantic
squealing of the animals? Murdock sighed and turned sickly back toward
the house, with Pete at his heels.

Sheila met them at the door, motioning for silence and pointing to the
television set. More news was finally coming through on the rescue
flight by Hennings. And there was a picture on the screen showing the
little third-stage rocket as seen from the station. It was obvious
without the announcer's comment that the wings had been nearly
wrenched from it and that it was in no condition for the return flight.
Murdock's respect for Hennings' courage went up another notch. After a
buffeting like that, it was a wonder he'd been able to make the effort
of speaking to Base at all.

Then the rest of the news began to penetrate, and even the carefully
chosen words couldn't make it sound too good. "... loss of filters when
the airlock was sprung open on take-off was considerable, but it is
believed that the replacements will be adequate until another flight
can be made. Dr. Shapiro on the station reports that the men seem to be
bearing up well, except for the two children. Plans are being made to
isolate them in a special room, with extra filtration...."

Commander Phillips' kids, Murdock thought. The man had no business
keeping them up there, anyhow. But the business about the sprung
airlock....

Then he remembered the smaller blips on the radar screen that had
separated from the _Jennilee_, before the first stage broke away.
He frowned, trying to figure things more carefully. Just a few filters
couldn't have made that much trace on the radar! But with the hasty
packing, as he'd seen it, and the ship beginning to turn so the airlock
was down, enough could have spilled to account for the trace--nearly
the whole cargo, in fact!

He started for the phone, then shook his head. This would be better in
person. He grabbed for the zipper on his coveralls and headed for his
bedroom, while Pete frowned in slow comprehension.

"Tom, you can't do it!"

"I can try," he called back. "Warm up the truck, Sheila."

The zipper stuck. He swore at it, then forgot it. He wasn't dressing
for parade drill. He dragged on his uniform cap, slipped into boots
that might give some protection from the mud on the field, and stuffed
his necessary papers and cards into the pockets of the coveralls.
The service slicker was dry now, and he used it to hide most of his
appearance.

"Any word of another flight planned?" he called out. It would be a
sorry mess to reach the field just as some young pilot was taking off,
ending any chance he had.

"None." Pete had the door open, and one of his big hands slapped
against Murdock's shoulder. "Luck, you idiot!"




                              CHAPTER III


Murdock jumped out and into the open door of the truck. He started to
shove Sheila out of the driver's seat, but she shook her head and
began gunning the turbine. "I can handle this as well as you can,
Tom. I won't have you starting _that_ after wearing yourself out
driving in. And stop looking at me like that! I'm not going to say what
I'm thinking about this!"

He settled back in the passenger seat, reaching one hand out to touch
her briefly. "Thanks, Hon," he said, as the truck swung out of the
driveway and picked up speed on the road. She'd never been the kind to
talk about worrying over his life, as some of the wives of the pilots
did. She took it as part of him, and accepted it, however she felt. Now
she was pushing the big truck to the maximum safe speed, as if sharing
his eagerness.

After a second, she caught his hand in hers and smiled, without taking
her eyes from the road. He relaxed on the seat, letting the swish of
the wipers and the muffled storm sounds lull him into a half trance,
resting as much as he could. He should be thinking of what he'd say to
Bailey, but the relaxation was more important.

He was half asleep when the truck stopped at the guard house. He began
fumbling for his papers, but the guard swung back after flashing his
face and called out something. A corporal darted out of the shack and
into the truck, reaching for the wheel. "General Bailey's expecting you
and the young lady, sir," he said. "I'll take care of your truck."

Murdock grunted in surprise. Pete must have managed to get through to
Bailey. It might make things more difficult, but it would at least save
time; that could be important, if he were to take off while the station
was in optimum position.

Bailey's aide met them at GHQ, escorting them directly to the general's
private office, and closing the door behind them. Bailey glanced at
Murdock's appearance, frowned, and motioned them to chairs. His own
collar was unbuttoned and his cap lay on the desk, indicating that
formality was out the window. He lifted a bottle toward three waiting
glasses. "Tom? Miss Crane?"

He seemed to need the drink more than they did. His face was gray with
fatigue and his hand was unsteady. But his voice was normal enough as
he put down the empty glass. "All right, Tom, I know what you're here
for. What makes you think I'm crazy enough to send another ship up in
this weather?"

"A couple of kids who may be dying up there," Murdock answered. He saw
the general flinch and knew he'd guessed right; the service wouldn't
want the publicity of their deaths without further effort to save them,
and the pressure on Bailey must be terrific by now. "How many filters
got through?"

"Two bundles--out of thirty! But losing a man and ship won't help
anything. I've turned down about every pilot here already. I'd need at
least three good reasons why you're a better choice before I'd even
consider you, in spite of the hell Washington's raising. Got them?"

He should have been thinking of them on the ride here, Murdock
realized. "Experience, for one thing. I've made almost a thousand
flights on the run I was assigned," he said, making no effort to
conceal the bitterness that crept into his voice. "Has any of your
hotshots made a hundred yet?"

Bailey shook his head. "No."

"How about ability to operate solo without help from the automatic
pilot? You can't trust machinery in unpredictable situations, and
there's no time for help from a crew." The combination of improved
ships and the difficulty of getting a crew for the garbage run had
resulted in Murdock's operating solo most of the time for nearly five
years now. He saw two of Bailey's fingers go up, and groped for
something that would finish his case. Again, he heard the bitterness in
his voice. "Third, expendability. What's a garbage man and an old ship
against your bright hopes for tomorrow?"

"I've thought of the first two already. They're valid. The third
isn't." Bailey filled a second glass halfway, his eyes on the liquor.
"I can get plenty of pilots, Tom. So far, I haven't been able to find
one other reliable garbage man, as you call it--after fifteen years!
You'll have to do better than that."

Sheila's heels tapped down on the floor sharply. "After fifteen years
of doing a job nobody else will take, don't you think Tom has any right
to a favor from you? Isn't that good enough a reason?"

Bailey swung his gaze to her, surprise on his face. He studied her for
half a minute, nodding slowly. "My God, you're actually willing to have
him go!" he said at last. "I thought.... Never mind. If you're willing
to trust his ability, it's no reason I should. Or maybe it is. Maybe I
want to be convinced. All right, Tom, we'll unload your ship and get
the filters in. Want me to pick a volunteer crew for you?"

"I'll take it solo," Murdock told him. The fewer lives he was
responsible for, the better; anyhow, there would be no time for help
through the critical first few miles. "And leave the machinery in. Your
filters are all bulk and no weight. She'll pitch less with a full load,
from what I saw today. I'll be better off with that ballast."
