
Bailey reached for the phone and began snapping orders while Murdock
turned to say good-bye to Sheila. She made it easier than he'd expected.

"I'll wait here," she told him. "You'll need the truck when you come
down." She kissed him again quickly, then shoved him away. "Go on, you
don't have time for me now."

She was right in that, he knew. He started for Control at a run,
surprised when a covered jeep swung beside him. Lights came on
abruptly, showing the _Mollyann_ dimly through the murk, with
men and trucks pouring toward her. He sent the driver of the jeep
after them with orders to see about turning the base so the wings of
the third stage would be edge on to the wind. In Control, he found
everything disorganized, with men still dazed from sleep staring at him
unbelievingly. But they agreed to set up the circuit that would give
him connection through his viewing screen to the weather radar. Over
the phone, Collins' language was foul and his voice worried, but he
caught onto what was wanted almost at once.

The _Mollyann_ was shaking against her guy cables as the jeep took
him out to her; removal of the cables would be the last thing before
take-off. Half a dozen tractors were idling nearby, and Bailey came
running toward him, waving toward the top and yelling something about
turning her.

Murdock shrugged. He hadn't expected things to be smooth in this
last-minute rush; if he had to take her up wrong, he had to. "Okay,
forget it," he said. "So you can't turn her. I'll manage."

"Take a look," Bailey told him, pointing up again, a tired grin on his
face. "The way the wind is now, she's perfect. We finally checked,
after getting all set, and there she was."

It was true, and Murdock swore hotly at his own stupidity in not
checking first. The big wings were parallel to the wind already, saving
them precious minutes. It still left the steering vanes on the upper
stage at the mercy of the wind, but they were stubbier, and hence
considerably sturdier.

The portable lift was running up the filter packs. He climbed on as a
flashbulb went off near him and began going up. He heard some sort of
cry from the photographer, but there was no time for posing now, and
he couldn't have looked less suitable for pictures, anyhow. There'd be
time for that on his return, he hoped.

He checked the stowing of the packs and made sure that they were lashed
down well enough to ride up, even if his airlock broke open. The
technician in charge pointed out the extra dogs they were installing
on the lock, swearing it would hold through anything. It looked right.
The ship was swaying and bobbing noticeably up here, and he could hear
the creak of the cables. He tried to close his ears as he crawled up
the little ladder to the control cabin and began the final check-out.
There was a yell from the speaker as he cut on connections to Control,
but he paid little attention to it. After fifteen years, he had little
need of them to tell him the exact second of ideal take-off. He found
the picture of the weather on the screen as he settled into the
acceleration couch under the manual control panel, designed to swivel
as a unit under changing acceleration.

The weather image was his biggest hope. Here, his study could pay off
and give him the advantage he needed. It might look showy to take off
on the split second and fight whatever the weather handed out; he
preferred to pick his own time, if possible. With luck, he could spot a
chance to ride up without being tipped for the first few seconds.

He glanced at the chronometer and began strapping himself down, while
trying to absorb the data on the storm Collins was sending into his
earphones. The weatherman had several screens to work from, and could
give a better general picture than the single one Murdock was able to
watch.

He began to get the feel of it. The wind, this far from the center of
the hurricane, was erratic; there were moments of comparative quiet,
and some measure of prediction was possible from the pattern on the
screen. The real trick of taking off was to take advantage of every
break. Once he began ascension, he'd have to trust to the automatic
reflexes he'd developed and the general plan he'd worked out over the
years as pure theory, with little help from reasoned thought. But until
then, he could use his brains to make it as easy as it could possibly
be.

He had no desire to take what was coming as a personal challenge.
The kids in the station and the pigs on the farm were interested in
results, not in his show of bravery.
