
Collins' voice cut off as Control interrupted to notify him that
loading was complete and that the lifts, trucks and men were all clear.

He put one hand on the switch that would unlock the guy cables
simultaneously. With the other, he started the peroxide pump for the
fuel and threw the switch to ignite the rockets. He could hear the
whine of the pump and feel the beginnings of power rumble through the
ship, but he kept it at minimum. His eyes were glued to the weather
picture on the screen that indicated his best chance coming up. Control
was going crazy. With their count-off already finished, they wanted him
off! Let them stew! A few seconds' difference in take-off was something
he could correct for later.

Then his hand depressed the main blast lever all the way, a split
second before he released the cable grapples. The _Mollyann_
jumped free and began to walk upstairs on stilts, teetering and yawing
in the wind. But his choice of take-off time had been correct. For the
first hundred feet, she behaved herself, though the wind was driving
him away from the blast deflection pit.

Then hell began. Acceleration mauled him backwards until only muscles
toughened by a thousand previous flights could stand the power he was
using. His fingers and arms could barely move against it. Yet they had
to dance across the controls. The ship twisted and tilted, with every
plate of her screaming in agony from the torsion and distortion of the
pressures. Somehow, automatically, his fingers found a combination
that righted her. His ears were clogged with the heavy pounding of
his blood, his sense of balance was frozen, and his eyes could barely
manage to focus on the dials in front of him.

He had stopped normal thinking and become a machine. The ship spun
crazily in the twisting chaos of pressure differences. Unaccountably,
she stayed upright as his hands moved with an unwilling life of their
own, while fuel poured out at a rate that should have blacked him
out from the acceleration. It was wasteful, but his only chance was
to get through the storm in the shortest possible time and hang the
consequences. If he could make the station at all, there would be fuel
there for his return kick-off.

He was making no effort to tilt into a normal curve. A red light on the
controls sprang into hazy existence before his eyes. The ship was going
too fast for the height, heating the hull. He had to risk that, though.

Then surprisingly, the ship began to steady. He'd climbed over the
storm.

He cut power back to normal, feeling a return of thought and hearing,
and began tilting slowly to swing around the Earth toward his
destination on the other side and a thousand miles up. It would make a
rotten imitation of a synergy curve, but he'd survived! He felt the big
first stage let go, followed by a brief moment with no pressure, until
the second stage roared out. Only a little over a minute had passed in
the storm, in spite of the hours of torture he had felt.

A voice started shouting in his phones, but he paid no attention to it.
Now was his chance to say something heroic, to make the jest that was
the ultimate in braggadocio!

"Shut up, damn it! I'm all right!" he screamed into the microphone. How
could he figure out a proper saying for the papers when they wouldn't
let him alone? Then slowly he realized he'd already answered, and it
was too late for pretty phrases.

The second stage kicked off finally, and the third stage went on alone.
He set up the rough corrections for his atypical take-off, hoping he
hadn't missed too much, while the second hand swept around until he
could cut off all power and just drift. Then he lay back, welcoming
weightlessness. He was trembling now, and his whole body seemed to be
a mass of bruises he couldn't remember getting. Sweat poured from his
forehead and goose pimples rose on his arms. He barely made it to the
little cabinet in time to be sick without splattering the whole cabin.

He made a lousy hero. The only music in his head was the ringing in his
ears and the drumming in his heart!

Yet the trip up was by far the easier part of his job. He still had to
bring his cargo down in its unpowered glide through a storm that would
be closer to its worst, or the whole trip would be useless for him, no
matter how many lives it saved.

He was feeling almost himself again, though, when he finally matched
orbits with the station. As far as he could determine, his wings and
stabilizers were still sound, and air pressure in the cargo space
indicated nothing had sprung there. He even had a few drops of fuel
left after making his final corrections. At least he'd done an adequate
job of piloting on the ascension.

With luck, he'd get the _Mollyann_ down again intact. But he'd
need that luck!




                              CHAPTER IV


The big multi-tube affair into which the station had grown looked
normal enough in the sunlight. But the men who came out in the little
space ferry showed the hell of slow poisoning they'd been through,
even over their jubilation at the sight of the filters. When they made
seal-to-seal contact and he released the lock, the smell of their air
was positively foul. They must have been reporting their plight as a
lot better than it really was.

Commander Phillips came through first, almost crying as he grabbed
Murdock's hand. He seemed at a complete loss for words.

"Hello, Red," Murdock greeted him. Phillips had been part of his own
class, fifteen years before. "How are the kids?"

"Shapiro says they'll be okay, once we get some filters that aren't
plated with contaminants. Tommy, I'd invite you over for champagne
right now, but our air would ruin it. Just figure that anything I've
got...."

Murdock cut him off. "I'll call it quits if you'll get this cargo out
and my usual load in here on the double, along with some fuel. And
you might have one of your engineers look over my wings for signs of
strain. I've got to ride the next orbit back, two hours from now."

"Go back into that! You're crazy!" Phillips' shock drove everything
else from the man's face. "You can't do it! I won't clear you!"

"I thought you were just offering me anything you had," Murdock pointed
out.

It took five minutes more of heavy arguing to arrange it, and he might
not have succeeded even then if he'd waited until the commander had
recovered from his first burst of gratitude, or if the man hadn't been
worn down by the poisons in the air and the fatigue of their desperate
fight for survival. Phillips was hoarse and sick when he finally gave
in and stumbled back to the loaded ferry. He croaked something about
idiocy and grateful humanity and took off. Murdock tried, idly, to
untangle it in his mind, but at the moment he was again more concerned
with hungry pigs.

It was too busy a stretch for him to have time to worry. The square
magnesium cans of dehydrated garbage began to come out, along with
fuel. Sick men were somehow driving themselves to a final burst of
energy as they stowed things carefully to preserve the trim of the
ship. From outside, there was a steady tapping and hammering as others
went over the skin of the controls with their instruments.

At the end, there was another visit from Phillips, with more arguing.
But finally the man gave in again. "All right, damn it. Maybe you can
make it. I certainly hope so. But you're not going it alone. You'll
take Hennings along as co-pilot. He volunteered."

"Send him over, then," Murdock said wearily. He should have expected
something like that. Hennings apparently reacted to the smell of glory
like a warhorse to gunpowder.

He took a final look at the cargo, nodding in satisfaction. There was
enough waste there to keep the farm going until they were over the
hump. If Barr got back and they could enrich it with commercial food
on temporary credit, Pete and he would be in clover. He pulled himself
about and up to the control cabin, to see the ferry coming out on its
last trip.

A minute later, Hennings came through the connecting seal and dogged it
closed. "Hi, Tommy," he called out. "Ah, air again. How about letting
me run her down for you? You look beat."

"The automatic pilot's disconnected," Murdock told him curtly. It had
begun misfunctioning some twenty trips back, and he'd simply cut it
out of the circuits, since he seldom used it.

Some of the starch seemed to run out of the younger man. He halted his
march toward the controls and stared down at them doubtfully. Actually,
little automatic piloting could be done on the down leg of a flight,
but pilots were conditioned into thinking of the automatics almost
reverently, ahead of anything else on the ship. It dated from the days
when the ascension would have been physically impossible without such
aid, and Murdock had felt the same for the first five years of piloting.

"Better strap in," he suggested.

Hennings dropped into the co-pilot couch while Murdock ran through the
final check. The ship began swinging slowly about as the gyroscopes
hummed, lining up for the return blast. "Ten seconds," Murdock
announced. He ran a count in his head, then hit the blast lever gently.
They began losing speed and dropping back toward Earth, while the
station sailed on and away.

Then, with power off, there was nothing to do but stare at what was
coming. It would still be night at Base, and even the sodium flares
and radar beacons wouldn't be as much help as they should be in the
storm. This time, they'd have to depend on lift, like a normal plane
landing. It would be tough for any plane, for that matter, though
possible enough in fully powered flight. But they had to come down like
a glider. If there were any undetected strains in the wings....

"You came up _without_ a tape?" Hennings asked suddenly.

Murdock grimaced, resenting the interruption to his brooding. He liked
Hennings better as a cocky hero than as a worried young man. "A tape's
no good for unpredictable conditions."

"Okay, if you say so," the younger man said doubtfully at last.
He sat staring at the controls with an odd look on his face. Then
surprisingly, he laughed and settled back loosely in his seat. "I guess
maybe you don't need me, then."

He was snoring five minutes later. Murdock scowled at him, suspecting
it was an act at first. Finally he shrugged and turned back to his
worrying. He knew there'd been a good measure of luck to his take-off,
in spite of all his careful efforts. He couldn't count on luck for the
landing.
