
He could still put in an emergency call and ask to land at some large
airfield out of the storm, in theory. But it would do no good. Hulda
was blanketing too great an area; any other field would be so far from
the farm that trucking the garbage back would be out of the question.
He might as well have remained at the station. Besides, he was already
on a braking orbit that would bring him near Base, and changes now
would involve risks of their own.

He watched the thin haze of the upper atmospheric levels approach,
trying to force his muscles to relax and his nerves to steady. The
worst part of the return was the chance for nervousness to build up.
Hennings went on snoring quietly, floating in the co-pilot's couch. His
relaxation didn't help Murdock any.

It was almost a relief when they finally hit the first layers of
detectable air, where the controls became effective again, and where
he could take over. The ship had to be guided steadily now, its dip
into atmosphere coördinated with its speed to avoid the dangers of
skipping out or of going low enough to overheat. Murdock eased her
down, watching his instruments but depending more on the feel of the
_Mollyann_. A feeling of weight began to return along with noise
from outside, while the hull pyrometer rose to indicate that friction
was working on them, turning their speed into heat. This part of the
descent was almost a conditioned reflex to him by now. Outside, he
knew, the skin of the ship would be rising slowly to red heat, until
they could lose enough speed to drop into the lower layers of air where
they could cool off.

The heat in the cabin rose slowly. The _Mollyann_ was an old model
among the ships; her cabin was less completely insulated and airtight
than most of the others. But for the brief period of high heat, she was
safe enough. Slowly the air picked up a faint odor, that grew stronger
as the hot hull radiated into the cargo space. He hardly noticed it,
until Hennings woke up sniffing.

"Garbage," Murdock told him. "There's still enough water in it to boil
off some. You get used to it."

They were dropping to denser air now, and he could feel perspiration on
his palms. He dried them hastily. His head felt thick, and his stomach
began to knot inside him. "Contact Control and have them shoot me the
weather," he told Hennings.

When the pattern of it snapped onto the screen, he felt sicker. There
was going to be no area of relative calm this time, and he couldn't
wait for one to appear. He tried to get the weather pattern fixed in
his mind while their descent flattened and they came closer to the
storm area. He'd have to turn and follow the course set by the wind,
heading into it; it meant coming down on a twisting curve, since there
was some local disturbance near the field.

Then the first bumpiness registered. The ship seemed to sink and
skid. There was no pressure of acceleration now, but his fingers
felt weighted with lead, almost too slow to adjust the controls. The
_Mollyann_ dipped and tilted, and his stomach came up in his
throat. He heard Hennings gasp, but he had no time to look at the
other. The top of the storm was a boiling riot of pockets.

Things were getting worse by the second now. The last few miles were
going to be hell. Lift wasn't steady, and eddies in the driving storm
shook and twisted the ship. Her wing-loading wasn't bad, but she lacked
the self-correcting design of the light planes he'd flown. The wings
groaned and strained, and the controls seemed frozen. He was on the
weather map now, a white blip that scudded along the edge. It gave him
orientation, but the sight of his course offered little reassurance.

They hit a larger pocket and seemed to drop a hundred feet. The wings
creaked sickeningly, and something whined from the rear controls. The
elevators abruptly bucked back at him, catching him unaware, and he
had to brace himself and fight against them, putting his muscles into
it. Obviously, the servo assist had conked out. Probably something
had happened during take-off. He was left with only his own strength
to buck the currents now, operating on the mechanical cable. If that
couldn't hold...!

He was sweating as he fought the buffeting. In spite of his best
efforts, they were pitching more now. Another violent swoop came, and
was followed by a thump and scraping from the cargo section. The ship
lost trim. Some of the cans had come loose from their fastenings and
were skidding about!
