
He saw Hennings jerk from his couch and fight his way to the hatch. He
yelled angrily, knowing the fool could get killed by something grinding
into him down there. Then he had no time to worry as the heavy odor
told him the boy had already gone through the hatch. He fought to hold
the ship steady, but there was no predicting its behavior. His muscles
were overworked and unable to handle the controls as smoothly as they
should. Now the field was only a few miles away, and he had to buck
and twist his way through the wind to arrive within the limits of the
landing strip. To make things worse, the wind velocity must have been
higher than he had estimated, and he had lost more speed than he could
afford. It was going to be close, if he made it at all.

Then the ship began steadying as he could feel the trim restored. He
had only time for a single sigh of relief before Hennings was up,
dripping with sweat and garbage odor as he groped his way back to
the couch. Murdock tried to call his thanks, knowing the courage it
had taken to risk the cargo hold. But Hennings' whole attention was
focussed sickly on the weather map.

The field was coming at them, but not soon enough. Too much speed had
been lost to the wind resistance. Murdock tried to flatten the glide,
but gave up at once. They were already as near a stall as he dared risk
in this stuff, and they'd still miss the field by a mile! They'd land
and go crashing into trees, rocks and maybe even houses down there!

Murdock swore and grabbed for the blast lever. There was no time to
warm up properly, but he had to have more speed.

He heard Hennings' voice yell a single shocked word before his hand
moved the lever. Behind them, sound roared out for a split second and
the ship lurched forward. Power such as that wasn't meant for minor
corrections in speed, and there was no way to meter it out properly,
yet it was the only possible answer. He cut the blast, then threw it
on again for a split second. Then he had to snap his hand back to the
elevator controls, fighting against them to regain stability.

He couldn't risk more speed. If they undershot, they were lost. And
if their speed were too high, there would be no second chance to try
a landing. They couldn't turn and circle in the storm. They were only
getting through by heading straight into the wind, jockeying to avoid
cross currents. Beyond the field was the ocean, and these modern ships
weren't designed for water landings--particularly in the seas they'd
find running now.

A glint of yellow caught his eye. The field markers! And he was too
high. He threw his weight against the sloppy controls and felt the ship
beginning to go down. He'd picked up too much speed in the brief burst
of power, but he had to land somehow at once.

He could make out some of the flares now, and he had to aim between
them. He kicked out the landing wheels and fought her down savagely. He
was already past the near edge of the field. Too far!

Suddenly the wheels hit. The ship bounced as the wind caught it from
below and began slewing it around. Then it hit again, while he fought
with brakes and controls to right it. It staggered, skidded, and went
tearing down the runway. Ahead of them, the crash fence loomed up in
the yellow light. Ten feet--another ten--

Murdock felt the ship hit and bounce. He was just feeling his relief
that their speed was too low to crash through when his head struck
against the control panel, and his mind exploded in a shower of hot
sparks that slowly turned black.
