
He had a vague period of semi-consciousness after that when he realized
Hennings was carrying him out of the ship, with rain pelting on him
and the sound of the gale in his ears. Something bright went off, and
he had a vision of the photo they must have taken: Hennings carrying
a body from the _Mollyann_--Hennings, immune to all accidents,
standing poised and braced against the storm, marching straight toward
the photographers, smiling....

There was another vague period when he seemed to hear the voices of
Sheila and Bailey. The prick of a needle....

He swam up from a cloud of dark fuzz at last. There was a dull ache
in his head and a bump on his scalp. The light hurt his eyes when he
opened them, and he clamped them shut again, but not before he saw
he was on a couch in the recreation hall. At least that must mean no
concussion; it had been just an ordinary bump, on top of the strain and
nervous fatigue.

From outside, there was a confused mixture of sounds and a hammering
that seemed to be against the building. He started to pull himself
up to look for the cause, but it was too much effort for the moment.
He started to drift off into a half doze, until he heard steps, and
Hennings' voice.

"... absolutely magnificent, Miss Crane! I'll never forget it. He
didn't even try to kid around to keep his spirits up. He just sat there
without a sign of worry, as if he was doing a regular milk run. He
didn't bat an eyelash when he had to decide to use power. So help me,
he was like one of the heroes out of the kids' serials I used to watch.
And that lousy reporter writing that _I_ brought the ship down. If
I find him--"

"Forget it, Larry," Sheila's voice said quietly.

"I won't forget it! It was bad enough they cut him down to a quarter
column on the take-off and had to call it a lull in the storm! But this
time I'm going to see they print the facts!"

"That should give them another column on how you're modestly trying to
give credit to someone else," Sheila answered quietly. "Let them print
what they want. It won't change the facts that we all know. And Tom
won't mind too much. He's used to the way things are."

Murdock opened his eyes again and sat up, cutting off their
conversation. He still felt groggy, but after a second his vision
cleared. He smiled at Sheila and pulled her down beside him.

"She's right, Hennings. Let them print what they like. It's good
publicity for the service the way they probably have it. Besides, you
did your share." He reached out a hand for the younger man's arm,
conscious that he couldn't even do that with the right flourish. "It
took guts, trimming the cargo when you did. I meant to thank you for
that."

Hennings muttered something awkwardly, and then straightened into his
old self as he marched out the door to leave them alone. Sheila smiled
after him with a mixture of fondness and amusement.

"What happened to the _Mollyann_ and her cargo? And how's the farm
making out?" Murdock asked her a moment later.

"The farm's safe enough, from the latest reports," she told him. "And
the ship's a little banged up, but nothing serious. General Bailey
sent the cadets out to load the cargo into our truck. He said a little
garbage smell should be good for them." She smiled again, then glanced
at her watch. "He should be back now, for that matter."

Murdock grinned wryly. It was a shame the hogs would never know the
attention their food was getting. It must have been something to see
the cadets practicing being heroes while unloading the smelly cans. He
glanced out the window, but the storm was still too thick for clear
vision. Someone scurried past, just outside, and there was more banging
and a flurry of activity beyond the door, but apparently it had nothing
to do with Bailey's return.

It was five minutes more before the general came in, walking over
to stare at Murdock. "Your truck's outside, Tom. And don't bring it
through the gates again until you're wearing a proper uniform!" He
chuckled. "With eagles on the collar. I've been trying to wrangle them
for you a long time now. Congratulations, Colonel! You earned them!"

Murdock pulled Sheila closer as he accepted Bailey's hand, feeling,
the strength of her against him. There were other strengths, too--the
words he'd heard Hennings saying, the recognition and security the new
rank offered, the awareness that he hadn't failed his job. But he still
found himself awkward and unable to rise to the occasion. He didn't
try, but silently let Bailey guide them toward the door.

Then he turned. "There's one other thing. That application for Moon
service--"

He felt Sheila stiffen briefly and relax against him again, but his
words brought the general to a complete standstill.

Bailey's head nodded, reluctantly. "All right," he said at last. "I
hate to let you go, Tom, but I'll put it through with a recommendation."

"Don't!" Murdock told him. "Tear it up! I've got a lot of hogs
depending on the garbage run."

He threw the door open and saw the loaded truck waiting outside. He
started toward it, drawing Sheila with him. Then he stopped, his mouth
open in surprise, seeing what had caused all the banging he had heard.

There was a wide, clumsy plywood canopy built over the doorway now,
running out to the truck. Lined up under it were all the pilots, with
Hennings at the front, moving forward to open the door of the truck
with a flourish. Precisely as Murdock's foot touched the ground, the
band struck up the notes of _Heroes' March_.

Feeling like a fool, Murdock stumbled forward, awkwardly helping Sheila
in and getting into the driver's seat, while fifty pairs of eyes
remained zeroed in on him. Hennings shut the door with another flourish
and stepped back into the ranks.

And suddenly Murdock knew what to do. He leaned from the window of the
truck as Sheila settled into position beside him. He grinned at the
pilots, raised his hand, placed his thumb against his nose and wriggled
his fingers at them.

Hennings' face split into a wide grin and his arm lifted in the same
salute, with fifty others following him in the gesture by a split
second.

Murdock rolled up the window, and the big trick began moving across the
field, heading toward home and the hogs.

Behind him, the band played on, but he wasn't listening.
