
The first thing to do was get oriented. The Bryd took a quick look
around. Dale Stevenson, doctor of physics, was in charge of this
sun-station, which was a man-made island in space, some three miles
in diameter. The rim of the island was composed mainly of a steel
framework like the rim of a wheel, with little cabins at various
intervals to house a power plant, various controls, rocket berths,
repair shops, and living quarters for the sun-station's crew.

The center area of the sun-station was a giant mirror, three miles
across, made up of thin sheets of metallic sodium fastened to a
skeleton of wire nets. The sodium was very light in weight, and being
in airless and heatless space, was inert. Also it was highly reflective.

The whole business was kept at a point approximately 5,100 miles from
Earth, where Earth's gravitational attraction approached neutrality and
where the entire space-station could be maintained in a given position
or moved at will with a minimum expenditure of energy.

Technically the station was owned by Night Sun, Inc., along with nearly
a hundred others around Earth, and this particular station, No. 18, was
under contract to furnish illumination at night over Paris, France, by
staying out of Earth's shadow and reflecting sunlight on Paris during
the night.

Management of such a station involved many mathematical factors in
distance, triangulation with Paris, velocity and angulation, and
control of the curve of the mirror. Normally this was a parabolic
curve, but it was constantly varied with other factors to produce the
desired degree of illumination.

No. 18 was under the sole control of Dale Stevenson, who had been
psych-tested and certified by the United Nations licensing board.

That made the Bryd feel a little better. It looked as if he had made a
mistake twenty-four years ago, but it also looked as if the licensing
board had been fooled within the last year, for Dale certainly was
getting ready to cause a lot of trouble in Paris. He could actuate the
controls to expand or contract the rim of the station and thus vary the
focal length of the sodium lens, and if he should actually concentrate
the sun's rays in a small area, he could draw a flaming path of ruin
through the center of Paris.

Reluctantly the Bryd checked again, and found that that was exactly
what Dale Stevenson was about to do. The Bryd wondered why. It groaned.
Humans were always up to something. Why couldn't they relax so the Bryd
could rest?

The Bryd had been so happy back in 2250--or let's see, was it _up_ in
2250? (This was 2045.) That was when Bob What's-his-name and that cute
girl had landed on Pluto and given him a chance to get away. The long,
lonely eons in Pluto's absolute zero had been quite monotonous to the
Bryd, which was nothing but pure energy but which certainly had its
feelings. After almost a third of a billion years marooned on Pluto it
had sometimes almost wished it had not been so adventurous in its youth
and hopped that stray comet as it had swept by its home on Arcturus.

For it had tired of the comet and jumped off on Pluto, and then had
discovered it didn't have enough range of its own to get from Pluto to
another planet. Then it was that Bob and Alys had come along on their
'round-the-system honeymoon, and the Bryd had hitched a ride to Earth
(unknown to them), for it was pretty darned lonesome by that time.

It lived very happily with them until they got old, and then it decided
to go back in time to 1950. There it found a nice friendly mind in Joe
Talbott, and after it saved Joe from blowing up the Lithium Mountain
and half the earth with it, it had settled down to snooze in Joe's mind
and hadn't awakened until Joe died of old age. Then the Bryd had hunted
a nice, stable mind and had finally picked Dale Stevenson, who was four
years old, and had curled up for another long, quiet snooze. But now it
was only twenty-four years later and Dale was in a bother.
