
The Bryd went deeper into Dale's mind to see what was going on. Dale
was worried about something. In fact, he had worried so much it had
upset his normal mental balance. It seemed to have started back about
twenty years ago, a few years after the Bryd had entered Dale's mind.

It seemed that Dale's parents had been killed in an atomic blowup, and
Dale, eight years old, had been taken care of by his older sister.

"Don't you worry, Dale," she had told him stoutly. "I'll take good care
of you. And I'll buy your clothes and your school-books and everything.
You won't have to go to a home. I won't let them take you."

That's what Dale had been scared of--going to a home. He was happy
with Marillyn. She took good care of him, and somehow managed to keep
the authorities from finding out that a thirteen-year-old girl was
supporting a small boy.

Dale had understood all those things later, when he started to the
university and they became curious about his background. He realized
then what she had done.

"I'll remember all those things," he told her in the first fullness
of young maturity and his sudden realization of her loyalty. "You've
practically devoted your life to me. I appreciate it. You'll see," he
said, embarrassed in this new knowledge, but humbly grateful.

He got a chance to show her; for six months after his graduation, while
he was being trained at Station No. 18, he insisted that she should
come to visit his new post. Marillyn never had ridden a rocket because
she was afraid of them, but she recognized the honor he was conferring
on her, for very few persons but employees had ever set foot on a
sun-station. She agreed to go. Dale arranged passage. Then she was
severely injured in the take-off.

Dale was devastated. He called in specialists, consultants,
diagnosticians.

"Don't worry about it," he said. "I'll take care of everything. You'll
be all right in no time."

But she wasn't. She was badly crippled, paralyzed from the waist down,
and she became pitifully thin.

Dale spent most of his salary on her. Doctors told him it was useless,
nothing could help, that a part of her brain cells had been destroyed
and could not be rebuilt, that she might live fifty years but she would
always be helpless.

Dale refused to believe it. "She's got to get well," he said. "It isn't
right--after all the things she did for me. When she was just a kid
and should have been skating and dancing and going with boys, she was
working to keep me from going to a home. She's entitled to some fun
now."

But she didn't have a chance. Her recovery would have been contrary to
all medical experience.
