
Dale's salary grew until he was getting twenty-five hundred a month,
but most of it he spent on Marillyn--largely against her wishes.

"Dale, I wish you wouldn't insist on trying every new-fangled cure
that comes along. I know what the situation is. I can read. I know I
won't get well. I can't. When that brain-tissue is destroyed, it's gone
forever. You go out and have some fun. Please."

But Dale, worried but stubborn, said, "Do you remember that winter you
sold papers on the street so I could have skates and a sled? Do you
think I can forget that?"

"I didn't mean it to become a burden to you," she said softly.

He smiled. "It isn't a burden. I'm doing these things because I want
to--because I want to see you active and pretty again. I'll do it, too.
You'll see. Next month you're going to the spa at Carlsbad."

She tried to dissuade him, but next month she was bundled up and
carried to the train to go to Prague.

It was in Prague that Dale met Ann Wondra, last daughter of a long line
of Polish nobility. Ann was dark-haired, quick-eyed, and she could
laugh in a way that warmed a man's blood. At any rate, she warmed Dale
Stevenson's.

They went hunting together. They ate dinner together. They rode
together. They visited Marillyn together, and after they came away
from Marillyn in her wheelchair, Ann said, when he stopped the car on
the top of a high hill in the moonlight from where they could see her
ancestral castle, "You're determined that she shall get well, aren't
you, Dale?"

"Of course," he said.

"What will you do if she doesn't?"

He refused to consider that. "She will," he said confidently.

By that time Dale's arms were tightly around her. So, for that matter,
were Ann's around Dale.

"You are quite sure," Ann said cautiously.

"I suppose," he said, in an abrupt humbleness, "it's a fixation by now.
It's something I recognize as a problem, and the best way to cure it is
to cure Marillyn. When I go out on a party, or when I am extravagant,
it nicks my conscience, because Marillyn made all these things possible
for me in the first place."

"It isn't your fault that she's an invalid, is it?"

"Not directly, no, although she didn't want to take that trip. However,
I don't think it's that as much as it is the feeling that if I get too
much interested in other things I might neglect her--that is, I might
be somewhere else doing something for fun just at the time when the
opportunity would come to get her cured. Do you see what I mean?"

"I think so," she said gently.

"For instance," he went on, very much concerned with making her
understand, "if I should spend a lot of money on other things--say, for
instance, that I should marry you and we'd build a home and all--that
would take a lot of money and it would make me unconsciously less eager
to find a cure for Marillyn because deep down I'd know I might not be
able to pay for it."

Ann drew back in her arms. Her black eyes reflected the starlight.
"Dale, what did you say? Did you say 'if I should marry you'?"

He looked back at her. "Uh-huh."

"You've never even said you loved me."

He kissed her very tenderly on the lips. "I do," he said.

Then they kissed so fiercely that the Bryd, listening in solely to get
an angle on this whole business, got excited and very nearly got stuck
crosswise in the time-stream.
