
The man's eyes looked speculative. He glanced at the telepaper on
Dale's bed, and the Bryd, figuratively speaking--for of course the Bryd
was nothing but pure energy--opened its eyes. For the Bryd knew the
man's thought, and was astonished to learn that Dale had been closely
watched for some time. Following the scene in the flower garden, the
item in the telepaper had been especially arranged to produce a certain
reaction in Dale Stevenson without Ann Wondra's knowledge.

"You know, of course," the man said, "that France is about to disturb
world peace by invading Spain."

Dale sat up and frowned. "No, I didn't know it."

"It is true," the man said, watching him intently.

"Why are you telling me?"

The man cleared his throat significantly. "You might be in a position
to save the world from an atomic war."

Dale stiffened. "You must know," he said coldly, "what my position is.
I am in the employ of the United Nations, and any attempt to control my
actions is coercion and the penalty is death."

The man did not back away. He moved closer, and his eyes became black
points of force. The Bryd saw that the man had mental powers unusual
for that period of Earth's history.

"Look at me, Dale Stevenson."

Dale fought against it, but the man's will was powerful. Dale's
resistance weakened. The man's eyes never wavered from Dale's. He moved
still closer and spoke in a low tone. "Our information is that France
will drop atomic bombs on Spain's principal cities at three a.m. one
week from today. Suppose--just suppose--that some other nation--some
nation powerful enough to do so--should be in a position to warn France
at two-thirty that France would not be permitted to attack. Suppose
this warning were backed up with a show of force to prove the warning
meant business."

"Isn't that the job of the U.N.?"

The man's face was only inches now from Dale's. The Bryd shivered
in its figurative boots. This man was a master hypnotist. Only
they wouldn't call him a hypnotist in these days. They'd call him
a psyche-man. Psyche-control was much more powerful than hypnosis.
Psyche-control touched the moral inhibitions, which hypnosis never had
been able to do.

Dale was lost. In the end he agreed, for a cash-on-delivery fee of
one hundred thousand dollars, to concentrate his sodium mirror beam
on Paris at two-thirty of the morning designated, and thereby, with a
smoking path of fire and ruin, help the other nation to warn France
that she must keep hands off Spain.

Perhaps Dale's jealousy of Georges Raoul Dumont had a bearing on the
agreement.
