
Dale had been so much under the foreign agent's influence that he had
not considered the ethics of the idea at all until time to press the
button that would concentrate the sun-energy into a consuming column of
fire. The time was now ... and it was only now, with the hypnosis just
beginning to wear off at the edges, that he found himself wondering
vaguely about angles of the situation that previously had not occurred
to him.

Who was the man who had talked to him? Whom did he represent? Why
hadn't he gone to the U. N. if he knew so much?

But then it was true, as the man had said--if France planned to start
dropping atomic bombs at three o'clock, it would be too late to appeal
to the U.N. Dale didn't like Frenchmen anyway.

Altogether, the Bryd concluded, Dale Stevenson was pretty muddled up in
his mind. The man needed a rest, but that could be worked out later.
Right now his finger was on the firing-button, and the psyche-control,
though weakened, was pushing him to finish the job.

[Illustration: Dale Stevenson's finger was just starting to move the
button....]

Oh dear, these humans certainly could muddle things.

The Bryd decided to have a look at Ann Wondra's mind. And there it got
somewhat startled, for Ann's, which previously had been all warm and
cozy as toast, was very low indeed. She was looking at a snapshot of
Dale, and it wasn't even a very good picture, but it exhilarated her
and at the same time it depressed her, because she wanted Dale but
couldn't have him.

Ann was sitting cross-legged on a thick rug, drinking Darjeeling tea,
and talking to her mother.

"I'm glad M. Dumont has gone back home," she said, and the Bryd noted
that there wasn't any jump in her blood-pressure when she mentioned
Georges' name--well, not much, anyway.

"He's very handsome," said her mother, knitting busily. The old lady's
blood-pressure jumped more than Ann's.

"But he isn't as nice as Dale Stevenson."

"My sakes, Ann, I hope you don't grow to be an old maid, mooning over
that tongue-tied--"

"Mother!" Ann got to her feet. She was long-legged and clean-limbed.
The Bryd approved of her. It could imagine by now what she had done to
Dale's mind. It didn't see how it had slept through it.

So the Bryd took a quick transition back to America and had a look
at the mind of the doctor who took care of Marillyn Stevenson. The
physician was having lunch with a consultation expert.

"You know," the doctor said, fingering a Manhattan--"I don't know what
to do about young Dale Stevenson. He's still trying to cure his sister."

"Maybe there's a reason."

"Sure there's a reason. He has this feeling of gratitude and loyalty
and all. That's all there is to it, but he's butting his head against
the infinite inertia. He's spending two thousand a month on that
girl--and the worst of it is, she doesn't want him to. She knows what
the score is and she's resigned to it."

"Well, loyalty is a wonderful thing, but I suppose it can go too far,
and over-shadow reason, especially in the young. Is there any chance at
all for the girl?"

"No possibility. Progressive degeneration of the brain-tissue." He
tossed off the Manhattan and the Bryd shuddered--it preferred Martinis,
itself. "The only thing would be a miracle, and you know how scarce
they are in the medical world." He smiled. They both smiled. The Bryd
mentally snorted. Who were they, to laugh at miracles? They thought
they were pretty damn' smart, didn't they?

The Bryd decided it had better look in on Marillyn.
