
It found her in a glassed-in porch of the sanatorium, with her
reclining chair facing south, and the sun pouring down through the
magnolias. The Bryd liked this. Everything was restful and peaceful
and pleasant--

But something was wrong as hell in Marillyn's mind.

She had a small bottle of something in one hand under the light
blanket, and she was lying back running over everything in her mind.
Dale loved Ann and Ann loved Dale. But they couldn't get married
because of Dale's exaggerated sense of duty.

Marillyn didn't want to keep them apart. She could adjust herself to a
very pleasant life in a place like this, but Dale wouldn't let her. As
fast as he could save some money, he'd dream up some new scheme to get
her cured.

Well, Marillyn reasoned, she wasn't of any use to anybody. Why should
she stay in Dale's way? The Bryd was puzzled. What did she think she
could do?

She had the little bottle under the blanket, she was thinking. A few
drops of that and--the Bryd was positively flabbergasted. The girl
was getting ready to kill herself. The Bryd probed into her mind for
an instant and discovered that she wasn't being a martyr and had no
complexes; she was just trying to straighten things out for Dale and
Ann.

Oh, beans, thought the Bryd. If humans weren't the dumbest beings ever!
It watched Marillyn raise the bottle to her lips. It simultaneously
took the form of a nurse, standing there at Marillyn's side, and
Marillyn gasped and said, "Oh, nurse, I didn't know you were there."

"I am," said the Bryd in its best contralto voice. "Did you wish
something, Miss?"

The hand with the bottle of poison fell back under the blanket. "No, I
didn't call."

"May I move your chair out of the sun, Miss?"

"It isn't in the sun," Marillyn said.

The Bryd raised its eyebrows. It did some quick work on the wind, and
there was the sun, shining steadily through an opening in the magnolia
trees.

"Perhaps it _is_ too bright," said Marillyn. "If you'd just move it
over there--"

The Bryd was delighted. In the process of moving the chair, it got its
figurative hands on the bottle and disintegrated it. Then it said,
"Miss, don't you think you will get well?"

Marillyn said calmly, resignedly, "There's no chance. None whatever.
When brain-tissue is gone, there is nothing medical science can do.
They can't build tissue, you know."

"Oh?" said the Bryd.

"Only a miracle," said Marillyn. "And miracles don't happen in medical
science."

The Bryd almost snorted aloud. Oh, they didn't, hey? It--

The head nurse came striding up, her leather heels clacking on the
tile floor. "Miss--" She looked puzzled. "Who are you, anyway?" she
demanded. "I've never seen you before."

These women! Maybe the Bryd was getting peevish in its old age, but why
couldn't people mind their own business for a change?

It resolved itself into a doctor, and it was gratified to watch the
head nurse's eyes shoot open.

"Madam," the Bryd said in its best baritone, "were you addressing me?"

"I--" The head nurse swallowed. "No, sir, I--I beg your pardon, sir."
She recovered slightly. "Have I seen you before, sir?"
