
Farnum operated the compact computer, aligning the ship's velocity
vector precisely while the stars could still be seen. Bates controlled
the engines, metering their ravenous demand for power just this side of
destructive detonation, while the ship sucked energy from space--from
the adjacent universe on the other side of Limbo. Finally the computer
chimed, relays snicked, and the ship slid into the emptiness of Limbo
as the stars winked out.

With two trained men working as a team with the computer and the
elaborate engine room controls, and with a certain amount of luck, the
ship would drop back into normal space a couple of weeks later, close
beside their target.

"Well, that's that," said Farnum, relaxing and wiping the perspiration
off his forehead. "We're back once again in the nothingness of nowhere.
As I recall, it's your week for K.P. Where's the coffee?"

"Coming right up," said Bates. "But you won't like it. It's the last of
the 'God-food' the Korite priests made for us."

Farnum shuddered. "Pour it out and make some fresh. With a skillet, you
stink, but you're a thousand times better than Korites."

"Thanks," Bates said, getting busy. "It was the third place we stopped
that they were such good cooks, wasn't it?"

"Nope. Our third stop was the Porandians. They tried to kill us--called
us 'Devil spawn from the stars.' You're thinking of the fourth stop;
the Balanites."

Bates shrugged. "It's kind of hard to keep them all straight. Either
they fall on their knees and worship us, or they try to kill us without
even asking questions. Maybe it's lucky they're all so primitive."

"It may be lucky, but it doesn't add up. More than half the stars we
visit have planets that can support human life. And every one that can
does. Once there must have been an interstellar empire. So why are
all their civilizations so backward? They aren't primitive--they're
decadent. And why do they all have such strong feelings--one way or the
exact opposite--about people from the stars?"

"Isn't that why you want to try one more system?" asked Bates. "To give
us another chance to get some answers? Here's your coffee. Try to drink
it quietly. I'm going to get some shuteye."
