
The trip through the Limbo between adjacent universes passed
uneventfully, as always. The computer chimed again on schedule, and a
quick check by Farnum showed the blazing sun that suddenly appeared was
Deneb, as advertised. Seventeen planets could be counted, and the fifth
seemed to be Earth type. They approached it with the easy skill of long
practice and swung into orbit about it.

"This is what we've been looking for!" exclaimed Farnum, examining
the planet through a telescope. "They've got big cities and dams and
bridges--they're civilized. Let's put the ship down."

"Wait up," said Bates. "What if they've got starman-phobia? Remember,
they're people, just like us; and with people, civilization and
weapons go together."

"I think you've got it backwards. If they hate us, we can probably get
away before they bring up their big artillery. But what if they love
us? They might want to keep us beside them forever."

Bates nodded. "I'm glad you agree with me. Let's get out of here.
Nobody but us knows of the beautiful, profitable planets we've found,
all ready to become part of a Terran Empire. And if we don't get back
safe and sound, nobody _will_ know. The information we've got is worth
a fortune to us, and I want to be alive to collect it."

"Sure. But we've got the job of trying to find out why all those
planets reverted to barbarism. This one hasn't; maybe the answer's
here. There's no use setting up an empire if it won't last."

"It'll last long enough to keep you and me on top of the heap."

"That's not good enough. I want my kids--when I have them--to have
their chances at the top of the heap too."

"Oh, all right. We'll flip a coin, then."

"We already did. You may be a sharp dealer, but you'd never welch on a
bet. We're going down."

Bates shrugged. "You win. Let's put her down beside that big city over
there--the biggest one, by the seashore."

As they approached the city, they noticed at its outskirts a large
flat plain, dotted with gantries. "Like a spaceport," suggested Bill.
"That's our target."

They landed neatly on the tarmac and then sat there quietly, waiting to
see what would happen.
