
Farnum and Bates took turns talking at the box for half an hour. Then
the young man nodded, laughed, clapped his hands again, and the two
men carried it away. The crowd went with them, waving merrily as they
departed.

Bates shrugged his shoulders and went back into the ship, with Farnum
close behind.

A few hours after sunrise the following morning, the crowd returned,
as gay and carefree as before, led by the two young men who had carried
the box. Each of these two now had a small case, about the size of a
camera, slung by a strap across one brawny shoulder.

As the terrestrials climbed out to meet them, the two men raised their
hands and the crowd discontinued its chatter, falling silent except for
an occasional tinkle of surprised laughter.

"Welcome," said the first young man clearly. "It is a great pleasure
for us to have our spaceport in use again. It has been many generations
since any ships have landed on it."

Farnum noticed that the voice came from the box. "Thank you for your
very kind welcome," he said. "I hope that your traffic will soon
increase. May we congratulate you, by the way, on the efficiency of
your translators?"

"Thanks," laughed the young man. "But there was nothing to it. We just
asked the Oracle and he told us what we had to do to make them."

"May we meet your--Oracle?"

"Oh, sure, if you want to. But later on. Now it's time for a party. Why
don't you take off those clumsy suits and come along?"

"We don't dare remove our spacesuits. They protect us from any disease
germs you may have, and you from any we may have. We probably have no
resistance to each others' ailments."

"The Oracle says we have nothing that will hurt you. And we're going
to spray you with this as soon as you get out of your suits. Then you
won't hurt any of us." He held up a small atomizer.

Farnum glanced at Bates, who shrugged and nodded. They uneasily
unfastened their spacesuits and stepped out of them, wearing only their
light one-piece coveralls, and got sprayed with a pleasant-smelling
mist.

The party was a great success. The food was varied and delicious.
The liquors were sparkling and stimulating, without unpleasant
after-effects. The women were uninhibited.

When a native got tired, he just dropped down onto the soft grass, or
onto an even softer couch, and went to sleep. The Earthmen finally did
the same.
