
"Now," said the Oracle, after excellent coffee had been produced, "it
is necessary for me to go back into history a few hundred thousand of
your years. At that time, the people who made me entered this galaxy
on one of their periodic visits of routine exploration, and contacted
your ancestors. The race that constructed me populates now, as it did
then, the Greater Magellanic Cloud.

"Frankly, the Magellanic race was appalled at what they found. In the
time since their preceding visit, your race had risen from the slime
of your mother planet and was on its way toward stars. The speed of
your development was unprecedented in millions of years of history. By
their standards, your race was incredibly energetic, incredibly fecund,
incredibly intelligent, unbelievably warlike, and almost completely
depraved.

"Extrapolation revealed that within another fifty thousand of your
years, you would complete the population of this galaxy and would be
totally unstoppable.

"Something had to be done, fast. There were two obvious solutions
but both were unacceptable to my Makers. The first was to assume
direct control over your race and to maintain that rule indefinitely,
until such time as you changed your natures sufficiently to become
civilizable. The expenditure of energy would be enormous and the
results probably catastrophic to your race. No truly civilized people
could long contemplate such a solution.

"The second obvious answer was to attempt to extirpate you from this
universe as if you were a disease--as, in a sense, you are. Because
your depravity was not total or necessarily permanent, this solution
was also abhorrent to my Makers and was rejected.

"What was needed was a weapon that would keep operating without direct
control by my People, which would not result in any greater destruction
or harm to humans than was absolutely necessary; and one which would
cease entirely to operate against you if you changed sufficiently to
become civilizable--to become good neighbors to my Makers.

"The final solution of the Magellanic race was to construct several
thousand spaceships, each containing an elaborate computer, constructed
so as to give accurate answers throughout your galaxy. I am one of
those ships. We have performed our function in a satisfactory manner
and will continue to do so as long as we are needed."

"And that makes you a weapon?" asked Bates incredulously. "I don't get
it."
