
I knew where we were going next, and I was uneasy about it. Herb and
Dotty managed to sit together and I got a place right behind them where
I could eavesdrop. But they sat in silence.

The bus had left the ancient city behind, to head out over the desert
toward one of the few structures on Mars which had withstood the ravages
of time without crumbling. An immense dome of solid concrete reinforced
with pure copper rods harder than steel. The Martians had known what
Earth civilization didn't learn until around the year three thousand:
that copper can't be tempered, but pure copper becomes tempered of
itself in a thousand years.

That immense dome was a honeycomb of passageways and rooms, some of
which were not open to tourists. It would be a natural for Herb.

The bus stopped. The people were piling out and staring curiously at the
smooth surface of the dome. Especially at places where the reinforcement
rods were protruding and glittering like tarnished gold.

Two of the permanent guards had come out to take charge of the tour. I
caught the eye of one of them and nodded toward Herb. The guard caught
my meaning, edged over to his partner, and soon both men were warned
that Herb was to be closely watched.

I felt better, knowing that a couple of others knew about him. Maybe it
would have been smarter to have taken him in custody right then. But it
would have meant a scene.

The procedure of the tour was for the guide to do all the talking,
leading the procession through the roped off parts of the dome, while
the two guards followed along behind to make sure no stragglers got
left.

I let three or four people move in front of me so Herb wouldn't get
suspicious. Dotty was sticking close to him, plainly worried. And he was
more excited than he had been at any of the other spots. He fairly
quivered, his eyes caressing the walls with a fevered look.

Dotty didn't miss his increased agitation. Especially after he whispered
in her ear a couple of times.

The guide took the usual path. Straight into the dome, pausing at half a
dozen small rooms with carved walls, to arrive at a bank of elevators
installed in the exact center; then straight up to the roof and the
observation platform from which miles and miles of desert and ruins
could be seen. Then back down to the second level, a zig-zag course
through other rooms, and finally down a flight of steps to where the
tour started.

I kept my eyes on the back of Herb's head. You can tell a lot by doing
that. At first his head turned this way and that, indicating he was full
of curiosity. I was waiting for that telltale sudden tensing, with the
head directed at some spot, that would tell of a sudden "memory"
stirring in the man's mind.

I almost missed it when it came, because it was between two passages--a
blank wall. The briefest pause, then Herb was going on again as though
nothing had happened.

But now his head had stopped its curiosity-motivated pivotings. It was
the head of a man who was no longer curious--who has made up his mind
about something. I didn't like it.

And when the group emerged into open air once more without Herb having
tried anything I knew as certainly as I had ever known anything that he
intended coming back here, and soon.

In the comfort station before boarding the bus I scrawled a hasty note
to the guards to investigate the spot halfway between passageways 14 and
15 on the first level, and slipped it to one of them as I passed him to
get on the bus.

We visited four other spots on the tour. When Herb showed no real
interest in them it only clinched what I was already sure of, that he
planned on returning.
