
At the Ancient City Hotel once again, I gave the high sign, and shortly
Herb and Dotty were being watched by capable men, leaving me free to go
to my room.

Once there, I called the dome. They were just getting the X-ray setup in
place to explore that wall and promised to call me as soon as they were
finished. Next I called C.I. and made my report. I was still making it
when the operator broke in.

"Steve Merrit wants to talk to you," she said crisply.

"Make the circuit three way," I said.

Steve's voice came in. "I had to get to you, Joe. This guy Herb and his
wife just left the hotel."

"C.I.'s listening too," I said. "Did they say anything that would point
to where they're going?"

"To the cemetery first. He swiped a couple of knives and forks when they
finished eating their dinner. Maybe for weapons."

"I doubt that," I said. "But I think it's time to pick him up. He's got
to be committed."

"Wait a minute," C.I. said. "Joe, you catch up with them. Join them and
play along. Tell this guy Herb you overheard him and guessed what was
going on. Gain his confidence if you can."

"That's pretty dangerous!" I replied. "That guy's--"

"It's orders," C.I. said. "Steve, you lay the net so that whatever
happens we can contain it."

That was that. Orders. But I still didn't like it.

I went to the desk and took out my compact paralysis tube. Then,
reluctantly, I put it back. I would have to play the part. The paralysis
tube would give me away as an agent. It would have to be up to Steve and
the others to contain the threat.

Down in the lobby I saw Steve waiting impatiently. He was uneasy, too.
"What's come over C.I.? They're toying with dynamite on this."

"I think I know what they want, they want to let him go far enough so we
can see more of the nature of the danger. And I hope nobody gets killed.
They should have spotted this Herb guy and not let him come here at all.
I suspect they did spot him, and let him come to conduct another of
their damned experiments. They don't want to leave well enough alone."

We were outside now. No one was around. The sun was just beginning to
set, and the instant it disappeared the night would be pitch-black. Even
if one of the moons was out.

"We'll be watching on the standard C.I. band," Steve assured me.
"They're at the temple right now, waiting for it to get dark." He
grinned. "Good luck." There was a mixture of genuineness, half mockery,
and worry in his voice.

At the temple ruins I found them easily enough and took the simplest
course. I walked right up to them.

"Hello," I said. "I thought I'd find you here. I want to go along with
you. I'm interested."

"What do you mean?" Herb was hostile and suspicious.

"You remember me. I was on the tour this afternoon. I accidentally
overheard you. It would _be_ something if reincarnation could be
proven."

"Do you believe in reincarnation?"

I frowned as though being cautious. "I don't know." Then I put a
disarming grin on my lips. "Since believing in it is legally classified
as insanity, for the records, no." It was a nice statement. It could
imply that I did, and Herb took that implication. He accepted me. Dotty
was different.

"How do you know he isn't an agent?" she asked Herb uneasily.

"If I am, the fat's in the fire," I told her. "But wouldn't I be locking
him up?" This quieted, but didn't satisfy her. "Anyway," I said, "if you
can dig up something that you remember burying, an extra witness won't
do any harm. That's what you're after, isn't it? Proof that will end the
last bit of doubt?"

"That's right," Herb said. "And you can help me dig."

"Okay then," I said. And it was settled. We introduced ourselves, then
lapsed into silence while we waited for the sun to set. It wasn't long.
