
I wished fervently that I had a standard C.I. infrascope so that I could
see. Steve probably knew more of what was going on than I did. I had
counted on watching Herb by his own black light pencil, and he was
working in darkness.

Carefully I stole forward, inch by slow inch, my ears tuned for the
faintest significant sound such as a grunt of satisfaction that would
tell of finding what he was digging for.

And a million thoughts taunted me, thoughts about the latest discoveries
in disintegration frequencies, thoughts about how little we knew of that
ancient Martian civilization.

But also I was figuring what Herb would do. He would find the object he
was digging for. Unwittingly he would grunt his triumph. Dotty might
forget his strict warnings to be quiet, and say something. Regardless of
that, he would stand up slowly, fondling what he had found, remembering
what it was and how it worked. There would be a few seconds before it
would become a weapon in his hands, seconds that I had to make the most
use of, and be ready for.

"Uh!" It was the triumphant grunt I had known would come.

Sudden panic made me cast aside whatever vague plan of action I had had.

I turned on my pencil, bathing the two in its black light. At the same
time I said, "I _thought_ it was a scheme to get rid of me."

It was the element of surprise that saved me. A still picture of the
scene the black light disclosed etched itself into my mind. There was an
object in Herb's hand. A strange, meaningless object, dirty, yet with
definite form. It was cradled in his hand like a weapon. It was pointed
almost at me.

I dropped my pencil and went in low, diving for his legs. I felt the air
crackle where I had just stood. As my arms encircled his legs I heard
thunder exploding nearby.

Training has its advantages. The moment I felt contact with Herb that
training took over. I jerked and rolled in a movement calculated to
throw him to the ground face down, the motion ending in a backbreaker
hold.

But only a part of my mind was concerned with that. The other part was
frozen with horror. Approximately a half acre of the cemetery was
glowing. I saw Steve in the center of it with Herb's weapon pointing his
way. The very inertia of matter held Steve together for that brief
instant, then he was falling apart, melting and evaporating at the same
time, just like the stone markers and the ground around him.

I had the thing away from him suddenly, and I wondered what to do next.
Running footsteps gave me the answer. It was other C.I. agents closing
in.

Seconds later they had Herb under control. Dotty was wringing her hands
and crying.

Me, I was holding the thing, afraid to let go of it and afraid to keep
on holding it. But as the seconds passed without it exploding into
destructive action again I began to let myself think I might live a
while longer.

The area of destruction was molten now. Its heat was like that of an
open blast furnace.

We skirted it and headed toward the road, lights in the distance telling
us that cars were on the way to get us.

I saw Dotty stumble. I took her arm. She looked up at me, recognized me
in the light from the glowing pool of bubbling lava, and tried to pull
away.

"Take it easy," I said gruffly. "I'm your friend. Maybe the only friend
you've got here."

Her look told me she didn't believe me, but she didn't pull away any
more.

We walked along, and after a moment she seemed to struggle up out of her
mental paralysis.

"Herb was right!" she said in a low, wondering tone. "He really did
remember."

"It was plain coincidence," I said sharply, "and don't ever let yourself
think differently. He's insane. It's a recognized form of insanity.
He'll be sent to a good mental hospital, and in a year or two he'll come
out good as new."

"Coincidence?" she echoed. Then she laughed. It was mirth that drifted
quickly into hysterical hopelessness. I dug my fingers into her flesh
until the pain brought her to her senses.

"Coincidence," I said. "Nothing more. I've seen seventeen cases just
like his. How else did I spot him? I recognized the type. None of the
others found what they rationalized themselves into thinking they
remembered from the time they were Martians. Eventually one of them
would stumble onto something. That's coincidence. Not incarnated
memory."

She turned her head and blinked at me. I nodded grimly. "I'm an agent,"
I said. "I go out on the tours for one purpose only--to spot psychos and
make sure they don't get out of control. You'd be surprised how many
there are. Some of them, like your husband, probably show no sign of
instability until they get here. They look around at the evidence of a
civilization that existed before _homo sapiens_ had evolved on the
Earth, and it throws them. If you want to understand more about it read
the medical books. They get irrational pre-memories. They look at
something and the idea of familiarity associates with the new
impression. They look around a corner and see something, and build up
the conviction that they had consciously known what was there before
they looked around the corner."

I felt that I was making headway with her. I wanted to. I had to.

"You--you say there were others, and they didn't find anything?" she
said. She was groping for something logical to grasp. I had to give her
that something.

"That's right," I said. "And the law of averages said that someday
someone would uncover something that's been missed."

She was nodding slowly now, accepting what I was saying. It was
authoritative. She would find confirmation in authoritative books. If
she wanted to pursue the subject she would find plenty of evidence, real
evidence, to support it. It is a common form of insanity. It was
important that she believe that.

We reached the road. C.I. had been prepared. There was a car to take her
back to the hotel, a stationwagon for Herb who was now very submissive
and somewhat dazed, and a third car for me and my precious cargo.
