
Father Phillip was lying flat in the narrow white bed, his arms lying
listlessly on either side of the slight hump of his body under the
sheet. The big bulge halfway down was his knees over a pillow, the
usual position for post-operative appendectomies.

He squeezed out a smile with an effort. "Morning, doctor," he said.

"Father Nick," I smiled back. "Father Nick Molina of Pathology, Father."

His wasted body jerked as if with a knife thrust. Then he said, "Excuse
me. I had forgotten that there were doctors who were not laymen. I'm
sorry." He drew up a shoulder against his cheek in a curious gesture,
then shivered.

"Sorry for what?" I asked.

"Just sorry, I guess...." He winced and was silent.

"Sorry for me?"

"Well, yes."

"That I'm not a layman?"

"You could put it that way."

"That's a very interesting statement, Father, and one about which
I want to know a good deal more after I've asked you some other
questions. You see, I think I know what's the matter with you, and it's
definitely curable."

"It is not curable." His voice had a flat finality, and his lips drew
into a thin firm line.

"Let me ask you the questions anyway, Father," I said. He gave no other
sign, "Have you ever looked through a microscope?"

"At the little beasties? Yes, in college."

"Well, that's what I have just finished doing with a number of slivers
of living tissue from your body. Do you know what I saw that would
bring me up here?"

"I might," he answered warily.

"What do you think?"

"Cancer, maybe."

"No, cancer cells have their own pattern of behavior which is very
pretty and, of course, no longer at all deadly. You do not have cancer;
but the cells of your kidneys, for instance, are doing something I've
never seen live kidney cells doing."

"And what is that?" he said, as if he really couldn't care less.

"Nothing in particular. This is unheard of indeed. Kidney cells are
busy little widgets doing a tremendous job night and day. Like the
individual muscle fibers of the heart, they work on year after year
with no vacations, no coffee breaks, secure in the knowledge of their
purpose."

"No pseudo-sermons, please, Father!" Father Phillip's voice was stern.
"You don't have to Peter Rabbit up biology for me."

"A scholar indeed to have heard of Peter Rabbit," I laughed but he
did not smile. Then I asked, "Do you want to see how real kidney
cells--yours---are behaving? I have a projecting microscope in the
basement. Do you want to see what's going on?"

"Not particularly. If you think you can cure me, go ahead and try."

"Are you willing to pray for your own recovery?"

"No!" He spat out the word with a ferocity that seemed to surprise even
himself.

"Then I am going to sermonize indeed. And you are going to listen, my
dear little kidney cell."

"Oh, go ahead. But I warn you that I know something that will cancel it
all in advance." He had developed more force of personality than he had
showed since I came in.

"Oh? Then suppose you tell me about that. I always do better in
rebuttal."
