
And he blurted it out ... the whole story of the Phoenix Nebula
expedition and its discovery of the memorials of that beautiful
race which was destroyed utterly in the explosion of its star ...
the supernova which was our own Star of Bethlehem. "So you see," he
concluded, "we found out that ultimate dreadful secret of the cosmos,
that there is no plan, no purpose, no good God who watches the fall of
the sparrows with tender concern. To whom could I pray for my recovery?
To the random spin of electrons or planets? To a petty tribal totem? To
nothing!"

"_We_ found out? You _and_ the crew?"

"I gave them what answers I could."

"They asked _you_ ... and for a fish you gave them a stone, is that it?"

"Scold away," he said tonelessly. "I would not lie to them."

"The poet Dante," I began.

"Spare me the poets," he said bitterly.

"The poet Dante," I repeated firmly, "in his recounting of the vision
of Paradise, came at last to the Outside. He had pressed on just as
you of the expedition had pressed on, ever outwards, looking for The
Purpose. He was fortunate, of course, in not actually making his
expedition physically, in spite of pretending that he did so. Because
space seems to be too big for man to make anything of while he's in the
flesh. Anyhow, when Dante got Outside, the whole universe did a strange
flip-flop. If you can imagine a tennis ball really turning inside-out
and every other atom of the universe being compacted at the center and
the atoms of the original ball rarefying outwards, you may have his
Rosa Mystica. At any rate, you can understand that the further out you
go, the more you look at the same thing no matter in which direction
you look ... like every direction being South from the North Pole ...
so you might as well say that you are looking at a Center when you have
reached the periphery and look farther out."

"For the purposes of analogy, I suppose?" He was still bitter.

"For the purposes of making it clear what I want you to do. I want
you to turn inside-out. I want you to be God, so to speak, for a few
minutes."

"Indeed?"

"Indeed. For those minutes, at least, you have done with searching for
Him further and further out ... where you must have thought He was
(and He is, of course) or you'd probably have been a nuclear physicist
or a cytologist like myself. Consider yourself, then, the deity of
yourself, your body, of each personality-packed cell within it. Those
cells respond more or less well to your purposes and your plans. You
love them all and they love you, whether or not they know it very well.
Now think back ... how did you explain it to your baby incisor when
it first felt the pushing of a second tooth underneath? That it was
expendable? That it was no longer part of your purpose?"

"I don't suppose I felt that I was accountable to my teeth." Grumpily.

"But at any rate, your purposes had not changed, had they?"

"I suppose not."

"Now listen closely, God. Suppose you actually told your teeth that
you didn't need them any more ... and your heart cells that had been
contracting along so bravely ... and your marrow cells that had been
making blood ... and your stomach and your spleen ... you told each
and every cell that it was probably a good enough cell but that really
there was no purpose in their doing anything as you yourself had no
purpose and probably didn't exist anyway. Then what?"

"They'd go right on working. What a man tells his cells can't affect
them. You know that." Truculently ... as if to say: _you can't fool me_.

"They would begin to quit right then and there. A man _might_ not be
able to tell his cells much, but remember, a god can. Now let's go a
step further in. Let a cell be God and let its individual molecules be
its creatures. And this God tells His creatures that it's all over ...
no more purposes, no more action because there's no reason for it ...
what then?"

"The molecules break down?" Facetiously.

"Exactly. And the atoms disperse and the electron shells fall away and
what happens after that, I'm hardly prepared to say."

"Hardly." Amusedly now.

"Now back to man as man, not God, for the next. While you and your
eager predecessors were pushing outward to the stars, I and mine were
exploring cells. And we found cells dying from simple lack of faith ...
or, you might say, from an excess of faith in purposes which had been
abandoned. 'Our God said so and so' they insisted, long after their God
had revised his plans to such and such."

"Changeable gods do not interest me." Boredly.

"I'm glad to hear it," I told him. "That's fairly important. The
discovery part of this investigation, however, is that man does act as
a god to his cells, can tell them things and know that they hear his
still small voice. And among other things which man has to say to his
cells is his promise of immortality to each and every one."

"That's going too far, I think," Father Phillip objected seriously.
"The body dies."

"Man has a Precedent," I said quietly. "But," I added, "you have just
told me that it was a number of bodily deaths which destroyed your
faith in all pattern and purpose."

"Is that comparable?"

"Not only is it comparable ... it is, you might say, one of the myriad
identical petals of the Mystic Rose. And it is the one I know something
important about. You see, I have witnessed the immortality of the cell.
That's _my_ contribution to the journals, if not to the instruction of
the world which doesn't read them."

"Oh, I know ... every cell that's alive is merely a daughter cell of
one original cell, so that cell is immortal."

"I don't mean that at all, even though that's true. You might say that
I mean I have seen the souls of 'dead' cells in heaven."
