
Incredulously: "Through the projecting microscope in the basement?"

"No, you don't see them with eyes or hear them with ears," I assured
him.

"I thought not."

"But that doesn't mean they're not there. The first time was in a
placenta from the garbage can. We had been culturing polio viruses in
human placentas (very interesting personalities viruses are, too) and
I'd been sent a whole placenta more than I needed. What can a mother
tell a placenta which has been doing its work and is still in excellent
shape, just like that civilization in the Phoenix Nebula some two and
a half millennia ago? Does she say, 'There's nothing more for you in
time or space; the baby is born, I abandon you to utter nothingness'?
Very rarely. And even then she doesn't mean it. But the life does go
out of the cells. And disperses to God, glorifying Him in no uncertain
terms. This is what I heard and saw, with a God-given perception which
is not in my eyes and ears."

"You don't mean intuition, surely," he objected disgustedly.

"Let me put it another way with another question. With what ears do you
hear the music of the spheres?"

"You are too much the poet. I don't follow you." He was puzzled.

"To be very prosaic, then, how do you sense the 'turnover' or change in
energy level of the lone electron of a hydrogen atom in interstellar
space?"

"By deduction from whatever type of recording is made from a
radiotelescope."

"You have no physical nerve endings to sense this directly?"

"Of course not."

"But you are quite sure, nevertheless, that so gross a creature as man
may be aware of so slight an emission of energy?"

"Yes."

"And that what man can be aware of, God is also aware of?"

"It follows, if God is aware at all."

"If there is a God, then, there wouldn't be much chance that He didn't
know about such gross creatures as the men of the Phoenix? Excuse
me ... I've gone far afield. You said the radiotelescope. Well, a few
other doctors and I have been working on an instrument to measure
cellular action currents--in living cells, of course; and I had added
an auxiliary component which was supposed to find out what became
of certain suspected possible energy emissions not accounted for or
required by chemical processes in the cell. Where there's smoke there's
fire, you know ... and where there's energy there's apt to be more
energy. And here was a nice piece of fresh dying tissue in beautiful
condition.

"I put a tiny sliver into the infrascope just as a young child will
put anything that comes his way into his mouth for analysis ... and I
saw the scintillations on the plate which I knew signalled the ascent
of the souls of the cells, the binding energies ... one flash for
each dying cell body ... calculated later ... one quantum of binding
energy, one soul!"

"And so they were gone ... done ... dissipated into your
machine ... souls no longer." Father Phillip's sigh was one of
infinite disappointment.

"Binding energy to light ... light to mass, maybe ... and mass
to energy again ... or is there anything but energy in the final
analysis? You astronomers profess to know something of this. Why is
it, then, that when you bump head-on into life you suppose it to be
mysteriously something else? Something capable of complete extinction,
of contradicting the laws of the universe?

"But I digress again. I am sorry. I have not said what you are waiting
to hear."

Father Phillip drew in a long breath.

"In a frenzy of spirit I worked for months to refine the instrument
and to make more precise the registering and recording, daily trying
various tissues in the original machine ... getting reacquainted, too,
with the personalities of various types of cells in the big projecting
mike. Today I can show you, or any interested person, the endurance of
personality in the energy quanta after the cell body is dead. Does
this make a difference?"

Father Phillip's sigh this time was a relaxation of his whole being.
"Somehow it does," he said, "but I don't know why."

"You know," I assured him, "that the crux of the Phoenix matter was the
question of personal immortality. If the souls of the Phoenix folk are
in the hand of God, what does it matter to you or to me where their
bodies are? Suppose, just before the end, God told them that He would
bless their physical passing and set it for a sign to a younger people
that their savior was at hand? You have no way of knowing that He did
not. You _do_ know that He said: 'Other sheep I have which are not
of this flock.' And when your own body dies, you may even meet your
beloved folk of the Phoenix Nebula and there shall be 'one flock and
one Shepherd.'"

Father Phillip's hand reached out and I grasped it. He returned the
pressure firmly. "Thank you, Father," he said gravely. "I have been in
mortal danger of making a mistake. You have been sent to me."

"As you were sent to the crew of the expedition, and have not yet
wholly failed them. How do you feel at this moment ... in your body?"

His look became abstracted and he seemed to be searching himself
internally. Then he looked back at me with a shade of a grin. "My
incision itches like fury," he said, "and I need the bedpan."

"So, you are healing already? Now try to tell me a man can say nothing
to his cells." I drew back the sheet and observed the drying of the
serum at the edges of the incision.

"How soon can I get out of here?" he asked eagerly. "I must go to the
other members of the crew at once!"

"First to confession," I reminded him. "And then, depending on God's
will, it may be weeks or even days. I cannot predict the speed of a
miracle."
