
The boy said nothing and continued to stare at him without expression.

"When I see signs of an improved attitude," Dax said, "and a little
more work, I shall mark you accordingly. One gets the impression
usually that your mind is on other things. Things like jazz records."

"Didn't you listen to jazz when you were young, Mr. Dax?"

Howard Dax at thirty-nine hardly thought of himself as old. The boy was
not being exactly fresh, but he had a sort of polite tactlessness. It
was absurd, but he felt that Mallison had the upper hand, somehow.

Dax had an older brother who had been a lieutenant in World War II,
and he had described to him an occasion on which he had interviewed
an elderly staff sergeant. The staff sergeant in civilian life had
been his brother's boss. Although his manner was scrupulously correct,
there remained an atmosphere of his peacetime ascendancy. Howard Dax
sympathized with his brother. There was nothing actually wrong with
Mallison's manner, but the pupil had the master on the defensive.

He decided to ignore Mallison's question. He had no idea how the young
nowadays felt about the subject of early Benny Goodman or the emergence
of Barrel House. Why was he even bothering?

"The point at issue," he said with asperity, "is not whether I used to
listen to jazz twenty-five years ago, but whether you are going to pay
attention in class _now_. I admit you manage to scrape through in the
tests, but this morning, for example, you acted as if you were half
asleep!"

"I'm sorry. I was very tired." Mallison did look pale.

"I suppose you were up half the night--cutting a rug."

Mallison winced at the outdated jargon but he merely shook his head.
There were firm steps in the corridor, and the school principal marched
in.

Mallison stood up; Dax was still standing. The principal had a small
piece of folded paper in his hand, and did not immediately notice the
boy, whose desk was near the back row and next the open windows. He
went straight to the platform and put the folded paper on Dax's desk.
He nodded curtly and glanced towards the windows, and saw Mallison
sitting there for the first time.
