
"I thought you were alone," he said, turning to Dax.

"You may go," Dax said to the boy. "That will be all. Remember what
I said." He looked at the folded paper and then at the principal
questioningly. "Yes, Mr. Lightstone?"

The principal was a short white-haired man with a dogged expression.
He turned again to make sure the boy had left and said. "I want you to
look at this, Dax." He tapped the folded paper, which had been made
into a sort of envelope, with its ends tucked in. Dax bent to examine
it.

"Pick it up, man! Open it," the principal said, and came around and sat
in the teacher's chair. "Be careful not to spill it!"

Dax picked up the little packet and opened it. Inside was a teaspoonful
of white powder. "What is it?" he asked.

"That," said the principal, "is something for our friends upstairs
in the chemistry department to determine. I found it myself, in the
flowerbed right outside these windows!"

Howard Dax looked puzzled. "I don't think I understand--"

"If I don't miss my bet," said the principal, "that's heroin!" He
jerked his head towards the windows. "And somebody threw it out of
this classroom!"

"Oh, I don't think it's heroin, Mr. Lightstone," Dax said. "Heroin has
a distinct glitter, and this seems--"

"I had the impression you were a physicist, not a chemist," the
principal said. "Besides, the police told us last week that they
believe a gang of narcotics pushers--I think they called them--are
operating in the neighborhood! What else could it be? I've been on the
lookout for something of this sort."

There was a silence. Dax didn't know what to say.

He himself was very tired, he had been working late every evening. He
had three different tasks that occupied every minute of his waking
hours: his job as teacher being the least important although the most
essential. The other two were perhaps visionary, but they might lead to
something more exciting than retiring on a pension.

"Well?" Mr. Lightstone was impatient--his usual condition. "Have you
any ideas? It has been my experience that drug-taking and juvenile
delinquency go together." This was not strictly true as Mr. Lightstone
had never knowingly seen a drug-taker, but he did read the papers.

"I suppose there is a certain amount of delinquency here," Howard Dax
said uncertainly, "but _narcotics_...."

"Wake up, man!" the principal said. "You look half asleep! This is a
serious matter. I found the stuff right outside these windows! You must
have some idea of who might be involved. Which are the unruly ones? Who
sits next the windows?"

Dax glanced at the desk recently left by Mallison. Mallison? One
couldn't exactly call him unruly.... Yet he had the earmarks of a type
he detested and instinctively mistrusted. He even feared him a little,
though not perhaps for reasons of which he was quite aware.

"Who was that boy that just left?" The principal had noticed the
direction of Dax's glance. "Mallison, wasn't it?"

"Yes, but the packet might just as well have been thrown from one of
the paths outside."

"There's no path near here. You know that perfectly well," said the
principal. "There's a wide stretch of grass beyond the flower bed and
no one's allowed to walk on it! I've had my eye on that boy...."
