
Howard Dax thought this over. Come to think of it, he wouldn't put
such a thing past the young smart-alec. Hoodlumism doesn't necessarily
advertise itself in the classroom.

He looked at the principal. The man had a nerve to accuse _him_ of
seeming half asleep! Working in his private lab after dinner and then
at his desk until all hours, struggling to learn Middle English--or
rather, transitional Anglo-Saxon. He had done well at English lit at
college, even though majoring in science, and Chaucer had come fairly
easy to him. But Twelfth Century speech--and that was what he had
to learn--was something else again. Chaucer himself couldn't have
understood it. He wondered what young Mallison and his hipster friends
would think if they knew his secret occupations. He could just imagine
the sneering.

"Well, you _could_ be right, I suppose," he said. "He's not my--shall
I say?--favorite pupil."

"I'm glad you think I could be right," Mr. Lightstone said. "I intend
to hold an investigation. At the first possible opportunity. This very
evening, in fact. At my office, and I shall have young Mallison brought
before us. I shall expect you." He got up and strutted out of the class
room.

After a few moments Howard Dax followed him. Outside, on his way to the
gate, he passed Mallison, who was standing talking to another boy who
had a similar haircut, but was unfamiliar to the physics teacher. He
thought he was not a pupil of this school. They both became silent as
he drew near them, looking at him without any expression. Dax wondered
if narcotics could be responsible for Mallison's pallor.

After dinner Dax went into his little lab, which was actually the
kitchenette he never used. On the table and sink was some chemical
apparatus. The principal's remark had been ill-chosen since Dax at
college had started with chemistry as his major and had only switched
to physics in his senior year. He had also become interested in
genetics, and it was this all-around interest in the sciences that had
perhaps militated against him. Nowadays one ought to specialize.

Well, he was specializing now.

In an evaporating dish in the sink were some dark brown crystals
that his landlady would have taken for Damerara sugar, but which had
a considerably more complex formula. They would have lent a rather
odd flavor to Indian pudding. The logic which had given rise to this
formula was not merely complex but revolutionary. It involved the
concept of reversibility of entropy--the application of which was
itself unprecedented.

There were, Howard Dax was aware, certain aspects of germ chemistry
that defied description in terms of classical and mechanistic theory;
details that seemed to require the inversion of Time's arrow. To say
that a physical process was "non-reversible" usually implied the
presence of the probability factor. But that didn't seem to be the
case here. There was the suggestion of prophecy. Or else that time was
flowing backwards. Or ... was it that something flowed backward through
time?

Then there was the fact that the germ plasm was immortal. Not
indestructible, for the overwhelming majority of zygotes and gametes
died; but if one disregarded the soma, all living germ cells had been
alive since the beginning of life. After terrific work, none of which
would have seemed quite orthodox to his colleagues, Dax had arrived at
the end of theory and the beginning of practical application--at the
taking-off point--the countdown.
