
Lying on the drainboard near the evaporating dish was a hypodermic
syringe.

If he were to dissolve the dark brown crystals and inject the solution
into his veins, Dax believed that whatever it was that impeded this
time-reversal would be neutralized. His consciousness--not his body,
his somatic cells--would travel back along the unbroken line of his
identity as a germinal continuity. Back to the extent that the effect
of the chemical would allow.

He would then be in the body of one of his ancestors. Not spread among
them all, but following the line of greatest genetic valence to one
individual: living in the Twelfth Century A. D. Probably, but not
certainly, somewhere in England, since most of his ancestors came from
there.

Of course the time might be wrong. He had no way of making a precise
determination. He had experimented with a rabbit, but after the soft
little beast's eyes glazed over in unconsciousness it had immediately
come to. The time taken during its visit to the purlieus of its remote
and unknown forebears was of no duration in the present. And it had at
once attacked him and bitten him savagely.

It seemed curious that an ancestral rabbit at a period not so very far
back from a biological point of view should have a spirit so foreign to
the rabbits of today. Perhaps the drug had overshot its mark....

What if that were to happen in his case? Wouldn't it perhaps take him
to some earlier, non-human form and then, as it were, rebound to the
precise moment in history that the strength of the drug indicated? A
man is not a rabbit. But suppose he found himself not in the body of a
Twelfth Century Englishman--a risky enough situation--but hanging by
his tail from a tree in Java? How long before the hypothetical rebound
to the time of the Plantagenets?

Howard Dax was too tired to concentrate on the problem: it was probably
moonshine. The rabbit had been frightened, not atavistic.

The cumulative effect of overwork and irritation at the boy Mallison
and the principal's manner had made him reckless and impatient. He
made a sudden decision to stop worrying about precautions and take the
plunge ... now.

He had plenty of time before the meeting. The trip to the past would
have no duration in the present. He measured out an amount of distilled
water and stirred the brown crystals into it with a glass rod. Then he
filled the hypodermic and went into his bed-sittingroom.

He went to his desk and took a last look at a list of early English
irregular verbs and lay down on his sofa, rolling up his sleeve.

He hardly felt the prick of the needle but he realized that the rather
painful bump on his forehead had distracted his attention from it.

He looked at the thing he had bumped against. It was wooden and round
in section, about as thick as his neck, and rose at a slight deviation
from the vertical to a circular platform that was supported at other
places by two more wooden uprights. Beyond and above was an immensely
lofty roof of dark timbers. Far to the sides were stone walls.

He looked down to discover that the cold floor under him was also of
stone, covered here and there with dry yellowish reeds. Then he saw
that he was on all fours.

Instead of hands he had black, furry paws.


                                  II

Trice, the jester, was getting old. So, he feared, were his jokes.

His joints were stiff and he could no longer do the amusing contortions
that used so to entertain the Earl and his little court. In fact, the
Earl was getting on, too. He looked as though he was falling asleep in
his chair. Next to him the Lady Godwina was mumbling and giggling--not
at poor Trice's feeble quips, but as a result of too much blackberry
wine mixed with mead. She hiccoughed loudly and the Earl opened his
eyes.

He glanced at the Lady Godwina with bored distaste, and then at Trice
the jester. Would that the fellow would cease his tedious clowning and
go to the kitchens! Yet he hesitated to get rid of him altogether.
Having a jester at all in these days was a mark of prestige, and he
didn't know where he'd get a replacement.

Now that King Henry was dead he had fortified his castle like the other
barons. Since feudal pomp had become the fashion he hung onto its
trappings--poor old Trice was one of them. But, ye gods, what stale
jokes! Well, at least they seemed to please the younger serving men,
who must be too young to remember them.

Trice was unhappily aware that his humor was missing the mark. He fell
back on the one thing that never failed to make them laugh. He swung
his bauble and hit himself on the nose. He staggered back with comic
terror. "Hold on!" he cried to an imaginary assailant. "Not so hard!"
He struck himself again, harder. "Stop! Or I shall appeal to my noble
lord for protection!"

The Earl smiled faintly; he didn't want to disappoint the old man.
Besides, his nose was bleeding. It really was rather funny. Curious
about these people: they had almost no sense of pain. Trice, seeing the
smile, hit himself again and again, and feeling the blood, he smeared
it over his face in fantastic curlicues. The Earl closed his eyes
again, and Trice caught the eye of the clerk, a young man who had come
from Normandy. He was sneering. The Lady Godwina was singing a little
tune to herself, and paid no attention.

The old jester shrugged, and turned towards the archway to the kitchens
and offices. Better have supper and go to bed--his head ached and his
nose hurt badly, although the bleeding had stopped. Next to a wooden
stool he caught sight of his cat, Tybalt, staring at him fixedly.
Tybalt. His only friend! he thought to himself. But as he passed him,
the cat, instead of following him out with tail erect to share the
jester's wretched supper, backed cringing under the stool and turned
his head as he went by, keeping his staring eyes on him. Most unusual.
Very un-catlike.

"Here! Tybalt!" Trice said, but the cat backed further away.
