
Just before he realized what had happened to him, Dax recognized that
the big wooden thing that loomed over him was a stool.

Maybe it was this realization--and the sight of his own paws--that gave
him an idea of his size, and on looking back at the rest of himself
he knew that he was a cat. Something had gone wrong. The flashback
and subsequent rebound must have taken him far into the dim mammalian
past, but for what duration he could not tell. The transition had been
unconscious. At least he did not remember it. But to judge by the style
of the round stone arches of the hall he was now in--and the stonework
looked brand new--the ultimate effect had been according to plan, and
this was the early Middle Ages.

A movement caught his eye and he saw it was the cavorting of an
enormous man, dressed in gigantic tattered motley.

No. He wasn't enormous; it was just the unfamiliar scale of things. The
man was saying something in a booming voice, and Dax began to recognize
it as a form of transitional early English--but with an admixture of
Norman French and some pure Anglo-Saxon phrases. And what an accent!
If this man was typical, how wrong modern research and learned
speculation were! He would have some interesting things to tell the
experts--particularly his tutor--when he got back.

When he got back.... That was supposed to be in three days
approximately, when the inhibiting effect of the chemical would wear
off. Then he would, he hoped, be swept back to his own time and his
own body. But he was a cat. This was disastrous! How could he speak to
people? He could understand them fairly well, but a cat's bucal cavity
and vocal apparatus were not designed for the sounds of human speech.

He decided to try his voice, just on the chance, but stopped, horrified
at the muffled yowl that resulted.

Two rangy hounds, six times his size, roused themselves from the
rush-covered floor and glared growling at the sound with raised
hackles. "Down, Colle! Stop it, Bayard!" a gruff voice commanded, and
they reluctantly sank back again, keeping their fierce eyes on him. Was
this a sample of what he must expect from dogs? He hoped it was merely
his abortive attempt at human speech. Any further communication must be
tried silently.

He looked around the hall. There were other humans too. Several
men-at-arms standing by the walls and a few serving men. At the big
trestle-board were seated five people--one of them clearly the lord of
the castle--it must be a castle--and the one woman sitting next to him
in soiled finery would be his lady. The place reeked with the stale
odor of humans and dogs, and less obnoxiously the smell of wood smoke
and cooked meat. Dax realized that he now had a feline nose, and made
allowances. After all, the well-to-do bathed themselves, in the still
existing classic tradition, and would until the Black Death.

The ridiculous giant in motley stopped his capering and came across
the stone flags towards him. As he passed with ponderous footsteps he
looked down and said, "Here, Tybalt!"

Dax backed under the stool, terrified at the deep, hoarse voice. The
man was probably trying to be gentle. He must keep in mind that he had
a cat's hearing now, and all sounds would seem lower and louder.
