
How were cats treated in Medieval England? He did not know, and he was
not prepared for this contingency. But at least cats as a species had
survived. He hoped he was one of the lucky ones. He must at all costs
manage to keep alive for three days, because if he were killed before
the drug wore off he would not return.

What would they think at the school? Nothing, of course. He would never
have been there. That would be changing the future ... but you changed
the future every time you exerted your free will, anyhow.

One of his experimental rats had not come back: it had merely
disappeared with a loud pop. Perhaps an early Colonial terrier had got
it. It might be the best thing to do to take to the woods, and wait out
the time safe from the unknown dangers of men and dogs--but what of the
dangers of the woods? It was winter, to judge by the fire in the hall,
on a raised stone platform in the middle of the floor, from which the
smoke found its way out through a louver in the high roof. And the icy
drafts that came across the floor. Although he was a cat, he had little
confidence of being able to hunt like one, or find refuge from the cold
and snow.

He decided to follow the court jester. At least the man had spoken to
him kindly. And he had a name: Tybalt. He must remember to answer to
it.

He got up and began to walk towards the arched doorway through which
the jester had disappeared.

Walking on all fours felt perfectly natural--rather as if he were
following himself. There was no trouble about keeping in step, or,
rather, just out of it. His mouth was dry and he ran his tongue over
his muzzle ... he could lick his eye! Then he did something that also
felt natural, though pleasantly novel: he waved his tail. Then he stuck
out his claws. They clicked against the flagstones and he sheathed them
again.

He had never in his life felt so supple and physically complete. He
felt like running up the tapestry that hung by the doorway.

At the other end of the vaulted corridor that he found himself in he
could see the jester as he went into another chamber that was lit with
a smoky reddish glow. There was an increased smell of cookery, and he
guessed it was the kitchen.

When he got to the door he could see the jester was being given
something in a bowl that steamed, and a large hunk of dark bread. The
man turned and came out again and saw him.

"Come along, Tybalt," he said. "Supper for you and me. Come along, old
fellow!"

Dax followed him across the corridor to a narrow stone stairway in the
thickness of the wall. The winding steps seemed absurdly high. He would
far rather have done the whole thing in two or three long leaps, but
he took the steps one by one. Feline coordination would come to him in
time.

After an almost totally unlit passage they came to a minute room,
scarcely more than a cell. The jester struck a light with flint and
steel to a tallow candle, and sat down on a low straw-covered bed. The
floor was freezing. Dax jumped up onto a small table, but was instantly
pushed off it. His instinctive jump up and then down happened so
quickly that he only realized in retrospect what a feat it was from a
man's point of view. Yet he had landed clumsily. He was not yet quite a
cat.
