
The jester cut off a piece of dubious-looking meat and threw it onto
the floor. "Wait till it cools, Tybalt," he said, and scratched Dax
behind the ears. Dax was ravenous, which seemed odd considering
he'd had dinner half an hour ago. No, of course not. That was eight
centuries in the future; God knew when Tybalt had last eaten.
Disregarding the admonition he went at once to the meat, which was
pork, and burned his mouth. It smelled glorious. And yet he suspected
that in human form he would have revolted from it.

He looked up at his master. He had a conviction that he belonged to the
jester.

He studied the gaunt, blood-smeared face. It looked as if someone had
hit him on the nose. The cap-and-bells, with its attached wimple-shaped
neck piece, had been laid aside. The gray bobbed hair and bony head
looked anything but merry. There was, however, a shrewd reflective
expression in the eyes, and Dax felt that he might well be in an
advantageous position. Being a jester probably involved a certain
amount of tact and discretion, not to mention ingenuity, so he resolved
to try to communicate with him.

But first he must eat. Would the damned pork never cool?

The jester was already eating his, in great gulps, alternating it with
bits of the evil-looking bread. There was a stoneware pot that smelled
strongly of musty ale from which he drank every now and then. The
stench of alcohol in it was like spoiled garbage to Dax. How had he
ever been able to drink whisky? The thought of it was disgusting. The
meat was cool enough now--in fact stone cold--and he tore it to pieces
with his pointed teeth and bolted it unchewed. It was marvelous.

"Well, Tybalt?" the jester said, putting aside his bowl. "No mice
today? We are not very lucky, we two, are we?" He made a snapping with
his fingers and Dax jumped up onto the pallet beside him. The old man
stroked his back gently, but he had a very strong smell. Dax supposed
he would get used to his new keen senses in time. He hoped it would be
soon. It was very cold in the jester's cell and he intended to creep
close at bed time. In the meanwhile how was he going to make known his
true identity? Obviously speech was impossible; and Morse-code tapping
with his paw was out of the question.

You wouldn't get very far with mere facial expressions, either. Anyway,
to most human eyes a cat has but two: contentment and fear. He looked
around wondering if there were any small movable objects that he could
arrange into the form of the letters of the alphabet--even a piece of
string might do. But he feared that the man couldn't read. Anyway there
was no string to be seen.

Then on the table, which was scarcely more than a high bench, he saw a
rosary with wooden beads.

He got up and stretched--never in his life had he been able to stretch
like this--and jumped delicately over onto the table. The jester
reached out and swept him off it. Not roughly, but it was obvious
he wasn't allowed there. This time his landing was more skillful.
He sat on the cold floor and tried to think how he could get hold of
the beads. If he had them on the floor he could push them into an
arresting shape. A triangle perhaps, or a figure eight, that would
catch the jester's eye. He looked up at a movement and saw that the
man had picked up a small vellum book and was holding it close to his
face. What luck! he could read after all! But how was he going to make
letters? Near the sill of the door were some pieces of straw. He went
over and examined them. He realized that a cat's vision is rather poor
compared to a man's: quick to notice and interpret motion, but in other
respects the over-large pupils, meant for nocturnal hunting, gave an
inferior and uncertain image.
