
The straw was dirty and smelled of horses, but it ought to do. The
trouble was that when his face was close enough to pick it up with his
teeth he could scarcely make it out. He couldn't tell at first whether
he had one or many in his mouth. He felt that his whiskers should
tell him, but he was unaccustomed to their use. He padded over to the
jester's feet and dropped the straws. He backed off and looked at them,
then with his paw he ineptly pushed them into an A.

He looked up. The jester was lost in his reading.

Dax waited patiently, but the reading went on, and he patted the man's
foot with carefully sheathed claws. The jester glanced at him, though
not at the crude, straw A, and smiled.

"What now, Tybalt? More supper? That you will have to catch
for yourself. See--it's all gone! Share-and-share alike, old
friend. I weigh eight stone. You're but a scant four pound, so
correspondingly...." He returned to his reading.

Dax went and picked out some more straw which he brought back and
attempted to arrange in a B, but gave it up and made an E instead. Then
he made two crosses and a triangle.

AEXXΔ.

It looked like a fraternity. Then he mewed.

The man looked down again with a faint frown. He didn't seem to notice
the straw shapes; judging from the way he held the book he was quite
short-sighted. "Out?" he asked. "Out for a rat, poor Tybalt? Or to lie
by the embers in the hall?" He shook his head and got up, and went to
the door to open it. Dax jumped onto the bed and mewed again. The man
paused with his hand on the latch, looking puzzled. Dax jumped down and
dabbed with his paw next each letter successively.

"Why, what is this?" the old man said, smiling again. "Playfulness? The
kitten is back!" He went to the table and picking up the bauble, made a
feint with the stuffed bladder over Dax's head. Dax dodged it irritably
and mewed again; three times in quick succession.

This caught the attention of the jester, who laid down the bauble.
"Ah! A Tritheist! Will it get you a mouse, Tybalt? Will it keep off
evil spirits? It's said the imps love cats--so beware of moonlight and
mistletoe!" He picked Dax up and stroked him.

It was infuriating.

Dax was aware that the Medieval mind was very different from the
modern, but there must be some meeting point. Too bad this wasn't
Friar Roger Bacon--he'd have got his attention in no time. But he was
a hundred years too early. His immediate problem was to seek out some
person who had enough imagination and curiosity to take notice of a cat
who behaved not as a cat. If he had only known this was going to happen!

He tried mewing again, but the jester only smiled, so he mewed once,
then twice and then three times. The jester shook his head admiringly.
Like most of his contemporaries the world for him was filled with
wonders. It was an age of faith, not of speculation.

A pale moon showed through a narrow slit in the wall, which was
unglazed, and he became aware that the light from the tallow dip was
yellow, and the jester's costume red and green.

So it was all nonsense about cats having no color vision--anyway,
hadn't some woman in California disproved that? Against the moon he
could see the black outline of full-grown leaves on the nearby trees
and knew it was not yet winter but autumn. When winter came in earnest,
everyone from scullion to the lord of the manor would bed down in the
Great Hall where the fire was. But the stonework of the castle was
cold, and he felt himself getting drowsy.

The old jester put down his book, crossed himself and blew out the
light. Dax could hear him burrowing into the straw of his bed, and
nestled beside him.


                                  III

When he woke it was not quite dark, and a faint gray dawn came into the
cell.

The jester was snoring. Somewhere Dax thought he heard a rat. His
muscles tensed, and he found himself on his feet by instinct--the idea
of a rat was surprisingly attractive and he was hungry again. The noise
stopped. He remembered that he had been having a dream--a strange
nightmare of chasing after Mallison and catching him, and tearing
him ... with his claws and teeth.

A rusty bell started ringing somewhere in the castle.

The jester snorted, sat up and looked out of the narrow window. Then
he lit the candle and said his prayers, kneeling on his bed. Dax
stretched, and the old man cleaned his teeth with a splinter and took
a draught from the ale pot. It had a sour stench, but Dax found that
he no longer minded--there were so many conflicting smells around, the
most interesting of which had been the rat. A new, more immediately
hopeful one, was of cooking that drifted up from below. It seemed that
these people ate meat for their breakfast. And they liked it early.

"Come along, Tybalt," the jester said, putting on his headdress, and
went to the door. Dax slipped through quickly so as not to get his tail
caught as the jester closed it. They went down the winding stairs again.

At the bottom they came upon another cat--a big red tom--who on
catching sight of Dax fluffed his tail and laid back his ears,
spitting. Dax had a momentary impulse to see if communication was
possible with him, but the big cat yowled and fled down the hallway.

"Ah, Tybalt," the old man said. "Jesters and cats! Even their own kind
spits at them!" As they got to the kitchen Dax saw the two hounds that
had growled at him the night before. He was glad that they were now
leashed and in the charge of a boy in a short woolen surcoat.

But when they saw Dax the boy was unable to hold them back, and they
jerked their leashes from his hand and came running and barking. Dax
was terrified. He bolted ahead of them along the vaulted corridor and
into the Great Hall, but came face to face with another brace of hounds
whose ears pricked up at the sound. Dax without any conscious thought
dodged sideways and ran up the tapestry on the wall.

His sharp claws had good foothold on the tough canvas backing. But at
the top he almost lost his grip, and scarcely managed to get over onto
the musicians' gallery from which the tapestry hung. He crouched there,
trembling, while the din below increased. He could hear men shouting at
the dogs, and the jester's voice calling him. He mewed loudly for help.
