
After a while he heard the old man's footsteps on the wooden ladder.
He was picked up and comforted, but he was so dizzy with fear that he
could hardly see. The jester seemed to think he was calm, and put him
on his shoulder and went down the ladder again. The hounds had been
taken away. But Dax stayed where he was with his eyes shut, holding on
tight.

"Well, Trice!" Dax opened his eyes and saw the lord of the manor
glowering at the jester, and then at him. So Trice was the jester's
name. An odd one. The Earl stood with his hands on his hips and seemed
irritated rather than angry. "What's this I hear? The cat runs at my
hounds and tries to scratch!"

"Oh, no, sir," Trice said. "It was the other way! They ran at him!
Tybalt has never scratched!"

"Scratched or no, I wish you'd give him to one of the villagers," the
Earl said. "I don't want the hounds upset, and Lady Godwina doesn't
like cats. Besides, he'll ruin the tapestry."

"But, my lord, he catches the rats! And he's my ... friend."

"The dogs catch the rats," the Earl said shortly. "Give him away."

"Well, my lord, the mice...."

"The red tom gets them."

The old man put up a hand to Dax protectively. "But, noble lord, what
would I do without my pet?" Dax glanced at the tired face next his and
saw tears in the eyes, but he had a determined look. "If he cannot
stay, I ... I must go, too!"

The Earl opened his eyes at this, but he smiled. "I see you are loyal,
old Trice," he said. "I hope you are as loyal to me!"

The Earl turned away. Trice put Dax on the floor and started back
towards the kitchens.

"Come, Tybalt," he said. "Or there'll be none left for us."

Dax wished he were still on the shoulder, and stayed close to the
jester's feet. Things were not going well at all. It had become as much
a problem of survival as of research and communication, but when they
got to the kitchen and the hounds were nowhere about, he decided that
perhaps the two problems were inter-related. After a meal of scraps he
felt more secure. Not seeing his master he went to look for him in the
Great Hall.

When he got there he saw that the Earl and his wife and retainers were
eating boiled meat. He remembered that his tutor in Middle English had
said the main meal in Medieval times was eaten in the morning. The
four hounds were squabbling over bones that were thrown to them on the
rush-covered flagstones under the trestle-board, and didn't notice him.
Trice was not to be seen. After a while the boy in the woolen surcoat
was told to take them out. He fastened leashes to their collars and led
them through a large doorway in the far wall. Dax looked at the Earl:
he had a fairly intelligent face, and he had shown forbearance towards
Trice, so he thought he would make another try.

The Lady Godwina got up unsteadily from her chair and left the hall--on
the way to the lady's solar, Dax guessed; and he padded across to the
Earl. When he got to the foot of the high-backed chair--it looked like
a detached choir-stall from a gothic church--he patted the Earl's foot.

The Earl looked down at him and frowned.

Dax patted the foot again; three times. Then he mewed three times, and
repeated the patting. The Earl blinked and got up, backing away. Dax
mewed three times again, and the Earl crossed himself.

"Saints preserve my soul! What have we here?"
