
Dax turned around three times, getting his hind legs crossed and
nearly falling down. "Send for Trice at once!" the Earl shouted. "His
cat Tybalt has a fit! Careful!" he said to a serving man who had come
forward with outstretched hands. "Take care you are not bitten! He is
unclean!"

Dax backed away and ran to the open door, and out.

There was a brilliant sun and he could see nothing at first--and when
he did it was blurred, owing to the vertical shape of his contracted
pupils. It was much warmer than the night before, and the leaves
were brown on the trees. There was no courtyard and gateway, with
drawbridge and moat beyond, as he had rather expected. Instead he was
on cobblestones, surrounded at intervals by small houses, with trees
between them. The village was built against the castle, somewhat in
the French manner, but the houses were wretched affairs of mud-daubed
reeds on wooden framing: hardly better than hovels. Only a few had
more than one story. Smoke was coming up from every chimney, and the
men were evidently on their way to work in the fields. They carried
crude-looking farm implements and were dressed in coarse homespun
with their legs padded and cross-gartered. They were a sorry lot:
blank-faced and half starved.

Dax heard footsteps behind him and turned.

A young man with blond short hair and a Norman nose had come out of
the doorway. He looked at Dax with amused curiosity, and squatted
down, putting out a hand. At this proximity his eyes showed bloodshot
and there was a beery smell. He said something that Dax could not
understand--it sounded vaguely like a kind of French, but Dax had not
studied medieval Norman. Still, it had a kindly sound. Dax rubbed
against the hand. This man, at least, did not share the Earl's
diagnosis. What was his position in the Earl's household? Not his
son--he looked too unlike him. Would he be his clerk? He had a clerkly
look--what is it in a face that makes it seem scholarly? And his hands
were more fit for holding a pen than a mattock or a sword.

Well, give it another try.

Dax wished he could make an ingratiating sound, and found he was
purring. He looked around for something he could use as a signal;
mewing and tapping seemed to be misunderstood. A few yards away the
cobblestones gave place to dirt, and he started towards it. It might do
for a blackboard. He looked back, but the clerk had not moved.

Dax wondered how a cat might beckon, lacking a forefinger. He waited
until he caught the young man's eye, and tried to beckon with his
head but it had no results. He continued on to the patch of dirt and
scratched a triangle, and to his relief the clerk got up and came to
him. When he was standing over him, Dax scratched two words in Latin:
_homo sum_, and looked up.

The clerk was staring with his mouth open.
