
Good, thought Dax: Latin was the _lingua Franca_ of medieval Europe,
and went on with his scratching. _Humani nihil a me alienum_--

There was a gasp and he looked up again. The young man had closed his
eyes and had the back of his hand against his forehead. He turned and
walked to the castle door, holding his head. Dax sat down in disgust.
A Twelfth Century hangover, indeed! A shadow fell across him and he
turned.

Three villagers: two men, and a woman in a hood were behind him.
They had an expectant air, and, realizing that they were doubtless
illiterate, he drew a large five-pointed star.

The effect on them was volcanic.

The woman screeched and threw her skirt over her head. The men crossed
themselves and one of them turned and ran. The other slashed at Dax
with a bill-hook and then, shouting, "Bewitched! Bewitched!" he, too,
ran. The bill-hook missed Dax, thanks to his instinctive leap to one
side, but the woman continued her noise and more people came out of
the cottages, armed with farming implements and sticks. Everyone was
shouting and offering advice. The main thread of their discourse was:
Possessed! Possessed! Kill it! The Devil Incarnate!

Dax was hemmed in on three sides. He started back for the castle, but
the big doorway was filled with onlookers, one of whom stepped forward,
aiming a crossbow. There was a clank followed by a hissing in the air,
and the bolt thumped into the ground next to him. The bowman cursed
and began to wind up his bow with a crannikin. Dax's fur stood out
all over him and he made a mad dash towards a group of women who had
nothing in their hands but besoms of birch twigs. It was a fortunate
choice.

Two or three women made abortive swats at him and the others backed
away, leaving a clear path. In front of him was an open space and a
tall tree.

Almost before he knew it he was near its top and the whole village was
milling around near its base, looking up with red angry faces.

"Fire the tree!" someone shouted.

"T'won't burn. It's an elm!"

"Well, _I_ shan't climb it!"

"I won't have my tree burn!" an indignant voice yelled, but was drowned
out. Small children were jumping up and down in excitement, and some
teen-age boys threw stones but none of them reached him. Dax spat
furiously. Teen-agers were the same through the ages!

"Cut it down, then!"

"T'will fall on my house!" (A woman's voice.)

The shouting died down, and Dax hung on till his claws ached. There
seemed to be a conference going on. The castle appeared to have lost
interest, which relieved him; if there was to be any more crossbow
shooting he stood little chance. After a short while the subject of
the conference became apparent as men began arriving with bundles of
dry sticks and faggots. To Dax's horror these were piled about the
trunk and set alight. Then, as the flames began to rise, green boughs
were added and a thick cloud of suffocating smoke came up.
