
Desperately he tried to find escape. One of the elm's long branches
reached out almost over the roof of one of the houses, but it meant
climbing down into the heart of the choking cloud. Beyond the house
he suddenly caught sight of his master, Trice, who waved to him
beseechingly. It gave him courage. Holding his breath, he began to back
down the trunk until he felt the branch under him. Then he twisted
round and ran along it with his heart pounding. A cat has small lungs
for its size and holding his breath was a torment--but at last he was
free of the smoke, and he took a breath of clean air.

The roof seemed to be within reach, and the crowd had temporarily lost
sight of him in the smoke.

He could hear the jester's voice, but for some reason he couldn't
understand him--it sounded like gibberish. He crept out until the
thinning branch began to bend and, just as shouts went up from the more
observant villagers, he leapt.

He landed on the thatch--and almost lost his hold, but he was just
able to scramble to the rooftree, and ran along the ridge. There was
more shouting. Either these ones spoke a dialect or the excitement had
put Middle English out of his head: he could barely understand them.
Something about Widow Aelthreda's cottage--something about a witch....

He slithered down the far side of the thatching and landed on a window
box of late purple daisies. The parchment-covered window next him was
open and he slipped inside just as the crowd turned the corner.

He found himself in a small, bare upstairs room, insufficiently lit
by the single window, but he could easily see into the most profound
shadows. Under a chest in the corner was a mouse, frozen with terror.
Dax was still out of breath, but he crept toward it, and as it ran out
along the baseboard he intercepted it. He ate it--all.

As he washed his face he wondered with diminishing nervousness what all
the shouting and noise outside meant.

In a little while he heard footsteps and a woman came into the room.
When she saw him she made some noises with her mouth, and Dax ran to
her. She picked him up and began to stroke him very pleasantly. Then
there were more noises from below and presently there were a lot of
people in the room. The woman dropped him for some reason.

He ran under a big, low wooden thing, but a big iron thing was pushed
at him. It had a sharp point, and he had to come out. This time the
man with the bill-hook did not miss, but the pain lasted only for an
instant.

And ... and ... he was more conscious of the sound made by the
hypodermic as it fell on the floor and broke.

He looked at it with annoyance, and felt the slight prick on his arm.
He got up and went to his bathroom, where he dabbed it with antiseptic.
He saw that he'd better shave before going to the meeting. Well, the
drug hadn't worked. What a waste of time. What a pity.

Perhaps a larger dose? He must experiment some more.

He started shaving.


                                  IV

When he got to the principal's office--a little late, which was
not entirely by accident--he found that Mallison and a few of his
fellow-students were sitting opposite the desk in hard chairs.

The principal behind it gave Dax a reprimanding look, and then one at
his watch. On one side of him were a group of teachers and a member
of the school board who Dax remembered was Mr. Lightstone's especial
crony. On the other were Mrs. Lightstone--a dour but subservient
partner to her husband--and an empty chair.

The principal pointed to the chair and said, "We have been waiting
for your arrival to begin, Mr. Dax." He turned to Mallison as Dax sat
down, and said, "You are, I believe, what is known as a 'hep-cat'?" He
waited but Mallison said nothing. His face was very white and he looked
sullen. "Well, answer me, sir!" the principal said loudly.

"You didn't ask me anything," the boy said in a low voice. "You told
me."

The principal pushed his lips out and breathed deeply. He took
something from his pocket and held it up. Dax saw it was the packet of
alleged heroin.

"Did you throw this out of the window of Mr. Dax's class room?"

The boy looked at it incomprehendingly and shook his head.

"Do you know what it is? Have you seen this packet before?"

"No, Mr. Lightstone...."

"You sound uncertain. Think carefully, Mallison." The principal put the
packet on his desk and unfolded it. Everyone bent forward and looked at
it--including Mallison, who shook his head again.

Dax leaned across Mrs. Lightstone and whispered to her husband, "Did
you have it analyzed?"

The principal shook his head impatiently. "Not yet! There was no one in
the Chemistry Department!" He cleared his throat importantly. "Well?
What have you to say?"

Mallison apparently had nothing to say. He swallowed and looked at
one of the boys next him. Mr. Lightstone leaned back in his chair and
turned to address the group on his right--the school board man in
particular. "This," he said, tapping the packet, "was thrown out of a
window of the physics class room today. These are the boys that sit
next those windows. I have every reason to suspect Mallison."

The group nodded. Dax realized that they had been briefed in advance.
The boy Mallison had certainly a sulky and uncooperative air. He seemed
the epitome of juvenile delinquency on the defensive, and yet....
