
"You," the principal said to the boys, "are a little band of
trouble-makers. You cut classes, you stay up late and go to what I
believe you call juke-joints. I have heard reports of your riding in
hot-rods!" He paused significantly.

"None of us here's got a car," Mallison said in a flat voice. He was
definitely sneering now. "I've never even _seen_ a real drag-race!"

Mr. Lightstone blinked. The word was unfamiliar to him, but it had a
disreputable ring to it. "And I suppose you've never taken narcotics?"

There was a dead silence. Mallison clamped his mouth shut, and his face
became wooden.

Mr. Lightstone addressed the boy next him. "Have _you_ ever seen any of
the boys use this?" He tapped the packet again. "Did you see Mallison
throw it out of the window? You sit behind him!"

The boy looked blank and glanced at Mallison. "No, sir," he said.

"But you couldn't have missed seeing him!"

"Excuse me a minute," Dax said. "These boys aren't a _band_ exactly.
They just happen to sit next the windows."

Mr. Lightstone looked offended but resourceful. "They picked those
seats themselves. That's what a clique does. It--"

"I assign all the pupils to their desks," Dax said, and felt he was
turning pink.

The principal took this in his stride by ignoring it. "And _you_," he
said to the boy on Mallison's other side. "What have you to say?"

The boy frowned and stuttered.

Dax was beginning to feel annoyed although he didn't know exactly why.
For one thing, he had let himself seem to be defending Mallison. It
was his craze for accuracy, of course. "I don't understand why the
parents of these boys aren't here," he was surprised to hear himself
say. "It seems to me they ought to have some kind of defense counsel if
there is going to be a trial."

The principal looked at him steadily. "Would _you_ care to act in that
capacity?"

Dax felt that he was getting redder than ever. "Have you had a doctor
examine Mallison for ... for the effects of narcotics?" he said.
"Where are these policemen you said you spoke to? Shouldn't they be
informed of your suspicions, instead of holding a kind of star chamber
inquisition? It's ... it's _medieval_!"

Mr. Lightstone glared at him in astonishment.

Dax had a sudden thought. "The chemistry lab is right over my class
room," he said. "Why couldn't the packet have fallen from there?"

"What would _they_ be doing with heroin?"

"But we don't know yet that--"

The principal interrupted him and swept his arm in a gesture of
all-inclusive condemnation. "We will in good time! But if you have
never seen guilt before, you see it now!" He looked at the startled
young faces with abhorrence. "Look at them!"
