

On a spring afternoon of the year 19--, when our continent lay under
such threatening weather for whole months, Gustav Aschenbach, or von
Aschenbach as his name read officially after his fiftieth birthday, had
left his apartment on the Prinzregentenstrasse in Munich and had gone
for a long walk. Overwrought by the trying and precarious work of the
forenoon--which had demanded a maximum wariness, prudence, penetration,
and rigour of the will--the writer had not been able even after the noon
meal to break the impetus of the productive mechanism within him, that
_motus animi continuus_ which constitutes, according to Cicero, the
foundation of eloquence; and he had not attained the healing sleep
which--what with the increasing exhaustion of his strength--he needed in
the middle of each day. So he had gone outdoors soon after tea, in the
hopes that air and movement would restore him and prepare him for a
profitable evening.

It was the beginning of May, and after cold, damp weeks a false
midsummer had set in. The English Gardens, although the foliage was
still fresh and sparse, were as pungent as in August, and in the parts
nearer the city had been full of conveyances and promenaders. At the
Aumeister, which he had reached by quieter and quieter paths, Aschenbach
had surveyed for a short time the Wirtsgarten with its lively crowds and
its border of cabs and carriages. From here, as the sun was sinking, he
had started home, outside the park, across the open fields; and since he
felt tired and a storm was threatening from the direction of Föhring,
he waited at the North Cemetery for the tram which would take him
directly back to the city.

It happened that he found no one in the station or its vicinity. There
was not a vehicle to be seen, either on the paved Ungererstrasse, with
its solitary glistening rails stretching out towards Schwabing, or on
the Föhringer Chaussee. Behind the fences of the stone-masons'
establishments, where the crosses, memorial tablets, and monuments
standing for sale formed a second, uninhabited burial ground, there was
no sign of life; and opposite him the Byzantine structure of the Funeral
Hall lay silent in the reflection of the departing day; its façade,
ornamented in luminous colours with Greek crosses and hieratic
paintings, above which were displayed inscriptions symmetrically
arranged in gold letters, and texts chosen to bear on the life beyond;
such as, "They enter into the dwelling of the Lord," or, "The light of
eternity shall shine upon them." And for some time as he stood waiting
he found a grave diversion in spelling out the formulas and letting his
mind's eye lose itself in their transparent mysticism, when, returning
from his reveries, he noticed in the portico, above the two apocalyptic
animals guarding the steps, a man whose somewhat unusual appearance gave
his thoughts an entirely new direction.

Whether he had just now come out from the inside through the bronze
door, or had approached and mounted from the outside unobserved,
remained uncertain. Aschenbach, without applying himself especially to
the matter, was inclined to believe the former. Of medium height, thin,
smooth-shaven, and noticeably pug-nosed, the man belonged to the
red-haired type and possessed the appropriate fresh milky complexion.
Obviously, he was not of Bavarian extraction, since at least the white
and straight-brimmed straw hat that covered his head gave his appearance
the stamp of a foreigner, of someone who had come from a long distance.
To be sure, he was wearing the customary knapsack strapped across his
shoulders, and a belted suit of rough yellow wool; his left arm was
resting on his thigh, and his grey storm cape was thrown across it. In
his right hand he held a cane with an iron ferrule, which he had stuck
diagonally into the ground, and, with his feet crossed, was leaning his
hip against the crook. His head was raised so that the Adam's-apple
protruded hard and bare on a scrawny neck emerging from a loose
sport-shirt. And he was staring sharply off into the distance, with
colourless, red-lidded eyes between which stood two strong, vertical
wrinkles peculiarly suited to his short, turned-up nose. Thus--and
perhaps his elevated position helped to give the impression--his bearing
had something majestic and commanding about it, something bold, or even
savage. For whether he was grimacing because he was blinded by the
setting sun, or whether it was a case of a permanent distortion of the
physiognomy, his lips seemed too short, they were so completely pulled
back from his teeth that these were exposed even to the gums, and stood
out white and long.

It is quite possible that Aschenbach, in his half-distracted,
half-inquisitive examination of the stranger, had been somewhat
inconsiderate, for he suddenly became aware that his look was being
answered, and indeed so militantly, so straight in the eye, so plainly
with the intention of driving the thing through to the very end and
compelling him to capitulate, that he turned away uncomfortably and
began walking along by the fences, deciding casually that he would pay
no further attention to the man. The next minute he had forgotten him.
But perhaps the exotic element in the stranger's appearance had worked
on his imagination; or a new physical or spiritual influence of some
sort had come into play. He was quite astonished to note a peculiar
inner expansion, a kind of roving unrest, a youthful longing after
far-off places: a feeling so vivid, so new, or so long dormant and
neglected, that, with his hands behind his back and his eyes on the
ground, he came to a sudden stop, and examined into the nature and
purport of this emotion.

It was the desire for travel, nothing more; although, to be sure, it had
attacked him violently, and was heightened to a passion, even to the
point of an hallucination. His yearnings crystallized; his imagination,
still in ferment from his hours of work, actually pictured all the
marvels and terrors of a manifold world which it was suddenly struggling
to conceive. He saw a landscape, a tropical swampland under a heavy,
murky sky, damp, luxuriant, and enormous, a kind of prehistoric
wilderness of islands, bogs, and arms of water, sluggish with mud; he
saw, near him and in the distance, the hairy shafts of palms rising out
of a rank lecherous thicket, out of places where the plant-life was fat,
swollen, and blossoming exorbitantly; he saw strangely misshapen trees
sending their roots into the ground, into stagnant pools with greenish
reflections; and here, between floating flowers which were milk-white
and large as dishes, birds of a strange nature, high-shouldered, with
crooked bills, were standing in the muck, and looking motionlessly to
one side; between dense, knotted stalks of bamboo he saw the glint from
the eyes of a crouching tiger--and he felt his heart knocking with fear
and with puzzling desires. Then the image disappeared; and with a shake
of his head Aschenbach resumed his walk along past the fences of the
stone-masons' establishments.

Since the time, at least, when he could command the means to enjoy the
advantages of moving about the world as he pleased, he had considered
travelling simply as an hygienic precaution which must be complied with
now and then despite one's feelings and one's preferences. Too busy with
the tasks arranged for him by his interest in his own ego and in the
problems of Europe, too burdened with the onus of production, too little
prone to diversion, and in no sense an amateur of the varied amusements
of the great world, he had been thoroughly satisfied with such knowledge
of the earth's surface as any one can get without moving far out of his
own circle; and he had never even been tempted to leave Europe.
Especially now that his life was slowly on the decline, and that the
artist's fear of not having finished--this uneasiness lest the clock run
down before he had done his part and given himself completely--could no
longer be waived aside as a mere whim, he had confined his outer
existence almost exclusively to the beautiful city which had become his
home and to the rough country house which he had built in the mountains
and where he spent the rainy summers.

Further, this thing which had laid hold of him so belatedly, but with
such suddenness, was very readily moderated and adjusted by the force of
his reason and of a discipline which he had practised since youth. He
had intended carrying his life work forward to a certain point before
removing to the country. And the thought of knocking about the world for
months and neglecting his work during this time, seemed much too lax and
contrary to his plans; it really could not be considered seriously. Yet
he knew only too well what the reasons were for this unexpected
temptation. It was the urge to escape--he admitted to himself--this
yearning for the new and the remote, this appetite for freedom, for
unburdening, for forgetfulness; it was a pressure away from his work,
from the steady drudgery of a coldly passionate service. To be sure, he
loved this work and almost loved the enervating battle that was fought
daily between a proud tenacious will--so often tested--and this growing
weariness which no one was to suspect and which must not betray itself
in his productions by any sign of weakness or negligence. But it seemed
wise not to draw the bow overtightly, and not to strangle by sheer
obstinacy so strongly persistent an appetite. He thought of his work,
thought of the place at which yesterday and now again to-day he had been
forced to leave off, and which, it seemed, would yield neither to
patience and coaxing nor to a definite attack. He examined it again,
trying to break through or to circumvent the deadlock, but he gave up
with a shudder of repugnance. There was no unusual difficulty here; what
balked him were the scruples of aversion, which took the form of a
fastidious insatiability. Even as a young man this insatiability had
meant to him the very nature, the fullest essence, of talent; and for
that reason he had restrained and chilled his emotions, since he was
aware that they incline to content themselves with a happy
approximation, a state of semi-completion. Were these enslaved emotions
now taking their vengeance on him, by leaving him in the lurch, by
refusing to forward and lubricate his art; and were they bearing off
with them every enjoyment, every live interest in form and expression?

Not that he was producing anything bad; his years gave him at least this
advantage, that he felt himself at all times in full and easy possession
of his craftsmanship. But while the nation honoured him for this, he
himself was not content; and it seemed to him that his work lacked the
marks of that fiery and fluctuating emotionalism which is an enormous
thing in one's favour, and which, while it argues an enjoyment on the
part of the author, also constitutes, more than any depth of content,
the enjoyment of the amateur. He feared the summer in the country, alone
in the little house with the maid who prepared his meals, and the
servant who brought them to him. He feared the familiar view of the
mountain peaks and the slopes which would stand about him in his boredom
and his discontent. Consequently there was need of a break in some new
direction. If the summer was to be endurable and productive, he must
attempt something out of his usual orbit; he must relax, get a change of
air, bring an element of freshness into the blood. To travel, then--that
much was settled. Not far, not all the way to the tigers. But one night
on the sleeper, and a rest of three or four weeks at some pleasant
popular resort in the South. . . .

He thought this out while the noise of the electric tram came nearer
along the Ungererstrasse; and as he boarded it he decided to devote the
evening to the study of maps and time-tables. On the platform it
occurred to him to look around for the man in the straw hat, his
companion during that most significant time spent waiting at the
station. But his whereabouts remained uncertain, as he was not to be
seen either at the place where he was formerly standing, or anywhere
else in the vicinity of the station, or on the car itself.



