

Various matters of a literary and social nature delayed his departure
until about two weeks after that walk in Munich. Finally he gave orders
to have his country house ready for occupancy within a month; and one
day between the middle and the end of May he took the night train for
Trieste, where he made a stop-over of only twenty-four hours, and
embarked the following morning for Pola.

What he was hunting was something foreign and unrelated to himself which
would at the same time be quickly within reach; and so he stopped at an
island in the Adriatic which had become well-known in recent years. It
lay not far off the Istrian coast, with beautifully rugged cliffs
fronting the open sea, and natives who dressed in variegated tatters and
made strange sounds when they spoke. But rain and a heavy atmosphere, a
provincial and exclusively Austrian patronage at the hotel, and the lack
of that restfully intimate association with the sea which can be gotten
only by a soft, sandy beach, irritated him, and prevented him from
feeling that he had found the place he was looking for. Something within
was disturbing him, and drawing him he was not sure where. He studied
sailing dates, he looked about him questioningly, and of a sudden, as a
thing both astounding and self-evident, his goal was before him. If you
wanted to reach over night the unique, the fabulously different, where
did you go? But that was plain. What was he doing here? He had lost the
trail. He had wanted to go there. He did not delay in giving notice of
his mistake in stopping here. In the early morning mist, a week and a
half after his arrival on the island, a fast motorboat was carrying him
and his luggage back over the water to the naval port, and he landed
there just long enough to cross the gangplank to the damp deck of a ship
which was lying under steam ready for the voyage to Venice.

It was an old hulk flying the Italian flag, decrepit, sooty, and
mournful. In a cave-like, artificially lighted inside cabin where
Aschenbach, immediately upon boarding the ship, was conducted by a dirty
hunchbacked sailor who smirked politely, there was sitting behind a
table, his hat cocked over his forehead and a cigarette stump in the
corner of his mouth, a man with a goatee, and with the face of an
old-style circus director, who was taking down the particulars of the
passengers with professional grimaces and distributing the tickets. "To
Venice!" he repeated Aschenbach's request, as he extended his arm and
plunged his pen into the pasty dregs of a precariously tilted inkwell.
"To Venice, first class! At your service, sir." And he wrote a generous
scrawl, sprinkled it with blue sand out of a box, let the sand run off
into a clay bowl, folded the paper with sallow, bony fingers, and began
writing again. "A happily chosen destination!" he chatted on. "Ah,
Venice! A splendid city! A city of irresistible attractiveness for the
educated on account of its history as well as its present-day charms!"
The smooth rapidity of his movements and the empty words accompanying
them had something anaesthetic and reassuring about them, much as though
he feared lest the traveller might still be vacillating in his decision
to go to Venice. He handled the cash briskly, and let the change fall on
the spotted table-cover with the skill of a croupier. "A pleasant
journey, sir!" he said with a theatrical bow. "Gentlemen, I have the
honour of serving you!" he called out immediately after, with his arm
upraised, and he acted as if business were in full swing, although no
one else was there to require his attention. Aschenbach returned to the
deck.

With one arm on the railing, he watched the passengers on board and the
idlers who loitered around the dock waiting for the ship to sail. The
second class passengers, men and women, were huddled together on the
foredeck, using boxes and bundles as seats. A group of young people made
up the travellers on the first deck, clerks from Pola, it seemed, who
had gathered in the greatest excitement for an excursion to Italy. They
made a considerable fuss about themselves and their enterprise,
chattered, laughed, enjoyed their own antics self-contentedly, and,
leaning over the hand-rails, shouted flippantly and mockingly at their
comrades who, with portfolios under their arms, were going up and down
the waterfront on business and kept threatening the picnickers with
their canes. One, in a bright yellow summer suit of ultra-fashionable
cut, with a red necktie, and a rakishly tilted panama, surpassed all the
others in his crowing good humour. But as soon as Aschenbach looked at
him a bit more carefully, he discovered with a kind of horror that the
youth was a cheat. He was old, that was unquestionable. There were
wrinkles around his eyes and mouth. The faint crimson of the cheeks was
paint, the hair under his brilliantly decorated straw hat was a wig; his
neck was hollow and stringy, his turned-up moustache and the imperial on
his chin were dyed; the full set of yellow teeth which he displayed when
he laughed, a cheap artificial plate; and his hands, with signet rings
on both index fingers, were those of an old man. Fascinated with
loathing, Aschenbach watched him in his intercourse with his friends.
Did they not know, did they not observe that he was old, that he was not
entitled to wear their bright, foppish clothing, that he was not
entitled to play at being one of them? Unquestioningly, and as quite the
usual thing, it seemed, they allowed him among them, treating him as one
of their own kind and returning his jovial nudges in the ribs without
repugnance. How could that be? Aschenbach laid his hand on his forehead
and closed his eyes; they were hot, since he had had too little sleep.
He felt as though everything were not quite the same as usual, as though
some dream-like estrangement, some peculiar distortion of the world,
were beginning to take possession of him, and perhaps this could be
stopped if he hid his face for a time and then looked around him again.
Yet at this moment he felt as though he were swimming; and looking up
with an unreasoned fear, he discovered that the heavy, lugubrious body
of the ship was separating slowly from the walled bank. Inch by inch,
with the driving and reversing of the engine, the strip of dirty
glistening water widened between the dock and the side of the ship; and
after cumbersome manoeuvring, the steamer finally turned its nose
towards the open sea. Aschenbach crossed to the starboard side, where
the hunchback had set up a deck-chair for him, and a steward in a
spotted dress-coat asked after his wants.

The sky was grey, the wind damp. Harbour and islands had been left
behind, and soon all land was lost in the haze. Flakes of coal dust,
bloated with moisture, fell over the washed deck, which would not dry.
After the first hour an awning was spread, since it had begun to rain.

Bundled up in his coat, a book in his lap, the traveller rested, and the
hours passed unnoticed. It stopped raining; the canvas awning was
removed. The horizon was unbroken. The sea, empty, like an enormous
disk, lay stretched under the curve of the sky. But in empty
inarticulate space our senses lose also the dimensions of time, and we
slip into the incommensurate. As he rested, strange shadowy figures, the
old dandy, the goatee from the inside cabin, passed through his mind,
with vague gestures, muddled dream-words--and he was asleep.

About noon he was called to a meal down in the corridor-like dining-hall
into which the doors opened from the sleeping-cabins; he ate near the
head of a long table, at the other end of which the clerks including the
old man had been drinking with the boisterous captain since ten o'clock.
The food was poor, and he finished rapidly. He felt driven outside to
look at the sky, to see if it showed signs of being brighter above
Venice.

He had kept thinking that this had to occur, since the city had always
received him in full blaze. But sky and sea remained dreary and leaden,
at times a misty rain fell, and here he was reaching by water a
different Venice than he had ever found when approaching on land. He
stood by the forestays, looking in the distance, waiting for land. He
thought of the heavy-hearted, enthusiastic poet for whom the domes and
bell towers of his dreams had once risen out of these waters; he relived
in silence some of that reverence, happiness, and sorrow which had been
turned then into cautious song; and easily susceptible to sensations
already moulded, he asked himself wearily and earnestly whether some new
enchantment and distraction, some belated adventure of the emotions,
might still be held in store for this idle traveller.

Then the flat coast emerged on the right; the sea was alive with fishing
smacks; the bathers' island appeared; it dropped behind to the left, the
steamer slowly entered the narrow port which is named after it; and on
the lagoon, facing gay ramshackle houses, it stopped completely, since
it had to wait for the barque of the health department.

An hour passed before it appeared. He had arrived, and yet he had not;
no one was in any hurry, no one was driven by impatience. The young men
from Pola, patriotically attracted by the military bugle calls which
rang over the water from the vicinity of the public gardens, had come on
deck, and warmed by their Asti, they burst out with cheers for the
drilling _bersagliere._ But it was repulsive to see what a state the
primped-up old man had been brought to by his comradeship with youth.
His old head was not able to resist its wine like the young and robust:
he was painfully drunk. With glazed eyes, a cigarette between his
trembling fingers, he stood in one place, swaying backwards and forwards
from giddiness, and balancing himself laboriously. Since he would have
fallen at the first step, he did not trust himself from the spot--yet he
showed a deplorable insolence, buttonholed everyone who came near him,
stammered, winked, and tittered, lifted his wrinkled, ornamented index
finger in a stupid attempt at bantering, while he licked the corers of
his mouth with his tongue in the most abominably suggestive manner.
Aschenbach observed him darkly, and a feeling of numbness came over him
again, as though the world were displaying a faint but irresistible
tendency to distort itself into the peculiar and the grotesque: a
feeling which circumstances prevented him from surrendering himself to
completely, for just then the pounding activity of the engines commenced
again, and the ship, resuming a voyage which had been interrupted so
near its completion, passed through the San Marco canal.

So he saw it again, the most remarkable of landing places, that blinding
composition of fantastic buildings which the Republic lays out before
the eyes of approaching seafarers: the soft splendour of the palace, the
Bridge of Sighs, on the bank the columns with lion and saint, the
advancing, showy flank of the enchanted temple, the glimpse through to
the archway, and the huge giant clock. And as he looked on he thought
that to reach Venice by land, on the rail-road, was like entering a
palace from the rear, and that the most unreal of cities should not be
approached except as he was now doing, by ship, over the high seas.

The engine stopped, gondolas pressed in, the gangway was let down,
customs officials climbed on board and discharged their duties
perfunctorily; the disembarking could begin. Aschenbach made it
understood that he wanted a gondola to take him and his luggage to the
dock of those little steamers which ply between the city and the Lido,
since he intended to locate near the sea. His plans were complied with,
his wants were shouted down to the water, where the gondoliers were
wrangling with one another in dialect. He was still hindered from
descending; he was hindered by his trunk, which was being pulled and
dragged with difficulty down the ladder-like steps. So that for some
minutes he was not able to avoid the importunities of the atrocious old
man, whose drunkenness gave him a sinister desire to do the foreigner
parting honours. "We wish you a very agreeable visit," he bleated as he
made an awkward bow. "We leave with pleasant recollections! _Au revoir,
excusez_, and _bon jour_, your excellency!" His mouth watered, he
pressed his eyes shut, he licked the corners of his mouth, and the dyed
imperial turned up about his senile lips. "Our compliments," he mumbled,
with two fingertips on his mouth, "our compliments to our sweetheart,
the dearest prettiest sweetheart . . ." And suddenly his false upper
teeth fell down on his lower lip. Aschenbach was able to escape. "To our
sweetheart, our handsome sweetheart," he heard the cooing, hollow,
stuttering voice behind him, while supporting himself against the
handrail, he went down the gang-way.

Who would not have to suppress a fleeting shudder, a vague timidity and
uneasiness, if it were a matter of boarding a Venetian gondola for the
first time or after several years? The strange craft, an entirely
unaltered survival from the times of balladry, with that peculiar
blackness which is found elsewhere only in coffins--it suggests silent,
criminal adventures in the rippling night, it suggests even more
strongly death itself, the bier and the mournful funeral, and the last
silent journey. And has it been observed that the seat of such a barque,
this arm-chair of coffin-black veneer and dull black upholstery, is the
softest, most luxuriant, most lulling seat in the world? Aschenbach
noted this when he had relaxed at the feet of the gondolier, opposite
his luggage, which lay neatly assembled on the prow. The rowers were
still wrangling, harshly, incomprehensibly, with threatening gestures.
But the strange silence of this canal city seemed to soften their
voices, to disembody them, and dissipate them over the water. It was
warm here in the harbour. Touched faintly by the warm breeze of the
sirocco, leaning back against the limber portions of the cushions, the
traveller closed his eyes in the enjoyment of a lassitude which was as
unusual with him as it was sweet. The trip would be short, he thought;
if only it went on for ever! He felt himself glide with a gentle motion
away from the crowd and the confusion of voices.

It became quieter and quieter around him! There was nothing to be heard
but the splashing of the oar, the hollow slapping of the waves against
the prow of the boat as it stood above the water black and bold and
armed with its halberd-like tip, and a third sound, of speaking, of
whispering--the whispering of the gondolier, who was talking to himself
between his teeth, fitfully, in words that were pressed out by the
exertion of his arms. Aschenbach looked up, and was slightly astonished
to discover that the lagoon was widening, and he was headed for the open
sea. This seemed to indicate that he ought not to rest too much, but
should see to it that his wishes were carried out.

"To the steamer dock!" he repeated, turning around completely and
looking into the face of the gondolier who stood behind on a raised
platform and towered up between him and the dun-coloured sky. He was a
man of unpleasant, even brutal, appearance, dressed in sailor blue, with
a yellow sash; a formless straw hat, its weave partially unravelled, was
tilted insolently on his head. The set of his face, the blond curly
moustache beneath a curtly turned-up nose, undoubtedly meant that he was
not Italian. Although of somewhat frail build, so that one would not
have thought him especially well suited to his trade, he handled the oar
with great energy, throwing his entire body into each stroke.
Occasionally, he drew back his lips from the exertion, and disclosed his
white teeth. Wrinkling his reddish brows, he gazed on past his
passenger, as he answered deliberately, almost gruffly: "You are going
to the Lido." Aschenbach replied: "Of course. But I have just taken the
gondola to get me across to San Marco. I want to use the _vaporetto._"

"You cannot use the _vaporetto_, sir."

"And why not?"

"Because the _vaporetto_ will not haul luggage."

That was so; Aschenbach remembered. He was silent. But the fellow's
harsh, presumptuous manner, so unusual towards a foreigner here, seemed
unbearable. He said: "That is my affair. Perhaps I want to put my things
in storage. You will turn back." There was silence. The oar splashed,
the water thudded against the bow. And the talking and whispering began
again. The gondolier was talking to himself between his teeth.

What was to be done? This man was strangely insolent, and had an uncanny
decisiveness; the traveller, alone with him on the water, saw no way of
getting what he wanted. And besides, how softly he could rest, if only
he did not become excited! Hadn't he wanted the trip to go on and on for
ever? It was wisest to let things take their course, and the main thing
was that he was comfortable. The poison of inertia seemed to be issuing
from the seat, from this low, black-upholstered arm-chair, so gently
cradled by the oar strokes of the imperious gondolier behind him. The
notion that he had fallen into the hands of a criminal passed dreamily
across Aschenbach's mind--without the ability to summon his thoughts to
an active defence. The possibility that it was all simply a plan for
cheating him seemed more abhorrent. A feeling of duty or pride, a kind
of recollection that one should prevent such things, gave him the
strength to arouse himself once more. He asked: "What are you asking for
the trip?"

Looking down upon him, the gondolier answered: "You will pay."

It was plain how this should be answered. Aschenbach said mechanically:
"I shall pay nothing, absolutely nothing, if you don't take me where I
want to go."

"You want to go to the Lido."

"But not with you."

"I am rowing you well."

That is so, Aschenbach thought, and relaxed. That is so; you are rowing
me well. Even if you do have designs on my cash, and send me down to
Pluto with a blow of your oar from behind, you will have rowed me well.

But nothing like that happened. They were even joined by others: a
boatload of musical brigands, men and women, who sang to guitar and
mandolin, riding persistently side by side with the gondola and filling
the silence over the water with their covetous foreign poetry. A hat was
held out, and Aschenbach threw in money. Then they stopped singing, and
rowed away. And again the muttering of the gondolier could be heard as
he talked fitfully and jerkily to himself.

So they arrived, tossed in the wake of a steamer plying towards the
city. Two municipal officers, their hands behind their backs, their
faces turned in the direction of the lagoon, were walking back and forth
on the bank. Aschenbach left the gondola at the dock, supported by that
old man who is stationed with his grappling hook at each one of Venice's
landing-places. And since he had no small money, he crossed over to the
hotel by the steamer wharf to get change and pay the rower what was due
him. He got what he wanted in the lobby, he returned and found his
travelling bags in a cart on the dock, and gondola and gondolier had
vanished.

"He got out in a hurry," said the old man with the grappling hook. "A
bad man, a man without a license, sir. He is the only gondolier who
doesn't have a license. The others telephoned here."

Aschenbach shrugged his shoulders.

"The gentleman rode for nothing," the old man said, and held out his
hat. Aschenbach tossed in a coin. He gave instructions to have his
luggage taken to the beach hotel, and followed the cart through the
avenue, the white-blossomed avenue which, lined on both sides with
taverns, shops, and boarding houses, runs across the island to the
shore.

He entered the spacious hotel from the rear, by the terraced garden, and
passed through the vestibule and the lobby until he reached the desk.
Since he had been announced, he was received with obliging promptness. A
manager, a small frail flatteringly polite man with a black moustache
and a French style frock coat, accompanied him to the third floor in the
lift, and showed him his room, an agreeable place furnished in cherry
wood. It was decorated with strong-smelling flowers, and its high
windows afforded a view out across the open sea. He stepped up to one of
them after the employee had left; and while his luggage was being
brought up and placed in the room behind him, he looked down on the
beach (it was comparatively deserted in the afternoon) and on the
sunless ocean which was at flood tide and was sending long low waves
against the bank in a calm regular rhythm.

The experiences of a man who lives alone and in silence are both vaguer
and more penetrating than those of people in society; his thoughts are
heavier, more odd, and touched always with melancholy. Images and
observations which could easily be disposed of by a glance, a smile, an
exchange of opinion, will occupy him unbearably, sink deep into the
silence, become full of meaning, become life, adventure, emotion.
Loneliness ripens the eccentric, the daringly and estrangingly
beautiful, the poetic. But loneliness also ripens the perverse, the
disproportionate, the absurd, and the illicit.--So, the things he had
met with on the trip, the ugly old fop with his twaddle about
sweethearts, the lawbreaking gondolier who was cheated of his pay, still
left the traveller uneasy. Without really providing any resistance to
the mind, without offering any solid stuff to think over, they were
nevertheless profoundly strange, as it seemed to him, and disturbing
precisely because of this contradiction. In the meanwhile, he greeted
the sea with his eyes, and felt pleasure at the knowledge that Venice
was so conveniently near. Finally he turned away, bathed his face, left
orders to the chambermaid for a few things he still needed done to make
his comfort complete, and let himself be taken to the ground floor by
the green-uniformed Swiss who operated the lift.

He took his tea on the terrace facing the ocean, then descended and
followed the boardwalk for quite a way in the direction of the Hotel
Excelsior. When he returned it seemed time to dress for dinner. He did
this with his usual care and slowness, since he was accustomed to
working over his toilette. And yet he came down a little early to the
lobby where he found a great many of the hotel guests assembled, mixing
distantly and with a show of mutual indifference to one another, but all
waiting for meal time. He took a paper from the table, dropped into a
leather chair, and observed the company; they differed agreeably from
the guests where he had first stopped.

A wide and tolerantly inclusive horizon was spread out before him.
Sounds of all the principal languages formed a subdued murmur. The
accepted evening dress, a uniform of good manners, brought all human
varieties into a fitting unity. There were Americans with their long wry
features, large Russian families, English ladies, German children with
French nurses. The Slavic element seemed to predominate. Polish was
being spoken nearby.

It was a group of children gathered around a little wicker table, under
the protection of a teacher or governess: three young girls, apparently
fifteen to seventeen, and a long-haired boy about fourteen years old.
With astonishment Aschenbach noted that the boy was absolutely
beautiful. His face, pale and reserved, framed with honey-coloured hair,
the straight sloping nose, the lovely mouth, the expression of sweet and
godlike seriousness, recalled Greek sculpture of the noblest period;
and the complete purity of the forms was accompanied by such a rare
personal charm that, as he watched, he felt that he had never met with
anything equally felicitous in nature or the plastic arts. He was
further struck by the obviously intentional contrast with the principles
of upbringing which showed in the sisters' attire and bearing. The three
girls, the eldest of whom could be considered grown up, were dressed
with a chasteness and severity bordering on disfigurement. Uniformly
cloister-like costumes, of medium length, slate-coloured, sober, and
deliberately unbecoming in cut, with white turned-down collars as the
only relief, suppressed every possible appeal of shapeliness. Their
hair, brushed down flat and tight against the head, gave their faces a
nunlike emptiness and lack of character. Surely this was a mother's
influence, and it had not even occurred to her to apply the pedagogical
strictness to the boy which she seemed to find necessary for her girls.
It was clear that in his existence the first factors were gentleness and
tenderness. The shears had been resolutely kept from his beautiful hair;
like a Prince Charming's, it fell in curls over his forehead, his ears,
and still deeper, across his neck. The English sailor suit, with its
braids, stitchings, and embroideries, its puffy sleeves narrowing at the
ends and fitting snugly about the fine wrists of his still childish but
slender hands, gave the delicate figure something rich and luxurious. He
was sitting, half profile to the observer, one foot in its black
patent-leather shoe placed before the other, an elbow resting on the arm
of his wicker chair, a cheek pressed against his fist, in a position of
negligent good manners, entirely free of the almost subservient
stiffness to which his sisters seemed accustomed. Did he have some
illness? For his skin stood out as white as ivory against the golden
darkness of the surrounding curls. Or was he simply a pampered favourite
child, made this way by a doting and moody love? Aschenbach inclined to
believe the latter. Almost every artist is born with a rich and
treacherous tendency to recognize injustices which have created beauty,
and to meet aristocratic distinction with sympathy and reverence.

A waiter passed through and announced in English that the meal was
ready. Gradually the guests disappeared through the glass door into the
dining hall. Stragglers crossed, coming from the entrance, or the lifts.
Inside, they had already begun serving, but the young Poles were still
waiting around the little wicker table; and Aschenbach, comfortably
propped in his deep chair, and with this beauty before his eyes, stayed
with them.

The governess, a small corpulent middle-class woman with a red face,
finally gave the sign to rise. With lifted brows, she pushed back her
chair and bowed, as a large woman dressed in grey and richly jewelled
with pearls entered the lobby. This woman was advancing with coolness
and precision; her lightly powdered hair and the lines of her dress were
arranged with the simplicity which always signifies taste in those
quarters where devoutness is taken as one element of dignity. She might
have been the wife of some high German official. Except that her
jewellery added something fantastically lavish to her appearance;
indeed, it was almost priceless, and consisted of ear pendants and a
very long triple chain of softly glowing pearls, as large as cherries.

The children had risen promptly. They bent over to kiss the hand of
their mother who, with a distant smile on her well preserved though
somewhat tired and peaked features, looked over their heads and directed
a few words to the governess in French. Then she walked to the glass
door. The children followed her: the girls in the order of their age,
after them the governess, the boy last. For some reason or other he
turned around before crossing the sill, and since no one else was in the
lobby his strange dusky eyes met those of Aschenbach who, his newspaper
on his knees, lost in thought, was gazing after the group.

What he saw had not been unusual in the slightest detail. They had not
preceded the mother to the table; they had waited, greeted her with
respect, and observed the customary forms on entering the room. But it
had taken place so pointedly, with such an accent of training, duty, and
self-respect, that Aschenbach felt peculiarly touched by it all. He
delayed for a few moments, then he too crossed into the dining-room, and
was assigned to his table, which, as he noted with a brief touch of
regret, was very far removed from that of the Polish family.

Weary, and yet intellectually active, he entertained himself during the
lengthy meal with abstract, or even transcendental things; he thought
over the secret union which the lawful must enter upon with the
individual for human beauty to result, from this he passed into general
problems of form and art, and at the end he found that his thoughts and
discoveries were like the seemingly felicitous promptings of a dream
which, when the mind is sobered, are seen to be completely empty and
unfit. After the meal, smoking, sitting, taking an occasional turn in
the park with its smell of nightfall, he went to bed early and spent the
night in a sleep deep and unbroken, but often enlivened with the
apparitions of dreams.




III (continued)


The weather did not improve any the following day. A land breeze was
blowing. Under a cloudy ashen sky, the sea lay in dull peacefulness; it
seemed shrivelled up, with a close dreary horizon, and it had retreated
from the beach, baring the long ribs of several sandbanks. As Aschenbach
opened his window he thought that he could detect the foul smell of the
lagoon.

He felt depressed. He thought already of leaving. Once, years ago, after
several weeks of spring here, this same weather had afflicted him, and
impaired his health so seriously that he had to abandon Venice like a
fugitive. Was not this old feverish unrest again setting in, the
pressure in the temples, the heaviness of the eyelids? It would be
annoying to change his residence still another time; but if the wind did
not turn, he could not stay here. To be safe, he did not unpack
completely. He breakfasted at nine in the buffet-room provided for this
purpose between the lobby and the dining-room.

That formal silence reigned here which is the ambition of large hotels.
The waiters who were serving walked about on soft soles. Nothing was
audible but the tinkling of the tea-things, a word half-whispered. In
one corner, obliquely across from the door, and two tables removed from
his own, Aschenbach observed the Polish girls with their governess.
Erect and red-eyed, their ash-blond hair freshly smoothed down, dressed
in stiff blue linen with little white cuffs and turned-down
collars--they were sitting there, handing around a glass of marmalade.
They had almost finished their breakfast. The boy was missing.

Aschenbach smiled. "Well, little Phaeacian!" he thought. "You seem to be
enjoying the pleasant privilege of having your sleep out." And suddenly
exhilarated, he recited to himself the line: "A frequent change of
dress; warm baths, and rest."

He breakfasted without haste. From the porter, who entered the hall
holding his braided cap in his hand, he received some forwarded mail;
and while he smoked a cigarette he opened a few letters. In this way it
happened that he was present at the entrance of the late sleeper who was
being waited for over yonder.

He came through the glass door and crossed the room in silence to his
sisters' table. His approach--the way he held the upper part of his
body, and bent his knees, the movement of his white-shod feet--had an
extraordinary charm; he walked very lightly, at once timid and proud,
and this became still more lovely through the childish embarrassment
with which, twice as he proceeded, he turned his face towards the centre
of the room, raising and lowering his eyes. Smiling, with something
half-muttered in his soft vague tongue, he took his place; and now, as
he turned his full profile to the observer, Aschenbach was again
astonished, terrified even, by the really godlike beauty of this human
child. To-day the boy was wearing a light blouse of blue and white
striped cotton goods, with a red silk tie in front, and closed at the
neck by a plain white high collar. This collar lacked the
distinctiveness of the blouse, but above it the flowering head was
poised with an incomparable seductiveness--the head of an Eros, in
blended yellows of Parian marble, with fine serious brows, the temples
and ears covered softly by the abrupt encroachment of his curls.

"Good, good!" Aschenbach thought, with that deliberate expert appraisal
which artists sometimes employ as a subterfuge when they have been
carried away with delight before a masterwork. And he thought further:
"Really, if the sea and the beach weren't waiting for me, I should stay
here as long as you stayed!" But he went then, passed through the lobby
under the inspection of the servants, down the wide terrace, and
straight across the boardwalk to the section of the beach reserved for
the hotel guests. The barefoot old man in dungarees and straw hat who
was functioning here as bathing master assigned him to the bath house he
had rented; a table and a seat were placed on the sandy board platform,
and he made himself comfortable in the lounge chair which he had drawn
closer to the sea, out into the waxen yellow sand.

More than ever before he was entertained and amused by the sights on the
beach, this spectacle of carefree, civilized people getting sensuous
enjoyment at the very edge of the elements. The grey flat sea was
already alive with wading children, swimmers, a motley of figures lying
on the sandbanks with arms bent behind their heads. Others were rowing
about in little red and blue striped boats without keels; they were
continually upsetting, amid laughter. Before the long stretches of
bathing houses, where people were sitting on the platforms as though on
small verandahs, there was a play of movement against the line of rest
and inertness behind--visits and chatter, fastidious morning elegance
alongside the nakedness which, boldly at ease, was enjoying the freedom
which the place afforded. Further in front, on the damp firm sand,
people were parading about in white bathing cloaks, in ample,
brilliantly coloured wrappers. An elaborate sand pile to the right,
erected by children, had flags in the colours of all nations planted
around it. Venders of shells, cakes, and fruit spread out their wares,
kneeling. To the left, before one of the bathing houses which stood at
right angles to the others and to the sea, a Russian family was
encamped: men with beards and large teeth, slow delicate women, a Baltic
girl sitting by an easel and painting the sea amidst exclamations of
despair, two ugly good-natured children, an old maid-servant who wore a
kerchief on her head and had the alert scraping manners of a slave.
Delighted and appreciative, they were living there, patiently calling
the names of the two rowdy disobedient children, using their scanty
Italian to joke with the humorous old man from whom they were buying
candy, kissing one another on the cheek, and not in the least concerned
with any one who might be observing their community.

"Yes, I shall stay," Aschenbach thought. "Where would things be better?"
And his hands folded in his lap, he let his eyes lose themselves in the
expanses of the sea, his gaze gliding, swimming, and failing in the
monotone mist of the wilderness of space. He loved the ocean for
deep-seated reasons: because of that yearning for rest, when the
hard-pressed artist hungers to shut out the exacting multiplicities of
experience and hide himself on the breast of the simple, the vast; and
because of a forbidden hankering--seductive, by virtue of its being
directly opposed to his obligations--after the incommunicable, the
incommensurate, the eternal, the non-existent. To be at rest in the face
of perfection is the hunger of everyone who is aiming at excellence; and
what is the non-existent but a form of perfection? But now, just as his
dreams were so far out in vacancy, suddenly the horizontal fringe of the
sea was broken by a human figure; and as he brought his eyes back from
the unbounded, and focussed them, it was the lovely boy who was there,
coming from the left and passing him on the sand. He was barefooted,
ready for wading, his slender legs exposed above the knees; he walked
slowly, but as lightly and proudly as though it were the customary thing
for him to move about without shoes; and he was looking around him
towards the line of bathing houses opposite. But as soon as he had
noticed the Russian family, occupied with their own harmony and
contentment, a cloud of scorn and detestation passed over his face. His
brow darkened, his mouth was compressed, he gave his lips an embittered
twist to one side so that the cheek was distorted, and the forehead
became so heavily furrowed that the eyes seemed sunken beneath its
pressure: malicious and glowering, they spoke the language of hate. He
looked down, looked back once more threateningly, then with his shoulder
made an abrupt gesture of disdain and dismissal, and left the enemy
behind him.

A kind of pudency or confusion, something like respect and shyness,
caused Aschenbach to turn away as though he had seen nothing. For the
earnest-minded who have been casual observers of some passion, struggle
against making use, even to themselves, of what they have seen. But he
was both cheered and unstrung--which is to say, he was happy. This
childish fanaticism, directed against the most good-natured possible
aspect of life--it brought the divinely arbitrary into human
relationships; it made a delightful natural picture which had appealed
only to the eye now seem worthy of a deeper sympathy; and it gave the
figure of this half-grown boy, who had already been important enough by
his sheer beauty, something to offset him still further, and to make one
take him more seriously than his years justified. Still looking away,
Aschenbach could hear the boy's voice, the shrill, somewhat weak voice
with which, in the distance now, he was trying to call hello to his
playfellows busied around the sand pile. They answered him, shouting
back his name, or some affectionate nickname; and Aschenbach listened
with a certain curiosity, without being able to catch anything more
definite than two melodic syllables like "Adgio," or still more
frequently "Adgiu," with a ringing u-sound prolonged at the end. He was
pleased with the resonance of this; he found it adequate to the subject.
He repeated it silently and, satisfied, turned to his letters and
manuscripts.

His small portable writing-desk on his knees he began writing with his
fountain pen an answer to this or that bit of correspondence. But after
the first fifteen minutes he found it a pity to abandon the
situation--the most enjoyable he could think of--in this manner and
waste it in activities which did not interest him. He tossed the writing
materials to one side, and he faced the ocean again; soon afterwards,
diverted by the childish voices around the sand heap, he revolved his
head comfortably along the back of the chair towards the right, to
discover where that excellent little Adgio might be and what he was
doing.

He was found at a glance; the red tie on his breast was not to be
overlooked. Busied with the others in laying an old plank across the
damp moat of the sand castle, he was nodding, and shouting instructions
for this work. There were about ten companions with him, boys and girls
of his age, and a few younger ones who were chattering with one another
in Polish, French, and in several Balkan tongues. But it was his name
which rang out most often. He was openly in demand, sought after,
admired. One boy especially, like him a Pole, a stocky fellow who was
called something like "Jaschu," with sleek black hair and a belted linen
coat, seemed to be his closest vassal and friend. When the work on the
sand structure was finished for the time being, they walked aim in arm
along the beach, and the boy who was called "Jaschu" kissed the beauty.

Aschenbach was half minded to raise a warning finger. "I advise you,
Cristobulus," he thought, smiling, "to travel for a year! For you need
that much time at least to get over it." And then he breakfasted on
large ripe strawberries which he got from a peddler. It had become very
warm, although the sun could no longer penetrate the blanket of mist in
the sky. Laziness clogged his brain, even while his senses delighted in
the numbing, drugging distractions of the ocean's stillness. To guess,
to puzzle out just what name it was that sounded something like "Adgio,"
seemed to the sober man an appropriate ambition, a thoroughly
comprehensive pursuit. And with the aid of a few scrappy recollections
of Polish he decided that they must mean Tadzio, the shortened form of
Tadeusz, and sounding like Tadziu when it is called.

Tadzio was bathing. Aschenbach, who had lost sight of him, spied his
head and the arm with which he was propelling himself, far out in the
water; for the sea must have been smooth for a long distance out. But
already people seemed worried about him; women's voices were calling
after him from the bathing houses, uttering this name again and again.
It almost dominated the beach like a battle-cry, and with its soft
consonants, its long drawn u-note at the end, it had something at once
sweet and wild about it: "Tadziu! Tadziu!" He turned back; beating the
resistent water into a foam with his legs he hurried, his head bent down
over the waves. And to see how this living figure, graceful and
clean-cut in its advance, with dripping curls, and lovely as some frail
god, came up out of the depths of sky and sea, rose and separated from
the elements--this spectacle aroused a sense of myth, it was like some
poet's recovery of time at its beginning, of the origin of forms and the
birth of gods. Aschenbach listened with closed eyes to this song ringing
within him, and he thought again that it was pleasant here, and that he
would like to remain.

Later Tadzio was resting from his bath; he lay in the sand, wrapped in
his white robe, which was drawn under the right shoulder, his head
supported on his bare arm. And even when Aschenbach was not observing
him, but was reading a few pages in his book, he hardly ever forgot that
this boy was lying there and that it would cost him only a slight turn
of his head to the right to behold the mystery. It seemed that he was
sitting here just to keep watch over his repose--busied with his own
concerns, and yet constantly aware of this noble picture at his right,
not far in the distance. And he was stirred by a paternal affection, the
profound leaning which those who have devoted their thoughts to the
creation of beauty feel towards those who possess beauty itself.

A little past noon he left the beach, returned to the hotel, and was
taken up to his room. He stayed there for some time in front of the
mirror, looking at his grey hair, his tired sharp features. At this
moment he thought of his reputation, and of the fact that he was often
recognized on the streets and observed with respect, thanks to the sure
aim and the appealing finish of his words. He called up all the exterior
successes of his talent which he could think of, remembering also his
elevation to the knighthood. Then he went down to the dining-hall for
lunch, and ate at his little table. As he was riding up in the lift,
after the meal was ended, a group of young people just coming from
breakfast pressed into the swaying cage after him, and Tadzio entered
too. He stood quite near to Aschenbach, for the first time so near that
Aschenbach could see him, not with the aloofness of a picture, but in
minute detail, in all his human particularities. The boy was addressed
by someone or other, and as he was answering with an indescribably
agreeable smile he stepped out again, on the second floor, walking
backwards, and with his eyes lowered. "Beauty makes modest," Aschenbach
thought, and he tried insistently to explain why this was so. But he had
noticed that Tadzio's teeth were not all they should be; they were
somewhat jagged and pale. The enamel did not look healthy; it had a
peculiar brittleness and transparency, as is often the case with
anaemics. "He is very frail, he is sickly," Aschenbach thought. "In all
probability he will not grow old." And he refused to reckon with the
feeling of gratification or reassurance which accompanied this notion.

He spent two hours in his room, and in the afternoon he rode in the
_vaporetto_ across the foul-smelling lagoon to Venice. He got off at San
Marco, took tea on the Piazza, and then, in accord with his schedule for
the day, he went for a walk through the streets. Yet it was this walk
which produced a complete reversal in his attitudes and his plans.

An offensive sultriness lay over the streets. The air was so heavy that
the smells pouring out of homes, stores, and eating houses became mixed
with oil, vapours, clouds of perfume, and still other odours--and these
would not blow away, but hung in layers. Cigarette smoke remained
suspended, disappearing very slowly. The crush of people along the
narrow streets irritated rather than entertained the walker. The farther
he went, the more he was depressed by the repulsive condition resulting
from the combination of sea air and sirocco, which was at the same time
both stimulating and enervating. He broke into an uncomfortable sweat.
His eyes failed him, his chest became tight, he had a fever, the blood
was pounding in his head. He fled from the crowded business streets
across a bridge into the walks of the poor. On a quiet square, one of
those forgotten and enchanting places which lie in the interior of
Venice, he rested at the brink of a well, dried his forehead, and
realized that he would have to leave here.

For the second and last time it had been demonstrated that this city in
this kind of weather was decidedly unhealthy for him. It seemed foolish
to attempt a stubborn resistance, while the prospects for a change of
wind were completely uncertain. A quick decision was called for. It was
not possible to go home this soon. Neither summer nor winter quarters
were prepared to receive him. But this was not the only place where
there were sea and beach; and elsewhere these could be found without the
lagoon and its malarial mists. He remembered a little watering place not
far from Trieste which had been praised to him. Why not there? And
without delay, so that this new change of location would still have time
to do him some good. He pronounced this as good as settled, and stood
up. At the next gondola station he took a boat back to San Marco, and
was led through the dreary labyrinth of canals, under fancy marble
balconies flanked with lions, around the corners of smooth walls, past
the sorrowing façades of palaces which mirrored large dilapidated
business-signs in the pulsing water. He had trouble arriving there, for
the gondolier, who was in league with lace-makers and glass-blowers, was
always trying to land him for inspections and purchases; and just as the
bizarre trip through Venice would begin to cast its spell, the greedy
business sense of the sunken Queen did all it could to destroy the
illusion.

When he had returned to the hotel he announced at the office before
dinner that unforeseen developments necessitated his departure the
following morning. He was assured of their regrets. He settled his
accounts. He dined, and spent the warm evening reading the newspapers in
a rocking-chair on the rear terrace. Before going to bed he got his
luggage all ready for departure.

He did not sleep so well as he might, since the impending break-up made
him restless. When he opened the window in the morning the sky was as
overcast as ever, but the air seemed fresher, and he was already
beginning to repent. Hadn't his decision been somewhat hasty and
uncalled for, the result of a passing diffidence and indisposition? If
he had delayed a little, if, instead of surrendering so easily, he had
made some attempt to adjust himself to the air of Venice or to wait for
an improvement in the weather, he would not be so rushed and
inconvenienced, but could anticipate another forenoon on the beach like
yesterday's. Too late. Now he would have to go on wanting what he had
wanted yesterday. He dressed, and at about eight o'clock rode down to
the ground floor for breakfast.

As he entered, the buffet-room was still empty of guests. A few came in
while he sat waiting for his order. With his tea cup to his lips, he saw
the Polish girls and their governess appear: rigid, with morning
freshness, their eyes still red, they walked across to their table in
the corner by the window. Immediately afterwards, the porter approached
him, cap in hand, and warned him that it was time to go. The automobile
is ready to take him and the other passengers to the Hotel Excelsior,
and from here the motorboat will bring the ladies and gentlemen
to the station through the company's private canal. Time is
pressing.--Aschenbach found that it was doing nothing of the sort. It
was still over an hour before his train left. He was irritated by this
hotel custom of hustling departing guests out of the house, and
indicated to the porter that he wished to finish his breakfast in peace.
The man retired hesitatingly, to appear again five minutes later. It is
impossible for the car to wait any longer. Then he would take a cab, and
carry his trunk with him, Aschenbach replied in anger. He would use the
public steamboat at the proper time, and he requested that it be left to
him personally to worry about his departure. The employee bowed himself
away. Pleased with the way he had warded off these importunate warnings,
Aschenbach finished his meal at leisure; in fact, he even let the waiter
bring him a newspaper. The time had become quite short when he finally
arose. It was fitting that at the same moment Tadzio should come through
the glass door.

On the way to his table he walked in the opposite direction to
Aschenbach, lowering his eyes modestly before the man with the grey hair
and high forehead, only to raise them again, in his delicious manner,
soft and full upon him--and he had passed. "Good-bye, Tadzio!"
Aschenbach thought. "I did not see much of you." He did what was unusual
with him, really formed the words on his lips and spoke them to himself;
then he added, "God bless you!"--After this he left, distributed tips,
was ushered out by the small gentle manager in the French frock coat,
and made off from the hotel on foot, as he had come, going along the
white blossoming avenue which crossed the island to the steamer bridge,
accompanied by the house servant carrying his hand luggage. He arrived,
took his place--and then followed a painful journey through all the
depths of regret.

It was the familiar trip across the lagoon, past San Marco, up the Grand
Canal. Aschenbach sat on the circular bench at the bow, his arm
supported against the railing, shading his eyes with his hand. The
public gardens were left behind, the Piazzetta opened up once more in
princely splendour and was gone, then came the great flock of palaces,
and as the channel made a turn the magnificently slung marble arch of
the Rialto came into view. The traveller was watching; his emotions were
in conflict. The atmosphere of the city, this slightly foul smell of sea
and swamp which he had been so anxious to avoid--he breathed it now in
deep, exquisitely painful draughts. Was it possible that he had not
known, had not considered, just how much he was attached to all this?
What had been a partial misgiving this morning, a faint doubt as to the
advisability of his move, now became a distress, a positive misery, a
spiritual hunger, and so bitter that it frequently brought tears to his
eyes, while he told himself that he could not possibly have foreseen it.
Hardest of all to bear, at times completely insufferable, was the
thought that he would never see Venice again, that this was a
leave-taking for ever. Since it had been shown for the second time that
the city affected his health, since he was compelled for the second time
to get away in all haste, from now on he would have to consider it a
place impossible and forbidden to him, a place which he was not equal
to, and which it would be foolish for him to visit again. Yes, he felt
that if he left now, he would be shamefaced and defiant enough never to
see again the beloved city which had twice caused him a physical
break-down. And of a sudden this struggle between his desires and his
physical strength seemed to the aging man so grave and important, his
physical defeat seemed so dishonourable, so much a challenge to hold out
at any cost, that he could not understand the ready submissiveness of
the day before, when he had decided to give in without attempting any
serious resistance.

Meanwhile the steamboat was nearing the station; pain and perplexity
increased, he became distracted. In his affliction, he felt that it was
impossible to leave, and just as impossible to turn back. The conflict
was intense as he entered the station. It was very late; there was not a
moment to lose if he was to catch the train. He wanted to, and he did
not want to. But time was pressing; it drove him on. He hurried to get
his ticket, and looked about in the tumult of the hall for the officer
on duty here from the hotel. The man appeared and announced that the
large trunk had been transferred. Transferred already? Yes, thank
you--to Como. To Como? And in the midst of hasty running back and forth,
angry questions and confused answers, it came to light that the trunk
had already been sent with other foreign baggage from the express office
of the Hotel Excelsior in a completely wrong direction.

Aschenbach had difficulty in preserving the expression which was
required under these circumstances. He was almost convulsed with an
adventurous delight, an unbelievable hilarity. The employee rushed off
to see if it were still possible to stop the trunk, and as was to be
expected he returned with nothing accomplished. Aschenbach declared that
he did not want to travel without his trunk, but had decided to go back
and wait at the beach hotel for its return. Was the company's motorboat
still at the station? The man assured him that it was lying at the door.
With Italian volubility he persuaded the clerk at the ticket window to
redeem the cancelled ticket, he swore that they would act speedily, that
no time or money would be spared in recovering the trunk promptly,
and--so the strange thing happened that, twenty minutes after his
arrival at the station, the traveller found himself again on the Grand
Canal, returning to the Lido.

Here was an adventure, wonderful, abashing, and comically dreamlike
beyond belief: places which he had just bid farewell to for ever in the
most abject misery--yet he had been turned and driven back by fate, and
was seeing them again in the same hour! The spray from the bow, washing
between gondolas and steamers with an absurd agility, shot the speedy
little craft ahead to its goal, while the one passenger was hiding the
nervousness and ebullience of a truant boy under the mask of resigned
anger. From time to time he shook with laughter at this mishap which, as
he told himself, could not have turned out better for a child of
destiny. There were explanations to be given, expressions of
astonishment to be faced--and then, he told himself, everything would be
all right; then a misfortune would be avoided, a grave error rectified.
And all that he had thought he was leaving behind him would be open to
him again, there at his disposal. . . . And to cap it all, was the
rapidity of the ride deceiving him, or was the wind really coming from
the sea?

The waves beat against the walls of the narrow canal which runs through
the island to the Hotel Excelsior. An automobile omnibus was awaiting
his return there, and took him above the rippling sea straight to the
beach hotel. The little manager with moustache and long-tailed frock
coat came down the stairs to meet him.

He ingratiatingly regretted the episode, spoke of it as highly painful
to him and the establishment, but firmly approved of Aschenbach's
decision to wait here for the baggage. Of course his room had been given
up, but there was another one, just as good, which he could occupy
immediately. "_Pas de chance, Monsieur_," the Swiss elevator boy smiled
as they were ascending. And so the fugitive was established again, in a
room almost identical to the other in its location and furnishings.

Tired out by the confusion of this strange forenoon, he distributed the
contents of his hand-bag about the room and dropped into an arm-chair by
the open window. The sea had become a pale green, the air seemed thinner
and purer; the beach, with its cabins and boats, seemed to have colour,
although the sky was still grey. Aschenbach looked out, his hands folded
in his lap; he was content to be back, but shook his head disapprovingly
at his irresolution, his failure to know his own mind. He sat here for
the better part of an hour, resting and dreaming vaguely. About noon he
saw Tadzio in a striped linen suit with a red tie, coming back from the
sea across the private beach and along the boardwalk to the hotel.
Aschenbach recognized him from this altitude before he had actually set
eyes on him; he was about to think some such words as "Well, Tadzio,
there you are again!" but at the same moment he felt this careless
greeting go dumb before the truth in his heart. He felt the exhilaration
of his blood, a conflict of pain and pleasure, and he realized that it
was Tadzio who had made it so difficult for him to leave.

He sat very still, entirely unobserved from this height, and looked
within himself. His features were alert, his eyebrows raised, and an
attentive, keenly inquisitive smile distended his mouth. Then he raised
his head; lifted both hands, which had hung relaxed over the arms of the
chair, and in a slow twisting movement turned the palms downward--as
though to suggest an opening and spreading outward of his arms. It was a
spontaneous act of welcome, of calm acceptance.



