

Day after day now the naked god with the hot cheeks drove his
fire-breathing quadriga across the expanses of the sky, and his yellow
locks fluttered in the assault of the east wind. A white silk sheen
stretched over the slowly simmering Ponto. The sand glowed. Beneath the
quaking silver blue of the ether rust-coloured canvasses were spread in
front of the beach bathing houses, and the afternoons were spent in the
sharply demarcated spots of shade which they cast. But it was also
delightful in the evening, when the vegetation in the park had the smell
of balsam, and the stars were working through their courses above, and
the soft persistent murmur of the sea came up enchantingly through the
night. Such evenings contained the cheering promise that more sunny days
of casual idleness would follow, dotted with countless closely
interspersed possibilities of well-timed accidents.

The guest who was detained here by such an accommodating mishap did not
consider the return of his property as sufficient grounds for another
departure. He suffered some inconvenience for two days, and had to
appear for meals in the large dining-room in his travelling clothes.
When the strayed luggage was finally deposited in his room again, he
unpacked completely and filled the closet and drawers with his
belongings; he had decided to remain here indefinitely, content now that
he could pass the hours on the beach in a silk suit and appear for
dinner at his little table again in appropriate evening dress.

The comfortable rhythm of this life had already cast its spell over him;
he was soon enticed by the ease, the mild splendour, of his programme.
Indeed, what a place to be in, when the usual allurement of living in
watering places on southern shores was coupled with the immediate
nearness of the most wonderful of all cities! Aschenbach was not a lover
of pleasure. Whenever that was some call for him to take a holiday, to
indulge himself, to have a good time--and this was especially true at an
earlier age--restlessness and repugnance soon drove him back to his
rigorous toil, the faithful sober efforts of his daily routine. Except
that this place was bewitching him, relaxing his will, making him happy.
In the mornings, under the shelter of his bathing house, letting his
eyes roam dreamily in the blue of the southern sea; or on a warm night
as he leaned back against the cushions of the gondola carrying him under
the broad starry sky home to the Lido from the Piazza di San Marco after
long hours of idleness--and the brilliant lights, the melting notes of
the serenade were being left behind--he often recalled his place in the
mountains, the scene of his battles in the summer, where the clouds blew
low across his garden, and terrifying storms put out the lamps at night,
and the crows which he fed were swinging in the tops of the pine trees.
Then everything seemed just right to him, as though he were lifted into
the Elysian fields, on the borders of the earth, where man enjoys the
easiest life, where there is no snow or winter, nor storms and pouring
rains, but where Oceanus continually sends forth gentle cooling breezes,
and the days pass in a blessed inactivity, without work, without effort,
devoted wholly to the sun and to the feast days of the sun.

Aschenbach saw the boy Tadzio frequently, almost constantly. Owing to
the limited range of territory and the regularity of their lives, the
beauty was near him at short intervals throughout the day. He saw him,
met him, everywhere: in the lower rooms of the hotel, on the cooling
water trips to the city and back, in the arcades of the square, and at
times when he was especially lucky ran across him on the streets. But
principally, and with the most gratifying regularity, the forenoon on
the beach allowed him to admire and study this rare spectacle at his
leisure. Yes, it was this guaranty of happiness, this daily recurrence
of good fortune, which made his stay here so precious, and gave him such
pleasure in the constant procession of sunny days.

He was up as early as he used to be when under the driving pressure of
work, and was on the beach before most people, when the sun was still
mild and the sea lay blinding white in the dreaminess of morning. He
spoke amiably to the guard of the private beach, and also spoke
familiarly to the barefoot, white-bearded old man who had prepared his
place for him, stretching the brown canopy and bringing the furniture of
the cabin out on the platform. Then he took his seat. There would now be
three or four hours in which the sun mounted and gained terrific
strength, the sea a deeper and deeper blue, and he might look at Tadzio.

He saw him approaching from the left, along the edge of the sea; he saw
him as he stepped out backwards from among the cabins; or he would
suddenly find, with a shock of pleasure, that he had missed his coming,
that he was already here in the blue and white bathing suit which was
his only garment now while on the beach, that he had already commenced
his usual activities in the sun and the sand--a pleasantly trifling,
idle, and unstable manner of living, a mixture of rest and play. Tadzio
would saunter about, wade, dig, catch things, lie down, go for a swim,
all the while being kept under surveillance by the women on the platform
who made his name ring out in their falsetto voices: "Tadziu! Tadziu!"
Then he would come running to them with a look of eagerness, to tell
them what he had seen, what he had experienced, or to show them what he
had found or caught: mussels, sea-horses, jelly-fish, and crabs that ran
sideways. Aschenbach did not understand a word he said, and though it
might have been the most ordinary thing in the world, it was a vague
harmony in his ear. So the foreignness of the boy's speech turned it
into music, a wanton sun poured its prodigal splendour down over him,
and his figure was always set off against the background of an intense
sea-blue.

This piquant body was so freely exhibited that his eyes soon knew every
line and posture. He was continually rediscovering with new pleasure all
this familiar beauty, and his astonishment at its delicate appeal to his
senses was unending. The boy was called to greet a guest who was paying
his respects to the ladies at the bathing house. He came running,
running wet perhaps out of the water, tossed back his curls, and as he
held out his hand, resting on one leg and raising his other foot on the
toes, the set of his body was delightful; it had a charming expectancy
about it, a well-meaning shyness, a winsomeness which showed his
aristocratic training. . . . He lay stretched full length, his bath
towel slung across his shoulders, his delicately chiselled arm supported
in the sand, his chin in his palm; the boy called Jaschu was squatting
near him and making up to him--and nothing could be more enchanting than
the smile of his eyes and lips when the leader glanced up at his
inferior, his servant. . . . He stood on the edge of the sea, alone,
apart from his people, quite near to Aschenbach--erect, his hands locked
across the back of his neck, he swayed slowly on the balls of his feet,
looked dreamily into the blueness of sea and sky, while tiny waves
rolled up and bathed his feet. His honey-coloured hair clung in rings
about his neck and temples. The sun made the down on his back glitter;
the fine etching of the ribs, the symmetry of the chest, were emphasized
by the tightness of the suit across the buttocks. His arm-pits were
still as smooth as those of a statue; the hollows of his knees
glistened, and their bluish veins made his body seem built of some
clearer stuff. What rigour, what precision of thought, were expressed in
this erect, youthfully perfect body! Yet the pure and strenuous will
which, darkly at work, could bring such godlike sculpture to the
light--was not he, the artist, familiar with this? Did it not operate in
him too when he, under the press of frugal passions, would free from the
marble mass of speech some slender form which he had seen in the mind
and which he put before his fellows as a statue and a mirror of
intellectual beauty?

Statue and mirror! His eyes took in the noble form there bordered with
blue; and with a rush of enthusiasm he felt that in this spectacle he
was catching the beautiful itself, form as the thought of God, the one
pure perfection which lives in the mind, and which, in this symbol and
likeness, had been placed here quietly and simply as an object of
devotion. That was drunkenness; and eagerly, without thinking, the aging
artist welcomed it. His mind was in travail; all that he had learned,
dropped back into flux; his understanding threw up age-old thoughts
which he had inherited with youth though they had never before lived
with their own fire. Is it not written that the sun diverts our
attention from intellectual to sensual things? Reason and understanding,
it is said, become so numbed and enchanted that the soul forgets
everything out of delight with its immediate circumstances, and in
astonishment becomes attached to the most beautiful object shined on by
the sun; indeed, only with the aid of a body is it capable then of
raising itself to higher considerations. To be sure, Amor did as the
instructors of mathematics who show backward children tangible
representations of the pure forms--similarly the god, in order to make
the spiritual visible for us, readily utilized the form and colour of
man's youth, and as a reminder he adorned these with the reflected
splendour of beauty which, when we behold it, makes us flare up in pain
and hope.

His enthusiasm suggested these things, put him in the mood for them. And
from the noise of the sea and the lustre of the sun he wove himself a
charming picture. Here was the old plane-tree, not far from the walls of
Athens--a holy, shadowy place filled with the smell of _agnus castus_
blossoms and decorated with ornaments and images sacred to Achelous and
the Nymphs. Clear and pure, the brook at the foot of the spreading tree
fell across the smooth pebbles; the cicadas were fiddling. But on the
grass, which was like a pillow gently sloping to the head, two people
were stretched out, in hiding from the heat of the day: an older man and
a youth, one ugly and one beautiful, wisdom next to loveliness. And amid
gallantries and skilfully engaging banter, Socrates was instructing
Phaedrus in matters of desire and virtue. He spoke to him of the hot
terror which the initiate suffer when their eyes light on an image of
the eternal beauty; spoke of the greed of the impious and the wicked who
cannot think beauty when they see its likeness, and who are incapable of
reverence; spoke of the holy distress which befalls the noble-minded
when a godlike countenance, a perfect body, appears before them; they
tremble and grow distracted, and hardly dare to raise their eyes, and
they honour the man who possesses this beauty, yes, if they were not
afraid of being thought downright madmen they would sacrifice to the
beloved as to the image of a god. For beauty, my Phaedrus, beauty alone
is both lovely and visible at once; it is, mark me, the only form of the
spiritual which we can receive through the senses. Else what would
become of us if the divine, if reason and virtue and truth, should
appear to us through the senses? Should we not perish and be consumed
with love, as Semele once was with Zeus? Thus, beauty is the sensitive
man's access to the spirit--but only a road, a means simply, little
Phaedrus. . . . And then this crafty suitor made the neatest remark of
all; it was this, that the lover is more divine than the beloved, since
the god is in the one, but not in the other--perhaps the most delicate,
the most derisive thought which has ever been framed, and the one from
which spring all the cunning and the profoundest pleasures of desire.

Writers are happiest with an idea which can become all emotion, and an
emotion all idea. Just such a pulsating idea, such a precise emotion,
belonged to the lonely man at this moment, was at his call. Nature, it
ran, shivers with ecstasy when the spirit bows in homage before beauty.
Suddenly he wanted to write. Eros loves idleness, they say, and he is
suited only to idleness. But at this point in the crisis the affliction
became a stimulus towards productivity. The incentive hardly mattered. A
request, an agitation for an open statement on a certain large burning
issue of culture and taste, was going about the intellectual world, and
had finally caught up with the traveller here. He was familiar with the
subject, it had touched his own experience; and suddenly he felt an
irresistible desire to display it in the light of his own version. And
he even went so far as to prefer working in Tadzio's presence, taking
the scope of the boy as a standard for his writing, making his style
follow the lines of this body which seemed godlike to him, and carrying
his beauty over into the spiritual just as the eagle once carried the
Trojan stag up into the ether. Never had his joy in words been more
sweet. He had never been so aware that Eros is in the word as during
those perilously precious hours when, at his crude table under the
canopy, facing the idol and listening to the music of his voice, he
followed Tadzio's beauty in the forming of his little tract, a page and
a half of choice prose which was soon to excite the admiration of many
through its clarity, its poise, and the vigorous curve of its emotion.
Certainly it is better for people to know only the beautiful product as
finished, and not in its conception, its conditions of origin. For
knowledge of the sources from which the artist derives his inspiration
would often confuse and alienate, and in this way detract from the
effects of his mastery. Strange hours! Strangely enervating efforts!
Rare creative intercourse between the spirit and a body! When Aschenbach
put away his work and started back from the beach be felt exhausted, or
in dispersion even; and it was as though his conscience were complaining
after some transgression.

The following morning, as he was about to leave the hotel, he looked off
from the steps and noticed that Tadzio, who was alone and was already on
his way towards the sea, was just approaching the private beach. He was
half tempted by the simple notion of seizing this opportunity to strike
up a casual friendly acquaintanceship with the boy who had been the
unconscious source of so much agitation and upheaval; he wanted to
address him, and enjoy the answering look in his eyes. The boy was
sauntering along, he could be overtaken; and Aschenbach quickened his
pace. He reached him on the boardwalk behind the bathing houses; was
about to lay a hand on his head and shoulders; and some word or other,
an amiable phrase in French, was on the tip of his tongue. But he felt
that his heart, due also perhaps to his rapid stride, was beating like a
hammer; and he was so short of breath that his voice would have been
tight and trembling. He hesitated, he tried to get himself under
control. Suddenly he became afraid that he had been walking too long so
close behind the boy. He was afraid of arousing curiosity and causing
him to look back questioningly. He made one more spurt, failed,
surrendered, and passed with bowed head.

"Too late!" he thought immediately. Too late! Yet was it too late? This
step which he had just been on the verge of taking would very possibly
have put things on a sound, free and easy basis, and would have restored
him to wholesome soberness. But the fact was that Aschenbach did not
want soberness: his intoxication was too precious. Who can explain the
stamp and the nature of the artist! Who can understand this deep
instinctive welding of discipline and licence? For to be unable to want
wholesome soberness, is licence. Aschenbach was no longer given to
self-criticism. His tastes, the mental caliber of his years, his
self-respect, ripeness, and a belated simplicity made him unwilling to
dismember his motives and to debate whether his impulses were the result
of conscientiousness or of dissolution and weakness. He was embarrassed,
as he feared that someone or other, if only the guard on the beach, must
have observed his pursuit and defeat. He was very much afraid of the
ridiculous. Further, he joked with himself about his comically pious
distress. "Downed," he thought, "downed like a rooster, with his wings
hanging miserably in the battle. It really is a god who can, at one
sight of his loveliness, break our courage this way and force down our
pride so thoroughly. . . ." He toyed and skirmished with his emotions,
and was far too haughty to be afraid of them.

He had already ceased thinking about the time when the vacation period
which he had fixed for himself would expire; the thought of going home
never even suggested itself. He had sent for an ample supply of money.
His only concern was with the possible departure of the Polish family;
by a casual questioning of the hotel barber he had contrived to learn
that these people had come here only a short time before his own
arrival. The sun browned his face and hands, the invigorating salt
breezes made him feel fresher. Once he had been in the habit of
expending on his work every bit of nourishment which food, sleep, or
nature could provide him; and similarly now he was generous and
uneconomical, letting pass off as elation and emotion all the daily
strengthening derived from sun, idleness, and sea air.

His sleep was fitful; the preciously uniform days were separated by
short nights of happy unrest. He did retire early, for at nine o'clock,
when Tadzio had disappeared from the scene, the day seemed over. But at
the first grey of dawn he was awakened by a gently insistent shock; he
suddenly remembered his adventure, he could no longer remain in bed; he
arose, and clad lightly against the chill of morning, he sat down by the
open window to await the rising of the sun. Revived by his sleep, he
watched this miraculous event with reverence. Sky, earth, and sea still
lay in glassy, ghost-like twilight; a dying star still floated in the
emptiness of space But a breeze started up, a winged message from
habitations beyond reach, telling that Eros was rising from beside her
husband. And that first sweet reddening in the farthest stretches of sky
and sea took place by which the sentiency of creation is announced. The
goddess was approaching, the seductress of youth who stole Cleitus and
Cephalus, and despite the envy of all the Olympians enjoyed the love of
handsome Orion. A strewing of roses began there on the edge of the
world, an unutterably pure glowing and blooming. Childish clouds,
lighted and shined through, floated like busy little Cupids in the rosy,
bluish mist. Purple fell upon the sea, which seemed to be simmering, and
washing the colour towards him. Golden spears shot up into the sky from
behind. The splendour caught fire, silently, and with godlike power an
intense flame of licking tongues broke out--and with rattling hoofs the
brother's sacred chargers mounted the horizon. Lighted by the god's
brilliance, he sat there, keeping watch alone. He closed his eyes,
letting this glory play against the lids. Past emotions, precious early
afflictions and yearnings which had been stifled by his rigorous
programme of living, were now returning in such strange new forms. With
an embarrassed, astonished smile, he recognized them. He was thinking,
dreaming; slowly his lips formed a name. And still smiling, with his
face turned upwards, hands folded in his lap, he fell asleep again in
his chair.

But the day which began with such fiery solemnity underwent a strange
mythical transformation. Where did the breeze originate which suddenly
began playing so gently and insinuatingly, like some whispered
suggestion, about his ears and temples? Little white choppy clouds stood
in the sky in scattered clumps, like the pasturing herds of the gods. A
stronger wind arose, and the steeds of Poseidon came prancing up, and
along with them the steers which belonged to the blue-locked god,
bellowing and lowering their horns as they ran. Yet among the detritus
of the more distant beach waves were hopping forward like agile goats.
He was caught in the enchantment of a sacredly distorted world full of
Panic life--and he dreamed delicate legends. Often, when the sun was
sinking behind Venice, he would sit on a bench in the park observing
Tadzio who was dressed in a white suit with a coloured sash and was
playing ball on the smooth gravel--and it was Hyacinth that he seemed to
be watching. Hyacinth who was to die because two gods loved him. Yes, he
felt Zephyr's aching jealousy of the rival who forgot the oracle, the
bow, and the lyre, in order to play for ever with this beauty. He saw
the discus, guided by a pitiless envy, strike the lovely head; he too,
growing pale, caught the drooping body--and the flower, sprung from this
sweet blood, bore the inscription of his unending grief.

Nothing is more unusual and strained than the relationship between
people who know each other only with their eyes, who meet daily, even
hourly, and yet are compelled, by force of custom or their own caprices,
to say no word or make no move of acknowledgement, but to maintain the
appearance of an aloof unconcern. There is a restlessness and a
surcharged curiosity existing between them, the hysteria of an
unsatisfied, unnaturally repressed desire for acquaintanceship and
intercourse; and especially there is a kind of tense respect. For one
person loves and honours another so long as he cannot judge him, and
desire is an evidence of incomplete knowledge.

Some kind of familiarity had necessarily to form itself between
Aschenbach and young Tadzio; and it gave the elderly man keen pleasure
to see that his sympathies and interests were not left completely
unanswered. For example, when the boy appeared on the beach in the
morning and was going towards his family's bathing house, what had
induced him never to use the boardwalk on the far side of it any more,
but to stroll along the front path, through the sand, past Aschenbach's
habitual place, and often unnecessarily close to him, almost touching
his table, or his chair even? Did the attraction, the fascination of an
overpowering emotion have such an effect upon the frail unthinking
object of it? Aschenbach watched daily for Tadzio to approach; and
sometimes he acted as though he were occupied when this event was taking
place, and he let the boy pass unobserved. But at other times he would
look up, and their glances met. They were both in deep earnest when this
occurred. Nothing in the elderly man's cultivated and dignified
expression betrayed any inner movement; but there was a searching look
in Tadzio's eyes, a thoughtful questioning--he began to falter, looked
down, then looked up again charmingly, and when he had passed something
in his bearing seemed to indicate that it was only his breeding which
kept him from turning around.

Once, however, one evening, things turned out differently. The Polish
children and their governess had been missing at dinner in the large
hall; Aschenbach had noted this uneasily. After the meal, disturbed by
their absence, Aschenbach was walking in evening dress and straw hat in
front of the hotel at the foot of the terrace, when suddenly he saw the
nunlike sisters appear in the light of the arc-lamp, accompanied by
their governess and with Tadzio a few steps behind. Evidently they were
coming from the steamer pier after having dined for some reason in the
city. It must have been cool on the water; Tadzio was wearing a dark
blue sailor overcoat with gold buttons, and on his head he had a cap to
match. The sun and sea air had not browned him; his skin still had the
same yellow marble colour as at first. It even seemed paler to-day than
usual, whether from the coolness or from the blanching moonlight of the
lamps. His regular eyebrows showed up more sharply, the darkness of his
eyes was deeper. It is hard to say how beautiful he was; and Aschenbach
was distressed, as he had often been before, by the thought that words
can only evaluate sensuous beauty, but not re-give it.

He had not been prepared for this rich spectacle; it came unhoped for.
He had no time to entrench himself behind an expression of repose and
dignity. Pleasure, surprise, admiration must have shown on his face as
his eyes met those of the boy--and at this moment it happened that
Tadzio smiled, smiled to him, eloquently, familiarly, charmingly,
without concealment; and during the smile his lips slowly opened. It was
the smile of Narcissus bent over the reflecting water, that deep,
fascinated, magnetic smile with which he stretches out his arms to the
image of his own beauty--a smile distorted ever so little, distorted at
the hopelessness of his efforts to kiss the pure lips of the shadow. It
was coquettish, inquisitive, and slightly tortured. It was infatuated,
and infatuating.

He had received this smile, and he hurried away as though he carried a
fatal gift. He was so broken up that he was compelled to escape the
light of the terrace and the front garden; he hastily hunted out the
darkness of the park in the rear. Strangely indignant and tender
admonitions wrung themselves out of him: "You dare not smile like that!
Listen, no one dare smile like that to another!" He threw himself down
on a bench; in a frenzy he breathed the night smell of the vegetation.
And leaning back, his arms loose, overwhelmed, with frequent
chills running through him, he whispered the fixed formula of
desire--impossible in this case, absurd, abject, ridiculous, and yet
holy, even in this case venerable: "I love you!"



