
New frontiers. New lands in the sky. New hope.

It was quiet. The jet was still and no sound was anywhere in the ship.
Now a soft tick from the timer. A whisper from the questing radarscope.
And again, the stillness.

We've done it, Pete thought. We've really done it. The hard part is
over.

Ride the rocket!

He remembered the pain of the takeoff and the absolute panic that had
welled up in him when the irrevocability of his action came home. He
remembered riding a tail of red fire up out of the hot desert air of
New Mexico into the still blue, and then the silence and the almost
unnerving thrill of the realization that the moonshot was going to
succeed.

The radio hissed at him with the voice of the desert base half around
the world.

"Hello moonshot. This is Base. All's okay. Stage one landed in the
Gulf. Stage two just reported floating off the Azores. Good show."

Pete lifted himself from the acceleration couch and felt a moment of
nausea and panic as he floated toward the ceiling of the tiny cell.
Free flight. He steadied himself and checked the flow of telemetered
information binding the ship to the glowing curve far below. All okay.
Except that--

Except that you're still afraid, he told himself. Not just the normal
fear-of-falling-afraid that the psychs told you about. Afraid like
before--in that silly damn carnival ride thing.

Afraid of the dark?

No, not quite that. More a closed in, cheated feeling.

Premonition? Nonsense.

He clung to the radarscope, trembling. With every rushing mile upward,
outward, his fear was growing. It wasn't right, it didn't make sense.
But he felt as though he were rushing straight at a brick wall, head
down, eyes closed.

He lit the telescreens.

The stars look funny, he thought uneasily.

The timer ticked. The radar whispered, searching. Time passed and his
fear grew thicker, less reasonable.

His fingers dug hard at the metal of the instrument panel as the night
slipped by outside the hull. The ship's orbital ellipse, Kepler's
contribution to the new frontier, was established.

Pete thought, something's wrong. Very wrong. The stars look queer.

The constellations in the telescreens were distorting, and there
was something ahead of the ship where there should be nothing but
emptiness. It showed in the screen for just an instant and was lost. A
ringed sphere.

I must be dreaming, Pete thought. But then, what is reality? That
sphere was Saturn. And it was a hundred yards across.

Reality? _Insanity!_

I'd better check with Base, Pete thought, and tell them I've gone off
my rocker, that I'm suffering hallucinations.

But he did nothing except cling shaking to the panel, watching the
distorted stars in the screen. They were blurring now, streaks of light
that seemed to be very close to the ship.
