
Gloria smiled understandingly at the woman who sat across the desk.

"I understand, Mrs. Francis," she said.

"It's not that Tom's a bad boy, you know," the woman said. "But
he's--easily led. That's the only thing."

"Of course," Gloria said. She looked at the middle-aged woman, wearing a
gray suit that did not fit her overweight frame, and a silly little
white hat. "I'm sure everything's going to be all right," she said.

Mrs. Francis gave a little gasp. "Oh, I hope so," she said. "Tom doesn't
mean to cause any trouble. He just doesn't understand--"

Gloria went over the report sheets mentally. Tom didn't mean to cause
any trouble, but he had been involved in a gang war or two--nothing in
the way of Thompson sub-machine guns, of course, or mortars, just a few
pistols and zip-guns and rocks and broken bottles.

Tom hadn't been killed yet. That was, Gloria thought sadly, only a
matter of time. He hadn't killed anybody yet, either--but he'd come
close. Tom had seen the inside of a jail or two a lot more recently than
he'd seen the inside of a classroom.

Tom was easily led.

Sure.

Well, Gloria thought, the problem was to lead him into something more
productive and satisfying than the gangs of New York. And that didn't
seem to be too hard.

Of course, she had very little practice as yet. The theoretical
knowledge she'd been able to dig up in college was mostly on the magic
and superstition shelves of the library--and, while she got full credit
in her minor, Anthropology, for the research she'd done, a great deal of
it just wasn't any practical help.

Not if you _were_ a witch--or what passed for one.

"You see what I mean, don't you?" Mrs. Francis said.

"Of course I do," Gloria said, and gave the woman her most reassuring
smile. "I'm sure something can be done. Do you know where your boy is
now?"

Mrs. Francis nodded, birdlike. "He's home now. I think he's sleeping. He
usually doesn't wake up until after noon."

"I see." Gloria hesitated a moment. "Can you describe him for me?"

"Describe him?"

"That's right," Gloria said. "You see, the somatotypes have, we've
discovered, a great influence on mental and emotional makeup."

She didn't feel right, lying to the woman--but chances were that what
she'd said didn't make any sense to Mrs. Francis and, in any case,
Gloria could hardly tell her the real reason she wanted a description.

It would aid in making the doll she needed.

"He's about six feet tall," Mrs. Francis said, "but he's very thin, and
sometimes I worry about that. I try to give him the best nourishment I
know how, but he--"

"What color is his hair?" Gloria interrupted.

"Oh," Mrs. Francis said. "Brown. And brown eyes. Really nice eyes;
they're his best feature; everybody says so."

"Any distinguishing marks, or anything unusual about him?"

"He has a scar now, on his left arm just below the elbow, but he got
that in a fight with these boys--"

"All right," Gloria said. "Thank you very much."

"What are you going to do?" Mrs. Francis said. "You're not going to have
him arrested or anything, are you? Because he's not a bad boy, you know
that. He's only--"

"Easily led," Gloria finished. "Of course. There won't be any need for
arrest, or for anything as drastic as that. You just go home now, and
don't worry. I'm sure everything's going to be all right."

"I only want to help my boy," Mrs. Francis said.

"Of course you do," Gloria said. "I want to help him, too."

Mrs. Francis stood up and swallowed hard. "I appreciate that," she said.

"It's my job, that's all," Gloria said, feeling unaccountably shy. As
the woman left she thought about that embarrassment and finally decided
that she felt she had no right to be complimented. She was doing a job;
it needed to be done; that was all.

True, she had special talents for the job--but Mrs. Francis didn't know
that, and she hadn't made the talents anyhow, but been born with them.

Congratulations?

Don't be silly.

As a matter of fact, Gloria thought, she deserved a good talking-to. She
hadn't had enough experience, and that was the simple truth. It was all
very well to work on a boy like Rudi, or another one like Tom Francis,
when they didn't have any idea who you were or even that you were trying
to do something. That was easy.

But a woman like Mrs. Wladek--

She was suspicious from the start, and Gloria thought that perhaps she
shouldn't have done anything. But it was obvious that the woman needed
help to become a functioning member of society.

The only trouble was that Gloria hadn't been quite expert enough. Oh,
given enough time, the command would work, and eventually become part of
the personality. But, because Mrs. Wladek had been afraid and a little
forewarned, she'd been able to fight off the command a little.

_Practice_, Gloria told herself, _makes perfect._ And it wasn't her
fault that she couldn't do any better. Next time, she'd have a little
more practice and she'd be able to do a clearer and more complete job.

And, in the meantime, there was no real harm done. Mrs. Wladek would
come round, before long, and then everything would be all right.

Why, after all, there was Rudi, too. And Rudi undoubtedly had a job by
now, or at least a good chance of one through an employment agency.

There was no reason to be depressed.
