
Her son was waiting for her when she arrived at her home once more. Mrs.
Wladek looked at the boy with relief and some suspicion. It was not
natural for Rudi to be at home during such an hour; he was out with his
friends through the day, and this was good for a boy.

"Ma," Rudi said, "guess what?"

"You are in trouble," Mrs. Wladek said at once, in a heavy voice.

"Trouble? I got no troubles, ma," Rudi said. He stood before her in the
dusty living room, self-assured and proud, and it came to Mrs. Wladek
all at once that her boy was a man.

"What is it?" she demanded. "Tell me at once."

"Sure I will. Ma," Rudi said. "I got a job. I start tomorrow. In an
office, wrapping things. The mail room, they call it."

Silence descended on the little room.

"Ma," Rudi said at last. "Ma, what's wrong?"

"Wrong?" Mrs. Wladek said. "What should be wrong? Nothing at all is
wrong. You have a job, very well, you have a job."

"You're not happy about it, Ma?"

Mrs. Wladek gave a short bark. "Happy? Indeed I should be happy? My son
goes to work, like a dog, and I should be--" She paused and gasped
suddenly. "Why did you go to work?"

"You mean why did I get a job, Ma?" Rudi said. "Listen, let's have
supper and we'll talk about it, huh?"

"Supper?" Mrs. Wladek snorted. "Supper we will have when I find out what
I need to know. Not before."

"But I'm hungry, Ma, and ... oh, all right." Rudi sat down on the old
brown couch and sighed. "I just thought it would be a good idea to get a
job, bring some bread into the house, you know? So I went down to the
agency, and they had this application waiting, and I went down and got
the job, and I start tomorrow. That's all. Now let's eat."

"You got the idea to have a job?" Mrs. Wladek said. "Fine. Fine. Just
fine. And when did you get this idea?"

"I don't know," Rudi said, and shrugged. "Some time. This morning,
maybe. Look, what difference does it make? I thought you'd like the
idea, Ma. Some more dough coming in ... you know."

"This morning." Mrs. Wladek raised clenched fists over her head.
"Cossacks!" she screamed. "Monsters! Witches!"

Lunchtime.

Gloria looked up and smiled sweetly and distantly as Harold Meedy
appeared at her desk. "Got any special place to go?" he said.

"As a matter of fact--" she began, but he was too quick for her.

"It's always 'as a matter of fact,'" he said. "What's the matter--you
got another boy friend or something? You don't like poor Harold? Look,
Gloria, if you want to avoid me, then you go ahead and avoid me. But--"

"It's nothing like that," Gloria said.

"So come on," Harold said. "Listen, I'm really a sweet guy when you get
to know me. You'd like me. Sure you would."

"I'm sure," Gloria said. "But I really do have something to take care
of."

"Can't you take care of it later?"

She shook her head.

"Well ... all right, if you want me to grow up all frustrated." He
grinned at her and moved away.

When they were all gone, and only Mr. Fredericksohn remained in his
private office, behind the closed door, Gloria opened a drawer of her
desk and took out a piece of modeling clay a little bigger than her
fist. Working without haste, and never bothering to look up she made a
doll in the shape of a tall, thin boy.

The voodoo sects in Haiti used hair or fingernail parings from the
subject, Gloria knew; she had learned that in her college research, but
she had known about the doll long before. Hair and fingernail parings:
what superstition! And it wasn't as if you really needed the doll; if
necessary, you could get along very well without it. But it was a help;
it made things easier; and why not?

She tried to picture Tom Francis. His mother's description of him had
been pretty vague, but Gloria found she could locate him at his house;
she turned the doll until she had the feeling of contact, and then--

There.

It didn't take long, actually, not once you had your subject located.
Tom hadn't really been a hard case; his juvenile delinquency, Gloria was
quite sure, was a thing of the past. He'd be back in school as soon as
the details could be worked out between Mrs. Francis and the Board of
Education, and that would take care of that.

With a satisfied smile, she put the doll away in her drawer. She'd mash
it back into clay later in the afternoon; that would enable her to use
the same piece over and over again.

Clay cost money, and a case worker's salary wasn't large. Gloria could
not see how she could put the cost of the clay down on a special
requisition, anyhow; she had to pay for it herself, and so she was very
careful and saving with it.

After she'd put the Tom doll away with the Rudi doll, making a mental
note to take care of both of them before she left for the day, she
fished out her beret and put it on and went out for a quick lunch.
