
It was just after two o'clock when Mr. Gerne came in. The others were
used to his periodic arrivals, of course, and Gloria had never felt any
fear of the director. He didn't work in the same office, but elsewhere
in the building, and once a week he made a habit of touring the various
social-work agencies under his direction.

It kept the workers on their toes, Gloria imagined: the actual sight of
the boss' boss would do that. Mr. Gerne never smiled; he was a small,
thin-lipped man with white skin and very little hair. He stood in the
outer office, peering round, for a few minutes, and then, nodding his
head slowly, he went on and knocked at Mr. Fredericksohn's door.

"Who's there?" Mr. Fredericksohn called from inside.

"Mr. Gerne," said Mr. Gerne. There was a little pause, and then Mr.
Fredericksohn said:

"Ah. Come in."

The door opened and shut and Mr. Gerne was invisible.

Gloria picked up a folder and pretended to concentrate on it. Of course,
she could hear what was happening in the private office perfectly well.
She remembered studying medieval witchcraft and thought suddenly of
astral bodies.

But that had been a guess some distance from the truth.

The projection of the sense of hearing was such a simple thing, really;
why did people have to complicate it with all this talk about witches
and the soul--she was reminded of Mrs. Wladek but put the woman out of
her mind. Mr. Gerne was talking.

"... For instance, the new girl--what's her name?"

"Gloria Scott," Mr. Fredericksohn's voice said. "Yes?"

"What's she like?" Mr. Gerne's voice said. "I don't know her
personally--of course I've seen her there in the office, and she seems
like a friendly, pretty girl. But you deal with her every day--"

"Very nice," Mr. Fredericksohn said. "Pleasant and easy to work with. A
good type. Now, you take her record--"

"That's what I meant," Mr. Gerne said. "A record like that--it's just
not possible. There isn't any chance she's faking it?"

After a little silence Mr. Fredericksohn said: "No chance at all. I've
had follow-ups on a random selection of her cases--standard practice for
a newcomer. Of course, she doesn't know about any of that."

"Of course. And?"

"No fakes," Mr. Fredericksohn said. "And don't tell me it's hard to
believe. I know perfectly well it's hard to believe."

"No returns," Mr. Gerne said. "Not a single return in over a month."

"Except the old woman," Mr. Fredericksohn said. "Mrs. Wladek."

Gloria turned a page in the report she was holding, without taking her
attention from the conversation in the private room.

It was always helpful to know the kind of thing people said about you,
as well as what they thought. It gave you more facts to work with, and
made you more efficient and better able to work at your chosen
profession.

Mr. Gerne was saying: "You can discount Mrs. Wladek. That one's a
trouble-spot."

"Always has been," Mr. Fredericksohn said.

"All right, then discount her," Mr. Gerne said. "Forget about her.
And--outside of that one case--there hasn't been a repeat."

"Some of the clients have died," Mr. Fredericksohn said.

Mr. Gerne waited a second. Then he said: "A little higher percentage
than normal. So?"

"I mean, that's a reason for some of the non-repeats."

"And the others?" Mr. Gerne paused a minute and then went on. "You can't
discount the girl's record like that."

"I wasn't trying to," Mr. Fredericksohn said mildly. "I was only
pointing out--"

"Let those go," Mr. Gerne said. "Obviously she had no control over that
sort of thing. Unless you think she went out and killed them?"

"Of course not." Mr. Fredericksohn said.

"And outside of that, then--no repeats. The girl's a wonder."

"Certainly," Mr. Fredericksohn said. "Let's see how long it keeps up,
that's all."

Mr. Gerne said: "Pessimist. All right, we'll drop the subject for now.
Anyway, I did want to talk to you about the progress reports we've been
getting from Frazier's office. It seems to me--"

Gloria broke the connection. Frazier, a supervisor for another office,
didn't interest her; she only wanted to hear what the conversation about
herself would be like. Well, now she knew.

And, thankfully, no one suspected a thing. Why, the subject had been
brought up, right in the open, and dropped without a word or a thought.

"Unless you think she went out and killed them."

Gloria didn't smile. The idea was not funny. Sometimes you had to do
something like that--but the necessity didn't make it pleasant.

The trouble was that you couldn't always cure something by a simple
projection into the mind. Sometimes you ran into a compulsion that was
really deeply buried.

If the compulsion was a big one, and went back far into childhood,
Gloria couldn't do anything directly about it. Sometimes it was possible
to work around, and, of course, you did that when you could. The
important thing was society, but you salvaged the individual wherever
possible.

Where it wasn't possible--

Well, here's a man who has a compulsion to get drunk. And, when drunk,
he's got to pick fights. Maybe he hasn't killed anybody in a fight
yet--but some day he will. He's got the strength and, under the
influence of sufficient alcohol, he's got no inhibitions about using it.

None.

You can let the man live, and by doing that kill an unknown number of
other people. At the least, keeping your hands and your mind off the
compulsive drinker-fighter will serve to injure others--how many others,
and how badly, you can't tell.

There are times when you've got to take an individual life in your
hands.

And yet, because you can't always be sure--

Gloria's "talents" could kill out of hand, she was sure. But she didn't
use them that way. Instead, she simply projected a new compulsion into
the mind of her subject.

The next time he got drunk and wanted to start a fight, he wanted to do
something else, too.

For instance: walk along the edges of roofs.

The original compulsion had been added to, and turned into a compulsion
toward suicide; that was what it amounted to.

Gloria didn't like doing it, and she was always glad when it wasn't
necessary. But there was a dark side to everything--even, she thought,
helping people.

She told herself grimly that it had to be done.

And then she returned to her work.
