
Mrs. Wladek pounded on the door of the gypsy's store a few minutes
before four. Her face was white and her lips set in a thin line; she
breathed with difficulty and with every move she made she could feel her
old bones creak.

It was a shame what was being done to an old woman.

But did they care? Did any of them care?

Mrs. Wladek gave a little snort that was half laughter and half
self-pity. She pounded on the door again and dropped her arm, feeling
old and tired and nearly helpless.

But she had to fight on.

There was a limit to what an old woman could be expected to stand. They
would learn, all of them, what--

The door opened.

Marya Proderenska said: "Yes? You are early."

"I am in a hurry. Terrible things have occurred."

The gypsy woman sighed and stepped aside. "Come in, then," she said, and
Mrs. Wladek entered slowly, peering round the front room.

"Come in the back," the gypsy woman said. "I have been preparing to help
you. But more is required."

It was Mrs. Wladek's turn to sigh. She reached into her purse and found
a fifty-cent piece, which she handed over very slowly.

"More is required," the gypsy woman said, looking at the coin in her
hand as if, Mrs. Wladek thought, it was less than a penny. Did not the
woman realize that fifty cents was a great deal of money for a poor old
woman?

No one had any pity any more.

She handed over another fifty cents and the gypsy woman nodded sadly,
pocketed the money and led the way to the back room.

"You will help me now?" Mrs. Wladek said.

"I will try."

The room was silent as the gypsy woman brought all her knowledge and
experience into play. Finally she looked at Mrs. Wladek and said: "A
very powerful curse has been put upon you. I can't help you."

"The Church will help me!" Mrs. Wladek screamed. "They have the power to
exorcise--"

"Do not speak to me of churches," the gypsy woman shouted.

Mrs. Wladek shook her head. "You, who steal my money, who steal the
bread from my old mouth without pity--"

"A woman must live," Marya Proderenska said, with great dignity.
