
Everybody stared, of course, but none of the other workers came over to
find out why Mrs. Wladek had come in on a day that wasn't her
appointment day. With Mrs. Wladek right there, asking questions just
wasn't possible. Gloria tried to get some work done, but that wasn't
possible either, and she resigned herself at last to sitting quietly and
waiting for Mr. Fredericksohn's arrival.

She promised herself she'd make up for the loss of time by taking a
shorter lunch hour, and that relieved her mind a little. But she did
hope Mr. Fredericksohn would be early.

Thankfully, he was. At nine twenty-five exactly, the door opened and Mr.
Fredericksohn entered. He glanced once round the office, saw Mrs. Wladek
and went on. A second later he stopped.

He didn't have a chance to say anything. Mrs. Wladek was at his side. "I
must see you at once," she said. "I must see you alone, at once."

He stared at her. "Miss Scott here, I'm sure, can--"

"It is about Miss Scott that I want to talk to you," Mrs. Wladek hissed.

Mr. Fredericksohn glanced at Gloria. She busied herself with papers. At
last he said: "Come with me," and led Mrs. Wladek down the aisle into
his private office. The door closed.

Ten minutes passed and the door opened. Mr. Fredericksohn's head
projected. "Miss Scott," he said. "May I see you for a minute?"

The curiosity in the office was almost a solid pressure, but Gloria paid
it no attention. She said: "Certainly," put away the folder she had been
consulting, and went in.

There, at the side of Mr. Fredericksohn's desk, Mrs. Wladek was sitting,
looking determined, grim and baffled all at once. Gloria stood in front
of the desk and Mr. Fredericksohn seated himself behind it, the large
open window at his back.

"Yes, Mr. Fredericksohn?" Gloria said.

"I have told him all," Mrs. Wladek said. "All. Everything. Total."

"Er ... yes," Mr. Fredericksohn said. He faced Gloria resolutely. "Mrs.
Wladek has said something about a ... about a spell. Do you know what
she might be talking about? Something you said, some impression you gave
her--"

"A spell?" Gloria shook her head. "I can't think how she got that idea,"
she said calmly.

"You do not fool him," Mrs. Wladek said. "He knows. I have told him
all."

"Certainly," Mr. Fredericksohn murmured. "But perhaps some little
thing--"

"My report will be ready in an hour," Gloria said. "But I'm sure there
was nothing."

Mr. Fredericksohn coughed convulsively. "I suppose not," he said. "I
realize this is rather unpleasant for you--"

"I quite understand," Gloria said.

Mrs. Wladek came out of her chair in a single movement and clutched
Gloria by the left arm. "What is happening?" she demanded.

Mr. Fredericksohn avoided her eye. "Please sit down," he said. And then,
to Gloria: "Miss Scott, if you'll make the call ... you know what I
mean?"

"Of course," she said.

"The--" He whispered it: "The hospital?"

"What did you say?" Mrs. Wladek demanded. "What did you tell her?"

Gloria disengaged herself and went to the door. As she shut it behind
her she could hear Mrs. Wladek's voice, rising to a crescendo of threats
and abuse, and Mr. Fredericksohn's calm, scholarly attempts to stem the
tide. She almost smiled.

Then she went to her own desk and picked up the telephone.

Actually, she told herself, matters had worked out for the best. Rudi
had a job, and would grow into a fully functioning member of society.
Mrs. Wladek would not be on the relief rolls any longer.

And what Mrs. Wladek wanted--a place to live, and someone to take care
of her--would certainly be provided for her.

Yes, everything had worked out for the best. And, next time, she'd be
able to handle a situation like Mrs. Wladek's with less trouble. Gloria
looked into the future--into a long series of days and weeks, helping
people, getting them to do what was best for them. Oh, sometimes they
wouldn't like it right away, but you had to expect that. What was best
for them--

Gloria smiled to herself quietly, and dialed a number.

On the second ring, a voice said: "Bellevue Admitting."

"We'd appreciate your sending an ambulance and attendants right away,"
Gloria said. "For the psychiatric wards."

THE END



