
His last night's pleasure stirred, vainly fought the inevitable and
fluttered its hands. "You awake, Soldier?"

The room glowed with a rosy light.

"Approximately."

The woman uncoiled herself and lay flat. Through the tangle of bronzed
hair, one ear shone whitely. She brushed the hair from her eyes and
her scarlet mouth opened in a feline yawn. The woman was pink and
white; she quivered in voluptuous ecstasy and slithered on the satin
with her own satiny, round and naked flesh.

"I didn't hear the alarm," she said, her voice thick with the residue
of sleep. Her body pressed warm to his as she slid his cigarette from
his fingers.

He shared the cigarette, thinking of the distance between the bed and
the bathroom. The clock told him he had eight minutes to wait for
maximum emission. His physiological chart showed a tolerance of nine
and one-third hours.

Eight minutes to wait. Then he would have twenty minutes in which to
shower, and fifteen to clothe himself in the shimmering, clinging
opaque that, like the casing on a sausage, would cover him, leaving
only his eyes, ears and mouth. These the neurologist would take care of
before the mechanics fitted him into his machine for his next tour of
duty.

There was a time for eating, time for a last cigarette, time for
briefing and a long, long time for the Galbth II.

Time for everything but living.

Gently he kissed the woman's soft neck. "What's your name?" he asked
wistfully, his attention divided between the short gold hairs at the
base of her head and the all important clock.

The woman chuckled chidingly and toyed with his hands, tracing the
veins that stood rigid on their backs where the tortured nerves had
forced them to the surface like a maze of pale blue pipes.

She did not answer. He could no more know her name than he could know
her face behind the silver opaque--than he could know her voice behind
the vocal distorter--no more than he could know anyone, or that anyone
could know him.

Three times a week the Sex-Dispatcher sent him a woman. For all he knew
it could be the same woman, or three different women.

"Can I tell the dispatcher that I pleased you?" The voice distorter had
shifted and made her sound as though she had a cold. It was, of course,
impossible. That scourge hadn't attacked the fortress in thirty years.
In all probability it would never attack it again.

He nodded, grinding the cigarette into the ashtray. "It would be nice,"
he said, "if we could know one another."

She smiled. "Some day."

The clock gave warning, counting backwards through thirty seconds. Jord
patted the woman's thigh in dismissal. "You may as well go now."
