
She slid from the bed, neither reluctant nor impatient. Her simple
tunic lay on the crimson rug where she had dropped it nine hours
before. "Good-by, Soldier," she said.

He was already on his way to the bathroom. If he should see her again,
her voice would be different, her hair would be different. She had no
scars or physical aberrance that he could recognize her by. She was
healthy, intelligent and normal, and therefore selected for breeding.
So was he. Ask the geneticists. He had.

In the bathroom, the clock told him to wash his face. Carefully he
rubbed desensitizer on his mask, on the ten thousand artificial nerve
endings that transcribed every motion of the living tissue it encased
and magnified that motion a thousand times to the mightier motions of
the machine.

The desensitizer entered the porous material; the mask sagged and
became transparent like a cellophane sack. He lifted it from his face.

Two huge holes for eyes, a gaping rent of a mouth. He threw it with
disgust into the depository. It would go back to the Neurological
Division to be cleaned and repaired.

He looked into the mirror with the interest of a man who sees his face
on rare occasions. The nerves stood out like splintered cracks in
glass. He fingered his face lovingly, unmindful of the agony caused by
his touch, remembering the woman. He wondered in what manner her face
would differ from his.

The pain made him stop thinking about it and he closed his eyes to
spray a weak solution of desensitizer on the burning flesh. Almost
immediately the pain was gone; but it left him with a marble mask that
wouldn't come to life again until the effects of the desensitizer wore
off.

He washed quickly in warm water, rubbed disinfectant on the atrophied
area, rinsed it and stepped in front of the dryer. A thousand tongues
of almost corporeal warmth licked over his skin.

He had shaved and desensitized his body the night before, so it was
only a matter of washing and disinfecting before he climbed into the
overall casing and stepped clumsily into the sensitizing shower. The
huge bag began to shrink and cloud, adhering to his body as though it
were another layer of his skin.

Since the casing acted as a magnifying extension of his nervous and
muscular systems, his body, within the casing, felt nothing. There
was no sense of contact as he walked across the floor and opened the
bathroom door. As far as feeling went, he was without a body.

He said "hello" experimentally, to see if the distorter was still on.
It wasn't. The hard flatness of his voice surprised him. The rosy light
was gone also. Something peculiar to women caused the filter to slide
over the coldly glowing silver. No man could cause it. No warrior was
supposed to want to.
