
He went through the curtains into the tube-like corridor and joined the
other silver warriors on their way to the mess hall. He knew no one of
them, yet knew them all. In battle, no friend of his would die, yet no
one would die that he did not know. Two hundred years of war in this
forgotten bit of the universe had shown the value of this. Some day,
if he lived to be old, he would become a civilian. Until then the only
faces he would see would be his own and those of the subnormal servers
in the mess hall. He had no loyalties except to the fortress. The
fortress was his past, present and future.

He nodded a greeting to his server. "How are you today, Teddy?" The
voice distorter made him a gentle baritone.

The moron stared at him blankly, not understanding what was spoken, not
caring. It was mentally impossible for him to care about anyone and
psychologically impossible for anyone to care about him. That was why
he was allowed to serve in the mess.

He set Jord's rations before him in their plastic containers. A
scientific measure of calories, proteins, vitamins, minerals and
hay-like roughage.

Jord wished the idiot was able to talk, but decided against holding a
one-sided conversation with him. He used to do it quite often, taking
pleasure in the shifting planes of his face, until he'd become sick
with longing for a complete human being. He knew no one and only his
psychiatrist knew him. The fortress was to him one complete body.

The parts of that body could never be allowed to become more important
than the total of those parts. It was the first thing a potential
master of a Galbth II learned: The basic lesson in loneliness.

He choked down the measured kilograms of roughage, saving the
concentrates until the last when he could suck out the synthetic
flavoring and delude himself for a moment that he was eating food. His
fare consisted of the precise amount necessary to keep him operating at
maximum efficiency and maintain optimum size. A two-pound variation in
his weight would require a refitting.

He smoked his last cigarette for the day and then made his way to the
third section briefing room.

There were twelve warriors in his section. Except for microscopic
differences in their builds, there was little, if anything, to
distinguish one from the other. They had no contact with anything
as personalized as officers. Each warrior was a separate unit.
The centralization of authority was complete. There was only the
loudspeaker to command. For a time the warriors had been allowed to
designate the voice as "The General," but it was soon discovered that
they felt a particular loyalty to the name. The word was dropped. To
designate authority, a warrior used the word: "Authority." This word
also served as his official concept of politics. With all the strength
of the fortress in the warriors, this was to be desired.

Simultaneously, the speaker and the large television screen below it
came to life.
