
The scene showed one of the fortress's carefully tilled roughage
farms being looted by a large body of the natives--the enemy that was
determined to erase the last remnant of an empire that once held the
entire solar system in its grasp. That meant nothing to Jord. It was
the faces--the faces that were, relatively, not even faces at all. Yet
there were points of similarity within the gulf of difference--and the
faces. Faces without masks!

The voice called "Authority" was expressionless and precise.

"As you can see, a large and heavily armed contingent of the enemy has
breached the dome of number seven surface-farm."

The scout obligingly swiveled his television optic to show the fused
gap in the huge plastic dome through which the natives were hauling
incendiary materials to destroy the crop. The motionless bulk of a
warrior lay close beside the opening. He had been downed by artillery,
while above the force-field the ever present aircraft of the natives
circled watchfully. Somewhere, the ancient generators had shorted long
enough for the raiders to slip through.

"A detachment has already been sent out," the voice continued. "The
natives are to be forced back beyond the northern defense perimeter.
Intelligence estimates eight hundred of the enemy and thirty
field-pieces. The fortress depends on you. You will not fail the
fortress."

On that note, the loudspeaker was silent.

"It seems to me," the warrior on Jord's right murmured as they moved
towards the opening bulkhead at the far side of the room, "that we
almost always fail." He wasn't contradicting, only remarking.

Jord nodded. One warrior lost today, two last week, one the week
before, and more before that. He saw the leviathans, 140 tons of
machinery with great gaping holes in their bodies, saw the wires and
conduits, armor and all the intricacies that went into a Galbth II. He
saw them steaming, stumbling, falling--respirators clogged--smothering.
Their motions weakened, their limbs failed, the warriors died.

Two hundred years ago the planet had been a peaceful colony. Then with
the collapse of the empire had come two hundred years of reversals,
and they who had once been the overseers of harmless workers now found
themselves struggling for the barest survival. Only the workers, the
natives, had adapted.

He went through the bulkhead into the immenseness of the cavern where
the machines stood waiting in the shadowless light.

Down the iron catwalks the silver warriors ran. Down to the mechanics,
down to the surgeons with their surgeon fingers dead white beneath
the operating lamps. All waiting. Waiting to fit the mechanism for a
thousand eyes to the optic nerves, the amplifiers to the audio.
