
Jord felt the familiar horror.

When you were fitted with the conduits for optics and audios, you lost
all contact with reality. You became a consciousness in nothing. His
great fear at this time was of falling. He seemed to fall for eons
until the mechanics with steel hands slid him into his machine and, bit
by bit, his body returned.

Fingers, hands, wrists, arms, feet, legs, shoulders, back, neck, jaw,
cheeks, nose, eyes--

His cranial optics slid from their sockets within the blue steel skin
of his head, and he looked down to the floor of the cavern, seventy
feet below.

"Check motion!"

He moved in the ritual ballet. Seventy feet and 140 tons of steel and
glass, copper and nickel, silver and plastic, and a man buried deep
inside.

The ultimate machine. The ultimate extension of a man.

A ton of fist opened and closed, moved with effortless grace and fell
to his side with enough power to crush a block of granite. His atomic
muscles turned silently when he walked. His legs of flesh commanding
legs of steel. He could walk two hundred miles an hour or run five
times that fast. He could thread a needle with his fingers, or rip
through a mountain.

"Check respirators."

"Check."

The technicians scurried from the cavern floor. The all-clear sounded
and the roof slid open and a ramp grew up from the floor.

His voice echoed through the cavern, mingling with the voices of the
other warriors. Joyous, thankful voices--the horror had passed and
they were alive again.

On the surface it was winter. The methane-frosted ground beneath the
machines was like iron. Iron against steel feet rang in the heavy air.
Wispy tendrils of steam rose from the great bodies. The respirators
sucked and transformed ammonia and methane. The great feet left
imprints in earth and stone.

Jord exulted in the freedom of the surface, in the long vistas of
unwalled space, in the curve of a far away horizon. He exulted in his
machine body, so human in its parts, so more than human in its size and
capabilities. The column of the neck, the steel sinews; every muscle,
every ligament, every nerve of the human body had its counterpart in
the machine. What man could do, the machine did. What affected man, in
proportion, affected the machine.

Even to pain, the machine was complete.

He withdrew his optics and sent his telescope rising ten feet above his
head, searching the gray land for the other detachment. A dozen miles
away he could see the dome of the ravished farm. The little specks were
scurrying to complete their destruction before the dreaded warriors
should appear. They had blocked the entrance of the shallow valley in
which the farm lay with their artillery. Behind it the gunners would
try to hold off the warriors and give the rest time to escape. Not that
it mattered. The enemy cared little for his losses.

His telescope swiveled, found the scarp of an ancient bomb, ringed with
what was probably fission produced obsidian, and rested on the bodies
of the machines who had beaten his detachment to the scene and now came
streaming out to join them.

The two detachments merged, hesitated as each warrior assumed his
position and began the attack.

They would charge straight at the guns, so much a warrior cared for the
marksmanship of former slaves--so much a warrior cared for the power of
native shells.
