
Ar eight miles the snouts of the cannons began to belch. The gunnery
was high. The barrage passed harmlessly overhead.

The first strike was for him. The armor-piercing shell clanged and
flattened out against his chest, staggering him back. He rallied,
caught his balance, sped on. He almost pitied the limited inventiveness
of the natives, whose genius ended when they drove man into the
fortresses.

Another shell. A warrior whirled and stumbled. Jord crashed into him,
steadied him. The explosions blended into an endless sound.

He felt a shell bounce from his shoulder, taking six optics with it and
leaving the smell of scorched steel. They were too thick now to dodge,
too close to bear. Earth and stone sprayed up from a sudden crater
before him. He wheeled. Now they were in a range where the shells could
disable an arm or leg.

An arm! A stiff-hung, motionless limb of steel.

The rush had brought them to the artillery. Their feet trampled the
ancient guns. They smashed at belching muzzles with hammer fists. They
had breached the defenses. The natives had fled. In minutes they would
be trampling the fleeing enemy.

Then the earth erupted....

Jord had only one leg still functioning when he regained consciousness.
One leg and perhaps eight of his optics. His audio was dead and there
was something wrong with his respirator. He had to fight to keep down
the panic.

A warrior who had been trapped inside his machine once told him what it
was like inside a Galbth II when you couldn't move, or help yourself.
If you but closed your eyes you imagined yourself inside a shell, and
that shell inside a larger shell, and that inside a still larger shell
until, after a hundred shells, you could imagine your machine, still
true to your form, lying helpless and twisted on the ground.

There was no way you could get out of your machine without the help of
the mechanics. Even if there were it was impossible to exist on the
surface. You had to lie where you fell. Or, if possible, make your way
back as best you could to your lock.

He tried moving. His good leg sawed the air like a giant flail.
There was some motion in his chest, but that was all. He erected all
the optics he could control and found himself lying on his stomach,
dismembered. About twenty yards to the right he saw the other leg of
his machine lying across a warrior who seemed to have no motion at
all. As far as he could see, no one had escaped. Warriors and parts of
warriors were strewn all about him. He swiveled his optics in anxiety.
If he were to be rescued, it must be soon. Already the air was foul and
he was having trouble focusing his optics.

He wanted to get out of the machine. He never wanted anything as much
as he wanted this. The smell of metal and the taste of metal strangled
him. He wanted to get out. Worse than he wanted faces, worse than
he wanted identity, worse than he wanted to be able to live on the
surface. He could feel all the weight of the machine on his body. The
vocalizer was still on and he moaned into the dirt.

He tried to raise his optics again, but the power had somehow failed.
Many-faced, congealing darkness drew near. He rushed into it.
