
I murmured something about having plenty of time. That was a laugh, and
he and I both knew it. I had so little to do, I almost welcomed them
just for sheer entertainment value.

"Well, that's fine," said Long, "but rest assured we aren't going to
try to waste any of your time. We intend to make it short and sweet, as
they say." He did such a good job of keeping up the fiction of me being
a busy man that I almost believed it myself.

"You probably know more about Electronic Living than I do," he said,
and I felt for an instant that I did, "but we'll go over it anyway just
so you understand me a little better. You'll remember back in 1958-1959
there was a lot of work done--or I should say a beginning made--in
developing an electronic eye for people who had lost their eyesight.
This was a start of Electronic Living in its crudest form. These early
pioneers, using what little knowledge was available of the brain
then, were actually able to insert a probe in the brain and enable
the blind person to 'see' light. At first it was just the difference
between light and dark, but after a while they did develop a kind of
vision--and then finally, after much work, the system grew into actual
electronic vision.

"This was, as I said, the start of Electronic Living because it
advanced the basic premise that the brain can utilize outside
electrical impulses for its own purposes. And of course it wasn't long
before some experimenters had rigged up a human television receiver.
What they did was set up a series of brain probes which were directly
connected to a small television receiving apparatus, and the subject
could then 'see' the broadcast image without the use of his eyes.

"Since this rough beginning, we at EL have done a lot of work, and we
are now able to reproduce every sort of physical sensation known to man
through electronic brain connections.

"And recently, as a further refinement, we have been able to capture
internal brain voltages and use them to reproduce thoughtlike
sensations. Unfortunately, these are still in the realm of strong
emotions and not true thoughts, but they are extremely effective.

"Now, it is this combination of physical sensation voltages and
internal brain voltages, when fed into your brain from a simple tape
like this, that produces what we call Electronic Living."

With that he pulled a piece of tape out of his pocket as if producing
an elephant from a thimble.
