
Arnie Blik hadn't said a word up to this point. He had hung on every
word his partner uttered as though it were all new to him. Now he took
up the song.

"May I ask if you've ever experienced Electric Living?" he asked.

"No," I said. I really had once or twice, but I figured it was none of
his business.

"Ah. Well, if you have no objection, I'd like to use this Simulator
here for a few minutes and give you a bare idea of what's going on in
Electronic Living today."

"Sure," I said. "Go right ahead."

Blik opened up the Sim and fished out a hat that was shaped much like a
medieval knight's helmet, except that it had a couple of big fat wires
connected to it at the back.

"Just a moment while I tune it in," Blik said, lowering the helmet part
way over his head. He closed his eyes and began fiddling with a series
of small knots and buttons which were mounted inside the case. Finally
he took it off his head and approached me, carrying this ridiculous
helmet like it was a crown on a velvet pillow.

"You will be experiencing a basketball player," he said, and plopped it
down over my head.

When the helmet came down, there was a momentary blank period,
and then suddenly I was a basketball player who was playing a fast
professional game. I was good, or should say he was? He felt exultation
because his team was ahead and he'd put them there with a difficult
shot. I could feel the pounding of his heart and the strain of his
chest as he gulped in huge quantities of air. His eyes ranged around
the court, following his teammates and opponents.

It was something, all right, but not everything, because on top of the
sensations and emotions of the basketball player, I was getting another
series of feelings and emotion which were my own.

Superimposed on the other players on the court was the image of my
own living room with the two men watching me. Over the smell of sweat
of the basketball players came the odor of my apartment. Above the
sensation of running, jumping and colliding with other players was the
sensation of sitting in my favorite chair with a weight on my head.

In short, I was two people at one time.

Even the emotions of the basketball player--joy at making a basket,
a flare of rage at a rough opponent, and the surge of hope that a
teammate would come through--were clouded over with my own emotions of
not completely accepting as right the whole concept of EL, coupled
with the feeling that I didn't want to show any reaction in front of
the EL men.

After a short time, Blik removed the Sim, and the basketball player's
Life Experience faded away. The two EL men looked at me expectantly.

"Hmmm," I said, forcing myself to appear neutral. They did not seem to
be disappointed by my reaction or lack of it.
