
"Quite an experience, wasn't it?" said Blik, putting the Sim down on
the floor. "Of course you realize that you don't get the full effect
because you actually have two primary sets of electric images going
into the brain. We never have been able to overcome the subject's own
real physical and mental sensation with a device that works outside the
skull."

"But I'm sure Mr. Gaines gets the idea," said Long.

"I'm sure I do," I said. The damn thing was plenty intriguing, but
somehow, despite all its good points, I wasn't really sold on it.

"Perhaps you'd be interested in the kind of thing we have programmed
for our EL subscribers," said Long with a kindly smile. "If you are
someone who likes active sports, we can give you an evening of that
kind of thing. We don't program sports in the daytime or early evening
because it interferes with the regular sports consumers, but it's
nice to have later on in the evening if you like it."

I nodded in what I hoped was a cold manner.

"Perhaps you'd like the milieu built up around a hard-working farmer
or laborer for a daytime program. A certain amount of physical labor
which is coupled with a strong emotion of accomplishment and pride. An
excellent milieu and one of our most popular currently."

"Very interesting," I said noncommitally, intrigued in spite of myself.

Then it was Blik's turn. "If you are interested in the social type of
thing, we have several new milieus that fit right in with this sort
of thing. I can recall one of a formal dinner party which has strong
emotional connotations of well-being and a sense of--grandeur--yes,
grandeur in the old meaning of the word. And in this same milieu
it is possible to get the bon-vivant type of thing. You know, the
raconteur who is a real spellbinder. That has a strong emotion of
ego-fulfillment."

"Very interesting," I said again, "but it doesn't quite fill the bill
as far as I'm--"

"Arnie, we've been overlooking the obvious," said Long. "Mr. Gaines
is looking more for the intellectual type of Life Experience. Now,
I recall one of a sculptor which has a fine feel to it. Extremely
intellectual and yet artistically creative, if you know what I mean.
And then there's an extremely thrilling milieu dealing with a symphony
conductor in which there is an absolute physical thrill that is
audio-inspired. Just the thing for anyone who is an audiophile, I'd
say."

I had to admit that it was beginning to sound more appealing all the
time and I found myself wondering just which Life Experience one would
pick first if he were to go EL.

"Of course," said Blik, with a manly grin, "we have the thing we call
our 'playboy milieu' which is strictly a sensual sort of a thing. It
often appeals rather strongly to new subscribers, although I have to
warn you that it soon becomes an Experience which palls on you."
