
"Why don't you sort of fill us in on your thinking, Mr. Gaines?" urged
Long.

"Well," I said, feeling warm under the collar and allowing my hand to
tremble slightly with emotion as I got into what I now realized was the
meat of my resistance to EL. "Well, let's take it from the word go. If
I sign up with you now, I'll go down to the Electronic Living Center
tomorrow or the next day and they'll take me into an operating room and
put some tiny probes into my brain, and aside from a momentary twinge
or two, I won't feel a thing. And then when it's over I'll walk out of
the room looking just the way I did before, except that I'll have a
neat little connection mounted high on the left side of my head where
it can be tastefully covered with hair when not in use.

"And I'll probably come back to this apartment to find the Electronic
Living Machine installed in that corner, tastefully decorated to look
like an old-fashioned antique bookcase, or a modern bar, or whatever
I want it to look like. But whatever it looks like, there will be a
comfortable chair unobtrusively attached to the ELM and sooner or later
I'll sit down in that chair and read over the list of Life Experiences
and select one.

"Then I'll sink back in the chair and the little connection on my head
will fit neatly into another little connection on the chair, because my
chair will fit only me, and it will fit me perfectly.

"And then, while I drift off to EL-land, the chair will unfold around
me so that all sight and sound and almost all feeling will disappear
and I'll be like a chrysalis in a cocoon.

"So for two or three or eight hours I'll stay inside the cocoon, living
another person's life. And while I'm in there, everyone will be sighing
a sigh of relief that here is another potential producer who has
finally given up the ghost and turned consumer.

"Then when the tape is through, the cocoon will open and I'll wake up
tired or refreshed or satiated or somehow changed, and then I'll get
out to the food center and dial a meal or call someone up, or go out
and walk around or something."
