
I was really getting wound up, but Long broke in on me. "Tell me a
little more," he said, "about that one idea, will you? You know, the
idea about how you will give up being a producer and will be all
consumer?"

"I was just coming to that," I said hotly. "Yes, they'll probably
enroll my name on the EL subscribers roll with a big cheer, and all my
non-EL friends will hear about it and they'll raise their eyebrows, or
maybe they'll sign up too.

"But the point is this. Is it right for me, a big, strong, healthy
human being with powers of perception and reasoning and a capability
for work and creativeness--is it right for me to substitute this dream
world of EL for actual real thinking, or doing, or creating? Do any of
us have the right to subvert our normal impulses for creation and for
living in this way?"

"A good question," said Long with a sigh. "I'm afraid he's put it in
pretty unanswerable terms, all right. Except for one minor point, I
couldn't help but agree with everything he said, in spite of the fact
that I--well, I'm sold on EL, naturally."

We sat for a while just sort of gazing around at nothing.

Finally Blik spoke up. "What was that one point that you disagreed on
Jack?" he asked his partner. "I've been running Mr. Gaines' statement
over in my mind and I can't seem to find the flaw you mentioned."

"Oh, it was nothing," said Long impatiently. "Just a minor point."

"No, I mean it," said Blik. "I'd really like to know."

"Not worth talking about. Let's pack up and not take any more of Mr.
Gaines' time."

"Come on, Jack, tell me what it was," said Blik, in a rather positive
way, I thought.

"Really, Arnie," said Long, firing up a little, "take it easy, will
you? We don't want to have to argue about some little point that
doesn't mean anything. Just forget it."

His attitude changed quickly from irritation to downright nastiness.
Apparently, as head of the sales team, he wasn't going to take anything
from a subordinate. It kind of irritated me in turn, because he gave me
the impression that he felt as if he was too good to talk with us about
it.

"All right, all right," said Blik, "the hell with it. So it was a minor
point."

"Why not tell him?" I asked Long, cutting in quickly as Blik made a
move to pack up the Sim.
