
Long turned toward me with a supercilious look that put me in the same
category as assistants who had the temerity to question the boss. Then
in an instant the mask returned and he was just as polite and smooth
as ever--but I'd seen the crack in the slickness before he changed. It
really got me where I live. That's one thing I can't stand--an assault
on the ego by a slick bum like that, who thinks he's so good.

"Oh, I don't see how it can be that small a point," I said. "Especially
if you thought of it." I said the last part as insultingly as I knew
how, and I saw the color rise in his face.

"Yes, speak up," said Blik, siding with me. "He's got a right to know."

"All right," said Long with some asperity that even the professional
mask couldn't hide, "but I warn you that it's strictly a minor point."

"So it's a minor," said Blik. "Tell us."

"The point is," said Long, after a short pause to collect his
thoughts, "that EL fills a need for some people. You see, with the
big upsurge in automation years ago, it got harder and harder for a
production-oriented economy to survive. Jobs got fewer and easier.
People were thrown out of work. During the early years of automation,
there was a lot of population displacement because of a lack of jobs,
and this made for a lot of economic juggling which really didn't help
matters.

"It wasn't until some ten years ago that people finally came to the
conclusion that production was outstripping the need for labor and
that, in fact, production was beginning to become a burden on the
economy. And so they turned things around a bit. Instead of giving
rewards and subsidies to the production end of the economy, they began
giving it to the consuming end. That was really the only way out of the
hole.

"But it was soon found that people are not merely organisms geared
to consume. At first it was grand and glorious, but after a bit the
urge to create, to work, to think began to assert itself strongly, and
that's where EL came along. EL was developed to give unsatisfied people
satisfactions that they couldn't get anywhere else. They couldn't be
allowed to produce because that was what was wrecking things. So they
had to be provided with a synthetic 'production-fulfillment.'

"Today these producer-minded people can get any sort of satisfaction
they need from EL, and it keeps them from wandering around trying to
produce something that would just be a hindrance. After all, what we
need is consumership, not production.

"But that's a relatively minor point, as I said earlier," Long
concluded looking at me with a superior air. "It's such a minor point,
it won't even bear discussion."
