
His manner, underneath the slick facade, implied that he wouldn't
deign to discuss it with two peasants like Blik and me under any
circumstances.

"Just a minute," I said. "It's _not_ a minor point at all. It seems to
me that you've hit the core of the problem."

"A minor point," insisted Long, his eyes blazing, although his face
retained the mask of the smiling salesman.

"Perhaps I didn't make myself clear," I said. "Have you ever stopped
to think that if you take EL into the larger picture, it does serve a
purpose, and perhaps we are all here for a different reason than I had
originally discussed? Maybe the thing to be is a super-consumer--maybe
definitive consumership is the most vital thing in our life, not the
production of things."

"Well, that's an idea, sure enough," said Blik suddenly. He had been
silent during the flare-up between Long and me. "But I can't help
but think," he continued, "that your original argument was a little
tighter. The old virtues do have a place, don't they?"

You see how slick, how well-trained, how cunning they were? When Blik
opened his mouth, the bubble burst, and I knew that they had neatly
switched me around to where I was arguing against myself. Up until the
instant Blik started talking, I was actually selling myself on EL, and
the truth was that I had almost completed the job by that time. If he
had remained silent, I probably would have signed the contract--I think
I would have fought to sign it.

I felt an emotion of strength and power then. A top EL team had given
me the works and I had seen through them. They still didn't know they
had lost, but they would--just as soon as I opened my mouth to speak.
The emotion of victory is sweeter than almost anything else, and all
the sweeter for having skirted defeat.

"You know, Arnie," I said, "I agree with you. The old virtues are best.
I think EL is a living hell."

It was a sight to see, believe me. Their slick, slick faces folded like
paper houses in a hurricane. Blik's hands were shaking as he bent over
and started packing up the Sim without another word. You have to be
good to know that fast that you have lost irrevocably.

They got up then and scooped their hats up from the floor and put them
on. The gracious, gentlemanly conduct was a thing of the past.

"Tell me," said Long, his hand on the door, the edge of the EL contract
peeking untidily out of his expensive briefcase, "where did we make our
mistake?"

I laughed a good loud whoop. It felt good. "It was when Arnie here
switched sides."

"Stupid fool," said Long, looking as though he wanted to slam the
square box containing the Sim over Blik's head.

"Sorry, old man," Blik said, coloring a deep red. "I'll try to make it
up next time."

"Not with me, you won't," said Long. "Technician!"

They opened the door and went out. I jigged with glee as I looked out
the window and watched them cross the court. Long was walking along in
a high dudgeon, his briefcase swinging angrily with every step. Blik
was trotting along to one side and behind him, his shoulders slumped,
defeat written all over his form and walk.
