
I looked around as the wall swung open and Rommy walked in with his
hand outstretched.

"Congratulations!" he said, beaming widely. "It was perfect! My God,
it's a delight for a director to work with a real group of competent
actors. All three of you were perfect!"

"Thanks," I said. "I hope I was as good as you think when we play the
tape back." I felt along the base of my skull where the transmitter
hung encased in Natur-flesh and covered with fake hair. I could hardly
believe it was there, it felt so natural.

Rommy looked out the window. Long and Blik were walking back through
the gate, talking and waving their arms the way people do when they're
excited about doing a good job.

"There's a pair of sweethearts," said Rommy. "Real actors, those boys.
I checked out the transmission right up to the last minute and they
really gave out--you couldn't find a quiver of disbelief or strain.
They _felt_ it."

"So did I," I said, sitting down and putting my feet up on a low table
on the set. "Tell me, Rommy, what in hell is EL going to use these
tapes for, anyway? It seems to me it would be sort of dangerous to put
all this on tape."

"We couldn't tell you before because it might have spoiled your
reactions, but we have a lot of EL subscribers who are down deep
opposed to EL, and this tape will be sort of a catharsis for them.
It'll give them a real jolt."

"Oh, producer types who are struggling to become consumer types," I
said. "They'll experience the role I just got through playing, and it
will make them feel they didn't sign the contract, huh?"

"There's more to it than that," said Rommy. "There are some people who
just like to experience an extremely strong sales-resistant emotion,
mostly because they're pushovers. We wouldn't make a tape like this
just for the anti-EL jerks. It's too expensive."

"Tell me," I said, "what are you using Long and Blik for? I thought I
detected transmitters on them, too."

"Just the opposite from what you were doing. Some people like to
experience a setback or even a complete failure now and then. Sort of
an opposite to the 'high' tapes. Lord knows we got hundreds of 'high'
tapes, but not many low ones, so we're starting to build a library of
them now. A lot of subscribers are getting tired of winning all the
time and they'd like to experience a defeat or two once in a while just
for the contrast."

Long and Blik came in the door without knocking.

Rommy was on his feet in an instant. "Boys," he shouted, "you were
great! I checked the tapes and nobody could be lower than you guys
walking out across that court. It was sensational. Probably the best
thing that's ever been done here at EL Studios!"



