



Clark Decker winced and scrounged still lower in his seat as Mrs.
Appleby-Simpkin rested her enormous bosom on the front of the podium
and smiled down on the Patriot Daughters of America in convention
assembled as she announced: "And now, my dears, I will read you one
more short quotation from Major Wicks' fascinating book 'The Minor
Tactics of The American Revolution.' When I am finished, I know that
you will all agree that Rebecca Johns-Hayes will be a more than
fitting successor to myself as your President."

Decker looked wildly about for a way of escape from the convention
auditorium. If he had only remained in the anteroom with Professor
MacCulloch and the Historical Reintegrator! After suffering through
four days of speeches by ladies in various stages of mammalian
top-heaviness, he hadn't believed it possible that anyone could top
Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin for either sheer ability to bore or for the
nobility of her bust. Mrs. Rebecca Johns-Hayes had come as something
of a shock as she squirmed her way onto the speaker's platform. But
there she was as big as life, or rather bigger, smiling at Mrs.
Appleby-Simpkin, the Past President, beaming at Mrs. Lynd-Torris, a
defeated candidate for the presidency and whose ancestor had been only
a captain, and completely ignoring Mrs. Tolman, the other defeated
candidate whose ancestor had been so inconsiderate as to have been a
Continental sergeant. Only the thought that now that the voting was
over and the new president chosen, the ladies might be ready for the
demonstration of the Reintegrator had brought Decker onto the
convention floor, and now he was trapped and would have to listen.

"And so," Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin was reading, "upon such small events do
the great moments of history depend. The brilliant scouting and
skirmishing of the riflemen under Colonel Peter Johns prevented the
breakthrough of Captain Fosdick's column and the possible flanking of
the American army before Saratoga. Thus, this little known action may
have been the deciding factor in the whole campaign that prevented
General Burgoyne from carrying out the British plan to divide the
colonies and end the war. It is impossible for the historian to
refrain from speculation as to what might have happened had Colonel
Johns not been on hand to direct the riflemen and militia in this
section; as indeed he might _not_ have been, since his own regiment of
short-term enlistees had returned to Pennsylvania a few days
previously. Only the Colonel's patriotism and devotion to duty kept
him in the field and made his abilities available to the country when
they were most needed."

Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin waited until the burst of applause
had died down and then continued, "That is the man whose
great-great-great-great-granddaughter you have elected your
president today ... Mrs. Rebecca Johns-Hayes!" Turning to Mrs.
Johns-Hayes she went on, "Before you make your acceptance speech,
dear, we have a little surprise for you."

Clark Decker had been edging his way toward the side of the auditorium
where the Men's Auxiliary of the Daughters had their seats but he
turned back at the mention of the surprise. It sounded as though it
was time for him and the Professor to start their demonstration.

"A surprise which we hope will also be a surprise to the whole world
of science," Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin was holding the podium against a
determinedly advancing Mrs. Johns-Hayes. "Indeed we may be able to say
in future years, that the 1989 Convention of the Patriot Daughters was
marked by the first public demonstration of one of the most momentous
inventions in the history of science." The Past President was speaking
faster and faster, because the new President with a hand full of notes
was doing her best to edge her away from both the podium and the
microphone.

"Thank you, darling," Mrs. Johns-Hayes said, pulling the microphone
firmly toward her, "but we really must get along with business. I have
quite a few things I want to say and several motions which I want to
place before the Convention."

"And as I was saying, dear," Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin said, pulling the
microphone back with equal firmness, "I know that you will be just
unbearably thrilled." There was another brief struggle for the mike and
Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin won and went on. "I know that he will be just as
proud of you as you are of him. That is why we have arranged for Professor
MacCulloch to demonstrate his historical Reintegrator at our convention by
bringing into our midst Colonel Peter Johns, the hero of the action at
Temple Farm, to see his great-great-great-great-granddaughter installed as
the fifty-fourth president of the Loyal Order of Patriot Daughters of
America. Now I...." Mrs. Johns-Hayes again won control of the mike.

"Thank you very much, dear." Her voice was a genteel screech. "I'm
sure that we will be only too glad to have the ... who? Who did you
say?" Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin regained the microphone from the other
woman's relaxing grip.

"I believe I see Mr. Decker, the Professor's assistant, in the
audience," she said. "Will you be so good as to tell the Professor
that we are ready for his epic-making experiment?"

With a great feeling of relief, Decker escaped from the rising turmoil
of the convention hall into the relative quiet of the anteroom where
MacCulloch waited with the Reintegrator. He found the Professor
sitting with his head in his hands staring at the machine. The little
man looked up and smiled quizzically as his assistant approached him.

"They're ready, Professor! They're ready!" Still under the influence
of the convention, Decker found himself shouting.

"Ah. Ah, yes. Then it will be today. I've waited so long. Ten years of
work and now instead of a scientific gathering, I have to demonstrate
my machine before a woman's club."
