
Decker began to wheel the platform which held the Reintegrator toward the
door. "After today, Professor, all the scientific organizations in the
world will have heard of you and will be demanding demonstrations."

"Yes, but these Patriot Daughters! Who are they? Who in the scientific
world ever heard of them?"

"No one except a few scientists unfortunate enough to fall afoul of
their Loyalty and Conformity Committee."

"I think we should have gone elsewhere for our demonstration."

"Now Professor. Who in the world today would be interested in the past
except a group of ancestor conscious women?"

"Some historical society perhaps," the Professor said wistfully.

"And what historical society could have advanced the twenty thousand
dollars we needed to complete the machine?"

"I suppose you're right, my boy," MacCulloch sighed as he helped push
the Reintegrator onto the auditorium floor.

By the time Clark Decker reached the platform to explain the
demonstration, the fight for the microphone had turned into a
three-way struggle. A lady who represented the Finance Committee was
trying to win it away from both the Past President and the new
President.

Taking them by surprise, Decker managed to gain control long enough to
explain what was about to happen.

"You mean," demanded Mrs. Johns-Hayes, "that this is some sort of time
machine and you're going to transport great-great-great-great-grandfather
from the past into the present?"

"No, Mrs. Hayes. This isn't a time machine in the comic book use of
the term. It is just what Professor MacCulloch has called it, an
historical Reintegrator. The theory upon which it is based, the
MacCulloch Reaction, says that every person who ever existed, and
every event which ever took place caused electrical disturbances in
the space-time continuum of the universe by displacing an equal and
identical group of electrons. The task of the Reintegrator is to
reassemble those electrons. That is why Professor MacCulloch is now
placing your ancestor's sword in the machine. We will use that as a
base point from which our recreation will begin."

The machine was humming and small lights were beginning to play about
its tubes and dials. "If our calculations are accurate, and we believe
that they are," Decker said, "within a very few minutes, Colonel Johns
should be standing before us as he was on a day approximately a week
before his heroic action in the battle at Temple Farm."

Mrs. Johns-Hayes, although still gripping her notes, was beginning to
get a little flustered. "Oh my, that would be before he married
great-great-great-great-grandmother Sayles. They were married only two
days before the battle, you know. It was so romantic ... a wartime
romance and all."

"Just imagine," Mrs. Tolman remarked, "at that time your whole family
was just a gleam in the Colonel's eye!"

Professor MacCulloch made one or two last passes at the machine and
then stood back to watch, a look of pure scientific ecstasy on his
face. A mistiness began to gather on the platform where the Colonel's
sword lay and through it from time to time shot sparks of electricity.
Suddenly a gasp went up from the assembled Daughters as a man's head
and shoulders appeared and expanded downward, a long way downward, to
a large pair of feet. There was one last hum from the machine and then
a tall young man in faded blue regimentals and very much in need of a
shave was standing blinking in the blazing lights of the auditorium.

"Oh, Mr. Decker, surely there's some mistake!" was Mrs. Johns-Hayes'
first comment as she surveyed the very tall, very tattered, and very
dirty young man. "Great-great-great-great-grandfather's pictures
always show him as a dignified old gentleman."

The Colonel took one quick look around and made a grab for his sword, but
the Professor managed to calm him and to explain the situation before any
violence could take place. After a few minutes of hurried talk, MacCulloch
steered the Colonel in the direction of the speaker's platform for the
meeting with his great-great-great-great-granddaughter.

Peter Johns' bewilderment faded into astonishment, but he still
gripped his sword as the Professor guided him through the throngs of
excited ladies onto the stage. He paused momentarily to look at the
brilliant lights and at the huge number of American flags which hung
overhead. A picture of George Washington, hung among the flags, seemed
to reassure him and he allowed the Professor to lead him to Mrs.
Johns-Hayes.

That lady had drawn herself together at the approach of her ancestor and
had obviously decided to carry it off as best she could. She advanced to
meet him crying, "Dear, dear great-great-great-great-grandfather! This is
such a pleasure! You can't know how proud all of us in the family have
always been of you."

The young Continental officer stared open mouthed at the red-faced,
big-bosomed woman who was twice his age, but who addressed him as
great-great-great-great-grandfather. Then he turned to MacCulloch who
stood beside him. "Are you sure you have the right man?" he asked.

"Oh yes! Perfectly, perfectly! You're Colonel Peter Johns of Pamworth,
Pennsylvania, and this is your great-great-great-great-granddaughter,
Rebecca Johns-Hayes."

"Rebecca? You mean she's named after Becky Sayles?" The Colonel rubbed
a hand across his several days' growth of beard.

"That's right, dear great-great-great-great-grandfather. I'm named
after great-great-great-great-grandmother," Mrs. Johns-Hayes
announced.

"Then I married Becky Sayles?" the Colonel asked.

"Why, of course! Aren't you planning on getting married in a few
days?" Clark Decker asked.

The Colonel was embarrassed but he grinned, "Well, I don't rightly
know. Miss Sayles and I have been courtin' for some months but there's
little Jennie Taylor down in Trenton.... To tell the truth, I haven't
quite made up my mind."

"Well! Of all things! What would the family think! What would great
Aunt Mary Hayes say?" Mrs. Johns-Hayes puffed out even farther than
usual.

"Well, we can ease your mind on that subject, Colonel. The history
books say that you married Miss Sayles--and here is Mrs. Johns-Hayes
to prove it."

The Colonel scratched his chin again as he looked at Mrs. Johns-Hayes.
"Is that so? Is that so? What's all this about history books? You mean
I got in history because I married Becky Sayles?"

The Professor laughed. "Well, not exactly. It was because of your
heroism in the defeat of Burgoyne's army. If you hadn't blocked
Captain Fenwick's flanking move at Temple Farm, the American army
under General Gates might have been defeated and the Colonies might
even have lost the war."

"Well, I'll be.... Me? I did all that? I didn't even know there was
going to be a battle. Did I end up a live hero or a dead one?" The
Colonel was beginning to feel a bit more easy in his surroundings,
and, to the horror of Mrs. Johns-Hayes, took a plug of tobacco out of
his pocket and bit off a piece and began to chew it.

"You came through the battle with only a slight wound and lived to a
ripe old age surrounded by grandchildren," the Professor told him.

"Then I reckon I won't go back to Pennsylvania with the other boys.
They figure that since their enlistments are up, it's time to get back
to the farm and let them New Yorkers do some of their own fighting."

"Oh no! You weren't thinking of going back--of leaving the fighting?"
Mrs. Johns-Hayes demanded.

The Colonel shifted his wad of tobacco and looked at the woman
carefully as though he couldn't quite believe the evidence of his
eyes. "No, ma'am, I don't reckon I am. I don't exactly look on it the
same as the other boys do. I kind of feel like if we're ever going to
have a country, it's worth fighting for."

Mrs. Johns-Hayes beamed, as did all the other officers of the
Daughters. "Well, your faith and heroism have been rewarded,
great-great-great-great-grandfather. I know you'll be proud to know
that these ladies whom you see before you are the present guardians of
the ideals that you fought for."

"Well, now, is that so, ma'am? Is that so?" Peter Johns looked around
the convention hall in amazement.

"And that I, your descendant, have just been elected their President!"

"Well, what do you know about that! Maybe all the hard times and the
danger we been going through is worth it if you folks still remember
the way we felt about things."

"It's too bad," Decker whispered to MacCulloch, "that we can't let him
see what the country is really like. I'm not sure these ladies are
representative."

There was a worried look on the Professor's face. "That's impossible.
The reintegration is good for only an hour or so. I hope nothing goes
wrong here."

Mrs. Appleby-Simpkin took charge of the Colonel and ushered him to a
seat of honor near the podium while the new President prepared to
deliver her speech. Decker and the professor managed to obtain seats
on either side of Johns just as Rebecca started. He managed to whisper
to them, "I'm sure amazed! I'm sure amazed! All these nice old ladies
feeling the same way about things as we do."
