
Decker had a premonition of trouble as Mrs. Hayes' words poured forth.
He had hoped for a cut and dried acceptance speech with nothing but
the usual patriotic platitudes, but, as she went on his worst fears
were realized. Inspired by the presence of her ancestor, the woman was
going into superlatives about the purposes and aims of the Patriot
Daughters. She covered everything from the glories of her ancestry to
the morals of the younger generation and women in politics.

Decker watched the Colonel's face, saw it changed from puzzlement to
painful boredom as word after word floated from the battery of
speakers overhead.

MacCulloch was whispering in Johns' ear in an attempt to draw his
attention from the woman's booming voice but the man disregarded him.
"Am I really responsible for that?" The Colonel jerked his head in the
direction of Mrs. Johns-Hayes.

"I'm afraid, Colonel, that you're getting a distorted idea of what
America is like in our time," Decker said. The Colonel didn't even
turn to look at him. He was scowling at his Amazonian descendant as
her screeching reached new heights.

"... and we hold that this is true! Our simple motto, as you all know,
is: One race, one creed, one way of thinking!"

Colonel Johns began to squirm violently in his seat. The professor
found it necessary to grasp him firmly by one arm while Decker held
him by the other.

The president of the Patriot Daughters had finished her speech amidst
thunderous applause and started to present suggestions for the
formation of new committees, for the passing of new by-laws and for
resolutions.

"A committee should be formed to see that the public parks are
properly policed to prevent so-called 'spooners' from pursuing their
immoral behaviour.

"A new by-law is needed," and here Mrs. Hayes glanced aside at Mrs.
Tolman, "to prevent members being accepted unless their forebears were
lieutenants or of higher rank in the glorious Continental army."

The Colonel was a strong man and both Decker and MacCulloch were older
than he. With something between a snort and a roar he shook them loose
and started for the exit.

"Oh my," MacCulloch moaned, "I was afraid that this whole thing was a
mistake."

Colonel Johns had taken only two steps toward the door when he seemed
to stagger. MacCulloch leaped to his side and caught him by the arm.
There was an uproar in the auditorium as the Colonel faded slightly
and the professor hurried him down the steps toward the Reintegrator.

"I'm afraid the Colonel isn't going to be with us much longer," the
professor explained.

Thank goodness, Decker thought, I don't believe the poor man could
have stood it much longer.

"I'm afraid the reintegration time of Colonel Johns is running out and
he must return to his own time," the professor went on.

The grim-faced Colonel said nothing as MacCulloch led him up to the
machine.

"Goodbye, great-great-great-great-grandfather," Mrs. Johns-Hayes
called from the platform. "It has been so nice having you with us."

"Goodbye, Rebecca," the Colonel said as he began to fade away.

"Give my regards to great-great-great-great-grandmother."

The figure in the dirty, faded blue uniform was gone but Decker and
MacCulloch heard him mutter just before he disappeared altogether, "I
will, if I ever see her again!"

MacCulloch turned to stare at the platform and Decker turned to follow
his gaze. A sudden dizziness overcame them both and there was a slight
haze about the auditorium. When it cleared, the podium was empty. Mrs.
Johns-Hayes was gone as if she had never been.

"My God!," the professor gasped. "I was afraid something like this
might happen. He must have married the other girl."

"I suppose," Decker said quietly, "that we should consider ourselves
lucky that he didn't decide to go back to Pennsylvania." His voice
broke off and he wondered what he had been saying. He looked up at the
speakers' platform trying to remember why he should think it strange
that it was draped in Union Jacks and that Lady Appleby-Simpkin should
be saying, "And now, my dears, I know that all of you, as Loyal
Daughters of the British Empire will be happy to know...."

                                                           ... THE END
