
"That's better. Why didn't I close my eyes before? Those star streaks
made me dizzy. I'll make a nice shooting star when I hit air. Come to
think of it, I must be deep in air now. Let's take a look.

"It's getting lighter. Look at those peaks down there! Like great
knives. I don't seem to be falling as fast as I expected though. Almost
seem to be floating. Let's switch on the radio and tell the world hello.
Hello, earth ... hello, again ... and good-by ...

"Sorry about that. I passed out. I don't know what I said, if anything,
and the suit recorder has no playback or eraser. What must have happened
is that the suit ran out of oxygen, and I lost consciousness due to
anoxia. I dreamed I switched on the radio, but I actually switched on
the emergency tank, thank the Lord, and that brought me round.

"Come to think of it, why not crack the suit and breath fresh air
instead of bottled?

"No. I'd have to get up to do that. I think I'll just lie here a little
bit longer and get properly rested up before I try anything big like
standing up.

"I was telling about the return journey, wasn't I? The long jump back
home, which should have dumped us between the orbits of Earth and Mars.
Instead of which, when James took his finger off the button, the
mass-detector showed nothing except the noise-level of the universe.

"We were out in that no place for a day. We astronomers had to establish
our exact position relative to the solar system. The crew had to find
out exactly what went wrong. The physicists had to make mystic passes in
front of meters and mutter about residual folds in stress-free space.
Our task was easy, because we were about half a light-year from the sun.
The crew's job was also easy: they found what went wrong in less than
half an hour.

"It still seems incredible. To program the ship for a star-jump, you
merely told it where you were and where you wanted to go. In practical
terms, that entailed first a series of exact measurements which had to
be translated into the somewhat abstruse co-ordinate system we used
based on the topological order of mass-points in the galaxy. Then you
cut a tape on the computer and hit the button. Nothing was wrong with
the computer. Nothing was wrong with the engines. We'd hit the right
button and we'd gone to the place we'd aimed for. All we'd done was aim
for the wrong place. It hurts me to tell you this and I'm just attached
personnel with no space-flight tradition. In practical terms, one highly
trained crew member had punched a wrong pattern of holes on the tape.
Another equally skilled had failed to notice this when reading back. A
childish error, highly improbable; twice repeated, thus squaring the
improbability. Incredible, but that's what happened.

"Anyway, we took good care with the next lot of measurements. That's why
we were out there so long. They were cross-checked about five times. I
got sick so I climbed into a spacesuit and went outside and took some
photographs of the Sun which I hoped would help to determine hydrogen
density in the outer regions. When I got back everything was ready. We
disposed ourselves about the control room and relaxed for all we were
worth. We were all praying that this time nothing would go wrong, and
all looking forward to seeing Earth again after four months subjective
time away, except for Charley, who was still chuckling and shaking his
head, and Captain James who was glaring at Charley and obviously wishing
human dignity permitted him to tear Charley limb from limb. Then James
pressed the button.

"Everything twanged like a bowstring. I felt myself turned inside out,
passed through a small sieve, and poured back into shape. The entire bow
wall-screen was full of Earth. Something was wrong all right, and this
time it was much, much worse. We'd come out of the jump about two
hundred miles above the Pacific, pointed straight down, traveling at a
relative speed of about two thousand miles an hour.

"It was a fantastic situation. Here was the _Whale_, the most powerful
ship ever built, which could cover fifty light-years in a subjective
time of one second, and it was helpless. For, as of course you know, the
star-drive couldn't be used again for at least two hours.

"The _Whale_ also had ion rockets of course, the standard
deuterium-fusion thing with direct conversion. As again you know, this
is good for interplanetary flight because you can run it continuously
and it has extremely high exhaust velocity. But in our situation it was
no good because it has rather a low thrust. It would have taken more
time than we had to deflect us enough to avoid a smash. We had five
minutes to abandon ship.

"James got us all into the _Minnow_ at a dead run. There was no time to
take anything at all except the clothes we stood in. The _Minnow_ was
meant for short heavy hops to planets or asteroids. In addition to the
ion drive it had emergency atomic rockets, using steam for reaction
mass. We thanked God for that when Cazamian canceled our downwards
velocity with them in a few seconds. We curved away up over China and
from about fifty miles high we saw the _Whale_ hit the Pacific. Six
hundred tons of mass at well over two thousand miles an hour make an
almighty splash. By now you'll have divers down, but I doubt they'll
salvage much you can use.

"I wonder why James went down with the ship, as the saying is? Not that
it made any difference. It must have broken his heart to know that his
lovely ship was getting the chopper. Or did he suspect another human
error?

"We didn't have time to think about that, or even to get the radio
working. The steam rockets blew up. Poor Cazamian was burnt to a crisp.
Only thing that saved me was the spacesuit I was still wearing. I
snapped the face plate down because the cabin was filling with fumes. I
saw Charley coming out of the toilet--that's how he'd escaped--and I saw
him beginning to laugh. Then the port side collapsed and I fell out.

"I saw the launch spinning away, glowing red against a purplish black
sky. I tumbled head over heels towards the huge curved shield of earth
fifty miles below. I shut my eyes and that's about all I remember. I
don't see how any of us could have survived. I think we're all dead.

"I'll have to get up and crack this suit and let some air in. But I
can't. I fell fifty miles without a parachute. I'm dead so I can't stand
up."
