
The day after a particularly noisy, glaring fireworks display, the top
brass at the Observatory called an emergency meeting. The topic was
not a new one, but fresh evidence, in the form of several still-wet
photographic plates, showing out-of-focus skyrocket trails and a galaxy
of first-magnitude aerial cracker explosions was presented.

"I maintain they fire them in our direction on purpose," one scientist
declared.

This was considered to be correct because the other directions around
town were oil refineries and the homes of the casino owners.

"Why don't we just move the Observatory way out in the desert?" a
technician demanded. "It wouldn't be much of a job."

"It would be a tremendous job," said Dr. Morton, the physicist. "If
not for the glare of city lights on Earth, we wouldn't have had to move
our telescopes to the Moon. If not for the gravel falling out of the
sky on the Moon, making it necessary to resurface the reflectors every
week, we wouldn't have had to move to Mars. Viewing conditions here are
just about perfect--except for the immense cost of transporting the
equipment, building materials, workmen, and paying us triple time for
working so far from home. Why, did you ever figure the cost of a single
photographic plate? What with salaries, freight to and from Earth,
maintenance and all the rest, it's enormous!"

"Then why don't we cut down the cost of ruined exposures," asked the
technician, "by moving the Observatory away from town?"

"Because," Dr. Morton explained, "we'd have to bring in crews to tear
the place down, other crews to move it, still more crews to rebuild it.
Not to mention unavoidable breakage and replacement, which involve more
freight from Earth. At $7.97 per pound dead-weight ... well, you figure
it out."

"So we can't move and we can't afford ruined thousand-dollar plates,"
said the scientist who had considered himself a target for the
fireworks. "Then what's the answer?"

The usual suggestion was proposed that a delegation approach the Town
Council to follow up the letter of protest. A search through the past
meetings' minutes showed that this had never accomplished anything up
to date.

A recent arrival to the Observatory mentioned that their combined
brain power should be enough to beat the games and thus force the
casino owners--who were the real offenders--out of business. One of
the scientists, who had already tried that very scheme on a small
scale, reported his results. He proved with his tabulations that,
in this instance, science, in the guise of the law of averages, was
unfortunately against them.

Dr. Morton rose to his feet. The other men listened to his plan, at
first with shocked horror, then with deep interest and finally in wild
exultation. The meeting broke up with most of the members grinning from
ear to ear. "It's lucky Dr. Morton is a physicist," said one of the
directors. "No astronomer would ever have thought of that."
