
Dr. Morton sat numbly in front of his typewriter, staring at a letter.
He couldn't seem to find the right words for what he wished to say. He
tried to derive inspiration from a glossy photograph lying on the table
beside him. It had what looked like another skyrocket trail on it.

Before he could answer it, the door opened and Harvey walked in,
accompanied by two men with muscles. "I haven't seen you since the
accident, Professor," he said.

"I've been trying to write you a letter," said Dr. Morton, "to tell you
how sorry I am about what happened. And I also have to thank you for
getting that law against fireworks through the Council. I am extremely
sorry it took your house burning down to convince them."

"I keep my promises," said Harvey. One of the men with muscles turned
the radio on, loud.

"We're trying to get up a collection among the staff to help pay for
your losses," said Dr. Morton, "but the director suggested a more
permanent kind of remembrance." He picked up the photograph. "This will
be one of the brightest objects in the sky, in a few months. It won't
be back again for thousands of years, but it will be around for a good
while. We've just discovered it, and it is our privilege to call it
'Harvey's Comet.'"

"That's nice," said Harvey. The first of the two men went around
pulling down blinds; the other went into the bathroom and starting
filling the tub.

"Well," said the physicist, looking tired and old, "I guess there's
nothing more I can say."

"Oh, yes, there is, Professor," said Harvey, with a sudden grin on his
face. He turned to his muscle men. "You two guys cut out the comedy and
bring it in, now."

The two men followed his instructions.

"You see, Professor," the gambler continued, "I took a beating on the
house, but the other club boys chipped in and made up all my losses.
So, I don't need your money at all. Besides, I have two things to thank
_you_ for. First, I heard about the comet from one of your men, and
it's the nicest thing anybody's ever done for me." One of his men came
back with what looked like a round candy box. "Second, that fire was
the best publicity stunt I could get. It made the papers back on Earth
and all the new tourists are packing into the Harvey Club. Even the
other operators are playing my tables. That's why I want you to have
this."

He handed Dr. Morton the box. It read "Harvey's Club" in the center,
and "Doctor Morton's Poker Chip" around the edge. Across the bottom, it
said "Five Thousand."

"That's dollars in it, Professor," said Harvey. "Don't spend it all in
one place."



