
At length he sat up, holding the pup in his arms. "Two days in that
hole of hell," he murmured, "and it's all your fault. A month old, and
you have to start exploring caves."

He cocked his head. "Still, I guess it's partly my fault. After all, I
got lost, too."

Sandy, a black and white fox terrier, barked impatiently.

"Okay, Sandy, okay. We'll go home."

Shakily, Martin rose. His mind was clear now, the fogginess washed away
by the cool morning air. There was only hunger, that great gnawing
hunger, and thirst that made his throat and mouth seem as dry as
ancient parchment.

As he stood overlooking the valley below with its green fields and
little groves of trees, a realization came to him. The world wasn't
so bad after all! Up to this moment, he'd almost hated the world
with its wars, its threats of mass destruction, its warnings of
atomic dusts and plagues that could wipe out humanity within an hour.
He'd most certainly hated the cities with their blaring, rumbling
automobile-monsters, with their mad rushing, their greedy, frantic,
senseless, superficial living that was really not living at all.

That was why he had chosen to live in the hill country, on the
outskirts of the village, raising his few vegetables and making a trip
every few days to the village store to purchase other necessities with
his pension check from World War II.

But now, he realized, it was good to be alive and to be a part of the
green, growing things of Earth.

Sandy barked again.

"Okay, okay, Sandy. We'll go."

But Sandy came sidling up to him now, tail between his legs. His
barking faded to a low, shrill whimper.

"Sandy! What's the matter? What's wrong?"

Even the whimpering ceased, and there was silence. Martin stared at
the dog, not understanding. To him came a _feeling_. Something _was_
wrong. A nameless fear rose within him, but the cause of that fear was
intangible, locked just below the surface of consciousness.

He took the fear, crushed it, pushed it back into the caverns of his
mind that held only forgotten things. "Nothing's wrong," he declared
boldly. "We're just tired and hungry, that's all."

He strode down the quiet hillside toward the broad highway that
stretched across the valley. He sang:

    "We're happy, so happy,
    Don't want to reach a star;
    We're happy, always happy,
    Just the way we are."

Strange about that tune, he thought. He hated popular music, but in
a regrettable moment of optimism he'd once purchased a second-hand
battery video. After a three-day saturation with tooth paste and soap
commercials he'd consigned the monstrosity to a remote corner of the
woods, but that tune--of all the dubious products of civilization--had
somehow stuck in his memory.

Suddenly he stopped singing, as if some inexplicable pressure had
seized his throat, stopping the flow of words. It was quiet--so
incredibly, alarmingly, terrifyingly quiet. Just ahead of him was the
highway, its gray smooth ribbon clearly visible through a thin wall of
elms. But there was no swish-swish of speeding cars.

And there were no bird twitterings and no insect hummings and no
skitterings of squirrels at the bases of trees and no droning of
gyro-planes. There was only silence.

He broke out onto the highway which was dotted with cars, and the cars
were motionless. Some of them were crushed, charred wrecks on the side
of the road; some had collided in the center of the road to become ugly
little mountains of twisted metal, and others were simply parked. But
all were motionless.

"Come on, Sandy. Something's happened!"

Sandy wouldn't come. He arched his trembling body across Martin's legs,
whimpering. Martin picked him up. Sandy in one arm, the drowsy-eyed pup
in the other, he walked to the nearest car, which appeared undamaged.

There were three occupants. A man, a woman, a girl-child, and they were
as if sleeping. No wounds, no discolorations were on their flesh. But
their flesh was cold, cold, and there were no heart beats. They were
dead.

"We--We won't go home yet," Martin said softly. "We'll go to the
village."

He walked. He walked past a hundred, a thousand silent cars with silent
occupants, past green meadows that were dotted with silent, fallen
cattle and sheep and horses.

There was a new fear within him now, but even greater than the fear was
a numbness that like a sleep-producing drug had dulled mind and vision
and hearing. He walked stiffly, automatically. He was afraid to think
and reason, for thought and reason could bring only--madness.

"At the village we'll find out what happened," he mumbled.

At the village he found out--nothing. Because there, too, was only a
silence and the white, still people.

"Perhaps in the city--" he murmured. "Yes, the city."

The City was 20 miles away, and he selected an automobile, one in which
there were no still people. It had been a long time since he'd driven,
nearly ten years, but after a few moments of fumbling, remembrance
came easily. With Sandy and the pup on the front seat beside him, he
drove....
