
The City was as empty as an ancient skull. There was no life and no
reminder of life. There were no still people and no automobiles and no
movement and no sound. The towering white office buildings, the broad
avenues, the theatres, the parks--all seemed hollow and unreal, like a
desert mirage that would dissolve into nothingness at the whispering
touch of a breeze.

Martin mumbled, "I reckon, Sandy, that everybody left the City. They
headed for the country. That's why we passed so many cars."

He spied the office of _The Times_. "Maybe we can find out something in
there," he said. "Come on, Sandy. Pup, you stay here."

He parked the car and strode into the building, past desks, cabinets,
typewriters, stacked bundles of newspapers.

Then he saw the man. He was one of the silent men, sprawled back in a
chair, a typewriter before him. He had been writing, evidently, for one
stiff, white hand was still poised over the keys.

Martin read the typewritten words aloud:

"The enemy had apparently underestimated the power of the odorless,
tasteless gas. A Nitrogen compound of extreme volutility, it has
reached virtually every inch of the Earth. The enemy is destroyed as we
are destroyed. Gas masks and air filters have proved useless. The gas
is highly unstable and should disintegrate within 48 hours, yet because
of the suddenness of the attack, we can conclude only that humanity
is--" The message broke off.

Suddenly the newsroom was like a tomb, a burial of all mankind's
accomplishments and frustrations, his good-doings and evil-doings. Here
into this room had flowed, ceaseless as a river, the stories of man's
love, hate, struggle, fear, grasping, success, and disappointment. Side
by side they lay in the labyrinth of files, the stories of Mrs. Smith's
divorce and a dictator's defeat, the sagas of a child losing a pet and
a scientist discovering a star. All equal now, as skeletons of great
men and little men are equal, all buried in steel drawers and sealed by
silence.

Martin looked at the stiffened figure of the reporter. "I wonder
why you stayed," he mused. "I wonder why you didn't flee like the
others. Maybe, maybe you wanted to write the _last_ news story ever
written--and the most important one. Yes, I reckon that was it."

Slowly, Martin walked out of the building and slid into the car. Sandy
welcomed him with a joy-filled barking and tail-wagging and tried to
lick his face, and the pup attempted to waddle across his legs.

"No, Sandy, don't." He stared unseeingly through the windshield.
"Everybody's gone, Sandy, everybody on Earth, except me." His eyes
widened slightly. "Course, there _might_ be somebody else, somewhere.
The gas never got to us in the cave. Maybe somebody else escaped,
somehow."

He shook his head. "Nope, no use hoping for that. Odds'd be a thousand
to one 'gainst my finding 'em. No, we just got to make up our minds
that we're the last ones alive."

_The last ones alive._ The thought was like flame in his mind. The
numbness was gone now, as coldness thaws from a warmed body, but there
came to him a second thought, a horrible, fear-born thought which he
dared not say aloud, even to Sandy.

_A man can't live alone, without hearing another human voice, without
seeing another human form. A man isn't made that way. You've got two
choices now, just two: Suicide or madness. Which will it be? Suicide or
madness, suicide or madness...._
