
He sat for a long, long time, his mind a jumble of indecision. Then at
last he thought, _I don't want to go mad, the other way is best. We'll
make it easy. Carbon monoxide would be the easiest way._

But suddenly there was a churning and a twisting in his stomach, as
though it were being squeezed by a giant hand.

"Golly, Sandy, we forgot to eat. And we haven't eaten for two days."
And to himself he said, _This'll be our last meal, the last we'll ever
have._

He took the pup in his arms and Sandy followed. He spied a huge sign
not far away--_Cafe Royale_. It was a magnificent restaurant, the
carpeted, canopied entrance reminding him of the front of a sultan's
palace. Three days ago--if he'd been foolish enough to come to the City
then--he'd have rushed past it with his hand protecting his pocketbook,
hardly daring to look within lest the stiff-shirted, high-chinned
waiters and patrons think him a country bumpkin.

But now--well, why not?

He ambled through the vast dining hall with its multitude of
white-clothed tables, its potted palms, its modernistic, chromium bar.
The high walls were decorated with soft-hued, multi-colored murals
depicting the rise of Western Civilization--first, the pioneers, the
cowboys, then a factory scene and a war scene, and finally a group of
spacemen entering a moon-bound rocket.

Martin made a wheezing sound of admiration. "What a place, eh, Sandy?
We should have come here a long time ago."

Then he spied the juke box. "There's one of them music machines--and
it's lit up. Reckon the power's still on."

Martin had always wanted to play a juke box, but nickels, back home,
were scarce. He pursed his lips. "Why not, Sandy? Nickels don't mean
much now, and if this is going to be our last meal, we might as well
enjoy it."

He inserted a quarter, and after a few moments of pushing this and
that button, music played. It was "Song of The Stars," the latest
hit, vibrant, full, rhythmic--not at all like the screeching from the
second-hand video he'd owned once.

While he listened, he strode to the bar. Not that he was a drinking
man. He occasionally had a cold beer on Saturday evening; that was
all. But now, with that dazzling array of bottles glittering before
him--"Nobody'll miss it now," he told Sandy.

He poured himself three fingers of Scotch and downed it thirstily.
"Ahhhh! Been a long time since I had anything like that. Now let's see
what's in that kitchen."

Electricity was still on. Refrigerators were humming, and Martin's gaze
wandered appraisingly over red, juicy T-bones, over dressed chickens,
turkeys, rabbits, hams.

"Reckon we're too hungry to wait for chicken," he drawled. "Guess
T-bones'd be nice for a last meal. How about it, Sandy?"

Sandy barked.

Dinner was soon ready. Fried T-bone, mashed potatoes and dark
gravy, caviar, some kind of soup with a fishy taste, apple pie with
strawberry ice cream, chocolate cake with vanilla ice cream, maple nut,
tuiti-fruiti and pineapple ice cream, and coffee.

Martin settled back and puffed on a 50c cigar. "You know, Sandy, it
wouldn't always be like this. In a couple of weeks there won't be any
more power. Food will spoil, there'll be only canned stuff."

He frowned thoughtfully. Perhaps he'd been wrong. Perhaps suicide was
not the best way. He could have a few pleasures in the next day or
two--if madness didn't come. And if madness did start to come, well....
