
She smiled very pleasantly at him and he asked, “But why did humans
create this mechanical dictator?”

“We didn’t feed your brain much history. A waste of time,” she said.
“Anyway, World Brain was a reaction to--to the Atomic War. That almost
finished Earth life. And remaining humanity decided it couldn’t afford
another. Human governmental agency is too unreliable. Even human
dictatorship was, of course, variable. So all the greatest scientific
minds pooled their brain cells and created World Brain. Now, human
culture is fixed and static. For a human, that’s death. Nothing can
change unless World Brain changes, and that’s impossible.”

“Well,” said Roland. “Isn’t that what was wanted?”

“It didn’t work out, Rolly. A billion people turned into stagnant
automatons. When organisms stop moving and changing, they’re better off
completely dead. Don’t you agree, Rolly?”

“Yes,” said Roland. “So why not destroy World Brain?”

“We’re going to,” interrupted Berti. “And it’s got to be done right
now. Civilization--I use that word liberally--has simply stopped. And
as long as the entire working culture is mechanically fixed, it’s
absolutely hopeless.” Berti’s narrow shoulders drooped. “Not that
everything isn’t, in its cosmic sense. But even the cosmos doesn’t make
sense, does it, Fran?”

She shook her head at him. “He doesn’t believe in anything. But we
don’t care, do we?”

“No,” said Roland. He wanted her to keep on talking to him, personally.

“We want to get rid of World Brain,” said Berti. “But there are
difficulties. There are the Conditioners; they’re directly tied in with
World Brain. From birth, everyone is conditioned to unquestionable,
unbreakable bondage to World Brain. These matrixed minds can’t be
altered. We’ve tried. The only alternative is to throw a lot of great
big heavy air atoms and molecules among World Brain’s overheated
electrons. But there are always difficulties.”

Roland was mad because Berti was talking instead of Frances. He kept
looking steadily at her. He asked, “Then how have we three escaped
these Conditioners?” She answered this time, and Roland soaked up her
sweet musical voice sensually.

“We’re members of a secret Underground organization that began when
World Brain began, to escape its static death system. Having gone
underground, we escaped the original conditioning and have since lived
completely free of the Brain’s dictates. But even though unconditioned,
we’ve been helpless against the rigid system.”

“Then how can you expect to destroy World Brain now?” asked Roland.
“There must be a great deal I don’t know.”

“Possible also that you know too much,” said Berti irritably. “But then
who doesn’t?”

Fran laughed freely. Then her voice became suddenly grave. “We have to
act now. There isn’t much time. We have bogey men, too. Martians.”

Roland started violently, stared. “Martians! You mean--from Mars! The
planet?”

“Yeah,” growled Berti. And Frances smiled. “Do you find a Martian
menace credible, Rolly?”

“He should,” snapped Berti. “We certainly endowed him with enough
credulity. An organ that believes in its own existence will believe
anything.”

“I believe you,” Roland said. He was looking at Frances. “And the
Martians?”

Frances said, “You see, the Martians are trying to preserve World
Brain. And, to do that, they’ve been trying for a long time to destroy
the Underground.”

“Why?” asked Roland. Roland was hating Berti because he talked so much.

“That should be obvious. The Martians know that, if we cancel World
Brain, we’ll have a variable, anarchistic government again. And,
naturally, that means the return of the Atomic War threat. And, along
with atomic power and subsequent space flight, that also means,
according to the Martian’s logic, that we’ll wage an atomic war against
them. And that,” concluded Berti, “is good logic.”

“All right,” said Roland. “The Martians are fighting you so you’ve
got to hurry and get World Brain before the Martians finish the
Underground. Right?”

“Right, Rolly,” beamed Frances.

“How can you accomplish that now, if you couldn’t before?”

Frances came very close. Roland smelled the intoxicating aroma of a
very effeminate, very suggestive, scent. She bounced up beside him on
the table. He was afraid to look at her for a moment. Afraid she would
go away. “You see, Rolly, you’re the agent. You’re going to destroy
World Brain.”
