
Roland tried to clarify scattered thoughts. Here in a hidden cell, he
seemed so far from any reality. Alone with two people who seemed so
strange--so apart from hopeless, defeated humanity. He was suddenly
aware of feeling cold. Cold, yet the room was warm. Something was
lacking between these two members of the Underground and himself,
something vitally important. There was an isolated sensation. He
noticed the utter silence. A dead, despairing silence. Abruptly he
wanted to be a part of movement and noise. He wanted to get out of this
small buried cube somewhere on Earth. And, if it wasn’t for Frances, he
would have gotten out. Right then. But he didn’t.

She held him there. A human, conditioned scientifically, could only
react as he was reacting now. He felt no irritation. That was the way
the human organism functioned. He wanted to do it for Frances. He loved
her, of course--that was it. He had known that when he first heard her
voice, before he had opened his eyes.

He heard himself saying, “When, where and how do I start?”

“Bravo!” said Berti sardonically. “A man of virtue!”

Only an objective realization of the need for unity prevailed Roland
from attacking the man. He was jealous, too, and he was ashamed of
that. Somehow, these people had taken him from the Birth Center when
he was born, and had kept him hidden and had taught him to be a true,
pre-World Brain human. He should be grateful, very grateful. And he
determined to be.

Berti was crossing the room toward a panel. “Well, Prometheus, we start
right now, right here. And here’s how--”

He tensed, eyes narrowing.

The form was only a faint mist at first. Roland hardly knew it was
materializing until he saw its wavering, translucent shadow in the
middle of the room. A flash of panic and fear jerked him to his feet
and sent him backing toward the further wall. He saw Frances and Berti
standing stiffly, perspiration oozing visibly from their bronzed skin.

Roland had never seen anything so grotesque and alien before. At least
he couldn’t remember having seen--but then, he couldn’t remember.

“Roland!” he heard Berti say tensely. “You’re now being treated to the
personal appearance of a Martian menace. Take a good look, because it
just might be that you won’t see another.” Berti moved with shocking
agility, a blur in the corner of Roland’s fixed eyes. He dropped the
cap over the fluorobulb. The room was plunged into pitch blackness.

Roland saw a high, narrow column of shimmering phosphorescence dart
about the room. He couldn’t tell whether the thing was attacking or in
flight. Something about its alien contortions suggested panic.

But then he felt a hand grasping at his. It gripped hard and pulled.
The voice was a hurried whisper, either that of Berti or Frances. It
had to be Frances. “Follow me! Keep running!”
