
He followed blindly. The hand was soft and small. Berti? Frances?
Frances had to be with him. That was the only thing that really
mattered. They plunged through the thick blackness and onto a
levitation platform and down. They paused once, briefly. Roland heard
a panel opening. Then they were in a room, smaller even than the first
one. A slight glow bathed the room in a soft blue haze. It was light
enough for him to see that Frances wasn’t with them.

He grabbed Berti’s arm, noting how frail and weak he was. “Where is
she? _Where is she?_”

But Berti seemed more interested than concerned. “Do you really feel
that way about her?”

“Where is she?” He said it louder this time. He shook Berti harshly.

Berti smiled thinly. “The Martian menace got her. They were bound to
get her sooner or late. They’ve gotten us all, one by one.”

Roland backed the thin bony outline up against the glowing wall. “Why
did we go off and leave her there? Why?”

“To save you. You’re more important than any one or all of us. She
wanted it this way.”

“_No!_” yelled Roland. “What’s more important than Frances? Nothing
is--to me.”

“Are you sure?” asked Berti. “Remember her faith in you, Prometheus.
The destruction of World Brain’s more important. Relax.”

Roland stepped away, breathing painfully. “No. You haven’t told me yet.
Why am I so important? _What am I, Berti?_”

“What are--!” Berti’s eyes shot wide open, narrowed quickly. “The
scientists even prepared for the eventuality that some organism might
defy the conditioning processes and try to attack World Brain. It’s
surrounded by an area of ultrasonic radiation. All around it, under the
ground, in the air. No living organism can step into that field without
its cellular structure dancing itself madly to death in seconds. A lot
of the Underground have tried it. In the last one we--we developed,
we’d built up resistance that let him into the field about a hundred
meters. That was all. But we’ve learned. You can make it.”

“What makes you so sure?”

“We’re not,” said Berti laconically. “You might die. Afraid? Frances
didn’t think you would be. I don’t know. We did our best with you.”

“I’m not afraid, Berti. But I’m going back after Frances first!”

“You’re our only hope, man! Don’t hand yourself to those dissectors.”

“Dissectors?” choked Roland.

“They analyze us. They’re curious; they think humans a low form of
mammal because of their insane record of self-destruction. The Martians
work out of their observatories and laboratories on the Moon. They
want to learn all they can about humans in case they have to destroy
humanity.”

“Why don’t we destroy them? Now.” Roland’s voice trembled.

“The Underground is the only Earth agency that knows the Martians
even exist. And we can’t act against them anyway until World Brain is
destroyed. Atomic energy is locked behind impenetrable shields as long
as World Brain rules. Violence or conflict of any kind is forbidden by
the fixed laws of World Brain. The Martians are persistent. Only a few
of us left. They know if they can wipe out the Underground, World Brain
will keep on its fixed orbit, and then they won’t have to destroy Earth
because humanity won’t be able to use atomic power against them, and
eventually humanity will peter out.”

“Why don’t the Martians destroy Earth, Underground and all, if they’re
so afraid of World Brain being destroyed and atomic power returning as
a threat?”

“Because,” said Berti dryly, “their planet’s old and exhausted. They
want to colonize Earth. But not while the Underground’s here.”

“I don’t care about any of this confusion,” yelled Roland. “All I care
about is saving Frances. Maybe it isn’t right according to the way
you’ve conditioned me. But I’ve got to!”

He thought he saw a thin smile on Berti’s dour face as he turned and
ran back down the black corridor. About the instant that he realized
he had no conception of how to get back to the first cubicle, he ran
hard into a pair of arms and a thick reeling cloud of that intoxicating
scent--

A wave of weakening relief and gladness almost overpowered him as he
touched her. “You--it is you, Fran. You’re all right?”

“Yes. Yes.” Her breath came fast, impatient. “We’ve got to hurry,
Rolly. I got rid of that one. But the new rapport-clan know about you,
maybe. We don’t have much time. Come on!”

The levitator shaft panel slid shut behind them. The car whined, and
Roland felt the sudden suffocating pressure of rapid acceleration.
