
They emerged in the darkened, damp basement of a vacant ruin just
outside Worldcity. He saw a pallid, three-eyed lizard, and a huge grey
rat with six legs. He followed Berti and Frances into a beautiful lazy
summer day, with genuine sunlight. A hawk sailed easily across a pale
blue sky. In the distance, rising like a gigantic bubble, the plastic
dome shell that covered Worldcity gleamed in the sun.

They walked silently on down the cracked, weed-grown concrete highway.

Berti started talking again. Roland wanted Frances to talk, but she
seemed too absorbed in the scenery. “Special excursion monorail systems
were set up for trips into the natural areas. Psychological balance,
you know. But it was too late. No one cares any more. An almost
completely catatonic world is a pretty terrible sight, I suppose.
World Brain blocked any action of free thought--the one spontaneous,
progressive and unique characteristic of the human.”

That broke Frances’ reverie. “Yes, Rolly. Block that characteristic
and you kill the human. The human is a step above the beast because
of his free-associative brain. But it also persists in dooming him
as a species. The human heart and muscle belong to the jungle--his
overdeveloped brain to an environment of his own creation.”

She was swinging freely along beside him. Berti said, “Civilization
subjected the human body to a vast and critical experiment. But
the exaggeration of a part, like the fossil nautili, intended the
experiment to fail.”

“But man isn’t licked yet!” said Roland vehemently. “He’s got his
highly specialized brain, and complexity and specialization aren’t
necessarily fatal--simply dangerous.”

“You’re proud of him,” said Berti, cutting off the tops of weeds with
quick slicing motions of a green branch. “Even with his brain, he was
never much better than the beast. A living anachronism, an unbalanced
grotesque, an ape top-heavy with grey matter.”

“Quiet!” hissed Frances. Then to Roland. “He isn’t that way, really.”

The sophistry lapsed. Roland was grateful because it allowed him to
concentrate on watching the smooth, graceful movement of Frances’ lithe
body. There was an almost terrible casualness for people going to save
the World.

“Aren’t you afraid of the Martians--out here in the open?” he asked.

Berti’s green switch sang. A four-legged quail fluttered up and
hedge-hopped across a wild, brush-choked hollow, piping excitedly.
“We know them. They’re--ah” he hesitated “--a kind of instinctual
intelligence, somewhere above the survival value of the human
intelligence. We’ve learned to cope with them on their own ground.”

“But how?” Roland was curious about how Frances had “gotten rid” of the
Martian back in the cubicle. He was swinging his hand close to hers in
the fond hope of grasping it sooner or later.

Frances kicked at a small piece of dislodged concrete. “Rolly, you’re
so inquisitive. That would be awfully hard to explain in the short time
we have. They’ve advanced far above human’s mere intelligence. And you
learn to deal with that height. Or they get you. They’ve always had
superiority of numbers, so they’ve been winning. That’s why we’ve got
to destroy World Brain quickly before they finish us.”

“But, if World Brain is destroyed, and variable unpredictable
government returns with human control, atomic energy returns with it,
and humanity will try again. And probably destroy itself this time.”
Roland hit his forehead with his flat hand. “It seems very involved.”

“Doesn’t it?” agreed Berti tightly. “But we’ll control atomic energy
all right. If we can’t--let the termites have it.”

Roland thought of one other thing. “After World Brain’s out of
commission, what about the Martians, then? First thing they’ll do will
be to blow up Earth, regardless of their own desire to colonize.”

Berti looked narrowly at Frances. He grinned thinly. “I told you we
should have taken less time with his logic and reason. He thinks too
much.”

Frances laughed carelessly. “He’ll have to be smart when he goes into
the heart of World Brain. You know that.”

Berti said, “Uh-huh. But if he’s smart enough, he wouldn’t even go into
World Brain at all.”

Frances smiled at Roland. “Well? Are you that smart?”

He looked into wet, promising glowing eyes and he didn’t feel logical
at all. “If you want me to, Fran, I’ll do it. It seems to mean a lot to
you. So I guess I’m not really smart--not in the Berti sense, anyway.
Am I?”

Berti swirled the green switch in a vicious slash. “Not as smart as
Fran is.”
