
Later, in a secret Underground apartment, Roland sat waiting for his
final orders to destroy World Brain. He was proud of his assignment. He
knew it was justified. He had seen the people of Worldcity.

Terrible standardization. Mass production and mass consumption had
become possible only because of complete unity of common desires
and tastes. Individuals were no more. Beneath the rigid unchange of
World Brain there had been a final leveling-off. The whole system
was mechanical like its electronic dictator. Frightened by another
possible atomic war under unreliable human agency, they had established
fool-proof laws, then subjected themselves and the laws to a machine
dictator that could never alter them. Suicide.

The Worldcity was beautiful and magnificent, even without the available
atomic power. Towering synthetic buildings, their block-square bases
pierced by wide tiered boulevards. There were many people packing
the boulevards. Dull-eyed, listless, uninterested. Without their
free-associative minds, they were not even beasts.

“It’s about time,” said Frances softly, leaning toward him. “Are you
ready? It’s a big job.”

Roland sat next to her on a deep couch, her shoulder touching his. He
wanted the contact to remain as long as possible. She broke the contact
several times, but renewed it. He was grateful. She had called him
“dear” twice.

“I’ve already told him he might not come back,” said Berti. “It’s
dangerous. The Martians’ new rapport-clan are difficult. And the
destruction when World Brain stops will be terrific. The Martians will
immediately jump in and try to knock out Earth as soon as they see
World Brain go. If they don’t get you first. As soon as we take over
the atomic laboratories, our first job will be to blow up the Martian’s
Moon bases. It’s a risky business.”

“You’ll be safe,” Frances said. “You’re not afraid, are you, Rolly?”

“Not too much,” answered Roland.

“You have three dangers. The Martians. The plastico-mechanical men. And
the ultrasonic field. The last you’re prepared for. The Martians might
get you. The plastic men ... you might have trouble with them.”

“They’re one-track, highly specialized,” said Berti, studying Roland
with a quizzical, unwavering stare. “Anything that blocks their
specialized assignments they’ll push aside. They have no conception
of violence as such. It’s just a means to carry through their fixed
patterns of behavior.”

“If you’re waiting for my decision,” said Roland, “you know it. I
couldn’t be any different. I’m human. Humanity means more to me than my
own life.”

He looked at Frances closely, searching for some deep, full reaction to
his bravery. He got a warm soft smile and damp eyes that shone darkly.
He leaned a little against her shoulder as he got to his feet. He
walked to the exit panel and turned slowly.

“I can recall conditioned directions now pretty well. Any last
briefings?”

Frances shook her head, and a healthy cloud of black hair reflected
the steady glow of the flueros. “You know about the electronic set
up. The originators didn’t bother to shield the vital parts of World
Brain on the logical premise that if anyone could get that far, it was
inevitable, only a matter of time, before they could wreck it anyway.
Wreck the grids, Rolly, the pipes of the electrons. Wreck the big
vacuum brains in which our little wild electrons play. They’ve been
free too long. Imprison them again in the air. It’s exciting, isn’t it,
Rolly?”

His eyes, his brain were filled only with her image, her vivid
loveliness. He hesitated, thinking Frances might get up and come to
him. She only smiled, her eyes wet and glistening with pride. Roland
turned and left the room. There was promise in those eyes. And he would
be back.

He was walking toward the levitation shaft at the end of the corridor
when he met the Martian in the hall.
