
Somehow, he had an idea that unless it wanted it that way, no one could
see it there. It seemed less grotesque now, standing there against
the wall looking at him. He stood tautly, watching it. And suddenly
he knew why it didn’t seem so grotesque. Why its formless, limbless,
upright length of almost translucent stuff swaying like an underwater
plant seemed less a peril now. It was afraid. It was not an attacker
or even a pursuer. It was frightened, and, telepathically, in sharp
bursting impressions, it pleaded with Roland. _No! Oh, no! You do not
understand. Wait! Wait and you can know of the countless facets of re_--

Something like pain shot through his skull. The Martian trembled,
vibrated, and then--disappeared. Roland spun around. Frances stood
there. She was smiling, but there had been another expression. He
couldn’t--

She was close to him now. He felt her animal warmth. “We sensed it
out here,” she said softly, “and came to your rescue, Rolly. He was
a weaker one, and we got him. We must work fast. Go, dear Rolly.
This--this is for good luck.”

He leaned against the wall. She was gone. The kiss ... he had been
waiting for that. None of the other things made any difference now. But
now she was gone and the wall felt cold. He wanted warmth. He wanted
Fran’s warmth. He wanted it more than anything. He--

--he was out on an autowalk among the shifting listless crowd. He moved
toward the five-acre expanse of World Brain. He was aware of nothing
about him, only of Frances. He would soon be back with her. Destroying
World Brain was only a means to that end. He noticed then, abruptly,
that the people around him had only five fingers on their hands. But he
didn’t think about it. It had no meaning anyway.

Then, suddenly, he was aware that there were no more people. No more
buildings, either. A cool wind blew across his hot face. He stood awed
on the long, sweeping rim of an abyss, the edge of a bowl. Its sides
curved down and away in gracious gleaming sweeps, down, down and away
into a colossal valley. In its center was World Brain. A gigantic,
unbroken cylinder, a mile away and a thousand meters down.

He knew he was on the periphery of the ultrasonic field now. He walked
along the railed edge of the abyss until he faced the plastic man who
was standing before the opening of a levitation shaft that would take
him directly into the arteries of World Brain.

He tried to edge past the plastic man. There wasn’t room enough; the
plastic man wasn’t designed to make any room. The creation was very
close to a perfect synthesis. There was no other way. Roland charged
head down into the waiting figure and hurled him upward over the
railing.

Roland watched him spin out end over end, then flatten out on the
sweeping curvature and go sliding with fantastic silent slowness, away
and down, down the long, seemingly endless curve into the depths of the
gigantic plastic bowl. Roland stepped into the shaft. Dwarfed, Roland
walked slowly across the gleaming expanse of floor toward the nakedly
exposed rows of electronic brain cases. A few blows, a pull or two, and
the circuit would be shattered. His sandals rustled softly.

But he hesitated.

There was a guilty feeling and a lost loneliness. Who was he, really?
Taken in infancy from some birth center by the Underground. Conditioned
precisely as they desired--a completely selective mentality. Had
never had a name. But a label someone pulled out of a hat to satisfy
a beautiful woman’s peculiar liking for nicknames. The amnesiac’s
isolated fear of what he didn’t know and couldn’t remember, mustn’t
remember, but what he must know--

But Frances waited for him back in the secret apartment. Warmth would
replace a cold emptiness. Meaning and purpose would fill the lonely
places in his heart.

He went forward--
