
Later, Roland paused outside their apartment door. He had come back.
Frances had brought him back. World Brain was finished. He knew that.
He could remember the subtle changes beginning to occur even as he
came back through Worldcity. Soon the whole intricate structure would
collapse.

The hall was still. He looked at the back of his hand against the wall.
It shook a little. And the coldness came back. It crept into his
muscles from his extremities, his hands and feet, and worked inward.
He wondered why the loneliness should return here. There was a steady
comfort, though, in knowing that behind that panel, Frances was waiting
with her gigglings and her soft shoulders and promising eyes.

The photoelectric banks opened the panel and closed it behind him.

They were standing there together, looking at him. He stumbled back
against the flat panel, resting his back against it. Something had
happened to them. They made him feel alien and afraid. They--

And then Berti said, “Odd. It has come back. What went wrong with our
charts, I wonder?”

Her voice wasn’t emotional now. It had never been, he knew that. Her
giggling. The smile, the wet eyes. False. “Our calculations couldn’t
have been off very much. It’ll die soon.”

Roland edged toward her. “Frances,” he said weakly. “Frances, you
said--‘_it_’. You mean me? Fran. _Fran?_”

Berti said, “Our conditioning was most effective. Fran, it actually
_loves_ you. Remarkable.”

She didn’t smile now. She couldn’t. There was no feeling at all, never
had been. All false. Nothing now but cold awareness of power.

He felt weak and dizzy. A hazy outline moved toward him. Berti.
“I still regret seeing you die. You’re interesting. A peculiarly
interesting experiment. If I had time--almost fifty years of trial and
error to create you, Rolly.”

“A good job, too,” said the woman. “Though we did take an awful chance,
making it so rational. It might have solved the enigma of its own
existence.”

Berti shook his bald head. “We had to make it human so it would be
sympathetic. Emotional. No human was ever able to solve the enigma of
himself. We can’t either, Fran. Or can we?”

From a far hazy distance, he saw Berti’s head turn back, his pouting
lip thrust out, his shiny head reflecting the cold light.

“And you never suspected at all that you were a robot, Rolly? Just a
lot of electrons and polarizable cells, eh? Remarkable. But then, the
last thing a robot would ever realize would be that it was a robot, I
suppose.”

Roland shut his eyes. He was tired. He wanted to sleep. He wanted
to forget about the imaginative creature he had known for a time as
Frances, too.

“We gave you a heavy overload of romanticism and sentimentalism. So you
would be glad to die for Frances, for humanity. But you needed logic
with it, and that was a very delicate balance to establish. All that
work to construct a machine that was to function only a few hours. And
your allotted time is about up, Rolly.

“We misled you by omission only, Rolly. Our purpose wasn’t humanity.
We needed you to destroy World Brain, not for humanity. But for us.
World Brain restricted our development, kept us from defeating the
Martians by shielding atomic power. Rolly, the Underground was a race
of mutants that developed after the Atomic War. Humanity never knew
about us. Homo-superior. We’ve developed the same degree above mere
human intelligence that the Martians have. We’re their equals; that’s
why we could fight them. They outnumbered us, though, that’s why we had
to have your help. You have all the human attributes, Rolly. You want
to know what qualities the next step above human is, don’t you?”
