
[Illustration: _Roland was cold. He wanted to rest._]

Roland scarcely heard the man. He was cold. He was tired.

“We’ve developed the physiological relation between the nervous
system and the consciousness. Instinctualism, a high degree of
predictability--but then your human brain wouldn’t understand.”

Roland sank to his knees. He dropped his head in his folded arms.

“Let’s go,” said the woman. “Leave it here. It’ll die soon.”

“Just a minute, Fran. Don’t you find this interesting? This creation of
grids, filaments, plates, vacuums, is probably the last genuine human
type we’ll see--that’s sane. And we made it!”

She sighed resignedly. “It probably wants to know what the fate of its
beloved humanity is. We gave it that social consciousness. Tell it.”

“Of course it’s concerned, but Rolly’s dying now, and the important
thing to it is that it’s dying for humanity.” Berti paused. “And the
horrible thing for Rolly, is to know that humanity really died from
over-specialization when it launched the final Atomic War.”

Roland’s head raised slowly and shook back and forth. “No.”

Berti smiled. “Human intelligence never had the slightest possibility
of survival. Its high cerebral specialization never had any
physiological unity with the primitive muscles and nervous system. A
slight chemical disturbance of the blood and the human went mad. Take
away a little oxygen--his great mind was gone. Decrease the blood’s
calcium--convulsions, coma, death. Slight reduction in sugar--and his
mighty cerebrum blotted out, died. A slight environmental change could
destroy man--aside from his obvious willingness to destroy himself.
But, Rolly, in one way, perhaps, extinction, the price of evolution,
isn’t too high. After all, you made us possible.”

Roland heard himself say, weakly, “But they still live out
there--humans--surely they’re not--”

“But we rule,” said the woman coldly. “They--what will they do? That
will be interesting. Anyway, it’s their twilight, like apes and
saurians. Our dawning.”

“You’re almost gone, Rolly, dwindling away like a stream,” said Berti.
“World Brain was proof against any _organic_ enemy, including us. But
not against you. A matter of kind against kind. Remember De Morgan’s
familiar lines? But then you wouldn’t, would you? ‘Great fleas have
little fleas upon their backs to bite ’em; and little fleas have lesser
fleas, and so on, ad infinitum; and the great fleas themselves in turn
have greater fleas to grow on, while these again have greater still,
and greater still, and so on.’ We used you, Rolly. A machine to bite a
machine. That was the only way it could have been done.”

Very far away, dim and wavering, Roland heard the woman saying,
“Logically, any species has some overly-specialized characteristic that
might defeat it. I wonder what particular little flea will bite us?”

“And that, too, will be interesting,” thought Roland grimly, as his
electronic brain thinned into meaningless chaos, and he returned into
the hazes of unconsciousness from which he had emerged three hours
before.