
The next night Magpie and Tellurium ambled down to Bantie’s cabin,
ostensibly to square things with Bantie but it is worthy of notice that
they took their pets along. Bantie wasn’t home and the cabin was locked,
so they went back to Tellurium’s cabin and played single-handed poker.

It was four days later that Bantie sat in front of his cabin, and the
stoop was gone from his shoulders. He was having the time of his life
watching a little gray kitten pull off stunts with an old newspaper.

“Ain’t he th’ little rascal?” he chuckled. “Gosh, he shore is some pet
and that’s whatever. I’m shore pleased with his color--yes sir. Almost
uh dead ringer fer--huh! That’s goin’ to be uh good joke if it works.
It’s goin’ to re-quire some thinkin’. Twenty dollars rent! That’s uh
heap uh--gosh! Here comes Magpie down th’ trail! Kitty, kitty,
kitty--well, git in th’ house then. Doggone, I got to cache that cat
before he gits here.”

Bantie was busy with his broom when Magpie leaned against the doorway
with a broad grin.

“Hello, Bantie. When did yuh git back?”

“Yesterday afternoon. Come inside while I sweeps this dirt out.”

Magpie came in and sat down on the bunk.

“To see yuh handle that broom, Bantie, reminds me uh heap of uh fee-male
person. You shore are finicky about yor floor.”

Bantie blushed through his tan and swept vigorously.

Magpie saw that he had riled Bantie so he continued:

“You shore ought to have uh pet around yore cabin. Uh feller gits uh
heap uh comfort out of uh pet. Now, old man Sims down at th’ forks, has
got uh litter uh gray kittens and I know he’d shore admire to give yuh
one. Uh course yuh don’t want nothin’ bigger nor more fee-rocious than
house cats. Wild animal pets are only fit fer----”

He had started to make a deprecatory gesture with his right hand, which
had suddenly come into contact with fur. Also the fur moved. Magpie took
one look and then swallowed his tobacco. A wildcat was sitting on the
bunk beside him and two big, yellow eyes stared into his. Magpie knew
wildcats--knew that no living animal could move more quickly. But if any
wildcat had caught Magpie in the next ten seconds it would have set a
new record for the species.

Bantie dropped his broom as Magpie went past and then leaned against the
doorway and watched him slow down a hundred yards away and pull his gun
as he whirled. The little gray kitten rubbed against Bantie’s leg and he
picked it up and cuddled it to his face as he watched Magpie scratch his
neck and then amble off up the trail.

To say that Magpie was astonished as he plodded off up that trail would
be putting it mildly.

“I wonder if that was uh bob-cat?” he queried aloud. “Dang it all, my
eyes ain’t what they used to be. Leavin’ my specs to home that away puts
me plumb dim in th’ vision, but--huh, that shore looked like uh
bob-cat--yes sir! But shucks, it ain’t possible! Bantie with uh
bob-cat! No siree, it ain’t reasonable I tell yuh! Must ’a’ been my
eyes I reckon.”

He went rumbling along the trail with his head down and nearly ran
headlong into Tellurium.

“Whoa, yuh old goat!” yelled Tellurium. “What yuh tryin’ to do--butt
yore way home?”

“Howdy, Tellurium. Where yuh goin’?”

“Reckoned I’d pilgrim down and see if Bantie’s got home yet. Did yuh see
him?”

“Uh-ha. I stopped by his cabin fer uh spell.”

“Did he have anything to say about me and you and th’ pets?” asked
Tellurium, with a grin.

“Not uh word. I reckon he’s done forgot it. Nice li’l feller that
Bantie.”

“Nice enough fer uh runt, but I don’t admire th’ breed none. He’s too
doggone scary, Magpie.”

“Un-ha,” agreed Magpie. “He shore ain’t got no corner on nerve. Well, I
got to be goin’. Come over tonight and play uh little poker. I don’t
suppose Bantie wants to play but yuh might ask him.”

Tellurium rambled off down the trail and Magpie stood there and watched
him for a while. Finally he scratched his neck and murmured:

“Mebby I’d ought to have told him but--shucks, it wasn’t nothin’--not uh
danged thing! But jist th’ same I--huh!”

Bantie was washing a pair of overalls in a battered dishpan when
Tellurium hove in sight, and he threw them over a stump to dry.

“Howdy, Bantie,” greeted Tellurium, with a wide-mouthed grin. “As uh
particular feller you shore got ’em all skinned. Washin’ overalls!
What’s th’ use uh that? Say, I’ll bet you takes uh bath too when nobody
ain’t lookin’. Haw! Haw! I knowed uh feller oncet who used to take uh
bath twice uh month regular. Dang near rubbed all th’ skin off hisself.
You ought to git uh buckskin shirt like mine, Bantie. Them skin shirts
keep yuh from gittin’ dirty--sort a fit so tight th’ dirt can’t git in,
_sabe_?”

Bantie grinned and dried his hands.

“Go inside, Tellurium, and sit down while I gits some fresh water. I
drinks uh lot uh water this hot weather.”

“Un-ha, I reckon yuh would,” replied Tellurium, as Bantie took the pail
and started for the creek. “Yes sir, I wouldn’t put it uh bit past
yuh--drinkin’ lots uh water.”

It was probably two minutes later when Bantie came back whistling with
his pail of water and entered the cabin.

“This old Sleepin’ Creek shore produces th’ fine water,” he remarked but
there was no response--the cabin was empty.

He walked to the door and looked around but there was no sign of
Tellurium.

“That’s danged funny!” he exclaimed aloud. “Where in thunder is
Tellurium?” He went outside and walked around the cabin and then came in
and looked under the bunk.

“Well, I’ll be uh----”

He gasped as he pulled an object from under the bunk and held it up to
the light. It was a battered old sombrero and in the crown was punched
the initials, T. W.

“Mama mine!” chuckled Bantie. “And Tellurium shore wasn’t built fer
such speed neither!”

The little gray kitten on the bunk voiced its hunger and got a whole can
of precious condensed milk for supper that night.
