
Tellurium went over to play poker with Magpie that night but neither of
them mentioned Bantie until the evening was nearly over. Magpie shoved
back from the table and began to polish his glasses on a piece of
buckskin.

“My eyes are gittin’ plumb bad,” he complained. “Sometimes I think I see
things and I know doggone well I don’t. I reckon I’d better wear my
specs all th’ time.”

“Reckon I’ll have to git some too,” agreed Tellurium.

“Yore vision botherin’ yuh too?”

“Same as yours.”

“When did yuh notice it first?”

“This afternoon. I--huh--say, Magpie, did yuh notice anything--well,
sort a unusual down to Bantie’s?”

“Say!” exploded Magpie, leaning across the table. “Did you see it too?”

“ _Felt_ it is nearer th’ word. Th’ danged thing kept my Sunday hat!”

Magpie continued to polish his glasses and seemed lost in reflection.

“Jist about what do yuh reckon it is?” questioned Tellurium. “I didn’t
stay long enough to make uh good estimate.”

“You and me both,” agreed Magpie. “What little I saw of it shore
re-sembled uh bob-cat, but bein’ hasty thataway uh feller can’t depend
on snap judgement. Knowin’ Bantie like we do I’m inclined to argue that
we both was seein’ things which ain’t.”

“Well, mebby,” half agreed Tellurium. “But if it was it’s th’ first time
that bad eyesight ever caused uh streak uh gray dynamite to crawl my
frame and spit brimstone over my carcass and forcibly take my hat away.
Mebby I’m seein’ things, Magpie, but if I am I shore didn’t start in th’
lower grades. No sir, I reckon I got into fast company immediately.”

“I’ll tell yuh what we’ll do,” continued Tellurium, getting up and
putting on his coat, “we’ll go down there tomorrow and take our pets
along. If that is uh bob-cat I’d shore admire to have it hop my wolf.”

“And git yore wolf all scratched to shoestrings,” grinned Magpie. “My
grizzly is more like it. Bob-cats as uh rule don’t hanker none to climb
th’ frame of grizzlies.”

“We’ll take ’em both,” replied Tellurium, settling the argument. “I
don’t care a dang what happens jist so I gits my hat back. That lid cost
me twelve dollars five years ago and I longs fer it something
scandalous, Magpie.”
