
The next morning Magpie and Tellurium arrived at Bantie’s cabin with
their pets. The grizzly was a poor leader and Magpie was worn out
trying to drag several hundred pounds of protesting bear for two miles
over a trail. Tellurium was equally tired from having to dig his heels
into the ground all the way trying to hold his wolf to a sedate pace.

Bantie was sitting in the shady side of his cabin reading, and on his
lap lay a little gray kitten. Tellurium saw the kitten first and stopped
in his tracks, but the wolf kept right on going and nearly upset
Bantie’s chair. The kitten arched its back, clawed its way up the side
of the cabin and spat at the wolf from the eaves.

“What yuh tryin’ to do?” yelled Bantie, trying to escape from the
attentions of the pets. “Gol dang it! When yuh comes visitin’ why don’t
yuh come a-lone!”

“Givin’ th’ pets uh little airin’,” mumbled Magpie, still eying the
kitten on the roof. “Where did yuh git th’ kitten, Bantie?”

“Got him from old man Sims uh few days ago. I needed company so I gits
th’ kitten. Didn’t yuh see him when yuh was here before?”

“Say,” continued Bantie, before Magpie had a chance to answer, “where
did yuh go th’ other day, Tellurium? When I gits back with that pail uh
water yuh was gone. I finds the kitten maulin’ yore hat around th’ floor
and you ain’t no place in sight.”

“I--I--huh! You say yuh finds that kitten playin’ with my hat?”

Bantie picked the hat off the bed and handed it to Tellurium.

“Ain’t that yore hat?”

“By golly, she shore is!” exclaimed Tellurium. “How do yuh reckon that
hat got down here? I must be gittin’ absent minded, Magpie.”

“I reckon yore both that way,” grinned Bantie. “Th’ other day Magpie is
here sittin’ comfortably on m’ bunk, and all to oncet he shoots out of
th’ door and gallops off up th’ trail. I stands here plumb surprised.
I’m plumb scared that he’s loco.”

Magpie looked at Tellurium in an inquiring way, but Tellurium’s face was
hopelessly blank.

The bear and wolf, unleashed, wandered into the cabin just as Bantie
stood up and remarked:

“You fellers might as well come in out of th’ sun. Mebby it was th’ heat
that affected yuh. I’ve got uh li’l bottle of hooch from old man Sims’
keg, and he told me that it was th’----”

“Say no more, Bantie,” beamed Tellurium, starting for the cabin door
closely followed by the willing Magpie. “Old man Sims gives me uh shot
uh that stuff oncet and ever since that time I’ve wished----”

Came a roar of pain and a yelp of surprise and the upheaval started. A
streak of roan-colored bear, with a gray hump on its back, hit Magpie
dead center, knocking him back into Tellurium, and as they fell the bear
raked them fore and aft and the wolf, yipping like the fiends of the bad
place were tied to its tail, raced across their prostrate bodies and
disappeared in a cloud of dust up the trail.

The wolf, running at its best speed, was a poor second to the bear. The
bear was carrying weight but handled it nicely.

Bantie leaned against the door frame and shrilled his mirth in a high
key while the little gray kitten stood in the door and looked
inquiringly at the two in the dust.

“What in ---- happened?” wailed Magpie, feeling tenderly of a spot on
his chest where the bear had grasped a foothold.

“Avalanche!” gasped Tellurium. “Top of th’ mountain busted right off
and half of it hit me in th’ belt-buckle. I reckon I’d better light uh
match to see if I’m conscious.”

Magpie gazed ruefully up the trail as he brushed off his clothes.

“I wonder what got into them pets? Gosh, uh grizzly shore has uh lot uh
motive power when he gits a-goin’! Where yuh goin’, Tellurium?”

“I’m goin’ to find them animiles and see what’s th’ matter. Gol darn! I
wouldn’t take uh fortune fer that wolf. He’s uh----”

“Man-sized pet,” finished Bantie with a grin, as he picked up the little
gray kitten and snuggled it to his face. “Pore li’l kitty, did they
scare yuh?”

“Scare----!” exploded Magpie. “I’ll bet--huh!”

He turned and followed Tellurium up the trail, and Bantie watched them
with an expectant grin on his face. The trail led over a point of rocks
above the creek and at that point there was a sheer drop of about
fifteen feet to the water, which was about five feet in depth.

Magpie caught up with Tellurium at this place and they stopped to argue
the question. Beyond them the trail curved sharply around another cliff
of rocks.

Tellurium shoved his hands into his pockets and faced Magpie
belligerently.

“It don’t stand to reason, Magpie, that uh house cat----”

His argument was cut off. The avalanche had returned.

Being as the two were occupying most of the trail there was no chance to
avoid the shock. Tellurium had hold of Magpie’s arm and the two of them
performed their aerial spin and dip of death as one person.

The chase had evidently turned as the wolf was in the lead and using all
the power of its legs and voice to hold that lead. The bear was due to
slow up or run over the wolf if the race continued for a hundred yards
further.

“Leggo my face!” spluttered Magpie, trying to shake Tellurium’s grip
loose and grab a trailing willow shoot at the same time. “What yuh
tryin’ to do, drown me?”

“Don’t claw me--gimme room!” gasped Tellurium. He lunged toward the
bank and shook Magpie’s hold from the willow.

“Danged hippopotamus, tread water!” choked Magpie. “Leggo my arm! If I
ever gits you--gurgle--gurgle--on dry land--leggo!”

“What did yuh push me in fer?” wailed Tellurium.

He tried to stand up but the current was too strong and he went
pin-wheeling his way down the creek to a sand-bar. Magpie, relieved of
Tellurium’s clutches, managed to grab the bank and pull himself out. He
wandered down to where Tellurium was pouring the water out of his boots
and sat down disconsolately on a log.

“I’d shore admire to know what happened?” he remarked. “Something shore
has happened that I ain’t got no light on. Now, that danged little
kitten ain’t--huh, I dunno, I dunno.”

“No, it shore ain’t,” agreed Tellurium foolishly. “But if it ain’t, what
is? I asks yuh, Magpie, what is?”

“Why ask me?” demanded Magpie.

“Do yuh reckon I’m uh palmist? I know one thing, I’m goin’ over and git
my bear. Whatever it is it ain’t no place fer bears. I reckon I’ll have
to tame that pet all over again. Let’s go over and interview Bantie.”

Bantie was still standing in the door with his kitten on his arm and he
grinned widely at their dilapidated appearance.

Magpie wiped his mustache and glared at Bantie.

“Where’s my bear?”

“And also that wolf uh mine!” snapped Tellurium.

“Do yuh want ’em sudden like or jist natural?” inquired Bantie.

“Sudden like suits me!” stated Magpie. “If I could git away from this
place goin’ uh thousand feet uh second I’d feel that I was sort a
loiterin’.”

“Watch m’ root-house door,” said Bantie, as he shoved the kitten back
into the cabin and shut the door.

The root-house was simply a dug-out under the cabin, with a rough hinged
door opening on a slant from the ground. The door was closed but not
fastened. Magpie started to walk over and open it but he moved too late.

Came a yelp and a grunt of fear and the door heaved up, nearly tearing
the hinges off, and the bear sailed out of the cellar and streaked for
the nearest tree.

The wolf hit only the highest points of the scenery until it came to a
high point across the creek, where it stopped long enough to elevate its
nose and voice its displeasure to the world.

Inside the cabin Bantie was down on his hands and knees, peering down
into the cellar through a hole made by removing some of the rough
flooring. He pulled on a short rope and called softly and a full-grown
wildcat climbed out of the hole and rubbed affectionately against his
leg. Bantie tied the leash to the bunk leg and the cat crawled under the
bunk.

“By th’ great horn spoon!” exclaimed Bantie. “You shore are some pet!
Frenchy Burgoyne said uh mouthful when he said that yuh didn’t allow
strangers to trespass. Li’l cat, yuh cost me jist twenty dollars rent
but yore shore worth it--every cent. I plumb hates to take yuh back but
uh bargain’s uh bargain. As uh bare-back rider of grizzlies I takes m’
hat off to you, li’l bob-cat.”

Outside, Magpie and Tellurium leaned against each other and watched the
wolf bid farewell to humanity.

Finally, evidently with misgivings, the bear slid down out of the tree.
It gazed at the two with melancholy in its little eyes and then waddled
off into the willows down Sleeping Creek.

Tellurium sat down heavily on a log and wiped his bald head with a wet
handkerchief.

“This is gittin’ to be th’ dangdest----”

“Look!” exclaimed Magpie, pointing to the open root-house door. The
little gray kitten was perched on the top step and its little ears
twitched as it looked cautiously about before coming out.

“What General Sherman said about war, goes double fer cats!” remarked
Tellurium.

Magpie scratched his neck thoughtfully for a moment and then started off
down the Sleeping Creek trail on a half run.

“Where in ---- yuh goin’?” yelled Tellurium.

Magpie stopped for a moment and considered the little kitten on the
root-house door, before he yelled back:

“I’m goin’ down to dicker with old man Sims before he gits rid of all
that litter uh cats. I needs uh pet and I shore admires th’ best there
is.”

“You and me both,” agreed Tellurium fervently, and they went down the
trail together.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the December, 1916 issue of
_Adventure_ magazine.]