
Collins left Gordon's office in Administration moving slowly, one arm
hanging loosely by his side, the other clutching the book. The corridor
stretched ahead into B Wing with its laboratories flooded with the glow
of mid-morning sunshine, bright and unreal. His mind was dazed, his
thinking processes stopped in a kind of stunned unbelief. He could not
even quit now. An undercurrent of fear ran close to the surface of his
confused mind. It was the end of science, the end of all his work. All
of the stifling, strangling restrictions of security on his work, on
his private life, came whirling back as a monstrous, formless threat,
something unspeakably big and powerful and unbeatable against which he
could not fight.

To his right as he moved slowly down the hall the double doors of the
main library reading room were open with the stacks and study cubicles
beyond, silent and restful. He paused and then entered crossing into the
maze of the stacks through a grilled iron doorway. The important thing
now was not to meet anyone, not to have to speak or smile or think. It
was very important now to be alone and quiet.

He walked until he found an empty cubicle, the endless walls of books,
repositories of knowledge, silent and reproachful around him. Knowledge
and books such as these would soon be added to no longer. He slumped
into the chair and gazed at the tiny reading desk with its softly
glowing lamp and the small stack of volumes on the rack left by previous
users. Absently he stared for a long time at the volume Gordon had given
him as if seeing it for the first time. Then with a deliberate effort he
opened it and thumbed through slowly only half seeing its pages. _The
Journal of Botanical Research._

The pages in the _Journal_ were like a look through an open window.
Outside of classified projects in "harmless" fields of research the work
of science went on, papers were published, reputations were made,
freedom still existed. He remembered Gordon's sleek smile and advice
to relax and read in other fields. This stupid useless advice still
rankled. Of course, he probably was stale, but to read junk like this!

Silently and in his mind, he cursed the day he had studied physics,
better archeology or zoology, anything. Suddenly he stopped riffling the
pages and leaned forward, rapidly turning back to something that had
caught his eye. It was a three and one-half page paper on "The
Statistical Probability of Chromosome Crossover" written in neat
sections with several charts and references. It was by M. Mason.

Something clicked in Collins' mind--read the journals--Mason's unconcern
with security, the botany books on his desk the night before. It didn't
make sense, but it added up to something. Mason knew something and so
did Gordon. He half rose. He had to get to the bottom of it. Clutching
the bound _Journal_ Collins turned and weaved through the stacks and out
of the library waving the protesting librarian aside and strode down the
corridor toward the laboratories.
