
The door to Mason's lab was partially open, and he looked up quizzically
from taking an instrument reading as Collins burst in.

"Mason, I--" he planked the bound volume of the _Botanical Journal_ on
the lab bench beside the instrument ignoring Mason's wince as the
instrument needle quivered with the jar. "Did you write this?" His
finger jabbed at the open page.

Mason glanced at Collins, removed a pair of glasses from his white lab
coat pocket, and putting them on leaned forward and studied the page for
a moment.

"Yes. Not bad either though I shouldn't say it. I didn't know you were
interested in Botany." His voice was casual with a slight questioning
note.

Collins suddenly felt ridiculous. What was he accusing the man of? Mason
had a right to publish on anything he wanted to, still a muddled series
of half facts, incidents and suspicions chased through his mind.

Mason walked over to his desk and filling his pipe sat down thoughtfully
and leaned back motioning Collins into a nearby chair.

"I think I know what is on your mind, Milt. Maybe I can straighten this
out. Gordon told me a little while ago that you wanted to resign."

Collins stiffened. So, these two were working together.

"Milt, did you ever stop to think how lucky we are? Where can you get
better equipment, help, cooperation in the country than here?" Collins
leaned forward to speak, but Mason went on. "Oh, I know all the problems
of security and how it strangles work." He paused for a moment as though
trying to grasp the right words.

"Look, Milt, what's the basic problem? Why do security measures strangle
research? Isn't it a matter basically of a breakdown in the interchange
of ideas? Sure, and it has come about because there has been no method
of communication which would not get to and be used by our enemies. So,
like yourself, I'm forbidden to publish the results of my work here in
the journals. Why? Because those results are in my field of study, chain
reactions.

"I'm frustrated just as you have been and science suffers. What do I do?
I write articles in a field that isn't restricted, botany. It's a new
field of interest to me, a hobby if you like. The stuff is published and
gets wide distribution. Every decent library in the country gets it.
Every scientist all over the country can read the papers if he cares to.
Then the word gets around, by the scientific grapevine, with a little
judicious ear-bending. I get a reputation--in Botany.

"Now the botanists know that I am not a botanist. They understand what
I am doing. The word spreads, and they leave my stuff alone. The
physicists in my specialty know my name, and they get the word, and
pretty soon they are glancing over certain botany journals apparently
for relaxation. They read my papers. It's slow, but it works." Mason
leaned forward and struck a large stick match under the lab bench top.
Drawing several puffs through his pipe his eyes were on Collins'
confused face. Then he laid the pipe down.

"The enemy botanists may read the botany journals, sure, but the enemy
physicists don't. Their totalitarian training has made them inflexible
in their thinking, besides they have their hands full trying to keep up
in their own fields. The curse of specialization is a blessing to us.
When the enemy botanists read it, it makes sense, but it doesn't help
them much in their work--more or less innocuous." He waved toward the
botany texts on his desk. "It took me six months to learn enough about
it to do the job." As he spoke Mason untangled his legs and brought the
open journal over to his desk.

"All right, notice in my article I am writing on chromosomes--chains of
genes, and my field is--?"

"Chain reactions," Collins finished softly, "but--"

"The article itself is well disguised, but it's a parable. It's botany
on the surface, but it gets over enough chain-reaction theory to be good
physics, if you read it right. You see botany is what you might call my
code field."

The bright light of noon shimmered on the white buildings and green
lawns beyond the lab windows. Collins was silent and thoughtful.

"Well, that's about all. Gordon knows. He's in with us, but the
Government doesn't suspect--yet. Oh, they may catch on to us. Information
may leak out to the enemy. There's some chance, but when we're caught
we'll think of something else. Most of us believe it's worth the chance.
There's a risk in anything."

Suddenly all the pieces fell into place, and Collins' anger and confusion
melted away. In its place was a sense of relief and hope, hope for the
future. It wasn't the final answer, but it was a way to keep going. He
was not alone any longer. He had friends who understood, who had been
through what he had been through. It was a good feeling. He heard
Mason's voice again.

"Milt, why don't you do some library work? Botany's my code field. I
don't know what yours is, but you've got some catching up to do. There
may be some interesting stuff published already in your code field."

Collins did, and he developed his new interest enthusiastically. Gordon
had been right. He had been getting stale. Besides, astronomy was a
fascinating field, and suns with their revolving planets in some
respects are very like atomic systems, if you look at it that way.

                             THE END



   Transcriber's Note:

   This e-text was produced from Astounding Science Fiction
   October 1955. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
   that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.



