
I turned back to Donley and Young.

"Really a wonderful place for your health. Dry, thin air, nice and cool
at night. And beautiful! From Marsport you can see low-slung mountains
in the distance, dunes of soft, red sand stretching out to them. If
I were you, Bob, I'd forget all about the Ozarks and sign up on the
rocket."

"There ain't any rockets going to Mars," McCleary said obstinately.

"Isn't," I corrected. "I mean, there is. Besides, McCleary, just
because you never heard of something doesn't mean it doesn't exist."

"The government's still working on V-2," McCleary said flatly. "They
haven't even reached the moon yet."

I sighed softly, acting disgusted at having to deal with somebody as
stupid as McCleary. "Mac, that's the government and besides they're
dealing with military rockets. And did you ever hear of the government
perfecting something before private industry? Who perfected the
telephone, the radio, television? The government? No, private industry,
of course! Private industry has always been ahead of the government on
everything, including rockets. Get on the stick, Mac."

McCleary started in on his lettuce leaf again, looking very shrewd.

"How come I never heard of it before now?" he asked, springing the
clincher argument.

"Look, Mac, this is relatively new. The company's just starting, can't
afford to take full-page ads and that sort of thing. Just give 'em
time, that's all. Why, a couple of years from now you'll be spending
your vacation on Venus or Jupiter or some place like that. From now on
California and the Bahamas will be strictly old hat."

McCleary looked half-believing.

"Where'd you get your tickets?"

I waved vaguely in the direction of downtown. "Oh, there must be at
least a couple of agencies downtown. Might even be able to find them in
the phone book. Look under _Interplanetary Rocket Lines_ or something
like that. You might have a little difficulty, of course. Like I say,
they're not too well advertised."

McCleary was about to say something more, but then the one o'clock bell
rang and we went back to the office grind.
