
I go to work, re-examining all the recent work on tobacco virus and
similar plant killers. New studies on the key protein chains of the
genes were the foundation stones of my plan. The disease had to be
highly specific and deadly. I couldn't risk even the remotest
possibility of harming food plants in a hungry world.

But, as I've said, with no false modesty, I'm no slouch in my field of
biochemistry. I took a harmless poppy rust from our California flowers
here, and treated its genes with certain chemicals. It was a matter of
six months, and well over eighty tries, but finally I came up with a
virus that killed the opium poppy like smallpox wiped out the Sioux. No;
more than that. Some Indians were, or became, immune to the disease,
just as insects build up resistance to the most potent poisons. But with
my virus that's simply not possible. I won't get technical here, but to
become immune to this stuff would be like a man's developing anti-bodies
against his own tissues. It couldn't happen without killing the organism
faster than the virus does. Once this epidemic began, not a poppy would
survive.

So far everything was fine, except that, as usual, I lost my job. I got
fifty term papers behind. It didn't bother me, because there wasn't a
student in my three classes who knew any more biochemistry than a
baboon. In the first paper I'd found this gem: "It is well known that a
mammal reproduces by suckling its young." Faced with more of the same,
it was a pleasure to be fired.

Now, in any really civilized society, they'd have my statue on top of
the capitol building, and with neon lights to boot. But in our
bureaucratic wilderness of Washington, with a thousand government-hired
cretins running interference for each big, appointed super-cretin, my
troubles had just begun.

I took some sample poppies to the H.E.W. offices. They were in
vacuum-sealed plastic envelopes, because I knew that once my virus
spores got loose in the atmosphere, they'd spread all over the world
like radioactive dust, or faster. I hoped to see the Commissioner of
Narcotics, Myron P. Bishop, but His Magnificence was harder to reach
than the whole College of Cardinals. It was impossible to put my point
across. Plants, was it? That way to the Department of Agriculture. Oh,
poppies. Pamphlets on wildflowers could be had from Documents.

I wrote countless letters, pulled what few wires were within my reach,
and haunted Washington like the ghost of Calhoun. And finally I got ten
minutes with El Pomposo himself.

As I've said, dumb students are nothing new to me. But even the worst of
them couldn't have been any more obtuse than Bishop. I had the dead
plants, all brown and withered. There were simple charts showing
exactly, in terms of time, how the virus worked, killing the poppy
within forty-eight hours, and even destroying the viability of any seeds
that might be ripening.

Did this jughead appointed by the President to fight the terrible drug
problem comprehend the miracle being offered to him? The simple solution
that would make him the greatest--in fact, the only--success in his post
that this country had ever known? Not he. I had to spell it out in
nursery school terms.

But I've penetrated many a numbskull in class by dint of persistent
drilling, and finally got through to the cold oatmeal under his parietal
bones.

Did that clear the air? If you think so, guess again. He threw up his
hands in horror. Turn a plant disease loose on the world deliberately!
It was a violation of the conventions against germ warfare. It was
barred by international law. It was unthinkable that the United States
would indulge in such irresponsible behavior.

All right, I said. Take it to the U.N. Let them distribute the poppy
killer. He brightened a little at that, since every bureaucrat loves
above all to pass the buck. A clear-cut decision is fatal to the
species. Then he gave me a note to our delegate, Wilbur Cavanaugh, Jr.

This character was a bit sharper. He heard me out, looked at my deceased
poppies, and arranged a conference with a bigwig from the State
Department. Then things got really messy. When I pointed out that in a
few weeks every damned opium plant in Asia would be deader than the Ming
Dynasty, this little creep from Foggy Bottom almost had kittens on the
spot. It seems that just now our relations with Red China are highly
delicate. If we turned the virus loose on them, even if it did kill only
poppies (and he had his doubts about that. What if--shudder--it attacked
rice?) the Reds would scream murder. They'd yell germ warfare, and have
us cold. They could ship us opium by the long ton--that didn't affect
the delicate condition, though.
