
It seemed to me, however, that there was something ambiguous and wistful
in the State man's attitude, and I thought I understood. When a country
sends a spy to do some dirty job, they disown him officially if he is
caught. Except for that U-2 fiasco some years ago, when the U.S. broke
all the unwritten rules and made jackasses of us before the world. Now,
obviously, if I killed all the poppies in the world, that would be a
fait accompli. Washington could deny knowing anything about the cause of
death, especially since it would work indiscriminately even in friendly
parts of Asia. Just as long as I got my hundred thousand, I didn't mind
skipping the official credit. In fact, it would keep the Syndicate off
my back.

"Suppose," I said, "on my own responsibility, I release the spores and
ruin the opium trade for good. Will you see that I get paid?"

He was horrified. In the first place, nothing whatever could be done
until the virus had been checked out by government scientists. If I
would give him the virus, and my notes, he'd start the ball rolling. I
know that Washington ball; it's all angles, and doesn't roll worth a
damn. I went cold at the thought. Before you can get an okay on anything
big from a bureau there, your long, grey beard will be sweeping the
floor.

For a moment I was tempted to take my plans to England, but then
remembered that by sane legislation legalizing the sale of drugs under
controlled conditions, they had already licked the problem, and wouldn't
be in the market. For two cents, I thought, I'd make China pay me the
money to keep the virus buried. For that matter, the Syndicate would
gladly kick in with a million. But I'm an American first, and couldn't
play it that way, especially remembering Professor A's daughter.

I thought the thing through, and decided that if I turned the disease
loose, so that every good poppy is a dead one, any decent government
will quietly pay me off. They only need to know that no other plants are
affected.

And that's the way I played it. The next day I sprayed a few grams of
concentrated virus into the humid air of Washington, and went home. If
you read the papers, you know the rest of that particular story. In
eight months not even Sherlock Holmes could have found a live opium
poppy on the face of the earth. Once current stocks are gone, there'll
be no more narcotics deriving from that particular plant. The government
sensibly outbid all the addicts and operators in order to save what is
left for medical use. It should last for fifty years. All according to
my plan--fine!

But when I tried to collect, they didn't know me from the late Lucky
Luciano. There was no proof whatever, they said, that my virus did the
job. After all, their scientists had not been allowed to check my work.
I could have faked the whole thing, attempting to take credit for a
mutant disease which began naturally, especially since dozens of
bacteriologists were now isolating the virus.

When I pressed harder, they dragged out an F.B.I. file showing I was a
crank and maverick, unable to hold a job, and guilty of signing a peace
petition in 1949. If Bishop or Cavanaugh tried to help, I don't know
about it. I suppose I'm lucky that the Syndicate has been equally
skeptical. Otherwise, being out many millions, they would have
liquidated me by now.

But basically it's your fault--you, the people. I took my case to you,
as a court of last resort. A few papers gave me a fair enough shake to
present the evidence, but you paid no attention. I tried to get your
signatures to a petition to purge the H.E.W. Department, or to start a
Congressional investigation. You just laughed at me. You enjoyed that
headline: "Crackpot Chemist Claims He Killed All Those Poppies. Was it
Self-Defense?"

Well, my jovial friends, I'm going to teach you a lesson. I could easily
wipe out half of you by killing some selected food plants, but I'm not a
mass murderer, and would rather make a more subtle job of it. I've two
more viruses just about perfected; after the first, it's easier. When I
turn them loose, you'll have a real grievance against me. This time,
you're getting notice in advance, so nobody can talk about "natural"
disease. Besides, the appended lab notes will easily convince a few key
men in biochemistry; and they'll confirm me.

Now let me point out the two plants you'll miss badly.

One is yeast. Yes, yeast. When you read this, the one-celled organisms
responsible for wine, beer, and alcohol generally, will be dying as a
race. In a few months, good liquor will be scarcer than an electric
blanket in hell. Sure, grain alcohol can be synthesized, but bouquet
isn't that simple, and you'll pay dearly for it--how you'll pay!--and
decent lab-made whiskey won't be on the shelves tomorrow, either.

The other plant you'll miss even more. I mean tobacco. No more
cigarettes; no more fat cigars--and hallelujah!--no more tobacco
commercials on TV. Did you know, tobacco cannot be synthesized at all,
at any price? Get it, you two-pack-a-day fiends?


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ February 1961.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



