
I rose quickly and moved toward him, but his eyes implored me not to
interfere. "The clock has stopped," he murmured. "The forces that
control it approve of my experiment. _Time_ stopped, and I swallowed
the drug. I pray God that I shall not lose my way."

He closed his eyes and leaned back on the sofa. All of the blood had
left his face and he was breathing heavily. It was clear that the drug
was acting with extraordinary rapidity.

"It is beginning to get dark," he murmured. "Write that. It is
beginning to get dark and the familiar objects in the room are fading
out. I can discern them vaguely through my eyelids but they are fading
swiftly."

I shook my pen to make the ink come and wrote rapidly in shorthand as
he continued to dictate.

"I am leaving the room. The walls are vanishing and I can no longer see
any of the familiar objects. Your face, though, is still visible to me.
I hope that you are writing. I think that I am about to make a great
leap--a leap through space. Or perhaps it is through time that I shall
make the leap. I can not tell. Everything is dark, indistinct."

He sat for a while silent, with his head sunk upon his breast. Then
suddenly he stiffened and his eyelids fluttered open. "God in heaven!"
he cried. "I _see_!"

He was straining forward in his chair, staring at the opposite wall.
But I knew that he was looking beyond the wall and that the objects in
the room no longer existed for him. "Chalmers," I cried, "Chalmers,
shall I wake you?"

"Do not!" he shrieked. "I see _everything_. All of the billions of
lives that preceded me on this planet are before me at this moment. I
see men of all ages, all races, all colors. They are fighting, killing,
building, dancing, singing. They are sitting about rude fires on lonely
gray deserts, and flying through the air in monoplanes. They are riding
the seas in bark canoes and enormous steamships; they are painting
bison and mammoths on the walls of dismal caves and covering huge
canvases with queer futuristic designs. I watch the migrations from
Atlantis. I watch the migrations from Lemuria. I see the elder races--a
strange horde of black dwarfs overwhelming Asia and the Neandertalers
with lowered heads and bent knees ranging obscenely across Europe.
I watch the Achæans streaming into the Greek islands, and the crude
beginnings of Hellenic culture. I am in Athens and Pericles is young. I
am standing on the soil of Italy. I assist in the rape of the Sabines;
I march with the Imperial Legions. I tremble with awe and wonder as
the enormous standards go by and the ground shakes with the tread of
the victorious _hastati_. A thousand naked slaves grovel before me as
I pass in a litter of gold and ivory drawn by night-black oxen from
Thebes, and the flower-girls scream '_Ave Cæsar_' as I nod and smile.
I am myself a slave on a Moorish galley. I watch the erection of a
great cathedral. Stone by stone it rises, and through months and years
I stand and watch each stone as it falls into place. I am burned on a
cross head downward in the thyme-scented gardens of Nero, and I watch
with amusement and scorn the torturers at work in the chambers of the
Inquisition.

"I walk in the holiest sanctuaries; I enter the temples of Venus. I
kneel in adoration before the Magna Mater, and I throw coins on the
bare knees of the sacred courtezans who sit with veiled faces in the
groves of Babylon. I creep into an Elizabethan theater and with the
stinking rabble about me I applaud _The Merchant of Venice_. I walk
with Dante through the narrow streets of Florence. I meet the young
Beatrice and the hem of her garment brushes my sandals as I stare
enraptured. I am a priest of Isis, and my magic astounds the nations.
Simon Magus kneels before me, imploring my assistance, and Pharaoh
trembles when I approach. In India I talk with the Masters and run
screaming from their presence, for their revelations are as salt on
wounds that bleed.

"I perceive everything _simultaneously_. I perceive everything from all
sides; I am a part of all the teeming billions about me. I exist in all
men and all men exist in me. I perceive the whole of human history in a
single instant, the past and the present.

"By simply _straining_ I can see farther and farther back. Now I
am going back through strange curves and angles. Angles and curves
multiply about me. I perceive great segments of time through _curves_.
There is _curved time_, and _angular time_. The beings that exist in
angular time can not enter curved time. It is very strange.

"I am going back and back. Man has disappeared from the earth. Gigantic
reptiles crouch beneath enormous palms and swim through the loathly
black waters of dismal lakes. Now the reptiles have disappeared. No
animals remain upon the land, but beneath the waters, plainly visible
to me, dark forms move slowly over the rotting vegetation.

"The forms are becoming simpler and simpler. Now they are single cells.
All about me there are angles--strange angles that have no counterparts
on the earth. I am desperately afraid.

"There is an abyss of being which man has never fathomed."

I stared. Chalmers had risen to his feet and he was gesticulating
helplessly with his arms. "I am passing through _unearthly_ angles; I
am approaching--oh, the burning horror of it!"

"Chalmers!" I cried. "Do you wish me to interfere?"

He brought his right hand quickly before his face, as though to shut
out a vision unspeakable. "Not yet!" he cried; "I will go on. I will
see--what--lies--beyond----"

A cold sweat streamed from his forehead and his shoulders jerked
spasmodically. "Beyond life there are"--his face grew ashen with
terror--"_things_ that I can not distinguish. They move slowly through
angles. They have no bodies, and they move slowly through outrageous
angles."

It was then that I became aware of the odor in the room. It was a
pungent, indescribable odor, so nauseous that I could scarcely endure
it. I stepped quickly to the window and threw it open. When I returned
to Chalmers and looked into his eyes I nearly fainted.

"I think they have scented me!" he shrieked. "They are slowly turning
toward me."

He was trembling horribly. For a moment he clawed at the air with his
hands. Then his legs gave way beneath him and he fell forward on his
face, slobbering and moaning.

I watched him in silence as he dragged himself across the floor. He
was no longer a man. His teeth were bared and saliva dripped from the
corners of his mouth.

"Chalmers," I cried. "Chalmers, stop it! Stop it, do you hear?"

As if in reply to my appeal he commenced to utter hoarse convulsive
sounds which resembled nothing so much as the barking of a dog, and
began a sort of hideous writhing in a circle about the room. I bent and
seized him by the shoulders. Violently, desperately, I shook him. He
turned his head and snapped at my wrist. I was sick with horror, but
I dared not release him for fear that he would destroy himself in a
paroxysm of rage.

"Chalmers," I muttered, "you must stop that. There is nothing in this
room that can harm you. Do you understand?"

I continued to shake and admonish him, and gradually the madness died
out of his face. Shivering convulsively, he crumpled into a grotesque
heap on the Chinese rug.
