
I carried him to the sofa and deposited him upon it. His features were
twisted in pain, and I knew that he was still struggling dumbly to
escape from abominable memories.

"Whisky," he muttered. "You'll find a flask in the cabinet by the
window--upper left-hand drawer."

When I handed him the flask his fingers tightened about it until the
knuckles showed blue. "They nearly got me," he gasped. He drained the
stimulant in immoderate gulps, and gradually the color crept back into
his face.

"That drug was the very devil!" I murmured.

"It wasn't the drug," he moaned.

His eyes no longer glared insanely, but he still wore the look of a
lost soul.

"They scented me in time," he moaned. "I went too far."

"What were _they_ like?" I said, to humor him.

He leaned forward and gripped my arm. He was shivering horribly. "No
word in our language can describe them!" He spoke in a hoarse whisper.
"They are symbolized vaguely in the myth of the Fall, and in an obscene
form which is occasionally found engraven on ancient tablets. The
Greeks had a name for them, which veiled their essential foulness. The
tree, the snake and the apple--these are the vague symbols of a most
awful mystery."

His voice had risen to a scream. "Frank, Frank, a terrible and
unspeakable _deed_ was done in the beginning. Before time, the _deed_,
and from the deed----"

He had risen and was hysterically pacing the room. "The seeds of the
deed move through angles in dim recesses of time. They are hungry and
athirst!"

"Chalmers," I pleaded to quiet him. "We are living in the third decade
of the Twentieth Century."

"They are lean and athirst!" he shrieked. "_The Hounds of Tindalos!_"

"Chalmers, shall I phone for a physician?"

"A physician can not help me now. They are horrors of the soul, and
yet"--he hid his face in his hands and groaned--"they are real, Frank.
I saw them for a ghastly moment. For a moment I stood on the _other
side_. I stood on the pale gray shores beyond time and space. In an
awful light that was not light, in a silence that shrieked, I saw
_them_.

"All the evil in the universe was concentrated in their lean, hungry
bodies. Or had they bodies? I saw them only for a moment; I can not
be certain. _But I heard them breathe._ Indescribably for a moment
I felt their breath upon my face. They turned toward me and I fled
screaming. In a single moment I fled screaming through time. I fled
down quintillions of years.

"But they scented me. Men awake in them cosmic hungers. We have
escaped, momentarily, from the foulness that rings them round. They
thirst for that in us which is clean, which emerged from the deed
without stain. There is a part of us which did not partake in the
deed, and that they hate. But do not imagine that they are literally,
prosaically evil. They are beyond good and evil as we know it. They are
that which in the beginning fell away from cleanliness. Through the
deed they became bodies of death, receptacles of all foulness. But they
are not evil in our sense because in the spheres through which they
move there is no thought, no morals, no right or wrong as we understand
it. There is merely the pure and the foul. The foul expresses itself
through angles; the pure through curves. Man, the pure part of him, is
descended from a curve. Do not laugh. I mean that literally."

I rose and searched for my hat. "I'm dreadfully sorry for you,
Chalmers," I said, as I walked toward the door. "But I don't intend to
stay and listen to such gibberish. I'll send my physician to see you.
He's an elderly, kindly chap and he won't be offended if you tell him
to go to the devil. But I hope you'll respect his advice. A week's rest
in a good sanitarium should benefit you immeasurably."

I heard him laughing as I descended the stairs, but his laughter was so
utterly mirthless that it moved me to tears.


                                   2


When Chalmers phoned the following morning my first impulse was to hang
up the receiver immediately. His request was so unusual and his voice
was so wildly hysterical that I feared any further association with him
would result in the impairment of my own sanity. But I could not doubt
the genuineness of his misery, and when he broke down completely and I
heard him sobbing over the wire I decided to comply with his request.

"Very well," I said. "I will come over immediately and bring the
plaster."

En route to Chalmers' home I stopped at a hardware store and purchased
twenty pounds of plaster of Paris. When I entered my friend's room he
was crouching by the window watching the opposite wall out of eyes that
were feverish with fright. When he saw me he rose and seized the parcel
containing the plaster with an avidity that amazed and horrified me.
He had extruded all of the furniture and the room presented a desolate
appearance.

"It is just conceivable that we can thwart them!" he exclaimed. "But we
must work rapidly. Frank, there is a stepladder in the hall. Bring it
here immediately. And then fetch a pail of water."

"What for?" I murmured.

He turned sharply and there was a flush on his face. "To mix the
plaster, you fool!" he cried. "To mix the plaster that will save our
bodies and souls from a contamination unmentionable. To mix the
plaster that will save the world from--Frank, _they must be kept out_!"

"Who?" I murmured.

"The Hounds of Tindalos!" he muttered. "They can only reach us through
angles. We must eliminate all angles from this room. I shall plaster
up all of the corners, all of the crevices. We must make this room
resemble the interior of a sphere."

I knew that it would have been useless to argue with him. I fetched the
stepladder, Chalmers mixed the plaster, and for three hours we labored.
We filled in the four corners of the wall and the intersections of
the floor and wall and the wall and ceiling, and we rounded the sharp
angles of the window-seat.

"I shall remain in this room until they return in time," he affirmed
when our task was completed. "When they discover that the scent leads
through curves they will return. They will return ravenous and snarling
and unsatisfied to the foulness that was in the beginning, before time,
beyond space."

He nodded graciously and lit a cigarette. "It was good of you to help,"
he said.

"Will you not see a physician, Chalmers?" I pleaded.

"Perhaps--tomorrow," he murmured. "But now I must watch and wait."

"Wait for what?" I urged.

Chalmers smiled wanly. "I know that you think me insane," he said. "You
have a shrewd but prosaic mind, and you can not conceive of an entity
that does not depend for its existence on force and matter. But did
it ever occur to you, my friend, that force and matter are merely the
barriers to perception imposed by time and space? When one knows, as I
do, that time and space are identical and that they are both deceptive
because they are merely imperfect manifestations of a higher reality,
one no longer seeks in the visible world for an explanation of the
mystery and terror of being."

I rose and walked toward the door.

"Forgive me," he cried. "I did not mean to offend you. You have a
superlative intellect, but I--I have a _superhuman_ one. It is only
natural that I should be aware of your limitations."

"Phone if you need me," I said, and descended the stairs two steps at
a time. "I'll send my physician over at once," I muttered, to myself.
"He's a hopeless maniac, and heaven knows what will happen if someone
doesn't take charge of him immediately."


                                   3

_The following is a condensation of two announcements which appeared in
the_ Partridgeville Gazette _for July 3, 1928_:

                 Earthquake Shakes Financial District

    At 2 o'clock this morning an earth tremor of unusual severity
    broke several plate-glass windows in Central Square and completely
    disorganized the electric and street railway systems. The tremor
    was felt in the outlying districts and the steeple of the First
    Baptist Church on Angell Hill (designed by Christopher Wren in
    1717) was entirely demolished. Firemen are now attempting to put
    out a blaze which threatens to destroy the Partridgeville Glue
    Works. An investigation is promised by the mayor and an immediate
    attempt will be made to fix responsibility for this disastrous
    occurrence.
