
                OCCULT WRITER MURDERED BY UNKNOWN GUEST

                   Horrible Crime in Central Square

              Mystery Surrounds Death of Halpin Chalmers

    At 9 a.m. today the body of Halpin Chalmers, author and
    journalist, was found in an empty room above the jewelry store
    of Smithwick and Isaacs, 24 Central Square. The coroner's
    investigation revealed that the room had been rented _furnished_
    to Mr. Chalmers on May 1, and that he had himself disposed of the
    furniture a fortnight ago. Chalmers was the author of several
    recondite books on occult themes, and a member of the Bibliographic
    Guild. He formerly resided in Brooklyn, New York.

    At 7 a.m. Mr. L. E. Hancock, who occupies the apartment opposite
    Chalmers' room in the Smithwick and Isaacs establishment, smelt
    a peculiar odor when he opened his door to take in his cat and
    the morning edition of the _Partridgeville Gazette_. The odor he
    describes as extremely acrid and nauseous, and he affirms that it
    was so strong in the vicinity of Chalmers' room that he was obliged
    to hold his nose when he approached that section of the hall.

    He was about to return to his own apartment when it occurred to him
    that Chalmers might have accidentally forgotten to turn off the gas
    in his kitchenette. Becoming considerably alarmed at the thought,
    he decided to investigate, and when repeated tappings on Chalmers'
    door brought no response he notified the superintendent. The latter
    opened the door by means of a pass key, and the two men quickly
    made their way into Chalmers' room. The room was utterly destitute
    of furniture, and Hancock asserts that when he first glanced at the
    floor his heart went cold within him, and that the superintendent,
    without saying a word, walked to the open window and stared at the
    building opposite for fully five minutes.

    Chalmers lay stretched upon his back in the center of the room.
    He was starkly nude, and his chest and arms were covered with a
    peculiar bluish pus or ichor. His head lay grotesquely upon his
    chest. It had been completely severed from his body, and the
    features were twisted and torn and horribly mangled. Nowhere was
    there a trace of blood.

    [Illustration: "He was starkly nude, and twisted and torn."]

    The room presented a most astonishing appearance. The intersections
    of the walls, ceiling and floor had been thickly smeared with
    plaster of Paris, but at intervals fragments had cracked and
    fallen off, and someone had grouped these upon the floor about the
    murdered man so as to form a perfect triangle.

    Beside the body were several sheets of charred yellow paper. These
    bore fantastic geometric designs and symbols and several hastily
    scrawled sentences. The sentences were almost illegible and so
    absurd in context that they furnished no possible clue to the
    perpetrator of the crime. "I am waiting and watching," Chalmers
    wrote. "I sit by the window and watch walls and ceiling. I do not
    believe they can reach me, but I must beware of the Doels. Perhaps
    _they_ can help them break through. The satyrs will help, and they
    can advance through the scarlet circles. The Greeks knew a way of
    preventing that. It is a great pity that we have forgotten so much."

    On another sheet of paper, the most badly charred of the seven
    or eight fragments found by Detective Sergeant Douglas (of the
    Partridgeville Reserve), was scrawled the following:

    "Good God, the plaster is falling! A terrific shock has loosened
    the plaster and it is falling. An earthquake perhaps! I never could
    have anticipated this. It is growing dark in the room. I must phone
    Frank. But can he get here in time? I will try. I will recite the
    Einstein formula. I will--God, they are breaking through! They are
    breaking through! Smoke is pouring from the corners of the wall.
    Their _tongues_--ahhhhh----"

    In the opinion of Detective Sergeant Douglas, Chalmers was poisoned
    by some obscure chemical. He has sent specimens of the strange
    blue slime found on Chalmers' body to the Partridgeville Chemical
    Laboratories; and he expects the report will shed new light on
    one of the most mysterious crimes of recent years. That Chalmers
    entertained a guest on the evening preceding the earthquake
    is certain, for his neighbor distinctly heard a low murmur of
    conversation in the former's room as he passed it on his way to the
    stairs. Suspicion points strongly to this unknown visitor and the
    police are diligently endeavoring to discover his identity.


                                   4

_Report of James Morton, chemist and bacteriologist_:

    My dear Mr. Douglas:

    The fluid sent to me for analysis is the most peculiar that I
    have ever examined. It resembles living protoplasm, but it lacks
    the peculiar substances known as enzymes. Enzymes catalyze the
    chemical reactions occurring in living cells, and when the cell
    dies they cause it to disintegrate by hydrolyzation. Without
    enzymes protoplasm should possess enduring vitality, i.e.,
    immortality. Enzymes are the negative components, so to speak, of
    unicellular organism, which is the basis of all life. That living
    matter can exist without enzymes biologists emphatically deny.
    And yet the substance that you have sent me is alive and it lacks
    these "indispensable" bodies. Good God, sir, do you realize what
    astounding new vistas this opens up?


                                   5

_Excerpt from_ The Secret Watchers _by the late Halpin Chalmers_:

    What if, parallel to the life we know, there is another life that
    does not die, which lacks the elements that destroy _our_ life?
    Perhaps in another dimension there is a _different_ force from
    that which generates our life. Perhaps this force emits energy,
    or something similar to energy, which passes from the unknown
    dimension where _it_ is and creates a new form of cell life in
    our dimension. No one knows that such new cell life does exist in
    our dimension. Ah, but I have seen _its_ manifestations. I have
    _talked_ with them. In my room at night I have talked with the
    Doels. And in dreams I have seen their maker. I have stood on the
    dim shore beyond time and matter and seen _it_. _It_ moves through
    strange curves and outrageous angles. Some day I shall travel in
    time and meet _it_ face to face.

