
The redcap stopped alongside the third car of the San-Francisco-bound
streamliner and signaled another redcap who was unloading a baggage
truck. The other came over to help and two pairs of strong young arms
lifted the old man, wheelchair and all, smoothly onto the platform of
the car.

His daughter-in-law did not board the train. She stood waving, calling
after the old man, "So long, Papa! Have a nice visit with Edna and
remember what I told you!"

He waved back automatically, but he hadn't heard a word she said. He
didn't turn his hearing aid back on until he had been wheeled inside
the car.

Most of the reclining seats were already filled. The redcap pushed
the wheelchair the full length of the aisle and parked it in a vacant
space beyond the last seat, across from the washroom. He turned it
crosswise, so it wouldn't roll when the train started moving, and with
its occupant facing the window.

"Turn me around!" the old man commanded. "Like to see who I'm ridin'
with. If I want to look out, I always got the opposite window."

The redcap complied, but the old man still wasn't satisfied. "Better
wheel me in the club car straight off," he decided.

"Sorry, mister," the redcap said, "but you gotta ride in your own car
till the conductor takes the tickets. Then you can have your train
porter take you in there." That wasn't quite true. The conductor could
have picked up the old man's ticket in the club car, but this way the
redcap was not personally violating the orders of the lady who had
given him the tip.

"Take myself in there, long as he opens the doors," the old man
grumbled. But for the time being, he stayed put.

The train gave just one lurch, then picked up speed as the straggling
city, then trees and suburbs and finally fields flowed past the
opposite window. Now the old man felt free--for a day, at least,
until his daughter Edna would take over the job supervising his every
move--but at first the trip was lonely. Nobody talked to him and the
only diversion in the car was a baby, which started squalling.

The old man found himself thinking how much friendlier the atmosphere
was in the pool hall on Figueroa, where he rolled himself almost every
day when he took his "walk" to watch the boys shoot pool. He could get
there alone from his son's house, for there were driveways he could
use to cross the streets, avoiding curbs. He was always welcome in
the pool hall and he saw to it that he remained welcome. Every month,
when his social security check came, he would buy a box of cigars and
a couple of bottles and take them to the pool room, where he poured
drinks for everybody until his money was used up. What else was money
good for but to have a good time?
