
He felt more at home in that dingy place, with the walls covered with
pinups, than he did in his son's modern ranch-style house. For all his
daughter-in-law's fussing over him, her efforts to keep him on the diet
and the medicines that were supposed to prolong his life, he knew she
was glad to get rid of him for the rest of the summer. He knew because
he'd heard what Jane said to her best friend, Sarah Tolliver. Jane kept
track of him by the squeaking of his wheelchair, and once he had bought
a can of oil at the drugstore, and oiled the wheels so they didn't make
a sound as he rolled up the inclined planks Will had laid over the
kitchen steps.

Sarah and Jane had been in the dining area, having coffee, and the old
man turned up his hearing aid so he could hear what they were talking
about from the kitchen. They were talking about him.

"You don't know how lucky you are," Sarah was saying, "that it was his
legs gave out on him--not his head. When I was working at the hospital,
I saw so many old folks who were just zombies, not knowing who they
were, where they were, or what time it was. I tell you, there's nothing
worse than that. But Will's dad? Why, he's sharp as a tack. Nobody puts
anything over on him."

"He's sharp, all right," Jane agreed, "in some ways. But if he had the
use of his legs, he'd be chasing after women. And that pool hall he
hangs out in! When a man gets to be seventy-eight, you'd think he'd
spend his time in church, not in a dive like that."

"What do you care where he goes?" Sarah asked. "At least it gives you
some time to yourself."

That was it. The young folks wanted some time to themselves. It was
only natural. Well, Jane would have the house to herself, with no old
man underfoot for the next few months, while he was at Edna's. Edna was
his own flesh and blood; she would mix him a cocktail before dinner and
serve him steaks, not baby food. She would kid with him about what a
Casanova he was before her ma domesticated him, and light his cigars
instead of hiding the box and doling them out one by one. She would
call him George instead of Papa, but it would only be an act, just to
make her old father feel good because she didn't expect him to live
much longer. For all the time it would be understood that he was at
John and Edna's house for a visit, that the place he lived was with
Will and Jane. The truth was that neither of the girls would miss him
if he didn't wind up at either place.

But what a way to waste a whole golden day he had to _himself_, with
neither daughter nor daughter-in-law to boss or kid him around. He had
looked forward to this day as a day of adventure, a day when anything
could happen, and now he was starting it off on the wrong foot,
wallowing in self-pity. What he needed was a good stiff drink. Yes, at
ten o'clock in the morning!

When the conductor took his ticket, the old man demanded, "Where in
hell is the porter?"
