
It was a long train and she was hitting ninety now, and though you
would not realize it in the sound-insulated, air-conditioned coaches,
you did when the porter had to use his full weight to push the door
open against the wind, when you heard the clackety-clack of the wheels
on the rails, a fountain of noise rising up between cars, when the
wheelchair swayed precariously as it was pushed across the iron treads
over the couplings.

The other coaches were filled with bored passengers in various
stages of somnolence, people to whom the trip was merely a means of
getting somewhere else. The club car was different; this was the
gathering-place of those to whom the trip was an end in itself. It
was filled with the smell of ginger ale, good whiskey and the perfume
emanating from two young women at one of the small tables, periodically
inspecting their makeup and hairdos in little mirrors, waiting for some
nice young men to arrive.

Regretfully, the old man realized that he was not a candidate for the
honor. But a few drinks would dull the twinges in his crippled legs and
make him feel years younger. The white-coated waiter moved a chair,
pulled the wheelchair up next to another small table and placed a paper
napkin meticulously on it. The old man decided to start with a bottle
of beer. Plenty of time to work up to the stronger stuff, and this way
the minimum of pocket money his daughter-in-law had provided would last
longer, perhaps until some free spender started buying drinks.

As it turned out, he caught his benefactor before the girls did. It was
a young man of perhaps thirty-five, a dead ringer for Marshal Wyatt
Earp. He went directly to the old man's table, as if he had picked him
out. As a matter of fact, he had.

"May I sit here?" he asked.

"Glad to have you," the old man said, and meant it. He inspected the
newcomer carefully. It would be almost too good to be true, to meet
one of those actor fellows on the train. No, he decided, the clothes
weren't casual enough for Hollywood; they didn't look like southern
California at all. More the way he imagined an English banker would
dress. Striped pants, cutaway, and a white silk scarf knotted at the
throat. But an Englishman, the old man figured, would order ale instead
of beer, and this one simply pointed to the old man's beer bottle when
the waiter came to take his order.

"My name's George Murton," the old man said. "You can just call me
George."

"Yes, indeed," the stranger agreed. "I see we shall get on famously.
Mine is Sandane."

"Anybody ever tell you that you look like Wyatt Earp, Sandy?" the old
man asked.

"Earp? I'm afraid I've never met the gentleman."

"Should have known. You're the bookish type. Prob'ly never watch
television. Sure don't talk like a Westerner, either. You come from
California or elsewhere?"

"I come from elsewhen."
