
Old George almost choked on a swallow of beer. Of course! That was why
Sandane dressed funny, talked funny; he'd just stepped out of a time
machine, like in the play last night on Channel Two. It all fitted in
with the old man's feeling that this was a day for adventure. But he
mustn't act too surprised; if he did, Sandane would take him for one of
those old codgers who think horse-and-buggy thoughts in the jet age. A
lot of younger folks, too, would say time travel was impossible, the
same ones who'd called artificial satellites impossible. But George
Murton had seen so many new developments in his lifetime that it was
not difficult for him to accept the idea that this young man came from
tomorrow.

"How long you plan to be here?" he asked casually. "Or maybe I should
say--how long you plan to be here--now?"

"Not long. Just until I can get a body."

George found that remark a little confusing. It didn't belong in the
script about the time machine. He felt as if he'd switched channels in
the middle of the first act and tuned in on a murder mystery.

He leaned across the table and said in a low tone, "If you're figurin'
on gettin' a hired gun to kill somebody, you'd better not talk about it
in here. Too public."

"On the contrary, it would have to be a living body. But perhaps you're
right. We could talk more freely in my compartment. Would you care to
join me there, George? We could have some refreshment sent in."

"Sure would. Got a lot of questions I'd like to ask you. You see, I'm
the curious type and I hang around mostly with a bunch of young punks
that don't know nothin' except about the fights and the World's Series.
Since my legs give out on me, I don't get around much. To tell you the
truth, this is the first time I ever met a fellow from--elsewhen."

"Is it really?" Sandane said politely. "Well, then, you should find it
quite interesting. What shall we have to drink?"

"Bourbon always suits me."

"Bourbon? One of the royal families?"

"Hell, no. You're in America, Sandy, the good old U.S.A. We don't have
no royal families. Bourbon is a drink. Whiskey, _spiritus frumenti_,
hard liquor."

"Fine. We shall order two flagons of it."

"Comes in fifths and you drink it in shot glasses, unless you want a
mix. Rather have mine straight, with a water chaser."

"My error. I seem to have my periods mixed. Suppose you order, since
you know so much more than I about the customs of your time?" The old
man's happy smile suddenly faded and Sandane added hastily, "I shall
pay for it, of course. It's only fitting that you should be my guest,
because I believe you can be a great help to me."

This time he had hit the jackpot, the old man reflected as he was
wheeled through the dining car to the first class section of the train,
with a porter pushing his chair, Sandane opening the doors, and a
bottle of good bourbon cradled cozily in his lap. Wait till the boys at
the pool hall heard about this trip!
