
"It was pretty bad during the experimental trials," said Sandane. "The
pioneers, who transferred in their own bodies, were stuck irrevocably
in the past. To overcome that, some transferred only mentally, which
meant they had to enter unbidden into a host body of the target period.
The more highly trained mind naturally had more strength--the host lost
his identity. What was worse, when the visitor transferred back he
sometimes entered an occupied body instead of his own. When two equally
strong minds contest for one body the result is insanity. And worst of
all, the former host body was left mindless--alive, but how shall I say
it--?"

"Like a zombie?" the old man asked. "Somebody who don't know who he is,
where he is, or what time it is?"

"Yea, that's a very good description. Of course, this had to be
stopped."

"You didn't stop it soon enough," the old man said dryly. "Must be a
lot more of you fellows from elsewhen around than I figured."

"I assure you we don't do it any more. We grow bodies for transfer
purposes in tanks. Like this one, for example."

"Well, I do declare," the old man said. "Now, that's what I call
progress. According to that, when your old body wears out, you get a
new one."

"We haven't achieved immortality yet. The mind has its own natural
span. It is true, however, that we have a greater life expectancy,
and as long as a person lives he can have a body of his choice. But
let's not get off the subject. The point is that I can't transfer back
without a body, or I might get into one that's occupied. And I can't
take this one with me. So I have to have one that is--well, if you'll
forgive me being so blunt, more or less useless to its occupant."

"It's the truth, Sandy, and nobody knows it better than me. But the
part I don't understand is why the body you're using has to fall apart
in two weeks, if you leave it here."

"It is actually good for several months after the transfer. I've used
up most of the time with my researches. But as to your question--surely
you see why we can't leave a lot of displaced bodies cluttering up
the past. The few pioneers who got stuck in previous periods were
bad enough. They lived longer than anyone else of the periods, but
they were taken as rare freaks of nature. If this happened on a larger
scale, it would excite comment. Medical men would examine these people
and find certain evolutionary developments--the secret would be out.
In order to avoid that, the bodies grown artificially for transfer
purposes have a built-in trigger mechanism. This also prevents anyone
from over-staying his allotted leave. If I don't find a body to
transfer back in within the next two weeks, I'll be dead."

"And if you do, I'll be dead," the old man said.

"I'm afraid so. Meanwhile, though, you'll have a young, healthy body
to do with as you please, and some money to spend. It will happen
suddenly; there will be no discomfort. I thought you looked like a
man who would appreciate that. You would be cheated out of a decent
funeral, however--there will be nothing resembling a body left to bury."

"Funerals!" the old man snorted. "Them as got nothing else to look
forward to figure on fancy funerals. Me, I don't hanker after anything
I can't be around to enjoy."

"I'm sorry I can't offer you more than two weeks, give or take a day. I
was unavoidably detained."

"Can't be helped. I ain't likely to get a better offer, so I'm taking
you up on it. And I admire you for an honest man. You could just as
well of told me I'd have two years--or twenty. I'll do the right thing
by you, too. I won't let out your secret--long as I'm sober, that is."
