
The young man from elsewhen smiled. "I'm not worried about that," he
said, "Who would believe your unsupported statement?"

"You got a point there," the old man admitted. "Don't hardly believe it
myself, till it happens. When do you do this switch business?"

"Just before we reach San Francisco, if that suits you."

"Suits me fine. But I got a daughter, name of Edna Bowers, meeting me
at the station there. How you figure on getting away from her?"

"It won't be difficult. I will stay with her for a few days; then she
simply will not see me rolling that chair down the block. I will get to
the transfer point by cab and she will turn a report in to the police
that her father is missing. They will, of course, not find the missing
person."

"You mean you can fix it so she looks right at my body, with you inside
it, and don't see anything?"

"Certainly. I can control the mind of anyone of this period at will.
Anyone of my time could do so. It's easy."

"You can? Well, then, why in the hell didn't you? Why should you ask me
my druthers when you could take over my body whether I liked it or not?"

"That would be highly unethical."

"Sure would. But to save your life, seems to me you wouldn't be so
squeamish. People nowadays would think like that, anyway. I can see
that they'd have to change a lot before they could be trusted with the
kind of powers you got in elsewhen."

"They will," the young man from elsewhen assured him. "Human nature
is not immutable. But I take it we are agreed that we trade bodies
just before we reach our destination. Shall we have a toast to it?" He
filled the old man's shot glass so full it sloshed over in the moving
train.

"Before we drink to it," old George objected, "hadn't you ought to give
me the money to bind the bargain?"

"Why?" his host asked. "It's in my pocket, which will be yours when we
trade."

"That's right!" the old man said. "I get the clothes, too, don't I?
Kind of a dignified getup. Sure would admire to be seen in that! Here's
to it!" They clicked glasses and downed the drinks.

"Now, shall we have some lunch?" Sandane asked.

"You bet. Say, on the train, I'm tempted to order all the things
that ain't good for me. If I do, my arthritis will be giving me hell
tomorrow. I'm used to that, but as long as you'll be the one to suffer,
maybe I should stick to my diet."

"Order what you like. I can control the pain for you easily enough."

"Can you teach me to do that?" the old man asked eagerly. "Wouldn't
want you to be giving out any secrets you ain't supposed to, but surely
that couldn't do any harm."

"It wouldn't do you any good, either," Sandane replied. "This body
won't give you a bit of trouble as long as it lasts. I absolutely
guarantee that."

"Not even a headache the morning after?"

"Not even a headache. Not even fatigue."

"Think of it! No hangovers in elsewhen. Must be a wonderful age to live
in."

"You'd be surprised how many people want to get away from it," Sandane
remarked. "Shall we have something sent in or go to the diner?"

"Let's go to the diner," old George decided. "I want to look over some
of the chicks on this train. Could be one of them is a stranger in San
Francisco, needs somebody to show her the town."

"Could be," Sandane agreed.
