
After a hearty lunch, without a look at the right side of the menu, the
old man started drinking again. He kept pleasantly tipsy all afternoon,
trying to submerge the recurrent thought that this couldn't really be
going to happen. Sandane continued to act the affable host, but made no
move to put his plan into operation. They were in Sandane's compartment
when the loudspeakers announced that passengers who were leaving the
train at Oakland should get ready. The waiting was getting on the old
man's nerves.

"All right," he told Sandane, "if this is all a gag, the joke's
finished."

"It's not a joke," Sandane protested.

"Then put up or shut up."

"Very well," Sandane said. "Close your eyes and relax. You will go to
sleep for a few moments."

The old man was determined to stay awake to see what went on. But in
spite of himself, his eyes closed, his head drooped forward. He dreamed
a long and involved dream about cities of the future, where all the
people had miraculous powers. It seemed to go on for days, yet when he
awoke, with a start, the train still had not reached Oakland.

He stood up abruptly as he realized that he was alone in the
compartment. Where was Sandane? Next he realized that he was standing,
that he _was_ Sandane, or at least in Sandane's body. He took two
steps to the mirror and stared at it. Cutaway, striped pants, face the
spitting image of Wyatt Earp. It was the old man in the wheelchair who
had left the compartment.

When he disembarked at San Francisco, he scanned the crowd for the
wheelchair and soon spotted it. Edna had spotted it first--she was
pushing it herself while a redcap followed, carrying the blanket and
the old battered valise that the occupant of the chair had insisted on
taking into his own coach. George tipped his derby to Edna.

"Mrs. Bowers, I presume? Your father was telling me many nice things
about you on the train."

Edna laughed. "So you're the gentleman he was with! I guessed from his
breath he'd had company!"

"Now, Edna," a cracked old voice complained, "ain't no harm in buying a
few drinks for an old man."
