
"Yes. To let you know my intentions." He called for the check. "I'm
forty years old, ma'am. The time has come to make a permanent home for
myself, with a wife and children. For several days I've toyed with the
idea of falling in love with someone. What's your astrological sign?"

"Taurus." She looked at him over the champagne, her face wide with a
smile that had an almost irrepressible giggle behind it.

"Fine, fine." He threw money on the table and got up. "I'm Pisces.
Pisces and Taurus get along very well. This is the reason I fell in
love with you, ma'am. What was your name?"

"I want to finish my champagne," she protested, not getting up. "My
name is Anna Christina Morley."

He sat down. "Forgive me. I'm an abrupt man. I do things and then
they're over. I never linger. As you grow to know me, this will become
apparent. But finish your champagne. My kind of woman always speaks
her mind. So your name is Anna Christina Morley. A very unusual name.
A numerological breakdown would no doubt show you to be a strong, a
firm, an idealistic woman. I am a fortunate man. Have you finished your
champagne?"

"I guess so," she sighed. She got up and took her cape that had the
twinkling little bells on it, and that changed color every five minutes
on the second, and that told time. "Where are we going?"

"I'll take you back to your room," he said, "and say good night."

She was beautiful in the overhead sparkling lights of the dining room.
Something caught her sharply in the solar plexus as he spoke.

"Why?" she said forlornly.

His singed eyebrows came up. "Why? My purpose is accomplished. You know
my intentions. Now I must go out and prepare. I'll be leaving for outer
space within the hour. I'll be back in ten months."

He took her to the door of her room. "Good night, Anna," he said.

She stopped him. Her heart was beating too hard. There was in her a
sharp emptiness, a terrific sense of frustration. "Kiss me," she said
wearily. "You said you were in love with me, so we might as well get
that much acquainted."

"I am in love with you," he said. He immediately took her into his
arms, kissing her long and hard. Then he released her, looking
strangely into her eyes. "Anna," he said, "I _shall_ be back in ten
months. I know you'll be here." He went down the stairs. She went into
her room. She sat on the edge of the bed. Then she threw herself on the
bed and cried, hard, angry sobs. Why had she allowed him to ruin what
could have been such a splendid evening? She kicked her shoes off. They
hit the wall with two walloping thumps. She lay on her back and laughed
at the ceiling with tears coming out of her eyes. What an evening. An
evening as strange, as abortive, as cruel as the man who had cut it off
so suddenly.

Her eyes snapped open then. She felt something happen inside her, a
longing as wide and deep as black space. "Oh no," she said in a tone
that was low and explosive. She slowly turned on her side, sniffling.

She couldn't help it. He was nothing, but he was incredible. Ten
months....
