
The official spent an hour poring over catalogues, showing increasing
amazement. Finally he said, "You're in luck!"

At the end of an hour he had found Harvey's planet in numerous
photographs, and had taken readings on the orbit which exactly
coincided with Harvey's figures. He made out the necessary papers. Now
Harvey owned a planet.

Harvey said, "I'm an abrupt man, sir. I speak my mind. I have no sense
of humor, as you must realize by now. I want a tankful of fuel on
credit."

The official shook his head. "I can't do it. I have no authority to
give credit. This is the United States government you're talking to."
He laughed.

Harvey did not laugh. "I am asking for personal credit."

"On what security?"

Harvey thought. "On no security. I am an honest man. My word is good
enough. However, there will be a bonus when the loan is returned.
Before Thanksgiving you will be in receipt of one dozen succulent,
tender, meaty Plymouth Rock chickens as large as turkeys. May I ask
what your astrological sign is?"

The official leaned back staring, and making a soundless whistle. He
couldn't laugh. This man had no sense of humor. He said, "Well, I was
born August 26--"

"Fine, fine. A Virgo. You and I can do business, sir. Pisces and Virgo
get along. I shall be leaving at 5:00 SST. I shall leave my vessel in
your care. Good evening." He slept untroubled at the hotel connected
with the Claims Office, and in the morning took off. The meter reading,
which he did not even trouble to inspect, read Full.

He went to Venus, taking two weeks to get there. On the way he passed
his planet which he was naming Plymouth, but did not trouble to open
the port to look at it. Not much could have occurred to misplace it. On
Venus, he docked his ship at the central spaceport, and went by tube
to Venus Port. Five minutes after getting there he was talking to the
secretary in the outer office of the firm of Gramenger & Lewis. At
first the secretary did not want to admit him to see Mr. Gramenger, but
Harvey said:

"May I have your name, please?"

She gave it. He sat down with pencil and paper, and after five minutes
looked up with a pleased smile. "Numerologically," he said, "we find
a coincidence here. We are both 22's. This is an exceptionally strong
number, denoting trust, idealism, and self-mastery. What is your
astrological sign?"

"Pisces."

"Pisces! I, too, am a Pisces."

She gave him a look. "Pisces people are not noted for their diplomacy,
or for subtlety. You're under the wrong sign."

He frowned. "This I do not understand."

She smiled. "Never mind. You can see Mr. Gramenger in about five
minutes."

"Thank you. Perhaps we can share dinner this evening."

"Well--"

"I have no money, you understand."

Her mouth fell open. She burst into laughter, and then clapped her hand
over her mouth when she saw he was dead serious. She said quickly, "All
right. I'll take you to dinner. I guess we poor fish have to stick
together."

"Thank you," he said. "We can go to the Milo Club. In return for the
favor, I can promise you that before Thanksgiving you will receive
three large Plymouth Rock chickens of unusual tenderness and flavor."
He picked up a magazine and read while waiting.

Gramenger, when he saw Harvey, leaned back in his chair scrubbing a
meaty chin. He remarked he was pleased to meet Harvey, but he couldn't
place the name, and did not understand how Harvey had got into the
office without a prior appointment. Harvey said these details did
not matter, but that what did matter was that he was here to make a
financial settlement with the firm rather than, later on, to bring suit
against the firm for a sum of one million dollars.

Gramenger's eyebrows went up. He smiled faintly, letting his glance
rove over Harvey's stained leather space jacket and spotted denims.

"I'm sure I'd like to hear your story," he said. "I may as well inform
you, however, that any claims against the company must be laid before
the legal department."

Harvey stood at the desk looking down.

"I'm an abrupt man, sir," he said. "I do things quickly, and then
they're over. I have no liking for red tape or legal maneuvers. If my
business is not settled before I leave this office within the next
hour, you may expect to go to court and lose much more than the meager
damages settlement I am asking."

"Damages for what?" Gramenger frowned irritably. His chair came down
with a bang. "If you think you can pull a fast one with the firm of
Gramenger & Lewis--"

Harvey broke in. He told Gramenger about his planet Plymouth. He showed
his papers of ownership. He described the orbit. He showed where the
planet would intersect the plane of the ecliptic in one week, seven
hours, twenty-eight minutes, and some seconds. He showed the official
seal from the Claims Office proving that this was so.

"Your liner _Hermes_," he said, "will intersect the orbit of the planet
Plymouth some 17,000 miles from Plymouth. The atomic wash from the
_Hermes'_ drivers will infect space for 100,000 miles around; this is
standard knowledge and has been proved in court. Legal precedent has
also established that nucleonic, gravitonic, or positronic infection
of planetary farmlands constitutes a serious misdemeanor for which
damages, both punitive and otherwise, may be sought."

Gramenger grinned. "Let me see those papers." He looked them over,
chuckling. Once he looked up.
