
By the time the fourth swift generation came along he had almost
reached his goal. Furthermore, the flesh was tenderer than any of these
men had thought possible. When the time came for Harvey to take them
back to Venus, he promised them they would be well supplied by the time
Thanksgiving rolled around.

Harvey was somewhat loathe to leave the planet Plymouth alone. He had
a certain fear in the back of his head that things would happen if he
did. He intended to return as soon as he and Anna got married.

He showed up at the Hotel de Mars a week ahead of time. At Anna's place
behind the Registration desk stood a white haired little old lady.

A chill started deep in his stomach when she told him Anna left a
month--no, two months ago. She produced a letter Anna had left him. It
was brief and pointed.

"Harvey," the letter read, "I know you lied to me. There isn't any
planet called Plymouth. I looked it up in the star atlases. Nobody ever
heard of it. I'm not going to stay here and be bitterly disappointed
when you don't show up at the end of ten months. Goodbye."

Harvey threw the letter away. It had served its purpose.

"Ma'am," he said, "I'm a man of action and few words. What is Miss
Morley's Oregon address?"

Nobody knew Anna's Oregon address. Harvey instantly left for Oregon.
Landing there, he began looking. He had found juncture faults; he
would find Anna. It took him over a month. He ran across her quite by
accident behind the cigar counter in a drugstore.

"Anna," he said, "there's no time to lose; get your things; quit this
job; come with me." He stopped anything she had to say. They were
married in the next hour. An hour after that they were on the way to
the planet whose existence Anna still doubted.

There was little room for doubt when that spot of entrancing green
in an ocean of black was sighted. "It's beautiful," Anna breathed,
squeezing his hand. "But what's the rush to get here?"

He explained without rancor. "Your lack of faith in me cost us far too
much time. This is a new breed of chicken; they propagate vigorously.
But they have no natural enemies. Every living thing needs a natural
enemy. Our Plymouths have probably overrun the planet."

She gurgled, then put her hand over her mouth.

He took her hand away. "Anna, dearest, laugh. Laugh as much as you
please. But I have no sense of humor. This you will discover as we move
through life together. I see nothing funny in this situation. Living
creatures need natural enemies."

When the ship landed, his meaning became obvious. Chickens flew in
great squawking clouds through the air, walked and clucked in rivers at
their feet. Feathers came down like heavy snow; the ground was covered
with fluffy white mounds. From horizon to horizon there seemed to be
little else but chicken.

Anna was appalled. Harvey was planning. A slaughter would be necessary.
"_We're_ their natural enemies," he explained. "Your chicken farm is
ready to pay off."