
She flounced out of the room. Sadly, Jeb went to the closet and
examined the various uniforms and disguises that were part of his
equipment as a freelance Monitor. As he selected the silver and black
skintight suit of an Air Pollution Inspector, he wistfully remembered
how nice it had been when Laurie had smiled at him. Immediately a flood
of determination filled him to go out and do big things today. Maybe
he would make a big strike and get a nice fat commission; then Laurie
would....

The televisor buzzed, flickered, and the genial face of the man from
Marriage Relations appeared.

"Good morning, Monitor Jeb," said the man, smiling. "And how are things
'twixt you and your beloved?"

"Rough," moaned Jeb. "She's really in a foul mood today."

The man from Marriage Relations beamed. "Fine, fine, glad to hear it."

"Huh?" said Jeb.

"Her Sadism Index Rating went up five points," the man explained. "We
wanted to make sure we hadn't made an error. Well, that certainly is
good news for you two. I'll guess you'll both be all right now."

"All _right_? Are you _kidding_?"

"Now, now, we know what's best for you. Your Masochism Rating is quite
high, you know. Laurie is just what you need. Why, you two were _made_
for each other."

Suddenly the man stopped talking, gasped, and the screen flickered and
went dead. Jeb's astonishment was wiped away by the soft, silvery bell
tone of his portable Monitex, a flat two-by-six-inch machine resting on
a shelf nearby. As Jeb wildly lunged toward it, he saw it was glowing
red, activated by a violation, and as he snatched it up, the coded
reading dial had a notification: _Bx-P-203_.

Trembling, Jeb pressed a button on the lower left of the Monitex and
a voice promptly droned mechanically from the waferlike loudspeaker
hidden under the surface, giving details of the violation.

"Bx-P-203--At ten minutes after eight A.M., Monitex 27965 of
Freelance Monitor Jeb picked up violation of Copyright on the phrase
'were made for each other.' Said phrase property of Joint Owners
registered under Copyright of Verbal Phrases Act of 1996. Owners,
Magnum Motion Picture Studios and Universal Publications. Fee for use
80 credits, commission fifty per cent."
