
Jeb was shocked. "Oh?"

"I've been certified," said the man bluntly. "Not enough credits for
support. I had to go to the Welfare Office and ask for assistance. Had
my own gravity harness repair shop till a month ago. But the new ones
are foolproof, business fell off. Now I'm in for it."

"Gosh," muttered Jeb, "that's really tough. But what do you mean,
'compared to where you're heading?' Sure, you'll be assigned a dirty
underground job, on the cables maybe, and the pay will be ridiculous,
but it'll be right here, won't it?"

"Haven't you heard?" The other smiled grimly. "So many of us small
business guys are being certified, the Welfare people had no more jobs.
And you know the law. Indigents must be assigned to some duty. And it
just happens that they're opening new mines on Mars and they can't get
help. I've no choice."

"Mines?" Jeb paled at the thought. "That Melbonite dust. One speck
through the sealed-in suit and you've got a burn they still can't
heal." He shuddered; then, seeing the face of the Unassigned Citizen,
he said soothingly, "But those suits are foolproof, I understand."

"Not always," said the man in gray. "Anyway, they haven't licked the
ventilation problem. The last suits they tried to air-condition, so
much Melbonite dust filtered in...." He took a deep breath of horror.
"So the ones in use become awfully sweaty. I'm going to a living
hell...."

Bong!

Jeb's Monitex glowed red with a violation. "Living Hell" was an
old-fashioned dramatic phrase somebody sharp had dug up after diligent
study and copyrighted in the hope of picking up a few credits.

As Jeb numbly listened to the droning voice detail the facts and four
credits charge, the man in the gray suit said mirthlessly, "Well, well,
that's just fine. Thanks a lot, my friend, for a nice sendoff."

Jeb snapped off the Monitex. "Look," he said hurriedly, "that was an
accident. This one is on me. Here." He took four credit tokens from a
pocket and thrust the silvery rectangles at the Unassigned Citizen.
"Put these aside until you're billed for the violation and pay it with
my credits. Okay?"

"Thanks," said the man gratefully. "I'll remember you."

Jeb gave him a twisted grin. "You may not have to, pal. I may be right
beside you in the next shipment. My wife is ready to certify me for
non-support. If I don't clean up a nice fat commission by tonight,
blooey, it's the mines for me, too."
