
Monitor Platt laughed in appreciation. Then, as Jeb frowned and
attended to fitting his detector into the shell of the air pollution
meter, Monitor Platt regaled him with the violations that had poured
credits into his pockets.

"Got a cute dame, nice curves, getting a good hugging under the moon
near the lake. She says timidly to this sap, 'It's the first time
I've ever been kissed, honestly.' Bong! Fifty credits for the expense
account. And another one I picked up in a canoe parked on the bank.
This guy says soulfully, 'I'm not the marrying kind, but....' He never
gets a chance to finish. Bong! Thirty credits. I sure cleaned up today.
If I were you, I'd head straight for the snuggle spots. A whole raft
of corny love lines have been blanketed in, you know, and nobody's
alerted."

"Uh, well," muttered Jeb, who didn't want any enemies and so didn't
express his feelings about making a living from such a source, "I
already have my schedule figured out, but I'll keep it in mind."

"Where you headed for?"

Monitor Jeb was relieved when the big bell sounded, its brassy
reverberations warning Monitors to quit gabbing and get out into the
field to scoop up violations and revenue for the corporation. The
paunchy office manager, seated up on a small balcony overlooking
the giant hall, saw that the signal was, as usual, being ignored.
Indignantly he punched a button on the board facing him and a repulsive
odor filled the air which had the Monitors hastily seizing their
equipment and leaving the building.

Jeb gladly took off into the windy canyons between the skyscrapers.
Instead of ascending, he plummeted down forty stories and drifted
along, his nostrils twitching with the bad air at this height.
Fleetingly, he had the grumbling thought that, with present-day
technology, there was no excuse at all for polluted atmosphere.

_Oh, well_, he thought, _one of these days, somebody public-minded
will do something about it. Right now, I've got to make enough to stop
Laurie from certifying me._

He felt a sudden chill as he recalled his wife's threat. Quickly he
sought out the first location he'd mapped out for some easy revenue,
the personnel office of the Air Pollution Control Corp. Jeb switched
off anti-gravity and heavily walked through the corridor, stepped
inside the deep-rugged, gray and green office and joined the small
nervous group of inspectors waiting for interviews.
