
Captain Webber, Lieutenant Peterson and Mr. Friden walked from the room
down a long corridor and into a smaller room. Captain Webber put his eye
to a circular glass and tapped his foot.

He stepped back and rubbed his cheek again.

"Well, you were right. That _is_ a city--or else we've all gone crazy.
Do you think that we have?"

"I don't know, sir. It's not impossible."

"Lieutenant, go ask Mr. Milton if he can land us on an asteroid. Give
him all the details and be back in ten minutes." Captain Webber sighed.
"Whatever it is," he said, "it will be a relief. Although I never made a
special announcement, I suppose you knew that we were lost."

"Oh yes, sir."

"And that we ran almost entirely out of fuel several months ago, in fact
shortly after we left?"

"We knew that."

The men were silent.

"Sir, Mr. Milton says he thinks he can land us but he can't promise
exactly where."

"Tell Mr. Milton that's good enough."

Captain Webber waited for the young man to leave, then looked again into
the glass.

"What do you make of it, sir?"

"Not much, Friden, not much. It's a city and that's an asteroid; but how
the devil they got there is beyond me. I still haven't left the idea
that we're crazy, you know."

Mr. Friden looked.

"We're positioning to land. Strange--"

"What is it?"

"I can make things out a bit more clearly now, sir. Those are earth
houses."

Captain Webber looked. He blinked.

"Now, _that_," he said, "_is_ impossible. Look here, we've been floating
about in space for--how long is it?"

"Three months, sir."

"Exactly. For three months we've been bobbling aimlessly, millions of
miles from earth. No hope, no hope whatever. And now we're landing in a
city just like the one we first left, or almost like it. Friden, I ask
you, does that make any sense at all?"

"No, sir."

"And does it seem logical that there should be an asteroid where no
asteroid should be?"

"It does not."

They stared at the glass, by turns.

"Do you see that, Friden?"

"I'm afraid so, sir."

"A lake. A lake and a house by it and trees ... tell me, how many of us
are left?"

Mr. Friden held up his right hand and began unbending fingers.

"Yourself, sir, and myself; Lieutenant Peterson, Mr. Chitterwick, Mr.
Goeblin, Mr. Milton and...."

"Great scott, out of thirty men?"

"You know how it was, sir. That business with the Martians and then, our
own difficulties--"

"Yes. Our own difficulties. Isn't it ironic, somehow, Friden? We band
together and fly away from war and, no sooner are we off the earth but
we begin other wars.... I've often felt that if Appleton hadn't been so
aggressive with that gun we would never have been kicked off Mars. And
why did we have to laugh at them? Oh, I'm afraid I haven't been a very
successful captain."

"You're in a mood, sir."

"Am I? I suppose I am. Look! There's a farm, an actual farm!"

"Not really!"

"Why, I haven't seen one for twenty years."

The door flew open and Lieutenant Peterson came in, panting. "Mr. Milton
checked off every instruction, sir, and we're going down now."

"He's sure there's enough fuel left for the brake?"

"He thinks so, sir."

"Lieutenant Peterson."

"Yes sir?"

"Come look into this glass, will you."

The young man looked.

"What do you see?"

"A lot of strange creatures, sir. Are they dangerous? Should we prepare
our weapons?"

"How old are you, Lieutenant?"

"Nineteen, Captain Webber."

"You have just seen a herd of cows, for the most part--" Captain Webber
squinted and twirled knobs "--Holsteins."

"Holsteins, sir?"

"You may go. Oh, you might tell the others to prepare for a crash
landing. Straps and all that."

The young man smiled faintly and left.

"I'm a little frightened, Friden; I think I'll go to my cabin. Take
charge and have them wait for my orders."

Captain Webber saluted tiredly and walked back down the long corridor.
He paused as the machines suddenly roared more life, rubbed his cheek
and went into the small room.

"Cows," said Captain Webber bracing himself.
