
The fiery leg fell into the cool air, heating it, causing it to smoke;
it burnt into the green grass and licked a craterous hole. There were
fireflags and firesparks, hisses and explosions and the weary groaning
sound of a great beast suddenly roused from sleep.

The rocket landed. It grumbled and muttered for a while on its finny
tripod, then was silent; soon the heat vanished also.

"Are you all right, sir?"

"Yes. The rest?"

"All but Mr. Chitterwick. He broke his glasses and says he can't see."

Captain Webber swung himself erect and tested his limbs. "Well then,
Lieutenant, has the atmosphere been checked?"

"The air is pure and fit to breathe, sir."

"Instruct the others to drop the ladder."

"Yes sir."

A door in the side of the rocket opened laboriously and men began
climbing out: "Look!" said Mr. Milton, pointing. "There are trees and
grass and--over there, little bridges going over the water."

He pointed to a row of small white houses with green gardens and stony
paths.

Beyond the trees was a brick lodge, extended over a rivulet which foamed
and bubbled. Fishing poles protruded from the lodge window.

"And there, to the right!"

A steel building thirty stories high with a pink cloud near the top.
And, separated by a hedge, a brown tent with a barbeque pit before it,
smoke rising in a rigid ribbon from the chimney.

Mr. Chitterwick blinked and squinted his eyes. "What do you see?"

Distant and near, houses of stone and brick and wood, painted all
colors, small, large; and further, golden fields of wheat, each blown by
a different breeze in a different direction.

"I don't believe it," said Captain Webber. "It's a _park_--millions of
miles away from where a park could possibly be."

"Strange but familiar," said Lieutenant Peterson, picking up a rock.

Captain Webber looked in all directions. "We were lost. Then we see a
city where no city should be, on an asteroid not shown on any chart, and
we manage to land. And now we're in the middle of a place that belongs
in history-records. We may be crazy; we may all be wandering around in
space and dreaming."

The little man with the thin hair who had just stepped briskly from a
treeclump said, "Well, well," and the men jumped.

[Illustration]

The little man smiled. "Aren't you a trifle late or early or something?"

Captain Webber turned and his mouth dropped open.

"I hadn't been expecting you, gentlemen, to be perfectly honest," the
little man clucked, then: "Oh dear, see what you've done to Mr.
Bellefont's park. I do hope you haven't hurt him--no, I see that he is
all right."

Captain Webber followed the direction of the man's eyes and perceived an
old man with red hair seated at the base of a tree, apparently reading a
book.

"We are from Earth," said Captain Webber.

"Yes, yes."

"Let me explain: my name is Webber, these are my men."

"Of course," said the little man.

Mr. Chitterwick came closer, blinking. "Who is this that knows our
language?" he asked.

"Who--Greypoole, Mr. Greypoole. Didn't _they_ tell you?"

"Then you are _also_ from Earth?"

"Heavens yes! But now, let us go where we can chat more comfortably."
Mr. Greypoole struck out down a small path past scorched trees and
underbrush. "You know, Captain, right after the last consignment
something happened to my calendar. Now, I'm competent at my job, but I'm
no technician, no indeed: besides, no doubt you or one of your men can
set the doodad right, eh? Here we are."

They walked onto a wooden porch and through a door with a wire screen;
Lieutenant Peterson first, then Captain Webber, Mr. Friden and the rest
of the crew. Mr. Greypoole followed.

"You must forgive me--it's been a while. Take chairs, there, there. Now,
what news of--home, shall I say?" The little man stared.

Captain Webber shifted uncomfortably. He glanced around the room at the
lace curtains, the needle-point tapestries and the lavender wallpaper.

"Mr. Greypoole, I'd like to ask some questions."

"Certainly, certainly. But first, this being an occasion--" the little
man stared at each man carefully, then shook his head "--ah, do you all
like wine? Good wine?"

He ducked through a small door.

Captain Webber exhaled and rose.

"Now, don't start talking all at once," he whispered. "Anyone have any
ideas? No? Then quick, scout around--Friden, you stay here; you others,
see what you can find. I'm not sure I like the looks of this."

The men left the room.
