
"I do wish you'd landed your ship elsewhere, Captain. Mr. Bellefont was
quite particular and, as you can see, his park is hopelessly
disfigured."

"We were given no choice, I'm afraid. The fuel was running out."

"Indeed? Well then, that explains everything. A beautiful day, don't you
find, sir? Fortunately, with the exception of Professor Carling, all the
Guests preferred good weather. Plenty of sunshine, they said, or crisp
evening. It helps."

They walked toward a house of colored rocks.

"Miss Daphne Trilling's," said Mr. Greypoole, gesturing. "They threw it
up in a day, though it's solid enough."

When they had passed an elderly woman on a bicycle, Captain Webber
stopped walking.

"Mr. Greypoole, we've _got_ to have a talk."

Mr. Greypoole shrugged and pointed and they went into an office building
which was crowded with motionless men, women and children.

"Since I'm so mixed up myself," the captain said, "maybe I'd better
ask--just who do you think _we_ are?"

"I'd thought you to be the men from the Glades of course."

"I don't have the slightest idea what you're talking about. We're from
the planet Earth. They were going to have another war, the 'Last War'
they said, and we escaped in that rocket and started off for Mars. But
something went wrong--fellow named Appleton pulled a gun, others just
didn't like the Martians--we needn't go into it; they wouldn't have us
so Mars didn't work out. Something else went wrong then, soon we were
lost with only a little store of fuel and supplies. Then Mr. Friden
noticed this city or whatever it is and we had enough fuel to land so we
landed."

Mr. Greypoole nodded his head slowly, somehow, sadder than before.

"I see.... You say there was a war on Earth?"

"They were going to set off X-Bomb; when they do, everything will go to
pieces. Or everything has already."

"What dreadful news! May I inquire, Captain, when you have learned where
you are--what do you intend to do?"

"Why, live here, of course!"

"No, no--try to understand. You could not conceivably fit in here with
us."

Captain Webber glanced at the motionless people. "Why not?" Then he
shouted, "What is this place? _Where am I?_"

Mr. Greypoole smiled.

"Captain, you are in a cemetery."
