
"Good work, Peterson!"

"Thanks, sir. When we all got back and Friden didn't know where you'd
gone, well, we got worried. Then we heard you shouting."

"Hold his arms--there. You heard this, Friden?"

Mr. Friden was trembling slightly. He brushed past a man with a van Dyke
beard and sat down on a leather stool. "Yes sir, I did. That is, I think
I did. What shall we do with him?"

"I don't know, yet. Take him away, Lieutenant, for now. I want to think
a bit. We'll talk to Mr. Greypoole later on."

Lieutenant Peterson pulled the smiling little man out into the street
and pointed a gun at him.

Mr. Chitterwick blinked into the face of a small child.

"Man's insane, I guess," said Mr. Milton, pacing.

"Yes, but what about all _this_?" Mr. Goeblin looked horrified at the
stationary people.

"I think I can tell you," Mr. Friden said. "Take a look, Captain."

The men crowded about a pamphlet which Mr. Friden had placed on the
stool.

Toward the top of the pamphlet and in the center of the first page was a
photograph, untinted and solemn; it depicted a white cherub delicately
poised on a granite slab. Beneath the photograph, were the words: HAPPY
GLADES.

Captain Webber turned the pages and mumbled, glancing over his shoulder
every once in a while.

"What is it, sir?" asked Mr. Chitterwick of a frozen man in a blue suit
with copper buttons.

"It's one of those old level cemeteries!" cried Mr. Milton. "I remember
seeing pictures like it, sir."

Captain Webber read aloud from the pamphlet.

"For fifty years," he began, "an outstanding cultural and spiritual
asset to this community, HAPPY GLADES is proud to announce yet another
innovation in its program of post-benefits. NOW YOU CAN ENJOY THE
AFTER-LIFE IN SURROUNDINGS WHICH SUGGEST THE HERE-AND-NOW. Never before
in history has scientific advancement allowed such a plan."

Captain Webber turned the page.

"For those who prefer that their late departed have really _permanent,
eternal_ happiness, for those who are dismayed by the fragility of all
things mortal, we of HAPPY GLADES are proud to offer:

"1. The permanent duplication of physical conditions identical to those
enjoyed by the departed on Earth. Park, playground, lodge, office
building, hotel or house, etc., may be secured at varying prices. All
workmanship and materials specially attuned to conditions on ASTEROID
K_{7} and guaranteed for PERMANENCE.

"2. PERMANENT conditioning of late beloved so that, in the midst of
surroundings he favored, a genuine Eternity may be assured.

"3. Full details on HAPPY GLADES' newest property, Asteroid K_{7}, may be
found on page 4."

The captain tossed the pamphlet to the floor and lit a cigarette. "Did
anyone happen to notice the date?"

Mr. Milton said, "It doesn't make any sense! There haven't been
cemeteries for ages. And even if this were true, why should anyone want
to go all the way through space to a little asteroid? They might just as
well have built these things on Earth."

"Who would want all this when they're dead, anyway?"

"You mean all these people are dead?"

For a few moments there was complete and utter silence in the lobby of
the building.
