
No one said anything for a while. Then Captain Webber said, with great
slowness, "You're lying. This is all a crazy, hideous plot." The little
man chuckled at the word plot.

"In the first place, no cemetery or form of cemetery has existed on
Earth for--how long, Friden?"

Mr. Friden stared at his fingers. "Years and years."

"Exactly. There are communal furnaces now."

Mr. Greypoole winced.

"And furthermore," continued the captain, "this whole concept is
ridiculous."

Mr. Chitterwick threw down the pamphlet and began to tremble. "We should
have stayed home," he remarked to a young woman who did not answer.

"Mr. Greypoole," Webber said, "I think that you know more than you're
saying. You didn't seem very surprised when you learned we weren't the
men you expected; you don't seem very surprised now that I tell you that
your 'Happy Glades' and all the people connected with it have been dead
for ages. So, why the display of interest in our explanations, why--"

The faint murmur, "A good machine checks and double checks," could be
heard from Mr. Greypoole, who otherwise said nothing.

"I speak for my men: we're confused, terribly confused. But whatever
this is, we're stuck, can't you see? All we want is a place to begin
again--" Captain Webber paused, looked at the others and went on in a
softer tone. "We're tired men, Mr. Greypoole; we're poorly equipped, but
we do have weapons and if this is some hypnotic kind of trap...."

The little man waved his hand, offendedly.

"There are lakes and farms and all we need to make a new start--more
than we'd hoped for, much more."

"What _had_ you hoped for, Captain?"

"Something. Nothing. Just escape--"

"But I see no women--how could you begin again, as you suggest?"

"Women? Too weak; they would not have lasted. We brought along eggs and
machines--enough for our needs."

Mr. Greypoole clucked his tongue. "Mr. Waldmeyer certainly did look
ahead," he muttered, "he certainly _did_."

"Will we be honest now? Will you help us?"

"Yes, Captain, I will help you. Let us go back to your rocket." Mr.
Greypoole smiled. "Things will be better there."

Captain Webber signaled. They left the building and walked by the foot
of a white mountain.
