
Captain Greenwald put out a manicured hand. On one slender finger shone
a diamond ring. His wrist was circled by an expensive watch. His shiny
brown eyes were invisibly cupped by contact lenses. Greenwald was past
fifty inside; outside he seemed barely thirty. "I advise you to forget
it, Stanley. Man's waited a million years for tomorrow."

Stanley's hand shook, lighting a cigarette. "Look here, Captain, where
_are_ you going?"

"To the stars, of course."

Stanley snapped out the alcohol match. "In the name of heaven, stop the
melodrama and inferior semantics. What kind of thing is this you're
handing the people? What'll it do to races, morals, men and women?"

Greenwald laughed. "I'm only interested in reaching the Moon. Then I'll
come back to earth, and retire, happily, and die."

Stanley stood there, tall and very grey. "Does the effect of the
introduction of the crossbow to English and French history interest
you?"

"Can't say I know much about it."

"Do you recall what gunpowder's invention did to civilization?"

"That's irrelevant!"

"You must admit if there'd been some subjective planning with the
auto and airplane, millions of lives would've been saved, and many
wars prevented. An ethical code should've been written for all such
inventions and strictly observed, or else the invention forfeited."

Greenwald shook his head, grinning. "I'll let you handle that half of
it. I'll do the traveling. I'm willing to abide by any such rules, if
you'll draw them up and enforce them. All I want is to reach the Moon
first. I've got to get downstairs now. We're still loading the ship,
you know, in spite of your decree. We expect to get around you somehow.
I'm sympathetic, of course, to your beliefs. I'll do anything you say
except ground the Rocket. I won't get violent, but I can't vouch for
Simpson. He's a tough man, with strong notions."

They walked from the office to the dropper. Compression slid them down
to ground level, where they stepped out, Stanley still re-emphasizing
his beliefs. "--for centuries science has given humanity play-toys,
ships, machines, guns, cars, and now a Rocket, all with supreme
disregard for man's needs."

"Science," announced Greenwald as they emerged onto the tarmac, "has
produced, via private enterprise, greater amounts of goods than ever in
history! Why, consider the medical developments!"

"Yes," said Stanley doggedly, "we cure man's cancer and preserve his
greed in a special serum. They used to say 'Starve a cold, stuff a
fever.' Today's fever is materialism. All the things science has
produced only touch the _Body_. When Science invents something to touch
the Mind, I'll give it its due. No.

"You cloak your voyage with romantic terminology. Outward to the stars!
you cry! Words! What's the _fact_? Why, _why_ this rocket? Greater
production? We have _that_! Adventure? Poor excuse to uproot Earth.
Exploration? It _could_ wait a few years. Lebensraum? Hardly. _Why_,
then, Captain?"

"Eh?" murmured Greenwald distractedly. "Ah. Here's the Rocket, now."

They walked in the incredible Rocket shadow. Stanley looked at the
crowd beyond the barrier. "_Look_ at them. Their sex still a mixture
of Victorian voodoo and clabbered Freud. With education needing
reorientation, with wars threatening, with religion and philosophy
confused, you want to jump off into space!"

Stanley shook his head. "Oh, I don't doubt your sincerity, Captain. I
just say your timing's poor. If we give them a Rocket toy to play with,
do you honestly think they'll solve war, education, unity, thought?
Why, they'd propel themselves away from it so quickly your head'd swim!
Wars would be fought between worlds. But if we want more wars, let's
have them _here_, where we can get at their sources, before we leap to
the asteroids seeking our lost pride of race.

"What little unity we _do_ have would be broken by countries and
individuals clamoring and cut-throating for planets and satellites!"

Pausing, Stanley saw the mechanics standing in the Rocket shadow,
hating him. Outside the barrier, the crowd recognized him; their murmur
grew to a roar of disapproval.

Greenwald indicated them. "They're wondering why you waited so long
before deciding to stop the Rocket."

"Tell them I thought there'd be laws controlling it. Tell them the
corporations played along, smiling and bobbing to me, until the Rocket
was completed. Then they threw off their false faces and withdrew the
legislation only this morning. Tell them that, Captain. And tell them
the legislation I planned would've meant a slow, intelligent Rocket
expansion over an era of three centuries. Then ask them if they think
any business man could wait even five _minutes_."

Captain Greenwald scowled. "All I want to do is prove it can be done.
After I come back down, if I can help in any way to control the Rocket,
I'm your man, Stanley. After I _prove_ it's possible, I don't care what
in hell happens...."

Stanley slid into his 'copter, waved morosely at the captain. The crowd
shouted, waved its fists at him over the barrier. He sat watching their
distorted, sullen faces. They detested him. The Rocket balloon man, the
Rocket soap man, the tourists detested him.

What was more, when his son Tommy found out, Tommy would hate him, too.
