
He took his time, heading home. He let the green hills slide under.
He set the automatic pilot and sank back into the sponge-softness,
suspended in a humming, blissful dream. Music played. Cigarettes and
whiskey were in reach if he desired them. Soft music. He could lapse
back into the dreaming tide, dissolve worry, smoke, drink, chortle,
luxuriously, sleep, forget, pull a shell of synthetic, hypnotizing
objects in about himself.

And wake ten years from today with his wife disintegrating swiftly in
his arms. And one day see his son's skull shattered against a plastic
wall.

And his own heart whirled and burst by some vast atom power of a
starship passing Earth far out in space!

He dumped the whiskey over the side, followed it with the cigarettes.
Finally, he clicked off the soft music.

There was his home. His eyes kindled. It lay out upon a green meadow,
far from the villages and towns, salt-white and surrounded by tapered
sycamores. As he watched, lowering his 'copter, he saw the blonde
streak across the lawn; that was his daughter, Alyce. Somewhere else on
the premises his son gamboled. Neither of them feared the dark.

Angrily, Stanley poured on full speed. The landscape jerked and
vanished behind him. He wanted to be alone. He couldn't face them, yet.
Speed was the answer. Wind whistled, roared, rushed by the hurtling
'copter. He rammed it on. Color rose in his cheeks.

There was music in the garden as he parked his 'copter in the fine blue
plastic garage. Oh, beautiful garage, he thought, you contribute to my
peacefulness. Oh, wonderful garage, in moments of torment, I think of
you, and I am glad I own you.

Like hell.

In the kitchen, Althea was whipping food with mechanisms. Her mother
sat with one withered ear to the latest audio drama. They glanced up,
pleased.

"Darling, so early!" she cried, kissing him. "How's the Rocket?" piped
mother-in-law. "My, I bet you're proud!"

Stanley said nothing.

"Just imagine." The old woman's eyes glowed like little bulbs. "Soon
we'll breakfast in New York and supper on Mars!"

Stanley watched her for a long moment, then turned hopefully to Althea.
"What do _you_ think?"

She sensed a trap. "Well, it would be different, wouldn't it,
vacationing our summers on Venus, winters on Mars--wouldn't it?"

"Oh, good Lord," he groaned. He shut his eyes and pounded the table,
softly. "Good Lord."

"_Now_, what's wrong. What did _I_ say?" demanded Althea, bewildered.

He told them about his order preventing the flight.

Althea stared at him. Mother reached and snapped off the audio. "_What_
did you say, young man?"

He repeated it.

Into the waiting silence came a distant "psssheeew!" rushing in from
the dining room, flinging the kitchen door wide, his son ran in, waving
a bright red Rocket in one grimy fist. "Psssheeew! I'm a Rocket!
Gangway! Hi, Dad!" He swung the ship in a quick arc. "Gonna be a pilot
when I'm sixteen! Hey." He stopped. "What's everybody standing around
for?" He looked at Grandma. "Grammy?" He looked at his mother. "Mom?"
And finally at his father. "Dad...?" His hands sank slowly. He read the
look in his father's eyes. "Oh, gosh."
