
By three o'clock that afternoon, he had showered and dressed in clean
clothes. The house was very silent. Althea came and sat down in the
living room and looked at him with hurt, stricken eyes.

He thought of quoting a few figures at her. Five million people killed
in auto accidents since the year 1920. Fifty thousand people killed
every year, _now_, in 'copters and jet-planes. But it wasn't in the
figures, it was in a feeling he had to make her _feel_. Maybe he could
illustrate it to her. He picked up the hand-audio, dialed a number.
"Hello, Smitty?"

The voice on the other end said, clearly, "Oh, Mr. Stanley?"

"Smitty, you're a good average man, a pleasant neighbor, a fine farmer.
I'd like your opinion. Smitty, if you knew a war was coming, would you
help prevent it?"

Althea was watching and listening.

Smitty said, "Hell, yes. Sure."

"Thanks, Smitty. One more thing. What's your opinion of the Rocket?"

"Greatest thing in history. Say, I heard you were going to--"

Stanley did not want to get involved. He hurriedly excused himself and
hung up. He looked directly at his wife. "Did you notice the separation
of means from end? Smitty thinks two things. He thinks he can prevent
war; that's one. He thinks the Rocket is a great thing; that's number
two. But they don't match, unfortunately.

"The Rocket isn't a means to happiness the way it'll be used. It's the
wrong means. And with a wrong means you invariably wind up with a
wrong end. A criminal seeks wealth. Does he get it? Temporarily. In the
end, he suffers. All because he took the wrong _means_." Stanley held
his hands out, uselessly. "How can I make you understand."

Tears were in her eyes. "I understand _nothing_, and don't need to
understand! Your job, they'll take it away from you and fly the Rocket
anyway!"

"I'll work on the legislation again, then!"

"And perhaps be killed? No, please, Will."

Killed. He looked at his watch. Exactly three.

He answered the audio when it buzzed. "Stanley talking."

"Stanley, this is Cross, at Cal-Tech."

"Cross! Good Lord, it's good to hear you!"

"I just heard the new-flash," said Cross. He had the same clipped,
exact voice he'd had years ago, Stanley realized. "You're really on
the spot this time, aren't you, Will? That's why I called. I like your
ideas on machinery. I've always thought of machines, myself, as nothing
but extensions of man's frustrations and emotions, his losses and
compensations in life. We agree. But you're wrong this time, Will. You
made a mistake today."

"Now, don't _you_ start on me! You're my last friend," retorted Stanley
tiredly. "What else could I do--destroy the rocket?"

"That would be negative. No good. Give them something positive. Tell
them to go ahead," advised Cross, pleasantly enough. "Warn them, like
a kindly father, of the consequences. Then, when their fingers are
burnt--"

"Humanity might go down the drain," finished Stanley abruptly.

"Not if you play your cards right, control the variables. There must
be some way around them without getting yourself mangled. I'm ready to
help when you have a plan. Think it over."

"I still think blowing the damn thing up would be--"

"They'd build a bigger one. And they'd persecute you and your family
the rest of your life," explained Cross logically. "You and I may know
that science hasn't contributed one whit to man's _mental_ progress,
but Mr. Everyman likes his babies diapered in disposable tissues and
likes to travel from Siberia to Johnstown like an infuriated bullet.
You can't stop them, you can only divert them a bit."

Stanley grasped the hand-audio, tightly. He listened.
