
The little black-jet-plane dropped out of the midnight stars. Moments
later, Cross was getting out of it, crossing the dark lawn, grasping
Stanley's hand warmly. "Made good time, eh?"

Inside, they downed their glasses of brandy first, then got to
business. Stanley outlined his plan, his contacts, his psychology. He
was pleased and excited to see an extraordinary smile of approval come
to Cross's pink, round face. "Excellent! Now you're talking!" cried
Cross.

"I like your plan, Stanley. It places the blame right back on the
people. They won't be able to persecute you."

Stanley refilled the glasses. "I'll see to it you're on the Rocket
tomorrow. Greenwald--he's the captain--will co-operate, I'm certain,
when the trip is over. It's up to you and Greenwald then."

They raised their glasses. "And when it's all over," observed Cross
slowly. "We'll have the long, hard struggle to revise our educational
system. To begin to apply the scientific method to man's thinking,
instead of just to his machines. And when we've built a logical
subjective world, then it'll be safe to make machines of all and any
kinds. Here's to our plan, may it be completed." They drank.

The next day two million people spread over the rolling hills, through
the tiny Jersey towns, sitting atop bugs and plastic beetles. An
excitement pervaded the day. The sky was a blue vacuum, the 'copters
grounded by law. The Rocket lay gleaming and monstrous and silent.

At noon, the crew ambled across the tarmac, Captain Greenwald leading.
Cross walked among them. The huge metal doors slammed, and with a blast
of Gargantuan flame, the Rocket heaved upward and vanished.

People cheered and laughed and cried.

Stanley watched his son and daughter and mother-in-law do likewise. He
was deeply pleased to see that Althea did not join them. Hand in hand
they watched the sky dazzlement fade. The first Rocket to the moon was
gone. The world was drunkenly happy in its delirium.

Two weeks passed slowly. Astronomers were unable to keep an eye on the
Rocket. It was so small and unaccountable in the void between earth and
lunar surface.

Stanley slept little in the passing of the fourteen days. He was
constantly attacked by fears and confusions of thought. He dreamed of
the Rocket going up. He had seen men month on month walking in the
metal shadow of their wonderful Rocket, patting it with their greasy,
calloused hands, loving it with their quick, appreciative eyes.

If for one moment you let yourself think of it, you loved it, too, for
even though it symbolized wars and destruction, you had to admire its
balance and slenderness of structure. With it, you could rub away the
fog cosmetic of Venus, re-delineate its prehistorically shy face. And
there was Mars, too. Man had been imprisoned a million years. Why not
freedom now, at last?

Then he labeled all these fantasies by their correct name, ESCAPE, and
settled back, to wait the return of the Rocket.
