
"The moon Rocket is returning! It will land this morning at nine
o'clock!" Everybody's audio was blatting.

Like a yellow seed, the Rocket dropped down the sky, to sprout roots of
flame on which to cushion itself. It fried the tarmac and a vast deluge
of warm air rushed across the country for miles. People sweltered
amidst a sudden rocket summer.

In his tower room, William Stanley watched, solemn and wordless.

The Rocket shimmered. Across the cooling tarmac, the crowd rioted,
bursting through the barrier, sweeping the police aside in elation.

The tide halted and boiled and changed form, layer upon layer. A vast
hush came upon it.

Now the round air-lock door of the Rocket jetted out air in a
compressed sigh.

The thick door, sandwiched into the ship-hull, took two minutes to
come outward and pull aside on its oiled hingework. The crowd pressed
closer, flesh to flesh, eyes widened. The door was now open completely.
A great cheer went up. The crew of the Moon Rocket stood in the
air-lock. The cheer faded, almost instantly.

[Illustration: _The crew of the Moon Rocket stood in the air-lock._]

The crew of the Rocket were not exactly standing. They were hunched
over.

The captain stepped forward. Well, he didn't exactly _step_. He sort of
dragged his feet and shambled. He made a speech.

But all it sounded like, coming from his twisted, swollen lips, was,
"Uns--rrrr--oh--god--disss--ease--unh--rrr--nnn--"

He held out his grey-green fingers, raw, bleeding, for all to see.
He lifted his face. Those red things, were they actually eyes? That
depression, that fallen socket, had it been a nose? And where were the
teeth in that gagging, hissing mouth? His hair was thin and grey and
infected. He stank.

The hypnotic silence was shattered. The first line of people turned and
clawed at the second line. The second turned instinctively to claw the
third, and so on. The television cameras caught it all.

Screams, yelling, shouting. Many fell and were trampled, crushed
under. The captain and his crew came out, gesturing, calling them to
come back. But who would heed their rotting movements? The ridiculous
souvenir seekers trampled each other, ripping the clothes from one
another's backs!

_A souvenir? A scab of crawling flesh, a drop of yellow fluid from
their gaping wounds? Souvenirs for earth, buy them right here, get them
while they last! We mail anywhere in the United States!_

_The characters in order of appearance: The Captain, the astrogator,
held sagging between two astronomers, who were followed by sixteen
mathematicians, technicians, chemists, biologists, radio men,
geographers and machinists. Shamble forth, gentlemen, and bring the
brave new future with you!_

The balloon vendor, in flight, jettisoned his entire stock. Rubber
rockets floated wildly, crazily bobbling, bouncing the river of rioting
heads until they were devoured, exploded and crumpled underfoot.

Sirens sounded. Police beetles rushed to the field exits. Ten minutes
later the tarmac was empty. No sign of captain or crew. A few shreds
of their fetid clothing were found, partially disintegrated. An
audio-report five minutes later stated simply, "The captain and crew
were destroyed on orders of the health bureau! An epidemic was feared--"

The sounds of riot faded. The door to Stanley's office opened, someone
entered and stood behind him, and closed the door.
