
Amco stood beside the space-time converter on the periphery of a
dead sea. A slight cold wind blew from it, whispering of a worldly
loneliness. Away from the sea stretched an undulating plane of naked
clay, unblemished, glossy, cruel. An anemic pale red sun shown fitfully
through a slight dust-mist on the dead sea's horizon.

Realizing that outside his plastic suit, the air was crackling cold,
Amco shivered.

He had plunged two million years into the plegarthic flow.

Amco turned away from the barren area that had been a teeming sea.
He faced the City. Yes. It still stood as he had left it. It seemed
incredible that it was still intact. And yet, if it was perfect, how
could it have been touched even by time?

But it appeared quite dead like the rest of Dhoma. He began walking
toward it.

Fear crawled like a live parasite into his heart, as he approached the
City. Fear coupled with its antecedents, anxiety and uncertainty.

The City, _dead_? His brain balked at such a possibility. Let the sea
die. And the sun and all of Dhoma. Let space shrivel and freeze and the
stars go out. But the City had to go on living. It was too illogical
that the humanoid and its inexhaustible ego should step off into
oblivion. The City had to go on living.

But he could see no life. Nothing moved. Not the faintest aura
suggestive of life. A coldness permeated the thin air, radiating from
the gleaming plastoid of the City's towering structures, gelid as from
a corpse interned in eternal ice.

He found himself walking stiffly and fearfully through its familiar
intricacies. He climbed other almost forgotten shafts and hurtled
through the tubeways to remote sectors of the City. He stood, a pigmy
among gigantic towers he had helped create two million years before,
and felt crushed by grandeur, and vague terror.

He had found the answer for the Coordinator. It was simple enough in
its futile horror. The City had died. There was not a trace of its
inhabitants. There was no clue as to their fate. The City might have
been abandoned yesterday, or two million years ago. It didn't matter.
There was no life in it. There weren't even ghosts of things or of
memories. Only grey, thick, crushing silence.

He looked over collonades toward the red, ugly nakedness of the plane,
toward the space-time converter. It was a minute silver blob waiting
beside the barren sea. This was the answer he had been sent across the
millennia to find. Somehow, it seemed unjust, irrational.

_Death, only death._

He would return and tell the Coordinator. The only cycle, the story of
the plenum is merely an eruption that falls back as dust which some
galactic wind would swirl away. A vacuum would efface the bloated
plenum. And out of the vacuum would appear the dust again; and out of
it would crawl colloidal mucous that would only return inexplicably to
the dust again. And the galactic wind would again--

Amco shivered. But in spite of the growing terror, he was grateful that
he had found out the truth. Now the Coordinator could frustrate, defeat
completely the aimless, ridiculous evolving that led to--emptiness.
Then for no cause repeated itself. He was grateful that he could be a
factor in blotting out the whole illogical process. He started back out
of the City toward the space-time converter.

Then he heard, or rather sensed the radiations. A vague, almost
imperceptible tickling of hidden mental potentials flooded his heart
with hope.

He plummeted down into the City's heart. Somehow, he knew there was
still a form of life in the City.

The smooth, soft walls of plastic stretched away and disappeared in
a mauve green distance. Amco stood humbled, sensing something of
magnitude beyond his ken in the scene.

Down the endless hall, growing smaller and smaller with distance,
bodies lay outstretched on slabs. Monochromatic harmonies of light
oscillated soothingly and dreamily. Their forms were nude and their
noble heads were enmeshed in mechanical contrivances that eluded
Amco's technical genius.

As in a dream, he began walking down between the rows of corpses. Or
were they alive? He couldn't tell. Perhaps some elaborate form of
burial with perfect preservation.

But the emotion reflected by every face differed. Differed in all
the basic emotions of pain, joy, fear, pleasure, enlightenment,
imbecility, perplexity, ecstasy, defeat, shame, grandeur--and all the
endless shades of the intermingling of these and the gradations. Their
hands lay open at their sides, and their eyes were closed. Yet the
expressions on their faces were unmistakable.

The hall was sufficiently weird, bizzare and alien so that he was
hardly surprised when he was accosted by the Robot.

The teleo-electronic man walked up and stopped in front of Amco.
There was something unfriendly, almost inimical in his attitude. The
emanations from the electronic brain seemed coldly unemotional:

"I suppose you must be destroyed," the thought from the electronic
brain impinged sharply on Amco's consciousness.

"Why?" said Amco.

"I have been commanded to do so."

"By them?" Amco motioned toward the rows of corpse like beings.

"Yes," radiated the teleo-electronic man. "I was told to destroy
anything that might intrude on the dreams of the sleepers. It's very
doubtful that they anticipated intrusion from something already dead.
Why are you here?"

The thought penetrated Amco's mind that no thought processes he might
have could be given up to the robot according to Amco's desires. His
mind was completely open to the robot. He wanted to have a few thoughts
to himself, but--

"Only the dead have that privilege," said the robot.

And then the logical, the only realization Amco could maintain, flooded
his brain: "But you cannot kill me. I am already dead."

"My mind isn't dialectical," radiated the robot. "My mind lacks that
human characteristic. You say you are from two million years in the
past, and because of that, you are already dead and that I cannot
kill you again. Such reasoning means nothing to my type of thinking
apparatus. It couldn't become an obsession with me. My orders are to
destroy you. I will carry out that order. If you are already dead, it
won't matter. If you aren't then--well--you soon will be."
