
Amco, analyzing his emotions, found only a mild excitement. As an
example of the world he had left, he proved its great need for change.

"Try to reason," said Amco. "That command was given you to provide for
the advent of aliens bent on harmful intent. I have no such intentions."

"Why are you here?"

"I'm here to try and determine what course civilization has taken
since my time. What course has evolution taken, if any? And if it has
evolved, is there any conceivable goal toward which it is evolving?"

The teleo-electronic man's reaction radiations were confused.

Amco glanced at the rows of outstretched bodies. "Is this the end?
These Dhomans sleep. Is such sleep the ultimate end for two million
years of struggle? If so, what is its nature and purpose?"

The teleo-electronic man radiated: "This is both the beginning and
the ending. Somewhat of a state of eternity. I am fitted to repair
myself so that I will also be eternal. I administer to them, and repair
myself, and we all live on and on."

Amco's consciousness expressed distaste at the robot's vagueness.

"You must pardon me," emanated the robot. "I love beauty of words for
its own sake. Thought doesn't interest me. I am not an intellectual,
but an aesthete. I brood and am forced to introspect over long periods.
You understand. Damn the loneliness! I've been a long time alone. A
long time. Wait! Two million years! These sleepers have slept for
almost that long. One million nine hundred and fifty thousand. Only
a few years after you left your City." The robot paused, then lost
interest. "So lonely."

Amco's mind whirled confusedly. Two million years of sleep for
these--these were the same who had inhabited the City when he--perhaps
the Coordinator--perhaps--Why he had just missed becoming a living
corpse himself by a few years. Now, when he returned--his mind groaned
with strain.

"Would you mind explaining all this," he thought.

"No," replied the robot. "Anything I tell you, you won't remember
anyway when you return to your own time. It will not have happened yet."

Amco's thoughts were ones of hopeless dismissal. The trivial cliches
of the paradox of time travel. He had gone over them countless times
with the Coordinator. Of course it was illogical. But it seemed to
work. Perhaps three-dimensional logic was distorted when applied
four-dimensionally. He was partially a four-dimensional object now, so--

"So, I'll tell you of this hall of dreams," radiated the
teleo-electronic man dramatically....

"Dhomans have always been dissatisfied with the shallow, sensory world.
This is their last recourse to escape from this shallowness. You see,
they have retreated into the boundless realms of the mind to live.

"There are no restrictions, no physical limits to the thought potential
of the brain. This sleeper here just at my right proves that. He was
the first of the sleepers. So he has lain here for almost two million
years. Yet, it's been no longer than a second, no longer than no time
at all. In dreams there is no time. A moment may be forever. Forever
doesn't exist--until you create it. Then you can destroy it with a
thought. Strange isn't it?"

Amco studied the indicated figure. "He doesn't seem to be very happy
about the whole thing."

"Why should he be happy? Happiness grows tiring. Then he wills his
consciousness into other emotions. He has lived them all. Countless
combinations and sub combinations until it becomes an infinity of
complexities, beyond computation--even for me. And then after all
emotion has been tapped on this world, the sleeper creates in his
mind another, and the process repeats itself. And then he may create
worlds within worlds within worlds. It is an endless, deathless joy. An
eternal newness of sensation. It's the ultimate state, the final goal."

Amco stood and looked into the mauve infinity of the hall. Somewhere
in the past the Coordinator waited. But why return to him? The City
did go on. It wasn't destroyed. There was no need in returning. Why
should he go back and miss an eternity of true perfection--the perfect
free agency of living? "_You will put me into this final sleep_," he
radiated for the robot.

The robot stood as though undecided. Then emanated: "I will do it. I
will forget their orders to destroy all intruders. You have broken the
unbearable pattern of my loneliness, and for that you should receive
something in gratitude. I will--"

The robot half turned as though to fulfill his answer, then turned back
slowly. "On second thought," his mind said, "it isn't what I must do."

"Why not," radiated Amco nervously.

The robot looked at the sleeping dreamer at his right, and said:
"Because it just dawned on me. Why shouldn't _I_ have this pleasure of
living the ultimately perfect life? Listen. I'll instruct you so that
you can carry out the duties that I have to do now. You can administer
to them from now on. And also to me. For a little while anyway."

"_You!_" radiated Amco, breaking into vocal speech in his rage. "What
makes you think you're entitled to that honor? You were created for a
specific purpose--to oversee the sleep of your creators. I'm like them.
You're only metal, a machine. No more nonsense. Come."
