
Overcoming the metal man was out of the question. Physical violence of
any sort was vague and abstract to Amco anyway. Resignation saved him
from confusion. His only regret now was that he would be cheated out of
the sleep. He had forgotten the Coordinator who waited for his answer
as to the goal of evolution.

The teleo-electronic man was radiating: "If you'll accept my
proposition amiably, I'll make a pact with you. We'll alternate. You'll
administer the sleepers for a certain agreed on period of time, then
I'll relieve you. Say at intervals of a thousand years."

Amco decided suddenly that it would be more propitious for him if he
tried to run away from the robot, get back to the space-time converter
and go back to his own time. He was involving himself too deeply in
aeons.

"No. I'll not let you return," radiated the robot. "My mind is set on
the sleep."

"Wait," said Amco, bursting into speech again. "I've just thought of
something rather vast."

"What," radiated the robot.

"Have any of the sleepers ever awakened?"

"Of course not," radiated the robot. "Why should they?"

"If they've never awakened," said Amco. "How do you know that all
you've explained to me about their timeless paradise is really true?
Their state resembles death. Too much so. Human kind used to delude
themselves with the dream that they continued a kind of super life
after they were dead. But alas, no one ever came back from paradise to
prove it, and the paradoxical concept gradually died out. It was just
wishful thinking. Exactly the same kind of suggestion has dulled your
rationale mind.

"Before we go on with this conflicting egoism, let's revive one of the
bodies, if possible, and see if its consciousness, its mind, really
still lives as you've insisted that it does. Or whether only its
physical body exists in some state of preservation resembling life.
Perhaps all these countless bodies are no better than mindless pieces
of cold storage."

The robot backed away uncertainly. "I never thought of that
possibility. It is quite possible, too. Perhaps their minds, their
neural circuits don't really function at all. None has ever awakened to
tell."

Suddenly, the teleo-electronic man spun forcefully, and strode to the
side of the first sleeper whom he had indicated before to Amco.

"We'll revive this one," he radiated. "His sleep has been the longest.
He was the first sleeper."

"How are they awakened?" questioned Amco "--if they can be awakened at
all."

"I--I don't know," radiated the electronic man humbly. "That was never
included in my training. Evidently it wasn't planned at all."

A sound startled Amco as a sudden sound might be expected to do in
a place that seemed dead and soundless. A human moan. It rasped
alienly down the hall, echoing eerily through the loneliness. The
teleo-electronic man stared. The first sleeper was moving.

"None of them have stirred before," radiated the robot. "Look! His arms
are moving."

Amco was watching. The arms that hadn't moved for so very long were
moving now. The wrists flexed. The forearms quivered, then the whole
arm moved up. Fingers spread, clenched, spread again. Lips parted,
eye-lids flickered slightly.

The robot hastily removed the mechanism from the first sleeper's
head and bent over him. Amco felt the mystic awakening vapor of the
sleeper's brain.

Abruptly the first sleeper sat up and looked at them. Amco felt that he
was looking into space and time. The eyes of the now awakened sleeper
seemed circuitous, spinning pools of eternity.

"How long?" his extra-sensory communication centers radiated, weakly at
first. "Where I've been, you know, there's no time."

"One million nine hundred and fifty thousand years," radiated the
robot. "By last table of reckoning, Arnim 500 A.S."

The first sleeper smiled. It was a thin, strangely alien smile for
human lips. "One million nine hundred and fifty thousand years. I sense
that such a span impresses you. To me it might have been a trillion
years multiplied by itself, or the fraction of a second's most minute
fraction.

"Time, and matter, there is a point of difference. Matter is limited.
It has a beginning, an end. I can't explain it to you. You would have
to travel through it all, as I have, before you could understand.
Anyway, I am tired. It is an ultimate incredible weariness."

The sleeper understood. Amco was lost. He was thinking frantically, how
could one be tired of eternity?

"Because I have experienced everything," said the sleeper. "I have
gone back to the first of the beginning. I have been into the future
where it merges with the beginning I found in the past. I have
floated through space that seemed limitless, but I found that it only
eventually became the beginning I found in the past. Well, in all the
dimensions, in all the spaces and times and imaginative worlds, I
found only one path--it led back to the beginning. But I have had the
foresight to save one world for the last."

Amco was aware of an emptiness creeping through his heart.

"But what could remain, sleeper?" he murmured.

The sleeper continued: "My experience is completely inconceivable to
you. The splendor of traveling as light does, effacing space, bending
as it bends, repeating itself into endless prisms of existence. The
swirling of the electron, or the frantic swimming through the plasma
of monsters. I have lived and relived all the complexities of all the
combinations. But I've anticipated the ultimate. I've prepared for it.
I saved what might prove to be the final eternal moment for the last."

The sleeper closed his eyes and relaxed. His lips moved slightly. "You
know what to do, Robot."

Amco backed away. He swallowed hard, and brushed his eyes. He turned
toward the teleo-electronic man--

"Odd," it radiated, "that oblivion, or death, or whatever symbol is
used to describe the Unknown, should be the final and most desirable
world of all worlds."

Amco looked dazedly about, still backing away from the inert sleeper.
"Yes. Yes, odd. Very odd. You will let me go now, let me return to my
own time. I don't desire the fate of this sleeper, and I'm sure you
don't. Let me return."

The teleo-electronic man nodded. "It does seem futile now. You can
return."

Amco did not answer. He was running, running frantically away from the
future.

At least he had found the true, ultimate goal. Oblivion. Now he could
inform the Coordinator of that fact. He would be the instrument through
which all this impossible flow termed life would be terminated--at
least for Earth and for his own particular species of rational life.

Why evolve a few million years more only to decide that oblivion was
preferable? One could find that immediately. The sleeper, through the
robot, had brought about his own death because he had learned the
ultimate truth.
