
As I am now utterly without hope, lost to my mission and lost in the
sight of my crew, I will record what petty thoughts I may have for
what benefit they may give some other starfarer. Nine long days of
bickering! But the decision is sure. The crew will maroon me. I have
lost all control over them.

Who could have believed that I would show such weakness when crossing
the barrier? By all the tests I should have been the strongest. But the
final test is the event itself. I failed.

I only hope that it is a pleasant and habitable planet where they put
me down....

Later. They have decided. I am no longer the captain even in name. But
they have compassion on me. They will do what they can for my comfort.
I believe they have already selected my desert island, so to speak, an
out-of-the-way globe where they will leave me to die. I will hope for
the best. I no longer have any voice in their councils....

Later. I will be put down with only the basic survival kit: the
ejection mortar and sphere for my last testament to be orbited into
the galactic drift; a small cosmoscope so that I will at least have
my bearings; one change of blood; an abridged universal language
correlator; a compendium of the one thousand philosophic questions yet
unsolved to exercise my mind; a small vial of bug-kill; and a stack of
sexy magazines....

Later. It has been selected. But my mind has grown so demoralized that
I do not even recognize the system, though once this particular region
was my specialty. The globe will be habitable. There will be breathable
atmosphere which will allow me to dispense with much bothersome
equipment. Here the filler used is nitrogen, yet it will not matter. I
have breathed nitrogen before. There will be water, much of it saline,
but sufficient quantities of sweet. Food will be no problem; before
being marooned, I will receive injections that should last me for the
rest of my probably short life. Gravity will be within the range of my
constitution.

What will be lacking? Nothing but the companionship of my own kind,
which is everything.

What a terrible thing it is to be marooned!

       *       *       *       *       *

One of my teachers used to say that the only unforgivable sin in the
universe is ineptitude. That I should be the first to succumb to
space-ineptitude and be an awkward burden on the rest of them! But it
would be disastrous for them to try to travel any longer with a sick
man, particularly as their nominal leader. I would be a shadow over
them. I hold them no rancor.

It will be today....

Later. I am here. I have no real interest in defining where "here"
is, though I have my cosmoscope and could easily determine it. I was
anesthetized a few hours before, and put down here in my sleep. The
blasted half-acre of their landing is near. No other trace of them is
left.

Yet it is a good choice and not greatly unlike home. It is the nearest
resemblance I have seen on the entire voyage, which is to say that the
pseudodendrons are enough like trees to remind me of trees, the herbage
near enough to grass to satisfy one who had never known real grass. It
is a green, somewhat waterlogged land of pleasant temperature.

The only inhabitants I have encountered are a preoccupied race of
hump-backed browsers who pay me scant notice. These are quadruped and
myopic, and spend nearly their entire time at feeding. It may be that
I am invisible to them. Yet they hear my voice and shy away somewhat
from it. I am able to communicate with them only poorly. Their only
vocalization is a sort of vibrant windy roar, but when I answer in
kind, they appear more puzzled than communicative.

They have this peculiarity: when they come to an obstacle of terrain
or thicket, they either go laboriously around it or force their way
through it. It does not seem to occur to them to fly over it. They are
as gravity-bound as a newborn baby.

What air-traveling creatures I have met are of a considerably smaller
size. These are more vocal than the myopic quadrupeds, and I have had
some success in conversing with them, but my results still await a more
leisurely semantic interpretation. Such communications of theirs as I
have analyzed are quite commonplace. They have no real philosophy and
are singularly lacking in aspiration; they are almost total extroverts
and have no more than the rudiments of introspection.

Yet they have managed to tell me some amusing anecdotes. They are quite
good-natured, though moronic.

They say that neither they nor the myopic quadrupeds are the dominant
race here, but rather a large grublike creature lacking a complete
outer covering. From what they are able to convey of this breed, it is
a nightmarish kind of creation. One of the flyers even told me that the
giant grubs travel upright on a bifurcated tail, but this is difficult
to credit. Besides, I believe that humor is at least a minor component
of the mentality of my airy friends. I will call them birds, though
they are but a sorry caricature of the birds at home....

       *       *       *       *       *

Later. I am being hunted. I am being hunted by the giant grubs.
Doubling back, I have seen them on my trail, examining it with great
curiosity.

The birds had given me a very inadequate idea of these. They are indeed
unfinished--they _do_ lack a complete outer covering. Despite their
giant size, I am convinced that they are grubs, living under rocks and
in masses of rotten wood. Nothing in nature gives the impression of so
lacking an outer covering as the grub, that obese, unfinished worm.

These are, however, simple bipeds. They are wrapped in a cocoon which
they seem never to have shed, as though their emergence from the larval
state were incomplete. It is a loose artificial sheath covering the
central portion of the corpus. They seem never to divest themselves
of it, though it is definitely not a part of the body. When I have
analyzed their minds, I will know the reason for their carrying it. Now
I can only conjecture. It would seem a compulsion, some psychological
bond that dooms them in their apparent adult state to carry their
cocoons with them.

Later. I am captured by three of the giant grubs. I had barely time to
swallow my communication sphere. They pinned me down and beat me with
sticks. I was taken by surprise and was not momentarily able to solve
their language, though it came to me after a short interval. It was
discordant and vocal and entirely gravity-bound, by which I mean that
its thoughts were chained to its words. There seemed nothing in them
above the vocal. In this the giant grubs were less than the birds, even
though they had a practical power and cogency that the birds lacked.

"What'll we do with the blob?" asked one.

"Why," said the second, "you hit it on that end and I'll hit it on
this. We don't know which end is the head."

"Let's try it for bait," said the third. "Catfish might go for it."

"We could keep it alive till we're ready to use it. Then it would stay
fresh."

"No, let's kill it. It doesn't look too fresh, even the way it is."

"Gentlemen, you are making a mistake," I said. "I have done nothing
to merit death. And I am not without talent. Besides, you have not
considered the possibility that I may be forced to kill you three
instead. I will not die willingly. Also I will thank you to stop
pounding on me with those sticks. It hurts."

I was surprised and shocked at the sound of my own voice. It nearly
as harsh as that of the grubs. But this was my first attempt at their
language, and musicality does not become it.

"Hey, fellows, did you hear that? Was that the blob talking? Or was one
of you playing a joke? Harry? Stanley? Have you been practicing to be
ventriloquists?"

"Not me."

"Not me either. It sure sounded like it was it."

"Hey, blob, was that you? Can you talk, blob?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Certainly I can talk," I responded. "I am not an infant. Nor am I a
blob. I am a creature superior to your own kind, if you are examples.
Or it may be that you are only children. Perhaps you are still in
the pupa stage. Tell me, is yours an early stage, or an arrested
development, or are you indeed adult?"

"Hey, fellows, we don't have to take that from any blob. I'll cave in
its blasted head."

"That's its tail."

"It's its head. It's the end it talks with."

"Gentlemen, perhaps I can set you straight," I said. "That is my tail
you are thwacking with that stick, and I am warning you to stop it. Of
course I was talking with my tail. I was only doing it in imitation of
you. I am new at the language and its manner of speaking. Yet it may
be that I have made a grotesque mistake. Is that your _heads_ that you
are waving in the air? Well, then, I will talk with my head, if that is
the custom. But I warn you again not to hit me on either end with those
sticks."

"Hey, fellows, I bet we could sell that thing. I bet we could sell it
to Billy Wilkins for his Reptile Farm."

"How would we get it there?"

"Make it walk. Hey blob, can you walk?"

"I can travel, certainly, but I would not stagger along precariously
on a pair of flesh stilts with my head in the air, as you do. When I
travel, I do not travel upside down."

"Well, let's go, then. We're going to sell you to Billy Wilkins for his
Reptile Farm. If he can use a blob, he'll put you in one of the tanks
with the big turtles and alligators. You think you'll like them?"

"I am lonesome in this lost world," I replied sadly, "and even the
company of you peeled grubs is better than nothing. I am anxious to
adopt a family and settle down here for what years of life I have left.
It may be that I will find compatibility with the species you mention.
I do not know what they are."

"Hey, fellows, this blob isn't a bad guy at all. I'd shake your hand;
blob, if I knew where it was. Let's go to Billy Wilkins' place and sell
him."

