
Of the walking grubs (who call themselves "people") there are two
kinds, and they place great emphasis on the difference. From this stems
a large part of their difficulties. This distinction, which is one
of polarity, cuts quite across the years and ability and station of
life. It is not confined only to the people grubs, but also involves
apparently all the beings on the planet Florida.

It appears that a person is committed to one or the other polarity
at the beginning of life, maintaining that polarity until death. The
interlocking attraction-repulsion complex set up by these two opposable
types has deep emotional involvements. It is the cause of considerable
concern and disturbance, as well as desire and inspiration. There is a
sort of poetic penumbra about the whole thing that tends to disguise
its basic simplicity, expressible as a simultaneous polarity equation.

Complete segregation of the two types seems impossible. If it has ever
been tried, it has now evidently been abandoned as impractical.

There is indeed an intangible difference between the two types, so that
before that first day at the Reptile Ranch was finished, I was able to
differentiate between the two more than ninety per cent of the time.
The knowledge of this difference in polarity seems to be intuitive.

These two I will call the Beta and Gamma, or Boy and Girl, types. I
began to see that this opposability of the two types was one of the
great driving forces of the people.

In the evening I was transported to the night club and I was a
success. I would not entertain them with blue jokes or blue lyrics,
but the patrons seemed fascinated by my simple imitations of all
the instruments of the orchestra and my singing of comic ballads
that Eustace had taught me in odd moments that day. They were also
interested in the way that I drank gin--that is, emptying the bottle
without breaking the seal. (It seems that the grub-people are unable to
absorb a liquid without making direct contact with it.)

And I met Margaret, one of the "girl" singers.

I had been wondering to which type of people I might show affinity. Now
I knew. I was definitely a Beta type, for I was attracted to Margaret,
who was unmistakably a Gamma. I began to understand the queer effect
that these types have on each other.

She came over to my cage.

"I want to rub your head for good luck before I go on," she said.

"Thank you, Margaret," I replied, "but that is not my head."

She sang with incomparable sadness, with all the sorrow and sordidness
that appear to be the lot of unfortunate Gammas. It was the essence of
melancholy made into music. It was a little bit like the ghost music on
the asteroid Artemis, a little like the death chants on Dolmena. Sex
and sorrow. Nostalgia. Regret.

Her singing shook me with a yearning that had no precedent.

She came back to my cage.

"You were wonderful, Margaret," I said.

"I'm always wonderful when I'm singing for my supper. I am less
wonderful in the rare times that I am well fed. But are you happy,
little buddy?"

"I had become almost so, till I heard you sing. Now I am overcome with
sorrow and longing. Margaret, I am fascinated with you."

"I go for you too, blob. You're my buddy. Isn't it funny that the only
buddy I have in the world is a blob? But if you'd seen some of the guys
I've been married to--boy! I wouldn't insult you by calling them blobs.
Have to go now. See you tomorrow night--if they keep us both on."

       *       *       *       *       *

Now there was a problem to face. It was necessary that I establish
control over my environment, and at once. How else could I aspire to
Margaret?

I knew that the heart of the entire place here was neither the bar nor
the entertainment therein, nor the cuisine, nor the dancing. The heart
of the enterprise was the Casino. Here was the money that mattered; the
rest was but garnish.

I had them bring me into the gambling rooms.

I had expected problems of complexity here with which the patrons
worked for their gain or loss. Instead there was an almost amazing
simplicity. All the games were based on first aspect numbers only.
Indeed, everything on the Planet Florida seemed based on first aspect
numbers.

Now it is an elemental fact that first aspect numbers do not carry
within them their own prediction. Nor were the people even possessed
of the prediction key that lies over the very threshold of the second
aspect series.

These people were actually wagering sums--the symbols of
prosperity--blindly, not knowing for sure whether they would win
or lose. They were selecting numbers by hunch or at random with no
assurance of profit. They were choosing a hole for a ball to fall into
without knowing whether that was the right hole!

I do not believe that I was ever so amazed at anything in my life.

But here was my opportunity to establish control over my environment.

I began to play the games.

Usually I would watch a round first, to be sure that I understood just
what was going on. Then I would play a few times ... as many as it took
to break the game.

I broke game after game. When he could no longer pay me, Blackjack
closed the Casino in exasperation.

Then we played poker, he and I and several others. This was even more
simple. I suddenly realized that the grub-people could see only one
side of the cards at a time.

I played and I won.

I owned the Casino now, and all of those people were now working for
me. Billy Wilkins also played with us, so that in short order I also
owned the Reptile Ranch.

Before the evening was over, I owned a race track, a beach hotel, and a
theater in a place named New York.

I had begun to establish control over my environment....

       *       *       *       *       *

Later. Now started the golden days. I increased my control and did what
I could for my friends.

I got a good doctor for my old friend and roommate, Pete the python,
and he began receiving treatment for his indigestion. I got a jazzy
sports car for my friend Eustace imported from somewhere called Italy.
And I buried Margaret in mink, for she had a fix on the fur of that
mysterious animal. She enjoyed draping it about her in the form of
coats, capes, cloaks, mantles and stoles, though the weather didn't
really require it.

I had now won several banks, a railroad, an airline, and a casino in
somewhere named Havana.

"You're somebody now," said Margaret. "You really ought to dress
better. Or are you dressed? I never know. I don't know if part of that
is clothes or if all of it is you. But at least I've learned which is
your head. I think we should be married in May. It's so common to be
married in June. Just imagine me being Mrs. George Albert Leroy Ellery
McIntosh! You know, we have become quite an item. And do you know there
are three biographies of you out--_Burgeoning Blob_, _The Blob from Way
Out_, _The Hidden Hand Behind the Blob--What Does it Portend?_ And the
governor has invited us to dine tomorrow. I do wish you would learn
to eat. If you weren't so nice, you'd be creepy. I always say there's
nothing wrong with marrying a man, or a blob, with money. It shows
foresight on the part of a girl. You know you will have to get a blood
test? You had better get it tomorrow. You do have blood, don't you?"

I did, but not, of course, of the color and viscosity of hers. But I
could give it that color and viscosity temporarily. And it would react
negative in all the tests.

She mused, "They are all jealous of me. They say they wouldn't marry a
blob. They mean they couldn't.... Do you have to carry that tin ball
with you all the time?"

"Yes. It is my communication sphere. In it I record my thoughts. I
would be lost without it."

"Oh, like a diary. How quaint!"

Yes, those were the golden days. The grubs appeared to me in a new
light, for was not Margaret also a grub? Yet she seemed not so
unfinished as the rest. Though lacking a natural outer casing, she had
not the appearance of crawling out from under a rock. She was quite an
attractive "girl." And she cared for me.

What more could I wish? I was affluent. I was respected. I was in
control of my environment. And I could aid my friends, of whom I had
now acquired an astonishing number.

Moreover, my old space-ineptitude sickness had left me. I never felt
better in my life. Ah, golden days, one after the other like a pleasant
dream. And soon I am to be married!

