
There has been a sudden change. As on the Planet Hecube, where full
summer turns into the dead of the winter in minutes, to the destruction
of many travelers, so was it here. My world is threatened!

It is tottering, all that I have built up. I will fight. I will have
the best lawyers on the planet. I am not done. But I am threatened....

Later. This may be the end. The appeal court has given its decision. A
blob may not own property in Florida. A blob is not a person.

Of course I am not a person. I never pretended to be. But I am a
_personage_! I will yet fight this thing....

Later. I have lost everything. The last appeal is gone. By definition,
I am an animal of indeterminate origin, and my property is being
completely stripped from me.

I made an eloquent appeal and it moved them greatly. There were tears
in their eyes. But there was greed in the set of their mouths. They
have a vested interest in stripping me. Each will seize a little.

And I am left a pauper, a vassal, an animal, a slave. This is always
the last doom of the marooned, to be a despised alien at the mercy of
a strange world.

Yet it should not be hopeless. I will have Margaret. Since my contract
with Billy Wilkins and Blackjack Bracken, long since bought up, is
no longer in effect, Margaret should be able to handle my affairs
as a person. I believe that I have great earning powers yet, and I
can win as much as I wish by gambling. We will treat this as only a
technicality. We shall acquire new fortune. I will reestablish control
over my environment. I will bring back the golden days. A few of my old
friends are still loyal to me, Margaret, Pete the python, Eustace....

Later. The world has caved in completely. Margaret has thrown me over.

"I'm sorry, blobby," she said, "but it just won't work. You're still
nice, but without money you are only a blob. How could I marry a blob?"

"But we can earn more money! I am talented."

"No, you're box-office poison now. You were a fad, and fads die
quickly."

"But, Margaret, I can win as much as I wish by gambling."

"Not a chance, blobby. Nobody will gamble with you any more. You're
through, blob. I will miss you, though. There will be a new blue note
in my ballads when I sing for my supper, after the mink coats are all
gone. 'By now."

"Margaret, do not leave me! What of all our golden days together?"

But all she said was "'By now."

And she was gone forever.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am desolate and my old space-ineptitude has returned. My recovery was
an illusion. I am so ill with awkwardness that I can no longer fly. I
must walk on the ground like one of the giant grubs. A curse on this
planet Florida and all its sister orbs! What a miserable world this is!

How could I have been tricked by a young Gamma type of the walking
grub? Let her crawl back under her ancestral rocks with all the rest of
her kind.... No, no, I do not mean that. To me she will always remain a
dream, a broken dream.

I am no longer welcome at the Casino. They kicked me down the front
steps.

I no longer have a home at the Reptile Ranch.

"Mr. George Albert," said Eustace, "I just can't afford to be seen with
you any more. I have my position to consider, with a sports car and all
that."

And Pete the python was curt.

"Well, big shot, I guess you aren't so big after all. And you were sure
no friend of mine. When you had that doctor cure me of my indigestion,
you left me with nothing but my bad conscience. I wish I could get my
indigestion back."

"A curse on this world," I said.

"World, world, water, water, glug, glug," said the turtles in their
tanks, my only friends.

So I have gone back into the woods to die. I have located my ejection
mortar, and when I know that death is finally on me, I will fire off
my communication sphere and hope it will reach the galactic drift.
Whoever finds it--friend--space traveler--you who were too impatient to
remain on your own world--be you warned of this one! Here ingratitude
is the rule and cruelty the main sport. The unfinished grubs have come
out from under their rocks and they walk this world upside down with
their heads in the air. Their friendship is fleeting, their promises
are like the wind.

I am near my end.



