
Bob Parker had received that ethergram three weeks ago. And if The
Interplanetary Hauling & Moving Co., hadn't been about to go on the
rocks (chiefly due to the activities of Saylor & Saylor, a rival firm)
neither Bob nor Queazy would have thought of sending an answering
ethergram to Burnside stating that they would fill the order. It
was, plainly, a hair-brained request. And yet, if by some chance
there was such a rigidly specified asteroid, their financial worries
would be over. That they had actually discovered the asteroid, using
their mass-detectors in a weight-elimination process, seemed like
an incredible stroke of luck. For there are literally millions of
asteroids in the asteroid belt, and they had been out in space only
three weeks.

The "asteroid in your back yard" idea had been Bob Parker's originally.
Now it was a fad that was sweeping Earth, and Burnside wasn't the first
rich man who had decided to hold a wedding on top of an asteroid.
Unfortunately, other interplanetary moving companies had cashed in on
that brainstorm, chiefly the firm of the Saylor brothers--which persons
Bob Parker intended to punch in the nose some day. And would have
before this if he hadn't been lanky and tall while they were giants.
Now that he and Queazy had found the asteroid, they were desperate to
get it to its destination, for fear that the Saylor brothers might get
wind of what was going on, and try to beat them out of their profits.
Which was not so far-fetched, because the firm of Saylor & Saylor made
no pretense of being scrupulous.

Now they scuffed along the smooth-plane topside of the asteroid, the
magnets in their shoes keeping them from stepping off into space. They
came to the broad base of the asteroid-wedge, walked over the edge and
"down" the twelve-foot thickness. Here they squatted, and Bob Parker
happily clamped the atomic-whirl spectroscope to the rough surface.
By the naked eye, they could see iron ore, quartz crystals, cinnabar,
but he had the spectroscope and there was no reason why he shouldn't
use it. He satisfied himself as to the exterior of the asteroid, and
then sent the twin beams deep into its heart. The beams crossed, tore
atoms from molecules, revolved them like an infinitely fine powder. The
radiations from the sundered molecules traveled back up the beams to
the atomic-whirl spectroscope. Bob watched a pointer which moved slowly
up and up--past tungsten, past iridium, past gold--

Bob Parker said, in astonishment, "Hell! There's something screwy about
this business. Look at that point--"

Neither he nor Queazy had the opportunity to observe the pointer any
further. A cold, completely disagreeable feminine voice said,

"May I ask what you interlopers are doing on my asteroid?"

Bob started so badly that the spectroscope's settings were jarred and
the lights in its interior died. Bob twisted his head around as far as
he could inside the "aquarium"--the glass helmet, and found himself
looking at a space-suited girl who was standing on the edge of the
asteroid "below."

"Ma'am," said Bob, blinking, "did you say something?"

Queazy made a gulping sound and slowly straightened. He automatically
reached up as if he would take off his hat and twist it in his hands.

"I said," remarked the girl, "that you should scram off of my asteroid.
And quit poking around at it with that spectroscope. I've already taken
a reading. Cinnabar, iron ore, quartz crystals, tungsten. Goodbye."
