
Bob's nose twitched as he adjusted his glasses, which he wore even
inside his suit. He couldn't think of anything pertinent to say. He
knew that he was slowly working up a blush. Mildly speaking, the
girl was beautiful, and though only her carefully made-up face was
visible--cool blue eyes, masterfully coiffed, upswept, glinting brown
hair, wilful lips and chin--Bob suspected the rest of her compared
nicely.

Her expression darkened as she saw the completely instinctive way he
was looking at her and her radioed-voice rapped out, "Now you two boys
go and play somewhere else! Else I'll let the Interplanetary Commission
know you've infringed the law. G'bye!"

She turned and disappeared.

Bob awoke from his trance, shouted desperately, "Hey! Wait! _You!_"

He and Queazy caught up with her on the side of the asteroid they
hadn't yet examined. It was a rough plane, completing the rigid
qualifications Burnside had set down.

"Wait a minute," Bob Parker begged nervously. "I want to make some
conversation, lady. I'm sure you don't understand the conditions--"

The girl turned and drew a gun from a holster. It was a spasticizer,
and it was three times as big as her gloved hand.

"I understand conditions better than you do," she said. "You want
to move this asteroid from its orbit and haul it back to Earth.
Unfortunately, this is my home, by common law. Come back in a month. I
don't expect to be here then."

"A month!" Parker burst the word out. He started to sweat, then his
face became grim. He took two slow steps toward the girl. She blinked
and lost her composure and unconsciously backed up two steps. About
twenty steps away was her small dumbbell-shaped ship, so shiny and
unscarred that it reflected starlight in highlights from its curved
surface. A rich girl's ship, Bob Parker thought angrily. A month would
be too late!

He said grimly, "Don't worry. I don't intend to pull any rough stuff.
I just want you to listen to reason. You've taken a whim to stay on
an asteroid that doesn't mean anything to you one way or another. But
to us--to me and Queazy here--it means our business. We got an order
for this asteroid. Some screwball millionaire wants it for a backyard
wedding see? We get five hundred and fifty thousand dollars for it!
If we don't take this asteroid to Earth before June 2, we go back to
Satterfield City and work the rest of our lives in the glass factories.
Don't we, Queazy?"

Queazy said simply, "That's right, miss. We're in a spot. I assure you
we didn't expect to find someone living here."

The girl holstered her spasticizer, but her completely inhospitable
expression did not change. She put her hands on the bulging hips of her
space-suit. "Okay," she said. "Now I understand the conditions. Now we
both understand each other. G'bye again. I'm staying here and--" she
smiled sweetly "--it may interest you to know that if I let you have
the asteroid you'll save your business, but I'll meet a fate worse than
death! So that's that."

Bob recognized finality when he saw it. "Come on, Queazy," he said
fuming. "Let this brat have her way. But if I ever run across her
without a space-suit on I'm going to give her the licking of her life,
right where it'll do the most good!"

He turned angrily, but Queazy grabbed his arm, his mouth falling open.
He pointed off into space, beyond the girl.

"What's that?" he whispered.

"What's wha--_Oh!_"

Bob Parker's stomach caved in. A few hundred feet away, floating
gently toward the asteroid, came another ship--a ship a trifle bigger
than their own. The girl turned, too. They heard her gasp. In another
second, Bob was standing next to her. He turned the audio-switch to his
headset off, and spoke to the girl by putting his helmet against hers.

"Listen to me, miss," he snapped earnestly, when she tried to draw
away. "Don't talk by radio. That ship belongs to the Saylor brothers!
Oh, Lord, that this should happen! Somewhere along the line, we've been
double-crossed. Those boys are after this asteroid too, and they won't
hesitate to pull any rough stuff. We're in this together, understand?
We got to back each other up."

The girl nodded dumbly. Suddenly she seemed to be frightened.
"It's--it's very important that this--this asteroid stay right where it
is," she said huskily. "What--what will they do?"
