
It was Queazy who got into his space-suit and did the welding job,
fastening two huge supra-steel "eyes" onto the dumbbell-shaped ship's
narrow midsection. Into these eyes cables which trailed back to
two winches in the big ship's nose were inserted, welded fast, and
reinforced.

The nose of the hauler was blunt, perfectly fitted for the job. Bob
Parker practiced and experimented for three hours with this yo-yo of
cosmic dimensions, while Starre and Queazy stood over him bursting into
strange, delighted squeals of laughter whenever the yo-yo reached the
end of its double cable and started rolling back up to the ship. Queazy
snapped his fingers.

"It'll work!" His gray eyes showed satisfaction. "Now, if only the
Saylor brothers are where we calculated!"

They weren't where Bob and Queazy had calculated, as they had
discovered the next day. They had expected to pick up the asteroid
on their mass-detectors a few hundred thousand miles outside of the
Moon's orbit. But now they saw the giant ship attached like a leech to
the still bigger asteroid--inside the Moon's orbit! A mere two hundred
thousand miles from Earth!

"We have to work fast," Bob stammered, sweating. He got within
naked-eye distance of the Saylor brothers' ship. Below, Earth was
spread out, a huge crescent shape, part of the Eastern hemisphere
vaguely visible through impeding clouds and atmosphere. The enemy ship
was two miles distant, a black shadow occulting part of the brilliant
sky. It was moving along a down-spiraling path toward Earth.

Queazy's big hand gripped his shoulder. "Go to it, Bob!"

Bob nodded grimly. He backed the hauler up about thirty miles, then
sent it forward again, directly toward the Saylor brothers' ship at ten
miles per second. And resting on the blunt nose of the ship was the
"yo-yo."

There was little doubt the Saylors' saw their approach. But,
scornfully, they made no attempt to evade. There was no possible harm
the oncoming ship could wreak. Or at least that was what they thought,
for Bob brought the hauler's speed down to zero--and Starre Lowenthal's
little ship, possessing its own inertia, kept on moving!

It spun away from the hauler's blunt nose, paying out two rigid
lengths of cable behind it as it unwound, hurled itself forward like a
fantastic spinning cannon ball.

"It's going to hit!"

The excited cry came from Starre. But Bob swore. The dumbbell ship
reached the end of its cables, falling a bare twenty feet short of
completing its mission. It didn't stop spinning, but came winding back
up the cable, at the same terrific speed with which it had left.
