

ADELA was so far right as that by the end of the week, though she
remained certain, her father had still not made the announcement she
dreaded.  What convinced her was the sense of her changed relations with
him—of there being between them something unexpressed, something she was
aware of as she would have been of an open wound.  When she spoke of this
to Godfrey he said the change was of her own making—also that she was
cruelly unjust to the governor.  She suffered even more from her
brother’s unexpected perversity; she had had so different a theory about
him that her disappointment was almost an humiliation and she needed all
her fortitude to pitch her faith lower.  She wondered what had happened
to him and why he so failed her.  She would have trusted him to feel
right about anything, above all about such a question.  Their worship of
their mother’s memory, their recognition of her sacred place in their
past, her exquisite influence in their father’s life, his fortune, his
career, in the whole history of the family and welfare of the
house—accomplished clever gentle good beautiful and capable as she had
been, a woman whose quiet distinction was universally admired, so that on
her death one of the Princesses, the most august of her friends, had
written Adela such a note about her as princesses were understood very
seldom to write: their hushed tenderness over all this was like a
religion, and was also an attributive honour, to fall away from which was
a form of treachery.  This wasn’t the way people usually felt in London,
she knew; but strenuous ardent observant girl as she was, with secrecies
of sentiment and dim originalities of attitude, she had already made up
her mind that London was no treasure-house of delicacies.  Remembrance
there was hammered thin—to be faithful was to make society gape.  The
patient dead were sacrificed; they had no shrines, for people were
literally ashamed of mourning.  When they had hustled all sensibility out
of their lives they invented the fiction that they felt too much to
utter.  Adela said nothing to her sisters; this reticence was part of the
virtue it was her idea to practise for them.  _She_ was to be their
mother, a direct deputy and representative.  Before the vision of that
other woman parading in such a character she felt capable of ingenuities,
of deep diplomacies.  The essence of these indeed was just tremulously to
watch her father.  Five days after they had dined together at Mrs.
Churchley’s he asked her if she had been to see that lady.

“No indeed, why should I?” Adela knew that he knew she hadn’t been, since
Mrs. Churchley would have told him.

“Don’t you call on people after you dine with them?” said Colonel Chart.

“Yes, in the course of time.  I don’t rush off within the week.”

Her father looked at her, and his eyes were colder than she had ever seen
them, which was probably, she reflected, just the way hers appeared to
himself.  “Then you’ll please rush off to-morrow.  She’s to dine with us
on the 12th, and I shall expect your sisters to come down.”

Adela stared.  “To a dinner-party?”

“It’s not to be a dinner-party.  I want them to know Mrs. Churchley.”

“Is there to be nobody else?”

“Godfrey of course.  A family party,” he said with an assurance before
which she turned cold.

The girl asked her brother that evening if _that_ wasn’t tantamount to an
announcement.  He looked at her queerly and then said: “_I’ve_ been to
see her.”

“What on earth did you do that for?”

“Father told me he wished it.”

“Then he _has_ told you?”

“Told me what?” Godfrey asked while her heart sank with the sense of his
making difficulties for her.

“That they’re engaged, of course.  What else can all this mean?”

“He didn’t tell me that, but I like her.”

“_Like_ her!” the girl shrieked.

“She’s very kind, very good.”

“To thrust herself upon us when we hate her?  Is that what you call kind?
Is that what you call decent?”

“Oh _I_ don’t hate her”—and he turned away as if she bored him.

She called the next day on Mrs. Churchley, designing to break out
somehow, to plead, to appeal—“Oh spare us! have mercy on us! let him
alone! go away!”  But that wasn’t easy when they were face to face.  Mrs.
Churchley had every intention of getting, as she would have said—she was
perpetually using the expression—into touch; but her good intentions were
as depressing as a tailor’s misfits.  She could never understand that
they had no place for her vulgar charity, that their life was filled with
a fragrance of perfection for which she had no sense fine enough.  She
was as undomestic as a shop-front and as out of tune as a parrot.  She
would either make them live in the streets or bring the streets into
their life—it was the same thing.  She had evidently never read a book,
and she used intonations that Adela had never heard, as if she had been
an Australian or an American.  She understood everything in a vulgar
sense; speaking of Godfrey’s visit to her and praising him according to
her idea, saying horrid things about him—that he was awfully
good-looking, a perfect gentleman, the kind she liked.  How could her
father, who was after all in everything else such a dear, listen to a
woman, or endure her, who thought she pleased him when she called the son
of his dead wife a perfect gentleman?  What would he have been, pray?
Much she knew about what any of them were! When she told Adela she wanted
her to like her the girl thought for an instant her opportunity had
come—the chance to plead with her and beg her off.  But she presented
such an impenetrable surface that it would have been like giving a
message to a varnished door.  She wasn’t a woman, said Adela; she was an
address.

When she dined in Seymour Street the “children,” as the girl called the
others, including Godfrey, liked her.  Beatrice and Muriel stared shyly
and silently at the wonders of her apparel (she was brutally
over-dressed) without of course guessing the danger that tainted the air.
They supposed her in their innocence to be amusing, and they didn’t know,
any more than she did herself, how she patronised them.  When she was
upstairs with them after dinner Adela could see her look round the room
at the things she meant to alter—their mother’s things, not a bit like
her own and not good enough for her.  After a quarter of an hour of this
our young lady felt sure she was deciding that Seymour Street wouldn’t do
at all, the dear old home that had done for their mother those twenty
years.  Was she plotting to transport them all to her horrible Prince’s
Gate?  Of one thing at any rate Adela was certain: her father, at that
moment alone in the dining-room with Godfrey, pretending to drink another
glass of wine to make time, was coming to the point, was telling the
news.  When they reappeared they both, to her eyes, looked unnatural: the
news had been told.

She had it from Godfrey before Mrs. Churchley left the house, when, after
a brief interval, he followed her out of the drawing-room on her taking
her sisters to bed.  She was waiting for him at the door of her room.
Her father was then alone with his _fiancée_—the word was grotesque to
Adela; it was already as if the place were her home.

“What did you say to him?” our young woman asked when her brother had
told her.

“I said nothing.”  Then he added, colouring—the expression of her face
was such—“There was nothing to say.”

“Is that how it strikes you?”—and she stared at the lamp.

“He asked me to speak to her,” Godfrey went on.

“In what hideous sense?”

“To tell her I was glad.”

“And did you?” Adela panted.

“I don’t know.  I said something.  She kissed me.”

“Oh how _could_ you?” shuddered the girl, who covered her face with her
hands.

“He says she’s very rich,” her brother returned.

“Is that why you kissed her?”

“I didn’t kiss her.  Good-night.”  And the young man, turning his back,
went out.

When he had gone Adela locked herself in as with the fear she should be
overtaken or invaded, and during a sleepless feverish memorable night she
took counsel of her uncompromising spirit.  She saw things as they were,
in all the indignity of life.  The levity, the mockery, the infidelity,
the ugliness, lay as plain as a map before her; it was a world of gross
practical jokes, a world _pour rire_; but she cried about it all the
same.  The morning dawned early, or rather it seemed to her there had
been no night, nothing but a sickly creeping day.  But by the time she
heard the house stirring again she had determined what to do.  When she
came down to the breakfast-room her father was already in his place with
newspapers and letters; and she expected the first words he would utter
to be a rebuke to her for having disappeared the night before without
taking leave of Mrs. Churchley.  Then she saw he wished to be intensely
kind, to make every allowance, to conciliate and console her.  He knew
she had heard from Godfrey, and he got up and kissed her.  He told her as
quickly as possible, to have it over, stammering a little, with an “I’ve
a piece of news for you that will probably shock you,” yet looking even
exaggeratedly grave and rather pompous, to inspire the respect he didn’t
deserve.  When he kissed her she melted, she burst into tears.  He held
her against him, kissing her again and again, saying tenderly “Yes, yes,
I know, I know.”  But he didn’t know else he couldn’t have done it.
Beatrice and Muriel came in, frightened when they saw her crying, and
still more scared when she turned to them with words and an air that were
terrible in their comfortable little lives: “Papa’s going to be married;
he’s going to marry Mrs. Churchley!”  After staring a moment and seeing
their father look as strange, on his side, as Adela, though in a
different way, the children also began to cry, so that when the servants
arrived with tea and boiled eggs these functionaries were greatly
embarrassed with their burden, not knowing whether to come in or hang
back.  They all scraped together a decorum, and as soon as the things had
been put on table the Colonel banished the men with a glance.  Then he
made a little affectionate speech to Beatrice and Muriel, in which he
described Mrs. Churchley as the kindest, the most delightful of women,
only wanting to make them happy, only wanting to make _him_ happy, and
convinced that he would be if they were and that they would be if he was.

“What do such words mean?” Adela asked herself.  She declared privately
that they meant nothing, but she was silent, and every one was silent, on
account of the advent of Miss Flynn the governess, before whom Colonel
Chart preferred not to discuss the situation.  Adela recognised on the
spot that if things were to go as he wished his children would
practically never again be alone with him.  He would spend all his time
with Mrs. Churchley till they were married, and then Mrs. Churchley would
spend all her time with him.  Adela was ashamed of him, and that was
horrible—all the more that every one else would be, all his other
friends, every one who had known her mother.  But the public dishonour to
that high memory shouldn’t be enacted; he shouldn’t do as he wished.

After breakfast her father remarked to her that it would give him
pleasure if in a day or two she would take her sisters to see their
friend, and she replied that he should be obeyed.  He held her hand a
moment, looking at her with an argument in his eyes which presently
hardened into sternness.  He wanted to know that she forgave him, but
also wanted to assure her that he expected her to mind what she did, to
go straight.  She turned away her eyes; she was indeed ashamed of him.

She waited three days and then conveyed her sisters to the _repaire_, as
she would have been ready to term it, of the lioness.  That queen of
beasts was surrounded with callers, as Adela knew she would be; it was
her “day” and the occasion the girl preferred.  Before this she had spent
all her time with her companions, talking to them about their mother,
playing on their memory of her, making them cry and making them laugh,
reminding them of blest hours of their early childhood, telling them
anecdotes of her own.  None the less she confided to them that she
believed there was no harm at all in Mrs. Churchley, and that when the
time should come she would probably take them out immensely.  She saw
with smothered irritation that they enjoyed their visit at Prince’s Gate;
they had never been at anything so “grown-up,” nor seen so many smart
bonnets and brilliant complexions.  Moreover they were considered with
interest, quite as if, being minor elements, yet perceptible ones, of
Mrs. Churchley’s new life, they had been described in advance and were
the heroines of the occasion.  There were so many ladies present that
this personage didn’t talk to them much; she only called them her
“chicks” and asked them to hand about tea-cups and bread and butter.  All
of which was highly agreeable and indeed intensely exciting to Beatrice
and Muriel, who had little round red spots in _their_ cheeks when they
came away.  Adela quivered with the sense that her mother’s children were
now Mrs. Churchley’s “chicks” and a part of the furniture of Mrs.
Churchley’s dreadful consciousness.

It was one thing to have made up her mind, however; it was another thing
to make her attempt.  It was when she learned from Godfrey that the day
was fixed, the 20th of July, only six weeks removed, that she felt the
importance of prompt action.  She learned everything from Godfrey now,
having decided it would be hypocrisy to question her father.  Even her
silence was hypocritical, but she couldn’t weep and wail.  Her father
showed extreme tact; taking no notice of her detachment, treating it as a
moment of _bouderie_ he was bound to allow her and that would pout itself
away.  She debated much as to whether she should take Godfrey into her
confidence; she would have done so without hesitation if he hadn’t
disappointed her.  He was so little what she might have expected, and so
perversely preoccupied that she could explain it only by the high
pressure at which he was living, his anxiety about his “exam.”  He was in
a fidget, in a fever, putting on a spurt to come in first; sceptical
moreover about his success and cynical about everything else.  He
appeared to agree to the general axiom that they didn’t want a strange
woman thrust into their life, but he found Mrs. Churchley “very jolly as
a person to know.”  He had been to see her by himself—he had been to see
her three times.  He in fact gave it out that he would make the most of
her now; he should probably be so little in Seymour Street after these
days.  What Adela at last determined to give him was her assurance that
the marriage would never take place.  When he asked what she meant and
who was to prevent it she replied that the interesting couple would
abandon the idea of themselves, or that Mrs. Churchley at least would
after a week or two back out of it.

“That will be really horrid then,” Godfrey pronounced.  “The only
respectable thing, at the point they’ve come to, is to put it through.
Charming for poor Dad to have the air of being ‘chucked’!”

This made her hesitate two days more, but she found answers more valid
than any objections.  The many-voiced answer to everything—it was like
the autumn wind round the house—was the affront that fell back on her
mother.  Her mother was dead but it killed her again.  So one morning at
eleven o’clock, when she knew her father was writing letters, she went
out quietly and, stopping the first hansom she met, drove to Prince’s
Gate.  Mrs. Churchley was at home, and she was shown into the
drawing-room with the request that she would wait five minutes.  She
waited without the sense of breaking down at the last, and the impulse to
run away, which were what she had expected to have.  In the cab and at
the door her heart had beat terribly, but now suddenly, with the game
really to play, she found herself lucid and calm.  It was a joy to her to
feel later that this was the way Mrs. Churchley found her: not confused,
not stammering nor prevaricating, only a little amazed at her own
courage, conscious of the immense responsibility of her step and
wonderfully older than her years.  Her hostess sounded her at first with
suspicious eyes, but eventually, to Adela’s surprise, burst into tears.
At this the girl herself cried, and with the secret happiness of
believing they were saved.  Mrs. Churchley said she would think over what
she had been told, and she promised her young friend, freely enough and
very firmly, not to betray the secret of the latter’s step to the
Colonel.  They were saved—they were saved: the words sung themselves in
the girl’s soul as she came downstairs.  When the door opened for her she
saw her brother on the step, and they looked at each other in surprise,
each finding it on the part of the other an odd hour for Prince’s Gate.
Godfrey remarked that Mrs. Churchley would have enough of the family, and
Adela answered that she would perhaps have too much.  None the less the
young man went in while his sister took her way home.



