

SHE saw nothing of him for nearly a week; he had more and more his own
times and hours, adjusted to his tremendous responsibilities, and he
spent whole days at his crammer’s.  When she knocked at his door late in
the evening he was regularly not in his room.  It was known in the house
how much he was worried; he was horribly nervous about his ordeal.  It
was to begin on the 23rd of June, and his father was as worried as
himself.  The wedding had been arranged in relation to this; they wished
poor Godfrey’s fate settled first, though they felt the nuptials would be
darkened if it shouldn’t be settled right.

Ten days after that performance of her private undertaking Adela began to
sniff, as it were, a difference in the general air; but as yet she was
afraid to exult.  It wasn’t in truth a difference for the better, so that
there might be still a great tension.  Her father, since the announcement
of his intended marriage, had been visibly pleased with himself, but that
pleasure now appeared to have undergone a check.  She had the impression
known to the passengers on a great steamer when, in the middle of the
night, they feel the engines stop.  As this impression may easily sharpen
to the sense that something serious has happened, so the girl asked
herself what had actually occurred.  She had expected something serious;
but it was as if she couldn’t keep still in her cabin—she wanted to go up
and see.  On the 20th, just before breakfast, her maid brought her a
message from her brother.  Mr. Godfrey would be obliged if she would
speak to him in his room.  She went straight up to him, dreading to find
him ill, broken down on the eve of his formidable week.  This was not the
case however—he rather seemed already at work, to have been at work since
dawn.  But he was very white and his eyes had a strange and new
expression.  Her beautiful young brother looked older; he looked haggard
and hard.  He met her there as if he had been waiting for her, and he
said at once: “Please tell me this, Adela—what was the purpose of your
visit the other morning to Mrs. Churchley, the day I met you at her
door?”

She stared—she cast about.  “The purpose?  What’s the matter?  Why do you
ask?”

“They’ve put it off—they’ve put it off a month.”

“Ah thank God!” said Adela.

“Why the devil do you thank God?” Godfrey asked with a strange
impatience.

She gave a strained intense smile.  “You know I think it all wrong.”

He stood looking at her up and down.  “What did you do there?  How did
you interfere?”

“Who told you I interfered?” she returned with a deep flush.

“You said something—you did something.  I knew you had done it when I saw
you come out.”

“What I did was my own business.”

“Damn your own business!” cried the young man.

She had never in her life been so spoken to, and in advance, had she been
given the choice, would have said that she’d rather die than be so
handled by Godfrey.  But her spirit was high, and for a moment she was as
angry as if she had been cut with a whip.  She escaped the blow but felt
the insult.  “And _your_ business then?” she asked.  “I wondered what
that was when I saw _you_.”

He stood a moment longer scowling at her; then with the exclamation
“You’ve made a pretty mess!” he turned away from her and sat down to his
books.

They had put it off, as he said; her father was dry and stiff and
official about it.  “I suppose I had better let you know we’ve thought it
best to postpone our marriage till the end of the summer—Mrs. Churchley
has so many arrangements to make”: he was not more expansive than that.
She neither knew nor greatly cared whether she but vainly imagined or
correctly observed him to watch her obliquely for some measure of her
receipt of these words.  She flattered herself that, thanks to Godfrey’s
forewarning, cruel as the form of it had been, she was able to repress
any crude sign of elation.  She had a perfectly good conscience, for she
could now judge what odious elements Mrs. Churchley, whom she had not
seen since the morning in Prince’s Gate, had already introduced into
their dealings.  She gathered without difficulty that her father hadn’t
concurred in the postponement, for he was more restless than before, more
absent and distinctly irritable.  There was naturally still the question
of how much of this condition was to be attributed to his solicitude
about Godfrey.  That young man took occasion to say a horrible thing to
his sister: “If I don’t pass it will be your fault.”  These were dreadful
days for the girl, and she asked herself how she could have borne them if
the hovering spirit of her mother hadn’t been at her side.  Fortunately
she always felt it there, sustaining, commending, sanctifying.  Suddenly
her father announced to her that he wished her to go immediately, with
her sisters, down to Brinton, where there was always part of a household
and where for a few weeks they would manage well enough.  The only
explanation he gave of this desire was that he wanted them out of the
way.  “Out of the way of what?” she queried, since there were to be for
the time no preparations in Seymour Street.  She was willing to take it
for out of the way of his nerves.

She never needed urging however to go to Brinton, the dearest old house
in the world, where the happiest days of her young life had been spent
and the silent nearness of her mother always seemed greatest.  She was
happy again, with Beatrice and Muriel and Miss Flynn, with the air of
summer and the haunted rooms and her mother’s garden and the talking oaks
and the nightingales.  She wrote briefly to her father, giving him, as he
had requested, an account of things; and he wrote back that since she was
so contented—she didn’t recognise having told him that—she had better not
return to town at all.  The fag-end of the London season would be
unimportant to her, and he was getting on very well.  He mentioned that
Godfrey had passed his tests, but, as she knew, there would be a tiresome
wait before news of results.  The poor chap was going abroad for a month
with young Sherard—he had earned a little rest and a little fun.  He went
abroad without a word to Adela, but in his beautiful little hand he took
a chaffing leave of Beatrice.  The child showed her sister the letter, of
which she was very proud and which contained no message for any one else.
This was the worst bitterness of the whole crisis for that somebody—its
placing in so strange a light the creature in the world whom, after her
mother, she had loved best.

Colonel Chart had said he would “run down” while his children were at
Brinton, but they heard no more about it.  He only wrote two or three
times to Miss Flynn on matters in regard to which Adela was surprised he
shouldn’t have communicated with herself.  Muriel accomplished an upright
little letter to Mrs. Churchley—her eldest sister neither fostered nor
discouraged the performance—to which Mrs. Churchley replied, after a
fortnight, in a meagre and, as Adela thought, illiterate fashion, making
no allusion to the approach of any closer tie.  Evidently the situation
had changed; the question of the marriage was dropped, at any rate for
the time.  This idea gave our young woman a singular and almost
intoxicating sense of power; she felt as if she were riding a great wave
of confidence.  She had decided and acted—the greatest could do no more
than that.  The grand thing was to see one’s results, and what else was
she doing?  These results were in big rich conspicuous lives; the stage
was large on which she moved her figures.  Such a vision was exciting,
and as they had the use of a couple of ponies at Brinton she worked off
her excitement by a long gallop.  A day or two after this however came
news of which the effect was to rekindle it.  Godfrey had come back, the
list had been published, he had passed first.  These happy tidings
proceeded from the young man himself; he announced them by a telegram to
Beatrice, who had never in her life before received such a missive and
was proportionately inflated.  Adela reflected that she herself ought to
have felt snubbed, but she was too happy.  They were free again, they
were themselves, the nightmare of the previous weeks was blown away, the
unity and dignity of her father’s life restored, and, to round off her
sense of success, Godfrey had achieved his first step toward high
distinction.  She wrote him the next day as frankly and affectionately as
if there had been no estrangement between them, and besides telling him
how she rejoiced in his triumph begged him in charity to let them know
exactly how the case stood with regard to Mrs. Churchley.

Late in the summer afternoon she walked through the park to the village
with her letter, posted it and came back.  Suddenly, at one of the turns
of the avenue, half-way to the house, she saw a young man hover there as
if awaiting her—a young man who proved to be Godfrey on his pedestrian
progress over from the station.  He had seen her as he took his short
cut, and if he had come down to Brinton it wasn’t apparently to avoid
her.  There was nevertheless none of the joy of his triumph in his face
as he came a very few steps to meet her; and although, stiffly enough, he
let her kiss him and say “I’m so glad—I’m so glad!” she felt this
tolerance as not quite the mere calm of the rising diplomatist.  He
turned toward the house with her and walked on a short distance while she
uttered the hope that he had come to stay some days.

“Only till to-morrow morning.  They’re sending me straight to Madrid.  I
came down to say good-bye; there’s a fellow bringing my bags.”

“To Madrid?  How awfully nice!  And it’s awfully nice of you to have
come,” she said as she passed her hand into his arm.

The movement made him stop, and, stopping, he turned on her in a flash a
face of something more than, suspicion—of passionate reprobation.  “What
I really came for—you might as well know without more delay—is to ask you
a question.”

“A question?”—she echoed it with a beating heart.

They stood there under the old trees in the lingering light, and, young
and fine and fair as they both were, formed a complete superficial
harmony with the peaceful English scene.  A near view, however, would
have shown that Godfrey Chart hadn’t taken so much trouble only to skim
the surface.  He looked deep into his sister’s eyes.  “What was it you
said that morning to Mrs. Churchley?”

She fixed them on the ground a moment, but at last met his own again.
“If she has told you, why do you ask?”

“She has told me nothing.  I’ve seen for myself.”

“What have you seen?”

“She has broken it off.  Everything’s over.  Father’s in the depths.”

“In the depths?” the girl quavered.

“Did you think it would make him jolly?” he went on.

She had to choose what to say.  “He’ll get over it.  He’ll he glad.”

“That remains to be seen.  You interfered, you invented something, you
got round her.  I insist on knowing what you did.”

Adela felt that if it was a question of obstinacy there was something
within her she could count on; in spite of which, while she stood looking
down again a moment, she said to herself “I could be dumb and dogged if I
chose, but I scorn to be.”  She wasn’t ashamed of what she had done, but
she wanted to be clear.  “Are you absolutely certain it’s broken off?”

“He is, and she is; so that’s as good.”

“What reason has she given?”

“None at all—or half a dozen; it’s the same thing.  She has changed her
mind—she mistook her feelings—she can’t part with her independence.
Moreover he has too many children.”

“Did he tell you this?” the girl asked.

“Mrs. Churchley told me.  She has gone abroad for a year.”

“And she didn’t tell you what I said to her?”

Godfrey showed an impatience.  “Why should I take this trouble if she
had?”

“You might have taken it to make me suffer,” said Adela.  “That appears
to be what you want to do.”

“No, I leave that to you—it’s the good turn you’ve done me!” cried the
young man with hot tears in his eyes.

She stared, aghast with the perception that there was some dreadful thing
she didn’t know; but he walked on, dropping the question angrily and
turning his back to her as if he couldn’t trust himself.  She read his
disgust in his averted, face, in the way he squared his shoulders and
smote the ground with his stick, and she hurried after him and presently
overtook him.  She kept by him for a moment in silence; then she broke
out: “What do you mean?  What in the world have I done to you?”

“She would have helped me.  She was all ready to help me,” Godfrey
portentously said.

“Helped you in what?”  She wondered what he meant; if he had made debts
that he was afraid to confess to his father and—of all horrible
things—had been looking to Mrs. Churchley to pay.  She turned red with
the mere apprehension of this and, on the heels of her guess, exulted
again at having perhaps averted such a shame.

“Can’t you just see I’m in trouble?  Where are your eyes, your senses,
your sympathy, that you talk so much about?  Haven’t you seen these six
months that I’ve a curst worry in my life?”

She seized his arm, made him stop, stood looking up at him like a
frightened little girl.  “What’s the matter, Godfrey?—what _is_ the
matter?”

“You’ve gone against me so—I could strangle you!” he growled.  This image
added nothing to her dread; her dread was that he had done some wrong,
was stained with some guilt.  She uttered it to him with clasped hands,
begging him to tell her the worst; but, still more passionately, he cut
her short with his own cry: “In God’s name, satisfy me!  What infernal
thing did you do?”

“It wasn’t infernal—it was right.  I told her mamma had been wretched,”
said Adela.

“Wretched?  You told her such a lie?”

“It was the only way, and she believed me.”

“Wretched how?—wretched when?—wretched where?” the young man stammered.

“I told her papa had made her so, and that _she_ ought to know it.  I
told her the question troubled me unspeakably, but that I had made up my
mind it was my duty to initiate her.”  Adela paused, the light of bravado
in her face, as if, though struck while the words came with the
monstrosity of what she had done, she was incapable of abating a jot of
it.  “I notified her that he had faults and peculiarities that made
mamma’s life a long worry—a martyrdom that she hid wonderfully from the
world, but that we saw and that I had often pitied.  I told her what they
were, these faults and peculiarities; I put the dots on the i’s.  I said
it wasn’t fair to let another person marry him without a warning.  I
warned her; I satisfied my conscience.  She could do as she liked.  My
responsibility was over.”

Godfrey gazed at her; he listened with parted lips, incredulous and
appalled.  “You invented such a tissue of falsities and calumnies, and
you talk about your conscience?  You stand there in your senses and
proclaim your crime?”

“I’d have committed any crime that would have rescued us.”

“You insult and blacken and ruin your own father?” Godfrey kept on.

“He’ll never know it; she took a vow she wouldn’t tell him.”

“Ah I’ll he damned if _I_ won’t tell him!” he rang out.

Adela felt sick at this, but she flamed up to resent the treachery, as it
struck her, of such a menace.  “I did right—I did right!” she vehemently
declared “I went down on my knees to pray for guidance, and I saved
mamma’s memory from outrage.  But if I hadn’t, if I hadn’t”—she faltered
an instant—“I’m not worse than you, and I’m not so bad, for you’ve done
something that you’re ashamed to tell me.”

He had taken out his watch; he looked at it with quick intensity, as if
not hearing nor heeding her.  Then, his calculating eyes raised, he fixed
her long enough to exclaim with unsurpassable horror and contempt: “You
raving maniac!”  He turned away from her; he bounded down the avenue in
the direction from which they had come, and, while she watched him,
strode away, across the grass, toward the short cut to the station.



