

HIS bags, by the time she got home, had been brought to the house, but
Beatrice and Muriel, immediately informed of this, waited for their
brother in vain.  Their sister said nothing to them of her having seen
him, and she accepted after a little, with a calmness that surprised
herself, the idea that he had returned to town to denounce her.  She
believed this would make no difference now—she had done what she had
done.  She had somehow a stiff faith in Mrs. Churchley.  Once that so
considerable mass had received its impetus it wouldn’t, it couldn’t pull
up.  It represented a heavy-footed person, incapable of further agility.
Adela recognised too how well it might have come over her that there were
too many children.  Lastly the girl fortified herself with the reflexion,
grotesque in the conditions and conducing to prove her sense of humour
not high, that her father was after all not a man to be played with.  It
seemed to her at any rate that if she _had_ baffled his unholy purpose
she could bear anything—bear imprisonment and bread and water, bear
lashes and torture, bear even his lifelong reproach.  What she could bear
least was the wonder of the inconvenience she had inflicted on Godfrey.
She had time to turn this over, very vainly, for a succession of
days—days more numerous than she had expected, which passed without
bringing her from London any summons to come up and take her punishment.
She sounded the possible, she compared the degrees of the probable;
feeling however that as a cloistered girl she was poorly equipped for
speculation.  She tried to imagine the calamitous things young men might
do, and could only feel that such things would naturally be connected
either with borrowed money or with bad women.  She became conscious that
after all she knew almost nothing about either of those interests.  The
worst woman she knew was Mrs. Churchley herself.  Meanwhile there was no
reverberation from Seymour Street—only a sultry silence.

At Brinton she spent hours in her mother’s garden, where she had grown
up, where she considered that she was training for old age, since she
meant not to depend on whist.  She loved the place as, had she been a
good Catholic, she would have loved the smell of her parish church; and
indeed there was in her passion for flowers something of the respect of a
religion.  They seemed to her the only things in the world that really
respected themselves, unless one made an exception for Nutkins, who had
been in command all through her mother’s time, with whom she had had a
real friendship and who had been affected by their pure example.  He was
the person left in the world with whom on the whole she could speak most
intimately of the dead.  They never had to name her together—they only
said “she”; and Nutkins freely conceded that she had taught him
everything he knew.  When Beatrice and Muriel said “she” they referred to
Mrs. Churchley.  Adela had reason to believe she should never marry, and
that some day she should have about a thousand a year.  This made her see
in the far future a little garden of her own, under a hill, full of rare
and exquisite things, where she would spend most of her old age on her
knees with an apron and stout gloves, with a pair of shears and a trowel,
steeped in the comfort of being thought mad.

One morning ten days after her scene with Godfrey, on coming back into
the house shortly before lunch, she was met by Miss Flynn with the
notification that a lady in the drawing-room had been waiting for her for
some minutes.  “A lady” suggested immediately Mrs. Churchley.  It came
over Adela that the form in which her penalty was to descend would be a
personal explanation with that misdirected woman.  The lady had given no
name, and Miss Flynn hadn’t seen Mrs. Churchley; nevertheless the
governess was certain Adela’s surmise was wrong.

“Is she big and dreadful?” the girl asked.

Miss Flynn, who was circumspection itself, took her time.  “She’s
dreadful, but she’s not big.”  She added that she wasn’t sure she ought
to let Adela go in alone; but this young lady took herself throughout for
a heroine, and it wasn’t in a heroine to shrink from any encounter.
Wasn’t she every instant in transcendent contact with her mother?  The
visitor might have no connexion whatever with the drama of her father’s
frustrated marriage; but everything to-day for Adela was part of that.

Miss Flynn’s description had prepared her for a considerable shock, but
she wasn’t agitated by her first glimpse of the person who awaited her.
A youngish well-dressed woman stood there, and silence was between them
while they looked at each other.  Before either had spoken however Adela
began to see what Miss Flynn had intended.  In the light of the
drawing-room window the lady was five-and-thirty years of age and had
vivid yellow hair.  She also had a blue cloth suit with brass buttons, a
stick-up collar like a gentleman’s, a necktie arranged in a sailor’s
knot, a golden pin in the shape of a little lawn-tennis racket, and
pearl-grey gloves with big black stitchings.  Adela’s second impression
was that she was an actress, and her third that no such person had ever
before crossed that threshold.

“I’ll tell you what I’ve come for,” said the apparition.  “I’ve come to
ask you to intercede.”  She wasn’t an actress; an actress would have had
a nicer voice.

“To intercede?”  Adela was too bewildered to ask her to sit down.

“With your father, you know.  He doesn’t know, but he’ll have to.”  Her
“have” sounded like “’ave.”  She explained, with many more such sounds,
that she was Mrs. Godfrey, that they had been married seven mortal
months.  If Godfrey was going abroad she must go with him, and the only
way she could go with him would be for his father to do something.  He
was afraid of his father—that was clear; he was afraid even to tell him.
What she had come down for was to see some other member of the family
face to face—“fice to fice,” Mrs. Godfrey called it—and try if he
couldn’t be approached by another side.  If no one else would act then
she would just have to act herself.  The Colonel would have to do
something—that was the only way out of it.

What really happened Adela never quite understood; what seemed to be
happening was that the room went round and round.  Through the blur of
perception accompanying this effect the sharp stabs of her visitor’s
revelation came to her like the words heard by a patient “going off”
under ether.  She afterwards denied passionately even to herself that she
had done anything so abject as to faint; but there was a lapse in her
consciousness on the score of Miss Flynn’s intervention.  This
intervention had evidently been active, for when they talked the matter
over, later in the day, with bated breath and infinite dissimulation for
the school-room quarter, the governess had more lurid truths, and still
more, to impart than to receive.  She was at any rate under the
impression that she had athletically contended, in the drawing-room, with
the yellow hair—this after removing Adela from the scene and before
inducing Mrs. Godfrey to withdraw.  Miss Flynn had never known a more
thrilling day, for all the rest of it too was pervaded with agitations
and conversations, precautions and alarms.  It was given out to Beatrice
and Muriel that their sister had been taken suddenly ill, and the
governess ministered to her in her room.  Indeed Adela had never found
herself less at ease, for this time she had received a blow that she
couldn’t return.  There was nothing to do but to take it, to endure the
humiliation of her wound.

At first she declined to take it—having, as might appear, the much more
attractive resource of regarding her visitant as a mere masquerading
person, an impudent impostor.  On the face of the matter moreover it
wasn’t fair to believe till one heard; and to hear in such a case was to
hear Godfrey himself.  Whatever she had tried to imagine about him she
hadn’t arrived at anything so belittling as an idiotic secret marriage
with a dyed and painted hag.  Adela repeated this last word as if it gave
her comfort; and indeed where everything was so bad fifteen years of
seniority made the case little worse.  Miss Flynn was portentous, for
Miss Flynn had had it out with the wretch.  She had cross-questioned her
and had not broken her down.  This was the most uplifted hour of Miss
Flynn’s life; for whereas she usually had to content herself with being
humbly and gloomily in the right she could now be magnanimously and
showily so.  Her only perplexity was as to what she ought to do—write to
Colonel Chart or go up to town to see him.  She bloomed with
alternatives—she resembled some dull garden-path which under a copious
downpour has begun to flaunt with colour.  Toward evening Adela was
obliged to recognise that her brother’s worry, of which he had spoken to
her, had appeared bad enough to consist even of a low wife, and to
remember that, so far from its being inconceivable a young man in his
position should clandestinely take one, she had been present, years
before, during her mother’s lifetime, when Lady Molesley declared gaily,
over a cup of tea, that this was precisely what she expected of her
eldest son.  The next morning it was the worst possibilities that seemed
clearest; the only thing left with a tatter of dusky comfort being the
ambiguity of Godfrey’s charge that her own action had “done” for him.
That was a matter by itself, and she racked her brains for a connecting
link between Mrs. Churchley and Mrs. Godfrey.  At last she made up her
mind that they were related by blood; very likely, though differing in
fortune, they were cousins or even sisters.  But even then what did the
wretched boy mean?

Arrested by the unnatural fascination of opportunity, Miss Flynn received
before lunch a telegram from Colonel Chart—an order for dinner and a
vehicle; he and Godfrey were to arrive at six o’clock.  Adela had plenty
of occupation for the interval, since she was pitying her father when she
wasn’t rejoicing that her mother had gone too soon to know.  She
flattered herself she made out the providential reason of that cruelty
now.  She found time however still to wonder for what purpose, given the
situation, Godfrey was to be brought down.  She wasn’t unconscious indeed
that she had little general knowledge of what usually was done with young
men in that predicament.  One talked about the situation, but the
situation was an abyss.  She felt this still more when she found, on her
father’s arrival, that nothing apparently was to happen as she had taken
for granted it would.  There was an inviolable hush over the whole
affair, but no tragedy, no publicity, nothing ugly.  The tragedy had been
in town—the faces of the two men spoke of it in spite of their other
perfunctory aspects; and at present there was only a family dinner, with
Beatrice and Muriel and the governess—with almost a company tone too, the
result of the desire to avoid publicity.  Adela admired her father; she
knew what he was feeling if Mrs. Godfrey had been at him, and yet she saw
him positively gallant.  He was mildly austere, or rather even—what was
it?—august; just as, coldly equivocal, he never looked at his son, so
that at moments he struck her as almost sick with sadness.  Godfrey was
equally inscrutable and therefore wholly different from what he had been
as he stood before her in the park.  If he was to start on his career
(with such a wife!—wouldn’t she utterly blight it?) he was already
professional enough to know how to wear a mask.

Before they rose from table she felt herself wholly bewildered, so little
were such large causes traceable in their effects.  She had nerved
herself for a great ordeal, but the air was as sweet as an anodyne.  It
was perfectly plain to her that her father was deadly sore—as pathetic as
a person betrayed.  He was broken, but he showed no resentment; there was
a weight on his heart, but he had lightened it by dressing as
immaculately as usual for dinner.  She asked herself what immensity of a
row there could have been in town to have left his anger so spent.  He
went through everything, even to sitting with his son after dinner.  When
they came out together he invited Beatrice and Muriel to the
billiard-room, and as Miss Flynn discreetly withdrew Adela was left alone
with Godfrey, who was completely changed and not now in the least of a
rage.  He was broken too, but not so pathetic as his father.  He was only
very correct and apologetic he said to his sister: “I’m awfully sorry
_you_ were annoyed—it was something I never dreamed of.”

She couldn’t think immediately what he meant; then she grasped the
reference to her extraordinary invader.  She was uncertain, however, what
tone to take; perhaps his father had arranged with him that they were to
make the best of it.  But she spoke her own despair in the way she
murmured “Oh Godfrey, Godfrey, is it true?”

“I’ve been the most unutterable donkey—you can say what you like to me.
You can’t say anything worse than I’ve said to myself.”

“My brother, my brother!”—his words made her wail it out.  He hushed her
with a movement and she asked: “What has father said?”

He looked very high over her head.  “He’ll give her six hundred a year.”

“Ah the angel!”—it was too splendid.

“On condition”—Godfrey scarce blinked—“she never comes near me.  She has
solemnly promised, and she’ll probably leave me alone to get the money.
If she doesn’t—in diplomacy—I’m lost.”  He had been turning his eyes
vaguely about, this way and that, to avoid meeting hers; but after
another instant he gave up the effort and she had the miserable
confession of his glance.  “I’ve been living in hell.”

“My brother, my brother!” she yearningly repeated.

“I’m not an idiot; yet for her I’ve behaved like one.  Don’t ask me—you
mustn’t know.  It was all done in a day, and since then fancy my
condition; fancy my work in such a torment; fancy my coming through at
all.”

“Thank God you passed!” she cried.  “You were wonderful!”

“I’d have shot myself if I hadn’t been.  I had an awful day yesterday
with the governor; it was late at night before it was over.  I leave
England next week.  He brought me down here for it to look well—so that
the children shan’t know.”

“_He’s_ wonderful too!” Adela murmured.

“Wonderful too!” Godfrey echoed.

“Did _she_ tell him?” the girl went on.

“She came straight to Seymour Street from here.  She saw him alone first;
then he called me in.  _That_ luxury lasted about an hour.”

“Poor, poor father!” Adela moaned at this; on which her brother remained
silent.  Then after he had alluded to it as the scene he had lived in
terror of all through his cramming, and she had sighed forth again her
pity and admiration for such a mixture of anxieties and such a triumph of
talent, she pursued: “Have you told him?”

“Told him what?”

“What you said you would—what _I_ did.”

Godfrey turned away as if at present he had very little interest in that
inferior tribulation.  “I was angry with you, but I cooled off.  I held
my tongue.”

She clasped her hands.  “You thought of mamma!”

“Oh don’t speak of mamma!” he cried as in rueful tenderness.

It was indeed not a happy moment, and she murmured: “No; if you _had_
thought of her—!”

This made Godfrey face her again with a small flare in his eyes.  “Oh
_then_ it didn’t prevent.  I thought that woman really good.  I believed
in her.”

“Is she _very_ bad?”

“I shall never mention her to you again,” he returned with dignity.

“You may believe _I_ won’t speak of her!  So father doesn’t know?” the
girl added.

“Doesn’t know what?”

“That I said what I did to Mrs. Churchley.”

He had a momentary pause.  “I don’t think so, but you must find out for
yourself.”

“I shall find out,” said Adela.  “But what had Mrs. Churchley to do with
it?”

“With _my_ misery?  I told her.  I had to tell some one.”

“Why didn’t you tell me?”

He appeared—though but after an instant—to know exactly why.  “Oh you
take things so beastly hard—you make such rows.”  Adela covered her face
with her hands and he went on: “What I wanted was comfort—not to be
lashed up.  I thought I should go mad.  I wanted Mrs. Churchley to break
it to father, to intercede for me and help him to meet it.  She was
awfully kind to me, she listened and she understood; she could fancy how
it had happened.  Without her I shouldn’t have pulled through.  She liked
me, you know,” he further explained, and as if it were quite worth
mentioning—all the more that it was pleasant to him.  “She said she’d do
what she could for me.  She was full of sympathy and resource.  I really
leaned on her.  But when _you_ cut in of course it spoiled everything.
That’s why I was so furious with you.  She couldn’t do anything then.”

Adela dropped her hands, staring; she felt she had walked in darkness.
“So that he had to meet it alone?”

“_Dame_!” said Godfrey, who had got up his French tremendously.

Muriel came to the door to say papa wished the two others to join them,
and the next day Godfrey returned to town.  His father remained at
Brinton, without an intermission, the rest of the summer and the whole of
the autumn, and Adela had a chance to find out, as she had said, whether
he knew she had interfered.  But in spite of her chance she never found
out.  He knew Mrs. Churchley had thrown him over and he knew his daughter
rejoiced in it, but he appeared not to have divined the relation between
the two facts.  It was strange that one of the matters he was clearest
about—Adela’s secret triumph—should have been just the thing which from
this time on justified less and less such a confidence.  She was too
sorry for him to be consistently glad.  She watched his attempts to wind
himself up on the subject of shorthorns and drainage, and she favoured to
the utmost of her ability his intermittent disposition to make a figure
in orchids.  She wondered whether they mightn’t have a few people at
Brinton; but when she mentioned the idea he asked what in the world there
would be to attract them.  It was a confoundedly stupid house, he
remarked—with all respect to _her_ cleverness.  Beatrice and Muriel were
mystified; the prospect of going out immensely had faded so utterly away.
They were apparently not to go out at all.  Colonel Chart was aimless and
bored; he paced up and down and went back to smoking, which was bad for
him, and looked drearily out of windows as if on the bare chance that
something might arrive.  Did he expect Mrs. Churchley to arrive, did he
expect her to relent on finding she couldn’t live without him?  It was
Adela’s belief that she gave no sign.  But the girl thought it really
remarkable of her not to have betrayed her ingenious young visitor.
Adela’s judgement of human nature was perhaps harsh, but she believed
that most women, given the various facts, wouldn’t have been so
forbearing.  This lady’s conception of the point of honour placed her
there in a finer and purer light than had at all originally promised to
shine about her.

She meanwhile herself could well judge how heavy her father found the
burden of Godfrey’s folly and how he was incommoded at having to pay the
horrible woman six hundred a year.  Doubtless he was having dreadful
letters from her; doubtless she threatened them all with hideous
exposure.  If the matter should be bruited Godfrey’s prospects would
collapse on the spot.  He thought Madrid very charming and curious, but
Mrs. Godfrey was in England, so that his father had to face the music.
Adela took a dolorous comfort in her mother’s being out of that—it would
have killed her; but this didn’t blind her to the fact that the comfort
for her father would perhaps have been greater if he had had some one to
talk to about his trouble.  He never dreamed of doing so to her, and she
felt she couldn’t ask him.  In the family life he wanted utter silence
about it.  Early in the winter he went abroad for ten weeks, leaving her
with her sisters in the country, where it was not to be denied that at
this time existence had very little savour.  She half expected her
sister-in-law would again descend on her; but the fear wasn’t justified,
and the quietude of the awful creature seemed really to vibrate with the
ring of gold-pieces.  There were sure to be extras.  Adela winced at the
extras.  Colonel Chart went to Paris and to Monte Carlo and then to
Madrid to see his boy.  His daughter had the vision of his perhaps
meeting Mrs. Churchley somewhere, since, if she had gone for a year, she
would still be on the Continent.  If he should meet her perhaps the
affair would come on again: she caught herself musing over this.  But he
brought back no such appearance, and, seeing him after an interval, she
was struck afresh with his jilted and wasted air.  She didn’t like it—she
resented it.  A little more and she would have said that that was no way
to treat so faithful a man.

They all went up to town in March, and on one of the first days of April
she saw Mrs. Churchley in the Park.  She herself remained apparently
invisible to that lady—she herself and Beatrice and Muriel, who sat with
her in their mother’s old bottle-green landau.  Mrs. Churchley, perched
higher than ever, rode by without a recognition; but this didn’t prevent
Adela’s going to her before the month was over.  As on her great previous
occasion she went in the morning, and she again had the good fortune to
be admitted.  This time, however, her visit was shorter, and a week after
making it—the week was a desolation—she addressed to her brother at
Madrid a letter containing these words: “I could endure it no longer—I
confessed and retracted; I explained to her as well as I could the
falsity of what I said to her ten months ago and the benighted purity of
my motives for saying it.  I besought her to regard it as unsaid, to
forgive me, not to despise me too much, to take pity on poor _perfect_
papa and come back to him.  She was more good-natured than you might have
expected—indeed she laughed extravagantly.  She had never believed me—it
was too absurd; she had only, at the time, disliked me.  She found me
utterly false—she was very frank with me about this—and she told papa she
really thought me horrid.  She said she could never live with such a
girl, and as I would certainly never marry I must be sent away—in short
she quite loathed me.  Papa defended me, he refused to sacrifice me, and
this led practically to their rupture.  Papa gave her up, as it were, for
_me_.  Fancy the angel, and fancy what I must try to be to him for the
rest of his life!  Mrs. Churchley can never come back—she’s going to
marry Lord Dovedale.”


