
“O. HENRYISM”


The mottoes of most of our fiction periodicals are told on their
covers: “A magazine of clever fiction,” “A magazine of bright fiction,”
“A magazine of entertaining fiction,” “A magazine of frisky fiction.”
But with all the available supply of novel plot material exhausted by
writers who had the good fortune of being here before our generation
had an opportunity, what is left to us is neither clever, bright, nor
entertaining. However, O. Henry proved that it was possible to take
the same age-old material and brighten it up with a coat of sparkling
cleverness. He had but to juggle his incidents in such a way as to make
them follow one another in a most spectacular sequence. He had but to
play upon the credulity of his reader. Like the stage magician, he said
to his audience: “Observe that there is a tree here and a fountain
there, and without moving a finger I shall reverse their positions. Now
watch, presto! Here they are!” And the audience applauded, wondering
how he did it, and crowned him king of the wizards.

The king of the wizards, then, occupies a most honorable position
in our textbooks. Stories written in the vein of O. Henry sell more
readily than stories written in the vein of any other master. There is
a brightness, a snappiness, a cheerfulness of style about them that
draws the artistic sensibilities of editors. And yet our insistence
upon the emulation of O. Henry has not produced many other O. Henrys.
Perhaps it is because O. Henry went to the highways and byways of North
and Central America for his plot material which he then juggled to
his heart’s content, while our students go to O. Henry for their plot
material. Perhaps also it is because O. Henryism was as much a part of
William Sidney Porter as was his speaking voice which is buried with
him.

A very young student once lodged a complaint against her own unruly
self. “It is absolutely impossible for me to write a single sentence
in the O. Henry way,” she said. “My stuff somehow doesn’t have that
swing--it’s dead. I don’t believe I shall ever learn. I am too sad of
disposition, I suppose.”

That was one time I did not smile. “Why should you want to write like
O. Henry?” I asked. “Why don’t you try to wear the shape of shoes
or the color of clothes he wore, or drink the kind of ginger-ale he
preferred?” But I was sorry later for my unguarded outburst, for I
realize that that was not the way to make story writers, not the kind
that sell, at any rate.

After all, O. Henry’s technique consisted mainly of a series of clever
tricks, and tricks can be taught, even though not perhaps his dexterity
in performing them. His was truly a gift of the Magi and not really a
gift of the gods. Admitting that through his superficial cleverness
there occasionally glimmers an uncommon understanding of and a sympathy
for the people whose destinies he juggles, the fact remains that his
example is that of clever execution rather than artistic conception.
It remains needless, then, for us to point to anything else in his
makeup save his successful technique. We read a dozen of his stories,
call attention to their brilliant mannerisms and surprising twists at
the end, and exhort our students to go and do likewise. Sometimes we
go a little further and discuss the underlying psychology upon which
O. Henry based his loops and twists--his belief that our modern reader
was so well-nourished on stereotyped fiction as to guess the conclusion
of a story by its beginning, and, consequently, O. Henry led him on to
believe that his guess was being borne out until the very end, when a
pleasantly startling disappointment was sprung upon him.

To substantiate our eulogies of the wizard and to impress upon the
would-be writer the importance of studying and emulating O. Henry, we
quote copiously from Stephen Leacock, Prof. C. Alphonso Smith, and
numerous other O. Henry friends. We seldom, if ever, quote opinions of
critics and editors who are hostile to O. Henry and his cult. Here is
one editor, for instance, who actually believes that “the effects of
such mannerism, trickery, shallowness, and artifice as distinguished O.
Henry’s work, are baleful on all literary students who do not despise
them.”[4] We know that this editor’s opinion must not be credited with
importance. His is only a small Greenwich Village publication. The
checks that writers receive come from editors who do like O. Henry’s
ways; in fact, prefer O. Henryesque stories almost to the exclusion
of any other type. Hence we examine the work of our students with
a feeling of satisfaction. By far the greater number have imbibed
our teachings. Their work shows a striving after cleverness, witty
flippancy, grotesque slang, and an attempt to cap the dénouement with a
novel twist, a perfectly surprising turn. Thus we know that our work is
not in vain; at least some of our students are on the way to success.

Again, this is not a plea on behalf of those incompetents who are not
O. Henryesquely gifted and are therefore not on the way to success. It
is merely a dispassionate consideration of the profession of teaching
story-writing and its existing standards and ethics. Since the O. Henry
story is held up as the supreme model, it is only fair to inquire
into the results thus produced. We have been so eloquent with pride
on the progress of our short story. Since Professor Brander Matthews
first expounded its philosophy, away back in 1884, and connected the
two little words by a hyphen to distinguish this form beginning with
an Initial Impulse and running up to a Climax and falling down to a
Dénouement from the story which is merely short, it has become our
prevailing form of literature. The quantity turned out annually is
beyond the dreams of such a pioneer as Poe. But the quality--ah, that
is another story!

What proportion of this wholesale output can be candidly, suppressing
for the moment our desire to experience flattering sensations, added to
our national literary treasury? How many memorable stories come to mind
to waylay us with their poignant spell of subtlety and beauty--such,
let us say, as Kipling’s “Without Benefit of Clergy,” or Chekhov’s
“Ward No. 6,” or Maupassant’s “In the Moonlight”? Few, isn’t it? And
peculiar, is it not, that though we have been heaping the warmest
of praise upon Richard Harding Davis and Clarence Budington Kelland
and George Randolph Chester and Richard Washburn Child and Mary
Roberts Rinehart and a score or more of our other popular writers,
the few memorable stories that do come to mind were not written by
these favorites. How much of the O. Henryesque is to be found in Mary
E. Wilkins Freeman’s “Revolt of Mother,” or in Theodore Dreiser’s
“The Lost Phoebe,”[5] or, to take a more recent example, in Anzia
Yezierska’s “Hungry Hearts”?[6] These stories are everything that
the wizard’s stories are not. They are neither breezy, nor flippant,
nor surprising; nor “refreshing.” Judged by our standards they are
anomalies.

I am sufficiently steeped in our inspirational literature to be aware
of the dangers of pessimism. The Doctors Crane and Orison Swett Marden
and Walt Mason have left their effect upon my disposition. But it is
only logical to deduct that if all the O. Henry standards that we
have so triumphantly established and extolled for the guidance of our
story writers have failed to produce a single great story to compare
with the best that other countries which do not preach and practice O.
Henryism have produced, there is something wrong with our standards.
These are unusual times we are living in. Everything that has seemed to
us wise and sound and sublime is coming in for a share of skepticism
and revaluation. Unquestionable things are being questioned. Is it not
a propitious time to attempt a revaluation of our short-story dogmas?
What is the contribution of O. Henryism to our national letters and to
the short story as a form of literary expression? How great an artist
really was William Sidney Porter, the founder of the Cult? Is it
sacrilege to attempt to answer these questions?

O. Henry left us more than two hundred and fifty stories. In the
decade before his death he turned out an average of twenty-five
stories a year. Mr. William Johnston, an editor of the New York
_World_ relates[7] the struggles of O. Henry in trying to live up to a
three-year contract he had with that paper calling for a story a week.
There were weeks when O. Henry would haunt the hotels and cafés of New
York in a frantic search of material, and there were times when the
stories could not be produced on time and O. Henry would sit down and
write the most ingenious excuses. Needless to state that O. Henry’s
stories bear all the marks of this haste and anxiety. Nearly all of
them are sketchy, reportorial, superficial, his gift of felicitous
expression “camouflaging” the poverty of theme and character. The best
of them lack depth and roundness, often disclosing a glint of a sharp
idea unworked, untransmuted by thought and emotion.

Of his many volumes of stories, “The Four Million” is without doubt
the one which is most widely known. It was his bold challenge to the
world that he was the discoverer--even though he gave the census
taker due credit--of four million people instead of four hundred in
America’s metropolis that first attracted attention and admiration.
The implication was that he was imbued with the purpose of unbaring
the lives of these four million and especially of the neglected lower
classes. A truly admirable and ambitious self-assignment. And so we
have “The Four Million.” But to what extent was he successful in
carrying out his assignment. How much of the surging, shifting, pale,
rich, orderly, chaotic, and wholly incongruous life of New York is
actually pulsating in the twenty-five little stories collected in the
volume?

What is the first one, “Tobin’s Palm,” if not a mere long-drawn-out
jest? Is it anything more than an anecdote exploiting palmistry as a
“trait”--to use another technical term--or point? It isn’t New York,
nor Tobin, nor any other character, that makes this story interesting.
It is O. Henry’s trick at the end. The prophecy is fulfilled, after
all, in such an unexpected way, and we are such satisfied children!

What is the second story, the famous “Gift of the Magi”? We have
discussed it and analyzed it in our texts and lauded it everywhere.
How much of the life of the four million does it hold up to us? It
is better than the first story; yes, much better. But why is it a
masterpiece? Not because it tries to take us into the home of a married
couple attempting to exist in our largest city on the husband’s income
of $20 per week. No, that wouldn’t make it famous. Much better stories
of poverty have been written, much more faithful and poignant, and
the great appreciative public does not even remember them. It is the
wizard’s mechanics, his stunning invention--that’s the thing! Della
sells her hair and buys a fob for hubby’s watch; while at the same time
hubby sells his watch and buys her a comb. But you don’t know all this
until they get together for the presentation of the gifts, and then
you gasp. We call this working criss-cross, a plot of cross purposes.
In this story we usually overlook entirely one little thing--the last
paragraph. It really is superfluous and therefore constitutes a breech
of technique. We preach against preaching. Tell your story, we say, and
stop. “Story” is synonymous with _action_. O. Henry didn’t stop--so
that even he was sometimes a breaker of laws. But this uncomfortable
thought doesn’t really have to be noted!

“A Cosmopolite in a Café” is a little skit proving that “since Adam no
true citizen of the world has existed.” It is the type of writing that
is termed “short story” by our humorous weeklies.

“Between Rounds” is the first story in the volume that really displays
O. Henry’s gift of mature satire. Here underneath his superficial
jesting lurks reality. The pathos in the lives of the McCaskeys and
the Murphys is touched upon, lightly to be sure, but sufficiently to
indicate that O. Henry saw it.

The plotted happy ending with plenty of “punch” is best exemplified by
“The Skylight Room.” The gullible reader must have really thought that
Billy Jackson was little Miss Leeson’s name of some star. But not so,
ha-ha! It really was the name of the ambulance doctor who came to take
her to the hospital. “Fishy,” you say? Not any more than “A Service of
Love.” Not that the young couple in this latter story might not have
both worked and concealed the fact from each other. But why both in a
laundry and in the same laundry? Coincidence of course! Incidentally,
can you recognize the “Gift of the Magi” here? Shakespeare may have
never repeated, but O. Henry did, very frequently too. Here we have
again the poor loving couple trying to get along on next to nothing a
week. A slightly different twist but the formula is the same. Even the
names of the principals are almost the same. In “The Gift of the Magi”
we had Della and Jim, in “A Service of Love” we have Delia and Joe.

In “The Coming-out of Maggie” O. Henry again brushes real life and real
romance. In the hands of a sincere artist this material could have been
worked into an immortal story. As a matter of fact, the same basic
theme--the heart-hunger of a neglected girl--has been treated by Gorki
in his “Her Lover.”[8] And the difference between the two stories is
the difference between tinsel and diamond.

“Man About Town,” “The Cop and the Anthem” and “An Adjustment of
Nature” are trivial things--expanded anecdotes at best. “Memories of
a Yellow Dog” presents O. Henry at his happiest. It is a fine bit of
satire--a field in which lay his strength. In “The Love-Philtre of
Ikey Schoenstein” the wizard again displays his bag of theatrical
tricks. And so he does in “Mammon and the Archer,” with its needless
anti-climax--again breaking the law: “Thou shalt stop when through.”
“Springtime à la Carte” is a long-drawn-out joke. So is “From a Cabby’s
Seat.” In “The Green Room” O. Henry once more had a cursory glimpse of
his “four million.”

Now we reach “An Unfinished Story.” Thanks to the good imps that may
have influenced him to leave this story unfinished. It is the only one
in the volume that shows O. Henry was capable of genuine emotion and
had a sense of artistic truth. Dr. Blanche Colton Williams would not
include it among O. Henry’s best because “It is just what the author
called it--unfinished.”[9] Yes, admittedly, it is unfinished--in a
technical sense. The $5 a week shop-girl has nothing to wear and does
not go to the dance with Piggy. And that’s all that happens, except a
little sermon at the end in which O. Henry intimates that the fellow
that sets fire to an orphan asylum, and murders a blind man for
his pennies, has a cleaner conscience than the prosperous-looking
gentleman who hires working girls and pays them five or six dollars a
week to live on in the city of New York. To “finish” this story would
have necessitated the distortion of truth, the blurring of the drab
little picture. That Sidney Porter refused to do it indicates to what
extent he was above the practical standards of his admiring disciples
and interpreters.

“The Caliph, Cupid and The Clock” is a bit of romantic clap-trap. So is
“Sisters of the Golden Circle.” “The Romance of a Busy Broker” is the
old absent-minded-professor-who-forgot-he-was-married joke belabored to
the dignity of a story.

“After Twenty Years” is another bit of writing that has been burdened
with unqualified encomiums by the O. Henry clergy. The ingenuity of
the plot and the strong “kick” at the end fill them with a halleluiah
ecstacy. An empty little crook story, sketchy, anecdotal, is hailed as
a masterpiece.

In “Lost on Dress Parade” you can again recognize the same old formula
underlying the construction of “The Gift of the Magi” and “A Service
of Love.” Another example of criss-cross plotting. “By Courier” is a
typical syndicate story. The woman the doctor had held in his arms
was only a patient who had fainted. It was all a mistake. The Best
Girl forgives and forgets. Nevertheless it represents an improvement
over the old type of similar story. The fair suspect was after all a
patient and not the hero’s sister.

“The Furnished Room” is another indication that O. Henry was capable of
feeling the pulse of his four million when he was so attuned, and “The
Brief Debút of Tilly,” though in smaller measure, corroborates it.

Thus an examination of O. Henry’s work by any one not blinded by
hero-worship and popular esteem, discloses at best an occasional brave
peep at life, hasty, superficial and dazzlingly flippant; an idea, raw,
unassimilated, timidly works its way to the surface only to be promptly
suppressed by a hand skilled in producing sensational effects. At its
worst, his work is no more than a series of cheap jokes renovated and
expanded. But over all there is the unmistakable charm of a master
trickster, of a facile player with incidents and words.

That William Sidney Porter was himself greatly displeased with his
accomplishment, that he even held it in contempt is attested by his
prevailing cynical tone. He knew he was not creating art, that he was
not giving the best there was in him. There was not time for that and
editors did not want it, and with a bitterness that Mark Twain and
Jack London shared to their dying day he continued to perform tricks.
Mr. William Johnston in his article in the _Bookman_, referred to
above, states that after reading one of his, Mr. Johnston’s, stories,
in some obscure Southern periodical, O. Henry wrote to him: “I wish
_I’d_ written that story.” The story was probably not remarkable in
any particular way. Mr. Johnston is not known as a great story writer.
But O. Henry must have felt that it was written sincerely and his own
artifice weighed upon him.

This is the lesson that an honest teaching profession with any critical
vision at all, undertaking to mold a generation of fiction writers,
ought to point out. Instead of worshipping him blindly, calling him the
“American Maupassant,” and quoting from his biographies painstaking
proof that he was innocent of the crime of embezzlement for which
he served a prison sentence, we might at least mention the danger
of following his methods too slavishly. The puritanic impulse which
inhibits any praise of a man’s work unless it can first establish his
“sterling” character is excruciatingly laughable if not downright
pathetic. Thus attempts have been made by meticulous biographers
to establish the fact that Edgar Allan Poe never tasted any sinful
beverage. And only then, having vindicated his character, does the
conscience of these brave biographers permit them to accept Poe as a
great writer and the pride of America. Whether O. Henry was guilty or
not does not change his standing as a story writer, nor his influence
on other writers, and it is only as such that the student and critic is
interested in him.

In our attitude toward O. Henry and O. Henryism lies one explanation
of the prevailing mediocrity of the contemporary American short story.
The conventional editor, teacher, student, and reader look upon the
short story as upon some interesting puzzle, the key to which is
cleverly concealed until the befuddled reader is ready to “give up.”
Our would-be writers seeking guidance from my profession are never
disabused of this conception but deliberately encouraged to retain it.
We overwhelm them with our analyses of the work of the Master, with our
glowing tributes to his art and charm and genius, his purity of thought
and his philosophy. An article on O. Henry, containing essentially the
same material presented in this chapter, was rejected by a magazine
circulating among young writers for the reason that “the editor does
not hold your views with regard to O. Henry’s contribution to the
American short story. He _is_ our supreme short-story master....” In
not a single textbook on story-writing, of the many that have come
to my attention, have I found such a simple estimate of O. Henry as
this: “His weakness lay in the very nature of his art. He was an
entertainer bent only on amusing and surprising his reader. Everywhere
brilliancy, but too often it is joined to cheapness; art, yet art
merging swiftly into caricature. Like Harte, he cannot be trusted.
Both writers on the whole may be said to have lowered the standards
of American literature, since both worked in the surface of life
with theatric intent.... O. Henry moves, but he never lifts. All is
fortissimo; he slaps the reader on the back and laughs loudly as if he
were in a bar-room. His characters, with few exceptions, are extremes,
caricatures. Even his shop girls, in the limning of whom he did his
best work, are not really individuals; rather are they types, symbols.
His work was literary vaudeville, brilliant, highly amusing, and yet
vaudeville.”[10]

This estimate, coming as it does from a standard source, cannot be
discounted by attributing it to radical or ultra-advanced tendencies.
The fact is that the case of O. Henry is so simple that even standard
critics and historians, if they but choose to be open-minded, can
see through it. When in 1916 Mrs. Katharine Fullerton Gerould in an
interview with the late Joyce Kilmer called O. Henry “a pernicious
literary influence,” even the New York _Times_, though hastening to the
defense of the wizard, admitted that there might be something in this
outburst of depreciation of O. Henryism. “I hear that O. Henry is held
up as a model by critics and professors of English,” said Mrs. Gerould.
“The effect of this must be pernicious. It cannot but be pernicious
to spread the idea that he is a master of the short story.” And the
_Times_, in an editorial, although taking issue with Mrs. Gerould, was
obliged to conclude:

“Maybe some day we shall get away from writing with a set of rules
before us, and then we shall have literature instead of best sellers.
Maybe the trouble with our writing is that we have developed technique
to such a point that Tom, Dick and Harry are masters of technique and
anybody who can get the hang of it can write a publishable story. Maybe
our fiction has been whetted to a razor edge, until it is technique and
nothing else. Maybe the story has been perfected until now we can tell
perfectly a story that is not worth telling, but have not even thought
of learning what stories are worth telling. Maybe, if we did that,
and told them without thinking of technique and without knowing that
there were any rules whatever, we might write stories that would be
remembered, say, ten years hence. Maybe there is, after all, only one
rule for telling a story--to have one worth telling and then to tell it
as well as you can. Maybe that is what is the matter with the American
drama as well as with American fiction. If we could unlearn some of the
rules and forget technique we might not produce best sellers; and maybe
if we told, as clumsily as our ignorance of the rules compelled us,
stories that were worth telling, there might be no more best sellers,
only stories that would live as long as the clumsy plots of Dickens
and the inartistic anecdotes of O. Henry.”

Just how long O. Henry’s stories will live and his influence
predominate is a prediction no one can safely undertake to venture
at this time. It depends upon how long we will permit his influence
to predominate. The great mass of our reading public will continue
to venerate any writer as long as our official censors continue to
write panegyrics of him, and our colleges to hold him up as a model.
The literary aspirants coming to us for instruction are recruited
largely from among this indiscriminating public. Sooner or later,
however, we must realize that the American Maupassant has not yet come
and that those who foisted the misnomer upon William Sidney Porter
have done the American short story a great injury. Before this most
popular of our literary forms can come into its own the O. Henry cult
must be demolished. O. Henry himself must be assigned his rightful
position--among the tragic figures of America’s potential artists whose
genius was distorted and stifled by our prevailing commercial and
infantile conception of literary values. Our short story itself must be
cleansed; its paint and powder removed; its fluffy curls shorn--so that
our complacent reader may be left to contemplate its “rag and a bone
and a hank of hair.”

When the great American short-story master finally does come, no titles
borrowed from the French or any other nationality will be necessary
and adequate. His own worth will forge his crown, and his worth will
not be measured in tricks and stunts and puzzles and cleverness. His
sole object will not be to spring effects upon his unwary reader.
His will be sincere honest art--with due apologies for this obvious
contradiction in terms, for art can be nothing but sincere!--a result
of deep, genuine emotions and an overflowing imagination. His very soul
will be imbued with the simple truth, so succinctly put by Mr. H. L.
Mencken, that “the way to sure and tremendous effects is by the route
of simplicity, naturalness, ingenuousness.”[11]



