
The weeks that followed were like a blur in Willard's mind. Though the
ship was utterly incapable of motion, the chance meteor that damaged
it had spared the convertors and assimilators. Through constant care
and attention the frail balance that meant life or death could be kept.
The substance of waste and refuse was torn down and rebuilt as precious
food and air. It was even possible to create more than was needed.

When this was done, Willard immediately regretted it. For it would be
then that the days and the weeks would roll by endlessly. Sometimes
he thought he would go mad when, sitting at the useless control
board, which was his habit, he would stare for hours and hours in
the direction of the Sun where he knew the Earth would be. A great
loneliness would then seize upon him and an agony that no man had ever
known would tear at his heart. He would then turn away, full of despair
and hopeless pain.

Two years after Dobbin's death a strange thing happened. Willard was
sitting at his accustomed place facing the unmoving vista of the stars.
A chance glance at Orion's belt froze him still. A star had flickered!
Distinctly, as if a light veil had been placed over it and then lifted,
it dimmed and turned bright again. What strange phenomena was this? He
watched and then another star faded momentarily in the exact fashion.
And then a third! And a fourth! And a fifth!

Willard's heart gave a leap and the lethargy of two years vanished
instantly. Here, at last, was something to do. It might be only a few
minutes before he would understand what it was, but those few minutes
would help while away the maddening long hours. Perhaps it was a mass
of fine meteorites or a pocket of gas that did not disperse, or even a
moving warp of space-light. Whatever it was, it was a phenomena worth
investigating and Willard seized upon it as a dying man seizes upon the
last flashing seconds of life.

Willard traced its course by the flickering stars and gradually plotted
its semi-circular course. It was not from the solar system but,
instead, headed toward it. A rapid check-up on his calculations caused
his heart to beat in ever quickening excitement. Whatever it was, it
would reach the _Mary Lou_.

Again he looked out the port. Unquestionably the faint mass was nearing
his ship. It was round in shape and almost invisible. The stars,
though dimmed, could still be seen through it. There was something
about its form that reminded him of an old-fashioned rocket ship. It
resembled one of those that had done pioneer service in the lanes forty
years ago or more. Resembled one? It was one! Unquestionably, though
half-invisible and like a piece of glass immersed in water, it was a
rocket ship.

But the instruments on the control board could not lie. The presence of
any material body within a hundred thousand miles would be revealed.
But the needle on the gauge did not quiver. Nothing indicated the
presence of a ship. But the evidence of his eyes was incontestable.

Or was it? Doubt gripped him. Did the loneliness of all these years
in space twist his mind till he was imagining the appearance of faint
ghost-like rocket ships?

The thought shot through his mind like a thunder bolt. Ghost Ship!
Was this the thing that Dobbin had seen before he died? But that was
impossible. Ghost Ships existed nowhere but in legends and tall tales
told by men drunk with the liquors of Mars.

"There is no ship there. There is no ship there," Willard told himself
over and over again as he looked at the vague outline of the ship, now
motionless a few hundred miles away.

Deep within him a faint voice cried, "_It's come--for me!_" but Willard
stilled it. This was no fantasy. There was a scientific reason for it.
There must be! Or should there be? Throughout all Earth history there
had been Ghost Ships sailing the Seven Seas--ships doomed to roam
forever because their crew broke some unbreakable law. If this was true
for the ships of the seas, why not for the ships of empty space?

He looked again at the strange ship. It was motionless. At least it was
not nearing him. Willard could see nothing but its vague outline. A
moment later he could discern a faint motion. It was turning! The Ghost
Ship was turning back! Unconsciously Willard reached out with his hand
as if to hold it back, for when it was gone he would be alone again.

But the Ghost Ship went on. Its outline became smaller and smaller,
fainter and fainter.

Trembling, Willard turned away from the window as he saw the rocket
recede and vanish into the emptiness of space. Once more the dreaded
loneliness of the stars descended upon him.
