
Seven years passed and back on Earth in a small newspaper that Willard
would never see there was published a small item:

"_Arden, Rocketport_--Thirteen years ago the Space Ship _Mary Lou_
under John Willard and Larry Dobbin left the Rocket Port for the
exploration of an alleged planetoid beyond Pluto. The ship has not been
seen or heard from since. J. Willard, II, son of the lost explorer, is
planning the manufacture of a super-size exploration ship to be called
_Mary Lou II_, in memory of his father."

Memories die hard. A man who is alone in space with nothing but the
cold friendship of star-light looks back upon memories as the only
things both dear and precious to him.

Willard, master and lone survivor of the _Mary Lou_, knew this well for
he had tried to rip the memories of Earth out of his heart to ease the
anguish of solitude within him. But it was a thing that could not be
done.

And so it was that each night--for Willard did not give up the
Earth-habit of keeping time--Willard dreamed of the days he had known
on Earth.

In his mind's eye, he saw himself walking the streets of Arden and
feeling the crunch of snow or the soft slap of rainwater under his
feet. He heard again, in his mind, the voices of friends he knew.
How beautiful and perfect was each voice! How filled with warmth and
friendship! There was the voice of his beautiful wife whom he would
never see again. There were the gruff and deep voices of his co-workers
and scientists.

Above all there were the voices of the cities, and the fields and the
shops where he had worked. All these had their individual voices. Odd
that he had never realized it before, but things become clearer to a
man who is alone.

Clearer? Perhaps not. Perhaps they become more clouded. How could he,
for example, explain the phenomena of the Ghost Ship? Was it really
only a product of his imagination? What of all the others who had
seen it? Was it possible for many different men under many different
situations to have the same exact illusion? Reason denied that. But
perhaps space itself denies reason.

Grimly he retraced the legend of the Ghost Ship. A chance phrase here
and a story there put together all that he knew:

Doomed for all eternity to wander in the empty star-lanes, the Ghost
Ship haunts the Solar System that gave it birth. And this is its
tragedy, for it is the home of spacemen who can never go home again.
When your last measure of fuel is burnt and your ship becomes a
lifeless hulk--the Ghost will come--for you!

And this is all there was to the legend. Merely a tale of some fairy
ship told to amuse and to while away the days of a star-voyage.
Bitterly, Willard dismissed it from his mind.

Another year of loneliness passed. And still another. Willard lost
track of the days. It was difficult to keep time for to what purpose
could time be kept. Here in space there was no time, nor was there
reason for clocks and records. Days and months and years became
meaningless words for things that once may have had meaning. About
three years must have passed since his last record in the log book
of the _Mary Lou_. At that time, he remembered, he suffered another
great disappointment. On the port side there suddenly appeared a
full-sized rocket ship. For many minutes Willard was half-mad with
joy thinking that a passing ship was ready to rescue him. But the joy
was short-lived, for the rocket ship abruptly turned away and slowly
disappeared. As Willard watched it go away he saw the light of a
distant star _through_ the space ship. A heart-breaking agony fell upon
him. It was not a ship from Earth. It was the Ghost Ship, mocking him.

Since then Willard did not look out the window of his craft. A vague
fear troubled him that perhaps the Ghost Ship might be here, waiting
and watching, and that he would go mad if he saw it.

How many years passed he could not tell. But this he knew. He was no
longer a young man. Perhaps fifteen years has disappeared into nothing.
Perhaps twenty. He did not know and he did not care.
