
Willard awoke from a deep sleep and prepared his bed. He did it, not
because it was necessary, but because it was a habit that had long been
ingrained in him through the years.

He checked and rechecked every part of the still functioning mechanism
of the ship. The radio, even though there was no one to call, was in
perfect order. The speed-recording dials, even though there was no
speed to record, were in perfect order. And so with every machine. All
was in perfect order. Perfect useless order, he thought bitterly, when
there was no way whatever to get sufficient power to get back to Earth,
long forgotten Earth.

He was leaning back in his chair when a vague uneasiness seized him.
He arose and slowly walked over to the window, his age already being
marked in the ache of his bones. Looking out into the silent theater of
the stars, he suddenly froze.

There was a ship, coming toward him!

For a moment the reason in his mind tottered on a balance. Doubt
assailed him. Was this the Ghost Ship come to torment him again? But no
phantom this! It was a life and blood rocket ship from Earth! Starlight
shone on it and not through it! Its lines, window, vents were all solid
and had none of the ghost-like quality he remembered seeing in the
Ghost Ship in his youth.

For another split second he thought that perhaps he, too, like Dobbin,
had gone mad and that the ship would vanish just as it approached him.

The tapping of the space-telegrapher reassured him.

"CALLING SPACE SHIP MARY LOU," the message rapped out, "CALLING SPACE
SHIP MARY LOU."

With trembling fingers that he could scarcely control, old Willard sent
the answering message.

"SPACE SHIP MARY LOU REPLYING. RECEIVED MESSAGE. THANK GOD!"

He broke off, unable to continue. His heart was ready to burst within
him and the tears of joy were already welling in his eyes. He listened
to the happiest message he had ever heard:

"NOTICE THAT SPACE SHIP MARY LOU IS DISABLED AND NOT SPACE WORTHY. YOU
ARE INVITED TO COME ABOARD. HAVE YOU SPACE SUIT AND--ARE YOU ABLE TO
COME?"

Willard, already sobbing with joy, could send only two words.

"YES! COMING!"

The years of waiting were over. At last he was free of the _Mary Lou_.
In a dream like trance, he dressed in his space suit, pathetically
glad that he had already checked every detail of it a short time ago.
He realized suddenly that everything about the _Mary Lou_ was hateful to
him. It was here that his best friend died, and it was here that twenty
years of his life were wasted completely in solitude and despair.

He took one last look and stepped into the air-lock.

The Earth-ship, he did not see its name, was only a hundred yards away
and a man was already at the air-lock waiting to help him. A rope was
tossed to him. He reached for it and made his way to the ship, leaving
the _Mary Lou_ behind him forever.

Suddenly the world dropped away from him. Willard could neither see nor
say anything. His heart was choked with emotion.

"It's all right," a kindly voice assured him, "You're safe now."

He had the sensation of being carried by several men and then placed in
bed. The quiet of deep sleep descended upon him.
