
He awoke with a start and a cry of alarm ran through him as he thought
that perhaps he might still be in the _Mary Lou_. The warm, smiling face
of a man quickly reassured him.

"I'll call the captain," the space man said. "He said to let him know
when you came to."

Willard could only nod in weak and grateful acceptance. It was true! He
pressed his head back against the bed's pillows. How soft! How warm! He
yawned and stretched his arms as a thrill of happiness shot through his
entire body.

He would see Earth again! That single thought ran over and over in his
mind without stopping. He would see Earth again! Perhaps not this year
and perhaps not the next--for the ship might be on some extra-Plutonian
expedition. But even if it would take years before it returned to home
base Willard knew that those years would fly quickly if Earth was at
the end of the trail.

Though he had aged, he still had many years before him. And those
years, he vowed, would be spent on Earth and nowhere else.

The captain, a pleasant old fellow, came into the room as Willard stood
up and tried to walk. The gravity here was a bit different from that of
his ship, but he would manage.

"How do you feel, Space Man Willard?"

"Oh, you know me?" Willard looked at him in surprise, and then smiled,
"Of course, you looked through the log book of the _Mary Lou_."

The captain nodded and Willard noticed with surprise that he was a very
old man.

"You don't know how much I suffered there," Willard said slowly,
measuring each word. "Years in space--all alone! It's a horrible thing!"

"Yes?" the old captain said.

"Many times I thought I would go completely mad. It was only the
thought and hope that some day, somehow, an Earth-ship would find me
and help me get back to Earth. If it was not for that, I would have
died. I could think of nothing but of Earth, of blue green water, of
vast open spaces and the good brown earth. How beautiful it must be
now!"

A note of sadness, matched only by that of Willard's, entered the
captain's eyes.

"I want to walk on Earth just once--then I can die."

Willard stopped. A happy dreamy smile touched his lips.

"When will we go to Earth?" he asked.

The Captain did not answer. Willard waited and a strange memory tugged
at him.

"You don't know," the Captain said. It was not a question or a
statement. The Captain found it hard to say it. His lips moved slowly.

Willard stepped back and before the Captain told him, _he knew_.

"Matter is relative," he said, "the existent under one condition is
non-existent under another. The real here is the non-real there. All
things that wander alone in space are gradually drained of their mass
and energy until nothing is left but mere shells. That is what happened
to the _Mary Lou_. Your ship was real when we passed by twenty years
ago. It is now like ours, a vague outline in space. We cannot feel
the change ourselves, for change is relative. That is why we became
more and more solid to you, as you became more and more faint to any
Earth-ship that might have passed. We are real--to ourselves. But to
some ship from Earth which has not been in space for more than fifteen
years--to that ship, to all intents and purposes, we do not exist.

"Then this ship," Willard said, stunned, "you and I and everything on
it..."

"... are doomed," the Captain said. "We cannot go to Earth for the
simple reason that we would go _through_ it!"

The vision of Earth and green trees faded. He would never see Earth
again. He would never feel the crunch of ground under feet as he
walked. Never would listen to the voices of friends and the songs of
birds. Never. Never. Never....

"Then this is the Ghost Ship and we are the Ghosts!"

"Yes."



