



Nothing more exciting ever happened to Oliver Watts than being
rejected by his draft board for a punctured eardrum until, deferring
as usual to the superior judgment of his Aunt Katisha and of
Glenna--his elder and militantly spinster sister--he put away his
lifelong dream and took up, at the age of twenty-five, the practice of
veterinary medicine.

The relinquished dream was Oliver's ambition, cherished since
childhood, to become some day a hunter and trainer of jungle animals.
It had been discouraged firmly and at length by his Aunt Katisha, who
maintained that the skin of the last male Watts was not to be risked
in a pursuit so perilous; and his Aunt Katisha won. He would do far
better, Oliver realized finally, to resign himself to the quiet
suburban life of Landsdale, Florida, and to perpetuate the Watts line
by marrying some worthy and practical local girl. The quiet life, it
developed, was that of a D. V. M.; the worthy and practical girl, Miss
Orella Simms of Tampa, to whom he was now engaged.

To put it plainly, Oliver was until the moment of his Great
Opportunity a good-humored stooge with a cowlick and a sense of
responsibility, whose invariable cue was family obligation and whose
crowning virtue was docility. He was maneuvered into becoming a D. V.
M. (though to tell the truth the profession suited him well enough,
being the nearest possible approach to realizing his ambition) solely
because the veterinary college in Tampa was near enough to Landsdale
for commuting and because his later practice could be carried on under
the guiding aegis of his personal matriarchy. The virtuous, and vapid,
Orella Simms became his fiancee by the same tactics and for the same
reasons.

Oliver _had_ considered rebellion, of course, but common sense
discouraged the idea. He had no intimates outside his family nor any
experience with the world beyond Landsdale and Tampa, and his
fledgling self-confidence invariably bogged down in a welter of
introspective apprehensions when he thought of running away. Where
would he go, and to whom could he turn in emergency?

Such was the character and condition of Oliver Watts when his newly
undertaken practice of veterinary medicine threw him into the company
of "Mr. Thomas Furnay" and of a girl whose name, as nearly as it can
be rendered into English, was Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above. Their
advent brought Oliver face to face for the first time in his sedentary
life with High Adventure--with adventure so high, as a matter of fact,
that it took him literally and bodily out of this humdrum world.
