
The initial step was taken when Mr. Furnay, known to Landsdale as a
wealthy and eccentric old recluse who had recently leased a walled
property on Federal Route 27 that had once been the winter retreat of
a Prohibition-era gangster, was driven by emergency to call upon
Oliver for professional service. Mr. Furnay usually kept very much to
himself behind his iron-grilled gates and his miles of stuccoed wall;
but it happened that in pursuit of his business (whose true nature
would have confounded Landsdale to its insular core) he had just
bought up the entire menagerie of an expiring circus billed as
Skadarian Brothers, and it was the sudden illness of one of his newly
acquired animals that forced him to breach his isolation.

Mr. Furnay called at the Watts place in his town car, driven by a
small, dark and taciturn chauffeur named Bivins. He found Oliver at
work in his neatly ordered clinic at the rear of the big house, busily
spooning cod-liver oil into a trussed and thoroughly outraged chow
named Champ.

"I have a sick animal," Mr. Furnay stated tersely. He was a slight man
with a moderately long and wrinkled face, a Panama hat two sizes too
large and a voice that had, in spite of its excellent diction, a
jarring timbre and definitely foreign flavor.

Oliver blinked, surprised and a little dismayed that Fate should have
sent him so early in his career a known and patently captious
millionaire. Bivins, waiting in visored and putteed impassivity to
reopen the door for his master, was silently impressive; the town car,
parked on the crushed shell driveway outside, glittered splendidly in
the late afternoon sunshine.

"I'll be happy to call later in the day," Oliver said. He removed the
padded block that had held Champ's jaws apart, and narrowly missed
losing a finger as the infuriated chow snapped at his hand. "My aunt
and sister are bringing my fiancee down from Tampa for dinner this
evening, and I can't leave the clinic until they get here. Someone
might call for his pet."

Mr. Furnay protested his extremity of need. "The animal suffers
periodic convulsions," he said. "It may be dangerously ill!"

Oliver unstrapped Champ from his detention frame and dodged with
practiced skill when the chow tried to bite him on the thigh. He had
taken it for granted--having heard none of the gossip concerning Mr.
Furnay's recent purchase of the Skadarian Brothers' menagerie--that
the sick animal in question was a dog or cat or perhaps a saddle
horse, and the bald description of its symptoms startled him more than
Champ's predictable bid for revenge.

"Convulsions? What sort of animal is it, Mr. Furnay?"

"A polar bear," said Mr. Furnay.

"Polar bear!" echoed Oliver, and in his shock of surprise he dropped a
detaining strap and let Champ loose.
