
The millionaire, who had entered the menagerie unheard, spoke sternly
to the girl in his own raucous tongue and pointed a peremptory finger
toward the door through which she had come. The girl murmured "_Ai
docssain, Tsammai_," in a disappointed tone, gave Oliver a smile that
would have stunned a harem guard, and disappeared again into her own
territory.

Oliver, being neither Chesterfield nor eunuch, was left with the giddy
sensation of a man struggling to regain his balance after a sudden
earth temblor.

His client reoriented him brusquely, "Treat my bear," Mr. Furnay said.

"I've been waiting for help," Oliver said defensively. "If you'll send
around your menagerie manager and a cage boy or two--"

"I have none," Mr. Furnay said shortly. "There are only the four of us
here, and not one will approach within touching distance of a brute so
vicious."

Oliver stared at him in astonishment.... Four of them meant only
Bivins, the gateman, the lovely blonde creature who called herself
Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above and Mr. Furnay himself.

"But four inexperienced people can't possibly look after a menagerie
of this size!" Oliver protested. "Circus animals aren't house pets,
Mr. Furnay--they're restless and temperamental, and they need expert
care. They bite and claw each other--"

"There will be more of us later," Mr. Furnay said morosely, "but I
doubt that numbers will help. We had not anticipated a ferocity so
appalling, and I fear that my error may have proved the ruin of an
expensive project. The native beasts were never so fierce on other--"

He broke off. "I am sorry. You will have to manage as best you can
alone."

And he left the menagerie without looking back.

To deal tersely with subsequent detail, Oliver did manage alone--after
a fashion and up to a point. It was a simple matter, once he found a
four-foot length of conveniently loose board, to prod the unhappy bear
from his larger prison to the smaller. The process of immobilizing the
brute by winching the squeeze-cage tight was elementary.

But in his casting-back Oliver had overlooked two vitally important
precautions: he'd forgotten to secure the gear fastenings, and he'd
neglected to rope the smaller cage to the larger.

The bear, startled by the prick of the needle when Oliver gave him a
sizable injection of nembutal, reacted with a frantic struggling that
reversed the action of the unsecured winch and forced the two cages
apart. The door burst open, sprung by the sudden pressure.

The bear stood free.

A considerable amount of legitimate excitement could be injected into
such a moment by reporting that the bear, at last in a position to
revenge itself for past indignities, leaped upon its tormentor with a
blood-freezing roar and that Oliver, a fragile pygmy before that
near-ton of slavering fury, escaped only by a hair or was annihilated
on the spot.

Neither circumstance developed, however, for the reason that the bear
was already feeling the effects of the anesthetic given it and wanted
nothing so much as a cool dark place where it might collapse in
privacy. And Oliver, caught completely off guard, was too stunned by
the suddenness of catastrophe to realize his own possible danger.

What did happen was that Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above chose that
particular moment to open her door again and look out.

Her fortuitous timing altered the situation on the instant; the bear,
bent only on escape and seeing comparative gloom beyond the door,
charged not at Oliver but through the opening. And Oliver, still too
confused to think past the necessity of retrieving his error, ran
after it, brandishing his length of board and shouting wildly.
