
The smaller area beyond the partition was dimly lighted, but to judge
by its straw-covered floor and faint animal smell was evidently a
special division of Mr. Furnay's menagerie. The light was too dim and
the emergency too great to permit Oliver more than a brief and
incredulous glimpse of the improbable beast placidly munching hay in a
corner; his whole attention was centered first on the fleeing bear and
then upon the prostrate form of Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above, who
had been violently bowled over by the bear's rush.

"Pearl!" yelled Oliver, petrified with horror.

The bear stood swaying upright over her, threshing its tufted forepaws
for balance and showing yellow tusks in a grimace that stemmed from
drugged weakness but which passed quite creditably for a snarl of
demoniac fury.

Obviously something had to be done. Oliver, galvanized by the
realization, came to the rescue with a promptness that amounted to
reflex action.

"Down, boy!" he said, and dealt the bear a sharp blow across the
muzzle with his board.

The bear dealt Oliver a roundhouse clout in return that stretched him
half-conscious beside Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above. Then, at
precisely that moment of greatest dramatic impact, it shook its head
dizzily and passed out cold.

The girl scrambled up and knelt beside Oliver to listen to his
heartbeat, found that he was alive and raised her voice in an urgent
arpeggio that held in spite of its operatic timbre a distinct note of
command.

In answer to her call the great beast in the corner--built something
on the order of a hippopotamus but with unorthodox variations in that
it boasted six legs to either side and was covered with close-curling,
bright blue wool--trotted out of the shadows and scooped up the
unconscious bear in its four powerful anterior arms.

A word from Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above sent it into the main
menagerie quarters, where it stuffed the limp bear into its old cage
and trotted back to its mistress with a look of adoring deference on
its round face.

The girl gave the creature a random trill of commendation and,
displaying surprising strength for one so slight, herself dragged the
reviving Oliver back to the scene of his unfinished diagnosis. The
order given her earlier by Mr. Furnay was not forgotten, however, for
she did not linger.

"Not handsome, no," she murmured, locking the partition door behind
her this time. "But O Personal Deity of Unmarried Maidens, such
headlong bravery!"
