
Oliver roused ten minutes later to find himself alone with a memory of
nightmare and a sleeping bear that offered no resistance whatever when
he funneled a quantity of tetrachlorethylene down its throat.

He was still alone an hour later--and still trying dizzily to separate
fact from fancy, having tried the partition door and found it
locked--when the bear returned to semi-consciousness and submitted
groggily to a follow-up dosage of purgative.

Oliver would have liked to stay long enough to learn the results of
his diagnosis and to see Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above if she should
reappear, but a glance at his watch electrified him with the
realization that he had been away from his clinic for more than two
hours and that his Aunt Katisha and Glenna might by now have the state
police beating the palmetto flats for his body. Accordingly he left
the Furnay estate in a great hurry, pausing at the gate only long
enough to leave word for Mr. Furnay that he would ring later in the
evening to check his patient's progress.

It was not until he had returned home and found his Aunt Katisha still
out that his overworked nerves, punished outrageously by shock,
violence and confusion, composed themselves enough to permit him a
reasonable guess as to what actually had happened--and by that time
his conclusions had taken a turn so fantastically improbable that he
was lost again in a hopeless muddle of surmise.

He poured himself a glass of milk in the kitchen (he preferred coffee,
but his Aunt Katisha frowned on the habit) and took his grisly
suspicions down to the clinic, where he felt more at ease than in the
antimacassared austerity of the house. There he mulled them over
again, and time was able to weave into the pattern the disjointed
impressions carried over from his period of semi-consciousness and
dismissed until now as nightmare figments from the delirium of shock.
Their alignment with other evidence increased his conviction:

Mr. Furnay and Menage, Oliver concluded with a cold thrill of horror,
were not human beings at all but monsters.
