
The pattern became even more disturbing when he considered various
stories of local saucer-sightings and fireballs, which linked
themselves with chilling germanity to the events of the day.

First there had been Champ's instant distrust of Mr. Furnay and
Bivins, and his attempt to rout them for the aliens they were. There
had been Bivins' anomalous scream when bitten--a raucous sound
certainly not human--and Mr. Furnay's grittily inconsonant order,
spoken in no identifiable earthly tongue. The isolation of the Furnay
estate took on a sinister and significant logic, as did its
understaffed condition; there was the evident but baffling reluctance
of Mr. Furnay and his myrmidons (with the notable exception of the
golden-voiced Pearl) to approach even safely caged beasts, and the
greater mystery of why a man so terrified of wild animals should have
bought a menagerie in the first place.

Considering the part played by Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above in a
scheme of things so fantastic left Oliver more disturbed than ever,
but for a different reason. That she was unarguably as alien as the
others made her equally mysterious, but connoted no share in whatever
devious plot occupied the Furnay faction; a reexamination of Mr.
Furnay's harshly dictatorial attitude toward her, coupled with
Oliver's own uncertain memory of the moment when the girl had come to
his rescue, convinced him that she was not ipso facto a member of the
extraterrestrial cabal but was its prisoner instead.

Visualizing the probable fate of a beautiful girl held captive by
aliens--and forced by them to train outlandish, half-remembered brutes
like the one behind the partition--rather strained Oliver's talent for
surmise, but at the same time moved him to the uneasy conviction that
it was his duty to rescue her in turn.

The thought that he might already be too late appalled him. The
slender blonde beauty of Perrl-high-C-trill-and-A-above was
distractingly fresh in his mind, the eager arpeggiation of her voice
an indelible memory. Recalling the smile she had given him in parting
stirred an internal warmth unguessed at before, an emotional ignition
certainly never kindled by his fiancee or family.
