
He staggered.

The first atomic shell had struck the ship, spinning it around. The
Captain fell to the floor, crashing into the control table. Papers and
instruments rained down on him. As he started to his feet the second
shell struck. The ceiling cracked open, struts and girders twisted and
bent. The ship shuddered, falling suddenly down, then righting itself as
automatic controls took over.

The Captain lay on the floor by the smashed control board. In the corner
Nasha struggled to free herself from the debris.

Outside the men were already sealing the gaping leaks in the side of the
ship, through which the precious air was rushing, dissipating into the
void beyond. "Help me!" Dorle was shouting. "Fire over here, wiring
ignited." Two men came running. Tance watched helplessly, his eyeglasses
broken and bent.

"So there is life here, after all," he said, half to himself. "But how
could--"

"Give us a hand," Fomar said, hurrying past. "Give us a hand, we've got
to land the ship!"

It was night. A few stars glinted above them, winking through the
drifting silt that blew across the surface of the planet.

Dorle peered out, frowning. "What a place to be stuck in." He resumed
his work, hammering the bent metal hull of the ship back into place. He
was wearing a pressure suit; there were still many small leaks, and
radioactive particles from the atmosphere had already found their way
into the ship.

Nasha and Fomar were sitting at the table in the control room, pale and
solemn, studying the inventory lists.

"Low on carbohydrates," Fomar said. "We can break down the stored fats
if we want to, but--"

"I wonder if we could find anything outside." Nasha went to the window.
"How uninviting it looks." She paced back and forth, very slender and
small, her face dark with fatigue. "What do you suppose an exploring
party would find?"

Fomar shrugged. "Not much. Maybe a few weeds growing in cracks here and
there. Nothing we could use. Anything that would adapt to this
environment would be toxic, lethal."

Nasha paused, rubbing her cheek. There was a deep scratch there, still
red and swollen. "Then how do you explain--_it_? According to your
theory the inhabitants must have died in their skins, fried like yams.
But who fired on us? Somebody detected us, made a decision, aimed a
gun."

"And gauged distance," the Captain said feebly from the cot in the
corner. He turned toward them. "That's the part that worries me. The
first shell put us out of commission, the second almost destroyed us.
They were well aimed, perfectly aimed. We're not such an easy target."

"True." Fomar nodded. "Well, perhaps we'll know the answer before we
leave here. What a strange situation! All our reasoning tells us that no
life could exist; the whole planet burned dry, the atmosphere itself
gone, completely poisoned."

"The gun that fired the projectiles survived," Nasha said. "Why not
people?"

"It's not the same. Metal doesn't need air to breathe. Metal doesn't get
leukemia from radioactive particles. Metal doesn't need food and water."

There was silence.

"A paradox," Nasha said. "Anyhow, in the morning I think we should send
out a search party. And meanwhile we should keep on trying to get the
ship in condition for the trip back."

"It'll be days before we can take off," Fomar said. "We should keep
every man working here. We can't afford to send out a party."

Nasha smiled a little. "We'll send you in the first party. Maybe you can
discover--what was it you were so interested in?"

"Legumes. Edible legumes."

"Maybe you can find some of them. Only--"

"Only what?"

"Only watch out. They fired on us once without even knowing who we were
or what we came for. Do you suppose that they fought with each other?
Perhaps they couldn't imagine anyone being friendly, under any
circumstances. What a strange evolutionary trait, inter-species warfare.
Fighting within the race!"

"We'll know in the morning," Fomar said. "Let's get some sleep."
