
The sun came up chill and austere. The three people, two men and a
woman, stepped through the port, dropping down on the hard ground below.

"What a day," Dorle said grumpily. "I said how glad I'd be to walk on
firm ground again, but--"

"Come on," Nasha said. "Up beside me. I want to say something to you.
Will you excuse us, Tance?"

Tance nodded gloomily. Dorle caught up with Nasha. They walked together,
their metal shoes crunching the ground underfoot. Nasha glanced at him.

"Listen. The Captain is dying. No one knows except the two of us. By the
end of the day-period of this planet he'll be dead. The shock did
something to his heart. He was almost sixty, you know."

Dorle nodded. "That's bad. I have a great deal of respect for him. You
will be captain in his place, of course. Since you're vice-captain
now--"

"No. I prefer to see someone else lead, perhaps you or Fomar. I've been
thinking over the situation and it seems to me that I should declare
myself mated to one of you, whichever of you wants to be captain. Then I
could devolve the responsibility."

"Well, I don't want to be captain. Let Fomar do it."

Nasha studied him, tall and blond, striding along beside her in his
pressure suit. "I'm rather partial to you," she said. "We might try it
for a time, at least. But do as you like. Look, we're coming to
something."

They stopped walking, letting Tance catch up. In front of them was some
sort of a ruined building. Dorle stared around thoughtfully.

"Do you see? This whole place is a natural bowl, a huge valley. See how
the rock formations rise up on all sides, protecting the floor. Maybe
some of the great blast was deflected here."

They wandered around the ruins, picking up rocks and fragments. "I think
this was a farm," Tance said, examining a piece of wood. "This was part
of a tower windmill."

"Really?" Nasha took the stick and turned it over. "Interesting. But
let's go; we don't have much time."

"Look," Dorle said suddenly. "Off there, a long way off. Isn't that
something?" He pointed.

Nasha sucked in her breath. "The white stones."

"What?"

Nasha looked up at Dorle. "The white stones, the great broken teeth. We
saw them, the Captain and I, from the control room." She touched Dorle's
arm gently. "That's where they fired from. I didn't think we had landed
so close."

"What is it?" Tance said, coming up to them. "I'm almost blind without
my glasses. What do you see?"

"The city. Where they fired from."

"Oh." All three of them stood together. "Well, let's go," Tance said.
"There's no telling what we'll find there." Dorle frowned at him.

"Wait. We don't know what we would be getting into. They must have
patrols. They probably have seen us already, for that matter."

"They probably have seen the ship itself," Tance said. "They probably
know right now where they can find it, where they can blow it up. So
what difference does it make whether we go closer or not?"

"That's true," Nasha said. "If they really want to get us we haven't a
chance. We have no armaments at all; you know that."

"I have a hand weapon." Dorle nodded. "Well, let's go on, then. I
suppose you're right, Tance."

"But let's stay together," Tance said nervously. "Nasha, you're going
too fast."

Nasha looked back. She laughed. "If we expect to get there by nightfall
we must go fast."
