
The rock fell to the ground. The gun paused, then resumed its calm
swivel, its slow circling.

"You see," Dorle said, "it noticed the rock, as soon as I threw it up in
the air. It's alert to anything that flies or moves above the ground
level. Probably it detected us as soon as we entered the gravitational
field of the planet. It probably had a bead on us from the start. We
don't have a chance. It knows all about the ship. It's just waiting for
us to take off again."

"I understand about the rock," Nasha said, nodding. "The gun noticed it,
but not us, since we're on the ground, not above. It's only designed to
combat objects in the sky. The ship is safe until it takes off again,
then the end will come."

"But what's this gun for?" Tance put in. "There's no one alive here.
Everyone is dead."

"It's a machine," Dorle said. "A machine that was made to do a job. And
it's doing the job. How it survived the blast I don't know. On it goes,
waiting for the enemy. Probably they came by air in some sort of
projectiles."

"The enemy," Nasha said. "Their own race. It is hard to believe that
they really bombed themselves, fired at themselves."

"Well, it's over with. Except right here, where we're standing. This one
gun, still alert, ready to kill. It'll go on until it wears out."

"And by that time we'll be dead," Nasha said bitterly.

"There must have been hundreds of guns like this," Dorle murmured. "They
must have been used to the sight, guns, weapons, uniforms. Probably they
accepted it as a natural thing, part of their lives, like eating and
sleeping. An institution, like the church and the state. Men trained to
fight, to lead armies, a regular profession. Honored, respected."

Tance was walking slowly toward the gun, peering nearsightedly up at it.
"Quite complex, isn't it? All those vanes and tubes. I suppose this is
some sort of a telescopic sight." His gloved hand touched the end of a
long tube.

Instantly the gun shifted, the barrel retracting. It swung--

"Don't move!" Dorle cried. The barrel swung past them as they stood,
rigid and still. For one terrible moment it hesitated over their heads,
clicking and whirring, settling into position. Then the sounds died out
and the gun became silent.

Tance smiled foolishly inside his helmet. "I must have put my finger
over the lens. I'll be more careful." He made his way up onto the
circular slab, stepping gingerly behind the body of the gun. He
disappeared from view.

"Where did he go?" Nasha said irritably. "He'll get us all killed."

"Tance, come back!" Dorle shouted. "What's the matter with you?"

"In a minute." There was a long silence. At last the archeologist
appeared. "I think I've found something. Come up and I'll show you."

"What is it?"

"Dorle, you said the gun was here to keep the enemy off. I think I know
why they wanted to keep the enemy off."

They were puzzled.

"I think I've found what the gun is supposed to guard. Come and give me
a hand."

"All right," Dorle said abruptly. "Let's go." He seized Nasha's hand.
"Come on. Let's see what he's found. I thought something like this might
happen when I saw that the gun was--"

"Like what?" Nasha pulled her hand away. "What are you talking about?
You act as if you knew what he's found."

"I do." Dorle smiled down at her. "Do you remember the legend that all
races have, the myth of the buried treasure, and the dragon, the serpent
that watches it, guards it, keeping everyone away?"

She nodded. "Well?"

Dorle pointed up at the gun.

"That," he said, "is the dragon. Come on."
