
Between the three of them they managed to pull up the steel cover and
lay it to one side. Dorle was wet with perspiration when they finished.

"It isn't worth it," he grunted. He stared into the dark yawning hole.
"Or is it?"

Nasha clicked on her hand lamp, shining the beam down the stairs. The
steps were thick with dust and rubble. At the bottom was a steel door.

"Come on," Tance said excitedly. He started down the stairs. They
watched him reach the door and pull hopefully on it without success.
"Give a hand!"

"All right." They came gingerly after him. Dorle examined the door. It
was bolted shut, locked. There was an inscription on the door but he
could not read it.

"Now what?" Nasha said.

Dorle took out his hand weapon. "Stand back. I can't think of any other
way." He pressed the switch. The bottom of the door glowed red.
Presently it began to crumble. Dorle clicked the weapon off. "I think we
can get through. Let's try."

The door came apart easily. In a few minutes they had carried it away in
pieces and stacked the pieces on the first step. Then they went on,
flashing the light ahead of them.

They were in a vault. Dust lay everywhere, on everything, inches thick.
Wood crates lined the walls, huge boxes and crates, packages and
containers. Tance looked around curiously, his eyes bright.

"What exactly are all these?" he murmured. "Something valuable, I would
think." He picked up a round drum and opened it. A spool fell to the
floor, unwinding a black ribbon. He examined it, holding it up to the
light.

"Look at this!"

They came around him. "Pictures," Nasha said. "Tiny pictures."

"Records of some kind." Tance closed the spool up in the drum again.
"Look, hundreds of drums." He flashed the light around. "And those
crates. Let's open one."

Dorle was already prying at the wood. The wood had turned brittle and
dry. He managed to pull a section away.

It was a picture. A boy in a blue garment, smiling pleasantly, staring
ahead, young and handsome. He seemed almost alive, ready to move toward
them in the light of the hand lamp. It was one of them, one of the
ruined race, the race that had perished.

For a long time they stared at the picture. At last Dorle replaced the
board.

"All these other crates," Nasha said. "More pictures. And these drums.
What are in the boxes?"

"This is their treasure," Tance said, almost to himself. "Here are their
pictures, their records. Probably all their literature is here, their
stories, their myths, their ideas about the universe."

"And their history," Nasha said. "We'll be able to trace their
development and find out what it was that made them become what they
were."

Dorle was wandering around the vault. "Odd," he murmured. "Even at the
end, even after they had begun to fight they still knew, someplace down
inside them, that their real treasure was this, their books and
pictures, their myths. Even after their big cities and buildings and
industries were destroyed they probably hoped to come back and find
this. After everything else was gone."

"When we get back home we can agitate for a mission to come here," Tance
said. "All this can be loaded up and taken back. We'll be leaving
about--"

He stopped.

"Yes," Dorle said dryly. "We'll be leaving about three day-periods from
now. We'll fix the ship, then take off. Soon we'll be home, that is, if
nothing happens. Like being shot down by that--"

"Oh, stop it!" Nasha said impatiently. "Leave him alone. He's right: all
this must be taken back home, sooner or later. We'll have to solve the
problem of the gun. We have no choice."

Dorle nodded. "What's your solution, then? As soon as we leave the
ground we'll be shot down." His face twisted bitterly. "They've guarded
their treasure too well. Instead of being preserved it will lie here
until it rots. It serves them right."

"How?"

"Don't you see? This was the only way they knew, building a gun and
setting it up to shoot anything that came along. They were so certain
that everything was hostile, the enemy, coming to take their possessions
away from them. Well, they can keep them."

Nasha was deep in thought, her mind far away. Suddenly she gasped.
"Dorle," she said. "What's the matter with us? We have no problem. The
gun is no menace at all."

The two men stared at her.

"No menace?" Dorle said. "It's already shot us down once. And as soon as
we take off again--"

"Don't you see?" Nasha began to laugh. "The poor foolish gun, it's
completely harmless. Even I could deal with it alone."

"You?"

Her eyes were flashing. "With a crowbar. With a hammer or a stick of
wood. Let's go back to the ship and load up. Of course we're at its
mercy in the air: that's the way it was made. It can fire into the sky,
shoot down anything that flies. But that's all! Against something on the
ground it has no defenses. Isn't that right?"

Dorle nodded slowly. "The soft underbelly of the dragon. In the legend,
the dragon's armor doesn't cover its stomach." He began to laugh.
"That's right. That's perfectly right."

"Let's go, then," Nasha said. "Let's get back to the ship. We have work
to do here."
