
The roads were of hard-packed dirt, but level, and wide. Occasionally,
as Sam Carruthers drove, they would pass through a hamlet, or go by
small knots of men and women in carriages and wagons drawn by striped
animals resembling Earth's African zebra. The farms were small but
numerous, and none, Joel noted, had been entirely cleared; the trees
had been thinned, and they were of a far more slender variety than grew
elsewhere, but they had not been eliminated. It set well with him. Joel
had always liked trees, and he had a feeling he was going to like other
people who did to such an obvious extent.

Buildings, he noted, were almost entirely of wood; structures very
similar to those he remembered having seen in a history text dealing
with the western United States in the nineteenth century. A few were of
stone, some of small, brick cubes; all were pleasing enough to the eye.
And the people themselves were--

The people looked up as the jeep roared past; looked up from their work
in the fields, looked out from their wagons and carriages, looked from
their saddled mounts at the roadside. But there was no fear in their
glances, only the quick puzzlement of inquiring intelligence.

They were straight, well-bodied people, clothed simply in colorful
garments which Joel assumed were made of cloth; the men were tall and
broad and he could mentally picture the powerful muscles that rippled
beneath their shirts. And the women--The women were the most graceful
creatures he had ever seen, even those who were obviously no longer
young; they were less fully clad than their men, and Captain Nicholas
Joel liked that.

He liked it because it was honest. Where there was something beautiful,
why in the name of anything holy or otherwise should it be covered
up? That was the trouble with Earth and her people. There were too
few things of real beauty, and when they did exist, humans seemed to
have a psychotic compulsion for either ignoring them or hiding them
completely. And those who did hesitate for a stolen moment's admiration
were hurriedly hollered back to their jobs.

"You're surprised that they're not cluttering up the roads, trying to
get a closer look at us?" Sam was hollering over the howl of the warm,
oxygen-rich atmosphere.

"Good discipline," Joel grunted, still occupied with his own thoughts.

"Well, you're partly right. But more than that, we haven't stopped to
look at _them_! It's sort of a half-courtesy, half-pride they have.
They won't slow a stranger down if he doesn't slow them down, figuring
that if he wanted to, he would; the prerogative is his. And, if he's
not that interested, then neither are they!"

"You're sure some expedition didn't get here before we did?" Joel
asked. "I mean--hell, they could be from Earth--"

"Ever hear of an Earthman with two hearts, Skipper? But physically
that's about the only difference I could find. Psychologically--" The
Space surgeon hesitated.

"Psychologically what?"

"Take too long to explain--we're coming into the capital city you were
talking about. And besides--" he grinned in a sidelong glance at Joel,
"you might even have the brains to figure it out all by yourself."

"Go to hell!"

In a moment Carruthers was busy with the jeep, tooling it through
narrowing streets, slowing it to almost a walk as men and women
hastened out of their way, crowded the board sidewalks to allow them
to pass unhampered. The buildings were much like those he had seen
in the rural districts; a little larger, a bit taller, but none more
than fifty feet in height. Neatly painted, their thin glass windows
bright and clean, they did not look like part of a city at all, Joel
reflected, much less part of a capital city. And everything was so
quiet.

Maybe too quiet. He felt a little chill at the base of his spine, but
kept looking straight ahead.

"You're sure, Sam, about leaving my guns back at the ship?"

Carruthers just grinned again. And then they turned abruptly, and
hauled up in front of a long, low building of flagstone.

"This is it," the surgeon said. "No reporters, no photographers,
no autograph seekers, no brass band or politicians. But you're on,
Skipper."
