
Captain Nicholas Joel felt naked without his guns, and he felt
off-balance and out of place. Standing in the sedate, oval-shaped
council-chamber with these peaceful-looking people confronting him, he
felt clumsy in his heavy black leatheroid uniform, big, highly-polished
black boots. He felt as if he looked like what he'd been forced to be
on other occasions, facing forms of life so alien that no difference
counted--like a man-at-arms, like a conqueror.

Suddenly, he was glad Sam had made him leave his guns back at the ship.

"Nicholas Joel, United Americas Intergalactic Exploration Fleet, of
the Ship _White Whale_, commanding!" Carruthers was introducing him in
English, and he wished that Sam would have had the good sense to have
said "This is Captain Joel" and let it go at that. Didn't the grinning
idiot know it must have been an awful pill for these people to swallow
all at once? That there were, to begin with, such things as other
planets and other galaxies--and that there were, even more incredibly,
other creatures that lived on them. And, whether they cared to believe
it or not, some of these creatures had just landed among them, and
there was nothing they could do about it!

Sam was picking his way along now in their speech, and then at an
obvious gesture, Joel knew he was being introduced to their top man.
Sam waved an arm toward the tallest of the twelve-man group, who arose
from the opposite side of a polished wooden table, and bowed gently
from the waist.

"His Excellency and Prime Governor, K'hall-i-k'hall."

Joel hesitated, then returned the bow. He had never bowed in his life,
but a salute to somebody dressed in civilian clothes seemed crazy.

"Sam, you mean he's Prime Governor of--"

"The whole planet."

"Am I always supposed to say his name twice?"

"That is his name. That's the way they do it. Now shut up, Skipper, and
let me do the talking. I'm going to go through the whole works again
with 'em. Then we sign. Then you get a tour of the town so the people
can be introduced to you officially. But don't go making any speeches!
Behave, and we're in business."

"You go to--"

But Sam had already started talking in the liquid-sounding language,
and Joel decided it was better for him to keep his own mouth shut and
be thought stupid than open it and remove all doubt. Damn it, the whole
thing was making him feel just the way he had twenty years ago, when
he landed his first explorer on an alien world! It had been that long,
and how many hundred meetings with alien life-forms since then, under
how many fantastic circumstances, on how many God-forsaken, unworldly
places? By now he was supposed to know the score. By now he was
supposed to have seen everything. By now he knew the book inside and
out, and had the ability to take charge no matter where in the black
universe they sent him. Nicholas Joel, United Americas Intergalactic
Exploration Fleet, of the Ship _White Whale_, commanding....

But nobody was challenging his right to have what he'd come for!

No _trouble_, that was the hell of it, and--and there was nothing to
hate.

For a miserable moment, Captain Nicholas Joel stood becalmed, with not
so much as a breeze in his sagging sails.

But he would not let them know it. He looked levelly into the eyes of
each of the twelve, but even that did little to make him feel more at
ease.

For he saw wisdom in the lined, kindly faces. He saw a humility and
sincerity that matched the simple clothing they wore. He saw a kindness
that men talked about in books and sometimes felt in their hearts, but
seldom held openly in their faces for the world to see. These men were
handsome in their physical stature, but they could have been little men
three feet high, and they would have been the biggest that Joel had
ever seen.

Now they were talking in subdued tones to Sam, and then one produced a
document, and handed Sam a slender writing stylus.

"Hey Sam--" The hoarseness of his voice unnerved him, but Joel plowed
ahead. "Hadn't you oughtta read that thing?"

"It's already been read, Skipper. By Dobermann. It took him three days
to draw it up--he did most of the writing himself. It's already been
electrostated; we've got ten copies of our own. Now keep your mouth
shut or they'll think we don't trust them. You sign first, because
you're the guest. Then K'hall-i-k'hall, and it's all over."

Sam's thin face had a seriousness in it that Joel knew he did not dare
question. _The trouble is_, the thought stung him, _you doubt, because
you were born and raised on Earth. Sam knows that. And he knows how
these people think. And he says sign.... So sign, you big boob._

Silently, Joel took the stylus from Sam, bent quickly over the
papyrus-like document, and put his name, rank and ship where
Sam pointed. Then he gave the stylus to Sam, who returned it to
K'hall-i-k'hall. And in another instant, all the mneurium-4 the _White
Whale_ could lift clear was theirs for the taking.
