
Once he'd put his mind to it, Joel could converse in the language of
his hosts as fluently as either Dobermann or Carruthers, and within a
month he had been able to finish a limited round of visits to a full
dozen of the smaller cities and towns. These people had respected his
wish that he be allowed to roam their streets and public buildings
without official escort, and with an ever-quickening fading of his
self-consciousness, he did.

He did, more and more frequently.

And from the vantage point of their peacefully winding roads or their
quaint little shops where they dispensed a fluid amazingly similar
to Martian Colony Bond, Joel could hate the _White Whale_ from a
comfortable distance, and with a healthy, untiring diligence. This he
also did, more and more frequently.

It was during one of these self-assigned off-duty periods, alone in his
personal jeep, that his most recent pint of Bond decided to harass
him, and he discovered almost too late that he had ignored a turn
of the dirt roadway. He skidded wickedly, and frightened one of the
zebra-like animals drawing a vehicle much resembling a four-wheeled
surrey. The animal let go with a terrified whinny, and with a sickening
splintering noise, the _dhennah_ went plunging off the road into the
deep drainage ditch at its edge. There was also another sound, and Joel
practically stood the jeep on its nose slewing it to a stop.

By the time he was out and running back, the frightened animal had
gotten itself out of the ditch and was working frantically to bring the
_dhennah_ out after it. But the vehicle was canted at a crazy angle,
and it was obvious to Joel that at least one of its starboard wheels
was broken, and that it would take more than one _kaelli_ to haul it
out.

None of this, he reflected as he ran, was going to help diplomatic
relations a bit. And he was no Dobermann. But it was none of these
things that worried him at the moment.

She was screaming bloody murder, and still was hard at it when he
jumped into the ditch.

She stopped when he clambered up on the steeply tilted narrow seat to
which she clung. There was suddenly not a sound from her as his big
hands circled her waist and gently lifted her to the ground.

Then he discovered that his voice was stuck. Dammit, an explorer
captain for over fifteen years, and he didn't know what to say when he
banged up some farm girl's _dhennah_!

"I--ah, am terribly sorry. It will be replaced, of course. Very stupid
and clumsy of me. I--ah, you hurt?" Rather smooth, at that!

She smiled. Slender lips, golden-colored eyes, delicately contoured
face--all seemed to smile together. A breeze ruffled her tawny mass of
shoulder-length hair, and Nicholas Joel just stood there.

"You are forgiven, the _dhennah_ was not a costly one. I know how
difficult it must be for you to guide those machines of yours at such
terrible speeds ... but of course the speeds are necessary to you in
your work. Thank you for helping me."

Joel reassured himself that if only the conversation were in his mother
tongue, he would of course not feel so ridiculously at a loss for
words. After all, this young female was only an--an alien being.

"It was my pleasure, of course," Joel said. He thought perhaps if he
could manage a smile--"I am gratified that you accept my clumsiness
with such excellent grace. As intruders to begin with, my men and I--"

"Intruders, sir?" She had taken a few steps away from him to stroke the
neck of the _kaelli_ and quiet it, but she was still looking at him.
"Why intruders? At one time, all the people of this world were not of
one great community as they are now, surely you know that. But when
one group travelled and visited another, no one thought of it as an
intrusion." She laughed. "Are we all not one under the sun?"

"But they were of your own kind, from elsewhere on your own planet--"

"A visitor is a visitor," she said, as though suddenly puzzled. "What
can it matter where he is from?"

Joel started to reply, but checked himself. Of course these people
had no way of knowing. Of course they were still under the impression
that intelligent life, wherever it might exist, would necessarily be
in their own form. The fact that it might not be had never occurred
to them! Then that was why they had not feared the _White Whale_
and her crew. It was something Carruthers had probably perceived at
once, something he could no doubt explain. But now Joel was seeing it
first-hand for himself. Psychologically, this girl and her people were
incapable of conceiving a way of life based on different reasons for
living than their own, with different motives, different--ambitions.

Just, he reflected, as his own people were psychologically incapable of
greeting a stranger without subconscious suspicion.

To these people, a visitor was--a visitor, and therefore a friend!

He wondered how many others beside himself, Carruthers and Dobermann
knew.

"Perhaps it does not matter at all," Joel said, and he was surprised at
the gentleness in his voice. He had not felt it that way in his throat
for a long time. Not for a terribly long time. "Now, if you'll let me
help you with that harness, we'll free your _kaelli_, and see what can
be done about getting you on toward your destination!"

Joel's big fingers started fumbling with the thick leather thongs
of the _kaelli's_ rig. The harness felt strange and confusing to
hands disciplined to the limiting exactnesses of servocircuits and
pressure-control studs, and the complexity of their co-ordination was
thrown into confusion by sheer simplicity.

The girl laughed as she watched his efforts, then guided his hands
with her own, and Joel felt a strange warmth mounting in his neck.
And when the _kaelli_ was at last freed, he said, "Now then, where
can I take you? I owe you something more than just the replacement of
your _dhennah_. I shall drive slowly so that the _kaelli_ can follow,
and you can see for yourself what it is like to ride in one of our
machines!"

"But--they go like the wind!"

"Indeed they do!" Joel laughed, unaccountably pleased with her
excitement. "Yes, ma'm, just like the wind!"

Quite unexpectedly, she reached for his hand, and Joel clasped hers
with a quickness he had not intended. But then he was leading her to
the jeep, helping her into it.

He started the powerful turbine engine, chuckled aloud at her quick
gasp, then joined in her laughter.

"Just like the wind!" he cried and they were off.

The day was clear and bright and to Joel the air itself seemed to come
alive with a heady excitement. This was something, it told him. This
was not to hate. This was not to drink in bitterness. This was _not_ to
be alone.
