
Captain Nicholas Joel paced the fore-waist bridge. There was a full,
untouched flagon on the mahogany desk, and the bottle of Martian Colony
Bond stood, tightly corked, beside it.

He sat down, hating the feel of the chair of command beneath his big
body.

What he was thinking was wrong, of course. But no man could be two men;
a man could not split himself down the middle and say: this is your
life _here_, this is your life _there_, for it is unthinkable that a
man be prisoner of one life only--No, a man could not do that; a man
had only one life.

Wrong, was it?

And who, any more a man than himself, could dare to be judge?

He would call Carruthers; he would explain, and Carruthers would inform
the rest. As for Command--

A buzzer roared on the desk in front of him. It was the dispatch unit
communicator--it would be Southard.

A huge forefinger hit the toggle almost hard enough to wrench it from
its socket.

"Command!" Joel grated into the sensitive pick-up. "Proceed with your
message." He reached for the flagon, drained it, filled it again.

"Lieutenant Southard calls Command from Servogroup 4." The youngster's
voice sounded tight, excited. Now what the hell--"Request task mission.
Request task mission. Position--"

Joel quickly jacked in the ship's armory circuit. An alarm klaxon would
be electrifying the entire complement of combat personnel stationed
in that quarter of the ship even as armory communications was taking
down the co-ordinates Southard was dictating. And within one minute
and forty-five seconds after that, combat units would be assembling in
machine-like precision, deploying into advance order at the ship's
stern.

And as the two huge sections between the _White Whale's_ slender
atmosphere fins opened like hungry steel mouths, disgorging flat,
thick-bodied machines with their grim burdens of armed men and
destroyer-artillery. Ship's Guard would be taking up defense positions,
manning gun stations which commanded an energy potential sufficient to
destroy a minor planet in a single, searing second of blue-white heat.

All this was automatic. A dispatch-unit request for task mission was
an order, momentarily transcending even Command authority. It worked
that way because the men who travelled space had learned that with the
first foot they rose off the surface of Earth, theirs was no longer the
privilege of living, but the task of survival. Space was emergency. And
if you regarded it otherwise, it would kill you.

Joel waited. He watched only the sweep second hand on his desk
chronometer; he did not need his screens, for he knew too well what was
transpiring three hundred and twelve feet below him. He had seen it too
many times. And too many times had he waited the necessary two minutes,
listened to the taut silence of the waiting communicator.

"Command to Southard. Task mission dispatched and advancing. Now
describe your situation."

"As follows--" The young lieutenant's voice was still taut, but it was
not at the edge of panic. Of that Joel was certain. It was just that
this was the first time, and it wasn't a field exercise, and it hadn't
just been learned the night before from an Academy manual....

"Servounit 4, sample tapping with four facilities at two hundred feet.
Metal encountered; processed. Object depth-screened; fabricated.
Extends from minus two zero zero to minus five two seven. Diameter
three zero feet. Further investigation withheld pending arrival of task
mission. Over for Command."

_Over for Command_, the young voice said. So many, many times....

He was not exactly the same Nicholas Joel, now. He was Command....

"All right, boy, sit easy and try to relax. What the hell is it you've
got holed up out there?"

"It's a--a space ship, sir."

"What class?"

"I don't know, sir. It isn't Terrestrial."

"All right, what do the counters tell you?"

"It's about a thousand years old, sir. That's as close as the counters
can come, working off a screen. Perhaps, sir, you'd--"

"Well I don't want to look at pictures! Inform task mission when they
show up that I'm coming out for a look around--and I'll have their
hides if they go unnailing things before I get there. You got any Bond
with you, Southard?"

"Yes sir."

"All right, you get my point? Don't drink it all! This is Command,
_Whale_, out!"

Joel broke the circuit just as the admittance buzzer went off; he
thumbed a stud and the narrow bulkhead door slid back, admitting
Carruthers and Dobermann.

"Was wondering when you two were going to report. Sent a T-M to
Southard--says he's found a space ship two hundred feet under the
desert. Sometimes I think that kid works too hard. All right, got the
'copter ready?"

"Warming up on the waist ramp now," Dobermann said.

Joel stood up, reached for his guns and belt and strapped them around
his thick middle. He gave Carruthers a quick look. The thin face was
taut, almost expressionless, but there was an excitement smouldering in
the dark eyes; the old excitement Joel had seen in them so many times
before.

"No objections to the artillery this time, I take it, Sam?" Joel
grunted as he clasped the big buckle, let the weight of the blasters
sag their holsters down into position on his thighs. "Damn good of you!
And I'm glad you understand these people so well--while we're on our
way maybe you can tell me why they bury space ships."

"Maybe we ought to ask them, Skipper," Sam said with a half-smile on
his thin lips.

"I get your point. But maybe they should've told us! Come on."
