
On Joel's order, the task mission's guns had been reversed; drawn about
the area where Southard's servounits were noisily sucking up sand,
they no longer were concentrated on the excavation site, but instead
defended it, slender snouts commanding an immense circular field of
fire.

"You don't trust them at that, do you, Nicholas?" Carruthers said above
the racket of the servounits. "Lord, you could slaughter an army--"

"This is what it says to do in the goddamn books!" Joel snapped.
"You're the guys who were so glad to make a strike."

The heavy, tracked machinery with its towering drill-housings and
down-thrust vacuum-scoops whined and growled in a nerve-wrenching
discord of power. Men sweated under the mild sun with a silent hurry,
with a disciplined excitement.

Southard was fast and efficient.

Dobermann was silent, watching, analyzing.

Carruthers had the hungry look in his eyes that Joel did not understand.

And Joel was impatient. It was a tableau of men and machines that he
had watched before, and always, at the end of it, there was something
big for him to handle--frustrating if not dangerous, a mind and
bone-wearying struggle if not an outright battle. They never came
smooth, never.

"Forehull clear, sir!" It was Southard, calling from the lip of the
immense hole his machines had excavated.

"Cut your servos!"

Southard signalled to his units, and they muttered slowly into silence,
and then the silence hung over them all like a heavy thing, and Captain
Nicholas Joel knew that what happened next was up to him.

With a motion of one gauntleted hand he brought Dobermann and
Carruthers in next to him, and then the three of them walked with a
disciplined haste to the sandy lip, past Southard, and looked down.

A pitted forehull jutted up out of the moist sand two hundred feet
below them, its plates glittering darkly in the rays of the powerful
illumination units which had already been lowered.

Dobermann's quick eyes took in each detail in seconds, and then they
darted up to Joel's face. Carruthers was silent, and his face was white.

"All right, let's get some winch-lifts over here!" Joel bellowed.
"Torches, can-openers, let's get with it!"

And within minutes, Joel was on his way down in a bucket, big boots
planted solidly on a small mountain of heavy tools.

Dobermann was following, and Carruthers was in the third bucket.

Joel's bare hands were exploring the gnurled lip of the forehull
lock-hatch before either of them hit bottom. Dobermann was first up
beside him, a heavy torch cradled in his short, thick arms.

"Ready?"

"Won't need that thing," Joel grunted. "Nobody locked up when they
left. Give me a hand."

The hatch, like the rest of the hull, was pitted, but despite the
moistness of the sand in which the ship was imbedded, there were
no indications of corrosion. Joel made a mental note to have the
lubricants in which the hinge-gymbals were packed analyzed later; they
were still as good as new; the hatch was giving almost easily.

Carruthers, with an arc lantern, lit their way inside.

They walked into what was obviously a pilots' compartment. Instruments,
control panels, ack-seats, notations on metal-leaf note-pads which they
did not understand; Dobermann copied them.

They descended ladder-walks into the fore-waist; crew compartment.
Functional, compact, reflecting the same efficient engineering which
they had encountered in the previous compartment.

Through a second bulkhead opening; supply compartment. Through another;
cargo hold. It was not empty, and loading gear was in evidence,
although neatly stowed in its locks.

"Mneurium-4," Carruthers said. The words made a hollow sound in the
emptiness behind them.

They kept going. Armory. All units still in place. Engine room.
Dobermann's counter ticked slowly in the stillness. Still a little kick
left in the piles. Machine-shop; lab. Spotless, perfect order. Finally,
tubes. The smooth metal gleamed in the light of Carruthers' lamp.

And that was all.

Joel turned wordlessly and started back up the ladder-walks. Dobermann
and Carruthers clanged hollowly after him, scrambling to keep up.

Joel didn't stop until he had climbed back into one of the buckets, and
then he waved impatiently. Machinery whined above him, and his bucket
swung clear.

At the lip, he motioned for Southard.

"All right, I want ten of your people with technical research rates.
Leave them with Dobermann and Carruthers. Issue return orders to your
T-M, and then get these units out of here and digging up what we came
after."

"But--yes sir."

Dobermann and Carruthers were at the lip, climbing out of their
buckets. There was a puzzled look, even on Dobermann's usually taciturn
face.

"You two," Joel snapped, "will have a crew of researchers. Ten men.
Take twenty-four hours and scrape the insides of this thing. Carruthers
will report directly to me when you're finished. Dobermann, you'll nail
K'hall-i-k'hall to a wall somewhere and don't let him down until you
find out what became of whoever flew this tank."

He turned and walked away before anyone could protest.
