
Captain Nicholas Joel drained the flagon. He looked again at the faded
image in the small, rectangular frame, finally returned it to the
breast pocket of his tunic. Then he looked up across the mahogany desk
at Carruthers and Dobermann.

"So," he said slowly, "so he told you he didn't know, did he?"

"Yes, Captain, that is what he told me. He was surprised about the
space ship. He called the others in. There was the same reaction.
They--"

Joel leaped to his feet. "Don't give me that!" he thundered. He grabbed
at the bottle of Bond; spilled it as he poured. "You _know_ he knows!"

"Captain, I was quite convinced."

"Quite convinced, quite convinced, were you.... All right, Dobermann,
get out of here. You find out anything, let me know. Sam, I want to
talk to you. Go on Dobermann, _git_!"

Joel slumped back behind the desk as his first officer pivoted, left.
He tried a swallow from the flagon; fumbled at his tunic pocket for
the small frame, extracted it; looked at it again. Then put it back a
second time.

Carruthers sat down opposite him.

"You going to talk to me, Nicholas, or pass out before you get the
chance?"

"All right, Sam." Joel got up, put the Bond back in its cabinet;
emptied the flagon and put it in too. "I get your point. Only you
listen. The crew of that ship was deliberately murdered. Cold-bloodedly
murdered, and it isn't going to happen to us."

"I see." The ship's surgeon eyed the tips of his fingernails, then
slowly looked up into Joel's red, swollen face. "Naturally, there
wouldn't be any bodies around to prove your theory, would there,
Skipper? And no signs of struggle. We didn't see any. Of course,
their guns _were_ racked up pretty neatly--But it's all there in the
report--" he waved a slender hand toward a roll of tape on the desk.

"Never mind your sarcastic technicalities! They were--"

"Nicholas, sit down. And listen."

"All right. But I _don't_ get your point! And I don't want any of your
double-talk! The trouble with you guys--"

"First of all, Nicholas, you know that crew wasn't murdered or anything
of the kind. And you know, and Dobermann realizes that you know _he_
knows, that K'hall-i-k'hall was lying in his teeth. And K'hall-i-k'hall
knows _we_ know it."

Joel lowered his eyes. "All right, Sam," he said. No, there hadn't been
any use in trying to drum up a bunch of tripe--no use in trying to
fool Sam. He had known that from the start. But sometimes--sometimes,
even when a man knew he was fooling himself, he had to give it a try,
just to see-- "They went native, didn't they, Sam?" he said.

"Yes, Skipper. They did. Somebody back where they came from needed that
mneurium-4 real bad. Somebody had guts and sweat and brains enough to
get ships into space looking for it. And in their own way, somebody had
faith enough to think they'd get it if it was to be found. Only, as you
say--"

"Liked it here, I suppose. Liked it better than anything they'd ever
seen before--and that can of theirs had a thumping set of drives, so
they'd seen plenty."

There was silence for a moment. And then Sam said, "Well, Nicholas,
there it is. The psychology of the thing is obvious enough, isn't it?"
Carruthers gave him a meaningful look, and Joel's nerves rebelled at it.

"All right, I get your point!" A big fist slammed down on the desktop.
"So somebody didn't get their mneurium-4! Somebody probably ornery
enough to keep on living anyway. What do you want to bet they're still
going strong, who or wherever they are out in that black hell up there?
What do you want to bet, Sam?"

The surgeon's thin lips smiled gently. "I'd bet right along with you,
Nicholas. They're probably still going strong. I imagine they made out."

"But K'hall-i-k'hall--"

"Is proprietor of a very pleasant world. A world of very nice people,
Nicholas, who enjoy living in their way, and get a kick out of seeing
other people enjoy it. They think a little differently than a lot of
folks."

"That makes 'em bad, I suppose?"

"No."

Joel looked into the thin face, the intent, dark eyes. The look was in
them.

And Joel guessed he was finally letting himself realize what the look
really meant.

It was a look that meant a hunger for all that Joel hated, and more....

It was a look that meant, even now after all these years, that Sam
still hurt inside, and hurt badly.

"Why--why couldn't it have been the other way _around_, Sam," Joel said
hoarsely.

The other looked up at him. "You do hate it that much, don't you."

"Look Sam, you've gotta get my point! I don't think that crew did
anything wrong! They didn't. They just decided to stop being hunks of
machinery."

Carruthers smiled. "I get your point, Skipper. And I'm going to let you
figure this one out all by yourself. But I'd like to tell you something
first, just sort of as a point of information; maybe it'll help.
Skipper, I had a girl once, too."

Joel stood still. Then he turned, opened his mouth to speak, then
clamped it hard shut.

"They told me I couldn't pilot. But I could help, and my help was
needed--everybody's was, because this wasn't a matter of a government
project. This was a matter of a race of people who were building a
ladder--a big, tall ladder, Nicholas. Sometimes it was a killer.
Sometimes a heartbreaker. Sometimes a laughingstock. _But it belonged
to men, and they lived and died for it; they built it, and it's theirs
to climb, Nicholas!_"

Joel watched the other's worn face, and now the hurt was naked in it.

"She said, Nicholas, that it was all off if I decided to go up to
space. I loved her, Skipper. _And I loved the tall ladder._"

Joel whirled. "Sure, and what's it got us, Sam? A bellyful of cold,
aching loneliness--our guts twisted and squeezed until the life's
dried up in 'em--and what do we get? What do those wrangling, yapping,
bellyaching rotters back home give us for it? Pension us off when we
can't see our blast-off studs anymore and forget about us.

"They take the stuff we bring 'em--just as if it grew on trees, just as
if it grew into a neat, pretty package somewhere all by itself! With
money they can buy it--with enough money they can buy all of it! Even
if we had to get it with the air sucked out of us, with our brains
boiled out of us, with our crazy heads busted in.

"And you know what, Sam? There was even a time when they said we
couldn't do it at all! A hundred years ago, they laughed at us for
trying to get to the moon! They laughed, Sam--and those who didn't
laugh _didn't even give a damn at all_!

"So I was to tell the girl I'd marry her later, but that right now they
thought I ought to be a pilot! I was to say to my life: I'll live you
later, but right now I've got to be a pilot.... And I was to freeze my
insides for twenty years showing 'em they were wrong to laugh, and that
it was time they gave a damn, that what I could bring home was going to
mean a lot to the world they live on!

"And like a fool I did!

"And Sam--Sam, they're still yapping like little dogs for a piece
of meat--not just a good piece of meat, but all wrapped up nice and
fancy, no mistakes allowed, every time they whistle! And the whistling
gets so easy, Sam--so easy. You can even do it while you're stabbing
your neighbor in the back, while you're selling his kids down the
river--even while you're taking your next breath to yap some more!

"They can go to hell, Sam! They can go to hell."

Joel slumped down in the chair behind the mahogany desk.

The surgeon looked at him, looked away.

"You've made up your mind, then."

"That's right."

"I suppose Dobermann and I can get the ship back somehow."

"You'll make it."

"I guess we will. Unless the rest feel the way you do--and I know half
the crew thinks this is quite a place. In which case, of course, I
suppose they'll survive, back home, even without the mneurium-4--they
have for a long time. But there is one thing."

"Yeah, yeah."

"These people are fine people, as you've--found out. You couldn't even
replace that _dhennah_."

"How did you--"

"They're swell folks, Nicholas, and always will be," the surgeon said
softly, "and they've never built a thing, _and never will_.

"They don't know greed, because no one has ever achieved anything worth
another's wanting.

"They don't know jealousy, because no one has ever obtained anything
that another couldn't.

"They don't know hate, because no one has ever discovered a thing for
which to fight that another thinks of sufficient value to fight for.

"Only--if they don't know hate or jealousy, Skipper--then, _they don't
know love_!"

Quietly, Carruthers rose from his chair. For a moment, he hesitated.
"What is it you're lonely for, Nicholas?" he asked, and then he left
the fore-waist bridge.
