
When Clark reached the mouth of the canyon, he frowned. Out on a green
meadow a farmer drove a tractor, busily plowing deep furrows for a new
crop. A trim ranch house in the distance gleamed in the morning
sunlight. Funny. Earlier, when he had crossed the field, he hadn't
noticed a sign of civilization. But it had been nearly dark then.

He strolled casually down to a rude stone wall and watched the tractor
churn toward him. The farmer waved. He jolted to a halt, cut the engine
and wiped a red bandana over his wrinkled, sweating face. Clark glanced
down at his own shabby clothes and rubbed a rough, bristly chin. If he
looked like a bum, his brief demonstration would seem all the more
amazing.

"Pretty hot work, eh?" Clark greeted him.

"Yep," the old farmer nodded as he drank from a canteen. Clark grinned.
History would record this man as the first person to actually witness a
degravitator at work. Clark studied the unplowed side of the meadow,
then pointed at a large, half-buried boulder.

"You have a little work there, mister. I think a Clark Farm Helper will
do the trick."

The farmer gave him a puzzled look. Clark calmly beamed the rock. At
first it strained up and down, but finally wrenched free. He floated it
up in a slow arc, then deliberately dropped it with a heavy thud. Clark
chuckled as the farmer tried to hide his astonishment with a poker face.

"That for sale?" he asked shrewdly.

Clark laughed heartily. "Not this one. I'll make a fortune manufacturing
these little babies!"

"How do you figure that?"

Clark frowned at the farmer's indifference. "Can't you see its
possibilities? I just showed you!"

"That's no good for farm work," the farmer said, reaching under his
tractor seat. He raised what resembled a snub-nosed automatic. "This
here's a real beauty. Had this general purpose degrav for two years and
no trouble yet."

He squeezed the trigger and the boulder skimmed across the field.

"That looks like an old Harley single-drive you got there," the farmer
said. "What'dya do? Recondition it and pep up the atomic pile?"

Stunned, Clark swallowed hard. The old farmer leaned over his wheel in
curiosity. "Those old timers are pretty scarce. I remember when the
first model came out about twenty years ago, just after the war ended."

"After the war?" Clark stammered.

His mind spun in dizzy, sickening whirls. Degravitators were commonplace
farm tools! Where was he? Then suddenly he knew the meaning of his
strange black-out and Baldy's sly words. _I know you won't abuse this
power._ How could he? Their superscience had catapulted him past the war
years into the future.

The old farmer said gently, "Tell you what, son, the wife's been nagging
me for a pocket degrav to move furniture around the house. I'll give you
a fiver for it and a square meal. You look kinda pale."



