









                         THE REVEALING PATTERN

                            By Alvin Heiner


_The Reamer mansion was on trial. It announced its own verdict--guilty!_


[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Worlds of If Science
Fiction, May 1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


He was a man easily smiled at; a little birdlike individual carrying
an umbrella and wearing upon his pink face a look remindful of
happy secrets about to be revealed. He came to my desk during the
midafternoon lull and said, "I am Professor Jonathan Waits. I have come
to avail myself of your facilities."

I had never heard it put quite that way before, but from Professor
Waits, it did not sound stilted. It was the way you would expect him to
put it. He beamed at the ceiling and said, "What a fine old library, my
dear. I must bring Nicholas some time."

I gave him the smile reserved financial supporters and unknown
quantatives and asked, "Could I be of service?"

He didn't get to it immediately. "I understand this library is fairly
crammed with old records--data on the historical aspects of this area.
Personal histories and such."

He had a way of radiating his own cheerful mood. "Oh yes," I assured
him. "It's an exceptional day when we don't sweep a D.A.R. or two out
of the aisles come closing time."

This, according to his laugh, was quite good. He said, "I'm sure we'll
get on splendidly, Miss--?"

"--Hopstead."

"Are you a native?"

"A New Englander from way back," I assured him. "Some of my ancestors
used to drink buttered rum with Captain Rogers."

"Then possibly you'd like to know about my work."

"I certainly would." And, strangely enough, I did.

"I am a researcher into the--well, the unusual."

"Psychic research?" I inquired, wanting him to know we New Englanders
were not dullards.

"No. Nothing to do with the supernatural at all. My work is to prove
that all occurrences, however mysterious, are the logical result of
previous actions of individuals; that superstitions are the result, not
so much of ignorance, but lack of knowledge."

While I wrestled with that one, he said, "Maybe I could be a trifle
more explicit."

"That would help."

His bright little eyes got even brighter. "Do you know, by chance, of
the Reamer mansion over in Carleton?"

I certainly did. It was some thirty miles from Patterson, but as a
child, I'd visited the place. All children within the radius had
visited the Reamer mansion at least once. It was an ancient fifteen
room cockroach trap with such a history of death and violence behind it
as to cause the kids to walk on tiptoe through its silent rooms. I told
the professor I knew about it.

"It has been vacant for fifteen years," he observed.

"And will be vacant for twice fifteen more, I imagine."

"That's just the point. Superstition. Otherwise solid and sane people
wouldn't dream of moving into the Reamer mansion. And it's so silly."

"It is?"

"Of course. And that's why I'm here. I intend to prove, so the most
stubborn will understand, that the house itself has nothing whatsoever
to do with its own grim past; that the people who lived in it are to
blame."

It was a dull day and he was such an apparently sincere little man that
I decided to keep the conversation alive. "I'm afraid you'll have a
hard time proving it. Let's see--the first one was old Silas Reamer. He
committed suicide there. That was sometime around 1925. Then--"

"--His son, Henry Reamer, was found dead under mysterious circumstances
two years later. Murder was obvious, but nothing has ever been done
about it."

I frowned in mock severity. "I don't like the way you put that,
Professor. Do you imply that we New Englanders condone violence?"

"Oh, not at all. There were just--no clues, from what I've learned. The
next unfortunate, a renter named Miles McCormick, was found dead along
with his wife and child as a result of lethal gas from a faulty stove."

"That happened the year I was born. We have the old newspapers here,
telling about it."

"Those reports, along with other material are what I wish to study,"
Professor Waits said, then went on. "The house stood vacant for five
years, until a Johnathan Hays bought it."

"But Johnathan Hays never moved in. He died of a heart attack while
carrying a chair through the front door."

He beamed on me. "You are a remarkably alert young woman; well up in
local history."

"With no credit to me. You'd be hard put finding a citizen around here
who doesn't know the history of the Reamer mansion."

"Not 'of the Reamer mansion', my dear. Of the people who just happened
to reap their ill-fortune there."

"You insist the house had nothing to do with it?"

"Nothing whatever."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Professor--I wonder if you know how big a bite you've taken? If you
go up in the hills hereabouts you'll find whole families living in
dirt-floor houses. You'll find children who never heard of a bath or a
telephone. But you won't find one person who would live in the Reamer
mansion for a salary paid promptly every Saturday morning."

"Nonetheless," Professor Waits replied, "the so-called jinx of the
mansion, or any other maligned locality, is a matter of monstrous
coincidence. The truth lies hidden in the lives of the people involved.
I've been ferreting out that truth."

"You mean this isn't a beginning, Professor?"

He grasped his umbrella in a manner indicating he meant to spear a
dragon in case there were any around, and said, "Oh my no! I've been
tracing the lives of the principals in this drama for some time. It
involves long, tedious work. I must not only dig into the lives of the
unfortunates themselves, but also into those of kin; even--in some
cases--friends."

"What did you find out about the murder?"

He evaded neatly. "I am not seeking a killer as such. Relative to that
facet of the case, I am more interested in Henry Reamer himself. A very
wise man once said, 'If you would understand violence, look also into
the heart of the murdered'. A man carries the seeds of his destiny in
his own soul."

"And you intend to prove it?"

"I am finding more proof every day. Soon I shall publish a paper which
will startle the thinking world."

I could see the Professor wasn't one to be backed into any corners.
"And how can I help in this work?"

"I am tracing at the moment, certain details in the life of Mabel
Tutworthy, an aunt of Silas Reamer. Unauthenticated legends indicate
she killed an eight-point buck once, with her bare hands, and dragged
it home across ten miles of forest."

"I've heard that, and it's probably true. You think it has something to
do with what happened to Silas?"

"--_And_ his son Henry."

"I think you'll find what you want in that section by the south window.
It's devoted to local history."

"Thank you, my dear." He moved away, reminding me somehow, of a happy
retriever going into a lake after a duck. Halfway to the shelves, he
halted suddenly and turned. "Did you know that seventy percent of the
accidents happen to twenty percent of the people?"

I didn't, but I refused to admit such backwardness. "I certainly do.
Amazing, isn't it?"

"That is one of the pillars upon which my work is based."

"And there are others?"

"Seven in all."

He didn't tell me what the other six were. Instead he disappeared into
local history and left me with the latest best seller I was reading
under the counter lest some child come in and be stripped of all
innocence by one glance.

It was two hours before Professor Waits reappeared. He carried a small
blue notebook in one hand and a stub pencil in the other. He was
positively beaming. "A gold mine," he said. "A veritable gold mine. Did
you know that Ezekial Webb, a cousin of William Tutworthy was gored by
a bull in the year 1862?"

"No--really?"

Then I was truly ashamed of myself. He was such a pleasant, sincere
little man and he got such fun out of life. But he misinterpreted
my boorishness for true enthusiasm and said, "It's a fact! Imagine!
Walking in here and finding one of the links I've hunted for months.
I'm indebted to you, my dear, for directing me to that book shelf."

I could have told him he was under no obligation; that I got, each
week, the coolie stipend of twenty eight dollars for doing just that;
but I didn't want him starting an investigation into peonage system
practiced in libraries and schools.

Then something in the little man's manner, sobered me.
"Professor--exactly why are you doing this?"

He blinked. "I have plenty of money. I have the time. It interests me.
And I feel it a worthy occupation; gathering knowledge through which
people may know the true causes of misfortune; may throw off the yoke
of superstition."

"You feel, then, that nothing happens by chance?"

"My dear," he said, solemnly, "in this ordered universe there can be
no such thing. Action and achievement--cause and result. The revealing
pattern of each man's actions is in the pasts of himself and his
antecedents."

"And by proving this you will exonerate the Reamer mansion of all
guilt?"

He smiled. "You are a most intelligent young lady. Most intelligent! I
shall see a great deal of you in the weeks to come."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not a distasteful prospect. I liked the Professor and was glad
he liked me. After he left I went back and found not a single book out
of place. I liked him even more.

Two weeks passed before I saw Professor Waits again. He came in out of
the sunshine, carrying his black umbrella and wearing the same black
string necktie. I was busy at the time, finding an acceptable book for
Mrs. Winsolow's little Freddie who was in bed with the pip. When I got
clear, Professor Waits was deep in his research and I did not disturb
him.

He came pattering out just before closing time and I was struck by the
somber--almost sad--expression he wore.

"Did you have trouble finding what you wanted, Professor?"

"Oh no. The records are most voluminous. It's just--well, the _nature_
of my discoveries."

"Bad?"

"Very bad, Miss Hopstead. Do you know who Henry Reamer's murderer was?"

"No."

"Miles McCormick, the renter who died there so tragically with his
family."

I didn't quite know how to respond; whether I should faint or scream
for the police. I settled for a philosophical comment. "A case of
justice by a higher power."

"You mean McCormick's death?"

"Of course."

"On the contrary. There was no connection at all between the two
events. McCormick and his wife and child died because they violated a
certain law, but not necessarily a law on the statute books."

"I'm afraid I don't quite follow that."

"Look at it this way, Miss Hopstead. You are walking through a dark
room. A door is standing open. You come into violent contact with the
edge of it. What happens?"

"A broken nose? A black eye."

"Precisely. The fact you didn't know the door was there didn't protect
you from the consequences."

This of course, I was forced to concede.

"Now let's go a step further by taking, as example, a lower mentality
than our own. A horse, knowing nothing of the laws of electricity,
would step on a high voltage wire and never know why it was
electrocuted. In such a case, the animal would violate a law it did not
know existed."

I was beginning to see what he was driving at. "You mean--"

"We are far above the horse in mentality and understanding but
there are still many laws we do not understand. That is what my work
involves."

I insisted upon being heard. "You mean a lot of apparently innocent
things we do are really electric wires."

He beamed. "Exactly. When we reap misfortune it is because we violate
some law. Ignorance of that law doesn't change the end-result one iota."

"And you're trying to find out what these--these booby traps are?"

"Oh I know many of them already. My paper will surprise the world.
I'm working on a more advanced phase of the problem now. I am tracing
a pattern of interlocking violations to show that the scene of the
end-results can be only sheerest coincidence. I want to banish once
and for all the superstition-stigma attached to scenes of repeated
misfortune and violence."

"The Reamer mansion."

"That's right. And now I must be going, Miss Hopstead." He gave me the
departing smile and started for the door.

"Professor Waits."

"Yes?"

"About Mabel Tutworthy. Did she really drag that buck ten miles."

"No. It was only a fawn. And she killed it less than a mile from her
cabin."

"And the murder of Henry Reamer. What proof--?"

"Nothing the police would be interested in. It was the end-result of
a cause they won't understand until my work is published and given
study."

He opened the door, looked around, smiled. "This is certainly a fine
old building. I _must_ bring Nicholas with me the next time."

With that, he was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

I found myself looking forward to his next visit. I looked and looked
and a month passed and a tall, serious-faced youth came into the
library and waited until I'd finished checking in Mrs. Garvey's returns.

"I understand," he said, "that you have an immense store of local
history in this library?"

"The section by the south window."

"Thank you." He peered at me through thick lenses. "Thank you Miss--"

"--Hopstead."

"Miss Hopstead. I am Nicholas Worthy. Possibly you knew a friend of
mine. Professor Waits? I am carrying on his work."

"Carrying on--? Did something happen to--?"

"Oh. Then you didn't hear. It was most tragic. Professor Waits died of
pneumonia. A great loss--a great loss."

I was deeply shocked. My feeling was that of losing a close friend.
"No, I hadn't heard. It must have been very sudden."

"It was. He was advanced in years, you know, and after he fell,
pneumonia set in quickly. They were unable to save him."

"The Professor had an accident?"

"Yes. He fell down the main staircase of the Reamer mansion and broke
his hip."




