
It was maybe midnight when the kid showed at the table again, looking
kind of dazed. I was drunker than I ought to be by midnight, so I said I
was going for a walk. He tagged along and we wound up on a bench at
Screwball Square. The soap-boxers were still going strong. Like I said,
it was a nice night. After a while, a pot-bellied old auntie who didn't
give a damn about the face sat down and tried to talk the kid into going
to see some etchings. The kid didn't get it and I led him over to hear
the soap-boxers before there was trouble.

One of the orators was a mush-mouthed evangelist. "And, oh, my friends,"
he said, "when I looked through the porthole of the spaceship and beheld
the wonder of the Firmament--"

"You're a stinkin' Yankee liar!" the kid yelled at him. "You say one
damn more word about can-shootin' and I'll ram your spaceship down your
lyin' throat! Wheah's your redlines if you're such a hot spacer?"

The crowd didn't know what he was talking about, but "wheah's your
redlines" sounded good to them, so they heckled mush-mouth off his box
with it.

I got the kid to a bench. The liquor was working in him all of a sudden.
He simmered down after a while and asked: "Doc, should I've given Miz
Rorty some money? I asked her afterward and she said she'd admire to
have something to remember me by, so I gave her my lighter. She seem' to
be real pleased with it. But I was wondering if maybe I embarrassed her
by asking her right out. Like I tol' you, back in Covington, Kentucky,
we don't have places like that. Or maybe we did and I just didn't know
about them. But what do you think I should've done about Miz Rorty?"

"Just what you did," I told him. "If they want money, they ask you for
it first. Where you staying?"

"Y.M.C.A.," he said, almost asleep. "Back in Covington, Kentucky, I was
a member of the Y and I kept up my membership. They have to let me in
because I'm a member. Spacers have all kinds of trouble, Doc. Woman
trouble. Hotel trouble. Fam'ly trouble. Religious trouble. I was raised
a Southern Baptist, but wheah's Heaven, anyway? I ask' Doctor Chitwood
las' time home before the redlines got so thick--Doc, you aren't a
minister of the Gospel, are you? I hope I di'n' say anything to offend
you."

"No offense, son," I said. "No offense."

I walked him to the avenue and waited for a fleet cab. It was almost
five minutes. The independents that roll drunks dent the fenders of
fleet cabs if they show up in Skid Row and then the fleet drivers have
to make reports on their own time to the company. It keeps them away.
But I got one and dumped the kid in.

"The Y Hotel," I told the driver. "Here's five. Help him in when you get
there."
