
Conan stirred, throwing off the splinters that half covered him. A
glancing blow had knocked off his helmet and momentarily stunned him.
Across his legs lay a great piece of the column, pinning him down. He
was not sure that his legs were unbroken. His black locks were plastered
with sweat; blood trickled from the wounds in his throat and hands. He
hitched up on one arm, struggling with the debris that prisoned him.

Then something swept down across the stars and struck the sward near
him. Twisting about, he saw it--_the winged one!_

With fearful speed it was rushing upon him, and in that instant Conan
had only a confused impression of a gigantic man-like shape hurtling
along on bowed and stunted legs; of huge hairy arms outstretching
misshapen black-nailed paws; of a malformed head, in whose broad face
the only features recognizable as such were a pair of blood-red eyes. It
was a thing neither man, beast, nor devil, imbued with characteristics
subhuman as well as characteristics superhuman.

But Conan had no time for conscious consecutive thought. He threw
himself toward his fallen sword, and his clawing fingers missed it by
inches. Desperately he grasped the shard which pinned his legs, and the
veins swelled in his temples as he strove to thrust it off him. It gave
slowly, but he knew that before he could free himself the monster would
be upon him, and he knew that those black-taloned hands were death.

The headlong rush of the winged one had not wavered. It towered over the
prostrate Cimmerian like a black shadow, arms thrown wide--a glimmer of
white flashed between it and its victim.

In one mad instant she was there--a tense white shape, vibrant with love
fierce as a she-panther's. The dazed Cimmerian saw between him and the
onrushing death, her lithe figure, shimmering like ivory beneath the
moon; he saw the blaze of her dark eyes, the thick cluster of her
burnished hair; her bosom heaved, her red lips were parted, she cried
out sharp and ringing at the ring of steel as she thrust at the winged
monster's breast.

'_Bêlit!_' screamed Conan. She flashed a quick glance at him, and in her
dark eyes he saw her love flaming, a naked elemental thing of raw fire
and molten lava. Then she was gone, and the Cimmerian saw only the
winged fiend which had staggered back in unwonted fear, arms lifted as
if to fend off attack. And he knew that Bêlit in truth lay on her pyre
on the _Tigress's_ deck. In his ears rang her passionate cry: 'Were I
still in death and you fighting for life I would come back from the
abyss----'

With a terrible cry he heaved upward hurling the stone aside. The winged
one came on again, and Conan sprang to meet it, his veins on fire with
madness. The thews started out like cords on his forearms as he swung
his great sword, pivoting on his heel with the force of the sweeping
arc. Just above the hips it caught the hurtling shape, and the knotted
legs fell one way, the torso another as the blade sheared clear through
its hairy body.

Conan stood in the moonlit silence, the dripping sword sagging in his
hand, staring down at the remnants of his enemy. The red eyes glared up
at him with awful life, then glazed and set; the great hands knotted
spasmodically and stiffened. And the oldest race in the world was
extinct.

Conan lifted his head, mechanically searching for the beast-things that
had been its slaves and executioners. None met his gaze. The bodies he
saw littering the moon-splashed grass were of men, not beasts:
hawk-faced, dark-skinned men, naked, transfixed by arrows or mangled by
sword-strokes. And they were crumbling into dust before his eyes.

Why had not the winged master come to the aid of its slaves when he
struggled with them? Had it feared to come within reach of fangs that
might turn and rend it? Craft and caution had lurked in that misshapen
skull, but had not availed in the end.

Turning on his heel, the Cimmerian strode down the rotting wharfs and
stepped aboard the galley. A few strokes of his sword cut her adrift,
and he went to the sweep-head. The _Tigress_ rocked slowly in the sullen
water, sliding out sluggishly toward the middle of the river, until the
broad current caught her. Conan leaned on the sweep, his somber gaze
fixed on the cloak-wrapped shape that lay in state on the pyre the
richness of which was equal to the ransom of an empress.




5 The Funeral Pyre

    _Now we are done with roaming, evermore;
      No more the oars, the windy harp's refrain;
    Nor crimson pennon frights the dusky shore;
      Blue girdle of the world, receive again
    Her whom thou gavest me._

    THE SONG OF BÊLIT


Again dawn tinged the ocean. A redder glow lit the river-mouth. Conan of
Cimmeria leaned on his great sword upon the white beach, watching the
_Tigress_ swinging out on her last voyage. There was no light in his
eyes that contemplated the glassy swells. Out of the rolling blue wastes
all glory and wonder had gone. A fierce revulsion shook him as he gazed
at the green surges that deepened into purple hazes of mystery.

Bêlit had been of the sea; she had lent it splendor and allure. Without
her it rolled a barren, dreary and desolate waste from pole to pole. She
belonged to the sea; to its everlasting mystery he returned her. He
could do no more. For himself, its glittering blue splendor was more
repellent than the leafy fronds which rustled and whispered behind him
of vast mysterious wilds beyond them, and into which he must plunge.

No hand was at the sweep of the _Tigress_, no oars drove her through the
green water. But a clean tanging wind bellied her silken sail, and as a
wild swan cleaves the sky to her nest, she sped seaward, flames mounting
higher and higher from her deck to lick at the mast and envelop the
figure that lay lapped in scarlet on the shining pyre.

So passed the Queen of the Black Coast, and leaning on his red-stained
sword, Conan stood silently until the red glow had faded far out in the
blue hazes and dawn splashed its rose and gold over the ocean.



