
The pianist's dark, saturnine face peered at them over the fire as they
came up and he rose, wiping his hands carelessly on his sport tunic.
He had evidently gone into the canal-skimmer and changed out of his
bathing suit.

"How do," he greeted dourly; "the damned thing itched so I took it off."

[illus2]

Joe gave himself a last swipe with the towel and tossed it through
the open hatch of the skimmer. Sarah carried her towel into the boat
and came out presently in a suede skirt and bolero, looking rubbed
down and delectable. Joe's wife was half Martian, and it showed in her
long, slender eyebrows and delicately cleft nose and chin. She looked
worriedly at the three men busy with the frankfurters.

"There's something on the telaudio," she said. "Come in and listen."

"What is it?" Joe asked.

"Something about somebody escaping from Mars Detain."

Ray's humming stopped. He'd been practicing wrist octaves on a flat
rock and his long hand hung motionless for a moment as if he were
reaching for something. Kent set his frank across the top of his coffee
cup--he was always careful about everything--and stood up.

Joe looked at his wife, looked at her eyes. They were frightened.

"That's pretty near here, isn't it?" Sarah said. She moved back to let
the three men into the boat. They grouped around the telaudio.

"I don't think there's anything to worry about," Kent said slowly.
"They're bound to catch the men--"

"They aren't men."

The four listened.

"--ruthless _Aarnians_. This warning cannot be taken too seriously.
Detain is doing everything in its power to recapture the four criminals
but, as is known, the _Aarnian_ psyche is able to leave its body at
will and inhabit the body of another entity, subjugating the mind of
its host and contro--"

"My God," Ray whispered, "I've heard of those devils!"

"--in all likelihood will seek to escape from Mars. To prevent this,
all persons now holding tickets for interworld travel must submit to
being psycho-screened before entering liners. No more tickets will be
sold--"

Sarah's eyes were wide and round. "They'd have to leave their bodies
behind--here on Mars!"

Big Kent--because he was one of the Caradacs' oldest friends and could
do such things--put his arm around her shoulders and squeezed. She was
shivering.

"--tenant Smith of Detain informs us that the _Aarnians_ are unable to
pronounce certain consonantal diphthongs such as jee and jay--even if
occupying bodies that can normally pronounce such sounds. This is very
important, as it may be an only possible means of identification, for
the _Aarnians_ will undoubtedly seek new bod--"

Sarah switched off the telaudio, her brown face openly sick. She bit
her lip and looked at each of the three men surrounding her.

"That gives me the shivers," she said. "Let's go home."

After that they didn't talk much. Under the red twilight, they packed
up the pots and pans, leaving the unwanted food for the night-crawling
_nolls_. They spent a lot of time looking over their shoulders as they
did this, although each tried to conceal it from the others. At last
the skimmer moved silently away from the bank and pointed its nose at
the distant haze that was Ofei, By the Great Canal.
