
At precisely seven o'clock the telaudio on the headboard of Joe's
bed turned itself on. Sounds pricked the balloon of his disturbed
slumber, tugged his mind out to wakefulness. He rolled over and sat up,
listening, rubbing his lanky legs.

Instead of the usual symphonic music, he heard an urgent voice,
obviously ad-libbing:

"--be very, _very_ careful. The criminals--the _Aarnians_--have still
not been found. All residents of Ofei and vicinity are warned--this
warning cannot be overemphasized--"

Joe reached out and clicked on the screen. The announcer's tunic was
wrinkled, his sash was awry. He looked as if he'd been up all night.

"--are advised to stay within the city limi--"

Joe snapped off the telaudio and glanced over at Sarah's bed. She was
snoring delicately, one smooth arm pillowing her mass of blue-black
hair. Better that she doesn't hear any more about that business, he
decided firmly.

Joe liked the simple life. No servants, no flunkies, although he could
have afforded a dozen. Five sunshiny rooms on the Great Canal, with a
nice view of Mars Memorial Park on the bank opposite. He robed himself
against the early morning chill and headed for the kitchen. His head
ached faintly and, to judge by what little he could remember of it,
he'd had a dilly of a nightmare. Something about ... being chased, or
something? Or smothered by a....

Even as he stopped in his tracks to try to pin it down, the memory
broke, dissolved as if in flight. Frowning, he pushed through the
kitchen door and crossed to the deep-freeze, slid it open and rummaged
in it.

The nightmare wasn't important surely, but he mulled it over with
interest as he prepared breakfast, for Joe, being rather well adjusted,
dreamed rarely, and then mostly about Iowa, back on Earth ... a
long-ago picture of a twelve-year-old boy, his first day in college;
the boy sitting under his shining Projector, surrounded by a group
of thunderstruck Psychologists; the quick death of their initial
skepticism, and in its place a growing wonder as it became evident
that, although a History spool was whirling in the scanner and the
thought-helmet functioning to perfection, the boy's mind was receiving
neither spoken text nor images....

"You don't feel anything?" a Psychologist asked skeptically.

Joe closed his eyes. There was a low, unmusical humming in his ears and
that was all. He tried to shake his head and couldn't, so he said: "No,
I don't."

"When was the World Federation formed?"

"I don't know."

"Are you lying?"

"No."

One of the other Psychologists standing nearby looked up from the
little box he held in his hand and said that Joe wasn't lying.

The first Psychologist raised his eyebrows. "We'll try another
Projector."

While Technicians dismantled Joe's Projector and examined it for shorts
or haywire, the Psychologists had Joe sit down under all the other
Projectors in 1stY-Cubicle 149. Then they tried 148 and 150.

"It's some kind of block," the first Psychologist said finally, looking
profound to cover up his tizzy. "There's some kind of barrier in his
mind."

Joe Caradac clenched his fists. "That's not true--I want to learn!"

"Then you probably will, boy--" the Psychologist sat down to fill in
some forms--"but you'll have to go back three hundred years to do it.
You'll have to learn from books!"

There the dream would simply end, for no fantasy of wish-fulfillment
could have exceeded in satisfaction Joe's actual conquest of this
problem. At eighteen he wore thick glasses--he preferred them to
contacts or artificial irises. At twenty he took tests contrived
especially for him by the members of Central Education assigned to his
case. He was awarded equivalence degrees in Business Administration,
Metatomics and Interplanetary Law. His marks were the highest of the
year and Joe Caradac's name was briefly in the newsphones.

He started with the New Chicago offices of Mars Imports and Exports
as a mercury. After six weeks of flying back and forth with memos he
traded his anti-gravs for a desk.

And on June 32, 2401, the newly appointed Regional Buyer for M. I. and
E. got married and was flown to Mars by a chartered spacer to take
command of the regional office at Ofei, By the Great Canal....
