
He was putting the finishing touches on breakfast when he heard a groan
and the sound of a stretch from the bedroom. When he turned around,
Sarah was standing in the doorway.

Joe's sandy eyebrows went up. His wife was certainly not a modest
woman, but considering even that, this morning was an agreeable
surprise. Her eyes were still dull--he guessed that she'd worried about
those whatyoucallits after going to bed--but she was smiling broadly.
Joe began to have visions of missing work for half a day. He smiled
back at her and she laughed a little.

"_Hohn, Uarnl!_" she said.

Joe was thrusting halved oranges into the juicer. He turned off the
machine and grinned.

"You'll have to talk plainer than that, little monkey," he said. He
held out a glass of juice. "Drink this--it'll wake you--up--" The last
word faded into an astonished silence.

Then Joe said, "Hey--come back!" He set down the glass and went into
the bedroom.

She was lying on her bed, her face hidden. Joe dropped onto the edge of
the bed and put a tentative hand on her back.

"Hey now," he said softly, "if that's the way you feel about it I'll
juice up some grapefruit." He moved his hand down and spanked lightly.
"Hein?"

She didn't look up. She had turned her head and was looking at the
corner of the room by Joe's bed.

"I do not feel well. Go away."

Joe's face was immediately concerned. He bent over her, reached for a
wrist. "What's the matter, Sarah? Can I get you anything?" The wrist
hung limply in his hand.

"No. Go away."

Joe straightened up and drew his eyebrows together in thought. Sarah
was usually tearful and pretty much of a leech when she wasn't feeling
well. Excessive commiserations and breakfast in bed were the rule at
such times.

"Do you want me to get Doc Halprin?"

The blue-black head shook from side to side.

"So what am I supposed to do, monkey? I hate to leave you this way."

"Go away."

"But can't I--"

"Go away, damn you!"

Joe stood up abruptly. He clenched his fists and looked at his wife's
still form and gradually the anger dulled and left him. He had no
right to be angry. Everybody got tempermental once in a while.

But this was the first time she had ever cursed him.

"O.K.," he said softly. "I'll see you tonight."
