
The regional offices of Mars Imports and Exports sat upon a hill at
the end--or the beginning--of Ila Boulevard, depending upon which
way you were going. It was twenty-five-hundred feet of silver and
native marble, and covered four city blocks, and Joe Caradac was top
man--literally--since his office and personal staff took up the whole
two-hundred and fifty-first floor.

His morning mail--about twelve letters weeded out of the daily
thousands--was gotten out of the way with skill and dispatch. Grinning,
he propped his feet on the low, curving window sill and said: "Miss
Kal--take an audiogram."

Miss Kal used two of her arms to adjust pad and stylus, looking up
expectantly. Her other arms were busy transcribing a previously
dictated letter into Venusian--her native tongue, although she spoke
sixty-eight--and tugging at a humidified legging that had somehow
worked down almost to the floor.

"My dearest, darling monkey--" Joe began. Miss Kal looked up again in
amazement. Joe grinned at her and said, "It's to my wife."

Miss Kal nodded wisely and began to write.

"--I am sending this from my dark and dismal office," Joe went on. It
was a habit they had when anything went wrong at breakfast. Joe had
first proposed by audiogram.

He casually watched a skimmer that was in danger of creating a honey of
a traffic jam down below. Didn't that schlemiel know his left from his
right?

"--Where was I? Oh, yes--my dark and dismal office." Joe scratched a
cigarette alight, blew a happy smoke ring. "I hope that you are feeling
much, _much_ better and that you will take luncheon with me in the
Pluto Room of the you-know-what Hotel--" His mind went back to those
honeymoon days and he lost track of his dictation again. Another smoke
ring, a somewhat more thoughtful one.

"You-know-what Hotel--" said Miss Kal phlegmatically.

"Yes--ah--just end it 'at one fifteen sharp, your everloving Joe.'"

There was a knock on the door and Miss Kal set down her pad and stylus
and started to get up. Joe was on his feet and around the desk in a
second.

"Stay right where you are," he smiled; "I need the exercise."

Miss Kal smiled also and settled back into her specially built chair
with its temperature and humidity controls. A present from Mr. Caradac.
He was such a nice being to work for.

Joe opened the door, and said, "Oh, hullo, Kent. Since when are you
knocking?"

Big Kent nodded formally to Miss Kal and winked at Joe. He said, "Yoe,
there's something I'd like to talk over with you in private."

With a sigh, Miss Kal rose again and made her way through the other
door into her little office. The door closed behind her.

Kent let out a long breath. He smiled at Joe and the smile turned into
a laugh that had an odd sound of triumph.

"_Hohn, Uarnl_," he said, and laughed again. "_Ut sinna d'yonlwar?_"

Joe sat down behind his desk and looked at the big man. Hone you-arnel.
Wasn't that what Sarah had said--or something very much like it? He
shook his head.

"You wanted to talk to me about something, Kent? What are you and Sarah
cooking up with this gibberish?"

The brilliant Martian sunlight--not as dim as had been anticipated in
the days before space travel--came through the ceiling-high windows,
struck little lights here and there from the bouquet of Venusian
Glass-moss that Miss Kal tended so carefully. It slanted across Kent's
big face as he looked at Joe for a long moment, giving his left eye a
pale, shallow lustre and throwing the shadow of his jutting nose down
over his mouth. He opened and closed his hands, and said:

"Nothing. It'll wait, I guess." His gaze wandered over the room and
settled on a corner that was empty save for a throw rug--a relic of
Caradac's Iowa past. Kent's mouth tightened into a thin line. He stared
at the corner.

"It'll wait--for a while," he said stiffly and opened the door and went
into the outer office. Bone-faced, he walked toward the transveyor belt.

"Mr. Kent--Mr. Kent!" The big man's Mercurian secretary rose out of a
chair near the door, his voice quacking from the speaker set into his
fishbowl helmet.

"Yes?"

"They tolt me that you hat gone to Mr. Caradac's office, sir. I've been
trying to finte you all morning, sir. A laty, sir, on the visiphone.
She has callt many times--many times--"

"Thank you," Kent said tonelessly. "I know who it is."
