
Joe Caradac stared in astonishment at the door. First Sarah--now Kent.
This seemed to be the day for everybody to blast in orbits ... well,
hell ... he shrugged his shoulders and called Miss Kal back out of her
office. She dropped into her chair with a sigh and they picked up the
day's business from where it had fallen.

San-Vika of Saturn Enterprises was threatening all kinds of things if
he didn't receive his shipment of ato-rotors on the very next flight.
Joe didn't waste much time with that. One of the many things that made
him a top executive was that he knew how to deal with phonies. He told
San-Vika--via spacephone--that he could go stick his heads in a waste
eliminator and push the button, and that if he wanted to get nasty, M.
I. and E. had an army of lawyers hanging around just itching to get
their teeth into last year's insurance double-deal.

"We let everybody get away with it--once!" Joe told him and cut the
suddenly fawning image off the screen. M. I. and E.'s investigators, he
thought absently, could certainly give the Sol Secret Service a run for
their credits. Now that he had tactfully gotten San-Vika straightened
out, he might as well release those ato-rotors to be shipped.

At twelve fifteen an audiogram came from Sarah. _I don't feel well
enough to come. Love, S._ Well, at least it was an improvement in tone.

At one o'clock, Miss Kal went into her office to open the mysterious
little package of lunch that she brought with her every day. Joe
stretched out his legs on the window sill and looked at the traffic jam
below. That driver had really done a fine job. There were three Patrol
skimmers circling the mess, darting to and fro like angry wasps.

He didn't feel much like eating. Breakfast and supper were his big
meals--the habit was a long-standing one. However, he thought, this
morning's breakfast hadn't been much to rave about. Orange juice, some
burned Pohl, some undercooked sand-hoppers.

He switched on the inter-office visiphone.

"I would save you the trouble," he said, when Miss Kal's face appeared,
"but they built this place so that all of my inside calls have to be
routed through your selective tentacles."

"The usual, Mr. Caradac?"

"The usual."

Joe was rather proud of the fact that everything in his division of
M. I. and E. worked smoothly and efficiently--even the kitchens. In a
little less than forty seconds a portion of his desk folded back and
the "usual" appeared on an elevator tray. A pot of light coffee and
some doughnuts with powdered brown sugar.

Joe dunked the solid portion of his lunch and considered the morning's
peculiar happenings. Apparently unrelated incidents that were related
in part always intrigued him. There was usually a logical reason
for parallels. The trick, he thought, was to concentrate not on the
"coincidences" themselves but to examine the circumstances under which
they occurred.

Sarah's illness--Kent's queer behavior. Not obviously connected.
Separately neurotic. Yet what was it Kent had said that had reminded
him of Sarah's strange greeting?

Hone you-arnel?

The two had played practical jokes on him before. He grinned. This was
probably one of their special five-day jobs, designed to make him into
a shattered wreck by Friday so Sarah could duck him on Saturday and get
by with it.

Joe repeated the syllables aloud, trying to make some sense out of them:

"Hone you-arnel."
