
Instantly he was on his feet fighting, his lips raving silently. His
big chair tipped back and fell over to the floor.

A furious, icily cold intrusion was being made upon his mind. He stood
with feet planted on either side of the overturned chair and threw the
force off but it came back again and again. The office was suddenly
oppressive and stifling, and the objects about him were small and
crystal clear, as if seen through the wrong end of a hand galaxiscope.
The churning, utterly loathsome invasion surged up like a wave roaring
against a reef--and fell back and away in horrible desperation.

From a million miles away he heard--or felt--a voice. It said:
"_Uarnl--yes, Uarnl!_" and it said other things, raging things, that
Joe could not understand.

Then it was gone. As suddenly as it had come. The office regained its
normal perspective. The bright sunlight, reflected now from the tall
buildings across the Great Canal, erased the ragged, black hole out of
his consciousness.

Painfully he righted the chair and sank into it. His lungs felt pressed
in and stale, like the inside of a folded blanket. He took a deep
breath, shoved his wet palms hard at the top of the desk.

_Uarnl._ The nightmare.

It came back to him as dreams rarely do: down to its last beastly
detail. A dream of fear and peril--a running dream--and not a dream,
after all. _Uarnl._ He looked at the corner of the room, at the
colorful throw rug. It lay there under the sun, brighter than it had
been, as if a pane of glass had been lifted from it.

After a while he got up and went to the door of Miss Kal's office. She
looked up vaguely, concealing a small, resigned lizard under her jacket.

"Miss Kal," Joe said blindly, "do you have my morning papers?"

He took the facsimiles back to his desk, walking slowly, afraid to
get there and sit down and open them. The nightmare; the first aborted
attempt. Sarah and Kent--approaching him separately--yet similarly.
Allies. Each had been confident that during the night _Uarnl_--had--

There was nothing else on the front sheets but the names _Ih_, _Lof_,
_Dir_, and _Uarnl_ and the story of their possessors' escape from Mars
Detain. A power breakdown had weakened the energy barrier that kept
their elusive minds, and hence their bodies, in confinement. By the
time armed replacements could be sent to the _Aarnians'_ isolated cell
the beings had vanished. The guards had been strangled. Energy barriers
had been set up at all space and canal ports. Other barriers had been
formed into a hundred mile noose that was being carefully drawn in
toward Detain.

Joe folded the last paper over the cruel three-eyed faces that seemed
to mock him. He fumbled at the visiphone. Miss Kal was wiping her lips
cheerfully.

"Miss Kal," Joe said, "get me Mr. Reader in Shipping." He leaned his
elbows wearily on the desk and waited until Reader's puritanical face
appeared on the screen.

"Yeah, boss?"

"Reader, has anyone consigned four large crates to go off-world
tomorrow night?"

"Yeah," Reader replied promptly; "Mr. Kent. B-type mobile spacesuits.
Had me alter the manifest this morn--"

"Do you have the crates down there?"

"Uh-uh. Mr. Kent said he'd skim them in sometime tomorrow. He was
coming up to get the switch O.K.'d by you. Why? Anything wrong?"

Joe opened the center drawer of his desk.

"No. Nothing's wrong. Listen carefully, Reader. I'm going to take care
of those crates myself. If I'm--not in my office tomorrow you are _not_
to load them on-ship! No matter what Mr. Ke--_anyone_ says or does! If
the crates come in refrigerate them and call the Patrol and send the
name of the addressee to Detain immediately!"

Reader came as near as he ever had to looking surprised. Nothing
wrong? His right eyebrow shot up several millimeters. Joe added, "Keep
this in your cheek and there'll be double credits for you pay-day."

Reader nodded. "Yeah, boss. Don't I always?"

Joe took his atom pistol out of the drawer, handling it with unfamiliar
fingers. It had been a long time since those target shooting days in
Iowa. He checked the gun quickly, reloaded it with fresh pellets.

He had left the visiphone on, and when Reader had broken his
connection, the interior of Miss Kal's office and the surprised face of
that eavesdropper had automatically returned. She stared at the atom
pistol.

"Miss Kal," Joe said softly. "Get me a canal-cab."
