
Sarah came out of the kitchen as Joe opened the canal door and let
himself in. He turned and paid the cabby and the skimmer moved off.

"Hello, darling," she said, and tugged at his arm. "I've got a swell
supper fixed!"

Joe smiled at her as he shrugged out of his tunic. He flung it casually
over her favorite potted _Zinhaeat_. She didn't grab it off. _I should
have been a detective_, he thought. He followed her into the kitchen.

"Anything interesting happen today?" Sarah began to arrange the table,
moving things here and there fussily. She looked at Joe from the corner
of her eye. "That's about how you like it, isn't it?" she asked.

Joe said, "That's fine." He ground out his cigarette on a clean plate.
Sarah would have taken his head off if he had ever done that.

"No," he went on, "nothing happened. Same old stuff."

They sat down to eat. Joe tasted his soup. It was rotten. He wondered
if they cooked like that all over Callisto, or only in _Aarn_.

"Is it all right, darling?" Sarah was looking at him brightly, her
fingers twined under her chin with the left pinkie extended, her head
cocked to one side. It was all so cute that it made Joe sick. He
decided that if the showdown were put off much longer he'd never be
able to stand the sight of her again.

"You haven't called me 'darling' since our days of stardust and
chivalry," he said. "Call me Joe."

"What?"

"I said--call--me--Joe."

Sarah pushed her plate away. Her brown eyes were muddy.

"I wasn't hungry anyway," she said coldly.

Big Kent and Ray came through the door that led into the living room.
Kent leaned against the wall and folded his massive arms. He grinned
mockingly at Joe. "We never give up," he said. Ray stared nervously and
wet his lips.

Joe shoved back his chair inch by inch.

"_Uarnl's_ dead," he said. "He blundered things in my office and got
scared and tried to get off-world in a passenger. The Patrol blasted
him."

Sarah rose calmly and looked at Ray and Kent. Their faces were stony.
She said: "_Lof--Dir_--I think the four of us together can break down
his resistance to Occupancy." Her eyes traveled to an empty corner of
the kitchen. "Are you ready, _Uarnl_?"

She faced Joe again, a sly smile on her lips.

"_Uarnl_ wasn't killed, Yoe--atomics don't kill us. The passenyer was."

Joe wasn't surprised when she floated away from the chair and toward
him, her slippers hardly seeming to touch the floor. He'd been
expecting to be attacked.

But what almost broke him into little pieces was her third eye--the
one that blinked open in the middle of her forehead, brushing aside a
brittle shell of skin and glaring at him with its wide, unhuman hunger.
Then, for one terrible second, his brain felt packed in ice; the room
was grotesque, filled with alien contrivances. The only sensible thing
in it was _Ih's_ warm, familiar third eye.

With all his melting strength, Joe thought, "_I destroyed the bodies!_"
and the whole scene dangled unmoving before him, the weird, distant
setting for the climax of a play, as he heard his own voice in a
wrenching groan:

"Our bodies--destroyed!"

Appalling misery and hatred for _himself_ rocked Joe's brain. Then
_Uarnl_ recoiled, as the _Aarnians'_ rapport was broken.

Joe cried chokingly, "Lieutenant--Lieutenant Smith!"

The canal door burst open and Lieutenant Smith of Mars Detain, who
had been hugging the narrow metal landing ledge, came in like the
proverbial tornado. What he'd heard had more than convinced him. The
deadly little sphere in his hands started to make sharp spitting sounds.

Sarah and Kent and Ray and the invisible _Uarnl_ screamed. All
together, in a dissonance of agony and fear and death.

[Illustration: They screamed, in a dissonance of agony and fear and
death....]
