
He gave one final wink and stepped out, closing the door behind him.
And he left Manool in a turmoil of uncertainty. The little farmer knew
well where his duty lay. If he did the right thing, he'd go at once to
Captain Tarrant and inform him of the impending rebellion. But, if he
did, Gilligan would surely get him. He knew well that the threat the
thin mate had made had been no idle one.

But if he didn't inform the captain--if he didn't, he'd be a mutineer,
too. And he'd have to take his share, and leave the earth, a fugitive,
and probably cast his lot with the infamous Huddersfield. He certainly
didn't want to do that, either.

He strode back and forth in the tank-room, a victim of uncertainty. He
didn't know _what_ to do, he told himself, plaintively.... He still
didn't know, when dinner time came.

Manool's abstraction at the dinner table was so noticeable that young
Captain Tarrant was forced to speak of it.

"Where's your appetite, Sarouk?" he asked. "You haven't even finished
your soup. Aren't you feeling well?"

Manool's face reddened as he answered, but old Doc Slade looked up and
eyed Manool keenly.

"You better come in and see me after dinner, Sarouk," he suggested.
"Maybe you got something wrong and I'll have some work to do. You stop
in and see me."

Manool was about to insist that he had nothing wrong with him, when he
caught Doc's eye, and realized that the old man knew something. And
then he realized that here was opportunity knocking. He could go in and
see Doc Slade, and Gilligan would never suspect anything. He rose from
the table murmuring: "I'll be in and see you in a few minutes, Doc."
Then hurried back to the farm.

He entered the tank-room and checked everything again. He put on a
clean shirt, and brushed his teeth and combed his straight black hair.
Then, after a moment's consideration, he brushed his teeth again. Doc
might take a notion to examine him, and he certainly didn't want his
teeth to be soiled, if Doc looked at his mouth and throat.

He was about to leave the tank-room when he heard a cry from somewhere
down the passage. It was a startled cry, and it was followed by a sharp
command that ended in an oath. His heart leaped into his mouth. Not an
officer on the ship ever used profanity to the men. Besides, he'd have
recognized the voice of any of the four officers. That command had been
shouted by one of the men, and the cry that had preceded it had been
one of surprise. Had the mutiny started already?

As if in answer to his question, the sharp report of an automatic rang
out suddenly through the passageway. Manool swung the door shut and
ducked back as suddenly as if the bullet had been fired at him. He was
beginning to tremble; he felt a smothering constriction of his throat,
and yet, at the same time, an unreasoning thrill of excitement was
rising within him. He felt an overpowering desire to see what was going
on outside.

For many minutes his caution overcame his curiosity, but at last the
continual silence convinced him that, in all probability, the mutiny
was over. So, ever so slowly, he stepped out into the corridor and
started down. The hall where he had heard the shot proved to be quite
empty, and he wondered where everybody was. This was certainly a queer
mutiny, nothing like any he had ever read about. He trod more and more
cautiously, and it dawned on him that this silence was more fearsome
than tumult would have been.

He was passing a store-room just then, and when he was just abreast
of the door, it was flung suddenly open and there was one of the
fuel-wrestlers, with a loaded automatic leveled at Manool's chest, and
a spiteful look in his eyes.

Manool's reaction was almost automatic. He threw up his hands and
shouted, "Don't shoot." And from behind the fuel-wrestler, another
voice--Gilligan's--said, "Let him alone, it's the farmer." Then it grew
sharper as the mate snapped, "Get in here, Manool. What are you doin'
wanderin' around in the halls? You want to get shot?"

Manool was almost too scared to speak. "I was looking for you," he
answered. "I think the fight is all over, so I look for you."

"It ain't all over, by a dam' sight," Gilligan snarled. "You seen Doc
Slade?"

"I ain't seen nobody," Sarouk answered, truthfully. "I just came out of
the farm and walked down here. I hear a shot, while ago."

"That was when we took a pop at Slade. I think he must have had some
suspicions, the way he acted. Now, look, Manool," the mate went on,
"this stuff ain't exactly in your line. You better go back to the farm
and lay low till I call you."

Manool was still a little trembly from the scare he'd got when he
saw the pistol pointed at his breast. He nodded enthusiastically
at Gilligan's suggestion, darted to the door and, running down the
corridor, he crept into the tank-room without another word.
