
He was in the tank-room, alone, for hours, it seemed. It was almost
time for supper when there was a knock on the door, and when he
hesitatingly opened it, Gilligan came in with a big smile on his face.

"Well, it's all over but the shoutin', Manool," he boasted. "We've got
Tarrant and Navigator Rogers cooped up in the dining room. They've got
food and water, and they've locked themselves in, but we got a guard
posted at the door, and we'll get 'em if they make a break. We got Doc
Slade, too--alive. He fought like a tiger, hurt two of the boys before
we nailed him, but we took him, alive, and we're holding him, up in the
weighin' room. Cookie's stirred up some supper, so come on up and eat.
You needn't be afraid," he added as an afterthought. "The fighting's
all over."

Manool followed him out of the door and down the passageway. They went
up the stairs to the loading room near the central axis of the rocket;
Manool feeling again the dizziness that he always felt when he lost
weight. He had never really become a spaceman, in spite of all his
years in space. He walked a little uncertainly and giddily into the
room, a pace or two behind Gilligan.

The entire crew was there. Doc Slade was there, too. He had a black
eye and a long, deep scratch down one side of his face. His hands were
tied, and he was seated on a stool with his legs tied to the stool's.
Doc's eyes widened when he saw Manool walk in with Gilligan; then
a look of scorn came into them and he turned his head away. Manool
squirmed uncomfortably under his gaze--he liked Doc Slade, and Doc had
always liked him, up to now. He hoped these fellows wouldn't hurt the
old Doc.

The table was set and the crew were about to sit down to eat. Manool
was seated beside Gilligan, and they untied Doc's hands and sat him
down, too, at the opposite end of the table.

The meal was sheer torture to the little farmer. The crew ignored him,
Gilligan ignored him, and Doc Slade--Doc wouldn't ignore him, and
Manool wished he would. Before the meal was over, Manool was in an
agony of anxiety. He wondered what would become of Tarrant and Rogers;
he wondered what they'd do to Doc Slade; he wondered also what they
were going to do to _him_.

The crew was uproariously jovial. They had broken out a case of gin
that one of them had probably smuggled aboard, and they lit cigarettes
and split a bottle and were having a glorious time. It grew more
glorious after the third bottle, and one of them brought up the
suggestion that they divide the cargo among them right then, to "see
what they were going to get."

Gilligan frowned and tried to wave the suggestion down, but a half
dozen voices snarled angrily at his refusal, and the slim mate was
forced to acquiesce with as good grace as possible. A loader was
delegated to guard Doc Slade, then the entire remainder of the crew
started aft to the "hold."

In those days, ships usually carried things that were mighty hard to
get or make on Mars, and were not too scarce on Earth. In this case,
there was a ton of U235, a lot of organic chemicals that still couldn't
be synthesized from their elements, and an assortment of odds and ends
that were prized by the Martian natives in spite of their cheapness.

Into the bins where this stuff was stored, the shouting pirates who
had lately been a well-behaved crew swarmed, shouting and pushing, and
laying claim to this and that and the other; and in less than five
minutes, three separate fights started. Gilligan stormed, threatened,
and at last resorted to violence.

"This stuff'll never be divided fair if you lugs try to settle it by
fightin' for it," he roared after he had clipped a couple of them.
"What do you think you are, a bunch of pirates? You fools kill each
other off, and who brings the ship into port, eh? How long do you
think you'd go on livin', if we go short-handed and damage this can on
landin'? Huddersfield would kill you off like flies for that. Now calm
down and let's get this thing settled."

They stood meekly enough after that, while Gilligan looked the cargo
over and assigned this portion to this fellow, that portion to that. He
had apportioned a large part of the spoils to them when he came to a
dozen or so large corrugated boxes. He read one of the labels and broke
out into laughter.

"Look at this, you lugs," he chuckled. "Who's going to get this for his
share?"

The others looked and grins began to spread over their faces. The
labels said: "_Dentogleme Tooth Powd. 1/2 Gr. 4 oz._" The grins became
laughs, and a dozen eyes turned to Manool. The little farmer felt
his face begin to redden; it dawned on him that his habit of dental
fastidiousness was not unknown to the crew. Gilligan's next remark made
it obvious that this was the truth.

"Manool," he said. "This stuff was probably goin' to Mars to polish the
teeth of them shark-jawed natives. But it would have been wasted there,
Manool, wasted. But now, Manool, it shall be awarded to you, who'll
value it, in appreciation of all you done for us, durin' the mutiny."

His eyes hardened for a moment as if in anticipation of a complaint;
then, seeing nothing in Manool's eyes but plaintive acquiescence, he
went on: "Take it, Manool, and get out o' here. Take it down to the
farm and gloat over it, farmer. There's enough there to last even you
for twenty years."

The crew looked at him, looked at the dazed Manool, and burst into
spasms of laughter. They poked jibes at him, made obscene puns at his
expense, and Manool stood there, taking it all in and getting redder
and redder.

He wished futilely that he had had time to do something before the
mutiny. He wished that it wasn't too late to do something, now. Then
he realized that there was something for him to do now. Gilligan was
ordering him again, in no uncertain terms, to get that tooth-powder
down to his tank-room. He smiled weakly at the ring-leader and picked
up one box.
