
For the next half hour he was busy carrying his "fortune" down to his
quarters. And it is doubtful if, in all his life, Manool Sarouk had
ever been so miserable. He upbraided himself at every step for his
cowardice and vacillation. He racked his brain, striving to devise
some brilliant plan to circumvent the mutineers; and even as he did
so, another part of his mind was scoffing at the futility of daring to
oppose that group of ruffians. By the time he came back for the last
box, he had admitted the absurdity of even trying it.

They had emptied the gin bottles by that time. Some of them were
singing, and some were shooting craps, gambling with their share of the
cargo. Gilligan and a couple of others were gathered around Doc Slade.
They had removed his bonds and had evidently been talking to him.

"You'll take a chance with us or you'll take a chance with them two
in the officer's mess," Gilligan was saying, menacingly, as Manool
entered. It was evident that he had shared in the gin since Manool had
started his work. He was looking ugly and seemed to be feeling the same
way.

Doc Slade's lip was curling with contempt before Gilligan had finished
his sentence. "There's no choice," the doctor spat. "You give me
passage to the mess-room and I'll go, right now. What have I got in
common with a pack of space-rats like these? I don't like the smell of
you, even."

"Okeh!" Gilligan snarled, with an air of finality that showed that he
was ending what had been an attempt to persuade Slade to join them.
"I'll give you passage. Git out o' here and git down to the dinin'
room."

He flung the door open and gestured out into the passageway. Doc Slade
looked at him, with a look in his eyes that Manool couldn't fathom.
"Git!" repeated Gilligan, and drew his weapon. "Git out o' here before
I forget myself and let you have a dose o' this."

Doc hesitated the briefest second, then he shrugged and stepped out of
the door. He started down the passageway swiftly, and Manool noticed
that he neither slackened his pace nor looked backward. He was some
sixty feet away when Gilligan muttered to the two or three who had
crowded to the door, "All right. Let him have it!"

And to Manool's horror, a half dozen shots cracked and echoed in the
narrow confines of the hall. Doc staggered, put out a hand to the
bulkhead, coughed and slumped to the floor. Gilligan ran forward and
put another bullet in him.
