
Manool didn't even wait until Gilligan came back into the room. He
grabbed up his last box mechanically and ran to the steps. His mind was
a chaos of horror; he was choking, his eyes were filling with tears and
he was aware of only one thought--to get to the steps before a bullet
smacked into _his_ back, too.

He stumbled down the steps and along the corridor, sobbing as he went.
They had killed Doc Slade. Killed him in cold blood. They'd kill the
other officers, too, if they got the chance. There was no good in them,
there was no hope in trying to placate them and appeal to their good
nature. At any moment, they'd be likely to take a notion to kill him,
too; just for the fun of the thing! He hardly knew what he was doing by
the time he entered the tank-room and dropped the box of tooth-powder
onto the others and then slammed the door shut and locked it.

For a while he was a little hysterical. He sobbed; he walked the
floor; he beat his temples with his fists, and wondered if he could
kill himself. He could see before him, with awful clarity, the form of
Doc Slade, lying as he had lain in the passageway, with a gradually
spreading pool of blood beneath his head.

He covered his face with his hands and wept anew. He kicked savagely at
the boxes that were the price of his neutrality in this little war. He
felt that he was the lowest, the most despicable coward in history. He
wrung his hands and wept again. And at last, in time, his eyes dried
and he took a deep breath.

There was a new look in his eyes. The thought had come to him suddenly,
that he held the lives of these madmen in his own hand. Of course, he
did! He had been worrying so much about the safety of his own paltry
life that this thought had been entirely overlooked. He was the farmer
on this ship! What was he weeping and wailing for, when every one of
them depended for their air on his continued attention to the tanks?

Why, they were a good twenty million miles from the nearest space-port.
If he wanted to die, if he was willing to give his life, he could
destroy those tanks of vegetation, and not a man on this rocket would
live to land on a planet again.

He stood up and threw out his chest. He inhaled deeply--and smothered
an involuntary sob. He went to the wash-bowl and washed his face and
eyes and combed his lank, black hair. He absently reached for his
tooth-brush, then he shuddered. But habit was too great; in spite of
the feeling of revulsion that the very thought of tooth-powder brought
to him, he wound up by carefully brushing his teeth. Then he felt
better.

He started to turn away from the wash-bowl and suddenly stopped. He
turned back quickly and seized the can of tooth-powder standing there.
He picked it up, poured some of the powder into his hand and let a drop
or two of water fall on it. A sinister grin began to spread over his
face--if he handled this thing right, the joke they had made in giving
him the tooth-powder was going to back-fire with a vengeance.

He sat down and began to think.

He sat there for almost half an hour. Once he got up and went over and
examined the openings to the ventilator pipes. He removed the screen
from one of them, a pipe about two feet in diameter, and looked into
the blackness of the pipe's interior. What he saw evidently satisfied
him, for he smiled again and went back to resume his pensive pose.

At last, he rose and with the grim smile playing on his face he went
to work. He climbed up into the ventilator pipe he had examined, and
started to worm his way into its dark maw. His legs kicked futilely for
a moment, then he was hunching his way along through the tube.

He worked his way along for a dozen yards or so, then he came to a
place where the tube divided in two. He unhesitatingly chose the path
to the right--he knew these tubes well enough to traverse them with
his eyes shut, even though he had never seen them from the inside
before. After a few yards of further crawling, he saw a light ahead and
increased his speed. Before long, he was lying in front of a grating
and looking out into the officer's mess-room.

He could see Tarrant and Rogers. They were seated disconsolately at the
table, speaking little, apparently, for Manool watched them for five
minutes before he tried to attract their attention, and in all that
time, Tarrant only spoke once. When Manool tapped on the grating, they
looked up startled, and reached for their weapons. Rogers was unable
to locate the rapping and swung about a little wildly until Tarrant
pointed out the ventilator opening. Then he recognized Manool before
Tarrant did.

"It's the farmer," he exclaimed, in surprise. "What are you doing up
there, Sarouk?"

Manool beckoned them over to the ventilator.

"Don't talk too loud," he cautioned in a hoarse whisper. "I can't say
much. Somebody is guarding outside the door, maybe they hear me. They
kill Doc Slade and the chemist. I got a scheme. You take this grating
off, while I go back to the farm and get something."
