
He backed away without waiting for an answer and made his way slowly
back to the farm. He picked up one of his boxes of tooth-powder and
hoisted it up to the ventilator shaft, shoving it back as far as he
could. Then he climbed in after it and began his journey back to the
mess-room, pushing the box ahead of him. It was slow work, but he made
it at last, and called softly to Tarrant to come and get the box.

"What's this all about, Manool?" demanded the captain, but Manool
refused to answer.

"Can't talk too much, Captain," he whispered. "Got to hurry. If someone
tries to come in farm before I get these boxes over here, this whole
plan be shot. Don't you talk now, please."

Tarrant nodded his understanding and Manool started back for another
box of tooth-powder. As he hunched his way along, he heard Tarrant say
to Rogers, quite plainly: "Think he knows what he's doing, Ike?"

He smiled bitterly. It seemed impossible for anyone to expect anything
important could be accomplished by little Manool Sarouk. Well, if
things went right, he was certainly going to show them, this time.

In spite of his haste, and in spite of the fact that Rogers helped him
after the third trip, it was some little time before Manool dropped
down in the tank-room after that last box. He heaved a huge sigh of
relief as he put it into the ventilator shaft, and turned to do the one
thing left to do. This was the one job he hated, but it was the most
important job of all. He went to his locker and got out a big bottle
and poured liquid from it into every one of the tanks. He turned off a
valve under each tank and took a hammer and beat the valve-handle into
uselessness. Then, after checking to make sure he hadn't overlooked
anything, he climbed into the tube and started pushing that last box of
tooth-powder ahead of him.

At last he reached the mess-room again and handed down his box. He
climbed down, himself, and had no more than landed when Tarrant was on
him with a whispered, "Come on now, Manool, tell us what this is all
about."

"Just a couple minutes more, Captain," Manool pleaded. "You think they
can get through that door?"

"Not a chance," Rogers spoke up.

"That's fine. Maybe, then, you help me fix that ventilator, too." They
put the grill back on the ventilator, and covered it by nailing boards
from the table over it.

"By-'n'by, we make that air-tight," said Manool, and gave his next
order. Yes, he was giving orders to the captain and the navigator now,
and he was quite conscious that he was doing so.

"You get all the bowls and pans and pots in here and fill 'em with
water. No telling when those fellows decide to cut our water lines."

It took them half an hour to do that, and it wasn't until it was done
that Manool felt satisfied. Then he began to break open one of the
cartons of tooth-powder, explaining his plans as he did so, in the same
whisper he had used all along.

"Those fellows out there got the whole ship to themselves," he said.
"They got lots of food and lots of water and lots of air. They got
fuel, too, and somebody who can lay an orbit for contact with Ceres.
But I don't think they ever get there.

"There's a whole lot of fellows, too," said Manool, dubiously. "I think
maybe the air they got won't last 'em."

"Their _air_!" ejaculated Tarrant. "Manool, you haven't monkeyed with
the tanks, have you?"

"I just kill the water-weed, that's all."

"Are you nuts, little man?" asked Tarrant at last. "How in thunder are
_we_ going to breathe, when this air gets stale. You may smother those
pirates, but we're all in the same boat here, you know."

Manool smacked his fist into his hand to emphasize his remark.

"We may be in same boat, but we three, we're in different part of this
boat. Maybe them rats outside quit breathing, all right, but not us!
Look here."

He seized them both by the shoulder and hauled them across the room. He
broke open one of the corrugated boxes as they watched, and pulled out
a gaily colored can. He opened the can and dumped the contents into a
pan of water, while they looked on.

He stirred the paste in the bottom of the pan for a moment and then let
out a cry of triumph.

"Aha! See there! What you think of that, by gum!"
