
“If my dream of happiness was bright, it was also of short duration, and
I was to be awakened from it at the hermit’s grotto. On arriving there
in the middle of the clay, I was surprised at not seeing Atala come
forth to meet us. I cannot tell what sudden apprehension took possession
of me. As we approached the grotto, I dared not call the daughter of
Lopez; my imagination was equally frightened by the idea of the noise or
of the silence that might follow my cries. Still more terrified by the
dark appearance of the entrance to the rock, I said to the missionary,
‘O you, whom heaven accompanies and strengthens, penetrate into those
shades!’

“How weak is the man who is governed by his passions! How strong is he
who relies upon God! There was more courage in that religious heart,
withered by seventy-six years, than in all the ardor of my youth. The
man of peace entered the grotto, whilst I remained outside, full of
terror. Soon a feeble murmur of complaint issued from the interior
of the rock, and fell upon my ear. Uttering a cry as I recovered my
strength, I rushed into the darkness of the cavern. Spirits of my
fathers, you alone know the spectacle that met my view!

“The hermit had lighted a pine-torch, which he was holding with a
trembling hand over Atala’s couch. With her hair in disorder, the young
and beautiful woman, slightly raised upon her elbow, looked pale
and suffering. Drops of painful sweat shone upon her forehead; her
half-extinguished eyes still sought to express her love to me, and her
mouth endeavored to smile. As though struck by lightning, with my eyes
fixed, my arms outstretched, and my lips apart, I remained motionless.
A profound silence reigned for a moment between the three personages of
this scene of grief. The hermit was the first to break it. ‘This,’
he said, ‘can only be a fever occasioned by fatigue, and if we resign
ourselves to God’s will, He will take pity on us.’

“At these words my heart revived, and, with the mobility of the savage,
I passed suddenly from an excess of fear to an excess of confidence,
from which, however, Atala soon aroused me. Shaking her head sadly, she
made us a sign to approach her couch.

“‘My father,’ she said, in a weak voice, addressing herself to the
hermit, ‘I am upon the point of death. O Chactas! listen without despair
to the fatal secret I had concealed from you in order not to make you
too miserable, and out of obedience to my mother. Try not to interrupt
me by any marks of grief, which would shorten the few moments I have to
live. I have many things to tell of, and from the beatings of my heart,
which slacken--I do not know what icy burden presses within my bosom--I
feel that I cannot make too much haste!’

“After a short silence, Atala continued thus:--

“‘My sad destiny began almost before I had seen the light. My mother had
conceived me in misfortune. I wearied her bosom, and she brought me into
the world with such painful difficulty that my life was despaired of. To
save me, my mother made a vow. She promised the Queen of Angels that I
should consecrate myself to an unwedded life if I escaped from death.
That fatal vow is now hurrying me to the tomb!

“‘I was entering upon my sixteenth year when I lost my mother. Some
hours before her death she called me to her bedside. “My daughter,”
 she said, in the presence of the missionary who was consoling her last
moments, “you know the vow I made for you. Would you belie your mother?
O my Atala, I am leaving you in a world that is not worthy of possessing
a Christian--in the midst of idolators who persecute the God of your
father and of your mother, the God who, after having given you life, has
preserved it to you by a miracle. Ah, my dear child, by accepting the
virgin’s veil, you only renounce the cares of the cabin and the fatal
passions which have tormented your mother’s breast! Come, then, my
well-beloved, come; swear upon this image of the Saviour’s Mother, held
by the hands of this holy priest and of your dying parent, that you will
not betray me in the face of heaven. Remember what I promised for you
in order to save your life, and that, if you do not keep my promise, you
will plunge your mother’s soul into eternal tortures.”

“‘O my mother, why spake you thus? O Religion, the cause of my ills and
of my felicity, my ruin and my consolation at the same time! And you,
dear and sad object of a passion that is consuming me even in the arms
of death, you can now see, O Chactas, what has caused the hardship of
our destiny! Melting into tears, and throwing myself upon my mother’s
bosom, I promised all that I was asked to promise. The missionary
pronounced over me the fearful language of my oath, and gave me the
scapulary that bound me forever. My mother threatened me with her
malediction if ever I broke my vow; and, after having advised me to keep
the secret inviolably from the pagans, the persecutors of my religion,
she expired, whilst holding me in a tender embrace.

[Illustration: 069]

[Illustration: 071]

[Illustration: 073]

[Illustration: 075]

“‘I did not at first know the danger of my oath. Full of ardor and a
veritable Christian, proud, too, of the Spanish blood that flowed in my
veins, I saw myself surrounded by men unworthy of receiving my hand, and
I congratulated myself upon having no other spouse than the God of my
mother. I saw you, young and beautiful prisoner; I pitied your lot; I
had the courage to speak to you at the funeral pile in the forest. Then
it was that I felt the weight of my vows!’

“When Atala had finished littering these words, I cried out, with
clenched fists, and looking at the missionary with a threatening air,
‘This, then, is the religion you have so much vaunted to me! Perish the
oath that deprives me of Atala! Man-priest, why did you come into these
forests?’

‘“To save you,’ said the old man, in a terrible voice; ‘to conquer
your passions, and to prevent you, blasphemer, from drawing down upon
yourself the wrath of Heaven! It is becoming, indeed, for so young a
man, scarcely entered upon life, to complain of his griefs! Where are
the marks of your sufferings? Where are the acts of injustice you have
had to support? Where are your virtues, which alone could give you a
certain right to murmur? What services have you rendered? What good have
you done? What, miserable creature! you can only show me passions,
and you dare to accuse Heaven! When, like Father Aubry, you shall have
passed thirty years in exile upon the mountains, you will be less prompt
to judge of the designs of Providence. You will then understand that
you know nothing and are nothing, and that there is no chastisement
so severe, no misfortune so terrible, that our corrupt flesh does not
deserve to suffer.’

“The lightnings that flashed from the old man’s eyes, the beatings of
his beard against his breast, and his fiery language, made him like to
a god. Overcome by his majesty, I fell at the father’s knees, and asked
pardon for my anger. ‘My son,’ he replied, in a tone so mild that
a feeling of remorse entered my soul, ‘it was not for myself that I
reprimanded you. Alas! you are right, my dear child: I have done but
very little in these forests, and God has no servant more unworthy than
myself. But, my son, it is Heaven--Heaven, I say--that should never be
accused! Pardon me if I have offended you, and let us listen to your
sister. There may still perhaps be some remedy; do not let us tire
of hoping. Chactas, the religion which has made a virtue of hope is a
Divine religion!’

“‘My young friend,’ resumed Atala, ‘you have been a witness of my
struggles, and nevertheless you have seen but the smallest portion of
them. I concealed the rest from you. No; the black slave who moistens
the hot sands of the Floridas with his sweat is less miserable than
Atala has been. Urging you to flight, and yet certain to die if you left
me; fearful of flying with you to the desert, and still panting after
the shade of the woods--ah! if it had only been required of me to
abandon my relations, my friends, my country! if even (frightful
thought!) I should only have incurred the loss of my soul! But thy
shadow, O my mother! thy shadow was always there, reminding me of thy
tortures! I heard thy complaints; I saw the flames of hell consuming
thee. My nights were barren, and haunted by phantoms, my days were
disconsolate; the evening dew dried as it fell upon my burning skin; I
opened my lips to the breezes, and the breezes, far from refreshing me,
became heated with the fire of my breath. What torture it was for me,
Chactas, to see you constantly near me, far from all mankind, in the
depths of the solitude, and to feel that there was an invincible barrier
between you and myself! To have passed my life at your feet, to have
waited upon you like a slave, to have prepared your repasts and your
couch in some unknown corner of the universe, would have been for me
supreme happiness. That happiness was within my reach, yet I could not
enjoy it. What plans I have imagined! What dreams have passed through
this sad heart of mine! Occasionally, when I fixed my eyes upon you, I
went so far as to encourage desires that were as foolish as they were
culpable: sometimes I wished I were the only creature living with you
upon the earth: at other times, feeling a divinity that stopped me in
my horrible transports, I seemed to desire that that divinity might
be annihilated, provided that, pressed in your arms, I might roll from
abyss to abyss with the ruins of God and of the world! Even now--shall I
say it?--now that eternity is about to swallow me up, that I am going to
appear before the inexorable Judge; at the moment when, from obedience
to my mother, I see with joy my vow devouring my life; well, even now,
by a frightful contradiction, I carry away with me the regret of not
having been yours----’

“‘My daughter,’ interrupted the missionary, ‘your grief misleads you.
The excess of passion to which you are abandoning yourself is rarely
just; it is not even natural; and for that reason it is less culpable in
the eyes of God, because it is rather an error of the mind than a vice
of the heart. You must therefore put away such passionate feelings,
which are unworthy of your innocence. At the same time, my dear child;
your impetuous imagination has alarmed you too much concerning your
vows. Religion requires no superhuman sacrifice. Its true sentiments,
its moderated virtues, are far above the exalted sentiments and the
forced virtues of a pretending heroism. If you had succumbed--well, poor
lost sheep! the Good Shepherd would have sought for you, and would have
brought you back to the flock. The treasures of repentance were open to
you; torrents of blood are required to wipe out our faults in the
eyes of men; a single tear suffices with God. Tranquilize yourself,
therefore, my dear daughter; your situation needs calm. Let us address
ourselves to God, who heals all the wounds of His servants. If it be
His will, as I trust it may be, that you escape from this malady, I will
write to the Bishop of Quebec; he has the power to release you from your
vows, which are but simple vows; and you shall finish your days near me,
with Chactas as your spouse.’

“As the old man finished speaking, Atala was seized with a violent
convulsion, from which she emerged with all the signs of fearful
suffering. ‘What!’ said she, joining her two hands with passion,
‘there was a remedy! I could have been released from my vows!’ ‘Yes, my
daughter,’ replied the father; ‘and it is still time.’ ‘It is too late it
is too late!’ she cried.

‘Must I die at the moment when I learn that I might have been happy? Why
did I not know * this old man sooner? At present what happiness should I
be enjoying with you, with my Chactas, a Christian--consoled, comforted
by this august priest--in this desert--for ever--Oh! my felicity would
have been too great!’ ‘Calm yourself,’ I said to her, taking hold of
one of the unfortunate maiden’s hands; ‘calm yourself: that happiness is
still in store for us.’ ‘Never! never!’ said Atala. ‘How?’ I asked. ‘You
do not know all,’ cried the maiden. ‘Yesterday--during the storm--I was
on the point of breaking my vows; I was going to plunge my mother into
the flames of the abyss. Already her malediction was upon me, already
I lied to the God who had saved my life. Whilst you were kissing my
trembling lips, you were not aware that you were embracing death!’ ‘O
heaven!’ cried the missionary; ‘dear child, what have you done?’ ‘A
crime, my father,’ said Atala, with her eyes wandering; ‘but I only
destroyed myself, and I saved my mother.’ ‘Finish then!’ I exclaimed,
full of fear. ‘Well,’ she said, ‘I had foreseen my weakness; and on
quitting the cabins I took away with me----’

‘What?’ I interrupted with horror. ‘A poison?’ said the father. ‘It is
now at my heart,’ cried Atala.

“The torch slipped from the hermit’s hand. I fell fainting near Lopez’s
daughter. The old man took each of us in his arms, and during a short
interval we all three mingled our sobs on the funeral couch.

“‘Let us be stirring; let us be stirring,’ said the courageous father,
as he rose to light a lamp. ‘We are losing precious moments: like
intrepid Christians, let us brave the assaults of adversity; with
the cord about our necks, and with ashes upon our heads, let us throw
ourselves at the feet of the Most High, to implore His clemency, and
to submit ourselves to His decrees. Perhaps it may still be time. My
daughter, you ought to have told me of this last night.’

“‘Alas! my father,’ said Atala, ‘I looked for you last night; but
heaven, as a punishment for my faults, kept you away from me. Besides,
all help would have been useless; for even the Indians themselves, who
are so clever in what concerns poisons, know no remedy for that I have
taken. O Chactas, judge of my astonishment when I found that the result
was not so prompt as I had expected! My love redoubled my strength, and
my soul was unwilling to separate thus quickly from you!’

“It was no longer by sobs that I now interrupted Atala’s recital, but
by a torrent of passionate transports known only to savages. I rolled
myself upon the ground, twisting my arms and biting my hands. The
old priest, with wonderful tenderness, ran from brother to sister,
endeavoring to relieve us in a thousand ways. Through the calmness of
his heartland from the experience due to his weight of years, he knew
how to act upon our youth, and his religion furnished him with accents
even more tender and more ardent than our passions. Does not this
priest, who had passed forty years of daily sacrifice in the service of
God and man upon the mountain, remind you of the holocausts of Israel
smoking perpetually on the high places before the Lord?

“Alas! it was in vain that he tried to procure a remedy for Atala’s
sufferings. Fatigue, grief, poison, and a passion more mortal than all
the poisons together, had united to snatch the flower from the desert.
Towards evening terrible symptoms began to show themselves. A general
numbness took possession of Atala’s limbs, and the extremities of her
body became cold. ‘Touch my fingers,’ she said to me; ‘do they not feel
quite icy?’ I could not reply. I was overcome with horror. Afterwards
she added, ‘Even yesterday, my well-beloved, your contact made me
quiver: and now I can no longer feel your hand; I scarcely hear your
voice, and the objects in the grotto are disappearing from my sight
one after the other. Are not the birds singing? The sun must be nearly
setting? Chactas, its rays will be very beautiful in the desert, over my
tomb!’

“Atala perceiving that her language had melted us into tears, said
softly, ‘Pardon me, my kind friends; I am very weak, but perhaps I shall
get stronger. And yet to die so young, all at once, when my heart was so
full of life! Chief of prayer, take pity on me; support me. Do you
think my mother will be satisfied, and that God will forgive what I have
done?’

“‘My daughter,’ replied the holy man, shedding tears, and wiping them
away with his trembling, mutilated fingers, ‘all your misfortunes are
the result of your ignorance. Your savage education and the want of
instruction have been your ruin. You did not know that a Christian
cannot dispose of his life. Console yourself, therefore, my dear lamb;
God will pardon you, on account of the simplicity of your heart. Your
mother, and the imprudent missionary who guided her, are more to be
blamed than you; they exceeded their power in imposing an indiscreet vow
upon you: but may the Lord be with them! You all three offer a terrible
example of the dangers of enthusiasm, and of the want of enlightenment
on religious matters. Be of good cheer, my child; He who fathoms our
thoughts and our hearts will judge you according to your intentions,
which were pure, and not from your action, which was condemnable.

“‘As for life, if the moment has come for you to sleep in the Lord,
ah! my child, you lose but little by losing this world! In spite of the
solitude in which you have lived, you have known sorrow; what would
you have felt, then, if you had witnessed the evils of society?--if, on
visiting the shores of Europe, your ear had been stricken by the long
cry of suffering heard throughout that old land? The dweller in the
cabin, the inhabitant of a palace, both suffer and groan here below:
queens have been seen to cry like simple women, and people have been
astonished at the quantity of tears shed by kings!

“‘Is it your love that you regret? My daughter, you might as well weep
over a dream. Do you know the heart of man, and could you reckon upon
the inconstancies of his affection? Sacrifices and kindnesses, Atala,
are not eternal ties. One day, perhaps, disgust would have come with
satiety, the past would have been considered as nothing, and naught
would have remained but the inconveniences of a poor and despised union.
Doubtless, my dear daughter, the most beautiful loves were those of the
man and woman who issued from the hand of the Creator. A paradise had
been prepared for them. They were innocent and immortal. Perfect in soul
and body, they suited each other in every respect. Eve had been created
for Adam, l and Adam for Eve. If they, nevertheless, could not remain in
that state of happiness, what couple after them could do so? I will
not speak to you of the marriages of the first-born of men, of
those ineffable unions between sister and brother, in which love and
friendship were confounded in the same heart, and the purity of the one
increased the delights of the other. All those unions were troubled;
jealousy crept over the altar of turf upon which the goat was
sacrificed, it existed beneath the tent of Abraham, and even in the
abodes of the patriarchs, where they experienced so much joy that they
forgot the death of their mothers.

“‘Do you suppose, then, my child, that you are more innocent and more
fortunate in your ties than those holy families from which Jesus Christ
deigned to descend? Again, woman renews her sufferings each time she
becomes a mother, and she weeps on her marriage-day. What grief there
is for her in the mere loss of her new-born babe, to whom she gave
nourishment, and who dies upon her bosom! The mountain was full of
groans: nothing could console Rachel for the loss of her sons. The
bitterness attendant upon human affections is so powerful that I have in
my country seen grand ladies, the beloved of kings, quit the life of
a court to bury themselves in a cloister, and mutilate that rebellious
flesh, the pleasures of which are only the precursors of sorrow.

“‘But perhaps you would say that these last examples do not affect you;
that all your ambition was limited to the desire of living in an obscure
cabin with the man of your choice; that you sought less after the sweets
of marriage than after the charms of that folly which youth calls love?
Delusion, chimera, vanity--the dream of a diseased imagination! I also,
my daughter, have known the troubles of the heart. This head has not
been always bald, nor this breast always so calm as it appears to you
to-day. Believe in my experience: if man, constant in his affections,
could unceasingly respond to a sentiment constantly renewed, solitude
and love would doubtless render him the equal of God Himself; for those
are the two eternal pleasures of the Great Being. But the soul of man
becomes weary, and never loves the same object long and fully. There are
always some points upon which two hearts do not agree, and in the end
those points suffice to render life insupportable.

“‘Finally, my dear child, the great error of men, in their dream of
happiness, is that they forget the infirmity of death inseparable from
their nature; the end must come. Sooner or later, whatever might have
been your felicity, your beautiful visage would have been changed into
that uniform face which the sepulchre gives to the family of Adam. Even
the eye of Chactas would not have been able to distinguish you from
amongst your sisters of the tomb. Love does not extend its empire so far
as the worms in the coffin. What have I to say (O vanity of vanities!),
what can I say concerning the durability of earthly friendships? Would
you, my dear daughter, know its extent? If a man were to return to light
some years after his death, I do not believe he would be received with
joy even by those who had shed the most tears to his memory; so quickly
are new ties contracted, so easily fresh habits are indulged in, so
entirely is inconstancy natural to man, and so little is our life even
in the hearts of our friends!

“‘Thank, therefore, the Divine goodness, my dear daughter, for taking
you away thus early from this valley of misery. Already the white robe
and the brilliant crown of virgins are being prepared for you in the
skies; already I hear the Queen of the Angels crying out to you, “Come,
my worthy servant; come, my dove; come and sit down upon the throne of
candor, amidst all those maidens who have sacrificed their beauty and
their youth in the service of humanity, in the education of children,
and in works of penitence.”’

“As the last ray of daylight stills the winds and spreads tranquillity
through the sky, so the old man’s calm language appeased the passions in
the bosom of my lover. She no longer thought of anything but my grief,
and of the means for enabling me to support her loss. At first she said
that she should die happy if I would promise her to dry my tears;
then she spoke to me of my mother and of my country, and endeavored
to distract me from present grief by referring to past sufferings. She
exhorted me to patience and virtue. ‘You will not always be unhappy,’
she said; ‘if Heaven tries you to-day, it is merely to render you more
compassionate for the ills of others. The heart, Chactas, is like those
trees that only yield their balm for healing men’s wounds after having
been themselves seared with iron.’

“When she had thus spoken, Atala turned towards the missionary, seeking
from him the consolation she had been endeavoring to impart to me; and,
by turns consoling and consoled, she gave and received the word of life;
upon the couch of death.

“Nevertheless, the hermit redoubled his zeal. With the torch of religion
in his hand, he appeared to be guiding Atala to the tomb, to show her
its secret wonders. The humble grotto was full of the grandeur of this
Christian agony, and the heavenly spirits were no doubt attentive to the
scene, in which Religion had to struggle alone against Love, Youth and
Death.

“Divine Religion triumphed, and her victory was perceptible from the
holy sadness that followed our hearts’ previous passionate transports.
Towards the middle of the night, Atala seemed to revive, and repeated
the prayers pronounced by the monk at the side of her couch. Shortly
afterwards, she offered me her hand, and, in a voice scarcely audible,
said, ‘Son of Outalissi, do you remember the night when you took me for
the Virgin of the Last Loves? What a singular omen of our destiny! She
stopped, then continued: ‘When I think that I am leaving you for ever,
my heart makes such an effort to live, that I feel almost strong enough
to render myself immortal by the power of my love. But, O God! Thy will
be done!’ Atala became silent during a few instants; then she added: ‘It
only remains for me to ask your pardon for all the ills I have caused
you. Chactas, a little earth thrown upon my body will place a world
between you and me, and will deliver you forever from the weight of my
calamities!’

“‘Pardon you!’ I exclaimed, drowned in tears; ‘Is it not I who have
caused all your misfortunes?’ ‘My friend,’ she replied, interrupting
me, ‘you have rendered me very happy, and if I had to begin my life over
again, I should still prefer the happiness of having loved you for a few
short moments in an exile of adversity to an entire life of repose in my
own country.’

[Illustration: 084]

“Here Atala’s voice languished: the shadows of death spread themselves
about her eyes and her mouth; her wandering fingers endeavored to catch
at something and she spoke lowly with the invisible spirits. Soon,
however, making an effort, she attempted, but in vain, to take the
little crucifix from her neck; she asked me to untie it myself, and then
said to me:--

[Illustration: 088]

“‘When I spoke to you for the first time, by the light of the fire you
saw this cross shining upon my bosom; it is the only treasure that Atala
possesses. Lopez, your father and mine, sent it to my mother a few days
after my birth. Accept the inheritance, then, from me, my brother, and
keep it in remembrance of my misfortunes. Chactas, I have a last request
to make of you. Our union on earth, my friend, would have been short;
but after this life there is a longer life. I only go before you to-day,
and I will wait for you in the celestial empire. If you have loved me,
get yourself instructed in the Christian religion, which will prepare
our re-union. That religion has worked a great miracle under your own
eyes, since it enables me to quit you without the anguish of despair.
Still, Chactas, I only desire you to make me a simple promise. I know
too well what it costs to ask an oath from you. Perhaps such a vow might
separate you from some woman happier than I. O my mother, pardon thy
daughter! I am again succumbing to my weaknesses, and am turning aside
from Thee, O my God, thoughts that should be thine, and thine only!’

“Overwhelmed with grief, I promised Atala that I would one day embrace
the Christian religion. At this moment the hermit, rising with an
inspired air, and stretching his arms towards the roof of the grotto,
exclaimed, ‘It is time--it is time to call God hither!’

“Scarcely had he uttered those words, when a supernatural force
constrained me to fall upon my knees and to turn my head towards the
foot of Atala’s couch. The priest opened a secret place that contained
a golden urn covered with a silk veil; he then knelt down and prayed
fervently. Suddenly the grotto appeared to be illuminated: songs of
angels and the vibrations of celestial harps were heard in the air; and
when the hermit drew the sacred vessel from the tabernacle, I thought I
saw God Himself issue forth from the side of the mountain.

“The priest opened the cup, took between his fingers a wafer white as
snow, and approached Atala as he pronounced some mysterious words. That
saint’s eyes were upturned in ecstacy. All her sufferings appeared to be
suspended; her entire being concentrated itself upon her mouth; her lips
parted, and advanced with respect to seek the God concealed beneath the
mystic bread. The saintly old man afterwards soaked a piece of cotton in
the consecrated oil, and looked for a moment at the dying maiden; when
all of a sudden he uttered these imposing words, ‘Go, Christian soul,
go; return to your Creator!’ Raising then my downcast head, I cried,
looking at the vessel that contained the holy oil, ‘My father, will that
remedy restore Atala to life?’ ‘Yes, my son,’ said the old man, falling
into my arms, ‘to life eternal!’ Atala had just expired.

At this point Chactas was obliged, for the second time, to interrupt the
recital of his story. His tears flowed copiously, and the tremor of his
voice only permitted him to utter broken words. The blind sachem opened
his breast and drew forth Atala’s crucifix. “Here it is!” he cried;
“dear token of adversity! O René, O my son! You see it; but I can see it
no longer.

Tell me whether, after so many years, the gold of it is tarnished? Do
you see any traces of my tears upon it? Could you recognize the part
which had been touched by the lips of a saint? How is it that Chactas is
not yet a Christian? What trivial motives of policy or nationality have
kept him in the errors of his fathers? No; I will no longer delay. The
earth is crying out to me, ‘When, then, wilt thou go down into the tomb,
and for what art thou waiting to embrace a Divine religion?’.... Earth!
thou shalt not wait long, for as soon as a priest shall have regenerated
by baptism this head whitened with grief, I hope to be re-united to
Atala.... But let me finish what remains to be told of my story.”

[Illustration: 091]

[Illustration: 092]

[Illustration: 094]

[Illustration: 096]

I V. THE FUNERAL

[Illustration: 098]

“I will not undertake, René, to picture the despair that took possession
of my soul when Atala had heaved her last sigh. It would require more
warmth than I have left, and that my closed eyes might re-open to the
sun, to ask it to tell of the tears they shed in its light. Yes, the
moon now shining above our heads will become weary of lighting the
solitudes of Kentucky--the river that is now bearing our pirogues will
suspend the course of its waters--before my tears cease to flow for
Atala! During two days I was insensible to the hermit’s conversation.
In trying to calm my grief, the excellent man did not employ the
commonplace reasonings of earthly minds. All he said was, ‘My son, it
is the will of God;’ and then he pressed me in his arms. I should never
have thought there was so much consolation in those few words of a
resigned Christian, if I had not myself experienced it.

“The mild tenderness and the unvarying patience of the old servant of
God at length conquered the obstinacy of my grief; I became ashamed of
the tears I caused him to shed. ‘My father,’ I said, ‘this is too
much: let the passions of a young man disturb the peace of your days no
longer. Permit me to carry away the remains of my spouse; I will inter
them in some corner of the desert; and if I am condemned to live on for
a time, I will endeavor to render myself worthy of the eternal nuptials
that were promised me by Atala.’

“At this unexpected return of courage, the good father trembled with
joy, saying, ‘O blood of Jesus Christ, blood of my Divine Master, I
acknowledge herein Thy merits! Thou wilt no doubt save this young man.
My God, finish Thy work; restore peace to this troubled soul, and leave
it but the humble and useful remembrances of its misfortunes!’

“The righteous man refused to give up to me the body of Lopez’s
daughter; but he proposed to call together his neophytes, and to inter
it with all the pomp of the Christian ceremonial. In my turn, I refused.
‘Atala’s misfortunes and virtues,’ I said, ‘were unknown to men; let her
grave, dug secretly by our hands, share that obscurity.’ We agreed to
set off the next morning at sunrise, and to bury Atala beneath the arch
of the natural bridge at the entrance to the Groves of Death. It was
also decided that we should pass the night in prayer near the corpse of
the saint.

“Towards evening we transported the precious remains to an opening of
the grotto looking to the north. The hermit had enveloped them in a
piece of European lawn, woven by his mother. It was the only thing still
remaining to him of his country, and he had long preserved it for his
own tomb. We laid Atala upon a turf of mountain-sensitives; her feet,
her head, her shoulders, and a part of her bosom were uncovered. There
was a faded magnolia in her hair, the same flower I had placed upon
the virgin’s couch to render her fruitful. Her lips, like a rose-bud
gathered two mornings before, seemed to languish and smile. Her cheeks,
of sparkling whiteness, showed a number of blue veins. Her beautiful
eyes were closed, her modest feet joined together, and her hands of
alabaster pressed against her heart an ebony crucifix; the scapulary of
her vows was fastened about her neck. She appeared as though enchanted
by the angel of melancholy, and by the double sleep of innocence and of
the tomb.

I never saw anything so heavenly. By a person unconscious that this
young girl had enjoyed the light, she might have been taken for a statue
of Sleeping Virginity.

“The monk did not cease praying all night. I sat in silence at the end
of my Atala’s funeral couch. How often, during her sleep, I had held
that charming head upon my knees! How many times I had leaned over her
to hear her breathe, and to inhale her breath! But at present no sound
issued from that motionless breast, and it was in vain that I looked for
the awakening of my love!

“The moon lent her pale light to this funereal watching; she rose in the
middle of the night, like a white vestal come to weep over the coffin of
a companion. From time to time the monk dipped a flowering branch into
the holy water, and shaking its moistened leaves, perfumed the night air
with heavenly balms. Occasionally also he repeated, to an ancient tune,
these verses by an old poet named Job:

[Illustration: 100]

“‘I have passed away like a flower; I have withered like the grass of
the fields.

“‘Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the
bitter in soul?’

“Thus sang the old man. His deep and irregular voice went rolling
through the silence of the desert. The name of God and of the tomb
issued from all the echoes, from all the torrents, and from all the
forests, and the Groves of Death seemed to be murmuring a distant chorus
of the departed in reply to the hermit’s sacred chant.

“Nevertheless, a bar of gold was forming in the east. The sparrow-hawks
were crying upon the rocks, and the martins creeping back into the
hollows of the elm-trees: these were so many signs that the time had
come for Atala’s interment. I took the body on my shoulders; the hermit
walked in front of me, carrying a spade in his hand. We commenced the
descent from rock to rock; old age and death combined equally to slacken
our pace. At the sight of the dog which had found us in the forest,
and which now, jumping with joy, led us by another route, I melted
into tears. Atala’s long hair, the plaything of the morning breezes,
frequently threw its golden veil over my eyes, and, bending beneath
the burden, I was obliged to lay it down often upon the moss, and
sit awhile, to recover my strength. At length we arrived at the spot
selected by my grief, and we entered beneath the arch of the bridge. O
my son, you should have seen the youthful savage and the old hermit, on
their knees in front of each other, in the desert, digging with their
hands a grave for the poor girl whose body lay stretched out close at
hand, in the dried-up bed of a torrent!

“When our work was terminated, we transported the loved one into her bed
of clay. Taking then a little dust in my hand, and observing a fearful
silence, I looked upon Atala’s face for the last time. I afterwards
spread the earth over that forehead of eighteen springs; gradually I
saw the features of my sister disappear, and her graces become hidden
beneath the curtain of eternity. ‘Lopez!’ I exclaimed, ‘behold your son
burying your daughter!’ And I finished by covering Atala entirely with
the earth of sleep.

“We returned to the grotto, where I made the missionary acquainted
with the project I had formed of remaining with him. The saint, who
wonderfully understood the heart of man, penetrated my thought and the
artfulness of my grief. He said: ‘Chactas, son of Outalissi, so long as
Atala was alive, I myself desired that you should live with me; but at
present your lot is changed; you owe yourself to your country. Believe
me, my son, such griefs are not eternal. Sooner or later they wear
themselves out, because the heart of man is finite. That is one of our
great miseries; we are not even capable of being unhappy for a long
time. Return to the Mississippi; go and console your mother, who weeps
for you day by day, and who stands in need of your support. Get yourself
instructed in Atala’s religion, whenever an opportunity presents itself;
and remember that you promised her to be virtuous and Christian. I will
watch over her tomb. Go, my son; God, your sister’s soul, and the heart
of your old friend, will follow you!’

“Such was the language of the man of the rock. His authority was too
great, his wisdom too profound, not to be obeyed. The next morning I
quitted my venerable host, who, pressing me to his heart, gave me his
last counsels, his last blessing, and his last tears. I went to the
grave, and was surprised at finding a little cross placed over the
body, as one may sometimes perceive the mast of a vessel that has been
wrecked. I judged that the hermit had been there to pray during the
night. This mark of friendship and religion caused me to shed an
abundance of tears. I was almost tempted to re-open the tomb, in order
to gaze once more upon my well-beloved; a religious fear withheld me. I
sat down upon the recently-disturbed ground. With an elbow resting upon
my knees, and my head supported by my hand, I remained buried for a time
in a most bitter reverie. O René! it was then that, for the first time,
I made serious reflections upon the vanity of our days, and the still
greater vanity of our projects. Ah! my child, who has not made such
reflections? I am no longer but an old stag whitened by the winters; my
years compete with those of the crow. Well, in spite of the number of
days accumulated over my head, in spite of such a long experience of
life, I have not yet met with a man who had not been deceived in his
dreams of happiness, nor a heart that did not contain a hidden wound.

“Having thus seen the sun rise and set upon this place of grief, the
next day, at the first cry of the stork, I prepared to leave the sacred
sepulchre. I quitted it as the spot from which I desired to start upon
a career of virtue. Three times I evoked the soul of Atala; three times
the genius of the desert responded to my cries beneath the funeral
arch. I afterwards saluted the East, and then I perceived, amongst the
mountain paths in the distance, the friendly hermit going to the cabin
of some unhappy creature. Falling upon my knees, and ardently embracing
Atala’s grave, I exclaimed, ‘Sleep in peace in this foreign land, too
unfortunate maiden! In return for your love, for your exile, and for
your death, you are going to be abandoned, even by Chactas!’ Then,
shedding a flood of tears, I separated from Lopez’s daughter, and,
tearing myself from the spot, left at the foot of nature’s monument a
monument still more august--the humble Tomb of Virtue.”

[Illustration: 103

[Illustration: 104]




EPILOGUE.

[Illustration: 107]

Chactas, son of Outalissi the Natchez, related this story to René the
European. Fathers have repeated it to their sons; and I, a traveller to
distant lands, have faithfully narrated what the Indians told me. I
saw in this story the picture of the hunting people and of the laboring
people; religion, the first lawgiver of men; the dangers of ignorance
and religious enthusiasm opposed to the light, the charity and the
veritable spirit of the Evangile; the struggles of the passions and the
virtues in a simple heart; and, finally, the triumph of Christianity
over the most ardent sentiment and the most terrible fear--Love and
Death.

When a Seminole related this story to me, I found it very instructive
and perfectly beautiful, because he narrated it with the flowery
eloquence of the desert, the grace of the cabin, and a simplicity in
describing grief which I am afraid I have not been able to preserve. But
one thing remained for me to learn. I wished to know what had become of
Father Aubry, and no one could tell me. I should never have ascertained
if Providence, who guides all, had not led me to discover what I was
seeking. This is how the matter came about.

I had visited the shores of the Mississippi, which formerly constituted
the southern boundary of New France, and I was desirous of seeing, in
the north, that other wonder of the American empire, the cataract of
Niagara. I had nearly reached the falls, in the ancient country of the
Agannonsioni, * when one morning, as I was crossing a plain, I perceived
a woman seated beneath a tree, and holding a dead child upon her knees.
I quietly approached the young mother, and heard her singing to this
effect:--

“If thou hadst remained amongst us, dear babe, with what grace thy hand
might have bent the bow! Thy arm might have tamed the furious bear,
and thy steps might have outrun the flying kid on the summit of the
mountain. White ermine of the rock, to go so young to the land of souls!
How wilt thou manage to live there? Thy father is not there to feed thee
with the produce of his chase. Thou wilt be cold, and no Spirit will
give thee skins to cover thyself. Oh! I must hasten to rejoin thee, to
sing songs to thee and to give thee my breast.” And the young mother
sang with a trembling voice, rocked the child upon her knees, wetted its
lips with her maternal milk, and bestowed upon the dead all those cares
which are usually given to the living.

According to the Indian custom, the woman desired to dry the body of her
son upon the branches of a tree before taking it away to the tomb of
its ancestors. She therefore undressed the new-born babe, and, after
breathing some instants upon its mouth, uncovered its breast, and
embraced the icy remains, which would certainly have been re-animated by
the fire of that maternal heart, if God had not reserved to Himself the
breath that imparts life.

She rose, and looked about for a tree upon which she might lay her
child. She selected a maple with red flowers, festooned with garlands of
apios, that emitted the sweetest perfumes. With one hand she pulled down
the lowest branch, and with the other she placed the body thereon;
then loosing the branch, it returned to its natural position, with the
remains of innocence concealed in its ordoriforous foliage. Oh, how
touching is this Indian custom! Pompous monuments of the Crassi and
of the Cæsars, I have seen you in your desolated plains; but I by far
prefer those aërian tombs of the savages, those mausoleums of flowers
and verdure, perfumed by the bee and waved by the zephyr, wherein the
nightingale builds its nest and warbles its plaintive melody. When the
mortal remains are those of a young maiden suspended by the hand of
a lover to the tree of death, or of a beloved child placed by a fond
mother in the dwelling of the little birds, the charm is still greater.
I approached her who was groaning at the foot of the maple-tree, and
placed my hands upon her head as I uttered the three cries of grief.
Afterwards, without speaking to the young mother, I imitated her by
taking a bough and driving away the insects that were buzzing about the
child’s body. But I was careful not to disturb a neighboring dove. The
Indian woman said to it: “Dove, if thou art not the soul of my departed
son, thou art doubtless a mother seeking for something to make a nest.
Take these hairs, which I shall no more wash in scented water; take them
for a bed for thy little ones, and may the Great Spirit preserve them to
thee!”

     * The Iroquois,

Nevertheless, the mother wept with joy on remarking the stranger’s
politeness. As we were thus occupied, a young man came up and said,
“Daughter of Céluta, take down our child: we will no longer sojourn in
this place; we will set off at the rising of the next sun.” I then said,
“Brother, I wish you a blue sky, plenty of game, a beaver cloak, and
hope! You are not of the desert, then?”

“No,” replied the young man; “we are exiles, and we are going to seek a
country.” Saying that, the warrior lowered his head upon his breast, and
began knocking off the heads of some flowers with the end of his bow.
I saw that there were tears at the bottom of this story, so I remained
silent. The mother took her son’s body down from the branch of the tree,
and gave it to her spouse to carry. I then said, “Will you allow me to
light your fire to-night?”

“We have no cottage,” replied the warrior; “but if you desire to follow
us, we are going to camp on the border of the Falls.”

“With pleasure,” I replied; and we started off together.

We soon arrived at the border of the cataract, which announced itself
with frightful roarings. It is formed by the river Niagara, which takes
its rise in Lake Erie, and falls into Lake Ontario. Its perpendicular
height is one hundred and forty-four feet. From Lake Erie to the Falls,
the river flows with a rapid inclination; and at the leap it is less a
river than a sea whose torrents crush each other in the yawning mouth
of an abyss. The cataract is divided into two branches, and bends like a
horse-shoe. Between the two falls there is an island, hollow underneath,
and which hangs with all its trees over the chaos of the waves. The mass
of the river which rushes towards the north, assumes the form of a vast
cylinder, unrolling itself into a field of snow, and shining with every
color in the sun; that which flows to the east descends into a fearful
shade, and might be taken for a column of the water of the Deluge. A
thousand rainbows bend and cross each other above the abyss. Striking
against the shaken rock, the water rebounds in whirlwinds of froth that
rise above the forests like smoke from a vast burning mass. Pine-trees,
walnut-trees, and rocks worn into fantastic forms, ornament the scene.
Eagles, carried along by the current of air, are whirled down to the
bottom of the gulf; and carcajous, hanging by their flexible tails to
the ends of the fallen branches, wait to seize in the abyss the crushed
bodies of bears and elks.

Whilst I was contemplating this spectacle with a sort of pleasure mixed
with terror, the Indian and his spouse left me. I looked for them as I
ascended the river-side above the Falls, and soon discovered them in a
place suited to their grief. They were lying down upon the grass, with
a number of old men, near some human bones wrapped in bear-skins.
Astonished at everything I had seen during the last few hours, I sat
down near the young mother, and said, “What is all this, my sister?”
 She replied: “My brother, the earth of our country and the ashes of our
forefathers follow us in our exile.”

“And how,” I asked, “have you been reduced to such a misfortune?” The
daughter of Céluta responded, “We are the remains of the Natchez. After
the massacre of our nation by the French, to avenge their compatriots,
those of our brothers who escaped from the conquerors found refuge with
our neighbors, the Chikassas. We remained tranquilly with them for some
time; but seven moons ago, the white men from Virginia took possession
of our fields, affirming that they had been given to them by a king of
Europe. So we raised our eyes to heaven, and, laden with the remains of
our forefathers, started on our way across the desert. I was confined
during the march, and as my milk was bad on account of my grief, it
caused my child to die.” As she spoke, the mother wiped her eyes with
her hair. I wept also.

After a while I said, “My sister, let us adore the Great Spirit;
everything happens by His command. We are all travellers; our fathers
were the same; but there is a place where we shall find rest. If I were
not afraid of my tongue being as indiscreet as that of a white man, I
would ask of you if you have heard speak of Chactas the Natchez.”

At these words the Indian woman looked at me, and asked, ‘’Who has
spoken to you of Chactas the Natchez? “I replied, “Wisdom.” The Indian
rejoined, “I will tell you what I know, because you drove away the flies
from the body of my son, and uttered good words concerning the Great
Spirit. I am the daughter of the daughter of René, the European whom
Chactas had adopted. Chactas, who had received baptism, and René, my
unfortunate grandfather, perished in the massacre.”

“Man passes constantly from grief to grief,” I replied, bending myself
with humility. “You might also perhaps be able to give me news of Father
Aubry?”

“He was not more fortunate than Chactas,” said the Indian. “The
Cherokees, who were hostile to the French, attacked his Mission. They
were guided thither by the sound of a bell that was rung to succor
travellers. Father Aubry could have escaped, but he would not abandon
his children, and remained to encourage them to die by his example. He
was burnt with great torture; but his enemies could not draw from him
a single cry that might be turned to the shame of his God or to the
dishonor of his country. During the punishment he never ceased to pray
for his executioners, and to pity the lot of his fellow-victims. In
order to compel him to betray a mark of weakness, the Cherokees led to
his feet a Christian savage, whom they had horribly mutilated. But they
were much surprised when they saw the young man go down upon his knees
and kiss the wounds of the old hermit, who cried out to him, ‘My
child, we have been given as a spectacle to men and to the angels.’
The Indians, furious at his expression, forced a red-hot iron down his
throat to prevent him from speaking; and thereupon, no longer able to
console his fellow-creatures, he expired.

“It is said that the Cherokees, accustomed though they were to see
savages suffer with indifference, could not refrain from confessing that
there was in Father Aubry’s courage something unknown to them, and which
surpassed every description of courage they had witnessed. Several of
them, struck by his remarkable death, afterwards became Christians.

[Illustration: 111]

“On his return to the land of white men, several years later, Chactas,
having heard of the misfortunes of the chief of prayer, went to gather
the Father’s ashes, and those of Atala. He arrived at the spot where the
mission had formerly existed, but he could scarcely recognize it. The
lake was overflown, and the savannah changed into a marsh; the natural
bridge, which had fallen in, had buried Atala’s tomb and the Groves of
Death beneath its ruins. Chactas wandered about the place for a length
of time: he visited the hermit’s grotto, which he found full of weeds
and raspberry-trees, and occupied by a fawn giving suck to her kid. He
sat down upon the rock beneath which he had watched his dying Atala; but
there was nothing on it beyond a few feathers fallen from the wings of
some birds of passage.

“While he was weeping, the missionary’s tamed serpent issued from the
neighboring bushes, and came creeping to his feet. Chactas warmed in
his bosom the faithful friend who had remained alone in the midst of the
ruins. The son of Outalissi stated that several times, at the approach
of night, he fancied he saw the shades of Atala and Father Aubry rise
out of the misty twilight. These visions filled him with religious fear
and a joyful sadness.

[Illustration: 113]

[Illustration: 115]

“After having sought the tomb of his sister and of the hermit in vain,
he was on the point of abandoning the spot, when the fawn from the
grotto set to leaping in front of him. She stopped at the foot of the
Mission cross. That cross was then half surrounded by water; the wood
of it was covered with moss, and the pelican of the wilderness loved to
perch upon its worm-eaten arms. Chactas judged that the graceful fawn
had led him to the tomb of his host.

“He dug below the rock that had formerly served as an altar, and there
found the remains of a man and woman. He had no doubt but they were
those of the priest and of the virgin, buried, perhaps, by the angels
in that place; so he wrapped them in bear-skins, and started on his way
back to his country, carrying off the precious remains, which sounded
on his shoulders like the quiver of death. At night he placed them under
his pillow, and had dreams of love and of virtue. O stranger! you may
here contemplate that dust, and also the remains of Chactas himself.”

As the Indian finished speaking, I rose, went towards the sacred ashes,
and prostrated myself before them in silence. I afterwards walked away
slowly, and with long strides, saying to myself, “Thus ends upon earth
all that is good, virtuous and feeling! Man, thou art but a rapid
and painful dream! Thou only existest by misfortune; and if thou art
anything at all, it is merely by the sadness of thy soul and the eternal
melancholy of thy thoughts!”

I was preoccupied with such reflections all night. The next morning, at
day-break, my hosts left me. The young warriors opened the march, and
their wives closed it. The former were charged with the holy relics,
the latter carried their infants. The old men walked slowly in the
middle--placed between their forefathers and their posterity, between
remembrance and hope, between the lost country and the country to be
found.

O what tears are shed when we thus abandon our native land!--when, from
the summit of the mountain of exile, we look for the last time upon the
roof beneath which we were bred, and see the hut-stream still flowing
sadly through the solitary fields surrounding our birth-place!

Unfortunate Indians!--you whom I have seen wandering in the deserts
of the New World with the ashes of your ancestors;--you who gave
me hospitality in spite of your misery--I could not now return your
generosity, for I am wandering, like you, at the mercy of men; but less
fortunate than you in my exile, I have not brought with me the bones of
my fathers.

[Illustration: 118]

THE END.





