
He turned back to the control panel. Hanging from a corner of it, in
a cracked leather holster, was his revolver. Rather than face twenty
years breaking pumice on Lunar, he would shoot, then try--

"The Sexual Morality Act isn't a blue law, Garvey," the inspector
continued, in a voice like steel against flint. "Violations can have
a catastrophic effect upon the individual, to say nothing of the race.
That's why we're going to make an example of you, Garvey. Now let's see
the evidence."

"I don't know what in hell you're talking about," Garvey said.
Surreptitiously his hand began to creep toward the revolver.

"Wake up, boy!" said the inspector. "You mean you _still_ don't
recognize me?"

Garvey stared at the inspector's tanned, humorous face. He said, "Eddie
Starbuck?"

"About time! How long's it been, Ralph? Ten years?"

"At least ten," Garvey said. His knees were beginning to shake from
sheer relief. "Sit down, sit down, Eddie! You still drink bourbon?"

"I'll say." Starbuck sat down on one of Garvey's acceleration couches.
He looked around, and nodded.

"Nice. Very nice. You must be rich indeed, old buddy."

"I get by," Garvey said. He handed Starbuck a drink, and poured one for
himself. They talked for a while about old times at Michigan State.

"And now you're a Customs inspector," Garvey said.

"Yeah," said Starbuck, stretching his long legs. "Always had a yen for
the law. But it doesn't pay like transistors, eh?"

Garvey smiled modestly. "But what's all this about the Sexual Morality
Act? A gag?"

"Not at all. Didn't you hear the news this morning? The FBI found an
underground sex factory. They hadn't been in business long, so it was
possible to recover all the surrogates. All except one."

"Oh?" said Garvey, draining his drink.

"Yeah. That's when they called us in. We're covering all spaceports, on
the chance the receiver will try to take the damned thing off Earth."

Garvey poured another drink and said, very casually, "So you figured I
was the boy, eh?"

Starbuck stared at him a moment, then exploded into laughter. "You,
Ralph? Hell, no! Saw your name on the spaceport out-list. I just
dropped in for a drink, boy, for old time's sake. Listen, Ralph, I
_remember_ you. Hell-on-the-girls-Garvey. Biggest menace to virginity
in the history of Michigan State. What would a guy like you want a
substitute for?"

"My girls wouldn't stand for it," Garvey said, and Starbuck laughed
again, and stood up.

"Look, I gotta run. Call me when you get back?"

"I sure will!" A little light-headed, he said, "Sure you don't want to
inspect anyhow, as long as you're here?"

Starbuck stopped and considered. "I suppose I should, for the record.
But to hell with it, I won't hold you up." He walked to the port, then
turned. "You know, I feel sorry for the guy who's got that surrogate."

"Eh? Why?"

"Man, those things are poison! You know that, Ralph! Anything's
possible--insanity, deformation.... And this guy may have even more of
a problem."

"Why?"

"Can't tell you, boy," Starbuck said. "Really can't. It's special
information. The FBI isn't certain yet. Besides, they're waiting for
the right moment to spring it."

With an easy wave, Starbuck left. Garvey stared after him, thinking
hard. He didn't like the way things were going. What had started out
as an illicit little vacation was turning into a full-scale criminal
affair. Why hadn't he thought of this earlier? He had been apprehensive
in the sexual substitute factory, with its low lights, its furtive,
white-aproned men, its reek of raw flesh and plastic. Why hadn't he
given up the idea then? The surrogates couldn't be as good as people
said....

"Tower to G43221," the radio crackled. "Are you ready?"

Garvey hesitated, wishing he knew what Starbuck had been hinting at.
Maybe he should stop now, while there was still time.

Then he thought of the giant crate in the after cabin, and its
contents, waiting for activation, waiting for him. His pulse began to
race. He knew that he was going through with it, no matter what the
risk.

He signalled to the tower, and strapped himself into the control chair.

An hour later he was in space.
