
The surrogates had been developed earlier in the century. They had
come about from sheer necessity. At that time, mankind was beginning
to push out into the galaxy. Bases had been established on Venus, Mars
and Titan, and the first interstellar ships were arriving at Algol and
Stagoe II. Man was leaving Earth.

Man--but not woman.

The first settlements were barely toeholds in alien environments. The
work was harsh and demanding, and life expectancy was short. Whole
settlements were sometimes wiped out before the ships were fully
unloaded. The early pioneers were like soldiers on the line of battle,
and exposed to risks no soldier had ever encountered.

Later there would be a place for women. Later--but not now.

So here and there, light-years from Earth, were little worlds without
women--and not happy about it.

The men grew sullen, quarrelsome, violent. They grew careless, and
carelessness on an alien planet was usually fatal.

They wanted women.

Since real women could not go to them, scientists on Earth developed
substitutes. Android females were developed, the surrogates, and
shipped to the colonies. It was a violation of Earth's morals; but
there were worse violations on the way if these weren't accepted.

For a while, everything seemed to be fine. It would probably have gone
on that way, had everyone left well enough alone.

But the companies on Earth had the usual desire to improve their
product. They called in sculptors and artists to dress up the
appearance of the package. Engineers tinkered with the surrogates,
re-wired them, built in subtler stimulus-response mechanisms,
did strange things with conditioned reflexes. And the men of the
settlements were very happy with the results.

So happy, in fact, that they refused to return to human women, even
when they had the opportunity.

They came back to Earth after their tours of duty, these pioneers, and
they brought their surrogates with them. Loud and long they praised
the substitute women, and pointed out their obvious superiority to
neurotic, nervous, frigid human women.

Naturally, other men wanted to try out the surrogates. And when they
did, they were pleasantly surprised. And spread the word. And--

The government stepped in, quickly and firmly. For one thing, over
fifty percent of the votes were at stake. But more important, social
scientists predicted a violent drop in the birth rate if this went on.
So the government destroyed the surrogates, outlawed the factories, and
told everyone to return to normal.

And reluctantly, everyone did. But there were always some men who
remembered, and told other men. And there were always some men who
weren't satisfied with second-best. So....
