
Garvey heard movements within the crate. He smiled to himself,
remembering stories he had heard of the surrogates' piquant habits.
Suddenly there was a high-pitched clanging. It was the standby alarm
from the control room. He hurried forward.

It was an emergency broadcast, on all frequencies, directed to Earth
and all ships at space. Garvey tuned it in.

"This is Edward Danzer," the radio announced crisply. "I am Chief of
the Washington branch of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You have
all heard, on your local newscasts, of the detection and closure of an
illegal sexual substitute factory. And you know that all except one of
the surrogates have been found. This message is for the man who has
that last surrogate, wherever he may be."

Garvey licked his lips nervously and hunched close to the radio. Within
the after cabin, the surrogate was still making waking-up noises.

"That man is in danger!" Danzer said. "Serious danger! Our
investigation of the molds and forms used in the factory showed us that
something strange was going on. Just this morning, one of the factory
technicians finally confessed.

"The missing surrogate is not an Earth model!

"I repeat," Danzer barked, "the missing surrogate is _not an Earth
model_! The factory operators had been filling orders for the planet
Algol IV. When they ran short of Earth models for humans, they
substituted an Algolian model. Since the sale of a surrogate is illegal
anyhow, they figured the customer would have no kickback."

Garvey sighed with relief. He had been afraid he had a small dinosaur
in the packing case, at the very least.

"Perhaps," Danzer continued, "the holder of the Algolian surrogate
does not appreciate his danger yet. It is true, of course, that the
Algolians are of the species _homo sapiens_. It has been established
that the two races share a common ancestry in the primeval past. But
Algol is different from our Earth.

"The planet Algol IV is considerably heavier than Earth, and has a
richer oxygen atmosphere. The Algolians, raised in this physical
environment, have a markedly superior musculature to that of the
typical Earthman. Colloquially, they are strong as rhinos.

"But the surrogate, of course, does not know this. She has a powerful
and indiscriminate mating drive. _That's where the danger lies!_ So I
say to the customer--give yourself up now, while there's still time.
And remember: crime does not pay."

The radio crackled static, then hummed steadily. Garvey turned it
off. He had been taken, but good! He really should have inspected his
merchandise before accepting it. But the crate had been sealed.

He was out a very nice chunk of money.

But, he reminded himself, he had lots of money. It was fortunate he had
discovered the error in time. Now he would jettison the crate in space,
and return to Earth. Perhaps real girls were best, after all....

He heard the sound of heavy blows coming from the crate in the after
cabin.

"I guess I'd better take care of you, honey," Garvey said, and walked
quickly to the cabin.

A fusillade of blows rocked the crate. Garvey frowned and reached for
the de-activating switch. As he did so, one side of the heavy crate
splintered. Through the opening shot a long golden arm. The arm flailed
wildly, and Garvey moved out of its way.

The situation wasn't humorous any more, he decided. The case rocked and
trembled under the impact of powerful blows. Garvey estimated the force
behind those blows, and shuddered. This had to be stopped at once. He
ran toward the crate.

Long, tapered fingers caught his sleeve, ripping it off. Garvey managed
to depress the de-activating stud and throw himself out of range.

There was a moment of silence. Then the surrogate delivered two blows
with the impact of a pile driver. An entire side of the packing case
splintered.

It was too late for de-activation.
