Father Christmas, and gave his coachman the address of a dealer in toys.
There he bought, and had put in his carriage, a fantastic rocking-horse,
mounted on casters--a whip in each ear; a box of leaden soldiers--all as
exactly alike as those grenadiers of the Russian regiment of the time
of Paul I, who all had black hair and snub noses; and a score of other
toys, all equally striking and costly. Then, as he returned home, softly
reposing in his well-swung carriage, the rich banker, who, after all,
was a father, began to think with pride of his little boy and to form
plans for his future.

When the child grew up he should have an education worthy of a prince,
and he would be one, too, for there was no longer any aristocracy except
that of money, and his boy would have a capital of about 80,000,000
francs.

If his father, a pettifogging provincial lawyer, who had formerly dined
in the Latin Quarter when in Paris, who had remarked every evening when
putting on a white tie that he looked as fine as if he were going to a
wedding--if he had been able to accumulate an enormous fortune, and to
become thereby a power in the republic; if he had been able to obtain in
marriage a young lady, one of whose ancestors had fallen at Marignano,
what an important personage little Raoul might become. M. Godefroy built
all sorts of air-castles for his boy, forgetting that Christmas is the
birthday of a very poor little child, son of a couple of vagrants, born
in a stable, where the parents only found lodging through charity.

In the midst of the banker's dreams the coachman cried: "Door, please,"
and drove into the yard. As he went up the steps M. Godefroy was
thinking that he had barely time to dress for dinner; but on entering
the vestibule he found all the domestics crowded in front of him in a
state of alarm and confusion. In a corner, crouching on a seat, was the
German nursery-governess, crying. When she saw the banker she buried her
face in her hands and wept still more copiously than before. M. Godefroy
felt that some misfortune had happened.

"What's the meaning of all this? What's amiss? What has happened?"

Charles, the _valet de chambre_, a sneaking rascal of the worst type,
looked at his master with eyes full of pity and stammered: "Mr. Raoul--"

"My boy?"

"Lost, sir. The stupid German did it. Since four o'clock this afternoon
he has not been seen."

The father staggered back like one who had been hit by a ball. The
German threw herself at his feet, screaming: "Mercy, mercy!" and the
domestics all spoke at the same time.

"Bertha didn't go to _parc Monceau_. She lost the child over there on the
fortifications. We have sought him all over, sir. We went to the office
for you, sir, and then to the Chamber, but you had just left. Just
imagine, the German had a rendezvous with her lover every day, beyond
the ramparts, near the gate of Asnieres. What a shame! It is a place
full of low gipsies and strolling players. Perhaps the child has been
stolen. Yes, sir, we informed the police at once. How could we imagine
such a thing? A hypocrite, that German! She had a rendezvous, doubtless,
with a countryman--a Prussian spy, sure enough!"

His son lost! M. Godefroy seemed to have a torrent of blood rushing
through his head. He sprang at Mademoiselle, seized her by the arms and
shook her furiously.

"Where did you lose him, you miserable girl? Tell me the truth before I
shake you to pieces. Do you hear? Do you hear?"

But the unfortunate girl could only cry and beg for mercy.

The banker tried to be calm. No, it was impossible. Nobody would dare
to steal _his_ boy. Somebody would find him and bring him back. Of that
there could be no doubt. He could scatter money about right and left,
and could have the entire police force at his orders. And he would set
to work at once, for not an instant should be lost.

"Charles, don't let the horses be taken out. You others, see that this
girl doesn't escape. I'm going to the Prefecture."

And M. Godefroy, with his heart thumping against his sides as if it
would break them, his hair wild with fright, darted into his carriage,
which at once rolled off as fast as the horses could take it. What
irony! The carriage was full of glittering playthings, which sparkled
every time a gaslight shone on them. For the next day was the birthday
of the divine Infant at whose cradle wise men and simple shepherds alike
adored.

"My poor little Raoul! Poor darling! Where is my boy?" repeated the
father as in his anguish he dug his nails into the cushions of the
carriage.

At that moment all his titles and decorations, his honors, his millions,
were valueless to him. He had one single idea burning in his brain. "My
poor child! Where is my child?"

At last he reached the Prefecture of Police. But no one was there--the
office had been deserted for some time.

"I am M. Godefroy, deputy from L'Eure--My little boy is lost in Paris;
a child of four years. I must see the Prefect." He slipped a louis into
the hand of the _concierge_.

The good old soul, a veteran with a gray mustache, less for the sake
of the money than out of compassion for the poor father, led him to the
Prefect's private apartments. M. Godefroy was finally ushered into the
room of the man in whom were centred all his hopes. He was in evening
dress, and wore a monocle; his manner was frigid and rather pretentious.
The distressed father, whose knees trembled through emotion, sank into
an armchair, and, bursting into tears, told of the loss of his boy--told
the story stammeringly and with many breaks, for his voice was choked by
sobs.

The Prefect, who was also father of a family, was inwardly moved at the
sight of his visitor's grief, but he repressed his emotion and assumed a
cold and self-important air.

"You say, sir, that your child has been missing since four o'clock?"

"Yes."

"Just when night was falling, confound it. He isn't at all precocious,
speaks very little, doesn't know where he lives, and can't even
pronounce his own name?"

"Unfortunately that is so."

"Not far from Asnieres gate? A suspected quarter. But cheer up. We have
a very intelligent _Commissaire de Police_ there. I'll telephone to
him."

The distressed father was left alone for five minutes. How his temples
throbbed and his heartbeat!

Then, suddenly, the Prefect reappeared, smiling with satisfaction.
"Found!"

Whereupon M. Godefroy rushed to the Prefect, whose hand he pressed till
that functionary winced with the pain.

"I must acknowledge that we were exceedingly fortunate. The little chap
is blond, isn't he? Rather pale? In blue velvet? Black felt hat, with a
white feather in it?"

"Yes, yes; that's he. That's my little Raoul."

"Well, he's at the house of a poor fellow down in that quarter who
had just been at the police office to make his declaration to the
Commissaire. Here's his address, which I took down: '_Pierron, rue des
Cailloux, Levailois-Perret_.' With good horses you may reach your boy
in less than an hour. Certainly, you won't find him in an aristocratic
quarter; his surroundings won't be of the highest. The man who found him
is only a small dealer in vegetables."

But that was of no importance to M. Godefroy, who, having expressed his
gratitude to the Prefect, leaped down the stairs four at a time, and
sprang into his carriage. At that moment he realized how devotedly he
loved his child. As he drove away he no longer thought of little Raoul's
princely education and magnificent inheritance. He was decided never
again to hand over the child entirely to the hands of servants, and he
also made up his mind to devote less time to monetary matters and the
glory of France and attend more to his own. The thought also occurred
to him that France wouldn't be likely to suffer from the neglect. He had
hitherto been ashamed to recognize the existence of an old-maid sister
of his father, but he decided to send for her to his house. She would
certainly shock his lackeys by her primitive manners and ideas. But what
of that? She would take care of his boy, which to him was of much more
importance than the good opinion of his servants. The financier, who
was always in a hurry, never felt so eager to arrive punctually at a
committee meeting as he was to reach the lost little one. For the first
time in his life he was longing through pure affection to take the child
in his arms.

The carriage rolled rapidly along in the clear, crisp night air down
boulevard Malesherbes; and, having crossed the ramparts and passed the
large houses, plunged into the quiet solitude of suburban streets. When
the carriage stopped M. Godefroy saw a wretched hovel, on which was the
number he was seeking; it was the house where Pierron lived. The door of
the house opened immediately, and a big, rough-looking fellow with red
mustache appeared. One of his sleeves was empty. Seeing the gentleman
in the carriage, Pierron said cheerily: "So you are the little one's
father. Don't be afraid. The little darling is quite safe," and,
stepping aside in order to allow M. Godefroy to pass, he placed his
finger on his lips with: "Hush! The little one is asleep!"

Yes, it was a real hovel. By the dim light of a little oil lamp M.
Godefroy could just distinguish a dresser from which a drawer was
missing, some broken chairs, a round table on which stood a beer-mug
which was half empty, three glasses, some cold meat on a plate, and on
the bare plaster of the wall two gaudy pictures--a bird's-eye view of
the Exposition of 1889, with the Eiffel Tower in bright blue, and the
portrait of General Boulanger when a handsome young lieutenant. This
last evidence of weakness of the tenant of the house may well be
excused, since it was shared by nearly everybody in France. The man took
the lamp and went on tiptoe to the corner of the room where, on a clean
bed, two little fellows were fast asleep. In the little one, around whom
the other had thrown a protecting arm, M. Godefroy recognized his son.

"The youngsters were tired to death, and so sleepy," said Pierron,
trying to soften his rough voice. "I had no idea when you would come,
so gave them some supper and put them to bed, and then I went to make
a declaration at the police office. Zidore generally sleeps up in the
garret, but I thought they would be better here, and that I should be
better able to watch them."
