he looked at the two sleeping infants on an iron bedstead and covered
with an old blanket which had once been used either in barracks or
hospital. Little Raoul, who was still in his velvet suit, looked so
frail and delicate compared with his companion that the banker almost
envied the latter his brown complexion.

"Is he your boy?" he asked Pierron.

"No," answered he. "I am a bachelor, and don't suppose I shall ever
marry, because of my accident. You see, a dray passed over my arm--that
was all. Two years ago a neighbor of mine died, when that child was
only five years old. The poor mother really died of starvation. She wove
wreaths for the cemeteries, but could make nothing worth mentioning at
that trade--not enough to live. However, she worked for the child for
five years, and then the neighbors had to buy wreaths for her. So I took
care of the youngster. Oh, it was nothing much, and I was soon repaid.
He is seven years old, and is a sharp little fellow, so he helps me a
great deal. On Sundays and Thursdays, and the other days after school,
he helps me push my handcart. Zidore is a smart little chap. It was he
who found your boy."

"What!" exclaimed M. Godefroy--"that child!"

"Oh, he's quite a little man, I assure you. When he left school he found
your child, who was walking on ahead, crying like a fountain. He spoke
to him and comforted him, like an old grandfather. The difficulty is,
that one can't easily understand what your little one says--English
words are mixed up with German and French. So we couldn't get much out
of him, nor could we learn his address. Zidore brought him to me--I
wasn't far away; and then all the old women in the place came round
chattering and croaking like so many frogs, and all full of advice.

"'Take him to the police,'" said some.

But Zidore protested.

"That would scare him," said he, for like all Parisians, he has no
particular liking for the police-- "and besides, your little one didn't
wish to leave him. So I came back here with the child as soon as I
could. They had supper, and then off to bed. Don't they look sweet?"

When he was in his carriage, M. Godefroy had decided to reward the
finder of his child handsomely--to give him a handful of that gold so
easily gained. Since entering the house he had seen a side of human
nature with which he was formerly unacquainted--the brave charity of
the poor in their misery. The courage of the poor girl who had worked
herself to death weaving wreaths to keep her child; the generosity of
the poor cripple in adopting the orphan, and above all, the intelligent
goodness of the little street Arab in protecting the child who was still
smaller than himself--all this touched M. Godefroy deeply and set him
reflecting. For the thought had occurred to him that there were other
cripples who needed to be looked after as well as Pierron, and other
orphans as well as Zidore. He also debated whether it would not be
better to employ his time looking after them, and whether money might
not be put to a better use than merely gaining money. Such was his
reverie as he stood looking at the two sleeping children. Finally, he
turned round to study the features of the greengrocer, and was charmed
by the loyal expression in the face of the man, and his clear, truthful
eyes.

"My friend," said M. Godefroy, "you and your adopted son have rendered
me an immense service. I shall soon prove to you that I am not
ungrateful. But, for to-day--I see that you are not in comfortable
circumstances, and I should like to leave a small proof of my
thankfulness."

But the hand of the cripple arrested that of the banker, which was
diving into his coat-pocket where he kept bank-notes.

"No, sir; no! Anybody else should have done just as we have done. I will
not accept any recompense; but pray don't take offense. Certainly, I
am not rolling in wealth, but please excuse my pride--that of an old
soldier; I have the Tonquin medal--and I don't wish to eat food which I
haven't earned."

"As you like," said the financier; "but an old soldier like you is
capable of something better. You are too good to push a handcart. I will
make some arrangement for you, never fear."

The cripple responded by a quiet smile, and said coldly: "Well, sir, if
you really wish to do something for me--"

"You'll let me care for Zidore, won't you?" cried M. Godefroy, eagerly.

"That I will, with the greatest of pleasure," responded Pierron,
joyfully. "I have often, thought about the child's future. He is a sharp
little fellow. His teachers are delighted with him."

Then Pierron suddenly stopped, and an expression came over his face
which M. Godefroy at once interpreted as one of distrust. The thought
evidently was: "Oh, when he has once left us he'll forget us entirely."

"You can safely pick the child up in your arms and take him to the
carriage. He'll be better at home than here, of course. Oh, you needn't
be afraid of disturbing him. He is fast asleep, and you can just pick
him up. He must have his shoes on first, though."

Following Pierron's glance M. Godefroy perceived on the hearth, where
a scanty coke fire was dying out, two pairs of children's shoes;--the
elegant ones of Raoul, and the rough ones of Zidore. Each pair contained
a little toy and a package of bonbons.

"Don't think about that," said Pierron in an abashed tone. "Zidore put
the shoes there. You know children still believe in Christmas and the
child Jesus, whatever scholars may say about fables; so, as I came back
from the _commissaire_, as I didn't know whether your boy would have to
stay here to-night, I got those things for them both."

At which the eyes of M. Godefroy, the freethinker, the hardened
capitalist, and _blase_ man of the world, filled with tears.

He rushed out of the house, but returned in a minute with his arms full
of the superb mechanical horse, the box of leaden soldiers, and the rest
of the costly playthings bought by him in the afternoon, and which had
not even been taken out of the carriage.

"My friend, my dear friend," said he to the greengrocer, "see, these are
the presents which Christmas has brought to my little Raoul. I want him
to find them here, when he awakens, and to share them with Zidore, who
will henceforth be his playmate and friend. You'll trust me now, won't
you? I'll take care both of Zidore and of you, and then I shall ever
remain in your debt, for not only have you found my boy, but you have
also reminded me, who am rich and lived only for myself, that there are
other poor who need to be looked after. I swear by these two sleeping
children, I won't forget them any longer."

Such is the miracle which happened on the 24th of December of last year,
ladies and gentlemen, at Paris, in the full flow of modern egotism. It
doesn't sound likely--that I own; and I am compelled to attribute this
miraculous event to the influence of the Divine Child who came down to
earth nearly nineteen centuries ago to command men to love one another.



