
It took two hours to set up the equipment, in spite of the fact that a
lot of the circuits had been prefabricated before the caravan had come
out from Salt Lake City. But Richard Thorn wanted to make certain that
all his data was both correct and recorded. Sorensen had nothing to do
but watch. He had no hand in setting up the equipment. He had brought
the Black Suitcase, and that was all he was going to be allowed to do.

From the top of the Black Suitcase projected two one-inch copper
electrodes, fourteen inches apart. The North American Carbide & Metals
technicians set up the circuits that were connected to the electrodes
without any help from Sorensen.

But just before they started to work, Sorensen said: "There's just one
thing I think you ought to warn those men about, Mr. Thorn."

"What's that?" Thorn asked.

"If any of 'em tries to open that suitcase, they're likely to get
blown sky high. And I don't want 'em getting funny with me, either."

He had his hand in his trouser pocket, and Thorn was suddenly quite
certain that the man was holding a revolver. He could see the outlines
against the cloth.

Thorn sighed. "Don't worry, Mr. Sorensen. We don't have any ulterior
designs on your invention." He did not add that the investigators of
NAC&M had already assumed that anyone who was asking one million
dollars for an invention which was, in effect, a pig in a poke, would
be expected to take drastic methods to protect his gadget. But there
would be no point in telling Sorensen that his protective efforts had
already been anticipated and that the technicians had already been
warned against touching the Black Suitcase any more than necessary to
connect the leads. Giving Sorensen that information might make him
even more touchy.

Thorn only hoped that the bomb, or whatever it was that Sorensen had
put in the suitcase, was well built, properly fused, and provided with
adequate safeties.

When everything was set up, Sorensen walked over to his device and
turned it on by shoving the blade of a heavy-duty switch into place.
"O.K.," he said.

One of the technicians began flipping other switches, and a bank of
ordinary incandescent light bulbs came on, four at a time. Finally
there were one hundred of them burning, each one a hundred-watt bulb
that glowed brightly but did not appear to be contributing much to the
general brightness of the Utah sun. The technicians checked their
recording voltmeters and ammeters and reported that, sure enough, some
ten kilowatts of power at a little less than one hundred fifteen volts
D.C. was coming from the Black Suitcase.

Sorensen and Thorn sat in the tent which had been erected to ward off
the sun's rays. They watched the lights shine.

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *

One of the technicians came in, wiping his forehead with a big blue
bandana. "Well, there she goes. Mr. Sorensen, if that thing is
dangerous, hadn't we better back off a little way from it?"

"It isn't dangerous," Sorensen said. "Nothing's going to happen."

The technician looked unhappy. "Then I don't see why we couldn't've
tested the thing back in the shop. Would've been a lot easier there.
To say nothing of more comfortable."

Thorn lit a cigarette in silence.

Sorensen nodded and said, "Yes, Mr. Siegel, it would've been."

Siegel sat down on one of the camp stools and lit a cigarette.
"Mr. Sorensen," he asked in all innocence, "have you got a patent on
that battery?"

The humorous glint returned to Sorensen's eyes as he said, "Nope.
I didn't patent the battery in that suitcase. That's why I don't want
anybody fooling around with it."

"How come you don't patent it?" Siegel asked. "Nobody could steal it
if you patented it."

"Couldn't they?" Sorensen asked with a touch of acid in his voice. "Do
you know anything about batteries, Mr. Siegel?"

"A little. I'm not an expert on 'em, or anything like that. I'm an
electrician. But I know a little bit about 'em."

Sorensen nodded. "Then you should know, Mr. Siegel, that
battery-making is an art, not a science. You don't just stick a couple
of electrodes into a solution of electrolyte and consider that your
work is done. With the same two metals and the same electrolyte, you
could make batteries that would run the gamut from terrible to
excellent. Some of 'em, maybe, wouldn't hold a charge more than an
hour, while others would have a shelf-life, fully charged, of as much
as a year. Batteries don't work according to theory. If they did,
potassium chlorate would be a better depolarizer than manganese
dioxide, instead of the other way around. What you get out of a
voltaic cell depends on the composition and strength of the
electrolyte, the kind of depolarizer used, the shape of the
electrodes, the kind of surface they have, their arrangement and
spacing, and a hundred other little things."

"I've heard that," Siegel said.

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *

  [Illustration]

Thorn smoked in silence. He had heard Sorensen's arguments before.
Sorensen didn't mind discussing his battery in the abstract, but he
was awfully close-mouthed when it came to talking about it in concrete
terms. He would talk about batteries-in-general, but not about
this-battery-in-particular.

Not that Thorn blamed him in the least. Sorensen was absolutely
correct in his statements about the state of the art of making voltaic
cells. If Sorensen had something new--and Thorn was almost totally
convinced that he did--then he was playing it smart by not trying to
patent it.

"Now then," Sorensen went on, "let's suppose that my battery is made
up of lead and lead dioxide plates in a sulfuric acid solution, except
that I've added a couple of trifling things and made a few small
changes in the physical structure of the plates. I'm not saying that's
what the battery is, mind you; I'm saying 'suppose'."

"O.K., suppose," said Siegel. "Couldn't you patent it?"

"What's to patent? The Pb-PbO_2-H_2SO_4 cell is about half as old as
the United States Patent Office itself. Can't patent that. Copper
oxide, maybe, as a depolarizer? Old hat; can't patent that. Laminated
plates, maybe? Nope. Can't patent that, either."

Siegel looked out at the hundred glowing light bulbs. "You mean you
can't patent it, even if it works a hundred times better than an
ordinary battery?"

"Hell, man," Sorensen said, "you can't patent performance! You've got
to patent something solid and concrete! Oh, I'll grant that a
top-notch patent attorney might be able to get me some kind of patent
on it, but I wouldn't trust its standing up in court if I had to try
to quash an infringement.

"Besides, even if I had an iron-bound patent, what good would it do
me? Ever hear of a patent pool?"

"No," said Siegel. "What's a patent pool?"

"I'll give you an example. If all the manufacturers of a single
product get together and agree to form a patent pool, it means that if
one company buys a patent, all of them can use it. Say the automobile
companies have one. That means that if you invent a radical new design
for an engine--one, maybe that would save them millions of
dollars--you'll be offered a few measly thousand for it. Why should
they offer more? _Where else are you going to sell it?_ If one company
gets it, they all get it. There's no competition, and if you refuse to
sell it at all, they just wait a few years until the patent runs out
and use it for free. That may take a little time, but a big industry
has plenty of time. They have a longer life span than human beings."

"North American Carbide & Metals," said Thorn quietly, "is not a
member of any patent pool, Mr. Sorensen."

"I know," Sorensen said agreeably. "Battery patents are trickier than
automotive machinery patents. That's why I'm doing this my way. I'm
not selling the gadget as such. I'm selling results. For one million
dollars, tax paid, I will agree to show your company how to build a
device that will turn out electric power at such-and-such a rate and
that will have so-and-so characteristics, just like it says in the
contract you read. I guarantee that it can be made at the price I
quote. That's all."

He looked back out at the bank of light bulbs. They were still
burning. They kept burning--

"... They kept burning for ten solid hours," said Thorn. "Then he went
out and shut off his battery."

Captain Lacey was scowling. "That's damned funny," he muttered.

"What is?" asked Thorn, wondering why the naval officer had
interrupted his story.

"What you've been telling me," Lacey said. "I'll swear I've heard--"
He stopped and snapped his fingers suddenly. "Sure! By golly!" He
stood up from the table. "Would you excuse me for a minute? I want to
see if a friend of mine is here. If he is, he has a story you ought to
hear. Damned funny coincidence." And he was off in a hurry, leaving
Thorn staring somewhat blankly after him.

Three minutes later, while Thorn was busily pouring himself a second
helping of Five-Star Hennessy, Captain Lacey returned to the table
with an army officer wearing the insignia of a bird colonel.

"Colonel Dower," the captain said, "I'd like you to meet a friend of
mine--Mr. Richard Thorn, the top research man with North American
Carbide & Metals. Mr. Thorn, this is Colonel Edward Dower." The men
shook hands. A third brandy snifter was brought and a gentleman's
potation was poured for the colonel.

"Ed," said Captain Lacey as soon as his fellow officer had inhaled a
goodly lungful of the heady fumes, "do you remember you were telling
me a couple of years ago about some test you were in on out in the
Mojave Desert?"

Colonel Dower frowned. "Test? Something to do with cars?"

"No, not that one. Something to do with a power supply."

"Power supply. Oh!" His frown faded and became a smile. "You mean the
crackpot with his little suitcase."

Thorn looked startled, and Captain Lacey said: "That's the one."

"Sure I remember," said the colonel. "What about it?"

"Oh, nothing," Lacey said with elaborate unconcern, "I just thought
Mr. Thorn, here, might like to hear the story--that is, if it isn't
classified."

Colonel Dower chuckled. "Nothing classified about it. Just another
crackpot inventor. Had a little suitcase that he claimed was a
marvelous new power source. Wanted a million dollars cash for it, tax
free, no strings attached, but he wouldn't show us what was in it. Not
really very interesting."

"Go ahead, colonel," said Thorn. "I'm interested. Really I am."

"Well, as I said, there's nothing much to it," the colonel said. "He
showed us a lot of impressive-looking stuff in his laboratory, but it
didn't mean a thing. He had this suitcase, as I told you. There were a
couple of thick copper electrodes coming out of the side of it, and he
claimed that they could be tapped for tremendous amounts of power.
Well, we listened, and we watched his demonstrations in the lab. He
ran some heavy-duty motors off it and a few other things like that.
I don't remember what all."

"And he wanted to sell it to you sight-unseen?" Thorn asked.

"That's right," said the colonel. "Well, actually, he wasn't trying to
sell it to the Army. As you know, we don't buy ideas; all we buy is
hardware, the equipment itself, or the components. But the company he
was trying to sell his gadget to wanted me to take a look at it as an
observer. I've had experience with that sort of thing, and they wanted
my opinion."

"I see," Thorn said. "What happened?"

"Well," said the colonel, "we wanted him to give us a demonstration
out in the Mojave Desert--"
