
Dr. Duerkes screamed as the cold, sticky moisture of the vaporous cloud
closed about him. Hawes felt himself jerked out of his seat and he
struggled helplessly as he was dragged through the window of the plane.

Below, he saw the bomber spinning crazily to earth. But neither man
fell. Instead, they remained suspended in air, held fast by the
billowing, green cloud.

An odd, cold feeling swept over Hawes. Oxygen was sucked from his
lungs. He gasped for breath, wondering if this was the end of
everything. As the light of day faded from his eyes he felt convinced
that it must be. A world of silence closed in about him.

As the chill of the stratosphere seemed to freeze the pilot's veins, he
recognized the familiar odor he had smelled on the plane. It was ozone,
oxygen exposed to the influence of electrical discharge, an allotropy
of oxygen known to exist in the stratosphere.

For a time, all that remained of Captain Hawes' consciousness was a dim
sense of awareness. From this tiny spark something grew. It enlarged
until it swept over and mastered his entire being.

Suddenly Captain Hawes saw, but not through his eyes. He heard gentle
whisperings about him, but not through his ears. The soft velvet of the
green cloud pressed against his body, buoying it in the air, but he
did not actually feel it. His nose no longer scented ozone, yet he was
aware of the odor.

His senses were gone; in their place was a single, all-inclusive
sense--an awareness of things first hand.

The limits of his weak, fallacious human signal system of neurones had
been pushed aside and Captain Hawes and his companion stood in direct
contact with the external world--possibly the first human beings ever
to do so.[1]

[Footnote 1: Philosophers have pointed out emphatically--and it is
hardly necessary for me to repeat it--that man can know the world
only "second hand." Man's consciousness perceives nothing directly,
but through the medium of the senses. The translations of our sensory
impulses in the brain could easily be--and often are--distorted.
Artificial stimuli can affect the senses so that things can be
perceived that do not actually exist. Like the blind men and the
elephant, man is limited in his perceptions to what he can perceive,
and therefore what we know may only be a small parcel of our
surroundings. The stripping of Hawes and Duerkes of their senses and
the placing of their consciousness in direct contact with the world
allowed them to see things ordinary men do not behold--R. R. W.]

No longer did Captain Hawes have to touch a thing to feel it. He knew
the nature of the rocks on the moon as well as he knew the texture of
his clothing. Without looking, he could tell Dr. Duerkes' movements as
he opened his eyes and he knew that his own countenance was in no less
degree bewildered and amazed.

Captain Hawes did not seem to exist within his body, but on the outside
of it. His body was there, but it existed purely as a power plant for
his omnipotent self.

"It's a man!" said something excitedly.

It was not exactly a voice Hawes heard. Instead, it was a thought, not
expressed in words, but in translatable impulses.

"They're both men," came another impulse.

Captain Hawes was aware of a number of small greenish clouds
sweeping down on all sides. Then, for the first time he saw that the
stratosphere was far different than any human description had made it.
