
Around him arose a weird city. There were broad streets and buildings,
vaporous, tenuous structures, but real as a single sense perceived
it. The thought occurred to Hawes that this is what an American city
would look like if it were stripped of noise, all tangible objects, all
smells and things that could be perceived by the five senses. He knew
that there was much more to a city than is ever seen by any man.

The cloud that bore the two human beings was floating through the
streets toward a massive, rainbow building that rose like a palace in
the center of the metropolis.

A wail, like an ambulance siren, rose from the cloud. It was purely a
mental wail, but the other clouds scurried out of the way to let the
vapor bearing the men pass.

The building into which the men were taken rose like an eerie dream on
the nothingness of its foundations.

"Great Scott!" whispered Duerkes. "What sort of a nightmare is this!"

"It's an unclassified part of your orderly universe," replied Captain
Hawes. He suddenly discovered that he was not really speaking, nor was
Duerkes talking through his mouth. The two men were communicating ideas
by a sort of telepathy that went beyond their understanding.

A low murmur of excited ideas swept into the captain's perception as
they entered the chamber. More poignant than all, a single, commanding
thought arose from a pretty little turquoise cloud in the center of the
room. The thought swept all others into silence and beat its way into
the consciousness of the two human beings.

"You are welcome here, beings of the lower regions!"

"Thanks!" said Captain Hawes.

Dr. Duerkes was too busy thinking to reply. The doctor apparently had
forgotten that his thoughts no longer were secret and that what he was
thinking was perceptible to every person present.

"Am I alive? I do not breathe, yet I feel that I am absorbing ozone
through my skin. I cannot be dead, for I possess consciousness. If I
am neither, what am I doing here?"

"Your friend is disturbed, Captain Hawes," said the turquoise cloud.

"He has never been formally introduced to a green cloud before," the
captain apologized. "Come to life, Doc! Meet the headman here!"

Mental laughter swept the room. Even the turquoise cloud joined.

Dr. Duerkes started. "Oh! Excuse me! I am happy to meet you, sir!"

"I must apologize for our appearance," said the turquoise cloud. "We
appear as clouds, because we are a race of philosophers and we have
too much work to do to waste our energies on the creation of beautiful
figures. We might appear in any form we choose, but cloud-like forms
are simple and easy to manage in the stratosphere. I must correct your
impression, Mr. Hawes and Mr. Duerkes, that I am a man. I am not...."

As the cloud's thoughts impressed themselves on Captain Hawes' mind, it
underwent a slow transformation. It dwindled in size and changed from
turquoise to a beautiful olive shade. Its form swiftly became that of a
human being. Then, before Hawes and Duerkes, stood a woman of dazzling
beauty. She was dark complexioned. Her hair and eyes were dark. She was
dressed in a cirrus mist of rainbow color.

Captain Hawes' thoughts were akin to a gape.

Dr. Duerkes looked with his mind stunned into a blank.

"Poor men," she said. "I pity you. You thought you were the highest
form of life on the face of the earth, yet you are no further advanced
in comparison to the Green Clouds than fish are in comparison to you."

She did not open her mouth but she spoke in waves of thought. Without
her saying so, Captain Hawes knew her name was Loetta and somehow, as
she spoke, Hawes perceived that in spite of this creature's claims to
superiority, she needed man. Hawes and Duerkes had been brought here
for a purpose. There was a problem to be solved and only man could
solve it.

"Our lives lie one step in evolution beyond yours," Loetta went on, as
though she were trying to erase the thoughts that crept into Hawes'
mind. "First life on earth was plant life. It lived on the inanimate
elements in the sea and rocks. Then came animal life, living in the
sea and devouring the plants. Larger animals came to eat the small
ones and life emerged from the sea onto the land. Man developed to eat
the animals. We, the Green Clouds, are the next stage. Our food is
thought--the mental imagery of lowly man."

The problem, at least, was down-to-earth. Even a creature that lived in
the clouds had to have food.

"I should have known," Dr. Duerkes' thoughts staggered from his
confused brain. "It is perfectly plausible. Everything is plausible, if
one studies it long enough. It is inevitable that life should move some
day into the stratosphere, just as it once moved out of the sea onto
the land."

"Primitive thoughts," rebuked the woman. "We would not feed such slop
to our half-wits." She turned to the aviator. "And what is the best you
can do?"

Hawes was feasting his eyes on the cloud woman. "If I weren't sure I
was awake, I'd say you were a nightmare," he began. "But you can't be a
nightmare--nightmares are hideous--" he stopped abruptly.

Loetta smiled. "I liked that," said she.

"What?" Captain Hawes blushed mentally.

"What you did, just then. You pressed your lips against mine and made a
loud smacking noise."

The flustered captain stammered: "But I--I didn't. Not really."

"In your mind you did," Loetta said. "It was a swell idea. A perfect
feast."

"You mean that's what you live on?"

"Thought is our food and drink," she said. "We cannot eat our own
thoughts, for that would be cannibalism. The wild crop that we collect
at random over the earth is neither satisfying nor dependable. That is
why we seek to cultivate our own foodstuffs. You two human beings will
supply us with food. In time you will be mental giants."

"You made no mistake when you picked me," Dr. Duerkes beamed. "Already
my thoughts are pretty well advanced."

"Your thoughts are quite obvious," Loetta retorted. "You simply have
a knack of guessing the right answers and for most things there is
more than one right answer. I'm afraid that we'll have to depend on
Hawes to supply us with the staple foods. You can give us the lighter
stuff--desserts and pastry--"

"Hawes! Why he never had a deep thought in his life!" Duerkes exclaimed.

"His thoughts are rather cute. Very simple, tender and digestible." She
sighed. "It is funny none of us Green Clouds ever thought about kissing
before."

Loetta took a step forward, threw her arms around Captain Hawes and
planted a deep, fervent kiss on his lips.

"I think," Captain Hawes said, as he and his companion were led to a
little garden of clouds, "that I am well enough stimulated to win a
grand championship as a mental milch cow."

"Bah!" Dr. Duerkes snorted. "This is no superior race!"
