
The Green Clouds insisted that their food be of the highest quality.
But their standards were their own. Noble philosophy was carted away
by the scavengers scarcely nibbled, while thrilling, exciting thoughts
were bolted ravenously.

"Deep thoughts are too near our own," Loetta explained one day when she
visited Hawes. "We find action stimulating, for life is rather dull up
here."

She explained that exertion was almost unheard of in this land. People
obtained food without a great deal of effort and there was really
nothing to work for.

"We find Dr. Duerkes' thoughts hard to digest," she said, "but perhaps
they will be better flavored in time."

Because life was so effortless, Hawes wondered how the people of this
country escaped complete boredom. It was a nation where everyone was
unemployed, for there was nothing to do. To build a house, one had
merely to create it from thought. Thought also was food and the medium
of exchange.

"Man misses a great deal," Loetta went on. "His five senses completely
overlook the most worthwhile things of life."

"There are all kinds of men. Have you ever really studied them?"

"I know all about them," replied Loetta. "That is why I can imitate men
so easily. I can eat their food, just as you do. I drink their drinks.
I have watched men die and I have lived as they lived. But it is too
primitive."

Captain Hawes smiled as he recalled a few lines of Kipling:

    "I have eaten your bread and salt,
    I have drunk your water and wine,
    The deaths ye died I have watched beside,
    And the lives that ye led were mine."

"Yes," Loetta said, reading his mind, "I have even read Kipling. And I
like it."

As days passed, Captain Hawes became more and more impressed with the
power of thought. He found himself conjuring up fancy motor cars from
nothing. He could dream of wealth and awaken surrounded by chests
filled with gold and precious jewels. Thought had become a tangible
substance, and as material as a piece of cheese. His thoughts became so
prolific that the people of this land grew fat and comfortable.

But continual thinking is not a pleasant occupation for a man of
action. The first weeks in the land of the Green Clouds had been
full of novelty. Beyond that, only Loetta's presence made the place
endurable. But there were times when Loetta was busy and Captain Hawes
was left alone to produce thoughts. Life became boring.

Thinking no longer was an easy task. When he considered escaping,
no one complained of the thought, for it was good food. The only
difficulty was that the green clouds devoured his escape plans as fast
as he made them.
