
Anyhow, the escape looked impossible. Hawes' and Duerkes' parachutes
had been taken away from them and a drop to the earth, eight miles
straight down, would be quite fatal.

Even if the men survived the fall, there was the difficulty of getting
started. Gravity seemed absent here as far as the earth was concerned.
True, if one jumped up toward the sky, gravity worked as it always had.
But if one tried to dive toward the earth, he was pulled back to the
clouds just the same.

"Anyway, it's a slick arrangement," Hawes decided.

Dr. Duerkes shuddered. "How can these people like your hashy thoughts?"
he asked. "This mystery would startle the world of science and you
dismiss it with the words, 'slick arrangement.'"

"Well, maybe it ain't so slick. I'm sort of tired of it. I'd give a lot
for a ham sandwich, with mustard."

In front of Hawes' eyes a ham sandwich on rye bread, dripping with
mustard, appeared. Hawes reached out to grab it, but a green cloud
swooped from behind a bush and seized it.

"Tut, tut!" chided the green cloud. "You mustn't eat your own thoughts.
That's cannibalism."

"But I'm hungry," said Captain Hawes.

"Then have a ham sandwich on me," said the cloud.

In the air in front of Hawes appeared another sandwich, exactly like
the first. Hawes reached and seized it. He tasted it. It had a slightly
sour taste, as if it were impregnated with ozone, but it was better
than nothing.

"Swell!" said the captain.

"I can't understand it," Duerkes, who also was supplied with a
sandwich, moaned. "It's beyond comprehension. This is a different world
from ours. There isn't a single law of the universe applicable to it."

"It looks pretty logical to me," Hawes said. "These people think
concrete thoughts, instead of abstract ones." He turned to the green
cloud. "Could you think up an airplane--a stratosphere ship, like the
one we rode to get here?"

"Easily," the green cloud said.

Standing before them was a ship, an exact duplicate of the stratosphere
scout.

Not a word passed between the two human beings as they got into the
ship. It wasn't necessary to think in order to know what should be done.

"Hey!" cried the green cloud. "Come back here. You can't go away--"

The green cloud ran toward the ship, but it could not destroy it, for
to do so would have been murder. One's own thoughts are not to be
destroyed by one's self. Hawes realized this. He had tried several
times to build a plane, but it always was eaten by a green cloud the
second he got it finished. But the green clouds could not eat their own
thoughts.

The motor whirred.

"Just a minute, before we leave," the captain said. He closed his eyes.
He thought hard of Loetta.

The figure of Loetta appeared in the control cabin beside him.

Captain Hawes touched the controls and the ship soared away.

"I hope you can learn to eat solid food, Loetta," the captain said.

Loetta sighed. She turned her head.

Captain Hawes turned his head also. Trailing from the ship, hanging
like a chain of daisies, was a whole string of Loettas. One hung onto
the wing, while the one below her clasped her ankles.

"Gosh!" Captain Hawes said. "I didn't realize I had been thinking of
you all the time."

"Don't worry," said Loetta.

As she spoke a green cloud flashed out of the heavens and calmly began
eating her sisters.

Captain Hawes put his ship into a dive toward the earth.

