
On Wednesday, April 25, 1973, at 7:30 in the evening, the Hendriks
stood in the midst of a vast crowd that thronged the open plaza before
the Ultrarama Theater. The theater itself was a towering edifice that
had been built just for this production; it was one of the world's most
impressive buildings.

"All right, all right," a policeman shouted. "Ticket-holders come this
way. The rest of you stay back."

They cleared a channel through the mob and the Hendriks, along with
several hundred other early arrivees, followed along to the door of the
vast theater.

"What are all these people doing here?" Mrs. Hendriks asked.

Her husband shrugged. "Maybe they plan on crashing the gate--or
possibly they think there may be some tickets left. I tell you, we're
awfully lucky to be where we are right now."

He extended the invitations to a tall, haughty-looking doorman in a
resplendent uniform. The doorman merely nodded and gestured them inside.

"Don't they tear up the tickets?"

"Not on opening night," Hendriks said. "They're letting us keep them as
souvenirs."

They stepped inside and found themselves in a vast, almost boundless
vestibule carpeted with deep pile synthofoam of a lush purple color.
Vaulting arches of gleaming metal swept upward to the barely visible
ceiling.

"If this is just the foyer," Paul Hendriks said, "imagine what it must
be inside!"

His wife nudged him. "Look--isn't that shocking!"

A girl of about seventeen was coming toward them, smiling cheerfully.
Hendriks blinked. She wore only two nearly-transparent strips of
shimmering cloth, one over her breasts and the other wrapped round her
hips.

"Good evening," she said. "I'm your usher. May I show you to your
seats?"

"They really put on a show here," Hendriks muttered. The girl glanced
at the invitations he was clutching and beckoned them to follow her.
She led the way, twitching her hips invitingly.

A bright aluminoid door loomed before them. The girl touched a switch
and the door slid back, revealing the actual interior of the theater.

Hendriks gasped.

It was nearly the size of a football stadium. Where the playing field
should be were seats, elaborate plush pneumatic affairs. And ringing
the seats was the Screen.

The Screen covered the entire walls, floor, ceiling. It hemmed the
audience in completely. As Hendriks took his seat, he felt totally
surrounded by it.

They waited impatiently for the half hour to pass. The theater filled
up rapidly, with first-nighters in all their finery.

"I'm glad we wore our formal clothes, dear."

"Yes," Hendriks said, looking at the others. "This is quite an event.
Quite an event."
