
The theater was totally filled by 8 P. M. sharp; the corps of near-nude
usherettes performed their job swiftly and efficiently.

And suddenly a voice said, "Welcome to ULTRARAMA."

It was a cultured, soft female voice--and it came from so close to him
that he glanced in surprise at his wife. But she was looking at him.
She had heard the voice too.

It continued: "You are about to witness the most spectacular form
of entertainment ever conceived by the mind of man. Twelve years of
concentrated work went into producing what you are about to see--and
no one but you will experience it. Each of you will be _taking part_;
each of you will, as the series of scenes we have assembled unfolds,
be caught up in the reality of ULTRARAMA--the _realer_-than-reality
Ultra-reality of ULTRARAMA. Shall we begin?"

The lights in the theater dimmed--and the vast screen came to life.

It was incredible.

And they were in Africa.

The huge plains of South Africa opened out before them. Hendriks
turned his head, looking around in astonishment. The audience seemed
to have disappeared. He was alone--alone in a world of yellowing grass
and strange thick trees, a flat world where death could strike at any
moment.

In the distance he saw four grotesque shapes--giraffes, moving along
in their ungainly but yet tremendously rapid way, their long necks
projecting stiffly from their bodies. He repressed a chuckle.

And then a low growl made him jump. He backed against a rough-barked
tree and felt sweat cascade down his body as a tawny shape sprang from
behind a twisted shrub, pounced on one of the giraffes, smashed the
fragile neck with a fierce swipe of a paw.

The lioness. Sudden death springing from nowhere, a bright streak that
brought violence. Hendriks looked around uneasily. The giraffes had
fled; the lioness was dragging her kill into the underbrush. The warm
smell of death was in the air--that, and the buzzing of green-eyed
flies an inch long. Perched on a scrawny, almost leafless tree were
hooded ugly shapes.

Vultures. _Are they waiting for me?_

This was _too_ real. This was _unbearably_ real.

A herd of gazelles came bounding out of the background, relieving some
of the tension. The lovely creatures seemed to float along, touching
the ground only at occasional intervals. Behind them marched the
dull-gray bulks of a herd of elephants, shambling with a ponderous gait.

This was Africa. This was the real thing, Hendriks told himself. It
wasn't a show. Through some magic the ULTRARAMA people had actually
sent him here.

He moved away, investigating. A sluggish black stream wound through the
jungle; curious, Hendriks walked toward it. Dark logs lay strewn almost
at random in the shallow muddy water at the sides of the stream. But
as he watched, one of the logs yawned, showing a double row of deadly
teeth, and slid sleepily off into deeper waters.

Crocodiles. Death threatened everywhere in the jungle.

Monkeys chittered overhead; bright-plumaged birds flapped from tree to
tree. Hendriks felt the heat, his nostrils drew in the smell. This was
real. He wondered if it would ever end, if he would ever return to his
neat little city apartment and to his wife and children.

He glanced away from the stream, looked up at the sun blazing in the
bright blue sky. And abruptly black death came roaring at him from a
tree.

Hendriks had just a moment to recognize it. A leopard, black, sleek,
moving with the easy grace of a machine designed for killing. He
toppled backward under the impetus of the beast's furious attack,
smelled the soft musky smell of the killer.

Then claws reached for his throat. Hot barbs of red pain shot through
him. He screamed out, fought, tried to hold the snapping jaws away.

"No! No! It isn't real! Get away from me!"

And in that instant Africa vanished.
