
Turning away from the windows Probos Five let his thoughts return to
Lingua Four, to Probos Two, his son, and his home on the first planet
from the sun. Ah, that is the place to live, thought Probos, the
temperature an unchanging 327 deg.; just comfortably warm, where one could
enjoy a life of warmth and ease. Too bad that he would not live to see
it again. Thirty vargs, he reflected, is such a short time. With luck,
perhaps he may have lived to see a hundred vargs slip by. And perhaps in
time he may have added three more heads and five dergs in length to his
towering trunk.

He thought of Probos Two and wondered idly if his son would also visit
the barbarian worlds to collect data for Lingua Four.

He wished that he could have seen more of Probos Two. There's an
up-and-coming lad, he thought, not quite two vargs old and two heads
already. Yes, indeed, he's quite a boy, Probos Five remembered proudly;
maybe his mother will keep him at home instead of running him all over
the universe to get material for her committees.

He wished that Lingua Four would settle down and be content as a
housewife, but he doubted that she would. Social ambition was boring
like a termite under her bark.

Lingua Four was determined to be the first lady of Arbor, the capital
city of Mercury. To this end Lingua Four had labored unceasingly. She
was president of half the women's clubs of Arbor. She could always be
depended upon to furnish the best in new and diverting subjects.

She headed almost all committees for aid or research on any type of
problem. It was owing to Lingua Four being president of the Committee
for Undernourished Arborians that Probos Five was making this
ill-starred trip. His purpose was to capture a few of the upright,
divided trunk animals that inhabited the third planet.

They were to be transported to Mercury and given over to scientific
study as to their edible qualities. If it were found that the divided
trunk creatures were fit for Mercurian consumption, the problem of
undernourishment would no longer exist since the supply of divided
trunks was seemingly inexhaustible. Mercurians had made expeditions to
the third planet before and every report concluded with--"Divided trunk
creatures increasing in number."

Privately Probos Five doubted the possibility of using the divided
trunks for food, since the last expedition once again reported a
complete lack of captives due to the frail and tenuous bodies of the
divided trunks. Then, too, transportation and preservation posed a
tremendous problem, not to mention the difficulty of trying to eat
something that might vaporize on your fork. But then these questions may
never arise, he decided, for of all the reports perused by Probos Five
not one expedition had succeeded in bringing a divided trunk to Mercury.

All reports were read to the last letter by Probos Five before
assembling equipment for his own trip. In the reports he had noted many
of the difficulties of the earlier missions. Planet Three was impossible
for a Mercurian without a heated space suit. The temperature of Planet
Three was so low that it would literally freeze a Mercurian stiff in a
matter of seconds.

The casualties of the early expeditions had been numerous. Many
Mercurians had succumbed to the bitter cold due to flaws in space suits
and other accidents. A break in the suit meant instant death. The
victims of such mishaps were invariably buried in the isolated, sparsely
inhabited Polar regions to avoid alarming the divided trunk creatures.

It was strange, mused Probos Five, that the divided trunks were
seemingly unable to bear the slightest increase in temperature. Their
bodies disintegrated upon contact with a Mercurian. Some were roped and
dragged from a distance up to the doors of the space ships, but no
inhabitant of Planet Three had been closer to Mercury than the air lock
of the space cruisers. As the divided trunk people were dragged into the
air lock, warm air from the ship would be pumped into the lock to dispel
the frigid air of Planet Three. As the warmth of Mercury enveloped the
divided trunks they became quite red, began to melt and finally
dissolved into a gaseous state, leaving a small pile of ashes and a
disagreeable odor in the air lock that sometimes lingered for days.

Probos Five believed he had the solution for these obstacles in the path
of scientific study of the divided trunks. He had decided to use guile
in place of strength. For this reason he had come alone and in a small
space runabout to put his solution to the test. But his solution now
could never be tried, he remembered morosely.
