
In the aft compartment Probos Five had constructed a refrigeration
plant. By maintaining a constant degree of frigidity he hoped to deliver
a pair of each species of divided trunks to Mercury. He hoped especially
to capture a complete set and perhaps a few over to make up for breakage
and losses. As to what form of sustenance the divided trunks were
accustomed to, he had no idea whatsoever. He had intended to bring
samples of earth, vegetation and anything else that may have suggested a
source of food for the divided trunks.

The thought too had occurred to him that possibly the divided trunk
creatures ate one another. On the possibility of this Probos Five had
determined to capture three black ones, three white ones, three yellows,
three browns and three reds, and three of any other color that he might
find. He rather doubted that more colors or combination of colors
existed. All previous expedition reports had mentioned only the five
colors. However, Probos Five had determined to keep several eyes open on
the off chance that he might find a new and different species.

His refrigerator was modeled along the architectural lines of the dens
of the divided trunks. The main room of the refrigerator opened to the
outside of the ship by means of a small air lock. A Mercurian size air
lock was not needed for the divided trunks, as few had been found to be
much over three dergs in height.

Winches and cables to pull the divided trunks into the refrigerator were
installed in the refrigerator room itself to avoid burning the divided
trunks with hot cables from other parts of the ship.

In addition, Probos Five had cunningly devised a refrigerated trap. This
too was designed to simulate the caves of the divided trunk creatures
but was smaller. It was constructed with entrances readily seen and
exits well hidden. Probos Five had expected great things of his trap. He
had conceived the idea after reading the report of a Mercurian
expedition that explored the dens of the divided trunks at some place
marked "Coney Island." According to the reports the divided trunks
showed no hesitancy in entering these types of dens. In fact, the writer
of the report gave it as his opinion that the divided ones perhaps
played games in these types of caves. It also mentioned that some of the
dens were equipped with flat shiny surfaces that cast reflections or
images. Probos Five had incorporated the image-making surfaces into his
trap design. A pity that all this effort must be wasted, thought Probos
as he once more turned to the observation ports to check his remaining
distance from the planet's surface. Seeing that his time was short,
Probos Five turned all five faces forward in the Mercurian gesture of
disdain for death. A moment later came the shock.
