
Through shadows in the garden, shapes wavered about drunkenly to the
throb of hi-fi. Lewis went to the robotic barkeep and started drinking.
This time, however, he didn't feel any effects. He stood looking
around, ashamed, made sicker by what he saw: some of the world's finest
minds, top scientists, reduced to shallow burbling buffoons.

Dave Nemerov, Nobel Prize Winner in physics, weaved up to Sam and
looked at him out of bleary eyes. "Hi, Sammy. All full of gloom again,
boy?"

Nemerov, a chubby little man dressed in shorts and nothing else,
frowned with drunken exaggeration. "Easy does it, Sammy. You might find
the security boys giving you a lobotomy rap."

A drop of sweat ran down the side of Lewis' high-boned cheek.

"Well, what's the great physicist been doing for his country?" Lewis
asked. He knew that Nemerov hadn't even been in his lab for over a
month. He even remembered when Nemerov had griped about the shortage
of technically trained personnel, the policy of secrecy that clouded,
divided and obstructed his work, hampered his research until it finally
was no longer worth the struggle. His story was the story of everyone
in the Project. He couldn't get information from other departments and
projects, because of secrecy. They were all cut off from one another.
No information was ever released from the restricted list. Most
important documents were secret, and had remained out of reach.

The only declassified documents available in the project were
grade-school stuff that everybody had known twenty years ago.

For an instant, Nemerov appeared almost sober, and completely saddened.

"I've forgotten what I was working on," Nemerov said.

"Have another drink then," Lewis said, "and you'll forget that you've
forgotten."

They clinked glasses. "Smile, Sammy," Nemerov said. "It can't last
forever. We'll soon get the word. The war will be over."

"What war?" Lewis whispered.

"Ssshhh, Sammy, for God's sake!" Nemerov moistened his lips and looked
around, but there weren't any Guards at the party. There never were.
The Guards had a barracks of their own in the Commander's private
sector. They never talked to civilians. They never attended parties.
They kept strictly to themselves. So did the Commander. For almost a
year now, as far as Lewis knew, no civilian in the Project had seen the
Commander. His reports were issued daily. Occasionally his voice was
heard on the intercom.

"Wonder who is winning the war out there?" Lewis said, to no one in
particular. He thought of Betty. Some whiskey spilled from the shot
glass.

"I wish you would shut up," Nemerov said hoarsely.

It still seemed incredible to Lewis, that the military psychologists
had decided among themselves that, for the sake of security, all
intercommunication between the Project and the outside was to be cut
off. No news, no television, no radio, no nothing. For security,
and also on the theory that scientists could work better completely
cloistered up like medieval monks. Not even a phone-call. Absolute,
one-hundred percent isolation. Legalized catatonia.

They had choked this Project to death, and he wondered how many others
were dead, and where they were. He didn't know where this Project was,
except that it was on the desert. He didn't even know for sure what
desert. He had been drugged when he was brought here two years ago, for
security you know.

Nemerov never mentioned his wife and kids any more. From the behavior
of Nemerov and most of the others, you would think the outside no
longer existed.

Cardoza, the cybernetic genius, came up, his eyes glazed with the
effects of some new narcotic that Oliver Dutton, world renowned
biochemist, had cooked up for want of anything better to do.

The wives of two other scientists hung on Cardoza's arms, their bodies
mostly bare, their eyes dulled as they wandered about the room like
radar for the promise of some emotional oasis in the wasteland.

"How you fellas like my robotic barkeep?" Cardoza yelled.

"It pours a nice glass of whiskey," Lewis said.

"This is only the beginning," Cardoza said, his mouth glistening and
wet under his hopped-up eyes. "That barkeep's a perfect servant and
can never make a mistake. Spent the last year building it. It can mix
anything."

"It'll practically win the war for us," Lewis said. Nemerov wiped at
his sweating face. The two straying wives stared dumbly.

Cardoza winced. "Don't be cutting, my friend," he said to Lewis. His
mouth turned down at the corners. "I tried, just as the rest of us
tried. To go on and develop what I was sent here to develop, I need
"Q" clearance. I can't get it because when the war started I wasn't a
citizen. Is that clear, Lewis?"

"Forget it," Lewis said.

"That's what I intend to keep on doing," Cardoza said. "Meanwhile, my
little robotic barkeep is only the beginning. I'm working on other
even more ingenious automata. One will do card tricks. Another is a
tight-wire artist. And one can even tell fortunes."

"How about one that can drag humans out of a hat?" Lewis asked.

"Come on, ladies," Cardoza said as he moved away. "Let's go play Dr.
McWilliams' new Q-X game."

"Ohhh," one of the wives said, giggling. "Something _new_?"

"Yeah," Lewis said to her, thinking of the fact that at one time, long
ago and far away, McWilliams had been working on a theory supposed to
have been aimed far beyond Einstein. "McWilliams' new mathmatical game.
This one's also played in the dark. Mixed couples of course. Q-X, the
big mathmatical discovery of the age. People get lost in pairs and
later in the dark they add up to bigger numbers."
