
Lewis shoved off from the bar, and walked toward the far corner of
the garden where he saw old Shelby Stenger, the great atomics expert,
flat on his belly, lying in the moonlight with fountain water misting
his face, snoring like a tired old dog, with a little thread of drool
hanging out of the corner of his mouth.

Mac Brogarth, nuclear physicist, came waltzing grotesquely across the
garden and toppled backward into the pool under the fountain and lay
there too weak even to raise his head out of the water. He would have
drowned if Lewis hadn't lifted it out for him.

The old man in Lewis' arms looked up at Lewis with a passing light of
tragic sobriety.

"Sam Lewis," he said. "That's you, isn't it, Sam? I had a cabin up near
Lake Michigan and I was going up there to finish important work. I'll
never get back there, Sam. I know now that I never will. I never will."

Lewis stood up. Without seeing or hearing anyone, he walked out into
the dry coolness of the starlit desert night.

He walked between the barracks, past the messhall toward the labs,
turned down the length of that ominous looking hulk which concealed The
Pit, and the Monster with which Lewis had worked until there was no use
working any more. Beyond that, he saw the electric fence, and the white
helmeted Guards standing at rigid attention.

He walked over there, his shoes crunching on sand and gravel, and
looked into the Guard's face. It was a mask, expressionless, and
rigid. Its eyes were hardly human, Lewis thought. It had many of the
characteristics of Cardoza's robotic barkeep.

Lewis knew that the security Guards had been worked over in the Wards
until there was no possibility of their being security risks. Any
classified thought, even if it penetrated one side of their heads,
quickly drained through the sieved brain and out the other side.

"Carry on, soldier," Lewis said. The Guard didn't seem to hear.

Lewis walked back toward the lab building covering The Pit.

The conflict was like a knife slicing him apart inside. What if he made
a grandstand gesture now? It would be much worse perhaps than merely
being sent into the Wards for a little mental working over. He would
be found guilty of sabotage, tried by the Commander's kangaroo court
martial, found guilty of being a traitor to his country, a foreign
agent probably. He would be placed inside a gas chamber on a stool and
a little gas pellet would be dropped on his lap.

And anyway, aside from his own punishment, would it be morally right?
Maybe I'm the one who is crazy, he thought. Maybe it's hell out there,
reduced to God knew what kind of social chaos. Maybe we're about to
win. Maybe we're about to lose. Maybe as bad as it is, it's the best
one could expect during the greatest crisis.

He went inside, and took the elevator down one floor into the
lead-lined Pit.

He walked up to the control panel and looked through the thick layers
of shielding transparent teflo-nite into the Pit, watching the Monster
indirectly through the big lenticular screen disc above the control
panel.
