
The Monster stood in the lead-lined Pit, inactive, as it had been
inactive for months. And even before that, during the months
when Lewis was learning to control the Monster until it seemed an
extension of his own nervous system, its work had become useless,
due to unobtainable documents and personnel, not to mention lack of
communication with other research centers.

The Monster was part of a general plan to compensate for the out-lawing
of A- and H-bombs. The most deadly conceivable compromise. The Pit was
a deadly sea of radioactivity in which only a mechanical robot monster
could work. Outside the Pit, Lewis directed the Monster whose duty
was the construction of drone planes. A few had been built, but they
weren't quite effective, and now it was impossible to go on with the
experimentation. The parts were all there. Everything was there except
certain vital classified documents that could not be cleared into this
particular Project.

Thousands of drone planes were to have been built, and perhaps were
being built in some other Project, but not in this one. Thousands
of drone planes with raw, un-shielded atomic engines, light and
inordinately powerful with an indefinite cruising range, remote
controlled, free of fallible human agency, loaded with bacteriological
bombs, the terrible gas known as the G-agent, and in addition, loaded
'spray' tanks that would spew deadly gamma rays and neutrons over
limitless areas of atmosphere.

Lewis moved his hands over the sensitive controls, and through the
lenticular disc, watched The Monster respond with the delicate
gestures of a gigantic violinist. The Monster was a robot, ten times
bigger than Cardoza's barkeep, and when Lewis moved his hands, the
Monster moved its own huge mandibles as its electro-magnum, colloid
brain, picked up Lewis' mental directions.

The Monster was immune to radiation, and bacteriological horrors.
It swam in death as unconcerned as a lovely lady wallowed in a pink
bubble-bath.

Lewis sat in the twilight of the Pit making the monster move about
in its futile rounds. Lewis loved the Monster and felt the wasteful
tragedy of its magnificent potential. A wonder of the world, a
reaffirmation of man's imagination and his powers of reason, the
Monster was built for what might seem horribly destructive ends, but
its potential was for limitless achievement of the best and most
far-reaching in man. Yet here it was, doing nothing at all. Standing in
a sea of radioactive poison, a gigantic symbol of man's stupidity to
man.

Could a man know the truth and continue to deny it, and still remain
sane? You could go on living that way. You could take happy pills,
sleeping pills, dream-pills and stay lushed-up on government liquor.
But sooner or later you would have to face the horrible empty waste.
After that loomed the face of madness.

And yet, Lewis thought, how do I know that I know the truth? I'm cut
off. No info, no communication. For all I know we're the only people
left in the world. An oasis of secrecy surrounded by desert.

Lewis walked back up to the first floor, and out into the night,
heading for Betty Seton's apartment. Maybe she was sober enough now
to talk this thing over. The hell with security regulations. Just the
same, he walked along in the shadow next to the building to avoid any
eye-witness of his proposed rendezvous.

Science, he thought, was really another name for freedom. It couldn't
function without freedom of thought, freedom of inquiry. You
couldn't mix it up with security and cut off communication, because
communication is the essence of science. An idea is universal, and how
can you go on thinking when you're no longer a part of the world?

Whatever the decision arrived at in Lewis' own heart might otherwise
have been, he was never to know. His decision was made for him by an
hysterical laugh, the sound of scuffling on boards, and another laugh.
He came around the corner of the barracks and saw the Guard manhandling
Betty Seton down the steps of her apartment building.
