
The guard was big, built like a wedge, with a flat bulldog face bunched
up under his white helmet. The Guard's brain had been carefully honed
down to an efficient, completely unintelligent but precise fighting
machine level. He neither knew nor cared why he did anything. But he
was handicapped by having Betty Seton in one hand. He was whirling,
raising his stungun with the other hand, when Lewis hit him.

Lewis drove in with his weight behind first a solid long blow that
broke a rigid wall of muscle in the Guard's belly, turned it to soft
clay. Betty fell free and lay laughing on the gravel. Her face was a
white smear in the starlight.

Lewis brought his knee up into the Guard's face as he bent over, sank
another one into the soft belly, kicked the Guard in the crotch,
stamped on his booted foot, came back and ran forward again, driving
his shoulder again into the Guard's belly. The Guard's feet hit the
bottom step, he smashed into the boards, and his helmet flew off as his
head thudded on the stanchion.

The Guard just shook his shaven head, started to get up heavily,
reaching again for his stungun, his face expressionless. Lewis heard
footsteps pounding around the corner, slashing on gravel.

More Guards. Dehumanized and insensitive, they were almost as
invulnerable as so many robots--

He turned, ran past Betty Seton, stilly lying there with only a thin
housecoat around her, not laughing now, but looking suddenly sober and
horrified.

"Betty!"

She stared up at him. A block away he could hear the Guards coming and
he kept on running. He yelled back.

"Get a jeep. Get Brogarth, Cardoza, Nemerov, anybody. We're breaking
out of here."

"Where?" he heard her yelling after him as he went around the corner.

He glanced back around the corner and saw the herd of mechanized human
beings slogging toward him.

"Near the gate," Lewis said.

He ran toward the Pit.

He ran down the steps, into the console room and looked into the
lenticular disc where a ghostly blue radiance shadowed the walls.

"We're going to do ourselves some good after all, Monster," Lewis said
tightly.

He gripped the controls and sent the Monster its last set of orders.
It hurled tons of drone plane motors into the shielding walls, and its
huge mandibles ripped open the shielding and peeled it away like a food
canister. Smoke began to boil. Flames crackled in blue arcs. Steel
beams crumbled like wax. Globs of concrete fell in a cloud of dust
swirling debris.

Lewis grabbed the intercom, dialed the Commander's office. No answer.
He got through the exchange and got the Commander's apartment. He
heard a drunken whine and behind that the drunken depraved laughter of
officers and their wives and the sound of bongo drums.

"The Monster's breaking out of the Pit," Lewis said. "It's shooting out
more than enough deadly radioactivity to kill all of you if you don't
get the hell out and get out fast."

"What, what's that?"

"If you think I'm having a nightmare," Lewis continued, "take a look
out the window, Commander."

Lewis dropped the intercom. The Monster could go quite a distance
before it stopped, its remote control radius probably not exceeding
three miles.

The Monster went out of the Pit, taking walls and flooring with it.
The entire structure trembled, beams fell, ceilings crumbled, and the
Monster went through the smoking debris like a juggernaut.

A Guard lay crushed under a steel beam. Lewis took the stungun from
his hand and went up the debris choked stairs. Outside, he saw figures
streaming out into the starlight, and the lab buildings bursting into
flames. He also saw the Monster, glowing with bluish radiance, moving
straight ahead toward the electric fence.

The siren was screaming and howling. Shadows seemed to be streaming
toward air-raid shelters. That was all right. The security curtain was
torn down. They could come back up later into the light and wonder what
had happened and find out where they really were.

Guards were running about like ugly toys out of control, looking,
listening for commands.

Lewis ran through thickening smoke, and saw the jeep by the South Gate.
Betty was in it, together with Brogarth and Nemerov.

"Hurry, hurry, run," he heard Betty scream.

The Guard was cutting at an angle toward Lewis, between him and the
jeep. Beyond the Guard was a gaping hole in the fence and on the other
side of that he could see the gigantic flickering nimbus of the Monster
still walking toward the East.

Lewis kept running. Five feet away he brought up the stungun and shot
the Guard in the face. Lewis jumped under the wheel of the jeep,
slammed it into gear and they headed down the concrete strip and
straight for the gap in the fence.

"What happened to Cardoza?" Lewis asked.

Brogarth said from the back seat, "He said he didn't want to be labeled
a security risk and be executed for sabotage."

Nemerov was drunk and he kept mumbling incoherently, and sometimes
giving out with bits and pieces of half remembered poetry.
