
About a mile out in the sand and next to a wall of sandstone, they
waited for any signs of pursuit. There were none. They rested there
until morning, only an hour and a half away, and when they looked back
toward the location of the Project, they could see nothing that looked
any different from sand, brush, rocks and red sandstone.

"Perfect camouflage," Nemerov said as the jeep started up again. "You
could walk within fifty feet of that fence and never know there was any
Project there."

Later a hot wind came up and they ran into the Monster lying dead on
its face with dust devils dancing over it.

An old prospector leading a burro came around the wall of sandstone and
looked at the Monster, then at the occupants of the jeep.

"Howdy, folks," he said.

"Hello," Lewis said. "We're lost. Where are we and which way do we go
to get to civilization?"

"What's that thing?" the prospector asked, looking at the Monster.

"A scientific experiment that was never finished," Lewis said.

"What I figured," the prospector said. "You scientists out here always
up to something." He pointed to the right. "Keep going that way and
you'll find a narrow road. Follow it and you'll hit the middle of the
valley and a highway right into the Chocolate Mountains."

Lewis knew where he was. The Chocolate Mountains walled off the rushing
Colorado River from the Imperial Valley and Los Angeles farther on.

"Thanks," Lewis said.

"How's the war going these days?" Betty asked.

The prospector scratched his head and replaced his felt hat. He looked
at them oddly.

"You must have been holed up in the hills a long time, Miss. There
ain't been any war for two years. They started one, but the first
couple of days scared everybody too much and they called the whole
thing off. Where you folks been anyways, to the Moon?"

"Practically," Lewis said.

As the jeep moved away, Nemerov turned and looked back at the Monster
and the old prospector who still stood there gazing at it.

"'My name,'" Nemerov said, "'is Ozymandias, King of Kings. Look on my
works, ye Mighty, and despair. Round the decay of that colossal wreck,
boundless and bare the lone and level sands stretch far away.'"



