
He strained his ears, not to hear if the patrol was approaching closer,
but listening for the sound of life around him. This was his one
hope--another survivor, and of necessity a mobile one. Someone to shout
and wave, to climb a tree, to find an open space and build a fire, to
light a flare, to do something--anything--that would attract the
patrol's attention. Andy Larson wasn't afraid of dying. He felt no
panic, no agonies of conscience, remorse or bitterness at the apparent
inevitability of the prospect before him. But if he was not destined to
die he needed a miracle or the assistance of that almost impossible--but
only almost--survivor. And instead of praying for the miracle, he
listened with all the hearing power at his command for the sound of
human life. That would be miracle enough, and he didn't intend to stop
listening until he couldn't any more.

Not that he didn't pray at all; back home in New Jersey, while not
considered a pillar of the church, Andy Larson was known as a good,
practicing Lutheran. But it was doubtful if the Lutherans, or any other
sect for that matter, had sent missionaries this high into the heavens
yet; the misbegotten flight he had been on had been only the fourth to
reach this strange little planet of Abernathy since its discovery by the
good professor back in '92. So Andy was no longer a practicing Lutheran,
if practicing meant going to church. But he had prayed more than once
during the long outward journey. And he was praying now, while his ears
strained for sounds and his eyes strained for movement; praying for
himself, yes, but even more for his wife, and for someone he had never
seen.

He couldn't help being afraid for Elsie; he had been gone from home
almost seven months, and she had been rocked with morning sickness for
the last three weeks before he left, moaning over her saltines and
begging him not to go even though she knew he couldn't and would not
back out. She was afraid of the unknown he was going into, and he was
afraid of the unknown that awaited her--it was the first time for both
unknowns for both of them.

In a little while he could stop straining his eyes. Greenish dusk was
slipping into night. Soon his ears would have to do all the work. The
thought of night-prowling creatures disturbed him somewhat; no-one knew
for sure yet what, if anything, lived in these thick, isolated jungles.
Paralyzed as he was, he was fair game--his choice of words in the
thought brought a grimacing smile to his face. He tried once again--was
it the thousandth time yet?--to move his arms, his legs, his hands, a
finger, a toe. Earlier, he had thought he was moving the big toe on his
left foot, but he couldn't raise his head to see past the twisted bulk
of metal that lay across him, the toe had nothing to rub upon to give it
feeling, and there was absolutely no feeling between it and his head to
give it any meaning anyhow. But it would have been a nice feeling just
to know it was still there.

He gave up the attempt when sweat beaded out on his forehead and went
back to listening and praying. He was tempted to pray for the miracle
now, for blackness blotted out even the pitiful remains of the ship, and
the whine of the patrol had muted to a singing hum in the distance.
