
The night turned cold and damp, but Andy Larson, in his sheathing of
paralysis, didn't feel it. The loneliness was on him, the awesome
loneliness of having to wait for death alone, with no warm hand to hold
on to until the parting. He still felt no great fear or bitterness. Only
the loneliness, and sadness. He would never know his son, or daughter,
would never know that it loved him, that he was the biggest thing in its
life. And it--that was ugly; he would call it "he"; if he had a choice a
son it would be--he, his son, would never know his father, or how much
his father wanted to love him. And Elsie--how lonely it would be for
her. Her time must be getting close now, and she would be frightened.
The doctor hadn't told her what he had told him--that she was too
slight, definitely not built for child-bearing. But she knew. And she
would be brave, but frightened and alone.

The hours of night trudged by. The few stars that peeped through the
trees were no help in telling the time, and Andy had lost interest in it
anyhow. It was night, it had been night for what seemed like years,
the blackness around him proclaimed it would be night still for many
more years. He dozed off and on, at times waking with a start, thinking
he had heard something. For a few minutes he would listen intently,
feverishly. But when nothing reached his ears but the little night
sounds he had become accustomed to, he would sink back into the lethargy
that weighed upon his eyelids.

He wondered if he could be dying. He thought he was getting weaker--but
how could he tell for sure? He could feel nothing, there was no pain, no
muscular failure, no falling weakly to the ground. There were no muscles
left and he was on the ground already. It was a Herculean effort to keep
his eyes open, to listen as he had vowed he would. But that might be
only fatigue, the need for sleep. And shock! Of course. He had to be
suffering from shock, and from exposure, too. So if he didn't die of
starvation, and if some beast didn't devour him, and if whatever wounds
and injuries he had didn't do him in, he would probably die anyhow from
pneumonia.

The thought was almost a comforting one. It took him off the hook,
unburdened him of the need to worry about whether or not he lived. The
thing was out of his hands, and no stubbornness on his part was going to
do any good. He had prayed himself out before, prayed until the words of
the prayers were nothing but imbecilic mutterings and mumblings,
meaningless monosyllables swirling pointlessly and endlessly through his
tired brain. The thing was out of his hands. He--Andy Larson--he gave
up. He quit. He was nothing but a head that was hard and a body that was
dead. What right did he have thinking he had any control over what
happened to him? He was incapable of doing anything himself--he had to
wait until something happened to him. And he knew what was going to
happen. So that's what he'd do. He'd just wait.
