
He closed his eyes and saw Elsie, and before he realized he was going to
do it he was praying again, talking to God about Elsie, and then talking
to Elsie about God, and then back to God again and to Elsie again, and
he knew he was crying because he could taste the tears, and he knew he
was going to die because there wasn't anything else that could happen,
and he knew suddenly that he was mortally afraid. He could not lay
rigidly, tensely--there were no muscles to tighten. But the tension had
to go somewhere. He felt a numbness creeping up the back of his neck,
felt his eyes bulging as if they would burst, heard a roaring in his
ears. He opened his mouth, gasping, trying to breathe deeply, the
roaring in his ears reaching a crescendo and then breaking into a cold
sighing wind that loudened and softened with the regularity of a pulse
beat. He didn't know if he was awake or sleeping, dozing or dreaming,
dying or dead. But he heard Elsie.

She was calling him. Over the cold black nothingness that separated them
she was calling his name, her voice riding on the mournful wind sighing
in his ears. He could hear her--it was as simple as that. He still
didn't know if he was dreaming or dead. He didn't care. She was calling
to him and he could hear, and although it wasn't the miracle he had
wanted to pray for, still it was a miracle. He didn't question it; the
comfort of hearing her voice after the terrible loneliness was enough.
He didn't wonder how it could happen, didn't doubt that she could hear
him answering her, as he was doing now. At first, so overcome with joy
and relief, so thankful for the miracle, he didn't even recognize the
tones of pain in her voice.

"Elsie, Elsie, Elsie," he cried out with his mind, reaching for her,
wanting to seize her and hold her and never let her slip away again. "I
hear you, my darling. I hear you!"

"Thank God!" Her voice broke, and the sound of sobbing carried on the
wind reached his ears. For a moment it puzzled him. He had been crying,
but her sobs were something different. The night suddenly seemed to turn
much colder. "What is it, Elsie?" he called in fright.
