
Despite the weakness of her voice, the fear in it rang out loudly. He
tried to laugh and told her he was perfectly fine, except for worry
about her. He made up a story about lying on his bunk, sipping a cool
lemonade and listening to soft music, trying to calm his nerves over the
prospect of becoming a new father and wondering where he would get the
cigars to distribute to the boys.

But she wouldn't believe him. She insisted that he tell her the truth,
pleading with him, crying out her love and her fear and her need. At
last he told her of the crash, speaking lightly, pointing out that the
patrol ship would be back with daylight and all would be well. He didn't
mention the fact that he had no body below the neck, but he knew she
knew it was worse than he described.

Then she was gone again, for so long a time he thought the operation had
started. But the wind still blew raggedly in his ears, and she came
back, slowly, but with new vibrancy in her voice. "Andy, you dope," she
whispered with a brave attempt at sprightliness. "Why didn't
you--tell--me--sooner?" She was gasping, but hurried on. "I can tell the
doctor, and he can telephone somebody and they can use the radio and
tell the patrol where you are. Oh! Andy--where are you--? Hurry--"

She was going again, and as quickly as he could he told her of the river
and the jungle, and where approximately the ship had been just before
the crash. Then she was gone and he closed his eyes and let the waves of
near-hysterical relief wash over him. He was exhausted, the strain of
long concentration had drained his strength, but he could almost feel
the nerve ends in his dead body tingling with the exhilaration that sang
in his mind. It was the miracle he hadn't dared pray for. It would be
the greatest miracle ever performed, and he had almost lost it, almost
killed it, almost thrown it away. But Elsie-- He prayed feverishly now,
thanking, thanking, and praying for the miracle to really happen and for
Elsie and his son to be all right.
