
Then the wind was roaring blackly in his ears and the wind was turning
into a shrieking demon and above it he could hear her wild scream: "They
don't believe me! They say I'm delirious. Andy! They're coming with
something to put me to sleep. They don't believe me, Andy ..."

It ended. The wind stopped abruptly with her voice. The only things Andy
Larson could hear were the blood pounding in his head and the grating of
insects singing their last to the approaching dawn. It was all over, and
he closed his eyes to the lightening sky. It was all over, the miracle
was dead, the miracle never was, he was dead, he never was. Elsie-- He
rocked his head back and forth, wanting to cry, to curse and shout out
his hatred of life. But nothing would come out, nothing was left.

It was all over. He lay under his memorial, a junk pile of twisted
metal, inching his way toward death, the abortion of an abortive
miracle, alone, tearless, wifeless, sonless, helpless.

A faint hum drifted to his ears. He looked up, wondering that the dawn
had come so soon. The sky was brilliant with light, but still he could
not see the patrol ship, knew that it couldn't see him, no matter how
close the hum got.

The hum came closer and closer, grew louder, and then he heard her soft
laugh and the hum faded away.

"Andy? Aren't you coming?"

He stared at the sky, his eyes bulging, his tongue swollen in his
throat. He couldn't see anything, the light was so bright. He thought he
must be dreaming--he had heard that people had strange visions when they
were dying. But her voice sounded so real.

"Don't worry, honey," she said softly. "Everything is all right now.
Come on, we're waiting."

He strained his eyes to see, and the phrase _we're waiting_ struck him
just as the other voice let out a cry.

"What--?" he mumbled, stupidly, happily, afraid to believe.

She laughed again, and little pieces of glittering silver tinkled
through the gold of the sky. "I guess we'll have to call him Andy,
after his father. He was a slow-poke too."

She was there beside him now--or he was beside her--he didn't know
which, for he was suddenly free of the great weight that held him down,
he had the sensation of floating lightly through the air. But they were
together and she was radiant, and he was happier than he had ever
thought he could be, even though she couldn't put her arms around him as
he wanted her to because her arms were full of his son. His arms
weren't full--only his eyes and his throat and his heart--and he put
them around her, holding her tightly.

The baby howled a protest, and Elsie, laughed her wonderful laugh again.
"He has a good voice, Andy, don't you think?"

"A lovely voice," Andy agreed, and his own voice sounded to him as if he
were singing.


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ December 1957.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



