
He awoke and only the rain was true. The tiny rain had increased to a
wind-driven downpour and he was soaked where it had blown under the
eaves onto the porch.

From inside the house he heard a cry.

She was sitting upright in bed. Her eyes were open and full of pain. He
went quickly to her and touched her pulse. It was faint and reedy.

"I hurt," she whispered.

Quickly, as the doctor had taught him, he made up a shot of morphine, a
full quarter grain, and gave it to her. Her eyes glazed down, but did
not close.

"John," she said softly, "the children ... they ... talk to ..." She
twisted on the bed and he held her with strong arms until the eyes
closed again and her breathing became easy. He pushed the ruffled hair
back from her eyes and straightened the awry sheets.

The vibration of his walking might have wakened the twins. He tiptoed to
_their_ bed--for they refused to be parted even in sleep.

For a second he thought that the small night-light had tricked him by
shadows on shadows. He reached down to touch ...

They were gone.

He fought down sudden panic. Where can two children, deaf and dumb and
blind go in the middle of the night?

Not far.

He opened the door to the kitchen, hand-hunted for the hanging light.
They were not there--nor were they on the small back porch. The panic
passed critical mass, exploded out of control. He lurched back into the
combination living room, bed room. He looked under all of the beds and
into the small closet--everywhere that two children might conceal
themselves.

Outside the rain had increased. He peered out into the lightning night.
A truck horn blew ominously far down the road.

The road?

He slogged through the mud, instantly soaking as soon as he was out of
shelter, not knowing or caring. Through the front yard, out to the road.
He could see the lights of the truck coming from far away, two tiny
points in the darkness. But no twins.

He waited helplessly while the truck rushed past, its headlights cutting
holes in the darkness--fearing those lights would outline something that
he had not seen. But there was nothing.

For another eternity he hunted the muddy fields, the small barn and
outbuildings. The clutch of fear made him shout their names, though he
knew they could not hear.

And then, suddenly, all fear was gone--like a summer squall near the
sea, with the sun close behind. It was as if their hands had reached out
and touched him and brought the strange feeling again.

"They are in the house," he said aloud and knew he was right.

He took time to discard muddy shoes on the porch before he opened the
door. And they were there--by the mother's bed, hands clasped over hers.

He felt a tiny chill. Their eyes were watching the door as he opened it,
their faces set to receive some stimuli--already set--as if they had
known he was coming.

Mary was breathing softly. On her face all trace of pain had disappeared
and now there was the tiny smile that had been hers long ago. Her
breathing was even, but light as forgotten conversation.

Gently he tried to pry their resisting hands away from hers. The hands
fought back with a terrible strength beyond normality. By sheer greater
force he tore one of the twins away.

It was like releasing a bomb. Sudden pain stabbed through his body. The
twin struggled in his arms, the small hands reaching blindly out for the
thing they had lost. And Mary's eyes opened and all of the uncontrolled
pain came, back into those eyes. Her body writhed on the bed, tearing
the coverings away. The twin squirmed away from his slackening hold and
once again caught at the hands of the mother.

All struggle ceased. Mary's eyes shut again, the pain lines smoothed
themselves, the tiny smile flowered.

He reached out and touched the small hands on each side of the mother
and the feeling for which there were no words came through more
strongly than ever before. Tiny voices tried to whisper within the
corners of his mind, partially blotted, sometimes heard. The _real_
things, the things of hate and fear and despair retreated beyond the
bugle call that sounded somewhere.

"She will die," the voice said; one voice for two. "This part of her
will die."

And then _her_ voice came--as it had been once before when all of the
world was young. "You must not be afraid, John. I have known for a long
time--for they were a part of me. And you could not know for your mind
was hiding and alone. I have seen ..."

He cried out and pulled his hands away. Sound died, the room was normal
again. The milky, white eyes surveyed him, the hands remained locked
securely over those of the mother. The thin carven features of the
children were emotionless, waiting.

He strove for rational meaning within his brain. _These are my
sons--they can not see or hear or speak. They are identical twins--born
with those defects._

Take two children, blind them, make them deaf to all sound, cut away
their voices. They are identical twins, facing the same environment,
sharing the same heredity of blasted chromosomes. They will have
intelligence and curiosity that increases as they mature. They will not
be blinded by the senses--the easy way. The first thing they will
discover is each other.

What else might they then discover?

It has been said that when sight is lost the sense of touch and hearing
increase to almost unbelievable acuteness--Rush knew that. The blind
often also develop a sense almost like radar which allows them to
perceive an object ahead of them and gives them the ability to follow
twisting paths.

Take one child and put him under the disability that the twins were born
with. As intelligence grows so does single bewilderment. The world is a
puzzling and bewildering place. Braille is a great discovery--a way to
communicate with the unknown that lies beyond.

But the twins had shown almost no interest in Braille.

He reached back down for the tiny hands.
