
Sir Robert rode on in silence, feeling the movement of the horse beneath
him.

There was a sudden sound to the rear. Like a wash of the tide from the
sea came the sound of Saracen war cries and the clash of steel on steel
mingled with the sounds of horses in agony and anger.

Sir Robert turned his horse to look.

The Negro troops of Saladin's Egyptian contingent were thundering down
upon the rear! They clashed with the Hospitallers, slamming in like a
rain of heavy stones, too close in for the use of bows. There was only
the sword against armor, like the sound of a thousand hammers against a
thousand anvils.

"Stand fast! Stand fast! Hold them off!" It was the voice of King
Richard, sounding like a clarion over the din of battle.

Sir Robert felt his horse move, as though it were urging him on toward
the battle, but his hand held to the reins, keeping the great charger in
check. The King had said "Stand fast!" and this was no time to disobey
the orders of Richard.

The Saracen troops were coming in from the rear, and the Hospitallers
were taking the brunt of the charge. They fought like madmen, but they
were slowly being forced back.

The Master of the Hospitallers rode to the rear, to the King's standard,
which hardly moved in the still desert air, now that the column had
stopped moving.

The voice of the Duke of Burgundy came to Sir Robert's ears.

"Stand fast. The King bids you all to stand fast," said the duke, his
voice fading as he rode on up the column toward the knights of Poitou
and the Knights Templars.

The Master of the Hospitallers was speaking in a low, urgent voice to
the King: "My lord, we are pressed on by the enemy and in danger of
eternal infamy. We are losing our horses, one after the other!"

"Good Master," said Richard, "it is you who must sustain their attack.
No one can be everywhere at once."

The Master of the Hospitallers nodded curtly and charged back into the
fray.

The King turned to Sir Baldwin de Carreo, who sat ahorse nearby, and
pointed toward the eastern hills. "They will come from there, hitting us
in the flank; we cannot afford to amass a rearward charge. To do so
would be to fall directly into the hands of the Saracen."

A voice very close to Sir Robert said: "Richard is right. If we go to
the aid of the Hospitallers, we will expose the column to a flank
attack." It was Sir Gaeton.

"My lord the King," Sir Robert heard his voice say, "is right in all but
one thing. If we allow the Egyptians to take us from the rear, there
will be no need for Saladin and his Turks to come down on our flank. And
the Hospitallers cannot hold for long at this rate. A charge at full
gallop would break the Egyptian line and give the Hospitallers breathing
time. Are you with me?"

"Against the orders of the King?"

"The King cannot see everything! There are times when a man must use his
own judgment! You said you were afraid of no man. Are you with me?"

After a moment's hesitation, Sir Gaeton couched his lance. "I'm with
you, sir knight! Live or die, I follow! Strike and strike hard!"

"Forward then!" Sir Robert heard himself shouting. "Forward for St.
George and for England!"

"St. George and England!" the Gascon echoed.
