
King Richard, on seeing his army moving suddenly toward the harassed
rear, had realized the danger and had charged through the Hospitallers
to get into the thick of the fray. Now the Turks were charging down from
the hills, hitting--not the flank as he had expected, but the rear!
Saladin had expected him to hold fast!

Sir Robert and Sir Gaeton spurred their chargers toward the flapping
banner of England.

The fierce warrior-king of England, his mighty sword in hand, was
cutting down Turks as though they were grain-stalks, but still the
Saracen horde pressed on. More and more of the terrible Turks came
boiling down out of the hills, their glittering scimitars swinging.

Sir Robert lost all track of time. There was nothing to do but keep his
own great broadsword moving, swinging like some gigantic metronome as he
hacked down the Moslem foes.

And then, suddenly, he found himself surrounded by the Saracens! He was
isolated and alone, cut off from the rest of the Christian forces! He
glanced quickly around as he slashed another Saracen from pate to
breastbone. Where was Sir Gaeton? Where were the others? Where was the
red-and-gold banner of Richard?

He caught a glimpse of the fluttering banner far to the rear and started
to fall back.

And then he saw another knight nearby, a huge man who swung his
sparkling blade with power and force. On his steel helm gleamed a golden
coronet! Richard!

And the great king, in spite of his prowess was outnumbered heavily and
would, within seconds, be cut down by the Saracen horde!

Without hesitation, Sir Robert plunged his horse toward the surrounded
monarch, his great blade cutting a path before him.

He saw Richard go down, falling from the saddle of his charger, but by
that time his own sword was cutting into the screaming Saracens and
they had no time to attempt any further mischief to the King. They had
their hands full with Sir Robert de Bouain.

He did not know how long he fought there, holding his charger motionless
over the inert body of the fallen king, hewing down the screaming enemy,
but presently he heard the familiar cry of "For St. George and for
England" behind him. The Norman and English troops were charging in,
bringing with them the banner of England!

And then Richard was on his feet, cleaving the air about him with his
own broadsword. Its bright edge, besmeared with Saracen blood, was
biting viciously into the foe.

The Turks began to fall back. Within seconds, the Christian knights were
boiling around the embattled pair, forcing the Turks into retreat. And
for the second time, Sir Robert found himself with no one to fight.

And then a voice was saying: "You have done well this day, sir knight.
Richard Plantagenet will not forget."

Sir Robert turned in his saddle to face the smiling king.

"My lord king, be assured that I would never forget my loyalty to my
sovereign and liege lord. My sword and my life are yours whenever you
call."

King Richard's gauntleted hand grasped his own. "If it please God, I
shall never ask your life. An earldom awaits you when we return to
England, sir knight."

And then the king mounted his horse and was running full gallop after
the retreating Saracens.
