
Nothing further seemed to be occurring. Jerry reluctantly withdrew some
of his control from the insect-mind to see what would happen.

Immediately it inched forward until it was in the same position it had
been in when Jerry made Contact: V-shaped feet forward and slightly
around the narrow branch, eyes fixed upon the brownish jungle floor,
body motionless with folded wings. For awhile, Jerry tried "listening"
to its mind, but received no readable thoughts. Only a sense of
imminence.... Of patience.... Of waiting....

It didn't take long for Jerry to grow bored with this near-mindless
outlook. He reassumed full control. Guiding the fragile feet carefully
along the branch, he made his way to his fellow watcher, and tried
out the creature's communication system. His mind strove to activate
something on the order of a larynx; the insect's nervous system
received this impulse, changed in inter-species translation, as a broad
request for getting a message to its fellow. Its body responded by
lifting the multi-jointed "arms" forward. It clapped the hard inner
surfaces of the "wrists" together so fast that they blurred into
invisibility as the wings had done.

A thin, ratchetty sound came forth from that hardshell contact. The
other insect looked up in annoyance, then returned its gaze to the
ground again.

Aural conversation thus obviated, Jerry tried for physical
attention-getting. He reached out a vermiform forelimb-tip and tugged
urgently at the other insect's nearest hind leg. An angry movement gave
out the unmistakable pantomimic message: "For pete's sake, get off my
back! I'm _busy_!" The other insect spread its thin double wings and
went buzzing off a few trees away, then settled on a limb there and
took up its earthward vigil once more.

"Well, they're not gregarious, that's for sure," said Jerry to himself.
"I wish I knew what the hell we were waiting for!"

He decided he was sick of ground-watching, and turned his attention to
his immediate vicinity. His gaze wandered along all the twists, juts
and thrusts of branch and vine beneath the sun-blocking leaves.

And all at once he realized he was staring at another of his kind.
So still had its dull green-brown body been that he'd taken it for a
ripple of bark along a branch.

Carefully, he looked further on. Beyond the small still figure he soon
located another like it, and then another. Within a short space of
time, he had found three dozen of the insects sitting silently around
him in a spherical area barely ten feet in diameter.
