
Oddly disconcerted, he once more spread his stiff white wings and
fluttered away through the treetops, careful to avoid coming out in
direct sunlight this time.

He flew until a resurgence of giddiness told him he was over-straining
the creature's stamina. He dropped onto a limb and looked about once
more. Within a very short time, he had spotted dozens more of the
grasshopper-things. All were the same, sitting in camouflaged silence,
steadily eyeing the ground.

"Damn," thought Jerry. "They don't seem interested in eating, mating or
fighting. All they want to do is sit--sit and _wait_. But what are they
waiting for?"

There was, of course, the possibility that he'd caught them in an
off-period. If the species were nocturnal, then he wouldn't get any
action from them till after sunset. That, he realized gloomily, meant a
re-Contact later on. One way or another, he would have to determine the
functions, capabilities and menace--if any--of the species with regard
to the influx of colonists, who would come to Viridian only if his
report pronounced it safe.

Once again, he let the insect's mind take over. Again that
over-powering feeling of imminence....

He was irritated. It couldn't just be looking forward to nightfall!
There were too many things tied in with the imminence feeling: the
necessity for quiet, for motionlessness, for careful watching.

The more he thought on it, the more he had the distinct intuition that
it would sit and stare at the soft, mulch-covered jungle floor, be it
bright daylight or blackest gloom, waiting, and waiting, and waiting....

Then, suddenly, the slight feel of imminence became almost unbearable
apprehension.

The change in intensity was due to a soft, cautious shuffling sound
from down in the green-gold twilight. Something was coming through the
jungle. Something that moved on careful feet along the springy, moist
brown surface below the trees.

Far below, a shadow detached itself slowly from the deeper shadows of
the trees, and a form began to emerge into the wan filtered sunlight.
It--

An all-encompassing lance of silent white lightning. Contact was
over....
