
Darkness, and musky warmth.

Then a slot of light appeared, a thin fuzzy line of yellow striped
with spiky green. Jerry had time, in the brief flicker, to observe
thick bearlike forelimbs holding up a squarish trapdoor fastened with
cross-twigs for support. Then the powerful forepaws let the door drop
back into place, and it was dark again.

He hadn't liked those forepaws. Though thick as and pawed like
a bear's, they were devoid of hair. They had skin thin as a
caterpillar's, a mottled pink with sick-looking areas of deathly white.

Skin like that would be a push-over to actinic rays for any long
exposure. Probably the thing lived underground here, almost
permanently. His eyes had detected a rude assortment of thick wooden
limbs curving in and out at regular intervals in the vertical wall of
soil that was the end of this tunnel, just below the trapdoor. Tree
roots. But formed, by some odd natural quirk, into a utile ladder.

But why had the thing peered out, then dropped the door to wait? Did
_every_ species on this planet hang around expectantly and nothing
else? And what was the waiting for?

Then he felt the urge within the creature, the urge to scurry up that
ladder into the light. But there was, simultaneously, a counter-urge in
the thing, telling it to _please_ wait a _little_ longer....

Jerry recognized the urge by quick anthropomorphosis. It was the goofy
urge. The crazy urge. Like one gets on the brinks of awesome heights,
or on subway platforms as the train roars in: The impulsive urge to
self-destruction, so swiftly frightening and so swiftly suppressed....

Yet, it had lifted and dropped that lid too briefly to have seen
anything outside. Could it be _listening_ for something? Carefully, he
relinquished his control of the beast, fraction by fraction, to see
what it would do.

It rose on tiptoe at once, and again lifted that earthen door.

It squinted at the profusion of green-yellow sunlight that stung
its eyes. Then it rose on powerful hind limbs and clambered just
high enough on that "ladder" to see over the grassy rim of the
trapdoor-hole. Jerry then heard the soft shuffling sound that had
re-alerted it, and saw the source.

Out on the matted brown jungle flooring, beneath the towering trees,
another of the bear-things was moving forward from an open turf-door,
emitting low, whimpering snorts as it inched along through the
dappling yellow sunlight.

Obviously it was _following_ that manic-destruction impulse that he
just felt and managed to suppress. It must have been almost a hundred
degrees out there. And the damned thing was _shivering_.
