
Each of the other things, after a one-insect gulp, was just vanishing
back underground. The turf-tops were dropping neatly into almost
undetectable place hiding the tunnels. The sunlight nipped at his pale
flesh, but Jerry held off from a return to the underground sanctuary,
still watching that lump-covered corpse on the earth. Then....

The vine, its burden gone, began to drip a thick ichor from its ragged
end upon the dead animal beneath it.

And as the ichor touched upon a white lump, the lump would swell,
wriggle, and change color. Jerry watched with awe as the color became a
mottled pink, and the surface of the lumps cracked and shriveled away,
and tiny forms plopped out onto the ground: miniature bear-things,
tiny throats emitting eager mouse-squeaks of hunger.

They rushed upon the body in which they'd been so violently incubated
and swiftly, systematically devoured it, blood, bone and sinew.

And when not even a memory of the dead beast was left upon the soil,
the tiny pink-white things began to burrow downward into the ground.
Soon there was nothing left in the area but a dried fragment of vine, a
few loose mounds of soil and a vast silence.

"I'll be a monkey's uncle!" said Jerry ... forgetting in his excitement
that this phrase was nearly a concise parody of the Space Zoologists'
final oath of duty, and kiddingly used as such by the older members of
the group.

The whole damned planet was symbiotic! After witnessing those alien
life-death rites, it didn't take him long to figure out the screwball
connections between the species. Insects, once born of vine-gourds
and fully grown, then propagated their species by a strange means:
laying bear-eggs in a bear-thing and dying. And dying, eaten by the
surviving bears, they turned to seeds which--left in the tunnels by the
bear-things as droppings--in turn took root and became trees.

And the trees, under the onslaught of another bear-thing on a dangling
pod, would produce new insects, then drip its ichor to fertilize the
eggs in the newly dead bear-thing....

Jerry found his mind tangling as he attempted a better pinpointing of
the plant-animal-insect relationship. A dead adult insect, plus a trip
through a bear-thing's alimentary canal, produced a tree. A tree-pod,
with the swatting stimulus of a bear-thing's paws, gave birth to new
insects. And insect eggs in animal flesh, stimulated by the tree-ichor,
gestated swiftly into young animals....

That meant, simply, that insect plus bear equals tree, tree plus bear
equals insect, and insect plus tree equals bear. With three systems,
each relied on the non-inclusive member for the breeding-ground.
Insect-plus-ichor produced small animals _in_ the animal flesh.
Dead-insect-plus-bear produced tree _in_ the tree-flesh (if one
considered dead tree leaves and bark and such as the makeup of the
soil.) Bear-swats-plus-tree produced insects.... "Damn," said Jerry to
himself, "but _not_ in the insect-flesh. The thing won't round off...."

He tried again, thinking hard. In effect, the trees were parents to
the insects, insects parents to the bears, and bears parents to the
trees.... Though in another sense, bear-flesh gave birth to new bears,
digested insects gave birth (through the tree-medium) to new insects,
and trees (through the insect-medium) gave birth to new trees....

Jerry's head spun pleasantly as he tried vainly to solve the confusion.
Men of science, he realized, would spend decades trying to figure
out which species were responsible for which. It made the ancient
chicken-or-egg question beneath consideration. And a lot of diehard
evolutionists were going to be bedded down with severe migraines when
his report went into circulation....

A dazzle of silent lightning, and Contact was over.
