
"Ready with that first tape again," Bob Ryder said as Jerry removed the
Contact helmet and brushed his snow-white hair back from his tanned,
youthful face. "Or do you want a breather first?"

Jerry shook his head. "I won't need to re-Contact that other species,
Ensign. I got its life-relationships from the second Contact."

"Really, sir?" said Bob. "That's pretty unusual, isn't it?"

"The whole damned planet's unusual," said Jerry, rising from his supine
position and stretching luxuriously in the warm jungle air. "You'll see
what I mean when you process the second tape."

Bob decided that Jerry--running pretty true to form for a Space
Zoologist--wasn't in a particularly talkative mood, so he had to
satisfy himself with waiting for the transcription of the Contact to
get the details.

Later that day, an hour after takeoff, with Viridian already vanished
behind them as the great ship plowed through hyper-space toward Earth
and home, Bob finished reading the report. Then he went down the
passageway to the ward room for coffee. Jerry was seated there already.
Bob, quickly filling a mug from the polished percolator, slid into a
seat across the table from his superior and asked the question that had
been bugging him since seeing the report.

"Sir--on that second Contact. Has it occurred to you that you'd
relinquished control to the host _before_ you saw that other creature
move out and start swatting the gourd-thing?"

"You mean was I taking a chance on being destroyed in the host if the
creature I was Contacting gave in to the urge to do the swatting?"

"Yes, sir," said Bob. "I mean, I know you can take control any time, if
things get dangerous. But wasn't that cutting it kind of thin?"

Jerry shook his head and sipped his coffee. "Wrong urge, Ensign.
You'll note I recognized it as the _goofy_ urge, the impulse to die
followed instantly by a violent surge of self-preservation. It wasn't
the death-wish at all. Myself and the creatures who remained safely at
the tunnel-mouths had a milder form of what was affecting the creature
that _did_ start swatting the gourd."

"Then what was the difference, sir? Why did that one particular
creature get the full self-destruction urge and no other?"

Jerry wrinkled his face in thought. "I wish I didn't suspect the answer
to that, Ensign. The only thing I hope it _isn't_ is the thing I have
the strongest inkling it _is_: Rotation. Something in their biology has
set them up in a certain order for destruction. And that rite I saw
performed was so un-animal, so formalized--"

Bob's eyes widened as he caught the inference. "You think they have
an inbuilt protocol? That if one particular creature missed its cue,
somehow, the designated subsequent creature would simply wait forever,
never jumping its turn?"

"That's what I mean," nodded Jerry. "I hope I'm wrong."

"But the right creature made it," said Bob, blinking. "We can't have
upset the ecology, can we?"

"Things develop fast on Viridian," mused Jerry. "If I figure the
time-relationship between their egg-hatching rate and growth rate,
those trees must mature in growth in about a month. And we managed to
shrivel a half dozen vines with our rocket fires when we landed, and
probably that many again when we blasted off...."

"We dropped CO_{2} bombs after we cleared the trees," offered the tech,
uneasily. "The fire was out in seconds."

"That wouldn't help an already-shriveled vine, though, now would it!"
sighed Jerry. "And if my hunch about protocol is correct--"

"The life-cycle would interrupt?" gasped the tech.

"We'll see," said Jerry. "It'll take us a month to get back, and
there'll be another six months before the first wave of engineers is
sent to begin the homesteads and industry sites. We'll see, Ensign."
