
That night Norah woke suddenly with a loud scream. Philip got the
gas lighted--there was no electricity in the old house--and held her
shaking body in his arms. She found her breath at last long enough to
sob: "It was a rat! A rat ran right over my face!"

"You're dreaming, darling. It's because I told you about the theft at
the lab. There couldn't be rats in this place. It's too solidly built,
from the basement up."

He finally got her to sleep again, but he lay awake for a long time,
listening. Nothing happened.

Rats can't talk, but they can communicate. About the time Norah Vinson
dropped off after her frightened wakening, SK540 was confronting a
culprit. The culprit was one of the liberated males. His beady eyes
tried to gaze into the implacable ones of SK540, but his tail twitched
nervously and if he bared his teeth it was more in terror than in
fight. They all knew that strict orders had been given not to disturb
the humans in the house until SK540 had all his preparations made.

A little more of that silent communication, and the rat who had run
over Norah's face knew he had only two choices--have his throat slit or
get out. He got.

"What do you know?" Philip said that evening. "One of our rats came
back."

"By itself?"

"Yeah. I never heard of such a thing. It was one of the experimental
ones, so it was smarter than most, though not such an awful lot. I
never heard of a rat with homing instinct before. But when we opened up
this morning, there he was, sitting in his cage, ready for breakfast."

"Speaking of breakfast, I thought I asked you to buy a big box of
oatmeal on your way home yesterday. It's about the only thing in the
way of cereal I can manage on that old stove."

"I did buy it. Don't you remember? I left it in the kitchen."

"Well, it wasn't there this morning. All I know is that you're going to
have nothing but toast and coffee tomorrow. We seem to be out of eggs,
too. And bacon. And I thought we had half a pound left of that cheese,
but that's gone too."

"Good Lord, Norah, if you've got that much marketing to do, can't you
do it yourself?"

"Sure, if you leave the car. I'm not going to walk all that way and
back."

So of course Philip did do the shopping the next day. Besides, Norah
had just remembered she had a date at the hairdresser's.
