
When he got home her hair was still uncurled and she was in hysterics.
One of the many amenities great-aunt Martha's house lacked was a
telephone; anyway, Norah couldn't have been coherent over one. She cast
herself, shuddering and crying, into Philip's arms, and it was a long
time before he got her soothed enough for her to gasp: "Philip! They
wouldn't let me out!"

"They? Who? What do you mean?"

"The--the rats! The white rats. They made a ring around me at the front
door so I couldn't open it. I ran to the back and they beat me there
and did the same thing. I even tried the windows but it was no use. And
their teeth--they all--I guess I went to pieces. I started throwing
things at them and they just dodged. I yelled for help but there's
nobody near enough to hear. Then I gave up and ran in our bedroom and
slammed the door on them, but they left guards outside. I heard them
squeaking till you drove up, then I heard them run away."

Philip stared at her, scared to death. His wife had lost her mind.

"Now, now, sweetheart," he said soothingly, "let's get this straight.
They fired a lab boy today. They found four of our rats in his home.
He told some idiotic story of having 'found' them, with the others
missing, running loose on the street that night, but of course he stole
them. He must have sold the rest of them to other kids; they're working
on that now."

Norah blew her nose and wiped her eyes. She had regained her usual calm.

"Philip Vinson," she said coldly, "are you accusing me of lying, or
just of being crazy? I'm neither. I saw and heard those rats. They're
here _now_. What's more, I guess I know where that oatmeal went, and
the eggs and bacon too, and the cheese. I'm--I'm a hostage!

"I don't suppose," she added sarcastically, "that your SK540 was one of
the ones they found in the boy's home?"

"No, it wasn't," he acknowledged uneasily. A nasty little icy trickle
stole down his spine. "All right, Norah, I give in. You take the poker
and I'll take the hammer, and we'll search this house from cellar to
attic."

"You won't find them," said Norah bitterly. "SK540's too smart. They'll
stay inside the walls and keep quiet."

"Then we'll find the holes they went through and rout them out."

They didn't, of course. There wasn't a sign of a rathole, or of a rat.

They got through dinner and the evening somehow. Norah put all the
food not in cans inside the old-fashioned icebox which took the place
of a refrigerator. Philip thought he was too disturbed to be able to
sleep, but he did, and Norah, exhausted, was asleep as soon as her head
touched the pillow.

His last doubt of his wife's sanity vanished when, the next morning,
they found the icebox door open and half the food gone.
