
"That settles it!" Philip announced. "Come on, Norah, put your coat
on. You're coming with me to the lab and we'll report what's happened.
They'll find those creatures if they have to tear the house apart to do
it. That boy must have been telling the truth."

"You couldn't keep me away," Norah responded. "I'll never spend
another minute alone in this house while those dreadful things are in
it."

But of course when they got to the front door, there they were,
circling them, their teeth bared. The same with the back door and all
the first floor windows.

"That's SK540 all right, leading them," Philip whispered through
clenched jaws. He could smash them all, he supposed, in time, with what
weapons he had. But he worked in the laboratory. He knew their value to
science, especially SK540's.

Rats couldn't talk, he knew, and they couldn't understand human speech.
Nevertheless, some kind of communication might establish itself.
SK540's eyes were too intelligent not to believe that he was getting
the gist of talk directed to him.

"This is utterly ridiculous," Philip grated. "If you won't let us out,
how can we keep bringing food into the house for you? We'll all starve,
you and we together."

He could have sworn SK540 was considering. But he guessed the implicit
answer. Let either one of them out, now they knew the rats were there,
and men from the laboratory would come quickly and overwhelm and carry
off the besiegers. It was a true impasse.

"Philip," Norah reminded him, "if you don't go to work, they know we
haven't a phone, and somebody will be here pretty soon to find out if
anything's wrong."

But that wouldn't help, Philip reflected gloomily; they'd let anyone
in, and keep him there.

And he thought to himself, and was careful not to say it aloud: rats
are rats. Even if they are 25th generation laboratory-born. When the
other food was gone there would be human meat.

He did not want to look at them any more. He took Norah's arm and
turned away into their bedroom.

They stayed there all day, too upset to think of eating, talking and
talking to no conclusion. As dusk came on they did not light the gas.
Exhausted, they lay down on the bed without undressing.

After a while there was a quiet scratching at the door.

"Don't let them in!" Norah whispered. Her teeth were chattering.

"I must, dear," he whispered back. "It isn't 'them,' I'm sure of
it--it's just SK540 himself. I've been expecting him. We've got to
reach some kind of understanding."

"With a rat?"

"With a super-rat. We have no choice."

Philip was right. SK540 alone stood there and sidled in as the door
closed solidly again behind him.

How could one communicate with a rat? Philip could think of no way
except to pick him up, place him where they were face to face, and talk.

"Are your--followers outside?" he asked.

A rodent's face can have no expression, but Philip caught a glance of
contempt in the beady eyes. The slaves were doubtless bedded down in
their hideaway, with strict orders to stay there and keep quiet.

"You know," Philip Vinson went on, "I could kill you, very easily." The
words would mean nothing to SK540; the tone might. He watched the beady
eyes; there was nothing in them but intelligent attention, no flicker
of fear.

"Or I could tie you up and take you to the laboratory and let them
decide whether to keep you or kill you. We are all much bigger and
stronger than you. Without your army you can't intimidate us."

There was, of course, no answer. But SK540 did a startling and touching
thing. He reached out one front paw, as if in appeal.

Norah caught her breath in astonishment.
