
"He--he just wants to be free," she said in a choked whisper.

"You mean you're not afraid of him any more?"

"You said yourself he couldn't intimidate us without his army."

Philip thought a minute. Then he said slowly:

"I wonder if we had the right to do this to him in the first place. He
would have been an ordinary laboratory rat, mindless and contented;
we've made him into a neurotic alien in his world."

"You're not responsible, darling; you're a technician, not a
biochemist."

"I share the responsibility. We all do."

"So what? The fact remains that it was done, and here he is--and here
we are."

The doorbell rang.

Philip and Norah exchanged glances. SK540 watched them.

"It's probably Kelly, from the lab," Philip said, "trying to find out
why I wasn't there today. It's just about quitting time, and he lives
nearest us."

Norah astonished him. She picked up SK540 from the bed-side table where
Philip had placed him, and hid him under her pillow.

"Get rid of whoever it is," she said defensively. Philip stared for an
instant, then walked briskly downstairs. He was back in a few minutes.

"It was Kelly, all right," he told her. "I said you were sick and I
couldn't leave you to phone. I said I'd be there tomorrow. Now what?"

SK540's white whiskers emerged from under the pillow, and he jumped
over to the table again. Norah's cheeks were pink.

"When it came to the point, I just couldn't," she explained
shamefacedly. "I suddenly realized that he's a _person_. I couldn't let
him be taken back to prison."

"Aren't you frightened any more?"

"Not of him." She faced the super-rat squarely. "Look," she said, "if
we take care of you, will you get rid of that gang of yours, so we can
be free too?"

"That's nonsense, Norah," Philip objected. "He can't possibly
understand you."

"Dogs and cats learn to understand enough, and he's smarter than any
dog or cat that ever lived."

"But--"

The words froze on his lips. SK540 had jumped to the floor and run to
the door. There he stood and looked back at them, his tail twitching.

"He wants us to follow him," Norah murmured.

There was no sign of a hole in the back wall of the disused pantry.
But behind it they could hear squeaks and rustlings.

SK540 scratched delicately at almost invisible cracks. A section of the
wall, two by four inches, fell out on the floor.

"So that's where some of the oatmeal went," Norah commented. "Made into
paste."

"Sh!"

SK540 vanished through the hole. They waited, listening to
incomprehensible sounds. Outside it had grown dark.
