
A moment later we were standing in the tiny glade, now white in the
growing dawn. A black shape sprawled on the matted pine needles, his
head in a pool of blood and brains. There were wide smears of blood on
the ground and bushes on the other side of the little clearing, but
the wounded black was gone.

McBride turned the carcass with his foot.

"One of them niggers that came in with Saul Stark," he muttered.

"Who the devil's that?" I demanded.

"Strange nigger that moved in since you went down the river last time.
Come from South Carolina, he says. Lives in that old cabin in the
Neck--you know, the shack where Colonel Reynolds' niggers used to live."

"Suppose you ride on to Grimesville with me, Esau," I said, "and tell
me about this business as we ride. The rest of you might scout around
and see if you can find a wounded nigger in the brush."

They agreed without question; the Buckners have always been tacitly
considered leaders in Canaan, and it came natural for me to offer
suggestions. Nobody gives _orders_ to white men in Canaan.

"I reckoned you'd be showin' up soon," opined McBride, as we rode
along the whitening road. "You usually manage to keep up with what's
happenin' in Canaan."

"What _is_ happening?" I inquired. "I don't know anything. An old
black woman dropped me the word in New Orleans that there was trouble.
Naturally I came home as fast as I could. Three strange niggers waylaid
me----" I was curiously disinclined to mention the woman. "And now you
tell me somebody killed Ridge Jackson. What's it all about?"

"The swamp-niggers killed Ridge to shut his mouth," announced McBride.
"That's the only way to figure it. They must have been close behind
him when he knocked on Cap'n Sorley's door. Ridge worked for Cap'n
Sorley most of his life; he thought a lot of the old man. Some kind of
deviltry's bein' brewed up in the swamps, and Ridge wanted to warn the
Cap'n. That's the way I figure it."

"Warn him about what?"

"We don't know," confessed McBride. "That's why we're all on edge. It
must be an uprisin'."

That word was enough to strike chill fear into the heart of any
Canaan-dweller. The blacks had risen in 1845, and the red terror of
that revolt was not forgotten, nor the three lesser rebellions before
it, when the slaves rose and spread fire and slaughter from Tularoosa
to the shores of Black River. The fear of a black uprising lurked for
ever in the depths of that forgotten back-country; the very children
absorbed it in their cradles.

"What makes you think it might be an uprising?" I asked.

"The niggers have all quit the fields, for one thing. They've all got
business in Goshen. I ain't seen a nigger nigh Grimesville for a week.
_The town-niggers have pulled out._"

In Canaan we still draw a distinction born in antebellum days.
"Town-niggers" are descendants of the house-servants of the old days,
and most of them live in or near Grimesville. There are not many,
compared to the mass of "swamp-niggers" who dwell on tiny farms along
the creeks and the edge of the swamps, or in the black village of
Goshen, on the Tularoosa. They are descendants of the field-hands of
other days, and, untouched by the mellow civilization which refined
the natures of the house-servants, they remain as primitive as their
African ancestors.

"Where have the town-niggers gone?" I asked.

"Nobody knows. They lit out a week ago. Probably hidin' down on Black
River. If we win, they'll come back. If we don't, they'll take refuge
in Sharpsville."

I found his matter-of-factness a bit ghastly, as if the actuality of
the uprising were an assured fact.

"Well, what have you done?" I demanded.

"Ain't much we could do," he confessed. "The niggers ain't made no open
move, outside of killin' Ridge Jackson; and we couldn't prove who done
that, or why they done it.

"They ain't done nothin' but clear out. But that's mighty suspicious.
We can't keep from thinkin' Saul Stark's behind it."

"Who is this fellow?" I asked.

"I told you all I know, already. He got permission to settle in that
old deserted cabin on the Neck; a great big black devil that talks
better English than I like to hear a nigger talk. But he was respectful
enough. He had three or four big South Carolina bucks with him, and a
brown wench which we don't know whether she's his daughter, sister,
wife or what. He ain't been in to Grimesville but that one time, and a
few weeks after he came to Canaan, the niggers begun actin' curious.
Some of the boys wanted to ride over to Goshen and have a showdown, but
that's takin' a desperate chance."

I knew he was thinking of a ghastly tale told us by our grandfathers
of how a punitive expedition from Grimesville was once ambushed
and butchered among the dense thickets that masked Goshen, then a
rendezvous for runaway slaves, while another red-handed band devastated
Grimesville, left defenseless by that reckless invasion.

"Might take all the men to get Saul Stark," said McBride. "And we don't
dare leave the town unprotected. But we'll soon have to--hello, what's
this?"
