
Braxton peered nervously at the black forest walls about us, and I knew
his flesh was crawling with the fear of sawed-off shotguns blasting
us suddenly from the shadows. But it was no ambush of lead or steel I
feared as we emerged into the moonlit clearing that housed the cabins
of Goshen.

The double line of log cabins faced each other across the dusty street.
One line backed against the bank of Tularoosa Creek. The back stoops
almost overhung the black waters. Nothing moved in the moonlight. No
lights showed, no smoke oozed up from the stick-and-mud chimneys. It
might have been a dead town, deserted and forgotten.

"It's a trap!" hissed Braxton, his eyes blazing slits. He bent forward
like a skulking panther, a gun in each hand. "They're layin' for us in
them huts!"

Then he cursed, but followed me as I strode down the street. I did
not hail the silent huts. I _knew_ Goshen was deserted. I felt its
emptiness. Yet there was a contradictory sensation as of spying eyes
fixed upon us. I did not try to reconcile these opposite convictions.

"They're gone," muttered Braxton, nervously. "I can't smell 'em. I can
always smell niggers, if they're a lot of 'em, or if they're right
close. You reckon they've already gone to raid Grimesville?"

"No," I muttered. "They're in the House of Damballah."

He shot a quick glance at me.

"That's a neck of land in the Tularoosa about three miles west of here.
My grandpap used to talk about it. The niggers held their heathen
palavers there back in slave times. You ain't--Kirby--you----"

"Listen!" I wiped the icy sweat from my face. "_Listen!_"

Through the black woodlands the faint throb of a drum whispered on the
wind that glided up the shadowy reaches of the Tularoosa.

Braxton shivered. "It's them, all right. But for God's sake,
Kirby--_look out!_"

With an oath he sprang toward the houses on the bank of the creek. I
was after him just in time to glimpse a dark clumsy object scrambling
or tumbling down the sloping bank into the water. Braxton threw up his
long pistol, then lowered it, with a baffled curse. A faint splash
marked the disappearance of the creature. The shiny black surface
crinkled with spreading ripples.

"What was it?" I demanded.

"A nigger on his all-fours!" swore Braxton. His face was strangely
pallid in the moonlight. "He was crouched between them cabins there,
watchin' us!"

"It must have been an alligator." What a mystery is the human mind! I
was arguing for sanity and logic, I, the blind victim of a compulsion
beyond sanity and logic. "A nigger would have to come up for air."

"He swum under the water and come up in the shadder of the bresh where
we couldn't see him," maintained Braxton. "Now he'll go warn Saul
Stark."

"Never mind!" The pulse was thrumming in my temples again, the roar of
foaming waters rising irresistibly in my brain. "I'm going--straight
through the swamp. For the last time, go back!"

"No! Sane or mad, I'm goin' with you!"
