
The pulse of the drum was fitful, growing more distinct as we advanced.
We struggled through jungle-thick growth; tangled vines tripped us; our
boots sank in scummy mire. We were entering the fringe of the swamp
which grew deeper and denser until it culminated in the uninhabitable
morass where the Tularoosa flowed into Black River, miles farther to
the west.

The moon had not yet set, but the shadows were black under the
interlacing branches with their mossy beards. We plunged into the
first creek we must cross, one of the many muddy streams flowing into
the Tularoosa. The water was only thigh-deep, the moss-clogged bottom
fairly firm. My foot felt the edge of a sheer drop, and I warned
Braxton: "Look out for a deep hole; keep right behind me."

His answer was unintelligible. He was breathing heavily, crowding close
behind me. Just as I reached the sloping bank and pulled myself up by
the slimy, projecting roots, the water was violently agitated behind
me. Braxton cried out incoherently, and hurled himself up the bank,
almost upsetting me. I wheeled, gun in hand, but saw only the black
water seething and whirling, after his thrashing rush through it.

"What the devil, Jim?"

"Somethin' grabbed me!" he panted. "Somethin' out of the deep hole.
I tore loose and busted up the bank. I tell you, Kirby, somethin's
follerin' us! Somethin' that swims under the water."

"Maybe it was that nigger you saw. These swamp people swim like fish.
Maybe he swam up under the water to try to drown you."

He shook his head, staring at the black water, gun in hand.

"It _smelt_ like a nigger, and the little I saw of it _looked_ like a
nigger. But it didn't _feel_ like any kind of a human."

"Well, it was an alligator then," I muttered absently as I turned
away. As always when I halted, even for a moment, the roar of
peremptory and imperious rivers shook the foundations of my reason.

He splashed after me without comment. Scummy puddles rose about our
ankles, and we stumbled over moss-grown cypress knees. Ahead of us
there loomed another, wider creek, and Braxton caught my arm.

"Don't do it, Kirby!" he gasped. "If we go into that water, it'll git
us sure!"

"What?"

"I don't know. Whatever it was that flopped down that bank back there
in Goshen. The same thing that grabbed me in that creek back yonder.
Kirby, let's go back."

"Go back?" I laughed in bitter agony. "I wish to God I could! I've got
to go on. Either Saul Stark or I must die before dawn."

He licked dry lips and whispered. "Go on, then; I'm with you, come
heaven or hell." He thrust his pistol back into its scabbard, and drew
a long keen knife from his boot. "Go ahead!"

I climbed down the sloping bank and splashed into the water that rose
to my hips. The cypress branches bent a gloomy, moss-trailing arch over
the creek. The water was black as midnight. Braxton was a blur, toiling
behind me. I gained the first shelf of the opposite bank and paused, in
water knee-deep, to turn and look back at him.

Everything happened at once, then. I saw Braxton halt short, staring at
something on the bank behind me. He cried out, whipped out a gun and
fired, just as I turned. In the flash of the gun I glimpsed a supple
form reeling backward, a brown face fiendishly contorted. Then in the
momentary blindness that followed the flash, I heard Jim Braxton scream.

Sight and brain cleared in time to show me a sudden swirl of the murky
water, a round, black object breaking the surface behind Jim--and then
Braxton gave a strangled cry and went under with a frantic thrashing
and splashing. With an incoherent yell I sprang into the creek,
stumbled and went to my knees, almost submerging myself. As I struggled
up I saw Braxton's head, now streaming blood, break the surface
for an instant, and I lunged toward it. It went under and another
head appeared in its place, a shadowy black head. I stabbed at it
ferociously, and my knife cut only the blank water as the thing dipped
out of sight.

I staggered from the wasted force of the blow, and when I righted
myself, the water lay unbroken about me. I called Jim's name, but there
was no answer. Then panic laid a cold hand on me, and I splashed to the
bank, sweating and trembling. With the water no higher than my knees I
halted and waited, for I knew not what. But presently, down the creek
a short distance, I made out a vague object lying in the shallow water
near the shore.

I waded to it, through the clinging mud and crawling vines. It was Jim
Braxton, and he was dead. It was not the wound in his head which had
killed him. Probably he had struck a submerged rock when he was dragged
under. But the marks of strangling fingers showed black on his throat.
At the sight a nameless horror oozed out of that black swamp water and
coiled itself clammily about my soul; for no human fingers ever left
such marks as those.

I had seen a head rise in the water, a head that looked like that of a
negro, though the features had been indistinct in the darkness. But no
man, white or black, ever possessed the fingers that had crushed the
life out of Jim Braxton. The distant drum grunted as if in mockery.
