
I dragged the body up on the bank and left it. I could not linger
longer, for the madness was foaming in my brain again, driving me
with white-hot spurs. But as I climbed the bank, I found blood on the
bushes, and was shaken by the implication.

I remembered the figure I had seen staggering in the flash of Braxton's
gun. _She_ had been there, waiting for me on the bank, then--not a
spectral illusion, but the woman herself, in flesh and blood! Braxton
had fired at her, and wounded her. But the wound could not have been
mortal; for no corpse lay among the bushes, and the grim hypnosis that
dragged me onward was unweakened. Dizzily I wondered if she could be
killed by mortal weapons.

The moon had set. The starlight scarcely penetrated the interwoven
branches. No more creeks barred my way, only shallow streams, through
which I splashed with sweating haste. Yet I did not expect to be
attacked. Twice the dweller in the depths had passed me by to attack
my companion. In icy despair I knew I was being saved for a grimmer
fate. Each stream I crossed might be hiding the monster that killed
Jim Braxton. Those creeks were all connected in a network of winding
waterways. It could follow me easily. But my horror of it was less than
the horror of the jungle-born magnetism that lurked in a witch-woman's
eyes.

And as I stumbled through the tangled vegetation, I heard the drum
rumbling ahead of me, louder and louder, in demoniacal mockery. Then
a human voice mingled with its mutter, in a long-drawn cry of horror
and agony that set every fiber of me quivering with sympathy. Sweat
coursed down my clammy flesh; soon my own voice might be lifted like
that, under unnamable torture. But on I went, my feet moving like
automatons, apart from my body, motivated by a will not my own.

The drum grew loud, and a fire glowed among the black trees. Presently,
crouching among the bushes, I stared across the stretch of black water
that separated me from a nightmare scene. My halting there was as
compulsory as the rest of my actions had been. Vaguely I knew the stage
for horror had been set, but the time for my entry upon it was not yet.
When the time had come, I would receive my summons.

A low, wooded island split the black creek, connected with the shore
opposite me by a narrow neck of land. At its lower end the creek split
into a network of channels threading their way among hummocks and
rotting logs and moss-grown, vine-tangled clumps of trees. Directly
across from my refuge the shore of the island was deeply indented by an
arm of open, deep black water. Bearded trees walled a small clearing,
and partly hid a hut. Between the hut and the shore burned a fire that
sent up weird twisting snake-tongues of green flames. Scores of black
people squatted under the shadows of the overhanging branches. When
the green fire lit their faces it lent them the appearance of drowned
corpses.

In the midst of the glade stood a giant negro, an awesome statue in
black marble. He was clad in ragged trousers, but on his head was a
band of beaten gold set with a huge red jewel, and on his feet were
barbaric sandals. His features reflected titanic vitality no less than
his huge body. But he was all negro--flaring nostrils, thick lips,
ebony skin. I knew I looked upon Saul Stark, the conjure man.

He was regarding something that lay in the sand before him, something
dark and bulky that moaned feebly. Presently, lifting his head, he
rolled out a sonorous invocation across the black waters. From the
blacks huddled under the trees there came a shuddering response, like
a wind wailing through midnight branches. Both invocation and response
were framed in an unknown tongue--a guttural, primitive language.

Again he called out, this time a curious high-pitched wail. A
shuddering sigh swept the black people. All eyes were fixed on the
dusky water. And presently an object rose slowly from the depths. A
sudden trembling shook me. It looked like the head of a negro. One
after another it was followed by similar objects until five heads
reared above the black, cypress-shadowed water. They might have been
five negroes submerged except for their heads--but I knew this was not
so. There was something diabolical here. Their silence, motionlessness,
their whole aspect was unnatural. From the trees came the hysterical
sobbing of women, and someone whimpered a man's name.

Then Saul Stark lifted his hands, and the five heads silently sank out
of sight. Like a ghostly whisper I seemed to hear the voice of the
African witch: "_He puts them in the swamp!_"

Stark's deep voice rolled out across the narrow water: "And now the
Dance of the Skull, to make the conjer sure!"

What had the witch said? "_Hidden among the trees you shall watch the
dance of the Skull!_"
