
From the first I had felt that she was not wholly human; some black
jungle spirit sired her, lending her the abysmal subhuman vitality that
made her what she was. She had said that neither death nor hell could
keep her from the Dance of the Skull. And, shot through the heart and
dying, she had come through the swamp from the creek where she had
received her death-wound to the House of Damballah. And the Dance of
the Skull had been her death dance.

Dazed as a condemned man just granted a reprieve, at first I hardly
grasped the meaning of the scene that now unfolded before me.

The blacks were in a frenzy. In the sudden, and to them inexplicable,
death of the sorceress they saw a fearsome portent. They had no way
of knowing that she was dying when she entered the glade. To them,
their prophetess and priestess had been struck down under their very
eyes, by an invisible death. This was magic blacker than Saul Stark's
wizardry--and obviously hostile to them.

Like fear-maddened cattle they stampeded. Howling, screaming, tearing
at one another they blundered through the trees, heading for the neck
of land and the shore beyond. Saul Stark stood transfixed, heedless of
them as he stared down at the brown girl, dead at last. And suddenly
I came to myself, and with my awakened manhood came cold fury and the
lust to kill. I drew a gun, and aiming in the uncertain firelight,
pulled the trigger. Only a click answered me. The powder in the
cap-and-ball pistols was wet.

Saul Stark lifted his head and licked his lips. The sounds of flight
faded in the distance, and he stood alone in the glade. His eyes rolled
whitely toward the black woods around him. He bent, grasped the
man-like object that lay on the sand, and dragged it into the hut. The
instant he vanished I started toward the island, wading through the
narrow channels at the lower end. I had almost reached the shore when a
mass of driftwood gave way with me and I slid into a deep hole.

Instantly the water swirled about me, and a head rose beside me; a dim
face was close to mine--the face of a negro--_the face of Tunk Bixby_.
But now it was inhuman; as expressionless and soulless as that of a
catfish; the face of a being no longer human, and no longer mindful of
its human origin.

Slimy, misshapen fingers gripped my throat, and I drove my knife into
that sagging mouth. The features vanished in a wave of blood; mutely
the thing sank out of sight, and I hauled myself up the bank, under the
thick bushes.

Stark had run from his hut, a pistol in his hand. He was staring wildly
about, alarmed by the noise he had heard, but I knew he could not see
me. His ashy skin glistened with perspiration. He who had ruled by fear
was now ruled by fear. He feared the unknown hand that had slain his
mistress; feared the negroes who had fled from him; feared the abysmal
swamp which had sheltered him, and the monstrosities he had created. He
lifted a weird call that quavered with panic. He called again as only
four heads broke the water, but he called in vain.

But the four heads began to move toward the shore and the man who stood
there. He shot them one after another. They made no effort to avoid the
bullets. They came straight on, sinking one by one. He had fired six
shots before the last head vanished. The shots drowned the sounds of my
approach. I was close behind him when he turned at last.
