
He was right. Upon my return to Earth, the serious operations took
place, those giving me plastic limbs that would become _living_ parts of
my organic structure. The same outward push of the brain and nervous
system that had created phantom pain now made what was artificial seem
real. Not only did my own blood course through the protoplastic but I
could feel it doing so. The adjustment took less than a week and it was
a complete one.

Fortunately the time was already past when protoplast patients were
looked upon as something mildly freakish and to be pitied. Artificial
noses, ears and limbs were becoming quite common. Whether there was some
justification for the earlier reaction of pity, however, still remains
to be seen.

My career resumed and I was accepted for the next Centauri Expedition
without any questions being asked. As a matter of fact, Planning Center
preferred people in my condition; protoplast limbs were more durable
than the real--no, let us say the original--thing.

At home and at the beach no one bothered to notice my reconstructed arm
and leg. They looked too natural for the idea to occur to people who did
not know me. And Marla treated the whole thing like a big joke. "You're
better than new," she used to tell me and the kids wanted to know when
they could have second matter limbs of their own.

Life was good to me. The one-year periods away from home passed quickly
and the five-year layoffs on Earth permitted me to devote myself to my
hobbies, music and mathematics, without taking any time away from my
family. Eventually, of course, my condition became an extremely common
one. Who is there today among my readers who has all the parts with
which he was born? If any such person past the childhood sixty years
did, _he_ would be the freak.

Then at ninety new difficulties arose. A new Centaurian subvirus
attacked my chest marrow. As is still true in this infection, the virus
proved to be ineradicable. My ribs weren't, though, and a protoplastic
casing, exactly like the thoracic cavity, was substituted. It was
discovered that the infection had spread to my right radius and ulna so
here too a simple substitution was made. Of course, such a radical
infection meant my circulatory system was contaminated and synthetically
created living hemoplast was pumped in as soon as all the blood was
removed.

This _did_ attract attention. At the time the procedure was still new
and some medical people warned it would not take. They were right only
to this extent: the old cardioarterial organs occasionally hunted into
defective feedback that required systole-diastole adjustments.
Protoplastic circulatory substitutes corrected the deficiency and, just
to avoid the slight possibility of further complications, the venous
system was also replaced. Since the changeover there hasn't been the
least trouble in that sector.

By then Marla had a perfect artificial ear and both of my sons had lost
their congenitally diseased livers. There was nothing extraordinary
about our family; only in my case were replacements somewhat above the
world average.

I am proud to say that I was among the first thousand who made the
pioneer voyage on hyperdrive to the star group beyond Centaurus. We
returned in triumph with our fantastic but true tales of the organic
planet Vita and the contemplative humanoids of Nirva who will
consciousness into subjectively grasping the life and beauty of
subatomic space. The knowledge we brought back assured that the fatal
disease of ennui could never again attack man though they lived to Aleph
Null.

On the second voyage Marla, Robert and Neil went with me. This took a
little political wrangling but it was worth throwing my merit around to
see them benefit from Nirvan discoveries even before the rest of
humanity. Planetary Council agreed my services entitled me to this
special consideration. Truly I could feel among the blessed.

Then I volunteered for the small expeditionary force to the 38th moon
that the Nirvans themselves refused to visit. They tried to dissuade us
but, being of a much younger species, we were less plagued by caution
and went anyway. The mountains of this little moon are up to fifteen
miles high, causing a state of instability that is chronic. Walking down
those alabaster valleys was a more awesome experience than any galactic
vista I have ever encountered. Our aesthetic sense proved stronger than
common sense alertness and seven of us were buried in a rock slide.
