
When I came out of coma Marla was standing at my bedside, smiling down
at me. "Do you feel," she stumbled, "darling, I mean, do you feel the
way you did?"

I was puzzled. "Sure, I'm Treb Hawley, I'm your husband, and I remember
an awful fall of rocks but now I feel exactly the way I always have." I
did not even realize that further substitutions had been made and did
not believe them when they told me about it.

Now I _was_ an object of curiosity. Upon our return to Earth the
newsplastics hailed me as one of the most highly reintegrated
individuals anywhere. In all the teeming domain of man there were only
seven hundred who had gone through as many substitutions as I had.
Where, they philosophised in passing, would a man cease to be a man in
the sequence of substitutions?

Philosophy had never been an important preoccupation of mine. It was the
only discipline no further ahead in its really essential questions than
the Greeks of four thousand years ago. Oh certainly, there had been lots
of technical improvements that were fascinating but these were
peripheral points; the basic issues could not be experimentally tested
so they had to remain on the level of accepted or rejected axioms. I
wasn't about to devote much time to them when the whole fascinating
field of subatomic mirror numbers was just opening up; certainly not
because a few sensational journalists were toying with dead-end notions.
For that matter the newsplastics weren't either and quickly went back to
the regular mathematical reportage they do so well.

A few decades later, however, I wasn't so cocksure. The old Centaurian
virus had reappeared in my brain of all places and I started to have a
peculiar feeling about where the end point in all this reintegrating
routine would lie. Not that the brain operation was a risk; thousands of
people had already gone through it and the substitute organisms had made
no fundamental change in them. It didn't in my case either. But now I
was more second matter than any man in history.

"It's the old question of Achilles' Ship," Dr. Erics told me.

"Never heard of it," I said.

"It's a parable, Treb, about concretised forms of a continuum in its
discrete aspects."

"I see the theoretical question but what has Achilles' Ship to do with
it?"

He furrowed his protoplast brow that looked as youthful as it had a
century ago. "This ship consisted of several hundred planks, most of
them forming the hull, some in the form of benches and oars and a
mainmast. It served its primitive purpose well but eventually sprang a
leak. Some of the hull planks had to be replaced after which it was as
good as new. Another year of hard use brought further hull troubles and
some more planks were removed for new ones. Then the mast collapsed and
a new one was put in. After that the ship was in such good shape that it
could outrace most of those just off the ways."

I had an uneasy feeling about where this parable was leading us but my
mind shied away from the essential point and Erics went relentlessly on.
"As the years passed more repairs were made--first a new set of oars,
then some more planks, still newer oars, still more planks. Eventually
Achilles, an unthinking man of action who still tried to be aware of
what happened to the instruments of action he needed most, realized that
not one splinter of the original ship remained. Was this, then, a new
ship? At first he was inclined to say yes. But this only evoked the
further question: when had it become the new ship? Was it when the last
plank was replaced or when half had been? His confidently stated answer
collapsed. Yet how could he say it was the old ship when everything
about it was a substitution? The question was too much for him. When he
came to Athens he turned the problem over to the wise men of that city,
refusing ever to think about it again."
