
"Rob! Yah-hoo!..." Harris, first astrogator, was yelling at his
long-time buddy, the pilot and captain of the space-freighter Eroica.
"Look at this stuff! Just look at it! Solaranium vein a foot thick ...
damn planet's loaded with it! _We did it! We finally did it...._"

"Well, don't burn out your jet!" Rob Cantrell chuckled, calm and
laconic in the face of this near miracle. He squinted at one
mica-bright stone, tossing it up and catching it with a grin of quiet
triumph. "Yep ... journey's end. If our rations hold out, we can mine
and refine enough pure sola to start every factory on Terra booming
again inside six months. I ... _Good Lord!_" He broke off, hand arcing
to the blaster on his hip. "What's _that_ thing? _Heads up!_" he
shouted a warning to the busy men about him. "_General alert!... we've
got visitors!_"

It was a S'zetnur child who had ventured out of hiding, drawn by
curiosity--and by the tantalizing smell that issued from a pot of stew
one of the cooks was stirring. Now, as the tiny gargoyle-figure crawled
out into the clearing from the shelter of those white-leafed trees,
everyone turned to stare--the mechanics, unloading their diggers and
refining filters; the freight crew, setting up the tents around the
big rocket; the biochemists, busily testing the flora for edibility or
possible toxicity; the ethnologists, searching for some clue to the
language and customs of the people of this planet.

Cantrell, his hand dropping slowly from his gun-butt, walked slowly
forward toward the crawling child. It squinted up at him with milky
blue eyes that could scarcely make out the outline of his tall figure.
But, at his approach, it cowered back; started to scuttle for cover.
Cantrell reached down gently and picked it up, shuddering at the little
face so close to his own. Moonstone eyes. Gargoyle mouth with crumbling
teeth. Round scabrous head that was almost hairless. Stumps of feet and
hands that had no fingers, no toes. The child squirmed frantically in
his embrace, uttering a small shrill whistle that seemed to be the only
sound it could make.

"God, it's _human_, isn't it?" Harris, standing beside him, muttered in
pity and revulsion. "Put it down, Rob! It's ... diseased!"

More of the men from Terra crowded closer, peering at the struggling
child. Then one of the chemists shouted, pointing. Cantrell whirled,
hand moving again toward his gun.

Another of the creatures was creeping out of the forest. A
woman--probably the child's mother. She limped forward, whistling
soothingly to the child, but utterly terrified herself from the look on
her bloated, twisted features. A few feet away from Cantrell, she threw
her hands over her face and flung herself prone before him; head in
the grass, she crawled toward him, reached his feet, and lay tense as
though expecting a blow....

"Poor slob! God, I've seen beggars on Terra who weren't as...." Captain
Rob Cantrell knelt slowly and set the child on its deformed feet. It
toppled over at once, unable to stand, and the mother snatched it to
her flat breast. She began to crawl again, dragging the child and
backing away with her face still thrust into the spongy ground.

"Poor ugly _slob_ ... thinks we're going to hurt her, doesn't she?"

On impulse, Cantrell strode forward, took her arm gently, and lifted
her to her feet. She swayed, clinging to the child. Casting about for
some gesture of friendship, he suddenly unstrapped the spacewatch from
his left wrist and, smiling, buckled it about the woman's scrawny
handless arm. She stared at it dumbly, milk-blue eyes darting from
the jeweled band to Cantrell's face for a moment. Then, with a little
bleating sound, she threw herself at his feet again, trembling with
terror. She lay there, clutching her baby and sobbing uncontrollably.

"Well, I'll be a--!" Cantrell glanced helplessly at Harris, "What d'you
make of _that_?"

"Doesn't understand about presents," the astrogator guessed. "Must mean
something special on this planet.... _Hey! Here come some more!_"
