
He pointed toward the pale forest, from which a wary group of perhaps
fourteen S'zetnurs, men and women, had emerged fearfully. Their
hands--if they could be called hands--were flung up, like the woman's
to cover their faces--if they could be called faces. And when they
reached a distance of five yards from the silent group of Earthmen, all
threw themselves down flat, their heads burrowing into the spiky grass.

"Don't get it," Rob Cantrell drawled, hands on hips, legs spread apart
as he stood regarding this strange welcome. "Look; all of them are
deformed. Inbreeding, do you suppose? Or some kind of plague?..."

"Sir, I believe it's a matter of vitamin deficiency," one of the
biochemists spoke up from the group of Earthmen behind Harris. "I've
been testing a few specimens under the micro. These white leaves--and
look at that grass! It's the sunlight, I think. Not a bit of nutriment
in the soil. Another thing," he pointed out shrewdly; "has anybody seen
any animal-life yet? Ask me, I don't think there _is_ any! These poor
critters are just _starving_ to death! Malnutrition. Years and years of
it...."

Cantrell scowled, his lips pursed; he said slowly, "You know, Jim, I
believe you're right.... Well, _hell_!" He gestured impatiently to one
of the cooks who had wandered over to join the curious group. "Break
out some solid chow for these ... people. On the double!"

"Yes _sir_!"

Grinning with the sheer pleasure of filling a need, several of the crew
followed the cook. They came back with folding plates and collapsible
cups, filled to the brim with succulent stew made of dehydrated
vegetables and pressed beef. These, a bit squeamishly, they put into
the clumsy grasp of the little dwarfed S'zetnurs; laughing, they
watched how they snatched it, turning their backs to their benefactors
as they wolfed down the warm food....

The laughter died. For almost instantly three, then a dozen of the
dwarfish creatures were doubled up with nausea and stomach-cramp.
Others, gagging at the first bite, dropped their platters of food. Then
all threw themselves down before the men from Terra, groveling in the
grass at their feet as though begging for mercy....

"Lord, we're _stupid_!" Cantrell sighed. "Of _course_ they can't take
our rich food! Probably been living on herbs and stuff for Lord knows
how long...." He moved pityingly toward one groaning dwarf, writhing on
the sward and hugging his stomach. "Hey, you medics! Give me hand--"

He knelt, trying to roll the sufferer over on his back and slip a
gastrotab between the writhing lips. But, with a look of terrified
pleading, the little S'zetnur covered his face and flopped over
again, hiding his warped features in a clump of pale weeds. With his
fingerless hands he groped along the ground, found Cantrell's foot, and
drew himself up to it, wriggling in worm-like obeisance--

Then, before the Earth pilot could move, a swollen tongue crept out and
caressed his bare toes under the plastic sandal-strap.

Cantrell's reaction was instinctive. His foot came up, in sheer disgust
that any man should lick another's foot like a mongrel-dog. Cursing, he
kicked the little S'zetnur square in the mouth.

And, the next instant, hated himself.
