
Blood, a thin watery trickle, ran from a corner of the gargoyle mouth;
but the S'zetnur made no move to escape. He merely lay where he was,
dumbly, holding up one arm. Opaque eyes peered warily up through the
weeds.

"Ah ... to hell with it!" the pilot burst out, furious with himself. He
started to kneel and apologize; saw the futility of it, and turned away
abruptly, striding toward the long silver ship. "Get these screwballs
out of the way!" he snapped, irritable in his shame. "We've got work to
do! We'll have to refine this sola on a night-and-day shift! No rest
for anybody ... and twenty shocks to any of you jet-monkeys I catch
trying to go over the hill! You got that?"

"Yes _sir_!"

"Yes-sir, Cap'n!"

"Yousa! I hears you talkin'!" This from Harris, who had strolled after
him, checking over his charts carefully for the return flight.

Cantrell glared at him. "And that goes for you, too--Romeo!" he
growled. "No fraternizing with the natives!"

"_Fraternize!_ With _those_ women?" Harris shuddered, thumbs in the
studded belt of his spacesuit. "Listen, I'd have to be drunker'n I've
ever been on Mars or Venus!" He broke off, looking at his friend with
faint reproach. "You shouldn't have kicked that poor slob, though.
Section 382-XV: _No overt act of violence unless to repell attack_ ...
you read your Handbook lately, chum?"

Cantrell grunted, struck one fist into his other palm sheepishly. "I
know it. I didn't mean to. But--licking my foot! But I'll make it up to
him. Some way...."

"Sure!" Harris's eyes softened. Throwing an arm around Cantrell's
shoulders, he locked step with him as they walked up the gangplank.
"Easy enough. If it's a vitamin deficiency, like Jim says, why--it'll
be a cinch for us to help these poor joes! We can ship chemicals from
Terra, every return-trip. Teach 'em to grow food by hydro-vat methods.
We could make a new world for them!"

The pilot nodded eagerly, his pleasant, alert face full of plans for
those pitifully stunted creatures, now melting back into the pale
jungle in obedience to the crewmen shooing them from the vicinity of
dangerous--and valuable--machinery.

Cantrell grinned. "We can try vitamin therapy right away," he said
happily. "Take, say, ten of the kids and feed them a test-diet for the
forty days we're here, loading up sola. May take years of treatment to
get them looking like _people_ again, but--we can sure try!"

They glanced back over their shoulders in unison, two splendid young
giants from another solar system, their eyes warm and bright with a
thing called "brotherly love"--which it had taken their own small
planet many centuries to learn. Together they disappeared into the
rocket ship.

Watching them from the white-leafed forest, the little people of
S'zetnur turned away sadly, in shame and patient resignation. In a
small clearing beyond sight of the bustling rocket-camp, they held
council, communicating with sharp whistles and facial expressions.

Then--according to the ancient law which the Elders still
recalled--they dragged forth the woman who wore The Mark on her wrist,
the gleaming Band of Rejection which the Tall Leader of the beautiful
ones had placed there with his own hand. The woman did not cry out
when they bound her, and buried her, still breathing, beside a huge
flowering tree--tossing the baby in with her, according to custom.

The man Rob Cantrell had kicked in the mouth, likewise, was made ready
for the honor bestowed on him ... and allowed to touch the _Icon_, as
was his right....
