
The blue-green sun sank slowly, and the night-shift of the Earthmen's
work-camp took over, mining and refining solaranium ore, working
swiftly and efficiently against time.

Cantrell and Harris slept on identical cots in a central tent, waking
now and then to listen to the night-noises of this strange new
planet. S'zetnu?... It was only a designation, not a name; a term in
inter-stellar Esperanto, meaning "Seventh-from-the-Sun." Tomorrow,
Cantrell thought sleepily, they would find out what the dwarfish
inhabitants called their little world. It must have a name for they
must once have had some sort of language. There were signs, the
ethnologists reported, that they had once been a civilized people.

The pilot blew a smoke-ring at the damp ceiling of the tent, thinking
and making plans.

"Harris?" he called softly. "You awake?"

"Uh-huh. Too damned hot to sleep! Worse than Venus. It isn't the--"

"--heat; it's the humidity!" Cantrell grinned in the darkness. "Yeah,
yeah. Well, you can stand it for forty days. Say!" He sat up abruptly,
snapping his fingers on sudden thought. "If we could hire a couple of
those little S'zetnurs to locate sola veins for us, we could cut down
the time ... put the Geiger crew on one of the spare refiners! Hire
me one tomorrow, will you? A couple, I mean--two of the _older_ ones,
with rudimentary fingers and toes. They should know their way around
better.... Cripes! You can see how their race has deteriorated, each
generation a little bit worse than the one before ... the poor devils!"

"Yeah." Harris plucked Cantrell's cigarette-glow from the darkness to
take a drag. "But we're going to fix all that for them! Vital food, in
return for vital solaranium.... Why, it's a natural for trade-relations
between S'zetnu and Terra!" He blew out smoke, returned the cigarette.
"El Presidente's sure to give each of us a citation--with bonus! I can
just see my old lady spending it now. On a Martian vurna-fur coat!
She's been whining for one ever since...."

Cantrell chuckled drowsily, then sighed. "I wish I hadn't kicked
that little guy. Feel like a heel. Wish I hadn't given that woman my
spacewatch, too, in a loose moment! What time is it?"

"88-zero, shiptime," the astrogator murmured. "Go to sleep, will ya?...
I wish I was back on Tee with my baby tonight...."

Silence fell. Outside, the refiners chugged rhythmically, melting away
the solaranium from the crude ore wheeled in by the miners. At a little
distance from the camp, the Geiger experts were moving their counters
over the ground, seeking the highly-fissionable ore. The sola shortage
had shut down the industries of Terra for five years now, and sent
many a rocket-ship out into space, searching, searching ... until now,
at last, the search was ended on a tiny planet Z-north of the System.
Close! Near enough to organize a freight-lane!

But in the forest, the pallid forest beyond the camp, a gargoyle-woman
lay buried, clinging to her deformed half-idiot baby who had died with
her. Cantrell's spacewatch glinted on her stumpy wrist; mute testimony
that she must be _eliminated_, according to the ancient law that the
Elders remembered. It was strangely unfair--for there were others, many
others in the tribe, who were far more hideous than she! Mitka, who had
only a hole for a nose, and Jura, whose ears were unformed knobs on
either side of her head ... but that, of course, was for the Beautiful
Ones to judge. Their word had always been the Law....
