
Around noon the next day, Harris reported glumly to the central tent.
Cantrell, hard at work on a sheaf of forms, glanced up, his eyes
preoccupied.

"Harris? Did you get those guides?"

Harris spread his hands. "No can find! I've had men out combing the
forest all day. Can't find a sign of those little pixies! They've just
vanished!"

Cantrell grinned. "Well, they're back again ... look; what do you think
_that_ is? A mirage?" He jerked a nod at a dwarfish figure coming
across the clearing, trailing a long train of lush tropical flowers
that had been woven into a sort of cape. A garland of the same flowers
perched askew atop the scabrous gargoyle-head. The man limped proudly,
presenting himself before Cantrell with a little bow.

"Well!" The pilot's eyebrows went up. "Who's he, the chief?" Then he
saw the man's swollen lips. "Say ... this is the poor jerk I _kicked_!"
His face softened, and he pointed to a folding chair beside his
cluttered desk. "Sit down, buster. You're hired--if I can only explain
your job to you!"

Instead, quivering, the stunted S'zetnur covered his face and threw
himself down on his face.

Harris sighed. "Here we go again!" He knelt and pulled the malformed
dwarf to his feet and shoved him into a chair.

"Now," Cantrell groaned, "comes the tough part. How can I say in
sign-lingo that we want him to locate sola veins for us? Well--here
goes!"

He held up a piece of ore, pointing and gesturing. The dwarf eyed it,
bewildered, milky-blue eyes darting from Harris to Cantrell and back
again. Cantrell pointed to the earth--

Instantly the little S'zetnur threw himself flat on the ground again,
quivering. He began to sob, holding up one stumpy arm.

"Oh, _hell_!" The spaceship's captain gave up, looking helplessly at
his astrogator. "Harris? Can you--"

Harris pulled the S'zetnur to his feet again; shoved him into the
chair; explained with patient gestures about _digging_, about _the
ore_, about _the ship_. The man's eyes, like glowing moonstones,
followed his every motion eagerly, as a stupid child's might. He took
the pebble in his hand obediently, went out to the ship, dug a small
hole in the shadow of the great rocket, and buried the piece of ore.
Then he looked up at Cantrell, towering over him in exasperation.
Harris mopped his forehead.

"I give up!" he laughed. "It's ... it's as though there was a _glass
wall_ between us! We can see each other, and hear each other. But I
can't make him _understand_. Damned if I understand him, either!"

Rob Cantrell rubbed his jaw, caressing his stubble of blond beard.

"If we only knew what's going on in that funny little head," he
muttered. "What do they _want_? Everybody wants something. If we could
just figure out what these S'zetnurs are after--besides centuries of
decent diet, which they obviously need--we could--"

He glared at the twisted little S'zetnur, decked with flowers that made
his hideous deformity even more noticeable. The man cringed at his
expression, covering his face and peeping through his short arms. Then,
emboldened, catching one of the pilot's hands between his own stumps,
he examined it admiringly, tracing each finger with his gaze. Cantrell
scowled and jerked his hand away impatiently.

The S'zetnur covered his face and threw himself flat on the ground.
Cantrell cursed and mopped his streaming forehead and neck.

"I don't get it," Harris said, scratching his head. "I just don't get
it ... hey! Maybe if we take him out to that valley a mile from camp,
we can put over the idea of his locating more sola for us. When he sees
our men mining the stuff--"

"Sound idea," Cantrell grunted. "Come on!"
