
Supporting the stumbling dwarf between them, the two Earthmen strode
across the camp and down the long hill toward the distant sound of the
pick-and-shovel crew. Two small a. g. barges sailed past them on their
way down, loaded with ore and manned by a single sweat-streaked miner,
headed for the nearest refinery.

As they neared the valley, where last night the Geiger crew had located
a rich streak of solaranium, the pilot and the astrogator noticed that
their small captive was growing very nervous. Stumbling along between
them as fast as his stumpy feet could walk, he glanced first at Harris,
then at Cantrell, his expressive features working with agitation.

When they reached a small ravine, its cliff-like walls pitted with
many small caves, the little dwarf began to bleat and squirm in their
grasp like a hysterical child being dragged to the dentist. Over his
flower-decked head, the two Earthmen looked at each other, and shrugged.

"_Now_ what?" Cantrell drawled. "This valley taboo or something, you
suppose?"

"Beats me!"

Harris stopped, pulling the little S'zetnur around and pointing to a
broad streak of sola inside the mouth of one cave. He made digging
motions. He pointed to himself and Cantrell, beaming and nodding.

"Rock," he labored. "Nicee rockee! Find for us?... Oh hell!" He laughed
at his own absurd pidgin-English, then resorted to gestures again. He
pointed to the cave, to the little dwarf, to Cantrell--

The S'zetnur shook his head violently, clapping both stunted hands
over his face. An agonized bleat issued from his twisted larynx, and
he threw himself flat before Cantrell, groveling and holding up one
arm--then, as the captain took an idle step toward the cave, he flung
his tiny malformed body before the entrance, shaking his head and
beating himself in the face with his fingerless hands.

Cantrell looked at Harris, who scratched his head, grinning.

"Beats me!" he repeated helplessly. "Guess they don't _want_ us to have
the sola--!" his eyes hardened slowly. "Yeah--maybe that's it! Maybe
they're--" He stiffened, glancing nervously toward the white jangle
that pressed closely about them on all sides. "_Maybe they're arming
right now--planning an attack--_"

Rob Cantrell's pleasant face changed. Eyes narrowed, mouth tight, he
let his gaze flicker over the working men who were under his command,
dependent on his judgment for their safety. His gaze returned to the
small S'zetnur, feebly trying to block the entrance to that natural
hole in the cliff's side. Or ... _was_ it a natural hole? Cantrell's
keen eyes became observant, noting worn places in the rock--

"There's something in this cave," Harris grunted. "Something this
little monkey doesn't want us to see ... a secret weapon, maybe?
Sa-ay!" His pleasant face hardened, like Cantrell's. "Maybe these
cookies aren't as dumb and helpless as they look! Maybe they've got
something that could wipe out our whole expedition!"

Cantrell nodded and strode forward, jerking the bleating dwarf aside
with one sweep of his muscular arm. The cave was not deep; and,
Cantrell noted with tensed nerves, there were fresh flower-petals on
the floor of the small opening. Petals like those on the flower-wreath
of this fantastically decorated little S'zetnur.

The captain groped inside. Harris stepped forward, shoving the dwarf
away as he flung himself at Cantrell again like a furious kitten.
There was, the Earthmen both saw at once, something inside. A kind of
box, crudely made of white wood, as though a clumsy child had put it
together. There was no lock, Cantrell raised the lid--

Inside, dry and crumbling, was a small doll made of brown clay. Harris
and Cantrell stared at it, amazed at its perfection of modeling. It
was, or seemed to be, a very good image of an Earthman. Certainly,
it was not intended to portray one of the stunted little S'zetnurs,
for the legs and feet were perfect, the hands beautifully formed, the
facial details fine and delicate--though there was about the thing,
Cantrell noted, an odd expression of cruelty and arrogance--

"Well! What d'ya know?" he snapped. "A graven image! The aborigines on
Terra used to make these images of an enemy--just before slipping him a
poison-dart in the back! Juju ... and they made sure it worked!"

He whirled on the little S'zetnur, who was whistling shrilly now,
jumping up and down in agitated protest.

At that moment, one of the diggers shouted a warning. Cantrell turned,
to see beyond the handful of workers in the valley a small army of
S'zetnurs advancing on them from the jungle-edge. Backs to the cliff
wall, Harris and Cantrell snatched out their blasters. The captain
yelled, warning the unarmed workers to make a dash for the camp:

"_General alert! Prepare for attack!_"
