
Then the dwarfs were upon them, armed rather pathetically with clubs
strapped to their fingerless hands. Advancing in a rough semi-circle
upon Cantrell and Harris, and completely ignoring the half-dozen
workers who dashed past them, the little S'zetnurs closed in. Lips
tight, eyes narrowed, the Earthmen waited until they were within ten
feet--

Then, methodically, they let go with their blasters, searing the
attackers from left to right.

Screaming, they went down, half-charred bodies and burning hair. One
little creature, luckier or bolder than the rest, struck a blow that
numbed Harris's left arm. Cantrell blazed away at him. He fell, an
unrecognizable mass of ashes.

The men from Terra pressed against the cliff wall, panting, their eyes
raking the pale jungle for the next wave of attackers.

"How d'you like these babies?" Cantrell snarled. "Planning to jump us
all the time--And we were feeling sorry for them!"

They waited, tensed for the next attack. In the distance they could
hear the siren on the spaceship, calling a general alert. Calling in
the Geiger crews, and the diggers, and the ethnologists. _Natives
hostile, natives hostile!_ the signal was screaming--

Cantrell turned his head briefly--and stiffened as he saw the small
S'zetnur decked in flowers. He was still alive, crouched just inside
the cave, clutching the mud doll and whimpering softly. The captain
glared at him, hard-eyed.

"Ambassador, huh?" He smiled without mirth. "To keep us from being
suspicious of this juju-attack, until it was too late!" He jerked his
head at Harris. "Blast him! He's a spy, isn't he? Been all over the
camp. Knows just where everything's located--"

The astrogator peered at the huddled creature nursing the doll. He
raised his gun, then swallowed hard. "Rob--I can't do it! Cold like
this, I mean ... can't we take him prisoner? A hostage?"

Cantrell glanced at him, then at the pitiful figure in the cave.

"Don't be a damned fool!" he snapped. "If he gets away and brings
reinforcements, none of us'll get off this apple alive! You lost your
guts or something?"

Harris scuffed his toe, looking down. "No-o.... It's just that....
Well, hell!" his gruff voice cracked. "He's so ... _helpless_!"

"Helpless, my eye!" Rob Cantrell growled. "There may be thousands of
these joes, closing in on us right now from that jungle! _Millions!_
All right, I'm in command," he said quietly. "Make a run for the camp.
I ... I'll do it...."

His buddy tossed him a grateful look, born of their long-time
friendship. With another look at the silent wall of forest, he sprinted
in the direction of the camp. Once he paused, wincing, as the blare of
a ray-gun sounded behind him. Then Cantrell caught up with him, his
eyes pained, his lips white.

"Poor slob!" he muttered through clenched teeth as he ran. "Poor ugly
little slob.... He kept shielding that damn doll with his body!"

They burst into the clearing, where the lieutenants were already
rounding up those of the ship's crew who were trained to fight. Others,
the workmen and the experts, were piling into the ship for safety. The
siren kept up its woman-like screaming: _Hostile natives, hostile!_

Cantrell and Harris stopped in the center of the clearing, to view
the ordered shambles with sick eyes. They glanced at each other, and
shrugged.

"All right!" the captain's clear voice rang out. "Prepare to take off!
Repeating: Prepare to take off! Abandon all equipment not vital to
crew. Repeating...."

The men from Terra were efficient men, quick, intelligent, and
well-organized under the pilot and astrogator who commanded their
expedition. In exactly 8-3 kilos, shiptime, men and machinery were
loaded aboard the big silver rocket. Fire belched from her twin jets.
She took the atmosphere of the planet designated as S'zetnur like a
pale streak of flame. In another kilo, she was bulleting into free
flight.

Cantrell, the pilot, fixed her automatic on "Sol-Terra," then strolled
back to the chart room, where Harris was rechecking their line of
flight. He sat down on the plastine desk, lighting a cigarette. Harris
took it from him, inhaled a deep drag, and handed it back. They looked
at each other, smiling wryly.

"Well ..." Rob Cantrell sighed. "There goes that presidential citation
you were yapping about--with bonus. We'll be lucky if we keep our
rating!"

"Oh, it won't be that bad," Harris predicted cheerfully. "I mean,
nobody could expect us to form a trade-alliance with a bunch of
hot-heads like that! Graven images! Tricked-up spies!" He spat
disgustedly. "And all because we wanted one shipload of lousy sola!..."

Cantrell nodded bitterly. "And we could have done so much for them in
return. A new world, I think you said!..." He emitted a short laugh,
edged with cynicism. "Well ... Terra-Government can't afford to ship
from a hostile planet. Too damn expensive. We'll just have to equip
another expedition and start looking again...."

Harris nodded absently, his eyes thoughtful. "Uh-huh.... But if we
could only have understood those little monkeys! Maybe they didn't mind
our taking the sola. Maybe it was something else.... Rob," he blurted,
"one of the junior ethnologists has a theory; did you hear? He...."

"Junior ethnologists have always got a theory!" the captain snorted.
"Lack of experience!"

"Yeah, but ..." Harris pursued. "This kid says he thinks those little
S'zetnurs were a cult of beauty-worshippers. You know? Like they used
to have on Venus? Eugenic mating--killing off the imperfect ones. He
says they just don't understand about nutrition; that's why it's so
tragic that they're all deformed and diseased now. None of them are
beauties any more, and they don't know why. But when they saw us...."

"Nuts!" said Cantrell rudely.

"Yeah, but.... The doll. Maybe it was an image of the way _they_ used
to be. A sort of pattern for them to remember.... And you know how that
poor joe kept ... _looking_ at us? The one all tricked-up in flowers?
This ethno thinks they sent him to be mated with one of our women...."

"Good God!" the pilot laughed.

"... and that poor slob of a woman, who acted so upset when you
strapped your spacewatch around her wrist. The kid thinks you marked
her for death, and...."

"Oh, go soak your head! And that junior ethnologist's, too!" Cantrell
chuckled. "I understood those babies, all right! They're just a bunch
of greedy, ignorant morons, who were determined not to let a shipful of
strangers cart off any of their lousy little planet! You and your ...
glass wall!"

He punched Harris on the shoulder in affectionate scorn. The astrogator
grinned feebly; then with more assurance, because Cantrell was his
friend and he trusted his judgment.

"Yeah ..." he said. "Yeah, Rob; I guess you're right...."



