
Bill paled when Molly packed her featherweight sewing machine with
their belongings.

"Aw, honey!" he expostulated, cradling her beautiful blonde fluffy head
with one arm while his other gripped the yelping bundle of activity
that was his wire-haired fox-terrier, Is. "We won't need a sewing
machine where we're going. Somewhere in the next ten thousand years
we'll find a civilization where nobody does any work, where the whole
world is one great big lawn--"

"You're always so certain of yourself, Bill," said she, cocking a
pert blue adoring eye up at him. "And you're so certain of that
time-machine."

"Why not? Unk and I took a trip in it before he died. It works."

Was, the other fox-terrier, came rocketing red-tongued into the room,
stayed a moment, and plummeted madly out the open door.

"Oh, don't think for a minute that I don't think you know what you're
doing," said Molly. "It's just that I can't imagine why Unk was so nice
to you after those things you said--calling him a fussy old man who
couldn't even invent a good excuse to die--"

Bill interrupted hastily. "That was just one of our friendly
arguments," he protested. "Nope, Unk loved me like a son. Dope that I
am, now I can see it." His eyes watered. "I'm sorry he's dead--almost.
Anyway, the sewing machine is out. Where is Was?"

"He was here. He isn't. Is is. I wish you'd put her down, Bill. She's
clawing me. That'll give you two arms for me."

Bill hurriedly released Molly, holding the tongue-lolling dog against
his chest. Is licked his nose affectionately. Bill grinned.

"What a fox," he exulted. "'A good lean head and a quick dark eye,' as
the poem goes."

"Well," Molly said, "I only hope it doesn't get cold where we're going.
I was thinking of making some special little jackets for Is and Was,
but--"

"Just a minute," said Bill, giving her a quick, severe little kiss.
"Who said we weren't going to take the machine? But keep it out of my
sight!"

Their possessions being meager, their bank account non-existent, the
Bennetts were able to load everything into a jallopy rocket-car that
took the curves at a meager seventy per hour.

When they arrived at the sagging Connecticut farm where Unk had
puttered around with mostly useless inventions the last few years of
his life, they immediately saw the reclining hulk of the spaceship in
the yard. It looked like a brown cigar with the end bitten raggedly off.

"Neat, huh?" said Bill. "The time-machine is hooked in with the
spaceship controls. We can move in space as well as time."

As soon as the car rocketed to a sputtering stop before the airlock
entrance, Was was a furry streak of black and white as he leaped from
the car. Is stayed, red tongue lolling, eyes bright. Bill laboriously
fished the ship combination slip out of his pocket. Then the Bennetts
and Is unloaded from the car, gathered up Was, and they went inside the
ship.

It was a good, solid ship, no question of that.

"And it's big," cried Molly. "There must be a dozen compartments. And
libraries, Bill!"

"Yeah," said Bill in awe. "Wonder what's the idea? Unk left enough
books to last anybody a lifetime. And here's a matter-converter!"

He stood over the matter-converter, fascinated. There was a large
filing cabinet giving the matrix combinations for making almost
anything. Even a combination-recipe for dog food!

"I did Unk dirt by treating him the way I did," Bill said hazily. "All
the while, he had nothing but affection for me."

"A deep freeze," yelled Molly from the galley. "Enough real meat to
last twenty years if we space it out with artificial proteins from the
converter. Why, Bill, we could live here the rest of our lives if we
wanted to--just in this spaceship."

The dogs skittered happily around his heels as he wandered dazedly
toward the sound of her voice and got a special arm-squeeze around her
special-made waist.

"We can go anywhere we want to," he marveled. "Up and down time, up
and down the Solar System. We could spend our lives in comfort. Unk's
supplied us with everything--record-player, tape-recorder, transcriber,
dictaphone, shaver. We're set, Molly! Let's unload the car and get into
the next century--for a starter."
