
"Hatches battened down," reported sailor Molly with a smart salute some
two hours later. "Main sail keel-hauled--or sumpin'."

Bill grinned, but it was a strained grin.

"Man the lifeboats," he quipped back, a bit too inappropriately,
because Molly paled. Bill squeezed her hand reassuringly, then turned
his attention to the chrono-controls. He threw in the power. A dark
vibration swept through the room, robbing the light of some of its
intensity.

"That's normal," Bill said hastily, but Molly said "Ooh!" and shuddered
against him, while Is and Was sat on their prize-winning hindquarters
and whined uncomfortably.

Bill was feeling goose pimples himself. He watched the tubes proceeding
through their changes of color. He set the pointer. When the tubes
glowed a full violet, he threw the contact-switch down hard.

What happened, he reflected later on when he woke up, shouldn't happen
even to the manager of a sewing machine branch office.

First, just before the universe turned hazy white and then quite black,
Bill saw one tiny tube on the panel explode in a flash of yellow.

Second, the pointer, which indicated years, centuries, and millenia
on an advancing logarithmic scale, snapped to its top position. This
meant that the ship was flinging into the future at some fantastic rate
measured in millions of years per ship-second.

When Bill staggered wildly erect it was because Was was running madly
around the room, tail pointed down, blocky wiry head sniffing along the
floor. Is was anxiously licking his face. The wall chronometer told
him thirty minutes had passed. Thirty times sixty is eighteen hundred.
Eighteen hundred times. He glanced at the pointer and mentally retched.

"Down Was," he ordered groggily. Was huddled to the deck, looking at
him with imploring wet eyes. Just then Molly sat up, rubbing her eyes
sleepily.

"Something's wrong!" she said.

"Now, now, now, don't worry," Bill chattered, helping her up. "I'll fix
it."

"That pointer says," said Molly, pointing while her eyes got wider and
wider.

"Look," implored Bill feverishly. "Why don't you go ahead and get your
sewing room set up. Take Is. Take Was. I'll fix it!"

Molly stepped to the port. "Oh!" she said, stepping back. "It's--it's
shimmery violet. Nothing else. Bill--I'm sick--"

He caught her, holding her helplessly. He should let her drop and fix
the time-machine. Instead he carried her to the bedroom, got her under
the covers, chafed her wrists. Her eyes opened.

"I'll fix it!" he said desperately. He went back to the instrument
room. He didn't dare look through the port, as Molly had. He tried to
put the mechanism in reverse, but the pointer stayed where it was. He
rustled around in the parts cabinet and found a tube to replace the
exploded one. It promptly blew out. The pointer stayed where it was,
millions of years per second. How many millions of years? It didn't say.

He'd only wanted to go a hundred years into the future. He'd wanted to
play safe. And then a tube blew out.

The truth came slowly. Then he sat back from the machine, staring at
it. Then he started giggling. He was still giggling when he went into
the bedroom and woke Molly up.

"Molly," he shouted. "It's Unk. Don't you get it? This is his way
of getting back at me. He _was_ nuts. He geared the machine so the
control tube blew out. We can't go back. All we can do is keep going
ahead--toward the heat-death!"

Is jumped lightly onto the bed, bracing her stiff-furred paws on
Molly's chest. Was tore into the room, looked around and--was. Molly
affectionately patted Is on her well-placed shoulders, put the other
hand firmly over Bill's mouth to shut him up.

"Well, why not?" she said reasonably. "We can live on this ship the
rest of our lives. Eternity's a long time, Bill. Just you, me, the dogs
and--" she broke into a grin--"a pup or two!"
