
It didn't turn out so bad at that. Molly had always been a
self-sufficient, perky little blonde, well able to live with herself.
Bill's dislike of civilization turned out to be a built-in part of his
personality. He didn't miss people. He didn't miss shows. He didn't
miss phony excitement. It was quite a discovery that he was perfectly
content reading, puttering, making love to Molly, taking care of the
foxes.

He did have a couple heart-qualms when he dared to think about the
condition of the universe. Not that there was much to be seen outside
the ship. Apparently they were accelerating into time at an enormous
rate, so fast, indeed, that individual celestial bodies could not be
observed.

Relative to the ship, the universe was vibrating fast enough to
produce sensations of color. It started at violet. At present it was
a shattering yellow that hurt the eyes to look at. When these color
effects moved down the scale to infra-red--?

Maximum entropy? The heat-death of the universe? He wondered.

"So what?" he asked Molly when his mood became lighter. "By this
time Earth and all the planets and the Sun and every other star and
constellation and galaxy is dust. Less than dust, maybe. Maybe we're
near the end of time, when all the matter in the universe is broken
down into nothing but pulses of energy. Maybe the pulses will get to
the place where there isn't even any pulse anymore. When all energy is
distributed equally over all of space. When there's no motion at all.
What are you doing, Molly?"

Molly was smiling to herself. She was on her knees, fitting a fancy
frilled checked-wool jacket over Is. Bill stared thunderstruck while
she buttoned it down the length of Is's spine.

"There!" said Molly, standing back and giggling. "I made it on the
sewing machine. Is gets so cold sometimes she shivers. She drags
around. I think she's going to have pups."

Bill grinned broadly. He fell to his knees, crooning at the bright-eyed
dog. "Pups!" he exulted. "She sure is."

Was scampered into the room, his tail set high. He examined Is with
considerable disapproval, then, being a highly sensitive dog, tried to
make his getaway. "Oh, no you don't!" yelled Molly, diving for him. She
caught him by the hind leg and hauled out her tape measure. Personally
Bill commiserated with Was, but, knowing Molly, he gave up, went for
the refrigerator, and threw Is a bone with plenty of meat on it.
