
"Bill!"

Molly was in a nightmare. She screamed Bill's name. He was out of bed
in zero time, had her in his arms.

"Honey, what's the matter? You screamed!"

She clutched at him. Her heart was beating rapidly. He could feel it
pounding away through her silk nightgown. For a moment all she did was
moan, then she relaxed, breathing unevenly.

"What a horrible dream! But--but Bill, it didn't seem like a dream. I
dreamed I heard a voice--a skittering, ghastly voice, the voice of an
old crotchety man trying to talk fast--like Unk--"

_Like Unk._

Bill's throat grew something big in it. Fear. He whispered huskily,
"_Was_ it Unk? Are you sure it was a dream?"

She eased back against the pillow. "I haven't been feeling good," she
sighed. "Maybe--I don't know what to think. Bill, lie down beside me.
Let's listen together."

Listen. Listen to Unk? But Unk was dead. Maybe Unk's ghost....

It couldn't be Unk. So what was there out here beyond the ship in a
pointless universe? He lay down with her, goose pimples all over his
big body.

Then he heard it, and every square inch of his skin got the blue
chills. His body seemed to lose identity and floated buoyantly in a sea
of horror. A voice. A voice, gnarled with age, high and angry, spoken
so fast, like a speeding phonograph record, that the words could not be
made out.

That ghostly running stream of inarticulated words came from nowhere,
blatted in from everywhere. Birthed inside their heads, grew in
demanding volume from outside the ship. A voice that pervaded space,
that pulsed like a yammering animal gone mad, that hooted sometimes
like a locomotive lost on a whirling track.

"It's Unk," Bill chattered. "I know it's Unk. Somehow he's followed us
here. He's after me, Molly. After all the dirt I did him. His ghost."

"Silly." She put her cold palm on his mouth. Is came running down the
corridor. She jumped into Bill's arm, shivering. She was frightened.
Bill almost sobbed.

"Darn that Unk! If he makes Is lose her pups--"

After awhile he lay down again, drawing the covers over him, Is under
one arm, Molly warm under the other. In the darkness somewhere, Was
sniffed rather unconcernedly around the room.

All night they listened to the Voice's peevish mutter.

Molly gripped his hand under the covers.

"It's slowing down. I made out a word then. It sounded like--like dogs.
Bill, it's not Unk. I'm sure of that."

Bill went nuts. "That makes it worse," he yelled, jumping out of bed.
"If it isn't Unk, who is it? There isn't anybody out here. There aren't
any suns, any planets, any nothing. Who would be out here?" He paced
the room, pulling at his hair. Then abruptly he climbed back in bed,
shivering and mortally scared. And listening....

On bumbled the Voice. Speeding. Slowing. Sometimes seeming to catch up
with their thought processes, then going past.

"He's trying to synchronize," said Molly quietly. "He's going nuts
doing it. He's getting madder and madder. This is liable to go on for
days. I'm going to get up and fix breakfast."

After she left, Bill mentally told the Voice to go to hell, and fell
asleep. Was climbed all over him a half hour later to let him know
breakfast was ready.

The Voice had stopped.
