
"What a coupla mutts we were," Bill told Molly. "Letting our
imaginations run haywire."

"Oh, I agree with you," said Molly, being agreeable as usual. "We
imagined it all, didn't we, Is?" Is wagged her prize-winning tail in
agreement.

Bill squirmed. "Well," he protested, "Is was just cold. We imagined she
was scared. Just like I imagined it was Unk. My guilty conscience. And
you weren't feeling so good in the first place. Nice setup for a fancy
group hallucination."

Molly was pressing a house-dress energetically and just smiled at him.
Bill muttered about the obstinacy of the female mind and ladled out
a generous helping of artificial dog food he'd synthetized from the
matter-converter. Is stuck her pink tongue greedily into the mess.

Was looked idly on. Not having any unborn pups to feed, Was wasn't
hungry. But suddenly Was looked up at Bill and barked once, sharply.
At the same time, Is's beautiful dark eyes became anxious. She started
to shiver. She cowered. Bill blanched. He scooped up Is, holding her
against his chest. Molly stopped ironing.

"What is it, Bill?"

"Don't get scared," he chattered. "It's coming back. The dogs heard
it. Maybe they're tuned a little higher than we are. Honey, it wasn't
imagination. HERE IT COMES!"

It came. A blatting, vocalized anger that trembled the ship. Molly
was somehow in Bill's arms, Is for once forgotten. And the Voice came
clear, the angry, peevish muttering of an old man.

"Stupid bits of living matter. Eons have I tried to reach their low
thinking level. They are incapable of responding. Best to destroy them."

"Bill! Answer him!"

Bill ran his tongue around the inside of his parched mouth. "Uh--" he
said. "Wait a minute, Unk. I mean Voice. We hear you."

The Voice, who most assuredly could not be Unk, went wild. It
skittered, it slid, it throbbed with unholy excitement. Then it came
back, roaring, "Why did you not answer me, insignificant creatures?"

"Uh--" said Bill, sweating.

"Answer me! Do you dare to ignore me, the Supreme, the Only
Intelligence in the universe?"

"Well," said Bill, glassy-eyed. "That is, there doesn't seem to be much
to say--"

"NOT MUCH TO SAY!"

The Supreme Intelligence went into a spin.

"I shall destroy you, do you understand me, you insignificant
accretions of matter? How dare you exist? Know you that matter
disappeared billions of years ago. You do not belong in this universe!"

Bill blinked. He met Molly's anxious glance. Then something made him
grin. His lips moved. "He's as crotchety as Unk was. I can handle him."

Molly's lips smiled tremulously in agreement.

Bill said brazenly to the Voice, "I am, therefore I am--if you've read
your Descartes. In other words, we're here, so we belong. Sell me
something else." He waited for the lightning bolt. It didn't come.

"Descartes? Sell? Speak plainly, stupid creature. Or are you incapable
of true thought? That would be the final irony. After slowing my
thought-rate down over eons of time. To find that you cannot think!
Yet, what else could I expect of your intelligence, hampered by its
envelope of living matter?"

"We can think, Voice," Bill offered. "What did you--?"

"SILENCE!" The word roared out furiously. "How dare you question me,
the Pervader of all, the Only Entity? Do you wish to be destroyed?"

"You're going at this wrong," Bill said doggedly. "You're trying to
sell me something. First of all, you get the customer's confidence,
after a manner of speaking. You sell yourself first, see?"

Molly nodded vigorously, her hand over her mouth, her eyes sparkling
with repressed glee. _You're going at it right, Bill._ Bill's shoulders
went back. He was still scared stiff but he threw himself in full blast.

"Just let me give you a hint, Voice," he said. "We're a couple
cooperative pieces of matter. But you ain't said nuthin' that makes us
like you. Sell us."
