
"Speak," said the Voice sternly. "Where are your thoughts? They have
faded. Or is it that my strength is failing so that I cannot pick up
your lower-order vibrations? Speak, I command you!"

Bill darted a flurried look at Molly. He repeated himself to the
Voice, shouting. Back came the Voice, outraged.

"Your thoughts buzz. You are seeking to evade me. I shall destroy you!"

Bill looked desperately around. "Something's wrong!" he told Molly.
"Where's Was?"

"He was," said Molly, looking under tables.

"Get him back!" Bill sweated. "Hurry. We still haven't got the Voice
where we want him. He's liable to get mean." Distractedly, he started
aft, holding the unhappy Is close to his chest. Molly fell into running
step beside him.

"But why?" she asked anxiously. "What's Was got to do with it?"

"Speak," cried the Supreme Intelligence. "Your time is short unless you
continue communication. You dare--" Vituperation. Outrage. Bill broke
into a run.

"It's the dogs," he yelled at Molly. "I can't think of any other reason
we'd break contact. Dogs have a high psychic sense. The way they can
find their way home. The way they howl when somebody dies. Intuition.
Sumpin'. I don't know. But they sensed the Voice coming back before
we ever did. Our thoughts are heterodyning through their telepathic
level. Like a radio beam. When Was went out, half the power of the beam
failed. Get it?"

"Oh, sure," Molly yelled back. "And you throw algebra at me when we're
on the brink of death!" She darted ahead, pleading for Was to come
out from wherever he was. Was came out readily enough and jumped into
Molly's arms and apparently was perfectly willing to continue as part
of the hookup.

"All right, Voice," Bill said unsteadily. "We're back." He held his
breath. Maybe he was right. Maybe he was wrong. But the Voice came in,
drenching them with anger, but with ample evidence that communication
had been reestablished.

"Once more," it said sternly, "and you shall be obliterated for having
so impolitely intruded upon my meditation."

"_We_ intruded on _him_," Bill muttered.

"Now, matter, let me speak of myself. Know you that I am the only
entity that exists, if I exclude your puny selves. I am thought. I am
intelligence. I was born unuttered ages ago, when thinking life first
appeared.

"I could be called pure life-force--theta. But that theta was trapped
by matter, enturbulated by it. As matter disappeared, Theta was freed
from its entrapment, and I, the Supreme Entity, came into greater and
greater ego-awareness."

The Voice ebbed abruptly, then came back with a frightened roar.

"My strength is being drained! The millions, the billions of years are
passing. I am aging! How hard it is to maintain communication with your
low order of intelligence.

"But I must speak, and I must receive your answers, even
though--fury--your own voices are like growls and whines, and even
though the psychons of my being are inevitably disintegrating. Know
you, matter, that once this disintegration is complete I shall--die."

"Sympathy gag," Bill's lips formed for Molly's benefit. "If we don't
watch our step from now on, this guy can sell us anything."

To the Intelligence he said cautiously, "Now maybe you're getting to
the point. What's your product? What are you trying to sell?"

"Product? Sell?" Then the Voice swelled up. "The UNIVERSE! That is my
product, that is what you shall buy--or be destroyed!

"Now listen well. I shall not be able to repeat. When I die--" the
Voice dwelt on the words with an exquisite sadness that would have
wrenched the heart of anybody but a hardened salesman "--the universe
will have come to that state you know as the heat-death.

"No motion--and no source of motion! For eons I have brooded on this
sadness. And now I have discovered YOU!

"You, matter, shall resurrect the universe."

Is was lying still, Bill's strong fingers rubbing her absently behind
the fluffy ears. Something churned abruptly in Bill's stomach.

_Resurrection. Turn back the universe, and give me yesterday...._ He
paled. Atom bombs, space fleets bristling with men for slaughter and
weapons for slaughtering. Poverty. Misery. Kids in tenements without
lawns.

"What do you mean by resurrection, Voice?" The question came from the
very bottom of Bill. "Would the old universe come back? Our planet
Earth? The other planets?"

"Yes, yes! I would arrange it. A matrix sheeted four-dimensionally
about the universe--which is myself. A matrix through which all
re-created motion would pass. Your Earth would be remade--"

"With all human emotions," said Bill casually.

"Exactly! You shall aid in resurrecting the universe. I have had your
answer!" Delirious joy flamed through the Voice's being. "Now I shall
tell you how the marvellous occurrence can be brought about!"

Molly was looking at Bill with tears in her eyes.

"Don't you want it, Bill?" she whispered. "The way it was? Some of it
was beautiful."

"Some of it," said Bill grimly. "You--and Is--and Was--are the only
beautiful things I ever got out of it. But let him talk."
