
The Voice was already talking at a furious, excited pace. Bill would
wait until the time-machine carried them to the very end of entropy. To
the heat-death of the universe where all particles were in a state of
absolute rest.

"Do you not see it? It is only necessary to recreate motion. Start the
process over again. How? You have atom-powered motors aboard your ship.
The jets of your ship will spew out what are, in comparison with the
particles of my composition, solid particles. Gamma rays. Gravitons.
Protons. Electrons. Neutrons.

"When you have exhausted your fuel, you will convert more in your
matter-converter. You will strip the ship, if necessary. Everything
must go to supply the necessary energy of motion.

"Motion," went on the Voice deliriously. "The universe will once again
surge with the motion you have created. Around the loosed particles
atoms and molecules will form. They will grow--eventually, as you speed
through time, turn into hot suns, flaming nebulae. Planets will be born
as the billions of years pass. One of them will be Earth! And Earth
will again result in life. Your kind of life. And your kind of life
will be master of all other life.

"And of course," the Intelligence added as an apologetic afterthought,
"it will result in myself."

Bill sat up, mouth falling open. "So that's it!" he yelled. He gaped at
Molly. "_That's_ what he's been beating around the bush for. To bring
about his own resurrection after he dies!"

He burst out laughing. "So you want the same cycle to start all over
again, Voice. Because, you, as _theta_, as the life-force, will be born
again, and eventually will come to full resurrection as the universe
again dies.

"Reincarnation!

"But I'm not sold, see? Get a better sales argument. Molly and I are
happy here. We can spend our whole lives on this spaceship and get
along famously."

The Voice moaned like an animal in pain. Indeed, its energy of life,
whatever that was, seemed to be fading.

"Dying," said the Voice hollowly. "I am dying. To know that one's self
will exist no more, not even in a future life. And it would be so easy
for you!"

A note of cunning, like an old man hatching schemes to outwit hard
youth.

"Matter, I would tell you how to repair your time-mechanism so that you
could control your forward flight."

"No sale!" snapped Bill.

"You could stop at whatever point on the newly created Earth you chose.
Think of it! I offer you variety, when there might well be monotony!"

"We'll get along," said Bill wearily. "You haven't even got your foot
in the door."

Molly tugged imploringly at his arm. "Bill, you might really like it
better in the long run. I wish--"

The Voice roared in with new energy, now that it was being backed up.

"Yes!" it roared. "Your mate--your mate--ah!"

Silence, seething with unuttered thought, as if that dying mind were
skittering about the ship, exploring, discovering great wonders with
its strange senses. The feeling of privacy being invaded was so strong
with Bill that he broke loose.

"No!" he yelled. "And that's final. GET OUT OF HERE!"

But then the Voice started laughing. Crotchety, giggly laughter. Then
it spoke again, with unholy cunning.

"Matter," it whispered mockingly, "you _shall_ buy my product, to use
your own lower-level method of communicating. For, matter, what are you
going to do for green grass on this spaceship? For trees? For Sunday
schools? For bones buried in soft loam to be dug up later? For big ice
cream cones and long runs in the woods after rabbits? For the thrill of
snow on your paws and football games and Boy Scout hikes and the sheer
joy of howling at the Moon at night?"

"Huh?"

"Matter," said the Voice cunningly, "your mate is going to have pups!"

Bill darted an amazed glance at Molly. Molly's was looking back at him
just as amazedly.

"I'm not, Bill," she said. "I know I'm not. He's crazy. He doesn't know
what he's--"

Then she clapped a hand over her mouth, her eyes wide with sudden
hysterical amusement. "Don't you get it, Bill," she choked. "He's mixed
up. Is is going to have the pups!"
