
Bill got it. Suddenly everything clicked into place. The sheer insanity
of it. The senility of it. And the utter beauty of it! He began to
grin, the grin turned into a laugh, the laugh into something that was
momentarily hysterical. Then he quieted.

"Molly," he said, "put Was down."

Molly dropped the dog. Was departed the room in a flash.

"The Intelligence can't hear us now," Bill explained.

Then he stood over Molly, gently clasping her shoulders in his big
hands, and shaking her a little, with affection.

"Sweet Molly," he said wryly. "You really want the world back, don't
you? But Molly, it's no good, it's no good the way it was. We can't
have it that way again.

"But we can have a different order of things. And I'll stake my life
that it'll be a better way.

"The Intelligence tipped us off, of course, when he said _you_ were
going to have the pups. But, actually, _the Intelligence isn't talking
to us_!"

Molly nodded gravely. "I know, Bill. That's the way it seems, doesn't
it? Our thoughts are going through the dogs' heads."

"Yeah." Bill was almost musing to himself. "He's talking to the
dogs--and thinks the dogs are talking back to him. He's old, Molly.
He's crotchety and self-centered and probably senile. I doubt if he can
really see us--only sense us--"

From somewhere the Voice was coming in, querulous, demanding
communication, but with fright dominant in its thought-tones. Molly and
Bill paid no attention.

"The Intelligence made an easy mistake, for him. After all, in this
ship are two sets of beings. Both with four legs. Both wearing
clothes--those things you made for Is and Was." He grimaced amusedly.
"And remember how he complained that our thought-voices seemed like
growls and whines?

"Well, he's mixed up. He's mistaken the dogs for the intelligences
aboard this ship. His conception of material life is some weird
combination of human and dog characteristics--but mostly dog.

"Therefore he's offered to arrange this matrix-thing he talks about
so that dogs will evolve on the new Earth as the dominant, mastering
life-form.

"How about it, Molly? Should we throw the universe to the dogs?"

Molly gave him one pointed look, then she stood on tiptoe and kissed
him. "I always want what you want, Bill," she said tenderly. "I always
do, somehow." Then she went aft, coaxed Was out from wherever he was,
and came back with him licking her ear. The communication beam was in
operation again.

"I cannot hear you," the Voice moaned weakly. "To lose contact, after I
dissipate my life energy and go even nearer to death--"

Bill slipped his arm around Molly's waist. "We're here, Voice," he said
gently. "You set up the matrix, the way you planned.

"You've made a deal."

The second thing to know about a salesman? He's a fall guy for a good
sales talk.