
"But...." Mr. Rapp was not quite sure why he disapproved, but he did. On
the other hand, the repairman appeared to be very definitely sure of
what he was doing, as he peered into the back of the television set.

"Have you ever tried ... ah, this method before?"

"Never ran into any hexed TV sets before," the repairman said,
straightening up. "Don't worry, though. I got the touch, like with
poetry. Same thing, in fact. All magic spells rhyme, see? Well, I used
to rhyme, back before I really started swinging. Anybody can rhyme. And
the rest is just instinct."

He had been scribbling something on a notepad, as he spoke. Now he bent
down, to take another look at the back of the set, and nodded with an
air of assurance.

"The tube layout," the repairman told Mr. Rapp, exhibiting his notebook.
"That, and Ohm's Law, and a couple of Hindu bits I picked up listening
to the UN on the radio ... makes a first-class spell."

Mr. Rapp backed away, nervously. "Look, if it's all the same to you...."

"Don't flip." The repairman consulted his notebook, and moved to stand
in front of the screen. The picture showed a smiling newscaster,
pointing to a map which indicated something ominous.

"Cool, man," the repairman said. "Here we go." He lifted his hands in an
ecclesiastical gesture, and his voice became a deep boom.

"6SN7, 6ac5, six and seven millivolts are running down the line, E
equals R times A, that's the way it goes, go round the other way, Subhas
Chandra BOSE!"

Afterward, Mr. Rapp was never quite sure exactly what happened. He had
an impression of a flash of light, and an odd, indefinite sound rather
like the dropping of a cosmic garbage can lid. But possibly neither the
light nor the sound actually happened; at any rate, there were no
complaints from the neighbors later on. However, the lighted screen was
certainly doing something.

"Crazy!" the repairman said, in awed tones.

Mr. Rapp, his view partly blocked by the repairman, could not see
exactly what was happening on the screen. However, he caught a brief
glimpse of the newscaster's face. It was right side up, but no longer
smiling. Instead, the pictured face wore a look of profound alarm, and
the newsman was apparently leaning far forward, his face almost out of
focus because of its nearness to the lens. Just for a moment, Mr. Rapp
could have sworn he saw a chair floating _up_, past the agonized
expression on the screen.

Then the screen want gray, and a panel of lettering appeared, shaking
slightly.

OUR PICTURE HAS BEEN TEMPORARILY INTERRUPTED. NORMAL SERVICE WILL BE
RESTORED AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. PLEASE STAND BY.

"I was going to give you a bill," the repairman said. "Only maybe we
better just charge it up to customer relations."

The letters remained steady on the screen, and Mr. Rapp studied them.
They were right side up.

"You fixed it," Mr. Rapp said, a little uncertainly. "I mean, it's
working. I ought to pay...."

"I goofed," the repairman said. He picked up his tools, and moved toward
the door. "Like, I won't mention it to anybody if you won't. But I
goofed, all right. Didn't you see the picture?"

"But whatever you did ... it worked," Mr. Rapp said. "The picture's
right side up."

"I know," the repairman said. "Only somewhere ... there's a studio
that's upside down. I just goofed, Pops, that's all."

He closed the door behind him, leaving Mr. Rapp still staring at the
immobile, right-side-up message on the glowing screen.

[Illustration]

The End.



