
Ballard smiled at the stars as he bounded back to the hill where the
tools lay. Walton had been a fool to lock him out here with cutting,
burning, and pounding equipment--and almost two hours in which to use
them. Things weren't so bad after all.

He decided to try the welding torch first. He crossed over to the
almost-completed blinker tower and picked up the torch and power-pack,
then from a tool box he selected a cutting nozzle.

Carefully, so not to exert himself and waste oxygen, he glided down
with his gear to the aft section of the _Minnow's_ hull just forward
of the tubes where the skin was thinnest. As he ignited the torch, he
was aware of what a temptation it was to drain off all the oxygen
contained in the power-pack into his own cylinder. Quickly he went
ahead and applied the torch to the skin of the ship. Ballard glanced at
his chronometer: An hour and a half to go. Good. Fifteen minutes would
be long enough to tell whether the torch would cut through the skin or
not. If it would, then he could use the rest of the time in cutting the
hole.

After the first five minutes he turned the nozzle away and examined the
spot where it had been applied. Not a mark.

Six minutes went by. Then seven, eight, nine--

Again he looked at the skin; still no change.

Three more minutes went by. Ballard felt sweat break out on his face
as he pulled the torch away for a third time. For a moment--his eyes
still blinded by the glare--he could see nothing. His heart sank. Then
he detected a faint red spot with a whitish center. _It was working._
Three more minutes and the hole would be started. He turned back the
nozzle to the glowing spot. Then with dismay he watched the torch
sputter and go dead. Frantically he pushed the activator button--

Stunned, he finally noticed that the power-pack read empty. Walton had
nearly exhausted it on the blinker tower.

Ballard glanced at his wrist. He still had an hour and fourteen minutes.

He didn't smile at the stars this time as he went back up the hill.
Things didn't seem ironic any more, merely dangerous. He loaded the
heat-beam with its larger power-pack onto the equipment platform and
slowly dragged it behind him down to the ship.

An hour and two minutes left. He went to work adjusting the beam to its
maximum intensity; then, moving it as close to the hull as possible, he
turned it on full force.

Time seemed to have stopped. Twice in one minute Ballard glanced at his
wrist, expecting to see a lapse of ten or fifteen minutes. Only five
minutes had dragged by; he now had just fifty-seven left. His spacesuit
suddenly began reminding him of a coffin. With superhuman effort he
jerked his thoughts away from suffocation and back to the job.

Forty-five minutes to go. _The beam wasn't going to work._ The sudden
realization cut into Ballard like a knife. He should have known that in
the first place; a beam meant for plastic wasn't intense enough for the
skin of a spaceship.
