
This time as Ballard once more climbed the hill, the stars seemed to be
smiling at him. But not with friendliness. They seemed to smile _death_.

He got the jackhammer all the way down to the ship before a devastating
thought struck him. He'd forgotten that the hammer had a cracked 5R
bit; it would fly to pieces on the diamond hardness of the hull.

He sat down, stunned at the fact that he'd run out of things to try.
The ship lay before him like some impenetrable fortress. Several
precious minutes dragged by before Ballard could again calm his
spinning brain. He still had forty minutes. Had he overlooked any other
possibility of getting into the ship?

Slowly he walked around the _Minnow_, concentrating as he'd never
concentrated before. Then as he stepped in front of the drive tubes
something clicked: _The main tube was large enough for him to crawl
into. If he could remove the recoil plate and hydraulic mechanism,
he might be able to burn a hole through the ordinary steel bulkhead
beyond._

Half-bounding and half-running, he returned from the hill with the
tool box. After selecting several likely wrench sizes, he grabbed a
flashlight and crawled up the tube. He wasted five minutes unscrewing
the first bolt holding the plate in place. The second bolt was so
corroded he couldn't budge it. Cursing he crawled out and dragged in
the jackhammer, hoping the cracked 5R bit would hold until the bolt
was knocked out.

It almost held, flying to pieces just as there was a quarter inch to
go. Frantically he somehow managed to knock the remainder out with the
chuck of the hammer. But it had taken Ballard five more minutes. _Only
twenty-five left._

He went out and grabbed a crowbar and pried the plate off, recoil
cylinder and hydraulic fluid following like a jack-in-the-box.
After cleaning out the drive tube he almost lost his reason when he
discovered the cable connecting the beam to the power-pack wasn't long
enough to reach the bulkhead. Fortunately he found an extension in the
bottom of the tool box.

_Fifteen minutes to go._

That should be just long enough. He switched on the beam. Now time
seemed to race by. At ten minutes to go the bulkhead turned a
cherry-red. At five minutes it was almost white. At four, the steel
started to buckle. At three--the heat-beam suddenly went dead. The
power-pack was empty.

Ballard's reason reeled. He grabbed the crowbar and jabbed at the fast
cooling metal.

_Too late._

In the one minute he had left to live, Ballard suddenly became calm,
reconciling himself to his end. Wearily he crawled out of the tube.
At least Walton would be in for a nasty surprise, with the main drive
recoil plate gone. And to make sure, he would push it off into space.
With one last surge of fury he dragged up the foot thick plate he
could never have lifted back on Earth, and started shoving to give it
momentum.

_Momentum equals velocity times mass._ Suddenly he stopped, the plate
drifting on ahead of him. Now why had he thought of that? Something
from his school days--he tried hard to remember--something about
mass....

_Mass is a constant. Weight is a variable, but mass is what knocks
holes in things--spaceships, for instance._

Just one thing could save him now--momentum. Ballard glanced at his
wrist. Twenty seconds to go. Then maybe another twenty from the oxygen
in the connecting tube. Not much time--

He bounded off after the still-drifting plate, then began forcing
it around in a semi-circle back toward the ship. The recoil plate
sluggishly began to move faster as it gained momentum. It started
getting ahead of him so he gave it one last push, and it slowly crept
away heading straight for the hull. It floated edge-wise into the aft
section--and kept on going. A three foot stream of light poured out
from the side of the ship.

Ballard started crawling into the hull and the light wavered and
brightened. He couldn't understand it. Then it dimmed altogether--

_The last of his oxygen was gone._

Dizzily he tried to squeeze through the rip. He kept slipping back ...
back. There was a roaring darkness all around him, but he could still
crawl.

For ages he seemed to be crawling over polished glass--His head crashed
into something that clanged hollowly. Some fading portion of his
consciousness told him he was inside the ship--and the clang had been
the spacelocker. Automatically, as though by instinct, he reached up
and fumbled with the handle--Then he was clumsily trying to fit a new
oxygen cylinder into place....
