
The General, who was known in military circles as a good Joe, but a
stickler for the theory of war, relaxed languidly at his desk in the
small office off the Battle Room. The other officers on duty milled
around the plotting board within his eyesight awaiting the end of the
evening shift.

It was strange and new to relax on the job after so many years of fleet
duty. But staff duty to the master computer was good, politically. He
was getting along in years, and a few more contacts here might mean a
separate fleet command of his own, perhaps in pursuit of the invader,
if the computers could ever break the deadlock.

Suddenly, the sweet reverie of the General was snapped like a tight
tension cable. A gong on the wall clanged rapidly three times and a
red flashing light next to the gong told him what his ears refused to
believe. The computer had been switched to manual. He had received no
such instructions. In fact, the computer hadn't been on manual since
the war started.

"Captain, who ordered manual control?" he barked as he sprang to the
doorway of the Battle Room.

"I don't know, Sir," stammered the Captain. His manner and bearing were
those of a man who had just been faced with a problem of cataclysmic
proportions.

"Well check with the control room--on the double--before our fleet gets
out of defensive position." His parade ground roar snapped the Captain
out of the catelepsy which had enveloped him and sent him scurrying
into the corridor.

An almost hysterical shout whirled the General back to the plotting
board.

"Sir, our fleet is attacking--_attacking!_"

"What? Where?" asked the General, his eyes darting over the board in a
frantic effort to orient himself.

"Here, Sir, see. The positions are changing gradually in an unusual
pattern. A patrol ship, a destroyer, and a cruiser have all gone right
into the enemy vortex field," analyzed the Major.

"Yes, I see--But with the enemy concentrating his ships
orthogonally--he'll build a vortex that will disintegrate each and
every ship of ours near the vortex," said the General, his mind coming
up to full battle speed as it grasped the situation. "My God! Can't
they see that they're going to certain death?"
