
A gong sounded in a muffled sort of way in the plotting room below Ruy,
as a gentle buzz told him that the computer had relinquished control.

His fingers began to play rapidly over the keys. Swift orders of
strategy were transmitted through steel conduits deep into the computer
vaults of the building. There, the orders were transposed into detailed
tactics and beamed throughout the solar system. And as his fingers
limbered to the keys, he played a deadly tune, a concerto of death.

The fleet grew alive with a sudden awareness; it seemed to be a thing
alive, straining at its bonds in response to the music played into its
computers and controls. Suddenly, the fleet sprang forward. A destroyer
shot out into the midst of the enemy fleet, launching all of its energy
in one tremendous lurch--only to go down in a flaming wreck as the
enemy ships swerved and concentrated on it. And a second ship, and then
a third ship repeated the frightful maneuver, until the whole heavens
were lighted with the flaming novae of berserk atomic drives.

"General, sir," said the Lieutenant, with sweat rolling from his brow
as he saluted.

"Yes, Lieutenant," said the General looking away from the battle map of
the solar system.

"We can't make any headway against the control room door. Must be solid
steel. Whoever got in there must have fused it shut."

"Well, get a welding torch," said the General, his eyes going back to
watch the devastation of the fleet. "We've got to get in--get that
computer back on automatic. Get explosives, if necessary."

"We've sent for a welding torch already, sir. It'll be here in a few
minutes."

"All right. Send someone for hand grenades too. We've got to stop this
sabotage before the fleet is annihilated. They're losing ships every
minute."

"Sir," interposed the Captain standing nearby, "maybe we can cut off
the computer room someway. I know it's a direct conduit, right to the
vaults from the control room, but maybe we can cut the conduits and let
the ships fall back on their emergency circuits."

"Looks like a possible alternative, Captain, though we'd put the
computer out of operation for several days," said the General. "But
we're losing our fleet this way."

Seven, eight, nine great men of war went down before the blazing force
fields of the enemy, who pounced on every sacrifice offered to it by
the computer.

The Lieutenant turned his eyes from the incandescent glare of the thick
steel conduit glowing red under the finger of the acetylene torch.
"General, its extremely resistant to cutting. I doubt if we can cut
through it before they finally get the door and frame cut away up in
the control room."

"Keep at it, boy. We've got to get through at the saboteur one way or
another. Do the best you can. The boys in the fleet are counting on
you. They're going down to certain death while we delay."
