
With the last terms of the new equations of strategy played into the
computer, Ruy sat back, gave a sigh, opened his eyes, and slipped the
electrodes from his wrist. His job was almost done. If he could keep
the others from this control panel for another half hour, the computer
could operate on his equations fully, and the battle would be won.

The first ships from Earth had already gone down in flames, expendable
sacrifices to his purpose. But they were not dying in vain. The end
result would be--must be--victory.

_Wars are fought by strategy, but also by sacrifice. Every general must
send troops into battle, must expect to sacrifice to make the enemy
commit himself in the desired way, and so make victory possible._

This was what Ruy believed. He believed it deeply, deeply enough to
throw aside his career as a rising young theoretical mathematics
officer of the fleet and to go over the heads of his unconvinced
superiors, with all their unread reports and unanswered recommendations
from subordinates, in the only way a man of action could--by taking
things into his own hands, and staking his life on the gamble.

The General, eyes riveted to the board, winced with pain as ship after
ship roiled the heavens with flaming death. And as he watched, a
gradual subtle design became apparent. For every ship he had lost, his
ships had taken a similar tally--for each sacrifice, a trap was sprung
and a similar toll taken. Computers did not sacrifice, did not send men
out to certain death. Therefore a sacrifice was greedily snapped up
as a mistake of the enemy. And such greed snapped the trap. One move
forced the next, once the bait was taken.

As the theme of the theory formed in the General's mind, he suddenly
muttered: "Even exchange will balance a computer's potential--but a
series of forced, even-exchanges can distort a fleet's position from
optimum.... I never realized it before--an optimum move is not an
optimum move--if it's a forced move."

He turned from the board and spoke quietly to the men who stood in
hushed groups watching the flaming battle.

"Gentlemen, we are winning a great victory; the war will soon be over."
