
He paused and sipped his sherry, looking reflectively out over the
silvery lake.

"Where'd you meet him?" I asked. "On assignment?"

"Oh, he'd invented a little gadget connected with the recoil mechanism
for the military so I was sent over to his place for an interview--the
usual thing. He lived in a nice old house in Oak Park, left him by his
mother and he lived pretty well, if a little on the frugal side. He was
considerate and courteous, which is a damned sight more than you can
say for most of the people a reporter gets to see.

"He gave me everything I wanted to know and a good deal more besides.
He wound up with a half apologetic question about his newest
invention--would I like to see it? I said I would so he took me down
into one of the most elaborate private laboratories I've ever seen and
introduced me to Herman."

"Ah, another character," I said, pouring more sherry into his glass.

"Herman was his robot. A neat well-oiled scrupulously-clean mechanical
man in the process of being born. He was run by electrical impulses and
was a good deal more self-sufficient than the traditional pushbutton
robot of an earlier day. Even though he wasn't quite 'born' yet Herman
did a turn or two for us, up and down the laboratory, with a precision
that was almost military.

"Unlike most robots of that day Herman had a physiognomy carefully
moulded after a human face. He looked damnably real. He could blink
his glass eyes, he could shake hands, he could nod and, because of
the mobility of his plastic-rubber face, he could even smile after a
fashion, though I always thought his smile a little grim.

"'The next step is to make him talk,' Maugham said. 'I believe it can
be done.'

"'Can he hear?' I asked.

"'That will come,' he said.

"He seemed so sure of himself that I was almost inclined to believe him
until of course I remembered all the others who had been so sure of
themselves. That seems to be a characteristic of my queer people--each
one has an unlimited belief in his own particular delusion.

"Well, Maugham put Herman through his paces and it was certainly
novel to watch. He asked me not to write anything about Herman for
publication and I didn't. I figured I owed him that courtesy. He had
great plans for Herman, he explained--he meant Herman to be his general
factotum and planned to perfect the robot as the housewife's dream. If
I'd had to guess I'd have said he might accomplish as much.

"Well, I examined Herman inside and out. It was uncanny, the
resemblance he bore to a human being. It was Maugham's conceit to
duplicate as nearly as possible the organs and characteristics of
the human body. That still left room for the complicated machinery
necessary. The skeleton was of steel with a plastic overlay carefully
moulded into the shape of a man approximately six feet high and
weighing about two hundred pounds.

"Over the entire structure he had stretched a kind of plastic-rubber
made to resemble human skin in color and texture. There were doors in
both front and back of course--to allow Maugham to service his robot,
inspect the machinery, charge and replace the batteries, oil the parts
and so forth."

"He could almost have patented that as a bachelor's companion," I
suggested.

Harrigan took another draught of sherry and smiled reminiscently. "His
enthusiasm was infectious until I got out into the open air and started
thinking about Herman's practicability. Then of course Herman slid back
to his proper plane and I saw Maugham in a more balanced perspective.
He struck me then as another little man with ideas just a trifle too
big for them.

"In the ordinary course of events I wouldn't have seen Maugham again
but about a month later he came up with another of those military
valuable gadgets and I went out to get a propaganda story for Army
Intelligence. I thought at the time that Maugham looked a little
harassed but he was as co-operative as before when he knew what
I wanted and he came through with just the right stuff for Army
Intelligence.

"After we had finished I naturally asked, 'And how's Herman?'

"He brightened a little and said that Herman was coming along fine.
Forthwith he left the room and came back with his robot. He had put
clothes on him and for a minute, candidly, I didn't know it was Herman.

"Maugham came up behind him and Herman said, 'Good day, Master.'

"Of course, his voice had a flat sort of scratchy sound, like a
phonograph, and there was no inflection of any kind but it was
undeniably speech.

"'Can he hear?' I asked.

"Maugham nodded. 'He responds to an auditory mechanism very similar in
principle to an electric eye. But he's far from perfect, Mr. Harrigan,
very far.'

"'I'd say he was pretty good myself,' I said.

"But Maugham only shook his head.

"'What's the trouble?' I asked.

"'He's too mechanical,' said Maugham.

"'You couldn't expect him to be human.'

"'No, but a little more human than he is,' Maugham answered.

"I had my doubts but I kept them to myself. After all I'm just a
reporter. I've seen a lot of things I never dreamed were possible but
none of them has warped my objectivity. Maybe he could make Herman
more human but I doubted that he could.

"Herman looked as human as a typical product of the Prussian military
machine. If he'd come in saluting and saying 'Heil, Hitler!' you could
almost have believed in his humanity--if you'd call it that, all things
considered. So I held my tongue and watched Herman.

"That robot could move around and get things for Maugham--an ashtray,
his bedroom slippers, a tray with a decanter and glasses on it. He
could dust things but he was pretty awkward at that and now and then
knocked something over. Maugham had removed all the breakables, I
noticed, so no harm was done. I saw Maugham watching Herman with
undeniable triumph and self-satisfaction but nevertheless there was an
undercurrent of doubt in his eyes.
