
"He never said a thing, however, to follow through. It was just in
the way I felt, as if this triumph and self-satisfaction were somehow
watered by some question he did not care to voice. I knew intuitively
too that whatever it was could not readily be drawn from him. But I
felt it like something tangible and, curiously--which is a testimony to
his inventive skill--I felt it to be something personal between him and
his robot.

"Just what was going on in his mind it was impossible for me to find
out, of course."

Maugham congratulated himself on his ability to maintain his composure
in the face of the reporter's interest. He was definitely uneasy
about Herman and it was only now, after Harrigan had gone, that he
relaxed a little. For one thing Herman's responses were not quite what
they should be--not so much on the negative side as on the positive.
After Harrigan had gone he eyed Herman for some time in profound
perturbation. If Maugham had to put his finger on the trouble he would
be compelled to say that Herman was becoming somewhat too human for his
own good.

His own attitude toward Herman was considerably more that of one man
to another than of inventor to invention. It was not, thought Maugham,
a good thing--it meant that Herman was in the process of becoming no
longer just an invention but an obsession. Herman, meanwhile, stood
immobile, waiting upon his command.

"Herman, go to the laboratory," said Maugham, enunciating each syllable
with the clarity necessary to the precision machinery which was
Herman's ear.

Was there hesitation in Herman's obedience? Maugham could not be
sure and this very uncertainty troubled him all the more. But once
moving Herman went forward with his customary smoothness, marching
straight down to the laboratory and waiting there for Maugham, in whose
breast pride was once more swelling at this concrete evidence of his
inventive ingenuity. He recognized that Herman was indeed almost as
perfect a machine as it was possible for man to conceive and bring into
being.

He had some question now as to whether he could improve on Herman or
not. Or whether indeed it would be wise. But his ambition overcame his
qualms and, marshalling Herman, he went to work.
