
"The next time I ran into Maugham, I saw a badly jangled man," said
Harrigan. "For one thing he looked as harassed as any man who was
ever nagged by his ball-and-chain. For another he found it seemingly
impossible to talk freely.

"'You're not looking so well,' I said to him.

"'No,' he agreed. 'I've been working.'

"'On Herman?'

"'I've worked on him enough,' he said ominously.

"I confess I wasn't particularly observant that morning. I knew
something was bothering him but I knew too, as if by instinct, that he
wasn't saying anything about it. I couldn't resist having a little fun
with him.

"'Look,' I said, 'if you scientists get around to inventing life would
it be necessary to rewrite the Bible?'

"He blinked at me, a little startled. 'Why, no,' he said, 'we're not
in conflict with the Bible. It's organized religion that's in conflict
with us.'

"'And the creation of life has nothing to do with it? I always thought
that all conflicts and arguments came back to that basic point. Who
was responsible--a Supreme Being or a process of evolution from dead
matter?'

"'Listen,' he said, 'why are you asking me all this?'

"I noticed then how extremely nervous he was. He had taken hold of my
arm and I could feel his hand trembling.

"'I'd like to know,' I answered, 'but it's not that important. Forget
it. I'm a little dubious about the scientists anyway. Whether you
worship Science or God sometimes gets to seem like six of one and a
half-dozen of the other. Or do you think it's possible to create life,
Maugham?'

"'I wonder,' he said. And nothing else.

"All this time we had been walking along toward his place. I noticed
that his steps began to lag a trifle and the closer we got to his home
the slower he walked. I gathered finally that for some reason he was
reluctant about my coming but was much too courteous to say so.

"'As long as we're so close to your place,' I said at last, 'I might as
well stop in and take another look at Herman.'

"He stopped short at that and showed his distress pretty plainly. A
newspaperman has to be impervious to most emotion and I guess I was. I
didn't bat an eyelash and let on I never saw a thing.

"'I don't know in what shape the house is in,' he said then. 'I've
forgotten just what I set Herman to doing.'

"'Well, we'll see,' I said.

"We went in. Maugham led the way, jittery as a confirmed tosspot too
long gone without a drink."

"Which reminds me," I put in. "Will you have another, Harrigan?"

"Sure. But find something stronger," he said. "Well, we went in, as I
said. I don't know what I had expected to see but there was nothing
unusual about the place. It was spic and span. You'd think he'd had a
housemaid working on it all day. And as for Herman--he was sitting in
the living room in an easy chair that was clearly enough Maugham's own
favorite.

"Maugham stared at his creation, as if he hadn't expected to see him
there. 'Herman,' he said, 'go to the laboratory.'

"The robot got up without a sound--I had expected to hear creaks, the
meshing of gears or something--and walked out of the room. Maugham sat
down. I could see that he was sweating but he seemed relieved about
something.

"'He looks perfected,' I said.

"'He's a very serviceable robot,' Maugham agreed. 'He certainly did
himself proud on this room.'

"'You mean he cleaned it?' I asked.

"'Every foot of it,' he answered. 'I gave him his orders before I left
the house.'

"'But I thought you didn't know what you'd find, what you'd set him to
doing?'

"'Oh, I knew, all right. What I didn't know was what Herman might get
to do. He's not quite perfect yet, you see, Mr. Harrigan.'

"I saw, all right. I saw that Herman had become his inventor's
obsession in a very real sense. I felt sorry for him but I had known
enough inventors to understand what had happened. They work so much
alone they're apt to over-emphasize the importance of their work. The
same thing holds true for authors and composers, I suppose. They lose
perspective--it's little more than that.

"And my friend Maugham seemed to have lost his."
