
Maugham was relieved at Harrigan's going. He sat for a few moments
after the door had closed behind the reporter. But in a moment his
relief gave way before an attitude of listening. Was there movement?
Did he hear shuffling footsteps? Or was it again his imagination?

He walked across to the door through which Herman had disappeared.
There he stood for a moment more, listening. He was undeniably nervous.
He wondered whether Harrigan had seen or not. In final analysis perhaps
it made no difference. He opened the door.

Herman stood there, immobile. For a ludicrous moment Maugham thought
that his robot had been listening at the door even as he himself had
been. But of course that was impossible. If only he could remember what
he had done to Herman the last time he had worked on the complicated
and delicate mechanism of the robot! He was convinced that something
had happened, something which had given Herman considerably more
animation than had been either planned or foreseen.

There was of course one solution, though he hesitated to resort to it
since it involved undoing everything he had done. He could take Herman
apart again and find out just how he functioned so well. He would have
been ashamed to confess to Harrigan or anyone else that he was candidly
perplexed at Herman's abilities.

He stepped across the threshold, brushing past the motionless robot,
and turned at the door to the laboratory stairs. "Come, Herman," he
said.

The robot did not move.

"Herman, go to the laboratory," said Maugham in a firm clear voice.

Still no move.

He remembered abruptly that he had given Herman this order before when
Harrigan was still in the house. Apparently then Herman had not obeyed
the order at that time. Something was wrong with the auditory mechanism.

He came back to the robot's side and tried once more. Herman's
mechanical arms came up, his fingers opened and closed on Maugham's
arm. He held him immobile.

"Stop!" commanded Maugham angrily.

Herman held on.

"Put me down," said Maugham.

Herman released him. His arms once again fell laxly to his sides. He
stood there, unblinking, apparently waiting upon his next command.

"Go to the laboratory," said Maugham again.

Slowly, almost imperceptibly at first, the robot's head turned and
shook his refusal.

Maugham stared, aghast. He was at a loss for word or deed.
