
We entered the Foundation. It had been erected around the Veld, when he
first came and there were men who could question.

Now the building was neat and kept up, but all its many rooms were
empty, and all its many machines were still. Charpantier had his
cottage on the West--a very learned man had used it, while working with
the Veld--and I had mine on the East, where a military commander had
kept his family.

The Veld lived in the heart of the Foundation, in the odd-shaped room
whose walls traced the configuration he had been forced to assume when
his broken transporter had interrupted his journey between--where?--and
the home he pined for. Men came from the town below the hill to care
for the building, but Charpantier or I had to go fetch them. They no
longer questioned. They distressed us with their constant need for
commanding, and so every time they were finished with their work we
commanded them homeward. No Earthly creature lived on the hill.

The Veld was kindly, but an end comes to kindness. The time came when
the questioning of men would have led them, if answered, irrevocably
into Veldish ways.

It was perhaps a kindness, too, that the Veld did what he did to
questioning creatures. But however it may have been, now there were
only men to be commanded. Charpantier commanded in the West, and I in
the East, and the Veld, though he permitted us to question all men, and
each other, commanded us.

Charpantier and I did not often speak to each other while in the
Foundation. We were too near the Veld, and insufficiently full of
ourselves. But as we rode down the elevator, with its noise of metal
sliding all alone in the world, Charpantier looked at me. And I knew
what he looked.

I have thought to myself that Charpantier says of everything: "Why
is this thing not perfect?" while I say to myself: "Where is the
perfection in this thing?" Surely my thought is as potent as his. But
you see his advantage over me, for he was forever safe from what I
might look at him, but I, I was not safe.

We reached the chamber of the Veld. We opened the door and displayed
our accumulation to his perceptions.

"My-being reflects you," the Veld told us from his perception, and
seeing that he was become beautiful, I knew we had done well. "Now will
I make, and take my way, and you in your sorrow stay to see the world
restored."

This was as he had promised the world, and us, before he put an end
to questioning. Though only we remembered. But I wondered--I did not
question; I wondered--as I imagined his making of the new transporter,
taking my imagined thing from what I knew of how he had made us; I
wondered whether the world was safe.

I thought of the chamber beside this one, where we had been born. I
had often been there, only to look. There is the tank--the Rochester,
Minnesota, Biophysical Equipment Co. tank. And there is the Velikaya
Socialisticheskaya Rossiya coagulator, and the IBM 704, and the Braun,
Boveri heater. There stand the cabinets, with their Torsen, Held
Artztmetal refrigeration units. And the cabinets stand full of flasks
and ampules, and there is the autoclave full of Becton-Dickinson Yale
syringes, and dangling from the wall are the Waldos the Veld used to
manipulate all these things.

And of all these Earthly things, the Veld made men not entirely
Earthly, for the Veld is a Veld.

Now soon, the new transporter would take the Veld away--in ways I
wondered were perilous--and it would be Charpantier and I who stayed to
see the world restored.

Charpantier and I, who called ourselves, but had no names.

He commanded us to go and we went, I East, Charpantier West. I saw
Charpantier hurry down his side of the hill, handsome and hasty under
the stars. I walked--for me, to run is to risk--and I trembled,
for me to feel is to know, and the Veld was desperate. He slept at
night, secure from questions even though he slept, for his power once
exercised was irrevocable so long as he existed. But tonight he did not
sleep; he made.

I thought of my assumed man, on his assumed island, red-eyed and
tremulous of hand, bent over his pot, stirring, stirring, unable to
wait for morning. I thought of the light from his fire, shining on
the dumb eyes of his faithful messengers waiting at the edge of his
clearing. The messengers are dismissed from service, yet not quite sure
they are dismissed. And I thought of this Earth, and the Veld's old
promise to us that tomorrow it would wake knuckling its eyes, and need
a loving voice to say there was an end to nightmares.

I would speak and Charpantier would speak, but what would we say? And
in what voices, born of the Veld's touch on the Waldos? And would there
be more than speaking to do?

I did not think there was much I could do but speak. Charpantier lacks
a finger, but I ... I have hands, but I lack them.

Oh, but the stars were cold! The Moon in this season was a day Moon,
and now below the horizon. Stars, stars and galaxies, but beyond them,
where the Veldish beings lived, nothing I could see, and below the
stars, too, here where I reached the brow of the hill and clumsily
opened my wings, here, too, nothing, as I lurched into the night and in
great strain beat toward the places of men.
