
I had a favorite place; the place I had chosen to begin to speak from.
It was small, as men measure things--a few lights in the darkness,
here the sheen of a lake, there the tiered wooliness of trees--a town
in which I had disposed those men who must first unbind themselves
from the years of no questioning. For unlike the Veld and his
transporter--and even the Veld needed a transporter--Charpantier and I
could not be everywhere.

It was my thought to reassure these men first, and have them go out
and reassure others, as older brothers will soothe the younger in the
night. I knew from an old argument that Charpantier planned the same.
But, of course, they would not be the same sort of men for Charpantier
as for me.

Still, they were all men. Once they had all rubbed the sleep from their
eyes they would tell each other what they saw, and in the end and all
men would have agreed on the shape of the world, so it would not matter
what imperfections Charpantier pointed out, or what implicit glories I
perceived.

If the Veld's hand did not tremble as he stirred his pot.

And yet it had--it had; Charpantier had said more than he thought, when
he thought to stop up my mouth with myself.

I faced away from the Foundation, now mile on mile behind me. But my
eyes turned inward, and in me my mind hovered over the Veld. I had no
actual distant eye--no way of seeing beyond the curve of the world or
through the haze of the air; no ear to listen to a sound so far away it
cannot urge the molecules of air my pinions grope at. But often it is
well enough to think, for any thought seems accurate enough to act on,
and in time thoughts grow so practiced that they might well be eyes.
And so I saw the Veld, though I did not see him, and I saw him falter.

In me, the Veld suddenly told: "I have made, and I go. Forgive me for
your sorrow." And I forgave him, as I had forgiven him long ago. For
his duty was to men, not to ourselves who were part of that duty. And
Charpantier, I knew, had nothing to forgive, for he was glad of his
sorrow.

The wind numbed my eyes. I wept.

Under the cold stars, my crude cheeks glistened. I hovered over the
town, where some men slept and some men worked, because some machines
run during the day and some run at night, and I listened for anything
else the Veld might have to tell, for he was my irrevocable commander
as long as he existed on this Earth. I also listened with the ear of
habituated thought.

And I heard. In my mind's eye, I saw the Veld use the Earthly
transporter, but it was not with my mind's ear alone that I heard what
I heard.

The pot erupts. The stranded man claws back in agony so great he
cannot even scream, arms, legs and face smoldering, and jounces on the
ground, to lie, to moan, to be a long mindless time dying. And at the
clearing's edge the little messengers have no one to say what could be
done to soothe him.

What now? Where to go, what to do, how to repair?

Oh, Veld, Veld, long-living Veld, what truly eternal sorrow!

I sank down through the air, bereft and graceless. What could I do for
the Veld? All that remained to me was what I could say to men. But I
knew as I landed among them that the Veld's promise could not be kept,
since the Veld was still here.

I cried out to the men: "Awake! Arise!" They stumbled out of their
houses, but when I said to the first of them: "Question me!" he
obediently answered: "How?"
