
The sky, up through the yellow-green leaves, was clear. The afternoon
was warm, with a slight feel of coming rain. Holman locked his hands
behind his head and half-closed his eyes. "And living alone by the
woods is dangerous," he said.

Nancy laughed. "You've just eaten lunch in it."

Holman closed his eyes. "And how do you know what Shandy is? Maybe he's
why this place got a bad name in the first place."

"He's a harmless pet. I'm very fond of him."

"Didn't your father have any ideas about him?"

"Dad couldn't figure Shandy out. He made all kinds of tests. Shandy's
the only one of his kind we ever saw. But, see, dad wasn't sure what he
was originally. He's a mimic, an over-done chameleon. I don't know. I
like him."

Sitting up, Holman said, "Okay." He touched Nancy's shoulder. "Look,
we've known each other, what? over a year now."

"Since you made that ridiculous field trip with your pupils and
trampled all over everything." She tucked her legs under her and leaned
toward him.

"Yeah. So let's not argue or anything. But, really, Nancy, I would sort
of like to marry you."

"I know."

"Have you any idea if you're nearing a decision?"

"Oh, yes."

"And?"

"Well, I think we can."

"Marry?"

"Uh huh."

"Fine." After he'd kissed Nancy, Holman became aware of a shambling off
in the trees beyond their picnic spot.

Twigs crackled and a medium-sized gorilla crashed into the open.

Holman let go of Nancy and asked her, "Shandy?"

The gorilla was carrying a large book in one paw.

"Yes," Nancy said, smiling. "He's been nosing through the storeroom
again. Must have been in one of my old picture books."

The gorilla came up near their picnic basket and held out the book.

"He wants me to read to him, Ken. He gets that way now and then."
Nancy took the book and opened it to the title page. "Earth fairy
tales. This is one of your favorites, huh, Shandy?"

[Illustration: "_He wants me to read to him, Ken._"]

Bobbing his gorilla head, Shandy squatted down among the fallen leaves
and smacked his paws together.

"Is he _intelligent_?" Ken asked incredulously. His scalp began to
crawl.

"Oh, no.... Well, let's start at the very beginning again," Nancy said.

Shandy rested his head on one clenched paw.

"Once upon a time," Nancy started.

Holman stood and grabbed up his windbreaker. "I've heard this one
before. I'll drop by your place in the evening. Be finished by then?"

Nancy half closed the book with her finger as a marker. "You're angry?"

His coat seam jammed and Holman decided to wear the coat open. "No." He
walked away into the woods. He was only a few steps into the trees when
Nancy started the story again.
