
After closing the storeroom door, Holman carried the two old suitcases
down the bright corridor to Nancy's kitchen.

Nancy smiled at him and then at the brown, scuffed luggage. "Oh, sure,
those will do," she said. "I guess the movers will be able to take care
of the heavy stuff."

Holman agreed and picked up his half-finished cup of coffee. "And we
can leave lots of the stuff here. If we're going to use this as sort of
a summer place. I don't think we'll have to worry about vandals."

From the doorway Nancy said, "Not many girls bring a spaceship as a
dowry."

Holman took her shoulders and turned her back into the room. "We can
make Shandy sort of a watch-dog."

"If he ever comes back."

"It's only little more than a day he's been gone."

"You were unkind to him."

"I know. I'm sorry."

Nancy edged around him and went to stand by the stove. "More coffee?"

"Okay." Holman was halfway to her when the knock sounded on the
spaceship door.

"Maybe it's Shandy," Nancy said, partly surprised, partly relieved.

"Maybe. I'll get it."

When Holman opened the door a tall, slender young man, wearing a
conservative suit, stepped out of the darkness and into the light of
the corridor. He had a neat black mustache and was carrying a big bunch
of red and gold forest flowers. "Is Miss Nancy at home?"

"Who are you?" The young man was standing close to him but Holman
didn't move back.

The young man bowed slightly and smiled. "Tell Miss Nancy it's Shandy.
Or better, Mr. Shandy."

"Christ," said Holman, backing now.

Shandy bowed again politely and walked to the door of the kitchen,
knocking on the wall before he entered.

Holman jerked himself together when he heard Nancy gasp, and ran back
to her.

Shandy was sitting in a kitchen chair, his legs crossed. "It's a rather
interesting story, Miss Nancy," he said, smiling evenly.

Nancy reached out and turned off the stove. "I imagine."

Shandy brushed each side of his mustache. "Well, to begin then. I was
in the wood and suddenly I tripped, carelessly, over a fallen log
and was knocked unconscious. When I recovered I found myself in this
state." He paused to rub his head. "And, of course, I remembered."

Looking straight at him, Nancy said, "You'd had amnesia."

"Yes. You see, Miss Nancy, many years ago, I'm not sure how many, my
people lived here and I was quite a prominent member of the ruling
class. But I incurred, unfortunately, the wrath of an evil scientist."

"And?" asked Holman. For somebody who'd recently been a teddy bear,
Shandy looked pretty dapper.

Shandy smiled. "She put a spell on me which caused me to change shape,
and also made me forget what I had originally been."

Nancy laughed softly. "Well, it's good to have you back."

With a faint flourish Shandy held out the wild flowers. "For you, Miss
Nancy."

"Why, thank you, Shandy."

Holman leaned against the wall under the clock and eyed Shandy. "You
back to stay?"

"Well," Shandy said. "I've known Miss Nancy quite a while. And am
really quite fond of her. I hate to see her go." He looked at the
flowers Nancy held against her chest. "I have come to ask Miss Nancy
to allow me to court her. With all due respects to Mr. Holman."

"Damn it to hell," Holman said, straightening.

Nancy placed the flowers on the table and smiled at Shandy. He stood as
she approached him. Nancy laughed and put her arms around the young man.

With her head against Shandy's chest Nancy said, "Poor Shandy. Poor
Shandy." She made him sit down again. Then she patted him fondly on the
head. "Stay right there, Shandy." Nancy hurried from the room.

Holman followed her. "Listen, are you _sure_ he isn't intelligent?
Because, my God, the scientists down at the settlement--"

Nancy said, "Oh, no, Ken. He just copies things he's heard people say.
Wait a minute." She disappeared into the storeroom. When she returned
she was holding a dusty album in her hand. Holman followed her back
into the kitchen.

Shandy looked at the album for a moment and then smiled. "I meant
well," he said.

"I knew I recognized you," Nancy said, turning a third through the
book. "My Uncle Maxwell when he graduated from Mars-Yale." She slid the
picture out and held it toward Holman, but he didn't take it.

Shandy said, "Hated to see you go."

Come to think of it, Holman thought, he does just repeat things people
are always saying.

Setting the book beside the flowers, Nancy said, "What are you really,
Shandy? I've never had a chance to talk to you before, except in a
one-sided sort of way."

Shandy folded his hands and uncrossed his legs. "I don't remember just
now, Miss Nancy. I used to know. I don't think there are many of us
left now." He touched his mustache again, smoothing it. "Maybe in the
mountains there are some more. I don't remember."

Nancy patted his head. "I'm going to marry Ken, Shandy. And live in the
settlement."

"You'll enjoy that."

"You think you'll stay this way?" Holman asked.

"I might. I don't know."

Holman held out his hand to Shandy. "Anyway, we want you to stay here
and keep watch over things."

Shandy hesitated and then shook hands. "I might as well."
