
One guest, however, distinctly annoyed him. It was Rupert Hoag, the
last of the pioneers, that walking fossil from the first days of
space travel. "Wide-open, Ambassador," he creaked with an antiquarian
reference to atom-jets and a wave of his one hand that was not formal
at all. Otherwise crippled from long-ago radiations was Hoag, but at
a hundred and forty his one eye was bright. Probably he had not been
invited to the gathering but just had barged in, being one of the
half-dozen holders of High Privilege, that peculiar, all-inclusive
reward for distinguished service. The trouble with Hoag was that he
never would confine himself, like a decent old-timer, to remarking on
the progress his years had seen.

This official farewell had a purpose. The men on Earth, secure and
sane, were trying to give one last tenuous thread of security to the
very sane, very well-adjusted (on Earth) Ambassador who in space was
ready for a mental crack-up. No psychiatry or long-distance hypnosis
had yet prevailed against the rampant inferiority, the primitive and
infantile desire to crawl and hide which came often to Earthmen in the
presence of alien, superior races. A foreigner who came to Earth they
could respect and that was all; a foreigner met after a trip through
space they met with their every fear and complex laid naked perhaps by
artificial gravity, by unknown rays--by something.

Lampell, the first to make contact with the first unworldly race--Good
Lord, Lampell actually had been a contemporary of leering old Hoag,
there!--had met on Mars a cynical bunch of mental wizards who had had,
and still had the most unholy good time with the bumbling Earthmen who
would dare anything for trade. Of Lampell's crew, twelve out of forty
returned sane, half-dead but sane, and the twelve did not include
Lampell, first to set foot on Mars. That had been eighty years ago.
Two other cultures were discovered in the next thirty years, those on
Jupiter and upon Saturn's moon Phoebe. Always, the first few to expose
their naked, terrified minds to a cosmic sophistication met the same
fate. There was an old saying which the Ambassador now remembered a
little too clearly:

_Crazy as an ambassador...._

The Ambassador jerked his hand away from his face. But all in Center
Room had seen the desperate gesture, made as though one could wipe away
fear.

"Say, Ambassador." That was old Hoag. "Say, Ambassador, I've been
saving up something to tell you."

Annoyance ran around the ivory table. But High Privilege was High
Privilege. All Hoag had to tell the public was that the Ten-year men
hadn't been polite to him--

"Say, Ambassador, you know, I had a funny experience once, my first
trip to Phoebe. Was the second trip made there, by the way. Mighty
funny experience and it wasn't ever made public, because you know how
things were." The old man chuckled rustily. "Nobody wanted to say
anything against space travel until all the stock was sold. But I've
been saving it up for a time just like this, to tell an Ambassador
who's on a spot. Been saving up--" Hoag's mind seemed to skip, and
he banged the table, laughing. "Yes sir, that was years before the
Phoebean platinum scandal, and what Rupert Hoag ever had to do with
that scandal, I'm _not_ saying!"

The Ambassador said pointedly, "I understand that you were rather
fortunate upon Phoebe, Captain Hoag." His voice was unsteady with
anger. The President signalled across space, anxiously, that he should
please be patient.

Hoag, still laughing and shaking his bald, scarred head reminiscently,
settled back in his chair of little tension-bubbles. "Take a load off
your feet, Ambassador, and listen. Wish I could give you a cigar."

The Ambassador took a load off his feet while the old man lit up in
great comfort. As well, the Ambassador thought, to bore himself with
Hoag while waiting for a Venusian signal as to pace about with jangling
nerves. Soothing music, escapist motion pictures he could not listen to
or look at, not in the grip of inferiority and fear.
