
Hoag blew a smoke ring. "Those days, a space ship didn't go much faster
than that ring compared to nowadays. You know how we had to do when we
headed for an outside planet? Took off in the direction of the Earth's
revolution so our speed would be greater than Earth's and we'd tend to
spiral away from the Sun, and we'd have to take a gravity-pull off a
planet here and a gravity-pull off a planet there to detour us wherever
we wanted to go. Many's the ship missed connections, or with the metal
of those days she blew her tubes away and she's out there yet in an
orbit, just a coffin. Or those that first tried for Venus but went into
the Sun ... a lot of good friends of mine, Ambassador." The old man
stared bleakly ahead of him for a moment.

"And of course there was just the radar that never could follow you
much beyond five million miles. I was the first one to circle the Moon,
y'know," he put in with senile pride. "Repaired a jet in mid-course. My
hand came off a month later.

"But, as I was saying, this was on the way to Phoebe, and about a month
out...."

The old man finally dug into his story and as he warmed up to it so
did his listeners, although with a kind of self-apology for being
interested in one of those gaudy old adventure yarns of the times when
the long ships had to stand on their tails to blast off the Earth.
They'd wobble up on polymerized liquid fuel, not daring to start the
atom-blast till they were well beyond the atmosphere, then jerk away
at the heads of their beautiful, wasteful fiery trains. Even the early
atom-drive required conservation, so that it was necessary to take
those long leap-frog curves from gravity-field to gravity-field, during
which, as the ship coasted, its blast-eroded tube liners could be
replaced.

The _Lone Star_, Hoag's ship--he was an unregenerate Texan--had to cut
her drive on one of these occasions. A number of her crew, in shielded
clumsy space suits, were at work at the stern upon those terrifically
radio-active liners while they hoped for the best. Her primitive
screens picked up some approaching objects and in a little while the
great worms, almost as long as the 500-foot ship, faintly glowing, swam
into plain view against the backdrop of illimitable stars.

"Worms," Hoag repeated, waving his cigar. "Space-worms."

They were perhaps ten times as long as they were thick, blunt-ended,
with a cluster of tentacles at each end and another cluster belting
them in the middle, all the tentacles gently moving and apparently
propelling them. They were covered, including the tentacles, with a
crystalline shell that had no visible opening, but there was an eye
that swam under this shell anywhere along the body. What metabolic
process they sustained in space could not be said. It probably was
similar to that of the solar nautilus which floats in great colonies,
paper shelled, on the pressure of light inside the orbit of Mercury,
each colony like one vast resentful brain.

There were six of these worms. They gyrated in peculiar patterns,
at one time joining their bodies to form a gigantic hoop around the
ship. Different radiation patterns were made evident upon the ship's
dials, and it was obvious that these vermiform beings were trying to
communicate. Neither Hoag nor his two interpreters could make anything
of the radiation patterns, and one of the interpreters, after trying
hard, sat blindly in a corner and shivered.

Inferiority complex. Or that for a beginning while alien minds strove
impatiently to penetrate the naked and shivering Earth minds. This was
space, and worse it was space in the old times before warp-vibrant
communication, before rattled Earthmen could scream to a home base for
moral support.

The crew was still out there at the tubes when those worms came along,
and before they could crawl or jet their way to the airlock, one of the
worms plucked up a crew member. It was Able-bodied Spaceman Kroner, as
capable and steady and fearless a man who ever had boarded the _Lone
Star_. Kroner was seen at first to go rigid while the worm held him
with two tentacles and looked him over with that submerged, swimming
eye.

Suddenly Kroner blasted his oxygen-alcohol shoulder jets. The worm let
him go and recoiled.

[Illustration: _Suddenly Kroner blasted his shoulder jets._]
