
Here, in a screen whose outside viewer pointed downward, he saw the
smooth, liquid-seeming blanket of Venusian grey clouds, weirdly touched
with iridescence by a blinding sun. The clouds, believed to be over a
hundred miles thick, blanketed the entire planet. They might contain
water and oxygen somewhere below; here, where they touched space,
they were metallic vapor charged so heavily that no beam could ever
penetrate them. The Martians, who awesomely never lied, had told
Earthmen that Venusians existed; told them contemptuously. It would
not be wise to attempt a landing upon Venus without permission, the
Martians had said. Not wise for Earthmen, at any rate.

Because of the peculiar vapor there never had been electronic or
warp communication with Venus. So far, the only message from below
those clouds had come a month before to one of the patiently waiting,
patiently capsule-dropping ships--the permission to land one unarmed
ambassador. The Ambassador saw now that communication this time had
been by the same means. A rocket had come up through the clouds,
trailing a wire, and had been caught in the great cable net extended
behind the space ship.

"I had the wire plugged immediately," the sweating captain said.
"Expected to tell them to wait a minute and I'd put the Ambassador on.
But they're not listening to us, just telling us. And there's a time
limit. I would have had a line run to your suite if I'd known there was
a time limit, but I should have known there'd be a time limit, I should
have known how they act, all these races, because we're so feeble and
stupid compared--"

The man almost was gibbering. The Ambassador slapped his shoulder
heavily and stopped him. The Ambassador wanted a slap himself and his
hand missed the first time as he reached for the loud-speaker stud.

The voice came instantly, so mechanical and uninflected that it
occurred to him that a machine had spoken into a recording machine. The
Venusians must be so unearthly as to be unable to manage Earth sounds,
if they made sounds at all.

"... authority will advise him on the question of trade with Earth. He
will be freed one hour thereafter. Your ship must remain in the same
position meanwhile. The ambassador from Earth will leave your ship in
precisely eighteen minutes proceeding directly downward. He will be
picked up by our ship within the clouds. In this ship a representative
of fifth authority will advise him on the question of trade with Earth.
He will be freed one hour thereafter. Your ship must remain in the
same position meanwhile. The ambassador from Earth will leave your
ship in precisely eighteen minutes proceeding directly--"

The Ambassador snapped the stud, his teeth gritted hard against a
trembling. He was not even to land upon the alien planet, then. Not
even to talk to the head of government but with "a representative of
fifth authority." It was so condescending, so contemptuous--and so
deserved, of course, he thought, staring at the captain who stared
wild-eyed. You wanted to run. You wanted to hide. Already you felt
them inside your mind ruthlessly peering, destroying. _As crazy as an
ambassador._

Contemptuous time limit of eighteen minutes! They'd been told that it
took a minimum of sixteen minutes to get into a space suit.

"My suit! The dressers!" shouted the Ambassador. Remembering the
Ten-year men who waited to reassure him, and badly needing one last
contact--"Bring everything to the Earth screen!"

As he fled the room he saw, in the screen which showed Venus, a vast
silvery ovoid lift momentarily to the surface of the vapor, then sink
slightly and remain in a suggestion of menace neither in sight nor out
of sight, waiting to engulf him.
