
When he faced the Earth screen two expert dressers flung themselves
upon him with the pneumatic pads whose donning before the space suit
took care and time. In Center Room, all the perfectly sane, shielded
men attempted to convey by smiles their confidence in the shuddering
creature being lapped in weirdness. The Ambassador strove with all his
considerable mental power to hold the impression of those reassuring
smiles.

And that doddering fool, Hoag, with his one arm waving unwanted
friendliness, said, "Ahoy Ambassador! Now we can get to the point of
that story."

A story about superior merciless beings, calculated to break the last
weak thread of a man's confidence! "Shut up!" the Ambassador wanted to
scream across space. And would have, had not the dressers jammed his
mouth closed, at that moment, as they adjusted a throat pad.

On Earth, too, they tried to shut up Hoag but they couldn't. "I'm not
the old fool you think I am," he said. "Listen! Ambassador--gentlemen,
High Privilege!--Ambassador," he said urgently, "I told you I've been
saving this story to tell an Ambassador at the last minute when he's in
the spot you're in. I've been waiting fifty years. Listen!

"The vermiforms made this little solar system and we didn't understand,
couldn't understand. We got our liners replaced finally and no more
than half of us were capable of standing a watch when we blasted off.
Ambassador, we blasted the hell out of there!

"The vermiforms stayed where they were for a few seconds. Then they
began to follow. We were streaming a good train, of course, the old
fission train, a couple of miles of very fancy destruction and waste.
So the worms came along. They overtook us easy. And they began to dance
in and out of our train.

"Yes sir, Ambassador, they weaved and they circled in and out of that
awful atom-blast. And I knew that the atom-blast will kill anything,
chop through any armor. But not those worms! _Now_ they showed us how
superior they were! _Now_ they made fun of our power!

"And I wanted to run and hide where my officer was hiding down among
the mattresses we rigged for him among the girders along the keel. My
mind was scarred by space and by everything that Earthmen were not born
to--

"And then it happened."

Adjustments now had been made and the Ambassador could speak while the
dressers almost threw him into the inner suit. His hand clawed his face
and he said hoarsely, "For God's sake man, spare me!"

"And then it happened!" old Hoag shouted, thrusting away from those in
the Center Room who were now trying physically to shut him up. "The
worms died! They died in the atom-blast!"

The Ambassador stared, and around the ivory table they stared at the
last of the pioneers.

"Died! The vermiforms' natural armor was proof against all the rays of
space and it held out against the atom-blast for a quarter of minute.
But then it went. One after the other they went limp and the blast
spewed them backward and we could see the spreading holes in them. And
then they were out of sight, dead, killed because they hadn't known
any better, by George!

"And we went on to Phoebe and got along better than anyone else with
the things that sit inside their crystals, thinking. Got the platinum
nobody else could take. Because we knew that the universe can breed
morons, incompetents! The crystal people are smarter than Earthmen,
sure. But at least we knew we were smarter than somebody else!

"Don't you see, Ambassador," the old man said earnestly, "that only the
inferiority complex kept us from knowing right away that those worms
were no better than children? They hadn't been trying to send us any
message with radiations. No, it had been only the natural radiations of
their bodies, changing as they changed their formations around us--as
they _played_. One of them picked up poor Kroner. Why not? The thing
was curious. Took him apart, later, the way a child will take apart a
toy. My business with the square on the hypotenuse? Hell, how could
they understand when they'd never learned any mathematics?"

"How could they?" the Ambassador echoed, and he was smiling.

"And that little trick of theirs, making a solar system. Well, don't
you see that they had to show off? One of their natural functions is
simply gathering and stacking together the scattered atoms of space.
I'll bet they can't make anything but black balls of amorphous matter.
It's possible they build themselves a little world here and there to
lay their eggs on, or something. So, there they were feeling kind of
abashed because they had no space ship or anything, so they just had to
show us what they could do, and that they actually had gone and counted
the planets of this system--on their tentacles, I'll bet, since they
had more than nine tentacles. And wasn't it childish, getting together
in the middle to show us a nice, glowing sun?"
