
"Sam!" Rice turned swiftly as Burnett dragged himself up the ladder.
Red and warm, Rice's face hovered over the body of a sprawled enemy
official. "Take a look at this!"

Burnett caught his breath. His eyes narrowed. There was something wrong
with the body; his experienced glance knew that. He didn't know what it
was.

Maybe it was because the body looked a little _too_ dead.

Burnett didn't say anything, but he climbed the rest of the way,
stood quietly in the grey-metal air-lock. The enemy official was as
delicately made as a fine white spider. Eyelids, closed, were faintly
blue. The hair was thin silken strands of pale gold, waved and pressed
close to a veined skull. Where the thin-lipped mouth fell open a
cluster of needle-tipped teeth glittered. The fragile body was enclosed
completely in milk-pale syntha-silk, a holstered gun at the middle.

Burnett rubbed his jaw. "Well?"

Rice exploded. His eyes were hot in his young, sharp-cut face, hot and
black. "Good Lord, Sam, do you know who this is?"

Burnett scowled uneasily and said no.

"It's Lethla!" Rice retorted.

Burnett said, "Lethla?" And then: "Oh, yes! Kriere's majordomo. That
right?"

"Don't say it calm, Sam. Say it big. Say it big! If Lethla is here in
space, then Kriere's not far away from him!"

Burnett shrugged. More bodies, more people, more war. What the hell.
What the hell. He was tired. Talk about bodies and rulers to someone
else.

Rice grabbed him by the shoulders. "Snap out of it, Sam. Think!
Kriere--The All-Mighty--in our territory. His right hand man dead. That
means Kriere was in an accident, too!"

Sam opened his thin lips and the words fell out all by themselves.
"Look, Rice, you're new at this game. I've been at it ever since the
Venus-Earth mess started. It's been see-sawing back and forth since the
day you played hookey in the tenth grade, and I've been in the thick
of it. When there's nothing left but seared memories, I'll be prowling
through the void picking up warriors and taking them back to the good
green Earth. Grisly, yes, but it's routine.

"As for Kriere--if he's anywhere around, he's smart. Every precaution
is taken to protect that one."

"But Lethla! His body must mean something!"

"And if it does? Have we got guns aboard this morgue-ship? Are we a
battle-cuiser to go against him?"

"We'll radio for help?"

"Yeah? If there's a warship within our radio range, seven hundred
thousand miles, we'll get it. Unfortunately, the tide of battle has
swept out past Earth in a new war concerning Io. That's out, Rice."

Rice stood about three inches below Sam Burnett's six-foot-one. Jaw
hard and determined, he stared at Sam, a funny light in his eyes. His
fingers twitched all by themselves at his sides. His mouth twisted,
"You're one hell of a patriot, Sam Burnett!"

Burnett reached out with one long finger, tapped it quietly on Rice's
barrel-chest. "Haul a cargo of corpses for three thousand nights and
days and see how patriotic you feel. All those fine muscled lads
bloated and crushed by space pressures and heat-blasts. Fine lads who
start out smiling and get the smile burned off down to the bone--"

Burnett swallowed and didn't say anything more, but he closed his eyes.
He stood there, smelling the death-odor in the hot air of the ship,
hearing the chug-chug-chug of the blood pumps down below, and his own
heart waiting warm and heavy at the base of his throat.

"This is my last cargo, Rice. I can't take it any longer. And I don't
care much how I go back to earth. This Venusian here--what's his name?
Lethla. He's number ninety-eight. Shove me into shelf ninety-nine
beside him and get the hell home. That's how I feel!"

Rice was going to say something, but he didn't have time.

Lethla was alive.

He rose from the floor with slow, easy movements, almost like a dream.
He didn't say anything. The heat-blast in his white fingers did all the
necessary talking. It didn't say anything either, but Burnett knew what
language it would use if it had to.

Burnett swallowed hard. The body had looked funny. Too dead. Now he
knew why. Involuntarily, Burnett moved forward. Lethla moved like a
pale spider, flicking his fragile arm to cover Burnett, the gun in it
like a dead cold star.

Rice sucked in his breath. Burnett forced himself to take it easy. From
the corners of his eyes he saw Rice's expression go deep and tight,
biting lines into his sharp face.

Rice got it out, finally. "How'd you do it?" he demanded, bitterly.
"How'd you live in the void? It's impossible!"

A crazy thought came ramming down and exploded in Burnett's head. _You
never catch up with the war!_

But what if the war catches up with you?

What in hell would Lethla be wanting aboard a morgue ship?
