
Lethla half-crouched in the midst of the smell of death and the
chugging of blood-pumps below. In the silence he reached up with quick
fingers, tapped a tiny crystal stud upon the back of his head, and the
halves of a microscopically thin chrysalis parted transparently off
of his face. He shucked it off, trailing air-tendrils that had been
inserted, hidden in the uniform, ending in thin globules of oxygen.

He spoke. Triumph warmed his crystal-thin voice. "That's how I did it,
Earthman."

"Glassite!" said Rice. "A face-moulded mask of glassite!"

Lethla nodded. His milk-blue eyes dilated. "Very marvelously pared to
an unbreakable thickness of one-thirtieth of an inch; worn only on the
head. You have to look quickly to notice it, and, unfortunately, viewed
as you saw it, outside the ship, floating in the void, not discernible
at all."

Prickles of sweat appeared on Rice's face. He swore at the Venusian and
the Venusian laughed like some sort of stringed instrument, high and
quick.

Burnett laughed, too. Ironically. "First time in years a man ever came
aboard the Constellation alive. It's a welcome change."

Lethla showed his needle-like teeth. "I thought it might be. Where's
your radio?"

"Go find it!" snapped Rice, hotly.

"I will." One hand, blue-veined, on the ladder-rungs, Lethla paused.
"I know you're weaponless; Purple Cross regulations. And this air-lock
is safe. Don't move." Whispering, his naked feet padded white up the
ladder. Two long breaths later something crashed; metal and glass and
coils. The radio.

Burnett put his shoulder blades against the wall-metal, looking at his
feet. When he glanced up, Rice's fresh, animated face was spoiled by
the new bitterness in it.

Lethla came down. Like a breath of air on the rungs.

He smiled. "That's better. Now. We can talk--"

Rice said it, slow:

"Interplanetary law declares it straight, Lethla! Get out! Only dead
men belong here."

Lethla's gun grip tightened. "More talk of that nature, and only dead
men there will be." He blinked. "But first--we must rescue Kriere...."

"Kriere!" Rice acted as if he had been hit in the jaw.

Burnett moved his tongue back and forth on his lips silently, his eyes
lidded, listening to the two of them as if they were a radio drama.
Lethla's voice came next:

"Rather unfortunately, yes. He's still alive, heading toward Venus
at an orbital velocity of two thousand m.p.h., wearing one of these
air-chrysali. Enough air for two more hours. Our flag ship was attacked
unexpectedly yesterday near Mars. We were forced to take to the
life-boats, scattering, Kriere and I in one, the others sacrificing
their lives to cover our escape. We were lucky. We got through the
Earth cordon unseen. But luck can't last forever.

"We saw your morgue ship an hour ago. It's a long, long way to Venus.
We were running out of fuel, food, water. Radio was broken. Capture
was certain. You were coming our way; we took the chance. We set a
small time-bomb to destroy the life-rocket, and cast off, wearing our
chrysali-helmets. It was the first time we had ever tried using them to
trick anyone. We knew you wouldn't know we were alive until it was too
late and we controlled your ship. We knew you picked up all bodies for
brief exams, returning alien corpses to space later."

Rice's voice was sullen. "A set-up for you, huh? Traveling under the
protection of the Purple Cross you can get your damned All-Mighty safe
to Venus."

Lethla bowed slightly. "Who would suspect a Morgue Rocket of providing
safe hiding for precious Venusian cargo?"

"Precious is the word for you, brother!" said Rice.

"Enough!" Lethla moved his gun several inches.

"Accelerate toward Venus, mote-detectors wide open. Kriere must be
picked up--_now!_"
