
And the claw closed as Burnett spoke, closed slowly and certainly, all
around Kriere, crushing him into a ridiculous posture of silence. There
was blood running on the claw, and the only recognizable part was the
head, which was carefully preserved for identification.

That was the only way to draw Lethla off guard.

Burnett spun about and leaped.

The horror on Lethla's face didn't go away as he fired his gun.

Rice came in fighting, too, but not before something like a red-hot
ramrod stabbed Sam Burnett, catching him in the ribs, spinning him back
like a drunken idiot to fall in a corner.

Fists made blunt flesh noises. Lethla went down, weaponless and
screaming. Rice kicked. After awhile Lethla quit screaming, and the
room swam around in Burnett's eyes, and he closed them tight and
started laughing.

He didn't finish laughing for maybe ten minutes. He heard the retriever
claws come inside, and the star-port grind shut.

Out of the red darkness, Rice's voice came and then he could see Rice's
young face over him. Burnett groaned.

Rice said, "Sam, you shouldn't have done it. You shouldn't have, Sam."

"To hell with it." Burnett winced, and fought to keep his eyes open.
Something wet and sticky covered his chest. "I said this was my last
trip and I meant it. One way or the other, I'd have quit!"

"This is the hard way--"

"Maybe. I dunno. Kind of nice to think of all those kids who'll never
have to come aboard the _Constellation_, though, Rice." His voice
trailed off. "You watch the shelves fill up and you never know who'll
be next. Who'd have thought, four days ago--"

Something happened to his tongue so it felt like hard ice blocking his
mouth. He had a lot more words to say, but only time to get a few of
them out:

"Rice?"

"Yeah, Sam?"

"We haven't got a full cargo, boy."

"Full enough for me, sir."

"But still not full. If we went back to Center Base without filling
the shelves, it wouldn't be right. Look there--number ninety-eight is
Lethla--number ninety-nine is Kriere. Three thousand days of rolling
this rocket, and not once come back without a bunch of the kids who
want to sleep easy on the good green earth. Not right to be going back
any way--but--the way--we used to--"

His voice got all full of fog. As thick as the fists of a dozen
warriors. Rice was going away from him. Rice was standing still, and
Burnett was lying down, not moving, but somehow Rice was going away a
million miles.

"Ain't I one hell of a patriot, Rice?"

Then everything got dark except Rice's face. And that was starting to
dissolve.

Ninety-eight: Lethla. Ninety-nine: Kriere.

He could still see Rice standing over him for a long time, breathing
out and in. Down under the tables the blood-pumps pulsed and pulsed,
thick and slow. Rice looked down at Burnett and then at the empty shelf
at the far end of the room, and then back at Burnett again.

And then he said softly:

"_One hundred._"



