
Minutes passed, during which Ducky dozed, slumped low in the front seat,
and when Dog finally came and climbed over into his place slowly, the
face which Ducky opened his eyes on, was drawn and sober.

“You remember that I had a sister,” Dog said at last. “I don’t often
speak of her.”

“Uh-huh!”

“Married an artist guy.”

“They’re never no good.”

“Not generally, but this one wasn’t so bad, take him altogether. Used to
draw waterfalls and such, but he gave it up. Now he makes pretty
pictures for toothpowder ads.”

“Uh-huh! What about it?”

“Well, they had a son, named after me--Percival Bigelow James. I got a
letter from my sister. Seems he’s turned out bad.”

“That so?” Ducky roused himself into a sitting position. This was
better. “Rob a bank or something?”

Dog shook his head.

“Nope. Turned poet.”

“Good gosh!” Ducky slumped again. Dog went on with it.

“He must be about twenty-five or -six years old now. You remember when
we were in Klondike we got a letter from my sister about her having a
kid, and I made him a nugget watchchain.”

“Oh, yes. You bummed most of those nuggets off me. But what about it?
Ten minutes ago you were in a tooting hurry to get home, and now you sit
here drooling like a new calf.”

“I’m breaking it to you gently,” said Dog. “Fact is, Ducky, this letter
says the boy’s health aint been any too good. Threatened with T.B., I
reckon, though she don’t come right out with it. My sister wants this
Percival to come out and pay us a visit.”

“Huh?”

“Yea-ah. I’ll read you the finish of it.” He pulled the letter from the
pocket of his shirt, shucked the many closely written leaves from the
envelope and read the concluding sentences. “‘And so, because I know
that you would refuse, yet dare not give you an opportunity to refuse, I
have arranged for Percy to start West on the day after mailing this
letter, and of course you will arrange to meet him; and while your life
must be rude and living-quarters of the roughest, we are sure that the
change will be just what he needs. We have bought his ticket and berth
and shall furnish him with funds to pay for meals and incidentals, but
he must work and earn and stay with you until he has earned enough to
bring him home again. This is part of our plan--a return to health, and
the necessary discipline to make a man of him.’”

“Good gosh!” Ducky sat bolt upright now. “This letter came yesterday.
That means he’ll be here on today’s stage?”

“That’s it,” said Dog. There was nothing more to be said. When things
happen to people, things happen to them, and that’s all there is to it.
