
They summoned courage, finally, to discuss details. He could sleep in
the loft--up there with Spud Dugan, the man-of-all-work about the place.
Spud wouldn’t like it, and the boy wouldn’t care for Spud’s snoring, but
they would have to put up with one another. He probably smoked
tailor-made cigarettes. Ducky went to get a carton. He probably would be
one of those fellows that’s always got to be washing himself. Dog went
to buy some white soap, and then, remembering something, bought a dozen
cakes of laundry soap as well. Time for the stage any time now, and
presently it came, in an enveloping swirl of gray dust--a big truck,
with an extra seat crosswise behind the driver, and the back end filled
with freight.

“Here he is,” bawled Duke Envers, the driver, and added to the slim
youngster at his side: “There’s your uncle over there, him with the face
like a bench bull.”

The young man climbed down, stiffly. He wore a flappy hat that had been
pearl-colored, tweed knickerbockers, and boots of that golden yellow
shade peculiar to New York outfitting shops.

“He’s got a couple of bags that was made from a cow apiece,” added Duke,
“and they’s a crate of mail-order stuff for you, Dog.”

Percival stepped forward, blinking in the strong light. Dog, swallowing
hard, strode toward him and shook hands with a heartiness at which the
visitor cried out.

“My partner, Ducky Spence,” said Dog. Percy nodded, his right hand
safely behind his back. Ducky went for the bags, and presently returned,
staggering.

“Don’t forget that mail-order stuff,” Duke Envers bawled to Dog,
climbing back over the freight. “It’s here in the hind end. I’ll hand it
down. Looks like a washing-machine to me.”

He handed it down, and Dog carried it to the Ford, lifted it over the
side and snugged it in, between the back and front seats, on top of
sundry supplies. The stranger and Ducky followed, Ducky swaying under
the grips, his legs moving with that strange waddle which had given him
his moniker. Dog lifted the grips, plunking them down on the back seat,
which they completely filled.

“Maybe we better eat first,” he suggested. “It’s a good forty mile, and
the road’s a bit rough in spots. What do you say?” This last to nephew
Percival.

“What does it matter? What does anything matter?” squeaked Percival.

Dog looked at him, looked at Ducky. Ducky looked at Percival, looked at
Dog. It was worse than they had feared.

“Well, if you don’t want to eat, what do you want to do?” Dog asked.

“I want to go back.”

Dog grabbed him by the arm. “That’s the one place you don’t go. We eat.”

He lead the Easterner across the street to the Ideal Cafe, Ducky
following, sundry acquaintances staring. They mounted stools at the
counter.

“Ducky and I are having ham and eggs. How about you?”

Percival shivered,--perhaps shuddered,--gazing straight into the
fly-specked mirror of the back bar.

“I think I shall just have some thin toast, without butter, some
bar-le-duc jelly and a pot of oolong tea, very weak.”

Red Leonard, cook and waiter, treated himself to half a snigger. The
second half died at the look Dog gave him.

“That makes three ham and eggs, Red,” Dog said, “with some fried
potatoes and a slab of pie and plenty of coffee. If you’ve got any
comparatively modern eggs, we’d like to be favored with ’em. And snap
out of it. This is my nephew. Going up to our place for a while with
Ducky and me, to pay a visit to Spud Dugan.”

He grinned, and Red grinned back.

“Spud Dugan is our cook,” Dog told Percival, by way of conversation.
“Used to wash dishes for Red, here, but we got him to come up to the
ranch and work for us. Ducky likes to cook, but he can’t, and I’m a good
cook, but I wont, so we figured we’d better get in a neutral party.”

They ate, then, with that whole-souled attention to food which makes
conversation impossible, Percival nibbling at first, but getting in some
pretty fair work himself toward the finish, for he had not broken fast
since morning. Observing this, Dog felt encouraged, very slightly, but
his courage fell when he attempted to draw Percival into conversation on
the long ride home, while the lad sat beside him, with Ducky perched
precariously on the luggage in the rear.

“This is a fine country,” he hazarded. “Gets a bit dry at times, of
course.”

“I don’t like it,” said Percival.

“You will, all right. Probably the name sort of prejudiced you--Too
Dry.”

“What does a name matter?”

Dog stuck to it.

“Of course you heard about the big Too Dry Gulch Dam. I imagine they
talk about that a lot back East.”

“No.”

“We had a project to dam the creek in Too Dry Gulch, above our place.
Wasn’t going to cost only thirty million dollars, but that no-account
Congressman of ours fumbled the cards somehow and fell down on the
appropriation. Steve Martin, that runs the post office, he come out here
to go into the real-estate business, and he did too, and he’s in it yet,
but the boys kind of schemed around to get him made postmaster so he
wouldn’t starve to death while he was waiting for the real-estate boom
to start. You ever interested in real-estate?”

“No.”
