
But all things, even bad roads, come to an end, and finally they
arrived, and Spud Dugan, a sour wisp of a man with a bald head and
fierce mustaches, met them with a lantern and helped tote things in.

“What’s this?” he demanded abruptly, when Dog lifted out the heavy,
crated washing-machine.

“Little present for you. I’ll open it up when we get into the house.”

They went in, Percival Bigelow James following, carrying nothing. It was
a house of goodly size, made of native Montana timber such as is found
along stream-beds, with a kitchen and bedroom on the first floor, and a
loft above, reached by a ladder nailed to a side wall. Percival dropped
onto a bench in the kitchen. Spud set about putting away stores in a
cupboard. Dog found a hatchet and tore the crate from the
washing-machine.

“What-in-the-hell-is-it?” demanded Spud testily.

“Washing-machine,” Dog told him. “Genuine Old Faithful, twenty-four
fifty, F. O. B. factory. She’s a peach. Swishes the clothes back and
forth, and the dirt settles in the bottom.”

“Hump. What’s this thing?”

“That’s the handle you work it by. Just pull the handle back and forth,
and the wheels go round, and the clothes get washed in no time and all
the dirt falls to the bottom. You’ll like it.”

Spud shook his head.

“Not me. Take her outside. I pull no handles. We wash in the creek like
always--what washing we do, which aint much; and I might add that your
little friend here does his own or it don’t get done, and that’s that.”

Apparently that was that. Dog, mustering a grin, set the machine
outside, under the leanto-porch, and suggested that they all turn in.

“Where?” asked Percival in a dead voice.

Dog told him, upstairs, in a fine comfortable bunk with a buffalo robe
to throw over him if it got cold. Percival still sat on the bench which
he had found upon entering the house.

“I want three hundred dollars,” he said suddenly. “I must have three
hundred dollars. You let me have three hundred dollars and take me back
to where I can get a train for New York. Mother’ll pay you back.”

Dog shook his head.

“You get no three hundred dollars from me. Your mother gave me positive
instructions. You’ll like it fine here after you get used to it, and
you’ll get strong and hearty. Why, in a month, you wont want to go back,
not never.”

“I want to go back now,” whined Percival.

“Aw shut up,” said Ducky suddenly. “You make me sick. It’s going to be
hard enough on us to have you around here at best, and if you’re going
to yowl around all the time, it’ll be a lot worse. Get up to bed and
sleep off your grouch.”

“Ducky’s right,” added Dog, picking up the big grips, which he carried
to the foot of the ladder. Leaving them on the floor, he climbed
halfway, and at a signal Ducky handed them up one at a time, and he
boosted them through the ceiling hole onto the floor above. Percival
watched this performance, but made no move to help.

Out of deference to company, Spud Dugan lighted a lantern and carried it
up into the loft, and still Percival sat. Finally, Dog took him by the
arm, led him to the ladder, and pushed him up. Just before his head
disappeared through the hole, he turned and spoke:

“I’ll bet I’ll make you give me three hundred dollars.”

“You lose your bet,” said Dog sullenly. “Good night.”
