
Percival was not up when Dog and Ducky left next morning on a long trip
to the North Cañon country. Returning, dog-tired, at dark, they found
him on the bench in the kitchen, sitting perfectly still, eyes straight
ahead, looking at nothing.

Spud Dugan whispered to Dog:

“Just like that all day. Wont do nothing.”

“Let him alone,” answered Dog.

The next day, as reported by Spud, was just about the same, and the next
no better. The third day was, in fact, slightly worse, because Percival
had brought to his bench a book bound in limp leather. Books always
irritated Spud.

“He’ll die on you, sure. Remember that dog the nester’s squaw brought
with her from over by Parma. Just sat around and died. Same with him.”

“Aw, dry up,” Dog told him. But he was worried, and next morning he made
excuse to stay at the house, and determined to have a talk with
Percival. He drew up a backless kitchen chair and filled a cob pipe.

“Montana’s not such a bad country, son,” he began.

No answer.

“I’ve seen lots of places--Texas, New York, Klondike, and for just plain
satisfaction, Montana beats ’em all.”

No answer.

“Take it, now, down around Bozeman and Belgrade--there’s as fine
irrigated land as there is in the world. And the Gallatin Valley. Then
we’ve got oil, some places, and lots of mining around Butte and
Anaconda.”

The boy on the bench lifted his head.

“I want to go home, and if I had three hundred dollars, I’d go.”

It was pretty tough.

“Come on outside a minute,” Dog said finally, and Percival reluctantly
rose and followed.

“Now, if you’re a poet, take a look at that valley. Ever see anything
prettier than that? That’s why we’re here--this valley. Cattle graze in
the free range, and there’s always water in the creek.”

The boy looked up at him.

“If there was three hundred dollars in that creek, I’d care for it.
Otherwise not.”

He turned and dragged himself back toward the house. An idea came to
Dog, who had racked his brain for three days for one--came with that
suddenness that is characteristic of ideas. Anything was better than the
present situation. He called the boy back, spoke to him in hushed tones.

“There might be.”

“Might be what?”

“Three hundred dollars in that creek. I’m not saying there is, but I’ll
say that it looks an awful lot like a creek that Ducky and I took thirty
thousand dollars out of in the Klondike, and I might add--”

“How do you get gold out of a creek?”

Hooray! There might be a chance yet. Get the lad interested in any kind
of outdoor work, and give the good old Montana ozone a chance on him.

“I’ll show you.”

He ran to the house, dived into a cupboard and returned with a deep
pie-pan. It was not shaped just right, but it would answer. He picked up
a shovel from where it leaned against the corner of the house, and led
Percival up the creek and showed him how to wash gravel. And the third
pan showed color--just a trace, but enough to show. Of course, Percival
did not know that color and gold in paying quantities are things often
as far apart as Montana is from New York. But Dog knew that the sight of
color will edge a chechahco, rouse lust within his soul, stir him to
feats of physical endurance undreamed of. He sneaked away and joined
Ducky in a fence-mending job.
