
It worked beautifully. Next evening, Percival was hungry again, tired,
but there was about him an air of elation, elaborately concealed. Dog,
getting an early start again, planted two more nuggets, and on the
following day, the final two from the pouch. At the close of each day
upon which a planting had been made, Percival was hungry, tired but
elated, and elaborately concealing his elation.

Ducky had another idea, an idea unique for sheer craziness. He led
Percival, with elaborate caution, onto the side porch, and pointed to
the washing-machine.

“I understand you’ve been digging up the creek,” he whispered.

“A little,” admitted Percival.

“Get much?”

“Not much.”

“Thought so. I’ve got an idea. Your method is too slow--you don’t get
over enough dirt in a day. We’ll start in the morning, early, just you
and me, and we’ll take this washing-machine up the creek a bit and plant
her solid, and shovel dirt and gravel into her. She’s rigged, you see,
so that the dirt from the clothes will settle in this place at the
bottom. Well, now, suppose we take a saw and make some slits in her
sides--get me? No? Why, the idea is simple enough, and practical. The
water and dirt and little rocks slip out of the slits in the side, but
the gold settles in the bottom, where the dirt is supposed to settle
when you use the rig for washing clothes. How’s that?”

Percival nodded, and for the first time since coming to Too Dry, he
smiled.

“Don’t tell anybody. Nobody’s interested in this washing-machine and it
wont be missed. You slide in now, and up to bed and get a big sleep, and
I’ll call you at daybreak and we’ll eat a cold bite for breakfast and
sneak up the creek before Dog and Spud are stirring.”

When the boy had gone, he told Dog.

“The scheme is crazy, of course, but it’ll keep him interested a few
days longer, and if he once gets used to this country, and gets a little
flesh on him, he’ll be a man, and we’re going to need a man bad before
long to help in the branding.”

Dog nodded. The scheme was good--for what it was meant to accomplish.

“We need a little more salt, though,” he added. “Wait a minute.”

Again he went to the trunk and engaged in profane search, returning at
last with a nugget mounted on a pin.

“Forgot this one,” he said, and wrenched the pin from where it was
soldered to the back of the nugget. “Take this and plant it.”
