
Bennett slumped. "I see that. Then there's nothing more that you can
do for me?"

"But there is," Lima replied. "I can cure your headaches, if you
wish--for an additional hundred dollars."

"That would be a cheap price." Bennett drew his wallet from his
pocket. "My cash is rather low. Would you accept a personal check?"

"Certainly," Lima said. "But, first, let me explain about my cure.
There is some mental unpleasantness involved which you may consider
worse than the ailment."

"I doubt that. I can't imagine anything worse than this agony."

"Your mind will be placed under my control and led through a dream
sequence. I will follow a logical progression of events, using your
actual past as background. While you are under my control, your
experiences will be far from pleasant. I will allow your mind to
follow its own anticipated course of events, influencing your thoughts
only slightly--directing them into as unpleasant channels as possible.
In fact, to make the cure certain, at least the culmination must be
quite devastating. Do you agree to undergo such rigorous mental
punishment?"

"But why do I have to?" Bennett asked, astonished and worried.

"That pattern will act in the manner of a counter-irritant. Your mind
is like a spoiled child, rejecting anticipated unpleasantness. Under
my influence it is subjected to possible alternative experiences,
which are so much worse than the one it originally feared that it will
gratefully accept the lesser evil."

"That sounds reasonable," Bennett agreed. "When could we begin this
treatment?"

"Immediately, if you are willing."

"I see no reason for waiting."

"Then, if you are ready," Lima told him, "lie on this couch. Keep your
eyes on mine." She spoke slowly, evenly. "Remember that you are doing
this of your own free will, that you trust me. I am your friend and
would do you no harm."

Her voice droned on as Bennett looked into her eyes. They merged until
they became one large, placid pool of restfulness, and he found
himself drawn into them.

He sank peacefully, quietly--completely.
