
Walton ignored the danger on every side as he watched the schooner’s
progress. It was Hanson’s business to get her through the floes and into
open water. Walton reflected bitterly instead of lending a hand. “Crazy
ideas, the old man has. What can a Swede with washed-out blue eyes, or a
filthy, greasy Eskimo, teach a college-bred gentleman? They are of the
old man’s school; mine is different. We show the stamp of our respective
schools.” He was silent a moment, regarding the Swede and Eskimo.
“Wonder how Mother ever came to marry the old man? She has refinement,
background, everything, while Father--all right enough in a
rough-and-tumble brawl, but--”

A sudden shock threw Walton to the deck. The schooner’s bow leaped
upward with a terrible grinding of ice against the armor of iron.
Shattered bergs spumed up from the boiling sea as the schooner hurdled
the barrier into the lead beyond. The engines stopped racing; once more
the craft forged ahead.

“Consider,” he said to himself, “the Eskimo. He is greasy, filthy,
drinks ripe seal-oil--and I have seen him eat clams from the stomach of
a walrus. His code crushes the weak; self-preservation is the first law
of nature, but it is ten thousand years removed from mine. He should be
civilized and no mistake, but the fact remains he is a savage. What can
he teach me? Nothing, unless I wish to drink seal-oil.

“Consider that Hanson! Colorless, silent, a bohunk from which an
educated man can learn nothing, unless he wishes to sail a schooner or
scrub decks.”

One by one he considered the men with whom he had rubbed shoulders the
past few months. Queer creatures, all--even the little old Dutchman who
spent his life in the engine-room, where the air was always blue and
foul from burning oil. The engines seemed eternally on the verge of
falling apart, but by merely a laying-on of hands, old Schwartz always
contrived to make them respond in the pinch. Of course if one wished to
become an engineer--

Walton never entered the engine-room. It was too dirty, greasy and
practical. The Eskimo spent hours there. Below were stowed baled furs
now pleasing neither to nostrils or eyes, but which eventually were to
know the rarest of perfumes and grace the shoulders of soft and lovely
women. Walton groped about mentally seeking a lesson in transition, some
comparison between raw furs and raw men. There was none. The furs could
rise to great heights. They began on the backs of slinking wild
creatures, and ended with God’s greatest creation--woman. But the men
were plodders, born to their lot, wresting from life whatever they could
with bare hands, never to rise above themselves. It was unfortunate, but
it was life.

Left to his reflections, Walton might have plucked from the cold Arctic
air a line of philosophy that would have gone down in history as a
classic. He was groping for it, when the greatest crash of all again
sent him to the deck. The schooner trembled and crumpled from the mortal
blow.

Walton fought and clawed his way from the wreckage to the floe. There
were men below in the fo’c’stle, but they died silently. The blue-eyed
Swede burst from the wheelhouse and tore the covering from the narrow,
squarish opening leading down to the engine-room. Old Schwartz was down
there with his rheumatism, stiff-legged, unable to climb a ladder. A bit
of blue haze came from below as the Swede disappeared; the screaming of
the splintering schooner was like some living thing dying in agony. The
greasy silken cap worn by the engineer protruded just above the hatch an
instant as if he were being lifted from below, then disappeared. No cry
came from the hatch as the craft went under--just a final puff of blue
smoke. The old Dutchman and the colorless Swede died in silence--men of
the sea.

Shattered bits of wood amid shattered ice was all that remained of the
schooner. The food, shelter and warmth that had been Walton’s a few
minutes before, had vanished: he stood on the ice unarmed, without food.
Strange words came from behind him, startling him into the realization
that he was not alone. The greasy Eskimo stood there, muttering in
dialect. His words, “Men die and you live,” meant nothing to Walton, but
the glitter in the native’s dark eyes placed him on the defensive. Then
he laughed at his fears as the Eskimo’s thin frame was racked with a
cough. No danger there; if they reverted to the primitive he could tear
the miserable wretch apart. Again the Eskimo repeated: “Men die and you
live.”

At the native’s feet lay a section of walrus-skin, sufficient to wrap
one man warmly. In his arms he held a skin filled with seal-oil--rancid
stuff that would sicken a white man, though an Eskimo could live on it
for a time. An ivory-headed spear was slung across his shoulders, and
somewhere beneath his parka he carried a knife. Against this was
Walton’s pocketknife and his youth. Which would survive? Walton knew the
answer: neither! But one would go like a savage, and the other would go
like a civilized man. He resolved he would remain true to his teachings,
his code, and not become a beastly savage.
