
The Eskimo wasted no time in sorrowful reflection, but started over the
ice, hugging the sealskin bag to his breast, dragging the walrus-hide
behind him. Dick followed. In the past few minutes he had experienced a
change. He had seen raw men rise to great heights of courage, and die in
silent bravery. The colorless Swede could have saved himself, throttled
the Eskimo with his bare hands and taken the skin of oil, the
walrus-hide and the spear, and with them food, warmth and protection.
With the spear or without it, he could have beaten Walton to his knees,
for he was a physical giant. Instead, he had given his life for another;
and greater heights no man can attain. Before him Walton bowed in humble
silence.

In the slow progress over the floe, Walton again reflected on the
different codes of the two survivors. The code of Dick Walton protected
and cared for the aged. The primal code of the Eskimo was
self-preservation--the first law of Nature. Like the majority of
civilized people, Walton did not know of the strange code more ancient
than that of self-preservation.

Alone, Walton would have fought his way to the ice-armored shore. The
Eskimo ignored it and crossed the floe. As aboard the schooner, he
considered many things--then leaped to a small berg. Unconsciously
Walton found himself considering the skin of seal-oil, and wondering if
he could drink it. Of course the native possessed it, along with the
ivory-headed spear and walrus-hide, but he was aged and weak, while
Walton was young and strong. Age must sleep sometime. Walton leaped to
the berg. Neither man spoke.

The berg floated alone in the blue lead, fringed by floes on three
sides. Hour after hour, the strange pair huddled in the scant protection
of a small ice-hummock while the berg drifted. The Eskimo drew the
walrus-hide about him to break the wind seeking access to his age-weary
limbs. The spear lay on the ice in front of him within reach. He
continued to ignore the white man; yet it was apparent he tried to read
his thoughts. Walton found some solace in his pipe. His tobacco-pouch
was nearly full; the matchbox had been refilled that morning. Hours
dragged slowly, but darkness came too soon.

Walton had read that men freeze to death without realizing what is
taking place, but he found the cold aroused him even when he dozed. Then
he would leap to his feet and stamp about until warmth was restored. He
was desperately hungry, but not hungry enough to drink seal-oil. In any
event, when starvation drove him to the point of drinking the nauseous
stuff, the Eskimo would have finished the last of it.
