
The spear was in the dying bear, Walton recalled. “Thank God, I wont be
driven to forget I’m civilized and prey on a miserable Eskimo--we’ve got
bear-meat now!” He cried out aloud in utter relief. He had slipped fast
during the past day--he was ready to eat raw meat from the kill, and
hunger-pangs drove him to risk attack from the wounded bear. He made his
way along the bloodstained trail to the spot where the beast had
disappeared. Water lapped at the ice below him, water stained crimson.
The bear was gone! Fate had denied him even raw meat, but--there yet
remained a skin filled with seal-oil.

A struggle of the codes went on within him, and the code of raw men had
an ally in hunger. He was slipping back with each passing hour; he knew
it and fought it. From time to time he glanced toward the withered
native. The spear no longer lay on the ice in front of him, but he
hugged the skin of oil even tighter to his breast. Walton caught himself
plotting a route that would take him behind and above the Eskimo. Devils
of his imagination whispered it would be easy; the native was unarmed
save for a knife--a futile thing against a block of ice dropped from
above. “He’s run his race; the end is near,” the voice of
self-preservation whispered. “Your life is before you. You can do much
for the world, for you are civilized and educated. Take his clothing for
warmth, and his food for life. He is but a burden.” It was as if a voice
had spoken aloud, and Walton’s protest came from set teeth. “Damn
it--I’m civilized and I can’t.”

Several times during the day the Eskimo explored the ice in quest of a
seal or bear. Each time he returned as silently as he had departed. He
continued to ignore Walton. The white man had once referred to him as a
“greasy, filthy Eskimo.”

Toward night the tip of the great floe broke from the main body of ice.
The Eskimo watched this without emotion, though it reduced their chances
of finding game. Walton lighted his pipe, lest he go mad. In it,
particularly in the fire in the bowl, he found solace. The Eskimo took
his first sip from the seal-oil.

Self-preservation came to him in his dreams the third night, awakened
him and remained. He was bitterly cold, needed additional clothing,
while his whole being cried out for food. As before, self-preservation
pointed the way. Walton muttered aloud: “I can’t. I’m civilized. Mine’s
a different code. We care for our aged to the last. We don’t strangle
and rob them.” Self-preservation jeered:

“Of what avail is your civilization now? Will the few dollars in your
pocket buy food? Can your education kill a bear or seal and provide you
with meat? The books you studied might furnish you warmth now, if you
could burn them. You are no longer civilized; you are a raw man seeking
food. The miserable wretch who holds the food is done for anyway; he
sleeps, so why not-- Ah! I knew it! At last you heed me.”

As animals stalk their prey, so Walton crawled over the ice, nearer and
nearer the figure huddled in the gloom. His code was behind him; he was
about to kill, that he might survive a few days and perhaps be saved.
Schooners were coming out of the ice. It was while hurdling the last
barrier, that their own craft had been crushed.

Now that he meant to kill, he found himself debating on the method.
Would it be knife or hands? His pocketknife might do the work; still--
The native’s knife lay on the ice a few inches from the sleeping figure.
Walton’s heart pounded as he possessed himself of the weapon. Its blade
was long and keen, and that settled the debate. “The knife,” he
whispered. “It’s quicker. It’ll be over with in an instant.”

He would have to ration the oil over a period of days, and not drink it
all tomorrow, for there would be many of them. In the half-light the
blade seemed ghostly white. It fascinated Walton, then filled him with
sudden repulsion. He dropped it, his hand stayed by the thought of
blood. Blood, red, living, leaping from an animal, was one thing; but a
man-- His hands reached for the native’s throat, hands strong, powerful,
even after several days’ fast. He had removed his mittens and now felt
the bite of the frost; then he touched the fur of the Eskimo’s parka
hood. The throat was close now, and still the Eskimo slept. Walton’s
fingers curved; then his hands dropped swiftly to the shoulders.

“Good God, man, wake up and save us both! I’m--trying to remain a man!”

The native’s eyes opened without fear; he spoke quietly in English, even
kindly: “My son, I am awake!”

“You speak English!”

“When I wish. I cared for one of the first missionaries who came North
many years ago, preaching of the white man and his God. He told us of
his code, that cared for the old. We killed ours when they could no
longer withstand the frost or follow the tribe. For a lifetime I have
wondered about this code, and what would happen when a white man
hungered. He taught me English, but he could not make a white man of me.
My code is different. It is a better code, for the race.

“I have read that self-preservation is the first law of Nature. That is
not the truth. There is a nobler code. Self-preservation is the second
law of Nature. The first law of Nature is race-preservation. Through it
humanity has survived, even my race. It governs the civilized races even
today, for parents give their lives for their children. But my people
are nearer to it than yours. When the food is low, it is the aged who
starve, that the worthy young may live and reproduce. Thus it has always
been with my people; thus it always will be.

“During the long months on the schooner I watched you. You called me
filthy, greasy. I wondered! You were the best educated man I had ever
known. You spoke like the books I read from; yet you were not a man.
Hanson and Schwartz were men. Civilization baffled me.

“Age should give forth wisdom, and leave curiosity to youth, who must
ever learn by experience. Strange that I should be curious at my age,
but I wondered which code would prevail, your code or the code of
self-preservation. I watched your struggle! The outcome made little
difference to me. I’ve run my race; the end is near. Tonight I knew you
would come. I was afraid of your little pocketknife--the blade would not
go deep enough; so I left my own. A knife-thrust is nothing. Thus my
father and mother died, when he could no longer hunt, and she could no
longer chew walrus-hide and soften it for garments. You came nearer and
nearer, and through half-closed eyes I saw the struggle in your face,
and never did I see greater. You dropped the knife, then reached for my
throat--a withered column of skin and muscles that you could snap with
one of your strong hands. I thought you had gone back, and waited. So
this was your code, after all.... Then--you called.”
