
Walton nodded thoughtfully. “Yes, I won, or my code did--for a time.”

“For all time. May I smoke your pipe? The missionary taught me that
tobacco soothes.” Walton filled and lighted his pipe, then handed it to
the Eskimo. “Thanks, my son!”

Walton remained silent until the native returned the pipe. The bowl
still glowed. Fire! That was what he craved next to food. Again he found
solace in the glowing bowl. The Eskimo placed the skin of oil at
Walton’s feet. “You thought you would never come to it, but you will.
You will even gnaw the skin itself.” The walrus-hide came next; then the
native slowly pulled off his parka.

Walton leaped to his feet. “Hold on!” he cried. “What are you thinking
of?”

“We are different; each man’s code prevails, my son!” replied the
native. “Your race must go on, even as mine. You are young and--worthy.”

“Hell!” Walton jerked the parka back on. “Let’s stick it out together.
And anyway, I wont be missed, and don’t worry about my race not going
on. There’s over a hundred million of them left, and they’ll get along
somehow.” Gently he pushed the old man to the ice and wrapped the
walrus-hide about him. “Stay right there, old-timer. I’ll take a sip of
the oil, if you don’t mind, though.” He put the skin to his mouth and
withdrew it abruptly. “Ugh! I can’t do it!”

Walton lighted his pipe and propped himself against a convenient block
of ice. The wind could not reach him; he would be comfortable until the
cold got to him once more; then he’d have to leap about a bit. He closed
his eyes and found strange peace and contentment, for he had measured up
to the standard of his breed. More, he had at last found himself. He was
too late, of course, and he wouldn’t be missed much, except by the folks
at home. “If there was only some way of getting word to the folks,” he
mused. “As it is, they’ll always remember me as I was. They’ll never
know what happened--and Father will go down to his grave, never knowing
that what he did was right....” The pipe clattered to the ice, as Walton
at last fell asleep.

The Eskimo reached forth and finished the pipe. Then he stood up and
wrapped the walrus-skin about the sleeping white man. He shivered as he
stripped off his parka and placed it with his mukluks on the ice.
Presently his naked feet touched the ice; the frost-laden wind nipped at
his wrinkled skin as he made his way to the floe’s edge. Water, black
and dreary, surged about the floe, waiting. “That the race may go on!”
he whispered. “My code holds throughout time. God help--the lad.”
