
Henderson crumpled the card and tossed it in the wastebasket. He sat
down, and with a little arithmetic and some formulas tested the null
hypothesis all by himself. He found that his mouse experiment carried
no significance whatever. Then he made a notation that someone would
have to come out in the morning for his sick machine.

In the morning when the machine's doctor came to inspect it, and
percuss it, and auscult it, and give it a barium enema, it behaved very
well. The "doctor" left, assuring Henderson the machine merely had the
hiccups. That night Henderson asked it a question about confidence
limits for a universe mean, from a mean of a sample of _n_ observations
and got back, "Uranus on Antares but conjoining Jupiter and trining the
Ascendent. Yours is a strongly literary nature."

Henderson decided to turn the machine off for a few days. It emitted an
almost human sigh as it ran down and came to a halt.

He had no immediate use for it as he would be injecting mice with
carcinogens in liver, spleen, marrow and kidneys to find out if they
were specific. In three or four days whatever virus was affecting
the machine's cerebral cortex should have run its course and the
methodical Henderson could run his methodical observations into the
machine, which would excrete a good methodical answer to be duly filed
in the medical school library, where it would be invisible to anyone
looking for it, such as freshmen medical students, and always in the
way for anybody else.

Henderson surveyed his laboratory with infinite pleasure, knowing
that it contained within its confines all that could be known about
the universe, about men and about mice. Event Y followed event X in a
purely causal manner. The successful investigator needed only to attach
himself to the cycle and ride along, afterwards consulting the computer
to find out if what he'd observed had any significance.

In the morning when Henderson entered the laboratory he found that
someone had left the computer on over-night.

It was running full blast, which is to say the lights were blinking and
the little cards of omniscience were popping out of the machine like
toast and falling into the wastebasket, which is just where Henderson
left them. Meanwhile, Dr. Henderson's close associate, Colonel Smith
in the nearby radiation laboratory, came in to visit him and asked
permission to use the computer.

And so in another week it was rumored about that the machine in
Henderson's laboratory was using a foreign dialect and answering
questions about standard deviation with strange symbols which looked
like crescent moons and archaic squiggles, with a little geometry on
the side.

The machine was becoming impudent too. To Colonel Smith's question
about the possibility of an "overkill" if such and such size bomb
dropped on such and such enemy city the answer came back, "Rubbish.
Aldebaran conjoining Saturn, Moon and Mars. Seek guidance from
others, Hannibal blushed." The machine's doctor promptly installed a
loudspeaker to help keep track of future aberrations.
