
What nonsense, thought Carol, although she kept the thought to herself.
The little things can be most _harmful_. They keep the pain, and the
memory of pain, alive and vivid. She remembered little things about
John all too well--the careless way he wore his clothes, and the way he
combed his hair, the cigarettes he smoked, and the foods he liked to
eat. And the stupid way she had let herself fall in love with him.

She hadn't even had the excuse of its happening suddenly, as it had
happened now. She had begun to love John as she had come to know him,
disregarding all the evidence of his selfishness, of his genuine
inability to care for any one else than John Burr.

Unaware of what was going on in her mind, Callendar was saying, with
somewhat more animation than he had previously shown, "I think you're
right, Mr. Marsh. I've kept my troubles too much to myself. Maybe you
can't actually do anything for me, but it wouldn't hurt me to talk. I
should have done my talking long ago. When they found me."

"Where did they find you?" asked her father. "And what did you mean
before, when you said you're not sure of anything?"

"They picked me up in a lifeboat, drifting some place between Mars and
Jupiter. The motor was off, but the power pile was working, and the
air-purifying equipment was on. I was apparently hibernating. I might
have been that way for six months or a year."

"And you don't remember--" said Carol.

"There's plenty I don't remember, but as I've said, my memory isn't a
complete blank. My wife and I and the kids had settled down in a new
colony--exactly where it was is one of the things I forget. I believe
now that it wasn't Ganymede. Maybe it was some other moon of Jupiter's.

"Anyway, I seem to recall having some trouble with my health, and being
taken onto an inter-planetary hospital ship for treatment--L-treatment,
they called it. That's where they put me to sleep. What happened after
that, I can only guess. The ship must have been involved in some
accident. I must have been transferred to the lifeboat."

"Alone?" asked Carol's father.

"No. There were two other patients with me. They were found dead. I was
the only one left alive. The bodies of the crew members who transferred
us weren't found at all. They might have gone back for more patients
and then been unable to get away again."

"Who found your lifeboat?"

"The crew of a freighter, who spotted it drifting across a space lane.
They took me on board and revived me. But they were in a hurry and
didn't have much time to stay and investigate."
