
From the wild region Flint called home, through the maze of Ring
planets to the Saturn mainland, was only an hour's jump--if you knew
the way. If you didn't, well, even the Stellar Patrol got lost looking
for you.

The Ring was uncharted, an inestimable jumble of satellites ranging in
size from sand-like grains to full-blown worlds supporting their own
plant and animal life. Their only ties to the mother planet were the
cosmic forces that kept them constantly revolving around her and their
common atmosphere, so deep it enveloped both Saturn and the Ring.

Flint knew every shape, every color, every landmark in the place, and
his plane weaved through the maze at a speed that would have ended in a
crash with a less experienced hand at the controls.

The hazy twilight was just settling over Saturn when he plunged down
into its capital city. Pausing at the space-port only long enough
to wiggle into a shirt, he caught the shuttle chute across town and
arrived at the capitol just as the government workers were leaving
the building. He ran up the gleaming stairs, turned down the glowing
corridor and hurried through the silver door on which impressive
letters read: GOVERNOR'S OFFICE.

A secretary looked up from her desk with startled eyes. Her expression
changed from surprise to alarm as Flint strode past her toward a closed
door at the end of the room.

"Here! Do you have an appointment--"

But Flint had shoved open the door and stepped into the Governor's
private office.

A tall, white-haired man looked up from a huge desk. He rose quickly,
smiling, and held out his hand. "I've been wanting to see you, Lou. No
one knew how to find you in the Ring."

Flint shook his hand, pulled up a chair, and started right in. "This
tract of planetoids of mine out in the Ring--do I own them--legally--or
don't I?"

The Governor looked down at his hands, inspected his fingernails.
"That's what I wanted to see you about, Lou." When he met Flint's
eyes it was with a look that said he was about to face an unpleasant
task. "Your father spent half his life hunting space bat out there--he
claimed several planetoids, I believe."

"Twenty-two of them," Flint stated.

"And I know that after your father died," the Governor continued, "you
took over and have been hunting bat yourself ever since--a mighty long
wild-goose chase I call it, but that's your business. Anyway, your
father was one of the pioneers here, Lou. I'll always--"

"Governor, if you've got bad news, spill it."

"All right. I'll give it to you straight. You don't have any legal
claim to those planetoids. The Saturnian Government has never
recognized squatters' rights out there and I'm afraid there's no time
to fight it out with Congress now." He hesitated. "Your land is being
sold to an Earth fur corporation for a million dollars."

Flint sat there staring at the Governor for a long moment. Then
abruptly he got to his feet. "They're the guys I've been running
into ever since feather-deer became the fur coat rage on Earth." He
spoke through his teeth. "I've seen their work--thousands of raw,
skinned carcasses strewn about the woods--vultures everywhere. They're
butchers! In two months there won't be a feather-deer left in the Ring.
They'll be extinct. Do you think I'm going to stand by and watch that
happen?"

He leaned over the desk, resting on his big fists. "I'm a hunter,
but I hunt animals that can fight back--tigodons, baragators, swamp
wolves--not these helpless little things you can run down and kill with
a club."

The Governor shook his white head sadly. "I'm truly sorry, Lou. I wish
there were something I could do but the owner of this fur outfit is
coming in on tonight's space liner. He wants to go out to the Ring
just as soon as he arrives. I've been asked to find a guide."

"One million dollars," Flint thought aloud. "It's entirely a matter of
money."

"I'm afraid it is. If you could only get a space bat _now_,
Lou--doesn't that Earth circus still offer a million to anybody who
captures one alive?"

"Yeah," Flint said dejectedly. "But nobody's ever captured a space
bat, dead or alive." He stuck his hands deep in his pockets and walked
around the room, staring at the floor. Suddenly he halted in his
tracks. Then he whirled back to the desk. "If I get a million dollars
to you before this guy gives you his check, is the place mine?"

The Governor's smile was puzzled. "Well, I could probably arrange it,
but--"

"Fine. Now could you also arrange for _me_ to meet this guy at the
space port tonight? I'll be his guide."

"I don't like the way you're acting, Lou. I don't want any trouble."

Flint grinned. "You old goat. You're thinking about your reputation.
When you and Dad were with the first settlers that took Saturn away
from the natives, you didn't worry about trouble then. But I promise--I
won't do anything to hurt your politics."

The Governor shook his head resignedly. "You're just as stubborn as
your father was," he said. He reached in a drawer and handed Flint a
small engraved card. It read:

                              K. V. Vaun
                          Fur Fashions, Inc.
                         New York City, Earth

"Thanks," Flint said. "I'll be there tonight." He strode quickly from
the room.
