
In the clearing lay the rusted hull of a space-ship, used for a house.
Before it stood a Venusian, skinning a baragator which hung by its
scaley legs from a log tripod. The man's only clothing was a bright
red loin cloth, and the flesh of his limbs, chest, and face was green,
a burnished green like the sheen of sunlight under water. He was not
large, but the smooth suppleness of his body gave an impression of
great strength, like the coils of a python.

As Flint came out of the jungle, the Venusian turned to face him as
though he knew of his approach, although Flint's tread had been silent
as a cat's. His words, before Flint could speak, were also uncanny--as
if he already knew what Flint had come to tell him.

"No like trouble with white policemen," he said, "but your plan seems
only way to save hunting ground from seekers of feathers. I will
help--you, my friend of many seasons."

He spoke without moving his lips--because he wasn't using his lips.
His voice was toneless, mechanical. It came from a small microphone
attached to his throat. The impulse for the microphone came from the
pulsations of his bloodstream which he could control. Venusians were a
strange race--being deaf and dumb and having the power to read brain
waves were only a few of their peculiarities.

Flint grinned. "I don't know why I take the trouble to come all the way
down the path, Greeno. You could pick up my thoughts from the cable
just as well." Then, in a hurry to get on with his business, "Is there
anything you didn't understand?"

"One thing not clear--something you must have planned before coming
into range," the toneless voice said. "You wish me to meet your plane
on way to Ring, kidnap man from you and bring him here," he ran through
the plan he'd picked up from Flint's mind. "Then I radio message about
ransom--a million dollars. But how will money be delivered?"

"Simple," Flint explained. "The guy's fur company sends the money to
the Saturn Express Agency. We tell them to put it in a small rocket and
shoot it toward the Ring. We'll make them put a radio-signaling gadget
into the rocket, too. All we'll have to do is follow the signal and
pick up the rocket before we let the guy go." The plan was foolproof;
there was no way the police could prove anything on anybody.

"No," Greeno agreed with his thoughts, "their evidence against you
purely circumstantial. Me, they never guess."

"That's it." Flint strode toward the space-ship hull with the radio
set. "Where you want this? Have your finger on it at eight tonight and
I'll radio the guy's description." Although Greeno couldn't hear, he
could pick up radio vibrations by touch.

Greeno followed him into the cylinder, motioned toward a table in the
corner. The place was battery-lighted, soft-walled with hides.

"I'll have to put up a little fight when you leave my plane," Flint
said. "Make it look better--"

But Greeno held up his hand, motioned him on out the door. "Can't pick
up thoughts inside," he reminded him.

Flint went out grinning; he could never get used to the fact that the
Venusian was reading his mind, not hearing his words, and that he
couldn't pick up the waves when he was surrounded by metal such as the
ship's hull. Outside, he started to tell him again about having to put
on the fight act.

But Greeno stopped him. "Understand now," he said.

Flint laughed. Even a spoken "Good luck" wasn't necessary. He turned,
went back down the trail thinking it was a good thing the Stellar
Patrol hadn't been able to get Venusians to work for them.

"Very good thing," Greeno called after him.
