
The woman stiffened visibly. Indignation flushed her face. Her stooges
sat up like startled rabbits.

"I beg your pardon!"

"The fur business," Flint repeated, eyes on their faces in the mirror.
"You're a bunch of butchers. I guess you've never seen a feather-doe
standing over the raw carcass of her freshly-skinned faun." He turned
in the seat to face them, talking through his teeth. "I've seen a whole
planet littered with dead animals--thousands of them--stinking in the
sun."

"Mr. Flint!" the woman's voice was like a razor. "Obviously you don't
know how to converse with a lady. You will please return to your
piloting."

This scalded Flint. "Why, you walking adding machine! You flat-chested
treasurer's report! You haven't an ounce of womanly warmth in you. A
_lady_! If you're a lady, I'm a moon-baboon's uncle. All you know is
fur prices. If you--"

Suddenly his audience was no longer looking at him. Like a quick change
of masks, the faces of all three of them had changed from anger to the
stark twitching white of sheer terror. Every eye was staring past him,
over his shoulder at the view-plate.

Instinctively, Flint ducked, whirled around.

As he turned, the woman screamed. Her scream filled the cabin and with
this sound in his ears, Flint saw the _thing_ and ice shot through his
whole body.

Outside the ship, through the glass, not three feet away, two eyes as
big as his head were gazing down into the lighted cabin. Red-pupiled,
glowing like neon, they rolled slowly in their great sockets and came
to focus directly upon him.

Flint didn't move. He couldn't. Around the eyes was a six-foot mass of
black hair. Between them, two gaping holes in a black rubber-like mound
was a nose. Above this lay the furrowed folds of a mouth with teeth
like elephant tusks. The hairy face was upsidedown; the thing was above
the ship, peering in at its occupants.

Slowly, as Flint stared at the face, gray droplets like fog formed
on the glass and obscured the thing. For a second, it was gone from
sight. Then, as quickly as it had disappeared, the fog melted in the
wind outside and the face began to reappear. The thing was breathing;
the fog was the moisture of its breath. But in that second of
obliteration--an eternity it seemed, though the woman's scream still
echoed in Flint's ears--one thought seared itself on his numb brain.

_Space bat._

The plane bucked, plunged straight down, away from the bat. But the
bat, like its much smaller brothers, was not to be eluded on the wing.
Like a black cloud with its hundred-foot wingspread, it fell off on one
wing, dived after them.

It was upon the plane again with two sweeps of its mighty wings. Its
teeth clashed like a rock crusher--Flint heard it through the ship's
two-foot thick walls--and as it missed, it overshot the plane, swept
past them. Instantly it whirled around, hurtled back.

"Radio for help!" The lawyer's voice was shrill. He sat there wringing
his hands. Sweat glistened on the fur expert's bald head. The woman
clutched the arms of her seat, eyes huge. Then the bat was on them
again.

Flint did the only thing possible. He dived again. But that was a
mistake. The bat had learned that trick. It also dived. At the same
instant.

[Illustration: _Flint threw his weight on the control lever._]

The bony claw on one wing caught the plane a glancing blow midway its
length, sent it spinning end over end. And, when Flint's darting hands
leveled it off again, it cut around in a wild circle, out of control.
The bulge on the port wall of the cabin said the port fuel pump was
smashed.

And the bat circled to come at them again.

Flint's passengers realized their peril. The two men jumped up, panic
on their faces. But as Flint throttled the port jet frantically,
futilely, Karen Vaun was on her feet behind him crying in a voice that
was shaky but nonetheless sensible, "Where's the hand pump?" Miss Vaun
was scared stiff but wasn't one to give up in a corner.

The bat came in from the side. Flint threw in his reverse rockets. The
plane stopped as if it had rammed a planetoid, hurling the three behind
him to the floor. The bat zoomed past them.

"The pump's under the floor!" Flint yelled over his shoulder. "Pull up
that trap door." He gave the plane every ounce of juice its starboard
jets would take, trying to gain what lead he could before the bat came
back. In the mirror he saw the woman on her knees, pulling at the trap
door, then jerking the manual pump lever.

And it worked! The port tube sputtered, then streamed smooth, a weak
jet but enough to give a push from the left. And on the left, seconds
away, Flint saw a medium-sized planetoid. The chase had taken them
almost to the Ring.

The bat came down on his tail like another plane attacking. Flint dove
straight at the planetoid. Behind him, Karen Vaun worked the pump
madly, Hudson and Leggett stood by helplessly, staring up at the hairy
face that grew larger every second above them.

Flint held his power dive till the last possible second. The planetoid
changed from a globe to a flat surface. Trees separated from the green
mass of jungle. Each leaf sprang up separate and distinct. Close behind
the plane, the bat's mouth gaped open. Flint jammed his rise rockets in.

The trees came up with a sickening wobble, slanted back and down, then
away. The plane brushed the branches as it zoomed skyward. Behind the
plane, the bat twisted against its tremendous momentum, cut a wide
swath through the tree tops. When it flapped up laboriously, circling,
searching for them again, the plane was well beyond sight of its weak
eyes.

Watching through the glass, Flint saw it circle higher, finally sail
away toward the Ring. And as his fingers relaxed on the controls, he
found himself laughing.

He headed the plane back toward the spot where the bat had interrupted
their course. "Somebody keep pumping that jet," he said. "I was
supposed to meet a fellow in another ship on the way out. He'll take
you back to Saturn. I'm going after that bat."
