
Karen Vaun prevailed on her men to take over the pump. She came and
stood behind Flint, holding tightly to the back of his chair. Her lips
opened but it was a moment before any words came out. Finally, "You're
going _after_ that thing!"

"Lady," Flint said, "if you knew how long I've been hunting one of
those critters, you'd know how quick I want to get rid of you and get
on its tail." He looked back at her, grinned. He had too much to do to
be angry now. Get back, get his big guns in the plane, then find that
bat. You couldn't miss something that size. Shoot him up a little. Not
much--wing him. That circus wanted him alive. One million bucks!

The kidnapping, of course, was all off now. He felt almost friendly
toward the woman. "You were a mighty big help on that pump, Miss Vaun,"
he said. "You're braver than I thought." It was the first kind word--or
thought--he'd managed about her since they'd met.

"What--_was_ it?"

"Space bat. It's a kind of giant bat. Nobody knows where they come
from--somewhere out in space. One comes in every year or so. It feeds
on what wild life it can find, then sails back out into the darkness.
They kill off almost as many animals as your fur hunters--" And this
last, he regretted as soon as he'd said it. The woman's eyes misted,
strangely enough; her lower lip trembled. And Flint frowned, suddenly
amazed, as he looked at her.

Karen Vaun looked like an entirely different person. The office pallor
was gone from her face; it was rouged with excitement. Her prim knot of
hair had lost its pins and tumbled to her shoulders. Her whole body as
she stood there, still breathing heavily, had taken on a slim vibrance
that belied the memory of her former rigid dignity.

The real miracle was her eyes--her glasses lay broken on the floor. Her
eyes were soft blue, bright as a spring morning now.

Flint shook his head in astonishment. "When you get back," he said,
"take a look in a mirror and think things over. You've been wasting
your time behind a desk." He turned back to the controls, and as he
turned Greeno's plane appeared ahead and pulled up alongside.

"Well, here's where you get a new pilot." He'd take Greeno's plane.
Greeno could limp back in this one and rent another one to follow him
up. Flint was so sure of his bat money he wasn't worrying about the
cost of anything any more.

He idled while Greeno's ship, skillfully, without a bump, hooked into
the little clamps on the hull outside. A bell clanged--signal to unlock
the port--and he got up, reached for the wheel on the safety door.

But Karen--it was odd that he didn't seem to think of her as Miss Vaun
any more--reached out and stopped his hand on the wheel. "Mr. Flint,"
she said softly, "take me with you--to hunt the bat."

Flint stared at her, not believing her words. Hudson took her arm.
"Now, Karen. You've had a very trying experience. You should--"

She jerked away from him. "Please let me go, Mr. Flint. This means
more to me than you know. I haven't forgotten what you said about my
not being a real woman. You're right. I've been nothing but a walking
adding machine and I--"

"Look," Flint tried to put a stop to it, "if you'd let yourself go
you'd be a pretty decent human being, mighty pretty without your
glasses." He spun the wheel out of her grasp. "But I've got work to do
now."

"Please!" she cried. "If--" But she never finished that; she stepped
back from the door quickly as the man in the space suit came in from
the other ship--Greeno, taking no chances on future identification.
Wrinkled like a prune, the uninflated suit covered his body completely;
only his eyes were visible through their glass slit.

"It's all off, Greeno," Flint said. "We ran across a bat on the way
out! It's headed toward the Ring. Take these people back to Saturn
and--" But the man in the space suit had whipped out his hand, caught
Karen Vaun by the wrist.

It was only then that Flint remembered Greeno couldn't hear him, not
only couldn't hear him because he was deaf but couldn't read his
thoughts because he was surrounded by the metal hull of the ship. He
stepped over and grabbed him by the shoulder, pointed to the girl,
shook his head violently. "Cut it out! Skip it! It's all off!" he
mouthed, hoping Greeno might read his lips.

"Who is it?" Hudson and Leggett looked on nervously. "What's he trying
to do?"

Flint started to explain, but then how could he explain that he'd
planned to kidnap Karen Vaun and changed his mind. He continued his
sign language at Greeno.

Karen struggled, trying to free herself. "I don't understand! Stop him!"

Finally, Flint threw an arm around Greeno's neck. There was nothing
else to do. Hudson grabbed Greeno's arm, tried to pry loose his grasp
on the girl.

The wiry Venusian twisted out of Flint's arm before he could get a
head-lock grip. Coming up with his other hand, he threw an uppercut at
Hudson. The lawyer saw it coming, jerked his head back like a turtle.
But Flint didn't see it coming.

The full force of Greeno's swing caught him exactly on the point of his
chin.

The room spun wildly. Then it dissolved into blackness.
