
When Flint came to, he was lying on the floor. Hudson stood over him.
He had acquired Flint's ice pistol, seemed prepared to use it at any
moment.

As Flint sat up and looked around, Leggett said, "Just a moment and
I'll let you in," and got up from the controls where he'd been talking
into the radio. He went over to the door, twirled the wheel and Flint
realized what he'd thought was his own head ringing was the safety
bell. Through the glass he saw a slim light cruiser lying alongside
where Greeno's ship had been. On its gleaming hull were the letters
SP--the Stellar Patrol.

What were they doing here? Flint grabbed one of the seats, pulled
himself up.

"Stay where you are!" Hudson waggled the ice gun threateningly. Then
the door opened and three red-uniformed patrolmen crowded into the
cabin, jet pistols leveled, eyes searching the room quickly.

"This him?" One of the patrolmen, blue-chinned and beefy, sized Flint
up.

"I took his gun," Hudson said. He handed the ice pistol to the nearest
patrolman as if he was glad to get rid of its responsibility. The group
stood around Flint as if he were an animal they'd caught.

"The boys are on the way out to the Ring," the big patrolman said.
"There's several billion planetoids out there, though--like looking for
a needle in a haystack, isn't it, Flint?"

Flint was getting his thinking up to date now. He must have been out
half an hour or so. Hudson and Leggett must have radioed the Patrol,
told them the story. Of course they suspected him, the way he'd talked
to Greeno. And now he was accused of something he'd tried his best to
stop. Poetic justice had caught him red-handed.

"You were the bright boy who dreamed up the whole thing, weren't you,
Flint?" the patrolman continued. "Headquarters works fast. We got a
report on you on the way out here. We know you had reasons for wanting
to get rid of Miss Vaun. We know all about your little talk with the
Governor this evening; his secretary heard the whole thing."

"I'm sure he knew the man in the space suit," Leggett said. "He told
us he was going to meet a man here and when he came in he called him
'Greeno.'"

And by now, Flint thought, Greeno had taken the girl back to his
planetoid, following the plan exactly without the faintest idea it had
misfired. If Greeno could only pick up thoughts at this distance! Flint
cursed silently. Well, there were two things to be done and done fast.
Get word to Greeno, somehow; tell him to get the girl back to Saturn.
And get after that bat. He couldn't let this mess throw a hitch into
something he'd been trying to do all these years.

The easiest way to straighten Greeno out was by radio; good thing he'd
taken that set out to him. "Now, listen," he said, "I haven't got time
to go into a lot of explanations. A space bat's showed up in the Ring;
it's worth a lot of money to me. Let me get to the radio and I'll have
Miss Vaun safely back on Saturn in an hour. It's all a mistake. When I
get through bat hunting I'll clear up the whole business."

The big patrolman laughed. "He'll be glad to help us out when he gets
time; that's a good one." Then he stopped laughing, took a step toward
Flint. "You're going to tell us where this Greeno took the girl. Right
now."

Flint saw a free-for-all shaping up. There seemed to be no other way
out. He got ready for trouble, but he didn't think it was coming so
quick.

Apparently the big patrolman was used to getting his information the
hard way. His hand shot out in a short arc and swatted Flint across the
mouth. "Talk!"

Flint staggered back, got his balance, and let go at the beefy face
under the red cap. One of the other patrolmen caught his arm. The third
one brought the barrel of his ray gun down on his head. Flint sat down
on the jump seat.

"Where's Greeno's hideout?" the big one said. "You know every planetoid
in the Ring. Where'd Greeno take her?"

Flint felt the bump on his head. "You and I got a lot of other things
to discuss now, Fatty."

The beefy one stepped away from the door. "Okay. Go cut our rockets
off, Mike," he said to one of his men who stood there, twirling Flint's
ice gun on his forefinger. "This guy wants to play with us. We'll have
to give him the air treatment."

As the one with the ice gun opened the door and went into the police
plane, the other stuck his pistol in Flint's side. "Get up." And Flint
knew he was really in for it now. He'd heard of this. Third degree?
This was the _fourth_ degree!
