
A ship had two doors, the inside one and one opening outside the hull.
Between the two was a narrow air space. It was used as an air lock in
which one could return to normal pressure before entering the ship
from some thin-aired world. If you put a man in there and turned the
pressure wide open--

"This makes even a Venusian talk," the big patrolman told Hudson and
Leggett. "When the pressure gets up around two hundred and their ear
drums start cracking, they get mighty conversational."

When the patrolman who had gone into the police plane returned, he held
the door open and the pistol in Flint's side pushed him toward it.

But at the door, the radio stopped them. The lawyer had left the
speaker on.

"_Calling Saturn Relay Station. Relay to Earth, to K. V. Vaun Fur
Fashions, Inc., New York City. Message as follows: Miss Vaun has been
kidnapped. She is held for one million dollars ransom. Forward to
Saturn by tonight's Space Express one million dollars in raw platinum.
Saturn Express Agency will be informed later how to deliver it. End of
message._"

The big patrolman turned to Flint standing beside the door. "Pretty
smart, except that it didn't work." Then to the fellow holding the
pistol at Flint's back: "Throw him in and squirt the air. I'll call
Saturn and tell 'em to forget that relay message."

But once again the radio stopped them.

"_Look! At the door!_" The voice was sharp and high. It was Karen
Vaun's.

"_Keep still! Don't let it hear us!_" Greeno again.

"What in hell--" the patrolman breathed.

"_It's reaching in!_" Karen's voice, a terrified whisper. "_Look out
for its claws!_"

Two explosions rang out--Greeno's old bullet gun; he didn't have an
ice pistol. Greeno yelled "_Get back!_" There was fright in even his
mechanical voice as a dull crash merged with his words.

Then there was instant silence. Something had smashed Greeno's radio
set.

"It's the bat!" Flint said. "It's got them cornered! We've got to get
out there!" Somehow, now, the thought of that thing reaching into the
door, clawing at Karen Vaun, pressed back against the wall, made him
forget all about his plans for capturing the bat, forget he was under
arrest for kidnapping. "Let's go--I'll take you to them!"

"It's another of his tricks," one of the patrolmen said. "Trying to
lead us into a trap of some kind."

"Listen, you stupid fools," Flint almost yelled, "don't you understand?
That bat's out there. They haven't a rabbit's chance. We haven't got
time to talk about it."

The big fellow winked at the others. "If it's a space bat," he said,
"we'll need help. I'll call for some of the boys to go with us, with
some bigger guns--for the bat or for any little ambush you might have
planned."

And Flint saw he was only wasting time. He leaped forward and caught
the man full in the face with his fist. The blow sprawled the patrolman
backward against the controls. Before he could get up, Flint was on him
again, struggling for his gun. If he could get out of here, get that
police plane--

He got his hand on the gun. Twisted. But it had taken too long.

He felt the hard jab of one of the patrolmen's pistols against his
back. "Get off him!"

Flint stepped back slowly, hands hanging limp, ready for the slightest
opening. But it didn't come.

The big man got off the controls, holding his hand over a nose that
was probably broken. "Put him in that air lock," he ordered. "Give him
enough pressure to cave his ribs in!"

The inside door was open. Flint was shoved into the lock. The door
clanged shut behind him.
