
Around the wall in the narrow air chamber was a line of tiny holes.
From these came a shrill hissing like a nest of snakes. The pointer of
the pressure gauge on the wall trembled, then slowly moved across the
dial.

The chamber was six feet high, three feet wide. The air holes were near
the ceiling beside Flint's ears. But he didn't stand there listening
to the rising pressure. A moment ago, one of the patrolmen had passed
through here. Immediately, he tried the other door, the one leading
outside where the police ship was hooked on, but it was locked now.

The doors of a space-ship's safety chamber worked together. When one
was locked, the other locked automatically. But when one door was
unlocked, the other was also unlocked. He leaned against the outside
door, his mind racing. If he could stay conscious against the air
pressure--if he could slip through this outside door when they opened
the inner one--he'd be in the police plane--

The pressure gauge was calibrated in pounds. With each mark the pointer
climbed, he shuddered. He jammed his fingers into his ears, closed his
eyes, swallowed constantly. His face turned white under rivulets of
sweat.

His shirt was quickly soaked through, his big arms wet and glistening.
Swiftly he felt his strength leaving him. The pointer on the gauge
quivered at the hundred mark, slowly climbed higher.

Flint found his knees sagging. His heart pounded with the exertion
of standing up. His body had turned to lead. And in his mind was the
terrible fear that he'd black out completely, be lying there on the
floor when the other door unlocked and gave him his only chance.

But he _couldn't_ black out! He had to keep on his feet! He was Karen's
and Greeno's only chance.

The pointer stood at a hundred and fifty. His ribs felt as if steel
bands were being tightened around his chest. He couldn't breathe. He
knew he couldn't stand much more.

He turned his head toward the inside door and with all the lung power
he could find yelled, "Let me out! I'll talk!"

They heard him. The whistling in his ears ceased for one second, then
returned, but now it was the sucking sound of air going out. He got
hold of the outer door handle, leaned his weight back against it. His
glazed eyes were on the pressure dial. He knew the men in the ship were
watching its counterpart.

The pointer came back around slowly and each jump brought blessed
relief as the pressure slackened. It was like a tremendous weight being
lifted from every square inch of his body.

When the pointer hit zero, he heard the lock click in the door behind
him and the door against which he was pulling swung suddenly open. He
almost fell backward, then managed to struggle forward through the door.

"Stop him! He's trying to get into our ship!"

He heard feet clattering through the chamber after him. He slammed the
door against a beefy blurred face. Stumbling through the double doors
of the police plane's air chamber, he managed to close and lock them
against his pursuers. Then he staggered over to the control panel.

He cut the switch, pressed the starter. The jets roared behind him as
he shot away from his own plane.
