
The jets had left a vapor trail miles long before he could look
back. He saw the flare of his own ship as it started in pursuit but
he knew they'd never overtake him with the busted fuel pump and he
wasn't worrying now about their following his trail later with a blast
analyzer. He wasn't worrying about anything that would happen later.
All he was thinking about now was Greeno and the girl.

His own ship was no longer in sight when he swept into the outskirts of
the Ring. He remembered to step up the air pressure to avoid the bends.
Then, a little grimly, he smiled. There on the control panel was his
ice pistol where the patrolman had left it. He stuck it in his empty
holster. His luck was turning.

Whipping in and out of the rough-hewn worlds, the police clock had
ticked off only ten minutes when in the distance ahead he could see
the sagging cable between the two little globes that were Greeno's
domain. He remembered Greeno's words that very day, "You, my friend of
many seasons." He remembered the way Karen Vaun looked with her hair
trailing on her shoulders, her blue eyes....

If only it wasn't too late.

He flashed over the twin planetoids, circled around their far side. It
was easy to tell the bat had been there. For miles around, the jungle
was criss-crossed with splintered tree tops where its wing tips had
brushed them like a hurricane. Then, coming round to the spot where
Greeno's shack was, Flint saw the real scene of violence. What had been
a small clearing in the brush, not even large enough to land on, was an
area big as a football field. And in the center of it lay the bat.

The thing lay there like a blotch of spilled ink, grotesque and
horrible. It was using horny claws on the tips of its wings to slam
Greeno's space-ship house back and forth like a nut. Greeno and Karen
must be inside.

Flint streaked down, thumbs trembling on the triggers of the police
plane's guns. He held his screaming dive till he was within yards of
the thing. Then into its back he poured his stream of liquid fire.
Kicking the controls, he zoomed away, head craned back to watch the
result.

The bat came up like a volcano erupting. There was a wide furrow burned
along its black hairy back. Trees bent hundreds of yards away under the
beat of its wings. Rising high in the greenish twilight, it sailed over
the planetoid, searching for its attacker.

Flint circled higher still. Far below he saw two small figures crawl
out of the house, stare upward. Karen and Greeno were safe, so far.

Banking over, looking down at them, Flint's eyes left the bat for a
second. In that second the bat's eyes found him. It was upon him with
the speed of a glance. It came on, unmindful of the jet blast in its
face, its hair singeing like a grass fire. And though Flint threw the
ship into every contortion he knew--full throttle five, bullet roll,
reverse jet dodge, everything--the bat stayed on his tail, following
his every maneuver as if it knew what he was going to do in advance.

Its wings worked in a dark blur, trying to gain the few yards to close
its pile-driver jaws upon the plane. Slowly, inexorably, the space
between the beast and the plane narrowed. Then Flint played his final
card, the same trick he'd used with the bat before.

He dived for the planetoid, straight down, holding it till his nerves
screamed with the wind, the bat right behind him. Then, almost in the
tree tops, he pulled out. He stared back over his shoulder. If the bat
plunged on into the jungle, if it floundered there for one minute,
the plane's guns might be able to burn a wing off. He watched the bat
twisting out of its dive, tree tops splaying.

Then it happened.
