
A wisp in the view-plate, a hair-line growing, rushing at the nose
of the plane. Before Flint turned in time to see it, the cable that
stretched between the twin planetoids had been struck by the plane's
nose, had screeched along its side in a shower of sparks. Then it
caught. A solid jolt.

The little hooks along the hull, the device for boarding another ship,
had caught the cable, jerked it free from one of the planetoids and
torn out by the roots the tree to which the other end was anchored.

When Flint again got the plane under control, it mushed along, weighed
down by a ton of steel cable that had a full-grown tree dangling on its
far end.

Flint's first thought was of the bat. He glanced around frantically.
But the cable had stopped the plane so abruptly and the bat had swept
back up so fast, it was now well beyond the range of its weak eyes. And
as Flint watched, it apparently forgot the plane, glided across the
jungle like a great shadow, headed back toward Greeno and the girl.

Pressing his eye to the filterscope, Flint brought them up close,
standing in the wreckage of the trees, scanning the sky. They didn't
know the bat was on the way back, coming in low now behind them.

"_Run!_" Flint yelled the word as if they could hear him across the
five miles between them. Standing there beside Greeno, Karen Vaun's
hair glistened in the twilight, her eyes looking right at him, almost
as if she could see him. Flint beat his fists on the control panel
helplessly.

Then they heard the rush of the bat's wings behind them. They whirled,
stood there frozen before the gigantic creature hurtling at them. Then,
too late to run back for the house, they fled toward the woods. And the
woods was just where the bat wanted them.

Flint knew he had to get there now. He had to do something quick. The
bat started systematically flattening the trees, searching for them in
the terrifying way it always hunted its prey. Four times the size of an
elephant, the winged monster splintered like matchsticks hundred-foot
high mahogany and ironwood trees.

Flint's hands jerked the plane's controls as if he could hurl it
bodily forward, dragging the weight of cable and tree behind him. But
the ship was now a winged snail. And when he _did_ get there, he knew
there wasn't a chance of getting the bat in his sights. He couldn't
outmaneuver it any more. And there was no time now to land and do what
he could afoot with a pistol.

Then, with his hand on the ice pistol's butt, his eyes on the raging
bat slowly nearing below, an idea flared in his head that brought him
to his feet like an electric shock.
