
Quickly, he headed the plane down toward the bat, set automatic pilot.
Then, fingers flying, he ripped a wire from the control panel, looped
one end through his pistol's trigger guard, the other end through his
belt. Then he ran to the door.

Standing in the air lock, he forced the outside door against the wind.
He looked down at the cable, caught firmly on the hook, dangling under
the plane. He reached out, got his hand on the cable and swung out over
the jungle far below. The door clanged shut behind him.

He started down the cable hand over hand. Guided by the automatic
pilot, the ship moved slowly ahead. He got down the cable and into the
dangling tree.

It was like climbing a tree in a cyclone as he fought his way through
the branches to a limb he could lock his legs around. Then, with a
scissors hold on the limb, he sat upright and drew the ice pistol from
its holster.

Down below, the bat had smashed a wide area of trees and was hunting
Greeno and Karen like mice in the tall grass. When it heard the plane,
it twisted up, circled suspiciously. The tree and the cable confused it
for a moment. But only for a moment. Then its tiny brain sent it toward
its persistent enemy, the plane.

It came by so close and its hairy mass was so immense, Flint caught his
breath. There was nothing to aim at with a pistol. It was too big. He
just pointed the gun at the expanse of hair and pulled the trigger as
fast as he could work his finger.

Instantly, one great wing of the creature went rigid. It was the wing
nearest Flint and the bat slid that way. The black mass of hair, each
hair a full yard long, swept upon him. The branches of the tree
caved in. The cable was snatched from the plane. Flint clawed at the
monster's side blindly. He caught a handful of hair. The bat flailed
the air wildly with its other wing, a hundred tons of solid flesh
falling--

Then the whole world exploded around Flint. Tree trunks cracking, green
vegetation whirling past him, then a stunning thud as the bat struck
the ground, shaking the whole forest.

Like a man fleeing some horror in a nightmare, Flint tore his way
through the stalks of hair, leaped to the ground and ran into the
jungle.

When he finally stopped running, safely away from the bat's hammering
wings and claws, he saw he was now permanently safe. It had beaten its
good wing to shreds in the trees. When the effect of the ice gun wore
off, it wouldn't be able to fly.

Slowly, Flint grinned. He glanced down, saw his ice pistol dangling the
length of its wire against his knee. Almost tenderly, he picked it up,
untied the wire, and stuck the gun into its holster.

Greeno and Karen ran toward him through the woods. Their faces were
scratched, their clothes in tatters. Karen's feet were bare; she had
lost her shoes, removed her stockings. Her hair was tangled, a raven
mop on her half-bare shoulders.

She seemed on the verge of collapse but her cheeks and eyes, despite
the weariness of her grim experience, glowed. Today's excitement had
completely displaced her cultivated pose of boredom by the fresh beauty
of a jungle flower.

And it had done something to Flint too. He ran to meet them, caught the
girl as she fell toward him. "Are you all right?"

She was too breathless to speak. "We all right," Greeno said. "But
almost weren't." He held out his arm. From shoulder to wrist was a wide
deep scratch, a claw mark.

Then the sudden sound of rockets turned all their faces skyward. High
over the trees, circling lower, came three patrol planes and Flint's
ship.

Flint's fingers tightened on the girl's arm. "Greeno," he said, "we
have to get out of here, hide in the woods." He said it sadly, tired of
the game now. He had forgotten it wasn't over. He looked down into
the girl's face. "Miss Vaun," he said quickly, "this was all my fault.
I won't ask you to forgive me but I want you to know I'm sorry, not
for trying to do what I could to protect the feather-deer, but because
this business came so close to ending in a tragedy much worse than your
slaughtering them all."

He dropped his hands, turned to the jungle. Greeno was standing at the
edge of the woods, waiting for him. He started walking slowly.

Then suddenly he turned, came back to the girl quickly. "Might as well
be shot for a sheep as a lamb," he said. He put a hand under her chin,
kissed her soundly on the lips, then ran toward the woods.

When he was halfway there, he heard her cry, "Mr. Flint! Wait!" It
occurred to him that she probably didn't even know his first name. He
didn't look back. And Miss Karen Vaun did a very strange thing.

She had one hand behind her as Flint ran away. Now she brought it forth
and in it was Flint's own ice pistol. She raised it, took careful aim
and pulled the trigger.

Flint's legs stopped in midstride, knees bent one before the other,
like a stop-motion movie. He sprawled forward.

Before he could get up, the girl was beside him. She sat down on his
back, pinning him to the ground. "Next time you kiss a girl without
knowing whether she wants to be kissed or not," she said, "hang onto
your gun."

Then the police, with Hudson and Leggett, were crowded around them.

"Are you all right, Miss Vaun?"

Flint lay there feeling very foolish.

But the girl ignored the crowd, still talking to him, "You didn't know
I was an ice pistol expert, too, did you? You didn't know I was in the
fur business because my father used to be a trapper on Venus. When I
was twelve years old, I could bring down a tigodon at a half a mile."

The beefy-faced patrolman, his nose bandaged now, said, "If you'll get
up, Miss Vaun, we'll take care of him now."

The others were staring at the space bat, flopping about feebly a short
distance away, its awful strength spent.

"Leggett," the fur merchant said to the lawyer, "think what a _rug_
that would make for the firm's front office!"

"Miss Vaun can also come into a nice bit of cash from that circus for
it," one of the other patrolmen said. "This is her land--or soon will
be--and the bat's on it. Where Flint's going, he won't be able to claim
anything."

The big patrolman helped Karen up. Flint stumbled to his feet. The
patrolman grabbed him by the collar, roughly. "Come along, kidnapper,"
he said.

Karen Vaun stared at the patrolman blankly. "_Kidnapper?_"
