
It was night. A night without a moon. The island loomed dark against the
black waters. The dark was relieved only by a small fire burning at the
native settlement a half-mile down the coast, and the cabin lights of
the _Seven Seas_.

"What will we do now?" Carol tried to sound unconcerned, but her voice
sounded thin and wavering.

"I don't know what we can do, except wait until daybreak. I'm sure we
can get a signal out then," Bill replied, calmly as he could. He hoped
she couldn't hear the pounding of his heart.

"What about the dog?" she asked. "Will it be all right there? Should we
bring it aboard?"

"We better leave everything untouched. Our best bet is to get some sleep
and place our call as soon as day breaks."

Neither of them could eat much supper and after putting the dishes
away, they made up their bunks and climbed in. After a very few minutes,
Bill handed a lighted cigarette across the narrow chasm between the
bunks.

"I can't sleep. My head is spinning. Do you really believe that's what
we've found?" Carol's voice sounded small.

"Yes, I do. I believe we've found the Russian ejection unit, complete
with the dog Laika and instrumentation."

They lay quietly, the glow of two cigarettes occasionally reflecting on
the bulkhead. Bill finally arose.

"I can't think of another thing but what's sitting out there on Little
Harbor Cay!" He walked up to the main cabin and switched on the RDF. For
a few minutes there was music, and then:

"Flash! The United States Government has just officially released the
news that at 10:09 p.m. Eastern Standard Time the U. S. Satellite
ejection chamber was successfully returned to earth at the designated
location. This was some six hours earlier than expected. The chamber,
into which Robert Joy voluntarily had himself strapped, has landed at an
undisclosed site and is being raced under heavy guard to the Walter Reed
Hospital at Washington, D. C. There is no hope that Joy is still living.
Word has just been released by Dr. James R. Killian that instruments
measuring Joy's pulse rate indicated three days ago that all Joy's
bodily processes ceased to function at that time. We repeat, all hope of
the survival of Robert Joy is now abandoned as the result of scientific
data just released by Dr. Killian.

"The satellite is being brought intact to Walter Reed Hospital and
leading physiologists and scientists are racing to the scene to be on
hand for the opening of the unit scheduled for 6 a.m. tomorrow morning.
Further reports will be given as received. This station will remain on
the air all night. Stay tuned for further developments. We repeat, the
U. S. satellite's ejection chamber, containing the first human being
ever to go into space, has been successfully returned to earth as
predicted, though all hope has been abandoned for the survival of Robert
Joy, the man in the moon. The chamber will be opened for scientific
study tomorrow morning. Stay tuned for further news."

Bill tuned down the music that ensued and returned to his bunk. "You
heard that, Carol?" He knew she wasn't asleep.

"Yes. And it makes this whole thing that we've found seem more
plausible. I've been lying here trying to make myself believe it's some
sort of dream, but it isn't. If we could only ..." Carol's voice faded
softly into the night.

There was absolutely nothing they could do. Nothing but lie there and
smoke and pretend to sleep. They didn't talk much, and keenly felt the
terrible frustration of their enforced silence on the ship-to-shore.
They heard several more news reports and several analyses of the news,
but nothing new was added throughout the night. The radio only
reiterated that the ejection unit had been recovered, that hope had
faded for Joy's survival and that the chamber was to be opened in the
morning as soon as scientists had convened in Washington.
