
Dawn, long in coming, broke about 4:30. With the lifting of the dark,
the sun spots which interfered with radio reception miraculously lifted
also. Bill and Carol sat next to the ship-to-shore and turned it on.
This time they heard the reassuring hum of the transmitter, not drowned
out by the awful static of the night before. Bill switched to the Coast
Guard channel.

"May Day. May Day. This is the _Seven Seas_ calling the United States
Coast Guard. Come in please!"

And a voice, almost miraculously, answered, "This is the U. S. Coast
Guard. Come in _Seven Seas_. What is your position? Come in _Seven
Seas_."

"This is the yacht _Seven Seas_ back to the Coast Guard. We are located
at the Berry Islands at Little Harbor Cay. We want to report the
discovery of what we believe to be the second Russian satellite."

"This is the Coast Guard to the _Seven Seas_. Do we read you correctly?
Are you reporting discovery of the Russian satellite? Please clarify.
Over." A stern voice crackled through the speaker.

"Last evening on entering the harbor here we saw an object fall to the
ground. On inspection, it was a metal box which was broken apart on
impact. In it are electronic equipment and the body of a small dog.
Over." Bill tried to be calm and succinct.

"Coast Guard to _Seven Seas_. Is your boat in distress? Over."

"No, no! Did you read me about the Russian satellite?" asked Bill,
impatience in his voice.

"Will you state your name and address. Will you state the master's full
name, and the call letters and registration of your craft. Over,"
crackled the voice from the speaker.

"Oh my lord, we're not going to have red tape at a time like this, are
we?" Carol asked exasperatedly.

"This is Bill Anderson of Ft. Lauderdale, owner and skipper. Our call
letters are William George 3176, Coast Guard registration #235-46-5483.
What are your instructions regarding dog satellite?"

"Please stand by."

Bill and Carol stared at each other while the voice on the radio was
silent.

"This is the United States Coast Guard calling the yacht _Seven Seas_."

"_Seven Seas_ standing by."

"We wish to remind you that it is illegal and punishable by fine and or
imprisonment to issue false reports to the Coast Guard. We are
investigating your report and wish you to stand by."

"Investigating our report?" Bill fairly shouted into the phone. "Good
God, man! The thing to investigate is _here_, laying in three pieces on
the middle of Little Harbor Cay. This is no joke." Despite the emotion
in Bill's voice, the answer came back routine and cold, "Please stand
by. We will call you. Do not, we repeat, do not make further contact
anywhere. Please stand by. Coast Guard standing by with the _Seven
Seas_."

"_Seven Seas_ standing by," shouted Bill, almost apoplectic, his face
reddening in anger.

"Now what? It looks like they're going to take their time in believing
us. At least until they find out who we are and if we're really here,"
said Carol.

Bill paced the deck in frustration. Suddenly he decided, "Carol, you
stick with the radio. I'm going ashore again and take another look at
our Muttnik. It seems so incredible that I'm not even sure of what I saw
last night. Once they believe us they'll want to know as much about it
as we can tell them." Bill hurriedly put on his swim suit and heard
Carol shout as he dove overboard, "Hurry back, Bill. I don't like you
leaving me here alone!"

Bill swam with sure even strokes to the shore where they had gone last
night. The water felt cool. It soothed his nerves which jangled in the
excitement of the discovery and in the anger at the disbelieving
authorities. He reached shallow water and waded towards shore.

Suddenly he stopped dead, his ankles in five inches of water. His eyes
stared ahead in disbelief. His brain was numbed. Only his eyes were
alive, staring, wide in horror. Finally his brain pieced together the
image that his vision sent to it. Pieced it together but made no
comprehension of it.

His brain told him that there was a blanket of fur laying unevenly
twenty feet back from the shore line. A blanket of yellow and black
fur ... covering the earth, covering mangrove roots, fitted neatly
around the bent palm tree trunks, lying over the rocks that had cut
his feet last night ... smothering, suffocating ... hugging the earth.

Bill shut his eyes, and still the vision kept shooting to his brain. All
yellow and black and fuzzy, with trees or a tall mangrove bush or a sea
grape vine sticking up here and there.

He opened his eyes and wanted to run, for the scene was still there. It
hadn't disappeared as a nightmare disappears when you wake up. Thick
yellow and black fur lay on the ground like dirty snow. Covering
everything low, hugging the base of taller things.

"Run!" his mind told him. Yet he stood rooted to the spot, staring at
the carpet of fur near him. It was only ten feet away. Ten feet? His
every muscle jumped. The lock that had held his muscles and brain in a
tight vice gave loose and a flood of realization hit him. "It's moving!"
he realized in horror. "It's growing!"
