



The advertising game is not as cut and dried as many people think.
Sometimes you spend a million dollars and get no results, and then
some little low-budget campaign will catch the public's fancy and walk
away with merchandising honors of the year.

Let me sound a warning, however. When this happens, watch out! There's
always a reason for it, and it isn't always just a matter of bright
slogans and semantic genius. Sometimes the product itself does the
trick. And when this happens people in the industry lose their heads
trying to capitalize on the "freak" good fortune.

This can lead to disaster. May I cite one example?

I was on loan to Elaine Templeton, Inc., the big cosmetics firm, when
one of these "prairie fires" took off and, as product engineer from
the firm of Bailey Hazlitt & Persons, Advertising Agency, I figured I
had struck pure gold. My assay was wrong. It was fool's gold on a pool
of quicksand.

Madame "Elaine", herself, had called me in for consultation on a huge
lipstick campaign she was planning--you know, NOW AT LAST, A TRULY
KISS-PROOF LIPSTICK!--the sort of thing they pull every so often to
get the ladies to chuck their old lip-goo and invest in the current
dream of non-smearability. It's an old gimmick, and the new product is
never actually kiss-proof, but they come closer each year, and the
gals tumble for it every time.

Well, they wanted my advice on a lot of details such as optimum
shades, a new name, size, shape and design of container. And they were
ready to spend a hunk of moolah on the build-up. You see, when they
give a product a first-class advertising ride they don't figure on
necessarily showing a profit on that particular item. If they break
even they figure they are ahead of the game, because the true purpose
is to build up the brand name. You get enough women raving over the
new Elaine Templeton lipstick, and first thing you know sales start
climbing on the whole line of assorted aids to seduction.

Since E. T., Inc., was one of our better accounts, the old man told me
to take as long as was needed, so I moved in to my assigned office, in
the twelve-story E. T. building, secretary, Scotch supply, ice-bags,
ulcer pills and all, and went to work setting up my survey staff. This
product engineering is a matter of "cut and try" in some fields. You
get some ideas, knock together some samples, try them on the public
with a staff of interviewers, tabulate the results, draw your
conclusions and hand them over to Production with a prayer. If your ad
budget is large enough your prayer is usually answered, because the
American Public buys principally on the "we know what we like, and we
like what we know" principle. Make them "know it" and they'll buy it.
Maybe in love, absence makes the heart grow fonder, but in this
business, familiarity breeds nothing but sales.

Madame Elaine had a fair staff of idea boys, herself. In fact, every
other department head had some gimmick he was trying to push to get
personal recognition. The Old Hag liked this spirit of initiative and
made it plain to me I was to give everyone a thorough hearing.

This is one of the crosses you have to bear. Everyone but the janitor
was swarming into my office with suggestions, and more than half of
them had nothing to do with the lipstick campaign at all. So I
dutifully listened to each one, had my girl take impressive notes and
then lifted my left or my right eyebrow at her. My left eyebrow meant
file them in the wastebasket. This is how the Atummyc Afterbath
Dusting Powder got lost in the shuffle, and later I was credited with
launching a new item on which I didn't even have a record.

It came about this way:
