
The staggering truth about Atummion seeped in slowly. Item one:
Although we put only a pinch of it in a whole barrel of talcum powder,
_it did give the female users a terrific_ complexion! Pimples,
black-heads, warts, freckles and even minor scars disappeared after a
few weeks, and from the very first application users mailed us
testimonials swearing to that "atomic feeling of loveliness".

Item two: About one grain of Atummion to the pound of lipstick brought
out the natural color of a woman's lips and maintained it there _even
after the lipstick was removed_.

Item three: There never was such a shampoo. For once the ad
copywriters failed to exceed the merits of their product.
Atummion-tinted hair took on a sparkling look, a soft texture and a
_natural-appearing wave_ that set beauty-operators screaming for
protection.

These beauticians timed their complaint nicely. It got results on the
morning that the whole thing began to fall to pieces.

About ten A. M. Jennings called a meeting of all people concerned in
the Atummyc Powder project, and they included me as well as the pixie
and her brother, the assistant chemist.

Everyone was too flushed with success to take Jennings' opening remark
too seriously. "It looks like we've got a winner that's about to lose
us our shirts," he said.

He shuffled some papers and found the one he wanted to hit us with
first. "The beauticians claim we are dispensing a dangerous drug
without prescription. They have brought suits to restrain our use."

Madame Elaine in her mannishly tailored suit was standing by a window
staring out. She said, "The beauticians never gave us any break,
anyway. Hell with them! What's next?"

Jennings lifted another paper. "I agree, but they sicked the Pure Food
and Drug people on us. They tend to concur."

"Let them prove it first," the Old Hag said turning to the pixie's
brother. "Eh, Bob!"

"It's harmless!" he protested, but I noticed that the pixie herself,
for all her radiance, had a troubled look on her face.

The general manager lifted another paper. "Well, there seems to be
enough doubt to have caused trouble. The Pure Food and Drug labs have
by-passed the courts and put in a word to the Atomic Energy
Commission. The AEC has cut off our supply of the fission salts that
go into Atummion, pending tests."

That brought us all to our feet. Madame Elaine stalked back to the
huge conference table and stared at Bob, the chemist. "How much of the
gunk do we have on hand?"

"About a week's supply at present production rates." He was pale, and
he swallowed his adam's apple three times.

The worst was yet to come. The pixie looked around the table
peculiarly unchanged by the news. She had trouble in her face but it
had been there from the start of the conference. "I wasn't going to
bring this up just yet," she said, "but since we're here to have a
good cry I might as well let you kick this one around at the same
time. Maybe you won't mind shutting down production after all."

The way she said it froze all of us except the Madame.

The Madame said, "Well, speak up! What is it?"

"I've been to twelve different doctors, including eight specialists.
I've thought and thought until I'm half crazy, and there just isn't
any other answer," the pixie said.

She stared at us and clenched her fists and beat on the shiny table.
"You've got to believe me! There just isn't _any_ other answer.
Atummion is responsible for my condition, and all twelve doctors
agreed on my condition."

Still standing, Madame Elaine Templeton grabbed the back of her chair
until her knuckles turned white. "Don't tell me the stuff brings on
hives or something!"

The pixie threw back her head and a near-hysterical laugh throbbed
from her lovely throat. "Hives, hell. I'm pregnant!"
