
Back when I was a kid in Tennessee, I used to raise a thousand chickens
every spring and never lost but a few. But there was one chicken one
year that I'll remember for the rest of my days. He never was able to
walk. From the time he was hatched he kept falling on his face, or his
behind, and rolling over and over, with the other chickens walking on
him. So one day I asked the Doc what was wrong.

"No equilibrium," said the Doc, and _now_ you know what that means!
Right inside his ear the canals were messed up, the canals where the
liquid rolls around, and this chicken didn't know which way was up.
Seems like he didn't have any liquid in there. No liquid at all.

Well, that's what makes a spaceman. A man with a normal ear, why he
knows which way is up or down, because the gravity pulls that liquid
around in there, and it rolls over those sensory hairs which contact
the brain with the latest information. But when the first spacemen got
out into space, there wasn't any gravity to pull the liquid, and it
charged around in there whichever way it felt like--up, down, sideways,
whichever way they moved their heads, and the walls, sky, and world
just whirled around. They all got sick; couldn't see, couldn't eat,
couldn't move. Most of the first rockets just passed right on by the
moon and went out into space, and those that didn't just piled into it
head on, with half-dead men lying at the controls.

But in number 19 there was a man who'd always had trouble with his
sense of balance, a man who fell easily and hit hard when he went down.
That man saved his crew. For when they got out in space they got sick,
like the other eighteen crews, but the other man, he just heaved a sigh
of relief, just looked out at the sky and the stars and the great big
universe of space, and his whole insides cried, "This is for me!"

Yes sir, he was a spaceman-born--the first spaceman--and he brought
that ship back by himself to tell the world that spacemen are born.

It was a funny thing too. For so many of the born spacemen are
weaklings, kids who never feel sure of themselves, who never can play
hard games because they're always falling down. Other kids always made
fun of them, but now these men came into their own. They weren't at
home on the earth, the moon, Mars, or _any_ planet--their home was the
deep purple nothingness of space.

And they built our space colonies and have always run our space-lanes.

But Trase Barnes wasn't one of them.

Like I say, Trase's father was a spaceman, a long thin giant of a man
who loved the sky and lived in it. Trase's mother was like his father,
a space-woman born, and they lived out there at No-Grav City, hung
there fifty thousand miles away from the moon, where spacemen live
without the heavy bonds of gravity.

But Mrs. Barnes came into the Moon-Station hospital to have her baby,
and naturally she hoped for a son--a spaceman-born. But Trase was just
as sound and healthy as an Iowa pig in October, and he knew from the
beginning which way was up and down. But how he hated it!

When Trase's pa came back from a long haul out to Pluto--he'd been gone
a year and a half--and found out that Trase would never be a spaceman,
he broke into tears. Only time he ever cried.

Well, they lived with him and they raised him, here in the gravity of
the moon. His pa had to make a living, hitching space hulks back and
forth in the dark of the sky, but his ma was as kind as ever; she just
gritted her teeth and stayed in the gravity with him till he got out of
Moon-Station prep-school. They finally had another child, a girl, who
was a space-woman born. Now she's a woman pilot on a Mercury to Venus
run.
