
Oh, how Trase hated himself, and the world, and most of all the gravity
that bound his feet to the ground. His first wanderings were out there
to the space-port, where the spacemen in their gray uniforms strolled
easily about and swaggered before his eyes. There were the mysterious
vessels, crouched in their launching racks, their skins shiny with the
flow-sheen imparted to them by tremendous speeds out in nothing. There
were the gatherings of spacemen to talk about the black, black side of
Mercury, the pale corona of the sun seen from Neptune, the thousands
of square miles of flat green moss on Venus, but mostly they talked of
the purple and yellow rings of Saturn, and the deep-breath feeling of
space.

So Trase would go back to his school books and try to understand
arithmetic and geography, and his body would always be on time, his
physical being would say "present"--but his mind, ah, his mind wandered
a golden pathway among the glittering worlds of the sky.

His little fingers were deft and quick, and by the time he was ten he
had made a dozen space-models. There was a model of old number 19,
crude, rough, and laughable, with its huge stepped rockets that were
dropped away to the rear on the way to the moon. There beside his
schoolbooks was the _Adventurer II_, first ship to go inside Mercury's
orbit and come back to tell the tale. His walls were lined with
pictures of such men as Rak Bartel, the laughing spaceman who rescued
the Wofford expedition from the wilds of Titan, and over there was
Colombo Dante, the pale little Indian half-breed who held ten speed
records around the solar system that are still unbeaten today.

But under his pillow was the picture of Mortan Barnes, his father,
whose huge, thin face gave the appearance of looking wistfully at the
stars. Yet, it couldn't have been more wistful than the eyes of Trase.

So Trase went on with his growing up, and they told him to study
medicine, so he gobbled up his chemistry, his biology, and
anthropology, but he studied space-math at night. By the time he got
out of prep-school he could work some astro-nav problems in his head
and knew the names, tonnages, and horsepower of the seven hundred
models of space vessels without so much as cracking a book.

He read a story about a stowaway one day, and then he read it again. It
made his mind start to working and he began to say to himself, "Maybe
they're wrong about my ears. Maybe I would be a good spaceman. If a
man's got a mind to be a spaceman, looks like he ought to be able to
make himself do it, doesn't it?"

The space-station doctor spoke sympathetically. "No, Trase, there's
very little that can be done. An operation, maybe--but the only
doctor I know capable of performing such an operation is on Earth,
and it would cost thousands of dollars. No, Trase, be happy, can't
you? Most spacemen are not really happy. I think they really envy us
gravity-bound people, for they can't ever know a real home. Can't you
see the wistfulness in their faces and the haunted look deep back in
their eyes?"

Yes, Trase could see all that, but to him it was because they saw
things that no other man could see.

Trase didn't believe the doctor. He had to try it, so he smuggled
himself into an air-lock one day, grabbed an air-suit, and wandered out
on the ground of the moon.

Now the moon's got a little gravity, you know, but when Trase got out
of the artificial gravity of the Moon-Station, he began to run into
trouble. It was all right as long as he stood still, because the little
gravity of the moon would pull at the liquid in his ears. But if he
moved suddenly, why it would shake all around in there, and the moon
and the stars and the bright big Earth over there would whirl in a
blaze of light. Then Trase would wake up lying on his face with his
suit messed up from being sick.

So Trase figured out a method of training himself. "I'll show 'em," he
would groan through clenched teeth while the sky wheeled around his
head. "By the Great Big Bear I'll show 'em that a spaceman _can_ be
made!"
