
His private method of training was to move in exaggerated slow motion.
To walk out on the rough ground of the moon and lift one foot so-o-o
slowly and carefully, with his eyes fixed on one tall, spiky peak of
the Appenines, and with the crust of Mare Imbrium staying in place.
He got where he could cover a mile or two in an earth-time afternoon,
never taking his eyes off the fix on the mountain peak, never moving
his head to catch a glimpse of the fiery trails of the space vessels
roaring off into the purple-blue sky.

And the magic catch-phrase would come like a chant from between his
twisted lips, "Spacemen are made ... spacemen are made!"

He really made a little headway. He got where he could move a little
faster and could occasionally take a quick glance upward at the
crystalline patchwork of the sky.

And what was that beautiful point of light out there?

Trase knew it was Saturn, and his eyes would be fixed upon it as
a final mount of redemption, as the supreme goal of a well lived
lifetime. He wheedled his way into the Moon-Station Astrodome and
hungrily gulped in the sight of the ringed planet canted there in the
scope view-finder. It was there! The rings were there, the huge planet
was there, but the scope only showed you enough to make it just out
of your reach; tantalizing, torturing--a pearl to melt through your
fingers when you reached for it.

"Hi'ya Saturn!" he would cry. "God of Time that you are, you've waited
a long time for me but I'll be there!"

Trase began going to the dispatcher's station, getting the schedules
of arrivals and departures and destinations, and figuring the orbits.
Then he could tell the exact time the space vessels were due to shoot
the rings at Saturn, or burst through the 1,100 mile space between
the crape ring and the middle one. Then he would be sitting there at
the scope, imagining that he could see a ship--a so-small fleck of
blackness skimming across the yellow of the watery hulk of Saturn. That
was the way he saw the blow-up of the _Andromeda_, carrying a load of
fissionable materials, when she burst in a flash of white-hot energy in
a collision with some hunks of jet in the middle ring.

After he saw that, Trase walked home with something dead inside of him,
with his head quiet, his shoulders drooping, his heart sobbing out the
Saturn "Home Song" as he had heard his father sing it so often. For his
father had been master of the _Andromeda_.

Trase was the one who had to tell his mother, and she took it,
dry-eyed, for the first few minutes. But then she could stand it no
longer, and she flung herself at her tall son, lean and muscular, and
sobbed, "I'm glad you can't be a spaceman. I'm glad, I'm glad. It's a
dirty life, and your reward is a flashing death in a fire-pit."

Trase held her while she sobbed out her grief. He had to keep
swallowing down the lump in his own throat, but he could somehow keep
seeing that white-hot burst of flame framed before the God of Time,
and could imagine that his father's spirit was freed in the space he
had loved, out there where he could live on forever, gazing on that
magnificent scene.

After that, there wasn't any more studying medicine for Trase. He had
to go to work. Because of his aptness with figures he got a job in the
dispatcher's office as assistant calculator. It paid well, but somehow
it didn't mean so much any more, for Trase seemed to be living in an
emptiness greater than that of space. He clocked in and clocked out
each shift, and his error index was smaller than that of any other
clerk in the office. The other clerks used to look at him and grunt,
"There goes Trase Barnes--never a mistake. He's just as infallible as
the machine."

So he went up. Assistant calculator to calculator, to assistant
dispatcher to dispatcher. In seven years he was chief dispatcher and in
three more he ran the Moon-Station space-port. Twenty-nine years old,
vice-president of Air-Lanes, Inc., owned a block of Marsopolis, Inc.,
stock, and had never been off the moon.

In later years, it kind of quit bothering him, except sometimes when
some of his pilots came in to make a report and they'd seen a flashing
meteor on Io, or had screamed through the blue, thin, upper atmosphere
of Jupiter--and they simply could not hide their feelings in the
language of official reports. At times like that, Trase would sometimes
slip on the air-suit, go through his old routine out there on the
forgotten dust of Mare Imbrium, and mutter his phrase about "Spacemen
are made!"

But it was just a ritual, just an escape, just a way of breathing an
occasional bit of life into an empty dream, and Trase knew it. Where
was that feeling of yesterday, that lift in his breast, that catch in
his throat, that wild calling from out there among the white stars that
made his legs tremble, his heart hammer, and his spirit cry out, "I'll
be there"?

Where, indeed, had the ghosts gone, those ghosts that fought so
bitterly the mound-bound vision of himself, sitting at his desk and
never leaving the moon?
