
Trase had just come in from one of those visits one afternoon when
Irinia Custer walked into his office unannounced, and caught him there
in an unlighted office, staring out at the constellations low on the
horizon.

Now, Irinia was almost a legend. Her reaction time was the fastest
of any pilot employed by Air-Lanes Inc. Her hardness and cynicism in
the face of danger, death, and the accepted ideals of life made top
story-telling material wherever spacemen gathered. She wouldn't have
needed to be beautiful, but on top of it all she was; for her sensuous
figure and black hair, with equally coal-black eyes, made her wild
beauty as legendary as her deeds. Yet Trase Barnes was known to be
twice as cold-blooded as she, an automaton who sent pilots into danger
with nothing but money in mind.

So Irinia eased quietly into Trase's office that afternoon, and there
the tough man sat, with his back to the door, staring out the huge
lucite port into the jewelled splendor of the clear night sky--seeing
the constellations that to Trase were as familiar as the walls of his
office.

Irinia stood quietly behind him for a moment, then she spoke. "So the
v.p. likes the stars," she breathed slowly, but her voice was not
scornful. "The big, moon-bound executive, with ice-water in his veins,
_has_ got a spark of romance."

Trase turned to her slowly, a part of his mind still out there among
the stars where strange kings and queens fought for galactic empires.

Irinia looked at him, at the expression on Trase's face, and then
suddenly she could read the whole story written there in plain
characters. Right there in his eyes she could see the soul of a
spaceman penned up in a moon-bound cage.

And suddenly Irinia Custer felt sorry for the hardness that was in
her spirit, sorry for her bitter, cynical attitude, sorry for the
dirty, laughing nicknames she had fashioned among space-crews for
vice-president Trase Barnes.

They looked at each other for a long time. Then Trase got out the thick
words slowly. "Well, I'm stuck, Irinia," he smiled. "You know the way I
feel--the secret's out, and I know you'll tell it."

Irinia started to talk, but something was lodged in her throat and
her mouth felt dry, strangely dry. She walked over to Trase and her
trembling hand reached out and touched the features of his face, and
the fierceness of what she felt inside her made her whole body shake.

"Yes, I know, Trase," she breathed. "I know." Then suddenly she put her
head on his shoulder and cried.

Well, that's the way it goes, you know. The two toughest people in
spacing ran together, and it was like joining two ribbons of molten
steel. It was a love such as the Moon-Station had seldom seen, and the
talk ran through the space-lines like it had never gone before. It had
been bound to happen to Trase, yet all the worlds wept for the two of
them. Because everyone knew that nothing was worse than for a spaceman
or woman to be mated with a ground-bounder.

At first their happiness was untouchably supreme, and Trase walked
about in a kind of warm haze, deliciously aware of things he had never
before noticed--the pleasant coughing sound of a Moon-Dog barking, the
tinny clatter of dishes that rang out from the Spacemen's Mess; all
small things which never before had meaning, but which now made him
seem like part of the world.

Yet, it caught up with them, for they both knew that Irinia couldn't
give up space and Trase couldn't go to space. Or could he?

It got Trase to thinking. Hadn't there been something about a doctor,
or an operation ... maybe now he had the money to pay. He went back
to see the space doctor who told him that, and found that he was
dead. He asked other doctors and they told him that it was a bunch of
foolishness, that they had never known of a successful operation of
that type, that the only thing to remember was the phrase, "Spacemen
are born--not made."

Trase got kind of tired of hearing it, but no doctor would risk his
reputation on the operation.

So that was that.
