
Trase and Irinia talked it over; that is, as much as they could with
their throats kind of choked up, and they decided the only thing they
could do was to forget each other. Irinia could never be happy living
in gravity. So she went off to space again, and Trase just sat back at
his great carved oaken desk, looked out his lucite port, and pondered.

Oh, that Trase was a thinker, and his thinking got faster and faster
as the days went by, and sometimes again he began to be seen on an
earth-time afternoon down on the flight line, watching the ships come
in and out. It was a place he hadn't frequented in years.

By the time Irinia got back on her trip from Deimos, his face was
hard--hard as the thought that was in his mind. He called Irinia to
come to his office. She didn't want to, because they had vowed never to
speak again, but somehow, from the tone of the note, she had to come.

"O.K., veepee," she cracked, a frozen, bitter, mask of a smile on her
lips, "What've I done now?"

Trase said, "I'm going to space."

Irinia's face went white for a minute, but she knew her Trase--and she
knew argument was no good.

"Where?" she whispered.

"Saturn," Trase replied.

"Oh, no!" cried Irinia. "Not Saturn! It's the worst of them all."

"I know it is," Trase said. "That's the reason I want to go."

"You'll never come back alive," whispered Irinia. "If the sickness
doesn't get you, the rings will."

"Maybeso, Irinia. But I need your help. I've got plans and I need
you. If I make this trip, maybe I can make others. Maybe ... maybe I
can prove that spacemen _can_ be made. But if I can't make it without
sickness, I promise you I'll never bother you or ask anything of you
again."

"But what are your plans, Trase?"

"Drugs, first, Irinia. Progressive slackening off, and attempted
self-induced hypnotism. Small artificial gravity unity, enough to
create about a tenth of earth gravity. I think I can do it, Irinia."

"But it's all been tried before, Trase, and it's never worked! You know
that--it's deeply psychological as well as physical. You can't do it
simply by wanting it!"

Trase looked long and hard at her. His smile was almost ghastly. "Life
is worth nothing to me unless I try it, Irinia," he said quietly.

So that did it. Trase cashed in his stock in Air-Lanes, bought a
ship and they went to work on it. He couldn't get a first-rate crew
because the news got around about what they were trying to do, and no
self-respecting spaceman would have anything to do with it. But there
were drifters to be had.

They blew off in the middle of the two-week moon night, the polyglot
crew grazing the space-station dome, and setting off ten degrees
off course, with Trase strapped in his bunk and drugged into
unconsciousness, and Irinia cursing the crew in pure venom they had
never heard before.

And that, essentially, was the way the trip went. Irinia never weakened
and by the time they were two months out she had the crew almost to a
state of discipline.

Of course, drugs had been tried before--they were the method used to
transport non-space-born passengers between the Earth and the moon.
Irinia fed Trase intravenously. At the end of the two months she turned
on the puny artificial gravity system and let him come awake.

His first words were, "Where's Saturn?"

"O, Trase, we haven't even got well started yet," Irinia cried.
