
It was not a new litter, built especially for the occasion--Yasak was
too practical a man to sanction any kind of waste. It was the same
old litter that Koroby had been watching come and go ever since she
was a little girl, a canopied framework of gaudily-painted carvings.
She had wondered, watching it pass, whether its cushioned floor was
soft, and now, as she stepped into the litter, she patted the padding
experimentally. Yes, it was soft .... And fragrant, too--a shade too
fragrant. It smelled stale, hinting of other occupants, other brides
being borne to other weddings....

Garlands of flowers occupied a good deal of space in it. Settled among
them, she felt like a bird in a strange nest. She leaned back among
them; they rustled dryly. Too bad--it had been such a dry year--

"You're comfortable?" the litter bearer asked. Koroby nodded, and the
litter was lifted, was carried along the path.

The procession filed into the jungle, into a tunnel of arched branches,
of elephant-eared leaves. Above the monotonous music came the hiss of
the torches, the occasional startled cry of a wakened bird. The glow of
the flames, in the dusty air, hung around the party, sharply defined,
like a cloak of light. At times a breeze would shake the ceiling of
foliage, producing the sound of rolling surf.

Koroby fingered the flowers around her throat, her eyes rapt on the
passing trees. Her lips moved in the barest murmur: "If only--!"
and again, "Oh, if only--!" But the music trickled on, and nothing
happened; the litter seemed to float along--none of the bearers even
stumbled.

They came to a cleared space of waist-high grass. It was like a canyon
steeply walled by cliffs of verdure. The litter jerked as it glided
along, and Koroby heard one of the bearers exclaim gruffly, "Listen!"
Then the litter resumed its dream-like floating on the backs of the men.

"What was it?" another bearer asked.

"Thought I heard something," the other replied. "Shrill and high--like
something screaming--"

Koroby peered out. "A _gnau_?" she asked.

"I don't know," the bearer volunteered.

Koroby lifted a hand. "Stop the litter," she said.
