
The conveyance halted. Koroby leaning out, the men peering around them,
they listened. One of the bearers shouted at the musicians; the music
ceased. There was nothing to be heard except the whisper of the breeze
in the grass.

Then the girl heard it--a shrill, distant whine, dying away, then
growing louder--and louder--it seemed to be approaching--from the sky--

All the faces were lifted up now, worriedly. The whine grew
louder--Koroby's hands clenched nervously on the wreaths at her throat--

Then, far ahead, a series of bright flashes, like the lightning of the
dust-storms, but brilliantly green. A silence, then staccatto reports,
certainly not thunder--unlike any sound that Koroby had ever heard.

There was a babble of voices as the musicians crowded together, asking
what had it been, and where--just exactly--could one suppose it had
happened, that thunder--was it going to storm!

They waited, but nothing further happened--there were no more stabs of
green light nor detonations. The bearers stooped to lift the litter's
poles to their shoulders. "Shall we go on?" one of them asked Koroby.

She waved a hand. "Yes, go on."

The litter resumed its gentle swaying, but the music did not start
again. Then, from the direction of the light-flashes, a glow appeared,
shining steadily, green as the flashes had been. Noticing it, Koroby
frowned. Then the path bent, and the glow swung to one side.

Suddenly Koroby reached out, tapped the shoulder of the closet bearer.
"Go toward the light."

His face swung up to hers. "But--there's no path that way--"

"I don't care," she said. "Take me there." Her order had reached the
others' ears, and they slowed their pace.

"Lady--believe me--it's impossible. There's nothing but matted jungle
in that direction--we'd have to hack our way as we go along. And who
knows how far away that light is? Besides, you're on your way to be
married."

"Take me to that light!" she persisted.

They set the litter down. "We can't do that," one man said to another.

Koroby stepped out to the path, straightened up, her eyes on the glow.
"You'd better," she said ominously. "Otherwise, I'll make a complaint
to Yasak--"

The men eyed each other, mentally shrugging. "Well--" one yielded.

The girl whirled impatiently on the others. "Hurry!" she cried. "If you
won't take me, I'll go by myself. I must get to that fire, whatever it
is!" She put a hand to her heart. "I must! I must!" Then she faced the
green glare again, smiling to herself.

"You can't do that!" a carrier cried.

"Well, then, you take me," she said over her shoulder.

Grumbling, they bent to the conveyance's poles, and Koroby lithely
slipped to the cushions. They turned off the path, plodded through the
deep grass toward the light. The litter lurched violently as their
feet caught in the tangled grass, and clouds of fine dust arose from
the disturbed blades.
