
It was day. Koroby sat up in bed and scanned her surroundings. She was
in Yasak's house. The bed was very soft, the coverlets of the finest
weave. The furniture was elegantly carved and painted; there were even
paintings on the walls.

A woman came to the bed. She was stocky and wore drab grey: the blue
circles tattooed on her cheeks proclaimed her a slave. "How do you
feel?" she asked.

"Fairly well. How long have I been ill?" Koroby asked, sweetly weak.

"You haven't been ill. They brought you in last night."

"Oh," Koroby said disappointedly, and sat upright. "I feel as if I'd
been lying here for weeks. Where's Yasak? Where's the strange man in
armor?"

"Yasak's out somewhere. The stranger man is in the room at the end of
the hall."

"Fetch me something to wear--that's good enough," the girl accepted the
mantle offered by the slave. "Quick, some water--I must wash."

In a few minutes she was lightly running down the hall; she knocked on
the door of Robert's room. "May I come in?"

He did not answer. She waited a little and went in. He was seated on
one of the carved chairs, fussing over some scraps of metal on the
table. He did not look up.

"Thank you for carrying me, Robert." He did not reply. "Robert--I
dreamed of you last night. I dreamed you built another round house and
that we both flew away in it. Yasak had to stay behind, and he was
furious. Robert! Aren't you listening?"

"I hear you."

"Don't you think it was an exciting dream?" He shook his head. "But
why? Robert"--she laid longing hands on his shoulders--"can't you see
that I'm in love with you?" He shrugged. "I believe you don't know what
love is!"

"I had a faint idea of it when I looked into your mind," he said. "I'm
afraid I haven't any use for it. Where I come from there is no love,
and there shouldn't be here, either. It's a waste of time."

"Robert--I'm mad about you! I've dreamed of your coming--all my life!
Don't be so cruel--so cold to me! You mock me, say that I'm nothing,
that I'm not worthy of you--"

She stepped back from him, clenching her hands. "Oh, I hate you--hate
you! You don't care the least bit about me--and I've shamed myself in
front of you--I, supposed to be Yasak's wife by now!" She began to
cry, hid her face in suddenly lax fingers. She looked up fiercely. "I
could kill you!" Robert stood immobile, no trace of feeling marring the
perfection of his face. "I could kill you, and I will kill you!" she
sprang at him.

"You'll hurt yourself," he admonished kindly, and after she had
pummeled his chest, bruising her fingers on his armor, she turned away.

"And now if you're through playing your incomprehensible little scene,"
Robert said, "I hope you will excuse me. I regret that I have no
emotions--I was never allowed them. But it is an esthetic regret.... I
must go back to my wrecked ship now and arrange the signals there." He
did not wait for her leave, but strode out of the room.

Koroby huddled on a chair, sobbing. Then she dried her eyes on the
backs of her hands. She went to the narrow slits that served as windows
and unfastened the translucent shutter of one. Down in the City street,
Robert was walking away. Her eyes hardened, and her fingers spread
into ugly claws. Without bothering to pull the shutter in place she
hurried out of the room, ran eagerly down the hall. She stopped at
the armor-rack at the main hall on her way outside, and snatched up a
_siatcha_--a firestone. Then she slipped outside and down the street.
