
They summoned other machine-tending-and-repairing machines, ones far
more expert than themselves, but all were baffled. It was clear that
Pink Wastebasket, who continued to tremble and flicker uncontrollably,
was suffering from the equivalent of a major psychosis with severe
psychosomatic symptoms. She spat a stream of filthy ions at Gray
Psychiatrist, not recognizing her old friend.

Meanwhile, the paper blizzard from Black Sorter was piling up in great
drifts between the dark pillars of the sublevel, and flurries had
reached Pink Wastebasket's aristocratic area. An expedition of sturdy
machines, headed by two hastily summoned snowplows, was dispatched to
immobilize Black Sorter at all costs.

Pink Wastebasket, quivering like a demented hula dancer, was clearly
approaching a crisis. Finally Gray Psychiatrist--after consulting with
Green Surgeon, and even then with an irritated reluctance, as if he
were calling in a witch-doctor--summoned a human being.

The human being walked respectfully around Pink Wastebasket several
times and then gave her a nervous little poke with a rubber-handled
probe.

Pink Wastebasket gently regurgitated her last snack, turned dead
white, gave a last flicker and shake, and expired. Black Coroner
recorded the immediate cause of death as tinkering by a human being.

The human being, a bald and scrawny one named Potshelter, picked up the
envelope responsible for all the trouble, stared at it incredulously,
opened it with trembling fingers, scanned the contents briefly, gave
a great shriek and ran off at top speed, forgetting to hop on his
perambulator, which followed him making anxious clucking noises.

The nearest human representative of the Solar Bureau of Investigation,
a rather wooden-looking man named Krumbine, also bald, recognized
Potshelter as soon as the latter burst gasping into his office,
squeezing through the door while it was still dilating. The human
beings whose work took them among the Top Brass, as the upper-echelon
machines were sometimes referred to, formed a kind of human elite, just
one big nervous family.

"Sit down, Potshelter," the SBI Man said. "Hold still a second so the
chair can grab you. Hitch onto the hookah and choose a tranquilizer
from the tray at your elbow. Whatever deviation you've uncovered can't
be that much of a danger to the planets. I imagine that when you leave
this office, the Solar Battle Fleet will still be orbiting peacefully
around Luna."

"I seriously doubt that."
