
Potshelter gulped a large lavender pill and took a deep breath.
"Krumbine, a letter turned up in the first-class mail this morning."

"Great Scott!"

"It is a letter from one person to another person."

"Good Lord!"

"The flow of advertising has been seriously interfered with. At a
modest estimate, three hundred million pieces of expensive first-class
advertising have already been chewed to rags and I'm not sure the Steel
Helms--God bless 'em!--have the trouble in hand yet."

"Judas Priest!"

"Naturally the poor machines weren't able to cope with the letter.
It was utterly outside their experience, beyond the furthest reach
of their programming. It threw them into a terrible spasm. Pink
Wastebasket is dead and at this very instant, if we're lucky, three
police machines of the toughest blued steel are holding down Black
Sorter and putting a muzzle on him."

"Great Scott! It's incredible, Potshelter. And Pink Wastebasket dead?
Take another tranquilizer, Potshelter, and hand over the tray."

Krumbine received it with trembling fingers, started to pick up a big
pink pill but drew back his hand from it in sudden revulsion at its
color and swallowed two blue oval ones instead. The man was obviously
fighting to control himself.

He said unsteadily, "I almost never take doubles, but this news you
bring--Good Lord! I seem to recall a case where someone tried to
send a sound-tape through the mails, but that was before my time.
Incidentally, is there any possibility that this is a letter sent by
one _group_ of persons to another group? A hive or a therapy group or a
social club? That would be bad enough, of course, but--"

"No, just one single person sending to another." Potshelter's
expression set in grimly solicitous lines. "I can see you don't quite
understand, Krumbine. This is not a sound-tape, but a letter written in
letters. You know, letters, characters--like books."

"Don't mention books in this office!" Krumbine drew himself up angrily
and then slumped back. "Excuse me, Potshelter, but I find this very
difficult to face squarely. Do I understand you to say that one person
has tried to use the mails to send a printed sheet of some sort to
another?"

"Worse than that. A written letter."

"Written? I don't recognize the word."

"It's a way of making characters, of forming visual equivalents of
sound, without using electricity. The writer, as he's called, employs
a black liquid and a pointed stick called a pen. I know about this
because one hobby of mine is ancient means of communication."
