
Krumbine frowned and shook his head. "Communication is a dangerous
business, Potshelter, especially at the personal level. With you and
me, it's all right, because we know what we're doing."

He picked up a third blue tranquilizer. "But with most of the
hive-folk, person-to-person communication is only a morbid form of
advertising, a dangerous travesty of normal newscasting--catharsis
without the analyst, recitation without the teacher--a perversion of
promotion employed in betraying and subverting."

The frown deepened as he put the blue pill in his mouth and chewed it.
"But about this pen--do you mean the fellow glues the pointed stick to
his tongue and then speaks, and the black liquid traces the vibrations
on the paper? A primitive non-electrical oscilloscope? Sloppy but
conceivable, and producing a record of sorts of the spoken word."

"No, no, Krumbine." Potshelter nervously popped a square orange tablet
into his mouth. "It's a hand-written letter."

Krumbine watched him. "I never mix tranquilizers," he boasted absently.
"Hand-written, eh? You mean that the message was imprinted on a hand?
And the skin or the entire hand afterward detached and sent through
the mails in the fashion of a Martian reproach? A grisly find indeed,
Potshelter."

"You still don't quite grasp it, Krumbine. The fingers of the hand move
the stick that applies the ink, producing a crude imitation of the
printed word."

"Diabolical!" Krumbine smashed his fist down on the desk so that the
four phones and two-score microphones rattled. "I tell you, Potshelter,
the SBI is ready to cope with the subtlest modern deceptions, but when
fiends search out and revive tricks from the pre-Atomic Cave Era, it's
almost too much. But, Great Scott, I dally while the planets are in
danger. What's the sender's code on this hellish letter?"

"No code," Potshelter said darkly, proferring the envelope. "The return
address is--hand-written."

Krumbine blanched as his eyes slowly traced the uneven lines in the
upper left-hand corner:

    _from_ Richard Rowe
    215 West 10th St. (horizontal)
    2837 Rocket Court (vertical)
    Hive 37, NewNew York 319, N. Y.
    Columbia, Terra

"Ugh!" Krumbine said, shivering. "Those crawling characters, those
letters, as you call them, those _things_ barely enough like print
to be readable--they seem to be on the verge of awakening all sorts
of horrid racial memories. I find myself thinking of fur-clad
witch-doctors dipping long pointed sticks in bubbling black cauldrons.
No wonder Pink Wastebasket couldn't take it, brave girl."
