
Firming himself behind his desk, he pushed a number of buttons and
spoke long numbers and meaningful alphabetical syllables into several
microphones. Banks of colored lights around the desk began to blink
like a theatre marquee sending Morse Code, while phosphorescent
arrows crawled purposefully across maps and space-charts and through
three-dimensional street diagrams.

"There!" he said at last. "The sender of the letter is being
apprehended and will be brought directly here. We'll see what sort
of man this Richard Rowe is--if we can assume he's human. Seven
precautionary cordons are being drawn around his population station:
three composed of machines, two of SBI agents, and two consisting of
human and mechanical medical-combat teams. Same goes for the intended
recipient of the letter. Meanwhile, a destroyer squadron of the Solar
Fleet has been detached to orbit over NewNew York."

"In case it becomes necessary to Z-Bomb?" Potshelter asked grimly.

Krumbine nodded. "With all those villains lurking just outside the
Solar System in their invisible black ships, with planeticide in their
hearts, we can't be too careful. One word transmitted from one spy to
another and anything may happen. And we must bomb before they do, so
as to contain our losses. Better one city destroyed than a traitor
on the loose who may destroy many cities. One hundred years ago,
three person-to-person postcards went through the mails--just three
postcards, Potshelter!--and _pft_ went Schenectady, Hoboken, Cicero,
and Walla Walla. Here, as long as you're mixing them, try one of these
oval blues--I find them best for steady swallowing."

Bells jangled. Krumbine grabbed up two phones, holding one to each ear.
Potshelter automatically picked up a third. The ringing continued.
Krumbine started to wedge one of his phones under his chin, nodded
sharply at Potshelter and then toward a cluster of microphones at the
end of the table. Potshelter picked up a fourth phone from behind them.
The ringing stopped.

The two men listened, looking doped, Krumbine with an eye fixed on
the sweep second hand of the large wall clock. When it had made one
revolution, he cradled his phones. Potshelter followed suit.

"I do like the simplicity of the new on-the-hour Puffyloaf
phono-commercial," the latter remarked thoughtfully. "The Bread That's
Lighter Than Air. Nice."

Krumbine nodded. "I hear they've had to add mass to the leadfoil
wrapping to keep the loaves from floating off the shelves. Fact."
