
Krumbine laughed harshly. "No crime! No, not at all. Merely using the
mails to communicate. Ha!"

The young man shrank back. "I'm sorry, sir."

"Sorry, he says! Do you realize that your insane prank has resulted
in the destruction of perhaps a half-billion pieces of first-class
advertising?--in the strangulation of a postal station and the
paralysis of Lower Manhattan?--in the mobilization of SBI reserves, the
de-mothballing of two divisions of G. I. machines and the redeployment
of the Solar Battle Fleet? Good Lord, boy, why did you do it?"

Richard Rowe continued to shrink but he squared his shoulders. "I'm
sorry, sir, but I just had to. I just had to get in touch with Jane
Dough."

"A girl from another hive? A girl you'd merely gazed at because a guide
happened to blow a fuse?" Krumbine stood up, shaking an angry finger.
"Great Scott, boy, where was Your Girl Next Door?"

Richard Rowe stared bravely at the finger, which made him look a trifle
cross-eyed. "She died, sir, both of them."

"But there should be at least six."

"I know, sir, but of the other four, two have been shipped to the
Adirondacks on vacation and two recently got married and haven't been
replaced."

Potshelter, a faraway look in his eyes, said softly, "I think I'm
beginning to understand--"

But Krumbine thundered on at Richard Rowe with, "Good Lord, I can see
you've had your troubles, boy. It isn't often we have these shortages
of Girls Next Door, so that temporarily a boy can't marry the Girl Next
Door, as he always should. But, Judas Priest, why didn't you take your
troubles to your psychiatrist, your groupmaster, your socializer, your
Queen Mother?"

"My psychiatrist is being overhauled, sir, and his replacement
short-circuits every time he hears the word 'trouble.' My groupmaster
and socializer are on vacation duty in the Adirondacks. My Queen Mother
is busy replacing Girls Next Door."

"Yes, it all fits," Potshelter proclaimed excitedly. "Don't you see,
Krumbine? Except for a set of mischances that would only occur once in
a billion billion times, the letter would never have been conceived or
sent."

"You may have something there," Krumbine concurred. "But in any case,
boy, why did you--er--written this letter to this particular girl? What
is there about Jane Dough that made you do it?"

"Well, you see, sir, she's--"
