
I glanced at my watch. He was right; I was early; the taxi-drive from
Logan International Airport had taken less time than I'd budgeted.
With the feeling I was humoring a madman's whim, I remarked, "This is
a lovely spot. It will be a pleasure to spend fifteen minutes in the
midst of such beauty."

The gardener stared at me as though gauging my sincerity; then he
looked for a moment as though his leather face might bend into a
smile. "Indeed, sir, I've been told by horticulturists of some note
that I have the gift of the green thumb," he said. "It's a passion with
me, this garden; and the master was himself most alive to the seduction
of vegetable beauty. You should have visited us three days ago, sir.
I had a band of fifty sacred lilies blooming all at once, those that
flower only in the sabbatical year, standing like a field of obscene
scarlet-tipped swords. For all their loveliness, I was told by our
downwind neighbors, these lilies smelled like a ruptured cesspool. If
it is true about their odor, such flowers make a forceful moral sermon,
sir, do they not?"

"Do you have no sense of smell?" I asked him. "That would seem a
considerable handicap to a gardener."

"I can drink in beauty with my eyes," he said; "and, since I cannot
smell, the sting of the lilies' sermon missed me. Here ..." he gripped
my arm with fingers which, though gloved, were hard as forceps "... you
can see the lemon-trees in bloom, a pleasing sight seldom come upon in
these latitudes."

"They're under glass?" I asked.

"That's the wonder of it," he said. "They're under the open sky, sir."
He led me to a line of bushes twice the height of a man, unpruned,
pale-green of leaf, with reddish scion-leaves deep inside the foliage;
sweet-smelling flowers, tinted a delicate purple on their underpetals.

Seeing them for the first time, I understood why the poet sang
his dream of the land where they grow. "Lemon-trees, outdoors, in
Massachusetts?" I asked. "They are a new species, no doubt."

"No, sir," the gardener said. "I admit it's not easy to persuade lemons
to thrive through New England snow and gale; but thrive these do. Don't
step any nearer them, sir, if you please. It is not healthy to be too
intimate with these trees."

"I'm not allergic to citrus fruit," I said.

"I'll grant you that, sir, not knowing your personal idiosyncrasies,"
he said; "but step no closer, or I'll be forced to restrain you."
