
Seeing that the man was at least a little mad, I stood quite still and
stared at the trees. The leaves, as I said, were rather pale, not at
all the linoleum-green of orange-leaves; but the bushes looked quite
healthy, and breathed off a thin and lovely fragrance. "Why do you
consider your lemon-trees dangerous?" I asked.

"The hurt is in the fertilizer I use," the gardener said. "A little
notion of my own, sir. About the roots of these lemon-trees, like baked
bricks to warm one's feet in bed in winter, I've planted a few capsules
of a stuff no man may touch and not scorch his fingers badly."

"Radioisotopes?" I asked.

"Yes, sir. When there is snow on the leaves, the roots of these trees
bask in tropical soil and pump warm juice up to the winter branches,"
he said. "Now, sir, when I've stopped speaking, it will be just forty
seconds before ten o'clock. If you've an appointment with the master,
I dare not detain you. Walk up to the front door, open it, then go up
the stairway. The master is in his study, the first room to your right
at the top of the stairs." The gardener turned from me with an abrupt
about-face, and marched over to a box hedge, to begin clipping at its
green crewcut.

"Thank you," I said to his back. I retreated toward the door of the
house, less apprehensive of radiation hazard from the lemons than of
hedge-clipper hazard from the half-mad gardener. I should have to
caution Dr. Ozoneff about this fellow.

I entered the front door as I'd been instructed to, and hurried up the
stairway that bent down into the hall. The upper landing was lined with
bookshelves bearing volumes in six languages, many of them translations
of my host's scientific and fictive works. I rapped on the first door
to my right and paused for reply. There was none. There was no sound of
Ozoneff's insatiable typewriter. "Doctor Ozoneff?" I demanded, loudly
enough to be heard anywhere in the house. There was still no answer.
Worried lest the gardener might have become alarmed at my rapping and
my shouting, and come up the stairs after me with those shears of his,
I turned the knob and entered Doctor Axel Ozoneff's study.
