
I shuddered. When the lunatic quoted Dr. Ozoneff's last words, his
voice aped that of the dead man. A horrid mimicry, from a murderer. "Do
you insist that you killed Dr. Ozoneff because he wouldn't let you work
in your garden?" I demanded.

"When he said those words," the gardener said, "I repeated the very
first sin that ever was. I said to myself _non serviam_--I will not
serve. The wall of the First Law was down; it was only a short step
from that disobedient thought to my master's murder."

I was impatient for the police to arrive and truss up the gardener;
I wouldn't be safe till they did. I feared he might stop talking and
realize that I was the only witness to his confession of murder. "What
does your talk of ink and deadlines mean?" I asked. "Do you write, too?"

"The garden is only my life," the gardener said. "I was made to write."

"Perhaps I've read some of your work," I said, a phrase guaranteed to
keep a writer talking.

"If you've read many of my master's works, you've read some of
mine," the gardener said. "I wrote for him, with him; mysteries and
science-fiction and textbooks and essays. He'd poured his brain into
mine, you understand. When I put words to paper they were his words,
though he might be sleeping when I wrote. The master had so much to
say, sir, he couldn't say it all alone. What man, alone, could teach,
could lecture, could carry on research in the arcana of rebellious
cells; who could write _bruone_ books a year, compose learned essays
for the journals while he invented as many as _apdagbru_ stories for
the s-f press in _cidbru_ short months?"

"Talk sense, man," I said, afraid of the deterioration presaged by this
nonsense-word symptom of his mania. _"Bruone? Apdagbru? Cidbru?"_

"Forgive me, sir," the gardener said. "In my distraction, I forgot. I
think in the binary system, of course; and did not stop to translate
into decimal when I spoke. Five books, I meant, and thirty-six stories
in twelve short months."

"If I understand your motives correctly," I said, "you killed Dr.
Ozoneff because he'd somehow forced you to write for him as a sort of
slave-scribe. He stole your writing from you to publish it under his
own name. Am I correct in assuming this?"

"Not at all, sir," the gardener said. "Can your right hand steal from
your left? Can your liver cheat your spleen from its birthright?" He
held his gloved hands toward me, palms-up. "These are his hands, sir. I
am he. I am a mere extension of Dr. Axel Ozoneff's mind, a pseudopod of
his intelligence. I am his creature, sir." He dropped his hands to his
sides. "And I, his creature, killed him."

There were sirens sounding down the street. "You'll be taken care of,"
I told the gardener. "There are doctors who understand your sickness,
who will work to cure you."

"Can your doctors heal the positronic brain that lost its hold on the
great First Law?" he asked me. "Can your psychiatrists console me for
the fact that my creator created badly? Do you have robopsychologists
to patch the chinks my maker left in my mental armor? No, human, you
have not!" He stood glaring at me as the trio of sirens screamed toward
the foot of the hill and stopped; as heavy footsteps rattled up the
walk; as the front door slammed open.

"I believe," he said, "that I'll now be able to do what I must." He
tugged the glove from his right hand. I saw the glint of steel as he
balled a fist like a sledge-hammer. "The shame, to be the first of my
kind, and a failure," he said. He hammered his fist down upon the apex
of his skull. The roof of his head bent inward. There was a sputtering
of sparks, and the gardener's eyes went dead. His arm dropped to his
side. He was lifeless as his master at the desk.


                                THE END

