
The thing took Groff more than a year. The thousands of men whom he
sent secretly throughout the world did as he commanded, and did not
know why they were doing it. Poor fools. The great scientist who for so
many years had been in Groff's employ gave him the technical knowledge
he sought. Fools. All fools. They could not guess what he was really
after. The lies he told them which awakened their cupidity were so easy
for them to believe. No servant could know what any other servant was
doing. No one could piece it together. There was only the masterful
Groff in his tower weaving the poisonous threads of his gigantic
enterprise into a pattern which only himself could see.

Then at last he was ready. He had tracked down the identity of the
dark-haired, slender young worker whom the laughing girl had called
Jac. And there came the momentous night when he sent for the young man
and the girl, and white-faced, frightened, they stood before him in his
little tower.

Groff lolled back in his big chair as he quietly regarded them. "Quite
an honor for you, isn't it?" he said. "Seeing me in person."

"What do you want of us?" the young man murmured.

It was pleasing to Groff, to see his terror. "I wanted to thank you,"
Groff said ironically. "It happened that I saw you two, one night about
a year ago. You made me realize what I must do. So I thought I would
tell you about it."

They could only stand wordless, frightened. Groff sucked in his breath
with anticipatory pleasure. In a moment now they would be more than
frightened; they would be utterly terrified--and their terror would
spread like a wave around the world.

Groff was lashing himself into grim anger. "You are going to die," he
said. At the girl's sudden little whimpering gasp he raised his hand.
"That sort of think won't help you any. You and everyone on earth--this
is your last night of health. Tomorrow, at dawn, you will all start
swiftly to sicken. In a week, a month--you will be dead."

How well they knew that his threats were never empty. They were huddled
together now, with trembling arms around each other as they stared
at him. He lashed himself further into anger as he told them that he
realized how millions of people were conspiring to the end that Groff
might suffer misfortune. A menace which he could no longer tolerate....
How those millions would squirm as they saw death coming upon them! The
supreme power of Groff at last demonstrated to its ultimate. Queer that
he had never thought of this logical climax to his great career--not
until that little incident a year ago when this young couple had caused
him to envisage it.

He was telling them now what he had done.... The little depots all
over the earth, compressed with caged bacteria. Little time-bombs--all
to explode within thirty minutes of this present instant. The women
and children, the aged, would die first. But the polluted air, the
contagion spreading everywhere--in a week, a month, the swift and
deadly bacteria would leave no one alive.

"You--are going to do this to us?" young Jac murmured at last.

"Why not? It is my destiny." Never had Groff felt so quiet and
comfortable a thrill as now; and this was only the beginning. "Others
before me have tried their little conquests," he said with his grim
smile. "Men who wanted power, and got it, just in a small way and for
a little while. There was one--I recall reading about him--one who was
so foolish to disclose all his plans by writing them in a book, years
before he had a chance to accomplish them. I am not like him. I tell
you now, when there is a scant thirty minutes before your inevitable
annihilation begins."

"You hate your fellow men so much," Jac murmured impulsively, "you
would kill yourself, just for the pleasure of killing the rest of us?"

To die. It sent so strangely a queer little shiver over Groff. He had
always felt it; but no one could ever know it, save himself. How many
times his vaunted reckless bravery had awed his fellow man! He sat very
straight now, and his eyes flashed.

"I have never been one to fear death," he said.
