
The thing was over at last. It was a week? Two weeks? Three weeks?
Groff had kept no track of the time. Exhausted with exulting he lay
back in his chair with his instruments around him. How wonderful it
had been. The ultimate conquest. The power of Groff and Groff alone.
So many times it had made him think of those other conquerors--those
little men of history who had been thrilled by their trips of triumph
into some petty land their armies had devastated. That little man in
his aircar, gazing in triumph, swelling himself with his pride as he
gazed at the death and destruction he had brought to just one petty
nation in three weeks....

Groff's triumph was over now. He had seen much of it, with his
telescopes ranging the city, and on his television mirrors before the
television went blank. It had been queer, how people, stricken so that
they knew they had only a few days to live, had rushed around bringing
their families together. Queer that then they had not really seemed
afraid. Queer how the churches had been crowded, with doomed people who
clung together and had a strange look on their faces as though they
were not afraid to die....

Then it was over. From the immense height and safety of his little
tower Groff sat surveying his conquered world. The man who had
everything. The ultimate of personal power. And what would he do with
it now? Queer thought! It was so queer, so whimsical a thought that he
chuckled, and then was laughing at it--laughing for so long that it
left him breathless. There was nobody here to hate. That was another
queer thought.

Was it days, or weeks or years, that now he sat alone in his little
tower, surveying his empty world? There was nothing to do but
gloat with pride at the greatness of himself; and to laugh at the
whimsicality of his hungry need to be angry at his enemies who now did
not exist. He had tired of that. Then there were times when he thought
it would be satisfying if he killed himself, like the man who had
written the book and who could not live when he realized that the time
had come when no one feared him. But Groff found that he had not the
courage to do that.

It tired him to laugh so much, so that often now he sat, just anguished
with emptiness. It was queer how that vision of the young couple
going down his staircase seemed always here to haunt and to puzzle
him. What had been about them that was so gigantic? The thought
enraged him, because he knew now that it was something he might have
wanted--something he had failed to get.



