
"Hi-hi-hi!" Big One shouted, and heaved erect with the front end of It.

"Hi-hi-hi," Fat One and the dozen others echoed more mildly, lifting
wherever they could get a hold on It.

It was lifted and borne forward in a half crouching trot.

"Hi-hi hi-hi-hihihi," Elf chanted, running and skipping alongside the
panting men and their massive burden.

It was carried forward through the lush grass for perhaps fifty feet.

"Ah-ah-ah," Big One sighed loudly, slowly letting the front end of It
down until it dug into the soft black soil.

"Ahhh," Fat One and the others sighed, letting go and standing up,
stretching aching back muscles, rubbing cramped hands.

"Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah," Elf sang, running around and in between the
resting men. He came too close to Big One and was sent sprawling by a
quick, good humored push.

Everyone laughed, Big One laughing the loudest. Then Big One lifted Elf
to his feet and patted him on the back affectionately, a broad grin
forming a toothy gap at the top of his bushy black beard.

Elf answered the grin with one of his own, and at that moment his ever
present yearning to grow up to be the biggest and the strongest like
Big One flowed through him with new strength.

Abruptly Big One leaped to the front end of It, shouting "Hi-hi-HI!"

"Hi-hi-hi," the others echoed, scrambling to their places. Once again
It was borne forward for fifty feet--and again and again, across the
broad meadowland.

A vast matting of blackberry brambles came into view off to one side.
Big One veered his course toward it. The going was uphill now, so the
forward surges shortened to forty feet, then thirty. By the time they
reached the blackberries they were wet and glossy with sweat.

It was a healthy patch, loaded with large ripe berries. The men ate
hungrily at first, then more leisurely, pointing to one another's
stained beards and laughing. As they denuded one area they leaped to
It, carried it another ten feet, and started stripping another section,
never getting more than a few feet from It.

Elf picked his blackberries with first one then another of the men.
When his hunger was satisfied he became mischievous, picking a handful
of berries and squashing them against the back or the chest of the
nearest man and running away, laughing. It was dangerous sport, he
knew, because if one of them caught him he would be tossed into the
brambles.

Eventually they all had their fill, and thanks to Elf looked as though
they were oozing blackberry juice from every pore. The sun was in its
mid-afternoon position. In the distance a line of white-barked trees
could be seen--evidence of a stream.

"Hi-hi-hi!" Big One shouted.

The journey toward the trees began. It was mostly downhill, so the
forward spurts were often as much as a hundred feet.

Before they could hear the water they could smell it. They grunted
their delight at the smell, a rich fish odor betokening plenty of food.
Intermingled with this odor was the spicy scent of eucalyptus.

They pushed forward with renewed zeal so that the sweat ran down their
skins, dissolving the berry juices and making rivulets that looked like
purple blood.

When less than a hundred yards from the stream, which was still hidden
beyond the tall grasses and the trees lining its bank, they heard the
sound of voices, high pitched--women's voices. They became uneasy and
nervous. Their surges forward shortened to ten feet, their rest periods
became longer, they searched worriedly for signs of motion through the
trees.

They changed their course to arrive a hundred yards downstream from
the source of the women's voices. Soon they reached the edge of the
tree belt. It was more difficult to carry It through the scatterings
of bushes. Too, they would get part way through the trees and run into
trees too close together to get It past them, and have to back out and
try another place. It took almost two hours to work through the trees
to the bank of the stream.

Only Elf recognized the place they finally broke through as the place
they had left more than two days before. In that respect he knew he
was different, not only from Big One and other grownups, but also all
other Elfs except one, a girl Elf. He had known it as long as he could
remember. He had learned it from many little things. For example, he
had recognized the place when they reached it. Big One and the others
never remembered anything for long. In getting It through the trees
they blundered as they always had, and got through by trial and error
with no memory of past blunderings.

Elf was different in another way, too. He could make more sounds
than the others. Sometimes he would keep a little It with him until
it gave him a feeling of security almost as strong as the big It,
then wander off alone with It and play with making sounds. "Bz-bz.
Walla-walla-walla-rue-rue-la-lo-hi. Da!" and all kinds of sounds. It
excited him to be able to make different sounds and put them together
so that they pleased his hearing, but such sounds made the others avoid
him and look at him from a safe distance, with worried expressions, so
he had learned not to make _different_ sounds within earshot of the
others.
