
The women and Elfs were upstream a hundred yards, where they always
remained. From the way they were milling around and acting alarmed it
was evident to Elf they could no more remember the men having been here
a few days before than the men could remember it themselves. It would
be two or three days before they slowly lost their fear of one another.
It would be the women and their Elfs who would cautiously approach,
holding their portable Its clutched for security, until, finally losing
all fear, they would join into one big group for a while.

Big One and the others carried It right to the water's edge so they
could get into the water without ever being far from It. They shivered
and shouted excitedly as they bathed. Fat One screamed with delight
as he held a squirming fish up for the others to see. He bit into it
with strong white teeth, water dripping from his heavy brown beard.
Renewed hunger possessed him. He gobbled the fish and began searching
for another. He always caught two fish for any other man's one, which
was why he was fat.

Elf himself caught a fish. After eating it he lay on the grassy bank
looking up at the white billowing clouds in the blue sky. The sun was
now near the horizon, half hidden behind a cloud, sending divergent
ramps of light downward. The clouds on the western horizon were slowly
taking on color until red, orange, and green separated into definite
areas. The soft murmur of the stream formed a lazy background to the
excited voices of the men. From upstream, faintly, drifted the woman
and Elf sounds.

Here, close to the ground, the rich earthy smell was stronger than that
of the stream. After a time a slight breeze sprang up, bringing with
it other odors, that of distant pines, the pungent eucalyptus, a musky
animal scent.

Big One and the others were out of the water, finally. Half asleep, Elf
watched them move It up to dry ground. As though that was what the sun
had been waiting for, it sank rapidly below the horizon.

The clouds where the sun had been seemed now to blaze for a time with a
smoldering redness that cooled to black. The stars came out, one by one.

A multitude of snorings erupted into the night. Elf crept among the
sleeping forms until he found Big One, and settled down for the night,
his head against Big One's chest, his right hand resting against the
cool smooth metal of It.
