
Soon Elf could hear the shouts of the men in the distance. From the
behavior of the creatures ahead, they had heard those shouts too. They
changed their direction so as to reach the stream a hundred yards or
more downstream at about the spot where Elf had left. They made no
voice sounds now that Elf could hear. They clutched their strangely
shaped long Its before them tensely as though feeling greater security
that way, their heads turning this way and that as they searched for
any movement ahead.

They moved purposefully. An overwhelming sense of kinship brought tears
to Elf's eyes. These creatures were _his kind_. Their differences
from him were physical and therefore superficial, and even if those
differences were greater it wouldn't have mattered.

He wanted, suddenly, to run to them. But the thought of it sent fear
through him. Also they might run in panic from him if he suddenly
revealed himself.

It would have to be a mutual approach, he felt. He was used to seeing
them now. In due time he would reveal himself for a brief moment to
them. Later he would stay in the open and watch them, making no move to
approach until they got used to him being around. It might take days,
but eventually, he felt sure, he could join them without causing them
to panic.

After all, there had been the time when he absented himself from the
men for three whole days and when he returned they had forgotten him,
and his sudden appearance in their midst had sent even Big One into
spasms of fear. Unable to flee from the security of the big It, and
unable to bear his presence among them without being used to him, they
had all fallen on the ground in a fit. He had had to retreat and wait
until they recovered. Then, slowly, he had let them get used to his
being in sight before approaching again. It had taken two full days to
get to the point where they would accept him once more.

That experience, Elf felt, would be valuable to remember now. He
wouldn't want to plunge these creatures into fits or see them scatter
and run away.

Also, he was too afraid right now to reveal himself even though every
atom of his being called for their companionship.

Suddenly he made another important discovery. Some of the Its these
creatures carried had something like pliable vines attached to them so
they could be hung about the neck! The thought was so staggering that
Elf stopped and examined his It to see if that could be done to it. It
was twice as long as his hand and round one way, tapering to a small
end that opened to the hollow inside. It was too smooth to hold with a
pliable vine unless--He visualized pliable vines woven together to hold
It. He wasn't sure how it could be done, but maybe it could.

He set the idea aside for the future and caught up with the creatures
again, looking at them with a new emotion, awe. The ideas he got just
from watching them were so staggering he was getting dizzy!

Another new thought hit him. He rejected it at once as being too
fantastic. It returned. Leaves are thin and pliable and can be wrapped
around small objects like pebbles. Could it be that these creatures
were really men of some sort, with bodies like men, covered with
something thin like leaves are thin? It was a new and dizzy height in
portable securities, and hardly likely. No. He rejected the idea with
finality and turned his mind to other things.

He knew now where they could reach the stream. He decided to circle
them and get ahead of them. For the next few minutes this occupied his
full attention, leaving no room for crazy thoughts.

He reached the stream and hid behind some bushes where he would have a
quick line of retreat if necessary. He clutched It tightly and waited.
In a few moments he saw the first of the creatures emerge a hundred
feet away. The others soon joined the first. Elf stole forward from
concealment to concealment until he was only fifteen feet from them.
His heart was pounding with a mixture of fear and excitement. His
knuckles were white from clutching It.

The creatures were still carrying on their game of making sounds, but
now in an amazing new way that made them barely audible. Elf listened
to the incredibly varied sounds, enraptured.

"This colony seems to have remained pure."

"You never can tell."

"No, you never can tell. Get out the binoculars and look, Joe."

"Not just yet, Harold. I'm looking to see if I can spot one whose
behavior shows intelligence."

Elf ached to imitate some of the beautiful combinations of sounds. He
wanted to experiment and see if he could make the softly muted voices.
He had an idea how it might be done, not make a noise in your throat
but breathe out and form the sounds with your mouth just like you were
uttering them aloud.

One of the creatures fumbled at an It hanging around his neck. The top
of it hinged back. He reached in and brought out a gleaming It and held
it so that it covered his eyes. He was facing toward the men upstream
and stood up slowly.

"See something, Joe?"

Suddenly Elf was afraid. Was this some kind of magic? He had often
puzzled over the problem of whether things were there when he didn't
look at them. He had experimented, closing his eyes then opening them
suddenly to see if things were still there, and they always were; but
maybe this was magic to make the men not be there. Elf waited, watching
upstream, but Big One and the others did not vanish.

The one called Joe chuckled. "The toy the adult males have would be a
museum piece if it were intact. A 1960 Ford, I think. Only one wheel on
it, right front."

Elf's attention jerked back. One of the creatures was reaching over his
shoulder, lifting on the large It fastened there. The top of the It
pulled back. He reached inside, bringing out something that made Elf
almost exclaim aloud. It was shaped exactly like the little It Elf was
carrying, but it glistened in the sunlight and its interior was filled
with a richly brown fluid.

"Anyone else want a coke?"

"This used to be a picnic area," the one called Joe said, not taking
his eyes from the binoculars. "I can see a lot of pop bottles lying
around in the general area of that wreck of a Ford."

While Elf watched, breathless, the creature reached inside the skin of
his hip and brought out a very small It and did something to the small
end of the hollow It. Putting the very small It back under the skin of
his hip, he put the hollow It to his lips and tilted it. Elf watched
the brown liquid drain out. Here was magic. Such an It--the very one he
carried--could be filled with water from the stream and carried around
to drink any time!

When the It held no more liquid the creature dropped it to the ground.
Elf could not take his eyes from it. He wanted it more than he had ever
wanted anything. They might forget it. Sometimes the women dropped
their Its and forgot them, picking up another one instead, and these
creatures had beardless faces like women. Besides, each of them carried
so many Its that they would feel just as secure without this one.

So many Its! One of the creatures held a flat white It in one hand and
a very slim It shaped like a straight section of a bush stem, pointed
at one end, with which he scratched on the white It at times, leaving
black designs.

"There're fourteen males," the one called Joe whispered. The other
wrote it down.

The way these creatures did things, Elf decided, was very similar to
the way Big One and the other men went at moving the big It. They were
very much like men in their actions, these creatures.

"Eighty-five or six females."

"See any signs of intelligent action yet?"

"No. A couple of the males are fighting. Probably going to be a mating
free-for-all tomorrow or next day. There's one! Just a minute, I want
to make sure. It's a little girl, maybe eight or nine years old. Good
forehead. Her eyes definitely lack that large marble-like quality
of the sub-moron parent species. She's intelligent all right. She's
drawing something in the sand with a stick. Give me your rifle, Bill,
it's got a better telescope sight on it than mine, and I don't want her
to suffer."

That little It, abandoned on the ground. Elf wanted it. One of the
creatures would be sure to pick it up. Elf worried. He would never get
it then. If only the creatures would go, or not notice him. If only--

The creature with the thing over his eyes put it back where he had
gotten it out of the thing hanging from his shoulder. He had taken one
of the long slim things from another of the creatures and placed the
thick end against his shoulder, the small end pointed upstream. The
others were standing, their backs to Elf, all of them looking upstream.
If they would remain that way, maybe he could dart out and get the
little It. In another moment they might lose interest in whatever they
were watching.

Elf darted out from his concealment and grabbed the It off the ground,
and in the same instant an ear shattering sound erupted from the long
slim thing against the creature's shoulder.
