
"Got her!" the creature said.

Paralyzed with fright, Elf stood motionless. One of the creatures
started to turn his way. At the last instant Elf darted back to his
place of concealment. His heart was pounding so loudly he felt sure
they would hear it.

"You sure, Joe?"

"Right through the head. She never knew what happened."

Elf held the new It close to him, ready to run if he were discovered.
He didn't dare look at it yet. It wouldn't notice if he just held it
and felt it without looking at it. It was cold at first, colder than
the water in the stream. Slowly it warmed. He dared to steal a quick
glance at it. It gleamed at him as though possessed of inner life.
A new feeling of security grew within him, greater than he had ever
known. The other It, the one half filled with dried mud, and deeply
scratched from the violent rush of water over it when the stream went
over its banks, lay forgotten at his feet.

"Well, that finishes the survey trip for this time."

Elf paid little attention to the voice whispers now, too wrapped up in
his new feelings.

"Yes, and quite a haul. Twenty-two colonies--three more than ten
years ago. Fourteen of them uncontaminated, seven with only one or two
intelligent offspring to kill, only one colony so contaminated we had
to wipe it out altogether. And one renegade."

"The renegades are growing scarcer every time. Another ten or twenty
years and they'll be extinct."

"Then there won't be any more intelligent offspring in these colonies."

"Let's get going. It'll be dark in another hour or so."

The creatures were hiding some of their Its under their skin, in their
carrying cases. There was a feeling about them of departure. Elf waited
until they were on the move, back the way they had come, then he
followed at a safe distance.

He debated whether to show himself now or wait. The sun was going down
in the sky now. It wouldn't be long until it went down for the night.
Should he wait until in the morning to let them get their first glimpse
of him?

He smiled to himself. He had plenty of time. Tomorrow and tomorrow. He
would never return to Big One and the other men. Men or creatures, he
would join with these new and wonderful creatures. They were _his kind_.

He thought of the girl Elf. They were her kind, too. If he could only
get her to come with him.

On sudden impulse he decided to try. These creatures were going back
the same way they had come. If he ran, and if she came right with him,
they could catch up with the creatures before they went so far they
would lose them.

He turned back, going carefully until he could no longer see the
creatures, then he ran. He headed directly toward the place where the
women and Elfs stayed. They would not be so easily alarmed as the men
because there were so many of them they couldn't remember one another,
and one more or less of the Elfs went unnoticed.
