
The pale, turquoise disk of Earth rode low in the heavens above the
serrated Alps, towering above him, illuminating the rugged fastnesses
in a sort of aqua glow. Earth, now at full, lighted Luna many times
brighter than a full moon had ever lighted her. But the countless
thousands of shadows cast by lava stalagmites, spires, boulders and
mountain peaks were pits of nothingness. Crag walked into the Stygian
blackness cast by a stalagmite and disappeared as completely as though
swallowed up by a dark hole in the moon's surface. He passed on through
the shadow and reappeared abruptly on the other side. He himself cast
a long, black shadow, more weird because it appeared to be a black pit
sliding over the floor of the crater.

Instinctively Ron Crag crouched as the pencil of flame streaked past
his head. He could not feel the heat through the insulated suit, but he
knew it had missed him by scant inches. He wheeled and darted back into
the shadow he had just quitted, his gun leaping into his hand.

He saw a burly form dart into the shadow of a massive boulder across
the basin from him. He started to snap a beam at it, but held his
fire; the flare would only betray his own position. He could not see
the slightest shape, the slightest trace of movement in the inky
blackness of the other shadow. There was some compensation in knowing
that the ambusher could not see him either. Without air to diffuse the
earthlight, the shadows were sharp and distinct as though no light
existed in all the universe outside their borders.

He glanced in the direction from which his attacker had come. There
in the north edge of the crater, in the mouth of the canyon, another
catatread was parked. It was an old model, battered and eroded by time
and hard usage. Ron Crag thought he recognized the steed; he had seen
it once or twice down south, in the parking area back of the Tycho
terradome. Realizing the identity of his assailant a sudden terror
paralyzed him for a moment, but then it fled, leaving him trembling and
angry.

"Howdy, son," a sarcastic voice drawled into the earphones of his
radarphone. "You shouldn't talk to yo'self about your rich lodes, else
you should be sure your radarphone is cut off, so's pore luckless
critters like me couldn't overhear ye."

Crag bit his lip in anger and shame. The killer had heard his remark,
got a directional fix on his position and--

"Joe Braun?" Crag grated into the transmitter in his helmet, forcing
the quaver out of his voice. "Biggest, dirtiest claim jumper in all
North Luna."

"Nobody ever proved a thing on me," Joe Braun guffawed.

"No! Or you'd be at the bottom of some crater," Crag retorted. "This
time you've slipped."

"Think so, feller? Think you'll be reportin' this?"

Ron's flesh crept. There were few men on Luna who would match flame
with this black-bearded killer. Those luckless ones who had challenged
him were now piled at the bottom of various craters.

Crag stared at the black shadow protecting his adversary, gripping his
gun. But he knew there would be nothing to shoot at unless Braun shot
first, revealing his position. And Joe was no fool even when he faced
a greenhorn from Earth. Crag was at bay here in the concealing shadow,
helpless, trapped, and calling for help was out of the question. The
radarphone would not carry to the nearest terradome.

The catatread! If he could make a dash for the catatread, reach it
and throw a light beam into the shadows he could burn the other to
a crisp with the large, swivel gun. But then a wave of despondency
blacked out his thoughts. It was too far to the vehicle. Even with the
lighter gravity of Luna to hold him back, his space suit was heavy and
cumbersome, and he could never make it before Joe Braun would throw at
least three shots in him. He would be a clay pigeon.

Suddenly he realized the hopelessness of his predicament. He could
never match flame with Joe Braun. Ron Crag knew he did not have a
chance in an open duel with the ruthless killer.

"What'sa matter, son, afraid?" came the taunt through his headset.

"I guess you know what the penalty is for claim jumping?" Crag snapped.
"To say nothing of attempted murder?"

"Shore I do," Joe Braun laughed. "A great big posse'll hunt me down and
toss me into a bottomless crater. That's what happens to claim jumpers
as gets caught. And you'll get a big, fat reward, huh, sonny?"

Ron bit back his answer.

"But you named one o' the charges wrong, son," chided Joe gently. "You
called it _attempted_ murder." He chuckled. "That's one thing ol' Joe
Braun ain't ever gonna be guilty of. Whyn't ya come outa that shadder
an' get it over with?"
