
Joe Braun darted for another shadow, drawing ever closer to Crag's
vehicle. Crag took careful aim, but his hand wavered ever so slightly.
He fired. A streak of flame reached out and nicked--no, it passed just
to the rear of the fleeing man, a little above hip level. He could have
sworn the bolt grazed the man's accessory belt, but no apparent damage
was done. The huge man kept running and ducked into another shadow
nearer the catatread. If Joe Braun made it safely to the machine he
could turn the young prospector's gun on its owner and burn him down
without effort.

The next shadow in the chain was only twenty yards away. Crag covered
the distance in three strides. Another bolt blasted space between his
head and right shoulder. He snapped a bolt back in retaliation. It cut
high and to the left.

Crag glanced frantically at the catatread. It was still too far away
to reach in one dash. He knew he could never make it unless he hugged
the shadows as he had been doing. Several space moths still clung
hungrily to the cooling engine of the machine, but many of them were
flopping and writhing frantically in space above the machine. They had
detected the violent heat from the flame guns in the instant before
their heat was dissipated into space, but that split second was not
long enough for the creatures to locate the origin of the heat. They
seemed frustrated, flopping desperately about in confused circles. Some
of them fluttered into the shadows of the rocks and spires in their
search, and their vaguely radiant network of veins squirmed like purple
wraiths in the Stygian blackness.

Crag's attention was suddenly yanked back to his predicament, when Joe
Braun darted for another shadow. Crag snapped another bolt and missed
again. Either the bandit had plenty of guts or he knew Ron Crag was
really a poor shot. He did not hesitate in his advance from shadow to
shadow toward the catatread. It was a duel to the death, here in the
shadows.

Ron Crag dashed to the next shadow without drawing flame. Apparently
Joe deliberately held his fire, for the lighted area between this one
and the next shadow was much further than Crag could sprint even in ten
seconds. And beyond the next one lay the catatread. He crouched against
the rock cliffs, glancing first toward the vehicle, then back at the
black blot that he knew concealed the killer.

There were only three more spires between Joe Braun and the catatread,
three more shadows, three more short sprints. Once the claim jumper
made the machine Ron Crag knew the duel was over anyway. Maybe his
best chance was to wait here, aim carefully and take a chance on a
lucky hit. But if he missed Braun in the first sprint the man could
make it all the way to the spire nearest the machine before Crag could
recharge. And if he reached that last spire....

Perhaps he'd better run for it, after all, Crag thought desperately.
But he knew with a cold certainty the sure aim of the gunman could not
miss him in the long sprint. Perhaps if he shot in Joe's direction just
after he broke into the earthlight it might divert the killer's aim
enough for a miss. He decided abruptly that it was his only chance.
