
With trembling fingers he checked the range dials on the gun. His
tongue clung to the roof of a dry mouth. Crag crouched, darted
forward--then halted so abruptly on the very rim of the shadow that he
fell backwards and landed gently on both elbows.

Slowly he got to his feet, his eyes narrowed thoughtfully. Several
space moths were weaving through space toward the shadow of the
pinnacle concealing the bandit. Crag stared, breathing more evenly now.
More and more of the nebulous creatures were rising above the catatread
and moving straight as a plumb line in the wake of the leading moths.

He stared at the inky shadows where he knew the killer lurked. The
first two or three moths had already reached their destination. He
could see their pulsating, irradiant veins curled around some object
that had attracted them. More and more of the creatures floated into
the shadow, disappeared for a moment, and then reappeared for a
moment, and then reappeared as a vague glow, fluttering toward the mass
their companions had already formed.

Ron Crag watched. The killer was apparently oblivious to their
presence. Ron wet dry lips with his tongue, while his fingers slowly
reset the dials on the gun. Range: sixty yards! Diameter of beam: four
inches! Slowly he raised the gun and took careful aim, eight inches to
the right, eighteen inches above the radiant cluster of space moths. If
he was wrong, if he.... It was a gamble and if he was shooting at the
wrong space Joe Braun would get him with the flare of Ron's gun. Even
if he only wounded him, the other would get him.

"Worried, feller--" the harsh voice began.

A coruscating tube of flame leaped at the shadow across the canyon;
for a moment it illuminated the area around the bandit in a brilliant
glare. His taunting voice broke off with an agonized gasp. In the
brief flash Ron Crag saw the man twist erect, his empty hands grasping
heavenward. He took three halting steps and tumbled into full view in
the earthlight. A great, charred hole was burned completely through his
chest, and already the space moths were shifting to the wound, eagerly
absorbing the escaping heat from the suit, and from Joe Braun's body.

[Illustration: _In the brief flash Ron Crag saw the man twist erect._]

Ron Crag slowly approached the crumpled form, gun ready. One glance
at the sightless eyes, the bearded face and open mouth behind the
visorport was all he needed to confirm what he already knew. Joe Braun
had jumped his last uranium claim; Joe Braun had pulled his last gun.

He leaned over the body, examining it closely. His gamble had panned
out. One corner of the thermocube on Braun's right hip was fused and
a pinpoint hole was evident. The heat bolt Crag thought struck the
killer's accessory belt had not missed after all.

"I'll be a fork-tailed comet!" Ron Crag breathed. He glanced
affectionately at the squirming, purple creatures. "Thanks, friends,"
he murmured.

Then he set out on shaking legs for the catatread.