
Philip Merriwether was a nobody. He made thirty-five dollars a week at
a very dull job and lived in a cheap rooming house that had been built
around 1880 and not remodeled since. He was still wearing a suit he had
bought in 1947, and on his thin, five-foot-four frame, it looked even
older. His education had stopped at the sixth grade, and he had almost
flunked out of that. He had a mousy face, stringy hair, and a dull look
in his eyes.

In other words, he was just about as nobody as a human being can get
without being an absolute bum.

It wasn't that Phil Merriwether was really stupid; he was simply
afflicted with an incredibly bad memory. He could forget more in five
minutes than he could learn in five years. Oh, he could remember
commonplace things easily enough--his name, where he lived, things like
that. He could read and write tolerably well, although his spelling
was intolerable. He could add and subtract with fair ease, but,
having forgotten most of the multiplication table, he found "higher
mathematics," such as long division, almost impossible to do without
hours of laborious thinking.

In a way, his poor memory was economically useful. Phil loved to read
mystery stories, and, having collected a total of fifty-seven paperback
editions of the better detective novels, he found that there was no
necessity of buying more, because he could re-read the old ones. By the
time he got around to them again, he had forgotten the plot and the
identity of the murderer. Naturally, he never tried to solve any of
them; he could never remember the clues.

In routine work, Phil Merriwether was fairly efficient. If he did
something every day, he could remember it overnight, and could do it
again the next day. But his superiors soon found out that it was almost
disastrous to give him a vacation, because he had a tendency to forget
what he was supposed to do when he came back to work. That is, if he
remembered to show up for work.

In spite of all that, Phil was a nice sort of fellow. He was likable,
in a dull sort of way, and got along with most of his fellow workers.
He couldn't tell funny stories, of course, nor play a decent game of
cards, but he was an excellent conversationalist because, no matter
what was said to him, he could never think of an argument against it.
He was a good listener because he hadn't anything to say.

But his favorite pastime was walking. He liked to stroll around the
nation's capital, taking in the sights, and just plain enjoying
himself. He always walked the same route every night; if he didn't,
he was likely to get lost. Once, several years earlier, he had taken
a wrong turn and ended up in unfamiliar territory. He had asked a
passer-by how to reach his address, but had forgotten the instructions,
and so had ended up hopelessly lost. He had finally been forced to take
a taxi home, a luxury he could ill afford. After that, he stuck to his
routine.

It was on one of these evening strolls that a very peculiar thing
happened to Philip Merriwether. He was walking slowly along the
sidewalk, carefully minding his own business, when, without warning,
there was a strange, buzzy feeling in his head. It grew stronger; it
felt like someone was playing a fire-hose on his brain. His skull felt
as though it were suddenly being filled with a vast, overpowering
torrent of _words_--hundreds of words; thousands of words; millions
upon millions of words!

Under the pressure of this verbal onslaught, Philip Merriwether's mind
reeled. He pressed his palms to his temples and fainted dead away.
