
When he came to, there were several passers-by crowded around him. One
of them was kneeling by his side, taking his pulse.

"Ha--Wha--what happened?" he asked, unoriginally enough.

"You fainted," said the man who was taking his pulse. "Just lie still;
it's all right. I'm a physician."

"Fainting," said Phil, "is normally a mild form of shock in which the
blood vessels of the abdomen become distended and engorged with blood,
thus reducing the blood pressure and temporarily depriving the brain of
its normal oxygen supply, which causes momentary loss of consciousness."

The doctor blinked. "What? Oh. Yes. That's quite correct, sir. Do you
have these attacks often."

Phil's mouth had remained open after his last word. After a minute, he
gulped. "Did I say that?"

"What?" the doctor asked for a second time. "Do you feel all right?"

Phil Merriwether stood up hastily. "My head feels a little funny, but
I think I'm all right."

"If you want to go to a hospital--"

"No, no, thank you. I'm all right, really I am. I feel completely
resuscitated, thanks to your therapeutic ministrations."

"Think nothing of it, sir. My duty, you know," said the physician.

"The Oath of Hippocrates," said Phil, "makes it obligatory for the
physician to alleviate suffering, illness, and infirmity, and induce
salubrity in his fellow man in the most efficacious manner at his
command."

"Uh, yes, of course," said the doctor, looking baffled. "Well, good
luck." With that, he picked up his black bag and walked rapidly off in
the opposite direction. The other passers-by had already gone about
their business.

Phil, meanwhile, began walking towards his home, his head still feeling
a little peculiar. What was the matter with him? What had happened? And
where on Earth had he gotten all those big words?

_Polysyllabic vocables_, said a voice in his mind, _although recognized
by the erudite as not being necessarily indicative of scholarly
attainments, are nevertheless profoundly impressive to the hoi polloi._

Phil nodded slowly to himself. Yeah, big words were impressive, all
right. But where had he picked them all up?

"I'd better go home and take an aspirin," he said aloud.

_Aspirin_, said the voice, _is the acetic acidester of salicylic acid,
a white, crystalline solid having the empirical formula_--

Holding his hands to his ears, Philip Merriwether ran home as fast as
his spindly legs could propel him.
