
B. J. Holly, office manager for Starr & Sons, Inc., flipped a switch on
his desk intercom. "Where is Merriwether?" he snapped. "That boy was
supposed to have picked up these letters for filing half an hour ago. I
can't wait any longer."

"Mr. Merriwether phoned in this morning, sir," said the secretary's
voice. "He said he was a little ill, and he'd be late. He--oh! Just a
moment, sir; he just came in."

"Send him in here!" ordered B. J. Holly.

Mr. Holly frowned at Phil Merriwether as soon as the door opened.
"Under the weather a bit, eh, Merriwether?"

Phil nodded. "Yes, sir. My head feels queer."

Mr. Holly suppressed an impulse to remark that he wasn't at all
surprised. In his estimation, anyone with a head like Merriwether's
would feel odd all the time. But Mr. Holly, although somewhat
tyrrannical, and definitely a stuffed shirt, was not basically cruel,
so he said nothing that vicious.

"A bit of a hangover, perhaps?" he asked suspiciously.

Phil was picking up the papers for the file room. "No, sir," he said
absently. "A hangover is caused by the toxic effects of various
isomeric forms of higher alcohols and other impurities normally present
in alcoholic beverages, plus a depletion of vitamins, especially B-one,
in the system. I don't drink."

"I--uh--I see." But Mr. Holly did not see. He was totally baffled. He
watched in astonishment as Phil Merriwether walked out the door of the
office.

Merriwether, himself was slightly bemused. How had he done it? He knew
perfectly well what he was saying; a full night of thinking had managed
to bring to him the realization that something--he knew not what--had
happened to his memory. It seemed to him that there must be something
he could do with it, but he didn't quite know what.

The decision was practically forced upon him just before lunchtime. He
was putting on his coat to go out for lunch when B. J. Holly stepped
out of his office. The office manager was preparing to have lunch with
an out-of-town buyer, and as he stepped up to the visiting fireman, he
said: "Well, as General Pershing said: 'Lafayette, we are here!'" He
chuckled at his own wit, paying no attention to Merriwether.

"I beg your pardon, sir," said Phil, "but the general never said that;
as a matter of fact, he said later that it was put into his mouth by a
newspaperman. He said--"

B. J. glowered at him. An office boy, even if he is thirty-four years
of age, is not supposed to contradict his superior.

"Look, son," said B. J., "I happened to be there. I was only a private,
but I happened to be standing right next to him."

"That's impossible, sir," Phil said quietly. "According to Federal
records, you were born on April second, nineteen-oh-four. You were
only fourteen years old at the time. You have no military record with
the United States Army."

The out-of-town buyer suppressed a snicker. B. J. Holly turned purple
and said: "I'll see you after lunch."
