
At midnight, Philip Merriwether woke up suddenly to see the glare of a
flashlight being shone in his face.

"Are you Philip Merriwether?" growled a voice.

"Yes, I am. What's the meaning of this?"

The lights in the room went on to reveal five men with drawn guns
standing outside the door. As they came into the room, the man with the
flashlight flicked it off. "Search the room," he said to the others.

As they methodically began their search, Phil said: "What's going on
here? Who are you?"

"FBI," snapped the man who was obviously the leader of the group. "Are
you sure you're Philip Merriwether? We'll be taking your fingerprints
shortly, so it won't do you any good to lie."

"Certainly I'm me!" Phil snapped, irritated. "What makes you think I'm
not?"

"Never mind," said the Federal agent.

The truth was that Merriwether no longer looked like the lackluster
character he had been a few weeks before. His eyes had a sparkle to
them, his body had more springiness. He looked more alive. He was no
longer the colorless man he had been.

"Nothing unusual in the room, sir," said one of the men who had been
searching.

"Okay," said the leader to Merriwether, "put on your clothes. You're
coming with us."

"You can't arrest me!" Phil said. "I haven't done anything. What is the
charge?"

"Espionage," said the FBI man without blinking an eyelid.

They put him in a big, powerful Cadillac and drove him through the
streets of Washington to an office building near the Capitol. Most of
the city was asleep, but this building was ablaze with light. The FBI
men parked the car and led Phil into the building. They were greeted by
a reception committee the like of which Phil had never seen before.

Two generals, including the Chief of Staff, a couple of admirals, an
Air Force general, and a half dozen important-looking civilians, one of
whom Phil recognized as the Secretary of Defense himself!

They sat Phil down in a chair without a word, and just looked at him
for a few seconds; then the Secretary of Defense said: "What do you
know about the Q-beam?"

"The Q-beam," Phil told him, "is a top-secret weapon. It is a ray
which is capable of paralyzing without killing, and can operate over a
distance of several hundred miles. The basic formula is--"

"Never mind what it is!" snapped the Chief of Staff. "The whole United
States heard you give it out over the air this evening!"

"What else do you know about our defenses?" the Secretary asked.

Phil told them. He knew how big the atomic stockpiles were, where the
bombs were, and how they were to be used. He knew everything about the
ICBM rocket program and where the launching sites were. He knew where
every ship in the Navy was and what sort of armament it carried. He
told them where the secret airbases were hidden and how many bombers
were at each.
