
Phil Merriwether sat in the deepest, most secluded cell of the United
States Government's greatest security prison. He sat and thought,
his brain working more furiously than it had ever worked before. He
was tired and haggard from loss of sleep, and worn out from hours of
questioning. But that wasn't the worst of it. The entire top brass
of the government was in a stew over what they should do with Philip
Merriwether. The FBI could get no evidence on him; there was nothing to
prove he was a spy. And even if there had been, the case could never be
brought to court. Phil knew too much.

"Good heavens," he moaned, "how did I ever get into a fix like this?"

"You're a blabbermouth," he answered himself. "If you hadn't told them
all that stuff, you'd never have been in this jam!"

But how did he know all the information about the U.S. Government's
most top secret plans? It must have had something to do with that
fainting spell. How did that explain it?

"Well," he said to himself, "you've got a lot of information--use it!"

So he sat on the edge of the hard bunk, his mind searching for some
clue as to what had happened to him.

He was still sitting like that when the Secretary of Defense and
the President of the United States walked into the cell some hours
later. He had thought about all the data he had on every subject from
anthropology to zoology. It had something to do with neurology and
radiation physics, he was sure, but what?

And then, quite suddenly, the pieces clicked together.

When the Chief Executive walked into his cell, Phil beamed happily.
"I'm pleased to meet you, Mr. President."

The President frowned. "I must admit, Mr. Merriwether, that it is a
pleasure to meet you, too. I admire such abilities as yours, although
I also wish you had never been born. It seems you know more about our
national defense than I do."

"It's amazing," said the Secretary. "According to the FBI, this
fiendishly clever man has been masquerading as an ordinary blockhead
for more than thirty years. No one suspected his true genius. The
only thing we can't figure out is _why_ he shot off his mouth over
television."

Phil said: "Mr. Secretary, I didn't think about it. I didn't realize it
was so secret. I'm sorry. But I think I can show you how I got all this
information."

The President looked blank. "Show us? You mean you're willing to betray
your espionage system?"

"I don't have any spy system," Phil said. "Will you give me a pencil
and a piece of paper?"

The Secretary handed him a notebook and a ball-point pen, and Phil
began to write. "According to File X-99761, in the War Department's
Ultra Top Secret Section, a Dr. Heinrich Wolstadt is working on a
secret communication device. I'm putting some formulas on this paper.
Ask Dr. Wolstadt what effect this particular wave form would have on
the human brain."

The Secretary of Defense and the President looked at each other.

"I guess we might as well," the President said.
