
There was an ironic humor in the situation, but Nanlo was not disposed
to recognize it. Lenient as the law was, yet it required some grounds
before it could free her. And she had no grounds whatever. Negu Mah was
at all times the model of courtesy and consideration toward her. He
granted every reasonable wish and some that were unreasonable--although
when he refused one of the latter, it was with a firmness as
unshakeable as a rock.

Their home was as fine as any on earth. She had more than adequate help
in taking care of it. She had ample time for any pursuits that
interested her. But she used it only to become more and more bitter
against Negu Mah because she could find no excuse to divorce him.

So great had her bitterness become that, if she could have gotten off
Callisto in any way, she would have deserted him. This would have meant
forfeiting her marriage settlement and the sum that was in escrow. It
would also have left her father in debt to Negu Mah for all that Negu
Mah had given him. But Nanlo's passionate rebellion had reached such a
state of ferment in her breast that she would have accepted all this to
strike a blow at the plump, smiling man who now sat drinking molkai in
their garden with their guest from Venus.

The answer to that was--Negu Mah would not let her leave Callisto. The
journey to earth, he logically argued, was still one containing a large
element of danger. There was no reason for her to visit any other
planet, and law and custom required that she look after their home
while he himself was away on business.

In this he was unshakeable. There was a stern and unyielding side to
him, inherited perhaps from his Eastern ancestors, that left Nanlo
shaken and frightened when it appeared. She had seen it the one time
she had seriously gone into a tantrum in an effort to make him let her
take a trip to earth. It had so startled and terrified her that she had
never used those tactics again.

But now, as she wheeled away the molkai decanter and left Negu Mah and
Sliss to themselves, joy and exultation was singing in her. Doubly. For
she was going to run away from Negu Mah, run away with the man she
loved, and in their flight they were going to steal the Vulcan. Thus
Negu Mah would be doubly punished. He would be hurt in his pride and in
his pocketbook. And all through the Jupiter and Saturn systems, where
his wealth, his position, and his beautiful wife were openly envied, he
would be laughed at and derided.

Humming lightly under her breath, Nanlo put the molkai decanter away in
a little pantry and hurried on to her own apartment. Molkai was a
powerful, though non-habit-forming drink. Under its influence one
became talkative, but disinclined to movement. Sliss and her husband
would remain as they were for hours, leaving her free to do as she
would. The servants were asleep in another part of the building, and
there was no one to note as she changed her clothes swiftly for a
light, warm travelling suit, caught up two small bags, one holding her
personal things, the other her jewels, and let herself out through her
own private entrance into the darkness of the rear gardens.

Where in the shadows the tall, blonde young engineer, Hugh Neils, was
waiting for her....
