
Negu Mah, when his beautiful wife had left the garden, sighed and put
to one side his mug of molkai.

"Sliss, my friend," he said to the Venusian, who was regarding him with
large, unblinking pop-eyes, "I am troubled in my mind. Tonight I must
dispense justice. Justice to myself and justice to another. To be just
is often to be terribly cruel."

Sliss blinked, once, a film moving horizontally across his large eyes
and retracting, to show that he understood. Due to the difficulty of
using his artificial speech mechanism, he refrained from speaking until
speech was necessary.

"My wife, Nanlo," Negu Mah said heavily, "is unhappy. I have done all
that is in my power to make her happy, but I have failed. She has made
some requests that I have denied, namely, to be permitted freedom to
visit earth. That I denied because I knew the paths she intended to
tread would not have led her to happiness either, and I hoped that in
the end, here she would find contentment. I have hoped in vain. Tonight
she intends to take matters into her own hands."

Sliss blinked again, politely, to indicate that he was interested if
Negu Mah cared to tell him more. Negu Mah rose.

"My friend," he said, "if you will come with me, I will show you what I
mean."

Sliss grasped the edge of his tub with webbed hands and swung his
webbed, yellow-skinned feet free from the water which kept the
sensitive membranes from drying, and at the same time supplied his body
tissues with liquid. Falling upon all fours, like a great, misshapen
pet, he waddled awkwardly after his host.

Negu Mah led him to an elevator within the house. This took them to a
higher floor, and there they followed a corridor to the rear of the
building. Here Negu Mah, without showing a light, opened a door, and in
silence they moved out upon a small balcony overlooking the rear
gardens, which were shrouded in darkness because rising Jupiter was on
the opposite side of the building.

They had stood there only a moment when below them a door opened, and a
small figure slipped through. Another figure appeared from beneath the
shadows of a cluster of slender, purple neklo trees and moved forward
to greet the first. They met in the center of a tiny open space, where
a fountain spurting through holes in crystal made a sweet murmuring
music. And to the two watchers rose whispered words--"Nanlo! Nanlo, my
darling!" "Hugh! Oh, Hugh, my love, hold me close and tell me that
everything is ready for us to leave!"
