
Hugh Neils' arms held her close, and his lips were hot on hers. That he
was here as they had planned meant that he had succeeded in the other
plans they had agreed upon. Exultation soared higher in Nanlo's breast.

"Then we can go? Go now?" she asked eagerly, as Hugh Neils released
her. "The crew is asleep? You were able to arrange it?"

The young engineer looked down at her, his thin face a pale blur in the
darkness.

"In five minutes, just five minutes, Nanlo, my own," he whispered. "I
left the guard half an hour ago, drinking molkai into which I put a
sleeping powder. Give him five more minutes to fall asleep, then we can
go to the ship unseen, unchecked. Until then, we can wait here in the
garden."

He led her toward the trilling fountain and they sat down upon a bench
before it, of rare Callisto crystal. They still were in darkness, but
the flame-like Jupiter light touched the tops of the neklo trees above
them with a ruddy light which brought faint glimmerings from the
radioactive leaves.

Hugh Neils was a recent college graduate whom Negu Mah had hired as an
assistant supervisor in the refining mills on Callisto, where the
precious uranium 235 was separated from the ordinary metal. It was not
a desirable job, but the best Hugh Neils could get. His college record
of reckless scrapes and entanglements with women had been against him.
Indeed, this position had only come to him because his home was in the
same section as Nanlo's, and Negu Mah had thought that perhaps his
company on occasion would help alleviate Nanlo's restlessness.

It had--but to an extent Negu Mah had not foreseen.

"In less than a quarter of an hour, Nanlo my darling," Hugh Neils
whispered now, "we'll be gone from here, and you'll belong only to me.
We'll leave this infernal barren satellite to spin itself dizzy out
here in no place. We'll leave that humpty-dumpty husband of yours and
his hypocritical good-nature to whistle for his wife and his ship. We
won't care. We'll be together, always together from now on, and he'll
never see us again."

Nanlo leaned against his shoulder, the prospect that he painted seemed
very sweet to her.

"You're sure you can manage the ship alone?" she asked. "But of course,
I can help, a little anyway. You can teach me."

"Of course," Hugh Neils answered confidently, and bent to kiss her
again. "I've been studying her for a week, asking questions, making
friends with the crew. I can handle her one-handed. We'll take off and
circle Jupiter first. They may think we landed on the other side, in
the Outlaw Crevice. Or they may figure that we went on to Saturn, and
will hide somewhere in the system there.

"But we won't do either, and they won't know where to look for us.
Instead of turning back on the other side of Jupiter, we'll make a
tangential angle out into space. We'll hold it for a month, for
safety's sake. We could hold for fifty years, or a hundred, if we
needed to. There's fuel and provisions, meant for the mines, enough to
last that long.

"At the end of the month, we'll swing back, cut into the path of the
sun, and pick up Mars as she comes in from behind Sol.

"On Mars, we can sell the Vulcan. There's an outfit in the Equator
Zone, in the mountains west of the Great Canal, that will buy her and
no questions asked. I learned about them from a fraternity brother
while I was in college. He'd run into some hard luck, they gave him a
job, and he was making money hand over fist. They're asteroid miners.
The work they do is illegal, but it's perfectly justified morally. What
right have men with more money than they know what to do with to own
everything in the Solar System? How can a young fellow get a start any
more, when corporations and rich old fogies own everything?

"Maybe I'll join up with this outfit. After we've sold the ship I'll
see. How does that sound to you?"

"Wonderful, Hugh," Nanlo whispered. "But I don't care about that. All I
want is for us to be together. Always. You and me, and our love,
together for eternity. That's all I want."

"That's all I want, too, darling Nanlo," Hugh Neils told her passionately,
and kissed her. "Together, forever. Just you and me."

Nanlo sighed, with luxuriant happiness, and peered at his radiumite
wrist watch.

"The five minutes are up," she murmured. "Can't we go now?"

Hugh Neils nodded.

"We've waited plenty long enough," he decided. "The guard will be
asleep by now. The crew were that way when I left them, in the
dormitory. I saw that they had plenty of spiked molkai at dinner.
Pretended it was my birthday celebration. And the ship's all ready and
waiting for the take-off. All we have to do is lock the port and close
the rising switch."

The two on the bench by the fountain rose, and for a long minute were
locked in an embrace. Then they turned toward the dark-shadowed trees
and disappeared beneath them, in the direction of the nearby space
port.
