
Negu Mah silently turned back into the house. Sliss shuffled after him.
The uranium merchant led the way back to the vitrite covered garden and
there, a little wearily, resumed his seat and picked up his mug again.
Sliss climbed back into his tub of water, sighed gratefully at the
comfort it gave him, and then turned his pop-eyes toward his host. He
blinked once, inquiringly, and Negu Mah understood that the intelligent
amphibian was asking if he intended to do nothing to stop the pair who
were running away.

Negu Mah sipped pensively at his drink.

"If she had only told me," he murmured. "If she had only come to me and
said she desired her freedom. If they had only both come together and
faced me, saying that though it meant giving up all they had, they
wanted only each other! I would have been generous. I would have been
indulgent. But they did not. They had not the courage. They were afraid
of me. And they hated me."

Negu Mah was silent for a moment. Both he and his guest stared toward
the graceful shaft of the Vulcan, now fully silhouetted against the
whole tremendous bulk of Jupiter, sitting like a titanic scarlet egg
upon the horizon of Callisto. The Jupiter light flooded the vitrite
garden, gave the plants there, chosen with an eye to this, strange,
exotic, glowing colors, flushed Negu Mah and Sliss with a ruby
radiance.

Towards that dark, waiting craft the two they had watched were even now
stealing, tense with the weight of their daring and their crime. In a
moment they would reach her, enter her, actuate machinery that was
miraculous in its complex simplicity, and be gone then on the wings it
gave them into the concealing embrace of universal space.

"You see, my friend Sliss," Negu Mah said finally, "Nanlo is beautiful,
but there is nothing within. Her beauty deceived me. I thought that
where such loveliness existed, there must be a soul to animate it. I
was wrong. She is like an imitation gem--beautiful on the surface,
paste within. Yet the mistake was mine, and I did not blame her. I
indulged her, and still hoped that something real would bloom within
her."

He drained the molkai in his mug, one great gulp, and slumped back.

"The young man, too, Hugh Neils. I thought he would be a companion for
her. But he too is weak. Yet they say they love each other. They
swear--we heard them--that they want only each other and their love for
all time."

Sliss blinked, twice, and Negu Mah nodded.

"Yes," he said. "If they carry out their plans as we heard them, that
feeling will soon go. The sale of the Vulcan, even as stolen property,
would give them many credits. After that--luxury, self-indulgence. And
their natures are too weak to withstand the ravages of such things. So
I have been troubled to know what to do.

"You see, my friend from Venus, though I would have let Nanlo go had
she asked me, my own honor is at stake when she seeks to deal me an
injury by slipping away in the night, and stealing from me the Vulcan.
She is doing evil, and must be punished. The young man, too--indulgent
as I am, I can not let him dishonor me thus without paying any
penalty."

Sliss' eye membranes shut, questioningly.

"Yet," the uranium merchant went on, "I have a fondness for Nanlo. I
will not prevent her from doing as she has chosen to do, for the intent
would still be there, and knowing it as I do, all between us is over. I
can not aid her to fulfill her plans, either, for that is to injure her
and myself too. But there is another course. I have chosen that."

He gestured with one plump hand toward the silhouetted ship.

"I believe they have entered the Vulcan," he announced. "I saw light as
the entrance port opened then."

The amphibian's great, frog head nodded agreement.

"So," Negu Mah continued, "I have decided to exercise what indulgence I
can in the face of the injury they would do me. They shall have their
chance."

He fell silent again. Sliss leaned forward in his tub. Both of them
watched intently. A flare of greenish light had sprung up beneath the
black pillar that was the Vulcan. For just an instant the freighter
stood there, green radiance expanding around her. Then she leaped into
the sky.

With her leap, she seemed to suck the radiance along. It became a great
cone of glowing light that, arrow-like, raced away upward. For a long
instant the black length of the ship, and the greenish fan of flame,
were outlined against the scarlet background of Jupiter. Then the
freighter rocket, flinging herself upward at three gravities or better,
passed the edge of the planet and vanished.

Negu Mah sat very quiet for some moments. But at last he stirred again.
Sliss' eyes turned toward him, immobile.

"Sometimes love transforms the weak," the uranium merchant said slowly.
"Like fire giving temper to soft metal. Sometimes a mutual love will
endure for all eternity, and the two who share it will gain from it a
soul they did not have before. Nanlo and Hugh Neils have this chance.
Both said they wanted only the other, and their love, for all eternity.
To gain this, both were willing to cheat, to steal, to dishonor me and
themselves.

"So, Sliss, my understanding friend, they have paid the price, they
shall have what they ask for.

"As the man, Hugh Neils, said, there is fuel and food in the holds of
the Vulcan to run the motors and last the lifetime of a man--or a man
and a woman. Indeed, two lifetimes, or three, for I was aware of their
plans, and secretly I placed aboard the craft many additional supplies.
Fuel, and food, and books, and tools. And one additional thing the two
who flee now there in space have not counted upon.

"Into the controls of the Vulcan one of my engineers has placed a small
device. After two hundred hours, or when they are well beyond Jupiter,
this device will swing the Vulcan straight toward Proxima Centauri, the
nearest star. In that position the controls will lock. And for twenty
years, a generation, it will be impossible either to alter the course
of the Vulcan or to shut her blast motors off.

"At the end of that time the last tank of reserve fuel will be
exhausted, and they will cease automatically. Then once more the Vulcan
may be controlled by those aboard. They may switch the motors onto the
tanks of fuel in the cargo holds, and continue onwards. If they were
celestial navigators, they might try to turn, and seek earth again. But
they are not navigators, and the sun will be but a tiny spark in the
limitless darkness, one with a million others, not to be told apart.
They will know that only Proxima Centauri in all space may the Vulcan
hope to reach in their lifetime, or perhaps even in that of their
descendants, for a message to that effect they will find presently.

"So it may be that they will continue onward of their own choice. If
they make no choice, momentum will carry them onward, perhaps forever.

"But in any case, Nanlo and Hugh Neils will have exactly what they have
asked for--each other, for all eternity. If truly that was what they
wanted, a great destiny may be theirs. A lifetime of travel can bring
them to the stars. They or their descendants can be the first humans to
bridge the gap of nothingness that has thus far daunted the stoutest
hearts."

As they watched, the green dart of light dwindled and was gone. And
quite invisible at last in the arms of outer darkness, the Vulcan sped
its two passengers onward toward the stars.



