



"Do you believe, Professor Gault, that this four dimensional
plane contains life--intelligent life?"

At the question, Gault laughed shortly. "You have been reading
pseudo-science, Dr. Pillbot," he twitted. "I realize that as a
psychiatrist, you are interested in minds, in living beings,
rather than in dimensional planes. But I fear you will find no
minds to study in the fourth dimension. There aren't any there!"

Professor Gault paused, peered from beneath bushy white brows out
over the laboratory. To his near sighted eyes the blurred figure
of Harper, his young assistant, seemed busily at work over his
mathematical charts. Gault hoped sourly that the young man was
actually working and not just drawing more of his absurd,
senseless designs amidst the mathematical computations....

"Your proof," Dr. Pillbot broke into his thoughts insistently,
"is purely negative, Professor! How can you know there are no
beings in the fourth dimension, unless you actually enter this
realm, to see for yourself?"

Professor Gault stared at the fat, puffy face of his visitor, and
snorted loudly.

"I am afraid, Pillbot, you do not comprehend the impossibility of
such a passage. We can not possibly break from the confines of
our three dimensional world. Here, let me explain by a simple
illustration."

Gault took up a book, held it so that a shadow fell onto the
surface of the desk.

"That shadow," he said, "is two dimensional, has length and
breadth, but no thickness. Now in order to enter the third
dimension, our plane, the shadow would have to bulge out in some
way, into the dimension of thickness an obvious impossibility.
Similarly, we can not enter the fourth dimension. Do you see?"

"No!" retorted Pillbot with some heat. "In the first place, we
are not two dimensional shadows, and--why, what is the matter?"

Professor Gault's lanky form had stiffened, his near sighted eyes
glaring out over the laboratory to the rear of Pillbot. The
psychiatrist wheeled around, followed his host's gaze.

It was Harper. That young man's antics drew an amazed grunt from
Pillbot. He was describing peculiar motions in the air with his
pencil. Circles, whorls, angles, abrupt jabs forward. He bent
over the paper on the desk, made a few sweeps of the pencil, then
the pencil rose again into the air to describe more erratic
motions. Harper himself seemed in a trance.

Suddenly Pillbot gave a stifled gasp. It seemed to him that
Harper's arm vanished at the elbow as it stabbed forward, then
reappeared. Once again the phenomenon happened.

Pillbot blinked rapidly, rubbed his eyes. It must have been
illusion, he decided. It was too ... unlikely....

"Harper!" Gault's voice was like the snapping of a steel trap.

Startled, Harper came to with a jerk. Seeing he was being
watched, he flushed redly, then bent over his charts again. An
apologetic murmur floated from his desk.

"What was he doing?" Pillbot asked puzzledly.

"Doodling!" Gault spat out the word disgustedly.

"Doodling?" echoed the psychiatrist. "Why that is a slang term we
use in psychiatry, to describe the absent-minded scrawls and
designs people make while their attention is elsewhere occupied.
An overflow of the unconscious mind, we call it. Many famous
people are 'doodlers.' Their doodles often are a sign of special
ability--"

"Exactly!" snapped Gault. "It shows a special ability to waste
time. And Harper has become worse since I hired him to do some of
my mathematical work. Some influence in this laboratory--I blush
to confess--seems to bring it on. 'Four dimensional doodling' we
call it, because, as you saw, he doesn't confine it to the
surface of the paper!"

Pillbot looked startled. "By jove," he cried. "I believe you've
hit on something new to psychiatry. This young man may have some
unknown faculty of mind--an instinctive perception of the fourth
dimension. Just as some people have an unerring sense of
direction, so perhaps Harper has a sense of--of a fourth
direction--the fourth dimension! I should like to examine some of
his 'doodles'."

Harper looked up in alarm as his crusty tempered employer
appeared, followed by the stout figure of Pillbot. He rose and
stood aside unassumingly, as Pillbot bent over the scrawls on his
charts, clucking interestedly.

Harper flickered a worried glance over to the corner. He hoped
they wouldn't notice his stress-analyzing clay model standing
there. It looked like a futurist's nightmare, with angles, curves
and knobs stuck out at all angles. Professor Gault might not
understand....
