
As Gault and Pillbot argued, Harper grasped the paper cutout, and
bent it, "jacknifed" it, creasing it firmly in the middle. Then
he raised the upper half so that it rose vertically from the
desk, while the lower half was still pressed flatly against the
desk surface.

"Now," he murmured to himself, "the Flatlander would appear to
his fellows to have vanished from the waist up, because from the
waist up he is bent into the third dimension ... so far as they
are concerned...."

"E-e-e-e-e!"

At the wavering scream, Harper looked up quickly. Pillbot was
staring frozenly in front of him, toward the floor. Harper
followed his glance--and saw it.

Professor Gault had vanished from the waist up.

His lower body still stood before Pillbot, swaying slightly, but
the upper body was unconditionally missing. From the large feet
planted solidly on the floor, long legs rose majestically,
terminating in slim, angular hips--and from thence vanished
abruptly into nothingness. It was as though the upper body had
been sheared away, neatly and precisely, at the waist.

Pillbot stared from the visible portion of Gault to slack-jawed
Harper and back again, sweat splashing from his puffy face.

"Why, why really my dear fellow," he quavered, addressing the
half-figure. "This--this is a bit rude of you, vanishing in the
midst of my sentence. I--I trust you will--ah, return at once!"
Then, as the full import of the phenomenon penetrated to his
understanding, his eyes became glazed and he backed away.

The portion of Professor Gault addressed failed to give any
indication it had heard the remonstrance. Slowly, the legs began
to feel their way, like a blind man, about the floor.

Harper stared wildly, white showing around his pale blue irises.

"No!" he bleated. "The Professor didn't do it himself--I caused
it to happen. I bent the paper cutout, and--and Something saw me
do it, and imitated me by bending the Professor into the fourth
dimension!" Harper moaned faintly, wringing his hands.

Pillbot at the moment got little satisfaction from this
demonstration of his point about four dimensional life. He
glanced fearfully at the half-figure.

"You--you mean to say," he quailed, "that we are under scrutiny
by some Being of the fourth dimension?"

"That's it," replied Harper with a whinny. "I--I know it, I can
feel it. It became aware of our three dimensional life in some
way, and its attention is now concentrated on the laboratory!" He
wrung his hands. "I just know something else terrible is going to
happen!" He backed away quickly as the occupied pair of pants
moved toward him.

His retreat was halted by his desk, upon which reposed two large
California oranges, an inevitable accompaniment to Harper's
lunch. To him, orange juice was a potent, revivifying drink. Now
he automatically reached for one of the oranges, as a more hardy
individual might reach for a whisky and soda in a moment of
mental shock.

His eyes wide on the shuffling approach of Gault's underpinnings,
Harper nervously dug sharp fingernails into the orange, tore off
large chunks of skin.

A sudden blur seen from the corner of his eyes pulled his gaze
back to the desk. The other orange had vanished.

_Phwup_!

It dropped to the floor before Harper, but now it was a squashy
mess, the insides standing out like petals, the juice running
from it.

The other orange slipped from Harper's nerveless fingers, rolled
along the desk top. Harper pounced on the squashy thing on the
floor, feverishly pushed back the projecting insides, closely
examined it. He looked up wide-eyed at Pillbot.

"Turned inside out," he gasped hoarsely, "without breaking its
skin!"

Pillbot's expression indicated that the scientific attitude was
slowly replacing his former fright. He snapped his fingers.

"Imitation again!" he said, half to himself. He looked at Harper.
"When you bent the paper figure this--this fourth dimensional
entity imitated your action by bending the Professor. Now, as you
started to peel the orange, your action was again imitated--in a
four dimensional manner--by this entity turning the other orange
inside out."

His voice dropped, as he muttered, "Imitativeness--the mark of a
mind of low evolutionary order, or of ..." his words faded off,
his expression thoughtful.

More white showed around Harper's eyes. "You--you mean I am being
specially watched by this Being--that He--It--imitates everything
I do...?"

"That's it," clipped Pillbot. "Because you possess this strange
perception of Its realm the Being has been especially attracted
to you, imitates whatever you do, but in a four dimensional
manner. A Being of inexplicable powers and prerogatives, with
weird power over matter, but with a mentality that is either very
primitive, or--"

Harper leaped into the air with a yell, as Professor Gault's
abbreviated body sidled up to him from behind. As he leaped, the
inside out orange flew out of his grasp.

"I just know," he quavered, "that Professor Gault wants me to do
something, is probably barking orders at me from that other
dimension--oh dear, I've dropped the orange on the Professor's--where
his stomach should be!"

The squashy orange had landed on the area of Gault that was the line
of demarkation between his visible and invisible portions--the area
that his stomach would occupy normally. It rested there in plain
sight of the two startled men.

"I--I'd better remove it," said Harper weakly. He moved with a
dreadful compulsion toward the swaying half-figure, one slender
hand extended tremblingly toward the inverted orange.

Abruptly, the orange vanished. Harper halted like he'd run into a
brick wall. Staring blankly ahead, he put his hands to his
stomach, moaning faintly.

"What's the matter?" cried Pillbot.

"The orange--it's in my--stomach!"

"See, what did I tell you," exulted Pillbot. "Another act of
imitativeness. It saw you drop the orange on Gault's--where his
stomach should be, and imitated by putting the orange in your
stomach. It proves I'm right about the Being--glug!" With a loud
belch, Pillbot broke off. He stared blankly at Harper, then his
hands slowly came up to clutch at his stomach.

Harper looked quickly at the desk top.

"The other orange," he gasped. "It's gone!"

"Into--my--stomach!" groaned Pillbot. "Be--be careful what you
do! My God, don't do anything. Don't even think. This--this four
dimensional creature will surely imitate whatever you do in some
weird manner."

Rubbing his stomach, Pillbot glanced about at the various
articles of furniture. He blanched. "I wouldn't want any of that
stuff inside of me," he yammered.

Harper flicked a despairing glance at the half-body, now gliding
along in the vicinity of the paper cutout.

"We--we must do something to get the Professor back," he said
worriedly.
