
He thought incongruously of a restaurant where he used to order
lemon pie--and invariably get apple. Finally he found that he
could get lemon by ordering peach. Now the problem was, what did
he have to "order" to get his employer extricated from being
stuck between dimensions, like a pig under a fence? Anything he
did would be imitated in a manner that might prove tragic.

The upright portion of the cutout was leaning over backward, the
head drooping down like a wilted flower, as the tension at the
crease slowly lessened.

Gathering together what resolution he could, Harper determined to
take the bull by the horns. He would get the Professor returned
by pressing the upper portion of the cutout flatly onto the desk
surface. With trembling hands, he pressed down on it--then sprang
back with a muffled yell.

Three feet above the half-body, the Professor's head had flashed
into visibility.

"You only pressed the head onto the desk," said Pillbot
disgustedly, "so the Being only impressed Galt's head back into
the laboratory. Now press down the rest of the body."

The Professor's head, suspended above the body, glared about,
affixed Harper with a smouldering glance. The mouth moved
rapidly, but no words came.

"Professor, I can't hear you," whimpered Harper. "Your lungs and
vocal cords are in the other dimension. Here, I'll have you
completely returned." He reached a hand toward the cutout, the
torso of which still bulged upward from the desk.

Gault's head wagged in vigorous negation of Harper's contemplated
act. His mouth moved in what, if audible, would have been
clipped, burning accents.

Harper drew back his hand as if he had touched a red hot poker.
"The Professor doesn't want me to touch the cutout," he said
helplessly.

Gault's head hovered over the cutout like a gaunt moon. It
swooped down toward the paper figure, seemed to be studying its
position on the desk closely. Pillbot watched him for a sign of
his intentions or wishes.

Harper wandered distractedly over toward the high wall bench. He
had it! He would distract the attention of the Entity from Gault
by making another cutout. He would then experiment with that
second one, without endangering Gault. He'd be careful not to
make this one thin and tall, so as not to resemble the Professor
in outline. Perhaps with it, he could trick the Entity into
releasing the missing part of Gault's body....

He scraped in the bench drawer for the scissors, and started to
sheer through a large stiff piece of paper.

A moment later he looked up as Pillbot walked over.

"Gault has some reason for not wanting his silhouette touched,"
he said. "Can't quite make out his lip movements, but he seems
afraid some permanent mark may be left on him by his return. He
wants time to figure out--why, what are you doing?"

"I've made another cutout for experiment," explained Harper. "And
this one doesn't look like the Professor, isn't tall and thin.
See--?" He lifted the second cutout from the flat surface of the
bench, held it suspended before him.

"This one is short and fat--" Harper halted abruptly, the breath
whooshing from his lungs.

There was no use talking to thin air. Pillbot had been whisked
into nothingness. Where the portly figure of the eminent
psychiatrist had stood was now nothing, not even a half man.

Too late, Harper realized that when he had lifted the paper
figure from the surface of the bench, the Entity had imitated him
by "lifting" Pillbot into the fourth dimension. Belatedly, he
knew that the cutout which he held dangling, resembled Pillbot in
outline.

Harper dashed back and forth in little rushes, carrying the paper
figure. He dared not put it down, for fear of seeing some segment
of Pillbot flash back. He did not know what to do with it.

Finally he compromised by suspending it to a low hanging
chandelier, where it dangled swaying in the slight air currents.
