
Gault was watching his assistant's antics with a bleak expression
that changed to sardonic satisfaction as he realized Pillbot was
in a predicament like his--only more so. Abruptly he frowned,
staring ahead, and Harper guessed that Pillbot had located
Gault's torso in the other realm, was nudging him to indicate the
fact.

Suddenly Harper knew that he himself must enter this fourth
dimensional realm. That strange instinct told him the solution to
everything was there--somewhat as a woman's intuition impels her
to act in a certain way, without knowing why.

How to get there? Another paper cutout? He glanced toward the
Professor--the occupied trousers, and swimming above it, the
man's head. The head was watching him, the expression savage.

No, there must be no more cutouts, Harper decided. While the four
dimensional entity distinguished between the outlines of a thin
silhouette and a fat one, something in between, like Harper's
form, would be testing It too far.

He, Harper would take the place of his own cutout!

Gault's head reared up, glared fixedly at his assistant as the
young man swung his legs onto the desk, then lay down flat. A
moment he lay there, in "Flatland"--then leaped to his feet.

It was as though he had leaped into a different world. He was no
longer in the laboratory. He wasn't on any, floor at all, as far
as he could make out. His feet rested on nothing--and yet there
was some sort of tension under him--like the surface tension of
water.

He was--he suddenly knew it--standing on a segment of warped
space! There was a spacial strain here that acted as a solid
beneath him!

Harper looked "up"--that is, overhead. There was nothing there
but vast stretches of emptiness--at first. Then he saw that this
emptiness was lined and laced with filmy striations, like
cellophane. They bore a strange resemblance to his "doodlings,"
as though that strange faculty of his enabled him to somehow
perceive this place of the fourth dimension. And instinctively
Harper knew that these lacings were the boundaries of a vast
enclosure--a four dimensional enclosure, the "walls" of which
consisted of joined and meshed space-warps.

Abruptly he became aware of movement. He became aware of solidity
there above him. And the solidity was in motion.

Harper knew he was gazing upon a being of the fourth
dimension--doubtless the Entity that had caused the phenomena in
the laboratory, which had snatched him into the fourth dimension,
and was even now observing him with its four dimensional sight!
There was a shape above him that strained his eyes, gave hint of
Form just beyond his comprehension.

Harper hardly noticed that Pillbot was beside him, shaking him.
He had suddenly grasped a fundamental law of spacial stresses,
and he whipped out a pad and pencil, began scribbling down the
mathematical formula of these laws. He began to see now why
skyscrapers encountered the "stress-barrier" at a certain height.
He understood it just as a person of innate musical ability,
hearing music for the first time, would understand the laws of
that music.

"Look out, It's moving, descending!" Pillbot was yelling into his
ear. "It is about to act. Became active the moment you got here.
How did you induce it to bring you here?"

"Huh?" Harper looked up from his scribbling. "Oh." Harper
explained quickly how he had induced the Being to act on himself.

"That's it!" cried Pillbot hoarsely. "You switched the pattern of
imitation on It--tricked It into bringing you here. That's what
made it angry--"

"Angry?" Harper almost dropped his pad, clutched at Pillbot as
there was a sudden upheaval of the invisible tension-surface on
which they stood. A violent shake sprawled them on the "ground"
and now Harper saw the torso of Gault, a few feet away,
apparently hovering above the surface.

"Yes, angry!" Pillbot was pale. "As long as you merely gave it
something to imitate it was pacified. But now it recognizes
opposition, an effort to outwit it due to your switching the
pattern of imitation. Its condition is dangerous--it's bound to
react violently. We have to get out of here. You must know some
way--"

Harper again scribbled some figures on his pad. "As soon as I've
worked out this formula--"

Pillbot shook him frantically. "Can't you understand! This
Creature is a mental patient of a violent type. We are in a
_fourth dimensional insane asylum_!" Pillbot gazed upward
fearfully at a descending mass. "The pattern of its action fits
perfectly," he went on. "Some violent type of insanity, combined
with delusions of grandeur. Any slightest opposition will cause a
spasm of fury. It recognizes such opposition in the way you
tricked it into bringing you here. At first I thought it was a
primitive mentality, but now I know it is a highly evolved, but
insane creature, thinks it's Napoleon, wants to conquer the three
dimensional plane which its attention has been attracted to in
some way--"

Harper looked up in surprise. "Does it know about Napoleon?"

"Of course not, you fool!" screamed Pillbot. "It has the
Napoleonic complex, identifies itself with some great conqueror
of its own realm. And now it's on the rampage. We have to get
out of here--" He clutched at Harper as another upheaval of the
surface threw them down.
