
Rising, Harper put away his pad. His calculations were complete.
He could now show engineers how to build high buildings, taking
advantage of space stress instead of trying to fight the stress.

For the first time, the danger of their position seemed to
penetrate to his consciousness. He looked about--and his eyes
rested on a strange familiar projection rising from the invisible
floor a few feet away. It was the section of his clay statue that
had vanished--vanished because its peculiar shape had somehow
caused it to be warped into the fourth dimension!

Why hadn't he been able to move it--Professor Gault moved about
freely.

He and Pillbot went over to it, tried to move it. A slight filmy
webwork around the projection caught Harper's eye. Now he
knew--the Being had somehow affixed it to the spot as a landmark,
so It could locate the laboratory. It must have been this
projection that had first attracted the Being's attention to the
three dimensional world, since, ordinarily, It would never have
noticed the presence of three dimensional life, any more than
humans would notice the presence of two dimensional life if such
existed!

Harper looked up at a bleat from Pillbot. Above them was a sudden
furious play of lights and shades. Vast masses seemed shifting in
crazy juxtapositions, now descending rapidly toward them.

"Quick," Harper, now fully aroused, gasped to Pillbot. "Climb
down this projection!"

"Climb down it--?"

"Yes, there is a fluid condition of space where it penetrates
between the two planes. By hugging its contours you will emerge
into the laboratory--I hope!"

Pillbot glanced overhead nervously, then experimentally slid a
font down the projection. The foot vanished. With a cry of
relief, Pillbot lowered himself until only head and shoulders
were visible. Then that too vanished.

Harper looked up. Some monstrous suggestion of Form was almost
upon him. He grasped the projection and just as his head sank out
of sight the Form seemed to smash down on him.

Pillbot helped Harper to his feet, from where he had sprawled at
the base of the statue, on the laboratory floor.

"Quick," he gasped. "The Creature will be infuriated now, by our
escape from Its realm. A maniacal spasm is sure to follow. We
must get Gault back in some way, then leave the laboratory."

Even as they dashed over toward the abbreviated form of Gault,
the laboratory shook. Invisible strains seemed to be bulging the
walls inward.

Harper rushed to the desk upon which still reposed the cutout, the
section between neck and waist still arched off the surface. As Harper
reached toward the cutout to press it flat, Gault's eyes widened, his
mouth opened in a soundless shout of opposition. Harper hesitated.

"Never mind him," yammered Pillbot. "Press the figure flat!"

Harper pressed it flat.

For an instant the laboratory stopped its ominous vibration. Then
the figure of Gault flew through the air, came up against a
wall--but it was his complete figure.

"More signs of violence," cried Pillbot. "But that action won't
appease It--we must get out of here--"

Even as he spoke there was a thunderous crackling and roaring.
Harper felt himself flying about, and for an instant of awful
vertigo he did not know up from down. Forces seemed to be tearing
at him. He felt as though he were a piece of iron being attracted
simultaneously in several directions by powerful electro magnets.

There was a flare of colored lights, a deafening detonation--and
he felt himself knocked breathless against a wall.

He picked himself up, looked around.
