
On one side of him was the familiar south wall of the laboratory.
To the north, east and west was--open air. He was standing on a
section of laboratory flooring that jutted out over empty space
from the wall. His desk was a few feet away, right at the edge of
the jutting floor. Gault and Pillbot were picking themselves up
to one side of the desk.

The pair looked over the edge of the floor, then recoiled,
frenziedly hugging the flooring under them.

Harper crawled over, looked over the edge, quickly backed away.
Several hundred feet below, the traffic of the city roared!

Gault went over to the door in the one wall, opened it, then
stepped back quickly, his face pale.

"The laboratory has been turned inside out!" he shouted. "We are
on the outside!"

"We must get away from here," squalled Pillbot. "Another spasm of
the creature will precipitate us into the street!"

Gault forgot his apprehensions long enough to freeze Harper with
a glance. "This is all your doing," he bawled. "You with your
absurd doodling, which attracted the attention of some Being of
the fourth dimension!" In his anger, he overlooked the fact that
he was contradicting his formerly held opinion.

"The laboratory wrecked," he continued, "and that isn't all!" He
stalked up to the cringing Harper, thrust his face toward him.

"Do you know," he yelled, "why I didn't want to be returned
hastily--why I didn't want you to bring me back by flattening out
the paper cutout? You dolt, did you ever try to get a crease out
of a piece of paper?"

"I--I don't understand," murmured Harper.

"That paper doll was creased, wasn't it?" shouted Gault.

"Once a piece of paper is creased," he resumed heatedly, "it
can't be perfectly flattened out again. At the crease a thin
cross-section continues to bulge--into the third dimension in the
case of that paper cutout. Into the fourth dimension in my case!
_I'm creased too_, at the line where I was bent into the fourth
dimension! Surely you aren't blind?"

Harper staggered back as he saw it--a thin, horizontal line of
light shining through Gault's body--across his waistline, through
clothes and all.

"I shall have to go through life this way," Gault snarled, "due
to your imbecilic 'doodling', your meddling with what you don't
understand. Go about constantly with a slit of daylight showing
through me. _You're fired!_"

"Gentlemen," cried Pillbot. "The entity--we must get away.
Another spasm will surely follow--"

Harper didn't think so. A few feet away he had noticed
something--his statue lying on its side. It was all there,
including the portion that had been in the fourth dimension. The
Entity's "landmark" was gone. Harper didn't believe It would
locate this particular area of the third dimension again.

The scream of a fire siren rose up to them. As a ladder scraped
over the projecting floor, Harper fondly felt the pad in his
pocket with the formula on it. He wasn't worried now about having
been fired. He was seeing visions of a small cottage with
Judith....

Of course, he would have to be careful in the future with his
"doodling"! He could not again risk attracting the attention of
some four dimensional Being--not with Judith to think about!
