
It took three days more to get within hailing distance of the seventh
planet. It spun beneath us, a pretty blue-green ball about the size of
Earth.

We came within about a million miles and set up an orbit as per
instructions. No sooner had we done that than we found ourselves
surrounded by a flock of alien warships.

I went to the radio room and made contact.

"State name and object here," I was ordered in a crisp, business-like
voice.

"I'm Johnny Martin, Captain of the Terran vessel 13-XV-1, with no
hostile intent. We're here to pick up an ambassador from Aldebaran to
Earth, along with his pet."

I heard some hasty conferring going on and then someone said, "Hold on,
Terran ship. We'll check with the home planet."

Five tense minutes passed--minutes in which I half expected to be
blown out of the sky by a sudden attack. You never can tell with
aliens. They're likely to do almost anything; their psychologies are
unpredictable in Terran terms--as, I guess, ours are in theirs.

But finally my receiver crackled and the alien voice said, "Everything
is clear, 13-XV-1. Remain in orbit and ambassador will be transferred
to your ship. Any suspicious move on your part will bring immediate
attack by our defense fleet."

"Don't worry. I'm not going any place. I'll wait right here."

I watched in the viewscope as a small ship bellied upward from the
blue-green world below and approached us. They matched velocities with
us, airlock to airlock.

"Get that fluorine room ready," I ordered my men. "The Ambassador's
coming aboard."

The two ships hung side by side in space. Of course, there was no
apparent relative motion since we had the same velocity. It was
possible to walk back and forth from their ship to ours.

"Prepare to receive Ambassador," came the message from the other ship.
"His excellency, Quelf Tharkol, Minister Plenipotenitiary--and his pet."

"I'm ready," I said. "Our airlock's open."

Slowly the lock of the other ship slid back and two space-suited
figures appeared--the Ambassador, Quelf Tharkol, and his pet. The
Ambassador was invisible within his spacesuit but he stood upright and
looked to be about the size of a man. I was happy about that; it's
always a lot easier to negotiate with a humanoids-type alien than with
something totally bizarre.

I chuckled when I saw the space-suited cat--for so I thought of it.
It was cat-size, in a little form-fitting spacesuit, and it scampered
after its master on four legs, space-suited tail wagging behind. It was
sort of a cute little thing, I thought; no wonder its master didn't
care to leave it behind.

"Everything all set?" I asked.

"Transfer is completed," said the captain of the other ship. He closed
his lock, and pulled away from us.

"Close the lock!" I ordered.

I gestured to a crewman standing by. "Show the Ambassador to his room,"
I said.

When the Ambassador and his pet were in their special fluorinated
stateroom I called them on the special television hookup I had set up
between them.

They had taken their spacesuits off and were lying sprawled out in
their green murky atmosphere, the Ambassador in his bunk and the pet
in his. I could hardly see into the room over my circuit but I could
see that the Ambassador was very human and that the pet was pretty much
like a cat, except that he had sharp-clawed fingers instead of the soft
little pads a cat has.

"Everything all right in there?" I asked.

"Fine, just fine. How long will it take to get to Earth?"

"About three weeks," I said. "We'll be going into warp any minute."

"Very well," came the reply.
