
I didn't expect to have many dealings with the Ambassador. I had
been told that he would have his own food supply and naturally he was
confined to his fluorinated stateroom. So we settled down to a pleasant
return trip.

But on the second day of warp I was awakened from sweet dreams by
Whitey Durbin, the Night Engineer. He shoved me around in my bunk until
I opened one eye and said "Whatsamatter?"

"It's the cat, Chief!"

"Cat? What cat? You crazy, Whitey? Lemme go back to sleep."

But he was obstinate. "The Ambassador's pet. It's out of its room."

"Huh? But it can't breathe--"

"It's wearing a spacesuit. And it's wandering all over the ship,
snooping around. I caught it in the drive section and up front with the
charts. I don't like it, Chief."

"No. Neither do I." I was wide awake all at once. There had been
something fishy about this pet business all along and now I was
suspicious. Suppose the pet were a little smarter than a cat? Suppose
it was snooping around innocently enough--and actually soaking up vital
secret information about the workings of a Terran spaceship?

But I didn't know what to do. My orders stressed the fact that I had to
handle the Ambassador with kid gloves--but on the other hand, was I
supposed to let that creature roam all over the ship?

"Get me a hookup with Home Base," I said. "And in the meantime keep an
eye on that cat. Don't let it catch wise but try to follow it around.
And _don't_ stop it from roaming. These aliens may be touchy about the
funniest things."

I got in touch with Home Base in jig time. Commander Mahoney was the
man I spoke to.

"How's that Ambassador, Martin?"

"That's why I'm calling, sir. You see--the Ambassador's pet is creeping
all around the ship. It's sort of a cat but I wonder whether maybe it's
doing a very neat job of spying on us."

"Have you taken any action yet?"

"No. I wanted to check with Home Base."

Mahoney thought for a moment. "I suppose it would be all right to
speak to the Ambassador about this and tactfully request that he keep
the creature in his own quarters. But be _tactful_ about it, Martin.
Remember, we don't want to offend these aliens."
