
It was the middle of the "night" aboard ship, so I didn't think it
would be particularly tactful to call the Ambassador just then.

I waited until morning, by which time my men reported that the cat had
completed its survey and had promptly returned to the Ambassador's room.

When the television came on, the Ambassador and his pet were again
reclining leisurely on their bunks.

"Sorry if I'm disturbing you," I said hesitantly.

"That's quite all right. What can I do for you?"

"A matter of shipboard procedure I'd like to point out. It seems last
night your pet left your cabin and explored the ship, or so some of
my men reported. I'd appreciate it if you'd restrain the animal to
quarters from now on. It upsets shipboard routine--and, besides, my
instructions request that I keep the operating sections of the ship
under security wrap."

There was silence for a moment. I held my breath, hoping I hadn't
said something wrong, some thing that might foul up the delicate
Earth-Aldebaran negotiations in progress.

Finally came the reply. "I understand fully. I'm sorry about the
exploration trip--it was mere curiosity. It won't be repeated. But
you're mistaken about one thing."

"What's that?" I asked somewhat puzzledly.

"My pet remained in the cabin all night. _I_ was the one who explored
the ship." There was a sneer in his voice.

"You? But--"

My mouth clammed shut. And then I understood. I couldn't keep the flush
of embarrassment from my face and he saw it over the screen. It seemed
to please him. Pretty damned clever, I thought. Smart psychology for
the aliens to bring a "human" as a pet, putting our diplomats on the
defensive right from the start. The Ambassador must have known what I
was thinking for the sneer grew on his face.

Then suddenly I grinned. It seemed to surprise him. This, he hadn't
expected.

"Captain, something strikes you as humorous?" There was uncertainty in
his tone. Plus a little annoyance.

My grin widened. "Just a little private joke, Ambassador," I said. I
was thinking that this joker was in for a shock. Two planets could play
at this game and I would have plenty of time to tip off Home Base.

After all, we have pets too....