
"Well, I guess we knew what we were doing, didn't we?" Bruckner said
after they were back in the ship.

He made a point of emphasizing the we.

"At the time Waterfield's Planet was first discovered," he explained,
"the official report was that the natives were friendly. However, when
the survey team landed a year later, they ran into trouble. At the
beginning, they were courteous and considerate in their dealings with
the natives, but the tribesmen took that as a sign of weakness and gave
the team very little cooperation. Then they tried being a bit tough and
found themselves with a small war on their hands. They were lucky to get
away with their lives. So you can see why I'm pleased with the way
things went off today."

"If the natives are that touchy, we'll still have to be careful," Sweets
said. "What are we supposed to be doing here, anyway?"

Bruckner looked carefully around the circle at each of his listeners.
"There's no reason now why I shouldn't tell you," he said confidingly.
"The survey team found enough traces of rare elements here to suspect
that there might be large deposits on the planet. That's what we're
after."

"And you think there might be trouble?" Majesky asked. Bruckner had his
full attention now, Sweets noted. There was always a kind of leashed
vitality about Majesky that made him poor company during a space trip,
but he was the type of man you'd want on your side in a
rough-and-tumble.

"I certainly do not," Bruckner answered, frowning in annoyance. "It's my
job to see that we don't have trouble. I went very carefully over the
records of the two previous landings, even before we began this trip,
and I believe I understand the psychological compulsions of these
tribesmen quite well."

"You mean you know what makes 'em tick?" Majesky asked.

"Yes, I think I can safely say I do," Bruckner said modestly. "Their
culture pattern is based on a long history of tribal conflict. And, for
a tribe to prosper, they must have a strong as well as resourceful
leader. Thus the splendid dress of their chieftain this morning, in
contrast to the drabness of the ordinary tribal dress. He must be, very
apparently, a man above the common tribesmen to hold their respect.

"And that," Bruckner added, "was the reason for our little act this
morning. The best way to impress them with our power is to display the
magnificence of our leader. The better we can keep them convinced of my
greatness, the less risk there will be of trouble."
