
For a stunned moment, the men sat motionless in pleased surprise. Then
Sweets caught a movement from the corner of his eye and shifted his head
to look at Majesky. For the first time in many days, Majesky appeared
happy. He had straightened up and his eyes shone with a glow of
approval. He raised his arms in a gesture of encouragement and yelled,
"Swing it, baby!"

The dancer's stride broke and her head turned sharply in Majesky's
direction. Then she ignored the interruption and went on with her dance.

But Majesky was not to be ignored. He climbed to his feet and stood with
his head hunched between his shoulders, watching her. Then he lurched
forward, caught the girl up in his arms and swung her around in a
staggering circle.

It had happened too suddenly for any of the Earthmen to stop him, and
now they were unable to decide just what they should do. Most of them
turned to Bruckner.

To Sweets, it seemed that Bruckner had gone pale, but it was difficult
to be certain in the uneven light cast by the fire. His mouth opened
twice before he could speak. And when he did, Sweets almost laughed at
the staginess and absurdity of what he said.

"Unhand that woman!" Bruckner commanded.

Bruckner's voice was loud and it penetrated through the haze of
Majesky's drunken elation. He stopped his spinning and set the girl on
her feet, but he kept his right arm around her waist and glared back at
Bruckner.

"Go to hell," he said.

The natives apparently had been as surprised as the crew, for they had
not moved. Now, however, one of them rose and lunged at Majesky.

Majesky's face twisted into an expectant grin and he tossed the girl
aside and stood with wide-spread legs, waiting. As the native dived in
with his head lowered, Majesky brought his right fist up in a powerful
uppercut and smashed it into the tribesman's mouth.

The native continued his dive and landed face down. Natives and Earthmen
were on their feet now and moving toward Majesky. Sweets reached him
first.

The grin of pleasure was still on Majesky's face as he hit Sweets on the
left cheek and spun him half-around. He butted his head into the chest
of the next man to reach him, but they pulled him down then and held him
helpless.

The natives had paused when they saw the Earthmen grab Majesky.

Now Bruckner made his voice heard above the noise. "Bring him over
here!" he yelled.

Two men pinned Majesky's arms while a third held one kicking leg. They
dragged him over to Bruckner.

"You damn, dumb fool!" Bruckner cursed fervently. He raised his voice.
"All of you," he ordered, "back to the ship!"

The natives made no attempt to stop them.

Sweets glanced back over his shoulder at Chief Faffin as they went. He
was standing and intoning sadly, "_Lacigule, lacigule, lacigule_."
