
The following day, Bruckner called Sweets to his quarters.

"That was a rotten piece of business last night," Bruckner said. "But
I'm proud of the way you acted. You did some mighty quick thinking
there."

Sweets grunted. He knew the flattery was leading to something.

"I've been giving the matter some deep thought since," Bruckner
continued, "and I don't think it's too late yet to patch things up. But
I need a man with guts." He laughed. "How brave do you feel this
morning?"

Sweets shrugged and regarded the other levelly.

"You can speak their language," Bruckner said. "And I don't believe
they're sure enough of themselves to risk bloodshed. How would you like
to bring another present to the chief? I'll see that you're--"

"I don't feel like being a hero this morning," Sweets interrupted. "Why
don't you go yourself?"

Bruckner's eyebrows raised. "My job is vital to the success of this
expedition to risk my life unnecessarily. I'd go myself except--"

"Except that it's too dangerous," Sweets finished for him.

Bruckner straightened and his lips grew narrower. "That will be enough
of that. We'll find some way to get along without your help."

The party Bruckner organized to visit the native village pointedly did
not include Sweets.

Each man carried a rifle and sidearms. Bruckner walked this time--at
their head. But Sweets made a small bet with himself that Bruckner would
stay close to the protection of his men. He was willing enough to send
another man out alone, but when he had to go himself, he made sure that
he was well protected.

Bruckner and his men had been gone almost an hour when Sweets heard the
sound of Big Stupe's hoarse squawking from outside the ship. There
seemed to be anger in the tones. Before Sweets reached the open portal
of the ship, he heard more excited squawks. They were similar to Big
Stupe's, but they weren't being made by him.

Outside, Sweets found Big Stupe facing three others of his breed,
exchanging loud angry squawks. Soon they began to walk rapidly in their
pseudo-dignified spraddles, each in a small circle.

Abruptly they were locked together and it was soon apparent that this
was no game. Big Stupe pulled with both flippers at the head of one of
his visitors, while another systematically raked his long claws down the
sides of Big Stupe's neck. Before Sweets could reach him, the neck was
streaming with blood.

Sweets remembered how Big Stupe had always been afraid of loud noises
and he raised his voice in a shout. The other stupes turned their backs,
but Big Stupe brought one flipper around and hit Sweets squarely between
the eyes.
