
The miracle he had not counted on came late one afternoon as he sat,
cross-legged, sorting out his latest haul of priceless diamonds.

The great black ship came in from the east across the rolling hills.
It whistled down across the ridges and settled to the ground a short
distance from Sherwood's crippled ship and his patched-together shack.

It was no patrol vessel, although in his position, Sherwood would have
welcomed even one of these. It was a kind of ship he'd never seen
before. It was globular and black and it had no identifying marks on it.

He leaped to his feet and ran toward the ship. He waved his arms in
welcome and whooped with his delight. He stopped a hundred feet away
when he felt the first whiff of the heat that had been picked up by the
vessel's hull in its plunge through atmosphere.

"Hey, in there!" he yelled.

And the Ship spoke to him. "You need not yell," it told him. "I can
hear you very well."

"Who are you?" asked Sherwood.

"I am the Ship," the voice told him.

"Quit fooling around," yelled Sherwood, "and tell me who you are."

For the sort of answer it had given was foolishness. Of course it was
the ship. It was someone in the ship, talking to him through a speaker
in the hull.

"I have told you," said the Ship. "I am the Ship."

"But there is someone speaking to me."

"The ship is speaking to you."

"All right, then," said Sherwood. "If you want it that way, it's okay
with me. Can you take me out of here? My radio is broken and my ship
disabled."

"Perhaps I can," said the Ship. "Tell me who you are."

Sherwood hesitated for a moment, and then he told who he was, quite
truthfully. For it suddenly had occurred to him that this ship was as
much an outlaw as he was himself. It had no markings and all ships must
have markings.

"You say you left your last port without proper clearance?"

"Yes," said Sherwood. "There were certain circumstances."

"And no one knows where you are? No one's looking for you?"

"How could they?" Sherwood asked.

"Where do you want to go?"

"Just anywhere," said Sherwood. "I have no preference."
