
For even if they should land him somewhere where he had no wish to be,
he still would have a running chance. On this planet he had no chance
at all.

"All right," said the ship. "You can come aboard."

A hatch came open in the hull and a ladder began running out.

"Just a second," Sherwood shouted. "I'll be right there."

He sprinted to the shack and grabbed his sack of the finest diamonds,
then legged it for the ship. He got there almost as soon as the ladder
touched the ground.

The hull still was crackling with warmth, but Sherwood swarmed up the
ladder, paying no attention.

He was set for life, he thought. Unless--

And then the thought struck him that they might take the diamonds from
him. They could pretend it was payment for his passage. Or they could
simply take them without an excuse of any sort at all.

But it was too late now. He was almost in the hatch. To drop the sack
of diamonds now would do no more than arouse suspicion and would gain
him nothing.

It came of greediness, he thought. He did not need this many diamonds.
Just a half dozen of the finest dropped into his pockets would have
been enough. Enough to buy him another ship so he could return and get
a load of them.

But he was committed now. There was nothing he could do except to see
it through.

He reached the hatch and tumbled through it. There was no one waiting.
The inner lock stood open and there was no one there.

He stopped to stare at the emptiness and behind him the retracting
ladder rumbled softly and the hatch hissed to a close.

"Hey," he shouted, "where is everyone?"

"There is no one here," the voice said, "but me."

"All right," said Sherwood. "Where do I go to find you?"

"You have found me," said the Ship. "You are standing in me."

"You mean...."

"I told you," said the Ship. "I said I was the Ship. That is what I am."

"But no one...."

"You do not understand," said the Ship. "There is no need of anyone.
I am myself. I am intelligent. I am part machine, part human. Rather,
perhaps, at one time I was. I have thought, in recent years, the two of
us have merged so we're neither human nor machine, but something new
entirely."

"You're kidding me," said Sherwood, beginning to get frightened.
"There can't be such a thing."

"Consider," said the Ship, "a certain human who had worked for years to
build me and who, as he finished me, found death was closing in...."

"Let me out!" yelled Sherwood. "Let me out of here! I don't want to be
rescued. I don't want...."

"I'm afraid, Mr. Sherwood, it is rather late for that. We're already
out in space."

"Out in space! We can't be! It isn't possible!"

"Of course it is," the Ship told him. "You expected thrust. There was
no thrust. We simply lifted."
