
"No ship," insisted Sherwood, "can get off a planet...."

"You're thinking, Mr. Sherwood, of the ships built by human hands. Not
of a living ship. Not of an intelligent machine. Not of what becomes
possible with the merging of a man and a machine."

"You mean you built yourself?"

"Of course not. Not to start with. I was built by human hands to start
with. But I've redesigned myself and rebuilt myself, not once, but
many times. I knew my capabilities. I knew my dreams and wishes. I
made myself the kind of thing I was capable of being--not the halfway,
makeshift thing that was the best the human race could do."

"The man you spoke of," Sherwood said. "The one who was about to
die...."

"He is part of me," said the Ship. "If you must think of him as a
separate entity, he, then, is talking to you. For when I say 'I', I
mean both of us, for we've become as one."

"I don't get it," Sherwood told the Ship, feeling the panic coming
back again.

"He built me, long ago, as a ship which would respond, not to the
pushing of a lever or the pressing of a button, but to the mental
commands of the man who drove me. I was to become, in effect, an
extension of that man. There was a helmet that the man would wear and
he'd think into the helmet."

"I understand," said Sherwood.

"He'd think into the helmet and I was so programmed that I'd obey his
thoughts. I became, in effect, a man, and the man became in effect the
ship he operated."

"Nice deal," Sherwood said enthusiastically, never being one upon whom
the niceties of certain advantages were ever lost.

"He finished me and he was about to die and it was a pity that such
a one should die--one who had worked so hard to do what he had done.
Who'd given up so much. Who never had seen space. Who had gone nowhere."

"No," said Sherwood, in revulsion, knowing what was coming. "No, he'd
not done that."

"It was a kindness," said the ship. "It was what he wanted. He managed
it himself. He simply gave up his body. His body was a worthless hulk
that was about to die. The modifications to accommodate a human brain
rather than a human skull were quite elementary. And he has been happy.
We have both of us been happy."

Sherwood stood without saying anything. In the silence he was listening
for some sound, for any kind of tiny rattle or hum, for anything at
all to tell him the ship was operating. But there was no sound and no
sense of motion of any sort.

"Happy," he said. "Where would you have found happiness? What's the
point of all this?"

"That," the Ship said solemnly, "is a bit hard to explain."

Sherwood stood and thought about it--the endless voyaging through space
without a body--with all the desires, all the advantages, all the
capabilities of a body gone forever.

"There is nothing for you to fear," said the Ship. "You need not
concern yourself. We have a cabin for you. Just down the corridor, the
first door to your left."

"I thank you," Sherwood said, although he was nervous still.

If he had had a choice, he told himself, he'd stayed back on the
planet. But since he was here, he'd have to make the best of it. And
there were, he admitted to himself, certain advantages and certain
possibilities that needed further thought.
