
He went down the corridor and pushed on the door. It opened on the
cabin. For a spaceship it looked comfortable enough. A little cramped,
of course, but then all cabins were. Space is at a premium on any sort
of ship.

He went in and placed his sack of diamonds on the bunk that hinged out
from the wall. He sat down in the single metal chair that stood beside
the bunk.

"Are you comfortable, Mr. Sherwood?"

"Very comfortable," he said.

It was going to be all right, he told himself. A very crazy setup,
but it would be all right. Perhaps a little spooky and a bit hard to
believe, but probably better, after all, than staying marooned, back
there on the planet. For this would not last forever. And the planet
could have been, most probably would have been, forever.

It would take a while to reach another planet, for space was rather
sparsely populated in this area. There would be time to think and plan.
He might be able to work out something that would be to his great
advantage.

He leaned back in the chair and stretched out his legs. His brain began
to click in a ceaseless scurrying back and forth, nosing from every
angle all the possibilities that existed in this setup.

It was nice, he thought--this entire operation. The Ship undoubtedly
had figured out some angles for itself which no human yet had thought
of.

There were a lot of things to do. He'd have to learn the capabilities
of the Ship and give close study to its personality, seeking out its
weak points and its strength. Then he'd have to plan his strategy and
be careful not to give away his thinking. He must not move until he was
entirely ready.

There might be many ways to do it. There might be flattery or there
might be a business proposition or there might be blackmail. He'd have
to think on it and study and follow out the line of action that seemed
to be the best.

He wondered at the Ship's means of operation. Anti-gravity, perhaps, so
far considered as a source of power.

He got up from the chair and paced, three paces across the room. Or a
fusion chamber. Or perhaps some method which had not been and back,
restlessly pondering odds.

Yes, he thought, it would be a nice kind of ship to have. More than
likely there was nothing in all of space that could touch it in
speed and maneuverability. Nothing that could overhaul it should
he ever have to run. It could apparently set down anywhere. It was
probably self-repairing, for the Ship had spoken of redesigning and of
rebuilding itself. With the memory of his recent situation still fresh
inside his mind, this was comforting.

There must be a way to get the Ship, he told himself. There had to be a
way to get it. It was something that he needed.

He could buy another ship, of course; with the diamonds in the sacking
he could buy a fleet of ships. But this was the one he wanted.
