
Maybe it had been pure luck this Ship had picked him up. For any other
legal ship would probably turn him over to the authorities at its next
port of call, but this Ship didn't seem to mind who he was or what his
record might be. Any other ship that was not entirely legal would have
grabbed off, not only the diamonds that he had but his discovery of the
diamond field. But this particular Ship had no concern with diamonds.

What a setup, he thought. A human brain and a spaceship tied together,
so closely tied together that their identities had merged. He shivered
at the thought of it, for it was a gruesome thing.

Although perhaps it had not meant too much to that old man who was
about to die. He had traded an aged and death-marked body for many
years of life. Perhaps life as a part of a space-traveling machine was
better than no life at all.

How many years, he wondered, had it been since that old man had
translated himself into something else than human? A hundred? Five
hundred? Perhaps even more than that.

In those years where had he been and what might he have seen? And,
most pertinent of all, what thoughts had run through and congealed and
formed within his mind? What was life like for him? Not a human sort of
life, of course, not a human viewpoint, but something else entirely.

Sherwood tried to imagine what it might be like, but gave up in dismay.
It would necessarily be a negation of everything he lived for--all
the sensual pleasure, all the dreams of gain and glory, all the neat
behavior patterns he had set up for himself, all his self-made rules of
conduct and of conscience.

A miracle, he thought. As a matter of fact, there'd been two miracles.
The first had been when he had been able to set his ship down without
a crackup when the valve had failed. He had come in close above the
planet's surface to find a place to land--and suddenly the valve went
out and the engine failed and there he'd been, plunging down above the
rough terrain. Then suddenly he had glimpsed a place where a landing
might be just barely possible and had fought the controls madly to hit
that certain spot and finally had hit it--alive.

It had been a miracle that he had made the landing; and the coming of
the Ship to rescue him had been the second miracle.

The bunk dropped down flat against the wall and his sack of diamonds
was dumped onto the floor.

"Hey, what goes on?" yelled Sherwood. Then he wished he had not yelled,
for it was quite clear exactly what had happened. The support that held
the bunk had not been snapped properly into place and had given way,
letting down the bunk.

"Something wrong, Mr. Sherwood?" asked the Ship.

"No, not a thing," said Sherwood. "My bunk fell down. I guess it
startled me."

He bent down to pick up the diamonds. As he did, the chair quietly and
efficiently slid back against the wall, folded itself up and slid into
a slight depression that exactly fitted it.

Squatted to pick up the diamonds, Sherwood watched the chair in
horrified fascination, then swiftly spun around. The bunk no longer
hung against the wall, also had fitted itself into another niche.

Cold fear speared into Sherwood. He rose swiftly to his feet, turning
like a man at bay. He stood in a bare cubicle. With both the bunk and
chair retracted, he stood within four bare walls.

He sprang toward the door and there wasn't any door. There was only
wall.

He staggered back into the center of the cubicle and spun around to
view each wall in turn. There was no door in any of the walls. The
metal went up from floor to ceiling without a single break.

The walls began to move, closing in on him, sliding in, retracting.
