
Pink and rose clouds drifted through a brightening sky as the
_Honeychile Bakery_ truck careened along a narrow road badly in need of
rock and grading. From the road, the truck rattled into a rutted track
through dewy woods and skidded swaying to a stop at the side of a long,
low, grassy hill.

The tall creature dressed in black, red-spotted fur stepped from the
cab. An opening appeared in the hillside. Four machines--dull metal eggs
balancing on single tractor treads--rolled silently through the opening.
Jointed steel arms darted from recesses in the eggs. One machine opened
the truck doors.

The creature walked up a ramp inside the hill and entered a shimmering
metallic compartment.

"Greetings, Eo. I have returned."

Eo, who wore a suit of white fur, hummed, "None too soon, Za. We
miscalculated dawn. What success?"

"An excellent group," Za said. He stretched and reclined on a
transparent slab. "The servants are unloading the vehicle. I captured a
young male, a mature male, an aged male, some sort of official or
guardian male, a mature female, and an aged female."

"Let's view them," Eo said. "You can rest after we're away."

The tall creatures entered a second compartment furnished with a large
table upon which the silent machines deposited inanimate bodies.
"Extraordinary!" said Eo, staring at Miss Betsy Tapp. "These things have
reached a peak of mammalian development!"

"Her correct garments are in this bundle," Za explained. "The servants
are bringing the properties now. I secured a signaling device and a box
used in an extremely primitive system of communication. Also, I brought
the quaint muscle-powered vehicle ridden by the young male. The
photographs should be sufficient for other details."

"Any difficulty?" Eo asked as the machines dumped Patrolman Whedbee on
the table.

"The language was the greatest obstacle," Za said. "The same word has
many different meanings, or many different words have the same meaning.
Rather crude."

"Did you use bait, or force?"

"Bait," Za said. "It's much simpler. This is a completely selfish,
egocentric breed. Most of them have one thing in mind which they want
solely for themselves. Their sending power is weak, but that one selfish
desire is powerful enough to be received. I merely dangled it before
their minds, and they were hooked." He tapped the foot of Calvin C.
Kear. "I killed this one's female companion. She awoke and screamed. The
males and females pair off and live together for years. Strange custom!
Breeding seems to be only one reason for the mutual bondage."

Za pointed to Mrs. Jane Huprich. "The old female may be an exception to
the selfishness. I couldn't decide whether she most wanted to be
relieved of cleaning floors by primitive methods, or wanted her male
offspring to be released from some structure where he had been secured
for reasons I couldn't determine."

The machines deposited the Reverend Enos Shackelford and then lined up
in a precise row. "This thing is dead!" Eo buzzed.

Za shook his head. "That was the only genuine exception. He confused me
till I forgot his proper clothing, but some can be devised from the
other samples. He seems to have been a witch-doctor. His mind was
cluttered with myths and superstitions from an ancient text. I don't
understand him, Eo, and wish I had time to study the phenomena. He was
different from the others. He believed in something and considered
himself lowly and humble. The minds of the others were in constant
confusion. They believed, actually, in nothing. Somehow, he saw me, Eo.
I was forced to kill him."

"No harm done," Eo decided. He faced the machines and said, "Destroy the
vehicle, draw in the camouflage net, prepare for take-off." The
machines rolled from the compartment, and the two creatures followed.

"Seal it," Eo said. "I'll plasticize them when we're in space. Fine
work, Za. I can see the plaque now: 'Mounted by Eo, Collected by Za.
Typical Street Corner on Planet _Earth_, Star _Sol_.' The directors will
surely give the group a prominent place in the Galactic Museum of
Natural History!"

"Yes," Za agreed, glancing back at the Reverend Enos Shackelford. "This
planet was a fortunate stopover."


_The End_




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Imagination Stories of Science and
    Fantasy_ August 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any
    evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.
    Minor spelling and typographical errors have been corrected without
    note.



