
MAJOR STAFFORD GETS THE CHRISTMAS PRESENTS

When Major Stafford galloped away next day, on his return to his
command, the little group at the lawn-gate shouted many messages after
him.  The last thing he heard was Charlie's treble, as he seated
himself on the gate-post, calling to him not to forget to make Santa
Claus bring him a pair of uniform breeches and a sword; and Evelyn's
little voice came to him long after he could distinguish the words but
he knew she was reminding him of her "dolly that can go to sleep."

Many times during the ensuing year, amid the hardships of the campaign,
the privations and the fatigues of the march, and the dangers of
battle, the Major heard those little voices calling to him.

In the autumn he won the three stars of a Colonel for gallantry in
leading a desperate charge on a town in the heart of the enemy's land.
A perilous raid had been made deep into the country.  An overwhelming
force had been met which defeated the object of the raid, and
threatened the destruction of the entire force.  The day was saved by
Major Stafford.  But none knew, when he dashed into the town at the
head of his regiment, under a hail of bullets, that his mind was full
of toyshops and clothing-stores, and that when he was so stoutly
holding his position he was guarding a little boy's suit, a small sword
with a gilded scabbard, and a large doll with flowing ringlets and blue
eyes that could "go to sleep."

Some of his friends during that year charged the Major with growing
miserly, and rallied him upon hoarding up his pay and carrying large
rolls of Confederate money about his person; and when, just before the
raid, he invested his entire year's pay in four or five ten-dollar
gold-pieces, they vowed he was mad.

"I shall report him as a hopeless case," said Dr. Graham, the Surgeon.
"A man might have reason to do this in time of peace; but when a man
hoards money on his person and then exposes himself as the Major does
every time we have a battle, it's proof of insanity."

The Major, however, always met these charges with a smile.

"Doctors are like other men," he said.  "They think whatever they
cannot understand, madness."  And as soon as his position was assured
in the captured town he proved his sanity.

The fight had been a sharp one, and the town had only been seized after
a desperate charge.  The shopkeepers had put up their shutters and were
barricaded within their houses, while bullets were hailing and light
field-pieces were cracking.  At length it grew quiet.

The owner of a handsome store on the principal street, over which was a
large sign, "Men's and Boys' Clothes," peeping out, saw a Confederate
major ride up to the door, which had been hastily fastened when the
fight began, and rap on it with the handle of his sword.  There was
something in the rap that was imperative, and the owner hastily opened
the door.  The officer entered.

"Good evening."  He looked all about him.  "Ah!"  He picked up a little
uniform suit of blue cloth with brass buttons.

"You have no gray ones?" he asked with a smile.

"No, sir.  No use for 'em."

"What is the price of this?"

"Ten dollars," stammered the shopkeeper.  "But you can have it for
nothing if you will keep your men from troubling me."

To his astonishment, the Confederate officer put his hand in his pocket
and laid a ten-dollar gold piece on the counter.

"Now show me where there is a toy-shop."

There was one only a few doors off, and the shopkeeper was most eager
to show it.  But the officer said he could find it.  He went out.

The Major found and selected a boy's sword handsomely ornamented, and
the most beautiful doll, over whose eyes stole the whitest of roseleaf
eyelids, and which could talk as dolls talk, and do other wonderful
things.  He astonished this shopkeeper also by laying down another
gold-piece.  This left him but two or three more of the proceeds of his
year's pay, and these he soon handed over a counter to a jeweller, who
gave him a small package in exchange.  He smiled and chatted so
pleasantly with the men that when he left the shopkeepers all had new
ideas of at least one "Rebel" officer.

All during the remainder of the campaign Colonel Stafford carried a
package carefully sealed and strapped on behind his saddle.  His care
of it and his secrecy about it were the subjects of many jests among
his friends in the brigade, and when in an engagement his horse was
shot, and the Colonel, under a hot fire, stopped and calmly unbuckled
his bundle, and during the rest of the fight carried it in his hand,
there was a clamor afterward that he should disclose the contents.
Even an offer to sing them a song would not appease his friends, though
the Colonel had the best voice in the brigade.  They must know his
secret.

The brigade officers were gathered around a camp-fire that night on the
edge of the bloody field.  A Federal officer, Colonel Denby, who had
been slightly wounded and captured in the fight, and who now sat
somewhat grim and moody before the fire, was their guest.

"Now, Stafford, open the bundle and let us into the secret," they all
said.  "Some of us may get shot before we know it."

The Colonel, without a word, but with softened eyes, rose and, going to
his saddle, which lay on the ground near by, brought the parcel to the
fire.  Kneeling down, he took out his knife and carefully opened the
outer cover of oil-skin.  Many a jest was levelled at him across the
blazing logs as he did so.  But a smile was on his face, and the
Federal colonel thought to himself what a fine, high-bred face it was.

One said the Colonel had turned pedler, and was trying to eke out a
living by running the blockade on Lilliputian principles; another
wagered that he had it full of Confederate bills; a third, that it was
a talisman against bullets, and so on.  Within the outer covering were
several others; but at length the last was reached.  As the Colonel
ripped carefully, the group gathered around and bent breathlessly over
him, the light from the blazing camp-fire shining ruddily on their
eager, weather-tanned faces.  When the Colonel put in his hand and drew
out a toy sword, there was a general exclamation.  But when he took the
doll from her soft wrapping, and then unrolled and held up a tiny
jacket and a pair of little trousers not much larger than a man's hand,
and just the size for a five-year-old boy, there was a dead silence and
the men turned away their faces from the fire, and more than one who
had boys of his own at home put his hand up to his eyes.

[Illustration: The Major's Christmas presents.]

One of them, the bronzed and weather-beaten officer who had charged the
Colonel with being a miser and who wore crepe on his sleeve, stretched
himself out on the ground, flat on his face, and sobbed.  As Colonel
Stafford gently told his story of Charlie and Evelyn, even the grave
face of Colonel Denby looked somewhat changed in the light of the fire,
and he reached over for the doll.

"May I see it?"

"Certainly."  A half dozen hands were stretched out to pass it to him.
He handled it tenderly.

"I, too, have a little one at home," he said in a low voice, as he
handed the doll back to Colonel Stafford.  "The child of my only son.
He was killed at Genies's Mill."

That night Colonel Stafford and Colonel Denby slept under the same
blanket.



