
THE BOYS LEARN SOMETHING OF WAR

During the whole year the children had been looking forward to the
coming of Christmas.  Charlie's outbursts of petulance and not rare
fits of anger were invariably checked if any mention was made of his
father's injunction to take care of his mother and little sister; and
at length he became accustomed to curbing himself by the recollection
of the charge he had received.

If he fell and hurt himself, even badly, in his constant attempts to
climb up impossible places, he would simply snap his eyes and rub
himself, and presently, say, proudly, "I don't cry now; I am a knight,
and next Christmas I am going to be a man, 'cause my papa's goin' to
tell Santa Claus to bring me a pair of breeches and a sword."  Evelyn
could not help crying when she was hurt, for she was only a very little
girl; but she added to her prayer of "God bless and keep my papa, and
bring him safe home," the petition, "Please, God, bless and keep Santa
Tlaus, and let him come here Trismas."

Old Bob and Ran, too, as well as the younger ones, looked forward
eagerly to Christmas.  But this year brought the war much closer to
Holly Hill.  Heretofore it had been to the children, even to Bob,
something dim and distant, like a cloud on the horizon, with grumblings
of thunder and sheet-lightning that threatened but did not strike.  But
now it swept up to Holly Hill like a storm, then like a flood rolled
over it.  The main armies passed along the great road some way off, the
Northern troops pushing on and on, nearer and nearer, until the big
guns could be heard to the northward, making the ground tremble and the
windows shake.  At such times, Mrs. Stafford would stop and listen with
white face and moving lips, and the older boys would stand beside her
and count the reports in low tones, for they knew a great battle was
being fought, and their father might be there.  What would happen in
case their side was beaten and had to fall back, they trembled to
think.  All the horses would be taken and the corn.  That would mean
starvation.  And, perhaps, the house might be burnt.  They had heard of
such things elsewhere.  And they might have to "refugee."  This had its
pleasant side for the boys, for they would have to travel south and,
maybe, camp like gypsies or the "young marooners."  Bob was full of
excitement as to this, and used to thrill Ran, telling how they would
live, and how they would mount guard at night, and evade their
pursuers--or sometimes make a stand against them, on a hill, or at a
stream, throwing up their breastworks and holding them back with his
gun while their mother and "the children" escaped.

Then they would go out to the stable and, seated on a manger, talk it
all over with Uncle Saunders, the carriage-driver, who was guide,
philosopher, and friend to them.  Uncle Saunders would sometimes be
consoling and sometimes almost disappointing.

"They wer'n't goin' refugeein' like a parcel of gypsies."  (Uncle
Saunders' ideas of camping-out were not orthodox.)  "But 'tain't no
danger: no Yankees could git to them.  If they could, they'd 'a' been
long ago," reasoned Uncle Saunders.  And if a few of "them pesky
raiders slipt through and got there, he'd like to see 'em git his
horses--he jist would.  He knew a place he could hide 'em where they'd
never find 'em.  Gab'rull could hardly find 'em when he comes to blow
his horn."

This, at least, was exciting, and Bob was all ears.  He seized the old
driver by the arm.

"Where is it, Uncle Saunders?  You'll tell _me_?  Please.  I won't tell
a soul--not even Ran.  You know I won't if I promise."

But no; Uncle Saunders shut up like a clam--as tight as the high-barn
door.

"Well, if I guess, will you tell me?  Give me three guesses: all right?
Is it the thick pines the other side of the creek where the old mine
used to be?"

Uncle Saunders shook his head.

"Well, is it the big marsh with the high willows, and the old
wagon-track?"

"You know, boy, I ain't goin' to teck my horses--my Black George and
Blifil into dat mash!"

"Well--?  (strung out very long).  Is it--?  Let me see--I've got only
one more guess--haven't I?"

"I ain't give you nothin'," said Uncle Saunders, disappointingly.  "You
jist guessin' around heah."

But Bob insisted that by letting him guess twice he had agreed to the
plan; and, in fact, it did look so.

"Well, go on, den," said Uncle Saunders at last.

Bob, after long thought, began again, guilefully watching Uncle
Saunders' oracular face to read his success or failure by his
expression.  "Well--is it?  No, it isn't that.  Is it--the deep--?  No;
I don't want to ask that, I know it is not that--Is it the great
woods?"  (This with a jump.)

Old Saunders started to shake his head, and then looked around so
guilefully to see that nobody was in ear-shot, that Bob dropped his
voice to its most mysterious tone as he whispered, "Is that it?"

It may be doubted whether Uncle Saunders, for all his apparent
confiding of his secret to Bob, was not playing a game with him, and
merely letting him suppose he had guessed his secret refuge.  But,
however this was, and however clever he was at acting, Uncle Saunders
was not clever enough to foretell the future.  One morning, as Uncle
Saunders was on his way to the stable, a party of men came galloping up
the hill from toward the river, and in ten minutes all Uncle Saunders'
plans were overthrown, and his horses, his cherished friends, were
being led away amid his reproaches and the lamentations of the boys.

"Sam, you'll have to get up earlier in the morning than this to get
ahead of us," laughed one of the men.

"Dat ain't my name," said Uncle Saunders, curtly.

"You think so much of your horses, you'd better come along and attend
to them.  We'll pay you wages and set you free."  Uncle Saunders shook
his head.

"Nor, I'm goin' to stay right heah and teck keer o' my mistis and de
chillern.--My master told me to teck keer ov 'em while he was away, and
I'm goin' to stay heah till he comes back."

"You'll stay here till the war's over, then," said the blue-coat.
"Your master, as you call him, will not be back here till then.  We are
going on to Richmond."

"You won't get there," said Bob with spirit.  "You've been trying to
get there for over three years and haven't done it."

"No, little Johnny, we haven't yet, but we're still on the way," said
the soldier.

By breakfast-time the plantation had been completely overrun; and all
that day the blue-clad troops were passing by.


It began to look after a little as if Bob's prediction were going to
come true.  The Union Armies did not reach Richmond.  Their advance was
stayed a few miles beyond Holly Hill.  But Holly Hill and its family
were well within the Federal lines, and there was no chance of being
reached by any message or thing from the other side of the line.  The
roads, knee-deep in mud, were filled with troops in blue uniforms
marching up and down, or with wagons passing backward and forward,
piled high with boxes or forage.  The children grew so used to them
that they would go down to the roadside and watch them as they passed.
The only Confederates the children ever saw now were the dejected
prisoners who were being passed back on their way to prison.  The only
news they ever received was the rumors which reached them from Federal
sources.  Mrs. Stafford's heart was heavy within her, and when a day or
two before Christmas she heard Charlie and Evelyn, as they sat before
the fire, gravely talking of the long-expected presents which their
father had promised that Santa Claus should bring them, she could stand
it no longer.  She took Bob and Ran into her room, and there told them
that, now as it was impossible for their father to come, they must help
her entertain "the children" and console them for their disappointment.
The two boys responded heartily, as true boys always will when thrown
on their manliness.

"I knew he could not get here," said Ran.

"I knew no one else could; but papa," said Bob, "but I hoped he might.
He can do so many things no one else can do."

Mrs. Stafford shook her head.

For the next two days Mrs. Stafford and both the boys were busy.  Mrs.
Stafford, when Charlie was not present, gave her time to cutting out
and making a little gray uniform-suit from an old coat her husband had
worn when he first entered the army; while the boys employed
themselves, Bob in making a pretty little sword and scabbard out of an
old piece of gutter, and Ran, who had a wonderful turn for carving, in
carving a doll from a piece of hard-seasoned wood.

The day before Christmas the boys lost a little time in following and
pitying a small lot of prisoners who passed along the road by the gate.
They were always pitying the prisoners and planning means to rescue
them, for they had an idea that they suffered a terrible fate.  Only
one certain case had come to their knowledge.  A young man had one day
been carried by the Holly Hill gate on his way to the head-quarters of
the officer in command of that portion of the lines, General Denby.  He
was in citizen's clothes, which were muddy and torn, and he was charged
with being a spy.  The guards with him looked grim.  His face was
white, and yet he was a fierce-looking young fellow, speaking
scornfully to his guards.  Bob and Ran returned to the house, full of
excitement, and spent some time that night planning how they might
rescue him.  Their plan included no less than the capture of General
Denby himself.  Bob mapped it all out--how he would cross the creek,
dodging the picket at the bridge, slip past the sentries, and walking
into the farm-house where the General had his headquarters, would seize
him and force him to write a release of the prisoner.

The next morning, Ran, who had risen early to visit his hare-traps,
rushed into his mother's room, white-faced and wide-eyed.  "Oh!
mamma!" he gasped, "they have hung him, just because he had on those
clothes.  Uncle Saunders heard all about it."

Mrs. Stafford, though she was much moved herself, endeavored to explain
to the boy that this was one of the laws of war, but Ran's mind was not
able to comprehend the principles which imposed so cruel a sentence for
what he deemed so harmless a fault.

"It's that old General Denby!" he exclaimed, hotly.  "Even his own
soldiers say he works them to death.  I wish somebody would capture
him."

This act and some other measures of severity gave General Denby a
reputation for much harshness among the few old residents who yet
remained at their homes within the lines, and the boys used to gaze at
him furtively as he would ride by, grim and stern, followed by his
staff.  Yet there were those who said that General Denby's rigor was
simply the result of a high standard of duty, and that at bottom he had
a soft heart.

The children, however, could never bear to think of him, and when he
would pass along with his staff, as he sometimes did, while they were
watching beside the road, and would look at them with something very
like a smile in his eyes, they would turn their heads away for fear he
would speak to them.



