
THE SPY

The approach of Christmas was marked even in the Federal camps, and
many a song and ringing laugh were heard around the camp-fires glowing
along the hills and in the tents and little cabins used as
winter-quarters, over the boxes which were pouring in from home.

The troops in the camps near General Denby's head-quarters on Christmas
Eve had been larking and frolicking all day like so many boys,
preparing for the festivities of the evening, when they proposed to
have a great entertainment; and the General, as he sat in the smoky
front room in the old farm-house used as his head-quarters, writing
official papers, had more than once during the afternoon half-frowned
at the noise and shouting outside.  It disturbed him.  A holiday
occasion was not the easiest time for a general in command, especially
when the enemy lay in force scarcely five miles away.  The men were apt
to think that at such a time discipline should be relaxed, and they be
allowed to take it easy.  And such an occasion was just the moment when
his opponent, a general as watchful as he was able, was likely to make
an attack.  News had reached him through his scouts that such an attack
was probable.  Moreover, the General had been working all day answering
despatches from men in Washington, telling him to do things that were
either impossible or had been done long ago.  And, to crown it all, the
chimney smoked badly.

At length, however, late in the afternoon, he finished his work, and
having dismissed his Adjutant, he locked the door, and pushing aside
all his business papers, took from his pocket a little letter and began
to read.

As he read, the stern lines of the grim soldier's face relaxed, and
more than once a smile stole into his eyes and stirred the corners of
his grizzled mustache.

The letter was scrawled in a large, childish hand, and many of the
words were interlined.  It ran:


"MY DEAREST GRANDPAPA: I want to see you very much.  I send you a
Christmas gift.  I made it all myself.  I hope to get a whole lot of
dolls and other presents.  I love you.  I send you all these kisses
************.  You must kiss them every one.  Don't I write well?

"Your loving little granddaughter,
  "LILY."


When he had finished reading, the old veteran gravely lifted the letter
to his lips and pressed a kiss on each of the little spaces, so
carefully drawn by the childish hand.

This done, he took out his handkerchief and blew his nose violently as
he walked up and down the room.  He even muttered something about "the
fire smoking."  Then he sat down once more at his table, and, placing
the little letter before him, began to write.  As he wrote, the fire
smoked more than ever, and the sounds of revelry outside reached him in
a perfect uproar; but he no longer frowned, and when the strains of
"Dixie" came in faintly at the window, sung in a clear, rich, mellow
solo, though for a moment he looked surprised, he sat back in his chair
and listened.

  "I wish I were in Dixie, away, away;
  In Dixie's land I'll take my stand,
  To live and die for Dixie land,
  Away, away, away down South in Dixie!"

sang the voice, full and sonorous.

When the song ended, there was an outburst of applause, and shouts
apparently demanding some other song, which was refused, for the noise
grew to a tumult.  The General rose and walked to the window.  A large
crowd had gathered about a campfire not far from his window, and in the
midst, lifted up on a box, and clearly outlined against the firelight
stood the singer, a tall, straight man with a long beard and civilian's
clothes.  Suddenly the uproar hushed, for the voice began again.  But
this time it was a hymn:

  "While shepherds watched their flocks by night,
    All seated on the ground,
  The Angel of the Lord came down,
    And glory shone around."

Verse after verse was sung, the men pouring out of their tents and huts
to listen to the music.

  "All glory be to God on high,
    And to the earth be peace;
  Good will henceforth from Heaven to men
    Begin and never cease!"

"Begin and never cease," sang the singer to the end.

When the strain died away, there was dead silence for a little space,
and then the talk began on a lower key.

The General stood for a moment, then turned from the window, finished
his letter and sealed it.  Carefully folding up the little sheet which
lay before him, he replaced it in his pocket, and, going to the door,
summoned the orderly who was just without.

"Mail that at once," he said.

"Yes, sir."  The soldier saluted and turned to leave.

"By the way, who was that singing out there just now?--I mean that last
one, who sang 'Dixie' and the hymn?"

"Only a pedler, sir, I believe."

The General's eyes fixed themselves on the soldier.

"Where did he come from?"

"I don't know, sir.  Some of the boys had him singing."

"Tell Major Dayle to come here immediately," said the General.

In a moment the officer summoned entered, a stout, round-faced man, who
looked as if he took the world easy.  He appeared somewhat embarrassed.

"Who was this pedler?" asked the commander.

"I--I don't know----" began the other.

"You don't know!  Where did he come from?"

"From Colonel Watchley's camp--directly," said he, relieved to shift a
part of the responsibility.

"How was he dressed?"

"In citizen's clothes."

"What did he have?"

"A pack--a few toys, and trinkets, and books."

"What was his name?"

"I did not hear it."

"And you let him go!"  The General's eyes snapped.

"Yes, sir; I don't think----" he began.

"No, I know you don't," said the General.  "Have I not given strict
orders?  He was a spy.  Where has he gone?"

"I--I don't know.  He cannot have gone far."

"Report yourself under arrest," said the commander, sternly.

The officer, after waiting a moment, walked off scowling.  Walking to
the door, the General said to the sentinel:

"Call the corporal, and tell him to request Captain Albert to come here
immediately."

In a moment an alert, vigorous-looking young officer came up, and the
General gave him an order.

"He must be found and not allowed to escape," he said in closing.

"Yes, sir: I'll find him," he said, as he hurried off.

Ten minutes later a small body of horsemen rode rapidly out of camp in
the direction the pedler had taken.  The picket at the bridge across
the little stream below the camp had seen nothing of the pedler, and
the men separated and began to visit the camps stretched along the
slopes above the stream.

An hour or two later Captain Albert reported that he had traced the spy
to a place just over the creek, where he was believed to be harbored.
He wanted more men to surround the house.

"Take a detail and arrest him, or burn the house," ordered the General,
angrily.  "It is a perfect nest of treason--even the slaves are
rebels!" he said to himself, as he walked up and down, as though in
justification of his savage order.  He put his hand in his pocket.  It
struck a little square envelope.

"Or wait," he called to the captain, who was just withdrawing.  "I will
go there myself, and take it for my head-quarters.  It is a better
place than this.  I cannot stand this smoke any longer.  That will
break up their treasonable work."



