
SANTA CLAUS PASSES THE LINES

All that day the tongues of the two little ones at Holly Hill had been
chattering unceasingly of the expected visit of Santa Claus that night.
Mrs. Stafford had tried to explain to Charlie and Evelyn that it would
be impossible for Santa Claus to bring them their presents this year;
but she was met with the undeniable and unanswerable statement that
their father had promised them.  Before going to bed they had hung
their stockings on the mantelpiece right in front of the chimney, so
that Santa Claus would be sure to see them.

The mother had broken down over Evelyn's prayer, "not to forget my
papa, and not to forget my dolly," and "to take care of my papa and of
Santa Claus and not to let the Yankees hurt 'em," and her tears fell
silently after the little ones were asleep, as she put the finishing
touches to the tiny gray uniform for Charlie.  She was thinking not
only of the children's disappointment, but of the absence of him on
whose promise they had so securely relied.  He had been away now for a
year, and she had had no word of him for many weeks.  Where was he?
Was he dead or alive?  Mrs. Stafford sank on her knees by the bedside.

"O God, give me faith like this little child!" she prayed again and
again.  She was startled by hearing a step on the front portico and a
knock at the door.

Bob, who was working in front of the hall-fire, went to the door.  His
mother heard him answer doubtfully some question.  She opened the door
of her chamber and went out into the hall.  A stranger with a large
bundle or pack on his back stood on the threshold.  His clothes were
shabby and old, his hat, which was still on his head, was pulled down
over his eyes, and he wore a beard.

"An', leddy, wud ye bay so koind as to shelter a poor sthranger for a
noight at this blissed time of pace and good-will?" he said, in a
strong Irish brogue.

"Certainly," said Mrs. Stafford, with her eyes fixed on him.  She moved
slowly up to him.  Then, by an instinct, quickly lifting her hand, she
pushed his hat back from his eyes.  Her husband clasped her in his arms.

"My darling!"

Bob, with a cry, seized him.  "I knew you'd come, father," he said.

"They all said you would," declared Mrs. Stafford.

"Well, I _had_ to come.  I had given my word," said Colonel Stafford,
smiling.

The Colonel was borne into the hall.

A little later the pack was opened, and such a treasure-house of toys
and things was displayed as surely never greeted any other eyes.  The
smaller children, including Ran, were not awakened, at their father's
request, though Mrs. Stafford wished to wake them to see him.  But Bob
was let into the secrets, except that he was not permitted to see a
small package which bore his name.  Mrs. Stafford and the Colonel were
like two children themselves as they "tipped" about, stuffing the long
stockings with candy and toys.  The beautiful doll with flaxen hair,
all arrayed in silk and lace, was seated, last of all, securely on top
of Evelyn's stocking, with her wardrobe just below her, where she would
greet her young mistress when she should first open her eyes, and
Charlie's little blue uniform was pinned beside the gray one his mother
had made, with his sword buckled around the waist.

Bob was at last dismissed to his room, and the Colonel and Mrs.
Stafford settled themselves before the fire, hand in hand, to talk over
the past.

They had hardly started, when Bob rushed down the stairs and dashed
into their room.

"Papa! papa! the yard is full of Yankees!"

Both the Colonel and Mrs. Stafford sprang to their feet.

"Through the back door!" cried Mrs. Stafford, seizing her husband.

"He cannot get out that way--they are everywhere--all around the house;
I saw them from my window," gasped Bob, just as the sound of trampling
without came to their ears.

"Oh! what will you do!  Those clothes!  If they catch you in those
clothes!" began Mrs. Stafford, and then stopped, her face growing ashy
pale.  Bob also turned even whiter than he had been before.  He
remembered the fate of the young man who was found in citizen's clothes
in the autumn.  He burst out crying.  "Oh, papa! will they hang you?"
he sobbed.

"I hope not, my son," said the Colonel.  "Certainly not if I can
prevent it."  A gleam of humor stole into his eyes.  "It's an awkward
fix, certainly," he added, gravely.

A number of footsteps sounded on the porch, and a thundering knock
shook the door.

"You must conceal yourself," cried Mrs. Stafford.  "Come here."  She
pulled him almost by main force into a closet or entry, and locked the
door, just as the knocking was renewed.  As the front door was
apparently about to be broken down, she went out into the hall.  Her
face was deadly white, and her lips were moving in prayer.

"Who's there?" she called, tremblingly, trying to gain time.

"Open the door immediately, or it will be broken down," replied a stern
voice.

She turned the great iron key in the heavy, old, brass lock, and a
dozen men pushed into the hall.  They all waited for one, a tall,
elderly man in a general's fatigue-uniform, with a stern face and a
grizzled beard.  He addressed her.

"Madam, I have come to take possession of this house as my
head-quarters."

Mrs. Stafford bowed, unable to speak.  She was sensible of a feeling of
relief; there was a gleam of hope.  If they did not know of her
husband's presence--?  But the next word destroyed it.

"We have not interfered with you up to the present time, but you have
been harboring a spy here, and he is here now."

"There is no spy here, and has never been," said Mrs. Stafford, with
dignity.  "But if there were, you should not know it from me.  It is
not the custom of our people to deliver up those who have sought their
protection."  She spoke with much spirit.

The officer removed his hat.  His keen eye was fixed on her white face.
"We shall search the premises," he said, still sternly, but more
respectfully than he had yet spoken.  "Major, have the house thoroughly
searched."

The men went striding off, opening doors and looking through the rooms.
The General took a turn up and down the hall.  He walked up to a door.

"That is my chamber," said Mrs. Stafford, quickly.

The officer fell back.  "It must be searched," he said.

"My little children are asleep in there," said Mrs. Stafford, her face
quite white.

"It must be searched," repeated the General, more gently.  "Either they
must do it, or I.  You can take your choice."

Mrs. Stafford stood aside and made a gesture of assent.  She could not
trust her voice.  He opened the door and stepped across the threshold.
There he stopped.  His eye took in the scene.  Charlie was lying in the
little trundle-bed in the corner, calm and peaceful, and by his side
was Evelyn, her little face looking like a flower, lying in the tangle
of golden hair which fell over her pillow.  The noise disturbed her
slightly, for she smiled suddenly, and muttered something about "Santa
Tlaus" and a "dolly."  The officer's gaze swept the room, and fell on
the overcrowded stockings hanging from the mantel.  He advanced to the
fireplace and examined the doll and trousers closely.  With a curious
expression on his face he leant over and gazed earnestly down at the
two little heads on their pillow.  Then he turned and walked out of the
room, closing the door softly behind him.

"Major," he said to the officer in charge of the searching party, who
descended the stairs just then, "take the men back to camp, except the
sentinels.  There is no spy here."

In a moment Mrs. Stafford came out of her chamber.  The old officer was
walking up and down in deep thought.  Suddenly, as the last soldier
disappeared through the door, he turned to her: "Mrs. Stafford, be so
kind as to go and tell Colonel Stafford that General Denby desires him
to surrender himself."

Mrs. Stafford was struck dumb.  She was unable to move or to speak.

"Kindly present my compliments and say he need not hurry; I shall wait
for him," said the General, quietly, throwing himself into an
arm-chair, and looking steadily into the fire.



