
BOB SECURES A UNIFORM

As his father concealed himself, Bob had left the chamber.  He was in a
perfect agony of mind.  He knew that his father could not escape, and
if he were found dressed in citizen's clothes he felt that he could
have but one fate.  Once the men went toward the passage that led
through to the rear entry in which his father was concealed.  Bob's
heart stood still; but he acted quickly.  He flung himself on the floor
right in the entrance and began to work quietly by the dim firelight.
The searchers passed by.  All sorts of schemes for rescue entered his
head.  Suddenly he thought of a small group of prisoners he had seen
pass by about dark.  He had talked with one of them, a major.  A guard
said they were on their way to General Denby's camp.  He would save
him!  Putting on his hat, he opened the front door and slipped out.  A
sentinel tramping up and down on the porch accosted him surlily to know
where he was going.

"Won't you come in and get warm?" said Bob, hospitably.

"Can't.  Wish I could.  It's cold enough out here.  Cold as th' State
of Maine.  I wish I was in old York right now by a good stove."

"I wish you were, too," said Bob, with sincerity.

"I'd give a mite to see that old white steeple again, and the moonlight
on the snow stretching down toward the mill-pond; and hear the tide
ripping in."

"What do you do with your prisoners when you catch them?" inquired Bob.

"Send some on to prison--and hang some."

"I mean when you first catch them."

"Oh, they stay in camp.  We don't treat 'em bad, without they be spies.
There's a batch at camp now, got in this evening--sort o'
Christmas-gift."  The soldier laughed as he stamped his feet to keep
warm.

"Where's your camp?" Bob asked.

"About a mile from here, right on the road, or rather right on the hill
at the edge o' the pines 'yond the crick."

The boy left him, and sauntered in and out among the other men who were
building a fire in the yard.  Presently he moved on to the edge of the
lawn beyond them.  No one took further notice of him.  In a second he
had slipped through the gate, and was flying across the field.  He knew
every foot of the ground as well as a hare, for he had been hunting and
setting traps over it since he was as big as little Charlie.  He had to
make a detour at the creek to avoid the picket at the bridge, and the
dense briers in the bottom were very bad and painful.  However, he
worked his way through, though his face and hands were severely
scratched.  Into the creek he plunged.  "Outch!"  He had stepped into a
hole up to his waist, and the water was as cold as ice.  However, he
was soon through, and at the top of the hill he could see the glow of
the camp-fires lighting up the sky.

He crept up cautiously, and saw the dark forms of the sentinels pacing
backward and forward wrapped in their overcoats, now lit up by the
fire, then growing black against its blazing embers, then lit up again,
and passing away into the shadow.  How could he ever get by them?  His
heart began to beat and his teeth to chatter, but he walked boldly up.

"Halt! who goes there?" cried the sentry, bringing his gun down and
advancing on him.

Bob kept on, and the sentinel, finding that it was only a boy, looked
rather sheepish.  To the men about the camp-fire his appearance was the
signal for fun.

"Don't let him capture you, Jim," called one of them; "Call the
Corporal of the Guard," another; "Order up the reserves," a third.
"He's a Christmas-gift for you; I'm going to put him in your stocking,"
laughed one.  "It's big enough to hold him," said another.

Bob had to undergo something of an examination.  Where had he come from?

"I know the little Johnny," said one of the men.  "He lives over in the
white house on the hill to that side of the creek."

They told Bob to draw up to the fire, and made quite a fuss over him.
Bob had his wits about him and soon learned that a batch of prisoners
were at a fire a hundred yards farther back.  He therefore made his way
over there, although he was advised to stay where he was and get dry,
and had many offers of a bunk from his new friends, some of whom
followed him over to where the prisoners were.

Most of the prisoners were quartered for the night in a hut before
which a guard was stationed.  One or two, however, sat around the
camp-fire, chatting with their guards.  Among these was a major in full
uniform.  Bob singled him out: he was just about his father's size.

Bob was instantly the centre of attraction.  Again he told them he was
from Holly Hill; again he was recognized by one of the men.

"Run away to join the army?" asked one.

"No," said Bob, his eyes flashing at the suggestion.

"Lost?"

"No."

"Mother whipped you?"

"No."

As soon as their curiosity had somewhat subsided, Bob, who had hardly
been able to contain himself, said to the Confederate major in a low
undertone:

"My father, Colonel Stafford, is at home, concealed, and the Yankees
have taken possession of the house."

"Well?" said the Major, looking down at him as if casually.

"He cannot escape.  He came to-night through the lines, and he has on
citizen's clothes, and--"  Bob's voice choked suddenly as he gazed at
the Major's uniform.

"Well?"  The prisoner for a second looked sharply down at the boy's
earnest face.  Then he put his hand under his chin, and lifting it,
looked into his eyes.  Bob shivered and a sob escaped him.

The Major placed his hand firmly on his knee.  "Why, you are wringing
wet," he said, aloud.  "I wonder you are not frozen to death."  He rose
and stripped off his coat.  "Here, get into this;" and before the boy
knew it the Major had bundled him into his coat, and rolled up the
sleeves so that Bob could use his hands.  The action attracted the
attention of the rest of the group, and several of the soldiers offered
to take the boy and give him dry clothes.

"No, sir," laughed the Major; "this boy is a rebel.  Do you think he
will wear one of your Yankee suits?  He's a little major, and I'm going
to give him a major's uniform."

In a minute he had stripped off his trousers, and was helping Bob into
them, standing himself in his underclothes in the icy air.  The legs
were twice too long for the boy, and the waist came up to his arm-pits.

"Now go home to your mother," said the Major, laughing at his
appearance; "and some of you fellows get me some clothes or a blanket.
I'll wear your Yankee uniform out of sheer necessity."

Bob trotted around, keeping as far away from the light of the
camp-fires as possible.  He soon found himself unobserved, and reaching
the shadow of a line of huts, and keeping well in it, he came to the
edge of the camp.  He watched his opportunity, and when the sentry's
back was turned he slipped out into the darkness.  In an instant he was
flying down the hill.  The heavy clothes impeded him, and he stopped
only long enough to snatch them off and roll them into a bundle, and
sped on his way again.  He struck the main road, and was running down
it as fast as his legs could carry him, when he suddenly found himself
almost on a group of dark objects who were standing in the road just in
front of him.  One of them moved.  It was the picket.  He had forgotten
all about them.  Bob suddenly stopped.  His heart was in his throat.

[Illustration: Bob trotted around, keeping as far away from the light
of the camp-fires as possible.]

"Who goes there?" said a stern voice.  Bob's heart beat as if it would
spring out of his body.

"Come in; we have you," said the man, advancing.

Bob sprang across the ditch beside the road, and putting his hand on
the top rail of the low fence, flung himself over it, bundle and all,
flat on the other side, just as a blaze of light burst from the picket,
and the report of a carbine startled the silent night.  The bullet
grazed the boy's arm, and crashed through the rail.  In a second Bob
was on his feet.  The picket was almost on him.  Seizing his bundle, he
dived into the thicket as a half-dozen shots were sent ringing after
him, the bullets hissing and whistling over his head.  Several men
dashed into the woods after him in hot pursuit, and a couple more
galloped up the road to intercept him; but Bob's feet were winged, and
he slipped through briers and brush like a scared hare.  They scratched
his face and threw him down, but he was up again.  Now and then a shot
crashed behind him, but he did not care for that; he thought only of
being caught.

A few hundred yards up the stream he plunged into the water, and wading
across, was soon safe from his pursuers.  Breathless, he climbed the
hill, made his way through the woods, and emerged into the open fields.
Across these he sped like a deer.  He had almost given out.  What if
they should have caught his father, and he should be too late!  A sob
escaped him at the bare thought, and he broke again into a fast run,
wiping off with his sleeve the tears that would come.  The wind cut him
like a knife, but he did not mind that.

As he neared the house he feared that he might be stopped again and the
clothes taken from him, so he paused for a moment, and slipped them on
once more, rolling up the sleeves and legs as well as he could.  He
crossed the yard undisturbed.  He went around to the same door by which
he had come out, for he thought this his best chance.  The same
sentinel was there, walking up and down, blowing his cold hands.  Had
his father been arrested?  Bob's teeth chattered, but it was with
suppressed excitement.

"Your clothes seem to 'a' grown a mite since you went out?" said the
sentry, quizzically.

"Yes, I was co-co-cold," stammered Bob.

"'Tis pretty cold," said the sentry.

"Ye--es," gasped Bob.

"Your mother's been out here, looking for you, I guess," said the
soldier, with much friendliness.

"I rec--reckon so," panted Bob, moving toward the door.  Did that mean
that his father was caught?  He opened the door, and slipped quietly
into the corridor.

General Denby still sat silent before the hall-fire.  Bob listened at
the chamber-door.  His mother was weeping; his father stood calm and
resolute before the fire.  He had determined to give himself up.

"If you only did not have on those clothes!" sobbed Mrs. Stafford.  "If
I only had not cut up the old uniform for the children!"

"Mother! mother!  I have one!" gasped Bob, bursting into the room and
tearing off the unknown major's uniform.



