
SANTA CLAUS SURRENDERS

Ten minutes later Colonel Stafford, with a steady step and a proud
carriage, and with his hand resting on Bob's shoulder, walked out into
the hall.  He was dressed in the uniform of a Confederate major, which
fitted admirably his tall, erect figure.

"General Denby, I believe," he said, as the Union officer rose and
faced him.

"We have met before under somewhat different circumstances," he said,
with a bow, "for I now find myself your prisoner."

"I have the honor to request your parole," said the General, with great
politeness, "and to express the hope that I may be able in some way to
return the courtesy which I formerly received at your hands."  He
extended his hand and Colonel Stafford took it.

"You have my parole," said he.

"I was not aware," said the General, with a bow toward Mrs. Stafford,
"until I entered the room where your children were sleeping, that I had
the honor of your husband's acquaintance.  I will now take my leave and
return to my camp, that I may not by my presence interfere with the joy
of this season."

"I desire to introduce to you my son," said Colonel Stafford, proudly
presenting Bob.  "He is a hero."

The General bowed as he shook hands with him.  Perhaps he had some
suspicion how true a hero he was, for he rested his hand kindly on the
boy's head, but said nothing.

Both Colonel and Mrs. Stafford invited the old soldier to spend the
night there, but he declined.  He, however, accepted an invitation to
dine with them next day.

Before leaving, he requested permission to take one more look at the
sleeping children.  Over Evelyn he bent silently.  Suddenly stooping,
he kissed her little pink cheek, and with a scarcely audible
"Good-night," passed quickly out of the room and left the house.


The next morning, by light, there was great rejoicing.  Charlie and
Evelyn were up betimes, and were laughing and chattering over their
presents like two little magpies.

"Those Yankees did not catch Santa Claus at all.  Here's my sword and
here's my breeches," cried Charlie, "two pair; but I'm goin' to put on
my gray ones.  I ain't goin' to wear a blue uniform."

"Here's my dolly!" screamed Evelyn, in an ecstasy over her beautiful
present.  Just then their father sat up and spoke to them.  With a cry
they gathered up their presents and made a dash for him.

"Just see what Santa Claus brought us," they cried, hugging him warmly.

"How did you tum?" asked Evelyn, in a pause.

"Oh, don't you know 't Santa Claus brought him to mamma?" said Charlie,
arrogantly.  "Papa, did he let you drive the reindeer?"

Presently Bob and Ran burst in, their eyes fairly dancing.

"Christmas-gift!  It's a real one--real gold!" cried Bob, holding up a
small gold watch, while Ran was shouting over a silver watch of the
same size.


That evening, after dinner, General Denby was sitting by the fire in
the Holly Hill parlor, with Evelyn nestled in his lap, her dolly
clasped close to her bosom, and, in the absence of Colonel Stafford,
who had walked out, with the older boys, the General told Mrs. Stafford
the story of the opening of the package by the camp-fire.  The tears
welled up in Mrs. Stafford's eyes and ran down her cheeks.

Charlie suddenly entered, in all the majesty of his new breeches, and
sword buckled on hip.  He saw his mother's tears.  His little face
flushed.  In a second his sword was out, and he struck a hostile
attitude.

"You sha'n't make my mamma cry!" he shouted.

"Charlie!  Charlie!" cried Mrs. Stafford, hastening to stop him.

"My papa said I was not to let anyone make you cry," insisted the boy,
stepping before his mother, and still keeping his angry eyes on the
General.

"Oh, Charlie!" Mrs. Stafford took hold of him.  "I am ashamed of
you!--to be so rude!"

"Let him alone, madam," said the General.  "It is not rudeness; it is
spirit--the spirit of our race.  He has the soldier's blood, and some
day he will be a soldier himself, and a brave one.  I shall count on
him for the Union," he said, with a smile.

Mrs. Stafford shook her head.  But the General nodded again, and,
drawing the little boy to his knees, told him of his father's showing
him the sword by the camp-fire when he himself was a prisoner.

A few days later, Colonel Stafford, in accordance with an
understanding, went over to General Denby's camp, and reported to be
sent on to Washington as a prisoner of war.  The General was absent on
the lines at the time, but was expected soon, and the Colonel waited
for him at his head-quarters.  There had been many tears shed when his
wife bade him good-by.

About an hour after the Colonel left home, the General and his staff
were riding back to camp along the road which ran by the Holly Hill
gate.  Just before they reached it, two little figures came out of the
gate and started down the road.  One was a boy of five, who carried a
toy sword, drawn, in one hand, whilst with the other he led his
companion, a little girl of three, who clasped a large yellow-haired
doll to her breast.

The soldiers cantered forward and overtook them.  The little girl
shrank behind her brother where he stood, stoutly, holding her behind
him with one hand while with the other he clutched his small sword,
defiantly.

"Where are you going, my little people?" inquired the General, reining
in and gazing down at them affectionately.

"I'm goin' to get my papa," said the tiny swordsman, firmly, turning a
sturdy and determined little face up to him.  "My mamma's cryin', an'
I'm goin' to take my papa home.  I ain' goin' to let the Yankees have
him."

[Illustration: "I'm goin' to get my papa," said the tiny swordsman.]

The officers all broke into a murmur of mingled admiration and
amusement.

"No, we ain' goin' let the Yankees have our papa," chimed in Evelyn,
pushing her tangled hair out of her eyes, and keeping fast hold of
Charlie's hand for fear of the horses around her.

The General dismounted.

"How are you going to help, my little Semiramis?" he asked, stooping
over her, with smiling eyes.

"I'm goin' to give 'em my dolly if they will give me my papa," she
said, gravely, as if she understood the equality of the exchange.

"Suppose you give a kiss instead?"  There was a second of hesitation,
and then she put up her little face, and the old General dropped on one
knee in the road and lifted her in his arms, doll and all.

"Gentlemen," he said to his staff, "you behold the future defenders of
the Union."

The little ones were coaxed home, Charlie in front of a staff-officer,
and Evelyn in front of General Denby himself.  And that afternoon, as
Colonel Stafford was expecting to leave the camp for Washington with a
lot of prisoners, a despatch was brought in to General Denby, who
smiled as he read it.

"Colonel," he said, addressing him, "I think I shall have to continue
your parole a few days longer.  I have just received information that,
by a special cartel which I have arranged, you are to be exchanged for
Colonel McDowell as soon as he can reach the lines at this point from
Richmond; and meantime, as we have but indifferent accommodations here,
I shall have to request you to consider Holly Hill as your place of
confinement.  Will you be so kind as to convey my respects to Mrs.
Stafford, and to your young hero, Bob, and make good my word to those
two little commissioners of exchange, to whom I feel somewhat
committed?"  He held out his hand.

"I wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year."









