
When I walked into the little office back stage I found Alice there
talking to Horatio.

She was saying, "There should be _something_ you could do for the
Army, Horatio," as I walked into the office.

Horatio was standing by the desk, shoulders slumped. I had to look
twice to make him out against the background of the desk and wall.

Alice shut up when she saw me.

"Horatio and I were just talking," she said.

"Yeah," I said. "Now Horatio and I are going to do a little talking.
Make yourself scarce."

Alice left and I turned to Horatio.

"What kind of a line was she giving you?" I snapped.

"Why, gosh, Mr. Flannigan," Horatio stammered. "She was just trying to
help me. She's just as interested in getting me into the Army as you
are. She's a wonderful girl, Mr. Flannigan."

There was something in his voice that brought me up with a jolt. The
kid had fallen for the girl as sure as I stood there.

"Now, look," I said gently. "You really want to get set with Uncle
Sam, don't you?"

"Why, sure."

"Then listen to me. I'm doing everything I can for you. And I've got a
deal all lined up. I was just over at the Army recruiting station and
I think everything is set. Not right away, but pretty soon."

"Gosh, that's wonderful."

"Now you know who your friend is." I came over beside him and put my
hand on his shoulder. "I got a little piece of advice for you that I
want you to take to heart. Stay away from this kid, Alice. She's no
good for you."

"Now just a minute. You can't--"

"I'm sorry, kid," I said. I let my hand fall from his shoulder. "Maybe
I shouldn't tell you, but--"

"Tell me what?"

"It's only for your own good I'm doing this. That pretty little blonde
is just going to play you for a sucker. She's already married."

Horatio gasped. He must have been pretty sold on the girl.

"I don't believe it," he cried.

"It's God's truth."

"Who is the man?" Horatio cried brokenly.

"Mystiffio."

"Mystiffio!"

I nodded slowly. "It's a tough break, kid, but the sooner you forget
her the better." I had already decided I'd get rid of her. She
wouldn't be hard to replace. Horatio was my gold mine and I didn't
want anyone to do a scorched-earth job on him.

"But she never told me," he muttered.

"Naturally," I said. "She'll probably even deny she's married to him
now, but don't let that fool you."

"No, sir," Horatio said. "She won't make a sucker out of me." His
anger must have subconsciously affected his visibility mechanism for
he was visible and his lean jaw was hard, but there was a hurt look in
his clear blue eyes.

"That's the boy," I said. "Just remember who your friends are and you
won't go wrong."

"I won't, Mr. Flannigan," he promised solemnly.
