
I chased after him, but it was a hopeless effort. When I got to the
sidewalk he was gone. Moodily I slumped back into the theatre and went
backstage. My big opportunity was gone, but I still had Horatio.

I found Alice in the office and she was alone. She smiled sweetly when
she saw me.

"You too, Brutus," I muttered. Then I thought about my meal ticket and
looked worriedly around the room.

"Where's Horatio?" I snapped.

"Horatio," she smiled, "is gone. Too bad you missed him. He would have
liked to say goodbye."

"Goodbye!" I shrieked. "Where's he going?"

"Into the Army," Alice said sweetly. "Isn't it wonderful?"

"You're crazy," I shouted. "The Army won't take him."

"I arranged a little something for him," Alice said. "I'm sure he'll
be very useful in the camouflage department."

_Camouflage!_

I groaned and sank into a chair.

"Yes," Alice said pleasantly, "when he learned that Mystiffio was my
father--not my husband as you so cleverly told him--he was quite angry
for a while. But of course he felt better when he thought it over. And
he was very happy to take my suggestion to apply for a commission in
the camouflage. I think Horatio and I are going to get along nicely."

I groaned again.

Mystiffio stuck his head in the door.

"Goodbye," he said. "Ready, dear?"

"Yes," Alice said, moving to the door. "I'm ready."

"Now wait a minute," I cried. "Where are you two going? You're the
last act I've got."

"I am enlisting!" Mystiffio said proudly.

"As what?"

"Signal corps, in charge of messenger pigeons."

Mystiffio flapped his coat tail and a lone pigeon fluttered into the
air. "I've had a lot of experience with the little devils."

I groaned again and dropped my head in my hands.

What was left?

When I looked up, Mystiffio and Alice had gone.

For a moment I sat there staring about the quiet dusty office. Then I
stood up and I knew what I was going to do.

I put my hat on and walked out of the building. I didn't stop walking
until I reached the Marine recruiting office. A big poster said, "The
Marines Promise You Action!"

I walked in. Nothing could be worse than what I'd just been through. I
felt contented for the first time in sixteen years.
