
Hamston, the rocket expert, summed it up: "With that damn bulb over his
skull a man is helpless to remove a single bead of perspiration. He
could easily develop into a raving maniac."

Robb held his meeting in the control room. "You have eight hours to
finish your work, gentlemen. We're blasting off at 0900."

"I beg your pardon, Captain," said Kingsley, the young man in charge of
radio operation, "but what about Washington? They haven't made contact
yet and I thought--"

"I talked with Washington an hour ago!"

A modest cheer of approval went up from the crew members.

"Well, why didn't you say so before!" said Anderson, the first officer.

Robb explained. "It seems _their_ equipment has been haywire for two
days, they haven't been able to get through."

"How do you like that!" cracked Farnsworth, the astrogator. "We're two
hundred and forty thousand miles off the Earth and our equipment works
fine. They have all the comforts of Earth down at headquarters and they
can't repair radio transmission for two days!"

The men laughed.

"Gentlemen," Robb continued, "every radio and TV network in the country
was hooked up to the chief's office in Washington. I not only talked to
General Lovett, I spoke to the whole damn country."

The men could not contain their excitement. The captain received a
verbal pelting of stored-up questions.

"Did you get word to my family, Captain?" asked Kingsley.

"I hope you told them we're physically sound, Captain," said Farnsworth.
"I have a fiancee that'll never forgive me if anything happens to me--"

"What's the reaction like around the country--"

"Have the Russians had anything to say yet--"

"Ha! I'll bet they're sore as hell--"

"Do you think the army would mind if I hand in my resignation?"
Kingsley's remark brought vigorous applause from the others.

Captain Robb held up his hand for silence. "Hold on! Hold on! First of
all, General Lovett has personally contacted relatives and told them
we're all physically and mentally sound. Secondly, you'd better get set
to receive the biggest damn welcome in history. The general says half
the nation has invaded Florida for the occasion."

"Tell them we're not coming back," snapped Kingsley, "until the Florida
Tourist Bureau gives us a cut."

"Kingsley, the President has declared a national holiday. We'll all be
able to write our own ticket."

"Yes," Anderson put in, "to hell with the Florida Tourist Bureau!"

Captain Robb said, "We'll be so sick of parades we'll wish we'd stayed
in this God forsaken place."

"Not me," boasted Farnsworth. "I'm ready for a parade in my honor any
old time. The sooner the better."

"Oh, and about the Russians," said Captain Robb, smiling. "There's been
nothing but a steady stream of 'no comment' out of the Kremlin since we
landed here."

"Right now," said Hamston, "it's probably high noon for every scientist
behind the iron curtain."

"I wonder how they plan to talk their way out of this one?" asked
Farnsworth.

"Gentlemen, I'd like to go on talking about the welcome we're going to
receive, but I think we'd better take first things first. Before there
can be a welcome we have to get back. And we still have work to do
before we start."

"What about souvenirs, Captain?" asked Farnsworth.

Robb pursed his lips thoughtfully, "Yes, I guess there is a matter of
souvenirs, isn't there."

The others detected a note of disturbance in the way the captain spoke.

Kingsley asked, "Is anything wrong, Captain?"

Robb laughed with a noticeable lack of enthusiasm. "Nothing is wrong,
Kingsley. The fact is we've taken on enough additional weight here to
give us some concern on the return trip." He paused to study the faces
of his men. They were disappointed. "But," he added emphatically, "I
seem to remember promising something about souvenirs--and I guess a man
can't travel five hundred thousand miles without something to show for
it. I'll get together with Hamston and work out something. But remember
that weight problem. First trouble we encounter on the return trip and a
souvenir will be our number one expendable."

The crew was more than happy with Robb's compromise. Robb went into a
huddle with Hamston, the rocket expert. When he emerged he informed the
crew that each man would be permitted one souvenir which must not exceed
two pounds. He allowed them four hours to find whatever they wanted. The
men got back into their pressure suits and left the ship.
