
The Ajax XX thrust itself through space, halfway back to its home
planet.

The excitement of her crew members grew with every passing second. In
his concern over Hamston, Farnsworth had forgotten about his souvenir.
He now opened his bag and displayed it before the others.

"What is it?" asked Kingsley.

"Dust!" was Farnsworth's proud reply.

"What the hell you going to do with dust?"

"Maybe you don't know it but this is going to be the most valuable dust
on the face of the Earth! Do you realize what I can get for an ounce of
this stuff?"

"What's anybody want to buy dust for?"

"Souvenirs, man, souvenirs!"

Farnsworth asked to see what Kingsley and Anderson had picked up. The
two men obliged. For the next hour the three men and Robb discussed the
mementoes and their possible uses on Earth.

Then Anderson said, "I sure wouldn't turn down about a gallon of good
Kentucky whiskey right now!"

Robb laughed. "We did enough sweating on the way. You wouldn't want to
sweat out the trip back on a belly full of booze."

"That may be a better idea than you think it is, Captain."

The four men turned to find Hamston sitting up on his bunk.

"Hamston!" Robb exclaimed, "how do you feel?"

"Terrible."

"What happened to you?" asked Kingsley.

Hamston stared at each man individually. He took a deep breath and his
cheeks puffed up as he let it out slowly. "Well, I guess you'd better
know now."

Robb frowned. "What do you mean?"

"Farnsworth and I separated after we got about four miles from the ship.
I thought I saw something that looked like a cave. I figured I might
find something interesting there to take back with me. So I told
Farnsworth I'd keep radio contact with him and off I went."

"Did you find a cave?" Robb wanted to know.

"No, it was just a big indentation in the wall of the crater. I threw
some light on it and found it to be ten or fifteen feet deep." He paused
as though not sure of what to say next.

"So?"

"So that's where I found my souvenir."

"Well, let's see it!" said Anderson.

Hamston opened his leather bag. The object he removed rendered the crew
weak in the knees. He said, "We can have that drink, Anderson, but I
don't think we'll enjoy it."

He poured them each a shot from a half-filled bottle of Vodka.



