
Peter was about to latch the shutter and leave when his attention was
focused upon a figure that seemed to emerge from the fog--sort of fading
in from nowhere. It made its way across the narrow span like some
ghostly apparition. The mist enveloped his legs and clouded his
features. Peter drew back in terror, for the mere appearance of the man
coming out of the darkness was enough to fill his infant brain with
visions of death and _hexerei_.

As the figure drew closer Peter saw that it was wearing a cloak. All the
more ghostly it appeared with the cloak sailing behind him in the wind
like some devil's banner. Peter just stood transfixed as he watched the
stranger come up the winding road to his house.

Slamming the shutter he hurriedly fastened it and then turned to the
door to bolt that also. Too late. The door was thrown open revealing a
tall man clothed in black. His face was wreathed in a wide grin--a grin
that seemed to make fun of the grayish pallor of his face and the
ominous appearance of his wild garb. Before the man stepped inside,
Peter made a mental image of the scene, for it was to be firmly imbedded
in his mind so that he would never forget the slightest detail for the
rest of his life--the wind blowing about the fierce visage, tossing up
the long strands of hair; the massive, veined hand that clutched the
wrought iron thumb-latch, and the way that the lamp struck his face,
highlighting the thin, ridged nose and high cheekbones.

"Peter Scheinberger, heh?" the man spoke in perfect German. "Peter
Scheinberger, the last of your clan here in America."

It was several seconds before Peter could muster up enough courage to
answer him. Drawing back slowly he braced himself against the table, and
in a thick, guttural German asked, "Who are you?"

The stranger shut the door and drew the bolt. He crossed the room and,
with an air of one who was accustomed to having his own way wherever he
went, scanned the shelves of Peter's larder with a practiced eye.

Peter watched him closely as he drew down a bottle of wine, broke the
neck against a beam above him, and settled down in Peter's easy chair.
He poured a glass full and shoved it across the table towards the
anxious Peter, and then poured another glass for himself.

"Mirestone," the stranger finally answered, "Martin G. Mirestone." Then,
draining his glass, he added, "Student of German history."

All this was beyond Peter's comprehension. No one ever had the audacity
to walk into his house and help himself to whatever he wanted--he was
indeed unheard of in his tiny social world.

"Well, what are you staring at?" Mirestone boomed out. "Take my cloak,
please, then be seated. We'll talk."

Taking the cloak and draping it over a wooden peg in the wall, Peter
moved cautiously around the foreboding character that monopolized his
small house. Carefully seating himself opposite the man, he moved the
table so that it set between them as a protective barrier.

"I'll make myself clear to you," Mirestone explained, "For I want my
stay to be as brief as possible."

He poured himself another glass of wine, then settled back in the chair,
half closing his eyes. "You see, I am a student, you might say, of
German history or folklore. I am in the process of writing a collective
history of the Pennsylvania Dutch folk, their habits, beliefs, and--" he
broke off for an instant as he leaned forward across the table, staring
into the frightened eyes of Peter "--and their superstitions."

Shifting his chair around in order to get benefit from the heat of the
fireplace, Mirestone went on. "Now I want facts, Scheinberger, authentic
facts. I am prepared to pay you well for your trouble, but I insist on
information that is backed up with sound, accurate truth."

Peter became more relaxed but still slightly uneasy. He didn't like the
attitude of this man, Mirestone. He was too sure of himself--altogether
too cocky. But then on the other hand he had said there would be a
financial gain from any business that he could transact with him. Money
was something that Peter knew he needed in order to keep his farm going,
and any income, however small it may be, would be welcomed gratefully.
Yes, he decided that he had better endure the rudeness of this man.

For a few seconds, however, the tall stranger seemed to lose all of his
cockiness, and a somber look crept over his jovial features. "Have you
ever heard of the hex of the white feather?"

Peter thought a moment before he replied. "Yes. I have heard of it."
Then nervously he fingered his glass of wine that he had not as yet
touched. Raising it up to his lips he sipped it slowly as he stared at
Mirestone over the rim of the glass. "Yes. I have heard of it," he
repeated.

"Good, good. You have heard of it. Now, you will tell me about it, of
course. I want to know all about it--how it is practiced, the results,
and so forth."

"Is that why you came here? Only to learn of the white feather hex?"
