
Let me tell you about the Nest. It's low and snug, just room for the
four of us and our things. The floor is covered with thick woolly
rugs. Three of the sides are blankets, and the blankets roofing it
touch Pa's head. He tells me it's inside a much bigger room, but I've
never seen the real walls or ceiling.

Against one of the blanket-walls is a big set of shelves, with tools
and books and other stuff, and on top of it a whole row of clocks. Pa's
very fussy about keeping them wound. He says we must never forget time,
and without a sun or moon, that would be easy to do.

The fourth wall has blankets all over except around the fireplace, in
which there is a fire that must never go out. It keeps us from freezing
and does a lot more besides. One of us must always watch it. Some of
the clocks are alarm and we can use them to remind us. In the early
days there was only Ma to take turns with Pa--I think of that when she
gets difficult--but now there's me to help, and Sis too.

It's Pa who is the chief guardian of the fire, though. I always think
of him that way: a tall man sitting cross-legged, frowning anxiously
at the fire, his lined face golden in its light, and every so often
carefully placing on it a piece of coal from the big heap beside it. Pa
tells me there used to be guardians of the fire sometimes in the very
old days--vestal virgins, he calls them--although there was unfrozen
air all around then and you didn't really need one.

He was sitting just that way now, though he got up quick to take the
pail from me and bawl me out for loitering--he'd spotted my frozen
helmet right off. That roused Ma and she joined in picking on me. She's
always trying to get the load off her feelings, Pa explains. He shut
her up pretty fast. Sis let off a couple of silly squeals too.

Pa handled the pail of air in a twist of cloth. Now that it was inside
the Nest, you could really feel its coldness. It just seemed to suck
the heat out of everything. Even the flames cringed away from it as Pa
put it down close by the fire.

Yet it's that glimmery white stuff in the pail that keeps us alive.
It slowly melts and vanishes and refreshes the Nest and feeds the
fire. The blankets keep it from escaping too fast. Pa'd like to seal
the whole place, but he can't--building's too earthquake-twisted, and
besides he has to leave the chimney open for smoke.

Pa says air is tiny molecules that fly away like a flash if there isn't
something to stop them. We have to watch sharp not to let the air run
low. Pa always keeps a big reserve supply of it in buckets behind
the first blankets, along with extra coal and cans of food and other
things, such as pails of snow to melt for water. We have to go way down
to the bottom floor for that stuff, which is a mean trip, and get it
through a door to outside.

You see, when the Earth got cold, all the water in the air froze first
and made a blanket ten feet thick or so everywhere, and then down on
top of that dropped the crystals of frozen air, making another white
blanket sixty or seventy feet thick maybe.

Of course, all the parts of the air didn't freeze and snow down at the
same time.

First to drop out was the carbon dioxide--when you're shoveling for
water, you have to make sure you don't go too high and get any of that
stuff mixed in, for it would put you to sleep, maybe for good, and make
the fire go out. Next there's the nitrogen, which doesn't count one way
or the other, though it's the biggest part of the blanket. On top of
that and easy to get at, which is lucky for us, there's the oxygen that
keeps us alive. Pa says we live better than kings ever did, breathing
pure oxygen, but we're used to it and don't notice. Finally, at the
very top, there's a slick of liquid helium, which is funny stuff.
All of these gases in neat separate layers. Like a pussy caffay, Pa
laughingly says, whatever that is.
