
In through the blanket stepped the beautiful young lady. She stood
there looking at us the strangest way, and she carried something
bright and unwinking in her hand. And two other faces peered over her
shoulders--men's faces, white and staring.

Well, my heart couldn't have been stopped for more than four or five
beats before I realized she was wearing a suit and helmet like Pa's
homemade ones, only fancier, and that the men were, too--and that the
frozen folk certainly wouldn't be wearing those. Also, I noticed that
the bright thing in her hand was just a kind of flashlight.

The silence kept on while I swallowed hard a couple of times, and after
that there was all sorts of jabbering and commotion.

They were simply people, you see. We hadn't been the only ones to
survive; we'd just thought so, for natural enough reasons. These three
people had survived, and quite a few others with them. And when we
found out _how_ they'd survived, Pa let out the biggest whoop of joy.

They were from Los Alamos and they were getting their heat and power
from atomic energy. Just using the uranium and plutonium intended
for bombs, they had enough to go on for thousands of years. They had
a regular little airtight city, with air-locks and all. They even
generated electric light and grew plants and animals by it. (At this Pa
let out a second whoop, waking Ma from her faint.)

But if we were flabbergasted at them, they were double-flabbergasted at
us.

One of the men kept saying, "But it's impossible, I tell you. You
can't maintain an air supply without hermetic sealing. It's simply
impossible."

That was after he had got his helmet off and was using our air.
Meanwhile, the young lady kept looking around at us as if we were
saints, and telling us we'd done something amazing, and suddenly she
broke down and cried.

They'd been scouting around for survivors, but they never expected to
find any in a place like this. They had rocket ships at Los Alamos and
plenty of chemical fuel. As for liquid oxygen, all you had to do was
go out and shovel the air blanket at the top _level_. So after they'd
got things going smoothly at Los Alamos, which had taken years, they'd
decided to make some trips to likely places where there might be other
survivors. No good trying long-distance radio signals, of course, since
there was no atmosphere to carry them around the curve of the Earth.

Well, they'd found other colonies at Argonne and Brookhaven and way
around the world at Harwell and Tanna Tuva. And now they'd been giving
our city a look, not really expecting to find anything. But they had an
instrument that noticed the faintest heat waves and it had told them
there was something warm down here, so they'd landed to investigate.
Of course we hadn't heard them land, since there was no air to carry
the sound, and they'd had to investigate around quite a while before
finding us. Their instruments had given them a wrong steer and they'd
wasted some time in the building across the street.
