
She dragged deeply on her cigarette, blue smoke curling from her
gold-tinted lips. "This has been coming on for ten years. I tried to
warn you then, but you wouldn't listen. Remember?"

How like a woman, Merrick thought bitterly, to be saying I told you
so.

"What would you have me do, Virginia?" he asked, "Help the bigot
peddle his robot-hate? That can't be the way. Don't you feel anything
at all when the reports of pogroms come in?"

Virginia Merrick shrugged. "Better they than we, Han."

"Has it occurred to you that our whole culture might collapse if
Erikson has his way?"

"Antirobotism is natural to human beings. Compromise is the only
answer. Precautions have to be taken--"

"_Precautions_!" exploded Merrick. "What sort of precautions can be
taken against pure idiocy?"

"The founding board of Psychotechnicians--"

"No help from that source. You know that I've always felt the whole
premise was questionable. On the grounds of common fairness, if
nothing else."

"Really, Han," Virginia snapped, "It was the only thing to do and you
know it. The Creche is the only safeguard the race has."

"Now you sound like the Prophet. In reverse."

"We needn't argue the point."

"No, I suppose not," the Director muttered.

"Then what are you going to do when he gets here?" She ground out her
cigarette anxiously. "The procession is in the ravine now. You had
better decide quickly."

"I don't know, Virginia. I just don't know." Merrick sank down behind
his desk, hands toying with the telescreen controls. "I was never
intended to make this sort of decisions. I feel helpless. Look here--"

The image of the ravine glowed across the screen in brilliant relief.
The densely timbered slopes were spotted with tiny purposeful figures
in the grey robes that all Fanatics affected. Here and there the
morning sun caught a glint of metal as the Fanatics labored to set up
their projectors. Along the floor of the ravine that was the only land
approach to the Creche moved the twisting, writhing snake of the
procession. The enraptured Fanatics were chanting their hate-songs as
they came. In the first rank walked the leonine Erikson, his long hair
whipping in the moisture-laden wind from the sea.

With a muttered curse, Merrick flipped a toggle and the scene dimmed.
The face of a secretary appeared superimposed on it. It was the
expressionless face of an android, a fine example of the Creche's
production line. "Get Graves up here," he ordered, "You may find him
at Hypno-Central or in Semantic Evaluation."

"Very good, sir," intoned the android, fading from the screen.

Merrick looked at his wife. "Maybe Graves and I can think of
something."

"Don't plan anything rash, Han."

Merrick shrugged and turned back to watch the steady approach of the
procession of grey-frocked zealots in the ravine.

Graves appeared as the doorway dilated. He looked fearful and pale.
"You wanted to see me, Han?"

"Come in, Jon. Sit down."

"Have you seen the projectors those crackpots have set up in the
hills?" Graves demanded.

"I have, Jon. That's what I wanted to talk to you about."

"My God, Han! Do you have any idea of what it must feel like to die
from cortical stimulation?" Graves' voice was tense and strained.
"Can't we get out of here by 'copter?"

"No. The 'copters are both in Francisco picking up supplies. I ordered
them out yesterday. Besides, that wouldn't settle anything. There are
almost a thousand androids in the Creche as of this morning. What
about them?"

Graves made a gesture of impatience. "It's the humans I'm thinking
about."

Merrick forced down the bitter taste of disgust that welled into his
throat and forced himself to go on. "We have to take some sort of
action to protect the Creche, Jon. I've held off until the last
moment, thinking the Council would never allow a Fanatic to
investigate the Creche, but the Ten are more afraid of the HSP rubber
stamp vote than they are of letting a thousand androids be
slaughtered. But we can't leave it at that. If we don't prevent it,
Erikson will precipitate a pogrom that will make the Canalopolis
massacre look like a tea-party." For some reason he held back the
information about the effect of the Fanatic weapon on robot tissue.
The vague notion that knowing, Jon Graves might cast his lot with
Erikson, restrained him.

"Of course, Erikson will come in wearing an energy shield," Graves
said.

"He will. And we have none," Virginia Merrick said softly.

"Can we compromise with him?" Graves asked.

There it was again, Merrick thought, the weasel-word 'compromise.'
There was a moral decay setting in everywhere--the founders of the
Creche would never have spoken so. "No," he said flatly, "We cannot.
Erikson has conceived a robot-menace. All the old hate-patterns are
being dusted off and used on the rabble. People are actually asking
one another if they would like their daughters to _marry_ robots. That
sort of thing, as old as _homo sapiens_. And one cannot compromise
with prejudice. It seduces the emotions and dulls the mind. No, there
will be no appeasing of Sweyn Erikson or his grey-shirted
nightriders!"

"You're talking like a starry-eyed fool, Han," Virginia Merrick said
sharply.

"Can't we take him in and give him the works?" Graves asked hopefully.
"Primary Conditioning could handle the job. Give him a fill-in with
false memory?"

Merrick shook his head. "We can't risk narcosynthesis and that's
essential. He'll surely be tested for blood purity when he leaves, and
scopolamine traces would be a dead give-away that we had been trying
to hide something here."

"Then it looks as though compromise is the only way, Han. They've got
us up against the wall. See here, Han, I know you don't agree, but
what else is there? After all, we all believe in human supremacy.
Erikson calls it a robot-menace, we look at it from another angle, but
our common goal is the betterment of the human culture we've
established. People are on an emotional jag now. There has been no war
for five centuries. No emotional release. And there have been
regulations and conventions set up since the Atom War that only a very
few officials have been allowed to understand. Erikson is no savage,
Han, after all. True he's set off a rash of robot-baiting, but he can
be dealt with on an intelligent plane, I'm sure."

"He is a man of ability, you know," Virginia Merrick said.

"Ability," Merrick said bitterly. "Rabble rouser and bigot! Look at
his record. Organizer of the riots in Low Chicago. Leader in the
Antirobot Labor League--the same outfit that slaughtered fifty robots
in the Tycho dock strike. Think, you two! To tell such a man what the
Creche is would be to tie a rope around the neck of every android
alive. Lynch law! The rope and the whip for every one of them. And
then suppose the worm turns? _It can, you know!_ Our methods here are
far from perfect. What then?"

"I still say we must compromise," Graves said. "They will kill us if
we don't--"

"He's no troglodyte, Han, I'm certain--" Merrick's wife said
plaintively.

The Director felt resistance flowing out of him. They were right, of
course. There was nothing else he could do.

"All right," Merrick's voice was low and tired. He felt the weight of
his years settling down on him. "I'll do as you suggest. I'll try to
lead him off the trail first--" that was his compromise with himself,
he knew, and he hated himself for it-- "and if I fail I'll tell him
the whole truth."

He flipped the telescreen toggle in time to see Sweyn Erikson detach
himself from his followers and disappear through the dilated outer
gate in the side of the Creche. A faint, almost futile stirring of
defiance shook him. He found himself in the anomalous position of
wanting to defend something that he had long felt was wrong in concept
from the beginning--and not being able to take an effective course of
action.

He reached into his desk drawer and took out an ancient automatic. It
was a family heirloom, heavy, black and deadly. He pulled back the
slide and watched one of the still-bright brass cartridges snap up
into the breech. He handled the weapon awkwardly, but as he slipped it
into his jumper pocket some of the weariness slipped from him and a
cold anger took its place. He looked calmly from his wife to Graves.

"I'll tell him the whole truth," he said, "And if he fails to react as
you two think he will, I shall kill him."
