
There were robots everywhere--blank-eyed, like sleep walkers. They
reacted to commands. They moved and breathed and fed themselves. Under
rigid control they performed miracles of intuitive calculation. But
artificiality was stamped upon them like a brand. They were _not_
human.

In the lowest vaults of the Creche, Merrick showed the Prophet the
infants. He withheld nothing. He showed him the growing creatures. He
explained to him the tests and signs that were looked for in the
hospitals maintained by the World State and the Council of Ten. He let
him watch the young ones taking their Primary Conditioning. Courses of
hypnotic instruction. Rest, narcosynthesis. Semantics. Drugs and words
and more words pounding on young brains like sledgehammer blows,
shaping them into something acceptable in a sapient world.

In other chambers, other age groups. Emotion and memory being moulded
into something else by hypnopedia. Faces becoming blank and
expressionless.

"Their minds are conditioned--enslaved," Merrick said bitterly. "Then
they are primed with scientific facts. Those techniques we discussed.
_This_ is where they come from, Prophet. From the minds of your
despised androids. Only will is suppressed, and emotion. They are
shaped for the sociography of a sapient culture. They mature very
slowly. We keep them here for from ten to fifteen years. No human
brain could stand it--but _theirs_ can."

Truth dangled before his eyes, but Erikson's mind savagely rejected
it. The pillars upon which he had built his life were crumbling....

The two men stood in a vast hall filled with an insidious, whispering
voice. On low pallets, fully a score of physically mature androids lay
staring vacuously at a spinning crystal high in the apex of the domed
ceiling.

"--you had no life before you where created here to serve Man the
master you had no life before you were created here to serve Man the
master you had--" the voice whispered into the hypnotized brains.

"Don't look up," Merrick warned. "The crystal can catch a human being
faster than it can _them_. This is hypnotic engineering. The rhythm of
the syllables and their proportion to the length of word and sentence
are computed to correspond to typed encephalographic curves. Nothing
is left to chance. When they have reached this stage of conditioning
they are almost ready for release and purchase by human beings. Only a
severe stimulation of the brain can break down the walls we have built
in their minds."

Erikson made a gesture as though darkness were streaking his vision.
He was shaken badly. "But where do they--where do they come from?"

"The State maternity hospitals, of course," Merrick said, "Where else?
The parents are then sterilized by the Health and Welfare Authority as
an added safeguard. Births occur at a ratio of about one for every six
million normals." He smiled mirthlessly at the Prophet of Human
Supremacy. "Well? Little man, what now?"

Honest realization still refused to come. It needed to be put into
words, and Sweyn Erikson had no such words. "I see only that you are
taking children of men and disfiguring--"

"For the last time," gritted Merrick, "These are _not_ human beings.
Genus homo, yes. _Homo chaos_, if you choose. But not homo sapiens. I
think of them," he said with sudden calm, "As _Homo Supremus_. The
next step on the evolutionary ladder...."

At last the words had been spoken and the flood gates were down in the
tortured brain of the Prophet. Like a sudden conflagration,
realization came--and with it, blind terror.

"No! Nonono! You cannot continue this devil's work! Think what it
would mean if these things should ever be loosed on the world of Man!"
the Prophet's voice was a steadily rising shrill of fear.

Han Merrick looked out across the rows of pallets, each with its
burden of a superman, bound like Prometheus to the rock, helpless in
hypnotic chains. It struck him again that his life had not been well
spent. He looked from his charges to the ranting fear-crazed
rabble-rouser. The contrast was too shocking, too complete. For the
"androids" were, in fact, worthy of a dignity even in slavery that
homo sapiens had never attained in overlordship. Merrick knew at last
what he must do.

Racial loyalty stirred, but was quickly smothered in the humiliation
of man's omnipresent thievery. For it _was_ thievery, Merrick thought.
Man was keeping for himself the heritage that was the rightful
property of a newer, better race.

He took the automatic from his jumper and leveled it at Erikson's
chest. He felt very sure and right. Though he knew that he was sealing
the death warrant of his wife and his friends, the memory of their
vacillations anesthetized him against any feeling of loss. He waited
until Erikson screamed one word into the transmitter imbedded in his
flesh--

The word was: "_Attack!_"

--and in the next instant, Han Merrick shot him dead.
