
Remembering stories of the Director, Johann found it hard to recognize
this as reality. The man had come up from the lowest ranks, an iron
hand leading him up the ladder of Centralia's autocratic bureaucracy.
But now the hand was sheathed, and even Stefanie began to smile.

Then it was over, and the Director was rising. Johann kissed his wife
quickly, embarrassed slightly at the Director's approving smile, and
they were out in the elevator, heading toward the big, waiting cars.

"Now I trust you, Johann Volcek," the Director told him. "Now I can go
with you to this test. With such a wife waiting you, there can be no
trickery against the State. No--don't say it! It is not you I could
distrust--it is everyone I must distrust. But not now. What does the
doctor say?"

"Another year." For a time they had been afraid that Stefanie could
never have children again, but the new treatments had apparently been
effective. Centralia's progress in all phases of gynecology had been
spectacular.

The Director nodded. "Good. The State needs such children as you will
have. And a man has need of little ones. But tell me--you still feel
sure of this test?"

Then the talk became technical. Johann was sure. There had been smaller
tests, during the two years the project had been going on, and all of
them had been effective.

Then cold fingers ran over him, tingling at the ends of his nerves, as
he realized the trick semantics was playing on him.

Test? It had been the name they had given it, and in time it had come
to be no more than that in his mind--a test of his theories. But this
was _not_ just a test. This was the feat itself, the step that
would bring an end to half the world, the culmination of the hopes of
Centralia, and the final, positive proof of the ideas of Volcek.

He had been almost unaware of the power that had grown from his idea,
but now it hit him. It wasn't easy to do that to half a world, even in
these days. But it had to be done.

Thirty years before, there had been a sprawling group of small nations
and several large powers. But with the beginning of the atomic age,
that had shaken itself down until now there were actually only the two
hemispheres. Centralia had most of the world's population, but the
West had achieved equality by its head-start in the sciences and in
industry. For thirty years, little nation had accreted to big nation,
until now there were the two of them. Nominally, the little nations
still existed; but it was a polite fiction, like the fiction of bland
softness the Director had adopted before Stefanie.

And this was not a world where two powers could exist. They had somehow
achieved it, while the accretion of control over the neighboring states
went on. There had been fracas piled onto struggle, but never outright
war. Now, though, things had reached a stage where each side knew that
sooner or later the hydrogen-bombs must fall, and where those bombs
were of a size and efficiency that might even end the world. There were
even rumors of solar-phoenix bombs which could turn the world into a
flaming, lesser sun.

Volcek sighed. This was better than that. Better that half the world
should slow down and come to a gradual halt than that the rain of hell
should descend from the heavens, perhaps igniting the world itself.
