
They were at the laboratories, now, and Volcek got out of the car
behind the Director, vaguely conscious that taking second place was a
mark of honor. Inside the building, one of the rooms had been cleared,
leaving a few seats, a stand, and a single board of levers against the
wall. Already, the seats were taken, and men were rising to salute the
Director.

Ki Fong, Tsamatsu, Bhandaputra, Simonolov, Schwartzkopf, Jordssen--all
of the big names of government and science--were there. Some were
scowling intently as they tried to digest the printed formulae on the
big blackboard which gave part of the theory behind Volcek's work;
others were smiling, assured only that this was the day when Centralia
would come into its own. And some, as always, were estimating Volcek,
wondering how his importance would conflict with their own.

The Director smiled thinly, dropping an arm over Volcek's shoulder.
"After this day, Johann, you'll need bodyguards. I have seen to that.
And Petrecci ... well, we shall see...."

Johann caught himself before he could wince. He'd liked Petrecci, had
no desire to replace him. But if the implication of the Director's
words was what he thought ... still, it would be good for Stefanie. She
had had too much trouble, and it was time life smiled on her a little.
It would be good for their children, too, to grow up with comfort, even
a little luxury, tutored perhaps with the children of the Director,
himself. As Secretary of Science, Johann Volcek could give his family
a great deal. He caught Petrecci's eyes on him, and turned his head
quickly back to the other men.

At the Director's nod, he began outlining the facts to them. Some
already knew of what was being done here, but all were listening as if
the Director himself were speaking.

He could only give the barest facts. He'd been experimenting with a
means of controlling fission for some power application, working on
the problem of getting hydrogen to fission at temperatures below the
millions of degrees where it normally began, and in tiny amounts.
And by sheer accident, he had stumbled on a process where nitrogen
fissioned, instead--two atoms of nitrogen combining into one, straining
the nucleus that now held fourteen protons and fourteen neutrons,
distorting it until some of the binding force of the nucleus released
energy, and it broke up into simpler atoms again--as if both fission
and fusion were going on.

It had not been successful, from a commercial angle, but it had
produced an unexpected result. The mice which had been kept to test out
danger of radiation had not been killed--but they had been sterile, as
events proved, from then on. The release of radiation was not quite
normal gamma rays; it was subtler than that--some queerly polarized
radiation that struck at the fertility of animals and ended it.

"But you were not sterilized," Ki Fong interrupted him.

"I was lucky--I had been using a shield that was heavy enough to
turn aside the radiation--the four-foot walls of the oven where the
experiment was conducted. It only leaked out through the panel we later
found had a crack in it--but that was toward the mice."

Three years had been spent in testing it on mice, before the reports
had found Petrecci, and brought him to the little laboratory of
Johann Volcek. By then, Volcek had developed a complete control of
the process, and had learned to fuse and fission oxygen as well as
nitrogen, but without the production of sterilizing radiation this time.

After that, there had been no more mice. Volcek shuddered, trying to
conceal it, as he remembered the prisoners who had stood before the
portal of the oven, and gone away, sterile. And there had been tests in
the big, deserted wastes near the Gobi, where balls of fire had leaped
from his tiny little devices, and cracked themselves into flaming
energy that grew and spread before vanishing. More sterility had
followed.

"It requires very little apparatus," Volcek said, finally. He pulled
a small tube from a drawer near the wall, and held it out to them.
"This is the source. A small battery, these coils, tubes, this little
crucible--nothing more. Once we knew why it started the fusion, it was
easy to simplify."

And it was simple. A man could carry one of the devices with him in a
small bag, and it was meaningless in appearance. It could be built into
a radio, as if it were part of the tuning device. It could slip past
customs, harmless in its looks, and be spread wherever wanted.

And now....
