
The Director took over, then, telling them what had already been done.
In every city and hamlet, from coast to coast and from polar cap to
polar cap, the West was covered with these tiny little devices, each
equipped with a little crystal delicately attuned to one here, so that
they would all function at once.

There would be no war. Centralia had labored to avoid war in spite
of the hatred and lusts of the West. Now, they would be even more
agreeable, even more meek. They would take the insults; they would
not fight. Because, once the nitrogen of the air had done its job,
there would be only a generation of patience, while no more children
were born to the West. And some day, there would be only one
Power--Centralia.

Schwartzkopf asked the question that was bothering the others, though
he already knew the answer. "But these balls of fissioning or fusioning
nitrogen--when they go off over the West, they are too much like atomic
bombs. Won't the West feel it is attacked and retaliate with their
genuine bombs?"

"We, too, shall be attacked!" It was Volcek's other process, of course.
Simultaneously, there would be released similar "bombs" over all of the
territory of Centralia. The heat and power would do a minor amount of
damage, of course--but this process produced no sterilizing radiation.
"Only New Zealand will be free."

New Zealand had somehow held out of the two coalitions, by its hardest
efforts and with the help of its location. It was weakly allied to the
West, but too remote.

The Director smiled again, the tight smile that was reserved for
private meetings. "We shall, of course, accuse the West--but within the
hour, when word of their trouble comes, we shall ask for a truce to
find the culprit. Simple, is it not?"

The clock on the wall indicated five minutes before zero hour, and
Volcek wiped his hands surreptitiously against his coat. It was simple
enough, this use to which they had put his discoveries. And, he told
himself again, it was better than any rain of real atomics. The West
would not be hurt seriously--it would simply die out slowly, as no more
children were born. It was really the most merciful solution to the
politics of this world.

He could picture some of the panic, of course, when the little tubes
did their work. First a tiny spark would form in the tube, with a
spitting and hissing. Then it would grow, breaking out of the tube and
through walls or anything in its way, growing and rising, spreading
erratically horizontally, moving with a strange random motion, as it
climbed upwards and grew larger and larger. It would reach the size of
a normal atomic bomb, in a few minutes. And some would be killed by
its heat, as some buildings would catch fire from it.

But mostly, there would be the terror as the people in the cities
saw it spread its visible radiation and heard the familiar crackling
thunder of its detonation. The terror would kill some of them, in
their panic-flight, even while the thing itself drifted upwards until
it found a layer of air too thin for it to go on, and it came to an
automatic end.

But they would mostly escape, except for bad cases of "sunburn" and
the results of their own panic. Dry material flamed quickly before
its peculiar radiation, but men were not made of dry material, and it
was almost harmless. They would simply have no children. And that was
better than most of them could expect in a day when each morning marked
the beginning of a new fear of hydrogen-bombs or worse.

One more minute.

Volcek had expected the Director to move to the panel where the big
switch would cut on the surprisingly small oscillator that would
trigger the little crystals in the tube projectors. But the Director
was stepping back, motioning him forward. "You, Johann--it is an honor
I have reserved for you."
