
There was silence in the laboratory room as Volcek moved slowly toward
the board. He straightened, his eyes going down to his coat, where a
bit of lint clung to it. Stefanie would have spotted it at once and
rushed to brush it off. Stefanie who knew nothing of what his great
work was, but who was awed by having a husband who could receive a
visit from the Director. Stefanie who could have other children, after
all, in this world that would have ultimate peace in spite of all the
war threats, because of the work her husband was now about to do.

Suddenly, he wondered how many Stefanies there might be in the West.
How many women would wait for the children they wanted, and never find
them? How many would curse him, when they finally realized the truth,
without ever knowing that he was the man they were cursing?

He cut off the thought, savagely. There would be others in the long
centuries to come, who would know his name and would then bless him, as
their children grew up without the threat of war and extinction. His
children would be proud of him--his and Stefanie's.

He touched the switch that was to set off the harmless, fake "bombs"
over their own world first. The Director was at his side, his face no
longer smiling, but narrowed to that of a wolf.

Then the Director chuckled, and the edge of his lips curled up. "_Let
there be light_," he quoted, and his eyes showed that he knew the
original usage of the term in the Book he was quoting.

_And there was light_, as Johann's finger hit the switch. A tiny,
spitting, hissing thing lifted from the nearby city, going up and
forward in weird, erratic movements, growing larger, and spreading out,
now beginning the muttered, staccato thunder that was not unlike a
plutonium bomb.

The Director reached over and pressed the other switch that would send
the sterilizing bombs up over the West--but he did not depress it
fully. He stopped, and nodded to Volcek, and again Johann's hand went
out, pushing the lever of the switch.

He should have brought Stefanie--if only she could have known nothing
of the results. She would have been proud of him then, as the Director
solemnly shook the hand that had done its work, and the other men began
to cluster around him.

Then they moved toward the windows, hesitantly at first, not quite sure
that this fire in the heavens over the city beyond was really the safe
kind. But the Director lead them, together with Volcek, and they stood
gazing out.

It was a huge ball of blazing fire in the sky now, partially softened
by the filters that had sprung shut over the windows automatically, and
the mutter of its detonation reached them as they stood there.

There was some damage, of course, even here. Some of the older wooden
buildings near where it had first appeared were bursting into flames,
and the distant figures of people had gone into a panic--they had to
believe it was real, just as the West must believe for a time that both
powers had received the same treatment.

Stefanie? But Volcek had taken care of that, with a drug in her coffee.
She would be asleep, unaware of the tumult, and not one of the mob
trying frantically to escape what could never harm them.
