
Now the ball of fire was rising upwards more steadily, its own heat
driving it up as a blast of hot air is carried up over a fire. The
brightness began to fade as they watched, moving up and turning
smaller, shrinking, and finally going away.

Volcek sighed, and the Director echoed it, a satisfied sigh, and a
somewhat regretful one. "It is hard to see even a few of my people
hurting themselves," the Director said slowly. "But it is best. And--it
is done."

He turned to Volcek, and Johann straightened, reminding himself
that whatever the Director said must be remembered. He would have
to tell Stefanie--and someday, he could tell his children, and his
grandchildren. He must remember it.

But the Director's words were never spoken. There was a shout from the
windows, and they swung back, to see another tiny flame leaping up,
this time nearer, growing and spitting.

There was something wrong with it. The other had grown more slowly.
This raged out, savagely, growing more sure of itself as it leaped
toward them, then darted sidewise.

Volcek turned suddenly to the instruments packed in the drawers. The
spectrovisor and the diffractograph came out in his shaking hands,
and he slapped them down onto the wooden sill of the window, already
beginning to smoke faintly.

Then his hands steadied as he adjusted the instruments.

One look was enough. This was the nitrogen-fusion, not the harmless
oxygen reaction.

His eyes met the Director's, and he nodded, but the nod was
unnecessary. The Director had already guessed.

They moved toward him, a harsh mob sound coming from them, but the
Director was before them.

"No! Stop!" The voice that had been trained to command a power greater
than men had ever held before stopped them. "No, if the West has
scientists too, that is no fault of Johann Volcek. Johann, you did not
fail; you will not suffer."

Volcek heard him, and saw them fall back. He thought again of the lint
on his coat, and looked down at it. He picked it off, while the others
drew back, and the Director was assuring him that all would be well
with him.

Stefanie would have no children now. There would be no grandchildren to
hear the Director's senseless words, telling him he would not suffer.

You don't suffer when you've killed a race.