
The attendant looked at Rhiannon without enthusiasm. He gave the big
man a time ticket and turned and went through an arched doorway. He
had just pulled a fresh punching bag from the dwindling supply when a
_wham_ sound ran across the air of the playground outside.

Surrounded by pained chuckles, Rhiannon looked unhappily at the
dangling plastic ruin and allowed himself to be shoved aside by the
bitter attendant. Then, when the damage was repaired, he drew back his
huge right arm again. The attendant grabbed it.

"Hold on, Rhiannon, there's a rocket game over here, fella. Come on
and I'll show it to you!" He pulled the reluctant giant over to a
facsimile control board set against the wall; watched for, and saw,
the huge smile break out. Every day was a new life for Rhiannon, and
the presence of this mock control board--installed to keep him out of
trouble--came always as a wonderful surprise.

"Sit down, Rhiannon. Tubes set?"

A tense nod.

"Gravity O.K.? Green light from Central? _Blast off!_"

Rhiannon zoomed his boat into outer space and began to chase a comet.
It got away from him. After a while he thought it would be nice if he
could blast the whole Rebel navy out of the void--and they appeared,
tier upon tier of them, in gleaming battle shields.

"Sergeant Atoms!" he rumbled. "Make ready to fire."

Atoms rose up on his hind legs, compelled and controlled by the strange
and inexplicable telepathic aftermath of Rhiannon's misfortune. The
former pilot's "cosmic braincut"--and the "braincuts" of the other
few similar radiation cases--had resulted in this sour blessing: had
stepped up their mental broadcasting apparatus, and left them very
little to broadcast. Humans could often pick up random thoughts from
these men, while animals reacted easily to their will.

Thus it was that "Sergeant" Atoms placed his paws on the dummy firing
button; a temporarily selfless extension of Rhiannon's physical and
psychical form.

Together, they wiped out the Rebel fleet in a matter of seconds.

Rhiannon was exploring Polaris when a hand fell lightly upon his
shoulder. He whirled up and around snarling. A Rebel spy on his boat:
he'd kill the son--

Karrin ducked, his face seeming to sag pallid from the front of his
skull. "Whoa, now, Rhiannon, it's Karrin--it's Karrin!"

"Rebel spy!" Rhiannon had Karrin dangling off the floor at the end
of his arm. He drew back his other fist--all the way to Polaris--for
the blow that would end the war. Then reality registered behind those
glazed, distant-seeing pupils.

"Mr. Karrin! I'm sorry sir." He set his employer's sandals back on the
floor and began to shuffle uncomfortably.

Karrin looked about him, his fury artfully concealed beneath a rigid,
we-must-be-patient smirk. The other workers in the ground, some of them
poised in mid-step after having started to the rescue, were looking
embarrassed and quickly turned to resume their games. The sounds of
bowling and fencing and tennis and swimming drove away the silence, and
the odd patois of multi-specied mechanics and technicians swelled up
like jungle chatter.

Karrin put his hand on Rhiannon's sleeve and walked the big man into
the vast quiet of Bed 52. Atoms came after them, wagging almost
everything but his head which arrowed straight and true after the giant
figure.

When he was paid no attention, however, he sulked over to his box and
lay down and was immediately asleep. "Sergeant" Atoms would have been
a poor choice to stand guard duty--he had been known to sleep the
clock around, silent and unmoving. Great boats had been lifted from
the cradles above him and others put into their place, and Atoms had
dreamed on and on. And on.

Rhiannon started to apologize again.

"That's perfectly all right, soldier," Karrin said smoothly.
"Commendable attitude!" He led the way past the cradles toward the
rear of the Bed. "You want to help win the war, don't you?"

"Yes, yes," Rhiannon groaned.

Karrin beamed his approval. "Well, now, you may be able to do just
that, my boy! How would you like to be--"

"I was exploring Polaris, sir." Rhiannon's tones were suddenly vacant.
"The people there got three hea--" and the latter part of the word
remained unspoken, forgotten.

Karrin's smile wavered. They had halted by a freight entrance opening
onto the green-carpeted rear grounds. He drew the big man closer to him
and snapped his words like a whip.

"Now _listen_, Rhiannon! How would you like to hit space again--to get
your silver Sun back--to be reinstated as a commander!"

That tore through Rhiannon's fog and he reacted. He straightened his
seventy nine inches into the position of attention. "I'd like nothing
better, sir," he said.

Karrin made a great show of inspecting their immediate surroundings for
eavesdroppers.

He said: "This is a very important, a top secret mission. We--the
Council--believe that you are the only man who can fly it. We selected
you from among thousands, Rhiannon!"

Rhiannon stood ever more stiffly, his face incandescent.

"Yes _sir_. I didn't know you were a Council Member, sir."

"Very few people do," Karrin replied dryly. "Now, soldier, a special
boat is being tuned up at my private field. Do you know where that is?"

"Outside in back, sir. I've worked on your boats."

Karrin nodded. "Then go there immediately and wait. Talk to no one. I
have to confer with President Naro before--"

"President _Naro_, sir!"

Karrin saluted theatrically and Rhiannon responded with eyes afire.
The big man executed a neat about-face and marched one two through the
door. And looking after the broad back, Karrin speculated where to
place the death shot when the time came.
