
The nebula hung to starboard, seeming almost at arm's length from the
ports; a silver pinwheel; a thirty thousand light year toy. Rhiannon
jockeyed the boat closer and closer to the Rebel craft, his big hands
skipping over the board with consummate, unthinking skill. He shot out
the hand-line and it snaked to the airlock of the other boat.

Janus, holding the briefcase flat against his belly, stepped into the
lower portion of the single spacesuit and ducked under and up into the
top portion that hung from its rack. The muffled clicks as he turned
the sealing handles were the only sound in the cabin. Then his voice
came metallic from the speaker. "We'll contact you, Karrin, if we
need you again--although I think this trip should be the last one."
He inflated the suit and stamped several times, testing the suit's
perfection by the ringing in his ears.

Karrin's reply was purposefully vague, with an eye to Rhiannon. "There
should be use for the Security Chief of Federation Spacelines even
after the war is over, Janus. A--ah--'Rebel' underground will likely
start up--and as you've already seen, a man with a briefcase will
hardly doubt the purity of my kitchens or suspect one of my cabin-boys
of unwanted partisanship. I have some very cooperative men working for
me."

Putting a boot on the hatch-ladder, Janus showed a sardonic grin
through his faceplate. "Every man's purse is a traitor--"

Karrin sliced off the words with a quick gesture and shot a look at
Rhiannon. The tubemonkey was staring through the front port at the
stars, his face a caricature of bliss.

Janus shrugged, saying: "I thought you said he was _nicht_--" and swung
himself clumsily up the ladder. "Besides," he added, "weren't you going
to _convince_ him of the necessity for silence?" He disappeared into
the airlock. There was an airy _phoot_ sound as he let himself into the
void.

Karrin walked over to the front port and watched for Janus to become
visible on the near length of the line. Watched, too, Rhiannon's
reflection in the glass. The big man was gaping at the nebula and
twitching the thick muscles of his neck in ecstasy. Karrin felt an
urge to snicker.

"Good to get back, eh?" he asked.

Rhiannon pointed. "There's your friend, sir."

Janus was bobbing, hand over hand, toward the unmarked Rebel boat. His
faceplate gleamed once as it caught the fire of the nebula.

Then, before Karrin's paling face, the silver cigar that was the other
boat suddenly threw off into space a thin leafing of curved misshapen
plates. It grew whiskers that were ray-guns and the Nova sign of the
Patrol blinked into being on its nose. The transformation took just
three seconds, and on the tick of the fourth there was a honk from
Karrin's telaudio to announce that the revealed law-boat desired
contact.

Hissing between his clamped teeth Karrin leaned over Rhiannon's wide
shoulder and speared a finger at the control board. The Patrolmen had
made the mistake of judging his boat at its space-yacht face value, but
it was far more than that.

The "yacht's" concealed atomicannons blasted the other craft into
radioactive dust. The frantically gesticulating figure of Janus was
swallowed by the glare, and when space darkened again there was only
the fused cable end, chewed off short near Karrin's porthole.

"Ge-ez!" cried Rhiannon. "Why'd you do that?"

[Illustration: _"Why'd you do that?" cried Rhiannon._]

"Didn't you see?" Karrin snapped. "It was a Rebel boat! Janus must have
been a spy!"

"But there was a Patrol Nova on--"

"Rhiannon--you've done a magnificent job!" Karrin clapped a hand on the
giant's arm and tightened it emotionally. He slipped the safety on his
pocketed atom pistol with the other hand. "That wasn't a Nova--that was
the Rebel Tetra!"

Rhiannon looked up at him, his forehead plowed over with thought; then
gradually a wide grin spread his lips. "We done it, didn't we?"

"We sure did."

Karrin's face was flattened at the cheeks. How the Patrol had known
of this meeting he would never know, short of torturing each of his
"cooperative men." Janus was gone. The briefcase was gone. The real
Rebel boat was probably bright drifting dust somewhere between here and
Llarn's moon. Karrin shivered.

Would the Patrol have his office covered? Had they known _whom_ they
were trapping? Or had the tip-off not mentioned names?

"One way to find out."

Rhiannon looked up vaguely. "What, sir?"

"Get us back to Llarn, Rhiannon. I've got to report this to the
President."

The swirling salt of the nebula moved out of the port and vanished
as the big man tailed the boat around and side-stepped it into
hyper-space. Karrin stood with wet hands clasped at his back. My
papers. My money. I'll get them and make a run for Rebel H.Q. Surely
the tip had not implicated him or he would never have gotten off Llarn
in the first place. The Patrol would have seen to that: they knew that
so many things could go wrong out in space.

Such as, he thought with grim satisfaction, what _had_ gone wrong.
