
The Government Spaceport was emptied and darkened by the evening. Steve
Podalski and his brethren had gone to their homes, Tweety had gone
sailing up into the stratosphere to sleep, and the only living creature
was Sergeant Atoms who lay twitching his paws in a dream-chase.

From the floor of Bed 52 Rhiannon watched Karrin labor up the
motionless 'scalator, saw the lights flicker on, saw his employer move
about shoving things into a carrycase.

Rhiannon's affliction may be said to have been "stroboscopic" in
character. That is, his brain functioned with an irregular alternation
of clarity and fuddle. At this moment the lights were on in that great
skull and his brain cells were skittering about, playing with a Thought.

It had been a Patrol boat. He had seen the Nova. It _had_ been a Patrol
boat. He'd _seen_ that Nova.

He shifted uneasily in his wrappings of tubemonkey suit and
reflections. He looked up again at Karrin's office. The man had moved
back from the window; only his head was visible, seeming to roll like
Tweety back and forth on the broad sill as he crossed from safe to
desk, desk to safe. That distant face was sculptured in pure anxiety.
Karrin was obviously, was definitely, not reporting to President Naro.
He wasn't doing anything of the kind.

Rhiannon put these observations one under the other, added them, and
got the right answer. He'd been taken. Just as his fellow workers could
play incredible jokes on him--when Stevie wasn't around--and have them
pan out because of his braincut, so had Spy Karrin pulled a whopper.

Having worked this out, the busy cells slowed down, the lights began to
dim behind the giant's dulling eyes. He stood there in the darkness,
having one grim determination, and not knowing quite why he had it.

Karrin came out of his office and grunted down the 'scalator, unused
to the knee action of climbing and descending. His shadowy figure came
across the floor, gradually giving its details. His face was red, his
eyes were feathered with red; he hugged the carrycase like a mourning
Apache mother.

"Ready?" he asked.

Rhiannon blocked the door; his voice came puzzledly: "I ain't going."

The carrycase thudded to the floor; it didn't bounce, but if it had,
the appearance of Karrin's atom pistol would have shaded the second
thud. Rhiannon planted his legs like standards.

"I ain't going to fly you anyplace," he said, "an' I ain't gonna let
you go either. I--don't know why--I--can't--won't--"

At that moment a door rolled open at the far end of 52, and the tall,
wary shapes of Patrolmen blinked through the rectangle of light into
the dark pool of the Bed. They made directly for the still lighted
office.

Silently, silently! Karrin had to reach to do it. He reached high,
standing on tiptoe, and brought the butt of his gun down on Rhiannon's
head. The giant made a sound like a baffled ape and took a forward
step. His outflinging leg struck the floor without sensation and
buckled. The gun went up and came down twice again.

Rhiannon felt a cloth-ripping pain in his head. Static crackled and
slammed into his brain. It swelled louder and more penetrating; then
muffled down to lengthening drumrolls.

The nebula beckoned him from his straight path back to Polaris. He
circled it carefully, although there wasn't any sign of danger. It
wasn't a very interesting nebula. He wheeled Karrin's boat once again
toward Polaris and his three-headed friends. Sergeant Atoms sat alertly
at his side.

Then suddenly, terrifying, the boat pulled away from under their feet
and left them cold and lonely in airlessness. The sweet stars began
to blink out in clusters; the celestial static dimmed down into the
silence of infinite sleep.

From somewhere in this dying universe came a cold and wet nose. It
sniffed anxiously at his face and red-matted hair.

A whine. Another louder whine; and a scratch of claws on concrete.

Rhiannon opened his eyes.

There were walls and the concrete floor and the hovering, shadowed
cradles. There was the crouching figure of Karrin, seen from below and
distorted, framed briefly in the door. There was a mud-colored shadow
that sniffed and whined and gave its tail little hesitant twitches.

Then Rhiannon's eyes blinded and closed; he found himself back in that
fearful, dimming universe. The distant sparking of the space-boat's
jets--a few stars to shape the emptiness.

Rhiannon's last desperate, melting thought was: Atoms!--Atoms--we gotta
catch up to that boat!--come on--we--gotta get back in that--boat--

The scratching claws went away. The last star was lost and the velvet
blackness, without entity, was complete.
