
Martians approaching the corner were sensing at Doc and me. They
were just cheap tourists slumming down on Skid Row. I hated tourists
and especially I hated Martian tourists because I especially hated
Martians. They were _aliens_. They weren't _men_ like Doc and me.

Then I realized what was about to happen. It was foolish and awful and
true. I was going to have one of mine at the same time Doc was having
his. That was bad. It had happened a few times right after I first
found him, but now it was worse. For some undefinable reason, I felt we
kept getting closer each of the times.

I tried not to think about it and helped Doc through the fly-specked
flophouse doors.

The tubercular clerk looked up from the gaudy comics sections of one of
those little tabloids that have the funnies a week in advance.

"Fifteen cents a bed," he said mechanically.

"We'll use one bed," I told him. "I'll give you twenty cents." I felt
the round hard quarter in my pocket, sweaty hand against sticky lining.

"Fifteen cents a bed," he played it back for me.

Doc was quivering against me, his legs boneless.

"We can always make it over to the mission," I lied.

The clerk turned his upper lip as if he were going to spit. "Awright,
since we ain't full up. In _ad_vance."

I placed the quarter on the desk.

"Give me a nickel."

The clerk's hand fell on the coin and slid it off into the unknown
before I could move, what with holding up Doc.

"You've got your nerve," he said at me with a fine mist of dew. "Had a
quarter all along and yet you Martian me down to twenty cents." He saw
the look on my face. "I'll give you a _room_ for the two bits. That's
better'n a bed for twenty."

I knew I was going to need that nickel. _Desperately._ I reached across
the desk with my free hand and hauled the scrawny human up against the
register hard. I'm not as strong in my hands as Doc, but I managed.

"Give me a nickel," I said.

"What nickel?" His eyes were big, but they kept looking right at me.
"You don't have any nickel. You don't have any quarter, not if I say
so. Want I should call a cop and tell him you were flexing a muscle?"

I let go of him. He didn't scare me, but Doc was beginning to mumble
and that _did_ scare me. I had to get him alone.

"Where's the room?" I asked.
