
The coffee was in a thick white cup before me on the counter. It was
pale, grayish brown and steaming faintly. I picked it up in both hands
to feel its warmth.

Out of the corner of my eye, I could see the woman sitting on the stool
beside me. She had no right to intrude. This moment should be mine, but
there she sat, marring it for me, a contemptible _tourist_.

I gulped down the thick, dark liquid brutally. It was all I could
do. The cramp flowed out of my diaphragm. I took another swallow and
was able to think straight again. A third swallow and I felt--good.
Not abnormally stimulated, but strong, alert, poised on the brink of
exhilaration.

That was what coffee did for me.

I was a caffeine addict.

Earth-norm humans sometimes have the addiction to a slight extent, but
I knew that as a Centurian I had it infinitely worse. Caffeine affected
my metabolism like a pure alkaloid. The immediate effects weren't the
same, but the _need_ ran as deep.

I finished the cup. I didn't order another because I wasn't a pure
sensualist. I just needed release. Sometimes, when I didn't have the
price of a cup, I would look around in alleys and find cola bottles
with a few drops left in them. They have a little caffeine in
them--not enough, never enough, but better than nothing.

"Now what do you want to eat?" the woman asked.

I didn't look at her. She didn't know. She thought I was a human--an
_Earth_ human. I was a _man_, of course, not an _alien_ like a Martian.
Earthmen ran the whole Solar Federation, but I was just as good as an
Earthman. With my suntan and short mane, I could pass, couldn't I? That
proved it, didn't it?

"Hamburger," I said. "Well done." I knew that would probably be all
they had fit to eat at a place like this. It might be horse meat, but
then I didn't have the local prejudices.

I didn't look at the woman. I couldn't. But I kept remembering how
clean she looked and I was aware of how clean she smelled. I was so
dirty, so very dirty that I could never get clean if I bathed every
hour for the rest of my life.

The hamburger was engulfed by five black-crowned, broken fingernails
and raised to two rows of yellow ivory. I surrounded it like an ameba,
almost in a single movement of my jaws.

Several other hamburgers followed the first. I lost count. I drank a
glass of milk. I didn't want to black out on coffee with Doc waiting
for me.

"Could I have a few to take with me, miss?" I pleaded.

She smiled. I caught that out of the edge of my vision, but mostly I
just felt it.

"That's the first time you've called me anything but 'ma'am'," she
said. "I'm not an old-maid schoolteacher, you know."

That probably meant she was a schoolteacher, though. "No, miss," I said.

"It's Miss Casey--Vivian Casey," she corrected. She was a
schoolteacher, all right. No other girl would introduce herself as Miss
Last Name. Then there was something in her voice....

"What's your name?" she said to me.

I choked a little on a bite of stale bun.

I _had_ a name, _of course_.
