
The heavy-set man in the ornate armchair was saying, "The bullet struck
me as I was pulling on my boot...."

I was kneeling on the floor of a Victorian living room. I'm quite
familiar with Earth history and I recognized the period immediately.

Then I realized what I had been trying to get from Doc all these
months--time travel.

A thin, sickly man was sprawled in the other chair in a rumpled
dressing gown. My eyes held to his face, his pinpoint pupils and
whitened nose. He was a condemned snowbird! If there was anything I
hated or held in more contempt than tourists or Martians, it was a
snowbird.

"My clients have occasioned singular methods of entry into these
rooms," the thin man remarked, "but never before have they used
instantaneous materialization."

The heavier man was half choking, half laughing. "I say--I say, I would
like to see you explain this, my dear fellow."

"I have no data," the thin man answered coolly. "In such instance, one
begins to twist theories into fact, or facts into theories. I must ask
this unemployed, former professional man who has gone through a serious
illness and is suffering a more serious addiction to tell me the place
and _time_ from which he comes."

The surprise stung. "How did you know?" I asked.

He gestured with a pale hand. "To maintain a logical approach, I must
reject the supernatural. Your arrival, unless hallucinatory--and
despite my voluntary use of one drug and my involuntary experiences
recently with another, I must accept the evidence of my senses or
retire from my profession--your arrival was then super-normal. I might
say super-scientific, of a science not of my or the good doctor's time,
clearly. Time travel is a familiar folk legend and I have been reading
an article by the entertaining Mr. Wells. Perhaps he will expand it
into one of his novels of scientific romance."

I knew who these two men were, with a tormenting doubt. "But the
other--"

"Your hands, though unclean, have never seen physical labor. Your
cranial construction is of a superior type, or even if you reject my
theories, concentration does set the facial features. I judge you have
suffered an illness because of the inhibition of your beard growth.
Your over-fondness for rum or opium, perhaps, is self-evident. You
are at too resilient an age to be so sunk by even an amour. Why else
then would you let yourself fall into such an underfed and unsanitary
state?"
