
He was so smug and so sure, this snowbird. I hated him. Because I
couldn't trust to my own senses as he did.

"You don't exist," I said slowly, painfully. "You are fictional
creations."

The doctor flushed darkly. "You give my literary agent too much credit
for the addition of professional polish to my works."

The other man was filling a large, curved pipe from something that
looked vaguely like an ice-skate. "Interesting. Perhaps if our visitor
would tell us something of his age with special reference to the theory
and practice of temporal transference, Doctor, we would be better
equipped to judge whether we exist."

There was no theory or practice of time travel. I told them all I had
ever heard theorized from Hindu yoga through Extra-sensory Perception
to Relativity and the positron and negatron.

"Interesting." He breathed out suffocating black clouds of smoke.
"Presume that the people of your time by their 'Extra-sensory
Perception' have altered the past to make it as they suppose it to be.
The great historical figures are made the larger than life-size that we
know them. The great literary creations assume reality."

I thought of Cleopatra and Helen of Troy and wondered if they would be
the goddesses of love that people imagined or the scrawny, big-nosed
redhead and fading old woman of scholarship. Then I noticed the
detective's hand that had been resting idly on a round brass weight of
unknown sort to me. His tapered fingertips had indented the metal.

His bright eyes followed mine and he smiled faintly. "Withdrawal
symptoms."

The admiration and affection for this man that had been slowly building
up behind my hatred unbrinked. I remembered now that he had stopped. He
was not _really_ a snowbird.

After a time, I asked the doctor a question.

"Why, yes. I'm flattered. This is the first manuscript. Considering my
professional handwriting, I recopied it more laboriously."

Accepting the sheaf of papers and not looking back at these two great
and good men, I concentrated on my own time and Doc. Nothing happened.
My heart raced, but I saw something dancing before me like a dust mote
in sunlight and stepped toward it....

... into the effective range of Miss Casey's tiny gun.
