
I didn't know what all that was supposed to mean. I got to the chair,
snatched up the coffee container, tore it open and gulped down the
soothing liquid.

I turned toward her and threw the rest of the coffee into her face.

The coffee splashed out over her platinum hair and powder-blue dress
that looked white when the neon was azure, purple when it was amber.
The coffee stained and soiled and ruined, and I was fiercely glad,
unreasonably happy.

I tore the gun away from her by the short barrel, not letting my filthy
hands touch her scrubbed pink ones.

I pointed the gun generally at her and backed around the _thing_ on the
floor to the cot. Doc had a pulse, but it was irregular. I checked for
a fever and there wasn't one. After that, I didn't know what to do.

I looked up finally and saw a Martian in or about the doorway.

"Call me Andre," the Martian said. "A common name but foreign. It
should serve as a point of reference."

I had always wondered how a thing like a Martian could talk. Sometimes
I wondered if they really could.

"You won't need the gun," Andre said conversationally.

"I'll keep it, thanks. What do _you_ want?"

"I'll begin as Miss Casey did--by telling you things. Hundreds of
people disappeared from North America a few months ago."

"They always do," I told him.

"They ceased to exist--as human beings--shortly after they received a
book from Doc," the Martian said.

Something seemed to strike me in the back of the neck. I staggered, but
managed to hold onto the gun and stand up.

"Use one of those sneaky Martian weapons again," I warned him,
"and I'll kill the girl." Martians were supposed to be against the
destruction of any life-form, I had read someplace. I doubted it, but
it was worth a try.

"Kevin," Andre said, "why don't you take a bath?"

The Martian weapon staggered me again. I tried to say something. I
tried to explain that I was so dirty that I could never get clean no
matter how often I bathed. No words formed.

"But, Kevin," Andre said, "you aren't _that_ dirty."
