
That _smile_, she thought, it makes me all queasy inside.

"Well," she said, trying to brush off the mildewed folding cot in the
corner of the room and raising a cloud of fleas from the damp dust on
the mattress, "all right. It'll be ten dollars a week."

Vandor Thobal made a short, snappy bow, and clicked his heels slightly.
"Of course," he said, reaching inside his cloak, and coming out with a
crisp new bill. "This should take care of it for awhile."

Mrs. Tibbets adjusted her glasses in the dim cellar and looked at the
bill. "Five hundred dollars?" she said, with a little squeak in her
voice. "Why, that's almost a year's rent!"

"Am I to understand there is a limit to my stay?" asked Vandor.

"Why, no," she said, quickly. "It's just that--I mean--Nobody gives a
year's--No, of course not. No limit at all. Stay as long as you like."

A little giddy at her good fortune, she rushed upstairs, and had
automatically almost locked the cellar door when she remembered that
her new tenant was still downstairs. "You don't have anything of value
down there, do you?" she called, leaning over the stairs from the
kitchen door. "I mean, you have no way of locking your room...."

There was no answer.

"Mister Thobal?" she called, a little less heartily.

Still no answer.

Finally, cautiously, she made her way back down to the tiny room at the
back of the cellar. It was empty.

"Mister Tho-bal!" she sing-songed, peering around in the semi-gloom of
the shadowy cellar. She went to the short flight of stone stairs and
looked up at the slanting cellar doors. Hesitantly, she reached up a
hand toward them and gave a tiny shove.

The doors flew outward with a loud slamming noise, and she gasped and
drew back. Vandor was standing there above her, silhouetted against the
night sky, his eyes glowing redly and nostrils flaring as he saw her
there. He was carrying a large, ugly wooden box in his arms.

"Oh!" she said. "Is that your luggage?"

"... Yes. My--er--trunk," he said, starting slowly downstairs, with his
burden, nearly as wide as the stone steps. Mrs. Tibbets stepped aside
to let him pass, and as he did so, entering through the door to his
room, a tiny trickle of dirt sprinkled on the floor from under the edge
of the box's lid.
