
Two weeks later, she was still worried. She felt it was her
responsibility, in a way, to keep him healthy. After all, if he got
sick, might not the local authorities protest her renting out such a
damp, germ-breeding place?

She was too worried to even share in Mrs. Leonetti's misgivings about
the mysterious attacks in the neighborhood. Mrs. Leonetti was afraid
to go out at night, what with the mounting number of men and women
found pale-faced and incoherent in their beds in the mornings, though
now and then they'd be found upon the grass in the park, or slumped in
a doorway on the main street. The police were calling them "attacks"
because the word was ambiguous enough to refer either to a malefactor
of some sort or just a poor state of the victims' health.

It was Mrs. Tibbets' opinion that it was just "something that was going
'round." She thought of it hardly at all, unless Mrs. Leonetti brought
the topic up. Mostly, she was worried about Mister Thobal. Perhaps _he_
was getting whatever was laying these others low. He certainly didn't
_look_ very healthy.

"Vitamin deficiency," said Mrs. Leonetti, in reply to a query of Mrs.
Tibbets. "He's-a no got the right vitamins. I'm-a read in a medical
story in a magazine. It's-a called a vitamin deficiency."

"Don't see how I can help him, then," sighed Mrs. Tibbets. "No way to
get vitamins to the man if he doesn't eat his meals here."

She brooded and worried about the state of her roomer's health until
she could think of nothing else. She rarely saw him. Only the few times
she went down into the cellar to "get something" she "needed" from one
of the cartons did she see him. He never, after that first night, came
into the upstairs part of the house at all.

"He could be sick, dead, or dying," she said to herself. "And I'd never
find out until the five hundred dollars was used up. It's my _duty_ to
check on him."

So every so often, making some excuse or other, she'd go downstairs
and rummage through the dusty cartons there, hoping for a glimpse of
him, still alive. But he never came out of the room by day, and at
nightfall, she wasn't quite up to facing him in the darkened cellar
alone.

When an entire week had passed without her so much as catching a
glimpse of him, she couldn't stand it any longer.

"I'll just peep into his room, quietly, and see if he's all right,"
she said to herself.

But just to be on the safe side, she waited till almost sunset. "That
way," she assured herself, "if I _do_ waken him, it'll be about time
for him to get up for work anyhow."
