
Its mobility factor wasn't supposed to do anything more than move him
around on the hull to wherever he had to go. He'd worked with it a
hundred times in test sessions and once in reality and it'd always been
a lamb. But this time it went all screwy and shoved him off the hull.
In some way one of the conduits wrapped itself around his arms like an
octopus, pinning them so he couldn't reach the controls. And in some
other way the tiny rocket engine zipped over to full power and plunged
him down toward Earth.

If it had headed him out toward space, it would have been all right.
The patrol boat could have overtaken him in a few hours at most and
hauled him aboard. But Regan was heading Earthward and soon he was down
where the traffic's pretty congested. The patrol boat made some valiant
efforts, but after a couple of near misses with transcontinental
rockets, it gave up. Better to lose one person than a couple of hundred.

Radio messages were sent to low-flying craft and ships at sea. These
didn't do any good, except that a trawler was able to spot the position
where Regan, in his spacesuit, smacked the water and went under. The
trawler didn't have a radio transmitter. It waited a while, and when
nothing came up, it put about for land. A day later, the spot where
Regan had gone down was alive with would-be rescue ships, submarines
and diving equipment.

But Regan never came up--not in that ocean, at any rate.

I knew this story pretty well, so Regan didn't elaborate on it. He'd
blacked out, anyway, soon after he hit the atmosphere and didn't come
to till he was close to smacking the surface. That's when it began to
get interesting.

You've seen enough undersea movies to know what the ocean is like, so
we won't go into that. This is what happened when Regan got down to
what should have been the bottom:

There was a big crater there, with the bottom stretching away in all
directions from the cavity--but the hole itself kept going down.
Funnel-shaped, Regan said. He could see it quite clearly because he was
plunging into it head down. The tentacles of the conduit were still
wrapped around his arms and the mobility gadget's rocket was naturally
working almost as well under water as it had in space.

After a while, it got dark, with Regan still zipping along into the
depths of the funnel. He'd long since passed the stage of being merely
worried; now he was scared. By this time, it was entirely black, but
Regan could sense that he was being carried along swiftly.
