
Not because he thought it would do any good, but because he had to do
something, Regan experimented with his feet. He found that after some
back-stretching calisthenics he was able to bring his right boot up
near his waist. Maneuvering it with total disregard for his sacroiliac,
Regan managed to hook the boot under one of the coils the conduit had
made around him. Gradually he was able to loosen it enough to give
his left arm some play and from there it was relatively simple. He
switched off the rocket engine, switched on his headlamp and looked
around.

Regan said it was quite a sight, in a reverse sort of way. Nothing
anywhere. With the rocket turned off, he kind of floated around
aimlessly, going nowhere in particular. He should have been going up,
but that didn't happen. He swirled like a lazy eddy. A school of things
that were caricatures of fish--big, white, revolting things--swished
over and puckered blindly into his faceplate, then went away. Otherwise
there was nothing.

Regan was pretty discouraged. By this time, he'd been in a slow spin
for so long that he had no idea which way was up. He had the equipment
for getting up--there were about two hundred hours of fuel in the
rocket engine strapped to his back--but no way seemed any better than
another.

He remembered that the funnel had steadily narrowed and so he tried
experimental bursts from the engine to see if he could reach one of the
sides. Eventually he got to something that wasn't water. It was a sort
of mud. Regan studied the markings on it for a possible clue. No go.
Regan was a spaceman, not an oceanographer.

So, since it was better than doing nothing, Regan got himself into a
drift parallel with the mud side and switched on his rocket.

He whizzed along at a good rate, staying close to the mud wall, but
not knowing whether he was going down, up or around in circles at the
same depth. After what he judged to be some hours of this, the mud
began to be streaked with a gray substance and, still farther along, it
appeared to become rock. Regan didn't know whether this was good or bad.

More hours went by, apparently. Regan was wearing a watch, but it was
hidden under the heavy sleeve of his spacesuit. He dozed off, he said,
and when he snapped back into consciousness he noticed that there was
another wall, far off, opposite the one he was rocketing along.

It was gray, too, as far as he could make out in the light of his
headlamp, which was weak over distances. What woke him up fully was
something that went skimming past him at a much greater rate than his
own. It was a cask, its wood brown as if from long submersion and its
hoops rusted into redness. The cask was turning lazily end over end,
but it outdistanced him and disappeared ahead as he watched. It had
been traveling out in the middle of the passage.
