
Regan pondered this for a while and then reasoned that there was a
swift current, swifter in the middle even than his rocket propulsion at
the side of the channel. He worked himself out toward the center, then
switched off his rocket, experimentally. By watching the rock side of
the passage, he was able to gauge that he was moving much faster.

The watching, however, had a hypnotic effect on him and Regan felt
himself dozing off. He tried to fight it but reasoned finally that
there wasn't much point. So he turned off his headlamp and let himself
go to sleep.

He felt weird when he woke up. He was hot and sweating. He remembered
instantly where he was. It was no comfort to him. He felt entirely
hopeless, even more so than if he'd been marooned in space. At least
there was traffic out there. Here there was just himself, with a wooden
cask up ahead and nightmarish fish somewhere behind.

He also felt weak. Spacesuits come equipped with water, of course, if
they're the repair variety, and Regan drank sparingly through the tube
at the base of his faceplate. But his suit carried no rations, so he
tried to ignore his hunger.

He drowsed again and switched off his headlamp. This became a
pattern for him--a semi-conscious nightmare of smooth, eerie motion,
punctuated with sips at his water supply and hopeless watching through
the faceplate, blinking away the sweat. Regan talked to himself, he
said, and sometimes sang, to keep himself sane in the silence and
loneliness. It probably helped, although some of his talk was pretty
idiotic.

It was after one of his dozes--whose duration he had no way of
measuring even by his thirst and hunger, which were constant--that he
awoke to something new. Automatically he switched on his headlamp, then
switched it off again, realizing what the newness was.

The passage he was being washed through was no longer dark; there was a
radiance in the water now.

Regan twisted himself around to see what the light came from. Up
ahead, apparently. As it got stronger, his eyes began to ache. It was
a gorgeous ache, Regan said, and he stared ahead almost hypnotized.
He made an effort and focused on the walls of the passageway he was
being thrust along. They were white with streaks of black in them--like
marble, but without marble's glossy hardness. He could see all parts of
the tunnel now; it was roughly circular and had narrowed to a diameter
of about two hundred feet.

Regan could only suppose that he was nearing the surface--that he'd
been sweeping through some U-shaped fissure--and he adjusted himself
kinesthetically to the theory that he was now traveling up instead of
down. This took a lot of doing and occupied his mind.

His spirits soared with his imagined ascent and he could visualize
himself traveling faster and faster until, with a pop, he would be
thrust into the air and fall back to float on the surface. Regan wanted
most desperately to be able to look at the sky again. It would be kind
to see land, too, but a ship or a plane would do temporarily.
