
Something flashed across his field of vision. Regan caught only a
glimpse of it, then reasoned that it must have been a bridge, spanning
the enclosed river. He twisted himself around to a prone position and
tried to think constructively.

Somewhere there had to be an exit to this land. For his sake, there
had to be, although of course this guaranteed nothing. But surely
these people made use of this abundant supply of water. It would be
fresh and good to drink after its long passage through the Earth,
despite its source in the salt ocean. They would use it for irrigation,
probably, and perhaps somewhere it was channeled for transportation--of
a more comfortable kind than his own. And they might use it for power.
Certainly its rushing strength would be tapped.

This thought scared him. He pictured a giant hydroelectric plant into
which he would be swept and in the bowels of which his body would be
mangled by the blades of a turbine.

He had to slow his mad passage. He maneuvered the equipment attached to
his spacesuit and pointed the rocket exhaust ahead of him. He flicked
on the power and felt his speed being cut. The powerful current pressed
from behind him like a live thing, but the rocket thrust was strong,
too. His progress slackened to the pace of a canoe.

Balancing himself behind the makeshift braking apparatus was difficult,
both because the torrent threatened constantly to turn him end for
end, and because his strength was only a memory of itself. But somehow
Regan managed to achieve an equilibrium which allowed him to look
about and reassure himself that the city was still there. Its position
had shifted on the horizon to a point slightly behind him, but there
apparently was no end to the expanse of this underground world. The
road was there, too, still parallel to the roofed-over river.

A surge of hope went through him as he spotted a man walking along the
road.

Regan braked himself still further, until his speed matched that of
the man. The man's costume was a brief one--knee-length trousers, a
vestlike garment over a white skin, and sandals--so apparently the
climate was tropical.

Regan stared hard at the man, mutely begging him to turn. Both Regan's
hands gripped the rocket tube; he didn't dare let go to wave. Then, as
though he had been reached telepathically, the man looked in Regan's
direction. Regan couldn't make out his expression, but apparently it
was one of disbelief. The man stopped, took an indecisive step and then
ran toward the river. He jogged alongside it and now Regan could see
his face clearly.
