
When Regan came to, he found himself being carried on the back of an
open truck. He was lying there like a sack of cabbages, being bounced
around as the truck sped over a bumpy road. His undersea friend was
squatting next to him on the bed of the truck, holding onto the side to
keep from being jolted off.

He smiled when he saw that Regan had regained consciousness and patted
the chest of the spacesuit. He pointed in the direction the truck was
going, but Regan was flat on his back and weak and couldn't turn to
look. The jolting was making him sick.

The road became smoother and soon they entered the city. Regan said it
was the damnedest place he ever saw. Everything looked like a beehive.
He meant that literally, he said. All the buildings were circular, with
doors down at the base and no windows. They were all different sizes
and all colors. Some of the bigger ones towered up pretty high, but
just how high was hard to say. They weren't built in stories, but in
one continuous curving line from bottom to top.

The truck would pass through a square or a park now and again and the
buildings in the distance looked like a mass of soap bubbles, all
pastel colors under that blue-white-pink sky. The truck stopped in
front of a big yellow beehive. Now that he was close and not being
jolted around, Regan could see that the building was constructed of a
kind of oversized bricks, about a foot square. They weren't joined with
mortar, as far as he could tell. Apparently their own weight and shape
held them together as they rose up and formed a dome. And the color was
within the bricks, not painted on.

Two men, taller than his friend, came out of the building carrying a
plank. They loaded Regan onto it and carried him stretcher-fashion into
the building. The friend tagged along behind.

There was a sort of anteroom inside, with a man at a desk. The bearers
stopped while the man took down a gadget that looked like a chessboard
with buttons and pushed down half a dozen of them. Then he held out
the board to Regan's friend, who pushed down some of the buttons in a
different combination. After that the little friend went away, first
patting Regan on the chest and smiling.

Regan was carried into a rotunda in the center of the building. The
floor rose and took them to the top level. The bearers carried him off
to the side and he saw the floor drop down again. They took him to a
windowless room which had light radiating from the walls, and dumped
him off the plank-stretcher onto a high stone table. Regan climbed
down. He supposed they were being as gentle as possible, considering
his great weight in the spacesuit.

Regan's weight also manifested itself to him. He felt the heaviness of
a person who has been buoyed up for a long time in water, but is now on
land.
