
All this happened, except for the clank as he was set down, in complete
silence. He was entirely isolated from outside sound, of course.

He lay there, feeling less sick but still hot and dizzy, trying to
compose his stomach. After a while, he felt calm enough to drink a
little water through the tube inside the faceplate.

A rotund man wearing a kind of white tunic came into his field of
vision. Regan could see him only from the waist up. Like the friend he
had met at the river, this man had abundant black hair. But his face
was fat, with puffy cheeks and sagging jowls. He was much older. His
hands were pudgy. He waggled them in what might have been a gesture of
delight or greeting; it was hard to say which. His expression was one
of pleasure. He stood at Regan's side and smiled at him. His hands felt
over the headpiece of the spacesuit, then went thumping down the rest
of it.

"I'll be out of the damn thing soon," Regan thought. But apparently it
was too much for the fellow. Regan tried to gesture to the fastening
at the back of his neck to show how it was done, but he was unable to
raise his arms. He realized then how exhausted he was.

The rotund man in the tunic patted him on the chest--it seemed to be a
universal gesture--and went away.

Regan felt at peace in the room. He felt that now he was going to be
taken care of and that everything, somehow, was going to be all right.
He went to sleep.

He woke up ravenously hungry. He seemed to be alone in the room. His
encased body felt as heavy as the whole world. He tried to raise up
to bring his mouth to the water tube. He couldn't. He cried out in a
voice that was weak even inside the confines of his suit. No one could
possibly have heard and no one came. He tried to raise his arm. The
muscles strained and quivered. By using all his strength, he was able
to lift it a few inches above the table. Then the arm fell back on the
stone with the barest tap of sound.

The jovial fat one reappeared. He was carrying a metal box with two
dials on it and wires coming from it which ended in kinds of suction
cups. He stuck one of the cups to Regan's faceplate, fastened another
one to his ear and twirled a dial.

"Please get me out of this suit," Regan said.

The man's face lit up with pleasure. He nodded and patted the chest of
the suit. Then he spoke.

The language was a guttural, fast-paced one. Regan had never heard
anything like it.

"Please," he said. "Please get me out."

The man continued to smile. He beckoned and two other men appeared.
They took turns listening to Regan plead to be released. They smiled,
too, though obviously none of them understood a word. Without gestures,
it was impossible for Regan to convey his plight.
