
They stood around him, chattering in their outlandish tongue. Others
joined them. They all had the same look about them. Friendly, smiling
faces and hands that patted him on the chest. It became a confused
nightmare as still others streamed in, as if he were the main
attraction in a fifty-cent tour.

But apparently there was method in their milling around. They measured
him from top to toe, from side to side, in circumference and in depth.
They used steel tapes and calipers and jotted down their findings in
little books or punched them out on button-studded chessboards. They
wheeled in a huge contraption which must have been a camera and clicked
it at him from every angle. They lifted his arms and legs and chattered
with excitement to see how peculiarly he bent at the joints.

It was as if Regan were a new kind of animal that had swum into their
ken and which they were classifying, or which they would classify at
their leisure after they had measured it in all possible ways.

They kept it up for an eternity and a half. Regan's vision got hazy,
his throat burned and his stomach ached in irregular spasms.

He was barely conscious when the two bearers came back in, loaded
him on the plank and took him out into the rotunda. The throng of
scientists followed. The floor-wide elevator sank to the main level and
they all went out into the street.

A big, rectangular, doorless, bus-like vehicle was standing there. The
bearers, with a great deal of effort, propped Regan up in the front
seat. His head lolled back inside the suit. The shift in position
blacked him out temporarily. He came out of a period of nausea to hear
himself saying over and over:

"You open it at the back of the neck. I'd do it myself if I could move
my arms. You open it at the back of the neck."

The bus was in motion. It rumbled through the streets among the pastel
beehives. In Regan's state, they were so many bouncing balloons being
pointed out by madmen in white smocks in a caricature of a vehicle
under an impossible sky.

They eventually reached a kind of park or estate. Shrubs and trees were
neatly set out and a big golden beehive stood at the end of a long
drive. They took him inside, half fainting, sweating, gibbering to
himself.

Through half a dozen anterooms they went, to what could only have been
a throne room. It was sumptuously hung with tapestries. There were
guards standing at post and a thick carpet led to a dais on which were
two huge chairs. A tall, slender, dark-haired man sat in one of them.
The other was empty.

There was a confused kind of ceremony in which everyone got down on one
knee before the man on the throne, and a ridiculous struggle began, to
get Regan into a semblance of the same position.

The king, or whatever he was, gestured, and Regan found himself being
dragged up on the dais and sat on the other throne.

Then the nightmare took a turn for the worse. From an anteroom came a
procession of women bearing gifts. They were the first women Regan had
seen in this underground world, but he was less interested in them than
in what they carried.

Food.

Baskets of fruit.

Platters of meat.

Cups of liquids.

The smiling creatures curtsied before the thrones and set out the
feast in front of Regan. One of them, dressed in a single pale blue
garment belted at the waist, laid a basket of fruit in his lap.

Regan began to quiver in a fever of frustration.

It got worse when, at a sign from the king, everyone helped himself to
some of this or that, raised it to Regan in a kind of toast and began
to eat.

If any of them noticed that Regan didn't join them, they were polite
enough not to take offense.
