
The feast over, everyone went for an after-dinner ride. The king went,
too, riding in a richly draped palanquin on wheels, ahead of the
squared-off bus.

This was the royal tour. Points of interest were visited. Regan's
bleary eyes and uncomprehending brain half observed gardens, factories,
schools, a sporting event, a parade, a farm and dozens of examples of
the culture of the world of people who were kindly starving him to
death.

In his semi-delirium, he once reproached himself for being such an
unappreciative guest and wondered what they must think of this emissary
from outside who was such a cumbersome clod. He had come to them in the
strange trappings he apparently preferred, so how could he blame them
for respecting his costume and leaving it to him to wear it or remove
it as he chose? In his own world, he wouldn't strip a visitor or skin
a stray dog.

A bump in the road and the shudder it gave the bus jolted his eyes
fully open. Ahead was the hydroelectric plant spanning the river. They
were going to show the king where Regan had come from.

The procession pulled over to the bank next to the mesh fence which
screened debris from the water flowing into the plant. On the bank
lay his mobility unit, which apparently had been detached before they
trucked him into the city originally. The king got out of his palanquin
and examined it curiously. Then he got back in and they drove along the
bank to the other side of the hydroelectric plant. The river continued
its swift passage, apparently unslowed by the drain on it.

Regan thought the river looked tremendously inviting. In its depths,
he could be free of the well-meaning crowd of sightseeing guides. The
river represented peace, an end to being shown around, measured,
observed, exhibited and tantalized. In it, he could die calmly, without
any frustrating diplomacy.

A bridge spanned the river below the plant. By the gestures of the
scientists, he gathered that they were going to cross over to see
interesting things which lay across the river. The bridge was a narrow
wooden one. Parallel to it was the stone framework of an unfinished
replacement. They proceeded slowly over the rickety, railless bridge.

The approach to it was banked, so that Regan was tilted in his seat,
toward the outside. The bus leveled off as it reached the wooden
planking and Regan tilted the other way. A loose plank under a wheel
sent him swaying back again. With all his remaining strength, he leaned
with the tilt. It was just enough to send him off balance.

They reached out to pull him back, but it was too late. He was out of
the bus and dropping the short distance to the water.

The current was so swift that he went only a little way under, then
bobbed up and was rushed along, turning over and over. As he revolved,
he caught glimpses of consternation on the bridge. He saw the bus back
off and race along the road on the bank, hands waving out of it. But it
couldn't catch up with him. He was moving too fast.

The even motion of the river was soothing. Regan took a swallow from
his tube and relaxed. There was a dull ache in his stomach, but no more
stabbing spasms. Maybe he was dying. He didn't care.
