
Jan and Diego made their way back down the chain to the groundcar. There
was a score of men there now, and a few women. They let the pair go
through, and waved farewell as Jan swung the groundcar around and headed
back eastward.

It was easier driving with the wind behind him, and Jan hit a hundred
kilometers an hour several times before striking the rougher ground of
Den Hoorn. Now, if he could only find a way over the bluff raised by
that last quake....

The ground of Den Hoorn was still shivering. Jan did not realize this
until he had to brake the groundcar almost to a stop at one point,
because it was not shaking in severe, periodic shocks as it had earlier.
It quivered constantly, like the surface of quicksand.

The ground far ahead of him had a strange color to it. Jan, watching for
the cliff he had to skirt and scale, had picked up speed over some
fairly even terrain, but now he slowed again, puzzled. There was
something wrong ahead. He couldn't quite figure it out.

Diego, beside him, had sat quietly so far, peering eagerly through the
windshield, not saying a word. Now suddenly he cried in a high thin
tenor:

"_Cuidado! Cuidado! Un abismo!_"

Jim saw it at the same time and hit the brakes so hard the groundcar
would have stood on its nose had its wheels been smaller. They skidded
to a stop.

The chasm that had caused him such a long detour before had widened,
evidently in the big quake that had hit earlier. Now it was a canyon,
half a kilometer wide. Five meters from the edge he looked out over
blank space at the far wall, and could not see the bottom.

Cursing choice Dutch profanity, Jan wheeled the groundcar northward and
drove along the edge of the abyss as fast as he could. He wasted half an
hour before realizing that it was getting no narrower.

There was no point in going back southward. It might be a hundred
kilometers long or a thousand, but he never could reach the end of it
and thread the tumbled rocks of Den Hoorn to Oostpoort before the G-boat
blastoff.

There was nothing to do but turn back to Rathole and see if some other
way could not be found.
