
The platform was in a warehouse which, like the rest of the structures
in Rathole, was a half-buried dome. The platform's ring-shaped base was
less than a meter thick, standing on four metal legs. On top of it, in
the center, was a railed circle that would hold two men, but would crowd
them. Two small gasoline engines sat on each side of this railed circle
and between them on a third side was the fuel tank. The passengers
entered it on the fourth side.

The machine was dusty and spotted with rust, Jan, surrounded by Sanchez,
Diego and a dozen men, inspected it thoughtfully. The letters USN*SES
were painted in white on the platform itself, and each engine bore the
label "Hiller."

Jan peered over the edge of the platform at the twin-ducted fans in
their plastic shrouds. They appeared in good shape. Each was powered by
one of the engines, transmitted to it by heavy rubber belts.

Jan sighed. It was an unhappy situation. As far as he could determine,
without making tests, the engines were in perfect condition. Two
perfectly good engines, and no fuel for them.

"You're sure there's no gasoline, anywhere in Rathole?" he asked
Sanchez.

Sanchez smiled ruefully, as he had once before, at Jan's appellation for
the community. The inhabitants' term for it was simply "_La Ciudad
Nuestra_"--"Our Town." But he made no protest. He turned to one of the
other men and talked rapidly for a few moments in Spanish.

"None, _senor_," he said, turning back to Jan. "The Americans, of
course, kept much of it when they were here, but the few things we take
to Oostpoort to trade could not buy precious gasoline. We have
electricity in plenty if you can power the platform with it."

Jan thought that over, trying to find a way.

"No, it wouldn't work," he said. "We could rig batteries on the platform
and electric motors to turn the propellers. But batteries big enough to
power it all the way to Oostpoort would be so heavy the machine couldn't
lift them off the ground. If there were some way to carry a power line
all the way to Oostpoort, or to broadcast the power to it.... But it's a
light-load machine, and must have an engine that gives it the necessary
power from very little weight."

Wild schemes ran through his head. If they were on water, instead of
land, he could rig up a sail. He could still rig up a sail, for a
groundcar, except for the chasm out on Den Hoorn.

The groundcar! Jan straightened and snapped his fingers.

"Doctor!" he explained. "Send a couple of men to drain the rest of the
fuel from my groundcar. And let's get this platform above ground and tie
it down until we can get it started."

Sanchez gave rapid orders in Spanish. Two of the men left at a run,
carrying five-gallon cans with them.

Three others picked up the platform and carried it up a ramp and
outside. As soon as they reached ground level, the wind hit them. They
dropped the platform to the ground, where it shuddered and swayed
momentarily, and two of the men fell successfully on their stomachs. The
wind caught the third and somersaulted him half a dozen times before he
skidded to a stop on his back with outstretched arms and legs. He turned
over cautiously and crawled back to them.

Jan, his head just above ground level, surveyed the terrain. There was
flat ground to the east, clear in a fairly broad alley for at least half
a kilometer before any of the domes protruded up into it.

"This is as good a spot for takeoff as we'll find," he said to Sanchez.

The men put three heavy ropes on the platform's windward rail and
secured it by them to the heavy chain that ran by the dome. The platform
quivered and shuddered in the heavy wind, but its base was too low for
it to overturn.

Shortly the two men returned with the fuel from the groundcar,
struggling along the chain. Jan got above ground in a crouch, clinging
to the rail of the platform, and helped them fill the fuel tank with it.
He primed the carburetors and spun the engines.

Nothing happened.
