
Jan looked at his watch. A little more than two hours before the
G-boat's blastoff time, and it couldn't wait for them. It was nearly
eight hours since he had left Oostpoort, and the afternoon was getting
noticeably darker.

Jan was sorry. He had done his best, but Venus had beaten him.

He looked around for Diego. The boy was not in the dome. He was outside,
crouched in the lee of the dome, playing with some sticks.

Diego must know of his ailment, and why he had to go to Oostpoort. If
Jan was any judge of character, Sanchez would have told him that.
Whether Diego knew it was a life-or-death matter for him to be aboard
the _Vanderdecken_ when it blasted off for Earth, Jan did not know. But
the boy was around eight years old and he was bright, and he must
realize the seriousness involved in a decision to send him all the way
to Earth.

Jan felt ashamed of the exuberant foolishness which had led him to spout
ancient history and claim descent from William of Orange. It had been a
hobby, and artificial topic for conversation that amused him and his
companions, a defense against the monotony of Venus that had begun to
affect his personality perhaps a bit more than he realized. He did not
dislike Spaniards; he had no reason to dislike them. They were all
humans--the Spanish, the Dutch, the Germans, the Americans, even the
Russians--fighting a hostile planet together. He could not understand a
word Diego said when the boy spoke to him, but he liked Diego and wished
desperately he could do something.

Outside, the windmills of Rathole spun merrily.

There was power, the power that lighted and air-conditioned Rathole,
power in the air all around them. If he could only use it! But to turn
the platform on its side and let the wind spin the propellers was
pointless.

He turned to Sanchez.

"Ask the men if there are any spare parts for the platform," he said.
"Some of those legs it stands on, transmission belts, spare propellers."

Sanchez asked.

"Yes," he said. "Many spare parts, but no fuel."

Jan smiled a tight smile.

"Tell them to take the engines out," he said. "Since we have no fuel, we
may as well have no engines."
