
Pieter Heemskerk stood by the ramp to the stubby G-boat and checked his
watch. It was X minus fifteen--fifteen minutes before blastoff time.

Heemskerk wore a spacesuit. Everything was ready, except climbing
aboard, closing the airlock and pressing the firing pin.

What on Venus could have happened to Van Artevelde? The last radio
message they had received, more than an hour ago, had said he and the
patient took off successfully in an aircraft. What sort of aircraft
could he be flying that would require an hour to cover eighty
kilometers, with the wind?

Heemskerk could only draw the conclusion that the aircraft had been
wrecked somewhere in Den Hoorn. As a matter of fact, he knew that
preparations were being made now to send a couple of groundcars out to
search for it.

This, of course, would be too late to help the patient Van Artevelde was
bringing, but Heemskerk had no personal interest in the patient. His
worry was all for his friend. The two of them had enjoyed chess and good
beer together on his last three trips to Venus, and Heemskerk hoped very
sincerely that the big blond man wasn't hurt.

He glanced at his watch again. X minus twelve. In two minutes, it would
be time for him to walk up the ramp into the G-boat. In seven minutes
the backward count before blastoff would start over the area
loudspeakers.

Heemskerk shook his head sadly. And Van Artevelde had promised to come
back triumphant, with a broom at his masthead!

It was a high thin whine borne on the wind, carrying even through the
walls of his spacehelmet, that attracted Heemskerk's attention and
caused him to pause with his foot on the ramp. Around him, the rocket
mechanics were staring up at the sky, trying to pinpoint the noise.

Heemskerk looked westward. At first he could see nothing, then there was
a moving dot above the mountain, against the indigo umbrella of clouds.
It grew, it swooped, it approached and became a strange little flying
disc with two people standing on it and _something_ sticking up from its
deck in front of them.

A broom?

No. The platform hovered and began to settle nearby, and there was Van
Artevelde leaning over its rail and fiddling frantically with whatever
it was that stuck up on it--a weird, angled contraption of pipes and
belts topped by a whirring blade. A boy stood at his shoulder and tried
to help him. As the platform descended to a few meters above ground, the
Dutchman slashed at the contraption, the cut ends of belts whipped out
wildly and the platform slid to the ground with a rush. It hit with a
clatter and its two passengers tumbled prone to the ground.

"Jan!" boomed Heemskerk, forcing his voice through the helmet diaphragm
and rushing over to his friend. "I was afraid you were lost!"

Jan struggled to his feet and leaned down to help the boy up.

"Here's your patient, Pieter," he said. "Hope you have a spacesuit in
his size."

"I can find one. And we'll have to hurry for blastoff. But, first, what
happened? Even that damned thing ought to get here from Rathole faster
than that."

"Had no fuel," replied Jan briefly. "My engines were all right, but I
had no power to run them. So I had to pull the engines and rig up a
power source."

Heemskerk stared at the platform. On its railing was rigged a tripod of
battered metal pipes, atop which a big four-blade propeller spun slowly
in what wind was left after it came over the western mountain. Over the
edges of the platform, running from the two propellers in its base, hung
a series of tattered transmission belts.

"Power source?" repeated Heemskerk. "That?"

"Certainly," replied Jan with dignity. "The power source any good
Dutchman turns to in an emergency: a windmill!"


THE END




Transcriber's Note

This etext was produced from _Amazing Science Fiction Stories_ April
1959. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
typographical errors have been corrected without note.



