
In the great barren kitchen Uncle Noah wiped his steel-rimmed
spectacles and glared angrily about him.

"Ol' Missus grievin' her heart out foh young Massa Dick," he reflected,
"and de Colonel say '_slight no one_!'  Gord-a-massy, whut am dis yere
ol' worl' a-comin' to?  Ebery time ol' Mis' cry for young Massa Dick,
Colonel say Job gobbles--"

The old darky choked miserably at the thought of the destined check to
Job's gobbling career and, replacing his spectacles, carefully carried
in the supper, prolonging its simple service to the uttermost, with the
single idea of adding precious minutes to the doomed turkey's span of
life.

When at length he sought the barn it was quite dark and the velvet
stillness of the night was dotted thickly with snowflakes.  With
trembling fingers he opened the great barn-door, lit a queer old
lantern hanging just within, and hung it high upon a projecting hook.
The dim light revealed an antique carriage-house, in one corner of
which upon a rude, improvised roost of shingles the tyrant Job slept
the sleep of the just and the unjust rolled into one.  As the lights
flickered upon his ruffled feathers the turkey emitted a throaty grunt
of disapproval and moved cumbrously around to avoid the light.

Uncle Noah addressed him with great firmness.  "Now see yere, Massa
Job," he said, "tain't no use yoh puttin' on yoh high and mighty airs
to-night.  I'se come to interview yoh, sah!  Understand?"

Job majestically tucked his head beneath his wing as if to intimate his
indifference to the proposed interview.

Uncle Noah surveyed his ruffled back feathers with increased respect.
"So," he said, "yoh refuse me an interview, Massa Job Fairfax.  Yoh is
sleepy, sah, dat's whut's got into yoh."  He stroked the turkey with a
gentle hand, and, Job, resenting the indignity, withdrew his head from
the sheltering wing and pecked at the brown fingers, turning around
with a stately movement and facing the light once more with a sleepy
blink of his bright, beadlike eyes.

"Now, sah, we can talk," exclaimed the negro in delight.  Drawing up an
old box he seated himself before the roost and beamed benevolently over
his glasses.

"Colonel done say yoh gobble under de winder 'bout suppertime," he
began confidentially.  "When ol' Mis' cry 'bout young Massa Dick de
Colonel he jus' gotta scold 'bout sumthin', and as yoh is de mos'
important person about he jus' naturally selects yoh."

The turkey held his head upon one side, apparently in critical
admiration of the darky's quaint old scarfpin which resembled a grain
of corn mounted on a needle.

Uncle Noah, who had always had a faint mistrust of Job's attitude
toward this ancient Ethiopian heirloom, promptly removed it to a place
of safety.  Then with a sudden resolve that no thought of the coming
tragedy should mar his last visit with his old companion he rose and
sought a dim, cobwebby corner of the barn, whence he returned with a
box.

"Dese yere, Job," he explained, "is de flowers whut young Massa Dick
have sent to his mother ebery holiday since he done went away from
yere.  Mornin', I specs, when de Colonel sees 'em at her plate, he'll
declare yoh gobblin' sumthin' fierce under de winder again; he always
do."

The old negro broke the string of the box and removed a glowing mass of
purple orchids--odd, transient tenants of the crazy old barn.  Job
suddenly reached over and pecked a blossom from its stem, ate the heart
with the dainty air of an epicure, and discarded the remainder with a
noise akin to a gobble of disgust.

Uncle Noah rose in scandalized protest.  "Yoh good-foh-nothin',
miserable, sassy turkey!" he scolded, hastily removing the orchids;
"you sartinly is de mos' scan'lous, no-'count bird I ever knowed.  Eat
one o' ol' Missus's orchards!  Laws-a-massy, Job, yoh goes mos' too
far.  Now, sah, yoh be quiet and listen to dis note I gets from young
Massa Dick," and he carefully deciphered the written lines for the
listening Job.


_Dear Uncle Noah_: I have written Foster and Company as usual to send
Mother's orchids.  They should get there Christmas Eve.  Will you put
them at her plate in the morning?  I find they are the only suggestion
of me that the Colonel will allow in the house.  I tried another letter
this week, but it came back unopened.  Uncle Noah, give Mother "A Merry
Christmas" for me.                 DICK.


[Illustration: Now, sah, yoh be quiet and listen to dis note I gets
from young Massa Dick]


Uncle Noah laid the letter on his knee and drew from a worn leather
wallet several newspaper clippings.  They were glowing reports, gleaned
from a stray newspaper, of the success of a young architect in a
distant northern city, one Richard Fairfax, Jr.  Uncle Noah proudly
read them aloud for the hundredth time, interpolating little
explanatory remarks to the turkey, who gobbled threateningly but failed
to intimidate his tormentor.

"Job, whut yoh think 'bout dis yere quarrel?" Uncle Noah said as the
turkey eyed him sternly.  "I say de Colonel's too hard on de boy.  A
quarrel's a quarrel, yoh say.  H'm, maybe yoh right, but it's dis
Fairfax pride ob de Colonel's dat keep him from readin' de boy's
letters, and nothin' else, sah.  He sorry for dat quarrel, doan you
fo'get it.  But de Colonel he prouder'n Lucifer.  H'm, yoh say yoh
understan' pride cause yoh is proud yohself."  Then as the turkey
relapsed into slumber, "Now, see yere, Massa Job, yoh ain't no mo'
sleepier'n I is."  Uncle Noah poked the turkey with his finger, and Job
arched his neck with a threatening flap of his wings and descended from
his perch.  "Fight me, will yoh?" demanded Uncle Noah in secret
delight, "yoh is de touchiest bird!  Yere, fight wid dese yere crusts
o' bread."

Job spread his tail magnificently and began an erratic consumption of
the bread crusts, pertly taking them one by one from the old negro's
hand and arranging them upon the barn floor for later and more personal
inspection.  Uncle Noah watched him with misty eyes.  Presently his
gaze furtively sought the rusty ax in the corner, and great tear rolled
down his cheek.  Caught in the wave of a sudden panic he dropped upon
his knees and clasped his trembling hands.  The dusky barn, littered
with odds and ends, was dimly visible in the glimmering light of the
old-fashioned lantern whose slanting rays fell upon the doomed bird and
the praying negro.  No thought of sacrilege marred the quaint, halting
prayer.  A terrible earnestness lined the negro's face with a holiness
of purpose and made it beautiful.

"Oh, Lord," he prayed, "save dis yere ol' turkey gobbler.  I knows,
Lord, he's a powahful wuthless bird, but he's all I'se got.  I'se jus'
an' ol' slave, Massa, what's been free since de War, an' Job, sah, he
understan's me.  Lord, I doan wanta live no mo' if I has to kill ol'
Job.  Send me an inspiration, Lord, an' tell me how I can save his
wuthless ol' hide.  Save him an'--an' God bless de Colonel!  Amen."

For an interval, in which the only sound was that of Job's feet as he
strutted about seeking an edible successor to the bread, Uncle Noah
remained upon his knees in the attitude of prayer, perhaps awaiting
inspiration.  At length he rose, and, seating himself upon the box once
more, buried his white head dejectedly in his hands.  The snow-flakes
filtered slowly through a crevice at the side, heaping fantastically
into a miniature drift.  Absently Uncle Noah watched them, his mind
traveling back to many a snowy Christmas "before the War."

Suddenly his brown face glowed with radiance and he drew a long breath
of relief.  "Job," he said, leaning forward and patting the turkey, "I
has it! Yoh'd scarcely believe it, sah, but I'se a-goin' to save yoh."

He arose transformed, the despondent droop of his lean body replaced by
an alert energy.  "Now, Job," he coaxed, "I jus' wants yoh foh to come
along wif me peaceable, sah.  I'se after yoh to save yoh ol' hide from
de Christmas platter."

But Job, with a malicious enjoyment of the game, was prancing wildly
about the barn, flapping his wings in hysterical derision of his
breathless pursuer.  Brought to bay he squawked a protest and struggled
violently as Uncle Noah unceremoniously imprisoned him beneath one arm.

"There, sah," exclaimed the negro triumphantly, "I has yoh!  Yoh is
sartinly the mos' wuthless turkey on dis yere plantation."

Tightly clasping the outraged tyrant Uncle Noah tiptoed to the lantern
and blew it out.  Then stumbling across the floor he stealthily left
the barn and set out across the snowy fields to a tumble-down shanty,
sole survivor of a string of negro huts long since burned one by one in
the library fireplace.  Into its dilapidated interior he thrust the
protesting turkey, pausing at the door as he struck a match to view the
bird's temporary quarters.

"Now, Massa Job Fairfax," he began, "I knows yoh is jus' mad clean
through.  Yoh jus' naturally objects to bein' toted out in de snow in
de middle o' de turkey night 'thout bein' asked.  Yoh says yoh back is
full o' snow?  Well, I jus' asks yoh, Massa Job Fairfax, ain't dat
better'n bein' wifout a head?  Now, sah, I asks yoh to be mos' terrible
quiet dis yere night.  I'se a-goin' into Cotesville on a little trip
an' I doan want de Colonel to know yoh here."

He closed the rickety door, and, hurrying back across the fields,
sought the kitchen, his eyes behind their spectacles shining with
excitement.  Muffling himself in a quaint red knitted scarf, a dingy
overcoat and a worn fur cap, plentifully earlapped, he left the house
again, pausing only long enough to peer through the library window at
the Colonel, who was reading aloud to his wife, both drawn up in the
cheery warmth of a blazing wood fire.  Then he hurried on along the
road to town.

With a prayer in his heart for the success of his mission Uncle Noah
trudged sturdily down the two miles to Cotesville, past Major Verney's
old plantation, the cheery lights of the great house twinkling brightly
through a curtain of snow, and into the snow-laden air of the village
streets alive with Christmas shoppers.  Holly and mistletoe, Christmas
trees filling the air with the odor of pine, dancing snowflakes and
bright lights, wonderful windows wreathed and dotted in Christmas
glitter, and cheery voices--who could resist them?  Uncle Noah felt his
heart quiver with hope; jubilantly he turned his steps toward the
railroad station ahead.

The Northern Express flashed through the snow and came to a stop with a
clang and a roar, disgorging a chattering holiday crowd who paused for
a change of cars at Cotesville on their southbound trips.  Uncle Noah
hastened his shuffling footsteps: the Northern Express with its horde
of transient visitors had been a vital part of the inspiration.  Upon
the station platform people stamped up and down in the snow or laughed
and chatted, quite oblivious to the timid gaze of the old darky who
slowly made his way among them.  One by one Uncle Noah left them all
behind, a great disappointment in his face.  In their laughing
countenances he had found nothing of what he sought.



