
Just ahead a girl appeared from the shadows and walked quickly toward
the waiting-room.  Uncle Noah looked into her fresh, sweet face; then
his own lit up with renewed hope and he followed her in and touched her
timidly on the arm.  The girl turned, revealing a face rosy with cold,
and a pair of warm gray eyes fringed in lashes of black, eyes that
frankly offered a glimpse of a girl's impulsive heart brimming over
with Christmas spirit.

Uncle Noah removed the battered fur cap and bowed low with the
deference of a Cavalier.  "I'se jus' come in to--to ask yoh, Miss," he
said simply, "if yoh'd like to buy an ol' nigger servant.  I'se foh
sale."

[Illustration: "I'se jus' come in to--to ask yoh, Miss," he said
simply, "if yoh'd like to buy an ol' nigger servant.  I'se foh sale."]

"For sale!"  The girl took in the quaint figure with a glance of blank
astonishment.  "Why,"  she gasped, "surely you--"

"I'se ol', Miss," he interrupted timidly, but meeting her gaze with
unwavering sincerity; "I specs I'se mos' a hundred; but I'se powahful
tough an' full o' work, an'--an', Miss, I has to sell maself tonight
'cause--'cause--"

Uncle Noah paused uncertainly, seeking a fit expression of his dilemma,
and the girl, readily intuitive, glanced swiftly about to assure
herself that the waiting-room was free from unsympathetic
eavesdroppers.  Then, strangely drawn by this quaint old vender of
humanity, and warmly eager to put him more at his ease, she impulsively
pushed a rocking-chair toward the old stove in the center and motioned
him to be seated.  But Uncle Noah had been reared in the Fairfax
family, and a Fairfax never sat when a lady was still upon her feet.
With a courtly gesture the old man bowed her to the chair she had drawn
for him.  A quick gleam of approval flashed in the gray eyes and with a
deepening flush of puzzled interest, the girl instantly seated herself,
unfastening the silver fox at her throat as she felt the warmth of the
old country stove.

"Please, I would _so_ much rather you, too, would sit down," she said
impulsively, and as Uncle Noah drew forward another of the rickety old
rocking-chairs with which the Cotesville waiting-room was dotted, she
bent toward him--a light in the wonderful gray eyes that won Uncle
Noah's heart.

"Tell me," she said kindly: "Tell me just why you want to sell
yourself."

No, she had not laughed at him.  Uncle Noah glowed to the tips of his
fingers at the ready sympathy of her tone.  He beamed mildly at her
over his spectacles, turning the old fur cap round and round in his
hands as he sought to voice the words that struggled to his lips.  "Ol'
Massa's money--an', Miss, he hain't had much since de War; jus' 'nuff
to live comfutable--all go in de Cotesville bank crash las' fall an' he
doan want ol' Mis' foh to know.  I'se de only one o' de niggers whut's
left, an' dere's only one ol' turkey gobbler left o' de stock.  He's my
ol' pet, Miss, mos' like a chile, an'--an'--"  Uncle Noah choked.

The girl's eyes were misty velvet.  "And he told you to kill your pet
for the Christmas dinner?" she finished gently.

Uncle Noah nodded.  "Massa done say we mus' hab a turkey for de
Christmas dinner, or ol' Mis'll suspect de--de financial crisis whut
we're in.  Out in de barn I prays foh an inspiration an' I 'spect it
come."

"And so you decided to sell yourself--" began the girl.

"Yas'm."  Uncle Noah's voice had grown apologetic.  "Yoh see, Miss,
I'se de only thing whut I really owns 'cept dis yere ol' stickpin.
Cose I'se free now, but I reckons if I has a mind to sell maself de
Norf can't stop me.  I'se sellin' ma own property."  There was a gentle
defiance in the old negro's argument.

"And you--you wouldn't accept a--a loan?"  The girl flushed.

The negro's hurt eyes were answer enough.  Uncle Noah had not lived in
an atmosphere permeated with Fairfax pride without feeling its
influence.

"I'se not askin' foh charity, Miss," he averred stubbornly.  "I'se
a-sellin' sumthin'.  I reckons if yoh buy me, Miss, an' yoh lemme go
back an' stay Christmas wif ol' Massa, I'll sell maself cheap.  Yoh see
I'se a-plannin' first to buy a turkey whut'll take Job's place on de
platter, an' den to give de Massa a gran' Christmas wif de rest o' de
money what I gits foh maself, savin' out jus' enough to buy ma ol'
turkey an' come to yoh first day after Christmas.  It'll be hard to
leave ol' Massa and Mis', but I reckons it's jus' gotta be done."

Uncle Noah gulped and blinked, and there was a glimmer of wet lashes
about the warm gray eyes that had won his heart.

The girl was silent so long that Uncle Noah shifted uneasily; but at
last she spoke a little tremulously.  "For what price will you sell
yourself?" she asked, and Uncle Noah never doubted but that she
regarded the purchase in the same light in which he himself had viewed
it.

He turned about for his purchaser's thorough inspection, his bald head
above the fringe of white wool about it glistening in the lamplight.
"Do yoh think I'se wuth, say, twenty-five dollahs?" he queried,
regarding her fixedly over his spectacles.

The girl touched her throat with an unconscious gesture.  "Yes, you
are," she cried impulsively; "you are indeed!"  And before Uncle Noah
had quite time to adjust himself to the joy of his unique sale the girl
thrust a roll of bills into his hands and disappeared through the
station door.



