
The Colonel greeted the Christmas festoons of holly in the library with
a stare of astonished approval.  A question had risen to his lips, but
the warning look in Uncle Noah's eyes as they rested on Mrs. Fairfax
had checked it.  These two had had many financial and domestic secrets
from the dear lady, and the Colonel promptly decided that Uncle Noah
had sold some forgotten relic and had once more made use of his highly
developed faculty for expanding a small sum to incredible elasticity,
and he praised the result accordingly.  Mrs. Fairfax, too, brightened
wonderfully, yielding to the Christmas spirit with which the old darky
had contrived to fill the house.

Uncle Noah felt a glow of delight at their outspoken appreciation, and,
bowing elaborately, he ushered his master and mistress in to breakfast.
Here again, as he seated himself, the Colonel was conscious of an
agreeable flood of astonishment.  There was quite an air about this
Christmas breakfast.  Fixing his keen eyes on the tablecloth and
napkins, he stealthily fingered them with a searching look at the
waiting negro.  Fortunately his interest was speedily diverted.  He
caught sight of the orchids and the tear-stained face of his wife
bending over them.  With a wrench of his chair he arose.

"Patricia!" he said stormily, "did I not say that nothing of his--did I
not--" he paused and gulped.  "Uncle Noah," he added unsteadily, "that
turkey of yours is gobbling like a fiend under the window; you--he--"

The Colonel stopped abruptly, reddened as his eyes fell upon the negro
(Uncle Noah had wisely turned away), and sternly reseated himself,
somewhat confused by his thoughtless reference to the late lamented Job,

Uncle Noah hobbled from the room, his brown face working convulsively.
In the kitchen he shook with silent laughter, doubling over
breathlessly and clasping his hands over his stomach in aching distress.

"And what, Uncle Noah," asked the Colonel kindly as the old negro
presently re-entered the dining-room, "have we for our Christmas
breakfast?"

"Well, sah," Uncle Noah began fluently, "we has grapefruit, cereal wif
cream, quail on toast, fried oysters--er--oatmeal, hot muffins, fried
chicken, co'nbread an' coffee!"

The Colonel, appearing to be thoughtfully considering his choice,
replied as usual: "It all sounds delicious, Uncle Noah, but I have a
touch of my old enemy dyspepsia to-day.  I think I shall have some
cornbread and coffee, and so will Mrs. Fairfax."

"I doan think you quite understand me, sah," averred Uncle Noah, "an'
sah, I 'spects yoh dyspepsia ain't so bad dis mornin'.  We has foh
breakfast, sah, grapefruit, cereal wif cream, quail on toast, fried
oysters--er--_oatmeal, fried chicken, hot muffins, co'nbread an'
coffee_!"

There was no mistaking the emphasis this time.  Colonel Fairfax darted
a lightning glance at the negro and amended his selection with a
question in his voice.  "Well, now I come to think of it, Uncle Noah,"
he said, "my dyspepsia isn't nearly so bad.  I'll have, let me see,
oatmeal--that was in the list, I believe--er--fried chicken--am I
right?--muffins, cornbread and coffee."

There was a conviction in the Colonel's deep voice that something
extraordinary was afoot, and Uncle Noah, flurried by its ominous ring,
hurried from the room.  Dimly he had pictured his master's gracious
astonishment and pleasure.  Any queries relative to the financial
source of the Christmas delicacies, however, had been lost entirely in
the darky's jubilant excitement.  Now he groaned in dismay.

"Yoh is in a mess for sure, Uncle Noah," he apostrophized himself.
"Whut'll yoh do when it come time foh dinnah?  Yere yoh has a Christmas
dinnah fit foh a King, an' de Colonel he know right well dat we has
only a little 1ef from de money whut we done get when we sold de silver
teapot."

It was Christmas, however, and Uncle Noah felt convinced that the
Providence that had watched so well over his Christmas Eve would order
a special dispensation for his new dilemma.  While awaiting its
manifestation he would studiously avoid the Colonel, and would slip
across to Fernlands, once the pseudo Job was safe in the oven, and beg
the gray-eyed lady to accept a dollar a week of the grocer's money in
his inspired scheme of self-redemption.

With this in mind Uncle Noah served the breakfast, hurried his
preparations for the midday feast, and at five minutes of eleven, the
turkey safely roasting, set out across the fields for Major Verney's.

At Fernlands the eleven strokes of the grandfather's clock in the great
hall found the gray-eyed lady in the arms of a young fellow who had but
that instant bounded lightly up the walk from the sleigh Major Verney
had dispatched to Cotesville to meet the Northern Express.  The Major,
smilingly awaiting his opportunity to greet the newcomer, ran his eye
approvingly over the lines of the well-knit figure and handsome face of
the young man.

"Well, Dick," said the Major, advancing with outstretched hand as the
girl flushed prettily and smoothed back the dark mist of hair from her
forehead, "how are you, my boy?  Busy, of course.  We read fine things
of you in the papers at times."  Then, as the young man took off his
overcoat, "What, sir," the Major inquired, "do you mean by falling in
love with my only niece?  Here my brother writes me that his daughter
is engaged to a man who knows me, and will I pack off a carload of
testimonials by special messenger indorsing the little rascal who used
to steal my apples.  What, sir, do you mean?"

"Well, Major," Dick answered as he was ushered into the big
living-room, his laughing eyes alight with happiness, "she had the
Verney eyes, and you remember I always liked them."  He sank into a
chair by Ruth with a smiling glance at the Major.  "It is unusually
cold for down here.  There's a real bracing Northern sting in the air.
And what a snow!  It's packed down so that the runners fairly flew.
Major, do sit down!"

The Major was still bustling about, urging Ruth into another chair by
the fire that he himself might sit by Dick, poking energetically at the
blazing logs, and firing a volley of directions at black Sam.

"There!" he exclaimed, finally seating himself.  "Now, sir, relative to
this infatuated young person on my left, who has condescended to visit
her uncle for the first time since she arrived on the planet.  I met
her last night according to telegraphed instructions, and she kept me
waiting--let me see--"

"Uncle!" protested Ruth, "you've added fifteen minutes to that wait
every time you've mentioned it."

"My dear child, politeness alone has kept me from naming the full
extent of my wait.  If you please, sir," he turned to Dick, "she was in
the clutches of a beggar who obtained twenty-five dollars by a most
extraordinary yarn."

"Twenty-five dollars!" Dick whistled, smiling at the flush that crept
up to the gray eyes.  "Was it an aged father this time or a hungry
brood of motherless waifs, Ruthie?"

"Dick, listen!" cried the girl.  "Uncle misjudges him.  It was a dear
old colored man and he told me the strangest story."

"You don't often find a grateful beggar who sends you violets in the
morning purchased with some of your own shekels," said the Major,
pinching the flushed cheek.  "Tell him, Ruthie; it was odd, and I
believe I'd have done the same thing myself."

The girl flashed a grateful look at him and then told the story of her
purchase of the night before so eloquently that the Major and Dick
heard her through with sober faces, secretly touched by its pathos.
"And he must have recognized Uncle," she ended, "for the violets came
this morning with the quaintest card."

For an instant she dreamily scanned the fire, seeing in its glowing
embers the brown wrinkled negro face with its honest eyes, peering at
her over his spectacles in troubled apprehension; then she sprang to
her feet.

"Uncle Edward," she cried, "did you tell Uncle Neb to wait with the
sleight?  Those sleigh-bells are beginning to sound hysterical."

"Merciful goodness!"  cried the Major; "I certainly did.  I had the
strictest commands to drive in to church for Mother Verney at eleven
o'clock.  Hi, Sam, you black rascal, tell Uncle Neb I'll be right out."

"I'll tell him, Uncle," called Ruth, flying swiftly up the long hall to
the library window.

But no clear call went ringing over the snow to Uncle Neb; instead,
there was silence, broken at length by a voice that called softly in
great excitement, "Dick!  Uncle Edward! do come here.  Look!" she cried
as they quickly joined her.  "You see, Uncle, he didn't forget!"

Smiling, the two men looked from the window.  An old negro muffled in a
threadbare overcoat was plodding up the walk, his eyes scanning the
house with evident curiosity.

The Major uttered a quick exclamation and the girl wheeled about.

"Don't you see?" she cried.  "He's come to-day, honest old fellow that
he is!  See, Dick--"

She stopped abruptly, looking from one to the other.  There was
something in the two stern faces staring beyond her at the bent negro
that struck a chill to her heart.  Dick's face had gone white, and the
Majors hand had stolen to the younger man's shoulder as if to steady
him.

There was a startled incredulity in the Major's face as he said: "Brace
up, old man!  You didn't know, neither did I."

"Ruth," Dick asked unsteadily, "is that the old colored man
whose--whose master--"

"Yes!" cried the girl, the sharp pain of premonition in her voice.
"Oh, Dick, who is he?"

Dick's miserable eyes sought hers as he answered, "It's--it's Dad's
Uncle Noah.  Ruth, I--"  He turned and sought the hall.

Ruth's face flamed at his words.  Uncle Noah's pathetic story came
crowding over her again in the light of Dick's revelation.  His father
and mother!  The stern old Colonel, of whom Dick always spoke with such
respectful loyalty in spite of their quarrel, and the dear mother,
whose tender eyes gazing from the old-fashioned daguerreotype Dick
always carried had made her choke with sudden tears--these two were
Uncle Noah's beloved "ol' Massa an' ol' Mis'"!

She turned; the Major had followed Dick to the hallway.  A shuffling
step sounded on the porch outside, and the girl hurried toward the
door, a sudden light of daring in her eyes.  Impulse had always ruled
the Verneys, and Ruth was a Verney from the crown of her dark head to
the tips of her small feet.  Catching up Grandmother Verney's long
cloak hanging over a chair, she softly left the house.

Dick, struggling into his overcoat, turned at the Major's touch on his
arm.

"Just a minute, Dick."  Major Verney's genial voice was sympathetic as
a woman's.  "Remember that what the Colonel refused in prosperity he's
not likely to take in adversity.  Sit down here by the fire until we
talk it over."

"But, Major"--there was a note of anguish in the boy's voice--"I must
go to him.  Think of Uncle Noah selling himself to help them, and I--"

But the Major had already removed the overcoat and gently pushed his
guest into a chair by the fire.  "Yes, yes," he said as he seated
himself; "we know all about that, my boy; but I'm afraid, Dick," he
added regretfully, "that the Colonel wouldn't let you in.  He's very
bitter."

Dick groaned.  He was calmer now.  "You're right, Major," he said
steadily; "it hurt so at first that I didn't think.  I can't go now."
He leaned forward anxiously.  "The Cotesville Bank--?" he questioned
abruptly.

"Crashed in the autumn--in September."  Dick bit his lip, and the Major
added: "He was heavily interested?"

Dick stared at the fire.  "It was all he had," he said.

"I see."  The Major's quiet voiced gave no hint of his own emotion.  "I
didn't know.  Of course I heard he had lost something; we all did; but
I thought he had other money."

"No.  Tell me, Major, you've been going to Brierwood this winter just
as usual?"

"Of course; every Wednesday night.  The Colonel and I are too old to
alter the habit of a lifetime, and besides we both love that long
evening playing chess.  There's always a roaring wood fire and a
steaming pot of coffee, and your mother always plays Beethoven for us
just before I go."

A look of relief shone in Dick's eyes.  "'Always a fire,'" he repeated.
"I'm glad of that.  There was no suggestion of--of want?"

"Heavens, no!"  The Major's deep voice was full of assurance.  "Last
week," he added thoughtfully, "the coffee was pretty weak, but it never
occurred to me that--" he stopped abruptly, rose from his chair with
sudden energy, violently blew his nose, and tramped down to the end of
the hall and back.  "Damn the Fairfax pride!" he exclaimed fiercely.
"Here Uncle Noah has been coming into the library Wednesday nights and
telling the Colonel that the stock had all been bedded down for the
night when all the time there's been nothing left but this confounded
old turkey gobbler we've been hearing about.  He swore last week that
somebody had stolen the silver teapot.  Abominable old liar!  He must
have sold it."  The Major threw out his arms with a wrathful gesture.
"All this comedy, if you please, for my benefit.  Here I've been there
every week, and never suspected, thanks to the infernal stratagems of
that black fiend of an Uncle Noah.  Damn the Fairfax pride!"

The Major sat down as suddenly as he had risen, and, bending over,
attacked the fire with vicious energy.

"Tell me, Major," Dick presently asked, "have you ever mentioned me to
the Colonel since I went North?"

"Once."  The Major made a wry face.  "I never tried again."

Dick colored.  "Does he know about Ruth?"

"No, I dared not mention it."  The Major looked at the other intently.
"Dick," he said, "what was this quarrel all about, anyway?"

"In the beginning, Major," admitted the young man, flushing, "it was so
childish--I'm ashamed to speak of it."

"Out with it!" commanded the Major.  "I won't be hoodwinked by a
Fairfax any longer."

"Well, sir, if you must know, it was about--the War."

"The War!" exploded the Major.  "By gad, sir, what about the War?"

"Dad and I were talking it over, and--well, to be frank, Major, I said
I thought the North had been right, and that, if I had been in the
world at the time, I would have fought with them despite my kinsmen."

"Go on!  Did you fight in any other post-mortem wars?  The Revolution,
or the fall of Rome?"

Dick ignored the sarcasm.  "My sympathy for the North made him
furious," he went on.  "We quarreled terribly and both of us said
things that I know we didn't mean.  It was the Fairfax temper, sir; I--"

"Damn the Fairfax temper!" roared the Major.  "Thank Heavens, the
Verneys are mild!"

Dick laughed, in spite of himself.  "I apologized," he continued
soberly, "but he wouldn't listen; told me to get out; said if I chose
to change my opinions about the North, we'd talk it over, and I, of
course, refused."

"Of course!" interpolated the Major trimly.

"I've written since, suggesting that we forget it all and start anew,
but he won't listen, sir."

The Major stroked his beard ominously.  "Did it ever occur to you,
Dick," he demanded, "that enough families were estranged by that War
without carrying it over into the Twentieth Century?  Let me see--how
long after the War were you born?  Twenty years, wasn't it?  I
remember; your father and Ruth's were married about the same time."

"Every man has a right to his opinions, Major," Dick asserted with
spirit.  "Of course I've no personal knowledge of the War,
but"--stubbornly--"the North was right."

"Fairfax to the core!" thought the Major in secret admiration.  "The
boy's his father all over again.  Well, Dick," he said mildly, "we
older men of the South feel a little differently about this War; but,
my boy, these post-bellum disputes don't pay, particularly when one
participant was born long after the guns were quiet.  In my opinion you
didn't know enough about the War to quarrel over it.  Great Scott,
quarreling over the War!  Dick, you deserved to be spanked."

The jingle of sleigh-bells rang blithely through the silence that
followed, and the Major sprang to his feet.  "Merciful Heavens!" he
exclaimed, staring at his watch, "it's twelve o'clock.  That must be
Uncle Neb still waiting, and Grandmother Verney's probably standing on
the church porch yet, mad as a hornet."  He was at the door now,
calling wildly to the negro: "Uncle Neb, why under the canopy didn't
you call me?"

The darky scratched his head.  "Massa Edward," he confessed, "I ain't
been yere.  I jus' druv Missy Ruth over to Brierwood with Uncle Noah to
see Colonel Fairfax."

The Major summoned Dick in great excitement.  "Dick," he exclaimed,
"get into your overcoat as fast as you can and drive over to Brierwood
with Uncle Neb.  Ruth's gone ahead of you, and you couldn't have a
better deputy short of an angel."

Dick wrung the Major's hand and fled to the waiting sleigh, the color
flooding his face.

"And, Uncle Neb," called the Major frantically, "hurry back, or
Grandmother Verney will be tramping home in the snow, rheumatism or no
rheumatism."

With a wild jingle of bells that seemed to Dick the hysterical echo of
his own heartbeats the sleigh was off.



