
But Jimmy didn't want to tilt the river. Not with Uncle Al on it and
Pigtail, and all those people in New Orleans who would disappear right
off the streets. They were frogs too, maybe, but good frogs. Not like
the Harmon brothers.

Jimmy had a funny picture of himself much younger than he was. Jimmy saw
himself as a great husky baby, standing in the middle of the river and
blowing on it with all his might. The waves rose and rose, and Jimmy's
cheeks swelled out and the river kept getting angrier.

No--he must fight that.

"Save Uncle Al!" he whispered fiercely. "Just save him--and Pigtail!"

It began to happen the instant Jimmy opened his eyes. Around the bend in
the sunlight came a great spinning disk, wrapped in a fiery glow.

Straight toward the Harmon shantyboat the disk swept, water spurting up
all about it, its bottom fifty feet wide. There was no collision. Only a
brightness for one awful instant where the shantyboat was twisting and
turning in the current, a brightness that outshone the rising sun.

Just like a camera flashbulb going off, but bigger, brighter. So big and
bright that Jimmy could see the faces of the Harmon brothers fifty times
as large as life, shriveling and disappearing in a magnifying burst of
flame high above the cypress trees. Just as though a giant in the sky
had trained a big burning glass on the Harmon brothers and whipped it
back quick.

Whipped it straight up, so that the faces would grow huge before
dissolving as a warning to all snakes. There was an evil anguish in the
dissolving faces which made Jimmy's blood run cold. Then the disk was
alone in the middle of the river, spinning around and around, the
shantyboat swallowed up.

And Uncle Al was still swimming, fearfully close to it.

The net came swirling out of the disk over Uncle Al like a great,
dew-drenched gossamer web. It enmeshed him as he swam, so gently that he
hardly seemed to struggle or even to be aware of what was happening to
him.

Pigtail didn't resist, either. She simply stopped thrashing in Uncle
Al's arms, as though a great wonder had come upon her.

Slowly Uncle Al and Pigtail were drawn into the disk. Jimmy could see
Uncle Al reclining in the web, with Pigtail in the crook of his arm, his
long, angular body as quiet as a butterfly in its deep winter sleep
inside a swaying glass cocoon.

Uncle Al and Pigtail, being drawn together into the disk as Jimmy
stared, a dull pounding in his chest. After a moment the pounding
subsided and a silence settled down over the river.

Jimmy sucked in his breath. The voices began quietly, as though they had
been waiting for a long time to speak to Jimmy deep inside his head, and
didn't want to frighten him in any way.

"Take it easy, Jimmy! Stay where you are. We're just going to have a
friendly little talk with Uncle Al."

"A t-talk?" Jimmy heard himself stammering.

"We knew we'd find you where life flows simply and serenely, Jimmy.
Your parents took care of that before they left you with Uncle Al.

"You see, Jimmy, we wanted you to study the Earth people on a great,
wide flowing river, far from the cruel, twisted places. To grow up with
them, Jimmy--and to understand them. Especially the Uncle Als. For Uncle
Al is unspoiled, Jimmy. If there's any hope at all for Earth as we guide
and watch it, that hope burns most brightly in the Uncle Als!"

The voice paused, then went on quickly. "You see, Jimmy, you're not
human in the same way that your sister is human--or Uncle Al. But you're
still young enough to feel human, and we want you to feel human, Jimmy."

"W--Who are you?" Jimmy gasped.

"We are the Shining Ones, Jimmy! For wide wastes of years we have
cruised Earth's skies, almost unnoticed by the Earth people. When
darkness wraps the Earth in a great, spinning shroud we hide our ships
close to the cities, and glide through the silent streets in search of
our young. You see, Jimmy, we must watch and protect the young of our
race until sturdiness comes upon them, and they are ready for the Great
Change."
