
There were no people in the city, but down the aerial streets shining
objects swirled with the swift easy gliding of flat stones skimming an
edge of running water.

Then as Jimmy stared into the depths of the strange glow behind his
eyelids the city dwindled and fell away, and he saw a huge circular disk
looming in a wilderness of shadows. Straight toward the disk a shining
object moved, bearing aloft on filaments of flame a much smaller object
that struggled and mewed and reached out little white arms.

Closer and closer the shining object came, until Jimmy could see that it
was carrying a human infant that stared straight at Jimmy out of wide,
dark eyes. But before he could get a really good look at the shining
object it pierced the shadows and passed into the disk.

There was a sudden, blinding burst of light, and the disk was gone.

Jimmy opened his eyes.

"You were once like that baby, Jimmy!" the voice said. "You were carried
by your parents into a waiting ship, and then out across wide gulfs of
space to Earth.

"You see, Jimmy, our race was once entirely human. But as we grew to
maturity we left the warm little worlds where our infancy was spent,
and boldly sought the stars, shedding our humanness as sunlight sheds
the dew, or a bright, soaring moth of the night its ugly pupa case.

"We grew great and wise, Jimmy, but not quite wise enough to shed our
human heritage of love and joy and heartbreak. In our childhood we must
return to the scenes of our past, to take root again in familiar soil,
to grow in power and wisdom slowly and sturdily, like a seed dropped
back into the loam which nourished the great flowering mother plant.

"Or like the eel of Earth's seas, Jimmy, that must be spawned in the
depths of the great cold ocean, and swim slowly back to the bright
highlands and the shining rivers of Earth. Young eels do not resemble
their parents, Jimmy. They're white and thin and transparent and have to
struggle hard to survive and grow up.

"Jimmy, you were planted here by your parents to grow wise and strong.
Deep in your mind you knew that we had come to seek you out, for we are
all born human, and are bound one to another by that knowledge, and that
secret trust.

"You knew that we would watch over you and see that no harm would come
to you. You called out to us, Jimmy, with all the strength of your mind
and heart. Your Uncle Al was in danger and you sensed our nearness.

"It was partly your knowledge that saved him, Jimmy. But it took courage
too, and a willingness to believe that you were more than human, and
armed with the great proud strength and wisdom of the Shining Ones."
