
"Only a dollar, gentlemen!" cried Henry, oblivious to all this new
attention. "It's just like going inside the camp. Really it is!"

"He's right, boys!" broke in a burly, red-headed character. "Those
glasses of his are better than a seat on the fence." And, turning to the
little man: "I'll even buy 'em from you. How much'll you take?"

"You see, gentlemen?" whooped Henry, steel-rimmed spectacles nearly
sliding off the end of his nose in his excitement. "The gentleman says
my invention is everything I say it is--"

"_Henry!_"

The little man jumped as if a red-hot flatiron had just been applied to
that portion of his trousers designed for sitting.

"Urghk!" he exclaimed profoundly.

"You prying Piltdown[1]!" flamed the professor. "Is there anything you
won't do for money?" A moment of thunderous silence. "I'm surprised
you're not doing a fan dance yourself, if these would-be Peeping Toms
are willing to pay for nakedness."

The red-headed man guffawed.

"And you!" exploded the savant, turning on the spectators. "Get out of
here! Yes, all of you, you riffraff! I won't have you on the place!"

Henry's potential customers fled before the Paulsen wrath like chaff
before the wind, leaving the quaking little entrepreneur to face his
fate alone. He stood braced against the verbal cloud-burst, eyes
squeezed tight shut behind steel-rimmed glasses, goatee sticking
straight out.

"For days these snoopers have driven me half-crazy!" raged the
professor. "I've tried every trick I could think of to keep them out.
I've put signs forbidding trespassing on every tree. I've threatened
mayhem and murder. Yet still they come!"

"But Joseph--"

"Keep quiet 'til I'm finished, you disgrace to science!" The lean
scholar ran trembling fingers through his greying hair. Then:

"And now--today! Major Coggleston and I go down to the end of the meadow
to drive three of the sneaking human dung beetles away from knot-holes.
When we get back, what do we find?"

"Joseph, please--"

"We find you--my colleague, my partner, my friend! You--peddling the use
of your binoculars to the slimy creatures!" He glared savagely at his
victim. "If you were in Paris, Henry Horn, you'd be selling French
postcards to tourists!"
